

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3474
Wednesday, September 11, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Oftce, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE GULDHALL LIBRARY.
jgUILT during 1871-72 in the Tudor style from designs by Sir
Horace Jones, London’s Guildhall Library was made to serve
the additional purpose of a reception room on occasions of State.
The library is a lofty and spacious room, with a magnificent roof
of open timber, and is excellently lighted. On the shelves within its
twelve bays and elsewhere were some 70,000 volumes and a great
number of manuscripts of historic interest. To the right of the
library is the reading room, which is open to the public, like the
library itself. Beneath the library is the Guildhall Museum, which
housed a very important collection of antiquities and objects con-
nected with the history of the city. On the staircase leading to the
library there were several interesting charters, and in an anteroom
was the exceedingly valuable collection of clocks and watches, the
property of the Clockmakers’ Company.


Learn
t
Stor M Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street , Melbourne .
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney « Bulletin. " * '
.'/ >/ Name
v >i Address
SB - 2 « .....101....
The Red Page
THEODORE POWYS STORIE
If Theodore Powys’s writing is alwa
very much like Theodore Powys’s, it
certainly different from that of anyo
else ; including the books of his brothe
Llewelyn and John Cowper Powys.
Llewelyn, primarily an essayist, wro
warm and charming trifles ; John Cowp
is a novelist and a mystic on the granc
scale, gigantic, wild, uncontrollable
Theodore, a writer of short stories anc
short novels, ranges somewhere betwee
the two, with the distinguishing chara
teristics of gentle fantasy and a strang
quiet, bubbling wit. Also, he is mo
peculiarly obsessed with the problems oj
clergymen.
So rare and quaint in imagination,
rich with humor, so delicate in style
his latest collection of short stori
Bottle's Path (Chatto and Windus
Moore’s Bookshop) that it can be read
and far more assuredly—as Sachevere!
Sitwell' wishes some of his books to
received, purely as an exercise in the fin
art of pfose, art for art’s sake.
Its “difference” is noticeable in th
first paragraph: “Mr. Bottle’s greate
interest in his life, other than his religion
had always been footpaths.”
Theodore Powys is, in his way,
enfant terrible : he has a habit, that is, o
saying extraordinary things in the mos
simple and childlike phrases ; which, o
course, makes them doubly effective
“He was religious, too, for once he ha
been heard to say that he believed all me
might be happy if only they left their sin
alone and ate apples.”
Sometimes, as when a Mr. Hayhoe con
fesses to a donkey that he has an un
fortunate fondness for tobacco, o
ponders “But could a frog sin? Mr
Hayhoe looked earnestly at the frog anc
believed that it could,” the stories are
set in a make-believe world ; and alway
they are village tales, out of the grea
world where
Good ploughmen were locked up in
cities, and many a lady who liked best to
scrub a room was forced, by cruel destiny,
to ride about the country at a dreadful
rate, to the danger of all.
But one should not be misled by the sim
plicity, the fantasy, and the rusticity into
imagining that Theodore Powys has no
kept a very sharp eye on normal human
behavior. Often enough his simplicity
is the simple truth: we do ride about in
motor-cars at a dreadful rate, to the
danger of all. And if the Mr. Priddle of
“When Thou Wast Naked,” who believes
he meets King Ahasuerus near the barn
—“He looked a little like Lord Bullman”
—is a figure of make-believe, there is
something very charmingly human in Mr.
Priddle’s wife:
Mm. Phoebe Priddle was a large, com-
fortable woman, who liked to be employed,
sitting, to do good, without moving in this
direction or that. Her greatest happiness
in the world was to thread her needle and
dam a rent. To mend what is broken, to
make a crooked rent straight—that was her
pleasure.
In the same story, which is one of the
most fantastic in the whole book, there is
a description of an auction sale, as
realistic, as moving and as beautiful in
its elegiac mood as Edmund Blunden’s
poem on the same subject:
Old country women, all clothed in black,
as though they were at a funeral, stood
around the auctioneer’s table when the
household stuff was brought out to be sold.
Iney had most of them come there rather
to touch and to look than to buy. To open
and shut, to finger at will what belonged to
another, was indeed a pleasure. To leave
the sign of ,their nails upon the plush-
oovered chairs, and to pull a little more Of
the hair from the sofa {hat had a hole in it,
was reason enough for their coming. They
could rejoice, too, at the sight of the bed-
room mysteries that were taken from a
neighbor’s house and set out in the open
day in the sight of Gods and men. To
see exposed under the hammer, and placed
upon a shaky table, the broken gear of
many sorrows, how glad they were!
And of the fantastic Mr. Nutty, who
will sell only Association footballs in his
shop because he likes “things that are
d d also said—and very humanly
—that when he was a boy at school, “As
soon as lessons were over he would smoke
rown paper that always had a soothing
effect upon his mind, and once, in order
to be prepared for the worst, he ham :
rnereo a nail into his own leg with a boot,
to see what pain felt like.”
The book would be all the better for
more of such excursions into everyday
reality. As a whole it is too fantastic
There are too many clergymen in it, and
they are all too eccentric. One story is
very much like another; and the whole
collection, in a lesser and fragmentary
way, is very much like Mr. Weston’s Good
Wine. But it is worth reading, if only to
remind oneself what a lovely novel that
was. And, of course, for its own sake;
for prose like this:
Sometimes a sunbeam finds, between the
leaves, a green path, and colors the grass
under the trees with a patch of golden
light, which tells the idler that high above
him a wealth of heavenly heat burns.
For the powerful little drama of the
housewife, much abused by hes husband,
who served to him in a suet pudding on
his deathbed the strap with which he
used to beat her; for Mr. White’s sin
against his onions; for the fly-fisherman
who, deprived of a river, practised cast-
ing in the meadows and hooked a sheep,
a calf and —
making a longer throw than usual—having
unwound more of his line —he was clever
enough to hook Jenny Bunce. There is no
madness in the world like the madness of a
fisherman: he will play anything. Mr. Pike
could not conceal the pleasure that he took
in his capture. He played ■ Jenny for a
little, and then’ he drew her in under the
shady boughs of a large oak.
And, last but not least, for Mr. Crumpter,
whose father —the Mayor unkindly
pointed out —was at least 180 years older
than his mother.
"The Hidden Strings."
It is always worth remembering that
when Shelley wrote “Our sweetest songs
are those 'that tell of saddest thought,”
he was in the midst of a happy poem
about the ecstatic song of the skylark.
His epigram is so neatly made that we
forget it is quite untrue. “Each furious
thought that’s driving through my brain,”
wrote W. H. Davies, “Screams in its fresh
young wonder and delight.”
Charles Campbell’s poetry in The Hid-
den Strings (Angus and Robertson) is
essentially lyrical; and although it never
lacks melody there are times when
wonder and delight are regrettably absent.
Delight is not to be demanded in such
a poem as “Sunday Dawn,” which is a
striking piece of satire ; nor, since it has
the true intensity of tragedy, and so be-
comes beautiful, would one ask for gaiety
in “The Likeness,” a curious poem con-
cerning a painting of a woman whose
features seem to the poet identical with
those of some other woman he has
known: —
But “Winter Night,” “The Poet to His
Heart,” “A Mountain Town Revisited,”
“Behind the Scenes,” “Indictment” and
other poems—a fairly large group in the
collection of 21 pieces—tell of sad
thought, and, in consequence, are not as
sweet as Shelley would lead one to ex-
pect. Charles Campbell is lamenting the
contrast between vision and' actuality ;
and though this makes poetry of a kind,
it is not lyricism of that high order which,
in a flash of vision, captures reality
transfigured. The trouble is not, as the
best of the poems prove, that the writer
is incapable of vision, but that he has
chosen the wrong moments —the wrong
moods —to make into poetry.
Basically, perhaps, the problem is
simply one of technique; in spite of the
directness of “City Noon”—a poem of
anger against the rich, adventurous life
of Sydney which should be balanced by
another appreciating it —Charles Camp-
bell finds it difficult to fit the modern
world into his verse. He uses, for the
most part, a conventionally romantic
vocabulary, and so finds himself handi-
capped in describing even scenes that have
pleased him. In a poem called “Bondi,”
attractive though it is in a somewhat
remote way, there is not a single glimpse
of the sand and the surf the poet is sup-
posed to be writing about. “In Memory
of a Swimmer,” first published in The
Bulletin a couple of years ago, shows
a departure into a more direct and vital
expression; —
I will remember you until I die.
Long after all your friends have ceased to care,
When combers break afcross our lovely bay
And days are fair,
If in some sunless land your soul should be,
You may be happy there
To know that 1 remember you and say,
“He would have loved today.”
The most charming of all the poems,
however, is written in a characteristically
traditional style, through which, as in
Hugh McCrae’s lyrics, the native vigor of
the poet emerges undimmed; —
Above the quiet thoroughfare
She leaned out from a balcony,
And in the sunlight combed her hair.
And all the springtide sang to me
That it would be disloyalty
To youth and loveliness and spring,
To pass without some courtesy
For such a lissom ladyling.
The Charles Campbell of “In Memory
of a Swimmer” might have contrived to
“place” the poem more assuredly in his
own city and his own time, and so have
stamped it more vividly on the mind, but
the point is only of minor importance.
Better to have this lovely melody than,
for flie sake of a more direct
reflection of the twentieth century,
to descend to harshness and obscurity.
The verse springs direct and sing-
ing from liffe, it conveys a vision of
gaiety and beauty, and therein, surely,
it fulfills the requirements of the true
lyric. From the Elizabethans to Burns,
and on to Davies, McCrae and Shaw
Neilson, our sweetest songs are those
that tell of gayest thought. It is this
poem, more than any other, which gives
vitality to Charles Campbell’s book,
shedding its lustre over the whole collec-
tion, ' and so making the total effect, if
more subdued, very pleasant.
And copied better than he wist
Lips light of touch and cold as mist;
The haughtiness of sea-green eyes
Whose light well masked her subtle lies.
If she is Beatrice to him,
Seen only in some dream-place dim,
And cherished there, I would that he
Had known her in reality,
And I, a rapt' idolater,
Had only known his dream of her.
Lightweight Fiction.
Monica Tindall’s The Late Mrs.
Prioleau (Peter Davies, Ltd.) is an ex-
ample of a novel told back to front. The
author, obviously influenced by detective-
story technique, slays Mrs. Prioleau in
the first chapter.
In a detective novel the interest from
that point onwards would lie in discover-
ing who did the a\yful deed. But Miss
Tindall soon makes it clear that Mrs.
Prioleau’s fat 'son, who has a very
handsome “QBdipus complex,” is the
killer. An exceptionally gifted parrot
also makes it clear, early in the piece,
that Mrs. Prioleau is not only a ruth-
lessly dominating parent, but also a
sadist and a writer of poison-pen letters.
From then on the only possible in-
terest could lie in the gradual revelation
of the fat son should slay the parent
he adores ; but Miss Tindall herself does
not seem to know whether he did it out
of revenge for the sadistic pranks
Mother plays on his pet pug-dogs or out
of a kindly desire to save her from ex-
posure over the poison-pen letters. The
story frays out pointlessly in all direc-
tions, and one does not even have the
pleasure of seeing the fat son bagged by
the police, for, without anybody except
his relatives discovering that he i§ a
murderer —and they are quite complacent
about it—he is annihilated on the last
page by an air-raid.
In the unreal way of magazine fiction,
the story is passable light entertainment,
but it should obviously have been written
the other way round: opening, that is,
with a picture of Mrs. Prioleau and her
offspring in their normal life, then gradu-
ally leading to the murder and —probably
—the exposure of the son. A further dis-
advantage is that the novelist disapproves
so strongly of all the food, wines, furni-
ture and clothes she comes across—
“nasty cheap champagne,” “dingy rub-
bish,” “dirty mackintoshes” and so on—
that the whole book becomes a trifle
dingy.
Mainly About Harses.
Down on his annual business trip, co-
inciding (wholly by chance, of course)
with the spring racing, Patrick dropped
in the other day carrying a most surpris-
ing thing—a book! And it wasn’t a
racebook.
“Well,” said Pat, “it happened in this
way. You see the harses lapin’ and so
forth on the outside uv it, and there’s
dozens more uv thim doin’ likewise in-
side.”
He flipped over the pages by way of
showing Paul Brown’s brisk pencil
sketches of horses—mainly hunters —
taking big fences and sod walls, being
broken in, getting vet. treatment and the
like. Then, as if it was sufficient fur-
ther explanation and justification, he put
his thumb on the title —Gone Away with
O’Malley. A glance showed it to be
a book with the sub-title “Seventy Years
with Horses, Hounds and People,”
written by M. O’Malley Knott with Page
Cooper’s assistance and published by
Hurst and Blackett.
' “Uv carse,” said Patrick, “you cud not
be resistin’ a book like that. But I’m
ip a bit uv a quandary about it nonethe-
less. I don’t know whether I shud be
askin’ for me money back or otherwise.
Why is it now, tell me, that you can
rade uv huntin’ in Ireland, and I’ll grant
you even in England—the harses and
hounds and the lovely women and the
gintlemen with their pink coats on arl
careerin’ across the countryside for the
lick uv their lives, lapin’ finces as high
as a house and warter jumps as v d as
a river, with the hounds out in fro
the fox and arl the rest uv it? I si
now, how is it you rade arl .that, like
you do in the first part uv this bo uv
’Malley, and you belave it? It has t
ring uv truth. It is narmal and natural.
And thin, as it happens here, for a lot
uv the rest uv the book you rade about
the same thing in America, and div a
word uv the damn’ stuff can you swallow'
Why shudn’t it seem the same for thim
to go riskin’ their necks like that in
America or anywhere else if they want
“It reminds me now,” said Patrick
“uv a hunt mating I attinded once right
here m this country itself. In Melbourne
no less. They arl went up with their
harses and dogs on a train, singin’ huntin’
songs, and pullin’ on their cravats and
their jackets and laughin’ and talkin’ at
the top uv their voice's. Whin we come
to the place where the mate is, they git
their harses out, and prisently they’re ar
there crowdin’ around. The Huntsman
himself is there with his bright jacket on
and his harn ready to bldw, and soon
they’re away and me with thim. Wei
now, we come to a fince a good three fu
high and no more, and belave it or no
they don’t rush it at a gallop at arl. They
pull up, and take it in turns to have
go at it, and, so help me, half the damn
animals won’t look at it, and so they ride
thim around the end uv it! And mdre-
over they go through gates whin they
come to finces that are too big for thim
and, anyway, divvil a sight uv a damn
fox did we see arl day!
“Huntin’! ” said Patrick ; “says I to me-
self, it doesn’t belong here. And why is
that now? Is it that they overrate it in
what you rade about it from writers like
this O’Malley, or is it now that over there
in the ould countries it is something in
their flesh and blood and has been so
since before one uv O’Malley’s female
ancestresses was a woman pirate, and I
don’t mane the sort you might be think-
in’ of. No,” said Patrick, distracted from
his discourse on hunting and turning the
pages, handing the open book over to be
read:
....one of my remote grandmothers,
Grania Uaile, the sixteenth-century O’Malley
who was one of the most successful pirates
of her day. Her stronghold, Carrigahowly
Castle, stands now on Clare Island in Clew
Bay, not twenty miles from home. We had
often seen the hole in the wall through
which Grania passed the cables of her five
galleys and tied them to her bedpost. This
peer of Sir Francis Drake defied the Eng-
lish Government, lived with a price on her
head, worsted Queen Elizabeth in an argu-
ment, won an earldom for her son, ■ and
ravaged the coast of Connaught for over
thirty years.
“This O’Malley,” said Patrick, “was
the son uv a doctor in hunting country in
Ireland, and was brought up amongst
beautiful harses and lovely women and
arl that goes with thim. There was no
nade for him to do it, but he shipped
befare the mast and gits to America after
only a few chapters. In the carse uv
time he becomes a vet. there, lookin’
after harses and dogs and arl kinds uv
other bastes. It’s arl very well, I sup-
pose, for vets, and such, and for paple
that can stomach huntin’ outside the ould
countries, but I can’t meself, and that’s
the end uv it. There’s only the few chap-
ters about the ould land before he’s arf.
Here now, rade this about a wake he
attinded before lavin’ arl this sart uv
thing to go.to America and try to kid
himself there, as these sart uv people
seem to try to do, that you can uproot
and transplant from the ould mound
somethin’ like huntin’ that’s traditional
there and belongs.” Pat handed over the
book opened at an early page:
When we returned to Trulough Park,
Desmond Fitzgerald was steeped in gloom.
We found.him in the tackroom with his
great beard sunk on his chest and a glass
of whisky forgotten in his hand. Ruby, the
dam of Gwen’s Puckthorn and of many
of the best, horses in his stables, had fallen
into a pit and broken her leg. Desmond
had gone out himself to shoot the pony,
and she lay now on an improvised bier in
the stable. The groom who had tended her
since she was a foal was inconsolable and
was heart-set on a wake. That evening the
countrymen from all the farms and villages
around were coming to watch with the
pony, and in the morning Ruby would be
buried in the meadow down by the river.
“Go if you like,” said Desmond, taking
a mournful swig of the whisky, “but I
cannot.” He cautioned us to come away
early because there would be plenty of
poteen.
That evening when we heard the keening
from the stables we slipped out in the dark
and went to look in at the big open doors.
Through the rank blue smoke of the clay
funeral pipes, filled with especially strong
tobacco, we saw Mike, the groom, at the
head of the unhinged shed door propped
on barrels upon which the mare lay. He
was leading the keening.
“What a beautiful mane she had,” he
chanted, “and what fine sharp withers, God
bless her.” He was off on a lengthy recital
of the mare’s virtues and the prowess of
her sons and daughters. When his voice
gave out one of the neighbors took up the
singsong chant, inspired by a visit to the
barrel of poteen in one of the stalls.
.Mourner after mourner added details until
the wailing shook the rafters.
“Mind you,” said Patrick, “it’s not the
book uv the kind I’ve read be a
darned sight. And it’s so well written
n places that it cud be an instruction to
r: elder';* gintlemen whin they come to
■ - reminiscences to carl in the
me such assistant as helped
He took the book and turned
. cages. “Ah, well,” he said,
“•.Sice's plinty uv harses arl through it.
Tt .v, b only one thing—l wish to Hiwea
he’d, ay din Ireland.”


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW"
n
ik
II;:,
x<&
c s?^ X \9^
Ct v^V*
pP yr„
■
.V:
if;?*-
w-m
mm:
mm
r
1
m
I
H
i i
v
Narrow bands of
self material drama-
tise this British Rayon
Crepe Frock. Inspired
pleats on skirt . . .
dream sleeves. In
pastel blue, aqua, rose
mist and beach sand.
SSW, SW and W.
£6/8/3
• Fashion Salon —
Second Floor, Pitt Street.
:
i
This smart black
step-in court holds its
fashion appeal all the calendar
’round . . . Fine Black
Kid, only 30/3
• Shoes—Second Floor , Pitt Street.
sgggsi
m
IP
' -V •, | x
•v: '■•■:
-
.xi-A
mm
4(80
68889
ffPs
Wlp
5
• :*:■
This box-shape
handbag will add a
style touch to any outfit.
In ' glove leather, double
handles and fitted small
purse. Black, Brown or
Navy, 38 /II
• Handbags —
Ground Floor,
’ Pitt Street.
ft*
M
News in straws ... a
semi-bowler shape in woven
straw, trimmed with swathe
and flowers and finished with
veiling. Black, Navy, Beige, Brown
and Natural. 35/6
l/- EXTRA FOR BOX
• Millinery—Second Floor.
5
IZS YEARS OF SERVICE


DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes of British, American and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
OX DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
IN SYDNEY c - PYROX PTY., LTD.
ALSO COMPLETE AUTO-ELECTRICAL SERVICE
ESPERANTO
THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
World Friendship for Correspondents,
World literature for Readers,
World Contact for Travellers.
Aust. Esp. Assoc, “Popular” Correspondence
Course, 10/- complete.
V. A. Pitt (Course Sec.),
3 Rupert St., ■ Elstermvick. Victoria.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured bv Mansease 00., Dnimmnvne, N.S.W
NO
PARKING
*1
dk
IP
r
uour Pi rl
has given ijou
the air I
ffe/neAvper...
• -’I
2 v
mm
Colgate Dental Cream
Cleans Your Breath
While It Cleans Your Teeth!
r
"S///
W///////M
■
pi
V . •
I
URGE I'3 SIZE
EIANT 2 /a - SIZE
twice as much <
os sire Mmol*rn
lO j
P 5-356
"HERE'S WHY: Colgate
Dental Cream has an active
penetrating foam that gets
into the hidden crevices be-
tween teeth helps to clean
out decaying food particles
and so removes the cause of
unpleasant breath. Colgate's
soft polishing agent cleans
enamel thoroughly, safely!"
D5/C36
IT CLEANS
YOUR BREATH WHILE
IT CLEANS YOUR TEETH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Essays of Michele de Montaigne—
translations by either E. J. Mechmann or Jacob
Zeitlin preferred, and Better Golf without Prac-
tice, by Alec Morrison. —3880.
To buy Complete Short Stories, by “Saki.” —
3881.
To buy any books by the late G. A. Henty.
—3882.
Information Sought.
What would be the cost of contesting an
unjust will?
A will cannot be attacked merely because it
is considered unjust. If a wife or child is left
without adequate provision for her or his main-
tenance, education and advancement in life,
she or he may make application for an allow-
ance from the testator’s estate. It is impossible
to give cost, as many circumstances would have
to be taken into consideration.
* * * *
(1) What was the largest number of nations
to compete in one year for the Davis Cup?
(2) Did Japan ever win the title?
(1) Thirty-four in 1933, when Great Britain
defeated France at Paris. (2) No; nearest Japan
ever got was runner-up to U.S.A. at New York
in 1921.
* * * *
Is it true that A.B.C. stations , are changing
their transmissions, thus necessitating a change
to receiving sets?
No; the only changes are in the format of
the programmes. They came into effect as from
Sept. 1. Inter-State and national transmitters
carry two different types of programmes—the
inter-State broadcasts a variety programme of
the lighter type, while the national transmitter
carries the more serious material such as sym-
phony concerts, etc. Regional transmitters carry
a composite of both types. You are prob-
ably confusing this with high-frequency modu-
lation and television, both of which would mean
changes to receiving sets. There is no indication
of these being used here in the immediate
future.
•i* »i*
Composition of mat for copper repousse
work ?
The only material that will answer all the
requirements—solidity, elasticity, adhesiveness
and ease of both application and removal—
is a compound of ordinary pitch. Two mixtures
are (a) 71b. soft pitch, 41b. black resin, 11b.
tallow and 61b. bathbrick; and ib) 91b. white
sand, 31b. Boz. pitch, 21b. resin and Boz. tallow.
To make the mixtures either harder or softer
increase or decrease the amount of tallow.
$ * * JfS
Method of polishing cedar ?
The method is the same for cedar as for
other woods, except that no filler, stain or var-
nish is applied without first giving the wood
successive coatings of pure bleached shellac.
The following treatment may be carried out be-
fore applying the shellac in order to enhance
the color of the wood. Apply with a rag a
special wiping stain made of Venetian red in
oil, reduced to a thin consistency with naphtha
or benzine so that the red and white streaks
that are characteristic of the wood may be
blended closer together.
jj! ' $
What countries had the highest coal and
wheat productions in 1939 ?
Coal (tons): U.S.A., 440,000.000; U.S.S.R.,
122.000. Germany, 360,000,000; U.K.,
237.000. France, 44,000,000; Japan.
42.000. Wheat (millions of quarters of
4801bs.): U.S.S.R., 135; U.S.A., 119; Italy,
37; France, 42; Australia and N.Z., 17.
* * * »
Does 100-per-cent, humidity mean that the
atmosphere is charged with so much moisture
that it is impossible for it to hold any more?
Yes, but it must be borne in mind that the
amount of moisture which the atmosphere can
hold increases as the temperature increases.
At 40 deg. Fahr. the atmosphere can contain
no more than 2.86 grains to the cubic foot, but
at 70 deg. the same quantity of air may con-
tain up to 7.99 grains. The figures 2.86 grains
and 7.99 grains equal 100 per cent, relative
humidity at 40 deg. and 70 deg. respectively.
Relative humidity, therefore, indicates that the
moisture content equals so much per cent, of
the amount which the air can possibly contain
at that temperature.
* * * *
What types of Queensland timbers have bark
suitable for tanning, and in what districts are
they to be found ?
The best tan barks in Queensland are obtained
from the green or ferny wattles ( Acacia deem-
rens and vars.), which occur chiefly in the
Stanthorpe districts and along the N.S.W.
border. All the wattles ( Acacia sp.) have tannin
in the barks in varying quantities. The kind
which exudes from the bio,od woods ( Eucalyptus
sp.) contains about 80 per cent, tannin. The
bark of the ironbarks also carries tannin in fair
quantities. The red and black mangroves yield
a very red tannin; these are mostly obtainable
north of Maryborough.
* * * *
What are the uses of tung oil?
In China, for polishing, preserving and water-
proofing wood; for waterproofing cloth, paper
umbrellas and bamboo netting; as an ingredient
in the manufacture of putty and as lamp oil.
Lamp-black for India ink is also made from it.
The oil is also used medicinally in China for the
treatment of boils, ulcers, s.wellings and burns.
Western nations use it in the manufacture of
waterproof varnishes, enamels, paints, rubber
substitutes, linoleum and various other products,
♦ * * *
Differences between hard- and soft-paste por-
celain as regard ingredients and general charac-
teristics after manufacture ?
The hard paste contains more alumina and
less silica than the soft. When baked it is
sonorous on being struck; it has a milky color
and can sustain, without injury, sudden altera-
tions of high and low temperature. Its essen-
tial constituent is pure white kaolin. The soft
variety has an unctuous, cream-like enamel, and
is soapy to the touch; it is lighter than the
other kind, not so hard (a knife will scratch it),
and doesn’t require so great a heat for solidifi-
cation.
Brief Answers.
V.J.S.N.; Knight’s Kill-Rust may remove
the rust 8.W.R.: The review appeared on
the Red Page of Oct. 11, 1944 G.A.F.:
The Bank of, England is situated in Thread-
needle-street, London W.R.: Do not know
what is meant by penetration cement; the only
type allowed for dairy construction is that
made with Portland cement and gravel or
crushed metal. Full details may be obtained
from the Australian Cement Manufacturers
Association, 14 Spring-street, Sydney P-D- :
Australian Authors’ and Artists’ Marketing
Guide, Box 28, 380 Collins-street, Melbourne.
F.J.C.: Write Miss P. Hanson, hon. sec.,
Onward Australia League, 18 Crown-street, East
Sydney P.R.: Service Party of Australia,
Third Floor, M.L.C. Building, Martin-place,
Sydney....W.G.L.: (1) The O blood group
type would not be produced. (2) The child’s
blood group is not always the same as that
of the father. (3) It is possible for the mother's
blood group to show in the child. (4) Test
for blood grouping is by agglutination. Small
quantity of patient’s blood is added to standard
group of sera and reaction noted according to
Landsteiner’s Law of Iso-agglutinins. See
Blood Groups and Transfusions, by Wiener...-
W.J.T.: Contact William Inglis and Sons
pry.; Ltd., 28 O’Connell-street, Sydney
T.E.W.8.: (1) The 8.8. C. set up a committee
on pronunciation some years ago, which was
disbanded during the war; it is to be re-estab-
lished soon. The A.B.C. has a similar bo«y-
-(2) The pronunciation ib ee-longated R.R.S.:
George Clark Ltd., 8 Napoleon-street, Sydney,
are importers of the product N.M.: (U
Lawyer cane markets are Lloyd Reed Loom
Pty. Ltd., 593 Botany-road, Waterloo, Peerless
Wickerwork Co., 243 Trafalgar-street, Peter-
sham, and W. Policy and Son, 12 McDonald-
street, Leichhardt —all N.S.W. (2) Wattle and
other tanning bark facts are obtainable from
the Australian Tanning School, Waterloo,
NSW. (3) Beale and Co., Ltd., 41 Trafalgar-
street, Annandale, and Raymond Veneered Panel
Co., 60 Booth-street, Annandale —both N.S.W-
F.C.D.: The wedding anniversaries are Ist
cotton, 2nd paper, 3rd leather, 4th fruit mid
flower, sth wooden, 6th sugar, 7th woollen, otn
iron, 9th silk and linen, 10th tin, 15th crystal.
20th china, 25th silver, 30th pearl 40th ruby.
50th golden, 60th diamond. .. .W.J.F.:
Sulphuric acid. (2) C/o R. J- Cassidy, 2
Woodstock-street, Waverley, N.S.W.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRASER late of 120 Crown Street Sydney
in the State of New South Wales and Greens Road
Prahran in the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that JUANITA MARELL RHUBENA FRASER has
tiled a petition for divorce No. 2718 of 1946
(Federal Matrimonial Causes) on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance before the Sixth day of Novem-
ber 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from Messrs. Braye and Malcomson Solicitors
92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
■
;51 WJMI;
v 4 !!n*l
,
»
m
•> <
\ -
I va
a
NS
N
o
*
c#
FOR
I CANNOT MILK
TNKOtfJTOMY
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure!
For Coughs and Colds never fails
mm
r--*
Successful men always pay attention to the daily shave. They
know from experience that no other method of shaving gives them
the fresh, keen, well-groomed look that is the outstanding
characteristic of Gillette. But remember a Gillette Shave means
. a genuine Gillette Blue Blade in a genuine
Gillette precision-built razor. Both
are now in good supply. Ask
your local retailer.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
And nr be worse to-morrow,
We’re out of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Unless we can some borrow.
What’s that —the grocer’s car is here.
Hooray! No need to borrow
A dose or two; goodbye to ’flu,
I’ll milk the cows to-morrow.
‘GOOD MORNINGS’
BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
77336
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
Opto: You’ve thought of three good titles
for short stories, but can’t get plots to fit
them! It seems a pity to waste ’em. Why
not expand them into full-length novels?
P.S.G.: Hopalong Cassidy and his ilk may
have ridden the range in America long ago—
though we doubt it —but they’re a bit out of
their latitude at Kingaroy in 1946. You can’t
rustle a herd of peanut's and get away with it.
. ...P.M.8.: Rather long-winded, but there’s a
story in it; cut by a third and resubmit
G. 8.5.: Even your initials couldn’t carry that
one through Danny Deever: “The ghostly
hand crept up the wall, coughed hoarsely and
glared malevolently at the shuddering man.”
Nothing to shudder at in that 8.M.A.: A
painstaking effort to iccord a personal experi-
ence, but it makes heavy reading S.E.W.:
“Let’s have a cup of tea ” “We were drink-
ing tea ” “We put the kettle on for tea ”
“It was time for tea....” Twelve times in
3000 words your characters mentioned tea.
There’s a fortune waiting for you if you can
find the right sponsor E.8.M.: Your nearest
miss so far. Don’t give up E.A.W.: Too
long—and please double-space your typing...,
W.K.: Story of family feud doesn’t ring true.
R.AJ.: Young man who rescues old sweet-
heart from a life of shame is stock character
of 90 per cent, of adolescent scribes... .M. 8.:
Those long, soulful conversations in the garden
beneath a full moon are an echo from half a
century ago T.A.: Your housebreaker talks
like a university professor P.D.: Ex-Diggers
on our staff who were in the jungle voted
against your effort S.M.: Try writing policy
speeches instead of fiction R. 8.: What' is it
—a story or a testimonial for a patent medi-
cine? K.G.: Before we read the. first page
we guessed that it was destined for the w.p.b.
M.A.: Send it to a boy’s paper that prints
pirate stories if any boy’s paper prints pirate
stories nowadays... .N.J.: Hemy Lawson did
it better in the early days of the century
F.C.: Whoever told you that The Bulletin
would take it was no reader of this paper
L.W.: Turned into poetry it might make a spring
poem... .M.T.M.: Dan is too impossible a
hero for us to swallow C.L.: An English
magazine might take it W.P.: Hopeless
E.H.P.F.: If you must write, correspond with
your maiden aunts 8.E.: You’ve scarcely
followed your own sound advice M.McL.:
One good line about silence H.S.L.: Usual
remarks on the sunset M.S.: Come in and
bring your lunch:
J.R.H.; The old ewe isn’t the only one
who’s “kicking wildly” in the trough by the
windmill N.K.: Parodies need to be very
good R.G.D.: If it weren’t in free verse....
Z.H.: Too airy-fairy D.H.H.: But why does
the aboriginal look at the floor? M.O’H.:
If you didn’t drift so far up beyond the stars
you wouldn’t have to worry about resentful
owls 8.G.5.: A rocky road to an unexcit-
ing destination J.M.G.: Try for simpler and
more closely-observed descriptions W.C.H.:
“Waiting” will wait a long time P.K.: Not
a cackle for “The Fowl” R.P.G.: “As man
to man, now, what do you think of my poetry?”
As man to man, then, excruciating J.L.:
“I foo, I heu-heu, to-who.” Unless you are
a morepork you’d better see a doctor
V.N.Y.: Unable to love little Kitty 8.A.;
Your drover is too much like Tom Mix
C.C.: Send it to the girl Uncle Pete: For
the love of Pete, uncle J.McG.: Totally
indecipherable; you appear to be writing with
a crowbar Molly: Pure folly H.V.:
“Tearing his hair and swearing he rushed
madly out of the house.” Presumably he’d
read that story T.Y.: Try the parish mag.
G.S.N.;
Under the gums
The swagman hums.
Yes, some of them do, don’t they? P.C.:
Misses, but shows promise; condense and strive
for more originality M.T.; Send it to a
magazine that goes in for descriptive articles of
that sort D.L.M.; An air of improbability
about it N. 8.; There’s a story there spoiled
by amateur handling G.C.8.: Not in our
line C.F.G.: Weak and over-sentimental...,
...M.K.: Not far off the mark. Try again
8.W.: This week’s most tearful effort C.J.;
Not even a woman’s paper desperately short
of fiction would give it a run R.8.L.: No
haven here for your escaped lunatic
E.J.W.: Promising NJ.: Uninteresting
variation of boy-girl misunderstanding....
R.M.: Housebreaker who quotes the classics
while he robs the peter is an unreal personage.
W.H. : Not the first country schoolteacher
to find himself in the same situation, but the
first to behave in the unconvincing manner he
does C.C.: Melodrama W.U.1.: Another
O. Henry H.M.: Yes, we use animal stories
provided they’re true to life and not thickly
bedaubed with sentimentality C.S.: Bush-
ward Ho! :
Swaggie Sam left Sydney with vague regrets;
He had no money but plenty of pets;
A derelict dog and a cat or two,
A pocketful of tram tickets
And a black eye copped in a “blue.”
....I.McD.: “The Cigarette Fiend” rings true
but that’s all C.J.: “Could you advise me
how to become a worth-while writer?” Hard
work, perseverance, determination F.S.G.H.,
K.L., R.T.: Missed H.0’8.: Your sincerity
undoubted, your style archaic D.V.: Come
again KJ.U.: Your detectives are too, too
clever and your crooks too, too stupid J.H.:
Not interested in mothercraft hints D.WE.-
Stilted style and affected characters L.L.:
This pungent melodrama should shock your
readers.” It won’t... .H.G.: You don’t have
to give a detailed ancestry to make your charac-
terisation effective F.S.: “The Mirror”
didn’t reflect anything worth recording for pos-
terity.. .C. 8.: Come again when you’ve done
some solid reading.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L,: Well, at least you can draw a cobweb.
bad!y drawn, but it’s oft-trodden
ground K.F.D.: You have some gift for
AA/f gan^; art , lessons would be helpful
A.M.: Your characters are stiff and you use
H J? an y fines.. .L.E.; Yes, jokes as well as
fie original....N.P.: Colored
head studies of movie actresses not in our line.
A'''. w ' \iVn * at was known to Captain
C00k...,W,R.A.: If you can’t draw chairs
seat your people on the floor H.L.; For-
given, if you are under fourteen... .G.A.;
Fault lies chiefly in having no bright ideas to
depict... .R.P.W.: You wasted a good thirty
seconds turning out that lightning sketch
S.M.: You’ll be turning them in on the return
half of a railway ticket next F.D.: Anyway,
the w.p.b. had no qualms about accepting it.
W.H.J.: All failed to make the distance.
R.B.; The sort of thing schoolchildren
scrawl on the blackboard when the teacher is
out of the classroom... .J.F.T.: Jest wore out
its welcome many years ago... .5.8. C.: The
down-and-out traveller is travelling home....
H.R.: Can’t agree that it should find a place
in these pages A.V.: Still among the artis-
tic flyweights P.C.S.: No improvement
noted; better take a rest V.M.: A field
that has been ploughed too often H.S.:
Linework resembles the tracks of a runaway
tramcar S.A.: Too many scraggy and un-
certain lines G.R.D.: Keep on trying
A.8.T.: Pug took the count in the first round.
L.C.: A sad waste of Indian ink R.J.:
Matron in French bathing togs declined in haste.
Parka around with friendly dove,
Meeting places of luncheon love,
Silver wings of ’planes above.
Taxis gay of every hue.
Crooked streets, a happy clue,
Dear old city, my thanks are due.


m
as
#. "4
M
'yZi
m.
•M
tl'iil
W/s
W'i
S 5
jLVriv
1
ii
yy/rnif'
i
''Vt
m
W
am
u
wm
7//'
m
f
*w
Ssv*
feSi
»
Sfve
*Sh
PL.
iM.
«
ceoßtc ~A
6MANuet,/ ■
a:. >
re
,/s
r
NEW SOUTH WALES?
6 O’CLOCK CLOSING
DENIES US CIVILISED
LIVING CONDITIONS
The average man enjoys a drink when his
day’s work is done. Deserves it, too. Very
few, however, enjoy the “jungle law” con-
ditions under which that drink is consumed
to-day. These conditions will continue as long
as 6 o’clock closing is with us. When bars and
lounges remain open until 10 p.m. men will
be able to drink in leisure and comfort . . •
will drink in greater moderation . . . and
women, too, will be able to join their menfolk
in the enjoyment of a quiet evening drink.
The proposed new trading hours (10 a.m. to
10 p.m., with hotels closed by law for an hour
between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m.) are the
sensible solution, the only solution, to exist-
ing 66 jungle law” drinking conditions.
For Comfort and Moderation—Vote 10 O’CLOCK
Inserted by V.L.V.A. 9 12 O’Connell SL, Sydney .
UL.I.7S


IN THE SWAMP PADDOCK
By RODERICK FINLAYSON
TODAY Uncle Ted has taken Jake
down to the swamp paddock that
he’s beginning to break in. Last
year he finished putting through a
drain about three feet wide and four or
five feet deep. Now, this autumn, the
dry peaty soil is studded with stumps
and strewn with half-burnt ti-tree sticks.
The surface of the ground is rough and
broken by old bog holes. Clumps of
cabbage-trees grow on “islands” of
higher ground above the former swamp
level, and below the clearing is a sea of
flax and toi-toi where long-legged pukeko
wade in scummy pools.
Uncle Ted and Jake are busy grubbing
out stumps and clearing the ground of
the scattered ti-tree sticks. They gather
the best of them into handy stacks ready
to cart home some day for firewood. The
rubbish is piled up and burned in roaring
bonfires that leave wide circles of thick
grey ash.
“That’s good for the soil,” Uncle Ted
says.
Their arms and their clothes are
blackened by the charred sticks. Even
their sweaty faces are all smudgy. Their
boots are whitey-grey with the burnt and
powdery peat; it seeps into their heavy
boots like flour dust.
“This is what I like, Jake,” says Uncle
Ted, taking a breather, “This is making
land. It’s a grand sight to see a man
make a good paddock out of an old bit
of swamp. Lots won’t tackle it, though.
Say peat’s not worth the trouble. ‘Why
worry about any old swamp?’ they say.”
*‘\]i/ELL,” says Jake, “it certainly is
* V tough work. Uncle Ted.”
He straightens his back stiffly.
“You don’t want to go at it like you
got no time on earth,” Uncle Ted says.
“There’s whips of time. What’s a man’s
life but whips of time? You just want
to go steady at things and enjoy doing a
little all the time, see?”
“That’s all right, but you can’t get
some folk to see it that way. Uncle Ted.”
“They don’t know what it is to be
alive, man!” says Uncle Ted. “Look
at that patch over there that I put in
maize and pumpkins.”
The fat cobs of maize are ripening on
the drying com stalks. The pumpkin-
vines cover the ground between the stalks
and there are big fat pumpkins hiding
under the drooping leaves.
Uncle Ted looks over the roughly-
cleared ground. “This’ll need some nice
work with the plough,” he says. “You
want a proper swamp plough for this
job. One that’ll ride over roots and
lumps and all. Anyway, I’m looking for-
ward to this bit of ploughing. A man
what never keeps his ploughshare polished
in the dirt ain’t no farmer, Jake.”
“What’s that
queer old wreck
over by the
boundary fence.
Uncle Ted?
Looks like some
kind of plough.
Isn’t that any use
to you?” said
Jake.
They stroll over to the fence where the
rusty iron skeleton of a machine lies
half-buried amid docks and thistles.
Uncle Ted eyes; the useless wreck dis-
tastefully.
“I never did use her,” he says. “She s
been lying there before my time on this
land—a real ugly old eyesore. What s a
man to do with them things that won’t rot?”
“Might be able to tinker her up with
some new part,” says Jake, looking at
the rusted-together works doubtfully.
“She’s a Chattemoojer,” says Uncle
Ted impressively.
“A what?” says Jake.
“A Chattemoojer. That’s her name.
Uncle Ted points to the big rusty letters
still legible on the body casting.
Jake spells them out. “C-H-A-T-
T-A-N-O-O-G-A,” he says.
“Aye,” says Uncle Ted, “that’s her
name, whatever it means.”
“I guess it’s a place,” says Jake. The
place where they made the plough.
“They make ploughs and such imple-
ments in civilised places,” says Uncle
Ted decidedly. “Where on earth would
a civilised town be called Chattemoojer?
It’s a heathen name, I reckon. You
can’t tell me otherwise.”
“Well,” says Jake doubtfully, “it might
be in America.”
“Aye, that may be so,” Uncle Ted
admits. “Them Yankees sometimes has
queer names. Yes, it’ll be the name of
the bloke what built her. Old Mr. Chat-
ternoojer, eh? Anyway, I wouldn’t ever
want to use his contraption. She’s too
heavy. You never want to kill your
horses with machines that are too damn’
heavy for commonsense.”
a “TRACTORS will do all the pulling
1 some day,” says Jake. “You’ll have
to get a tractor. Uncle Ted.”
“No damnfool tractor for me!” says
Uncle Ted with a snort.
“But what’s wrong with them? They’re
the coming thing,” Jake tells him.
“I’ll tell you one thing what’s wrong
with them —and that’s wrong enough for
everything. Tractors don't drop dung,”
says Uncle Ted, stabbing out the words
with his forefinger.
“Oh, but then they’re clean,” says
“Clean!” shouts Uncle Ted. “God-
amighty! they stink!” Then he shakes
his head gently. “They don’t drop dung,
and that ain’t use to God or man,” he says.
“Oh, you’re just old-fashioned. Uncle
Ted.”
“Old-fashioned, eh?” says Uncle Ted.
“Here’s another thing—can you graze a
tractor, eh? Don’t they burn benzine or
oil or something from the devil knows
where? You can’t feed the blighters off
your own land natural like, can you?”
“Oh, but it pays, Uncle Ted, You have
to buy benzine, but it pays in speed and
work, you see,” says Jake enthusiastically.
“Pays, does it?” Uncle Ted mocks.
“Without the dung, eh? And here’s an-
other thing—they don’t breed, do they?
When one of the damn’’things wears out
you don’t find a young one growing up
handy like, do you?”
“Oh, but mass-production turns them
out cheap,” says Jake.
“Cheap’s the word,” says Uncle Ted.
“Here’s something you can’t argue away.
If you keep tractors what’ll do the
kneeling ? Tractors can’t kneel, can
they?”
“Kneel?” says Jake. “What are you
talking about. Uncle Ted?”
“Horses and cattle can kneel and men
can kneel,” Uncle Ted explains patiently.
“It’s natural to be able to kneel. There’s
all sorts of things you can do better if
you kneel. Sometimes you got to kneel
to work properly.”
“But tractors don’t need to kneel,”
says Jake, puzzled. “And, anyway, what’s
kneeling to do with horses or tractors?”
“What about Christmas-time?” Uncle
Ted wants to know. “Haven’t you ever
heard how thecattle and the horses kneel in
the paddocks every Christmas morning?”
“Oh, Uncle Ted, that’s only a supersti-
tion.”
“Super nothing. It’s gospel true, Jake.”
“Have you seen them all kneeling on
Christmas morning. Uncle Ted?”
i l \\l ELL,” says Uncle Ted, “I guess I
V v did as a boy. My grandpop knew
all about it and he ain’t no liar, Jake. I
remember well how he said to me Christ-
mas eve when I was a little schoolkid:
‘Ted,’ he says, ‘you get up early and
you’ll see the cattle kneeling in the pad-
dock and praising the Lord.’ And I got
up before daylight and there they was all
facing the east and kneeling like at a
prayer-meeting.”
“Oh, all kids see things,” Jake says
impatiently. “Do you ever see them do
it now?”
“Well, that’s different,” says Uncle
Ted, “I reckon none of us is likely to
see such things now, Jake. We don’t do
much kneeling ourselves. Grandpop was
a praying man. Makes a difference, I
guess.”
“If you believe that kind of tale,” says
Jake, “I can’t see you ever getting a
tractor. Uncle Ted.”
“No, Jake, give me the beast what feeds
and breeds, in my own paddocks, what
kneels when necessary, and what drops
dung. Them’s things I know about. But
these stinking tractors”- Uncle Ted’s
voice trails off in a sniff.
“Talk of the devil,” he says, “I smell
a stink right now.”
Jake is wrinkling his nose too. A
breeze has sprung up from the direction
of the drain and it brings with it a sickly
sweet odor.
“My, what a pong!” says Jake.
“Dead sheep,” Uncle Ted decides.
“That’s something natural anyway. Come
and see.”
They walk over
to the drain at
the place where
the smell is thick-
est, and sure
enough in the
drain is a bloated
dead sheep. They
move to the
windward of it
and Uncle Ted
says it’s quite a lucky find. He says it
must be one of Bert McDool’s sheep.
“Found her Just before she’s too ripe,
Jake.”
Jake thinks she’s already far too ripe.
“Never waste anything good, Jake,”
Uncle Ted says, “See that poor dead
beast? We can get wool and hide and
fat from her, and we’ll bury her carcass
where it’ll help manure the ground.
That’s how nature works, Jake.”
The stench and the sight of the rotting
flesh disgust Jake. He feels sick. But
Uncle Ted gets down to if, and soon he’s
plucking the wool off the carcass and
spreading it out to dry. He cuts off the
hide and sets to work on the lumps of fat
on the body. “There’s a good sale for
fat,” he says. He spreads the hide on a
fence to dry and gets his, spade and buries
the remains of the carcass. Then, to
Jake’s relief, they go back to the ti-tree-
clearing job,
'"F HAT evening Uncle Ted takes the
1 wool and the fat home in a sugar-bag:
After supper he puts the lumps of fat
into a kerosene tin to melt down. He
says that next time he goes to the Landing
he’ll take the hide and the wool and the
tallow and sell them to young Fred, the
fellmonger’s man, for quite a few shil-
lings.
“When your Godforsaken tractors
break down do they turn out useful goods
like that?” he asks,
“But you’re out of date,” says Jake.
“Science will alter that kind of messing
about anyway.”
“Let them try,” Uncle Ted says. “Just
let them scientists try to get away with
it. Nobody can get away from the proper
use of God’s creatures without coming a
cropper. I reckon some day them scien-
tists’ll come a hell of a big cropper. You
mark my words, Jake. Them cocksures
will slip on some little thing—like a plop
of cowmuck for instance —and dirty the
blooming seats of their pants,”
And Uncle Ted prods the tallow down
in the kerosene tin over the fire with a
very contented little smile,
“If I was you, Jake,” he says after a
thoughtful pause, “I wouldn’t buy any
of that fish-and-chips from Brownie’s
stall these week-ends.”
“Why not?” asks Jake. “Brownie’s
fish-and-chips always taste corker.”
“Well,” says Uncle Ted, “I know
Brownie buys a heck of a lot of this kind
of -fat from young Fred.”
THAT QUEST HOUSE
By LES ROBINSON
IN one of my dreams I found myself
in a house that was very old-
fashioned far away in the country
somewhere. It had begun as a small
cottage, but rooms • added haphazardly
had made the place large and rambling.
It had once, I imagine, been a farm-
house, but seemed to have become a
boarding establishment. What made the
dream linger in my memory—l had it
several times, strangely enough—was that,
if I left the room assigned to me in order
to go for a bathe or a walk, I could
never find it again. For hours and hours
I’d search, climbing up and down flights
of stairs, traversing labyrinthine passage-
ways and blundering into other people’s
bedrooms, but never, by any chance, into
mine again. It was most awkward and
very embarrassing, too. The dream be-
came a nightmare once or twice because
I seemed to have been staying in that
house for months instead of weeks and
knew I could never possibly pay the
rent.
I wondered sometimes, in waking
moments, whether such a habitation
existed. And then, one day when the
dream had almost faded from my mind,
there was that same homestead, or its
facsimile, before me.
The total space available had fyeen
partitioned off into as many little and stuffy
rooms as cquM be crowded into it, the
material used for the partitions being
the flimsiest. Nothing more was needed,
apparently, in the opinion of the pro-
prietress, to entitle her to call the build-
ing a guest-house.
It was holiday time. There were as
many guests as could be crammed in
somewhere and more kept on arriving.
A heat-wave was blistering the land-
scape.
The bath-water, reduced to the merest
trickle, for the tank was nearly empty,
petered out the third morning after I
arrived. There was a water-hole about
half a mile away. Anybody who wanted
a bath either had to walk out to it or do
without. I was one of the few who
elected to get up early, trudge across pad-
docks knee-deep in tall dry grass that
left its javelin-like seeds embedded in
socks and trousers, and clamber over
and under sundry dividing fences of
barbed wire.
The water in the pond was clean
enough for bathing purposes, if you
weren’t too fastidious, but in order to
reach it you had to wade through about
sixteen feet of yellow slush trampled and
otherwise damaged by livestock, into
which you sank deeply, wondering, at
every step you took, whether you mightn’t
disappear altogether. After that you
forced your way through a forest of
reeds.
Water for the guests to drink was ob-
tained from a well. Sometimes it tasted
of decaying rope, tortoises and frogs, at
others only of decaying rope.
I SHALL never forget the nights. There
1 were windows in some of the cubicles
that could be opened; others, like so
many upon which you expend your
strength, if you have any, in railway
carriages, were never meant to be. Mine
hadn’t even a ventilator.
And the mosquitoes! There was a
plague of them, and no , nets. The local
store had sold out of mosquito-coils,
citronella and anything else the pests are
supposed to dislike. Your face, after
being a flies’ restaurant all day, was a
mosquitoes’ banquet all night.
Nor shall I forget the noise, which only
died down somewhat between midnight
and dawn. That made by boots on those
bare board floors, which creaked like
the devil, predominated. It was the first
you heard long before daylight, and the
last, though you could never be sure,
when you were trying hard in the hours
of darkness to sleep. You came to the
conclusion that the wearers, or some of
them at all events, slept in their boots, for
suddenly the unmistakable sound of a
bedroom wall being struck by one, as
of a horse lashing out in its stall, would
be heard.
Someone or other never failed to begin
strumming on the tinniest of pianos as
soon as he or she got up in the morning,
and it was seldom untortured for more
than half an hour at a time until long
after midnight. By far the worst and
most pertinacious of its torturers was an
old man who imagined he was an enter-
tainer. He thumped (vamping he called
it) for hours at a stretch, and, in a voice
that sounded as though it had been baked
in clay, sang the songs that were already
becoming mouldy in the days of his
youth. He was comic without meaning or
trying to be. His grimaces as he tried to
look lovelorn, ecstatic, spiritual, heart-
broken, debonair, etc., were ludicrous in
the extreme, and only a cockatoo, when
intoxicated, could wag its head about in
the way that he did. He boasted that he
had never had a day’s tuition in his life.
No one, I should think, ever doubted it.
When it t wasn’t being “played” kids
would amuse themselves by hammering
lustily on the piano, and if a period of
silence lasted longer than about ten
minutes, night or day, the wireless would
be switched on.
It was no use telling yourself that you
would make up for loss of sleep by hav-
ing a snooze under a tree somewhere,
for, although a patch of shade might
seem untenanted, you no sooner occupied
it than insects—chiefly ants —hastened to-
wards you from all directions. Once you
(Continued on page 32.)


At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness. *
One of the famous trio—^
Cuticura Soap, Oint
ment. Talcum ,
Powder.
Ss==-*-
2k
.528
d
/
I <
i
' • s
c
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney. Victoria: Servian
Machine Tools (Aust.), 848 a Sydney Road, Brunswick. Queensland: Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd., 450 Ann
bt., Brisbane. vV.A.: Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac
Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
ď
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- Ib ~ in Ib. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —■
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE FIVE PEACE TREATIES.
The American Secretary of State James
F. Byrnes has explained the function of
the Paris Peace Conference. The Council
of Foreign Ministers agreed to the “pre-
sentation of tentative drafts of treaties.”
There were five of them —'for Italy, Ru-
mania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland.
“The Conference will make only re-
commendations. But the members of the
Council are committed, in drafting the
final texts of the treaties, to consider the
recommendations of the Conference and
not to reject any of them arbitrarily.”
Mr. Byrnes said that “the drafts of
treaties agreed upon are not the best
which human wit could devise. But they
are the best which human wit could get
the four principal Allies to agree upon.”
London “Times” reported on their
terms;
“The preamble to each of the treaties
states that the allied and associated
Powers and the ex-enemy Powers are ‘de-
sirous of concluding a treaty of peace
which will form the basis of friendly
relations between them and settle ques-
tions still outstanding’ as a result of the
war, for which each ex-enemy Power
‘bears her share of responsibility.’ Thereby
the allied and associated Powers will be
enabled to support the applications of
the ex-enemy Powers to become members
of the United Nations,
“Certain clauses recur in each treaty.
For example, a general definition of the
human rights to be granted and main-
tained by the signatory ex-enemy Gov-
ernments appears as Article 14 of the
Italian treaty and in all the others. It
runs as follows:
“Italy shall take all measures necessary
to secure to all persons under Italian juris-
diction, without distinction as to race, sex,
language or religion, the enjoyment of
human rights and of the fundamental free-
doms, including freedom of expression, of
Press, of publication, of religious worship,
of political opinion and of public meeting.
“Likewise all five Governments are to
accept what appears as Article 15 in the
Italian treaty;
“Italy undertakes to recognise the full
force of the treaties of peace with Rumania,
Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland, and other
agreement’s or arrangements which have
been or will be reached by the allied and
associated Powers in respect of Austria,
Germany and Japan, for the restoration of
peace.
“In the cases of Italy and Bulgaria
all Allied forces are to be withdrawn
within 90 days of the treaty coming into
force ; in the cases of Rumania and Hun-
gary the forces will be withdrawn within
the same period, ‘subject to the right of
the Soviet Union to keep on Rumanian
[or Hungarian] territory such armed
forces as it may need for the maintenance
of the lines of communication of the Red
Army with the Soviet zone of occupa-
tion in Austria.’
“For all five countries military training
is forbidden except for the limited forces
allowed them. Their air forces are to be
equipped and trained for defensive duties
only, and will not include bombers or
aircraft with internal bomb-carrying
facilities.
“All five countries undertake to hand
over war material in excess of the re-
quirements of their limited forces; to
co-operate with the United Nations ‘in
order to ensure that Germany may not be
able to take any action outside German
territory in the direction of rearmament’;
and not to acquire or manufacture civil
aircraft of German or Japanese design,
or which embody assemblies of German
or Japanese manufacture or design.
“The military, naval and air clauses of
the treaties are to remain in force until
modified in whole or in part by agree-
ment between the allied and associated
Powers on the one hand and each of the
ex-enemy Governments on the other, or.
after the latter have become members
of the United Nations, by agreement be-
tween them and the Security Council.”
Other clauses as they apply to the indi-
vidual countries concerned are:
ITALY. — Territory and Frontiers;
Qn the west France acquires frontier
areas in the Maritime Alps. On the east,
a ll territory east of the line known as the
“French line” is ceded to Yugoslavia ; the
Free Territory of Trieste is to be con-
stituted. The Dodecanese are to be ceded
to Greece. The Island of Pelagosa and
adjacent islets are ceded to Yugoslavia
All right and title to Libyk, Eritrea, and
Italian Somaliland are renounced. Final
disposal of the colonies is to be deter-
mined by the Council of Foreign Mini-
sters within a year of the date on which
the peace treaty comes into force.
Armed F orce s : An army, including
f ron tie r troops, of 185,000 men and
65>000 carabinieri, equipped with not
more t han 200 tanks, medium and heavy.
a navy of two battleships, four cruisers,
four fleet destroyers, 16 torpedo-boats, 20
corve ttes, and such a number of minor
war vessels and auxiliaries as can be
manned and ma intained in commission
by not more than 2500 officers and men.
Total personnel of 22,500 officers and
men . An air force, including any naval
air a rm, Q f 200 fighters and reconnais-
sance types and 150 transport, air-sea
re scue, training, and liaison types. All
aircraft except fighters and reconnaissance
ty p es to be unarmed. Total personnel
25,000.
Reparations : Over a period of seven
years from the date on which the treaty
comes into force Italy is to pay the
rr„- „ irinnnnnmA t> y y *•
Soviet Union $100,000,000, Reparations
will come from Italian assets in Rumania,
Bulgaria and Hungary, from a share of
Italian fartorv and tnnl mninmpnt dn
. factory ana tool equipment ae
signed tor armament manufacture which
is not required by the permitted Italian
military establishments and from current
industrial production. Quantities and
types of goods for delivery will be agreed
by the Italian and the Soviet Govern-
ments.
The claims of other Powers, particu-
larly of France, Yugoslavia, Greece,
Albania and Ethiopia, will be considered
at the peace conference. Property re-
moved from United Nations territories
will be returned. All legal rights and
interests and property in Italy of the
United Nations and their nationals, as
they existed in June, 1940, are to be re-
stored.
Each of the allied and associated
Powers shall have the right to seize all
property, rights and interests within its
territory which on the date of coming
into force of the treaty belong to Italy
or to Italian nationals, and to apply the
property to such purposes as it may
desire, within the limits of its claims and
those of its nationals against Italy or its
nationals, including debts. All Italian
property, or the proceeds of it, in excess
of the amount of such claims, is to be
RUMANIA. Territory and From-
TI u R u' Ihe frontiers are to be those
which existed on January 1, 1941, with
t e exception of the Rumanian-Hun-
ganan frontier. The Soviet-Rumanian
frontier therefore confirms the cession of
, hy Czechoslovakia to the
U.S.S.R. in June, 1945, and the cession of
a .? d North Bukovina to the
U.S.S.R. by Rumama in June, 1940. The
frontier with Hungary existing on Janu-
l, 1938, is restored and the decision
of the Vienna Award of August 30, 1940,
is annulled. This award, made under
German and Italian pressure, gave two-
thirds of Transylvania to Hungary, in-
eluding the cities of Cluj and Oradea
Mare and three counties of eastern Tran-
syivama.
Armed Forces: An army, including
frontier guards, of 120,000 men, with an-
other 5000 men for anti-aircraft artillery,
An n fnrrp s ’?nHi,!r m and men ’
nf Iso * ng na val air arm,
?nn 15 m«v not than
1 at es ’ Total per-
r' .. f 1
Compensation for losses
caused to the Soviet Union will be made
m U bUt - !? art; umania
F-Y. ovei c a P en ° d y ears e § m ‘
f qnf^nnnn^iT I '-/'h’ a i°ff SU ™
f 300,000,000 United States dollars in
commodities and produce.
As regards return of property re-
moved from United Nations territories,
the restoration of legal rights and in-
tpr f in t? nmoniQ *l, axt f 1
terests in Rumania of the United Nations
and their nationals, the use by the allied
t>’ n * t, .
P ma r, n
fhefr S countries to satisfy
Le siS r-tuf PtP
amtor _to those of the
. Rumania recognises that
S °™‘ U T n is ensued to all Ger.
t? u“T r tran f e r !: red *° * he
German Y ” C
t>t it a n i a .np „
FGARIA. Territory and Fron-
T™®= 11,6 £rontlers *° * h ° S t PP
existed on January 1, 1941; but the
Greek and Bulgarian Governments are to
present their views on the Greek-Bul-
garian frontier
Armed Forces: An army, including
frontier guards, of 55,000, with another
1800 men for anti-aircraft artillery. A
navy of 7250 tons and 3500 men. An air
force, including naval air arm, of 90 air-
craft, not more than 70 of them combat
types. Total personnel 5200.
Reparations: Losses caused to Yugo-
slavia and Greece will be made good
direct to those countries. Decision as to
what amounts shall be paid postponed
until the Yugoslav and Greek Govern-
ments could state their views.
HUNGARY. — Territory and Fron-
tiers; With Austria, Yugoslavia and
Rumania, the frontiers are to remain
those which existed on January 1, 1938.
With the Soviet Union, from the point
common to the frontier of these two
States and Rumania to the point com-
mon to the frontier of those two States
and Czechoslovakia, the frontier is fixed
along the former frontier between Hun-
gary and Czechoslovakia as it existed on
January 1, 1938. With Czechoslovakia
the frontier, from the point common to
the frontier of these two States and
Austria to the point common to the fron-
tier of those two States and the Soviet
Union, is restored as it existed on Janu-
ary 1, 1938 ; but the Czechoslovak and
Hungarian Governments will present
their views on the subject.
Armed Forces: An army, including
frontier guards, anti-aircraft and river
flotilla personnel, of 65,000 men. An
air force of 90 aircraft, not more than
70 of them combat types. Total per-
sonnel, 5000.
Reparations: Over eight years begin-
ning on January 20, 1945, Hungary will
pay a total sum of 300,000,000 United
States dollars in commodities and equip-
ment to the Soviet Union ; to Czecho-
slovakia and Yugoslavia 100,000,000
United States dollars. The U.S. reserved
the right, to reopen this question at the
peace conference because of its concern
at the economic condition of Hungary,
partly caused by reparations payments.
FINLAND. — Territory and Fron-
tiers : The frontiers remain those existing
on January 1, 1941, except that Finland
confirms the return to the Soviet Union of
the province of Petsamo. The Soviet
confirms the renunciation of its rights to
the lease of the Peninsula of Hango and
Finland, confirms the grant to the Soviet
Union on a 50-year lease, at an annual
rent of 5,000,000 Finnish marks, of the
use and administration of territory and
waters for establishment of a naval base
in the area of Porkkala-Udd. The Soviet
has the right of unimpeded use of all
forms of communication between the
U.S.S.R. and leased territory in the area
of Porkkala-Udd.
Armed Forces: An army, including
frontier guards and anti-aircraft per-
sonnel, of 34,000. A navy of 10,000 tons
with 4500 men. An air force, including
naval air arm, of 60 aircraft with 3000
personnel.
Reparations: Over a period of eight
years beginning on September 19, 1944,
Finland will pay the Soviet Union a total
sum of 300,000,000 United States dollars
in commodities.
As in the case of Rumania, Hungary
and Bulgaria, the treaty refers to this sum
as compensation “not in full but only in
part,” allowance having been made for
the part played by Finland and the others
in changing sides before the German col-
lapse.
The 21 Treaty Makers.
All of them were at war with Italy,
Hungary, Rumania or Bulgaria.
China
France
Great Britain
Russia
The United States
A ustralia
Belgium
Brazil
Byelorussia
Canada
Czechoslovakia
Ethiopia
Greece
India
The Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
The Union of
South Africa
Y ugoslavia
The Ukraine
JAPAN A YEAR AFTER.
Allied forces have been in occupation
of Japan for a whole year now, but it is
difficult to say whether the progress to-
wards the “democratisation” of the
country has been any more rapid than
it has in Germany, where the problems
facing the authorities concerned in
formulating a plan for the political and
economic future of the enemy population
have received more recent attention.
There is a surprising similarity about
many features of the problem in the two
countries. Nazism and its adherents are
still to be found in high places in Ger-
many. The supporters of militarism still
contrive towards power in Japan.
The “Atlantic Monthly” remarks that
“General MacArthur, who has stood
four-square on firm ground ever since he
occupied Japan, has been reminded by
a series of tremors that in Japan even
the firmest ground is volcanic.
“He has had the immense advantage
of having all Japan, and every phase of
Japanese life, completely centralised
under his own one-man control. He has
had no interference and almost no criti-
cism. Yet somehow things are not going
quite right. General MacArthur is being
forced to crack down more and more.
He has given the conservatives a gener-
ous opportunity to redeem themselves,
and they have double-crossed him. In-
stead of cleaning house the reactionaries
seem to have no shame in trying time
after time to see how much dirt Mac-
Arthur will let them sweep under the
rug.”
As the “Atlantic Monthly” sees it,
“these conservatives, the Shideharas and
the Yoshidas and the rest of them, and


JTP4S/31
“Going away for a rest cure?
All you need is
a daily dose of
‘NUGGET'
... that’s what
keeps me fit”.
"1
%£
The finest leather
Preservative
For 50 years a GOOD polish
HSildd
30HS XaDODY.
Important New Australian Books
pSSJ^inuMated; “some coTo'S
IN CROCODILE LAND. Wanderings in Northern Australia, by lon L. Idness. Numerous
illustrations. 8/6 (post. 4d.). , „ . t,. ..
BEHIND BAMBOO. An inside story of the Japanese Pri son C P rt ukm has published
illustrated. Owing to public demand for this book a second edition has been punusneQ
within two months. 12/6 (post. Bd.). . . ... . .
CAPRICORNIA. A novel of North Australia, by Xavier Herbert. Australia s 150th Anni-
versary prize novel. New Seventh Edition now available. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
COAST TO COAST AUSTRALIAN STORIES 1945. A story teller’s anthology, selected by
Douglas Stewart. 7/6 (post. 4d,). x _ . . . , .
AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1945. An authoritative record of living Australian Poetry selected by
Kenneth Slessor. 4/6 (post. 4d.). ....
HERE’S LUCK. A novel of genuine humour, by L. W. Lower. New eleventh edition.
6/- (post. 4d.). _ . .
SKYSCRAPERS IN THE MIST. An Australian’s iinpressiofls of Yartime.-New York by
by George Johnston, author of “Grey Gladiators,’ etc. Illustrated. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
AUSTRALIAN RADIO PLAYS. An excellent collection, edited by Leslie Rees. 7/6 (post. 4d.)
THE PRONUNCIATION OF ENGLISH IN AUSTRALIA. By A G. Mitchell. 6/- (post. 4d.).
AUSTRALIA’S ALPS. By Elyne Mitchell, author of “Speak to the Earth.” Numerous
illustrations. New edition. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
TO THE ISLES OF SPICE, WITH FRANK CLUNE. Numerous illustrations. Now reprinted.
12/6 (post. 6d.). ,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street. Sydney
the Emperor, too, become more unpre-
possessing as the months pass. They
always posed as moderates. They always
claimed that they were against militarism.
They always said that what they wanted
was to negotiate a place for Japan in the
community of nations, not to conquer a
place in the sun. From time to time
their feet slipped, but they say now, with
that embarrassed Japanese giggle, that
that was because some uncouth militarist
was shoving them. Yet now that they
have their chance they are crowding Mac-
Arthur instead of using the opportunity
he has given them in the spirit in which
it was offered.
“MacArthur is not inept, but he is
handicapped by the fact that he repre-
sents an America which is still living in
the age of innocence. Perhaps the Ameri-
cans in Japan have been misled by the
servility of the ‘responsible leaders’
among Japanese civilians. They forget
that these men will bow to American
wishes as far as they have to because
they long ago learned the knack of bow-
ing, as far as they had to, to the Japanese
militarists. And since these eminently
respectable conservatives seryed militar-
ism without making a moral stand and
are serving democracy only part time
while the Americans are in Japan, it will
not be surprising to find that they are
using the rest of their time in preparing
to bow to reaction once more if the
Americans ever go ; and if not that, then
at least to cajole the Americans into
tolerating a little reaction right now.”
There are other sources of discontent.
Russian propaganda has been found
troublesome in Japan as it has in Ger-
many. The N.Y. “Times” points out
that “in line with her policy of military,
political, economic and ideological ex-
pansion which has already brought half
of Europe and northern China under
her sway and reaches out for control of
all Germany, Russia now appears to be
starting a similar offensive for the cap-
ture of Japan. Since Russia has declined
to send troops to Japan her first efforts
are necessarily limited to political and
ideological infiltration. But within these
limits she is proceeding with the same
skill, determination and disregard for her
allies that have characterised her actions
in all international affairs. The Russian
representatives in Japan blandly ignore
the specific orders of General MacArthur,
and proceed with a Communist propa-
ganda campaign that does not shrink
from attacking the policies of the occu-
pying Powers.
“This situation is obviously fraught
not only with friction among the victors,
but also with danger to the occupation
forces and the objectives of the occupa-
tion itself. General MacArthur has in-
troduced freedom of press, speech and
assembly and freed the Communist
leaders from prison to conduct a free
campaign for whatever popular support
they can get. But he has likewise barred
Japanese criticism of the occupying
authorities and also provided that
material received from foreign agencies
for dissemination within Japan must be
first approved by his Chief of Staff,
“The Russian ‘Press Bureau’ and
other agencies have no right to issue
propaganda material in areas we occupy
in violation of General MacArthur’s
orders and directed against us in general
and against the Allied occupation policies
in particular. Nor can it be tolerated
that a like propaganda line is adopted by
ostensibly Japanese publications subsi-
dised by Russia at Japan’s direct and our
own indirect expense.”
This last has been a cause of much
friction between MacArthur’s Head-
quarters and the Russian representatives
in Japan.
A new-sprung magazine, “Soviet Cul-
ture,” ostensibly Japanese-controlled—by
“friends of the Soviet Association” —re-
marked in its second issue “Japan’s re-
construction can never be attained by
liberal economy or the capitalistic sys-
tem. We must study the Soviet experi-
ence.
“Although most of the aggressor
nations have been purged more aggres-
sors will emerge as long as monopolistic
capitalism exists in the world. The
Soviet Union is enforcing national de-
fence to protect the nation and to main-
tain world peace.”
There has been great food shortage,
and a good deal of labor trouble. S. H.
Scheibla, writing in the “Wall Street
Journal,” suggests that some of the labor
trouble has been caused through a deli-
berate U.S. plan:
“The American Army is persuading
those clever imitators, the Japanese, to
follow America’s lead in labor matters.
Nipponese workers are beginning to flash
union cards, demand pay increases with
great enthusiasm and wage Oriental ver-
sions of ,the strike. The plan is to
strengthen the country’s laboring class so
war lords never again can gain control
of the economy.”
He says that “the Japanese economy be-
cause of shortages of vital raw materials
has barely started the job of reconversion.
There is no semblance of industrial
stability. Competent leaders in industry
—managers, foremen, supervisors-—are
lacking, A serious food shortage is re-
ducing production because many workers
are undernourished. Skyrocketing infla-
tion has boosted commodity prices ; food
costs, on the average, are 10 times the
1940 level. Unemployment is estimated
—Chicago “ Tribune . ”
THE LITTLE ENEMY NATIONS BEFORE THE BAR OF JUSTICE .
at between six and eight million out of
the estimated total population of 73
million.”
There are plans for the re-establishment
of the Japanese economy on a basis which
will allow the country to “live,” but not
again to develop as a world Power cap-
able of making war. As reviewed by
“World Report” they are not yet much
more than plans; their purpose “to en-
courage a revival of Japanese international
trade until it becomes large enough to
pay for living essentials that cannot be
produced at home.”
As it is planned “foreign credits that
Japan earns by trading will be used to
buy commodities that must be sent into
Japan from abroad.
“Other Oriental populations are to
benefit indirectly, as Japan will supply
cheap textiles and manufactured articles
that Western nations now are unable to
furnish at prices within reach of Asiatics.
But Japan will not be permitted again to
flood the world’s markets with cheap pro-
ducts. Rigid control is to hold the re-
vived trade at about 40 per cent, of pre-
war volume. The exports are to be chan-
neled into markets where they are needed,
yet will not threaten the export interests
of Western trading Powers. The principal
anticipated markets are the U.S., China,
Korea and Formosa. Other outlets are
to be Great Britain, Canada, Australia,
the U.S.S.R., southern Asiatic countries
and the Philippines.
“Imports for Japan will be mainly food.
The arable land of the Japanese home
islands will produce only about 80 per
cent, of the rice and 20 per cent, of the
sugar that the population of more than
70 million requires. About two million
tons of rice or other grains will have to
be imported every year. Other items
lacking in Japan proper, but badly needed,
are, in addition to raw cotton, pulp for
rayon, wool, hides, petroleum, bauxite,
phosphate rock for fertiliser, soybeans,
salt and fats.”
In the “World Report” view “Japan’s
ability to fulfill the programme depends
upon the extent to which her manufac-
turing industries can be revived.”
There are many obstacles in the way.
Many plants are idle. Many owners are
reluctant to reopen until they know what
equipment will be confiscated for repara-
tions. There is a shortage of labor and
of coal.
“Many difficulties must be overcome
before Japan is able to balance its crippled
economy by means of foreign trade.
Heavy imports of rice and fish must con-
tinue to come from Korea and Formosa.
When these territories were Japanese, the
products were obtained by means of ex-
ploitation. Now imports from them must
be paid for out of export profits. Lack, of
shipping will force Japan to pay shippers
of other countries for transporting her
international trade products.- Competition
of substitute fibres will restrict the market
for raw silk, which was and is to be
Japan’s principal cash export commodity.
The use of nylon and rayon in place of
silk has been highly developed in the U.S.,
where 85 per cent, of Japanese raw silk
shipments formerly was sold.”
But there are some brighter aspects to
the situation. “Immediate effects of the
trade revival will be beneficial to Asia.
The products that Japan is authorised to
export are needed urgently now in other
Oriental countries and cannot be obtained
from America or Europe.
“Further ahead, Japan’s prospects are
for a stable but limited international com-
merce. The Far Eastern Commission
eventually is to fix a policy on Japanese
trade that will be enforced indefinitely.
The policy will protect the trade interests
of the 11 Allied countries represented in
the Commission. Beyond the occupation,
the expansion of Japanese commerce still
will be limited by the scarcity of raw
materials in the homeland. Stripped of
her Empire, Japan is not likely to regain
an important position in world trade
for many years.”
Meanwhile a correspondent for the
“Christian Science Monitor” has reported
on “a typical example of the subtle propa-
ganda along militaristic lines” still being
published:
“It was a picture-book entitled The
Clever Ant. Published ih April this year
ostensibly for children, it had a central
theme depicting how a group of ants
achieved revenge for killings by an ant
lion. The ants waited until the ant lion
became lax and satiated by luxurious
living—an obvious allusion to the occupa-
tion forces in Japan —and then they
attacked and threw over their oppressor.
The ants depicted in the book were
dressed in the familiar garments of Jap-
anese workers, clerks and other persons
in civilian affairs.”
And N.Y.,“Times” has recorded one
aspect of the blackmarket problem;
. “There is no way to check the theft of
Government property by soldiers, but
some idea of the merchandising activities
of the occupation forces can be gained
from the fact that $35,000,000 more has
been sent to the United States by troops
in Japan than has been paid to the
soldiers. The sale of American rations,
clothing and automobile supplies on the
blackmafket is not uncommon.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
U.N.R.R.A. is the name of a region deep in
Russia beyond the Urals, a region laced by
streams of milk and honey and producing
enough food and other commodities to take
care of all the good Communists, big and little,
in Yugoslavia. This fairy tale is taught as
truth, and part of the Red credo, to youngsters
in one Belgrade school, and is indicative of
the attempts made by Marshal Tito’s Govern-
ment to keep the Yugoslav people in ignorance
of the fact that the bulk of U.N.R.R.A. sup-
plies comes from America and Britain.—Sey-
mour Korman in the , Chicago "Tribunet”
* * * ♦
The ideas and arms of Soviet Russia have
spread Communism around the world farther and
faster than any other ideology of modern times.
Outside the Soviet Union, Communism is now
dominant in five European countries with 72
million population. In elections in 18 Euro-
pean countries, Communists or Communist-
backed coalitions won one-fourth of all seats.
Marshal Tito’s Communist-dominated National
Front won 90.5 per cent, of the vote in Yugo-
slavia. Bulgaria voted 90.7 per cent, for the
Communist - dominated Fatherland Front.
Albanians voted 98.9 per cent. Communist.
Poland and Rumania are governed by Com-
munist-dominated coalitions. In Czechoslovakia
Communists won 114 seats and were given the
Premiership and several key Cabinet positions.
In Finland, the 24 per cent. Communist vote
wields great influence. In Hungary, Com-
munists cast 17 per cent, of the vote. In
France, Communists have won a place in Presi-
dent" Georges Bidault’s new coalition Govern-
ment. Elections have shown the following
Communist strengths in other European coun-
tries: Italy, 18.9 per cent.; Belgium, 10.4 per
cent.; the Netherlands, 10 per cent.; Norway,
8 per cent.; and Sweden, 6 per cent. — "World
Report."
• ♦ *
The Russians are known to have made pro-
posals to the Austrians. In the case of the
Zisterdorf oilfields, for example, it seems they
would like the same kind of arrangement that
they have in Hungary, giving, on paper, a 50-50
share to both parties. They contend that, in
doing this, they are doing exactly the same
• as the Western capitalist countries have done by
private companies all over the world, and that
it is their means of obtaining economic influence
in a country. —London "Times."
» * * *
As an illustration of the 1,200,000,000 years’
history of life on the earth in a documentary
film of 12 reels, each lasting an hour, and
each representing a hundred million years,
primitive man would not appear in the pano-
rama until the last minute, and our direct
ancestors would make their entry less than a
second from the end of the picture.—Sir Richard
Gregory, F.R.S., in an address to the British
Association.


msr*.
-
m
mM
•••••
mm
r
w
s--- '
tom
' :?f
11l
wiwgi
■
V-/V
-,***■■**>&>
& g
*****
r
r
:. •;
w ■mm&. <
/• w
T
%
s t
*
i* *****
.
■
A bright name
in Australian INDUSTRY
As pioneers of the luminous-tube industry in Australia, Claude Neon
Ltd., has earned a secure and prominent place in the industrial and
commercial life of the nation. Claude Neon first revolutionised outdoor
advertising in Australia and is now revolutionising working conditions
in factories, offices and shops with Claude Fluorescent Interior Lighting.
Claude Neon Ltd. is the only Company of its kind with a nation-
wide organisation . . . able to offer manufacturing, sales and service •
facilities in all States, It is an all-Australian company entirely operated
by Australian capital. Our long years of specialised experience and
our extensive resources are our customers' guarantee of continuous and
conscientious service.
Claude Neon Limited
first in fluorescent


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3474
Wednesday, September 11, 1946
SCENE FROM “THE MERCHANT OF CANBERRA,”
“Is your name Chifley?” “Chifley is my name.”
“A pound of this Australian’s flesh is yours—
Caucus decrees it and the Statute gives it.
Let mercy season justice.” “By my soul,
There is no power in the tongue of man
To alter me. I stay here on my bond.”
“You shall have justice, more than you desire.
You shall have nothing but the penalty.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington. •
IS TAX-RELIEF BRIBERY?
One of those staff writers who are
allowed to work “Labor” stuff into news-
papers critical of “Labor” in their edi-
torial columns found Mr. Chifley’s policy
speech “disarming, skilfully designed to
take it for granted that there’s no alterna-
tive to ‘Labor’ in policy or capacity to
govern.” In the result, “Odds on
‘Labor’s’ return, which eased noticeably
after Mr. Menzies’ opening, will firm
again.”
Such is the New Journalism, two-
faced, irresponsible and ineffectual. In
point of fact, the Chifley effort was with-
out a vestige of inspiration or feeling; a
clumsy performance and so dull that the
speaker himself, who had an unseen audi-
ence, seemed at times to be yawning in
the manner of the Duke of Devonshire
who, as Lord Hartington, served under
Palmerston, Gladstone and Salisbury. It
couldn’t conceivably have gained a vote
for the performer or his party. It must,
on the contrary, have alienated many
waverers who are looking for sub-
stantial tax-relief and for the oppor-
tunity of buying necessaries, now
scarce and dear, at reasonable prices,
and who have been attracted by the
Menzies promise of 20 per cent. off.
the income tax from January 1, and by
Mr. Fadden’s assurance—made after
consultation with his partner and pre-
sented with comparative tables dreadfully
embarrassing to “Labor”—that a 28 per
cent, cut is practicable and will be intro-
duced if “Labor” is turned out.
In 1937-38 the Commonwealth got
along with £69,048,400 of tax-revenue.
With expanding defence requirements,
this amount was increased to £74,036,800
in 1938-39, to £90,010,600 in 1939-40,
to £125,383,500 in 1940-41 and to
£179,435,300 in 1941-42. In that financial
year “Labor” came in and the Japanese
war began, but before June 30, 1942, the
Japanese period of conquest had ended;
the Coral Sea and Midway battles had
been fought, and in the event they proved
decisive. Looking back, there seems no
particular reason why the 1941-42 total
should have been vastly increased,
granted that it was necessary to provide
for £30,000,000 or so promised to the
State Governments in return for their en-
forced surrender of their income taxes.
Yet more than twelve months after the
end of the German war, and nearly eleven
months after the Japanese capitulated,
tax-revenue had gone from £179,435,300
in the Coral Sea and Midway year to
£352,942,100.
With peace returned, and most of the
servicemen and servicewomen back in
civil life (500,000 out of 600,000, Mr.
Chifley claims, and nearly all “demobi-
lised and re-established,” and thus pay-
ing taxes), those who bore the burden of
the terrific war-taxation imposed in 1942
and afterwards have every right to see
something more in their pay-envelopes
and bank accounts. Their fellow-
citizens in Canada, South Africa, Britain,
the United States and New Zealand have
had this right recognised and the obli-
gation accepted by the Governments of
those countries, whose views on many
other subjects differ with their party
complexions. Only this “Labor” Gov-
ernment of ours denied the right and
tried to escape the obligation until Mr,
Chifley’s hands were forced by Caucus
election fears and Opposition criticism.
And even then he sacrificed no revenue,
the “reduced” sales-tax and income-tax
receipts in fact showing substantial addi-
tions for the twelvemonth. Income-tax
receipts reached £214,953,500— d0ub1e
those for 1941-42, allowing £30,000,000
for the State income-taxes then imposed ;
and there has to be added at least
£92,000,000 in respect of taxes not only
uncollected but unassessed.
There are 11 Commonwealth imposts
(and other taxes are of course levied by
the State): Customs, excise, sales tax,
flour tax, income tax, payroll tax, land
tax, entertainment tax, gold tax, estate
duty and gift duty. Together they yielded
£303,666,900 in 1943-44, £337,919,500 in
1944-45, and £352,942,100 in 1945-46.
Out of this immense swag Mr. Chifley
perforce promised a “concession” of
£17,500,000 to income-tax payers, having
the face to describe it as “a second sub-
stantial cut.” Further than this he can-
not be driven to go, and in his policy
speech, while boasting that “the people
trusted Labor to save the country in the
face of the enemy when all others had
failed”—no mention of Labor’s opposi-
tion to the re-creation of the A.1.F., to
the Empire Air Training Scheme and to
the defence of the island territories by
called-up men, even Norfolk Island, or of
“Labor’s” 1942 campaigns in New
Britain, Amboina, Java and Timor—he
attacked both wings of the Opposition
for undertaking to do more.
These parties, that once paraded a policy
of sound finance, now attempt to corrupt
the people and threaten our national
economy with promises that will not stand
examination, and indeed that amount to
unbridled election bribery on a scale that
cannot possibly be paid.
The word “bribery” has since been taken
up by all the Prime Minister’s valets and
offsiders. It is mouthed on a hundred
“Labor” platforms. Yet if tax-reduction
is bribery his own Government is guilty
of it, though churlishly and grudgingly.
All the Governments of English-speaking
countries are guilty, and none more so
than the Labor Government on the other
side of the Tasman.
It has been related here how in the
Budget brought down in New Zealand
before the Government goes to the coun-
try, as it is preparing to do, but refused
to Australians by Mr. Chifley, Mr. Nash
made sweeping tax-cuts, designed for all
sections of the community, companies as
well as individuals (Mr, Chifley ex-
cluded companies from both of his “sub-
stantial” cuts), employers as well as
workers. Total abolition of the excess-
profits tax and the gold-export duty. Re-
duction of the war surcharge on incomes
from 33y p.c, to 15 p.c. and increase of
the income-tax exemption for a wife from
£5O to £lOO. And, for companies, a
restoration of the rate of income tax “to
that which applied up to March, 1942”:
Companies will thus pay the basic rate
of company income tax, plus 15 per cent.,
and will also pay social and national
security tax at the reduced rate of 2s. in
the pound.
Total abolition also of the 3 p.c. prim-
age on books and periodicals and of the
sales tax on “all building materials,
clothing of all descriptions, household
furnishings of all kinds, and a miscel-
laneous number of items, including dried
or dehydrated fruits and surgical and
dental instruments,” amounting altogether
to £3,800,000 for the period to March 31
and £7,000,000 for a full year. For N.Z.
Labor’s general aim as stated by its
Minister of Finance is “the encourage-
ment of production: we cannot hope
to maintain a policy of full em-
ployment or improved living standards
without a balanced development of in-
dustries and sufficient incentive for in-
dustry, labor and capital, workers and
employers alike, to forge ahead.”
The Opposition-leader, Mr. Holland,
protested that the Government wasn’t go-
ing nearly far enough. To this Mr.
Sullivan, the Minister of Supply, whose
opposite number is the egregious Senator
Ashley—now, it is hoped, going to a
deserved doom —replied with a precise
and detailed exposition of the tax-cuts,
pausing to remark that “our manufac-
turers did a magnificent job during the
war” and that he was “glad that the
Budget removes barriers to increased
production”:
The remissions provided for are equiva-
lent to a real increase in the wages and
salaries of the people. The removal of
sales tax on building materials is estimated
to amount to between £l2O and £l5O on
the cost of a house. On the furniture
for a house the estimated saving is £3O to
£4O, this after making allowance for any
withdrawal of subsidies.
Estimates of other savings have been
calculated by the Price Tribunal. On a
three-piece suit of N.Z. material that
formerly cost £ll 17s. 9d. the saving will
be 16s. 6d.; on a man’s overcoat of N.Z.
material, formerly £7 14s. 4d., the saving
will be 13s. 2d.; on a pair of sports
trousers, ss. 9d.; on rayon hose, formerly
Bs. 6d., lid.; on cotton frocks, formerly
265., 3s. 2d.; on women’s coats, formerly
£6 7s. 64-, 13s. 7d.; on boys’ tweed over-
coats, formerly £3 4s. Bd., ss. lid.; on a
boy’s suit, formerly £3 195., 6s. 9d.
Mr. Chifley must have had these par-
ticulars before him when he spoke his
piece into the microphone. All he could
say, with characteristic vagueness, was
that his Government has “cut sales-tax
rates on a wide range of commodities,
with a saving to buyers of £4,000,000 a
year”—£3,ooo,ooo less than in a little
country with 1,750,000 people, Maoris in-
cluded. Australia has nearly 7,500,000.
Mr. Sullivan proceeded;
Adding the remission of the surcharge
on income tax to the sales-tax abolitions,
the people are getting something substan-
tial and worth while. Removal of the excess-
profits tax will encourage industry and
production. Companies paid 60 p.c. of
this tax. Where the assessable income was
£2OOO, they will be better off by £126.
At £5OOO they will be £430 better off;
at £7OOO by £663; at £lO,OOO by £996.
In addition you have to take into account
the removal of nearly half the surtax.
Our policy is a good utilitarian policy,
working out for the welfare and prosperity
and increased economic strength of the
people as a whole.
Federal “Labor” policy is a policy of
continued spoliation. What is in what
Federal “Labor” is pleased to call its
mind was blurted out by Mr. Dedman at
a Brisbane meeting. Mr. Dedman, whose
contribution to the housing question was
a statement that his party had set its face
against building homes for “little capi-
talists,” was “proud to say” in Brisbane
that “this country gets more in taxation
from the wealthy than any other coun-
try in the world.”
The wealthy pay. up to 18s. 6d. in the
pound. That leaves them with sufficient
to live ‘very comfortably.
Gardeners, domestics, principals of col-
leges, writers, artists and Christian minis-
ters of all denominations would scarcely
agree with this Johnny-come-lately. The
new-rich class of sporting publicans,
bookmakers, proprietors of dinner-
dance joints and others who, while taking
huge amounts in cash into the betting
ring for alleged wagers, never parade their
occupations, might not seriously demur.
The new rich have had a regal time under
“Labor” rule, and no doubt “Labor” will
get their votes.
Liberal-C.P. policy, as placed before
the electors by Mr. Menzies and Mr.
Fadden, is consistent with British Com-
monwealth tradition and practice.
Careers open to talents; a fair field for
enterprise; no surrender to minorities
where the safety of the country is con-
cerned ; the rule of law, steadfastly en-
forced against internal enemies, whatever
they may call themselves and however
they may be organised, and restriction
of taxes to the securing of whatever may
be legitimately required for government,
for the care of broken servicemen and
their dependants and the ailing and the
old, for the support of family life and
for defence and international obligations.
“Labor” has other ideas. “Labor” habi-
tually and cravenly surrenders to minori-
ties, even when they break the laws and
deprive the nation of essential commodi-
ties and force a hooligan quarrel on a
friendly nation. “Labor’s” view of the
national income is that it is a prize to
be seized and distributed arbitrarily, and
that any proposal for leaving more in the
hands of those who earn it amounts to
bribery. “Labor” principles are alien
principles: Wicklow with a strong dash
of Moscow.
To Dish Communists.
One main difference in the policy
speeches of Mr. Chifley on the one side
and Mr. Menzies and Mr. Fadden on
the other must have struck all electors.
The Chifley policy is a looking back;
the Menzies-Fadden policy is a looking
forward.
On the Communist issue Mr. Fadden
did no beating about the bush. He
pointed out that country people have
shared in the suffering imposed by Com-
munist paralysing of industry, shipping
and housing, of which the “Govern-
ment” that has taken leave to seize profits
on dealings in compulsorily-delivered
wool and wheat has been a palsied spec-
tator, and have had other experiences of
Communist larrikinism. Hence, apart
from the general national interest, “the
Country party has a special interest in
coming to grips with those irresponsibles
who are sabotaging national progress.”
The rural producer has been the victim
in two ways in particular. Carriage of
his stock and produce to markets has
been blocked, and he has been unable
to secure urgently needed requirements
because, as well as the drastic cutting
down of train and other transport
through the Communist-contrived coal
shortage, this same shortage has stopped
production of goods and equipment
necessary to land men. And there have
been lawless Communist shearing strikes.
Mr. Fadden proposes positive action.
His party stands, first, for maintaining
industrial arbitration —against which the
Communist conspiracy, without even
condemnation, let alone effective check,
by Federal “Labor,” has fought and will
go on fighting tooth and nail, or brick
and boot.
Mr. Menzies proposed that all strikes
and lockouts occurring in the course of
industrial disputes for which some com-
petent tribunal exists should be declared
illegal, with prosecutions and enforce-
ment of penalties against those respon-
sible, and the controlling by the Arbi-
tration Court of the funds of the guilty
until fair settlement is reached. Mr.
Fadden endorsed that pledge on behalf
of the Country party; but he went
further. His party would
Declare vacant executive offices in unions
which are Communist-dominated, provide
for immediate elections to fill such offices,
according to a universal code of rules to
be defined by legislation, and ensure the
compulsory exercise of a secret ballot by
every member entitled to vote.
Coupled with the Menzies proposals,
that could put a definite check on the
conspiracy; it would give decent
unionism a freed hand in dealing with
the growth that has fastened on to it
and brought it into disrepute. As a
further step the Country party would
Legislate to require all trade-unions to
lodge with the Registrar of the Arbitration
Court complete lists of names of their
members to provide that ballots be taken
to fill unpaid executive positions, and that
these ballots' shall be conducted by the
Registrar,
Said the Country-party leader: “I am
not dragging out any Red bogeys when I
say that the raving philosophy of Com-
munism is the cause of most of our
industrial turmoil”:
There is nothing abstruse about Com-
munist methods. These are dearly defined
—to cause such a state of unrest that revo-
lution may be possible, and from revo-
lution to slay democracy and set up
dictatorship. In Australia the maxim of
Communism undoubtedly is to ruin many
for the benefit of a few.
“Not only will we declare the Com-
munist party an illegal organisation,”
Mr. Fadden proceeded. “We will exer-
cise such strict vigilance that there need
not be the slightest fear that it will be
able to carry 'on by underground
methods.” It is not, he said, a matter of
suppressing a political party or of sup-
pressing freedom of thought or freedom
of speech, “It is a matter of suppressing
anti-Australian elements in the com-
munity. Summed up, those who are not
with us in our traditions and British way
of life are against us.”
Mr. Fadden could have given stronger
justification than that. He could have
pointed out that, on the most damning
evidence—in Canada collected and pre-
sented by two Justices of the Supreme
Court —the so-called Communist party
is not a political party in the sense that
the term is understood in any English-
speaking country.
It is a world-wide conspiracy for the
revolutionary overthrow of British de-
mocracy ; but it is, further, a conspiracy
directly stemming from, instructed by,
and giving first allegiance to a foreign
country—Russia. In other words, it is
no more a local political party than
Hitler’s bribed servants in many countries
were political parties. It is a fifth-column
conspiracy, as hds been shown every time
there has been a test.
South Africa, which had a Red rising
after the first German war, is having to
grapple with the conspiracy again. Its
Government has arrested 50 Communists
and charged them, on the evidence of
documents found at their headquarters,
with instigating natives to riot in gold-
mines, coalmines and diamond mines.
Whether in South Africa, Indonesia or
the U.S.A. itself, stirring up colored men
against white men is a job in which Com-
munists delight.
In Australia —as elsewhere at the time
—there was Communist sabotaging of the
war effort before Russia was forced in,
leading to members of it having to be
imprisoned and the “party” banned. The
“Labor” Government —“to its ever-
lasting shame,” Mr. Fadden has said —
lifted the ban. In contempt of the under-
takings it gave on that occasion, the
Communist party has shown its fifth-
column hand again since the war
ended, playing its part in the dis-
ruption of Australian industry and
in its villainous war against the Dutch
in the N.E.1., against which “Labor”
has not lifted a finger, in the pro*
cess of assisting the Kremlin plans of
expansion and chaos. Still more clearly,
it has been exposed in the Canadian spy
trials, in which Canadian Communists
have been dragged into the light as the
rat spies of Russia.
Despite all that, and directly contrary
to his “strong” . stand at the Paris
palavers and his professions elsewhere.
Dr. Evatt has stated his “stand”;
Communists are fellow-citizens. Let them
have freedom of expression, unless they
break the law of the country.
In view of the Communist record of
law-breaking before and since Dr. Evatt
lifted the Menzies ban, it would be hard
to invent a weaker line of crawling than
that.
As Mr. Fadden insisted, it is not
a question of suppressing freedom
of thought or freedom of speech. Any
individual in the community—simply be-
cause it is a democratic community—
has the right to think and talk Com-
munism to whatever extent he is able to
do either. An organisation of Com-
munists is an entirely different thing.
It is an anti-Australian organisation,
designed to bring about the overthrow
of the Australian system of Parliamen-
tary government and the Australian
way of life. .
Mr. Fadden purposes fighting it by law-
ful methods until it is itself overthrown.
Every Australian —country or city—who
looks on what the conspiracy has already
been able to accomplish towards bringing
about industrial and national chaos, and
towards presenting Australia to Indo-
nesians, Filipinos and the rest of the
Asiatic races as a putrid Soviet “republic
in the making, knows that the Country-
party leader is on the right track, and
every Australian who puts his own coun-
try first will be with him.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Nominations.
“Labor” likes to see a profusion of
opponents at Commonwealth elections ,
it “helps the ticket,” always restricted.
This was the case in 1943, when, “the
ticket” included, there were 70 candidates
for the Senate and 346 for the House.
Now 52 persons are out for the Senate
and 239 for the House; and that won’t
help “the ticket.”
For example, young Mr. Daly was
advantaged by having 10 opponents in
Martin and Mr. Haylen, that privileged
globetrotter, by having six in Parkes.
Each has only one this time, a Liberal;
and both are finding the going particularly
hard. , , „
At the last two elections Labor
boasted the only uncontested seats —
in 1940 Kalgoorlie (“Texas Green, the
member, was a dying man and the by-
election, held six weeks after the general
election, was won by H. V. Johnson, now
Minister of the Interior) ; in 1943 Hunter.
Mr. James, so fortunate then, is now
opposed by a Liberal and a Lang Labor
man. The Country party can claim the
only electorate, Indi, for which there will
be no party contest on September 28,
though Mr. McEwen has opposition from
another Agrarian, whose prospects are
bleak.
In Tasmania three years ago there were
five candidates for Bass, seven for Dar-
win, four for Denison, three for Frank-
lin and three for Wilmot. On this occa-
sion there are only 11 for the five seats.
Dame Enid Lyons and Allan Guy are safe
in Darwin and Wilmot respectively. Dr.
Gaha (Denison), H. C. Barnard (Bass)
and Repat. Minister Frost (Franklin)
would like to feel as comfortable. The
island State has had a very long dose
of “Labor” rule and has ceased to take
its medicine with resignation.
The interesting Service group is trying
to elect three Queensland Senators and
has nominated candidates for the House
in four States. Two of them are ex-
pected to poll very well —Spitfire pilot
Olive in Brisbane and, in Lilley, G. H.
Mocatta, a solicitor with platform ability
and a fine record in the wars against the
Central Powers and the Axis.
The Communist choice of opponents is
significant. Corns are out against Tommy
Sheehan in Cook; against Dan Mulcahy
in Lang; the younger David Watkins in
Newcastle (here there are nine candi-
dates, the greatest number anywhere,
though the seat has been “Labor” and
in the Watkins family throughout the
Federal period); H. P. Lazzarini in
Werriwa; W. P. O’Connor (who carries
the Beasley blessing) and T. V. Ryan in
West Sydney ; Frank Brennan in Batman ;
J. H. Sculiin in Yarra; B. H. Corser in
Wide Bay ; Cyril Chambers in Adelaide ;
A. V. Thompson (Makin’s deputy) in
Hindmarsh; and, of course, Robert
Gordon Menzies in Kooyong. Equally
of course, the Communist in Kooyong
has been promised “Labor’s” preferences.
Except Mr. Lazzarini, in whose elector-
ate there are many “cells,” no Minister,
from Mr. Chifley down, has a Com-
munist opponent. Mr. Calwell, who in
the early war years was denounced by
“Balance-Sheet” Thornton as an Enemy,
is now regarded as having earned
immunity. Vociferous as he is on other
subjects, the champion of Dr. Mannix
for the Cardinal’s hat hasn’t done a thing
or said a word to Communists since he
joined the Ministry.
"Labor's" Rise and Fall.
Most of the Opposition candidates,
Liberal, C.P. and Service, were absorbed
for years in the contest with Axis Powers,
for the most part in battle areas, which
means, among other things, that they
lacked “Labor’s” opportunities of nursing
electorates. They also lacked opportuni-
ties of studying the cunning little ways of
“Labor” writers employed on alleged
Opposition papers whose god is circula-
tion.
• So it is very possible that many of these
servicemen overrate the difficulty of de-
feating a party which had 49 seats in the
last House of Representatives—sl with
Wimmera and Henty, which, when Mr.
Wilson and Mr. Coles retired to the
cushy jobs to which “Labor” appointed
them, were lost to young Opposition men
by large majorities—and is sure of 17
in the next Senate, come what may, death
or secession excepted. Considering
“Labor” history, the scattering of the
“Labor” vote and present trends, it is not
nearly so difficult as it may look on paper.
Because its vote is mainly concentrated
in the industrial parts of cities and
country towns, “Labor” has always
fared better in State elections than in
Commonwealth elections, except when
the tide was flowing its way. There have
been 17 elections for the House of Repre-
sentatives, and Labor has won only four
—in 1910, 1914, 1929 and 1943. Eden-
Monaro, an electorate of the 1901 vintage,
has had only two “Labor” members,
getting one in 1929 when its candidate
scraped in by 40 votes, bolting in
1931 rather than accept defeat, and the
second in 1943. Yet Goulburn, the prin-
cipal subdivision in Eden-Monaro, is
normally a safe seat for “Labor,” though
“Labor’s” majority was heavily reduced
at the recent by-election.
Of the 16 Senate elections (there was
none in 1929), “Labor” has been suc-
cessful in three only—in 1910, 1914 and
1943. In Queensland, though State
“Labor” has been in office for nearly 30
years, allowing for a depression break,
only three Queensland “Labor” Senators
have been elected since 1914. Taking the
Commonwealth as a whole, the other
side carried all the contested Senate seats
in 1917 (18), 1925 (22) and 1934 (18),
and all except one in 1919. Even in 1940,
when the parties were equally divided in
the House, 36-36, only three “Labor”
Senators were elected, their party being
in a minority in that Chamber until July 1,
1944.
When “Labor” falls, it falls so horribly
that it doesn’t rise again for many years.
After the 1914 elections it boasted 41
seats in the House. Thirty-two months
later this number had been reduced to
22, and in the Senate the party had
entered upon its 27 years of insignifi-
cance. It gained four seats in the House
in 1919, and another three in 1922, but
was back to 23 in 1925. Even in 1928-29
STUDY OF A PRIME MINISTER DELIVERING A “FIGHTING”
POLICY SPEECH.
it could muster only 30 votes on a divi-
sion.
The 1929 polls gave “Labor” 41 seats,
another being added by the by-election
route within two months. In its exultation
the victorious Government skittled the
national army, based on universal liability
to training and service, and till then
enthusiastic and efficient for the times.
What that act of madness and subsequent
defence “economies” cost (clerks were
kept on full-time, officers and non-coms,
placed on half-pay) may some day be
assessed by competent historians in terms
of blood, tears and humiliation, as well
as money.
By October 12, 1931, the destroyers
had gone to pieces and been reduced to
two warring factions: one, of 14, headed
by Mr. Scullin and the other, of four,
with Mr. Beasley as leader.
Among those who lost their seats in
1931 were Comrades Curtin, Chifley,
Keane, Ward, Frost and Lazzarini. Com-
rade Holloway escaped their fate only
by retreating from Flinders, where he had
defeated Mr. Bruce in 1929, and taking
shelter in Melbourne Ports.
“Labor” was routed in 1917 and 1931
because it had offended and alarmed a
multitude of electors with no regular
party affiliations; and this is the case in
1946. “Labor” is in two factions again,
the rift having been imperfectly con-
cealed, and is rotten-ripe for another
beating. So the Opposition can go to the
polls with the will to win, and in that
spirit it will win. ___
What’s Wool Worth?
Somebody ought to be doing a little sober
reflection over the hysteria which broke
out in Sydney when open selling of Aus-
tralian wool was resumed for the first
time in seven years. It resulted in extra-
ordinarily high prices for wool which
was not by any means up ,to normal
standards of quality. Newspapers joyfully
announced values up to 60 p.c. above the
last appraisement prices, one shouting
about an “£80,000,000 wool cheque for
Australia.”
Several factors contributed to the
hullabaloo. All Europe has been starved
of wool for seven years; British, Ameri-
can and French purchases in one
year reduced the war-time surplus of
10,000,000 bales to 6,300,000 bales; Bel-
gium, having made an astonishing re-
covery from war and German occupation
(it has only a rabble of Communists), is
anxious to get its textile machinery into
full swing; France is even more anxious
to do the same; all the world is short of
clothing; and the sales opened in an era
of high and rising prices. In a world
only now beginning to straighten itself
up after six years of war and dreadfully
short of necessary items of food and
clothing, wool is valuable property.
It is very likely that demand and prices
will remain up for some time. Japan,
Italy and Germany are still out of the
market—Japan has the machinery to
handle 450,000 bales a year, and the
three countries bought just on £7,000,000
worth of our wool in 1938-39 —but
they’ll be back in time, though at what
time is extremely vague. And the Aus-
tralian woollen manufacturing industry
is certain to take more wool than in
pre-war years.
All the same, the Sydney prices—well
above the “floor” of 18d. a lb. fixed
under the British-Dominions agreement-
are deceptive. They give a false picture
of the true value of wool and baffle any-
body trying to find a basis on which to
assess that value. And all the whooping
about an “£80,000,000 wool cheque
ignores the fact that high costs and heavy
taxation, together with deteriorated
properties and a second blasting drought
within three years, mean that sheepmen
will merely have the doubtful pleasure
of passing the money through their hands
to others —not much of it will remain
with them. And every boss of every
union connected with the pastoral in-
dustry will seize upon the figures to
justify claims for higher wages, shorter
hours, beer with the boundary-rider’s
porridge and anything else that can be
thought of in the fierce competition be-
tween so-called moderates and militants.
Nothing much can be done about it,
for it would be unthinkable for J.O. to
put a “ceiling” on wool, but sheepmen
do not share the illusions cherished in
newspaper offices. They are conscious of
the ever-present threat from artificial
fibres. Wool will remain popular so
long as woollen clothing is within reach
of the average person’s purse and is of a
quality and finish to make it as attrac-
tive as its rivals. Neither can come out
of temporary high values for compara-
tively low-quality wool, which is what
happened in Sydney.
Charges of Corruption.
The first of the corruption charges brought
in Tasmania as a result of N.S.W. District
Court Judge Kirby’s report, as royal
commissioner, on Forestry Department
transactions during the period when
Thomas George de Largie D’Alton was
Minister —he was afterwards, for three
years, 1943-46, Australian High Com-
missioner to Maoriland —ended in the
acquittal of both accused, D’Alton and
Ronald James Howard, a sawmiller.
D’Alton was charged with having, on
or about February 3, 1943, corruptly
solicited and received or obtained for
himself from Howard timber valued at
£94 14s. 3d. “as an inducement or re-
ward for showing favor to Howard in
relation to the affairs or business of the
Crown.” Howard was accused of having
corruptly given D’Alton the timber “as
an inducement or reward,” etc.
Each accused pleaded not guilty and,
after Justice Clark had “rejected a sub-
mission by counsel that the Crown had
not proved a case to go to the jury,”
both went into the box, Howard’s evi-
dence being to the following effect;
In December, 1942, D’Alton asked him
if he could supply enough timber for a
small boat. He said he thought he could
if the sections were not too large, hut it
would have to be accumulated over several
months. The timber was sent to Hobart
in Jan., 1943, along with a consignment
for the Shipbuilding Board. Having delayed
sending D’Alton an account until the ques-
tion of freight had been settled, witness
sent it in March, 1943. Several weeks later
he met' D’Alton in a Hobart street. D’Alton
said he had heard Howard was in the city
and, having the money on him, he would
pay Howard’s account. D’Alton passed
over £95. Witness gave the change and
said he would post the receipt, which he
did after his return to Zeehan. While
D’Alton was Minister he had received a
permit for only one new forest area.
D’Alton had never shown him any favor.
Cross-examined by Mr. Gibson, K.C.,
for the Crown, Howard said that D’Alton
had paid him mostly in £5 and £lO notes.
He'had intended to remind D’Alton of the
account but D’Alton had referred to it
first, saying he had heard Howard was in
Hobart and had the money on him. On
his return to Zeehan, he, Howard, had
put the money in the safe, and made the
£94 14s. 3d. up to £lOO to buy a war
bond. The receipt was written on an
account form—he was not using a receipt
book in 1943.
D’Alton’s testimony, in substance:
In 1942 he arranged with Malcolm Mac-
kay, a shipbuilder, for the building of a
boat 30ft. long and ordered timber from
Howard, who was the only supplier or
Huon pine at the time. When the Ship-
building Board was formed and Mackay
became chief shipbuilder and a member
of the Board he, D’Alton, realised that he
would not have much chance of getting
a boat built and arranged for the timber
to be stacked at the Forestry Department.
He received an account for £94 14s. 3d.
from Howard.
Early in 1943 he heard that Howard was
in Hobart and decided to pay the account
there and then. There was then only £9O in
his current account, but he had sufficient
money in an office cashbox to discharge the
debt. From this he took £95, put it in his
pocket, and soon after meeting Howard in
the street paid the account. A few weeks
later he received a receipt from Howard,
and, with the papers relating to the boat-
building, he had it made into a small file.
The file was destroyed with his personal file
when he went to New Zealand as High
Commissioner. During his term as Minister
he had not shown favor of any kind to
Howard nor ever received anything calcu-
lated to affect his attitude toward that
person.
Cross-examined by Mr. Gibson, D’Alton
said that in 1943 he was interested in grey-
hound racing and held cash in a cashbox
at his office for racing purposes. He paid
Howard from this cash. The receipt was
written on an account form.
Then came Olga Grace Wiggins, a
records clerk:
Early in May, 1943, Mr. D’Alton gave
witness some papers and asked her to
make them into a file. The papers included
a pamphlet on engines, a sketch plan for
a boat, an account form bearing the name
of R J. Howard and a similar form which
had been receipted. The amount written
on the account form exceeded £9O. The
receipt bpre duty stamps. She made up the
file and returned it to D’Alton. She did not
see it again.
The jury was away for an hour and a
half.
That Uniform Tax.
In the light of a few remarks addressed
by Professor G. L. Wood, of the Com-
monwealth Grants Commission, to the
Science Congress in Adelaide, the wrath
of Premiers McKell (N.S.W.) and Han-
lon (Q.) on discovering what they believed
to be a Commonwealth grab of £9,000,000
can be appreciated. The wrathful gentle-
men alleged that, after uniform taxation
came in on July 1, 1942, the cash was
collected by the Commonwealth in
arrears owed to the States.
Professor Wood declared that at that
time none of the Premiers thought
about the post-war period, when there
would be “almost certain depressive
action on State Budgets both by fixed
revenue during a period of rising costs
and by the time lag between that rise
and the payment of financial assistance”
(by the Commonwealth). But they’re
thinking mighty hard about it now.
The core of their apprehension is mainly
to be found in gloomy expectations con-
cerning felling railway revenue and rising
social-services expenditure. More remote,
but not less powerful, is the conviction on
the part of the Premiers that they have
been forced half-way along the road to that
dreaded consummation State revenue allot-
ments from a centralised national pool of
tax revenues. This would, of course, spell
the end of financial independence.
The professor then somewhat pointedly
observed that all States would feel the
“financial straitjacket” because the
Commonwealth would “feel the demands
of its high employment policy at home
and the very heady responsibilities of
the new international position it is claim-
ing,” “it” meaning Dr. Evatt.
All of which suggests that neither the
great Ward railway plan nor the great
Evatt stand abroad are being loudly
applauded in those places to which
Premiers retire to brood.
(For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams and Cecil Mann, all of
252 George-street, Sydney, are responsible.)


m
V-J
' A
CRAVENA
made specialty to prevent
sole Umats
fg
Obtainable
lO’s & 20’8
rnru—iwiriiitiiiiii i
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
There are to be contests for all the
Federal seats; and the oldest Parliamen-
tary hand can’t recall its happening be-
fore; even in 1901, Barton (Hunter),
Turner (Balaclava), McLean (Gippsland),
Quick (Bendigo) and Forrest (Swan) had
no opposition. And it is many years since
“Labor” couldn’t rustle up an opponent
for one of the leading figures on the other
side—in the present instance, McEwen, in
Indi.
Chifley’s pipe, a feature of Labor elec-
tion advertisements since April, made a
sudden and unexplained disappearance
last week. As the story goes, a bush
union was heard to growl “If he can get
all the pipe tobacco he wants, why can’t
we ?” The objection reached Canberra by
mulga wire, so exit pipe.
To the fury of Communists everywhere
the Greeks —with British, American and
French observers seeing fair —have voted
for the return of their King George:
For, 510,000; against, 86,000; blanks
(counted against the King) 155,000.
Immediate Moscow reactions were savage
attacks on Greece by the Molotov mob in
Paris and the Gromyko mob in New
York.
With Brazil and Australia “abstaining”
when the thing was put to the vote, the
Gromyko mob was allowed to pester the
U.N.O. Security Council with “charges,”
ostensibly lodged for the Ukrainian
“republic”—still cadging hard from
U.N.R.R.A. and, because of Com-
munist ineptitude, with more than
the population of Australia living in
holes in the ground that “Greek
policy and the presence of British troops
in Greece are threats to the peace of the
Balkans.” The faithful Greeks may be
assured that none of the Diggers they met
in 1941 (no Federal “Labor” politician
was, of course, among them) would have
abstained from backing them up against
Moscow ruffianism. Our Foreign Policy
is all bluster, and where Moscow agents
are concerned Our Internal Policy is all
crawl.
Fifteen private firms having come out
with a co-ordinated scheme for produc-
ing prefabricated houses, the Victorian
Government announces a brand-new
programme of up to 10,000 prefab, units
yearly, directing of materials to firms
best able to deliver the finished article
to follow. The Beaufort steel house is
to be an “integral” part of the, proposal.
Six months ago the Cains were talking
of torrents of these houses descending
on every suburb, and a £9,000,000
scheme was inaugurated. Then it was
discovered that the tin homes could only
be built of metal of which industry
already stood in short supply, and the
scheme apparently went into the usual
pigeonhole. Without officialdom to help
them, the 15 firms aforesaid quietly
went ahead with their plans. It is to be
hoped that officialdom won’t now spike
them.
In his policy speech .Fadden used two
terms of endearment for Communists —
“red-backed spiders” and “venomous
snakes.” But these creatures have their
uses. In the war spider-web was used for
hair lines in binoculars ; it has Served the
same purpose in surveyors’ vision, instru-
ments ; there are spider-farmers in Holly-
wood supplying webs to give realistic
effects to scenes ; Diggers in the islands
came across natives using balls of spider-
web for fishing (the fish get their teeth
tangled in the web); and, outsjde the
8.M.A., spiders themselves have been
used in medical concoctions. Snake skins
have various uses, and a bit of roast snake
is at least as good as eel. The term that
fits is rats —leprous.
D’Alton’s answer—successful with the
jury—to the charge that, when “Labor”
Minister of Forests, he had accepted a
gift of timber from a sawmiller was that
he had paid the account in a Hobart
street —paid it in fivers and tenners taken
from a dog-punting “bank” kept in his
Crown office. This raises political ques-
tions which have nothing to do with any
charge or charges in Tasmania. Was it
consistent with the Dignity of Labor, to
say nothing of that of Australia, to send
a dog punter to Maoriland as High Com-
missioner? Has Dr. Evatt met any other
dog punter in a high position during his
explorations in world diplomacy?
Ashley bobbed up in Adelaide to
assure anybody who would listen that
he was “convinced the people of Aus-
tralia” would “record by an overwhelm-
ing majority their confidence in the
present Federal Government, largely be-
cause the ‘Labor’ party is facing the
country as a united organisation.”
United with whom? The Communists?
In the lists of Federal candidates 19
give their occupation ,as “M.H.R.”
After the 28th this sort of advertisement
will be common; “M.H.R., temp, out of
emp., willing take light work, good talker,
exp. in buck-passing.”
Our Foreign Policy (N.S.W. Senate-
candidate Fergusson’s neat coinage), cast-
ing up in the Sydney suburb of Lind-
held, got a hot time from questioners
about his Communist proteges and the
Communist-inspired war against the
Dutch. While he was squirming out of
it as best he could, his “human rights”
amendments were being thrown out of
the treaties with Finland and Rumania.
Our Foreign Policy must find it difficult
to be self-satisfied all the time.
The Haw-Hawthorn Laurie, out for
Kooyong (Vic.) again as a Communist and
assured of “Labor” preferences, has pro-
duced Fourteen Points, as did Woodrow
Wilson —there is no other point of resem-
blance. The Communist points have to
do with increases in the basic wage, more
pensions, shorter hours and so forth, the
14th being “establishment of a democratic
foreign policy based on the principles on
which U.N.O. is founded.” Servile adher-
ence to all Moscow dictates wasn’t men-
tioned, mention being superfluous.
Ward must have had an imperfect
memory of Queensland and Theodore
when he assured a Bondi (Sydney)
audience that if his crowd were returned
Australia would have a “permanent
Labor Government.” Theodore said
something like that on his return from his
first exploration of the northern hemis-
phere. In his case the prophecy was fol-
lowed by his defeat for Herbert at an
election -r- that of 1925 which saw
“Labor” lose all the contested Senate
seats (22 that year) and 52 of the 75 seats
in the House.
Asked whether his Government
shouldn’t be throwing its weight about
and roaring at the “Peace” conference,
Mackenzie King replied that it was satis-
fied to go on doing what it had done, of
set policy, at San Francisco.
For Canada to jump into Europe and
try to settle Europe’s problems with a
loud voice would be the worst possible
thing that could happen.
Now, at what and at whom was the wise
old Liberal driving?
There were odd discrepancies in news-
paper reports of the Federal nominations,
particularly on the score of candidates’
occupations, Chifley appeared in “S. M.
Herald” as “M.H.R.” and in other sheets
as “engine-driver.” Falstein figured
variously as “M.H.R.,” “barrister” and
“company director.” And Melbourne
“Argus” had this line, with very faint
commas, on a robustious Russophile:
Mountjoy, D. A., M.P., Como, Lab.
It was no blackguardly “Tory” slander.
There is a place called Como, and Mount-
joy must live there.
Sydney and Melbourne papers have
been leaping on their late idol Romano, or
whatever his name is. One of their
grievances, which are evidently shared by
bookmakers, is that Romano (or Azzalin)
said he would keep his horse, Bern-
borough, for the King’s Cup, and then
said he wouldn’t. It doesn’t seem to have
occurred to any of the leapers that
H.R.H. the Governor-General might have
objected to handing the King’s Cup to
a ‘ sport” who was fined £5OO, plus costs
and £5320 penal tax, for income-tax
cheating.
In “Labor’s” bad years individual
defeats and secessions cost it most of the
seats it occupied in the late unlamented
House. In 1917, Bass, Bendigo, Boothby,
Corio, Denison, Fremantle, Grey,
Gwydir, Herbert, Kalgoorlie, Oxley (now
Griffith) and Riverina ; in 1931, Adelaide,
Ballaarat, Barton, Bass, Batman, Booth-
by, Calare, Corio, Denison, East Sydney,
Eden-Monaro, Franklin, Fremantle, Grey,
Gwydir, Hume, Lang, Macquarie, Mari-
byrnong, Martin, Parkes, Wannon and
Werriwa. Perth, Swan, Forrest, Wake-
field, Robertson and Lilley, now “Labor,”
were not “Labor” in either of those years.
For the special edifitation of Dr. Evatt,
“Publicist” articles issued in January,
February and March, 1942, have been
reprinted by S. B. Hooper, one of the
men who were iniquitously interned and
kept in detention for many months with-
out the promised trial. Three of the
articles were written by M. F. Watts, the
gassed Old Digger who died before he
was pronounced a worthy citizen by
Justice Clyne and perforce apologised
to by Francis Michael Forde, who has
never been in any danger of being gassed,
except by his own verbiage.
Ebery, that “Man with Ideas,” has found
a good friend in H. N. Warren, Director
of Meteorological. Services. Warren has
made him an offer of assistance which,
Ebery thinks, will enable him to make
seasonal forecasts for the whole continent
instead of, as hitherto, for Victoria and
southern N.S.W. Warren has in-
structed all Commonwealth meteorologi-
cal stations, including those of the
R.A.A.F., to take daily observations of
upper-air drift without the unsatisfactory
pilot balloons, and forward them to head-
quarters, which will pass them on to the
weather forecaster at his private station
at Black Rock, near Melbourne. This
was all that Ebery wanted ; it will make
the private network of voluntary observ-
ing stations he was projecting super-
fluous. Warren’s department deserves a
pat on the back.
A sporting ingredient was introduced
into the bus-tram controversy in Mel-
bourne by a £5O challenge from W. J.
McGrath, of the Tramways Board, to
T. G. Paterson, Federal secretary of the
Australian Automobile Association, for
proof of Paterson’s claim that 3000 trams
vanished from the face of the earth be-
tween 1907 and 1927 and 37,000 between
1927 and 1941. Another debater sug-
gested that chairman Bell, who loves
trams and hates buses, should ask Lord
Ashfield, chairman of the London Trans-
port Board, for his Lordship’s opinion as
to how to carry Melbourne’s harassed
citizens in safety and comfort and without
loss. In the Empire’s hub trolley cars,
which can draw up at the sidewalk, are
ousting the trams tied to rails and the
buses.
Menzies was at the top of his form
in vSouth Australia, In that State, where
there are three seats in the Senate to be
held and at least three in the House to
be regained, his meetings were reminis-
cent of the days of Kingston and Deakin.
When he spoke with Archie Cameron
at Strathalbyh in the afternoon of Sep-
tember 6, the hall was packed with elec-
tors, some of whom had come 100 miles
to hear him and Archie, and the platform
was almost hidden in a waist-high bank
of flowers. And the Opposition-leader
excelled himself with the large audiences
which heard him in the Adelaide
suburbs ; here he had a little acrimonious
interruption to bite on. In S.A., as else-
where, taxation is the main issue, and,
next to it, N.S.W. coalfields larrikinism.
Some rain on the northern N.S.W.
coastal rivers and snow on the ranges
from Murrurundi to Tenterfield have
been the only changes in the prevailing
drought in the northern half of N. S.
Wales and the southern half of Queens-
land. The wheat in both parts is done,
and most of the stock seem doomed to
follow it. Ideas of transporting millions
of sheep and thousands of cattle to Vic-
toria have been frustrated by shortage of
coal and trucks, “Labor” having failed
to provide a sufficiency of either. There
is grim significance in the fact that the
drought has hit what is normally one of
the “safest” farming and grazing areas
in the Commonwealth.
“God-save-the-harvest! ” prayers were
offered in English churches on Sunday,
an extraordinarily wet summer having
jeopardised the cereal crops and brought
the gallant and long-suffering people the
threat of more deprivation. The prayers
were not heard at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
where members of the Communist-con-
trolled Waterside Workers’ Federation
refused to load a “super-urgent” priority
cargo of eggs and egg-pulp on a ship for
Britain because Federation “policy” bans
week-end work.
Chifley, speaking as president of “the
Federal Labor party in N. S. Wales,”
June 15, 1934.- —
State Parliaments as at present function-
ing are an impediment to progress, and the
sooner they are swept away the better.
We are getting nothing in this strain .from
Chifley, P.M. Instead, he has asked one
of the State Parliaments to pass a sort
of-a-kind-of coal-control measure in
which his “Government” is co-operating.
Nor are we hearing anything from the
1946 Chifley about abolition of the
Senate, though it is still on the “Labor”
platform.
“Labor” dodging of the coal scandal is
losing it heaps of votes in South Aus-
tralia. From this week the one Liberal
State can hope for 11,000 tons a week at
most, apart from hospital and Common-
wealth railway requirements. In this
week’s allocations the State Railway De-
partment will receive only 3300 tons,
whereas it requires 7000 tons ; and there
is no hope of laying-by anything for
Christmas holidays and for handling a
bumper harvest. Gas and electricity are
both being severely rationed, and the
general gloom has not been lightened by
the admission of Commonwealth Coal
Commissioner Williams that he can see
no relief from the present position for
two years. He himself blames shipping
for much of S.A.’s trouble (as with coal.
Communists control shipping), and urges
the development of Leigh Creek coal,
about which the Playford Government
needs no urging.
An Opposition-leader muses:
As I sat opposite the Treasury bench the
Ministers reminded me of those marine
landscapes not unusual on the coasts of
South America. You behold a range of
exhausted volcanoes. Not a flame flickers
on a single pallid crest. But the situation
,is still dangerous. There are occasional
earthquakes, and ever and anon the dark
rumbling of the sea.
Menzies could apply every word to the
aged Treasury benchers at Canberra.
Actually the thing was said by Disraeli
of the self-doomed Gladstone Adminis-
tration in April, 1872.
Fed up at last, and deprived of N.S.W.
coal for industry, Victoria has begun con-
verting its railway locomotives to oil-
burners at the rate of five a week. N. S.
Wales may yet see the day when all other
States will carry on with transport, power
and lighting while it endures the whims of
its Communist bosses.


THE BLIND POLICEMAN.
“There is no reference to Russia in Dr. Evatt’s election speeches, and he has mentioned Communists only to say, in reply to an interjection, that they are fellow citizens
—let them have freedom of expression unless they break the law of the country.” .
“Look here, you fellows, you can say and do anything you like so long as you don’t let me catch you breaking the law. ’


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Uco”: The radio Quiz Kids were
stumped. They had done their best, but
were unable to tell anything more about
“Wallace’s Line” —it roughly demarcates
East Asiatic and Australian flora and
fauna—than that it was a geographical
line of some sort. Their failure meant
that the “listeners’ representative,” an
outside volunteer, was given a chance at
the question. On this occasion he was an
Englishman of only four months’ resi-
dence in Australia. He obviously knew
no more about the line than the young-
sters, but was prepared to have a stab at
it. And a bold attempt it was. “Er”
he began, “wasn’t it a line somewhere in
Queensland drawn during the war by
one of your Federal Ministers?”
* * « £
“W.J.E.”: “S. M. Herald” has had
Sydney women “indulging in an orgy
of swim-suits.” This doesn’t mean that
the ladies have been going in for the
maximum of alcoholic abandon in the
minimum of clothing; most of them, I
am told, are staid dames of too-too
certain years whose home life cannot be
so very different from that of Queen Vic-
toria. “Granny” explained herself:
By the end of the week it is estimated
that more than 25,000 women will have
seen 29 mannequins model nearly 200 gar-
ments for beach and casual wear. Three
male mannequins caused almost as much
interest as beach wear.’
Then there were references to “a printed
satin swim-suit, practically a G-string
outfit of two narrow strips of fabric and
a waistband, more daring than the
French diaper costume introduced last
year,” and to “revealing shadow slacks
of black net, with front and panels of
black satin.” The “Herald” jibbed at
publishing a photo, of the young woman
in the “G-string outfit,” but the “Daily
Telegraph” came out with the most
brazen one it could get away with. Had
the thing appeared in an age unaccus-
tomed to “G-string outfits,” “male manne-
quins” and aphrodisiac journalism,
draper, model and editor would have got
six months.
“Clooter”: Apparently the modern
girl has a sort of double conception of
modesty. One of her permitted a rag
store in my city to disclose her body to
the public gaze in what was termed a
“parade of swim-suit styles,” said body
being naked except for a wisp of material
oyer her bosom and another wisp on the
lower portion of her anatomy. Hips, thighs
and the rest of her were over-exposed.
She explained to the usual flapper reporter
that she wouldn’t have appeared thus
only that “they” allowed her to wear a
short jacket (which heightened rather
than lowered the effect), and that she
wouldn’t be game to wear the outfit on
a beach. On a beach not more than
20,000 people would see her nakedness,
yet she allowed herself to be photo-
graphed for the illustrated press, and thus
flung the spectacle before the paper’s
200,000-odd readers. It’s got me beaten.
* * * V
“O’Yen”; The sweet young thing in the
non-smoker drew a packet of gaspers
from her compact, searched for matches,
found none and looked inquiringly
around at the three males. Drawing a
blank from each in turn she glanced hope-
lessly at the old lady seated in the far
corner and hesitated. Then: “Have you
any matches, please?” Her face was a
study in surprise and relief as she accepted
the dame’s proffered box.
*** * ■
“Max”; The exploits of Australian
cargo-pillagers are rivalled by those of the
slim-fingered gentry who work ships
in Maoriland ports. A consignment of 109
dozen pairs of pure silk stockings dis-
appeared from the cargo of a British liner
between Auckland and Wellington ; the
goods are expected to reappear on the
“I Wonder why all these artists crosshatch their pictures P”
blackmarket in Auckland, a favorite
centre for the illegal distribution of
whisky, expensive cigars, suitings and silk
stockings. One ship lost 80,000 cigarettes
in M.L. waters; mariners from another
appeared before the Court charged with
the theft of 45 bottles of whisky. A
New Plymouth clothing factory, which
was losing 40 per cent, of its goods con-
signed to Dunedin, reduced the loss by
putting false labels on its cases.
“W.S.”: Treasure Island (B. 28/8/’46)
was not published in the “8.0. P.” in
serial form; it appeared in “Young
Folks,” edited by one Henderson.
Stevenson contributed The Black Arrow
to the same journal. Later Cassell’s gave
Stevenson £lOO for the right to publish
Treasure Island in book form. R.L.S.
was not hard up at the time Treasure
Island was written. My authority:
Graham Balfour, a cousin of Stevenson.
* * * •
“Laetitia”: Tinned bacon (B. 28/8/’46)
was poor provender, but a four-dozen
case of the stuff had possibilities. Dis-
cerning A.S.C. personnel knew that in
each case of tinned bacon put up by one
contractor there were two tins of ham
rashers. Place of stowage in each case
was known, so its extraction and replace-
ment by the less palatable bacon was
easy. A current furphy had it that the
two tins of ham represented a voluntary
gesture on the part of a patriotic con-
tractor. I hope it was so.
* * * *
“X.S.”: “I am the author and finisher
of atomic energy. I have harnessed it. I
am bringing all atomic energy into sub-
jection and thereby bringing out many
inventions,” said Father Divine in a recent
broadcast. Citizens who live in close
proximity to one of his Melbourne
“heavens,” where his “angels” foregather
on Saturdays and Sundays for their de-
votions, have been wondering whethere the
father hasn’t invented an improvement
on the bomb dropped at Hiroshima. The
“heaven” consists of a hired room where
40 or 50 “angels” praise their master by
stamping, shouting and clapping with
such religious fervor that there have been
public protests. This may be all right in
Harlem, where the sect has many
“heavens,” as the father owns the build-
ings, but it is a bit too much for Mel-
bourne, and the devout have been re-
quested to restrain their ardor. New
sects have always suffered persecution.
* * * *
“Squizz”: A prisoner escapee from
Ballarat jail recently came back volun-
tarily, saying he had dashed off on a
sudden impulse and had thought better
of it. What perhaps happened was that
he tried to buy a packet of smokes.
Missing out on that, he most likely tried
the nearest pub for a quickie to drown
his sorrows. The beer, of course, would
be off. Hungry and desperate, he prob-
ably next entered a house, raided the
larder and got busy on the stove . , . But
how was he to know that even gas was
rationed nowadays? He showed real
astuteness in re-entering the cooler as
soon as possible.
* * * *
“Jay Em”: Some sideshows at the re-
cent Brisbane Exhibition charged as
.much as 9d. for toffee-apples and up to
15s. for flimsy dolls on a stick. A few
people complained, but the general pub-
lic seemed to accept the prices as inevi-
table. Show patrons were not so sheepish
once. Long ago at Gympie (Q.)
the proprietor of a boxing booth
was offering £5 to any man who could
last four rounds with his boys. Archie
Bradley, who had not yet begun his box-
ing career, was persuaded by his mates
to take on a colored boxer named Sandy
McVea. At the same time a husky
farmer from Cooroy district agreed to
box another member of the troupe. Fans
immediately began paying the deener ad-
mittance fee, whereupon the enterprising
showman raised the price to two bob.
When the crowd objected he mounted his
platform—a plank on two cases —to give
his reason for the increased charge. In
the middle of his oration some of the
lads removed the supporting cases, and
while the showman was picking himself
up the crowd lifted the sides of the tent
and went in buckshee. Bradley won his
fiver easily, but the Cooroy lad missed
his fight when the entrepreneur decided
not to risk any further loss.
* * * jjr
“Sach”: The sapient headmaster who
cooled off would-be fighters by placing
them in a locked room (B. 28/8/’46) re-
calls the system of the commandant of a
military college in similar circumstances.
His method was to set the belligerent
parties cleaning windows. Both cleaned
the same window, one doing the inside
and one the outside. His contention was
that before many windows had been
cleaned in this manner one of the men
could not help grinning—it worked, too.
* * * *
“Shavia”: A “Situations Vacant” advt.
in the morning paper—“ Cigarettes,
three packets a day, and 17s. 6d. a day
for clearing weeds from garden and lop-
ping trees” —took me back to German
p.-0.-w. camps where cigarettes were the
basis and medium of all exchanges.
Every item of clothing and food, as well
as services rendered, musical instruments
and 1.0.U5., was valued in fags. These
values, of course, fluctuated according to
the law of supply and demand — a. gold
wrist-watch sold in 1944 for 12,000
smokes was resold just before liberation
for a couple of hundred. Trading stalls
mushroomed all over the place wherever
a board could be balanced across a couple
of boxes, and traders took a percentage
of each sale in cigarettes. The Aussie
section of the camp brought a trace of
nationality to the scene with the intro-
duction of “two-up” for fags. The best
use, however, was that of trading with
German guards, whose ration was three
smelly weeds a day. The escape com-
mittee at StalagLuft VI, East Prussia,
was able to get German uniforms, maps,
compasses, passports and a hundred and
one other things necessary for successful
escapes by virtue of Hermann’s craving
for a smoke.
• * ♦ *
“K.G.”: All Australiana collectors will
look forward to J.H.M.A.’s book on the
history of Sydney Harbor. One edition of
his Tommy Cornstalk (B. 28/8/’46) is a
collector’s piece—the title on the outside
cover reads Tommy Cornstalk. The
publishers are one of the leading British
companies. Incidentally, I want to pro-
test against the offensive phrase “literary
pension” and suggest literary grant in its
stead. “Pension” is an overused word.
In many instances, as in the case of public
servants, this “pension” is paid for by
deductions from salary.
» * * *
“Ramac”: My town’s tramways do not
pay. The other night I bought a ride
home and had the honor of being the
only passenger. About half-way along
the route we came to a stop in the middle
•of a block and driver and conductor dis-
appeared into the night. I was unhappily
wondering what it was all about when
the driver hailed me from the step, “Hey,
Dig, like to come in for a drink?” I fol-
lowed him to a near-by house where a
very noisy party was in progress. He
explained how it was a simple matter to
miss a trip or two before the picture
crowd. A fellow trammy was celebrating
a night off at home, and he had invited
his mates in for a quickie. It was a very
good party, but unfortunately I missed
the last tram home.
“Bozo”: “Oliver Filter” (B. 28/8/’46)
and his friend, who spends more time at
the hostelry than at the office, are fortu-
nate —most of us have to make a rush
job of our refreshment, when we can
get it. For instance, there’s the chap who
came tearing into the pub yesterday
afternoon. He wore a look of fixed con-
centration, his mouth working furiously
as he breasted the bar; “ninety-seven,
ninety-eight, ninety-nine, a hundred —
large beer—hundred and two, hundred
and three” This went on between
gulps till I could restrain curiosity no
longer. “What’s the idea?” I asked. He
planked his glass down: “hundred and
twelve, hundred and thirteen—play bass
in orchestra—hundred and sixteen —got
two hundred beats rest —hundred and
eighteen.” He dashed out, still counting.
♦ * * ♦
“Eureka”: Sydney has some strange
homes, but none stranger than the
quarters of a handful of old army and
navy veterans at Bare Island, La Perouse.
The island is about 1000 yards inside the
northern inner head of Botany Bay, and
was fortified in 1885 as one of a chain
of early coastal defence forts. It was
manned by a garrison of the N. S. Wales
Permanent Artillery. About 1905 the
island ceased to exist as a fort, and in
1912 it became, a home for the old army
and navy veterans. The men are lioused
entirely underground, and the island
appears to be a bare uninhabited rock,
but the subterranean rooms and halls are
comfortable enough. It was one of the
few homes which didn’t have to worry
about air-raid shelters during the war.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Petermac”: Mention of Pat Sullivan
having to hawk caricatures of sporting
figures (B. 21/8/ ’46) reminds me of an
impecunious poet who hawked his verse
from door to door on oblong cards. He
paid for the printing by embellishing
them with neat eulogistic jingles about
the merits of suburban publicans and
their sparkling ales. He had worked up
quite a decent connection when a news-
paper grabbed him. Ever since then,
some of his advertisers have considered
themselves modest patrons of art, and
framed copies of his yerse are hanging in
their bars as proof of their literary
association.
• * * *
“Bondi Beachcomber”: John Brennan’s
par on “Tokyo Rose” (B. 28/8/’46) is a
reminder of the humor of this phase of
Jap propaganda. As J.B, says, “Rose”
provided the only up-to-date dance music
available to the troops in the early
months. Entertainment - hungry men
gathered nightly to hear Bing and other
jazz-mongers wherever a radio set was
available. Many a lonely sigs.’ night shift
was brightened by “Rose’s” programme.
Her between-records talks —such as, “Are
you lonely for your girl, soldier? Don't
worry about her ; she’s probably out under
the moonlight right now with some fellow
who is too smart to be trapped into the
army”—were lost in the hum of discus-
sion which followed each disk.
SPRING.
“Spring began officially in N. S. Wales on Sep-
tember 1.”
Sunday week, you should remember, duly
ushered in September,
With the pleasant incidentals that engaging
month should bring;
Singing-time for birds and poets who inevi-
tably know it’s
Up to them to call attention to the currency
of Spring.
Now the morns are bright and sunny, and a
Laureate’s testimony
Tells us when a young man’s fancy lightly
turns to —you know what,
Furnishing sufficient reasons that, of all the
whirling seasons,
Spring will always be the one to hit the spot.
Now imagination reaches to the scenes upon
the beaches
And the merrymaking mermaids soon to be
assembled there,
Or the sands with escorts resting or the
billows boldly breasting
In the maximum of spirits—with the mini-
mum of wear.
Now the winter’s fuel-vending is a job that
nears its ending,
And the iceman’s task becomes a more
remunerative thing.
And with beer’s increased allure calls for rum
will soon be fewer,
For it’s Spring officialdom decrees it’s
Spring.
Now the cricketer gets busy, dragging from
where’er it is he
Has his bat and pads, insignia of his pas-
time, stowed away;
And the tough footbrawler rambles off the fields
of gory gambols,
Rather thankful of a chance to lick his
wounds, it’s safe to say.
Now one notes from the demeanor of
hydrangeas growing greener,
And the violet and boronia that around their
perfume fling,
And the ever cheerful faces of the bookmakers
at races,
That Spring is here —unquestionably Spring.
Now the amiable consorters with the Muses
quit the quarters
Where they’ve emulated dormice in the cruel
winter times,
Contemplating panegyrics to be couched in
haunting lyrics,
Questing hard for lilting metres, cudgelling
their brains for rhymes.
Though, from Arctic zones to tropic, it’s a
somewhat hackneyed topic,
Still a genuine poet sings because he cannot
help but sing;
So, when vernal ebullitions swell to clear out-
size conditions,
You can confidently bet your boots it’s
Spring.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Penelope’s Mate”; You either colla-
borate or you don’t. When Jap photo-
graphers came into our prison camp at
Haisho it was difficult for them to get
shots for “Nippon Times” and “Maini-
chi” that wouldn’t give the game away.
After they snapped the mess-tables, speci-
ally decorated with empty tins, stones,
and heaped rice bowls from the guard
house, we sullenly ate our midday, rice
ration (two ounces) and hissed the propa-
ganda merchants through the barbed
wire. Then they sent for Tich, who was
a phenomenon, with the habit of holding
his weight despite starvation rations.
Through the wire we watched the camera-
men place him between two grinning
Taiwan guards. It was to be a “fat”
shot. We cursed the set-up. Then we
saw that every time the Japs got their
camera focussed, Tich’s arm would come
up until his thumb rested on his nose
and his fingers were stretched in con-
tempt. When half a dozen of us went
over with a stretcher to get him he man-
aged a smile and muttered “Either you
do or you don’t! ”
“McGlum”: Sometimes now it seems
a bit silly, but at the time we got a great
kick out of it —and it wasn’t always easy
to put things over the Jap. In Sep-
tember, 1944, they lined us up on the
parade ground and issued orders that we
were to face the sun and bow, out of
respect for the warrior gods of the air
who were self-blasting themselves all
over the American Navy. They intended
to do likewise. Then the whisper went
round and we knew what to do. The
Old Man saluted the Taijo, who screamed
the order. The Japs, who were facing
us, about-turned towards the rising sun.
The Old Man shouted “About-turn!”
“God save the King!” and up came 200
skinny arms in a respectful salute. By
She time the slant-eyes had completed
their obeisances we were happily “as we
were” and waiting for dismissal.
# * * *
“Chevroford”: The air taxi has arrived
in Melbourne. Businessmen who want a
quick trip to Queensland, the Ma State,
Tasmania or country towns in their own
State can be flown there with luggage at
3d. a mile—landborne taxi charges, Is.
The aircraft is a Short Scion cabin mono-
plane with an airspeed of 120 miles. The
taxi will carry four passengers with
normal air luggage, or five with light
luggage, at a flat rate of £5 an hour, and
as airfields are as plentiful in Australia
as politicians their range is almost un-
restricted. The pilot is an ex-R.A.A.F.
man.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Shropshire’s men passing
must have noticed the queer
tricks played on ships in the canal. The
suction of screws is such that at the bow
water rushes inwards from the banks,
while off the quarter-deck aft a curling
bow-wave follows up astern. When
King George V’s bulk eased through, port
rudder was applied to alter course to
starboard—the pressure of water backed
up by her big rudder bounced back from
the banks and pushed her head off in the
opposite direction. In the straight sec-
tions the helmsman didn’t touch his
wheel; pressure and suction were
equalised and kept her dead in the
channel’s middle. At Kantara a group
of Diggers climbed out from their swim
to let her pass. The usual cheers and
chiacking were exchanged, added to a
bellowed request for “a lift home.” But
when the genial band prepared to resume
their swim and saw the soupy creek left
in the battleship’s wake their abuse was
torrid enough to blister her paintwork.
* * * *
“Na^hoda”: Stories of children who
have been fostered and reared by animals
are as old as history. Romulus and
Remus were said to have been suckled
by a she-wolf, and circumstantial accounts
of human beings who have formed
liaisons with the brute creation are legion.
One characteristic of these stories is that
the locale always retreats before the ad-
vance of civilisation. The last refuge of
the myth was Sarawak, and when I was
“And are you able to keep us in the comfort to which we are accustomed ?”
there it was a commonly accepted be-
lief that the orang-utan pinched native
damsels and reared their offspring. The
latest version concerns a 15-year-old
Arab boy, said to have been reared in
the Arabian desert by gazelles. He was
captured by Bedouin hunters when he
dropped out of a herd with an injured
leg, after a 50-mile chase. His body is
said to be covered with fine hairs, he
makes animal noises and won’t wear
clothes or sleep in a bed. If his chief
article of diet was grass, as alleged, it is
difficult to know how he grew into such a
beautiful creature bearing a strong re-
semblance to Sabu, the hero of the Kip-
ling film on the subject. However, the
story comes per medium of Beam Wire-
less, with photo, and I’d be the last to
doubt it.
* * * *
“Golly’s Missus”; Impressions on the
childhood mind can be very lasting.
Even now the poem “Women of the
West” fills me with a wild desire to
giggle, because a little girl stood up at a
school concert and shrilly recited “The
Wimming of the West,” putting all the
drama at her command into the words.
The whole school broke into uncontrol-
lable mirth, and the little girl—myself—
still finds the poem ridiculous. The
beauty of it has gone for ever.
m * * *
“Jeff”: The' diversion of part of
Queensland’s peanut crop to edible-oil
production will be tough on the kids. Just
as a man likes his smoke, a nipper likes
his peanut, and he’s going to miss it. One
chap I know, however, is pleased about
the prospective shortage of the tubers —
he’s a cleaner at a pitcher-house after
Saturday matinees.
>f * * *
“V. Cluse”; Jephson, having volun-
teered to assist the local branch of his
political party, was loaded down with an
“ Didn't I tell you to stay home this trip ?”
armful of pamphlets, pencils, rolls and
notebooks and told to canvass a certain
area, check the rolls, party support and
opposition, and make general notes.
Slightly appalled by the prospect of call-
ing on total strangers in the late hours,
Jephson set forth after tea on his first
night—a night of cold and gusty winds
on which no respectable citizen should be
abroad. At the first house, though lights
were showing, nobody answered his re-
peated knocks. At the second, a pal-
pably scared woman opened the door a
little, peered fearfully at Jephson, said
she was a stranger and didn’t want any,
and closed the door. To get to the third
door Jephson had to go down a steep and
I
circular flight of stone steps, unlighted
and full of menace. He was feeling with
his foot for the 21st step when something
roared like a lion and hurled itself upon
him out of the darkness. Hanging grimly
to the iron railing, Jephson fought furi-
ously with the Alsatian dog which had
fastened itself to the sleeve of his over-
coat, dropped his pamphlets, which
immediately became the sport of the
wind, and yelled. There came forth a
man and a woman, who pulled the dog
off, scolded Jephson, praised the hound
and advised Jephson to clear off before
they called the police. Ten seconds later
Jephson had ceased to be an active
worker for that political party.
* * * *
“J.K.”: To many the name C. W. A.
Hayward appearing at the foot of Bulle-
tin verses will puzzle some who are used
to the old “T. the R.” On one occasion he
signed himself C. W. Andree Hayward in
a book of verse —“Dryblower” Murphy’s
Jarrahland Jingles, published in 1908, for
which he wrote the foreword. That book
has a canvas cover and is now a rarity.
Hayward published a book of his own,
Along the Road to Cue and Other Verses,
in 1897 at Geraldton (W.A.). I’d like
to add it to my collection.
* * * *
“Macßopus”: Who told “Eureka” (B.
14/8/’46) that there was only one pub in
Nimmitabel? There were two when I
was in the town recently, and they’ve
been there for many years. Likewise,
who told him that there were two “m’s”
in the local spelling of Nimitybelle?
According to a very old Government map
of N. S. Wales the correct spelling is
Nimmitabel, and this was spelled more or
less phonetically by the locals, becorm
ing Nimity belle. The map I mention is
old enough to spell “Junee” as “Jewnee,”
and “Cootamundra” “Cootamundry.”
Many such variations occur in N. S.
Wales placenames: Burrawa and Boo-
rowa, Menindie and Menindee, Bokhara
and Bogeira. They were abo. names,
and variations arose when someone tried
to improve on the writing of the sound.
♦ * * *
“Hook”: Recent pars about human
chicken-hatchers remind me of a more
unusual avocation —that of the Chinese
lice-feeders. Ella K. Maillart refers to
them in Forbidden Journey. Lice used
in the preparation of anti-typhus vaccine
were bred at Fujen University, Pekin,
and fed on the blood of Chinese who,
having recovered from typhus, were im-
mune from the disease. The lice were
strapped to the legs of the “donors” in
little boxes, and fed there twice a day
for half an hour, each host “fostering”
200 of them. “The men who nourish
the lice,” wrote Father Rutten, “are
often ragged beggars. Nowadays, they
are agreeably surprised to find themselves
paid for nourishing parasites, which
formerly they used to carry on them all
day and all night.”
* ♦ * *
“Camsa”: Bill B. tells me he is learning
Braille to meet the threat of television.
When the kids switch oh the radio, Bill’s
setter goes off to his kennel. Bill tried it,
but the kennel is stuffy and the light is
bad. With the aid of cotton wool and
concentration he is able to read, but
television will upset that, so Bill’s going
to wear a blackout and read with his
fingers. It was worth two pots when I
told him, a lecturer at the Science Con-
gress in Adelaide had said television, at
£75 a set, was too expensive for Australia.
“C.R.0.”: Television seems to have a
remarkable fascination for its audiences
and, according to overseas authorities,
is the biggest time-waster since patience
and jig-saw puzzles. Once a set is in-
stalled it is no good deciding to read or
do anything else that evening. With the
striking of the clock on goes the set, and
the strength of mind to switch off again
is beyond most “viewers.” Which pos-
sibly explains the readiness of tele-
vision advertisers to spend anywhere be-
tween £l5O and £3OO per hour pro-
gramme. It happens in both London and
New York, although in London 8.8. C.
foots the bill.
* * * *
“Mallee-hen”: “Puyyaka’s” reference
tb the Sikhs (B. 7/ 8 / ’46) took me back to
my childhood. My grandfather was a
soldier in the Indian Mutiny and the
Persian campaign and was in the 14th
Dragoons when they were in action at
Chillianwallah. I often heard him speak
of it and the “damnfool” of an officer
who had sent cavalry charging into a
wood. The wood was thick and the
'Sikhs were there in strength, but more
men were swept from their saddles by
boughs of trees than by Sikhs. It was
one of the troopers who called “ Threes
About,” not “Fours About" as “Puy-
yaka” says, and the regiment was not
slow to turn. That they did change a
temporary defeat into a victory was
proved by the issue of a clasp to the Pun-
jab medal for the Chillianwallah fracas.
We still have grandfather’s, though in my
young days it was often in the pawnshop
with the rest of them during his periods
of financial embarrassment. The medals
were always the first thing to be retrieved
once funds were flush again.
* 9 * «
“R.H.P.”: The war was worth it.
Women are in their seventh heaven of
delight attending the disposal sales of
surplus army equipment. My missus set
out to one early the other morning armed
with a roll and a look of battle in her
eye. She also carried my mild request
for a small vyce and a pair of blankets
for my shack. She came home at even-
tide in tatters, minus the roll and look
of battle, but with an electric iron (with
the element burnt out) and followed by
a three-ply wardrobe that I could have
made for half what it cost. Still, it was
a lovely sale. No, she was “too late”
to get my vyce and blankets,
* * * *
“Damus”: Hounded by municipal
savants, Melbourne’s rats have apparently
moved into the quiet and placid haunts of
the Commonwealth Public Service. One
department, the joy and despair of
agrarians, has become a special sanc-
tuary. The wreckage and havoc among
files and records have almost broken the
hearts of officials to whom such things
are sacred. But there was a touch of
humor in the rodents’ latest outrage. My
persistent inquiries stirred some action
and the official asked Miss X to “bring
the Rodenticide file, please.” The
young woman’s answer was heavy with
distaste: “I’m sorry, sir, the rats have
eaten it.”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; This age of Bing
and Sinatra addicts hasn’t got it all. Delv-
ing into Australia’s past, I dropped on
to Sydney’s first theatre, opened in 1789,
Playing only under the Governor’s
licence, it soon had a rapid closure.
Highly popular during its short run, it
led to one playhouse addict stealing,
killing and skinning a valuable grey-
hound, the flesh of which he sold, palm-
ing it off as kangaroo meat. Detected
after blowing the proceeds on admission
tickets, he promptly received the .inevi-
table and Phillip closed the theatre, a
large hut, on the ground that “it was an
incentive to crime.”
WHAT A DIFFERENCE!
“In Paris Mr. Beasley can shake his fist at M.
Visjiinsky, but in Sydney and Melbourne no Minister
cares to wag so much as an admonitory finger at
the Communist-controlled bodies which dictate Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy in relation to the Dutch East
Indies.”— “S. M. Herald.”
In Paris they could hurl denunciations
At unaccommodating Muscovy
Or delegates of any other nations
With whom they felt impelled to disagree.
But when their feet are on their native heather
The very first impression one receives
Is that it’s obviously altogether
Another pair of sleeves.
The voices that were raised in fierce and bitter
Outbursts of indignation overseas
Sink to the level of a sparrow’s twitter
Or the mild murmur of innocuous bees.
Abroad they roared so often and intently
Their straight-flung words were heard the
din above.
At home they roar (in Bottom’s phrase) “as
gently
As any sucking dove.”
In far-off Paris they were always good for
Impressive warnings to the stubborn Slav
About the foreign policy they stood for
And meant to do their level best to have.
Back home, relations to our nearest neighbor
They leave to be decreed by Jacks and Toms
Who run the unions which dictate to “Labor” —
In other words, to Corns!
C. W. A. HAYWARD.
n.s.w. 252 George-street, Sydney.


THE SERVICE MAN
Manus.
Replies by Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt
to American feelers regarding the use of
Manus as an advance U.S. base in the
South-west Pacific have shown a lot of
haste and little sense either of gratitude
or forethought.
When a man of the calibre of Mr.
Hoover, an ex-President who once lived
in Australia, declares that “We [U.S.A.]
must hold on to Pacific islands because
we must extend our defence perimeter,”
something more reasonable is called for
from this end than Dr. Evatt’s gruff
statement that “the Australian Govern-
ment will never consent to handing over
an inch of territory under its control,”
especially in view of his earlier 1946
statements in America that Australia
would give bases to any nation which
would defend us. And something more
.indicative of statesmanship is expected of
a Prime Minister than Mr. Chifley’s
We are quite agreeable to America having
the use of Manus facilities if reciprocal
arrangements can be made for the use* of
facilities in American territory. Americans
do not want to be mixed up in outside
wars, and Australia may some day find
itself alone in a war in which Manus might
be a needed base. No agreement will be
made which in any way will deny us the
full use of essential bases.
This is very different language from
that used by “Labor” when screaming
for American help in the dark days of
1942. The response then was generous.
General MacArthur came, the decisive
Coral Sea and Midway battles were
fought and won, and drafted Ameri-
cans were presently fighting to pro-
tect Australia in territories on which
their Australian counterparts were by
“Labor” Caucus ukase saved from having
to fight. Owing to America’s decisive
help Australia was spared invasion, and
soon the hysterical screaming of “Labor”
politicians died down to whispers, to
break out again now in electioneering
bombast.
As Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt are both
very well aware, the world situation has
changed tragically for the worse since the
end of the war. Soviet Russia behaves
not like a recent ally helping to settle the
peace of the world but more and more
like an enemy preparing to spring. Ex-
plosive situations exist in the Balkans,
the Trieste region, Germany, Poland, the
Middle and Near East, China, Korea;
indeed, instead of the U.N.O. dream of a
world uniting to make peace permanent,
the shadow of Mars stretches over the
earth. There is the same uncertainty that
immediately preceded the outbreak of war
in 1939. If war should come again it
would again be left to America to play
an enormous part in saving civilisation.
That is not something to be viewed in a
mean spirit,
Mr. Chifley, too, should go further
and explain what war he can imagine
happening in the Pacific that would be
a threat to Australia without American
participation in it being absolutely cer-
tain. Is he expecting an attack from
the Philippines, the N.E.I. or from another
quarter which his Minister of External
Affairs, after his show of opposition at
the Paris Peace Conference, has suddenly
ceased to mention?
It would be wrong to hand the island
over to the Americans without conditions.
That might lead, in a conflict of vital
priorities, to the British and Australian
fleets being deprived entirely of the use
of what should be the Gibraltar of the
Australian seas. In World War II the
Royal Navy in the Pacific lost much of
its efficiency by the fact that it was forced,
through circumstances, to accept Ulithi, a
barren, featureless atoll, as its forward
base, instead of having a base of its own
in New Guinea. But a working arrange-
ment is possible under which one or more
of the English-speaking nations in the
Pacific concern themselves with construc-
tion and maintenance of the base, and
under which the use of it is planned to be
carried out by one or all for the mutual
defence of all. Danger to any one in-
volved is danger to the rest.
An American military writer has put
the U.S. angle: “The only reason for
maintaining a sea or air base at Manus
or elsewhere down there is to keep faith
with reality in the problem of Pacific
security... Our value to Australia is
our strength. She will not wisely cut off
her nose to spite her face.”
Above all, there should be an end of
the niggardliness given voice—now that
Australia is temporarily safe —by Mr.
Chifley and Dr, Evatt. Particularly over
something they would implore America
to take if a menacing war broke out in
the Pacific. •
Stand Up, Bryson!
Mr. Ward’s repetitions of and varia-
tions on the Brisbane Lie theme have
brought back to memory what he said in
November, 1938, as a sequel to many no-
defence “Hate Britain!” “Up with the
Soviet!” and “Hang the capitalist!”
utterances:
It is amusing to hear people say that
we shall not give up New Guinea. To
these people I would say that if it should
become necessary to defend our Mandated
Territory, they should defend it them-
selves.
And when the war came he tried to get
the Defence Act “amended” so as to
prohibit the sending of a single called-up
soldier to any of the island territories,
even Norfolk Island. That island, to the
disgust of Major-General Rosenthal,
“Labor” left to be garrisoned by called-
up men from little New Zealand.
The 1943 landslide “ ‘Labor’ Saved the
Country” election brought in a Mr.
“Just time for one more skip before sister comes.”
Bryson from Bourke (Vic.) by the un-
seating of Mr. Maurice Blackburn, a
pacifist, but so broadminded that he
championed the Friends of. the Soviet (for
that he was ’expelled by a party which
has done nothing but crawl to the Soviet
and its larrikin agents) and took up
the cudgels for the martyred Australia
Firsters. On July 19, 1945, supporting
Mr. Ward’s Papua-New Guinea Pro-
visional Administration Bill, Mr. Bryson
made a speech which was suffused or
cancered with the Ward spirit.
Said Comrade Bryson (Parliamentary
Reports, pages 4295-4296):
I am not prepared to support white men
in New Guinea, whether they be ex-
soldiers or not, making large profits by
means of slave labor. The suggestion has
been made that the white settlers in these
territories are acting as a buffer between
Australia and potential enemies. That argu-
ment should not have been introduced,
because the statement is incorrect. When
the Japanese attacked the islands to the
north of Australia the Only fight that was
put up there was by our soldiers.
Here the fellow was given the lie by
Mr. Anthony, an Old Digger, and Mr.
Anthony had to withdraw “that remark.”
Not so Mr. Bryson, who proceeded in the
same strain, despite protests from other
Old Diggers (Opposition, of course):
When the Japanese invaded New Guinea
the white settlers left as quickly as they
could. We have also heard of the valorous
conduct of certain black troops in New
Guinea and also black carriers. Their labor
should not be exploited try people who
go to New Guinea for the sole purpose of
making profits at the expense of the natives.
Mr. Rankin: That is a rotten statement.
Mr. Bryson: It is true.
Mr. Rankin: Sentimental talk at the ex-
pense of ex-servicemen who have suffered
considerable loss!
Mr. Bryson: There is no sentiment
about it. We have heard sentimental refer-
ences to “the poor soldier-planters” who
settled in New Guinea, but they went there
for one purpose only. The former resi-
dents of New Guinea set out to exploit
the country and make as much profit as
possible for themselves. ■*
Mr. White: They are pioneers. Why not
give them credit for it?
Mr. Bryson: I give them credit for that,
but while they are exploiting the resources
of the territory there is no reason why they
should employ slave labor.
The next speaker was Mr. Abbott,
an Old Digger, who praised the
great work done in Papua by Macgregor
and Murray and mentioned (hat it had
been extolled by a “Labor’ royal com-
missioner, Barry, K.C. Then he said:
The member for Bourke made a slan-
derous reflection on the courage of the
white planters of New Guinea and the
white population generally. He said that
the planters in New Guinea and Papua
left as hurriedly as possible and fled to
the mainland.
Mr. Chambers; And so they did!
Mr. Abbott; The member for Adelaide
may repeat that statement till he is blue
in the face, but he will not convince me
of the truth. The report of Mr. Barry,
K.C., does not bear it out. Some of the
elderly men may have left, but a great
many settlers fought gallantly in the New
Guinea Rifles, and others served as guides
to the Australian troops when they arrived.
This Mr. Chambers is another “Labor”
member of the 1943 vintage. Unlike Mr.
Bryson, he has had some service in uni-
form, the record being preserved in the
Commonwealth-Parliamentary H and-
book, 1945 ;
Enlisted 1940. Served with Dental Unit
in Central Australia and Northern Terri-
tory., Attached to 3rd Field Ambulance in
New Guinea, 1941-42. Owing to break-
down of health, was placed on reserve,
1943.
On this showing, his own, he cannot
be accepted as an authority on the be-
havior and work of the white settlers
in the territories. His opportunities of
personal study were limited compared
with those sought and experienced by
Osmar White, the war correspondent.
White met these men, camped with them,
respected and admired them, and there
are glowing tributes to many of them in
passage after passage of his fine book
Green Armor. Of the immortal band of
civil-aviation pilots he wrote:
They were men with a magnificent record
of skill and enterprise in peace-time. They
earned their daily bread flying some of the
most difficult and hazardous air routes in
the world. When war came they measured up.
After the first bombings every aircraft
that could be coaxed into the air was mobi-
lised to get women and children and
invalids out of the menaced settlements.
Every aircraft was flown to the uttermost
limit of its structural endurance, day and
night, in all weather. The enemy bombed
the terminal airfields heavily, but the pilots
carried on, taking off and landing among
the bomb craters. Some were killed and
wounded by strafing fighters. In the
clumsy slow transport craft some evaded
pursuing Zeros by flying at tree-fop level
through the winding canyons in the moun-
tains. At least two lost their lives in the
crashes of ’planes that had been flown 'until
they fell to pieces in the air. Yet not one
civilian evacuee was killed or injured by
accident to commercial aircraft during the
evacuation of the New Guinea towns.
And the wicked lie “that the only fight
put up there was by our soldiers” is re-
futed in a short chapter of Green Armor
headed “The Invisible War”:
Although the world heard little of it,
there was already critically important land
fighting against the Japanese in New Guinea
before the landing at Buna Bay in August,
1942. The men who fought this invisible
war were a raggle-taggle army of miners,
foresters and civil servants called to-'the
colors on the day of Pearl Harbor. Though
they were isolated from the nearest friendly
base by more than 200 miles of savagely
mountainous country, and were Often
threatened by starvation, with the half of
a company of Australian commandos they
immobilised two Japanese divisions based
on Lae and Salamaua for nearly five
months. The secret of their success was
superb junglecraft. In their experience and
performance was the genesis of the train-
ing and indoctrination which all Allied
infantry units for service in the Pacific
islands subsequently underwent.
Going into the appalling region in
which this invisible war was waged White
and Damien Parer, that grand Australian
(“killed in action by enemy machine-gun
fire on September 17, 1944, while filming
front-line operations on Peleliu”—New
York “Times”), came upon “a number of
sick and slightly wounded New Guinea
riflemen and commandos”:
They looked dreadful, poor devils; thin,
fever-stricken and nervous. Food was
running low; even at the base there was
an acute shortage of everything but tinned
beef and rice. Apart from that there had
been trouble with the carriers, who had
been made nervous by the bombing and
by the tales of Japanese atrocities.
In Winnema Camp White and Parer
“met Corporal G.”: —
One of the three drovers who, after
war started, brought 700 head of cattle
from Madang up the coast through the
Ramu valley into the valley of the Bulolo;
one of the most remarkable cattle-droving
feats in history. The beasts had to be driven
through dense sago swamps, swum over
crocodile-infested rivers, have paths hacked
for them through tangled jungles and be
coaxed up and down razorbacked ranges.
Yet they were delivered with trifling loss;
and the guerrilla force had been eating
fresh meat.
And so to Wau and Bulolo, “now the
pitiful ghosts of towns,” and to a general
Survey of “the invisible war” at the stage
reached in July, 1942:
White men available for service in the
area totalled about 800. Many of the
New Guinea Volunteer Rifles were beyond
military age, but could not be spared be-
cause local knowledge was so precious.
Of these 800, only about 300 were fit to
fight. The commandos were going down
in droves with malaria, dysentery, pneu-
monia and infected sores. Ammunition
and foodstuffs were getting very short.
The European ration at the front was rice
and tinned beef—no sugar, tea, powdered
milk, biscuits, jam, flour or any other
staple. Native foodstuffs were getting des-
perately short, too. Captain W. thought
that unless help catpe soon disease and
starvation would put an end to this re-
markable venture in warfare. If the Japs
moved in strength the defenders would be
able to do little more than sell their lives
dearly.
The men had done an astonishing and
heroic job. They had bluffed more than
12,000 enemy troops into believing that the
hinterland was held by strong forces. The
guerrilla patrols had been so active that
the Japanese dared not venture more than
a few miles inland for fear of being picked
off one by one or wiped out by ambushes.
Even more important than that, the guer-
rillas had maintained watching stations of
such efficiency that not a single enemy
aircraft could land on or take off from
the Markham valley or the Salamaua air-
field without the fact being reported almost
immediately to Moresby.
Debilitated by fever, half-starved, living
under the worst conditions of war, the
men of New Guinea and the tough green
youngsters who belatedly reinforced them
had already done service which should
make their country deeply proud and grate-
ful. Those who were not actually at the
front were working like slaves to sup-
plement or conserve foodstuffs, plan and
construct defences, recruit new native labor
or work what they had. Those who had
enough bush experience were maintaining
constant patrol of the native villages, pre-
serving the forms of European government
as far away as the mouth of the Sepik
River, the Hagen mountains and the Ramu.
“Labor,” as represented by Comrade
Bryson and Captain Chambers, is in no
way “proud and grateful” to the men of
New Guinea. Comrade Bryson, attacking
them as cravens and exploiters from his
cowards’ castle of Parliamentary privilege,
did not stop to consider how the
A.I.F. and the American divisions could
have been served so faithfully by so
many native carriers and stretcher-bearers
had the cruelties of slavery been the
natives’ portion. The electors of Adelaide
will no doubt weigh the “evidence” of
Captain Chambers and the electors of
Bourke should send Comrade Bryson
about his business. He got in last time on
Opposition preferences, Mr, Blackburn
having been 1772 votes ahead of
him on the first count. It is impossible
to believe that Bourke Liberals will make
the some mistake again with Mr. Black-
burn’s widow contesting his old electorate.
Even if they can’t put their own man in
they should see that the miserable Bryson
is put out. .
H.M.A.S. Adelaide's Farewell
“Macnell’s” tribute:
Alongside a quiet wharf on the outskirts of
Garden Island Australia’s oldest cruiser lies
gradually' dying. Adelaide’s innards have been
completely stripped, only her engines and a
beautifully polished maplewood sideboard in
her wardroom remaining. The sideboard will
probably be presented to the city of Adelaide
before the old cruiser is towed out through the
Heads to be sunk by her modern sisters’ gunfire.
Built at Cockatoo in 1917, commissioned in
1922, Adelaide has been Australia’s sea-going
ambassador in most of the world’s oceans. War
found her converted to oil fuel, some six-inchers
stripped to make room for a 4-in. A.A. bat-
tery, and her short-range armament adequately
increased. At Noumea she won a bloodless
victory by steaming in sight of the Vichy
gunners. Hastily scanning their Jane’s Fight-
ing Ships to identify the strange cruiser they
found depicted only the three-funnellers Aus-
tralia and Canberra. These mounted B*in.
guns, so the Vichyites surrendered to her hand-
operated 6-inchers. On patrol in the Indian
Ocean in Nov., 1942, Adelaide sighted a large
merchantman ahead. She increased to full
speed and. cleared for action. The challenge
brought an incorrect reply and as the quarry
kept running Adelaide straddled her with a
5-gun broadside. She’s always been a noted
gunnery ship, and her gunnery control officer
placed his salvoes accurately. Soon the target
caught fire and her crew abandoned ship. She
was the German Ramses carrying a much-
needed cargo of rubber . from Japan. Lining
the decks watching her flame, the cruiser s men
were surprised to see a 6-in. gun floating past.
Ramses had mounted several wooden dummies
to intimidate small war craft.
After a round of convoy duties the old
cruiser escorted Australian troops to Ambon.
Brought back to Sydney she was relegated to
caring for submarine crews berthed alongside.
Now, her messdecks where once straw-hatted
sailors rolled their tobacco priques, echoing and
emptv, denuded of her guns, salt-streaked and
the fire gone frorp her vitals, she awaits the
end.


r/
9m
mm
LTD.
: &
mm
m
X
I I
rx.
r
J
M
m
m
m
V
PRODUCTIO
€4
From the fine modern factory at Fishermen's
Bend, Port Melbourne, Cars and Commercial
Vehicles bearing the famous names of Hillman,
Humber, Sunbeam-Talbot, Commer and Karrier,
will be produced for Australian conditions.
They are products born of the grim lessons of
war, and incorporate all the dependability
features which proved so successful
under the gruelling tests of
combat.
Rootes Ltd. review with pardonable pride their
noteworthy contribution to Victory . . . Over 60%
of Britain's Armoured Cars, 35% of the total of the
Scout Cars, and 16% of Britain's Bomber Aircraft
(more than one in seven) were produced at the
Rootes' factories. > > The first production in
Australia will be the new Hillman-Minx. The
war-time experience gained by Rootes'
engineers places the new Minx far ahead
of any other light car
THE H/ORCD'S MOSr
SHCCESSFHI l/CHTCHK/
Distributors ore now displaying the new Hillman-Minx, and are ready
and waiting to assist you in your application for permit to purchase . . .
ENSURE EARLIER DELIVERY BY ORDERING NOW.
BOOTES LTD.
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
FISHERMEN'S BEND, MELBOURNE. VICTORIA. AUSTRALIA
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA!
Neal’s Motors Pty., L.td.,
222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
John McGrath, Ltd.
Head Office:
11c Castlereagrh Street,
Sydney.
Showrooms: 357 Glenmore Hoad,
Kushcutters Bay.
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath, Ltd.,
324-340 Wickham Street,
The Valley,
Brisbane.
PRODUCTS OF THE
RooteS
GROUP -S5
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Flinders Motors, Ltd.,
62-68 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd.,
900 Hay Street,
Perth.
TASMANIA;
D. Jj, Hollis Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. York and St. John Streets,
Launceston.
jao
mm
m
HILLMAN
1
mfr
dfg
NB£
mn
m
m
a
COMMER
m
m
HARRIER


S
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY.
Exide Batteries contribute to the conveniences
of modern living, from a telephone call to air
travel. In your choice of a car battery you
can safely be guided by the world’s largest
telephone exchanges, who depend on Exide.
WH£N IT'StAMj
i
JIU'START
PERTOHAL ITEMS
First to fill the chair of architecture
at Melbourne University is the brilliant
Tasmanian B. B. Lewis, who at present
has the big job of chief architect of
Great Western Railways in England.
Lewis has been there since 1943 repairing
bomb damage of railway buildings.
Caught in England by the war, he enlisted
in the A.I.F. as a private and joined the
first contingent from Australia in the
M.E. Later he served in North Australia,
then was released from the Army to go to
his job in England. A Wesley (Mel-
bourne) old boy and a graduate of Mel-
bourne and Liverpool Universities, his
work has been more constructionist than
architectural. His wife is also an archi-
tect.
Just on fifty years agn Dave Bone,
smart, well set-up second mate of a four-
masted British barque lying at Sandridge
Pier, earned the admiration of Mel-
bourne’s waterside by laying out, with
his fists only, three toughs who tried to
garrotte him while he was returning to his
ship at midnight. One got away, the two
others were delivered personally to the
lock-up by young Mr. Bone. Now
' Sir David W. Bone, Commodore of the
Anchor Line, decorated for gallant and
efficient seamanship in the first World
War and knighted for his services in the
second, that competent handler of toughs
lately retired from sea service. He has
written several excellent stories of the
sea, notably The Brassbounder, an ad-
mirable description of a voyage round
the Horn in sail. Brains run in the
family. A brother is Muirhead Bone,
the distinguished etcher and painter, also
knighted. Another was James Bone,
London pressman and author of The
London Perambulator,
Maoriland’s new Chief Justice, suc-
ceeding Michael Myers, is H. F. O’Leary,
K.C. Born in Blenheim, Marlborough,
sixty years ago, he was educated at
Masterton School, finished off at Welling-
ton and Victoria Colleges, graduated
LL.B. and became a Uni. football rep.
Joining Bell, Gully and Mackenzie, he
had a distinguished career at the Bar and
became a K.C. in 1935. He was president
of the N.Z. Law Society at his elevation
to the Supreme Court in 1935.
Doyen of judges' and riders at Mel-
bourne’s Royal Show is Henry J. Gidney,
who, now 82, figured in his first grand
parade 70 years ago, when shows were as
masculine as a Masonic meeting. He re-
members when the only women at a show
were two who were giving a launder-
ing exhibition. Since then Gidney has
judged at 50 shows in Melbourne and at
scores in other States. In the 1914-18
war he passed 46,000 horses for A.I.F.
service. At this year’s show the family
will be represented by great-grandson
John Pennell, one year younger than
HJ. was when he started. John will
wear the stock and spurs his great-grand-
sire used in the junior riding competition
in the show of 1876.
War correspondent and one of 8.8.C.’s
.best broadcasters through the 1944-45
fighting in Europe, Chester Wilmot
has been picked to write the second
volume of the Australian Official War
History; he will deal mainly with
Tobruk and El Alamein —certainly
scope for a good book, A Vic-
torian, born at, Brighton, in 1911, he went
to Melbourne Grammar and Uni., bag-
ging a B.A. and LL.B. A couple of
years before the war he led an Australian
universities debating team to Asia, U.S.A.
and Britain, and in 1940 he was in the
A.I.F. as war correspondent. Lately he’s
been writing a book on the final cam-
paign in Western Europe which will wear
the title Great Crusade.
Lately knighted in London, South
Australian Hugh William Bell Cairns is
known by Lord Nuffield as the man who
inspired his benefactions to Oxford.
Nuffield Professor of Surgery there, and
surgeon to the Radcliffe Infirmary, Cairns
was S.A. Rhodes Scholar in 1918. After
Oxford, with M.A., D.M., he became
Hunterian Professor, Royal College of
Surgeons, 1926-27; Rockefeller Travel-
ling Fellow in U.S.A., 1931-34 ; Triennial
Gold Medallist, West London Medico-
Chirurgical Society, 1936. Now 50, he
was an AJ.F. private in the 1914-18 war ;
in the later fight he was consultant neuro-
surgeon with the British Army. Cairns’s
specialty is brain surgery.
Since co-op. building societies got
going in N.S.W. in 1937 they have
been the means of establishing 23,000
families in their own homes, mostly be-
fore building restrictions were introduced
in 1941. Now there are more than
440 of these societies, and new ones are
being formed all the time. Banks
and insurance companies have made
ample funds available, and the societies
have Government backing, but as in
all housing plans at present the
twin problems are lack of materials and
lack of transport for what materials there
are. No man knows more about the
building societies than Wallace G. Pooley,
general secretary of the body that controls
the whole bang lot in N.S.W. Born in
Maoriland, Pooley came to Sydney as a
BUILDING SOCIETIES’ SEC.
lad, and served in New Guinea and
Egypt in the First World War. He had
five years with Sutherland Shire Council.
Otago Province, Maoriland, is prepar-
ing now to celebrate its centenary a couple
of years hence. A hundred years back,
according to Mark Twain, a band of
Presbyterians set out for the kingdom of
heaven. Arriving at Otago Heads, and
viewing the beauty of the situation, they
thought they had reached their destina-
tion and disembarked. The finding of
gold later convinced them that the routes
got mixed and they had reached another
place. Taking time by the forelock, the
Historical Committee of the Centennial
Council has appointed Dr. A. H. McLin-
tock Director of Historical Publications.
The doctorate came his way at London
University for research in colonial
history ; he graduated at Otago Uni,, at
which he is now lecturer in history.
Again a Digger gets a top-ranking post
in S.A. with the appointment of Colonel
Evan Mander-Jones as Director of Edu-
cation, vice Dr. C. E. Fenner, retired.
A N. S. Welshman, the colonel is an
old scholar and teacher of Sydney
Grammar who graduated with honors in
classics and history at Sydney Uni. and
collected a Dip, Ed, at Sydney Teachers’
Training College. Later he gained his
B.A. with honors and M.A. at Oxford
and was teaching in Sydney when he en-
listed in 1940. As deputy-director of
Military Intelligence, he formed the first
A.I.F. Intelligence School, serving in the
M.E. and the S.W. Pacific areas, and was
decorated after the Java and Sumatra
campaigns. At 44, he’s the youngest
Director of Education appointed in S.A.
Medicine and football are thoroughly
well mixed in the Cordner family, of
Greensborough (Vic.), one of whose
members, Dr. Don Cordner, won the
first Brownlow Medal since 1941 for
best and fairest player in the Victorian
Australian Rules League. The young
doc., whb shares two practices with his
father, follows for Melbourne. His
brother Ted, medico at the Children’s
Hospital, plays for the same team. A
third brother, Dennis, plays' with the
University Blacks. Their father is a
former V.F.L. player. All learnt the
game at Melbourne Grammar.
Professor Lyndhurst Falkiner Giblin,
D. 5.0., M.C., M.A., chairman of the
Commonwealth Financial and Economic
Committee, has been a windjammer
sailor, an Alaskan miner, a Solomon
Islands planter, a Tasmanian fruitgrower,
an A.I.F. major (wounds and an M.C.),
the Speck’s Government statistician, a
director of the Commonwealth Bank and
Ritchie Professor of Economics at the
University of Melbourne. The prof, gave
the Full Arbitration Court a poser the
other day when, as a Governmental wit-
ness, he swore to “tell the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth”
about the 40-hour-week case, adding “as
far as I am able.” Judge Kelly drew the
attention of the other four Judges to this
unusual addition to the conventional
oath ; they drew the attention of Com-
monwealth counsel Lewis to it, and he
drew the prof.’s attention to it. The prof,
then repeated the oath without the addi-
tion, Philosophy and logic being one of
his subjects, no doubt he smiled up the
sleeve of his lapel-less coat, since the
meaning of the hallowed words remained
the same, with or without the addition.
His father was a Judge and a one-time
Premier of the Apple Island.
George A. Hohnen, gunning for
Dr. Evatt’s seat in Barton, should be well
equipped for the immediate job in hand
he had four and a half years as an
artilleryman in the A.I.F. Going with
2/9th Regt., Hohnen served in the Middle
East and New Guinea and finished up
with a commission. Campaigning en-
ergetically up and down the electorate,
in which he has lived all his life, he
brings to the attack a comparatively
young man’s enthusiasm—he’s 36
tempered by a caution and a sound busi-
ness sense induced by years of experience
with a ’Sydney trustee company,
J. N. McGilp, who retires from the
Land Board of S.A., has had eight years
as its chairman, and before that was
president of the local Stock Owners’
Association and a member of the
Pastoral Board. He is still deputy chair-
man of S.A.’s State Bank board.
Forty-eight-years-old E. L. Moser, first
president of the newly-formed Melboume-
American Club, came to Australia from
New York 12 years ago as branch-
manager for Atlantic Union Oil. Seven
years later he moved to Sydney to man-
age the N.S.W. branch of Pool Petroleum,
then returned to Melbourne to be per-
sonnel manager for Vacuum. The new
E. L. MOSER {from U.S.A .).
club was largely responsible for organis-
ing the impressive American Memorial
Day service at St. Paul’s conducted by
Archbishop Booth and addressed by
Herring, C.J. Member of the Australian
and Athenaeum clubs, an enthusiastic
skier and holding B.A. and M.B.A. de-
grees, Moser runs to a family of boy and
girl twins. He himself was born in Java.
Farewell to Arthur:
Arthur Griffith, who has crossed over in
Sydney at close on 86, had a crowded career
in and out of N.S.W. politics. An Irishman,
born at Gortmore Hall, Westmeath, he was in
Australia young enough to have his education
at Melbourne Scots and Sydney Uni., and
before getting into his natural avocation of
intbroducin’ bills he’d already given fair proof
tl ? at he was in his new land for keeps—he’d
played xnter-State Australian Rules footer. He
was an all-rounder: won a swimming cham-
pionship at Manly in 1892, climbed info the ring
t 0 win a number of scraps, and later on was
t c f «! nd T er an t tirst l lon -. secretary of the
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association and won a
Parliamentary rifle championship. It was the
same in politics, for which he dropped the
blackboard-duster and the chalk after wielding
them for six y ears at Sydney Grammar.
Among the second (1894) batch of N.S.W.
Labor Assemblymen, he was four years
a Public Works Minister and for another
cou P le . helc l the Education Portfolio, put-
tmg thr ° Ugh SUCh ActS aS ** han4ng
ARTHUR GRIFFITH
as Low saw him.
over the Canberra territory to the Com-
monwealth ; likewise the site for Randwick
Military Hospital; establishing the Fair Rents
Court; and giving sanction for B.H.P. to start
at Newcastle. Also, he laid out' the N.S.W.
irrigation town, that bears his surname, and the
near-by Leeton as well. He fell from grace
when he sided with Billy Hughes in the con-
scription bust-up, in that role standing against
Dave Watkins for Newcastle in 1917 and being
dished. Most who took that plunge and were
expelled never recanted; Griffith did, and
thenceforth hovered about the party doorstep
till, deciding that he’d by then had his share
of the wilderness, the A.L.P. took him back
into the fold in 1930. Better to have been
left out among the saltbush and gibbers: a
day or two after his readmission the conference
that let him in turned a somersault that a
Com. couldn’t have bettered and ordered him
to keep out. Among his many claims to
versatility, he founded the patent attorneys firm
of Griffith, Hassel and Griffith and wrote a
couple of books, The Truth about the Transvaal
and The Labor Platform —a solid platform for
him until the big bust-up; he’d stood on it for
22 years.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 74, Frank E. Pettifer, lead-
ing Mason and champion of the interests of the
blind, deaf and dumb. Installed as Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of Victoria in 1945,
he was hon. sec. of the Braille Association and
a member of the Victorian Deaf and Dumb
Institution management committee.
At 80, Victor Ratcliffe Drury, president of
the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade.
He was a Dalby solicitor when he retired to
live at Sandgate.
In Adelaide, while attending the Science
Congress, J. S. Gregory, 70, retired civil
engineer, of St. Kilda (Vic.).
In Adelaide, at 63, after a long illness, A. H.
Dalziel. He won the M.C. with the 43rd Batt.
in 1914-18, and was in camp for some years
during the recent war. Best known in the
Repat., and as local secretary of the R.S.L.
from 1923 to 1935.
At Nelson (M.L.), at 76, Harry Atmore,
first' elected to the House of Reps, for Nelson
in 1911. He had announced that he would not
seek re-election this year, Atmore was an
Independent for the whole of his Parliamentary
career, save when he held a portfolio in Ward's
team from 1928 till 1931.
At Dunedin (M.L.), John Inglis Wright, at
85. A foundation member of the Whitcombe
and Tombs publishing house, he lost two sons
in World War No. 1; another manages Whit-
combe and Tombs in Invercargill.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 81, Henry Wilson,
son of the founder of Auckland “Herald.” He
retired in 1908, after being commercial man-
ager of Wilson and Horton, and went to live
in England, but headed back to M.L. in 1939.
In Sydney, at 65, art connoisseur John
Young, founder, with Basil Burdett, of the
Macquarie Galleries.


Divorce, Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO GEORGE GARDNER formerly of City Road Dar-
lington.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife LENA
MATILDA SADIE GARDNER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1423 of 1946 on the ground, of your
desertion for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the Ninth day of
December 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER &
MANSFIELD, Solicitors, 350- George Street, Sydney.
( 1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN~THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO DONALD JOHN SPENCER.—TAKE NOTICE
that VERONICA MARY SPENCER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3894 of 1946 on the ground of
wilful desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Eighth day
of October 1946 and you may obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from BOWMAN & MAC-
KENZIE, Solicitors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney. ( L.S.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
When spring made a sudden appear-
ance and an equally sudden exit shop
windows burst into gaiety and color.
Printed silks appear the first favorite for
smart wear, and there are quite a num-
ber of new features in their make-up.
Necklines are decollete, usually cut in a
deep V and folded softly to each side.
Deep square necklines make their bow
after many seasons, and sleeves are
draped, boxed, and the full bishop sleeve
again makes an appearance. Tiny puff
sleeves will be a feature of new daytime
wear, and they will also be -seen on even-
ing gowns.
The soft pastel shades have given
way to daring color schemes; cherry
red is used with royal blue, yellow
goes with red and vivid grass-green prints
are splashed with cherry. Butcher blue
combines with rust and nasturtium tones.
Skirts of evening gowns are as you
please; willow slim, draped or full as a
crinoline. The draped harem skirt has
been shown in more than one shop in
this city ; quite attractive, too. A flowered
chiffon gown has cut-out flowers of the
same material edged with sequins, massed
on the front shirring of the bodice, and
the shoulders are also heaped with the
cut-out flower material. Matching
scarves or tiny boleros cover the shoulders
laid bare by a strapless evening gown,
and when straps are used they are of the
shoestring type. Sunray pleats are back
for both day and evening modes, and
waists show a new definition; they are
nipped in tightly to give more feminine
line and are slightly longer at the back
than the front.
The rayon linen-tailored frock with
its matching jacket is still to the
fore. Box pleats are used, and newer
than anything lately is the grouping of
pleats on- a tailored skirt. Afternoon
frocks have graceful cape sleeves, a
crossover bodice line and an important
bow at the hipline. Peeping into sum-
mer colored sketches show some delight-
ful sun fashions. Well-loved broad stripes
are back again, and they are daring in
color. Wide red stripes on a white back-
ground fashion a sun dress, the skirt
short and full and with immense patch-
pockets at each side. Touches of white
are seen at the corselet waistline, collar
and lapels and wide bands of white form-
ing the deep armhole. But newer than
tomorrow is the white pique waistcoat
blouse, nipped in closely at the waist and
with a deep square neckline and short
sleeves allied to a short fully-flared skirt
of brilliant red rayon linen. Tailoring for
the spring is tempered with the dress-
maker touch. Practicality is made more
pleasant and hard-wearing fabrics given
a soft manner.
Two of Victoria’s pioneering families
Were united when Phillip Russell followed
the example of his father. Colonel Alec
Russell, and married a daughter of the
Fairbairn house. Phillip is the only son
of Colonel and Mrs. Alec Russell, Mawal-
lok, Beaufort, and his bride, Alethea, the
second daughter of Group-Captain and
Mrs, Osborne Fairbairn, Banongil, Skip-
ton, They were married in Christ
Church, Skipton, by the Bishop of Bal-
larat, the Right Reverend W. Johnson.
The church was full of the perfume of
hyacinths, primroses, daffodils and other
spring flowers which decorated the pews,
while white plum blossoms and lilies
were arranged on both sides of the
altar.
The bride, given away by her father,
was a striking figure in her gown of white
moire silk, the bodice cut with a heart-
shaped neckline and slightly drooped
shoulders. The long train was covered
by a heavy cream Brussels lace veil,
which had belonged to her grandmother.
A white tulle veil over a matching
Brussels lace veil fell from a coronet of
orange blossoms. From her white prayer
book fell a trail of gardenias, and the
only adornment was a double string of
pearls, a gift from her mother. The five
bridesmaids Patience, Franka and
Angela Fairbairn, Robina Russell
and Patricia MacKinnon —were dressed
alike in simple white georgette frocks,
smocked at the waist and finished with
narrow sashes of pale-blue velvet. The
reception was held at Banongil, home of
the bride’s parents, and spring flowers
decorated the reception-rooms and the
marquee, where the wedding breakfast
was served.
Pianist Hepzibah Menuhin, again
emerging from retirement, is busy at her
station home preparing for two concerts
at Melbourne Town Hall. She will appear
with the Queensland State String Quartet.
The concerts will be presented dur-
ing Show Week so that country folk may
have the opportunity of hearing them.
Formed by the Queensland Government
in 1944, the Quartet includes David
Powell and Harold Taberner as first and
second violinists and Don Howley as
’cellist. The first concert will be given on
September 24, under the direction of J.
and N. Tait.
Attendance at the weekly buffet
luncheon of the United Nations Associa-
tion of Australia has grown to such an
extent that the committee has been forced
to hold them in the supper-room of the
1 Town Hall. There is always an interest-
ing speaker, and recently members had
the opportunity of hearing Mrs. O.
Berents, who was interned in North China
during the war. She stressed the need of
a goodwill mission to China from Aus-
tralia —very few Chinese ever know the
whereabouts of this country and many
believe most Australians to be black.
Mrs. Berents,, whose husband is now
working in China with U.N.R.R.A., also
made a plea for more clothing to be sent
there before the northern winter began.
June Milburn, the lass pictured here,
will play Mrs. Wilson, in the Melbourne
Little Theatre production of “Acacia
Avenue.” She has just had an adven-
turous two and a half years in the
R.A.A.F. Nursing Service, and her stories
of the quiet heroism of our flying men in
hospital give a moving picture of the less
spectacular side of the R.A.A.F. June, a
country girl from the Casterton district,
is remaining in the city to try her luck
on the stage and its kindred arts. Be-
tween times she is keeping up her nursing
with a Collins-street doctor.
Melbourne journalists have decided
that their ball, discarded for the duration,
will be a feature of race celebrations.
The date is October 11, and the place will
be Earl’s Court. Diversions will include
the midnight publication of the ball
paper “Etaoin,” with a full-page flash-
light of those present and the “stunt of
the year,” presented by an all-A.J.A. cast.
Tickets, at 15s. each, will be limited to
500; and fancy dress is optional.
An interesting Visitor to The Bulletin
office last week was Iris Broderick, a Mel-
bourne girl who was in England doing
theatrical and radio work when war
broke out. She joined up with the A.T.S.
and was attached to a Searchlights
Division, Soon she was occupying her
off-duty hours arranging musical shows.
Now a lieutenant, Iris has a full-time
job producing shows for the troops. Here
enjoying a spot of leave before returning
to keep the Tommies from Germany to
Malaya happy, Lieutenant Broderick is
doing a hectic round of parties of wel-
come.
Two hundred women who voluntarily
gave up their leisure during war years to
help with cooking and other domestic
duties at Kurneh Red Cross Home, South
Yarra, were entertained at a party,'
hostessed by the Brookes lady, at Kurneh.
Their work included washing dishes,
making beds, sweeping floors and mend-
ing linen. They also set trays and carried
them to the patients. During the six
years Kurneh was in action, the quarter-
masters, Misses A. Baynes and B.
Gibson, have never missed a day. The
home was handed over to the Red Cross
by the Brookes lady, and during the war
more than 3000 patients—officers of the
navy, army and air force —passed through
it. Now it is to close and the patients
still in the home will be moved to Ston-
ington. President of the Red Cross, Dr.
Newman Morris, presented the Matron of
Kurneh, Miss M. Thomas, with a silver
salver as a token of appreciation from
those who worked with her during the
past six years.
From Sydney
Kirribilli will be the most-rushed
suburb next Saturday. The garden party
in the grounds of Admiralty House
promises to be one of the season’s money-
makers. There is no pleasanter place on
a sunny day than the grounds of the
Governor-General’s harborside home.
Well-stocked stalls and afternoon teas
will help the total, which will benefit the
Benevolent Society.
Like bees to the clover, women
swarmed to the display of Silk and Tex-
tile Printers, Ltd. This was presented in
the ballroom of the Australia, and as
artistic as the fabrics themselves was
their arrangement. These silks,' satins
and wools in delicate and bold designs
were draped in groups of threes and fours
against the walls, and before them, rather
like the footlights of old, were set rows
of electrics that threw into relief their
texture and design. At the end of the
room was a small dais on which hung
materials printed with designs by a group
of ten well-known painters. The silks
patterned by women’s fancy appealed
most as dress materials, while the men’s
designs would be lovely in long curtains
or furnishings.
When the taxgatherer is laid to rest
and coupons are no more, any woman
will feel that she owes it to herself to
have a dinner frock of Alice Danciger’s
“Voyage Within a Dream,” a dance
dress of Mary Curtis’s “Old Sydney” and
an afternoon trifle of Betty Skowronski’s
“Keramos,” And, of course, while you
were making up the wardrobe there was
a romantic material, all grace and fans
and roses, that refused to be overlooked.
So did a glowing rose weave on the oppo-
site wall. It made any woman visitor
clothed in pre-war dullness long for
money and coupons enough to start from
the skin outwards. Minister for Educa-
tion Heffron opened the show.
President Mrs. Roy Buckland is mar-
shalling her forces for the White Ball.
This was always one of the glittering
successes of pre-war days, and the ball
being organised for October 8 this year
promises even more spectacular display
and delights. All women guests are asked
to wear white frocks, and it seems that
every woman of fashion is anxious to be
the woman in white on the night of
nights. There are so many orders for
new white evening frocks piling up in the
well-known dressmakers’ work-rooms
that it is almost impossible to get any
other sort of order filled till after the
ball. There will be two model soring
hats as prizes for the most beautiful
frocks. Lieut.-General John North-
cott and Mrs. Northcott will attend the
ball. The Sydney Industrial Blind Insti-
tute will benefit as usual. John Lee
photo, of Mrs. Buckland.
Relaxing from court duties the other
afternoon lawyer Joe McFadden (he’s
one of the McFadden and McFadden
brothers defending the Major Cousens
case) was encountered prowling about the
Society of Artists’ show. He was weigh-
ing the fors and againsts of the flower-
pieces—not chrysanthemums —with a
view to purchase.
More and more the young Australian
musician is turning attention to composi-
tion. Compared with the numbers of its
players and singers this country has not
a large percentage of writers of music.
Last week a recital of works by Dulcie
Holland pleased an audience in History
House and gave promise of even greater
sweep of the composer’s talents. In the
programme were piano works, songs and
a trio for piano, violin and ’cello. Assist-
ing artists were Ruth Pearce-Jones,
Edward Cockman, Kathleen Tuohy and
Olga Krasnik.
The <3irl in the Flat Opposite is writing
a poem which she says she intends to
enter for one of these big literary prizes.
It starts:
Coupons and cash, coupons and cash,
If I had both I could cut a great dash;
Lacking in each I can’t be a beach beaut
Nor pass the hot months in a French style
swimsuit!
She further remarks that it has taken a few
thousand apple seasons, but woman is
practically back to where Eve was before
she bit into the momentous pippin, and
defied the wildflower and nature lovers’
society by a raid on the fig leaves. After
visiting several mannequin parades of the
swimsuits called French, she believes the
truly French thing about them is the leave
they will take when the breakers get
boisterous. She also meditates that if the
girls about to disport themselves in the
new styles haven’t figures like the naiads
of the showrooms then the swimsuit may
be a very grim suit. There were orchids
lush and glorious banked about the dis-
play at Mark Foy’s, and Cymbidium, the
dunrobium and the small and more
fugitive flower beauties were a true de-
light.
The house was neither crowded nor
fashionably dressed when Australian con-
ductor Joseph Post led the Sydney Sym-
phony orchestra last Wednesday night.
The big works of the programme were the
Symphony in B Flat of Chausson and the
Brahms Concerto in D Minor for piano
and orchestra. The final movement of
the Chausson work lifted the audience
from the ice-spell of the Town Hall, and
animated them into hearty applause.
Melbourne pianist Vera Bradford was
the soloist in the Brahms Concerto, Her
playing was admired for its power and
brilliance. Her white frock, sown with
blue iridiscence, was an island of light
amid a dark sea of instruments and
sombrely-garbed orchestra-players.
The Cymroddorian Society, a little
corner of Wales in Sydney, welcomed
Edward John Williams and his wife last
week. Mr, Williams is Britain’s High
Commissioner to Australia, and the Welsh
lunch was one of the reasons that brought
him to Sydney from Canberra. The
Blue Room of David Jones’s was
crowded ; one member had come from as
far away as Dunedoo. Mr, Williams and
his wife are Welsh. Their home was about
20 miles from Cardiff. Though Mr. Wil-
liams does not speak Welsh, he was quite
fervid over his National Anthem, with
which the lunch started.
The long official table was crowded
with Welshmen and -women, William
Morris Hughes among them. In the
company were many Joneses, including
secretary 7 Miss Kate Jones, well again
after long illness, and Padre Bostock
Jones. President Elystan Price intro-
duced the guest, who opened his speech
by saying he hadn’t come there to make
one. He was there to be looked at, and
he was standing up to let the company
see him. “And, no doubt, you are think-
ing I’m a pretty decent sort of chap.” He
went on to make a speech full of sound
sense and sly humor. Mrs, Williams,
whose eyes sparkled and whose cheeks
were rosy, stood up and spoke her own
“thank yous” for her welcome and the
flowers and chocolates piled before her.
One of the gaieties planned for race
week is the “1946 Spring Festivity.” It
is down for October 9, and will be held
in the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association
clubrooms. Cocktails and games will
be on from six to eight o’clock.
There’s also a buffet dinner, and there
will be a dance from eight o’clock on-
wards. Tickets are 10s. 6d. each, and
include supper in a marquee on the lawn.
Other attractions are a ballet of eight
arranged by Mavis Sykes and a lucky
competition, a silver fox fur the prize.
Macquarie - street personality Ruby
Wilkinson, who combines love of music
and the arts with physiotherapy, has re-
modelled her Newport cottage, which
stands on a cliff above the'Pacific, into a
restful holiday home. It will accommo-
date five guests.
Even the yachts of the R.S.Y.S. have
to dip the ensign or whatever the sign
of submission is to the polling decree.
A nicely-typed circular of August 1 in-
formed members that the 1946-47 yacht-
ing season would open on Saturday,
September 28. Now comes another cir-
cular explaining that, owing to that being
the date of the Federal elections, the
yachts would not be officially unleashed
till Saturday, October 12. Racing will
commence at half-past two, and yachts
in the movement are requested to moor
north of a line between the squadron
jetty and Cremorne wharf.


dfg
df
r
Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day*s
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 68 years* prac-
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company. Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and L
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
' lr Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Haws, C.8.E.; G. S. Column, C. 8.8.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonoo.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshead!
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell P«„ch.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E. K. KNOX SIB
Fire, Marine and Accident Insures
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
t Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 43,479 3400 BJp.e.= 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46.464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 3100 7} „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30,859 3100 7J „ „ 25,371 26,377
1944.. 31,241 3100 7£ „ „ 25,371 23,607
1945.. 31,660 3100 7| „ „ 25,371 20,418
1946.. 33,468 3100 7| „ „ 25,371 15,421
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
Oct. 1, 1931.
Biggest thing of its kind in Australia,
the co. operates three factories—Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide —which turn
out linseed cake and nuts and linseed oil.
And like most other manufacturers it
enjoys a sellers’ market; demand con-
tinues to run ahead of production, owing
to shortage of raw materials. There is a
ready market for the nuts in pastoral
circles, because they enhance production
of wool, fat lambs, mutton and beef.
The cake, which increases the supply of
milk and enriches the butter fats, is
eagerly sought by dairyfarmers, especially
during the dry months. The oil, a ton
of which results from every two tons of
stock food produced, goes mostly to the
now-hungry paint- and lino-manufactur-
ing industries.
The seed, chief raw material, used to
come from S. America and India, but
owing to exchange and shipping difficul-
ties India has been chief source of supply
since war began, and is likely to remain
so for some time at any rate. The Gov-
ernment now imports the whole of Aus-
tralia’s requirements, having suspended
the co.’s licence to do so in October,
1943. Since then normal shipments have
not come forward for a variety of rea-
sons, and there has been a substantial
increase in the landed cost of the stuff,
as well as in the cost of processing it.
The co.’s selling prices remain fixed by
official edict, the gap being bridged by
Government subsidy. Hence the more
moderate level of earnings since .war be-
gan. For the six years to the close of
last accounts profits averaged £32,817,
compared with an average of £44,338
for the preceding quinquennium.
Last term processing and turnover
reached record figures, thanks to the high
level of stock at the close of accounts in
1945. After sending £3OOO to the staff
fund, allowing an extra £3llB for depre-
ciation (£20,236) and something for tax-
ation, the board figured the net result
£lBOB better at £33,468. That was £4997
more than the all-round 1\ p.c. div.
called for —it is the minimum rate applic-
able to the 10 p.c. cum. prefs, under the
now-outmoded N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act. Excluding the depreciation reserve
(£161,745), shareholders could see all but
£15,421 of their capital represented by
tangible assets when the books closed —
goodwill (£115,748) is not treated as an
asset herein.
Owing to failure of the Indian linseed
crop, exports of the stuff from that
country were recently placed on a quota
basis, Australia’s share being only about
25 p.c. of its previous imports. Pending
first arrivals of the quota, the co.’s three'
mills have closed down, except for treat-
ment and distribution of oils in stock.
The position is the outcome of seasonal
conditions; ultimately supply can be ex-
pected to overtake demand. The effects
of the shortage will be felt in the current
year’s earnings. Still, it is doubtful
whether the 1\ p.c, to the ords. is likely
to be interfered with.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 78,022 176,524 280,896 276,990
Deprec. reserve 64,639 87,874 142,365 161,745
Premises . . 85,988 98,524 108,143 112,373
Plant.. .. 129,890 140,988 245,105 248,017
Stocks - .. 134,546 198,754 258,232 195,602
Book debts . . 57,300 70,461 78,634 63,109
Cash, etc. . . 83,356 123,227 115,333 209,818
Last term’s net growth of £7142 in the
book value of fixed assets reflects addi-
tions to plant in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. The import and production diffi-
culties show up in reductions of £62,630
in stocks and of £15,525 in debtors’ bal-
ances. Cash, etc., was strengthened by
£94,485. The more or less liquid surplus
(£191,539) was £20,236 stronger than at
the previous balance.
At 38s. 6d. (ceiling price) the f.-p.
pound ords. return 4.1 p.c. on a 1\ p.c.
div. basis. Excluding the depreciation re-
serve, the cover is 19s. Id. in net tangibles.
The prefs. seldom come on to the market.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co!
Added Capital
_ to Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
I££ £ £
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 '
Provident fund, £5OOO 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO ..
1939.. 66,121 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £2OOO 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO I
1940.. 58,34-5 9 p.c. = 36,000‘
Provident fund, £2OOO [-15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO 1
1941.. 61,454 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund,- £5OOO 15,454 726,769
Written off premises. £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £7OOO 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000
Provident fund, £6OOO -18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OOO I
1944.. 64,558 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 17,558 778,104
Written off premises, £5OOO
1945.. 67,855 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 120,855 798,959
Written off premises, £5OOO
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 1 17,640 816,599
Written off premises, £lO,OOO
Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
This stoutly-ribbed, 68-year-old Austra-
lian fire, marine and accident office has
made a good getaway in the transition
race. The cautious board has never been
. overvigorous in the hunt fof business
outside Australia, and, apart from some
plums in the war-time international
marine pie, it hasn’t missed much. Dur-
ing the war there was a steady expansion
of both premium income and net earn-
ings, despite a shrinkage in the volume of
motor-vehicle and local marine cover —
the latter became a Government mono-
poly, relinquished about a year ago. The
co.’s loss experience was moderate, and
the management kept a tight hold, as it
always has done, upon controllable out-
goings.
Though the revival of industry gener-
ally has been sluggish, many traders’ in-
ventories have expanded, values have re-
mained at a high level, and so has
employment, while the volume of pre-
miums from fire and motor-vehicle busi-
ness has strengthened with the slow
progress of private building and relaxa-
tion of petrol and tyre restrictions, and
there has been an improvement in mer-
chant tonnage available for ordinary
trade purposes. It all showed up in a
growth of £45,312 in the co.’s premium
income (£737,053) last term. Reinsur-
ances (£358,162) were £16,152 heavier,
leaving net premium income £29,160
stronger, as the following table shows:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 63.8 p.c. 43.5 p.c.
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 „ 45.1 „
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 „
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 „
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1944.. 355,367 160,9631152,689 45.3 „ 43.0 „
1945.. 349,731 153,486 152,808 43.9 „ 43.7 ~
1946.. 378,891 158,588 175,886 41.8 „ 46.4 „
t Includes fire brigade charges, previously treated as
exes.
The larger business was written at an
extra cost of £23,078, and claims were up
£5102. The underwriting surplus was
£44,417 (up £980), equal to 11.1 p.c. on
capital. Interest and rents brought in
£25,223 (up £805) net, or 6.3 p.c. on capi-
tal. The net return from all sources
(£69,640, up £1785) was thus 17.4 p.c. on
capital as against 16.9, 16.1, 16.4, 15.8,
15.4 and 14.6 p.c. back to 1940. The div.
was kept at 9 p.c., two-thirds of which
was covered by returns from investment
of the co.’s own funds. Including the re-
serve for unexpired risks (£180,000), the
lay-by is now £16,599 in excess of the
£400,000 of paid capital, which is in half
a million pound shares paid to 16s. each.
As for the current term, a further in-
crease in premium income is to be ex-
pected, but claims, especially in the motor-
vehicle section, are likely to grow. Much
will also depend upon the extent, if any,
to which the co. is involved the loss (esti-
mated at £338,000) which resulted from
destruction by fire of the N.Z. Loan and
Mercantile’s No. 2 wool store at Ultimo,
Sydney, last month. It was Sydney’s
biggest fire since that which destroyed
Goldsbrough Mort’s premises at Ultimo
in 1935, when the loss was over £BOO,OOO.
However, the co. is well-equipped to
meet whatever loss might be involved, as
the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 215,000 255,721 366,282 383,388
Tax reserve .. 18,000 35,000 50,000 60,000
Freeholds, etc. 485,384 480,300 464,623 459,402
Mortgages .. 14,745 21,661 14,297 17,169
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 364,149 441,859 678,859 717,360
Book debts .. 68,212 76,323 54,668 59,975
Cash, etc. .. 23,479 42,457 31,794 40,081
Government securities, etc. —the etcetera
is mainly debentures and fixed deposits--
alone were over four and a half times
greater than last term’s total losses.
At 365. (ceiling price) the co.’s scrip
returns 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 325. Bd. in net tangibles, and
assets are worth more than their book
valqe.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 72,364 9 p.c. = 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ „ 45,000 12,569 824,806
1938.. 59,437 11 ~ „ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 ~ „ 55,000 7,640 336,883
1940.. 65,420 11 ~ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
1942.. 63,162 11 ~ „ 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,964 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
1945.. 72,562 11 ~ „ 55,000 17,562 392,303
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 55,000 1,184 393,487
On ’Change this co.’s scrip is the next
most popular after the big C.S.R. among
the sugar group. Covered by net tan-
gibles with a written down book value of
355. 9d., buyers offer 48s. (ceiling price)
for the £1 shares without attracting
sellers. At 48s. the return is 4.5 p.c. on
an 11 p.c. div. basis.
Milling, both on its own and growers’
account, is the backbone of earnings,
which are stiffened by returns from a fine
wad of investments outside the business,
and by moderate pickings from refining
the small portion of the crop not treated
by C.S.R. The investments, which total
£64,447 more than paid capital, consist
of Government securities (in at £499,102),
shares in the Bundaberg Distillery (valued
in the books at £64,951, or 60 p.c. of face
value, and worth a lot more than par), and
a handful of scrip in other cos. (£394).
Except for a loss (£6627) in 1933, owing
to drought, last term’s net result, a profit
of £56,184 (down £16,378), was the poor-
est since 1927. Still, it was 11.2 p.c. on the
half-million of capital as against 14.5,12.3,
12, 12.6, 12.4 and 13 p.c. back to 1940.
So the 11 p.c. to shareholders (4 p.c. of it
is labelled bonus) was repeated for the
ninth year in succession, with £llB4 to
spare. That was after providing what-
ever was considered necessary for taxa-
tion and allowing £16,721 (up £367) for
depreciation.
A smaller crushing, owing to a
dry spell, was mainly responsible for
the drop in earnings. The co.’s two
mills (Millaquin and Qunaba) crushed
some 43,000 tons of cane less than in the
previous year, when mill quotas were ex-
ceeded, and the output of refined sugar
was reduced by lessened demand from
the services, following the end of hostili-
ties. The board is tight-lipped about the
distillery.
During the war the sugar industry suf-
fered from shortage of labor, fertilisers
and mechanical equipment, all of which
contributed to a heavy reduction in the
quantity and quality of cane produced in
Queensland, and, of course, to a sharp
rise in costs. Though physical difficulties
are being gradually overcome, the im-
mediate seasonal outlook is “tragic,” the
board says, the crop being in jeopardy
owing to continued dry conditions and
severe frosts. So, unless timely rains are
received, a further substantial drop in the
current year’s earnings can be expected.
As for the less immediate future, much
will depend upon what happens in con-
nection with both costs and the price of
exported surplus sugar. At the moment
there is no prospect of any recession in
costs, whereas a drop in the export price
—it rose from around £A7 per ton pre-war
to £AI9-odd per ton for the 1946 season
—looks like something to be reckoned
with after Java and the Philippines get
into full swing again. One solution of
the possible difficulty would be to lift
the retail selling price of sugar in Aus-
tralia, another would be to grant a direct
subsidy to the industry.
The co.’s already solid financial struc-
ture was further strengthened:
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £509,000 £500,000 £-500,000 £500,000
Creditors* .. 104,617 177,876 242,018 236,629
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 329,360 326,963 809,744 307,165
Plantation, etc. 58,181 35,541 35,943 35,643
Railways, etc. 32,542 34,920 31,519 36,477
Stocks .. 89,143 125,018 125,204 137,530
Book debts. .. 10,085 44,007 52,109 21,331
Investments .. 396,562 481,917 524,447 564,44.
Cash .. .. 63,127 34,787 92,855 65,023
* Including taxation.
When the books last closed, more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£592,940, an improvement of £41,238 over
the twelvemonth.


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.X Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt
4
CHARTS
Circular Charts 4« all type# oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O 10.
AT HOME
F ROM
2'6
WEEKLY
It’s quicker easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson Home-Study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
0 HILL-KILLY GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLIN
• PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
O BUTTON ACCORDION
• PIANO • VIOLIN
have succeeded
why not YOU ?
Takes 3 Lessors to play first
Lessons a variety,
and 20 Lessons any piece. It
doesn’t matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
FREE Illustrated catalogue . and descriptive
booklet FREE—Write for yours now.
(MENTION THE INSTRUMENT YOU FAVOUR.)
5000
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street,
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
Public Notice.
TO THE WIDOW OF STANLEY WRIGHT AND TO
ANY CHILD OR REMOTER ISSUE OF STANLEY
WRIGHT AND ANY PERSON CLAIMING THROUGH
ANY OF THEM.—PURSUANT to an Order of the
Supreme Court you are required to send to the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE j r our claim to share in the estate
of STANLEY WRIGHT, late of Palmerston North,
in New Zealand, Retired Farmer, deceased, before
the 31st day of October, 1946, failing which your
claim may be disregarded.—THE SOLICITOR, Public
Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
INVEST IN
ESTABLISHED COMPANIES
Even if you wish to invest only £2O of your Capital you can obtain an
interest in 20 leading Australian Companies by investing in
SELECTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
which provides security by “spread** of investment. UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD., act as Custodian Trustees of the securities
backing the Trust Certificates. Booklet No. 2B explains all. Post free.
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
Managers of First Australian Unit Trust and Selected Securities Unit Trust.
Phone: 85294. 8-14 BOND ST., SYDNEY. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralfa
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1946
LIABILITIES. £ »•
Central Banking Business—
Capital 4,000,000 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 536,735 10
General Banking Division —
Capital .. .. .. 4,000,000 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 167,077 8
Rural Credits Department—
Capital 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 462,017 16
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capitol 2,067,145 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 28,606 2
Industrial Finance Department—
Capitol .. .. .. 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 6,285 1
£15,267,866 18 7
Special Reserve-Premium
on gold sold .. .. 5,754,954 10 4
Notes on Issue .. .. 198,930,485 0 0
Deposits—
Special accounts of trad-
ing banks .. ..' 260,112,000 0 0
Other deposits of trading
banks .. .. •• 17,676,670 7 10
Other deposits, bills pay-
able and other liabilities
(Including provision for „
contingencies) .. 231,805,870 9 7
Total ..£729,547,847 6 4
10,664,874 7 2
0 11
6,362,411 2 6
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held
abroad (Including money
at short call) .. .. 209,090,736
Australian Notes and Coin 8,068,966
Cheques and bills of other
banks
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (Includ-
ing Commonwealth Trea-
sury Bills) .. .. 450,765,234
Securities of other Govern-
ments, and of local
and semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit
Bank Premises
Loans, advances, etc.
(after deducting pro-
vision for debts con-
sidered bad or doubt-
ful):—
Central Bank (Commo-
dity Advances, etc.) .. , ,
General Banking Division 18,610,484
Bural Credits Depart-
ment .. .. • • 450,125
2,280,638
Industrial Finance De-
partment .. .. 823,934
Other Assets .. .. 618,709
s. d.
18 2
5 10
12,435,999
692,066
8,774,667
2 5
8 3
2 9
4 11
2 7
1 5
18 10
10 8
TOTAI.
. .£729,547,847 6 4
Nora. —Inter-departmental accounts totalling £4,446,932 3s. 4d. have been offset.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1946. c
8. d.
2 10
1 6
1 6
Central Banking Business —
To National Debt Sinking
Fund 335,152
To Commonwealth Bank
Reserve Fund .. .. 167,576
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 167,576
Note Issue Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 150,000 0 0
To Commonwealth Trea-
gury ~ ~ .. 2,939,405 7 6
General Banking Division—
To National Debt Sinking
Fund 167,077 8 1
To General Banking DM-
sion Reserve Fund 167,077 8 1
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 16,432 3 0
To Rural Credits Develop-
ment Fund .. .. 16,432 3 0
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 25,340 8 3
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance De-
partment Reserve Fund 6,285 1 6
Total ..
..£4,158,354 5 1
£ s. d.
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1946 —
Central Banking Business 670,304 5 8
Note Issue Department 3,089,405 7 6
General Banking Division 334,154 16 2
Rural Credits Department 32,864 6 0
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance Depart-
ment ..
25,340 8 3
6,285 1 6
Total
■ .£4,158,354 5 1
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) B. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Actg. Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. T. ARMITAGE, Governor.
Sydney, 23rd August, 1946.
Commonwealth Savings Banfc ot Huotralta
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1946
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
4,560,278 14 1
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ Balances and
Accrued Interest .. 435,640,469 6
Other Liabilities (includ-
ing provision for contin-
gencies) »• •• 11,683,195 6
Total ..£451,883,943 6 6
ASSETS.
Notes and
s. d.
495,982 7 1
42,767,672 6 4
Australian
Coin
Cash Balances and Money
at Short Call
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (includ-
ing Commonwealth
Treasury Bills) .. 373,043,242
Securities of other Govern-
ments and of local
and semi - governmental
authorities .. .. 30,706,719 1
Bank Premises .. .. 661,398 13
Other Assets .. .. 4,208,928 14
3 8
Total
. .£451,883,943 6 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE. 1946.
To National Debt Sinking
Fund
To Savings Bank Reserve
Fund
“dT
435.453 15 6
435.453 15 6
Total
. £870.90? 11 0
By Profits for year ended 30th
June, 19-46, after provision
for payments amounting v
to £640,950 9s. sd. due to
State Authorities under ,
Savings Bank Amalgama-
tion Agreements .. .. 870,907 11 0
Total ..£870,907 11 0
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled torn Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sed.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Aclg. Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. T. ABMITAGE, Governor.
Sydney. 23ju> Aogest, 1046.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
for the Commonwealth (Mr. A. C. Joyce).
Melbourne-controlled Tin Bentong
(paid capital £lOO,OOO in £1 shares),
operating in the F.M.S., reports that its
80,000 c.y.-a-month electrically-operated
spud dredge was completely dismantled
by the Jap navy in 1943, and a lot of the
machinery has been removed. A claim
for compensation (amount not stated)
has been lodged with the British and Aus-
tralian authorities. The dredge had not
operated since the co.’s old leases at
Bentong were worked out in 1939. In
July, 1941, the F.M.S. Government
granted the co. permission to prospect an
area of approximately 4700 acres in the
Kuala Selangor district. Scout boring,
which continued until the Jap invasion in
December, 1941, had covered some 620
acres, estimated to contain 73,500,000 c.y.,
averaging .311 b. t.o. As soon as the
moratorium in Malaya has been lifted,
further testing of this area is to be
resumed. At end April last the co. had
£37,197 in cash and Commonwealth bonds
in Australia. There was only £286 com-
ing to outsiders. The dredge, buildings,
etc., less depreciation, figure at £57,190.
On the market buyers offer 245. (ceiling
price) for the scrip.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Brisbane-controlled Raub Australian
Gold, whose property is at Pahang
(F.M.S.), reports a profit of £Bll for the
year to end March last. That was after
capitalising £1738 spent on mine recon-
struction. The co.’s Malayan investments
have been wholly recovered. They com-
prise Government loans, etc., in at
£29,011. Together with £36,487 of Com-
monwealth Government securities and
£10,894 in the bank, the co. has £76,392
of readily realisable assets to meet £261
coming to sundry creditors and £21,296
of unclaimed divs., mostly on the Singa-
pore register, now being reconstructed.
Practically all plant, machinery and build-
ings on the mine were destroyed or re-
moved. The hydro-electric power station
at Sempam has been handed back by the
military authorities. The board is push-
ing ahead with re-equipment of the
property, but extended delivery dates will
delay re-opening of the mine. The lease,
which ran out in 1942, has been extended
until end 1947, when it is expected to be
renewed for a further 50 years.
* * t- *
The South Aus. Department of Mines
has 21 field parties on the hunt for
mineral deposits throughout the State.
Zinc Corp. is interested in the extensive
exploration work now in hand on the
Edicara silver-lead field. Other investi-
gations include a magnesite deposit near
Copley, marble deposits at Angaston,
limestone deposits at Rapid Bay, dolo-
mite on Yorke Peninsula, and a party is
at work on the uranium deposit at East
Mt. Painter.
* * *
Striking the market iron while it’s hot,
London-controlled Hampton Gold Min-
ing Areas, which holds some 189,000
acres freehold with mineral rights, about
22 miles s.-e. of Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is
forming a subsidiary, Coolgardie and
Hampton Gold Mining, Ltd., with a
capital of £500,000 sterling. It is
also issuing to shareholders 25,000 new
Hampton Areas ss. shares at 30s. each,
which carry a one-for-one option over
25,000 unissued shares at the same price.
The additional capital is wanted for
further development of Block 59, near
Coolgardie, where good crushings from
gold carriers in the shallow workings of
areas held by local syndicates have been
obtained. Options have been taken on
some of these areas by Western Mining
Corp. and other cos. Hampton Gold
Mining Areas and another London con-
cern have applied for a prospecting
licence over a reservation on the line of
strike between Block 59 and Kalgoorlie,
15 miles further east. If the application
is granted a “reliable mining engineer
will be appointed to superintend pros-
pecting.
* * * »
Higher profits and increased dividends
from Kalgoorlie Golden Mile producers
are tipped in London, and the market
there has responded, A Kalgoorlie report
says that there is no justification for this
optimism, or for appreciation in share
values, as a lot of money will be needed
for development, now backward, and
costs are steadily rising. Furthermoie,
new plants in some instances, and very
expensive replacements in others, are long
overdue.
* * * *
B.H.P. reports resumption of normal
mining and milling operations at
Hannan’s North goldmine, following re-
laxation of manpower restrictions. This
show is at the north end of the Kalgoorlie
field (W.A.), and is nearly three miles
from the southern end, where the big
Golden Mile producers are situated.
Hannan’s North has been worked off and
on by various individuals, syndicates and
cos. since the early days. 8.H.P., which
has done best, came into possession some
years ago. The gold carrier is not a
large one.
* * * »
After much trouble and worry the Kal-
goorlie mining cos. have got 1700 cases
of Yankee explosives, which the Chamber
of Mines says will afford immediate relief.
For some days prior to the arrival of this
shipment some of the Golden Mile cos.
were without explosives. The Chamber
has experienced a series of headaches
since the strike at Deer Park (Vic.) began.
When advised that supplies might be
seriously affected by this strike, it tried
S. Africa for consignments, but there
were none available there. Britain
couldn’t help, because the Australian
glycerine from which its explosives are
made was in very short supply. Finally
America sent along the shipment men-
tioned and a further 100 tons is on the
way.
» * * *
Claude de Bernales and family’s treat-
ment plant at the big Hammersley Range
blue asbestos deposits has closed down,
and mining has ceased. Reason given
locally is want of additional capital to
carry on and lack of export facilities.
The present level of costs makes it diffi-
cult to market the product as cheaply as
that from other countries, and the State
Government is disinclined to grant further
assistance. De Bernales' and his family
are stated to have spent over £lOO,OOO,
and the State has advanced £27,000.
* * * *
Belated report of North Kalgurli (W.A.)
says that profit for 1945 was £60,348 stg.,
after chipping off tax and depreciation.
Surplus for 1944 was £41,195. Share-
holders got Is. 3d. compared with 9d.
* * * - *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) re-
cently put 578 tons through the State
battery for 3050 z. bullion, estimated to
contain 2600 z. fine gold, or an average
of 9dwt. per ton. Sands of the first 281
tons assayed lOdwt. llgr. per ton.
* * ♦ *
London liquidators of Associated Min-
ing and Finance Co. paid a final dividend
of 2|d. stg., making a total distribution
of 12s. 2|d. Co. was interested in Lake
View and Star, Wiluna, and several
S’African and American mining ventures.
V * * *
“O.B.”: Of the dividends paid by Aus-
tralian goldmining cos. during the first
half of this year fB. 28/8/’46), Westralian
cos. represented more than one half.
Phoenix’s distribution came from its hold-
ing in Central Norseman, and Golden
Horseshoe’s from its half-share treatment
of Great Boulder tailings. Sons of Gwalia,
South Kalgurli and Paringa, which
missed, are expected to appear on the list
for second half of the year.
* * * *
From Canada: The Senate Committee
on Natural Resources, which has been
studying the economic value of the
Dominion’s mining industry, has recom-
mended a 50 p.c. Government depletion
allowance for tax purposes on all opera-
ting mines, as well as exemption from
corporation tax for new mines for a three-
year period.
* « * •
According to press cables, two Scotland
Yard detectives left London for Aus-
tralia at the end of last month to invest!-
gate alleged goldmining frauds in con-
nection with certain London cos. The
yam about £50,000,000 being involved in
the “frauds” is bunkum. Alleged ques-
tionable handling of funds subscribed for
working capital is what dissatisfied share-
holders mostly complain of.
-** * *
F. W. Lubke, Eskdale (Vic.), writes:
The goldmining industry gets scant con-
sideration these days, though an increased out-
put of the yellow metal would be a handy
asset to the country at the present time. Mines
on gold before the war have found it hard
to get back to full working capacity, and
official encouragement is lacking. Prospectors
on the fields are few and mostly old hands,
and there’s not much doing in the way of
development and capital investment. The gold
tax, still in force, could be dropped with advan-
tage to prospector and company alike. Revenue
from this source was never a very considerable
item, and the benefit of the full price should
be extended to the fields. There are good
opportunities in goldmining for the right type
of men, provided they get encouragement and
assistance from the right quarters. The Vic-
torian Mines Department has proved a great
boon to mining men in this State, but it must
have its Government’s direction before staging
a revival of the industry. The lead should
come from Canberra.


-v:..
POST-WA
MODELS
NOW
AVAILABLE
to
/
s
ru\
Tm\
To appreciate fully the value of a refrigerator, range, washing machine or
any similar piece of kitchen equipment, you must know what is in the hidden
places. For it is there, below the surface, that basic quality lies.
Where Comrol Sheet Steel is used there is no better assurance of high
quality. Comrol Enamelling Sheets give a perfect porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances. That is why the most reliable and trustworthy
appliances are constructed of Comrol Steel Sheets.
a
a
STEEL SHEETS
FOR I N D I
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PT Y.
Head Office and Works Port Kembla, N.S.W.
ARMCO (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS:
ST R r
LTD.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JNJSW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY VALERIE THOMASON late of Sydney.--
TAKE NOTICE that LESLIE JAMES THOMASON
has filed his Petition for Divorce No. 3886 of 194t> on
the ground of your desertion without just cause or_ ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish to del® l -
- may enter an appearance at the Divorce umc
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Seven-,
day of October next and obtain a copy of the P"?*
without charge from CHRISTOPHER LIGLOKI
SHEEHY, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 76-78 Pift ?****■
Sydney.—(t.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SUNDRY SHOWS
AUSTRALIAN LANDSCAPES.
“As a result of our English training,”
said William Lister Lister once, “Ashton,
Fullwood and myself were painting in low
tones, but, after seeing Streeton’s work,
we began to observe that the color and
atmosphere of the landscape were brighter
than we had previously realised.”
The difference of Australian light; and
the difficulty of it: Lister Lister stated
in those few words not only his own but
the general dilemma of the Australian
landscape painter. Traditional painters —
and good ones ; witness the watercolors
of G, K. Townshend—still paint in low
tones, under English influence. Modem-
ists, trying to depict Australia m terms
cialTe? T elthef
Europeans or honestly trying to cope
with the Australian scene, slather their
canvases with crude and glaring color.
These, the painters of violent red light-
less landscapes and violent red light-
less slums, are oddly close to Lister Lister
at his worst. For, although the earlier
landscapist turned from his low tones to
a “brightness” occasionally posterish but
most often pretty-pretty and the typical
modernists prefer to paint their pictures
ugly, the error is fundamentally the
same: the interpretation of light as
“brightness,” the painting of local color
instead of atmosphere.
Streeton at his best exulted in the
drama of Australian light; Gruner, as
is Percy Lindsay today, was fascinated
by its subtleties. But Lister Lister,
on the whole, learned from their
pictures only that the Australian land-
scape was “brighter” than he had pre-
viously realised. And so, at the memorial
exhibition of his works at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, you find the pretty-
pretty sunsets, the sea-pieces with their
bright blue water and pink rocks, and
the curiously fuzzy bush landscapes, all
spotted with pink and blue. And if you
compare his “Sackville Reach” —a large
view of the Hawkesbury River —with
Streeton’s “The Purple Noon’s Trans-
parent Might” it is obvious where the
difference lies: Streeton’s is a painting
of the drama and mystery of noon light,
Lister Lister’s of pretty local color, pink
in the paddocks, blue in the water. The
sea-pieces would suffer in a similar way
by comparison with Gruner’s.
This is not invariably true of Lister
Lister’s highly-colored landscapes. “A
Bush Track” —one of his six paintings
that won the Wynne Prize —shows more
than local color: the true flicker of
golden light through the bush. There is
charm in the green hills and water of
“Lady Carrington Drive” ; warmth, cer-
tainly, and something close enough to
majesty in “Where the Sunlight Through
the Trees Weaves its Pattern on the
Grass” with its hillside of glowing gums.
It should be set down to his credit that
he did try to paint on the grand scale ;
he had his place in the big movement of
Australian art.
But on the whole it is true that Lister
Lister did his best work in the low-toned
canvases in which he was not trying
for something beyond his capacities:
Streeton’s technique and Streeton’s vision.
In “The Two Bent Trees,” for instance,
very effective in a glum sort of way with
its cold grey sky and water; in the
rich and sombrely romantic “After the
Shower” ; and, with quite remarkable
power m The Ever Restless Sea its
lowering sky, its foaming breakers and
its lovely cold pattern of sand and
shallow water.
**. * *
Its 28th annual show at the Athenamm
adds little to the reputation of the
Twenty Melbourne Painters. Apart from
an excellent portrait of the late William
Rowell by Mrs. A. M. E. Bale and a
stnkmg sketch of William Prater by
John Rowell there is no distinguished
portraiture m the exhibition. The Blue
and Glowing Day of Alfred Coleman
Boats, by Sybil Craig, a softly painted
Drought, by E. Kimpton, and some
stark Red Roofs, by Francis Roy
Thompson, stand out amongst the land-
scapes. Alma Figuerola, John Farmer
and P. Hurry weigh in with some faith-
fully painted still life, and Jo Sweafman
has her usual photographic views of the
Australian bushscape. A nude by Damlo
Vassiljef is unique on two points it is
the only one of its class in the exhibi-
tion and is attached to the outside of the
frame instead of the inside. The lady
looks as if she had been washed down
with a fire hose after having fallen into
a flour-bin, with the result that she has
the same quality oi flesh as an apple
dumpling.
* * * *
Adelaide National Gallery has bought
some good new work, besides the much-
abused “abstraction” of John Tunnard’s
“Moa.” Pissarro (Lucien) calls his hill-
side garden “Laurustinus,” a delicate
study of greys and greens. Ola Cohn,
known in Adelaide for her large stone
memorial to the women pioneers, has a
conventional realistic Adam and Eve in
bronze ; and Ronald Steuart a creamy
water-color of a confused mass of white
fungus. Add a river scene from Scot-
land by J. M. Patrick and a realistic half-
clothed figure by Meninsky, who is Eng-
lish in spite of his name,
A Festival of Drama.
The histrionic talent of six universities
and one university college have con-
verged on Melbourne University’s Union
theatre for the Inter-’Varsity festival
of drama, sponsored by the National
Union of Australian University students.
Drama was rather too lof% a word to
apply to some of the fare provided. The
Westralians led off with Sidney Howard’s
“Silver Gord,” which gave Jacqueline
Kott and Patricia Skeffington the oppor-
tunity for some finished acting. The
Adelaide U.D.S’s choice was Ashley
Dukes’s “Man with a Load of Mischief.”
Owen Evans carried the heavy part of
the nobleman who makes off with a
prince’s mistress and finds her maid more
to his .liking; Allan Dunstan was the
valet whose revolutionary ideas about
aristocracy are mildly reminiscent of D.
H. Lawrence.
Queensland’s selection was “The Mask
and the Face,” a fragile comedy by C.
B. Fernald which hardly justified the
transportation of 11 selfconscious actors.
“The Watched Pot,” by “Saki,” New
England University College’s effort, was
of the same artistic order.
Nicholas Davenport’s “And So to
Wed,” presented by the Speck’s Uni-
versity Union without sufficient prepara-
tion, was the sort of smart stuff which
undergraduate societies seem to favor.
Actually, they do their best with the kind
of intellectual pabulum provided by G.
B. Shaw in “Back to Methuselah.” The
first two acts of that play were Sydney’s
selection, and they were admirably staged
and brightly acted by Betty King as Eve,
Douglas Pollard as Adam, Neville Wran
as Cain and June Wimble as the Serpent.
Melbourne wound up the season with
a first-class presentation of Ibsen’s
“Ghosts,” a play with a real human prob-
lem in it. It is doubtful if a team of
professional actors could have done as
well as Joan Harvey, Frank Tait, Walter
Dowell, Bettine Kauffmann and Harry
Samson.
The festival is to be held annually—
in Melbourne because that city has the
only university theatre in Australia. It
also happens to be a good one, small,
but comparable in equipment to any
modern theatre. Its managers are en-
thusiastic students like Desmond Connor
and Joy Youlden, who have learned to
use the resources of the theatre and have
produced plays of high dramatic value.
The annual festival could become im-
portant, but some of the universities will
have to improve their standard. Most of
the plays would have been declared non-
starters by any rigorous committee.
In a season of ballet at the National
Theatre, Melbourne, choreographer -
director Jean Alexander followed the
traditional methods, and very wisely.
Ballet is a language with its own gram-
mar, syntax, spelling and arbitrary sym-
bols and conventions, and it can’t be
learnt any quicker than scales on a piano.
Miss Alexander’s choreography in the
Fantasia of the Liszt Piano Concerto was
graceful, and there were some feats of
suspended animation in the posings of
Pat Martin in “Striving” to Elgar’s music
and “The Firebird and the Hunter” of
Paganini. Some of the costumes picked
up the Russian note to perfection. There
was nothing ethereal about the substan-
tial figure of Robert Turner, but he
pirouetted very nicely, and Pat Martin
was a frequent and elegant intrusion.
* * * *
“Make It a Party,” Melbourne Tivoli’s
latest contribution to the cause of public
entertainment, lacks nothing on the
side of spectacle and humor. Jenny
Howard is an engaging mime, with an
all-embracing smile and an expansive
nature, and she does what she does as
if she liked it. In the current opus it is
her job to make the audience an integral
part of the performance, in which she
succeeds admirably. After she has kissed
the pate of the fourth baldhead in the
front row nobody can resist her. The
same lady and Tibby Roberts make a
perfect duo as two bright kids in prams
who understand only too well what their
nurses are saying. Del Le Roy, “Cali-
fornia’s popular personality,” sings
hoarsely, Li Kar gives weavy dance im-
pressions and Nicki Gallucci is a de-
lineator of songs and fashions. After
they have mystified the audience and ex-
acerbated their eardrums they take their
wigs off and reveal themselves as ot
masculine gender.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
. EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
A nrpnri AC • -
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Racing luck had a variety of illustrations
at Caulfield on Saturday, A. Breasley having
about the worst of it. Leading jockey last
season by a wide margin, he can rarely have
had a worse day—a mount in each of the seven
events for one third.
John Wren, too, had reason for feeling that
the particular god or goddess who looks after
horseracing must have a warped sense of
humor. A year or two back Wren bought in
New Zealand a brown Foxbridge colt he
called Anstey. Apparently he acted against
his own judgment in doing so, since at the
time he made disparaging comments on current
N.Z. form which brought defensive replies so
heated that they nearly dried up the Tasman.
In the Wren ownership Anstey was backed and
beaten with consistent regularity through about
a year’s racing. At a considerable discount
he changed hands, and, now a four-year-old,
owned by T. Marmaras, a gentleman in da
oyst profession, Anstey has run a second and
two firsts in his last three starts, in the latest
downing Sir Marfield and Melbourne Cup win-
ner Rainbird in the nine-furlongs Heatherlie
Handicap first division.
Another ex-New Zealander, High Play, was
heavily backed for the second division of the
Heatherlie. Though High Play’s form since
he came over has been so bad that it would
hardly have warranted starting him in an old
buffers’ race, he was recently purchased by
one whose luck until the last month or two
had been such that he was known as “lucky
Porter.” A week or so back was “the day”
for High Play, a roll going on him that brought
his price down from over twenties to 5 to L
fie ran fourth. Saturday was again “the day,”
and, going out favorite at 5 to 2, High Play
was seventh, the winner turning up in Earl
Mond, an aged Fulmond gelding from Wes-
tralia with Caulfield Cup prospects. He won
nicely from Gallant Gentleman and Carey.
A probably sounder Caulfield Cup pointer
was the win of another Westralian, the six-
year-old Rubus gelding Rubontine, who can-
tered in four lengths ahead of Space, with
Neutron third, in the 12-furlongs Doona Handi-
cap. The luck of the game! A few years
back so little was thought of Rubontine that
he was sold as a hack.
In both events for three-year-olds the grins
of the gods were at the punters’ expense. Top
Rank (High Title-Avenel), winner of the Glen
Eira Handicap from the two Dhoti fillies
Siesta and Burka, and Star Act (Actor-
Helleniqua), who won the mile Warriston
Handicap from the Dhoti colt Assam and the
Hellespont colt Stormy Sea, were both 20-to-l
outsiders. Top Rank’s win was a change of
luck for her owner, who has been racing them
for years without ever collecting. Fourth to
her, the South Australian filly Why Hurry
ran a promising race considering the dual
handicaps of Breasley’s present poor luck and
her name. Star Act, who was sold as a year-
ling in Sydney and raced there without filling
a place, beat a very good field. He is all-
French bred, his dam a Cambridgeshire winner
with 15 successes in France,
The w.f.a. Memsie Stakes (nine furlongs) was
another instance of sour luck, for the majority,
who made Four Freedoms favorite at 9 to 4
and saw him beaten a length by Noble Prince,
with Judith Louise third, and such names
among the also-rans as Tea Calfe, Don Pedro,
Knockarlow, Gay Lad and Attley, the last-
named—held by some to be the best horse
in Australia next to Bernborough—astounding
everybody by being last to finish.
* * *
With two Maiden and two Trial events on
the card of seven races at Canterbury on
Saturday, class was not exactly overwhelming,
but several exciting finishes gave 24,000 present
their money’s worth, and the weather was
choice. The usual Flying Handicap was replaced
by the six-furlongs Canterbury Stakes (w.f.a.).
In view of the company, Chaperone, starting
at 5 to 4 after “evens” had been called,
seemed, and proved to be, a false favorite.
There was, however, a steady flow of shrewd
money for Good Idea, while Flight and Mag-
nificent had their backers.
Chaperone dwelt for a moment at barrier
rise, then jumped into her stride and tried to
race past Courtship into the lead. However,
she struck unexpected willingness from her
counterpart of a previous season, and the pair
raced neck and neck till they turned for home.
Entering the straight Strauss and Oriental fol-
lowed the leaders, then Flight, who looked like
taking a hand, though not galloping kindly.
Magnificent and Good Idea were further track.
With less than a furlong to go Courtship had
turned it in and Chaperone was well clear, but
she couldn’t maintain the pace. Flight, Mag-
nificent and Good Idea fairly swooped on her,
and the latter pair staged a great tussle to the
post, where Good Idea narrowly prevailed.
Flight outlasted Cold Shower for third money.
By Marconigram from The Oyster, Good
Idea is an exceptionally good-looking gelding,
with a clean-lined solidity suggestive of great
power. Most of his previous wins having
been over a bit of distance, including the 12-
furlongs Q.T.C. Victory Cup, he is bound to
enter considerations for either the Metrop.
or the Caulfield Cup.
Those who overestimate the value of winter
form came a thud over Wirralie in the nine-
furlongs Canterbury Guineas for three-year-
olds. The withdrawal of Flying Duke, Prince
Standard and others robbed the race of some
interest, though still leaving a good field, and,
with D. Munro in the saddle and a recent run
under his belt, Wirralie was made favorite.
Munro gave the Midstream colt every oppor-
tunity and was leading clearly for home, but
he proved no match for Decorate, who ran
to the front at the leger and won very com-
fortably. Concise was third. Concerto, also
preferred in the betting to the winner, jibbed
at the barrier and took no part. As a two-
year-old Decorate was repeatedly wayward at
the barrier. He’s a bay entire by Hua from an
imported mare, Silver Pom, and is now proving
a model of honesty well worth following.
Of Heroic’s many fine sons Ajax has in a
season or so acquired the highest reputation
as a sire, but the less-advertised Hua’s pro-
ducts are proving good stayers. On Saturday
two of his sons, Huamight and Avalanche,
were equal favorites in the 11-furlongs S.I.C.
Handicap, but Avalanche disappointed, and it
was Questing, a Hua filly, who finished closest
to Huamight (A. Ward); Invictus third.
Having landed three winners in about as
many months, A. Mulley continued to ride
with indifferent luck, but W. Cook was seen
at ‘his best. He gave a particularly fine display
on Man at Arms, winner of the mne-furlongs
handicap for maiden three-year-old colts and
geldings. Without covering an unnecessary inch
of ground, he gave the colt the run of the lace,
moved him out at just the right moment and
“I don t suppose you saw where my hall landed ?”
drove him home to a sound win ahead of
Proctor and Le Fusil. By Rivoli from Mary s
Robe, Man at Arms is a full brother to Noble-
man, but seems likely to get more distance
than that pure sprinter. Cook made jt a double
by winning a similar event for fillies on the
even-money favorite Gay Fly, who m the
camera finish photo, was shown to have beaten
Courtesan by not more than one inch. Third
place went to Chanson Gai.
V. Faggotter, who was on Courtesan, would
probably express a poor opinion of the camera.
Later, in the second division of the Trial
Handicap, the mechanical judge again diddled
him, his mount, Carenot, being just pipped by
Harvard (G. Moore). As some consolation,
Faggotter did have the best of another close
finish, on Bub’ba Bear in the Trial first division.
Bubba Bear,' a Brittle Prattle mare from the
Riverina, downed Yukon and Erin’s Prattle.
* •» * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Novice: Prince Consort, 1; Dieppe, 2;
Tamasha, 3. Tramway Handicap: Cold Shower,
1; Bragger, 2; Puffham, 3. Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap: Gay Stand, 1; Edinburgh,
2; Field Captain, 3. Chelmsford Stakes:
Bemborough, 1; Magnificent, 2; Flight. 3.
Spring Handicap; Questing, 1; Air Flare, 2;
Kiaree, 3. Welter; Sajakeda, 1; Gay. Monarch,
2; Lakshmi Vallis, 3.
* * * *
In the £2OOO Newcastle Cup the Cameron
Handicap winner Homeleigh Dick made a fair
bid to bring off the double, and only went
down by a long neck to the aged Fox Earth
gelding Bon Terre. The history of the race
was against Homeleigh Dick, no horse ever
having won the double.
* * * *
Australia lost the second of six Rugby
Union matches with the Maorilanders
when it was beaten 20-11 by Canterbury
after being down 11-6 at half-time. The
Canterbury forwards continually worried
the Australian defence with their well-
controlled dribbling rushes and gradually
wore the visitors down. Furness, the Aus-
tralian hooker, sent across the Tasman
as one of two emergency additions to the
touring team, took the field with tonsilitis,
and had to retire in the second half, but
Canterbury had been on top beforehand.
A superb try by the Manly winger Bastes,
who raced from his own 25 and beat man
after man, had the Maorilanders enthusi-
astically applauding.
In Saturday’s semi-finals Randwick,
whose best men are in Maoriland, was
soundly defeated by Eastern Suburbs
which scored 19 to 6. Parramatta put
Drummoyne 17-6 out of the competition,
“Parra’s” inside backs, Boland and Parker,
doing as they liked despite a Drummoyne
margin in the scrums and line-outs.
Randwick now meets Parramatta in the
final, the winner to meet East in a
“grand” final.
« * * *
With full-time played out and only five
minutes of “time on” to be played, the
60,000-odd who jammed the M.C.G. on
Saturday had “given Melbourne away”
in the first V.F.L. semi-final, Footscray
being then seven points ahead and attack-
ing vigorously. Then came a change that
sent the barrackers into a paroxysm of
yelling excitement. Smith (Melb.) took
a mark and goaled with a splendid kick.
It was rushed to the centre, bounced, a
scurry and Mitchell goaled again for Mel-
bourne. Footscray tried desperately to
recover, but Melbourne got another goal
and on the bell a long Melbourne kick
tricked everybody and dribbled through.
Melbourne had gone from five points
down to 18 points ahead m three minutes
17 is Tnnknray 1S 19 Tt’c
—Melbourne 17.18, Footscray 15.12. It s
Esseildon and Collingwood next Saturday,
the loser to play Melbourne and the sur-
vivor of that to meet the winner of Satur-
/ V . ,j- ■«
day s game in the grand hnal.
. '
The Richmond (Melb.) Aussie Rules
team having failed to make the final
“foui” in the V.F.L. competition, invaded
Sydney at the week-end* S
C ’ °n and chewed it UD to the tune
of the neck and chewed it up to the tune
of 35.19 to 21.14. It was one or me
biggest crowds and the biggest goal feast
ever seen in Sydney, and the Tigers were
ever seen in vjj j, o
so pleased they gave the entire proceeds
to their victims.
* * * *
Davis Cup squad:
The Davis Cup selectors may have gleaned
something from watching the Australian hard-
court championships at Burwood (N.S.W.),
but they look like being in for headaches. One
is whether Quist will be available as a doubles
partner for Bromwich. At Burwood Brown
partnered Bromwich and they were fully ex-
tended to' beat Pails and Sidwell, 6-4, 6-3,
7-9, 2-6, 6-3 in the final. Bromwich and
Brown together make an entertaining spectacle,
both using the unorthodox ambidextrous style,
but they’re not a Davis Cup doubles pair.
Probably the best combination, in the absence
of Quist, would be Bromwich and Sidwell.
Bromwich did not compete in the singles at
Burwood and other members of the Davis Cup
training squad didn’t make a very bright show-
ing, particularly in comparison with veteran
Jack Crawford. Giving them something over
a decade in age, Crawford eliminated Sidwell
in a quarter-final and then extended Pails to
the full five sets in the semi-final. And in
the final Pails beat Brown very convincingly,
7-5, 6-2, 7-5. Again, Brodie, also in the squad,
was beaten by Gilchrist, who in turn went
down to Brown, so what have you ? Crawford
has been added to the squad now, and should
at least teach the others, a great deal.
» * * ♦
The M.C.C. team:
Of the 143 Test matches played, Australia
has won 57, England 55, with 31 drawn. The
77 matches in Australia have been split up:
England, 34; Australia, 41; 2 drawn (both
against Shaw’s 1881-82 team at Melbourne).
Melbourne saw 31 of them; Sydney, 30;
Adelaide, 13; Brisbane, 3. The 66 matches
in England gave the home team 21 wins,
Australia 16, and 29 were drawn. They were
played at the Oval (18), Lord’s (16), Man-
chester (14), Leeds (8), Nottingham (7),
Egbaston (2), and Sheffield (1). Averages of
the M.C.C. selections this season emphasise
their batting strength. W. R. Hammond (cap-
tain) leads with 1783 runs, av. 84.90 —a rattling
good effort for a 43-year-old. Washbrook has
scored 2400, av. 68.57; Compton 2403, av.
61.61; Fishlock 2221, av. 50.47. Edrich,
Hutton, Ikin, Hardstaff and Langridge all
topped the thousand-run mark. Few previous
teams have had more promising figures. Wright
leads the bowlers with 125 wickets, av. 18.08;
Smith has taken 120, av. 19.49; Bedser 128,
av. 20.13; Pollard 95, av. 21.65; Langridge
92, av. 22.11; Edrich 73, av. 19.28; Ikin 55,
av. 23.72; Voce 42, av. 23.02. Norman Yard-
ley, the Yorkshire amateur who was Cambridge
captain in 1938, is vice-captain, and Hammond,
Yardley and Edrich are the selection committee.
* * * *
Billygoats would have enjoyed the
Leichhardt (Sydney) boxing bill on
Thursday night. There were to have been
three 12-rounders, Wells v. Greig, Fraser
v. Harris (all welters) and Gollan v.
Holland (featherweights), but all three
ended in favor of the pugs first named be-
cause of what were euphemistically de-
scribed as “clashes of heads.” The crowd
showed no particular pleasure after each
closure.
Joe Hall’s plucky comeback, at 31,
ended at the Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, when Young Digger Charlie
Ashenden stopped him in the sixth round.
Hall’s superiority in boxing gained him
the points in the first three rounds, but
thenceforward Ashenden’s energetic
attack told, his right-hand body punches
being frequent and painful. One made
Hall retch in the fifth, and when another
landed on his midriff he did some more
retching and then collapsed on the can-
vas. Actually he went down without
being hit and should have been disquali-
fied, but Joe Wallis made it a technical
knockout.


Have You Chosen
Your Executor
Wisely?
l_l aye you allowed your perspnal
1 1 affection and regard for a friend
or relative to influence you unduly
in appointing him to be your Ex-
ecutor? If so, are you being quite
fair to him —and to your family?
The management of any Estate
in the days ahead will call for wide
experience and highly specialised
knowledge. It will most certainly
demand a great deal of time —which
few people have available.
There is a convenient way in which
you can relieve your Executor of
the heavy burden of responsibility
and, at the same time, ensure for
your family the maximum benefit of
your Estate. This is to appoint Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited)
as your Executor- —in conjunction
with your friend if you so desire.
The Company’s standing and effi-
ciency are shown by the Trust funds
under its administration, which ex-
ceed £66,000,000— yet the value of
the average Estate administered is
less than £lO,OOO.
Call or write for a copy of the
booklet “Your Executor and Trus-
tee,” which explains the service
the Comnany renders and what it
costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. ,T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS ; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING UESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Business Rollery, Etc.
B.H.P. and the Sharemarket
The beginning of the break in B.H.P.
share prices coincided with the holding
of the co.’s annual meeting and remarks
by chairman G. Noall, of Australian
General Investments, Ltd., that in some
cases market values of listed shares were
hardly justified. B.H.P. shares have since
fallen from their ceiling price of 48s. 9d.
to 445, 6d., recovering to 455. 9d.
During the period in which B.H.Ps.
have been weak the New York
Stock Exchange suffered its heaviest fall
in a long time. Wall-street, it should be
remembered, has been a free market dur-
ing all of the war it has gener-
ally been a bull market, prices being
pushed up by low interest rates and
banked-up spending- and investing-power.
B.H.P. shares are an Australian Stock
Exchange leader. The co. itself is the
country’s biggest manufacturing organisa-
tion, and due consideratipn must be given
to market valuation of the stock when
considering other share values. But in
the present market for B.H.P. shares there
are special circumstances operating.
It was around 5.H.P. and associated
cos. that the widespread industrial stop-
page centred last Christmas. This affected
output severely: taking into account addi-
tional difficulties arising from low coal
production during the first five months of
1946, B.H.P. output fell to 66 p.c. of
capacity. This in turn brought a slump
of nearly 40 p.c. in the working surplus,
trading profit shrinking to £162,408, com-
pared with £428,619 in the preceding
term —and the 1945-46 figure was written
after providing £882,327 less for deprecia-
tion and taxation. The p. and 1. result of
£779,291 (against £759,367 in the pre-
ceding year) was an improvement only
because of £288,311 more received by
way of investment income, and in Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel’s case at least dis-
tributions during the current year will be
affected by industrial conditions similar
to those with which B.H.P. itself has to
contend.
With lower production, caused by in-
dustrial strife and lethargy, B.H.P.’s pro-
duction costs have risen in respect of
each ton of iron or steel produced, while
only one increase has been allowed in
the co.’s prices since war began. The
present tendency is for wages to go still
higher. Taxation, too, has been particu-
larly heavy on B.H.P.
So much for the present sad aspect.
On the more encouraging side it can
be said that longer-term prospects
of B.H.P. as an investment are ex-
ceptionally good. The obstructions to
healthy earning power which the co, is at
present encountering are preposterous,
and arise from industrial and political
conditions verging on the lunatic. If other
industries are to progress, if national liv-
ing standards are to be raised, then our
steel production must be expanded
greatly, and with that expansion B.H.P.’s
earning-power should return. The only
conditions attached to prospects of re-
cuperation in earning-power will be prices
allowed to be charged and taxation levels.
As to prices, B.H.P. still sells the cheapest
steel in the world, and during the war it
supplied the munitions industry at cost
price. There is no valid reason why the
co. should not be allowed to sell its
products in keeping with rising costs
levels. As to taxation, all other industries
are subject to the same scale of taxes as
8.H.P., and all are pressing for relief.
All must get relief if we are to keep in
step with the tax policy in Britain,
Canada, New Zealand and the United
States.
Generally speaking, B.H.P. as an in-
vestment is as solid as anything in the
country; it has vast work ahead of it,
and it will grow as the nation, grows. The
“ Bunkers a conscientious cow—Wont even stop while We have smoke-oh .”
country cannot for long be prosperous
without a fully active B.H.P.
The organisation is the most efficient
and enterprising to be seen among Aus-
tralian manufacturers. Its assets are
conservatively valued, and have been
written down heavily out of profits. The
co. has fought hard to retain harmonious
and stable industrial conditions, usually
with success. Australian Iron and Steel,
owned by 8.H.P., is now developing
large new iron-ore deposits on Cockatoo
Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.), to provide
for anticipated increases in the ultimate
output of iron and steel,
B.H.P. shares have risen strongly from
40s. with every letting-out of the prices
ceiling. The present is the first occasion
for several years on which the scrip has
been readily available in the sharemarket.
At 455. 9d. the immediate return is about
£2 3s. per cent, on the present 5 p.c. div.
basis, but it is the future prospects of the
stock, already outlined, which should in-
fluence buyers most. In normal circum-
stances a 10 p.c. div. should be an easy
matter.
A recent rise in the ceiling of many
stocks, making 10 p.c., 5 p.c. and 5 p.c.
rises (compounding) since the end of the
war, together with a weakening in sup-
port for some that has followed the
B.H.P. setback, has produced a more
active market generally on the Stock Ex-
changes. Even Australian Consolidated
Industries (formerly Australian Glass)
ords. are selling at under the new
ceiling, while ceiling prices have been
accepted for Colonial Sugar, British
Tobacco, Adelaide Steam, Bradford
Cotton, G. J. Coles, Tooth, Castlemaine-
Perkins, Carlton Brewery and Drug
Houses all on one day. But bank shares,
almost without exception, have few
sellers, whilst most of the industrials that
have changed hands at ceiling prices are
more sought after than sold. In cases like
Bradford Cotton sales have been ex-
tremely isolated.
The Sydney index of industrial shares
stood at 166 last week, compared with
an average of 135 in September, 1941,
a war-time peak. This rise of 23 p.c. in
five years is just about in keeping with
the admitted lift in living costs since
war began. But actual price inflation is
considerably in excess of official figures,
while it is evident that money savings in
the hands of the people have more than
doubled during the war. Good equity
shares have risen in price partly as an
offset to this inflation, and in many cases
are still undervalued by this standard and
by a comparison of their dividends with
prevailing interest rates.
One effect of Treasury restrictions on
share dealings during the past four and
a half years has been to curb speculative
trading, and most shares are firmly held,
thus bringing a source of strength to the
Australian sharemarket not possessed by
Wall-street, which has undergone a long
period of speculative fever. The banked-,
up investing-power in the Common-
wealth should sustain market strength so
long as other conditions justify it.
Investors buy shares for ultimate divi-
dend return. If the Commonwealth
emerges from industrial anarchy, artifi-
cial controls and burdensome and an-
omalous taxation conditions within the
next three years there should be an in-
crease in Company distributions in keep-
ing with greater turnover and a higher
level of asset values. It may be that a
higher rate of return on all investments
will be asked for, tending to restrict in-
creases in equity-share prices. But, in
general, we are likely to see share prices
creeping up with other prices and costs
as soon as any semblance of balance
returns to our own and to world economy.
Excessive Spending Power
H. T. Armitage, governor of the Com-,
monwealth Bank, in his annual report:
In my report last year I pointed out
that the readily spendable volume of
money as measured by notes in the hands
of the public, Commonwealth Bank and trading
bank public deposits, and savings bank de-
posits had more than doubled since 1939.
Hie year just past has not seen any lessening-
in the potential dangers of an inflationary
nature inherent in the new money unavoidably
created under war conditions.
The following table gives an indication of
the volume of liquid purchasing power in the
hands of the public in June, 1946, as compared
with the same months of 1945 and 1939:
June, June, June,
1939. 1945. 1946.
£m. £m. £m.
Notes in hands of public 33 170 182
Deposits of public with
Commonwealth Bank and
all trading banks* .. 334 620 671
All Savings Banks’ deposits 246 567 663
Total 613 1,357 1,516
* Excluding deposits of Governments, other
banks and savings banks.
Even though the war is over the results of
war-time finance cannot, unfortunately, be
eliminated overnight. Indeed, it is well that
we should realise that without reduction ot
the national debt through Treasury surpluses,
which at best would be a slow process, or by
recourse to the drastic expedients on the lines
of a capital levy to which some war-torn
countries have resorted, we cannot rapidly re-
duce excess spending power. It is clear, there-
fore that even if production is considerably
expanded in the near future, potential spending
power can continue to remain surplus. ihe
question is pertinent then—how ' long will the
threat of inflation remain serious? Will coa-
trols of one kind or another he necessary for
a long time to come?
It is not easy to give a confident answer to
these questions. Some non-monetary factors
are probably as important as monetary ones
in this connection. At the present time it is
obvious that the public urgently requires a wide
range of services and commodities which have
been lacking during the war. The excess spend-
ing power which exists is exerting a powerful
upward pressure on prices over a wide range
of demand.
Some consumer needs will be sooner and
more easily met than others. Unevenness in
progress will be unavoidable; and so, as pro-
duction increases, we may expect the pressure
on the price level to diminish in range but
concentrate in more or less defined classes of
requirements where urgent needs still remain
relatively unsatisfied.
At present it is, of course, tempting for
sellers to exploit the situation. People with
urgent needs would naturally prefer goods at
reasonable prices, but many are prepared, if
necessary, to pay high prices. If prices were
allowed to reflect the unbalanced state of supply
and demand, not only would great hardship be
inflicted on those whose means are limited, but
there would be a most undesirable effect on
costs of production as well. Any uncontrolled
and reckless bidding for scarce resources could
raise costs generally and ultimately place Aus-
tralian producers in an unfavorable position
vis-a-vis overseas competitors. In the main-
tenance of a reasonable price level both from
the consumers’ and from the producers’ ppm!
of view, increased production by efficient
methods is vitally necessary. Without it in-
flation will remain a serious danger.
It should be remembered, of course, that
increased production will not, of itself, fully
absorb excess funds —indeed, it must clearly
have the effect of generating increased incomes;
but if present demand for the essentials can be
met by an ample flow of goods, excess funds
as a whole should be gradually neutralised by
conversion into more permanent forms of
savings and their inflation potential thereby
removed.
The real wealth of any country is not in
money but in its land, its industries, the num-
ber, energy and skill of its people and the
available supply of commodities and raw
materials. Nevertheless, if money is allowed
to take charge with either inflationary or de-
flationary consequences, it is possible for un-
employment or poverty to be widely suffered,
despite the fact that there are sufficient resources
to render such conditions totally unnecessary.
In fulfilling its task of maintaining a proper
balance in the economy, the bank in present
circumstances is more particularly concerned
with the possibilities of inflation. Since the end
of the war it has' been possible to terminate
certain restrictions and relax others; but until
output expands and the economy again comes
into reasonable balance, it is essential that some
controls, including price- and investment-con-
trol, should remain in force. Though many
see in the continuance of controls nothing but
restraints and inconvenience,- these are a small
price to set beside the damaging economic and
social consequences which would have ensued
in their absence and which could still arise
from their premature withdrawal.
To underline the above points I desire in
particular to refer to an issue which is of
paramount importance to the future of Aus-
tralia, namely, land values. What I have
already said about the need for low costs and
efficiency in industry applies with equal emphasis
here. Past experience has amply demonstrated
that a boom in land values invariably results
in disaster, to the Australian economy. A
country which still relies heavily on the export
of primary produce to highly competitive mar-
kets cannot afford to allow inflationary forces
to be reflected in land transfers at steadily
rising prices. It would not be safe to assume
that the high level of present prices for such
commodities as wheat will endure indefinitely,
and the capitalisation of land values on the
basis of the present prices of such commodities
may prove a costly venture, spelling ruin sub-
sequently for the speculative or unwary farmer
and involving the community in considerable
loss.
Unduly high land values for housmg purpose*
will also strike at the happiness of numerous
Australians who are hoping to establish their
homes or improve their living conditions. These
tendencies, which could have serious conse-
quences, must be prevented. The maintenance
of stability in land values is clearly required
to save us from the worst of speculative ex-
cesses. Full success, however, can come omy
through the enlightened co-operation of the
community generally.
New Zealand has abolished the excess-
profits tax, the United States has done the
same, Britain is to wipe out e.-p.t. at the
end of 1946, and Canada has modified its
exactions considerably by its latest Bud-
get. In Australia nothing has been done
to reduce the burden of war-time (com-
pany) tax whatsoever. This tax is levied
on all profits in excess of 5 p.c. on “capi-
tal employed,” and rises to a high rate
when profits amount to 17 p.c. on capita-
employed. Concerns likely to benefit
considerably by. elimination or reduction
of the Australian tax include Gordon and
Gotch, Wool worths, G. J. Coles, Mason-
ite, Henry Jones, David Jones and F.
Wimble.
* * * *
Australian Forge and Engineering G
Pty., an offshoot of John McGrath, Ltd..
Sydney, is still busy even with the war
ended, and it looks like keeping fuffi
occupied for years to come. It will ne
doing an increasing business with motor-
car manufacturers as the trade revive*
and forgings for tractors are also in de-
mand. John McGrath put most of J*
ready cash into the subsidiary during th=
war, and, now that the motor trade i*
reviving, the parent is contemplating
fresh share issue—£7s,ooo is to be ask,
for, one ord. for three. A new subsidiary ’■*
being formed to handle the co.’s Hillman.
Humber, Sunbeam-Talbot and Diamon
T agencies in N. S. Wales and Queen*-
land. John McGrath shares are in re-
quest at the ceiling price of 455. id
div. has been steady at 9 p.c. for f
years.


cJdotel
FHCING H PHRK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you «vould wish
the
and
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in c^t^dne^
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
BACKACHE, LEG
PAINS, may be danger
sign of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making
you miserable, don't just complain and
do nothing about them. Nature may
bo warning you that your kidneys
need attention.
The kidneys are Nature's chief way
of taking excess acids and poisonous
waste out of the blood. They help
most people eliminate about 3 pints
a day.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and
filters don't work well, poisonous
waste matter stays in the blood. These
poisons may _ start nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, disturbed nights, swelling,
puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there
is something wrong with your kidneys
or bladder.
Don t delay. fisk your chemist or
store for Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, a
s^s?. u^ant ‘^* uret i c ' used successfully by
millions for over 40 years, Doan's
give happy relief and will help the
io _ miles of kidney tubes eliminate
poisonous waste from the blood.
4sfc your Chemist or Store for
Backache Kidney Pills^^
DPI3
J&cu/ur
Study for a spare-time or full-time
career. Complete Home Study Course
covers 20 weeks. Complete cost of
£6/6/- covers personal correction
service. Send for brochure to . . .
RADIO INSTITUTE
OF AUSTRALIA
Cowell Buildings, Victoria Square,
Adelaide, South Australia.
NAME
ADDRESS
BI
Australia s
Champion
in the Councils of the
I World
* >A
'v
w
W:¥:
m
THE WHOLE WORLD ACCLAIMS
THIS GREAT AUSTRALIAN
“Dr. Evatt stands out more than ever as the champion of small
nations. He fills this role partly because he is Dr. Evatt and
afraid of nobody, partly because Australia has independent views
on international affairs and partly because he does not share the
apprehensions of some other small nations about putting a strain
on Russia’s temper,”
ECONOMIST: LONDON.
“Dr. Evatt is a man of great ability, great force of character and
great courage. He is proud of the British Empire, proud of his
own country and determined not to hide the light of either under
a bushel.”
NEWS CHRONICLE: LONDON.
“At San Francisco, Evatt made his first appearance on the world
stage. The great powers who summoned the conference thought
it was to be a tea-party where the small nations would sign on the
dotted line. Evatt changed all that. He proposed no fewer than
31 amendments to the United Nations Charter and 20 of them
were carried. He wrote into the Charter the words “full employ-
ment, higher living standards and the observance of human
rights”-—transforming that document into a Magna Charta of the
modern world.”
CAVALCADE: LONDON.
FOR AUSTRALIA’S SAKE EVATT MUST CARRY ON
WITH HIS MAGNIFICENT WORK.
THERE IS ONLY ONE WAY TO MAKE THIS POSSIBLE
VOTE
LABOR
AND RETURN THE SOUND
GHIFLEY GOVERNMENT!
LABOR'S PLEDGE:
Progressive fax reductions: Control of prices and rents: Full employment:
Expanded markets: Guaranteed markets and prices for primary
products: Positive safeguards against inflation.
.
Authorised by P. I. Kennelly, M.L.C., Parliament House, Melbourne.
On November 30, 1939, P. C. Spender,
Acting-Treasurer in the Menzies Govern-
ment (the P.M. himself was Treasurer),
introduced revised Budget estimates to
the House of Representatives following
on the change in economic circumstances
that resulted from the declaration of war
on Germany on September 3 that year.
In the course of his introductory speech
Mr. Spender said:
It is necessary for us to consider this
war-time economic problem, which is of
enormous magnitude, in terms of the re-
sources which will be required both for the
war effort and the civil needs of the people.
Only the resources available can be used
for these purposes. To see the problem as
one of making the best use of resources
makes it clear that the. real burden of our
war effort must be borne now; that it
cannot be shifted by -ingenious financial
devices to the future. Once we recognise
this fact we can concentrate our attention
on securing the necessary diversion of re-
sources from peace to war purposes with
a minimum of interference with the stand-
ards of consumption we have enjoyed in
the past, and on avoiding disturbance to
the balance of our economy which would
make the subsequent transition from war
to peace more difficult.
The simply fact is . that defence must be
paid for now with men and materials. No
manipulation can alter the burden. All
that can be done is to change its incidence.
Credit expansion overdone is one of the
easiest ways of doing this, but its results
are very different from what its advocates
believe... .For every undue expansion we
shall ultimately pay the price.
Thus, within two months of the Chamber-
lain declaration of war, the Menzies
Government had established a basis of
war-time finance and production control
that became the theory, if not the prac-
tice, of the subsequent Curtin and Chifley
Governments, “Labor” in Canberra has
distorted the original economic pro-
gramme by introducing socialistic intent
and political motives, whilst spending far
too much on “war” now that war is over ;
but when put on a spot it can do no
better than plead allegiance to financial
principles laid down by the Liberals in
1939. Mr. Chifley, indeed, would almost
lead us to believe that this early economic
policy was conceived by “Labor” itself.
It won’t wash, however, in the light of
facts, particularly when one remembers
the late Priminister Curtin’s reckless
claims about the “virtues” of bank-credit
use. One thing badly wrong with the
Federal “Labor” Government’s war-time
arrangements was that it never really
seemed to want to win the peace and
return to free economic conditions.
A new tantalite flotation is Coniston
Tantalite Mining Co., Ltd., formed in
Adelaide to work three leases, aggregat-
ing 100 acres, on the Arunta field, north-
west of Alice Springs, about nine miles
off the main track to Tanami. The de-
posits to be worked are described as the
sheddings from pegmatite dykes, and are
of “great length and invariably about
two chains wide.” The depth of the
alluvial has not been fully determined.
The prospectus says that the ore should
be easily separated from the wash by
sluicing or dryblowing. The tantalite
occurs in pieces ranging from fine grains
to several ounces. No permanent water is
available ? but it is aimed to provide water
storage. The promoters are asking the
public to put up £BOOO, and the vendors
take £2OOO in shares and £5OO in cash.
Tantalum, the mineral extracted from
tantalite, is one of the rare metals ; it is
used in radio and radar, in toughening
steel and, more recently, in surgery on
a rapidly extending scale. It is inert,
non-corrosive.and its tensile strength is
considerably greater than platinum. Aus-
tralia is the world’s leading producer
of tantalite,' total production in all
countries not exceeding a few hun-
dred tons a year. The ore was dis-
covered on the Finnis River, N’T., by
Charles Clark in 1885. The area was
worked for a while, then given up, being
reworked again just before the depres-
sion of the early ’3o’s. About this time
Litchfield and Lugg opened up a tantalite
show at West Arm, near Darwin, from
which high-grade ore averaging over 70
p.c. tantalum has been taken for many
years. Queensland also has tantalite
areas, one receiving attention at Grant’s
Creek, near Forsayth. But Westralia has
to date produced the greatest quantity
of tantalite. Chief centre is Wodgina, on
the Pilbara goldfield, where a co. of which
Dr. Buller Murphy is chairman has
done well. Here there has been
surface-mining of rich shoots, to-
gether with the treatment of disintegrated
outcrop material, and the orebody has
yet to be thoroughly tested below the
surface. High-grade tantalite is worth
over 20s. a pound, the metal itself much
more. It generally occurs in Australia
in pegmatite dykes in association with
albite feldspar.
* * * *
Is New Zealand a large enough market
to absorb the output of three tyre fac-
tories? The test is not far ahead as three
companies push ahead with development
plans under Government licences. In
July, Dunlop New Zealand, Ltd., was
formed, with a nominal capital of
£1,500,000, of which half a million 4\
per cent, cumulative preference shares
are being issued to the public, together
with 300,000 ords. The parent Dunlop
company in Britain has been allotted
450,000 ords. for assets taken over. The
Dunlop factory will be at Lower Hutt,
20 miles from Wellington, on a 40-acre
site. The Dunlop co. in N.Z. owns the
Barnet Glass-Perdriau concern in the
Dominion. In Auckland, Reid (N.Z.)
Rubber Mills, Ltd., aims to increase its
capital from £250,000 to a million. The
chairman, A. M. Seaman, says the tyre
factory should b£ ready for installation
of the plant when it arrives from Britain.
An issue of 100,000 of the new shares,
paid up to 10s., has been made. The
third company licensed to make tyres is
the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co. of
N.Z., which will operate in Christchurch.
* * * *
Gold Exploration and Finance, formed
in England in 1934, has declared its first
dividend —6d. per 10s. unit of stock,
equal to 5 p.c. The co. is interesting,
and there has been activity in the stock at
11s. 6d. sterling in London. It has widely-
spread interests in Australian goldmining,
the Robinsons and the laje Colin Fraser
being prominent in its early history. For
several years the co. has been using profits
to build up financial strength, and it now
has a large holding of cash and Govern-
ment stock, which should permit it to
engage in any new activities which it
finds interesting. Western Mining Corp.,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Gold Mines
of Australia, Triton, Victoria Gold
Dredging and Central , Norseman are
among the direct and indirect interests of
the co. Elimination of British-Australian
double taxation should assist profits in
the future.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Curyo Charlie, like all
gamblers, had his superstitious notions
about the signs and portents of luck,
though he’d deny them with humorous
profanity if challenged. He invited
me to join him in a trip per buggy from
Beulah (Vic.) across to Jeparit, where
there was a show or some such affair at
which Charles hoped to separate the local
“sports” from some of their cash by
medium of his Yankee sweat-wheel,
under-and-over seven and other imple-
ments. It being hot weather he proposed
to travel in the cool, thus saving his horse,
and advised me to be ready for a 4 a.m.
start. We got away on the dot and were
ambling along when Curyo said “Dunno
whether t’ make for Jeparit or Rainbow.
They tell me there’s a clash meetin’ at
the Bow ; had a row with the Jeparit
blokes. Oh, well!” He drove on, evi-
dently still pondering, and suddenly
stopped his horse and stared earnestly
into the southern sky. “Hey!” he cried,
astonished, “Look at the Cross. She’s on
her side. I never saw that before. What’s
wrong?” He was a trifle scared, and I
explained how the constellation appa-
rently wheeled across the sky during the
hours. “That’ll do me,” said Charlie,
having absorbed it. makin’ a sort
of invisible rainbow, ain’t she? That’s
good enough for me.” And to Rainbow
he went, where his faith in omens was
justified.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Even in this degenerate
age of petrol and wireless adventure is
still waiting on the road for some
travellers. Setting out from Brisbane for
Cairns by car, two intrepid overlanders
had their first thrill when an accidentally-
discharged shotgun blew their best spare
tyre to bits while they were mending a
puncture. As they neared Clermont, a
horse wandered unexpectedly out of a
sidetrack, and the resulting collision sub-
stantially enriched the local garage for
repairs. Pushing on, they found a bul-
lock bogged in a waterhole and spent an
hour in pulling it out. After the un-
grateful fashion of bullocks in such cir-
cumstances it charged them, chased them
to shelter in the car, and then smashed
windows and dented the panels before
they could start. One adventurer sus-
tained a badly cut elbow on the broken
glass. Their latest recorded adventure
was the explosion of an acetylene lamp
at their camp near Charters Towers, and
the resultant destruction of their canvas
campfly. They were then still 250 miles
from their destination.
* * * *
“Womba”: He wasn’t long back from
a p.-0.-w. camp in Malaya, and as he lay
on the river bank I saw several elaborate
tattoo designs on his anatomy, including
the initials “W. 0.” on his skinny turn.
“Warrant officer, eh?” I ventured. “Who,
me?” he said, incredulously. “No fear,
I was a superior buck private, mate.” I
pointed at the brand. “Well, what’s the
‘W.O.’ for?” “Aw, that!” he said. “That’s
the name of me home town, mate. I’ve
lost a lot of condition, but when I’m fit
and in good nick that spells Wooroloo.”
* * * »
“Bufo”; Yesterday’s trip to the back
paddock for a load of firewood from the
old dead tallow wood that blew down in
the April gale has brought us two charm-
ing lodgers. As the last big limb cracked
and crashed under the crosscut two tiny
furred folk scrambled out of the hollow*
and blinked dazedly at the afternoon sun.
Delicately built, with bodies no longer
than one’s finger and fringed, bare-tipped
slender tails as* long again, their grey-
brown backs curved down at each side to
a fringed membrane between the front
and hind legs. Within the hollow was. a
neat nest of leaves and bark-shreds. They
are pigmy flying-’possums— Aero bates
pygmeem in scientific slang—by no means
uncommon in these south-east Queens-
land parts, but seldom seen by reason of
their nocturnal habits and small size.
Brought home, complete with nest, in the
lunch basket, and put into the old aviary,
they woke up at dusk and explored the
new surroundings by long ’plane-glides
on the outstretched membranes. A shal-
low saucer of honey attracted their early
and earnest appreciation—it is their fav-
orite food. After critical observation of
Mrs. Pygmy’s figure, Higher Authority
in such matters has decided that we-can’t
possibly turn the poor thing out until the
babies are able to look after themselves,
so there should be a good opportunity for
observing small-scale mothercraft. Poor
father P., of course, isn’t worth considera-
tion. v
* * * *
“Narrin”: A bushfire makes a breeze
of its own. The fire heats the air, and
heated air is light air with a tendency
to rise ; hence a low pressure area about
the fire. Into it rushes the cooler,
heavier air beyond. This inrush sup-
plies more oxygen to feed the flames and
thereby increases the partial vacuum
about the fire. When the fire’s in a gully
the effect is magnified on the principle
of the ordinary chimney and the induced
draught it causes.
if: sfc *
“Atrax”: For four years the lop-
eared dingd and his crossbred Alsatian
mate had ravaged the flocks on a score
of western Queensland stations. Wefll
known as both were, they had evaded
and outwitted trappers, shooters and
“Poor old Bill—the spring's got him”
poisoners alike until rewards for their
scalps had achieved an all-time local
record. To one of the suffering stations
came a holiday visitor, a young school-
teaching relative, city-bred but interested
in natural history and the ways of the
wilds. Riding round the place with his
host, he saw for himself some of the
tragic work of the elusive pair and the
traps, springers, baits and set-guns which
they had so astutely avoided. It was a
dry Christmas, and the few remaining
pools were muddy and shallow. At one
pool in particular recent dingo tracks
were blasphemously pointed out by his
host, and it gave the visitor an idea. His
host smiled at it, but was game to try it
once. Next day they planted a short
stake in the pool bottom, on it spiked a
freshly roasted sheep’s liver just above
the surface and set traps round it in a
circle under the foot-deep muddy water.
Two days later both marauders were in
the traps, outwitted at last by the com-
plete absence of any sight or scent of
man-made danger to warn them off the
attractive find in the pool. The reward,
added to a newly-won scholarship, took
the young teacher through a law course,
and he is now a leading city solicitor.
Two modelled dingos on his study mantel-
piece serve to remind him of his youthful
experiment in dogging,
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: The best bit of natural
drafting I ever saw was on Barealdine
Downs (C.Q.) about 30 years ago. Evora
paddock was the dead-end for scrags—
cripples, cast-for-age ewes, double culls
and other rubbish. There were anything
from 7000 to 10,000 of them (we used to
shear on towards 200,000). Those old
ewes were hell to muster and the devil
itself to put through the yards. By some
mischance, force of circumstances or
something, about 600 strange sheep were
let go in the hospital paddock, Evora.
They were there a couple of months be-
fore it was convenient to get them out.
We started to muster Evora, and there
was no joy in our hearts at the thought
of bumping those old things together and
forcing those cancerous one-lungers
through the race. We mustered and, in
the manner of crusty old women, those
ewes took some putting together. And
when we put them on dinner-camp there
were two mobs: the old gummies and
cripples in one; the 600-odd strangers in
another, with not one straggler in either
mob!
* * * *
“Ornithos”; Is th§ blue jay a pest or a
friend? I’ve seen them cleaning up grass-
hoppers by the score. I have also seen
them clean up strawberries, and my neigh-
bor picked only one berry off 10,000
plants this year. He blames the jays,
there being no school handy.
* * * *
“Flight”: I’ve read and heard a lot
about the dance of the brolgas—how a
set of the quadrilles has been borrowed
from them, how they go through set
movements, and a lot more to the same
effect. I’ve watched brolgas for more
than 30 years, and I say they don’t dance
as popularly believed. When they are
disturbed, they go through the paces of
the supposed dance. It’s pretty, enter-
taining, amusing, graceful, but it isn’t a
quadrille. They bow to each other, run
aimlessly, jump, bugle, curtsy in passing
with exaggerated courtliness. There’s no
order or method about it; it is not a
measured figure. Then, as the excite-
ment rises, when those weaving figures
are bowing and hopping elaborately, one
long-legged rooster, with his scarlet head-
dress flashing, jumps higher than usual,
spreads his wings while in the air and
flies off. That ends the so-called dance.
They follow the leader, long legs and
longer necks in one straight line with the
body as they rise. . ,
* * * *
“G’pa”: Despite “Zake’s” plea (B,
28 1 8 1 ’46), it was Thomas Austin who in-
troduced the rabbit pest. The rabbits
brought out in the First Fleet were, it is
thought, silver greys, a domestic variety.
Austin’s 24 wild rabbits arrived per the
Black Ball clipper Lightning on Christ-
mas Day, 1859. They were delivered to
Barwon Park, near Geelong, four days
later, where they received a royal wel-
come and careful attention. Within six
years 20,000 were killed on the estate and
there were 10,000 left. By 1878 they had
crossed the South Australian border. In
the following year complaints came from
the Riverina ; about 1886 Queensland was
invaded ; in 1900 or thereabouts West-
ralia. Such a /spread, in varying
climatic conditions, has no parallel in
natural history. Two-thirds of the con-
tinent row has a rabbit 'opuiation.
*a• , s
“Edjudina”: The much cursed double-
gee of W.A. is really a species of spinach,
and is good fodder if plucked green.
Back in the ’nineties it was brought to
Coolgardie stuck in the tyres of cyclists,
starting mostly from Northam or York,
where the three-pronged pest had long
been established. From Coolgardie the
same tyres spread it far and wide through
the mulga. There the seed after any sort
of rain germinated, its lush greenness
striking the eye pleasantly. To the
battler on the verge of barcoo rot it was
a godsend. Boiled "as a green it went
down well with any sort of tinned dog,
and the way a few feeds of it wiped off
the persistent sores and scabs seemed little
short of miraculous.
“Shamuseen”: Jekyll and Hyde of s.-w.
Queensland flora and cause of much pro-
fanity among sheepmen is the “fuchsia.
In good season the small bush, when
eaten with other herbage has good rat-
tening properties, but at such times ft is
not particularly relished by sheep. In
drought it is one of the survivors on
burnt-up stock routes and is rushed by the
perverse jumbucks, with highly lethal
results. “Fuchsia,” undiluted with other
pasturage, has decimated many mobs.
* * ♦ ♦
“Upagum”; “Colonial Cove” (B.
28 /8 / ’46) is wrong on two. points. “The
digging of London’s docks” was not the
“first really big pick-and-shovel job,” and
“navvy” is an abbreviation of the term
“inland navigator,” applied to the workers
employed in digging England’s canal
system at least half a century before
“the digging of London’s docks.”
The first canal was made for the Duke
of Bridgewater, to carry coal from
his collieries at Worsley to Manchester,
and the Duke has been called “the father
of inland navigation.” And as for the
“first really big pick-and-shovel job,” I’m
wondering how else the fens in England
were drained under the guidance of Dutch
engineers in the late seventeenth century.
The term “navvy” was, of course, carried
over to any skilled wielder o'f pick and
shovel. We Tommies of the B.E.F. were
called “Kitchener’s Navvies.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Old-time barbers on the
goldfields generally ran a
newsagency and library as a sideline. It
was when gazing longingly into their
seductive windows that I first became
acquainted with the art of Norman Lind-
say, as depicted in the hard-faced and
leggy ladies who graced the front page
of the “Hawk,” later the “Hawklet.”
There, too, for as low as a halfpenny
one might buy a damaged copy of the
adventures of “Deadwood Dick,” “Calam-
ity Jane” and “Old Avalanche.” Shelves
were filled with battered books priced
from threepence upwards. What treasures
were there! What might we and the
barber have missed, rare books and rare
editions brought out from Britain by
luckless goldseekers of the years before,
who often had to sell everything they
possessed to buy food or scrape together
the passage money home again.
•
“Laetitia”; Mysterious visitations of
myriads of small, pinkish crabs occur in
Torres Strait waters at rare intervals.
So dense are their numbers that the sea
takes on a faintly pinkish hue. After a
few days the hordes disappear as mysteri-
ously as they arrive. The height of the
invasion is a picnic period for the fish,
which rise to the free swimming crusta-
ceans. The parabolas described by rising
and falling trevally in a patch of the crabs
suggest a series of silver-sailed windmills.
In these latitudes the extremely rare
Occasions on which the rain-bringing
nor’-west monsoon is even a day late in
replacing the eight-months’ long and
parching south-east wind always coincide
.with the arrival of the crabs.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We put up at one ot
the river pubs in South Oss and
proceeded to get acquainted with the pub-
lican and his family, which appeared to
consist of a wife and two daughters, one
about 20 and the other around 17. Of
course, they came all over coy when they
sighted the big fellow, and began to hang
■around when he was about, “It’s no
good t’ me,” he confided to me one night;
“reckon we’ll make for Clare or somewhere
in the mornin’.” At breakfast there was
an air of excitement, and we learned that
there was a third daughter, expected on
that day’s train from Adelaide. “She’s
been down there doing physical culture,”
said the mother. We left the table and
Mat said to me “What’s this physical cul-
ture?” “Aw, you know,” I replied;
“they do exercises to build up their
muse lbs and all that.” Mat seemed aston-
ished. “Reckon we’ll hang on till to-
morrow,” he said thoughtfully, “I never
seen a girl with muscles.” It was the
first time I ever knew him eager to see
a girl. Well, she arrived, and it turned
out she was about 18 stone and had been
doing the physical culture to get her
weight down. Mat was disappointed.
“Cripes,” he muttered disgustedly ; “I
thought she’d be chuckin’ them eighteen-
gallon kegs about and all that, but she's
only fat.” So we left for Clare.
$ * * *
“Betcha”: When Harry declared war
on the warrigals in his back bush coun-
try, his tally over a period of weeks was
68, the colors ranging from blacks,
through the gingers and mixed, to one
pure white specimen. Predominating
was what the old bushman calls the
Alsatian color, and he explains the influx
of dingoes by the presence of wallabies.
Living to a large extent on the little
hoppers, the dingoes follow them in to
the fringe of settled land and there trans-
fer their attentions to the more* easily
captured jumbuck. Barring a foreigner
he once knew, Harry claims that the dingo
is one of the very few animals that will
normally eat fox, and many a pelt he
has lost through the warrigals beating
h : *ri to thf dead or dying victim.
TAURANGA.
Like a burly bodyguard,
Maunganui stands,
Hurling back with rocky shard,
Sea and searching sands
From the blue and dreaming bay
Where Tauranga lies—
Tropic queen from far away.
Held ’neath southern skies.
Old Tauranga’s orange groves,
Maize and orchards, too —
Sweetest of all memory’s loves,
I remember you;
I remember splendid moons,
Dawns of glory, where
Dew-drops glittered in festoons
On the blossoms there.
Far away, the purple bay,
Broad and beautiful,
Reaches to Cape Runaway;
With a rolling hull,
’Neath a smoke plume, lazily
Leaning to the sky .. .
Do you love that stretch of sea?
Sailor, so do I.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Bob H,”: The football match
had become willing, and Joe was carried
off the field with a broken leg. After the
first-aid team had trussed him up he was
put in the care of an enthusiastic female
helper pending the arrival of the doctor.
“Are you comfortable?” she asked, as
Joe lay on the stretcher. “Yes, thanks,”
said Joe. “Warm enough?” “Yes,
thanks.” “Would you like a cup of tea?”
“No, thank you—not just now.” “Would
you like a smoke?” “Too right
I would,” yelled Joe. “I haven’t had one
for three days!” “I’m sorry, I haven’t
any either,” said the yOung woman,
“but it’s one of the routine questions
we’re taught to ask.” The doctor reported
severe shock.
♦ ♦ • ♦
“O’Yen”: Yarding my flock near the
homestead one night I found it short of
two of my best rams. Searches drew
“Great idea, these safety fences !”
blanks. A week later my small son re-
ported noises in an unoccupied dwelling
on the next holding. I found the truants
in the bath, up to their bellies in
fresh water. By some means they had
turned on the tap and thus saved their
lives. But how the deuce did they get
in there?
* * ♦ *
“Upagum”: “Gravelsnatcher” had
better make his apology to the Wog.
Quails (B. 28/8/’46) are, vide the'Ency-
clopedia Britannica, “essentially migra-
tory” and “immense numbers are netted
during the autumn migration across the
Mediterranean.” We heard of it in
1914-18, but the Israelites knew of it
much earlier, as readers of Numbers will
know: “There went forth a wind from
the Lord and brought quails from the
sea and let them fall by the camp
An accurate description of birds dis-
tressed by migration.
“Gaz”: Some years quail are plentiful
around Koo-wee-rup (Vic.), and city
/‘sports” try their luck. Took a party out
one afternoon and we collected 76 birds.
One of the tourists said “Right,
that’s enough for us; now for the
friends.” And they proceeded to let
both barrels go at mobs of starlings
making for their roosts along Wes-
tern Port Bay. Thirty-odd birds fell
and were soon plucked and stowed in
small cardboard boxes and sprinkled
with quail feathers. I suppose “the
friends” were thrilled to eat a few fresh
“quail.”
♦ * * *
“Fancar”: Though the crow doesn’t
bother maize in our Darling Downs
locality (B. 21/8/’46), once during a dry
spell crows tore the crisp hearts out of
a row of prime cabbages in a neighbor’s
creekside garden. Their latest craze
seems to be ripe watermelon. Although
the pig-farmers around here grow hun-
dreds of tons of piemelons, no crow is
fool enough to mistake a piemelon for
its luscious cousin,
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: View with suspicion
those coves who put out a saucer of milk
or saw on the family Strad to entice a
snake from under the house. The Blakes
that doted on milk and music died out
long ago ; the rest were weaned from
the lacteal fluid when a mothers’ meet-
ing of the clan staged a strike and re-
fused to continue suckling their young.
Of course some blokes will insist that
snakes have wriggled out to the strains
of a fiddle, but if the performers on that
instrument have scraped a passage any-
thing like some outback violin-punishers
I’ve heard you’d hardly blame a poor,
innocent snake taking a gander to see
what all the row was about.
Sit * ♦ *
“Lub”: A migratory apiarist left 100
hives of bees at Rabbiters’ Flat, and
Charlie and Joe took a keen interest in
the white-painted hives —from a safe dis-
tance. “Funny, ain’t it, how all them in-
secks seem t’ know their own boxes?”
said Joe. “Must have a pretty good sense
of direction, if y’ arsk me.*’ Charlie bent
on him a Idok of withering scorn.
“Don’t be a blanky fool, Joe,” he said.
“Anyone with half an eye c’d see the
numbers on the boxes, couldn’t they?”
♦ * * *
“Chuck”: It had become the annual
practice of old Sampson to grass his sur-
plus cattle in Hec’s block during the
winter months, but, thinking over the
cattleman’s behavior in past seasons, Hec
turned sour. “Have t’ charge y’ one-an’-
six a head for y’r stock this year,” he said
to Sampson. “How many y’ bringin’?”
“One-’n’-six! Cripes, that’s hot.” The big
man thought for a bit. “Awright, I’ll bring
fifty.” “Yair, y’ said that last year,” Hec
pointed out, “an’ y’ lobbed in with ten
extra. All big bullocks, too.” “Well, I
paid y’ for ’em, didn’t I?” protested their
owner. “Don’t y’ like bullocks?” The
next ten minutes was spent arranging
cattle and dates, and a fortnight later Hec
rode out to find the bunch feeding in his
lower paddock. One hasty look and he
was spurring after old Sampson. “Hey,
what’s the flamin’ idea?” he roared, over-
taking him. “You said fifty, an’ I bet
there’s a hundred head in that paddock.”
“No, just fifty, Hec,” protested the other.
“Y’ said y’ didn’t mind calves on their
“Him a carrier-service ace! He Was only a ground-staff Wallah /”
mothers, an’ there ain’t any o’ them Short-
horn cross got more’n one. An’ it ort to
be a few weeks before them big vealers
weigh as much as their mothers.”
* * * *
“J. Dale”: Out from Mundubbera (Q.)
a half-dozen cockies took it in turn
to kill a steer and share it. When
Paddy Bolger arrived he entered into the
arrangement with enthusiasm, and pre-
sently his turn came, so he selected his
steer and let go with his rifle. The steer
jumped and ran round in circles. Paddy
opened up again. About 12 shots later
Paddy, overcome with rage at himself
and pity for the riddled beast, dropped
the rifle, ran at the steer, upended it and
cut its throat. Then he sighted my gang
of toilers watching him from across the
creek. He bought our silence with slabs
of fresh beef.
* • ♦ •
“X.E.D.”: Jimmy Toleman long sus-
pected Mac’s staghound as a killer of his
sheep, and one morning, with witnesses,
saw the dog leaving a freshly-killed car-
cass in the paddock. He swooped on
Mac. “Y’ll have t’ shoot him, Mac,” he
said. “An’ I’ll take a cheque f’r 20 quid
f’r them dozen ewes he’s killed.” “But he
ain’t my dog,” defended Mac. “Y’ can
shoot him if y’ like; that ain’t my affair.
Cripes, I got receipts f’r the money from
three blokes wot I sold him to at diff’rent
times. I can’t help it if he keeps on com-
ing back.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Of course, De Rouge-
mont was a fictioneer —there is even a
book that dubs him The Greatest Liar on
Earth or something similar —but the more
I dwell over my tattered copy of his
Adventures the more I marvel at his
knowledge of the flora and fauna, humans
included, of Northern Australia. Take
that yarn about his fight with the big saw-
fish in the lagoon somewhere in the N.T.
Ridiculous on the face of it. A sawfish
hundreds of miles inland in a fresh-water
lake! But such creatures are to be found
there. Old-timers have told me of them,
and A. H. Chisholm’s Strange New
World refers to John Gilbert as having
found one in a deep pool in the Lynd
River (Q.), some 50 miles in from the
sea. Old Rougie was first ridiculed for
his yarn about turtle-riding. Let’s hope
that his yarn about finding kero shale
and petroleum in the Kimberleys also
proves true. He spent many years in
W.A.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: The Wau (N.G.) bar
was crowded with miners when Wally
and Ted decided to have it out. “Wait
a minute,” said Wally; and he removed
his glass eye to the safety of the counter.
“I’d better take care of these, too,” added
Ted, parking his dentures alongside the
staring optic. A short exchange of futile
blows served to satisfy honor, and the
combatants restored the accessories to
their rightful cavities and called for
drinks.
• ♦ • *
“Blime”: “Most blokes don’t know
how to break in a dog prop’ly,” Kelly
sniffed. “Don’t persevere with ’em, that’s
why. Cripes, gimme a well-bred pup that
likes sheep, an’ I stay with the young-
ster till he knows the job inside out.”
Jim looked up lazily. “Yair? Well, I
got one o’ them sort, an’ I bet y’ can’t
make a decent sheepdog out o’ the cuss.”
“I’ll take y’,” Kelly banged down his
pot and collected the dog. A couple of
months went by. “How’s the pup shap-
in’?” Jim inquired, meeting Kelly on the
road. “Well, he’s a tough bloke awright,”
his trainer admitted. “Y’ll have to give
us another month before he’ll put up a
show worth watchin’.” Two months latei
Jim was passing, and dropped in as he
noticed Kelly approaching his yards with
a mob of woollies. Sweating generously,
the old bloke trotted from side to side,
urging the jummies, while the dog walked
watchfully in the rear. Suddenly there
was a break-away on the right, a sharp
yap from the mong, and Kelly dashed
in that direction. Another yap as the
sheep turned, and Kelly dropped back
for a breather. Last Jim saw of the outfit,
the old bloke, following a canine growl,
was manfully trying to force the woollies
into the yard, while in front, the. dog
stood in the gateway eyeing the bunch as
they passed in.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Bees, it’s reported, will
seek nectar at distances up to 10 miles
from the family doorstep. Too far, of
course, to gather the stuff in appreciable
quantities, for travel must take time, and
the insects wear out quickly from over-
work. Battling against heavy winds, the
extreme efforts during honeyflow and
overmuch fanning in the hives to reduce
temperatures have merciless effects, fray-
ing wings and wearing the workers out
prematurely. There’s no replacement of
tissue with insects, and every movement
must hasten the creature’s end; the time
factor doesn’t count.
♦ * * *
“Plankton”: Dolphins are frequently
jniscalled porpoises in the papers. Actu-
ally, porpoises are not found in Aus-
tralian seas. The porpoise head has a
rather blunt muzzle, and the forepart of
the body is proportionately thicker than
in dolphins. The latter have pointed
snouts, in some species prolonged into a
slender beak, and contours of the body
are decidedly streamlined. In porps. and
dolphs. the flukes of the tail are placed
horizontally, whereas the tail-fins of fishes
are always vertical. They are warm-
blooded air-breathing mammals which
suckle their young. Apart from these
creatures there is a fish ( Coryphcena )
called a dolphin inhabiting Australian
waters, a gorgeous blue and gold specie?
three to four feet long.
* * * »
“Wonk”; Passing Hobson’s paddock,
Ted pulled up to watch the old chap
snigging logs at a canter. “Gripes, ain’t
she a snorter?” growled Hobson, drag-
ging the mare to a stop. “It’s the chains
she don’t like. Strikes out hell-for-leather
from the word go, an’ it’s anythin’ from
a hand-gallop to a trot, accordin’ t’ the
size o’ the log.” “Where you takin’
’em?” inquired Ted. “Lord knows,”
snorted the old fellow, flinging an arm
wide. “I want ’em dragged t’gether t
burn, but by the time I get the flamin’
mare stopped I’m fifty yards past the
place.” Ted nodded. “Y* want to quieten
her down,” he advised. “Hitch her to a
few solid ones; that’ll steady her.” “Too
right,” was the reply. “She won’t beat
me, be cripes, not rf I got t’ work her
to a standstill.” Returning a bit later,
Ted was in time to see Hobson stop the
nag and flop in the shade of a greybox.
“How’s the mare going?” he called.
“N-no good,” puffed the old bloke, mop-
ping the sweat from his beetroot dial.
“But I-I’ll fix ’er.” He stopped for
breath, and patted his chest weakly. “I’ll
knock the cow up d’rectly, you’ll see,
when I get me second wind! ”
THE ROUSEABOUT.
I’m just a flamin’ workin’ horse, the slavey of
the shed,
A-chasin’ up an’ down the board t’ earn me
keep an’ bed.
It’s “Wool away!” an’ “Jump back quick!”
an’ I’m a woeful name;
I grab me broom an’ do me best —I’m yelled at
just the same.
A target, me, for anyone with things t’ groan
an’ grouse about:
The driven, damned, demented dolt they call the
bloomin’ rouseabout.
There’s wool along the shearin’ board an’ wool
in every bin;
Yair, greasy, burry, stinkin’ wool; an’ more
keeps pourin’ in.
It flutters from me mo. and beard, it’s in me
hair an’ eyes—
If entered for a sheep show now I’d win the
shomies’ prize.
I’m breathin’ it an’ sneezin’ it, I’m tufted like
a goat:
I reckon there’s a bale of it gone down me
achin’ throat.
You’d think these lordly shearers owned the
blessed countryside
The way they chuck their weight around an’
bellow in their pride;
It’s “rousy, here!” or “Lift y’r feet!” or
“Clean this blanky board!”
I jump like I was jist a dog an’ get a dog’s
reward.
From dawn t’ dusk I’m chivvied as a cat would
chase a mouse about,
A racin’, roared- an’ raved-at runt, a downtrod
blasted rouseabout.
When, sore an’ limp, I seek me bunk an’ try
t’ get some sleep,
I turn an’ toss with nasty dreams of hordes o’
silly sheep.
They nudge an’ whisk the blankets off an’
nibble at me toes —
It’s worse than what a boozer sees who’s got
the Jims an’ Joes.
An’ when another mornin’ breaks an’ Cookie
has his say,
I struggle from the haunted hut an’ face the
dreadful day.
The world is full o’ cryin’ coves who think their
spin is bad:
They’re sick or broke or sorry or the missus
drives ’em mad;
They’re mournin’ for the things they lost an’
railin’ at their fate.
Or weepin’ in their whiskers at the woes they
contemplate.
By cripes, they’d all have somethin’ reel t’
shake the ruddy house about
If they sweated, served an’ suffered as a flamin’
shearers’ rouseabout.
N.S.W. .
OLD-TIMER.


BRAN DAL ERrS
fm
f»CV
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—*
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
R.M.L. & F. Leads!
It leads in its standards of appraisal, .grading, lotting and
auctioneering—and, as a result, it leads in the securing of
the maximum price per lb. for every item offered.
The Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
leads also in the complete service it provides its clients—
service such as only a company with its wide facilities
can provide.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, More®, Henty and Hay
A3.22.7*
fg
If your
dog's coat
is dullj
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a courses • —■
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratcft-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
da Kirn inHino Dog Sbap.
CONDITION POWDERS l /p
SKIN LOTION */*
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SOLD
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
'7
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
pi any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
—— All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
T
is me
REGISTERED
BRAND OP
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
(Established 1898)
*arm Gates • "Ringlock" Pence • Wrought Iron Work
Prefabricated Farm Buildings • Ornamental Gates and Fences
Playground Equipment • Stock Transports • Tubular Equip-
mem for Dairy Sheds • Cham Wire Machinery and Window
Guards • Tennis Court Enclosures • Fly wire * Steel Scaffolding
melbourne-sydney-apelaipe-perth
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Fly Control.
“R.N.”: Attempts to estimate the
density of sheep blowfly populations so
as to form a basis for judging the effec-
tiveness of various controls and for
studying the habits of the blowfly and
the effect of its environment .are
described in C.S.I.R. Bulletin 195.
About 40,000 flies which had been
stained with dyes were released and a
record kept of unstained and stained flies
caught in traps; from this it was hoped
to work out the population of wild flies
within the trapped area. This was near
Canberra, and 102 traps were set out
within a circular area of 50 square miles.
Trapping continued for two c>r three days.
Densities varied from 0.3 to 5.7 adult
flies per acre ; they were relatively high
in spring and autumn and lower in sum-
mer ; the spring increase was very rapid.
Greatest distance from point of release
at which flies were taken was 4.7 miles,
covered in less than 30 hours. Rate of
dispersal of stained, flies varied from ex-
periment to experiment and seemed to be
affected by the weather.
“Wrinkles”: The blowfly-prevention
method (B. 21/8 / ’46) discovered by Cap-
tain Manchester, of Charleville (Q.),
creates without pain, blood or wound,
without crutching or jetting, a lifelong
bare patch in the crutch area and under
the tail tip. It is done once only in the
life of a sheep ; is most economical in
labor (costs a penny per lamb); destroys
one ounce only of second-grade “daggy”
wool —a gain rather than a loss. By
minimising attraction to the fly it keeps
the crutch area always hygienic, and thus
improves the general health and reduces
bodystrike.
The object of breeding wrinkly sheep
is to increase wool growth, which can
contipue under the Manchester system.
Scores of graziers in all States have testi-
fied to 99 p.c. and even 100 p.c. immunity
from strike up to seven years after treat-
ment. The Manchester method kills
maggots that have penetrated under the
skin after treatment by other methods and
painlessly destroys dead tissue. It de-
serves a wider appreciation,
—«sr-
Money in Lambs.
“Mac”: It’s there all right if good
management backs up good breeding.
This season in M.L., in spite of fertiliser
and labor, shortages, one farmer on 440
acres of flat put 2300 ewes to the rams,
tailed 2810 lambs and sent 2400 of them
fat off the mothers in one draft to the
works; average weight, 371 b. Another
on ridges, with less than 400 acres, put
1327 ewes to the rams, tailed 1940 lambs
and sold 1654 fat off the mothers, at an
average of 361 b. A third, on downland
of 450 acres, mated 1250 ewes, tailed
1470 lambs and sold all but 85 at an
average of 421 b.
This is good Southland sheep country
and the results come from excellent man-
agement, including wise use of fertiliser,
adequate drainage and ample lime—to
the amount of several tons per acre.
Research Needs.
“Agric”; When every step of any mag-
nitude taken by a Government is evalu-
ated on its vote-catching propensities
such national problems as soil and pasture
research do not come into the picture to
the extent which their importance war-
rants. To remedy this all Governments
should guarantee their technical and re-
search departments sufficient funds over
a number of years to enable them to fol-
low adequate programmes.
The problem of soil fertility was con-
sidered by the House of Lords of such
“While you re down below have a decco for me teeth.”
vital national importance, even in 1943
(or perhaps because it was war-time), as
to warrant a full debate on the cycle of
“a healthy soil, a healthy plant, a healthy
animal, and, finally, a healthy man.”
With her intensive farming, soil fertility is
a less serious problem in Great Britain
than in Australia. In fact, the Duke of
Norfolk told the Lords that, taking Great
Britain as a whole, the Government did
not consider that fertility had been lost,
and large areas had been greatly improved
by mechanical cultivation, drainage and
liming. In Australia man has for years
been interfering with the natural life of
the soil by timber falling, ringbarking, des-
truction of natural grasses, etc., while the
destruction of bird life has added its
quota to today’s pastoral problems, and
nature has assisted by heavy tropical
rains leaching the coastal soils, which, in
Queensland, are relied upon largely for
the fattening of cattle.
The late Dr. Eugen Hirschfeld did
splendid work in pasture research on his
Bybera property, but he was ploughing a
lone furrow. Methods . adopted by
America or China to defeat soil erosion
or increase soil fertility are not capable
of acceptance holus bolus in many parts
of Australia, where a large area of
country is necessary to enable a grazier
to earn a comfortable living. However,
were soil and pasture research in those
parts carried to a successful conclusion,
it would be possible to reduce what is
considered necessary today for a living
area.
Erosion Control up North.
“Sarina”: Guinea grass doesn’t please
some canegrowers in the north because
it sometimes comes out by the roots jvhen
hit by floodwaters, leaving holes that help
erosion along. Others like me claim
that the grass steadies the rush of flood-
water and causes silt to be deposited, thus
adding to the amount of earth forming
the banks. Some think that Panicum
nuticum or Para grass is a fine erosion-
preventive for !he verges of streams sub-
ject to severe floods. Para and Guinea,
though botanically related, are dissimilar
in growth, Guinea being an upright stool-
ing grass, whereas the Para is a’strong
runner. No one will say that Guinea is
as good as Para for checking erosion on
permanent creeks, but it is undoubtedly
the hardier, for, on dry creeks through
winter and spring, it gamely throws out
green shoots whilst Para beside it shows
no sign of life.
Giant bamboo along the banks of the
Burdekin five or six years ago tended to
break loose during the phenomenal floods
of last March; though observers believe
it would hold anything if properly con-
solidated. Creeping bamboo and banyan
figs, both abnormal rooters, would be
put in on the Burdekin if young trees
could be obtained. Clerodendron hedge
plants and tamarinds have proved ideal
for holding erodable banks during flood
periods. Happily, they are also capable
of lasting through the prolonged dry
periods between wet seasons.
Rearing Chickens.
“Rooster”: When'eggs start to chip,
hang a curtain in front of the incubator,
thus excluding the light. First chickens
to hatch invariably scramble over the
top of eggs between them and the light,
and some chipped eggs may be over-
turned, the chickens being smothered be-
fore they can struggle out. It’s inadvis-
able to allow ’em to drop down into the
nursery tray until the hatch is completed;
the sudden change in temperature is
liable to give them a chill. Leave the
incubator closed until all the chicks are
ready,' usually 21 days. They can then
be toe-punched before transferring to the
brooder via the nursery tray. A day is
sufficient in the latter.
Statistics show that chicks removed
from the artificial warmth of brooders
in under six weeks suffer up to 20 p.c.
mortality. Six to eight weeks is essential
for ’em if they’re to survive. Tempera-
tures should be around 90deg. F. for the
first three days, gradually falling at a
daily rate of 2 p.c. until acclimatisation to
normal temperatures. Brooders should be
well ventilated.
Don’t try to feed chicks for at least
48 hours after hatching. Crop and tiny
gizzard take two to three days to develop.
Most chicks will readily take up coarse
sand. The grains pass through the
gizzard, which is then ready to help in
the grinding of the food as it passes
through from the crop.
With special care in feeding during the
early stages they soon begin to “pick up."
Green feed and separated milk are
natural chicken food. Dry and wet bran
mashes ensure vigorous growth. Change
of ground at regular intervals is as good
as a tonic. For this reason portable
chicken-houses are more convenient than
fixed sites.
Planting and Pruning Citrus.
“Mr.”: Early spring is the best time to
plant in Victoria. The soil is usually
sufficiently moist after the winter rains,
and with the warmer weather the trees
should readily establish themselves. G.
W. Gayford, in the Vic. “Journal of
Agriculture,” points out that regular
pruning of citrus is not required, but
when the operation does become neces-
sary it should be done in spring. Some-
times a heavy thinning out of a tree lack-
ing in vigor will cause it to make fresh
fruiting wood. Conversely, removal of
strongly-growing vertical shoots from
vigorous young lemon-trees helps to main-
tain them in good shape and to encourage
the more fruitful horizontal shoots.
Vertical shoots are best removed at their
point of origin, but delay ail pruning until
danger of severe frosts has passed.
Bees in Spring.
“Bumble”; In early spring we make
an inspection of all hives to ascertain the
condition of colonies and hive stores and
whether all have laying queens. In this
Victorian district the silver and Ovens
wattles bloom long before nectar is avail-
able, so honey stores must be plentiful to


OnogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“ It’s the Gas
That Kills Them.”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats.
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas “A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone; MA 6311
S&i j
fti
/Ai
E
BJm
K
1
m
a
3
mm
A
m
“I often wonder what the Vintners buy
One half so precious as the goods they sell”
OMAR KHAYYAM
The Persia of old Omar was the legendary birthplace of
wine. But much as they were cherished, the wines of the
Ancient World offered none of the variety, the purity or
the exquisite flavour that distinguish today’s Wines of
Tintara. A new Rubaiyat is needed to sing the praises of
rich, mellow Gold Label Port and Gold Label Muscatel . . .
of piquant, smooth Amontillado Sherry ... of the regal
Tintara Sparkling Wines —Champagne, Hock, Moselle, and
Burgundy . . . and of fragrant Old Brandy.
R 8 Mi
THI6
mu
'l' W %
V\»°
■
for everi|
re inforcement need
-FROM TINY PARCELS
TO 2-TON PACKAGES
Gerrard representatives
are freely available in all
States to render expert
advice on your package
reinforcement problems.
Also Corrugated Fas-
teners, Bag Ties and
Packing Room Supplies,
GERRARD
■
WIRE TYING MACHINES * CO.
PTY. LTD.
Head Office:
18-24 Ireland St., Melbourne West
\
AND AT SY D N
PERTH HOBA
Bl
mm
m
mlmm
BRISBANE —ADELAIDE
TOWNSVILLE —CAIRNS
Mll
carry the colonies to full brood-rearing
camcity. Shortages are made up w
good extracted honey, which is heated
fnd thinned a little with water and given
at blood heat in feeders inside the hives.
Larvae in the brood combs is evidence
that queens are right, but we make a
point of finding and clipping queens be-
fore the hives become crowded. Th
practice saves a lot of work later, and
we don’t lose many swarms. Queenless
hives at this time of year offer a poser,
for they will have no brood, and the bees
are old and unable to raise a queen. We
find it best to unite these stocks with
weak colonies where there are queens
laying, as the deficit may be made up
more easily later than by building up
such stocks to a satisfactory queen-right
Stcit6
Uniting stocks with mostly old bees is
best done by placing the queenless colony
on top of the other, a sheet of brown
paper between and an entrance left for
the top story. The hive odor will be
general by the time the bees chew through
the paper and join up. It helps a lot it
the best colonies have been selected to
provide larvae for the batch of young
queens needed, and a frame or two of
drone comb might well be given to these
hives for the best mating drones.
Fencing.
“Atlanta”; Split ironbark or sandal-
wood makes the best posts. Cypress pine
will last a lifetime in heavy ground, but,
like coolibah, rots quickly in sand. In
black country here in Queensland split
box posts are solid after 40 years, but
they’re hot always neat. Split ironbark
will outlast any other strainer. Clear
overhanging timber at least 10 feet on
each side of the line and mark it with
3ft. pegs every 100 yards or so. Scatter
posts evenly along the line to eliminate
carrying.
It’ll be easier to erect two or more
strainers first and then sight posts; be-
tween them. Some fencers stand each
post as they go ; others sink a line of
holes and straighten posts later. Post
holes should be 20-24 in, in depth,
strainers 30-36 in. Length of panels
should average around 12ft. centre to
centre, with 15ft. the maximum, but
where droppers are used spaces between
posts may be 20ft. or more. Make a
neat job by facing all split posts the same
way. Be sure wire holes are bored
straight and level. Don’t use cheap or
second-grade wire. Galvanised No. 12
high tension is the best. All boundary
fences should carry six plain wires for
sheep, three barbs or two barbs and a
plain for cattle.
Where timber is scarce iron posts of
the drive-in type are speedy to erect, save
time and labor, and replacements are neg-
ligible.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Better eggs are got
from Muscovy ducks if they’re kept
away from dirty waterholes. Growing
ducks won’t fatten quickly if allowed to
swim constantly Cracked corn, soaked
stale bread, bran and pollard mash and
an abundance of green feed fatten them.
They should have access to plenty of
clean water, especially at feeding-time.
“F.L.”; Trying to grow French beans
before the ground has warmed sufficiently
usually means the plants are stunted.
Later crops make up the leeway with
sturdy, vigorous growth, and their yield
is much better. A good start is important
with beans, and they seldom look back
then. A good selection for the home
patch is Waxpod (butter), Feltham Pro-
lific (dwarf) and Epicure (the best
climber). A row or two of navy beans
is worth a trial. Well grown, they are
good for use as French beans or may be
harvested for seed.
“Mr.”: For scaly leg dip feet and
shanks of the fowl in crude oil and scrub
with a hard brush—in the morning to
allow time for the oil to drain off before
the birds go to roost. Keep the oil off
the upper parts of legs and feathers.
Disinfect perches by spraying with crude
oil.
“Bumble”: Source of honey and pre-
vailing weather should be considered
when extracting (B. 21/8/’46). Density
of the product matters a great deal. In
moist climates or during a spell of inter-
mittent wet weather the combs should be
left till completely capped over, and this
applies when thin nectar is gathered from
ground flora, as in spring.' But in dry
districts the honey may become too dense
if left, and combs half-capped will be
ready for the baskets. When over-dense,
honey may prove inextractable or the
combs may suffer damage when extract-
ing.
“Lub”: The native wattles make fine
hedges. They may be pollarded and
trimmed, right proportions, and such
treatment which increases their flori-
ferousness. The Silver and Cootamundra
wattles are without peer, but most of the
medium- to tall-growing kinds should cjo
excellently if local conditions are suit-
able. The bushy growth after pollarding
makes for ideal breakwinds and shelter
belts for stock.
“G.E.M.”: If you use a non-safety
razor keep three or four hollow-ground
ones. Rest them periodically to allow
steel molecules to readjust themselves.
Use a strong blade for heavy growth,
finish with a delicate blade. Use best
brush and soap. Rub lather in well, then
re-lather before shaving. Work olive oil
or mutton fat into strop and polish both
sides with lead piping weekly. Keep
blade flat on strop and on the face. En-
case strop in dustproof cover in cool,
dry place. Dry razor blade and handle
and give final strop before encasing
razor.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calqpel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole systerti is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3 1- & 1/3.
STOP^upßupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the rw Rou*<pl
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
TbPe ROUSSEL! APPLIANCE CO.,
(Bent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GSN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Arncliffe (N.S.W.) Family
Tells Money-Making "Secret"
Mr. and Mrs. PEARCE and family—Robin (6) and Diane (3)
photographed in their home at 84 Wollongong Road, Arncliffe.
m
m
w.
You Can Invest Now
in the £90,000,000
Second Security Loan
Opening October 15th
With its better than bank
interest; repayment backed by
the whole assets of Australia;
and ready availability of money
in emergency the Second
Security Loan is the logical
place for your savings.
The money raised will be used to
meet continuing war commitments,
to finance important National
Public Works, and to provide funds
necessary for the rehabilitation of
ex-servicemen and women.
In addition, your investment in
Security Bonds helps keep prices
down, and speeds reconversion of
industry.
If you have £lO or more saved
already, you can make an
advance subscription to the
Second Security Loan at once,
and interest will be paid there-
on from the day you make your
investmerit through any bank,
savings bank, or stockbroker.
Interest is at the rate of 3i% for
12 years, or 2% for three years.
Buy Security Bonds now for cash
from your savings—and buy more
by instalments out of income when
the loan is officially open.
Security Bonds are available in
denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO and £l,OOO. Make an invest-
ment to-day.
Listen to Round 2,
Australian National
Quiz Championship,
8 p.m. Wednesday,
September 18.
All Stations.
Loan Investment
Helps Keep Prices
Down
“Save for
Security,”
says W. E. Mc-
Carthy, Com-
m onwealth
Prices Com-
missioner.
“Afterworld Mr. W. E. McCarthy
War I, savings were squandered
during the inflationary boom, and
untold loss and misery were
suffered in the resultant slump,”
said Mr. McCarthy, discussing the
Second Security Loan. “The forces
responsible for that great economic
disturbance are present in greater
strength to-day than ever before.
“Despite the presence of grave
economic danger, the end of
World War II found us with
these advantages:—
“1. Price Control operated dur-
ing the whole of the war and has
continued into the post-war period.
“2. Six years after the com-
mencement of hostilities, the price
level had risen less than 24 per
cent., compared with a rise of ,32
per cent, after four years of World
War I and of 70 PER CENT, re-
corded two years later.
“3. Price ceilings have been fixed
for all major commodities. Com-
pulsory price markings of many
goods and compulsory exhibition of
price lists give consumers the
opportunity of checking their
purchases.
“But the fixation and publishing
of price ceilings will not stop in-
flation. Price control requires a
public co-operation that means
avoidance qf black markets and the
exercise of patience. Production is
steadily overtaking demand, and
it is worth waiting to purchase on
a buyers’ market.
“Investment of savings in the
Second Security Loan helps
prevent inflation and preserves
purchasing power for use when
goods are in greater supply.”
mz
WA.
m
Interviewed in their small
but attractive home, Mr. and
Mrs. Pearce of Arncliffe told
a secret which they say has
ended their' money worries.
A typical moderate-income
Australian family, the
Pearces have found a way to
provide for a comfortable
future even though their
weekly income is not a large
one.
Asked if he would give details of
his plan, Mr. Pearce said: “It’s no
secret—just a matter of common-
sense and thinking ahead.
“The war gave me my first big
chance to save. I was working long
hours and making bigger money
than I had ever made before. To
help the war effort, I put most of
my extra earnings into War Bonds
—it seemed a duty as I wasn’t
thinking of profits then.
“One day last year, we
counted up the Bonds we had
bought and the interest they
had earned for us.”
Good Return
“It was amazing the way it had
mounted up. I had been helping
the war effort, but, apnarently, I
had been helping myself, too.
“When we realised what a happy
position we were in because of
those wartime Bonds, the wife and
I agreed that the only thing to do
was to go on buying more.
“So we kept on saving and bought
more Bonds when the first Secur-
ity Loan opened last March.
“Now we have drawn some
more savings out of the bank
and put them into the Second
Security Loan to get that
‘better than bank interest’.”
The Future
The Pearce family’s future is as
wisely planned as their saving
methods. There are a lot of things
they want to buy, but they are
going to wait until goods are plen-
tiful and more reasonably priced.
“I earned the money the hard
way,” said Mr. Pearce, “and I
am not giving it away too
easily. We can afford to wa.it,
and I have planned great
things for the kids here. They
will get all the chances I never
had myself.
“Yes, the future looks good to me
and it is buying Bonds that did it.
That’s the secret.”
Save far Security
Maks an APUANCE
SUBSCRIPTION
Near to the
SECOND
SECURITY
N4.P2L.113
left the “guesthouse” you had to keep on
walking until, with flies roosting in
dozens on your back and hotly pursued
by hundreds more, you returned from
your walk a great deal faster than you
began it.
Three old horses, forlorn and emaci-
ated, used for carting wood and bringing
loads of one kind and another from the
village, mooched about, when disen-
gaged, snuffling at the ground in the
hope of some day finding a blade of grass ;
or lay sprawled out as though dead in
patches of shade when there were any.
Cats, fowls, ducks and goats roamed
about everywhere, too. Whenever they
thought there was a storm brewing the
fowls used to camp for the night on a
sofa, ancient and dilapidated, in a corner
of the verandah.
*T' HE handyman, whose name was
I Albert, had a kink. He would take
you aside and tell you that certain of the
inhabitants were always blackening his
character and that he was going to
“summons” them.
“Little they know,” he would ejaculate
fiercely, “that I’m going to prosecute
them and demand heavy damages, too! ”
If the next day happened to be a Fri-
day or a Saturday you were always likely
to meet him, between six and seven p.m.,
staggering home from the pub. His woes
and traducers completely forgotten, al-
though, perhaps, his face would be
scratched or battered somewhat by black-
berry bushes into which he had fallen, or
because he had been involved in a brawl,
he would be wearing the smile of a man
whose afternoon has been most blissful.
And he would be gesticulating freely as
he talked to himself or argued, but al-
ways amiably, with imaginary com-
panions.
Albert had as assistants or offsiders an
ancient named Arthur and a youth, raw-
boned and sawny, named Archie, who
had a shock of hair which resembled a
tussock. Arthur, *who must have been
getting on for 80 years of age, was first
up nevertheless. He had an awful job
to get Archie out of bed; whose yells,
threats and loud-voiced grumbling greatly
reinforced the early morning din. Archie
was supposed to provide wood for the
kitchen fire, but never seemed to obtain
sufficient.
If you told Arthur how well he was
looking he would at once, shaking hisbead
mournfully, inform you that he “’ad a
bad ’eart”—which did not prevent him,
however, from rolling himself cigarettes
innumerable and sometimes staying up all
night long, smoking them, as he tried to
cope with arrears of washing-up. Nor
did it deter him from entertaining the
guests, when requested, with the songs,
maudlin most of them, that were sung
outback (he had worked in shearing-
sheds in his younger days), and extracting
from a concertina a dirgelike maundering
that also belonged to the Never-Never,
presumably.
“You don’t want t’ take too much
notice of what that old bloke ses,” Albert,
who was never sorry for anybody but
himself, would advise. “ ’E’s orf ’ees
onion, and, furthermore, between you and
me, a bit too fond of the rum.”
The maid-of-all-work’s name was
Eileen. She was shambling, untidy, lollop-
ing, clumsy and in the habit of anointing
herself with scent of a kind that traders,
I imagine, take with them in casks to the
South Sea islands. I often wondered
where she got it and how many buckets-
ful she used yearly.
The piano quivered with apprehension
and groaned inwardly whenever it heard
Eileen coming, for she, too, never having
had a day’s tuition in her life, was given
to “vamping.” I daresay that piano was
the only thing Eileen ever vamped.
The proprietress was middle-aged, mas-
sive, rotund and blowsy. Her rotundity
was accentuated always by tightly-fitting
bodices and slacks. Her voice was harsh
and masculine. She hardly ever spoke
without raising it and couldn’t do any-
thing without making a clatter. She swore
like a drover in private but was often
overheard. As soon as she got up in the
morning she’d begin abusing Archie, yell-
ing at Eileen and battering the walls of
the kitchen, the dining-room and the pas-
sageways as she bustled about, with the
vigor of a deckhand on a tugboat, sweep-
ing.
“She’s an ’ard woman t’ work for,”
said Albert to me one day. “Many’s
the time I’ve been goin’ t’ tell ’er off
and if she was t’ give me the sack I'd
take it. If she was t’ go down on ’er
bended knees I wouldn’t turn up t’ work
again next mornin’, either.”
MOST of the guests were elderly and
trying hard to put up with it. They
all, according to themselves, had ailments
of one kind and another, and you heard,
when you sat or stood anywhere near
them, terrible information about their
‘^operations.”
They didn’t seem, between meals, to
know what to do with themselves. When
not talking about their ailments real or
imaginary, they sat about hunched up
on the verandah like fowls on wet days,
staring unseeingly into the heat-stricken
wilderness. But you should have seen
them eat! I doubt whether sharks could
be more voracious.
On Saturday afternoons we were left
to fend for ourselves and either had tea
out or brought something to eat home
with us, for the proprietress was in the
habit of spending this period in the
“Ladies’ Lounge” of the pub, and rarely,
if ever, returned until about seven, or,
if the day had been hotter than usual,
much later.
Now that another year is ending I
suppose they’ll all be there again with
the same old ailments and perhaps some
more operations, which will not, I ven-
ture to predict, have impaired their appe-
tites in the least. But there’ll be one
guest less for the insects to feast upon
and for the horses, cows, goats, crows
and tillers of the overheated clay to stare
at in wonderment, as they have every
justification for doing. It is bad enough
to have to go back there from time to
time in dreams.


WOLFES
u
One a day
for your health's sake
99
WOLFE’S Aromatic SCHXAPPS
« • ' ;
WS.I74
m
m
om&sznuwnuiu
ih tmtmn iu»
*
Cjreat lAJlille *ljaclih
The “Great White Yachts” of the KJP.M. Line re-
kindle happy pre-war memories glamourous cruises
sunny days tropical nights.
Soon, it is hoped, these big luxurious liners will be
again sailing from Australian ports on theiit regular
schedules to the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated in the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD ; SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
To the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
•h 4*
“The miners like to - see themselves in the
centre of the stage.”
We’d like to see more of them in the
pit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Under the new scale married men on low
incomes still pay £l3 tax.”
Unlucky again!
•h 4* 4* *J*
“Taxi-drivers are becoming more polite and
less extortionate.” — “Sun.”
At last they’re giving passengers a fare
go.
4* 4* + 4*
, “Mrs. Thomas said that English manufac-
turers made giant strides during the war and
are still forging ahead.”—' “Daily Telegraph.”
We still prefer our pants made to
measure.
4* 4* 4*
A Senator tore his trousers in a bumpy
plane trip.”
And this month he may even lose his
seat.
•}* •?• *|*
In Germany, Stalin insists on having
his zone way.
»1*
The names of ordinary horses cannot be
repeated for 11 years.”— Racing article.
But the names punters call them are
repeated every Saturday,
•h
“2.15 —Spotlight on Literature. Charlotte
Bronte’s Jane Tyre.”
—Programme in Adelaide “Radio Call.”
When the spotlight was switched on, it
revealed that Jane had a spare tyre but
needed Eyre.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The experts say that drinkers can be divided
into several sorts.” — “Daily Telegraph”
Mainly those who know the barmaid
and those who don’t.
“Hollywood censorship becomes stricter, and
soon they’ll probably make it illegal for a
cowboy to kiss his horse.” — “Sun.”
Is that what they call the Munro doc-
trine?
•h 4*
“There certainly is money—for some—in
pursuit of the elusive electric hare.” — “Sun. 1
But not for those who are dogged by
bad luck.
•I* 4* 4*
“Put a woman beside a gaming and
her normal restraint seems to disappear.”
—“Daily Telegraph
Along with her cash.
❖ 4*
“I grind my teeth when I see advertised a
brand of smoke I cannot get.”
—“Daily Telegraphi”
Aye, there’s the rubbed!.
•I* 4* 4*
“Woman has no excuse today to look any-
where near her age.”—“ Daily Telegraph
Especially when it’s so easy to look
the other way.
*!* 4* 4*
“It is said the British aren’t worrying about
the soap ration.” — “Sun.”
But many caustic remarks are being
made.
Housewives certainly expect butchers
to deliver the goods.
•h •h ■i*
Funny how a man who is taken in feels
put out.
Sound Advice.
“One column gave a spirited support to Noel
Coward’s assertion that women should be
beaten regularly ‘like a gong.’ ”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Humanitarians will rise
In righteous wrath to criticise
Such drastic physical correction
Of woman’s errors or defection,
And claim it cowardly to clip her
Across the ear, or use a slipper
Where it would prove far more effective
Than sermonising or inyective.
But not the staunchest feminist
Could with a show of sense insist
That moral suasion can surpass
Stern force when girls are bold as brass,
Or argue that a man would wrong ’em
If daily he were moved to dong ’em.
BERT.
Nomenclature.
Will Shakspeare said. What’s in a name ?
To this I answer, “Quite a lot!”
Oh, heavens! What a wallop came
That night I called Patricia Dot.
T. W. N.
The Heel.
“Special shoes with invisible built-up heels
make men look an inch and three-quarters
taller.” — “Sunday Sun.”
He had blue eyes and wavy hair;
He was tffe answer to her prayer ;
And soon his noble mien and carriage
Turned Daphne’s every thought to
marriage.
Though Daphne racked and searched her
mind
The slightest fault she couldn’t find.
And yet her lover had the willies
Lest she should find that, like Achilles,
Her hero bold, her man of steel.
Contained a weakness in his heel.
D. H. E.
Loose Ends.
By BRONISLAU BUNK.
My word, I didn’t realise before how
widely read my column really is. I
used to think, like everyone else on our
Great Daily, that the juvenile-mentality
public to whom we have to write down
just slung the rag away after lapping up
the screamer-headline murders, the Holly-
wood divorce bits, the strip stories, racing
stuff, Gf-string swimsuit photos and how
little Deirdre saved her baby brother
from the burning cot while her parents
(“a quiet, sensible young couple devoted
to their family”) were away at a hot jive
contest. But now —well, I must tell you
about it.
You remember the other day I told of
a farmer out from Hay being fined for
keeping his kids home from school, and I
“Is it a boy or a girl P”
“I'll tell you tomorrow
expressed the opinion that all the cow
cockies around those parts would, if that
became general, be soon in the outrage-
ous position of having to pay to have all-
their cows milked instead of getting it
done on the cheap by the small fry of the
family? Well, I got two letters about
it. In one the writer pointed out that
cow cockies in Bin. rainfall country would
be about as plentiful as long-handled
shovels and bowyangs in the Bank of
England’s boardroom, and the other
asked did I think Jerseys or Herefords
did best on'withered bluegrass and dried
dock.
Very funny, but I’m still not satisfied
I was wrong. I reason it this way. It’s
obvious that Hay was called after the
stuff that cows ruminate over while chew-
ing it, so it must have been grown to feed
to cows in that district. Anyway, to think
that cows can’t live way out west is
ridiculous —I saw lots grazing out near
Penrith last Sunday, and that’s 40 miles
west of Sydney. But the real point is
that in a job like this there are always
people waiting ready to snipe you when
you say something they think is wrong.
If letters keep pouring in at this rate I’ll
have to start checking up on my facts —
and whoever heard of a columnist doing
that?
You’ll simply die laughing at this one.
I nearly did when I heard it yesterday.
It’s a beaut—and original, too.
A couple of swaggies were plodding
along in a blinding duststorm. One of
them said “Yes, this is pretty crook, but
you ought to see the ones we used to get
around Forbes —you couldn’t see your
hand in front of your face.”. The other
one said, “That’s nothing—where I come
from down Deniliquin way it’s so bad the
crows fly backwards to keep the dust out
of their eyes!” It’s a corker, isn’t it?
I woke up this morning with my head
going up and down like a piston in a
jet engine (I suppose now someone will
write in to jet engines don’t have
pistons). Yes, you’ve guessed it —I was
at the big party thrown by the Jo Gug-
genheimers at Banano’s last night. I
believe it was my Manx cat that brought
me in. There were lashings of grog, of
course, and, well, I suppose I’m a bit of a
lad. As the wife said as I was gloomily
looking through the “Personal and Miss-
ing Friends” for the lottery results, I
, shouldn’t go mixing my drinks so much.
Giuseppe, the head waiter (one of the
proudest things in my young life is that
that eminent hobnobber with the mighty
calls me by my first name), never fails to
stress the danger of this, too.
Perhaps I had been injudicious, for it
was less than half an hour after I’d had
the beer and lemon that I tossed off the
Manhattan. Still, it couldn’t have been
that that put me under the table. But I
have a pretty good idea what did. There
was a slashing, vivacious blonde who’d
been bowling over gin slings and cherry
brandies by the dozen and she had me by
the lapels waxing confidential about her
husband. By gosh, a man has a wild
time on this job.
One of the most popular figures in the
realm of sport is Solly Boodel, the
leviathan bookie. Solly confesses to buy-
ing his silk shirts in dozen lots, has a suit
for every day in the week (so have I —l
have it on) and is never seen on or off
any course without a pansy in his button-
hole. I was talking to a couple of hickey-
hocks (jockeys to you) in Bligh-street the
Other day and Solly’s name cropped up.
One of the whip-wielders started to imi-
tate Solly’s high-pitched voice and his
giggle, and the fastidious way he’s always
primping his back hair. Then the other
one said in a falsetto voice: “I wonder
why Solly always wears a pansy?” at
which they both roared with laughter. It
struck me as being rather a silly ques-
tion, for I thought everybody connected
with racing knew that Solly has one of
the best-kept gardens in the city, and that
he has for years been importing the best
procurable pansy seed. They tell me
that even the pundits of the Botanic
Gardens have a healthy respect for the
displays Solly can put on in the spring.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line. ,
“Kindly and Amiable”?
It comes as a shock to read in bur
dailies such headlined articles as “Japs
are a kindly and amiable race.” Those
of us who have fair reason for disliking
the Japs are rather surprised that we
have not retained our vindictiveness.
There were times when we could have
destroyed them without qualms—justi-
fiably killed them for their cruelty and
because they were directly responsible
for the deaths of so many fellow-
prisoners.
That is all past, but we feel that we
know them so well they should be
punished for their crimes. Not only
the guards who bashed us, but the nation
that reared and taught them. MacArthur
is punishing them shrewdly by making
himself their master and taking away
traditions and superstitions. His colossal
task may succeed provided no one is
allowed to undermine his plans.
It is only natural that ex-p.-0.-w.
should object to “kindly and amiable”
fictions. And to read that in certain
places Jap prisoners held by the Allies
are living in comparative luxury and idle-
ness makes us disgusted that our experi-
ences have been forgotten so soon. For
the sake of the future the menacing
potentiality of that little yellow machine
must be destroyed. Unless he is made to
realise that he was defeated and that
making war again is an absurd impossi-
bility Australians will always know in-
security and fear.
The anniversary of the war’s end
passed unnoticed by many Australians,
and yet how nearly they became slaves
like the men of the Eighth Division! If
we come to regard the Japanese as a
“kindly and amiable” race and do not
remember their treachery, cruelty and
fighting prowess we may all become their
slaves.
One day I was talking to a young
Japanese officer at Haisho, Hainan
Island. We called him the Bay Wonder,
and he had been in England before the
war. I suggested that Japan could never
win the war, could never defeat America.
“But we have defeated her many times
in many battles.”
“But you must lose the war eventually.”
“No. Perhaps we make peace. Then
we win another battle because we still
have Nippon. Then twenty, fifty, one
hundred years to come we fight again.
One day Nippon will rule all land and
sea.”
Most Japs think that way,—Sgt.
Damocles (Vic.).
“Return to Nauru”
Though I didn’t see it in the papers or
in the Parliamentary reports it is a fact
that on the afternoon of Wednesday,
May 15, 1946, at the Rabaul War
Criminal Court, Lieut. - Commander
Nakayama, of 67 Naval Garrison Unit,
was sentenced to death by hanging for the
murder of Colonel Chalmers, Dr. Quinn
and Messrs. Shugg, Harmer and Doyle.
The only witness was Ma Na Fai, a
Chinese from Nauru. Other evidence
produced was documentary.
This is the story: On March 23, 1943,
the five white men were moved to a house
in the Chinese location on Nauru. On
the night of March 25 there were three
Allied air raids with bombing and straf-
ing. Eight Jap medium bombers and
seven fighters were damaged on the air-
strip, and the lookout station was blown
up. About 2 a.m. on March 26 a truck
carrying a number of Japs and the five
white men was driven to the beach, where
Colonel Chalmers and his companions
were shot and buried in a hole dug for
the purpose.
Nakayama admitted responsibility for
the killing, but claimed that it was justi-
fied. As O.C. Garrison he had received
an intelligence report that a large Allied
convoy had been sighted about 300 miles
south of Nauru. He considered that a
landing on Nauru was intended, and that
if Colonel Chalmers and his companions
were to escape they would incite the
natives to revolt and embarrass the Jap
defence of the island. To ensure that
they would not escape it was “necessary”
to kill them.
The trial was all over in one afternoon.
Incidentally, the first few War Criminal
trials in Rabaul attracted a great deal of
attention from the troops, but their in-
terest quickly waned. In many later cases
there was not a single spectator in the
public section of the Court.—H. G. G.
(N.S.W.).
Forgotten Men
As the father of a 20-year-old lad who
met an unknown death on Ambon, I
support “Ci-Devant” (B. 21 /8 / ’46).
There were acts of heroism and humanity
and superb devotion to duty among those
who suffered the horrors of Japanese
prison camps, and any but the present so-
called “Government” would have seen
that the men were decorated. I know at
least one man —a medical colonel who
would not thank me for mentioning his
name—who is in the highest degree
worthy of honor in some tangible form.
The oily mouthings of Ministers are not
enough.
With a little luck, and some hard work,
the present supine and spineless mob on
the Ministerial benches may be replaced
by persons with a sense of the fitness of
things. Perhaps they will call for recom-
mendations from the ex-prisoners.
Last Anzac Day, my own part in the
march over, I watched with a catch in the
throat the 'remnants of the Eighth Divi-
sion pass the saluting base. Among them
was a pitiful little handful of the sur-
vivors of Ambon, their black triangle
over a red triangle on an oval grey back-
ground emblazoned on their banner. I
hope that next year I may see some at
least of these men proudly wearing some
decoration other than the general service
ribbon.
And I also hope that the incoming Gov-
ernment will initiate a thorough investi-
gation into the conduct of the short but
tragic campaigns in Timor, Ambon, Java
and Rabaul. The conduct of these cam-
paigns was the responsibility of the
present “Government,” and there is much
“Pull into the side! Youll find thirteen dead unlucky this time!"
which should be explained, including the
treatment meted out to the man in the
best position to know, the commander of
the “Gull” force on Ambon. —L. C.
Legge-Wilkinson (Liscard-street, Elstern-
wick, Vic.).
Leave
I still can’t understand “Bondi Beach-
comber’s” statement (B. 28 /8 / ’46) that
officers were “privileged to take leave”
every six months. No officer was privi-
leged to take leave. He was granted
leave just as the troops were, and it took
at least the C.O. of a unit to grant it.
During five and a half years’ service I
never met a C.O. who was indulgent or
unwise enough to grant his officers leave
(contrary to regulations) every six months.
Nor, until “B.B.” made the statement,
have I heard of any such cases.
“8.8.’5” further assertion that “few
officers spent more than six months in
the islands without a mainland spell”
has no substance in fact. If such were
the case a continual ferry service would
have been in operation, and such con-
tinual change would have mitigated
against the fighting efficiency of the
Army, no matter how efficient or ineffi-
cient the officers were.
My own formation had one visit to
the islands lasting 20 months, and during
that time the only men to return to the
mainland were a very few officers and
n.c.os. who were sent to Army schools.
This was Army policy and had nothing
to do with the wishes of the formation.
—C. S. (N.S.W.).
“8.8.’5” contention (B. 28/8/’46) that
Army compasionate leave is niggardly
finds no echo in the Navy.
A stoker petty officer from my ship in
Rabaul was having domestic trouble in
Sydney. He saw the captain in the morn-
ing and was on the midday ’plane south
with a No. 1 priority.
A Royal Navy leading seaman attached
to an Australian frigate of the British
Pacific fleet at Macassar wanted to get
home to his wife. She had contracted
T.B. He was flown most of the way to
Sydney, then put aboard a warship sailing
the next day for England.
Granted, the reason must be genuine,
but there are few cases refused on
grounds other than the over-riding need
of operational efficiency. Macnell
(R.A.N.).
Saluting
Every recruit is deeply prejudiced
against saluting—he regards it as the
symbol of his lost liberty and of Army
snobbery. Part of the blame for this
misconception belongs to the Army,
which itself often treats the salute as a
form of discipline and servility. For ex-
ample, in one capital city officers were
sent out as decoys, followed by provosts
whose duty it was to arrest the soldier
who failed to salute. Only fools or
egotists can believe that a salute given
through fear of punishment has any real
value or significance.
It was left to regimental officers to rid
the salute of its unpleasant associations.
They didn’t demand to be saluted; they
asked to be saluted once a day as the
military way of saying “hello.” They
asked also that visiting officers should be
saluted in a spirit of hospitality and wel-
come. And in every happy and efficient
unit the men saluted their officers cheer-
fully and smartly. The salute was the
symbol of comradeship in arms and of
respect for genuine leadership. Which
is why many an officer who looked for
cheap popularity missed out on the salute
spontaneously given to those who did
their job*conscientiously.
When the war ended a local com-
mander decreed that all Jap prisoners in,
his sector would be required to salute
all Australians, irrespective of rank. One
junior officer boldly argued that the
decree was opposed to the spirit of the
salute, and the commander, to his credit,
admitted his error and cancelled the
order.
Only as a symbol of comradeship and
mutual respect, and only so long as its
foundations of spontaneity and sincerity
are maintained, should the salute find a
place in the New Army.— Peter Mike
(W.A.).
Army Doctors
As a medical man recently discharged
from the A.1.F., I’d like to air a griev-
ance of mine and my fellows.
Practically all of my army career was
spent in the field as a company officer
in a field ambulance, and latterly as a
regimental medical officer, I saw parts
of two campaigns, and all of another.
The amount of clinical experience gained
was negligible. There was little or no
attempt to shuffle the appointments of
young M.Os., and one often met other
young men who had held cushy hospital
appointments for years and had no appa-
rent inclination to share the hardships of
the battalion docs. The latter, because
they did not complain, remained R.M.Os.
Another factor to be deplored was the
attitude of most A.D.M.Ss., who —cer-
tainly in the interests of efficiency in
their divisions —obstructed changes in
appointments of their best field officers.
It took a long time to train an R.M.O.
to appreciate male psychology, and the
ability to pick the genuine sick from the
malingerer came only from experience.
As a result, the good R.M.O. stayed on,
or gravitated by seniority to a field
ambulance, where he remained.
On the other hand, O.C.s. divisions in
A.G.Hs. would not part with a suitable
M.O. In fact, like the A.D.M.Ss., they
impeded transfers to field formations.
There should be a system of regular
change in appointment for those in the
field who desire it. The captain in the
A.G.H. should have no preference if he
is classified A1 —after, say, six months he
should go to the field as an R.M.O. for
12 months. After that he becomes a
company officer in a field ambulance till
his seniority makes him eligible for pro-
motion to major. Then he may exercise
preference. If he wishes to serve on in
the field, he stays; if he wants to return
to hospital for further clinical experi-
ence, he waives promotion for a further
period and gets a job in the A.G.H. or
C.C.S. —R. M. O. (Q.).
Soldier Settlement
Farms in Victoria and Tasmania are too
dear. The settler is overcapitalised from
the start. In the case referred to by
“Demos” (B. 7/8/’46) the soldier has
simply “bought himself a job” by risking
every pound of his savings and under-
taking heavy financial obligations.
There is little land available in Vic-
toria and Tasmania at prices based fairly
on the productive capacity of the land.
If a farm comes on the market in those
States there are wealthy farmers and city
businessmen waiting to buy for their sons
and able to pay above real value for
sound farms.
The small man and beginner will find
the game loaded against him in Vic-
toria and the Speck, and soldiers
seeking land would do well to consider
venturing further afield, in the less-
developed States of Queensland and
Westralia. 'There is some grand dairy
farm land in the safe rainfall areas along
the Queensland coast belt and in the
sou’-west corner of Westralia.
Prices are up a bit everywhere now,
but before the war the cost of a dairy-
farm as a going concern in Victoria
worked out at £BO to £lOO per cow. You
could buy into sound going concerns in
Queensland or Westralia at £4O to £5O per
cow. Anyone considering buying in the
north would be wise to work with an ex-
perienced farmer in those parts for 12
months and get first-hand knowledge of
the country and weather before putting
his cash down. The delay of a year will
give him valuable experience and help
him to make a wiser choice in selecting
a suitable property.— Alpha (8.C.0.F.,
Japan).
Southward Ho?
Not only are the Japs preparing for
whaling in Antarctic waters, but an
Anglo-Norwegian expedition is being
organised to probe the secrets of a moun-
tain range, free of ice and snow, which
Nazi fliers spotted and claimed in Queen
Maude’s Land in 1939. The English and
Norwegians will probably write a book
about what they find. It’s just as well—
we’ll probably be able to read about some
of our own Antarctic territory.— Squizz
(Vic.).
H. G. Wells
He has only recently joined the im-
mortals, and it is too early to prophesy
whether posterity will classify him as an
entertainer or as a seer. My own humble
opinion of his deserts has changed many
times since I read The Invisible Man hot
from the press. Now lam convinced
that he will live, not as a prophet of
things to come, but as a chronicler of
past events and as a teacher of the scien-
tific verities of today.
A few years ago I met a youth who
was painfully conscious of his lack of
education. His stock of general infor-
mation was meagre, his English ungram-
matical, In cultured company he was
shy, silent and awkward. A few weeks
ago I met him again. His conversation
was easy and pleasant, garnished with
wise saws and ancient as well as modern
instances. He is able to hold his own in
debate on a multitude of subjects. Asked
to account for the improvement he ex-
plained that a bookworm friend had ad-
vised him to read Wells’s Short History
of the World and to follow on with
Science of Life, a monumental work in
which Wells collaborated and which
bears the chisel marks of his genius.
Those two books, carefully studied,
had given the youth a working know-
ledge of a dozen ’ologies, a more than
average grasp of English and an intel-
lectual outlook equal to that of many a
university graduate. They had taught
him the story of evolution from amoeba
to Shakspeare, from the flint axe to the
electrode, from the midden and camp fire
to the museum and blast furnace, be
can now see clearly where he otherwise
would have groped, and can even guide
others less favored.
Only a test-tube demonstration o|
literary values, but it would be difficult
to find two other books to effect such an
improvement. — Samson (S.A.).


Housing
Don’t blame the neighbors, “W.P.T.,”
for refusing to share their large houses
with less fortunate homeseekers (B.
14/8/’46). Australian laws prohibit
common hospitality. A householder's
offer to share his house may be accepted
with gratitude, but immediately it is
availed of the obligation ceases to exist.
His tenant then has definite rights. He
cannot be evicted without a Court order ;
and he may invite as many, and as
rowdy, friends as he wishes.
Judged by Russian standards, Aus-
tralians, in normal times, with a home for
each family, are pampered. But the fact
remains that two families sharing a
house often fall from close friendship to
bitter enmity, and a man may justifiably
hesitate to jeopardise the happiness and
health of his family by offering those
spare rooms that are never used.
For the same reason houses which are
left for a few months remain empty be-
cause the owners fear to let them to
tenants who may refuse to relinquish pos-
session.
There’s a growing legion who sigh for
the good old days when a man could in-
vite his friends over to spend the evening
without first consulting a solicitor. —
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
The best immigrants for Australia (B.
7/8/’46) are babies, but if we want them
we must provide them with homes. Thou-
sands of young couples are living with
relatives and are unable to get even
rooms because they have babies. Par-
sons and politicians can rail against the
declining birthrate until Doomsday, but
it will remain as long* as the housing
problem remains.
“A place for immigrants in our econo-
mic framework” is even more necessary
for our natural arrivals than for the
ones from overseas.—A. D. (S.A.).
Before any serious effort is made to
increase our population by importation,
surely we who are already here should
be properly housed. Until something is
done about the housing problem the en-
tire nation will be disturbed and upset.
Happiness is dependent upon a man hav-
ing security of tenure of his home—a
place where he can follow his own fancies
for recreation and relaxation.
High costs of building materials are
not the main obstacles to rehousing
schemes. Industrial disruption as bad as
that in the mines is causing lengthy
delays on the .jobs, shortages of materials
and difficulties in nearly every other
branch. The troubles are traceable to one
source—unions encouraging the men in
their “go-slow” tactics. They could, if
they wished, ensure that the men worked
on the basis of their 1939 output.—Jindi-
vick (N.S.W.).
Darwin
Under the Darwin Lands Acquisition
Act, 90 square miles of country were
resumed by the Government, which now
claims absolute control of that area,
although former owners and residents
have not yet been compensated for their
properties.
The population of some 20,000 which
is envisaged in the rather distant future
works out at about 220 persons to the
square mile, or about one person to every
three acres. At present, Darwin’s popu-
lation is about 3500 persons—fewer than
40 to the square mile, or about one to
every 16 acres. Yet, despite this expanse
of country, all that the townplanners can
do is to portion out quarter-acre blocks
at Fanny Bay, four miles from the heart
of the town.
The “squatters” at Fanny Bay know
from experience that quarter-acre blocks
are far too small for suburban areas.
With the amount of land available, blocks
should be at least an acre and a half.
Rent for a quarter-acre block is £6 a
year, or £24 an acre. In 1936 the rent of a
U-acre block on a 99 year lease (present
leases are for only five years) was £1 to
30s. a year.—L. J. (N.T.).
The Isa
If “Ek Dum” (B. 7/8/’46) had come
to the Isa by rail he would have
passed through the most unsightly
section of the whole area—the “tents,”
composite structures which house the
greatest proportion of mine workers
“according to his or her needs.”
As for the assertion that we have “no
community hall worth the name,” surely
“Ek Dum” saw the Diggers’ Memorial
Hall. It is a splendid building, and
boasts one of the finest dance floors in
Queensland. It is fitted out with every-
thing desirable in a modern hall, such as
two pianos tuned in unison, microphones,
amplifiers and so forth. It has its own
septic system, with fittings equal to any-
thing the city can show. Certainly it’s a
oetter building than any the mineside
can show.
In mentioning “the old-fashioned sani-
tary system” which serves most of the
town “Ek Dum” might have added a
word for the modern sewerage system
that is replacing it, and on which work
has been proceeding for months.
There is no part of the west that is not
dusty, and the Isa is part of the west.
Biit if “Ek Dum” can find dust that is
knee-deep or if he can find any place on
the’ townside that is dustier than the
mineside I’ll eat my hat in public.
His reference to the shire office is
pointless—this township is administered
from Cloncurry. When we are a towns-
people in our own right—and we shall be
some day —I hope that we will be able
to invite “Ek Dum” to the official open-
ing of the town hall, when he will be
able to look down our double roadways
with gardens down the centre. — Old
Bones (Mt. Isa, Q.).
Country Industry
Admittedly raw materials originate in
'the country (B. 28/8/’46), but no-factory
works on raw materials alone. Even such
essentially rural industries as fruit and
vegetable canning need machinery, tins or
tinplate to make them, cases or cartons,
nails, labels, sugar, salt, coal and a mis-
cellaneous variety of minor secondary
materials —which generally have to be
brought from the State’s one big coastal
port. Then the finished products must
be sent to the same coastal city, because,
under the present set-up, it’s the clearing
house for all merchandise.
The city cannery pays little freight on
its machinery, secondary materials or
finished goods. On the other hand, it
must bring in its raw material by rail.
But freight rates on fresh fruit and vege-
tables are about .half those on canned
goods, so the city factory is still well
ahead.
Of course, as “F.D.” admits, freight
adjustments are the initial remedy. That
“Well, he's been a prisoner a long time, hasn't he?"
should be followed by decentralisation of
port facilities, so that the country canner
can be served by the nearest, and not the
largest, port. Once the ball is rolling
the build-up of population in the country
will itself create local markets for country
industry and help to break the big-city
bottleneck.
As to labor supplies, “F.D.” cites
Lithgow, Orange and Bathurst as having
among them supplied some 5000 em-
ployees for war industry. My idea of
decentralisation envisages the establish-
ment of industry in a swarm of small
country towns, not merely in the few
already-industrialised centres. When Aus-
tralia can count its towns with popula-
tions of 15,000 and over by the dozen
we shall be getting somewhere. — Hist
(N.S.W.).
The Farmer’s Pay
“Sol Brass” (B. 21/8/’46) has his facts
right, though the maximum incomes of
£350 indicate a none-too-prosperous
district. I could cite another where the
top range of net incomes would be three
times that figure; yet when reduced to
terms of interest on capital plus a decent
wage for the farmer, these incomes are
far below what would satisfy a business-
man. And that district is one of the
most prosperous in the State.
From an economic angle the market
price of land is about twice the actual
value. If reasonably ' up-to-date, shire
valuations of farms for assessing rates
are a pretty fair indication of actual
value —they are generally worked out on
earning capacities. However, I haven’t
struck land for sale at anywhere near
shire figures.
Inflated land prices are a strong bar to
farming on sound economical lines, and
for obvious reasons there is little that can
be done about it by immediate action.
Farmers generally don’t appear very con-
cerned about the economics of their
occupation. Remedy seems to lie in
recognising the bloated land prices and
easing them gradually downwards to
something like parity.—F. W. L. (Vic.).
“Sol Brass” (B. 21/8/’46) tells only
half the story. Admittedly, many farmers
make less than £7 a week after working
long hours, but the freedom and inde-
pendence they enjoy are beyond price. As
well as his income the farmer has milk,
butter, eggs, meat, pork and vegetables.
And there’s no boss and he has the open
sky above.
Small income or not, the farmer who
grows a good measure of his own needs
is the only man who really enjoys free-
dom and independence.— Camsa (S.A.).
The Bureaucrats
Now that the war is over Common-
wealth public servants are coming in for
a lot of hostile criticism. From the end
of 1941 to May, 1945, Commonwealth
clerks worked 3| hours per week free
time. A contribution to the State, mea-
sured in terms of money, that equalled
£36 a year for the lowest-grade clerk.
Also, they worked overtime on public
holidays, often at night and sometimes
during the weekend. A large percentage
of payment for that was returned in tax-
ation.
And, although much of the work was
done in overcrowded and ill-ventilated
offices, and although there was an epi-
demic of industrial unrest at the time,
one may search the records in vain for
the slightest suggestion of a stoppage. —
T.P. M. (N.S.W.).
Books and Quality
Glancing over a counter of second-
hand books a few days ago, I picked up
a copy of Steele Rudd’s The Poor Parson.
It was, I assumed, a first edition. Date
on title page was 1907. After nearly 40
years it was in excellent condition, and I
doubt if many of the books published in
Australia today will stand up to five
years’ wear as well.
But what struck me particularly was
the workmanlike production—good paper,
clear print and strong binding. It had 30
illustrations by Syd. Smith and Harry
Julius which seemed true to the types
portrayed. That paper should be of in-
ferior quality since 1940 is understand-
able, but that should not affect type
quality—except that good type deserves a
worthy setting.
After examining books published in
Australia before the ’eighties I’ve decided
that there has been a steady falling-off in
workmanship. Some • books published
locally—originals and reprints of overseas
editions —are an insult to intelligent
readers.— Bibliophile (Tas.).
Law Reporting
At one time every newspaper of any
standing in Australia had a “Court
Reports” section. The reporters were
frequently legal men, or journalists with
legal training; the reports were accurate
and full, and the arguments of counsel
and reasons ‘for judgment were sum-
marised for the benefit of intelligent
readers interested in the laws of their
country.
Many of these newspaper reports were
(and still are) quoted in court —among
others the old Brisbane “Courier” Re-
ports in my own State, and the “Argus”
Law Reports, still going strong in Mel-
bourne. But you can count on one hand
the newspapers today whose court reports
are worth anything to the lawyer or
businessman.
Court reports, of course, still continue
in our leading papers, but such titbits
as “Clash Between Ks.C.” or “Sensational
Divorce Allegations” are the ones which
usually reach print today.
Supreme or High Court decisions of
highest importance to the commercial
world are often ignored by the press,
while the exploits of criminals or the
sultry adventures of divorcees are given
yards of space.-- -Junius Jr. (Q.).
Houses in the Machine Age
The latest housing marvel from the
U.S.A. is bungalows made of paper, cost-
ing only £25, the U.S. Institute of Paper
Chemistry having perfected a process for
treating paper with sulphur to make a
fire- and weather-proof building. Heat-
ing is to be provided by a revolutionary
new liquid which can be heated to 800
deg. F. without evaporating and, which
will supply heat irt winter and refrigera-
tion in summer.
Before anybody throws his hat up over
this reduction of building costs it ought
to be remembered that every modern
change in building material has been
hailed as much less expensive than the
old ways. Yet the cost of building has
been steadily mounting. If anybody tried
to build a house like the one I was
brought up in, made of stone, more com-
fortable and suitable to the Australian
climate than any modem material, it
would cost him a fortune. It cost my
father £BOO. —Bumpkin (Vic.).
Education
There are a great many intelligent, hard-
working Australians who are almost
entirely ignorant of the essential culture
of the British race. Their “education”
stopped at 14 or earlier.
The W.E.A. and the A.B.C. Listening
Groups are doing a great service in adult
education, but their work is limited by
chronic shortage of funds, and the natural
apathy towards education of a genera-
tion for whom the word recalls painful
hours of boredom in grisly classrooms.
They help those who have the urge to
help themselves. What of the millions
who have never felt the urge because
they have never received the stimulus?
No Government has ever given any in-
dication of a genuine desire to bring en-
lightenment to the masses, possibly be-
cause Governments are a reflection of the
unenlightened electorate. And educa-
tionists are so accustomed to expecting
little that the establishment or extension
of a free library is regarded as a major
victory. No real effort has ever been
made to bring to the masses of the
people a realisation of the historical
background of our civilisation or the
magnificent literary heritage of our race.
Could it be done? We shall never
know unless it is tried. The N. S. Wales
Public School Teachers’ Federation is
campaigning for the sum of £25,000,000
to be spent on correcting defects in the
State’s education system. Undoubtedly
the money could be well spent, but what
a lot could be done with even one million
in educating adults, including teachers!
The newspapers # most given to head-
shaking over the debauched literary
tastes of the public vie with one another
in pandering to those tastes. Each week
tons of newsprint are expended in pub-
licising the “form” of racing dogs and
horses. The swiftest means of transport
are used to distribute this “information”
throughout the country in time for the
reader to lose his money. Each week
thousands of “free supplements” in the
form of trashy novels are scattered and
broadcast. Would it not be as easy to
shower us with literature as with tripe?
Suppose one of our newspaper mag-
nates decided on a Home Study Course
in English Literature as a selling “stunt”
for his paper. It need cost him little more
than the literary slush-bath he already
provides, and it might even win him an
increased circulation. Our literature is
strewn with a profusion of gems. What
a world of difference it might make if
copies of them were scattered with equal
prodigality!
If a newspaper with a circulation of a
hundred thousand persuaded even one
per cent, of its subscribers to follow such
a course the gain to the country would
be tremendous. Literary awareness would
grow appreciably —I have a profound
belief in the power of good reading to
drive out bad —and in its wake would
come a truer appreciation of our social
and political problems, and, perhaps, a
saner choice of men to deal \#ith them.
The Machine Age has brought in-
creased leisure to mankind, and the leisure
of the uneducated is likely to degenerate
into, idleness and vice. The church,
through the ages a civilising agent, has
proportionately less influence than even
a generation ago. There have been a
loosening of morals and a scorn of the
social virtues that must be checked if our
civilisation is to be preserved. An edu-
cation system that allows the majority of
the people who pay for it to live in be-
nighted ignorance is, in fact, not an edu-
cation system at ' all. — Ichabod Crane
(N S W.).


um
m
\
mmm
V-
—
WmpB%m> '"'| ; ,. ' mmmmmsm'
Wwi I ill /'>#
a
H
4
ral
as®
The spectacular scene at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel
Works following the tapping of an open hearth
furnace when more than a hundred terns of molten
steel is released and flows in glowing cascades into
huge ladles.
A BOUNDLESS cycle of opportunity
begins with the tapping of a steel
furnace. The glowing metal cascading into
the huge ladles is on its versatile way to
obey the will of man. The manufacture of
steel provides employment opportunities
for thousands of workers; its subsequent
shaping, transport and fashioning into the
countless steel articles used in our daily life
help fill the nation’s pay envelopes.
The development of the Australian steel
industry to its present productive capacity
gives assurance of iron and steel supply.
It provides the Basic material for the estab-
lishment of new industries and the extension
of existing ones. Steel makes possible
increased production of practically all types
of consumer goods, and enables Australia
to grasp the great trading opportunities
existing to-day in this era of demand.
jk
THE BROKEN HILL
PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Offices in all States
STEEL WORKS: Newcastle, N.S.W. SHIPYARD: Whyalla, S.A.
1§
WHAT
AUSTRALIA MAKES MAKES
AUSTRALIA
