

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3443
Wednesday, February 6, 1946
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by. Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMFIRE.
Marlborough House
T h.s London royal residence was, in Queen Victoria's time,
T the town house of the then Prince of Wales, later King
Edward VII., and was later occupied by King George V., when
Prince of Wales. ,901-10. Standing in a four-acre garden be-
tween the south-west end of Pall Mall and the Mall, Marl-
. borough House derives its name from the first Duke of Marl-
borough for whom it was built in || Chnsto p her
Wren. In 1817. Marlborough He.use was the govern
tnent for Princess Char otte an er , Adelaide
Saxe-Coburg. and subsequently .t was gtven to Q
widow of Wilham IV., as a Dowerage .
Marlborough House became the repository P


Learn
freelance
Journalism
nr ho nr
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146
AGE
The Red Page
BONES TO PICK .
“Invocation” in Paul L. Grano’s Poems
New and Old (Georgian House, Mel-
bourne) is said by the author to have
derived from the nursery rhyme “Oranges
and Lemons,” which indicates that child-
ish incantations, if usually absurd in their
intellectual content, are not at all absurd
in their rhythms. For “Invocation,” stac-
cato, fiery and impetuous, is an excep-
tionally fine piece of work. This is the
opening; —
Hey there! ho there!
You there on high wing,
circling in broad sweep
the snow keep,
the ice keep.
White King, O Flame King,
sweeping and circling,
majestic in slowness,
splendorous slowness,
ho there! hey there!
Here’s meat,
heart’s meat.
Hey there and ho there, indeed! Here’s
meat, and heart’s meat, too. Mr. Grano
explains: — *
The bird of prey invoked —possibly I
had in mind the sea-eagle which frequents
the reaches of the Brisbane River —sym-
bolises not Love or Life, as some have in-
terpreted, but the Imagination charged with
creative power.
Mr. Grano would disagree with Wil-
liam Bowyer Honey, who says in Science
and the Creative Arts (Faber) —a book
about the place of poetry in a socialistic
New Order—that the words of poetry,
“convey no exact meaning” ; but perhaps
he is not quite aware, as is Joseph War-
ren Beach in A Romantic View of Poetry
(University'of Minnesota ; Moore’s Book-
shop), that verse has usually “planes” or
“layers” of meaning.
As Norman Lindsay pointed out in a
Red Page essay on Browning, “Childe
Roland” may be read literally as an anec-
dote about a person who went about
blowing bugles at dark towers, or, with
equal justification, as a parable of Brown-
ing’s — and every man’s — pilgrimage
through this world in search of personal
integrity. There is no limit to the mean-
ing of great poetry; it is a stone thrown
into water, as. it were, sending out ring
after ring of meaning, the farthest circles
of which reach to infinity. Professor
Beach takes as his example Coleridge’s
“Ancient Mariner”: —
The physical advent Ore of the ancient
mariner is but the outward embodiment of
a spiritual adventure which is, I 'suspect,
the underlying theme of the poem—though
it may have been buried so deep in the
poet’s emotional being that he was not
himself distinctly aware of it. On this in-
terpretation, the superstitious terrors of the
mariner are symbolic of spiritual fears and
distresses to which any religious soul is
subject We know that Coleridge was
throughout his life profoundly religious
in the sense of recognising that to be free
from sin is a Christian’s obligation to the
Deity. And there is much to suggest that
he was from an early age troubled by the
thought of himself as tainted with sin.
Well, that is a legitimate interpretation
of what is, on the surface, an improbable
story about a sailor who shot a bird. Pro-
fessor Beach is satisfied to stop at that;
but he should have considered other
“layers” of meaning. Coleridge was
primarily a writer, and writers, normally,
are primarily concerned with their writ-
ing. The albatross Coleridge shot —he
wasted his genius in talk and debauched
it with drugs—was his Muse. Though,
in justice to Professor Beach, that is only
another way of saying that he suffered
from—and, at the end of the poem, was
mercifully freed from—a sense of sin.
Mr. Grano’s poem, on the surface, is
about a poet asking a bird to fly down
and eat his heart. He himself has given
the verse its highest interpretation, as an
invocation to the “Imagination charged
with creative power” ; but it should surely
be permissible to regard it also as a call
to Love or Life; those are its other
“layers” of meaning. Since defiance and
agony are in it as well as surrender and
joy one could regard it, again, simply as
a variation of the Prometheus legend:
here is man invoking the eagle of Jove
that will tear out his liver. There is no end
to the rings of meaning. “Invocation” is
true poetry.
In strength and passion, if not in tech-
nical finesse, it outruns anything in Walter
de la Mare’s The Burning Glass (Faber);
and Sean Jennett in The Cloth of Flesh
(Faber) has nothing to approach it. And
that, in De la Mare’s case especially, is
a high compliment; for, always a master,
De la Mare sings more finely and clearly
than ever in this new volume. Once, in
“Invocation,” Paul Grano outdoes him ;
but elsewhere he hardly comes within
cooee. This is Mr. Grano’s average;
Yet, when Death must come my way,
merrily, O merrily,
let me take his hand and say:
Friend, with kindly soft embrace,
leave your kisses on my face;
let us be a-going.
And this—stanzas taken here and there
from a poem of 64 lines —is De la Mare
on the same theme;
Old: yet unchangedstill pottering in his
thoughts;
Still eagerly enslaved by books and print;
Less plagued, perhaps, by rigid musts and
oughts,
But no less frantic in vain argument;
Loving the light—laved eyes in those wild
hues! —
And dryad twilight, and the thronging dark;
A Crusoe ravished by mere solitude—
And silence —edged with music’s faintest Hark I
And any chance-seen face whose loveliness
Hovers, a mystery, between dream and real;
Things usual yet miraculous that can bless
And overwell a heart that still can feel;
A feeble venturer —in a world so wide!
So rich in action, daring, cunning, strife!
You’d think, poor soul, he had taken sloth for
bride, —
Unless the imagined is the breath of life; •
Unless the alone may their own company find
And churchyards harbor phantoms ’nlid their
bones,
And even a daisy may suffice a mind
Whose bindweed can redeem a heap of stones.
Not yet inert, but with a tortured breast
At hint of that bleak gulf—his last farewell;
Pining for peace, assurance, pause and rest,
Yet slave to what he loves past words to tell:
A foolish, fond old man, his bed-time nigh,
Who still at western window stays to win
A transient respite from the latening sky,
And scarce can bear it when the Sun goes in.
The creative arts, if Mr. William
Bowyer Honey’s ideas can be summed
up in a phrase—he is an earnest-minded
devotee of T. S, Eliot and Cezanne —are
made up of vision and vagueness; but the
truth is rather, as De la Mare’s poem
indicates, and as T. S. Eliot himself would
probably say in his critical writings, that
vision and precision are the essentials.
Where, throughout his verses, Paul Grano
falls short of De la Mare —and indeed
of fairly generous standards—is in just
those essentials. Often he writes well;
but nearly always he lets one down. There
is too much dead wood among his verses:
too many hyphens and too much Hop-
kins ; too many of the laxities of tech-
nique that a man allows himself when he
is more concerned with presenting himself
as a personality than with writing good
poetry. He forgets that he is a dancer
and becomes a tumbler.
However, Mr. Grano is certainly a
lively personality. Sean Jennett, a dismal
one, has an extraordinary affection for
bones.
There are two bones in the opening
poem on page seven; and thereafter —
page eight “broken bone”; page nine
“scaffold bone” ; page 10 “black bones” ;
page 17 “idle bones” ; page 20 “brittle
bone”; page 24 “knuckle-bones”; page
25 “black bones” ; four bones on page 26 ;
page 29 a bone ; page 34 “burned bone” ;
page 41 “old bone”; page 46 “cal-
cined bone”; page 48 “sucked bone”;
page 49 one bone; page 50 “five
bones” ; page 52 “carious bone” ; page 54
“naked bone” ; page 55 “dry bones”
Mr. Jennett, it is true, is dealing with
serious matters; but not all this melan-
choly imagery comes, as he thinks, from
the disasters of our time. He has borrowed
a singing bone from Yeats and several
dry bones from Eliot; but the fashion for
bones in contemporary surrealist painting
has probably been the chief influence at
work on him.
The dry bone and the rotten bone, and the
bone stripped by the sea
and the bone articulated in the living body
in the dumb tunnels of the marrow shout
to the dead, Despair;
to the living, Fear;
and to the child conceived in the unborn womb,
War.
This might be regarded as the kind of
poetry which Professor Beach, somewhat
naively re-stating Aristotle, regards as
largely of service to men as a means of
discharging emotions which, if left un-
expressed, would remain to poison the
system.
But the trouble with this gloomy and
gruesome verse is that it does not “purge”
the mind of pain and horror ; on the con-
trary, it inflicts further suffering. It is
itself one of the horrors of war. It
depresses. And Matthew Arnold was
never wiser than when he said that “un-
relieved suffering, mere misery, is not a
subject for art.”
Arnold discovered the paradox and the
profundity that truly, tragic poetry brings
“delight” ; and when De la Mare deals
with war—and Sean Jennett could not be
more ruthless—he does bring a kind of
delight:
Should in the coming nightfall the Lord God,
Goose-challenged, call, “My Creature, where art
thou ?”
Scarecrow of hate and vengeance, wrath and
blood,
What wouldst thou answer now?
What, in this almost appalling indict-
ment of mankind, brings joy to the mind?
First, the technical excellence, of an order
not reached by Sean Jennett’s poetry,
capable though it is. And beyond that,
the dramatic power, which invokes the
sense of wonder. In Sean Jennett’s poetry
we are told only that this is a deplorable
world to live in ; but De la Mare, tech-
nically the superior, profounder in
thought, clearer in vision, makes us
wonder at the strangeness of man’s adven-
ture on this planet. Sean Jennett writes
of mortality as a mortal; De la Mare as
an immortal.
There is, it is true, a strain of morbidity
in De la Mare’s poetry. What he has
always lacked is that “immense and
youthful energy” which H. M. Green per-
ceived in Robert Fitz Gerald’s work,
which Paul Grano exhibits in “Invoca-
tion,” and which is notable throughout
the work of an Australian poet who is,
in other respects, very close to De la
Mare—Hugh McCrae. McCrae’s women
—and the immortal beauty they symbo-
lise—are glowing with life; one thinks
of Australian sunlight. But De la Mare’s
poetry has been a continual advance,
towards and retreat from a Muse pale
and deathly: f
O starry face, bound in grave strands of hair! »
Hands faintly sweet with flowers from fields
unseen,
Breasts cold as mountain snow and far waves’
foam,
Eyes changeless and immortal and serene —
Spent is this wanderer, and you call him home!
One recalls, of course, Swinburne, and
the pallid ladies of the Pre-Raphaelites.
De la Mare is the last survivor of the
’Nineties ; those pale, suffering, “doomed”
men of the arts whom Baudelaire had
taught to search for beauty in corruption.
It is convenient, when “movements” are
being discussed, to make fixed points in
time —to say that the influence of Baude-
laire worked itself out in the early poems
of Yeats and in the “deathly” verses of
De la Mare; but of course morbidity is
to be found in every age. Today there
is the school to which Sean Jennett’s verse
belongs.
The tendency of present morbidity in
the arts —which Mr. Honey strives most
earnestly to approve of —is towards vague
gloom or direct horror ; towards, in short,
emptiness or ugliness. De la Mare’s gen-
eration must be given credit for the fact
that, though they sought it in corruption,
they did seek* beauty. And De la Mare
himself must be credited with never hav-
ing surrendered to the cult of death: for
that, involving the decay of life and art,
is what is objectionable: not the occa-
sional (and necessary) excursion into mor-
bidity, but the surrender to a cult of
decay.
“No ! Not that way ! Get thee gone !”
De la Mare once warned himself. And
so, while Sean Jennett can bring us only
horrors out of the war years, De la Mare
—just as much, even more intensely aware
of the tragedy—can also bring us this
exquisite beauty: —r
Blackbird silent in the snow;
Motionless crocus in the mould;
Naked tree; and, cold and low,
Sun’s wintry gold . ..
Lost for the while in the strange beauty—self
how far! —
Lulled were my senses into a timeless dream;
As if the inmost secret of what they are
Lay open in what they seem.
Neither Professor Beach nor Mr.
Honey, as learned commentators on the
arts, could do very much to make that
poem more beautiful than it is, though
no doubt it is pleasing to learn that De
la Mare would be permitted to continue
his writing in Mr. Honey’s socialistic New
Order.
Mr. Honey wants everything and every-
body to be “planned” and organised ; n a
State which “must impose discipline, and in
that sense could even be called Fascist.”
Everybody is to receive the same pay —
“Nor would he [anyone] be granted a
variable payment awarded in a tradesman-
like way for a supposedly measurable
deservingness.” The birth of children is
to be “a matter of public concern” so
that “the interest of the State must be
expressed in the control of population by
the limitation (or the increase) of
families.”
Apparently the State will be allowed to
tell Mr. de la Mare how many children
he is to have, but in other respects the
creative artist is to be a recognised “out-
cast,” and will be at least permitted to
write as he likes. What this admittedly
“Fascist” or socialistic State will do if the
poet writes satirical or even angry verses
about the lost freedom of the common
man and the human and artistic undesir-
ability of a “perfect” world—we are here,
said Keats, “to test the resources of our
spirits”- Mr. Honey does not attempt
to prophesy.
Politically, Science and the Creative Arts
should be a treasure-house for opponents
of Socialism. Critically, it is, on the
whole, an amiable muddle, suffering
chiefly from what T. S. Eliot has called
the “provincialism” of those who are be-
mused by contemporary fashion: which
forces Mr, Honey into a too passionate
defence of the (occasionally correct) para-
dox that ugly painting may be beautiful
and that meaningless poetry may mean
something. Wise in his insistence that
vision is all-important, he has forgotten
to ask himself what the artist is supposed
to have a “vision” of. Surely the answer
is truth; and a vision of truth would be
attested not by its distortion but by its
clarification of reality.
Contemporary fashion has deluded Mr.
Honey into the belief that the deliberate
distortion of nature —which is normally
practised to conceal the lack of vision,
or to fake its appearance —is the proof
and guarantee of the greatness of a work
of art. “Only in modern times,” he says,
“has criticism become fully aware of the
painter’s own special contribution” to the
spiritual enlightenment of mankind.
Upon which remarkable opinion the only
suitable comment is a handful of exclama-
tion marks.
Altogether a less formidable debater,
Professor Beach deals, harmlessly on the
whole, with' Keats, Shelley, Byron and
Wordsworth. He sets out to prove—“l
have no knowledge of standards or
sources of value outside ourselves” —that
*the value of poetry is the “satisfaction”
it gives to men ; and this he does very
nicely—by widening his definition of
“satisfaction” till he demonstrates that
poetry is, precisely, an intimation of stand-
ards and sources of value outside our-
selves. Since the professor seems to have
proved the opposite of what he set out
to, he at least saves the reader the trouble
of arguing with him. Most of his critical
contentions, moreover, if perhaps a little
obvious, are at any rate scarcely disput-
able ;
I have no doubt that there is a hierarchy
among poets, that some are superior to
others.. .
Indeed, when he offers to “suck the
very marrow” out of Wordsworth’s
“Sonnet on Westminster Bridge” and
when he finds in Homer “a marrowy
•zest and jubilancy,” why should anyone,
except in the friendliest spirit, want to
pick a bone with Professor Beach?
Sundry Shows
At the talkies:
• “The Valley of Decision” (Sydney St.
James): A steelmaster’s fight to prevent his mill
being “swallowed” by a big corporation. Tense-
ness is developed by the interplay of strong
characters, notably Lionel Barrymore’s bitter
cripple Pat Rafferty—a fiercely concentrated
study. The setting is Pittsburg in the days of
four-in-hands and bustles. The film makes
American screen history by portraying' a mem-
ber of the English aristocracy as a member of
the English aristocracy.
“Along Game Jones” (Sydney Plaza): Not at
all the usual Western. It concerns a wander-
ing cowhand —an atrocious shot with a six-gun
—who becomes mixed up in the adventures,
business and amorous, of a dead-shot bandit-
killer ; making a pattern of exciting and
generally comic situations. Gary Cooper and
William Demarest handle the material as if
enjoyed doing it.
J. B. Priestley’s “Dangerous Corner,”
put on by Sydney Minerva, is an in-
genious sort of problem-play on the
theme of “Should one tell the truth?”.
A family group, managing a publishing
firm, has one of those evenings when
everyone tells home truths; with the
result that scandal after scandal is re-
vealed, until the head of the firm, learning
too late that a polite hypocrisy offers the
best way of getting through life, shoots
himself. In an unnecessary epilogue, in
which the first act is repeated, Mr.
Priestley demonstrates that, had a radio
been turned on and the orgy of truth-
telling been thereby averted, the family’s
apparent contentment might have been
preserved; which, though a good adver-
tisement for radio, is false psychology—
sooner or later most of the high-explosive
in the family history would have ex-
ploded, anyway. The action of the play
is continuous, the pace fast, the quarrel-
ling incessant. Muriel Steinbeck, Patricia
Firman, Neva Carr-Glyn (perhaps a
shade too glamorous for her role), John
Wood and John Tate (outstanding as an
amiable scoundrel) played the piece in-
terestingly. Ron Randall (who, quieten-
ing the audience for his curtain speech,
came forward with the gesture of a pro-
fessional wrestler) seemed unhappy as the
leading publisher; it was a rough per-
formance, and he was not helped by his
American-Australian accent nor by some
peculiarity of lighting or make-up that
made his features indistinguishable and
his age indeterminate. He seemed in
earnest, but he did not particularly re-
semble any known kind of human being.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW
V*
; v & 4 \ ' v
$0
:
|
"v
*•
s f
OHICJ
' WXv-^v^
fQu^
Hair
tonic
>*<**
•*♦*•«•♦ *„***# * **->•$»:•$ x
ax * '4x««
* * . -*•♦<
*•* *-»■*. ** *«• »•
«» **<**
*** «*«%,**
Protection for those
treasured tresses
ICE SHAMPOO
A cool and refreshing- sham-
poo which cleans thoroughly
and preserves the natural
oils. Price 1/-
SILGLO VITAMIN
SHAMPOO
A soapless and non-alkaline
preparation for those who
desire the preservation of
the natural hair oils .. 1/6
"RED VEE" LIQUID
SHAMPOO
Cleans the scalp and keeps
it healthy, also promotes
growth, adding lustre to the
hair. Price 2/11
ERASMIC CONCRETE
BRILLIANTINE
This high grade English
Brilliantine is an essential
for satisfactory hairdressing.
Price 1/6
• Chemistry Dept. —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street
FOAMING TAR
SHAMPOO
By "Femctlure/' is prepared
scientifically from Cocoanut
Oil and Tar, lathers pro-
fusely. Price 2/9
"CHRISTY" HAIR TONIC
Stimulates the growth and is
invaluable for the preserva-
tion of beautiful hair . . 2/4
McMahons hair
RESTORER
For baldness and bald
patches. Will banish and
prevent dandruff and dry-
ness of hair. Price 5/-
WE WANT
TYPISTES!
We require capable Junior and
» Senior Typistes experienced in
Correspondence and Mail
Order work. Permanent posi-
tions if satisfactory. Girls 17
years of age or ex-service-
women. Apply Staff Superin-
tendent, Third Floor.
P 5
•£»
c o
4
o £
(P o
■
To
r ■■
S:,; isi;
a
V
pi
m
©
w»
*
•9
w
a
:■
i
W£ i i
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE BIG RED FISH
By J. K. OSBORNE.
IT was one of those days you’d call
gentle. There was no anger in the
sun, only a steady warmth.
I was pottering about looking for
worms along the edge of the channel.
To get them it’s necessary to wade out
knee-deep, turn up the sods one after an-
other with a spade, then break them open
in the hands. Every now and then I’d
find myself back on the bank having a
smoke while I considered where best to
dig next time. It was during one of these
spells I saw the man come walking down
the narrow dirt road in front of the
houses strung out along my side of the
channel. Two weeks had made me fami-
liar with most of the people about, but
even if I hadn’t been I could have told
he was a stranger from the way he looked
about him as he walked. His eyes were
mostly on the houses, but every so often
he turned to follow the blue sweep of the
channel where it curved away to the lake.
He saw me when he came closer and
straightway turned from the road and
made down the grassy slope to where I sat.
“Name of Blaker,” he greeted me, stop
ping and looking down. “Came in the
train and out in the bus a while back.”
His manner was shy and yet friendly.
“Glad to know you,” I answered ; “are
you looking for somebody?”
“Thompson’s place,” he said. “They told
me at the store it was down about here.”
I stood up to show him a rambling
weatherboard house almost directly up
the bank and across the road. “That’s
it,” I told him. “I’m staying there myself.
You’ll probably find the old chap in the
garden at the back,”
Blaker thanked me. “I’ll try the back
first,” he said, and then added “He’s got
the key of a place we fixed up to take
for a bit.”
“That’ll be the cottage along there,” I
said, pointing out a small wooden place
next in line after a vacant lot.
He looked at the cottage for a moment,
then thanking me again said he had better
see about the key. Watching as he climbed
the slope I saw him turn when near the
top. “Left the family up the road,” he
called, as though I was entitled to the
explanation, I nodded and went back to
the worms.
Later I saw them passing on their way
to the cottage : Blaker, a slight woman
who carried a baby in her arms, and just
in front of them a small boy and girl
each with bundles of some sort. Blaker
had a large suitcase in each hand, and
as he walked I caught the glint of sun
on new varnish. Opposite where I stood
in the water he set down the bags and
they all stopped. He motioned with one
hand as though to say this was what he
meant about the family. There were nods
and smiles, and pointing at this and that;
at the gleaming smoothness of the sand-
banks across the channel, at two
pelicans which rode the shallows a
little down-stream. The mood of the
little group reached out to me;
I knew they were gripped by the
exciting pleasure of things strange
and new, where each fresh discovery,
however small, was a delight for all to
share. You had only to see them stand-
ing there in the road to be sure they were
adventurers in unfamiliar territory, and
pondering the chance that led them to
this small, out-of-the-way holiday place.
THE next morning when I went down
to the water Blaker was standing near
the edge further along the bank, and with
him were the two elder children. They
were staring at a flat-bottomed skill
moored a short way out, and their atti-
tude as they stood there, just looking at
the boat and not speaking, started me
thinking again. The skiff, I knew, went
with their cottage.
I moved towards them, noticing that
Blaker had discarded the heavy, dark,
too-new suit of the day before for the
kind of clothes I supposed he wore most
times, a countryman’s working shirt and
trousers. Hearing my step on the shingle
they turned and Blaker bade me good-
day. From the children there were shy
smiles.
“The boat’s all right,” I said. “Takes
in a bit of water but nothing to worry
about.”
Blaker looked happier. From where
we stood he could see water on the floor
and I knew he must have been wondering
about it.
“Can’t say I know much about them,”
he said.
“Ever rowed one?” I asked, and would
have bet on the answer.
He looked me in the eye. “No,” he
answered simply.
That settled it. We went up to their
cottage and found the paddles where they
were stowed under the back verandah
and the slip-out rowlocks, then back to
the water. Blaker and I waded out, and
I fixed the rowlocks with some wire so
they couldn’t go overboard. He had to
take off his heavy boots and roll up his
trousers, and it was queer to see such
white shanks on a man with face and
arms so brown.
He was soon making a rough bush job
of the paddles. We kept to the edge out
of the current, and the boy and girl
ran along the bank watching every move.
There was talk and soft laughter between
them and I guessed it all concerned but
one thing—how soon might they, too, be
floating about in this wonderland. The
man’s eagerness was no less. It wasn’t
that he had never seen salt water. Once
or twice he’d been to the city, but this
was different, he said, and I understood
that it \sas something of the difference
between seeing and feeling he was trying
to explain to me.
A FTER that first morning it wasn’t
long before he was handling the flat-
bottom well enough for them to get a
lot of fun out of it along our side of the
channel. But that was the shallow, weedy
side and, of course, they wanted to fish.
To reach the sandbanks you didn’t have
to fight the current, unless you wanted
to for the fun of it. You went up or
down along our shore, according to the
tide, then angled across. Once there you
could nearly always pick up a flathead or
two when you knew where and'how to
fish for them. From his pleased sur-
prise when I showed him how easy it was
I knew the run in the water had had him
worried.
My part ended with that; nothing more
was needed, but as the days slipped by
there were times when I smiled to my-
self, remembering my thoughts on first
seeing Blaker and his family. Such times
as when I’d see their boat moored on
the sandbanks, and four lines out from
it. Yes, they all fished, the woman with
the baby in the crook of one arm,
sheltered by a black umbrella. They’d
bought bright green cord lines at the
store along the road, but there were
enough fish for some of them not to be
scared by such monstrous tackle. And
then, in the evenings, sometimes. I’d see
them making home, noses newly-red from
the sun, laughing and holding up their
fish for me to see.
It was little enough that I knew of
Blaker and not likely that we should
meet again, yet I felt that I would re-
member the man after I had gone, for his
simple heart if for nothing else.
On one of my last remaining evenings
I had been to the store and was making
home along the road when I sighted a
fishing launch putting in. As usual,, a
few people had gathered on the wharf to
see the catch and among them were Blaker
and his boy. I strolled across and joined
them as the launch edged in.
The fish were amidships, already
boxed, and when the launch was made
fast the cases were passed up one by
one on to the wharf. I saw wonder
growing on the faces of Blaker ai>d the
boy as the glistening fish were spread
before them. It had been a good trip;
there were at least a dozen boxes all
told, and seven of them filled with
snapper. It was from one of these, when
dumped on the wharf, that the topmost
fish slid and fell at our feet. The boy
looked up quickly at his father, but
neither spoke. If the truth were known
I suppose Blaker had seen fish like it be-
fore in a shop window, but to see one
here, fresh from the sea, was something
different. It did look pretty good, too.
There was still fire in the red-tinged
scales and in the blue-green flecks along
the back and sides.
Mere looking was not enough for the
boy. He knelt beside the fish and ran
a wondering finger across the naked black
circle of the eye and down the bony head
before one of the fishermen tossed it back
with the others. The boy straightened
himself slowly, then looked up at Blaker.
“Could you catch one like that. Dad?”
he asked, and in the question was the
voice of every small boy.
I could see that Blaker was stumped for
a moment. “You don’t get them like
that inside here,” I told the boy. “You
have to go out to sea in a big boat like
this one.”
He listened but took no comfort from
my words. “Couldn’t you go out to the
sea, Dad?” he questioned again.
Blaker managed a wry smile. “Well,
no —I don’t reckon I’d be much good out
there,” he said, and then turned to me.
“You walking along now?”
The boy was silent as we went; I
guessed he was still thinking about the
red fish and what it would be like to
have one all to himself. Somehow I
felt that Blaker had not heard the end
of it.
I WAS down at the water when he came
* to me the next afternoon and until
he spoke the look on his face had me
puzzled. But I soon understood : he
had been talking to the men off the
launch. *
“They’ll take anyone out,” he told me.
“And they’ll let you keep a few you
catch.” He was as excited as a boy.
“It doesn’t suit everyone, you know —
that kind of fishing.” 1 felt bound to
warn him,
“I suppose not,” he said, “I’d have to
chance that. What I wanted to know was
would you take it on, too? I’d feel I
had a mate along.” He was pleading,
almost.
I wasn’t keen on the idea; outside
fishing has never appealed to me much,
and there was still an arm or two of the
lake 1 wanted to explore, but what could
I do?
The sky and water were still grey the
next morning as we went swinging down
to the bar on an outgoing tide. Of the
three fishermen one steered from just aft
of the cabin, and another busied himself
amidships with lines; the third, a much
older man, stood with his arms resting on
the cabin roof, his eyes on the water
ahead. Blaker and I sat astern. His
hand lay on the gunwale and when the
launch lifted her bows to the break on
the bar I saw the knuckles whiten. He
caught my eye and grinned.
“Not very lumpy today,” I said. It
wasn’t, either; there was no wind yet
and only a light swell for the launch to
dip her way through.
Straight out we went, headed for where
the horizon was slowly catching fire, so
that when the sun at length broke clear
our course was marked by the lane of
gleaming light it flung across the water.
It was a clear, sweet morning, the kind
you sometimes think of with a sudden,
queer ache when you are buried in an-
other kind, of world, and wonder how
you could have forgotten for a moment.
I was thinking of it when I looked
again at Blaker, and then I knew he
wasn’t going to enjoy his day. You don’t
when every single wave that lifts the bow,
slides beneath the keel, and spills you
deep in a trough, is the sworn enemy of
your miserable landlubber’s stomach. I
leaned across and touched his arm.
“Better come forward,” I said. The ex-
haust was blowing across us where we
sat.
I helped him scramble on to the 'deck-
ing over the cabin ; it had a coaming
high enough to stop him rolling over-
board, and he gave me a look of dumb
thanks and put his head down on a coil
of rope. Except for a nod of approval
from the older man as to the choice of
place for Blaker, the fishermen had taken
no visible notice of the turn of events.
There is nothing you can do for a
stomach that rebels when you are over
the reefs fifteen miles or so from calm
water, and to them it would merely mean
that now there would be one less line
down.
They need not have worried. Soon
afterwards, when the engine was stopped
and the launch allowed to drift, Blaker
sat up. His face was pinched-looking
and yellowish. For a little while he
stared dully at the lines going over the
side ; then he got stubbornly down off the
cabin to stand shakily beside me, steady-
ing himself with both hands on the gun-
wale.
“You’d be better up there,” I told
him; “I’ll catch enough for both of us.”
Before he could answer another spasm
took him, and when it had passed he
simply reached for one of the spare
lines lying ready baited and got it over.
THE fish kept us busy. When we
drifted off them in one place we
moved to another further along the reef,
and that is how the morning was spent:
fishing for a while, then a spell as we
cruised to the next spot. Whenever there
was a break Blaker went forward to lie
down again. I asked him once hoW he
felt but his only reply was a grin, if you
could call it that, so I didn’t bother him
again, nor did the fishermen. We took
it as a matter of course that while he
could stand he was going to fish whenever
we fished. There was no let-up in the
spasms which shook him from time to
time; they spaced out his day but
always when the lines went over he
came clambering down to join us.
I thought I knew what kept him at
it; he wouldn’t let down these men who
were fishing for their bread and butter.
It was what I would have expected of
him. But after a while I knew there was
something else; watching him pull in
the fish he hooked gave me the idea
There was desperate eagerness in the
way he peered into the green water to
catch the first flash of silver as they
neared the boat, yet hauling them aboard
he seemed to lose interest. Then I saw
his eyes on a snapper one of the fisher-
men had landed, and I dropped to it.
That was what he was after, and what
was more, he wanted to catch one himself.
I remembered then that he had pulled
in just about everything else you find
along the reefs—big ’jackets, mowong,
rockcod, nannagai and the rest, but not
a real red fish among the lot. It wasn’t
that any special art was needed to hook
one. It was just that, as often happens
to one man in a boat, his luck was out.
It was after midday when the launch
was swung about and headed towards
home. The fishermen made tea on a
primus and we had some sandwiches,
but Blaker, head down again on the cabin
roof, refused to touch anything. Once we
were travelling he seemed to shake off
the spasms and lay as if asleep for most
of the return journey. It wasn’t until
we were inside the bar that he roused
himself and looked about. He stood
up then and came down to where I sat.
His face was still peaked but the color
was coming back.
“How is it now?” I asked him.
“Better,” he said ; “I wasn’t too good
out there.”
The launch, steady as a rock now,
was thrusting slowly round a bend
against the run in the channel. We could
see one or two people making for the
wharf.
Blaker stood up when we were closer
and waved shorewards. “There’s the
family,” he said.
The woman and children were already
on the wharf. I suppose there had been
times that morning when Blaker had
given up hope of ever seeing his family
again, and perhaps hadn’t cared much
either way; it takes you like that. But
now the sight of them waiting there for
his return seemed to make him forget
all he had been through.
We were still a short way off when the
boy’s eager voice came to us above the
slowing engine beat. “Did you get one,
Dad —a big red fish?”
Blaker’s eyes involuntarily dropped
to the little pile of fish he was to keep.
They were worthy enough of their kind,
but there was not a snapper amongst
them.
The older fisherman was standing
alongside us. I saw him look from the
boy to Blaker before he reached quickly
behind him to where the fish were
stacked. There was no change of expres-
sion on his face as he thrust a big
snapper into Blaker’s hands and turned
abruptly away from the surprised thanks
it brought.
“Gamest man I ever see,” he muttered
to me from the side of his mouth. He
need not have worried about Blaker hear-
ing. His back was towards us now as
he held up the fish for the boy to see.
On Claiming Aboriginal Back-
ground.
The fairies made no landfall here
On our Australian coast,
Our ancestors brought other gear
Than curst or friendly ghost.
They came not elf or pixy-led.
Nor faun or dryad-haunted.
They came in chains, they came in dread,
Adventuring or unwanted.
They came in courage, whence their sons
Maintain some reputation,
They came in ignorance {we become
Not yet the wisest nation /)
And if dark spirits lingered in
The land * the busy stranger
Fought drought and flood and fear to win
To bread, but missed that danger.
And shall the sons of sturdy men
Who could forsake tradition.
Call the dark spirits back again
To furnish their omission;
Being unlegended of choice,
Being unsure, and young,
Exchange for their authentic voice
Echoes of alien tongue ?
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3443
Wednesday, February 6, 1946
“IT WAS AN ANCIENT PASSENGER.”
“No, sir; no passport. You see, I wasn’t born when my mother came aboard, the ship being under Commonwealth Government charter.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( [opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
SHARING ATOM SECRETS.
Though the gathering of the nations in
London seems to have been marked
more by national clashes between one and
another of them than by international co-
operation and goodwill, on one issue at
least there was no trouble in reaching
unanimous accord. Everyone in the
General Assembly professed to be in
agreement with the setting up of a United
Nations Atomic Energy Commission,
which will now duly take its place among
the uglier current alphabetical monstrosi-
ties of jargon as Unaec.
How far Unaec will get should be most
interesting to watch. Put forward in the
declaration issued at Washington last
November by President Truman, Mr.
Attlee and Mr. Mackenzie King, and
apparently carried a step further by
Messrs. Bevin, Byrnes and Molotov in
Moscow, the proposal contains what
might well be the vital test clause on
which international co-operation will
( weld together or break apart. Going
by experience to date, the welding to-
gether would seem doubtful, to say the
least
The clause came last among the specific
proposals which, by the Washington de-
claration, the commission would be par-
ticularly asked to make, but nobody
could have any doubt about its real
place of importance. The commission
would be asked to make its specific pro-
posals :
(or) For extending between all nations the
exchange of basic scientific information for
peaceful ends;
(b) For control of atomic energy to the
extent necessary to ensure its use only for
peaceful purposes;
(c) For the elimination from national
armaments of atomic weapons and of all
other major weapons adaptable to mass de-
struction ;
(d) For effective safeguards by way of
inspection and other means to protect com-
plying States against the hazards of viola-
tions and evasions.
Nobody could have any doubt, either,
as to the Power to which that vital
clause d referred. In the present set-up
of the world there are only the three
Powers with enough strength to count as
such, and two of them were not only
joined-in the declaration but by the mere
fact of that joint accord clearly stated
that they had not the slightest fear of
one of them using against the other the
bomb Secret they shared together. They
had worked through the war as a close-
knit team, sharing other sqcrets and in-
formation as they went along. For all
practical purposes of the war they acted
as one Power. Their mutual co-operation
and trust stood out as an example of
what the whole world might hope to
achieve.
Against any such rosy expectation, the
war experience cast up a very different
kind of example. Mr. Churchill was not
being lightly provocative but merely
stating plain demonstrable fact when he
commented: “During the war we im-
parted many secrets to the Russians,
especially radar, but I am not conscious
of any adequate reciprocity.” As to
technical exchanges, it turns out that
there was an answer which would have
been satisfactory to Mr. Churchill,
though perhaps less so to the true-blue
worshippers of Russia (from a distance).
Actually, there is not the slightest evi-
dence that the Russians developed any-
thing in war material that the two really
united nations did not already have or
needed. Apart from the new or improved
weapons and the like developed by the
enemy, the outstanding things of the kind
on the other side were products of either
Britain or America; and of course they
handed them over free and in prodigious
quantities to Russia.
A careful check of American military
sources revealed that all that actually
came back in exchange was a medium
and a heavy tank used by the Soviet
armies, from which was learned one use-
ful detail of propulsion. That, as the
military sources admitted, was mighty
little in exchange for all that was rushed
lavishly to the aid of Russia, but nothing
much more was expected in that field.
On the other hand, there was Russian co-
operation that could have been of con-
siderable value, some of It most directly
and all of it indirectly so, to the Russians
themselves. It was not forthcoming. In-
stead, the Russians took the stand of
taking everything and giving nothing.
That attitude of Oriental secrecy cost
them, among other things, the use of the
highly important V-T fuse. Before this
American invention could be shared it
was necessary to have information on the
calibres and other ballistic details of
Russian guns. Britain, of course, readily
supplied the information, and had use of
the fuse. The Russians refused, and lost
the great advantage it would have
brought to their gunfire. That was the
Russians’ own affair; of direct disservice
to their fighting forces, but only indirectly
of disservice to the other united nations.
Of much greater importance was their
refusal to share general war intelligence
that could perhaps have been of the
highest value. While, as part of the over-
all British-American co-operation, the
British had their order-of-battle team
in the Pentagon and the Americans had
theirs at the War Office, the Russians re
fused not only to admit such co-operating
teams to their country but refused also
to share such ordinary intelligence as
what elements of the enemy forces they
were engaging at any time. This sort of
military knowledge could have been of
considerable value t© the British and
American commanders, especially in
planning the huge-scale invasion war
with which they eventually engaged and
crushed the enemy.
Why the Russians chose to act in that
way is of little, account. Probably it can
be simply put down to national charac-
ter ; the same sort of clumsiness trying to
masquerade as cleverness which is seen
in much of their variety of diplomacy.
The important fact is that they did so
act. They remained behind their “asbes-
tos curtain,” wrapped in secrecy, prob-
ably at the needless cost to them of hun-
dreds of thousands of lives. But that they
so acted throughout a time when they
were sore pressed in war certainly does
not hold out any great hope that now,
secure in peace, they are at all likely to
act differently.
. That is the rock on which the Atomic
Commission looks as good as certain to
crash. A point emphasised in the Wash-
ington declaration on the commission
and the proposals for pooling atomic
knowledge was that the steps towards
that great end should be taken one at a
time, and it was made clear that no
further step would be taken, beyond the
mere formalities of setting up the com-
mission, until there was absolute agree-
ment on the regular and thorough inspec-
tion of the actual or potential war plants
of all nations on earth.
Anyone who, on all experience, can
really believe that Russia has the slightest
intention of finally agreeing on that
would seem qualified for a special niche
in some select company, the politest
name for whom would be optimists. On
all past performance, that the Russians
have come as far as they have could be
taken as the strongest circumstantial
proof that they have not yet acquired
what the other leading nations know of
the atom bomb. It is generally admitted
that they, in common with all other
nations who care'to work on it, will be
able to turn out the bomb in time.
What remains to be seen is by how much
the curiously ready agreement on the
commission among the nations in Lon-
don is stalling for time on the part o
any of them, or to what extent they are
all sincere. The test will come when
they get to the first hurdle— effective safe-
guards by way of inspection and other
means against the hazards of violations
and evasions. If Russia proves willing to
come in on that there must have been an
as yet unannounced new purge in the
Kremlin.
N. S. Wales Coalfields
Philanthropy.
N. S. Wales coalminers have come in for
a lot of abuse from time to time on the
score that their tendency to strike for
any reason or no reason or for sheer
love of the game has had disastrous
effects on their own industry and upon
industry generally throughout Australia.
Against a sorry record of overseas trade
lost, bunkering business chased away,
transport hamstrung and public utilities
held up to ransom, there is one bright
credit entry—the shining spirit of philan-
thropy shown towards miners and pos-
sible miners in the other States.
There is coal of sorts in every State, and
widely distributed deposits have always
had their local supporters; but, given unin-
terrupted supply and unrestricted move-
ment, N.S.W. coal could always hold its
own in all parts of the Commonwealth.
That’s where the generous-hearted
N.S.W. coalminers came in. Realising
that the unaided efforts of local enthu-
siasts would never be sufficient to get a
new coalfield going, they could always
be depended to put on a strike at the
right time —or the wrong time or any
time—and strengthen the arguments of
dig-our-own-coal movements in other
States.
Thus encouraged, Queensland has
steadily increased her coal production over
the last 40 years —annual output is round
a million and a quarter tons. And!
Westralia has developed Collie coal, ad-
mittedly inferior to the Newcastle pro-
duct, from an output of 117,000 tons in
1901 to 558,000 tons in 1944.
Victoria early felt the handicap of being
dependent on N.S.W. fuel. Her resources
in black coal were limited; she has huge
reserves of brown coal, but there were
many opponents to schemes for its de-
velopment. This was clearly a case for
the philanthropic Newcastle unionists to
give a helping hand to an infant industry
in a sister State. No one can say just
how much strikes by N.S.W. coalminers
(and their ever-willing allies in good
deeds, the seamen and waterside workers)
influenced the development of Morwell
and Yallourn, but they are certainly en-
titled to their share of the credit for the
Victorian State Electricity Commission’s
great undertaking.
Annual production of brown coal in
Victoria, 250,000 tons 20 years ago,
is now over 5,000,000 tons. A
proportion is made into briquettes,
but the bulk of the output goes
to provide Melbourne ■ and various
Victorian towns with light and power
which in the days before the Yallourn
scheme were provided by Newcastle coal.
This is philanthropy in its purest form
and the hearts of N.S.W, miners must
swell with pride when they realise how
they have helped to make over a million
people independent of them.
South Australia’s case has been
more difficult and the N.S.W. miners’
best efforts have met with little
success there. Time and again they
have cut off supplies, hoping to
force the central State to develop its
own coalfields, but nothing much has
been done about it. The pig-headed
South Australians have on more than
one occasion even imported coal from
England rather than dig their own, but
their N.S.W. wellwishers have not lost
heart. Now at last they see a glimmer
of hope that their efforts may one day
be crowned with success.
South Australia lacks black coal, but
has scattered deposits of brown. The
best of these is at Leigh Creek, in the
north, and is superior to the Morwell
deposits, but has the disadvantage of be-
ing rather inaccessible —Leigh Creek is
170 miles from the nearest port, Port
Augusta, and over 400 miles by rail from
Adelaide.
Long ago a company tried to mine Leigh
Creek coal. All the capital went down
the shaft; and for 40 years Leigh Creek
coal was forgotten by everyone except
geologists and statisticians. But during
the war years a strong agitation sprang up
for utilisation of the field. Supporters
could now quote the example of the Vic-
torian scheme and they were able to per-
suade Premier Playford to have a flutter
with the local coal. And, of course, there
was the tacit understanding that the
N.S.W. miners would rally round when
needed.
Early in December the Engineer-in-
Chief’s report for the year ended June
30, 1945, was released. It showed that
results were promising, though not
wonderful, Leigh Creek is a mine in the
wilderness, and everything had to start
from scratch. A town had‘been laid out
and a powerhouse installed for lighting
streets and houses; a messroom and
kitchen for 100 employees had been
erected; a hospital had been built; a
tree nursery established (the place is
about as devoid of trees as the Nullarbor
Plain); an airfield had been constructed
and handed over to the Civil Aviation
Department. This was only a small be-
ginning, but Whyalla, another S.A, town,
has grown in a few years from a small
place of 800 people to a thriving centre
with 8000 —thanks to 8.H.P., hated by
N.S.W. coalminers, ironworkers and sea-
men.
Sales of coal for the year totalled only
37,000 tons, and the venture sustained a
loss of £5641, a bagatelle compared with
the loss on the N.S.W. Coalcliff mine when
“taken over” by the Commonwealth
“Labor” Government, but a consideration
to the S.A. Liberal Government, which is
obliged to be frugal. “The loss,” said
the report, “would have been materially
reduced had orders been sufficient fqr full
economic production.”
Gloomy voices were at once raised
against the continuation of the venture.
The high cost of haulage (17s. per ton
to Adelaide) was quoted and unfavorable
comparisons with Newcastle coal were
made. The future of Leigh Creek was
in the balance. It was clearly a case
for the philanthropic N.S.W. miners to
rally to the assistance of an infant in-
dustry ;' and rally they did.
Sydney’s blacked-out Christmas had its
counterpart in Adelaide. Had it come
in former years it would have been a
total eclipse, for S.A.’s coal stocks had
never been so low. But the local indus-
try had a chance to justify itself, and when
the Lake Macquarie fishing season was
over the S.A. Department of Works was
able to report:
During the recent coal shortage Leigh
T e 7 .‘ mportant part m
elifS^dfa^
12, 15,072 tons was brought from the field
to Adelaide.. . .Had it not been for this
a™y^d
services unless restrictions amount-
ing almost to complete prohibition had
b een enforced.... The use of the Leigh
P lkUe C lest U ™an I nafionaf caSty
in south Australia.
Leigh Creek may or may not some day
occupy the same position in regard to
S.A. electrical power that Yallourn does
to Victoria—there is a project afoot for
a power station at Port Augusta or Port
pirie. If the day should come those
who benefit from it should never forget
the debt of gratitude they owe to the
philanthropy of the N.S.W. coalminers.
Occupied—and Dissatisfied.
Going to the Commons after one of his
U.N.O. appearances, Mr. Bevin com-
mented on the number of political mur-
ders in Poland, which has a “Security
Police” on the Moscow model and a
Moscow-controlled Government that is
fast losing what little prestige it ever had.
The position in unhappy Poland and in
neighboring countries has been grimly
outlined by the well-informed Kenneth
de Courcy in his “Review of World
Affairs.”
Poland: Security is controlled by a
Communist Cabinet Minister. His agents
are men trained by the N.K.W.D. —the
Soviet Secret Police. They are heavily
armed and use their weapons freely. Evep'-
one in Poland is talking about the decline
in Red Army discipline. Stalin ordered
20 Russian officers to be shot as a warn-
ing, but it has had little effect. The Curzon
Line is manned by special N.K.W.D. units,
which arrest all Russian soldiers carrying
loot. The army is drinking very heavily,
with the result that there is widespread
banditry. Whole trainloads of U.N.R.R.A.
relief goods intended for Poland have been
looted by Russian troops in a state of vir-
tual mutiny. At certain ports U.N.R.R.A.
ships have also been completely looted.
All these factors have turned public opinion
against the Communists and, of course,
against the Soviets. Everything Moscow
can do to keep the facts secret has been
done; but things have gone beyond the
possibility of suppression. We may stand
by for big revelations of an incontrovertible
kind.
Austria: The Russians < are withdrawing
for a simple reason: the Red Army has
been living on the country and, having ex-
hausted the supply, is now hungry. No-
thing has impressed the Austrians more
than the Russian soldiers’ ignorance of the
modern world. Many are astonished to see
electric light's, and play with the switches
like children. Watches and clocks they
would almost die for. Once home in Russia
these soldiers are proving troublesome.
The regime does not like it at all. In
Graz every house has been completely
stripped, and most people there possess
nothing except what they are wearing. In
a village near by all the inhabitants were
assembled in the marketplace and stripped
of everything, including their clothes. Red
Army officers have not been able to stop it.
Rumania: There are fewer Communists
here than in any other Balkan country.
The peasant Maniu remains popular and
his party powerful. The Russians hate
him, but are afraid.
Yugoslavia: Even here, where Russia
considers herself paramount, we find Mar-
shal Tito’s army split into two parts —the
anti-Russian Regulars, fairly well equipped
and disciplined, and the Communist Par-
tisans, well equipped but indisciplined.
They are shooting and looting all over the
place. General Mihailovich is still in con-
trol of most of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
There is a distinct swing of opinion in
Mihailovich’s favor amongst the Serbs.
Czechoslovakia: Czech politics are in a
muddle. Frightened by the trend Dr. Benes
has contemplated resignation, but has found
it impracticable. The Home Minister is a
Communist and therefore controls the
Security Police, from which even the Presi-
dent is not free. The army is well
equipped; discipline is fair, though there
are a. good many desertions. Everything
is complexly dominated by the Russians.
Austria and Hungary, in which Mar-
shal Voroshilov has taken control of the
national bank without reference to Britain
or America, made short work of the
native Communist parties at their general
elections, even in working-class districts
and others in which there seem to
have been fewer electors than Red
Army soldiers. There is growing evidence
that Czechoslovakia would do the same
if elections were held on the same basis—
that is, with a fair measure of Anglo-
American supervision. The Red Army
has eaten the Czechs out of house and
home. From Ruthenia, which Benes and
his associates were forced to cede to
Russia, comes a report of religious per-
secution, and the Vatican has protested.
(At the census of 1930 Czechslovakia
had 14,729,500 inhabitants, of whom
10,831,696 were Catholics.)
Along with all this goes the enforced
exodus of many millions of Germans,
mostly women, children and old men,
from territories assigned to Russia,
Poland and Czechoslovakia, and from
Yugoslavia. Theme of anxious debates
in the Commons, in which, on both sides
of the House, enmity and vengeance were
subordinated to humanity, it has all the
elements of one of the most frightful
tragedies in the history of the human family.


[For any Wimmera-election matter requiring
a signature, J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann and
David Adams, all of 252 George-sfreet, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Liberals and Agrarians.
With the Liberals declining the contest
in Wimmera (Vic.), a representative coun-
try electorate, it seemed rather ridiculous
that Mr. Malcolm Ritchie, their president,
should contemporaneously deliver an ulti-
matum to the Country party: Amalga-
mate or fight. “As a counter-offer to
my proposals for complete amalgama-
tion,” Mr. Malcolm Ritchie said at a
Liberal conference in Canberra, “the
Country-party representatives submitted
their views in favor of collaboration.”
I requested them to set out specifically
what they meant by collaboration. If this,
collaboration means that we compromise
concerning our representatives in various
electorates, I hope that the Liberal party
have none of it.
Obviously Mr. Malcolm Ritchie, though
a businessman of credit and renown, is
a tyro in political matters. Dr, Earle
Page is a, downy old bird. He replied
with some “pertinent facts of history,”
one of them being that “the Country
party has never had to change its name,
or to go looking for a new policy or a
new philosophy, while Nationalist, U.A.P.,
Liberal Democrat, Democrat and Liberal
parties have followed each other in quick
succession.” Dr. Page recalled also that
“the Country party, by appropriate co-
operation with other parties, has pro-
vided the longest periods of stable gov-
ernment” in modern Australian history,
concluding by offering to collaborate with
the Liberals (“though there must be two
sides to the collaboration”), as it did dur-
ing the Bruce-Page period, 1923-29.
It is an offer which should be accepted,
with respect to the Senate as well as the
House of Representatives, though there
is no reason why there should not be a
sporting competition in disputed electo-
rates. Preferential voting would take care
of the rights of each party.
In Westralia recently the Liberals ran
a Young Digger for the Assembly elec-
torate of Greenough, previously for many
years given over to Agrarians and Labor-
ites, one of whom (an airman) won at
the general election, but was fated never
to take his seat. It was a very friendly
by-election, and the Young Digger got
in on C.P. preferences. The contest left
no ill-feeling behind, and it serves as a
model for Lib.-C.P. arrangements for
Federal electorates to which each party
may think it has a claim.
Said Dr. Page, who is always most effec-
tive when drawing illustrations from his
calling:
Australia is like a patient with acute
peritonitis. Does the Liberal party think
the right treatment is to attack the sur-
geon?
He holds, very properly, that both
parties should aim at restoration of “the
rule of law and order, the earliest pos-
sible removal of war-time tyranny and
the destruction of the domination of the
Communist party.”
Russia and Its Agents.
Almost the last job of the League of
Nations was to expel Russia for making
war on Finland in repudiation of its many
commitments under the covenant; and
Australia, then represented by Mr. Bruce,
was a party to the expulsion.
Almost the first job of the United
Nations was to consider —and shelve —
Persia’s case against Russia which, in
repudiation of the Stalin guarantee at
Tehran of “the independence, sovereignty
and territorial integrity” of Persia, has
done almost everything to the Persians
except make open war on them and
slaughter them wholesale.
There followed the first of Russia’s
clumsy and vicious counter-moves against
Britain —a demand for a Security Council
declaration against the presence of British
forces in Greece, to which country they
went, and in which country they remain,
with the full sanction of the Greek Gov-
ernment. The “arguments” advanced by
the head of the Russian delegation were
a repetition of the stuff put out by Mos-
cow Radio, and repeated, with black-
guardly insolence to Britain and with
abject servility to Moscow, by every Com-
munist party in the world. These “argu-
ments” recoil on their ill-conditioned
inventors, and, if the Security Council
accepted them, it would have to declare
for the withdrawal of the huge Russian
forces maintained on the frontiers of
Persia and Turkey, in Bulgaria, Rumania,
Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Poland,
Austria and Denmark, leaving those occu-
pying North Korea and Manchuria out
of the argument. * .
In replying to the stupid and malignant
Vishinsky, Mr. Bevin did not pull his
punches. He said the question of Greece
was invariably jaised by Russia “when
we discuss Rumania, Bulgaria or Poland.”
And there had not only been “incessant
propaganda from Moscow,” but “every
Communist party in every country in the
world is attacking the British people and
Government as if no friendship existed
between us,” which constituted “a danger
to world peace.” The Labor Foreign
Minister repeated this statement, with an
expression of wonder at the motive of
“that extraordinary organisation called the
Communist party, which seems to act with
great unanimity in every country in the
world, and at the same time to attack
Britain.”
With the Greek business still under dis-
cussion, and Russian championship of
“our Indernesian comrades” on the busi-
ness paper, a Mr. Roach, assistant Fed-
eral secretary of the “Australian” Water-
side Workers’ Federation, bounded into
the limelight. He said that “a cable”
had been “sent to the leader of the
Ukrainian delegation supporting its action
in bringing the Indonesian question
before the Security Council,” for “the
waterfront unions condemn the policy of
the British Government, which aims at re-
storing Dutch domination over the Indo-
nesians.”
Since September all Australian water-
front unions have withheld labor from
Dutch ships; and their action has com-
manded the widest support throughout the
nation.
This is no more true than that “the
nation” has given “the widest support”
to crimes of violence and crimes against
property in which waterside “workers”
have notoriously been concerned. All
real Australians are ashamed of the un-
declared Communist-“ Labor” war on the
Dutch in the N.E.1., with its harrowing
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAIT OF MR. CHIFLEY BEING FIRM.
consequences to sick and starving white
people. A party of these poor creatures
arrived at Melbourne last week in “cargo-
holds,” with drinking water “rationed,”
hot meals restricted to one a day, and
mattresses set on “hold-floors,” six inches
between, .150 women and children being
packed in the “forward hold” and 105
men, many of them old, in the “after-
hold.”
But the Roach outburst should spur
the Liberal and Country parties on to a
policy of outlawing the Communist party
and all its organisations and pub-
lications. No avowed British Common-
wealth party interfering in Soviet affairs
would be permitted in any part of Stalin’s
empire. If any such party shot up it
would be “liquidated” in jig time. “Liqui-
dation” is excluded from the British Com-
monwealth scheme of things, but no
avowed Russian party of wreckers should
be tolerated in Australia or in any other
part of the British Commonwealth.
Democracy must defend itself against
domestic as well as foreign foes. The
founders of the ' Australian Constitution
were not unmindful of the possibility of
internal dangers; hence Section 119.
“The Commonwealth shall protect every
State against invasion and.... against in-
ternal violence.”
The Untimely Darcy.
Fifty to sixty years ago Australians were
the finest boxers in the world, in almost
every division from heavyweight to ban-
tamweight ; and it may * be doubted
whether their like has ever been seen
since.
For the most part pupils of Larry
Foley and Peter Newton, who learned
everything they knew from Jem Mace,
the most scientific of all champions of
England, they came to their instructors
toughened by field and shearing-shed
and mining-camp fighting, for it was a
rude and combative age. Jackson,
Slavin, Goddard (none of whom John L.
Sullivan would ever meet), “Griffo” (pro-
claimed by Jim Corbett the cleverest
boxer of all time), Fitzsimmons (middle-
weight and heavyweight champion of the
world), Hall, Creedon, Dawson and many
others, they were so good that an Ameri-
can newspaper of the period implored
the Australian Governments to clap an
embargo on exports of pugilists, since the
American public, for lack of homegrown
bruisers in their class, were tired of seeing
Australians box one another.
With the first World War came another
exceptionally gifted crop of Australian
boxers, at the head of whom stood Les
Darcy, voted by Jack Kearns at least
equal to Jack Dempsey, though two
stone lighter than Kearns’s meal ticket.
Darcy was a goodhearted, clean-living
country lad, and most of his earn-
ings went to lift his family out
of harrowingly poor circumstances.
But -the temper of the time was
against ring fighters who dallied in Aus-
tralia when there were enemies to be
beaten abroad, and things were made hot
for Darcy. Finally, having fallen into
the hands of bad advisers, he made a
surreptitious voyage to the U.S.A., land-
ing there when the Americans were just
about to go to war with Germany and
full of martial ardor.' So far from haying
any use for Darcy they called him Les
Slacker.” Wandering, distracted, in
search of engagements and falling ill in
a Mississippi town, the unhappy youth
died there, “of mental breakdown and
fever,” at 21,
Darcy’s brief span of existence began
and ended too soon. Had he been born
in the year in which he died he would
not have had to reckon with the feeling
that he should be fighting Huns or Nips.
Had he deemed it expedient to wear a
uniform he would no doubt have been
cast for a part as hospital orderly or a
salvage job or something of the kind, and
the requirements of his military post, if
any, would never have taken him too far
from Sydney. If his thoughts turned to
travel,, “priorities” would have been at
his disposal, together with well-filled
purses ; and he would have been sure of
50 times as much publicity as has been
given to any World War II V.C. And
the wars over and his skin safe he could
have cashed in on rewards far greater
than those in which the 1914-16 Darcy
shared. “Sports” would have camped
overnight in the streets and paid fancy
prices for tickets to see him box or to sell
to other “sports.” They did this in Syd-
ney last week, drawn by the matching
of a couple of pugs far below the Darcy
standard.
One of these fellows was a civilian
throughout the war who seems to have
chanjbd his calling and travelled as his
caprices dictated. The other was a non-
combatant in camps convenient to Sydney,
where he had dozens of profitable “dates.”
Each of these young gentlemen, according
to an effusive Sydney paper, possesses a
house, a car and a substantial bank
balance.
Though amateurs had a grand war
record, especially Rugby Union lads,
professional “sports” and shamateurs,
with certain exceptions, were of no par-
ticular use to their country when its exist-
ence was at stake. Still, many of the
professionals may claim that their war
record was not so bad as that of patrons
and backers, notably publicans and book-
makers, who seem to have many ad-
mirers in Sydney newspaper offices, and
whose hard faces, frequently “illustrated,”
remind maimed and malarial servicemen
of their inferior condition.
Why Work?
One of the signs of the levelling-down
process which is affecting this country’s
industry and culture so obviously is the
N.S.W. Education Department’s decision
to reduce all passes in the Intermediate
certificate to the one standard. To this
end, no more A’s- or B’s are given for the
various subjects, and neither parent nor
potential employer knows the standard of
the pupil.
Nobody seems to be quite clear as to
the reason for the change, though it is
suggested that the granting of A’s and B’s
created an inferiority complex among
those who obtained poor results and led
to discrimination and jealousy. It is also
probably true that the dreadful Sydney
daily-press habit of making publication
of examination results a carnival of com -
petition and sensationalism influenced the
decision.
But none of these objections to the old
system can offset the chief objection to
the new one, which is that it destroys
the incentive to do one’s best. Parents
and teachers are agreed that under the
new system, with one pass as good as
another, “the kids won’t work.”
Possibly that is the very reason
the new system appeals to “Labor,” the
prop and stay and hope and dream of the
work-shy. _
Reinstated.
The U.S. Third Army having demon-
strated that Lieutenant-General Morgan
was right when he said that a secret Jew-
ish organisation was promoting an exodus
of thousands of Jews from Poland, bound
for Palestine, the lieutenant-general has
returned to his job as chief of U.N.R.R.A.
operations in Germany, from which he
had been suspended by Herbert Lehman,
formerly Governor of New York. Mr.
Lehman is himself a Jew, and in a weak
moment he yielded to Jewish clamor.
It is to his credit that he was not obsti-
nate and one-eyed in the wrong.
Zionist fury is now concentrated on
the head of Major-General Spears, who,
giving evidence before the Anglo-American
Committee on Palestine, said that most
of the Jews in that country had no racial
connection with Palestine, being descend-
ants of European Jews who were converted
to Judaism in the eighth and ninth cen-
turies. He said also that extreme Zionism
had “many of the undesirable features
which characterised the Nazi party in
Germany.” Our own Isaac Isaacs made
this point in his able studies of the situa-
tion in Palestine, and was taken to task
by Professor Stone. That immigrant of
the 1942 vintage, now an “Australian”
news reviewer for A.8.C., angrily de-
manded that the former Governor-
General and Chief Justice should “stand
up and be counted” and do other things
incompatible with his age and standing
among his fellow-Australians.
Incidentally, A.B.C. is putting up
Thornton, the Communist, and a Leftist
professor and feminist to give their
“views” of Russia. Challenged on the
Thornton engagement, its chairman ex-
plained that it was an example of
A.B.C.’s largeness of mind and lucidity of
tehrper. This will be believed when the
public hears a Rightist from a “national”
station, for example, defending the Cham-
berlain policy, still at work in Palestine.
The A.W.U. Makes History.
During the shearing strikes, engineered
and financed by Communists, it carne out
that not only were shearers being intimi-
dated by gangs called “local committees,”
but sheep-owners were being declared
“black for all time.” The Canberra Gov-
ernment, told of this again and again,
wouldn’t lift a finger. It will have to
do something now, for at the A.W.U.
conference in Sydney, C. G. Fallon, some-
time Federal president of the A.L.P. and
a power in the old union for many years,
intimated that it would seek legislation
in the interest of workers and employers
alike. And Fallon is not a man to be
trifled with. He said:
Wage-earners have no protection against
people who collect funds and do not pub-
lish balance-sheets. Pastoral employers
have no protection against any collection
of louts who decide to declare a property
“black ” They must be given this Protec-
tion, and so must loyal unionists, who, be-
cause they refused to unaut }}°? :
levies, have been hounded from shed to
Ffls motion was carried with one dis-
senter, whose politics are no mystery. It s
the first Australian record of a union de-
manding legal protection for both its
members and those who employ them
against Communist racketeers and bullies,
and it should give a lead to other unions.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved thean from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Your WILL .. .
A Will that is not correctly anti* explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The phident man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against* such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
Cl^°r anC * a PP°^ n^n § a qualified Executor and
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
f ormation you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
&
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
P. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Do you need a
jhm/
HAUNTING bills and money wot*
ries, including medicaland dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The draft platform recommended by
the Federal executive of the Liberals looks
overlong, but there are good things in it.
For example, “universal • training for an
adequate continuous period,” “preser-
vation of the ideals of the White Aus-
tralia policy,” and “maintenance of Aus-
tralia’s right to defend and develop the
territories over which she now exercises
either dominion or mandate.” There is
also a promise of a 40 p.c. income-tax
cut, spread over three years, and “Federal
officials” were immediately quoted as
saying it couldn’t be done. “Federal
officials” won’t be able to save “Labor”
from having to face up to the universal
training, defence-of-New Guinea and
White Australia issues.
Tied up for 15 days in Sydney, the
Katoomba finally got away for Welling-
ton with its stranded N.Z. passengers, the
“Government” having yielded to the Sea-
men’s Union’s demand for 24 firemen
instead of the number—2l—fixed by
agreement with the Communist-run con-
cern. The Barwon remained tied up in
Melbourne, where, four months ago, sea-
men refused to put to sea in the freighter
if the chief steward remained aboard
or was given a “chief’s” job in any other
Australian ship; the Stewards’ Union
backed him up. In these matters all
charges are debited to the taxpayers, the
“Government” being in “full control” of
shipping.
It leaked out last week that in 1944-45
32,881 soldiers were “admitted to guard
compounds and detention barracks in
N. S. Wales.” That comes of trying to
run wars without moral leadership.
From Canberra:
People are beginning to wonder when some
diplomatic posts will be filled, There has been
no appointment to the positiop of U.S. Minister
to Australia since Nelson T. Johnson left up-
wards of a year ago. As charge d’affaires John
Minter has kept Old Glory flying in the hostless
U.S. Legation, which the Johnsons had barely
completed furnishing before they left. Another
post vacant for over six months is that of
U.K. High Commissioner to Australia, vacated
by Sir Ronald Cross when he returned to con-
test, unsuccessfully, his House of Commons
seat; and the Manchester “Guardian” has
pointedly commented on the subject. A change
is expected this year in the Canadian Legation;
The story goes that Justice T. C. Davis, who
has been very successful, is needed to return
to important work in Canada. Canada and
New Zealand have been more punctilious about
keeping their Legations in Canberra fully
staffed than other Governments with more
apparent reasons for doing so.
Rather unexpectedly, the inquiry into
Joe Darling’s charges of “irregularities”
in the Tasmanian Forestry Department
was proceeded with notwithstanding Dar-
ling’s death, fellow-Ms.L.C. stepping into
the breach. One feature was the taking
of evidence in Melbourne from one
Arthur Garibaldi Newman, who, with
“friends and associates,” was alleged to
have got 6000 acres or thereabouts cheap
and to have made a gift of £5OO to the
Minister, W. P. Taylor, “under the guise of
the payment of a wager in respect ef a
horse named Quixotic, which won the
Grand National Steeplechase in 1945.”
Denying that there was anything wrong
with the land transaction, Newman ad-
mitted that, having had £2OOO to £lO
going on the Grand National double, he
had laid Taylor £5O to £1 Quixotic “in
running,” and paid over the £5O “in single
notes in my hall.” The horse started
at 12 to 1.
An old friend of The Bulletin,
Madame Tabouis, has been found by a
Melbourne “Herald” man in London.
He says “Madame went up to the
N.Z. Prime Minister in the U.N.O,
lobbies” and overwhelmed him with
the words “What a terrible loss
your country must have suffered
when Mr. Curtin died! ” Almost as
good as General Pat Hurley’s revela-
tion of the ways of the U.S. State De-
partment after turning in his China job.
Early in the war General Hurley was
U.S, Minister at Wellington, but in spite
of his protests that New Zealand and
Australia were different countries the
State Department persisted in addressing
his correspondence to Canberra.
The “Argus,” scolding C.P. and Oppo-
sition-leader McDonald for objecting to
the addition of £230,000,000 to the capital
of railways which showed huge losses be-
tween the wars, reminds him that “the
need for a unified gauge for defence pur-
poses Was stressed by a disinterested
expert 57 years ago.” That’s just the
trouble. There were no atomic bombs,
600-m.p.h. ’planes or motor-cars and
wagons 57 years ago, and it would have
been a rattling good plan then.
There was a familiar note about the
proposal of Arthur Henderson, of Britain,
that U.N.O. should set up a narcotics
commission. He said drug addiction was
not only one of the world’s most serious
social problems but one of mankind’s
worst scourges. The League early diverted
its energies that way, and at the finish
there it was about the only thing left of
its pious aspirations.
Victoria’s population is reckoned to
have passed the two-million mark (N.S.W.
2,885,000, Victoria 2,006,000, Q. 1,071,000,
S.A. 625,000, W.A. 488,000, Tas. 247,000)*
One of the millions is concentrated in
Melbourne, which would be ludicrous if
it were not tragic; and the new Labor
Government has shown no indication of
doing anything about it beyond appoint-
ing a Ministry of Decentralisation, with
another department. But there are en-
thusiastic plans for redesigning Mel-
bourne, one of the proposals being under-
ground railways, so that buildings may
go skywards.
The Chifley Cabinet has set up a “plan-
ning committee” to report on the develop-
ment of Northern Australia “in co-
operation with the Queensland and West-
ralian Governments.” Six of the com-
mitteemen (seven) are Government offi-
cials. “Works,” of course, will be recom-
mended.
When a Royal Navy aircraft got out
of control and crashed into a Sydney
hospital, killing two civilians and an air-
man, a first-class fuss broke out in the
daily press, which ran screaming head-
lines and published pages of pictures.
Stirred or scared or inspired or something,
Premier McKell demanded “action,” and
Lord Mayor Bartley yelped about “public
safety.” Tragic though the accident was,
all this screaming is out of proportion.
Many more people are destroyed in Syd-
ney by cars, trains, buses, trams than
by aeroplanes, but nothing like the same
publicity is flogged out of it. A train
killed more civilians at a Hawkesbury
level crossing than aeroplanes have killed
in five years, but McKell wasn’t heard
demanding “action” then, his own Rail-
way Department being involved.
Old Digger Sheehan, one of the
few men who can command an audi-
ence in Macquarie-street, Sydney, when
he is “up,” has grievously embar-
rassed the “Government” by refus-
ing to attend any more sub-com-
mittee meetings as a protest against its
neglect of soldier-settlement, particularly
in his electorate of Yass. Sheehan points
out that Yass has been “omitted from
the areas chosen for soldier-settlement,”
whereas Wagga, represented by Graham,
the Minister of Agriculture, and Goulbura,
which has Tully (Lands) for member, is
well in the picture, although neither
Graham nor Tully is a returned soldier.
In respect of Tully, this is in flat contra-
diction of “Terewth,” which congratu-
lated would-be soldier-farmers on having
as Minister of Lands a veteran of many
campaigns with an intimate knowledge
of the workings of the fighting man's
mind.
Labor must think a lot of the Theo-
dore-Packer combination, which runs
Consolidated Press. Not only did Fed-
eral Labor authorise this concern to raise
£150,000 of additional capital when many
other private issues were being turned
down —it was Evatt-referendum time —but
State “Labor” is permitting it to charge
for Sunday concerts in the Sydney Town
Hall, a privilege denied even to Verbrug-
ghen when he was leader of the State
Orchestra. Possibly “Labor” gratitude,
dates from identity of strategy in Feb-
ruary, 1942, when the “Daily Telegraph”
came out with its “Fight for Australia
in Java!” campaign. The gratitude is not
shared by survivors of General Black-
burn’s force who were thrown into Java
and have never been able to understand
the reason why.
Mr. Connolly, of the N.S.W. Publicans’
Union, has a nimble brain. Latest of his
frequent contributions to the great beer
controversy is that Sydney pubs run out
of the stuff quicker because they sell 16oz.
glasses, whereas the benighted Melbourne
Bungs restrict it to 13oz. ones. What is
more, Sydney breweries, said Mr. Con-
nolly, turn out 43 p.c. of the beer brewed
in Australia. What that means isn’t
clear, but Mr. Connolly isn’t paid to
solve riddles, propound them as he may.
According to A.A.P., the Beasleys
arrived in London (just when dried eggs
were about to be removed from the British
ration) with “several cases of powd-
ered milk, three tons of tinned fruit,
12 cases of cream, seven 701 b. bags of
sugar, a 1001 b. case of tea and four cases
of turkeys.” Housewives who may think
of working out how many coupons that
lot is worth are reminded that it is im-
pertinent to question the privileges of
the new aristocracy.
Edgar Ansel Mowrer in one of his
syndicated articles:
The U.S.A. is bound to check Soviet
expansion or itself become dangerously
insecure. The Soviet Union feels its weak-
ness. It demands “outlets to the sea” (no
more logically justified than if the sea-
board countries were to demand access to
Soviet mineral deposits inland); if tries to
“liberate” Northern Persia and split China;
it seeks colonies, called “trusteeships.”
Edgar was a pronounced Leftist till the
new Russian imperialism began to scare
him.
Safe in London, Beasley made a speech
“defending Britain’s actions in Greece,
Indonesia and Palestine” as “necessary to
assure for these countries the security and
freedom for which the British Empire
fought during the war.” He was never
heard in this strain at Canberra or
Sydney, On the contrary, he joined in
the cry that Britain —meaning its Labor
Government —had tried to exclude Aus-
tralia from the Japanese-surrender cere-
mony in Tokyo Bay, although the event
proved that the Americans had the order-
ing of the whole affair.
According to the sympathetic “Age,”
Scully feels that a younger man should
have his portfolios of Agriculture and
Commerce, but “will delay his resigna-
tion till after the Federal election.”
However, the Prime Minister is likely
to persuade Mr. Scully to accept a less
arduous portfolio, such as Interior, so that
his experience can be still available to
Cabinet.
“Nonsense!” is Scully’s comment. “My
health is perfect, and I feel that I
have achieved complete mastery of my
departments.” The electors of Gwydir
may not share his stupendous opinion of
his merits. Before he succeeded Abbott
on Abbott’s appointment to the N.T. job,
Gwydir had voted Country-party at four
out of five elections.
Although there is no word of any
census having been taken, the population
U.S.S.R. is “officially” certified as
193,000,000. Oddly enough, this was
precisely the figure given in *1940 after the
dragging of people from “annexed” coun-
tries—soo,ooo from Finland, 1,126,000
fiom Estonia, 1,950,000 from Latvia,
2,819,000 from Lithuania, 3,500,000 from
Rumania and 12,775,000 from Polantf-
so the immense war losses and the whole-
sale scattering of families made no differ-
ence whatever. But possibly the Moscow
statement was inspired by a U.S. Census
Bureau announcement that the American
population had passed 140,000,000, having
increased by 8,330,700 since 1940.
With the Russians in the Kuriles and
declaring that they won’t give up what
Roosevelt and Churchill promised Stalin
at Yalta, U.N.O. “trusteeship” looks pretty
sick. An American delegate suggested
that the establishment of the Trusteeship
Council should be postponed until things
were sorted out. This brought an attack
from Ward in the vein in which he alleged,
when Curtin was about to go abroad,
that the “British and American imperial-
ists” were conspiring to bleed Russia
white, and that the Soviet Union had
made more progress in 25 years than any
capitalist country had done in 250 years.
Ward’s idea is “that the principle of trus-
teeship should be extended to all depen-
dencies.” Perhaps he would like to see
the Russians meddling in New Guinea,
and there is nothing in the charter to
prevent it. Article 81 says “the admin-
istering authority may be one or more
States or the Organisation itself.”
R. J. Smith, a Melburnian, returned
from M.L., reports that the Dominion,
with a population much less than that of
Victoria, has completed 20,034 houses
and has 3500 more under construction.
During war-time bare paddocks within
reach of Wellington blossomed into town-
ships which will shortly hold more than
20,000 people. Rentals range from 21s.
6d. for a four-roomed house to 235. 6d.
to 30s. 9d. for a five-roomed house and
the dearest eight-roomed house is let at
£2. In this country almost as many
housing authorities have been produced
as houses.
John Waters Kirwan, turned 76 in Decem-
ber, is soon to retire from public life.
He was Kalgoorlie’s first Federal member,
but, going up for re-election in 1903 and
anticipating an easy passage, he was
dreadfully defeated by Charlie Frazer,
who gave his age as 23, but was believed
to be younger. Labor, not realising its
strength, and being favorable to Kirwan,
hadn’t wanted to oppose him, but the
pertinacious Frazer virtually forced it to
.accept his nomination. Kir-wan, who was
editor and part-proprietor of the Kal-
goorlie “Miner,” brooded over his defeat
for years, but in 1908 he decided to stand
for the Leg. Council, got in and has been
there ever since, having been president
for 20 years. He will, no doubt, be suc-
ceeded by James Cornell, who has been
a pillar of the Diggers’ League since his
return from the last war.
A Sydney book reviewer availed him-
self of the licence allowed such worthies
by their offices, one of which permitted
its prize prig to brand Alexander Hamil-
ton as a Fascist, to sail into Castlereagh
and Wellington. Hopeless Tories, of
course, yet the peace they shaped lasted
99 years. And France, which they
shielded against ravenous enemies, has
never since fought and may never again
fight the British, having indeed been
Britain’s ally in three wars.
Some of Wellington’s sayings are as
pertinent now as when they were uttered.
Many thinking people are of opinion that
the root trouble in N. S. Wales, which
has become Australia’s problem child, is
in its “system” of education, boys and
girls leaving school knowing little and
reverencing less. Secular education Wel-
lington described as “knowledge without
religion; and he doubted whether the
Devil himself could devise a worse
scheme of social destruction” (Stan-
hope: “Conversations”).


GIVING AWAY NEW GUINEA.
“No moreum ’perialism, no moreum League, God saveum U.N.O.—fifty-one big new fella masta, whacko!”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Jasby”; Australia’s special stamps to
commemorate peace are typical of the
Government that passeth all understand-
ing. A seven-pointed star surrounded by
laurel wreaths with a background of a
rising or setting sun ; a dove or some-
such pecking the Commonwealth star
from an Australian flag; an angel with
an American eagle’s wings displaying a
newsbill with the word “peace” to a
mother nursing a babe, and a workman
sitting on a wheel with his lunch in his
hand pondering whether to eat it or slip
down to the corner pub for a quickie.
The implication of all three designs is
that peace is a gift coming from above
or a condition that just happens, not
that it is an ideal to fight for, to die for.
Certainly no suggestion that Australians
have fought for this uneasy peace, have
died for it. “Peace, it’s wonderful!”
* * &
“Bo”; Hollywood has a sacrosanct
ritual for the actor who is portraying a
doctor. Entering his patient’s house, the
while preserving a dignified expression,
he doffs his bowler hat—the sable egg-
boiler is apparently a cachet of profes-
sional correctness. As all doctors’
patients in the U.S.A. live in mansions
he hands the hard-hitter to a tail-clad
butler, strides into the bedroom, lifts one
of his own eyebrows and one of his
patient’s eyelids, and then calls for boil-
ing water “and plenty of it.” Whether
its a case of childbirth, the gripes or a
broken neck the request never varies.
Then he takes off his coat and rolls up his
sleeves; the door shuts and the fade-out
ln M.-G.-M.’s “Valley of De-
cison,” which in other technical respects
is of a high standard, Gladys Cooper
as the ageing mother has a fatal heart
seizure. She is carried to her bed, and
the doctor, who had previously warned
her of her cardiac condition, hurriedly
arrives. After one glance at his patient
he gives a crisp order for the old trusty
“boiling water.” Perhaps he intended to
pour it over her knees in the hope of
getting a reflex action, or something. I
dunno. They shut the door, as usual.
* * * *
“Hedlay”; Dixie, ex-gunner in a Field
Artillery regiment, had been demobbed
a couple of months when he noticed a
deafness in one ear. He cracked hardy
for a while, hoping it would pass off, but
at last, yielding to his wife’s persuasion,
he sought medical advice. “It’s probably
‘tropical ear,’ ” he told the specialist, “or
maybe the guns are to blame.” “I’d say
it was the guns,” agreed the medico as he
pulled out an ear-plug that had been in
position since Dixie’s gun fired its last
round,
* * * *
“Petermac”: The “News-Chronidle”
has celebrated a centenary, tracing its de-
scent from the London “Daily News,”
first published on January 21, 1846.
Charles Dickens, the first editor, presided
over only the first 17 issues and then
resigned because he was “tired to death
and' quite worn out.” He handed over
the feins to John Forster, his biographer-
to-be. Dickens continued to contribute
and his fluent pen agitated for the repeal
of the Corn Laws and, during the Ameri-
can Civil War, staunchly supported
Lincoln and the North. The South
African War saw the “D.N.” change
hands and transfer its affections from the
Liberal Imperialists to the Liberals (in-
cluding Lloyd George), who opposed the
war. A. G. Gardiner, editor 1902-19,
resigned whilst the Liberal party was on
the crest of the wave. The “D.N.”
absorbed the “Morning Leader” in 1912
and the “Westminster Gazette” in 1928 ;
its amalgamation with the “Daily
Chronicle” two years later led to the
present title.
* * * *
“Zake”; A Sydney solicitor returned
late one night to his suburban home to
find that it had been ransacked in the
family’s absence. He was telling his
neighbor about it next morning. “The
detectives reckoned it was the work of a
couple of amateurs,” he said. “Appar-
ently they were disturbed.” His neighbor
looked at him quizzically. “Don’t tell
me, Jack,” he said drily, “that they were
able to get away without losing any-
thing ! ”
* * * *
“Examiner” replies:
“X.S.” (B. 16/1/’46) is wrong in his state-
ment about Intermediate History (Melb.), and
wrong in his inferences. For many years there
has been a choice between three sections, but
whereas previously they appeared on the one
paper, separate papers are now set to avoid
confusion. Even before “Australasia and the
Pacific” was prescribed there was a choice be-
tween “British History” and “History of the
“I think we should call a kit inspection, Prendergast.”
Empire.” Greek and Roman history does not
enter into the question. The difference in the
number of candidates is not accounted for by
candidates, “plumping for the most interesting
subjects.” Few candidates have any choice.
They must take what the schools find it most
practicable to provide, and only very few, and
those the largest schools, can provide a choice
of even two sections, much less three. The
difference is largely due to the fact that whilst
the prescriptions for “British History” alter-
nate, the syllabus for the other two sections re-
mains constant from year to year. With many
the chance of securing a pass has as much
weight as the character of the subject'. Inci-
dentally, the term “suburban” is misleading.
Suburban candidates are those from schools
which, by arrangement with the University, are
grouped for examination in several centres.
For an extra fee the University conducts and
supervises the examination at these centres.
Candidates from suburban schools not in these
groups are classed as “Melbourne candidates,”
and sit at the University.
* * * *
“Uco”; Solidarity of strikers may
approach 100 p.c. when coal or steel is
the commodity at the centre of the dis-
pute, but when beer is in question a
creampuff has more rigidity. Several
times lately regular customers of Sydney
suburban hotels have declared a house
“black.” The ban has been a signal for
thirsty souls from adjoining and not-so-
adjoining suburbs to flock to the ostra-
cised pub with their ears back and
tongues hanging out. It’s useless placing
pickets outside a “black” beer palace.
They’d be trampled to death.
* * * *
“Melbn”: An incident unprecedented
in the history of ceremonial in Victoria
diversified the march of British tars in
Melbourne, Governor Dugan stood on
the dais in front of the Town Hall ready
to take the salute, with the Union Jack
proudly waving in the breeze from the
head of the flagpole behind him. He
gazed upward at the flag, and his usually
benign face took on a serious if not thun-
derous expression. The bunting had in-
considerately wrapped itself around the
flagpole. An officer rushed at the hal-
yards and gave them a shake, and down
came flag and halyards. Approximately
200 press photographers rushed the dais,
while 2000 Army mechanics rushed
out with spanners, brought the pole down
to the pavement and tried to restore the
flag to its former position as the proces-
sion was heard approaching. No Mel-
bourne crowd, however reverential, can
resist an appeal to its sporting instinct,
and the lads in blue must have been
puzzled as they neared the saluting base
to be greeted with roars of laughter and
shouts of “Ten to one on the Union Jack,”
“Hundred-to one on the procession.” The
procession won by a head, and flagpole
and flag were hustled out of sight.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Optimistically I had im-
agined that about the first thing the citi-
zens of Sydney would revolt against when
the war ended would be the queue habit,
forced upon them by unimaginative
bureaucrats when essential commodities
were, scarce and extended to booze,
smokes, bus seats, holiday rail tickets,
chocolates and almost everything else.
There is no sign of diminution. Queues
appear every day, heatwave or no, and
there is something pathetic about the
people who stand patiently in them. An
outstanding manifestation concerned a
fight at Rushcutter Bay Stadium. Queue-
fillers took their station for tickets 48
hours before sales began. They brought
stretchers and nigs and their knitting.
Heaven help us, Sydney has become so
queue-minded that its citizens will form
into patient lines at the drop of a hat —
thus has the dream of the Communist and
the bureaucrat come to fruition!
“Simon S.”: “Si Ann” (B. 16/1 /’46)
speaks of tropical-ulcer operations being
pioneered by a British medical officer. On
Timor, in 1942, Captain Haecking, of the
Dutch forces, was operating on ulcers,
and Australian, English and Dutch
p.-0.-w. will testify to having legs saved
by the vigorous spooning operations of
Sgt. Hondelink, Dr. Haecking’s right-hand
man. Many were the curses heaped on the
sergeant’s unresponsive Dutch head;
many the thanks given him afterwards.
Big, cheerful “Doc.” Haecking, of happy
memory to Timor men and Eighth Divvy
chaps in Burma, used his wide knowledge
of tropical medicine irrespective of
nationalities. I wonder what he thinks
of the Communist-controlled Australian
unionists who have held up Dutch mercy
ships.
* * * *
“McGlum”: Add to “Si Ami’s” testi-
mony (B. 16/1/’46) that the worst part
of starvation at Changi was the dreams
that accompanied sleep. Stomach cramps
were bad,, but chewing anything from
grass to a piece of rag gave temporary
relief from them. The dreams were all
of a pattern—banquets, cakeshop win-
dows, tables loaded with favorite deli-
cacies and the dreamer about to partake.
Either he woke up just before eating or,
having eaten, had the disappointment of
not experiencing any taste. At the same
time, the sight of the visionary food set
the gastric juices working, which, on an
empty stomach, caused internal pain.
Worst of all was the mental stress arising
out of disappointment. But death from
starvation must have been rather pleasant
in the closing stages. Hours before the
end the boys went into a peaceful coma,
relieving them from the horrors of dysen-
tery and beri-beri, from which they
would have died anyway.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The “Argus” unearthed
a descendant of Wordsworth on one of
the British aircraft-carriers in Melbourne.
He is Douglas Wordsworth, air mechanic
of Woodstock, Oxfordshire, also a poet
whose songs are sung in the Navy. A
specimen quoted by the “Argus” would
hardly get into the anthologies along with
those of William, but Douglas’s analysis
ol Australian drinking habits is worth
listening to:
1 alking about Melbourne—in fact, it
goes tor all Australia—your drinking cus-
toms are absurd. Back home we have
dinner and the adult members of the family
go along to the local, sir down at tables,
play dominoes and darts and talk, and don't
■ get drunk. We don’t have to hog our
drink in an hour. When we have nothing
to do we do it quietly and comfortably
at the local. There is a bar for men only,
but married women see to it that their hus-
bands join them. It would make a big
difference here.
As far as I can remember, England’s
nature poet nevef mentioned beer or
locals, but he would probably have en-
dorsed his descendant’s statement.
•■* * *
“X.S.”: Victorian Governments have
always been as parsimonious with their
penal establishments as they have with
their policemen, and if they haven’t had
a strike of prison superintendents it isn’t
because those officers have been particu-
larly well paid. Norman Tuohill, latest
governor of Pentridge, gets the munificent
wage of £644, rising to £670, p.a., plus
£3O cost of living allowance. He has to
pay rent for his accommodation within
the gloomy Coburg pale and find himself
in electric light and fuel. His predecessor,
J. Grieg, drew £6OO. Pentridge is the
biggest lock-up in Australasia, has a staff
of 200 looking after 1000, conducts crafts
and industries of all sorts, and produces
each year goods to the value of £50,000,
which all goes into the Government’s
pocket. The governor can’t leave the
prison without the Inspector-General’s
permission, and is only off duty when the
deputy-governor relieves him. Smaller
N.S.W. jails pay bigger salaries.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Every Melbournite
knows the substantially-built two-storey
Sarah Sands Hotel on Sydney-road, just
where it enters Brunswick. Years of
desultory inquiry have failed to produce
for me any definite reason for its name.
The popular explanation is that it derives
from the famous iron auxiliary steamship
of that name, but the building bears the
inscription “Established in 1846,” and
the steamer didn’t make her first voyage
until January, 1847. Nor did she arrive
in Australia until December, 1852. Her
managing agents were Sands, Turner and
Cos., of Liverpool, so that she was prob-
ably christened after some female
member of the Sands family. They
were leading lights of the Wesleyan
Church, and it would seem highly un-
likely that such an honor would be know-
ingly conferred on a public house in a
semi-bankrupt colonial backwater as Mel-
bourne then was. The pub has had
better luck than the ship. She made only
one voyage to Australia, survived a dis-
astrous fire when taking troops to the
Indian Mutiny in 1857, but in the fol-
lowing year became a total wreck
southward of Bombay.
NEW USE FOR THE MOON.
“Kadar contact with the moon, made by Australian
scientists, working with Dr. J. H. Piddingtou, in 1941,
is expected to lead to improved 'radio communication
between widely separated countries, with signals
travelling via the moon.”— Cable.
Celestial orb, the old notion must die
lhat you merely were stuck in the vault of the
sky
To lighten the darkness of nighttime, besides
Arranging the ebb and the flow of the tides,
it's certain our forefathers never conceived,
And if you had told them would not have
believed,
That a day would arrive when we earthmen
could tune
Into far distant stations by way of the moon.
Vou rose and you set, they imagined perchance,
As an aid to astrology, also romance;
ror maids and their lovers enraptured to plight
Reciprocal troths in your amorous light,
Tor poets to rave of, in sonnet and lay,
And dogs with unruly persistence to bay
But science progresses and none is immune
lo its march, which provides a new role for
the moon.
At harnessing Nature we’ve little to learn
On earth; now the heavens are in for a turn,
tre long we’ll be talking, the pundits declare,
to Mais, pre-supposing there’s anyone there.
Meanwhile, from the Orkneys to far Martaban,
And from Medicine Hat, let us say, to Japan,
T-[° m M? a ?' SO 5 ?. T Nome to the Ba y of Rangoon,
Jneiell be fellows conversing, and probably
soon,
In a matter of seconds by way of the moon.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
A TALE OF TWO CITIES.
“Sydney sells as much beer in a day as Mel-
bourne drinks in a week. Melbourne has never been
a big drinking city, like Sydney.— Mr. Connolly,
V.L.V.A. president, in Sydney “Sun.”
An item, this, for gloomy condemnation
By worthy souls to temperance allied
As having absolutely no relation
To any real cause for civic pride,
But doubtless to be viewed with commendation
By portly brewers on our Harbor-side,
And to fill Bungs, by general consent.
With quiet complacency and deep content.
In rivalry our cities have contended
For long, as ’tis but natural they would:
The one strong wills to steadfastness whc
blended,
Turning thereby her stain of birth to good,
The other, with a rise more swift and splendid,
Type of progressiveness and hardihood.
And in the various paths they had to tread
Now one, and now the other, forged ahead.
Assuming Connolly goes uncorrected,
It makes a fellow wonder more and more
Why that, with all that Melbourne has effected
In industry and commerce points to score,
One avenue remains that she’s neglected
For no apparent reason to explore,
To wit, the enterprise to be displayed
In what’s euphoniously termed “The Trade.
In other things there’s ever room for hoping
That transient eminence may be reversed,
But when it comes to fostering and coping
With what we call the Great Australian Thirst
And furnishing facilities for toping
It’s clear that Sydney rates an easy first;
Daily negotiating, so to speak,
As much as Melbourne swallows in a week.
Our huge proclivity for schooner-sinking
Some may attribute to the atmosphere.
But even with climatic help, I m thinking
It’s queer, it’s most inexplicably queer,
The more the beer that’s brewed, we re told,
for drinking, , ,
The harder it becomes to buy a beer.
Before one’s whistle’s fairly wet, it goes
Off, while the why and whither no one knows.
T. THE R.
N.S.W.


“Spokeshave”: Flight-Lieutenant Mc-
Beath, who caricatures R.A.A.F. men for
The Bulletin, was associated with the
organising of Australia Day celebrations
in Melbourne. He conceived the bright
idea of asking Montgomery and Mac-
Arthur to send a few words over the
air to the celebrating population. Then
it occurred to him that it would help the
generals to know what great event was
celebrated on that day, so he asked the
Lud Mayor. “Blessed if I know,” said
that worthy, “but I think the A.N.A.
started it.” McBeath ’phoned that in-
stitution but it disclaimed any connection,
“Ah, cheating again!”
so he asked his daughter. She thought
it had something to do with Anzac. The
question was passed to schools, whence
came theories that the day celebrates
Melbourne Cup, the Royal Show, the
Eureka Stockade, the founding of the
Commonwealth, Cook’s discovery of Aus-
tralia and the capture of Ned Kelly.
After asking A.8.C., dailies and police,
Mcßeath dropped into The Bulletin
office. There an answer was found in a
cheap English encyclopaedia:
Australia Day. Sometimes called Wattle
Day, Jan. 26 is a national holiday in Aus-
tralia. It commemorates the founding of
Sydney in 1788.
Nobody in Melbourne could be expected
to admit that.
# * He
“Wodgil”: In the conversation of
Sydney blokes there is a marked prefer-
ence for the word “cove.” I was one
of a ferry party at which a pressman
plunged into narrative, and every per-
son he mentioned was a “cove” ; “coves”
when the plural had to be used. Then
an Old Digger from Parliament House
told a story, and each of his characters
was also a “cove,” two or more being
“coves.” Possibly this is a survival from
the days of Harry Rickards, and so also
may be the lingering Cockneyfied pro-
nunciation of the vowel “i” (“Oi’ll have
an oicecream”; “Bring me tea-poi-an’-
roll”). Harry was one of the cleverest
coster comedians of his time and withal
a first-class showman: King of the Halls.
I am sure he had an influence on the
speech of his generation, and it may have
been transmitted.
* * * *
‘S.T.S.”; The 50-years-ago recollec-
tions of “Buggins” (B. 26 /12/’45) are
queer. Australian bathers of both sexes,
he says, wore “far more than the average
person does on lawful city occasions
today.” True enough for the women, but
the men (in S.A., at any rate) wore no-
thing. Any form of trunks would be
taken as a sign of ill-health of some kind,
and this whether in crowded baths or on
a lonely beach. But even in a complete
suit a man might not enter the sea with
his wife and daughters. That would be
“mixed bathing,” and shocking, while the
utterly nude males, who could be seen in
the “baths” 50 yards away, were quietly
ignored.
* * * *
“Ionic”; I wonder where “F.S.” (B.
23/l/’46) got the impression that “Aus-
tralian early-colonial (domestic) archi-
tecture rivalled in beauty and dignity the
old colonial homes of the United States,”
and why he asks, in an echo-answers-
where tone of voice, “where are they to-
day?” Francis Green way, a very com-
petent architect of his generation, with
a nice eye for proportion, designed many
shapely public buildings between 1814
and 1821, but these did not earn him
much favor with the authorities, and
though he practised privately till 1837 it
Should be difficult to trace his, or any
aesthetic influence on the dwelling houses,
large or small, erected during Australia’s
first 50 years. The most usual design
was a square two-storey box of brick or
stone with square windows, a verandah
on one, two, three or four sides, and
perhaps a conservatory or a coach-house
stuck on one side. Dozens of these sub-
stantial, unpretentious, comfortable old
homes still stand some may be seen
round Parramatta and Windsor, and in
the old part of Balmain. As some of
the sketches in the Hardy Wilson collec-
tion prove, there were variations from
the norm —I recollect a “mansion” with
a verandah all round like a kaffir
kraal. Even the verandah-girt box can be
made to look picturesque by an artist, if
set amid trees and flowering shrubs, with
a little ivy on the wall; but on the whole
I think Australian architects have been
wise in not seeking to revive early styles
of home-designing.
* H= * f
“Lao-dah”: The Chinese being a very
polite people, it is not surprising to learn
that their official version of the
British P.M.’s name has been changed
from “Ao-te-li” to “Ai-te-li ,” which can
be translated as “fostering uprightness
and courtesy.” “Ao-te-li” has no exalted
meaning in Chinese.
* * * *
“Jasby” looks at a “certain consulta-
tion” :
A “draw” is a function most visitors to
Hobart manage to include in their list of
“musts,” along with Port Arthur and the Cas-
cade Brewery. There’s an impressive solemnity
about the ceremony, with its Treasury officials
and its handlebar-moustached police-sergeant
and his constables to see fair play and record
the winning numbers. What the dailies would
call a dramatic incident occurred during my
one and only visit. The master of ceremonies
described the method of the draw, the use of
the marbles and so on, and mentioned that the
marbles were periodically checked. He con-
cluded by asking if anyone in the audience
would like to ask a question. An important-
looking gentleman arose and asked “How long
is it since the marbles were checked?” This
question was apparently unexpected. The M.C.
whispered to his offsider. They both went into
a huddle with the men from the Treasury, and
the police sergeant, too, joined the sotto-voce
conference. The questioner remained standing,
awaiting an answer. The audience whispered
among themselves. Who was this man? Did
he know anything? Was he a private investi-
gator? The official conference reached a de-
cision and the M.C. cleared his throat. “About
eighteen months,” he said. We all looked at
the questioner. What would he say now? We
soon knew. “Thank you,” he said placidly,
and sat down. The draw went on. I’ve often
wondered how long it was before the next
check of the marbles. Not long, I fancy.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Wellingtonians (M.L.)
blinked when a dream motor-car flashed
along their streets—a Chrysler Imperial
straight eight, 19ft. Sin. long. Its seats
could be raised automatically by touch-
ing a switch or folded away when not
required. At a touch the aerial for the
radio could be raised or lowered, and a
variety of knobs on the dashboard testi-
fied to other luxurious equipment. As
no Australian Labor Minister, was known
to be in Wellington to whom could the
car belong? To the new Russian Ambas-
sador, M. Ziabkin, and not a hammer
or a sickle showed anywhere about it.
« * * *
“Melbn”: Among the designs received
by Lud Mayor Connelly, of Melbourne,
for an Australian national dress is one
from Hanna Unger, of Caulfield. It com-
bines a pleated wool skirt and an Angora
wool blouse worked in a broad red and
white stripe, with a broad red leather belt
decorated with a white and blue aborigi-
nal design to set off the waistline, and
short red fringes revealing the Australian
flag and the Union Jack. A red and
white cap, based on the aboriginal cere-
monial headgear, adorns the head, and
heavy golden earrings complete the cos-
tume. The only thing that seems to be
lacking in this sartorial synthesis is a fish-
bone thrust through the nose.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: An unknown Japanese left
a pair of footprints on a concrete bridge
at Hiroshima. This man, it is supposed,
was standing on the bridge at the moment
the atomic bomb exploded. During a
fraction of a second the concrete melted
and his feet sank into the softened sub-
stance. A moment later he vaporised and
vanished. The slab of concrete ought to
be cut out and hung in a conspicuous
position in the conference chamber of the
United Nations.
“F.S.”: Historians looking back upon
the collapse of the Roman Empire, with
its roads, aqueducts and organisations,
wondered how a culture could disappear
almost overnight. Future historians may
wonder in the same way about ours. In
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” appears a photo-
graph of London’s first prefabricated
town, grown up in 10 months on the site
of Cubitt Town, completely blitzed in
1940-41. The new Cubitt Town is a
dreary-looking collection of flat-topped
dog-boxes framed by steel tubing. An
iron lamppost surviving from the old
town looks like an artistic masterpiece by
comparison.
sK * * *
“Avon”: Judge Alpers, of Maoriland,
in the days when he mingled journalism
with law, advanced a theory that the
Maoris were blown-away Irishmen. Cer-
tainly they enjoy a joke, love a fight and
cling tenaciously to a grievance. One of
the oldest standing grievances, cherished
by the South Island tribes, has now been
composed, perhaps finally. When the
Canterbury, Otago and Nelson Provinces
were colonised by the pakeha, negotia-
tions with the natives were in many
hands; methods of acquiring land were
varied and conditions were made which
were not always observed—particularly
the condition of reserving to each tribe
an area of land adequate to its needs.
The Government, after long negotiations,
has decided to capitalise this grievance
at £300,000, and to pay that sum to
trustees for the Maoris at the rate of
£lO,OOO a year for 30 years. Probably
the money will be used to subsidise hous-
ing and agricultural training.
* * * c
“Bump”: Bass Strait, beaconed by
scores of wrecks of early sailing-ships,
had no terrors for the British motor-ship
Chupra when she felt her way to Mel-
bourne through the murk of the storm
which broke the dry spell. A radar set
installed to locate submarines enabled
her to grope her way along the coast for
five hours until she found Port Phillip.
H= * * *
“Warra”: Sydney didn’t always pick
’em at Randwick. The Rum Corps sei
the foundations of a great racing tradi-
tion with a course on Hyde Park. Long
after Macquarie had outed that pic-
turesque but commercial-minded orga-
nisation Sydney went to the races at
“You're on the air in ten seconds , and remember—no ‘ers,’ 'ahs' or
‘ahems' !”
Hyde Park. Later punters, great and
small, betook themselves to Homebush,
and truly big and fashionable events were
held at Parramatta. To the Icelys,
pioneer settlers at Carcoar later in their
career, belongs the honor of first import-
ing gallopers. Manto, imported by Icely,
was the dam of Chancellor, who won the
Governor’s Cup at Parramatta in the
reign of Governor Bourke. The Icelys,
too, made horse history by sending to
India the first consignment of “waters,”
descendants of the great Manto.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: What’s wrong with New
South Wales as a name (B. 12/12/’45)?
Surely it is less cumbersome than
Northern Territory or Australian Capital
Territory, and, in the ears of outsiders,
the most romantic-sounding of all our
State names excepting, perhaps, Tas-
mania. Incidentally, there is a resemb-
lance to the coast of South Wales in
places ; and, anyway, Australia is not so
rich in traditions as to be able to afford
to tinker with place-names. To change
New South Wales to something new and
snappy for no other reason than its awk-
wardness strikes me as poor business.
* * * *
“S. E. & O.” with some Javanese his-
tory :
The presence of British troops in Java recalls
the expedition inspired hy Thomas Stamford
Raffles during the Napoleonic wars. Young
Mr. Raffles persuaded his boss, the Governor-
General of India (then an East India Co. pos-
session), of the advisability of seizing this Dutch
island, then in the hands of the French. Thus
in 1811 Lord Mint'o landed at Batavia with
Raffles, who accompanied his chief as secretary
and remained there as Lieut.-Goyernor until
1816, when the territory was restored" to the
newly-reconstituted Dutch kingdom, the new
Administrator having, in the meantime, in-
creased the revenue eight-fold whilst reducing
dues and abolishing trading restrictions. During
a spell in England Raffles wrote a History of
Java, founded the London Zoological Society,
and was knighted. For almost six years he was
Lieut.-Governor of Sumatra, in those days be-
longing to the East India Co., and in 1819 he
set the seal on a brilliant career by acquir-
ing the island-port of Singapore. His statue
stands there outside the Raffles Hotel, facing
the shipping. Five years later he returned
to England, being out of favor with the com-
pany, and was on the eve of standing for Parlia-
ment when he died suddenly, in 1826, on his
45th birthday. Though married twice Raffles
has no direct descendants. Only one daughter
survived her father and she died before she
was 20.
* * * *
“Petermac”: I’m still wondering why
some shrewd producer hasn’t given Aus-
tralians (and the world) some films on
their most passionate addiction horse-
racing. What a story could be woven
around the life of Phar Lap, his triumph
in the Agua Caliente Cup over America’s
best horseflesh, his sudden exit! That
story about the Mexican who pizened him,
apocryphal though it may be, could be
worked in with such a telling effect that
not a punter’s eye would be dry.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The luck of war. The
Malta manager for Cable and Wireless,
Ltd. (now under sentence of “nationalisa-
tion”), went right through the years of
blitzing without a scratch, though other
members of the staff suffered during the
bombings. He was relieved after the
Allied forces invaded Sicily. His relief, a
strict teetotaller, went out to visit friends
on his first evening and on his way home
fell down a bomb crater and was killed.
* # *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has taken formal pos-
session, through the Royal Geographical
Society, of two flags and part of a boat
used by Charles Sturt on his inland ex-
ploration. His famous boat-voyage down
the Murray to its mouth was undertaken
before Adelaide was founded. In later
life he settled in S.A. and there, a cen-
tury back, he went inland. Expecting to
find a central sea, he took a boat, but it
was abandoned up the Darling and the
remains of it, which came into the pos-
session of his family in England, have
been presented to S.A. by his descend-
ants. One of the flags was used on the
Murray voyage; the other on the inland
trek of 1845.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Flytrap and surrounding district,
the residents told me, had been in the
grip of the drought for about 18 months
—no understatement, judging by the river
which “ran” past the town’s outskirts.
Now but a deep waterless channel, the
only sign that it had in some past time
done service as a river was a punt which
lay on a tangle of withered reeds near
what used to be one of its banks. And
over a wooden peg driven into the side
of the punt hung, above all things, a life-
buoy. As I stood on the high bank look-
ing down at this quaint symbol of optim-
ism a long, lean resident emerged from
a shed a bit back from the “river,” bear-
ing a chain and padlock. Going down
to the punt he threaded the chain through
two holes in it and the lifebuoy and
snapped the padlock on the chain ends.
Then he clambered up the bank, gave me
a long, dark look, said “Y* never know,
some cows’d pinch anything,” looked at
me hard again and made his way back
towards the township,
* * * *
“E. 2”: Riddle was a little cove who’d
worked for Mullins for many yearsso
long, in fact, that he’d grown to take a
possessive pride in the place. But he
was a trying nuisance as the sort of work-
ing manager he’d elevated himself to, and
after some trouble over “our sheep”
Mullins felt suddenly impelled to sack
him. “That’s orright,” said Riddle easily.
“I can git a job with the road contractor
an’ that’s better wages an’ conditions.
What’s more, it’ll leave me week-ends
free. So I’ll be able t’ come home in
me spare time an’ keep the blackberries
pruned, an’ maybe cut some firewood if
we decide on clearin’ them peppermints
in the top paddick.” Mullins, regretting
his hasty decision, compromised with a
five-bob rise and kept him on.
* * * *
“Betcha”; The bullock was one of a
mob Jim had bought nearly two years
back, and the only one that failed to gain
condition on good feed. We tried a
drench or two without result. Then, some
time after giving him up as a bad job,
the animal surprisingly began to pick up.
He improved fast, and was almost ready
for the fat market when once again he
started down hill. A visiting vet. was
consulted. He seemed puzzled, vaguely
suggested several unlikely things, and at
length decided the trouble was none of
the more serious cattle diseases. The
beast slowly wasted, got down to it, and
eventually died. Curiosity prompted a
post-mortem examination. This dis-
closed a piece of fencing wire about 6in.
long embedded round the heart. Pre-
sumably such an accident would scarcely
occur in any but a cud-chewing animal
that mops up and swallows without
proper mastication.
* * * *
“K.L.T.”: The N.S.W. Timber Market-
ing Bill will control sale and use of timber
susceptible to the Lyctus beetle (powder
post borer) described as seasoned,
Lyctus-susceptible timbers are listed in
the schedule of the Act and must be sold
only under their standard name. Unless
borer attack would not be important for
the intended use, these timbers cannot be
sold or used unless the sapwood (which
is the only portion susceptible) is re-
moved or treated. Thus the Forestry
Commission has made certain that timber
can’t legally be sold or used as “preser-
vative - treated,” “free of sapwood,”
“seasoned” or “kiln-dried” unless it really
is so. Provision is made for inspection
of both timbers and preservatives. Sus-
ceptible timbers in the past have been
used as substitutes for Oregon in ceiling
and tiling battens and have become com-
pletely powdered within three years; in
inconspicuous parts of furniture with the
sam e result; in structural timbers far too
much sapwood has been included, leav-
ing, after the borers have finished, less
than half the cross-section. By encourag-
ing anc j ma |dng possible the preservation
c f borer-susceptible timbers and sapwood
(which has been burnt in the past), the
Act should help in conserv i n g timber
SU ppfie S . Many sawmills have cut out
a U the timber on their allotted areas ex-
cept very suscep tible species such as
crabapple and yellSw carabeen. Effec-
tive treatment will save the life of these
mills
* * * *
“Aperist”: So “Atlanta” (B. 19/12/’45)
surprised two sheep pups at the sport of
catching bees. Well, maybe. But I once
a ttended the inquest of a man who had
d i ed f rom a s i ng i e bee sting. He had the
bad luck to have his mouth open and the
bee stung him—on the tongue. His tongue
began to swell and it kept on swell-
ing until it filled his mouth, finally chok-
ing him so that he died of suffocation.
Z d 1 have yet to meet the canine wb o,
having been stung on the nose came hark
for a second issue
* * * *
“Nnr’ wpu”- Aim™, t, ,
u N J* ’ Althou Bb the sea snake
T? iS -.° ne the
timed wb/n on of ?“ 18 “ S 1 y c , a|>
tured when on the surface. Often when
short of bait for line fishing we would
Ind"dfp one
times one of the abos. would slip over-
Ka^iS^f
The s^uggrihnes^onthe
surface is that the sea snake, being really
one of the ser P en t tribe that has reverted
to the sea, is a lung-breather having two
pulmonary organs extending quite one-
third of its body length. When desiring
to bask on the surface it fills these to full
capacity, which enables it to float with
ease. But when surprised it is unable
to discharge this air quickly enough to
crash dive to safety.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: If, as I suspect,
“Nason’s” catfish (B. 9/1 / ’46) is what
we Westralians call a cobbler, removing
its hide isn’t such an arduous business to
the initiated. A quick plunge into boil-
ing water, and it peels like a banana, with-
out the trouble of nailing the beast down
by the head and performing feats of sur-
gery. And what intelligent fisherman —
yes, there are some —would permit even
a dead cobbler to retain his head and
armament a moment longer than neces-
sary when the slightest prick from any
of those spikes will send a man into in-
describable agony for hours? Part of
the equipment of all cobbler fishermen is
a long spike and a sharp knife, and the
practice is to remove head and fins as
soon as the fish is landed.
* * V *
“B. A. Ker”: In my daily joilrney
through the beautiful and historic Parra-
matta Park (N.S.W.) I’ve been interest-
edly watching the development of a
romance. Apparently the prejudices of
the Old World and the New were not
easily cast off, for the pair appeared studi-
ously to avoid each other while enjoying
their early-morning swim. Often I paused
to watch in admiration, while trying
vainly to decide which made the prettier
picture: the big, graceful but snowy-white
body contrasting with the dark, rippling
water or the sleek form showing darker
than the shadows of the overhanging wil-
lows. Then one morning I saw them both
swimming in the same reach of the river.
From then on the distance seemed to be
less every day, until finally the pair were
swimming side by side. Now they are
seldom apart. Perhaps I am rushing my
fences, but I do hope they will make a
match of it. Apart from the pretty pic-
ture it would make, I’m curious to see
whether the babies would be black, white
or piebald. Anybody know an instance
of an imported white swan mating with
one of the black Australian species?
* * * *
“Melbn”: Though quins bom this year
in Melbourne are not likely to confer
world fame on Victoria to the same
degree that the Dionne five did on
Canada, they have aroused a lively con-
troversy. They were the offspring of a
lioness at the Zoo and were claimed as a
world’s record, it being asserted that the
lion tribe had never previously been
known to have exceeded quadruplets.
Then somebody remembered that
Queenie, a Wirth’s Circus lioness, gave
birth to five cubs at Cambridge, M.L., in
1914.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Out in the ranges I ran
across the local schoolie, on holidays and
camped out on a shooting expedition. At
first sight the scene was ordinary enough:
car, camp gear, rifle leaning against a
tree, a few hides pegged out on the flat,
schoolie and his missus cooling off with
a bundle of newspapers in the shade
while their nipper built sand castles down
in the creek. The unusual part was a
tabby kitten sprawled across a gum-tree
root, sleeping as contentedly as if he were
at home, and in the shade of the car a
half-grown tame euro flat out on his side,
also very much at home. Schoolie ex-
plained as he put the billy on that both
the pets were a bit of a flamin’ nuisance
at night, when the kitten would crawl into
his swag and purr in his ear while the
joey specialised in playing leapfrog across
the nap. But both were safe enough out
there away from people and dogs, and,
anyway, they had to come ; neighbors are
so widely scattered round here that there’s
no small boy over the way to look after
pets while you’re away from home for
a week.
* * * *
Blime”; Much to Charlie’s disgust the
boss had him sinking a well in the hope
of striking water in the back paddock.
Day after day Charlie slogged at the job,
and, going down one evening to inspect,
the boss was delighted to find a few inches
of water in the bottom of the hole. He
baled it out, and next morning was dis-
appointed to find it had not refilled. The
following night he again threw out several
inches of fluid, but next morning there
was again no seepage. He waited for his
employee. “Y’re getting on to it, Charlie,”
he greeted, “but not enough. Y’ll have
to go deeper.” Next night there was a
whole bucketful to bale out, and once
more the boss sought Charlie. “Beats me
why she doesn’t seep in at night,” he
puzzled. “Baling but those few inches
every day is a nuisance. Wonder how
she’d go widened a bit.” Charlie nodded
dolefully. “A few shots o’ black powder
might do it, p’raps, if y’ want her wid-
ened,” he suggested. “But if y’ stick t’
pick-’n’-shovel work y’ll have t’ go on
bailin’ her every night, ’cos y’ can’t very
well stop a man from sweatin’! ”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Roaming along the rim
of the Great Victoria Desert (W.A.), we
found ourselves perishing for want of a
change of menu. Our last tin of “dog”
was a week-old memory, all we had was
flour, and we had begun to loathe the
sight of damper straight. There was not
even the desert wanderer’s standby, ,the
blue-tongued lizard; recent heavy thunder-
storms had seemingly washed the “over-
land trout” into retirement. There was
plenty of water, though many of the
pools, the crystal-clear ones, were caus-
tically salt. Eventually we came on a
claypan, muddy but active with life.
“Who says prawns?” Long Ned shouted.
“But you can’t eat those things!” Smithy
snorted. “Can’t you?” the long fellow
replied—“why, they’re apus.” And with
a scrap of mosquito net, a couple of
flexible twigs and some string he
constructed a dip net, and soon
had a quart billy full of the squirming
things. “Call ’em prawns,” he said, “or
crustaceans, first cousin to the king crab
that they catch in millions on the east
coast of U.S.A.: the oldest crustacean types
in the world.” Five minutes’ boiling and
the “prawns” were ready to serve. Per-
haps they were a trifle on the soft side
compared with the saltwater prawn, but
they had the advantage that one could eat
them, shell, whiskers and all—though the -
whiskers grew out from the tail. The net
was in use several times, but still the
pool seemed untouched.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: The large number of ’roos
in East Gippsland mountain country last
year suffering from nose or head injuries
had the locals puzzled until they captured
a few groggy specimens and discovered
that they were immigrants from the
drought-parched plains. The feed in the
hills had drawn the hoppers, which obvi-
ously were unfitted to safely negotiate the
steep slopes and, more often than not,
took their feeding-grounds on the nose.
With the break in the drought most of
these plains ’roos have left the hills. A
small percentage remains, however, hav-
ing rediscovered the uses of their rudder
as a balancing agent.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; The most
novel method of catching Murray cod
that I’ve seen was that used by Bullabulka
Ted, a one-time rabbit-trapper on Tammit
station, Euston (N.S.W.). Ted, whose
battered felt hat exuded a blended aroma
of dead rabbit and river mud, invariably
pitched his sapling-framed bag camp-
with log furniture to match —beneath the
towering redgums on the river bank, and
each day as he skinned his catch he kept
putting the rabbit carcasses in a wire-
netting cage that was permanently moored
just below the surface, 20ft. out in the
river. Naturally some rabbits in the coop
were always in a state of decomposition,
and as these disintegrated and were car-
ried in small pieces downstream the appe-
tising morsels, Ted claimed, acted as
ground bait and kept cod constantly lurk-
ing in the vicinity. To catch a fish all
he did was to keep casting a baited hook
of his rod line on the waters as one would
a fly for trout. Along the Mid-Murray
he was the only man I knew who, regard-
less of a high or low river, or a “no
river,” could be relied upon to catch cod
at any time on any day of the year.
FROG CHORUS.
Grandfather Toad, Grandfather Toad,
The moon shines bright on our damp abode,
The stone is a brother and the log is a friend —
Tell us that story about the fiend.
“Black and silent that demon runs
With glaring eyes like two green moons;
And round the devil’s mouth, my dears,
Not whiskers grow but blood-stained spears;
And you are looking on one who saw
His lashing tail, his naked claw,
And watched his wet lips bare his teeth,
And smelled his great hot meaty breath.”
Grandfather Toad, Grandfather Toad,
Was it long ago, is the devil dead ?
Somebody told us the fiend could swim —
Is it safest down at the bottom of the dam ?
“As I was crossing that moonlit lawn
With a hundred yards to hop by dawn
(Ah, toads would travel when I was young!)
I saw that tomcat crouch and spring.
I hopped, I screamed, yes, screaming and hop-
ping
I fled from the paw that kept just tipping,
For he takes his time in that last hour
When you die in his green eyes’ blinding glare.”
Grandfather Toad, you are brave and good
But the night seems chill as a black snake’s
blood.
Thick is the bush and the dead leaves crack —■
Tell us about the lady, quick I
“Oh, round that tall and glittering form
Her dark hair blew like clouds of storm.
And shade and moonlight seemed to chase
Like windblown gumleaves round her face;
And out of that great hollow stone
—The house of the fiend—l saw her run;
She scolds that devil, she’s stooping, and—
Grandfather Toad in that white hand!”
Her hand was soft and gentle and warm,
She tickled your backbone, she meant no harm;
Grandfather Toad, if she’s what you said,
Why wouldn’t she strike that devil down dead ?
“She is that .shadowy, moonlit thing
Whose praise each night you chirrup and sing
While elderly toads must rumble and groan
To make that beauty all their own;
And though in her enormous house
She feeds the devil and lets him loose,
She shall be sung with groans and bells
As long as there are frogs in pools.”
Groan in the shadows, groan on the stones,
Grandfather Toad saw the devil once.
But Grandfather Toad he’s a seer and a saint
And we can’t help singing while the moon-
beams glint.
N.S.W.
Douglas Stewart.


“Old-timer”: The main street in Bogan
Gate consists of a pub and maybe a half-
dozen shops on one side, the railway yards
on the other. On a blazing day in January
the mixed train for Trundle and points
north pulled in, and from the carriage at
the end of the long line of trucks emerged
a whiskered man in flannel shirt, dun-
garees, blucher boots and a battered hat.
He dropped to the ground and made for
the pub, swiping at the flies, his eyes
screwed up against the glare, his tongue
running over his dry lips. The bar was
shut. The whiskered man tried the side
and rear doors, all closed firmly. He
hammered on the panels at rear and side
in vain, returned to the bar and ham-
mered there. Came from somewhere a
local inhabitant who said “No good,
mister. They’re buryin’ ol’ Tom Mc-
Nichols today, an’ the pub won’t be open
for an hour.” The whiskered man slid to
his haunches on the step, “I’ll wait,” he
grunted. The local looked across at the
station, “You come orf the train?”
“Yair,” “She’ll be goin’ soon.” “Yair.”
“You wait for the pub t’ open you’ll miss
it.” The whiskered one bestowed a brief
glance at the train. “She’ll be back,” he
grunted. The local made himself com-
fortable against a post and indulged in
small talk which the traveller answered
non-committally. The train pulled out.
Presently there arrived vehicles and the
pub opened. The whiskered man pushed
into the bar, followed by the expectant
local. “Gimme,” said the whiskered man,
“one of them bob cigars; ain’t had a
smoke since yesterday. An’ where kin
I get a car t’ run me up t’ Trundle?”
They say that local inhabitant was dumb
for three days,
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; As one who has decimated
a million bushels or so of sheep maggots
and experienced countless nuzzlings from
treated sheep, I’m here to say that it’s the
salt they’re after (B. 30/l/’46). Was
puzzled about it for a time, but experi-
mented and proved that there was no
nuzzling when the human body was dry,
only when the worker was exuding per-
spiration, The final proof, to me, was
when I hung a sweat-soaked shirt on the
yard rail. The ewes found it and went
bald-headed for the sweaty portions, leav-
ing the dry parts unmouthed. It could
only be the salt.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Me and the big fellow
was up in New England once and were
following a road down to Barraba, Mat
was telling me a yarn, and we’re both
laughing about it when we round a clump
of trees and stop dead at seeing a long,
lean-looking bloke in white pants and a
colored shirt, without any boots on, wav-
ing his arms about. We gape at him and
he gapes back, then he shouts “Ah, there
is silence now on the silver sides of
grassed hills. And silence where your
laughter touched the day and made it
live.” Mat grabs me by the arm and
whirls about, and we run about a mile
down the road. “Gee whiz,” I pant,
“what’s wrong?” Mat sits down and
wipes his face. “That was close,” he said.
“One o’ them blasted bush poets. Hear
what he said?” “No—well, yairs,” I says,
“but I couldn’t make it out.” “Them
words,” says Mat, “about silver hills an’
laughin’ grass. Y’ wanter look out when
they come at that. They dazzle y’ with
science, an’ before y’ know where y’
are they got y’ in some pub buyin’ ’em
drinks while they spout more of it.
Listen, mate, y’ can’t trust any bloke who
can’t give y’ a plain g’day. All them
wordy blokes is either poets or politi-
cians, an’ y’ gotter keep clear of ’em.”
So we branched off and made for Armi-
dale. i
* * * *
“Zake”: When Barling announced that
his draughthorse Roger was missing Five-
pines knew its greatest sensation since Alf
Windon had put a brick through the
schoolie’s window for having given one
of his kids a “sixer,” For Barling’s big
draught, a near champion, was something
for which Fivepines had great respect.
The mystery deepened, until someone said
he’d heard a horse whinnying along near
Tuckett’s Bend, back from the river. As
Tuckett’s was a large area given over
mostly to blackberry and bracken, and as
nobody lived within miles of the place
except old Alec Lacey, the hatter, Bar-
ling investigated. He was opening a
guarded conversation with Alec outside
his log-and-bark humpy when a familiar
“ What's Wrong with the ‘Spirit of Progress Mister?”
whinny rang out. Barling ran across to
a small, rough bough compound near a
clump of gums behind Alec’s hut, and
there was the missing draught. As he
led it over to the hut Barling, torn be-
tween joy at recovering his horse and
anger at Alec’s action, demanded to know
why he had taken it. “You don’t ride
yourself, and you know you couldn’t sell
Roger anywhere around these parts,” he
said. The old hotter looked sad, “Well,
I thought I’d like somethin’ to have a
yarn to,” he replied. “You don’t know
how quiet it’s been for me here since me
pet goanna died! ”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: A superior person in a
fancy sports coat has been telling me that
the bush has ceased to be the “land of
lots o’ time” since the advent of the
motor-car. I don’t believe a word of it.
The bit of S.A, country I inhabit is of
the well-known vertical brand and the
tracks cross a watercourse of some sort
every hundred yards or so. If you use
a car you have to take along a pick, a
shovel and a philosophical attitude to-
wards time. If it rains you stay where
you are and make the most comfortable
“I cant reach it. Give the tree a shake, Benny”
camp you can until the big gum creeks
stop running and the red clay hardens
on the tableland. After a rain you pro-
ceed with care and the minimum of
haste. An insignificant gutter will stop
you until you pick in the sheer banks that
it has cut deep in the red soil. In the
big creeks you get out and take a walk
to see whether you can drive round the
deep channels that have cut across what
was once the track. If you can t you spit
on your hands and swing the M&d Mick
again. Then you remove a few logs of
wood and the worst of the boulders,
shovel away any treacherous banks of
silt, have a long pull at the waterbag, a
smoke, and then drive on to the next
obstacle. After a few creeks you stop
and boil the billy, admire the scenery
and the blisters on your hands, and then
crawl on to the next watercourse. It
goes on like that all day and at dark
you’re ready for the swag, which is as
much a part of your car as the carburet-
tor, You get to where you’re going
eventually and if you’re a day or two be-
hind schedule, well, everybody under-
stands the reasons. Yes, it’s the land of
lots o’ time, all right,
» * * *
“Sur Cingle”; Now that rifles and
ammunition are likely to be back on the
market soon, can the Council decide
what is the best all-round rifle for ’roo
shooting? The requirements seem to be
Stopping power, accuracy and a fairly-
flat trajectory, The old Winchester ,32s
and ,44s are practically fool-proof
weapons, hard hitting and accurate. But
they’re slow and they drop like a para-
trooper without his parachute—you need
an adding machine to work out your ele-
vation when shooting at fairly long
ranges on the open plains. The extremely
high-powered jobs, like the .22 H.P.,
aren’t practical; cartridges cost too much
and a stray grain of sand in the barrel
will finish your shooting till you get a
new barrel. And as soon as they begin to
wear accuracy goes to blazes. Moderately
high-powered guns like the smaller-bored
Mausers and Mannlichers are good, but
again cartridges are expensive, the small
calibre bullets don’t stop well if they’re
solid, and if you use hollow- or soft-
noses you’re likely to get a ’roo skin
which is largely hole. The .303 is moder-
ately fast and moderately fiat, and, in
normal times, the cartridges are compara-
tively cheap. But the Three-0 tends to
group badly at the essential 200-300 yard
range, and with solid bullets it doesn’t
stop very well unless you can hit the
’roo where you want to. Also the bullets
sometimes turn end over end after strik-
ing a bone, making an exit hole big
enough to ruin the skin. What’s the
verdict?
* * * *
“Propalong”; From the creek at the
foot of the range you battle up through
thick black-oak scrub which shuts off
any chance breeze and contains a Hades-
like atmosphere. By the time you’re
about used to the slippery rocks with
their coating of dry, purple-grey moss,
you find the slope suddenly leaping
closer to the perpendicular, the rocks
bigger, more jagged and more naked.
Now you’re in native pine and mallee;
the heat’s the same, the climbing worse.
Presently you see above you sheer crags
of quartzite, grey with lichen or apricot-
stained from iron-bearing water. You
puff over the splintered boulders beneath
the crags, find a gap, climb grimly,
meet worse scree below another line
of crags, surmount that somehow, pull
yourself up slippery chimneys in the
crags and find yourself perched shakily
on top of the range. You look down—
it seems miles down—and across an eight-,
to-ten-mile-wide valley up and up to
mountains on the other side. The “valley”
is a great basin floored with hills that
look like those in aerial photos. It is
full to the brim with a shining lumine-
scence ; dust particles suspended in dry,
motionless air. One of its walls is a
great blue cliff, rising apparently sheer
from the scrubby foothills below; that’s
Elder’s Range and Mount Alec. Farther
to the right are the serrated Wilpena
hills and the grand outline of Rawnsley’s
Bluff guarding the entrance to the Pound.
You’re sitting on Chace’s Range —named
after a Captain Chace, who explored
round here on foot —and you wish you
had the waterbag so that you could stay
all day taking in just a little of this bit
of S.A.’s Flinders’ Range.,
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: The usefulness of my sense
o’ smell being mainly confined to telling
when the salt jerk is unfit for dinner, the
bloke I found myself teamed with on a
recent outback trip, was a revelation.
“They tell me there’s a lot of snakes on
this creek,” I remarked as we swung into
a back gully. My companion sniffed in
several directions. “Don’t think so,” he
replied. “Y’d soon smell ’em if they was
here, an’ I ain’t got wind o’ one yet.”
A mile or so further on we struck Tubby’s
trap-line. “One bunny Tub didn’t get,”
I ventured, pointing to a sprung trap
pulled to the length of its chain. The old
chap glanced round. There were no
hairs in the trap, but suddenly he stopped,
flopped to his benders and sniffed the
ground near the trap. “Fox,” he answered,
rising. “Not gone long, either.” I took
him in with new interest. “Some beak,”
I remarked. “Anyone leave it to you
or did you grow it yourself?” “Bit o’
both, I s’pose,” he grinned. “Watehin’
me pup work years ago convinced me that
blokes don’t use their noses enough, so
I started to train mine. Bit like breakin’
a greyhound t’ work sheep, I admit.
’Course, old Bluey can still beat me holler,
but, as I always say, if there’s no sheep-
dog on the job even a greyhound can be
better than nothing.”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Let me tell “Narrin” and
similar Jeremiahs a fairy tale. About 35
years ago the Colorado River, racing in
flood to the Pacific, burst its banks, which
caused a flood to pour into the Imperial
Valley, southern California’s Lake Eyre.
The result was a lake about 100 miles
long by 40 wide and a hundred feet or so
in depth. How the break in the bank
was finally closed may be read in Harold
Bell Wright’s best-seller The Winning of
Barbara Worth. The first effect of this
new lake was to turn the surrounding
previously barren desert into sheep walks,
the second a rush to start irrigation farms
along its shores. But evaporation was
intense, and as the waters dried up the
lake turned somewhat salt. Then an-
other phenomenon appeared, vast schools
of the fattest mullet, the spawn having
been carried on the feet and plumage
of the clouds of sea birds that earlier had
made the new inland waters their habitat.
To deal with these schools canning fac-
tories were started. So that flood brought
agriculture and industry to the desert.
Later, to ensure the lake being perma-
nent, Uncle Sam installed floodgates on
the Colorado, by which the river in flood
may pour its surplus water into the valley.
In Australia we have no Colorado, but a
series of smaller lakes would produce
similar results, for, even though rainfall
might not be increased, dewfall, seepage
and irrigation would salvage lands which
are at present desert.
GIANT IN THE SKY.
Lucky Blunderbore!
Five minutes ago he appeared
Slowly drifting
Along the shore
Of an emerald sea
Lazily,
In the western sky,
With his snub note and fluffy beard,
And beetling, bulging brow —■
All swirling and shifting,
All ghostly and pearl grey.
At the close of day.
Though he has but a moment more
To peer, to stare
With sightless eyes
Into the sunset glare,
His end is glory and beauty catching the
breath.
As the sinking sun
Shoots through his hideous poll
—That figure gross and droll—
Waves of hot orange and amethyst,
And he goes down to death
Dissolving in a mist
Of gold dust, gorgeously aflame,
An angel’s end might be the same.
Maoriland.
ARNOLD WALL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
KILL the RABBITS with
k
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
_ - ... „ Cyanogas blown in will
give on a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead—even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9 ; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers throiigh-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
W' '■ m
/ '*
•;vi-::>/.....< :: "
Weight (approx.) 2| tons
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
d
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS 1 MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
ms
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.LTDj
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Dtd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the
Dominion.
#ll
EYE LOTION
fc>r Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty„Ltd.. Kinq Street, Sydney,
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
5 7/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bo wen Street - - - Brisbane
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Eliminate Poisonous Waste.
If you have an excess of acids in your blood your
15 miles of kidney tubes may be over-worked. These
tiny filters and tubes are working day and night to
help Nature rid your system of excess acids and
poisonous waste.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufiiness under the
eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Kidneys may need help the same as bowels, so ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-diuretic, used success-
fully by millions for over 40 years. DOAN’S give
happy relief and will help the 15 miles of kidney
tubes eliminate poisonous waste from your blood.
Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
When Appraisements End.
“Mouton”; That will be in June, and
growers and classers will find it hard to
adjust themselves to the new conditions.
One of the main results will be the
return ofthe “star lot.” Of recent years
many classers made it a practice to, pick
out single bale lots of super wool, each
being appraised with the same care as
large lots. Exceptionally high prices
were often obtained for these lots, which
pleased the growers and allowed them to
boast about the high price got for their
wool. It is a moot point whether it paid
or not. However, when the auction
systerp comes back it will be more profit-
able to make bigger lines. In the first
place brokers’ catalogues would become
unwieldy if many small lots are made.
Secondly, the time taken to auction such
catalogues would be a tremendous draw-
back. Thirdly, buyers with big orders
to fill won’t be bothered valuing small
lots, therefore they won’t meet the neces-
sary competition at the sales.
Growers will be wise to instruct their
classers to make as many big lots as
possible. Provided the clips are divided
up into lots reasonably even in length and
quality (to enable the wools to be
combed economically) and further divided
into light, medium and heavy sorts to
enable buyers to value accurately—un-
sound and tender wool being kept by
itself —nothing more is needed. More
extensive classing may be necessary when
speciality wools of extra super quality
are being handled.
Animal Physiology.
“Agric”; D. H. K. Lee, professor of
Physiology, Queensland University, has
returned from an extended visit to the
U.S.A. and Great Britain convinced that
much more attention must be paid to the
physiology of animals, particularly their
reactions to a hot climate, if any advance-
ment is to be made in the animal hus-
bandry of the tropical regions. He wants
such study to be as open as possible,
based on a long-term comparative basis,
as when confined to the more important
domestic animals many clues were missed.
Professor Lee attended the first session
of the Quebec conference of the United
Nations food and agriculture organisa-
tion as adviser, and later visited the U.S.
Bureau of Animal Industry at Wash-
ington, the Department of Veterinary
Science at Cornell University, and several
other centres. In Great Britain he met,
among others. Professor John Hammond
and Professor Sir Joseph Bancroft, with
whom he discussed the possibility of co-
ordinating the work in climatic physiology
now taking place in various parts of the
Empire.
Animal physiology, like most scientific
problems which, if solved, do not mean
increased votes, is receiving compara-
“Keep still, Ma — I'll soon put it out”
lively little attention in Australia. Money
spent in this direction would not return
an immediate dividend, but it would even-
tually return handsome profits to the
nation,
Soil Fertility,
“K. Me.”: In light-soil paddocks con-
stantly overstocked and receiving no
renovation or manuring treatment the
more nutritious grasses gradually give
way to redgrass, corkscrew and other less
nutritious types. Frequently the top soil
becomes hard through loss of humus and
three parts of the rainfall runs off instead
of being absorbed by the soil. Flood
waters wash off animal droppings and
old grass—organic* matter which would
enrich the land.
This loss of fertility and moisture is
having serious repercussions on the growth
and health of stocks, lambing percent-
ages are lower and good fattening pad-
docks of some years ago cannot now do
better than produce forward stores.
Poverty-stricken soils produce lightweight
stock, and though the wool is often of
high quality and fetches good prices the
fleeces are light. Surplus stock sold off
corkscrew and redgrass land fetch poor
prices. Summarised; loss of soil fer-
tility means smaller lambings, small
sheep, light clips and few fats.
To restore humus to the soil legumes
should be established. Where possible
plough-in the inferior grasses, working
round the contours to avoid erosion.
This will enable the soil to absorb the
rainfall. In early autumn the land can
be worked to a fine tilth, supered and
sown to clovers and lucerne. In many
soils best results will be obtained by first
treating the seed with nitrogen-fixing
bacteria procurable from agricultural
departments.
White Ants.
“K.L.T.”; To get ’em out treat in-
fested wood with finely-powdered while
arsenic or Paris green. Both are poison-
ous to human beings, and extreme care
must be exercised. The dust is intro-
duced into the galleries or tunnels by
(1) using a chisel or strong knife the wood
being gently opened up to expose the
galleries inside where white ants are
working ; (2) introducing a small quantity
of poison dust through a fine nozzle with
a blower; (3) carefully sealing the
hole again to keep out light and air,
either by pasting over a piece of brotyn
paper or sealing with putty.
After treatment the building should
be left undisturbed for six weeks or more
before any necessary repairs are done.
Then it would be advisable to insert
termite caps if possible, or dig in creosote
round the foundations where the white
ants came up from the soil. White ants
are very easily disturbed and may leave
the treated galleries. The success of
the treatment depends on their walking
through the dust and taking it back to
the main nest where the whole colony
may eventually be poisoned. They lick
the dust off one another and eat the
dead. The process is slow—which is
why the building should be left undis-
turbed for six weeks.
A Potato Pest.
“P.R.A.N.”: Potato-growers in Southern
Queensland are worried by the condem-
nation, owing to moth infestation, of a
considerable portion of the early crop
harvested in November and December.
This moth, Phthorimcea operculella, is
identical with that known as the leaf-
miner among tobacco-growers. It is a
major pest and responsible for much
damage to potato and tobacco crops each
year. The life cycle of the insect is
three weeks, and as many as 150 eggs
laid by a female in captivity have been
counted. Such rapid and extensive re-
production suggests the loss from infesta-
tion in early crops will be much increased
in the main and late crops.
In the Texas (Q.) district where, some
years ago, tobacco crops were being
badly affected, the pest was overcome by
a strict enforcement of the regulation
providing for the uprooting and destruc-
tion by fire of all tobacco plants within
six weeks of the completion of harvest.
During the last 10 years there has been
no trouble there. Carelessness of some
of the potato-growers is suggested as a
cause of infestation. Infested seed is,
perhaps unwittingly, sown in late July
and August. Successive plantings are
made often up to May in the following
year, so that there is usually insufficient
time without a host for the plant to die
out.
Steeping the seed in a solution of one
corrosive sublimate to 1000 of water (loz.
to 6i gals, water) for an Hour will not
only kill all larvae inside the potatoes
but also any fungus spores attached to
the sets. Entomologist Atherton, of the
Queensland Department of Agriculture
discovered some 10 years ago that this
moth laid its eggs in the soil and not on
the foliage of the plant as was generally
supposed. Possibly treatment of the earlv
crops with a D.D.T. compound insecti-
cide may overcome the trouble. The
pest requires Government attention to-
wards control, for it is useless for one
grower to exercise measures of control
if a careless neighbor is allowing un-
hindered reproduction.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”; Vic. Department of Agri-
culture recommends that handfeeding of
sheep over a long dry period should not
be discontinued when the first rains fall
and young grass appears. Immature
greenstuff doesn’t contain a great deal of
nutriment and is so laxative that severe
scouring often occurs when fed alone.
Continue to handfeed until the grass gets
some “body” into it.
“Mr.”: Gullies chewing their way
through a paddock should be plugged at
the gully-head before the autumn rains
come. A few cartloads of rocks, a check-
dam of logs or sodding with bags of soil
does the trick. t If grass seed is mixed
with the soil in ’the bags to hold it to-
gether after the jute has rotted, the spot
should be temporarily fenced off from
stock. The sides of the gully are then
broken down to form *a wide, shallow
depression which is sown with grasses
and clovers.
“Sarina”: Para grass has been acclima-
tised on the N.Q. coast for many years
(B. 9/1/’46). It is found in Dutch New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands, according
to Allied servicemen. It resembles ordi-
nary couch grass except that its leaves
are 12in. long by lin., and its running
stems travel 100 yards at times. On the
C.Q. coast, residual silt, alluvial and
sandy soils grow it luxuriantly. Rainfall
is 50-70 in. and the climate warm with
mild winters, Para grass keeps to gullies
and creeks and prevents soil erosion,
standing up to submergence in water dur-
ing the rainy season. It is good feed for
stock and a good ratooner, its 3-6 ft.
stems being grazed, cut and fed green,
and chaffed.
“Plane Creek”: A neighbor of mine
claims that after spending quids in a vain
attempt to cure Queensland itch in his
draught nags he found molasses diluted
with cold water to be an ideal remedy.
Only one or two applications are re-
quired.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Occupation Troubles.
(From a “ Harper’s Magazine” article footnoted
as being by a member of the R.A.F. who
prefers to remain anonymous .)
Although we shall get little credit for
any recovery in Germany we shall cer-
tainly not avoid the blame for the failures
that are inevitable and for the suffering
they will bring. The Weimar Republic
took over an inheritance of disaster last
time. The American and British Armies
are accepting an inheritance 50 times as
terrible.
There is, to the best of my knowledge,
no single example of a successful occu-
pation of this type. Each has resulted
slowly but inexorably in the defeat of the
victorious Power.
Remember the occupation of Britain by
the Romans, the long and bloody occupa-
tion of France by the British, remember
the Spanish in the Netherlands, the
French in Spain and Germany, the Rus-
sians in Poland, the Germans in every
country in Europe. Every one of these
occupations failed. Every one of them
started with the idea “This is going to be
different. We are going to do it pro-
perly this time.” Sometimes it was
months, sometimes years, sometimes
decades, but the result has always been
the same.
The occupation of a country, though
it may castigate the vanquished, degrades
the victor. However righteous his crusade
when he set out, a soldier in a foreign
country always ends up in the wrong.
The defeat of an occupation begins when
the war that brought it ends.
That defeat has a million parts, from
microscopic irritations to violent death,
but everything that affects the self-
respect, happiness, confidence, or cour-
age of any individual soldier is a part
of it.
The shame when a German girl re-
turns an admiring look with a glance
of scorn ; the irrational feeling of guilt
when an unfortunate aspect of defeat is
seen, like a respectable old German
woman scrabbling in air-raid ruins for
a little bit of wood, or an upper-class
German on his knees in the road sweeping
up a bit of manure to make his garden
grow. Every little sneer, every lie and
evasion, every furtive tongue put out in
the street is a step on the downward path.
None is worthy of an arrest unless the
victors are to become a laughing stock;
all are a part of the ultimate defeat.
First come these little things which only
strike at dignity and morale. They exist
already in Germany. But later (or
should we say soon?) the normal occur-
rences of occupation will start. Dirty
underground tricks—sabotage, if you are
the occupying force; heroic deeds for
freedom if you are the occupied popu-
lation. Maquis, guerrillas, werewolves,
what is the difference?
A German girl sticks a knife into a
soldier and he dies.
“He was raping me, what else could
I do?”
Maybe he was raping her. Maybe he
wasn’t. What are you going to do?
Hang her for murder? Maybe she told
the truth. Or maybe she made a vow in
an underground meeting place that she
would kill an Englishman or American
before she died. How can you tell?
You will get nothing out of German
witnesses.
A soldier is shot in the street on a dark
winter evening. (The winter evenings are
long and dark in an occupied country.)
The German police are helpless. They
do not, of course, say that an occupying
force must expect casualties. Probably
it is only the investigating officer’s imagi-
nation that their very correct attitude
implies it. Another is shot. What can
you do? Take hostages and shoot them
in batches as the Germans did? Levy a
fine on the town? Decrease the already l
small rations? All these measures are
injustices which will put you in the
wrong, but how else can you punish?
Or are they to get away with it?
Sugar in the gas tanks, tires slashed,
troops who fall mysteriously into remote
parts of the canal, little home-made
bombs which explode here and there.
Slogans appear on the walls ; more Ger-
mans find it desirable to spit soon after
an Englishman or American has passed ;
there are wires across the roads; as
someone drives fast through a village a
stone comes through the windshield from
an upper window; there are cries in the
night and mysterious whistles. What are
you going to do?
None of these things affects the Mini-
ster in Whitehall or the Senator in Wash-
ington, but in the end they will baffle a
commander, however great, and defeat an
army, however fine.
It is all in history except the answer.
The only answer so far is, “Shoot the
police chief, shoot the burgomaster, shoot
the hostages, open more prisons, bring
out whips and ropes, open up concentra-
tion camps, erect the gallows.” English-
men and Americans do not like these
things, and in any case the history books
tell us that that answer has never been
right yet.
Wars Started by Russia.
(From a N.Y. “Sun” arficle by George E.
Sokolsky.)
Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, the peripatetic
columnist and aspirant for the United
States Senate, has apparently picked up
what history she knows from the winds,
her latest contribution to the humanities
being “Russia hasn’t started any wars.”
Let us take one century, 1845 to 1945,
to see what wars Russia has started.
In the troubled period of 1848 in Europe
Russian forces invaded Hungary and
threatened Prussia, thus preventing an
early unification of Germany which was
then and is now essential for the peace
of Europe. In 1853 Russia made her
first war on Turkey which eventually in-
volved France, England and Sardinia.
In 1858, by the Treaty of Aigun, Russia
fixed the boundaries of territory seized
in warlike enterprise from China. In
1864 Ryssia seized the Khanates of Khiva
and Bokhara. Between 1877-1878 an-
other Turkish war was started resulting
in the seizure of Bessarabia from
Rumania, a Russian ally.
In 1885 Russia made war upon
Afghanistan which almost involved Eng-
land and might have started a world war.
In 1895 Russia intervened in the Sino-
Japanese War, obtaining the leases to Port
Arthur and Dalny (Dairen) and arranging
the secret Li-Lobanoff Treaty, a corrupt
document, obtained by a combination of
bribery and force, which subsequently
produced the Russo-Japanese War and
oriented Japanese policy into one of
permanent fear of Russia’s march for-
ward into Asia,
Since the Communists have come into
control of Russia they have seized
Finland, Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lith-
uania, Outer Mongolia, the five northern
provinces of Persia. I omit current
operations in 'Manchuria and Korea as
part of the iniquities of Yalta, but I must
include the resurrection of the Comintern,
which maintains a fifth column of attack
in each country, composed principally of
its own citizens and designed to weaken
its internal economic, political and social
institutions in the interest of militaristic
and imperialistic Soviet Russia.
U.S. Army Psychoneurosis.
(From Chicago “Sun.’ f )
Information packed away under secrecy
restrictions now can be assembled into a
cogent picture, and facts about mental
and emotional illness in the best part of
our U.S. male population are shocking.
Here are the bald figures:
Twelve per cent, of all the men exam-
ined at induction stations —more than
1.750.000 of them —were rejected as men-
tally or emotionally unfit for military
service.
Forty-one per cent, of all men dis-
charged from the U.S. Army for medical
reasons up to July 1, 1945 —316,000 men
—were discharged as unfit because of dis-
abling mental or emotional illnesses.
Add to these 136,000 more men not
given medical discharges, but separated
because they were “inapt”—they couldn’t
adjust to the Army life.
Thirty-one per cent, of all men dis-
charged from the U.S. Navy for medical
reasons up to last July 1 —72,000 men —
were discharged as unfit because of psy-
chiatric illnesses.
And, again, add another 88,000 men
who were let out for “inaptness.”
This is a grand total of more than
2.300.000 of the nation’s young men who
showed or developed minor or major
crippling personality disorders.
Fatal Axis Errors.
(From a N.Y. "Times” supplement article by
Henry Steele Commager, Professor of History
at Columbia University.)
What were the mistakes of grand strategy
largely responsible for the defeat of the Axis —
and why were they made? All the facts are
not available. For the present let us try to list
what seem to be the five major mysteries of
Axis political and military policy and speculate
about the explanations behind them.
I.
Why did the Axis fail to co-ordinate its
plans and operations?
Why did not Germany, Italy and Japan
attack simultaneously, either in 1939 or in
1941? Had they done so it is difficult to see
how the democracies could have survived.
Japan, to be sure, was not ready in 1939.
But neither were Britain, Russia or the United
States; indeed, the unreadiness pf these future
allies was more marked than that of Japan. In
1939 the United States was, in the words of
General Marshall, “not even a third-rate mili-
tary Power.”
Or —if Japan was too unready—the war might
have been delayed until she was ready, in 1941.
At that time, even with the rearmament pro-
gramme which the war brought on, neither
Britain nor the United States was able to re-
strain Japan; without war the U.S. rearma-
ment programme would have been delayed—
perhaps fatally delayed. Germany, in turn,
would probably have enjoyed the same rela-
tive superiority in the autumn of 1941 that she
enjoyed in the autumn of 1939.
The Axis never achieved a co-ordinated
attack. They did not achieve it even after
December, 1941. Co-ordination should have
been the first concern of Axis statesmen. That
it could have been achieved—in theory—is
clear. The United Nations, a war-bom alliance,
did achieve it. The aggressor nations had taken
a common road to war almost a decade before
the invasion of Poland, and the anti-Comintern
and the Axis both had a good start on the
United Nations organisation. But, as General
Marshall observes, “the Axis existed on paper
only.”
This is the real explanation of the failure of
what might have been an invincible alliance.
All available evidence suggests that each of the
major Axis partners consulted its own interest
only. Italy entered the war at her convenience
—and we are told now that Germany never
wanted her in the war at all. Japan, too, came
in when it suited her interests to do so, and
fought her own war. It seems probable that
these partners did not even interchange secret
weapons; certainly it is clear that there was
no such common policy as was required for
ultimate success. Perhaps, given the totalitarian
philosophy and psychology, such a common
policy was impossible, for implicit in totalitar-
ianism were racism, distrust of other peoples
and States and ambition for world domina-
tion.
H.
Why did Germany fail to invade Britain
in 1940?
Invasion of Britain would not have been
easy. The Royal Navy still commanded the
Channel, the R.A.F. was still supreme in the
skies over Britain and Britain’s coastal defences
—we are now beginning to learn —were even
more formidable than then supposed. Yet in-
vasion—either a direct assault upon the beaches,
paratroop landings in England or a combination
of both against Eire —was not only the logical
but as we now know the necessary step for the
completion of the German plans.
Why was it not attempted? The answers
are familiar enough. Hitler had not anticipated
quite so speedy or so overwhelming a victory in
France and was not ready to invade. He did
not have the landing craft or the organisation
behind them. He felt it necessary first to knock
the R.A.F. out of the skies, and this Goring
failed to do. And so forth.
Again these are answers that tend to mystify
rather than to clarify. For a decade Germany
had prepared for war. All the German genius
for meticulous planning had been applied to this
one great object. Prior to the summer of 1940
everything had gone like clockwork. Why
did the planning break down here? Why was
the Wehrmacht not ready to invade? Why
had the paratroopers not been trained for pre-
cisely this operation —as they were trained for
the invasion of Crete? Why was Goring not
willing to risk enough ’planes to ensure de-
struction of the R.A.F.? There were ’planes
enough for the Balkan venture the following
spring and for the all-out assault on Russia.
So far no satisfactory answers to these ques-
tions have emerged from the welter of infor-
mation and misinformation that has come out
of Germany.
Two possible answers suggest themselves. First,
Hitler thought that Britain would be bound to
collapse even without actual invasion. He had
confidence that the Luftwaffe could destroy the
R.A.F. and then proceed to the disruption of
British industries and communications at will;
he had confidence, too, in his U-boat campaign.
He was unable to imagine that a nation faced
with the odds which confronted the British
in 1940 would not accept the obvious fact of
defeat.
Second, there is the intriguing possibility that
Hitjer did not want to destroy Britain —as he did
want to destroy Russia. So great was his
admiration —perhaps respect is a better term
—for Britain and the Empire, that he preferred
to have Britain come over t'o his side much as
France had, through the establishment of a col-
laborationist Government. His failure to plan
for an invasion, his curious offer, just before
the launching of the blitz, of peace with a
guarantee of the his unwillingness to
use all of his air power against' the little island
—all these suggest an indecision, a confusion
of purpose, rather than military incompetence.
111.
Why did Hitler fail to occupy Spain and
thus close the Mediterranean to the Allies?
Hitler’s failure to go through Spain, seize
Gibraltar and close the Mediterranean to the
Allies in 1940 or 1941 is a perplexing mystery.
In the light of later events this would seen!
to have been the major, as it is the most inex-
plicable, of Hitler’s mistakes. Assuredly, he
could have encountered little serious opposi-
tion from Franco’s Spain. Nor could Gibraltar
have withstood, indefinitely, attack from the
land and from the air. -The cost of such a
venture would have been low; the rewards
would have been high. Once Gibraltar was in
Nazi hands Malta must have fallen, the British
Fleet would have been debarred from the Medi-
terranean and the whole of North Africa would
have fallen to Italian and German armies.
Italy, instead of being a liability, might have
become an asset; the oil of the Near East would
have been available; the Anglo-American in-
vasion of 1942 rendered impossible.
What is the explanation of Hitler’s failure
to make so natural, so logical a move? Prob-
ably the desire to concentrate all available
force against Russia was the decisive considera-
tion. Possibly Hitler believed that the Italian
campaign in Libya and his own attack through
the Balkans would clear the British out of the
Mediterranean in any event, and preferred not
to dissipate his resources in so many directions.
Possibly, too, there were objections from Musso-
lini, who was inclined to regard the Mediter-
ranean as his sea, Spain as in his sphere of
influence.
IV.
Why did Germany attack Russia in the
summer of 1941 ?
It is scarcely necessary now to elaborate on
the consequences of the German attack on
Russia, or to suggest that had Hitler been vic-
torious in Russia —as he almost was —the war
would still be going on. Yet why was the attack
made? It was, given the nature of Nazism,
almost inevitable.
From the beginning the Nazis had singled out
the Bolsheviks as their greatest enemies, and
the first Axis alliance was the Anti-Comintern
pact with Japan in 1936. The German-Russian
non-aggression agreement of 1939 was obviously
a marriage of convenience. From the beginning
Hitler recognised Russia as his most dangerous
enemy and from the beginning, too, it was clear
that Russia was preparing for an inevitable
showdown.
Hitler attacked at what was, doubtless, the
earliest possible moment. First, there was
Britain to deal with, and the Battle of Britain
raged all through the autumn and winter of
1940-41. Then the Balkan flank had to be
cleared, the British thrown on the defensive
in North Africa. When the invasion of Russia
came in June, 1941, it was a spectacular success.
In the end Russia proved the graveyard of
Hitler’s army and Hitler’s hopes. Yet until
Stalingrad Hitler’s gamble seemed justified.
V.
Why did Japan attack Pearl Harbor, and,
having attacked, not invade the Hawaiian
Islands?
It is clear now that the attack on Pearl
Harbor, which might have been a glittering
triumph, was, in the end, a fatal mistake. The
Japanese forgot the old adage: when you
strike a king, strike to kill. They struck what
was potentially the greatest naval and military
Power in the world —and failed to kill. They
failed even to destroy the U.S. Pacific Fleet.
There is little doubt that the Japanese plan,
which embraced war with the United States as
well as with Britain and Holland, was sound.
Had the Japanese confined their original attack
to the British and Dutch possessions, it is
possible that the U.S. entry into the war would
Have been delayed. But it is almost incon-
ceivable that it could have been postponed for
any length of time, and the period of postpone-
ment would have been one of feverish prepara-
tion for war. If Japan was going to strike
for supremacy in East Asia and the Pacific she
might as well take on the United States at once.
Having decided that an attack upon the
American Fleet at Pearl Harbor was strategi-
cally sound, why did the Japanese fail to pre-
pare for an invasion of the Hawaiian Islands?
Whether they could have succeeded in that in-
vasion is, to be sure, a matter for conjecture.
In all probability they could have done so had
they been willing; to pay the price. That price
might have required a postponement of the in-
vasion of the Philippines, even of the Singapore
campaign. Whatever it involved, it would have
been worth the cost. For if Japan had con-
trolled the Hawaiian Islands it is difficult to
see how America could have mounted an offen-
sive.
The failure to seize Hawaii and, at the same
time, the Aleutians -and Dutch Harbor seems
now the greatest of Japanese mistakes, perhaps
the greatest of Axis mistakes. Fragmentary
evidence which has appeared suggests that the
Japanese never intended to invade the Hawaiian
Islands or to challenge the United States in the
Eastern Pacific. Their plan was, it would
seem, to destroy the American Navy as a fight-
ing force and then proceed at leisure with the
conquest of southern Asia, the Dutch colonies
and perhaps Australia. But why were they
guilty of so serious a miscalculation? Why
did they fail to protect themselves in the one
place where failure was fatal?
The N.Z. Record.
(London "Times” Tribute .)
The 2nd New Zealand Division main-
tained the reputation of its predecessor
of the earlier war as a formation of
superlative quality, always prepared to
give of its best, undeterred by the heaviest
losses.
The division suffered more than 25,000
casualties, including nearly 10,000 killed.
It is doubtful whether any other division
formed from the British Commonwealth,
with the possible exception of the 4th.
Indian, had to endure such heavy losses.
It is known that those sustained by the
New Zealand Division of a generation
ago exercised a serious adverse effect upon
the development of the population in the
years between the two wars, and there is
reason to fear that this further cutting off
of so many thousands of New Zealand’s
finest sons will be felt for a generation to
come.
Yet if the cost was high the achieve-
ment was magnificent. The division
played a brilliant part at Alamein, both
on the Ruweisat Ridge before the great
offensive and in that offensive itself. Its
“left hook” at Mareth is an episode which
will never be forgotten. In Italy it took
part in almost all the hardest fighting.
Field-Marshal Montgomery has remarked
that divisions should be chosen for par-
ticular tasks, that one excels in one type
of fighting and a second in another, but
all conditions seem to have come alike to
the New Zealanders, whether they in-
volved the fiercest slogging at close
quarters or a lightning manoeuvre on the
enemy’s flank. . ,
Now the division is to be dissolved.
All that will remain will be a brigade
group, which will become autonomous
and will provide New Zealand s contri-
bution to the occupation of Japan. It,


LIMITED. ENGLAND
RAYONS
for lovelt
ikal lasts , • *
Imess
\ Tew clothes are an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayons. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are still avail
able, although the quantity is
restricted.
m
m
/■
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics;
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT:
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.-
181 Clarence Street.
y S f
m
Tke Zc rds !
Statc Express
“THREE-THREES” CIGARETTES
X295P-6.45
leaves behind it in the Mediterranean
theatre, in which it fought throughout its
career, a splendid reputation.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Travelling on the road at night is dangerous
in Italy. There are, apart from local high-
waymen, some 25,000 American, British and
Allied deserters (our own numbers are very
small) roaming the countryside, often disguised
as military police or soldiers and well armed.
This is one of Italy’s problems, one of the
many grim legacies of her frightful war of
liberation.— MancHester “Guardian.”
* * * *
There are 354,000,000 displaced persons in
the world, according to the U.S. State De-
partment, and that is 18 p.c. of the total popu-
lation. Of these, 140 million are in Europe,
or 25 p.c. of Europe’s inhabitants, including
those of the Soviet Union. Some 84 million
are in China and another 130 million in south-
east Asia.— Washington correspondent, N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
About 100,000 persons have been charged as
collaborators since the liberation of France.
In proportion to the total population, this is
only about one-fourth of the number charged in
Norway, where there was probably less real
collaboration with the Germans than in France.
Of those charged in France, about 1600 have
been sentenced to death, 1200 to hard labor for
life, and 10,000 to prison. Some remain to be
tried and some have yet to be found. —•
“Atlantic Monthly.”
**=!=*
Since the Japanese surrender the U.S. Navy
has produced a list of 15 key bases in the
Pacific and also the Atlantic which it regards
as vital to the future security of the United
States; and a sub-committee of the House
Naval Affairs Committee has produced a
similar and more extensive list for the Pacific
alone. The sub-committee of the House Naval
Affairs Committee has recommended a chain
of main fleet and secondary fleet bases and
naval air bases which ranges far down into
the south-west Pacific, including full title to
islands which are held or controlled by our
allies (Great Britain, France and Australia),
and also includes “dominant control” at Okin-
awa for a main fleet base and naval air base.
The Navy Department and the chairman of the
Senate and House Naval Affairs Committees
have likewise proposed Okinawa among their
key naval bases in the Pacific. — From an article
in “Harper’s Magazine.”
*“* * *
The Turkish newspaper “Aksham” in a
leading article agrees that the Russian desire
for reparations and security is legitimate, but
it contradicts the view that Russian security
can be ensured by imposing by force “friendly”
regimes or Governments on small neighboring
countries. Assuming even that all these small
countries united against Russia one day, the
danger would be negligible if they were not
supported by another great Power, which could
be only Britain or America. What Russia
really wants, the newspaper declares, is not to
impose on those small countries Governments
friendly to her but to prevent the advent of
Governments well disposed towards Britain or
America. The article ends with the comment
that a vicious circle is thus created, because
the greater the Russian pressure is on these
countries the more their peoples react against
it, thereby increasing Russian suspicion and
hostility.— London “Times.”
* * * *
In a detailed account of the convoys that got
through from Britain to Russia during the war,
and their unremitting battle with enemy U-boats,
surface vessels and aircraft and the constant
menace of ice, Captain I. M. R. Campbell,
R.N., at the Royal United Service Institution,
said that in 40-odd convoys 792 ships sailed
outward and 62 were lost; 739 ships sailed for
home and 28 were lost; corresponding with a
percentage loss of 7.8 and 3.8 respectively,
compared with under 1 p.c. in the Atlantic
Ocean convoys. British and Allied merchant
service casualties were 829 men. The Royal
Navy lost two cruisers, six destroyers, three cor-
vettes, three mine-sweepers and 1840 men. At
this price over 3,500,000 tons of war material,
including fuel oil and aviation spirit, were de-
livered. — London “Times:”
* * » *
While four-fifths of U.N.R.R.A.’s money
comes from American taxpayers, and the British
Commonwealth also appropriates a very sub-
stantial amount, Soviet Russia has contributed
almost nothing to U.N.R.R.A. On the con-
trary, Russia has asked for a large U.N.R.R.A.
donation for its own relief and rehabilitation,
in addition to the vast sums U.N.R.R.A. already
is spending in countries occupied by the Red
Army.— Demaree Bess; “Saturday Evening
Post.”
* * * *
In the interest of having the United Nations
take the course of natural and beneficent evo-
lution, it is indispensable that U.S. strength
should at least balance Russia’s. Nothing is
more common to say, or more true, than that
the success of the United Nations depends on
agreement between the two largest Powers in it.
Agreement is the less likely if one nation is
patently superior to the other in strength.
Success of the United Nations and the orderly
development of it would be imperilled if one
nation within it were so superior in strength
to all the others that it would be under temp-
tation to assert its arbitrary will. We do not
propose universal military training in order to
be stronger than any other nation. We propose
it in order that no other nation be so uniquely
strong that it might dominate the United
Nations. For such a dominance might lead the
United Nations not toward a universal purpose,
but in the narrow interest of a single nation.
And what the United Nations means is peace
by agreement, not by dominance. — Mark
Sullivan; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The Battle of Alamein will live in history
as one of the turning-points of the war. For
the people of Egypt it had a special significance,
and they were anxious to show their apprecia-
tion of, and gratitude for, the gallantry shown
by the victors. As a result of an appeal
launched by a committee of Egyptians headed
by Amin Osman Pasha a considerable sum was
raised, the major objective being the setting
up of some organisation in England, where
disabled ex-servicemen might be treated, trained
and provided with work, wages and homes. It
was decided to adopt a plan evolved in con-
sultation with the Village Centres Council,
which controls the Enham Village Centre, near
Andover. Under this plan a new Alamein
village, of about 100 houses, a medical unit,
hostels, and ancillary buildings will be con-
structed at Enham: 14 representatives of the
Alamein Committee in Egypt will join the En-
ham Council; and the name of the whole insti-
tution will be changed to “Enham-Alamein.”
The total sum involved is £225,000. — London
“Times.”
* * * *
Lord Nuffield told a reporter before he
sailed from Liverpool on a tour of Empire
markets: “The Government has asked the motor
industry to achieve an export programme target
at least 50 p.c. greater than before the war.
That means that Britain’s car exports must'
exceed £30,000,000 a year. It is a challenge
Colonel George C. Price, chief of the
U.S. Office of Flying Safety of the Army
Air Forces, has disclosed that flying acci-
dents cost more than 26,000 lives in the
U.S. Army Air Forces during the war
and destroyed 22,000 more ’planes than
were destroyed by the Germans and
Japanese. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune . v
which we gladly accept. My own organisation,
Nuffield Exports, Limited, is dispatching
vehicles as quickly as we can obtain shipping
space. We set ourselves the task of exporting
£250,000. worth of vehicles by the end of 1945
but material shortages and the dock strike made
that impossible. Nevertheless we exported
threequarters of that amount.” Lord Nuffield
added that his factories’ target was to maintain
an export output of 1000 vehicles a week. —
London “Times.”
* * * *
American sentiment has been overwhelmingly
in favor of world co-operation. Many soldiers,
however, are returning home disillusioned.
From Normandy’s apple orchards to India’s
coral strand, some of them are saying they
seem to be regarded as interlopers. Implica-
tions that America did not do very much in
the war anyway, and that it still owes addi-
tional billions of dollars to Allies who did so
much more, aren’t helping. So for one reason
or another propaganda is springing up not only
against long years of occupation abroad, but
even against the armed services adequate to
hold up the U.S. as a great Power —a dangerous
phenomenon.— Washington correspondent N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
American military strategists assert that the
U.S. can no more afford to let Britain go down
now than in 1940 or in 1917. They declare
that the British Isles are America’s first line of
defence in the Atlantic area; that without these
islands, the U.S. could never have mounted its
offensive against Germany. In the Pacific, too,
they declare the U.S. must plan its defences in
close co-operation with the British Common-
wealth. American statesmen similarly main-
tain that the British Isles are essential to U.S.
safety, in peace as well as in war. They say
that these islands are America’s' first line of
defence now against the spread of dictatorship
in Europe. Britain is the most powerful pro-
ponent in Europe of the principles of gradual
social and economic changes and of hostility
to violence and disorder. — Demaree Bess;
“Saturday Evening Post
* sfe
By establishing a world-wide export organisa-
tion British aviation interests fired the first gun
in the competitive race between British and
American aircraft manufacturers to become the
world’s leading exporters of aircraft. The
Society of British Aircraft Constructors, Ltd.,
is setting up branch export offices in all the
attractive new aircraft markets, such as the
Dominions, India, Latin America, the Middle
East and the Far East with the specific approval
and encouragement of the British Government.
It is freely admitted in American aircraft trade
circles that the British are more active in
foreign markets than are U.S. ’plane-makers.
The general feeling has been that British air-
craft-makers would have nothing to offer
foreign buyers for several years. That belief
is no longer held among well-informed mem-
bers of the industry, as the British have no
less than 20 different designs either in pro-
duction or in an advanced stage of development,
ranging from single-engine freight and pas-
senger carriers to an eight-engine trans-Atlantic
land ’plane weighing 110 tons. It is also
recognised now that a nation which produced
187,000 ’planes and the equivalent in spare
parts during the war —especially when that
nation consists of as experienced foreign traders
as the English admittedly are—can’t be easily
written off in aircraft export trade.— N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The United States is growing at a rate to
confound the experts who thought the country
was approaching its population peak. Revised
figures now show that Americans will increase
in number for many decades to come; will
reach 145,900,000 by 1950 and continue up-
ward. Maximum population, once calculated
at 151,000,000, now is certain to outstrip that
mark by many millions. A United States of
190,000,000 by the year 2000 is not impos-
sible. Many factors, most of them products of
the war, combine to upset the gloomy predic-
tions of a population slowdown. Marriages
are on the increase. Births, which boomed un-
expectedly in war, are continuing at a high level.
Total gain in population this decade will ex-
ceed 13,000,000, nearly twice the total popula-
tion of Australia and greater than the total
number of Canadians. The rate of increase is
higher now than it was between 1930 and 1940.
—“United States News.”


MANSEASE
the perfect comfort malo
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne,
CHARTS
Circular Charts Jo» all types oi
Recording instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREET PTV. LTD, BRISBANE. OLD.
o
'/'S'
Si
5St
*S>
ot
40
CV^
""S*
IF AUSTRALIA is to take her right-
ful place in world affairs she must get
on with the job of developing her
national resources. The construction of
new permanent ways and roads, subways
and bridges, reservoirs and canals, will
call for the most efficient of modern
earth-moving equipment to speed the
jobs and to keep down costs.
One of the most efficient ways to move
materials is by the front-end loader on a
"Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor like the one
pictured above. It is shown in the deep
mud of a subway project, handling thirty
yards of sticky clay every hour—l 6 hours
a day. This is one way "Caterpillar”
products bring down earth-moving costs
—a reason why more and still more
"Caterpillar” outfits, with their tremen-
dous power and amazing economy, will be
required where the job must be done in
record time and at record low cost.
CATE B PUL AR D/esei
REO. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland!
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rafhbone, S 7 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
•p[, one p or i Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St.. Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. ‘Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
I
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVEN "A"
Obtainable In 10*s & 20’s
9m
w
5786
fd
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Microbe Hunters, by de Kruif, and
the American edition (Knopt) or 1 ins
Chemical Age, by Haines—3696.
To buy Collected Poems of Henry Van Wyck.
—3691.
To buy servicemen’s publications H.M.A.S.,
H.M.A.S. Mk. 11 and R.A.A.F. L0g— 3698,
Information Sought.
(1) Can a trade name, slogan or advertising
idea be copyrighted? (2) Is there any way of
determining what would be a fair price for an
advertising idea ? (3) Cost of patenting ? Must
a working model be submitted with the drawy
ings ?
(1) If it is a new name for an article or goods
it can be registered as a trademark for those
goods, but business schemes are not patentable.
It is safer to register a trademark before use and
essential to apply for a patent before disclosure.
(2) Price is a matter for negotiation between the
parties. (3) A film of registered patent attorneys
can handle the case without a model, but
sketches illustrating the construction and its
operation are necessary. Patenting cost' is about
six guineas for provisional protection and about
£25 for the full 16 years’ patent.
* * * •
The correct diet for a nine-months’-old cocker
spaniel pup ?
The principal meal should be given about
8 a.m. and should consist of raw beef to which
has been added a little roughage in the shape
of broken or crushed dog biscuit and a little
scraped raw carrot. Until maturity a light meal
consisting of the yoke of raw egg beaten in a
little milk poured over a crushed wholemeal
dog biscuit may bo given about 11 am. The
less the dog is washed the better for his health.
A good daily grooming is much better for the
skin and coat.
* * * *
Method of making pineapple wine ?
To 251 b. ripe pineapple allow sgals cold
water. To each gallon of liquid obtained allow
21b. sugar and juice and rind of one lemon.
Cut up pines, put into wooden tub (-} cask),
crush well, pour water over and leave covered
10 days, stirring daily. Strain liquor into
another vessel, add sugar and lemon and stir
well till sugar dissolves. Put into cask, add
lOoz. isinglass dissolved in a little warm water
and cover bunghole with cloth for 10 days.
Bung up cask and leave for 12 months, then
bottle.
Brief Answers.
A.D.: In England and Wales the Govern-
ment pays salaries of teachers in Catholic
schools and maintains the schools. In Scotland
and Canada the Government pays salaries,
maintains schools and provides full capital cost,
while in Protestant Northern Ireland the Gov-
ernment pays salaries, maintains schools and
pays half capital cost G.W.R.: Gubbayarra,
“near shining sands”; Mamoarooda, “slopes to
the sea”; Quambatok, “camp near big water”;
Illowra, “near sea”; Illaroo, “track near sea”;
Gundaroo, “big waterhole” A.W.: The
Austin 7 h.p. car was first imported early in
1924 J.A.R. and 8.H.: Unable to advise.
J.E.H.: Inquire at any large department
store A.D.C.: A book on that subject is
The One Man Show, obtainable from Will
Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, for ss. 3d.;
this firm will quote for your other require-
ments G.8.T.: Percentage humidity is cal-
culated by tables which are sold by the Weather
Bureau, Victoria-street, Carlton, Vic., priced at
sixpence for either sheet of tables or ss. for the
Australian Meteorological Observers’ Hand-
book, wherein the tables are shown in greater
detail G.J.: Dye-blending is a dangerous
practice which should be attempted only by
specialists H.E.C.: Under Nat. Sec. (meat
industry control) Regs, the sale of pork for
civilian consumption is prohibited. Of the pigs
that are headed at Flemington, back-fatters are
taken by smallgoods manufacturers, other pigs
are used by bacon factories and exported in
large quantities to England, while pigs under
1001 b. in weight are used for fresh pork for
the navy and merchant marine. The only
pig meat that is available to the public is in
the form of bacon and ham, released on a
quota of about 50 p.c. of that used prior to the
war. The U.K. requires the maximum number
of frozen carcasses that Australia can send, and
while this demand is maintained restrictions will
continue.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS, No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.C.G.: “The Last Watch” doesn’t tick.
G.R.: “I wrote it in a moment of weak-
ness.” Take a tonic... .F.C.F.: In deference
to Tennyson there will be no moaning at “The
rje.r! •' Youve iJt°out ’ the
story that might justify it—the love affair
R.H.S.: Pardonable if you are very young....
H.S.M.: Familiar sentiments indifferently ex-
pressed Z.H.: How about trying a theme a
little less ambitious than the universe?
H.M.8.: Let’s see the others E.G.: The
usual old hulk ...M.T.: “The guns of war
boom out. Evils rebound. The poem, too.
W.G.W.: Hardly asimpressive as the note-
paper G.L.K.: Ram Dance is all wet.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD,
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns,
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
“In the very
TEStIM 0^
“long
hoU ? a luep y t> roUsM ot>
nt*Jf head-
Z'fand I
Asf‘ U
VSte
dta
tablets
m e 8
did
qO d
tm T
the fir $t '
best of
Health
C °A-
Ve Wv e a Pre.
"ervou' aga ‘nst
a * d * *a% 9i »>
re-
ma^ed
l er y be sf s
kenfo. St of
ln the
tnQ **e&
Qr e
’OUs.»
The revitalising effect of a course of ‘Phyllosan’ tablets must be
experienced to be appreciated. Many thousands owe renewed
health and vigour to these wonderful little tablets. If you
take ‘Phyllosan’ tablets regularly, we believe the results will
astonish you.
Start taking
PHYUO
helps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phyllosan• is the property of Natural Chemicals ltd., London
m/\r
w
*5O
RELIEF FROM &
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even th© most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will b© forwarded on request.
DIEBCTOES—James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy
F. T. W. Black.
- Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—L. S. Parker,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STMETi SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
bp i u.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards Re.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1935.. 123,581 5 p.e. b 121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2,332 .. .. .. 6,256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8,157
1937.. 158,878 64 p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 6| „ „ 158.594 737 9,178
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, -Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1939. .171,552 6J p.c. = 158,594 12,958 399,933
Unexplained reductions, £7556 .. 892,377
1940. .183,001 3000 6i p.c. = 160,891 19,110 411,487
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 412,615
1941. .193,818 6000 6J p.c. = 160,891 26,927 430,442
Unexplained additions, £20,539 .. 459,981
1942. .183,551 6000 6J p.c. = 160,891 16,660 476,641
Unexplained additions, £29,213 .. 505.854
1943. 6000 64 p.c. = 160,890 14,656 520,510
Unexplained additions, £39,851 .. 559,861
1944. 6000 6| p.c. = 160,890 14,479 574,340
Unexplained additions, £140,023 .. 714,363
1945. .179,479 6000 8 p.c. = 198,019 689,823
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
t Subject to intangibles.
This is an amalgamation of half a dozen
of Australia’s leading drug houses, which
came together about 15 years ago to
eliminate waste in buying and selling ahd
mitigate the effects of aggressive competi-
tion. The organisation turns out much
of its own requirements, including many
proprietary lines and scientific instru-
ments, thus gathering manufacturing as
well as distributing profits.
War, which brought partial economic
isolation as well as a host of hampering
controls, provided the management with
opportunities of which it has made the
most. The research staff succeeded in
making from Australian raw materials
many lines previously imported, and
“exports in considerable quantity to Allied
countries were made during the war.”
Now a new subsidiary, Drexo Pty., has
been formed to take over this recently
developed export side of the business, to
foster which substantial outlay on factory
equipment has already been made. And
to keep the business abreast of latest de-
velopments in the pharmaceutical and
light chemical fields a team of five of the
co.’s experts is now visiting Britain and
America.
The board’s forward-looking policy of
expansion deserves a lot more encourage-
ment than the Government has thus far
seen fit to extend. Two ways in which
Government assistance can and should
be given are: (1) by granting of some
relief from the excessive burden of co.
taxation, and (2) by allowing a more
liberal deduction for depreciation and
obsolescence when computing tax liability.
Under the altered conditions of today the
aggregate of public levies has become an
important factor in the level of costs,
especially when competing in export
markets with other countries not subject
to equally steep taxes. Here self-interest
alone demands that we be no less liberal
than other countries in tax relief. Also,
it is a long-standing grievance that official
allowances for depreciation and obsoles-
cence are much less than commercial
prudence obliges owners themselves to
make. The difference has to be provided
out of funds which have already borne
unprecedentedly heavy taxation.
Modernisation has become a vital
national need, because speed in satisfying
demand creates goodwill, wh*ch in turn
will help to hold the market in the future.
Industry, therefore, has a right to expect
that the State will not be unduly extrac-
tive, or throw an excessive share of social
and other public costs on a single section
of the community. Not only the size
but the quality of the national income
is important. When personal income tax
on dividends is added to taxes already
levied on co. profits, from which divs. are
paid, a form of double taxation is created
which can be justified only as an emer-
gency war-time measure. The time is
approaching, if it has not already arrived,
when an axe, wielded with economic
understanding and discretion, will prove
a useful weapon with which to prune
those parts of a swollen public expendi-
ture which contribute nothing to the
national income in real terms.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts sales continued to expand.
And so did production and distribution
costs, while selling prices remained
pegged, thus robbing the co. of any gain.
And the Government continues to get
more than shareholders out of the busi-
ness. Of gross turnover 71.4 p.c. went in
payment for goods, 12.1 p.c. salaries and
wages, 8.2 p.c. exes., 4.4 p.c. taxes, leaving
3.9 p.c. for shareholders, who shoulder
all the risk. After allowing for taxa-
tion, depreciation and outside interests,
net earnings of the organisation were
£lB9O lighter at £179,479. That was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show a
shade over 7 p.c. on the £2,475,214 of
ord. capital as against 7, 7.1, 7.1, 7.5 and
7.2 p.c. back to 1940.
A special victory bonus of \\ pc. was
sent out with the 6\ p.c. div., making
8 p.c. for the year, which called for
£18,540 more than the profit claimed. A
revaluation, by independent valuers, of
the book value of fixed assets in the trad-
ing cos. was responsible for most, if not
all, of the unexplained addition of
£140,023 to reserves. The lay-by shown
in the table is subject to intangibles—
goodwill (£263,436) and excess cost of
shares in subsidiaries over their face
♦value (£756,255).
The financial position improved:
D.H.A. and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1944. 1945.
D.H.A £2,489,912 £2,575,244 £2,575,244
Outside interests.. *79,111 *4,878 *5,127
Mortgages .. 75,400 79,520 79,507
Sundry creditors., 698,191 1,276,180 1,356,773
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 716,537 1 „ q 7
Plant, etc. ~ 152,926 j "76,297 848,443
Shares, etc. .. 76,489 104,865 154,989
Stocks .. ~ 940,800 1,661,644 1,736,602
Book debts .. 886,855 768,532 769,924
Cash, etc 17,429 185,380 255,671
Suspense account.. 14,194 66,461 44,916
Undistinguished
assets .. .. 719,772 770,180 756,255
Goodwill, etc, .. 261,937 263,436 263,436
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
The year’s net increase of £72,146 in the
book value of freehold and plant and
addition of £50,124 to shareholdings,
etc,, mainly reflect the revaluation and
formation of the new export subsidiary
already referred to. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,525,822) was £94,640.
On ’Change buyers offer 28s. 6d, and
sellers ask 325. 6d. for the 6 p.c. cum.
prefs., covered by £22 9s. in net tangibles.
At the middle price the return would be
4 p.c. At the ceiling price of 325. 6d.
the ords. would also return 4 p.c. on a
6i p.c. div. basis. The cover is 17s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,874 9 p.c. = 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9' „ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.*, 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,842
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 „ „ 7000 7,253 97,013
1940.. 14,366 10 ~ „ 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO .. 99,379
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. =..7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 7000]
Staff fund, £lOOO .. f 810 108,543
To tax reserve, £3OOO J
1943. • 15,965 10 p.c. = 7000 1 g ogg c egg
Staff fund, £2OOO .. ..j 6,965,115,508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c. = 7000 f g ngg 100 ino
Staff fund, £lOOO . . \ 6,900 I^’4oB
1945.. 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000 1 0
Staff fund, £lOOO _ | 9,556 131,964
The business of this sound, 38-year-old
fire, marine and accident office, with
headquarters at Sydney, is confined to
the Commonwealth. There has been no
very pronounced fluctuation in premium
income since war began. The effects of
the shrinkage in motor vehicle and local
marine business —the latter became a
Government monopoly, relinquished in
August last—were largely offset by an
increased volume of fire and workers’
compensation insurance, etc.
Last term the co, gathered an addi-
tional £3560 of gross premiums
(£131,780). An extra £2031 was reinsured
(£32,022), leaving net premium income
£1529 stronger, as the following table
shows:
XT . Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p c
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36 4
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 60.3 • 41'4
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 46 5
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44 7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
1941.. 99,469 44,213 47,934 44.4 48 1
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51'2
1948.. 97,652 42,101 46,556 43,1 47 6
1944.. 98,229 48,899 41,666 49.8 42 4
1945.. 99,758 46,688 42,860 47.7 43.8
The larger business was gathered at an
extra cost of 28s. p.c. But the loss ratio
was 425. p.c. lighter, thanks to a more
favorable experience in connection with
bushfires, especially in Victoria. One re-
sult was an improvement of £2546 in the
underwriting surplus, making it £10,210,
equal to 14.6 p.c. on capital. Net return
from investments was £7346 (up £110),
or 10.5 p.c. on capital. The two together
lifted the net result to 25.1 p.c. on capital,
compared with 21.2, 22.8, 16.8, 21.9, 20.5
and 20.3 p.c. back to 1939. It all gives the
10 p.c. div, a very comfortable look.
After paying the div, and sending £lOOO
to the staff fund, nearly the whole of the
underwriting surplus remained to swell
investments and the returns therefrom.
The £70,000 of paid capital has the sup-
port and assistance of £131,964 of re-
serves, which means that the two com-
bined need turn in only 3.4 p.c. to show
10 p.c. on capital alone.
As for the current term, as ordinary
business activity and the building pro-
gramme gather momentum, and more
cars and petrol become available, fire
and motor vehicle insurance premiums
should benefit. Competition will sharpen,
which will make exes, difficult to restrain.
What will happen in connection with the
loss ratio remains to be seen. It is likely
to rise in the accident section as the
number of cars on the road increases.
Both policy-holders and shareholders
are well protected:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital ..£70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities .. 28,936 31,120 41,364 50,589
Freeholds .. 2,600 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 41,738 38,469 31,622 80,489
Debentures .. 9,000 7,700 6,000 6,000
Public securities 91,988 119,488 171,088 182,088
Book debts .. 8.869 8,888 6,224 8,600
Cash, etc. .. 53,854 50,807 51,337 56,876
Since the outbreak of war £90,100, of
which £ll,OOO was in respect of last term,
has been added to Government securities,
which now account for 63.5 p.c. of total
assets.
On ’Change 18s. 9d. (ceiling price) is
offered for the pound shares paid to 7s.
each and covered by 20s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles. The yield at 18s. 9d. would be
3.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis, which is a
satisfactory return from a sound stock
with future possibilities.
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Oil. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 52,604 5 p.c. = 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 ~ „ 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 .. 169,759
1938.. 70.696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 ~ „ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000 .. 177,854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Goodwill written off, £1,988 .. 182,011
1941.. 67,550 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,731 183,880
Added to intangibles, £56 .. 183,774
1942.. 55,866 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,218 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO . . 187,922
1943.. 54,189 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,639 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3938 .. 191,910
1944.. 57,346 5 p.c. = 37.500 19,331 192,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lBl .. 192,606
1945.. 59,839 5 p.c. = 37,500 21,240 193,705
Added intangibles, £4l .. .. 193,664
Profit, sale of assets, £6608 .. 200,272
Accident ins. res. appears, £4585 204,857
There is a world-wide shortage of utility
timbers, and it will take time for supply
to catch up with demand. About half
the timber (some 600 million super feet)


ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
F I
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGE ST
CfIfIPEROtWN
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Australian Gas Light Company.
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors of
the Company will be held at the Conference
Room, 7th Floor, Grand United Order of Odd-
fellows Building, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
on THURSDAY, 28th FEBRUARY, 1946, at
12 noon.
Business :
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for the past
year and authorise the payment of a dividend for
the half year ended 31st December 1945.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of Sir Samuel
Sydney Cohen, K. 8., and Frank Breese Spencer,
Esq., who retire and who have given the requisite
notice that they are candidates for re-election, for
which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of Messrs.
Robert William Nelson, F.O.A. (Aust.) and Harrie
Hamilton Stitt, F.C.A. (Aust.) who retire and who
have given the requisite notice that they are
candidates for re-appointment, for which they are
eligible.
4. To authorise the Directors from time to time to
fix the remuneration to be paid to any person or
persons appointed as Auditors of the Company.
5. To transact such other business as may be
properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required
to give notice of their candidature in writing,
to the undersigned, not later than Wednesday,
13th February, 1946.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the 14th to the 28th February,
1946, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR,
Company’s Head Office, Secretary.
Haymarket, Sydney, 24th January, 1946.
SI
"S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance* and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * »
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overse'as Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
FOR SALE.
TREKELANO COPPER MINE,
situated in the
CLONCURRY DISTRICT, QUEENSLAND,
and 68 Miles by Rail from Mount Isa,
WITH PLANT AND SEVEN MILES
OF RAILWAY LINE.
Trekelano Mine has in the past produced
22,000 Tons of Copper, and still has con-
siderable known reserves of 10-12 per
cent. Copper ore averaging 1 £dwt. of
Gold per ton.
Geological Reports very favorable.
For further particulars write
A. MACKAY,
Tweed Street, Brunswick Heads, N.S.W.
BOOKS TECHNICAL
Consult us for your needs on :
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning:
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Kadio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
AVelding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
McGILL’S AGENCY
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
cS XAt-C&iv
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globitel
Made by
FORD SHEHINGTON LTD.
Vsr/lNr .
CAR
\M
*.-!s
w
rcrr-'
/V
'£
rK
3 c
c
Nv
MV
\
•bM
_, be back °« *®
. loie mo9t tytes *" eX ua ■*&**£
Soon. extra saiety pto „*
Market to «"?*£* meantime. you,
B tepP ed ' Ul?
Olurapit Tyres
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
I FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
KEEP ON BUYING SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND STAMPSI
df
lOtfMPlf
RUBBER’’
INSULATED
CABLES!
used for constructional purposes in Aus-
tralia before the war went into private
dwellings (nearly 40,000 houses p.a.).
Now large arrears of housing have to be
overtaken as suitable labor and materials
become available,
Government plans aimed at erection of
24,000 dwellings in Australia during
1945-46(1), 50,000 1946 : 47 and 70,000
1947-48, continuing at the higher figure
until the shortage is overtaken. It is
reckoned that 750,000 new houses will be
needed in the next 10 years. Targets are
not likely to be reached in scheduled time,
or anything like it. Until brick produc-
tion can be substantially stepped up, the
lag in home and other building will con-
tinue. And this lag has been seriously
aggravated by the recent all-round indus-
trial hold-up, instigated by Communist-
controlled unions. The Commonwealth
continues to control prices of materials,
but regulation of quantitative supplies
and permits to build (no permit necessary
for construction of houses costing less
than £1200) are now State responsibilities.
The Federal timber controller esti-
mates that Australia will require about
1200 million super feet of timber annually
for some years ahead. The annual yield
from our own forests is not expected to
exceed 850 million super feet. The differ-
ence (350 million super feet) will have
to be imported. In 1939 Australia im-
ported 324 million super feet, mostly from
Canada,
This Kauri co. is well equipped to earn
whatever profits are to be won from the
trade. Its freehold and leasehold timber
stands are mainly in Maoriland, where it
also has large subsidiary milling interests,
and in Westralia and the Solomon Islands.
It also has drying kilns, and box-making
and plywood businesses in Melbourne and
Brisbane. Last term the sawmilling busi-
ness of J. S. Lee and Sons (Tas.) and
the timber merchandising business of
George Syme and Co. (Maoriland) were
welded into the organisation. The new
mill and offices at Penrose (Maoriland)
are practically complete, a new timber
stand, mainly kauri, has been obtained in
Westralia, and re-commencement of
operations at Vanikoro (Solomon Islands)
awaits only shipping facilities.
After allowing something for taxation
and £21,240 (up £1909) for depreciation—
included with profits in the table and
then shown as written off—the net result
of the year’s trading (£38,599, up £494)
was 5.1 p.c, on capital, compared with 5,
5, 5.2, 6.2 and 6J p.c. back to 1940.
That leaves out of the reckoning £4585
dropped from somewhere into the acci-
dent insurance reserve and a profit of
£6608 on sale of assets. The div. re-
mained at 5 p.c., and there is nothing in
sight at the moment to suggest that better
need be expected.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 59,331 65,302 98,046 189,072
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 142,574 169,020 185,579 178,205
Plant, etc. .. 152,061 145,696 150,990 154,478
Stocks, etc... 318,720 282*717 241,996 187,001
Book debts . . 137,892 96,252 160,588 104,821
Shares other
cos. . . 123,969 124,569 246,566 379,934
Cash, etc. . . 144,195 211,458 77,427 161,931
The year’s growth of £133,368 in share-
holdings reflects the purchase of busi-
nesses already referred to. The outside
debt was increased by £91,026. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£644,615) was £16,018.
On the free market in Maoriland the
f.p. 255, shares fetch 30s. 3d. or there-
abouts. In Australia the ceiling price of
275. 6d. is offered without attracting
sellers. The return at 275. 6d. would be
4.5 p.c, on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Oil Search, Ltd., will offer those on
the register at February 22 200,000 new
ss. shares at par, payable 6d. each appli-
cation and allotment, and the balance as
required in Is. calls at intervals of not
less than a month. The money is wanted
to enable Oil Search to take up its quota
(£43,982) of a new issue of £205,000 by
Australian Petroleum Co., Pty., whose
test well at Kariava (Papua) was down
about 5000 ft. when operations ceased in
February, 1942. Drilling machinery and
equipment have been preserved in good
order. The operating co. has planned
to spend about £200,000 during 1946 on
continued boring and geological and other
field surveys. Flow oil has not yet been
encountered in payable quantities, but
evidence of possibilities strongly favor
continuation of the search. Shareholding
partners in Australian Petroleum are
D’Arcy Exploration (subsidiary of Anglo-
Iranian Oil), Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. (sub-
sidiary of Vacuum Oil, New York) and
Nominal Holdings Pty. (subsidiary of Oil
Search).
* * * *
“O.B.”: Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.)
has informed shareholders that the value
of the gold carrier in its Waratah, Mt.
Vernon, option is most satisfactory. It
adds that work done to date has proved
a good shoot, 250 ft. in length, in new
country, that one end of the drive has
widened a little, and that the board is
considering and planning further develop-
ments on a larger scale. Nothing is said
about crushing, or likely results thereof.
Those on the register are asked for an-
.other 3d. a share making the scrip paid
to 2s, Bd.
* * * *
“Fine Gold”; Fuel for mines has be-
come a problem at Kalgoorlie, and, un-
less present supplies are augmented, the
Golden Mile cos. say they will have to
reduce instead of increasing staff. The
Power Corp. and mining cos. have been
drawing on their scanty reserves of fire-
wood to maintain production at its pre-
sent level. Collie coal could be used to
supplement the firewood supply, but none
is available, production being barely
sufficient for industries at present using it.
* * * *
As forcast in B. 2/l/’46 Westralian
gold production in 1945 was slightly
above that for 1944. Though small, the
increase reflects the return of men to the
industry and contributions from new
finds. Output last year totalled 468,550
fine ounces, worth £A5,010,541, compared
with 466,264 fine ounces, valued at
£A4,899,997 in 1944. The yield, how-
ever, was only about one-third that for
1939, the peak of the revival which began
some years before. Dividends reported
by goldmining cos. operating in the State
for the first 11 months of 1945 totalled
£307,916, compared with £649,679 for
the corresponding period of 1944.


ERVICE
Bing MX 1266
The quality of ZEROHEAT
service and products is well
known throughout Australia.
Inter-State clients requiring
advice or service can con-
tact our agents—
Messrs. HENRY BERRY and
CO. (A’ASIA) LTD.
' ■
4 *2:
mm
/ tURtKSLtT & SUMS VUs lUL
v SOUTH liElßOtlfiHE ; , VICTORIA ■*
PUBLIC 1 TRUSTEE
1 Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
IT S YOUR,/ Q
L
foma&e
iheirAforc
secure
row
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
#eaJtfffice:37f-373(?imnSt, or/sJ>ane
WINCELLD HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST.. MELBOUHNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Labor-made Depression
When the late John Curtin delivered his
campaign speech before the last Federal
election he laid on with a shovel propa-
ganda relating to Australia’s “increased”
war-time production and its aid to Britain.
He spoke of the industrial stimulation
which had come to this country since
Labor rose to office, and in this he was
supported by all his colleagues. The
planning and efforts of the previous
Menzies and Fadden Governments were
dismissed ungenerously—almost con-
temptuously— by Curtin, although he
had stuck to nearly all Menzies’s “high-
up” appointments in the services and in
the munitions and associated industries.
In his election campaign Curtin pur-
ported to show that only “Labor” pos-
sessed the “know-how” of real prosperity,
that only “Labor” was untrammelled by
vested interests, that only “Labor” under-
stood the realities of finance, and that
only “Labor” was capable of provid-
ing for the people social security that
would be worth while. He announced his
faith in the use of bank credit as a means
of maintaining “prosperity” and increas-
ing the population.
John Curtin, with his faults and his
virtues, is dead, after having led his party
to the greatest election victory in its his-
tory ; but the spirit of impudent Labor
bragging and bluff goes marching on,
so much so that we may assume that John
Curtin in July and August, 1943, was
merely the mouthpiece for a carefully
constructed piece of joint Labor propa-
ganda in which many hands and minds
were engaged. The new Prime Minister
runs true to form, with the exception
that nowadays it is often more convenient
to run into a hole than into the poli-
tical spotlight. If a record of the Curtin
speech made in 1943 were played over
the air today it would sound grotesque.
Its optimism and its promises would get
the bird, even in the Eddie Ward elec-
torate of East Sydney.
Failure to “Produce the Goods”
No man alive can accurately estimate
the mess that Australia is in today. But,
industrially, we are in an unpardonable
mess, and our troubles were well on the
way when Labor was so cock-a-hoop in
1943. Labor is in no way abashed, how-
ever ; so long as Parliamentary Labor
can win elections and trade-union Labor
can keep industrial strife simmering the
business both understand is brisk and
profitable, and no real tears for the
workers will fall from the eyes of present-
day Labor when economic distress comes
any more than tears fell from the eyes of
Woolcott Forbes in pity for the share-
holders in Scottish Loan and Finance.
For Labor politics in Australia today
are a racket, or a conglomeration of
rackets. Around the outer edges of
Labor politics startling things happen.
Labor has a standard of ethics and morals
all its own. But it is becoming difficult
to understand how such a parasitical,
unethical body as the Labor organisation
in Australia can continue to exist. Its
policy of exploitation of others out-
side its own political class is breaking
down because of the exhaustion of those
being exploited. Its attacks on the law
of the land and on “orthodox finance”
have boomerangcd.
Labor is now faced with the job
of producing the goods. It has skited
about its ability to increase production
and living standards for years. During
the war it was able to scatter money
about prodigally—wages and service pay
rose from £437 million in 1938-39 to
£790 million in 1943-44—but this appa-
rent increase in “prosperity” was an in-
flationary mirage. The blackmarket evil
still rampant in Australia is a measure
of the failure of Australia under Labor
to produce the goods needed by the
people and also of the excessive amount
of money scattered, a large part of it
through the creation of bank credit.
The Labor Government found it com-
paratively easy to put pressure on the
Commonwealth Bank, the savings banks
and the “regulated” trading banks and
induce them to find the money that was
necessary after taxation and loans from
♦the people were spent. Truly, getting
the money was not so hard. But getting
production is a different matter. Pro-
duction began to fall off soon after Labor
took office in 1941 and started to run
the “war effort” on political lines. In
some industries output has almost col-
lapsed since the war.
A Production Depression
Australia is now in a production de-
pression—at a time when there is an un-
paralleled demand for our land pro-
ducts, our manufactures and our build-
ing services. We could sell very large
quantities of wheat, butter and meat
abroad, and some hundreds of thousands
of homes could be sold or rented readily
if they were evailable. Our housing posi-
tion is tragic. The employment avail-
able in the building industry alone would
be tremendous, and this industry in turn
would support a huge working population.
At the same time the clothing trades want
thousands more hands, and nearly every
business or industry in the Commonwealth
could expand its staff if it could get the
raw materials to process or the stock to
sell. But only the public demand is
certain in the eyes of the businessman ;
raw materials, stock, labor, costs, taxation
and Government regulations are all
doubtful or obstructing quantities.
During the war the Federal Govern-
ment usurped most of the rights of the
management side of industry, actually
taking over and working assets in some
cases (such as coastal shipping), restrict-
ing the rights of employers to hire and
(in protected industries) to fire, weaken-
ing the financial power of private enter-
prise through general financial controls
and through banking controls, restrict-
ing the profit margins of industry while
ineffectively pegging waga rates, doubly
taxing company profits, and granting
travel and many other privileges tb the
trade-union movement while giving busi-
nessmen low priorities.
A larrikin element, sometimes a sinister
element, has always been prominent in
parts of the Australian trade-union move-
ment. The Government has given no
protection to the unionist who has his
heart in his job but who has little time
for politics. This better-class tradesman
has been browbeaten by firebrands in the
unions, who have found in their mili-
tancy a paying racket as well as a prop
to their bully vanities. The bullies have
made good associates of the Communists.
With employers deprived by war-time
legislation of most of their disciplinary
rights over trade-unionists, with constant
Labor activity in the direction of under-
mining the authority of the Arbitration
Courts, and with Government weakly
surrendering to militants and Com-
munists almost every time an industrial
issue has arisen, militant Labor has won
against allcomers time £bd again. When
it is realised that, boiled down, the war
carried on by militant unionists is chiefly
a fight for smaller production per man,
the root cause of our present production
depression is not hard to discern. The
militancy of militant Labor would not
be possible if it were not for the false
political philosophy of the Labor move-
ment, including the Federal Labor Gov-
ernment, as a whole.
Vicious Vested Interests
Wharfies, particularly those in Sydney
and further north, enjoy the power to
strangle loading and unloading opera-
tions of our vital shipping services. Sea-
men are in a similar position; and both
are paid on a scale far higher than before
the war for doing much less. Coal-
hewing wages are up ; production is down
heavily.
Coal is Australia’s chief source of fuel
and power, and on it nearly all manufac-
turing and transport depend. With the
restriction of coal supplies and the de-
terioration of shipping and other trans-
port services, Australia’s efforts to restore
production after the wastage and disloca-
tion of war are viciously handicapped.
Militant racketeers are endeavoring to
spread the depression disease into the
steel, power-producing and other indus-
tries. It is ironical that the introduction
of the Commonwealth Government’s
National Welfare Fund, costing £7O mil-
lion or so a year, looks like coinciding
with a period of militant-created unem-
ployment. The general public, in other
words, is to pay millions of pounds a year
in taxation to permit militants create un-
employment without becoming too un-
popular with the unemployed. The
standard-gauge plan is also to be a dump
for unemployed. A Labor Government
conspiracy with the militants and the
Communists could have hardly arranged
things better.
The Inevitable End
But it was unnecessary for the Labor
Government to conspire with anyone to
bring the present state of affairs about.
A weak Government that gave in to mili-
tant pressure, that was prepared to buy
votes at any cost to the taxpayer or to
industrial or investor minorities, and that
had very hazy ideas about finance and
political economy, was bound to bring the
country to its present pass. The forces of
anarchy and other forms of crime against
democracy are always with us. They
cannot be given gal status without dis-
aster to the nation.
The Federal Labor Government has
pandered to class envy, to jealousy, to
anarchy, to the desire to loaf, to thrift-
lessness, to selfish sectionalism, to those
with anti-British sentiments, to those with
crackpot financial ideas, to socialists and
to the greedy. Often there has been a
gesture of something more worthy in
Labor’s policy, but all that policy’s com-
ponents await alike the inevitable end,
because Labor’s parasitism and fallacy
damn its other aspirations. The present
Government’s powers, legal and financial,
embrace too much to allow a policy of
gross misgovernment to continue without
telling a broad, unmistakable tale.
And so we come to Labor’s depression
in Australia. In other countries there
have been post-war strikes and delayed
production ; but in the Commonwealth
go-slow policy and obstructive tactics are
continuous. Our whole productive tempo
has been slowed down, and well the
inadequately housed and unhappily em-
ployed know it. The blatherskites of a
year or two ago, the “Labor” wonder-
workers, have brought sad days to
hundreds of thousands in this continent.
And now, in the midst of our famine of
so many classes of goods and services and
housing, the cry is for a 40-hour week!
The Australian debt arising out of the
1939-45 war was, to Sept. 30, 1945, £1413
million, equal to approximately £l9l a
head. Hostilities ceased, legally, on Sept.
2. The New Zealand 1939-45 war debt
to March 31, 1945, was £230 million, rep-
resenting £135 a head of the population,
including Maoris. Another six months’
spending (bringing the calculation to
Sept. 30) would, on Budget estimates,
have added about £l5 million to the
total (making £245 million) and £9 to the
per capita figure (making £144).
# * * *
Presenting his Budget on September 7,
1945, Mr. Chifley said: “Price con-
trol must be retained for the present
and it is, for example, particularly im-
portant to continue the control over the
allocation of building materials not only
to ensure that most important needs are
met first but also to make effective the
control of prices of building materials.”
But of what avail in solving the housing
problem have these controls been when
the whole housing problem has come up
against industrial job-control and Gov-
ernment failure to deal with trade-union
anarchy? Administrative controls, where
they are not really effective, only add bur-
dens to the law-abiding.
* * * *
Of 3,500,000 acres of rubber in Malaya,
it is estimated that the Japanese destroyed
less than 5 p.c. Given the necessary
labor, equipment and coagulants it is con-
sidered that there should be no gap in
shipments when Japanese stocks are
finished and new production commences.
The plantations have been overrun with
weeds, but the trees generally are reported
to be in a healthy condition.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
towners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
Intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept 22P), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
WKether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Good value
is guaranteed and
your inspection
invited.
CRAI G & AITKE N
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
' (Near Anthony Hc/r/Srns )
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ißissiii
m
Xou
liii
\ •
ini
V <
m
m !
•iv. ••■■
v*
M
‘
The
' i > ■
£70,000,000 |
Security Loan Officially Opens on March 12
But you don’t have to wait until then before you invest . . . you can make advance
subscriptions now in amounts from £lO upwards! Security Loan Bond
available in £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO denominations.
Interest is at the rate of 3for the new 12-year term, or at 2% for the new
3-year term.
The money raised will be used exclusively in meeting- commitments arising directly
LtoTth? war, particularly for the rehabilitation of Australian service men and
women.
Buy all you can now, and when the Security Loan officially opehsbuy morei Bonds
for cash and by instalments out of income. Ask the advice of your Bank, Savings
Bank or Stockbroker.
Investing in the Security Loan is the safest and best thing to do with your money,
for, in addition to making an interest-bearing investment you nffiSe^L
ntiri -unn otvapfl recoverv and national reconstruction. Later, wnen increasing
XetimrprSn ov^S“wartime shortages, you will be able to buy
full money’s worth of whatever goods you want.
BeaSaverSot a Spender-Help Prices
Loans and National Savings Organisation.
■MBBfIRHB
P5L24.113.16
In the first half of the 1945-46 term (to
Dec. 31) the Commonwealth Government
spent £136 million on “defence” out of
the loan fund ; the for
£152 million to be spent out of borrowed
money during the whole year. Of the
borrowing, £43 million of the six months’
increase took the shape of Treasury bills,
making the total of such indebtedness
£385 million at Dec, 31. In addition,
a large portion of the remainder osten-
sibly borrowed from the “public” came
from the management of savings banks,
and is another form of bank credit. A
new Commonwealth loan, “The Security
Loan,” is to be offered on March 12 ;
£7O million will be asked for. Long-
term securities issued in the loan will be
in terms similar to those previously issued
—interest 3} p.c., repayable in 12 years;
but the short-term issue will have a three-
year currency, and will carry only 2 p.c.
(Previously the term was five years, in-
terest p.c.). At the beginning of
December there was a ss. per-cent cut in
interest on savings-bank deposits over
£5OO and a reduction in rates on trading-
bank fixed deposits. The Treasury’s action
followed the failure of the Victory Loan.
Revenue paid for £9B million of “de-
fence” spending in the six months to Dec.
31, making, with loan-fund outgo, total
“defence” outlay £234 million for the
half-year. There have been big charges
for deferred pay to demobilised soldiers
during the period. Total revenue for the
six months was £l6B million ; over £2OO
million is expected to come in during the
remaining six months in spite of the 12£
p.c. cut in personal income-tax rates from
January 1. A large item in civilion out-
go to Dec. 31 was £25 million in respect
of “national-welfare” items, including
pensions.
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber shares fell sharply to
the “low” limit of 235. 9d. last week,
after selling as high as 28s. 9d. within the
past few months. The “rot” in the market
has followed the interference of the De-
partment of External Territories, headed
by Eddie Ward, in native labor condi-
tions in Papua. Planters in New Guinea
feel that Eddie double-crossed them, creat-
ing—with some of them —a favorable im-
pression while he was touring there, but
acting differently when he returned south
to the only political game he knows.
Natives have not yet returned to the plan-
tations in force —they walked off in
October—but it is expected that many
will be back before the end of February.
The labor conditions which Eddie Ward's
department has recommended have not
all been clamped on to industry in Papua,
and it is to be hoped that commonsense
will eventually prevail. Natives were
quite happy to work at the wages and for
the rations previously allowed them;
present interference can be, classed largely
as trouble - making. Rubber - growing
cannot stand high labor costs, and rubber
is a vital commodity.
* * * *
The argument in Sydney as to who or
what is to blame for the brick shortage,
contentions running from obsolete plant,
unattractive working conditions and lack
of manpower to “a conspiracy by brick-
makers against the Government,” has
culminated in an offer by a brickmaking
organisation. Brickworks, Ltd., to lease
five metropolitan brickyards to the State
or Federal Governments or municipal
councils. The lease would be for three
years, and the rental on a royalty basis
of ss. per thousand, plus rates and taxes,
or “a fair rental to be fixed by negotia-
tion.” The co. making the offer owns a
brickworks at Homebush Bay, where the
State Government used to run a brick-
works ; but this is at present occupied by
the Navy. Out of its 11 brickyards, only
three are working, while one is getting
ready for production. Brickworks, Ltd.,
states that it made losses totalling
£25,139 in 1943 and 1944. Shortage of
manpower, lack of coal and difficulty in
getting plant repaired are given as the
causes of low production and unprofit-
able working.
♦ * * *
Airzone (1931), Ltd., a Sydney radio
concern that paid 8 p.c, on its ord. shares
in 1938, 7 p.c. in 1939 and an average of
5.3 p.c. during the five years to June,
1944 (3 p.c. in 1943-44), has recently been
making substantial losses —£18,652 during
the six months to Dec. 31 last. Now,
“mainly because of reconversion prob-
lems requiring financial strength beyond
the company’s capacity,” Airzone share-
holders are being asked to merge with
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries,
Ltd. Terms are 72 E.M. ords. for 131
Airzone ords., and 100 E.M. ords. for
131 Airzone 8 p.c. prefs. Airzone share-
holders have the option of taking 18s. in
cash for their ords. or 255. for their prefs.
Acquisition of at least 8S p.c. of both
classes of scrip is a condition of the
offer. Airzone’s problem raises the ques-
tion of how many other companies in
highly technical industries will have
similar post-war “reconversion problems”
involving heavy expenditure on new plant
and patterns. War-time invention and
altered techniques will affect manufac-
turers in many industries.
* * * *
Victoria, which already is the home of
the greater part of the Australian woollen
textile industry, is to be the domicile of the
new rayon- and nylon-weaving co. which
has recently received Treasury permission
to raise £750,000 of capital. Sponsored by
a concern of similar name in Cowansville,
Canada, Bruck Mills (Australia), Ltd.,
will divide its capital into two-thirds
ords/'and a third prefs., and the sponsor
will take up a large parcel of the ords.
Like Burlington Mills (Australia), Ltd-,
now operating at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
the Bruck concern will only weave yarn
into fabrics, dye them and print them ;
it won’t manufacture yarn. There have
been suggestions that Courtaulds will
come to Australia for the purpose of
making rayon and, possibly, nylon yarns.


Personal.
JOHN JOSEPH DUNN, formerly of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales, Shearer, is requested to
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE Sydney, in
connection with his interest in the Estates of his late
father and mother James and Hannah Dunn deceased.
Public Notice.
Ai are invited from civil licensed
flying instructors for the Tasmanian Aero Club.
Positions offered are at Western Junction Aerodrome,
£6OO per annum; at Cambridge Aerodrome £550
per annum, at Wynyard Aerodrome £5OO per annum,
each rising by annual increments of £5O to a maxi-
mum of £7OO, £650, £5OO per annum respectively.
Applications with full particulars and references
should be submitted to W. J. Manthei, “Holyman
House,” P.O. Box 107, Launceston, on or before
20th February 1946. The club operates Tiger Moth
aircraft at present.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TJle'^xxlleim..
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
a 12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 13 6
3 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lB 0
THE SERVICE MAN
Generals—and Generals.
“Ek Dum”: Out of the forces last
week, General Blarney made his first
public appearance at a Diggers’ meeting
in Melbourne —the Commercial Travel-
lers’ branch of the R.S.L. —and took the
opportunity to protest against the treat-
ment meted out to Australia’s war leaders,
which, without question, has been dis-
graceful. The fighting leaders of the
New Guinea campaigns are the only ones
on the Allied side who have not been
specially honored by their country.
General Blarney’s statement followed
one by Mr. Chifley, Mr. Chifley, trying
to answer criticism of his Government’s
churlish refusal of New Year awards
to officers and other ranks, hospital
matrons and nurses and civilians of both
sexes for whom the war was one long
period of unselfish devotion —this when
Labor New Zealand and Liberal Canada
had secured generous recognition for
such services—'declared that in future
there would be no honors for civilians
and that no service decorations would be
given above the level of Commander of
the Bath. Nothing about his party having
secured a K.C.M.G.-ship for its Secretary
of Defence.
Said General Blarney:
Your generals are men of the community
who gaye up their spare time to continual
preparation for leadership against the time
when it was needed. The Government
says “Nothing above a C. 8.,” which is
tantamount to no decorations for generals.
This means they are not to be rewarded.
He added that when he recommended
one general for a position that was
going possibly the Norfolk Island
Administratorship, given to a politician
with no war record in payment for his
vote —the reply of the Minister, he was
told, was “No generals!” Mr.
Forde denied that he ever did or ever
would say such a thing; but that is no
answer. Generals were good enough in
war-time for “Labor” to" lean on and
hide behind,-but when peace comes the
old ill-conditioned attitude of sullen hos-
tility returns.
TTie man who was C.-in-C. continued:
I hate to go down the street in a uni-
form these days. These officers have
worked themselves into their positions not
because they wanted them but solely to
serve their country disinterestedly. Had
they been in the British Army they would
have been honored at the end of the New
Guinea campaign and in the New Year
honors. Why do they pull these men
down? Have they committed a criminal
offence in becoming your leaders?
These men, who left their wives and homes
voluntarily, some of them as old as 50,
are now held up to contempt by the leaders
of the country.
The great trouble seems to be tftat the
generals, in common with the A.1.F.,
seem to have chosen the wrong sort of
service. If they had joined the Salvage
Corps along with Mr. Vic Patrick, they
would have become heroes to Minister
Ward and his mob. The whole of the
Australian forces put together have not
achieved such an ovation as Mr. Vic
Patrick, who “changed his name by deed
poll” (mentioned by the “Daily Tele-
graph” in an “appreciation” spread over
two pages), has been granted in Sydney
the last few days.
Japan By May.
It was on and off, and on and off, but
at last it was definite that Australian
troops would really go to Japan.
Advance elements of the 34th brigade
group were due there yesterday. British
naval parties had a few days previously
gone into Kure, the chief port in the
Hiroshima prefecture of south-western
Honshu which 8.C.0.F. (British Com-
monwealth Occupation Force) is to
occupy. Australian naval vessels —
Hobart, flying the flag of Commodore
{ Collins, and the destroyers Warramunga
and Arunta—were already there.
8.C.0.F. is to be a composite force
drawn from Britain, Australia, New Zea-
land and India. There will be a British-
Indian division (the sth Brigade of the
2nd British Division and the 268th Indian
Brigade), the 34th Australian Brigade and
an independent N.Z. brigade which is
coming from Italy. The R.A.F.,
R.A.A.F., R.N.Z.A.F. and R.I.A.F.
will all be represented by squadrons, and
the entire force will come under the com-
mand of an Australian, Lieutenant-
General John Northcott, responsible to
J.C.0.5.A., a body set up in Melbourne
representing the joint chiefs of staff.
When the move is complete 8.C.0.F.
will total roughly 32,000 men in Japan.
The cost of maintaining the force will
be debited to Japan. The Australians
will all be there by the end of April—
at least on present plans. American
ships and seamen are to carry them.
Disrated.
The Air Board announced its decision
in the Clive Caldwell case at the week-
end. It reduced the acting group-captain
to the rank of flight-lieutenant, one grade
lower than his “temporary” rank of squad-
ron-leader. This means that on discharge
Caldwell will be paid for his war ser-
vice and accrued leave at £1 ss. 6d. per
day instead of £2 3s. 6d.
There may be an appeal to the Gover-
nor-General, but it is more likely that
Caldwell will decide to get out of the
R.A.A.F. as soon as possible.
The man’s fighting record is a proud
one. He enlisted the day after war was
declared, was called up in May, 1940,
and had his training under the Empire
Air Scheme. He was in more than 80
dogfights in the Middle East and in the
air above Darwin, and the 11 \ ’planes
he shot down put him easily in first posi-
tion on the list of R.A.A.F. aces. Be-
sides, he was credited with 9\ probables,
and he damaged another 13 enemy
’planes. A record which will be remem-
bered when the charge that he once sold
someone liquor—as, on a much larger
scale, did thousands of non-starters who
got away with it —is forgotten.
Singapore and Beasley.
“Ek Bum”: An assay among poli-
ticians has produced remarkably little
enthusiasm for the proposed inquiry into
the Singapore and other campaigns, the like
of which during the last war would have
led to royal commissions as a matter of
course, as did the Gallipoli and Meso-
potamia campaigns.
Though there have been many royal-
commission inquiries apropos of small
beer, politicians are indisposed to have
the fog of war cleared away from such
matters as the loss of almost the entire
administrative staff, with many other
civilians, at Rabaul, possibly through
incompetence and negligence ; the “de-
fence” of Rabaul by a handful of green
and half-armed militia, and the absence of
air-raid shelters and a warning system
worth the name at Darwin in Febru-
ary, 1942, despite continuous local pres-
sure to which Canberra had been sub-
jected.
Equally these gentlemen have no appa-
rent anxiety for the public to know why
thousands of brave fellows were flung
as a sacrifice into Ambon and Java
(“Fight for Australia in Java! ”) when the
enemy had command of the sea and air;
why the guarding of the entrance to the
Kokoda trail was left to a raw militia
battalion, eight months after the beginning
of the Japanese war, or why boys who
had scarcely seen a rifle were thrown into
the defences of Milne Bay nearly lo
months after that war broke out. And
certainly they want no inquest into the
nature of the reinforcement of the Eighth
Division, heralded by Mr. Forde in the
words “It will go, not as a few consign-
ments from a shrinking store, but as a
stream which will swell to a flood, and
a flood which will grow to an over-
whelming torrent.”
It has been reserved for Mr. Beasley,
now in London, to expand the views of
the Government. Mr. Beasley, using
Singapore as a text, said, as reported in
the cables;
I do not think it would be wise to have
post-mortems on events which have gone
by.
I am sure that all military, naval and
air force authorities will profit by the ex-
perience, but the final thing which counts
now is that we beat the Japs. You can
have inquiries made into almost every
operation... .There were shortages of air-
craft and there were a lot of other factors.
My answer is that we did our best to
rectify them... .Going over ground only
irritates people who have lost husbands and
sons, and leaves behind a memory that is
tinged with bitterness. That doesn’t help
towards consolidating the country and the
nation.
The suggestion that the responsibility
for these failures lies wholly on the
shoulders of the fighting forces is about
as unfair as it can be. The whole
conduct of the campaigns was conditioned
by the availability of supplies and the
settlement of strategy ; and for these mat-
ters politicians were responsible.
The suggestion that we beat the
Japs could well leave Mr. Beasley
and party out. “Our” share consisted in
obstructing almost every preliminary
move which might have made defence
possible, even to an attempt to prevent
militiamen being used in the defences of
the Mandated Territory and Papua,
Then we defended Australia by yelling
for somebody else to give us the machine
tools we should have been making by
that time ; yelling for weapons, for Ameri-
can aid “without inhibitions,” for 25
British - American divisions. Muddle
reigned all round till General MacArthur
and General Blarney arrived and were
able to do something towards cleaning up
the awful mess.
Results of Irritation
It is true that the results of inquiries
into Australian campaigns for which the
present “Government” was responsible
might tend to “irritate people who have
■ lost husbands and sons”—those people
to whom Mr. Beasley refers so casually.
But there are times when it is neces-
sary that people should be irritated for
their own protection.
It is vital for the safety of the country
in the future that its people should know
what went on when its fate hung in the
balance in 1942.
Then Australia was fortunate that she
was able to nestle under the, wings of
great Powers which were operating in
her ambit.
Next time she might have to stand on
her own feet.
“With Charity for An."
Thoughts of a returned p.-0.-w.:
Like most of my generation, I have been in-
dignant about Brass Hats in my time. Their
pay, their privileges, above all their churlish
trick of Keeping Things From the Public, have
struck me as being definitely undemocratic.
True, it was an academic kind of indignation,
since my knowledge of Brass Hats was limited
to what I read in the “enlightened” literature
of the period and in that species of newspaper
which insisted on Telling All. Still,. I .was
pretty sure the Brass Hats were a Bad Lot;
or, at the best, unenlightened.
In the A.I.F. ray ideas suffered a change.
Not all Brass Hats were Blimps, and there
were obvious reasons for official reticence on
some subjects; among others 1 , my personal
safety.
About that time, too, my zeal for fearless
comment waned a little. For Communist-led
morons had developed the habit of howling
“five-bob-a-day murderers” at us whenever we
ventured into the city on leave. We were
amateurish enough in those days, in floppy
“giggle” hats and odds and ends of military
attire, and we paid full fares on trains and
trams. The excellent hostels which sprang up
later were then unknown, and the general
attitude of Sydney’s citizenry was, to put it
mildly, unenthusiastic. There was a feeling
abroad that the man to be admired was the
young chap who kept his head —and his job.
These were small things, and unrepresentative
Of the country; in particular they were not
representative of the country districts. Still,
they left' a nasty taste in the mouth.
In 1941 I was captured by the Germans in
Greece and thereby acquired the status of
p.-0.-w., a class of men about whom there
are more common misconceptions than there
are concerning the geography of Tibet.
In a series of uneasy stages I passed through
Yugoslavia and Hungary and finally arrived in
the Third Reich. There I became familiar with
Stalags, from Austria to Upper Silesia.
Eventually I came home, richer in experience
and with a renewed faith in democratic insti-
tutions. But after a couple of months in Aus-
tralia strange beliefs of rnine hardened into
absolute convictions: —
What civilians don’t know about mili-
tary matters won’t hurt them. The usual
happy state of ignorance is much better
left undisturbed by any information what-
soever. Because, no matter how good that
information is, it is bound to be distorted
in time, and misinterpreted.
I cling to these heretical beliefs as firmly as
the crustiest Brass Hat in Christendom, although
my own rank was never more eminent than
that of gunner.
When I first came back I tried to explain
things to civilians: aspects of the Greek cam-
paign and something of the set-up in Ger-
many. Very soon I gave up trying. My
failure was not, I believe, due to any special
diffidence on my part, but .rather to the aston-
ishing facility of the average' civilian for leap-
ing to fantastic general conclusions from the
flimsiest of specific premises. He was convinced
we were either the victims of daily atrocities,
or living in sheer luxury during our sojourn in
Germany. We were either martyrs or “heels.”
For this sensation-loving state of mind the
daily press must take its quota of blame, for it
has constantly fed it with sensational news.
There is also, of course, a certain element
among civilians which rejoices at any news
which reflects discredit on the armed forces. It
is a kind of perverted defence mechanism, and
here again, in pandering to this type, the press
has not been guiltless.
A disgusting example of current journalism was
the publicity given to the court-martial of one
of Australia’s most distinguished airmen when
the black market was, and is, one of Sydney’s
most flourishing industries.
Another and worse instance is the ainng of
grievances within the Eighth Division. It is
difficult to speak on such a subject without
special knowledge, but at least I can say that
I have had distinguished predecessors. And I
think there is a rough analogy between being
a p.-0.-w. in Germany and in Thailand. The
same human factors are effective, although in
one instance they are accented, as it were,
by worse conditions and by the decisive factor
of Oriental psychology.
The army, like any other walk of life, is a
collection of individuals; individuals good, bad
and indifferent; scrne weak, some strong.
Some men yield to pressure, others don't It
is hard to predict how, the individual will be-
have until the pressure is actually applied.
Some of the charges made by Eighth bivi-
sioners are unpleasantly familiar. In Germany
we had similar £ases, only the pressure was not
so severe. At times I and other p.-0.-ws. were
disgusted at the behavior of other Australians.
In large Stalags, peopled by many
and various elements of the British Empire, it
was always the bad Australian we noticed. If
we had been New Zealanders we would have
been concerned about the bad citizen from Wel-
lington or Auckland.
Our code was pretty liberal, judged by normal
standards, but we drew the line in certain well-
defined places. If a compatriot crossed that
line it hurt in a special way, which is very
difficult to explain back here in Australia.
Without any affectation, I think most of us be-
lieved we were ambassadors of our country.
Certainly we never forgave the offender.
It would be easy enough and colorful to give
unsavory examples. We were furious about
these things at the time —and impotent. The
offenders had the might of the German Army
behind them—and sometimes the British Army.
At a time when efforts were being made to
buck a particular racket in one camp, our own
army, through the Red Cross, saw fit to
threaten us with dire penalties for any breach
of discipline. We must obey the orders of our
superior officers, etc., etc. I think more men
were daunted by the threat of a court-martial at
home than were intimidated by German punish-
ment. There was no disgrace about the latter,
but' there was a certain stigma attached to a
court-martial.
Then there was the thoroughly bad type —
rare anywhere—who was a born opportunist.
I remember one fellow who had spent most of
his civilian life as a criminal (which in itself
wasn’t so bad; some fine soldiers erred in
civilian life), and a fair portion of his army life
in “boob”; he became a deserter in Greece. The
Germans picked him up, and he ingratiated him-
self with them to such effect that they made
him a camp policeman, in which capacity he
worked a highly profitable racket with food.
Since food was life in those early days, 'we hated
him with an intensity which I would have
thought impossible once. But he always had
armed German guards behind him.
The well-disciplined soldier was another type.
I honestly believe some of these men could
not' help themselves. They had become so
inured to discipline that they would obey the
orders of any superior officer, irrespective of
nationality. They were automatons. Fre-
quently they were excellent soldiers in their
own army, shining particularly in “parade-
ground stuff.” It would, however, be a grave
mistake to believe all or the majority of regular
soldiers belong to this class.
Then there was the “gentle grafter.” A
fellow in charge of the distribution of Red
Cross parcels might dip into them himself.
The danger lay not in what he ate but in what
he gave away. He was amenable to blackmail,
and so the racket might spread to gigantic pro-
portions. And officers, by being given better
living conditions, might have a kind of vested
interest in enforcing German discipline.
We talked wildly about these things when
they happened and discussed remedies. Some-
times we succeeded, but the worst cases were
beyond our powers. It was often said that any
of the culprits who went home with us would
meet a watery grave. There was also the ques-
tion of publicity. We thought the public should
know these things when we got home. Distance
had given an idealistic tint to our picture of
The Great Australian Public.
When some of us did come home one of our
foes came with us. He was a medical orderly,
and had abused the considerable powers a
medical orderly had (of necessity) in a p.-0.-w.
hospital. As far as I know he reached his
home safe. We were going home ourselves, and
were pleased about it. But we did ostracise
him, and in my opinion his cumulative punish-
ment was terrible. Nobody would speak to him.
If he went up to anyone and made a casual
remark the person addressed, if he had been an
ex-p.-0.-w., would ignore him utterly. In the
end I felt sorry for the man. But I didn’t
speak to him.
There were similar cases. Wherever they go
they will meet someone who knows the story,
particularly countries with small populations
like Australia and New Zealand.
When we came home, for all our brave talk,
we didn’t broadcast these things. I think we
all realised how they would be misinterpreted.
The facts quoted are unpleasant enough, but
they are taken out of their context. We had
our villains, and our weaklings, but taken all
round I think our morale was high. And
our percentage of collaborationists was ridicul-
ously low compared to every other nation-
ality with which I came into contact. By we I
mean British Commonwealth men. For every
medical officer who weakened there were plenty
who worked incredibly long hours in poor con-
ditions caring for the sick. And among senior
officers were men like General Fortune, of the
51st Scottish Division constantly exerting what-
ever influence they bad to curb rackets of any
description.


d
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
If a knowledge of economics, theo-
retical, practical and hypothetical is of
any value to an Australian Minister to
China, Douglas Copland, who succeeds
Frederic Eggleston in Chungking, is better
qualified for the position tnan anyone in
Australia. He cut his teeth on The
Wealth of Nations” and ever since he
graduated M.A. at Canterbury (M.L.) m
1915 with first-class honors in economics,
that subject has been his living and his
life. Down to 1930 he was a man of
theory —Lecturer in his pet subject at
University of Tasmania, Professor of
Economics in Melbourne, author of books
and pamphlets, editor oF Economic
Record: 1931 saw practical application
of his knowledge. He was chairman of
a committee of economists and Treasury
officials, out of whose report grew the
“Premiers’ Plan.” Since then Govern-
ments and banks have made a habit of
employing economists as consultants,
Melbourne and Canberra have both made
considerable use of Copland’s brains and
knowledge on questions of finance. As
Economic Consultant to the Prime
Minister, and member of the Advisory
Committee on Financial and Economic
Policy, he had a lot to do with shaping
Australia’s war-time financial policy ; but
it is probably as Prices Commissioner he
will be most widely remembered. It
doesn’t come within the scope of his job
as Minister, but Chiang Kai-shek will
doubtless be interested to hear his views
on commodity price control.
Commander S. R. Symonds, S.A.’s Naval
Chief, who retires on demobilisation, has
seen more than the sea since he ran away
from his home in W.A. at the age of 15
to serve in sailing ships. While serving
with the R.N. —which he joined in 1904 —
he helped to rescue King Manuel of Por-
tugal during the Portuguese revolution,
took off survivors of the Messina earth-
quake, and assisted in the rescue of
victims of the worst typhoon in China.
During World War I Symonds served
with the Grand Fleet in the North Sea
and in Australian destroyers, becoming
commander of the Australian training
ship Tingira. He was first R.A.N. officer
to take charge of the gunnery school at
Flinders Naval Depot, and was Chief
Naval Officer in Tasmania prior to his
similar appointment in S.A. in 1933. He
will be succeeded by Commander N. R.
Read, R.A.N. *
Harry Hopkins, dead in New York at
55, was a sick man long before President
Roosevelt chose him as his Special Assist-
ant, and there is little doubt that war-
time globetrotting hastened his end as it
did that of F.D.R. A gangling figure, as
unhandsome as Abe Lincoln and as
homespun as Will Rogers, Hopkins had
a direct approach, a picturesque flow of
unscholarly English and a happy knack
of feeling at ease in any company. The
President first placed him in charge of
New Deal Administration, then made
him Secretary for Commerce and in
1940 named him Special Assistant. From
then on he was America’s Tourist Extra-
ordinary No. 1. A visit. to Churchill was
followed by one to Stalin. Hopkins was
present at the Atlantic Charter meet-
ing of Churchill and Roosevelt, at Casa-
blanca, at Tehran, at Yalta. At home
he worked hard on Lease Lend and was
Chairman of the Munitions Board. When
Truman went to the White House
Hopkins wished to retire. His wagon had
been hitched to Roosevelt’s star, now set,
and he planned to nurse his health and
devote his time to writing his memoirs
of the war years. President Truman as-
sented, but asked him to make one more
trip to Moscow, preparatory to the Berlin
meeting of the “Big Three.” Hopkins
made the trip and resigned shortly after
his return. Roosevelt called him “my
ace reporter”; there would have been
some sting in those memoirs.
Retired as Chief Medical Officer of the
Cook Islands, Dr. E. P. Ellison, 0.8. E.,
has served in several out-of-the-way
islands during the past 26 years. Born
at Portobello, Dunedin (M.L.), 61 years
ago, he was m.o. at Niue from 1919-22
as well as Resident Commissioner for
part of the time. Later appointments
were m.o. and magistrate at Chatham
Islands, m.o. at the Leper Hospital at
Makogai, c.m.o. at Rarotonga, and
director of Maori hygiene in M.L. from
1927 till 1930.
C. E. Cowley, who is retiring after 26
very active years as Lecturer-in-charge.
Sheep and Wool Department, Sydney
Tech., intends to do some woolgrowing
of his own in the future. For the present
he thinks “there’s money in fat lambs.”
In training future classers, brokers and
breeders, as a keen and tireless judge of
sheep shows throughout N.S.W, and as
a general authority on things woolly,
Cowley has been a considerable force in
the industry. His “Classing the Clip” is
accepted as a standard work here and
overseas.
Another Papuan native to distinguish
himself in the Islands campaign is Cor-
poral Gerarai Geai. His (section was
ambushed by a force superior in numbers
and weapons. Although wounded Geai
boldly engaged the enemy with his Owen
gun, covering his section’s retreat. The
citation to his D.C.M. says “he un-
doubtedly saved the lives of many of his
section.”
W. G. Hamilton, who succeeded H. J.
Henchman as Queensland’s Solicitor-
General with the New Year, followed him
also in 1938 as Crown Solicitor after 22
years as a legal assistant in the Justice
Department. Since 1925 he has been suc-
cessively a member and chairman of the
Public Service Superannuation Board, a
job involving the straightening-out of
many complicated legal and administra-
tive problems. Queensland-born, he
served his articles with a Bundaberg legal
firm, and was admitted as a solicitor in
1913.
Wing-Commander Jonathan Swift, here
depicted by Mcßeath, has only a verbal
connection with the terrible dean who
scarified his generation with his terrific
satire. As staff officer of medical services
to the R.A.A.F. in Melbourne the wing-
commander is guide, philosopher and
friend to all R.A.A.F. medical service
R.A.A.F. PIONEER.
personnel. The badge on his cap, of
which he is proud, is a queer one. Rep-
resenting the Southern Cross with outer
wreath, it is that originally designed and
worn by R.A.A.F, officers at its incep-
tion in 1921. That is when he joined it.
He was in Army Medical in the last war
and was awarded the M.B.E. Another
thing he is proud of is that he has been
a constant reader of The Bulletin since
1896, his first recollection of the art of
the paper being a cartoon of George
Dear, skipper of the Wallaby. Any dis-
cussion at R.A.A.F. H.Q. on the style
and wit of Phil May, Alf Vincent, Hop,
Low and other black-and-whiters is
generally settled at Swift’s table.
Enter an historian:
Towards the end of 1941 a manuscript found
its way to The Bulletin from the Middle
East. Entitled “Retreat to Tobruk” and bear-
ing the signature 1.0., it was a vivid first-hand
account of a muddled nightmare rush from El
Agheila to Tobruk. The writer voiced no criti-
cism, placed no blame; he merely described the
retreat from the point of one who was whirled
along with it. His article aroused much interest
and brought many letters from Diggers and
others eager to read more from the same pen.
A.I.F. HISTORIAN.
The Bulletin would have liked more, too, but
1.0. had gone into smoke—or perhaps into a
Libyan duststorm.
After more than four years he turned up at
The Bulletin office last week. He is Dudley
McCarthy, just appointed to assist Gavin Long
in producing the Official History of Australia s
part in World War 11. McCarthy went away
with the 2/17 Battalion in 1940, and was a
lieutenant at the time of the Desert Handicap.
“Retreat to Tobruk” did not please the higher-
ups ; which accounts for the journalistic silence
of 1.0. for the rest of the war.
After Libya and Syria he came home with
Sixth Div. H.Q., was promoted major, and
served on the staff of Generals Herring and
Stevens in Darwin, visited New Guinea at
the time of Kokoda and returned to Darwin
as Brigade Major of 23rd Brigade. In 1944 he
became Liaison Officer with the Sixth U.S.
Army, and finished up in Bougainville with 2nd
Aust. Corps and Third Div.
McCarthy, drawn here by Dubois, is 34.
He graduated in Arts and Education at Sydney
Uni., spent some years in New Guinea in the
Administration service (JVlorobe goldfield and
the Sepik country were his stamping-grounds),
and 12 months with Qantas in Malaya and
Java. In between times he was a high-school
teacher and freelance journalist.
The History is to be a composite job; Mc-
Carthy’s responsibility will be the volumes
dealing with the defence of Australia and the
early New Guinea campaigns up to the Vic-
tory at Wau. If he can keep up his 1.0. stan-
dard his contribution will be great reading.
“T.P.”: Captain C. J. White, M.A.,
Dip. Ed., at present organising the re-
habilitation of Malayan schoolchildren
in Borneo, has been elected secretary of
the Victorian Teachers’ Union in succes-
sion to Fred Thomas, retiring after 12
years’ service. Just over 40 years of age,
White has filled blackboards in town and
country, in technical and high schools ;
while in the Forces, he edited the service
newspaper “Mulga” and as Chief Ameni-
ties Officer, Central Australia, organised
sporting and cultural activities. There
were 19 applicants for the big job ; a
ballot gave him an absolute majority on
the first count. In a sportsmanlike mes-
sage from Labuan he offered to withdraw
his application as his release would be
delayed. The Council cabled “Well
wait! ”
From Canberra:
Knighthood for C. A. Berendsen, N.Z.’s High
Commissioner in Washington, is welcomed as
tangible evidence by a Labor Government not
so squeamish about titles that it appreciates
the services of this Australian who went over-
seas to make his career. Berendsen is well
remembered among the diplomatic folk in the
capital as the first N.Z. High Commissioner to
Canberra; with Second-Secretary Andrew
Sharpe (First-Secretary Jean Mackenzie came
later), he set up. the Dominion’s first diplomatic
office in Australia in an overcrowded wing
of the Hotel Canberra, with his bedroom next
door, rolled up his sleeves, and set about
making friends for Maoriland both on the
official and the not-so-official plane. He also
made many friends for himself—hence the
pleasure at his New Year honor. Berendsen
was born in Sydney, went to N.Z. with his
father at a very early age; grew up into top-
ranking public service status, and soared easily
into diplomacy. He never concealed his humblp
origins, talking proudly of the family’s struggle
up out of poverty, lightly of his own official
life, which contained much of value to the
Dominion.
A new post created at Dunedin Hos-
pital, M.L., that of psychiatric physician,
will be filled by Dr. Harold Palmer, Lon-
don, aged 40. A product of Manchester
Grammar School and University, he spent
a year at the Manchester Royal Infirmary.
In 1932 he began special training in
psychiatry and served in hospitals in
several parts of England. During six
years of war Dr. Palmer saw service in
France, Egypt, Libya and Italy, and was
mainly responsible for the bulk of the
clinical work and organisation in
psychiatry for the Eighth Army, where
he became associated with M.L’s divi-
sion.
Dead in London at 87, Professor
Thomas George Tucker, C.M.G., was an
Englishman who when professor of
classical philology at the University of
Melbourne gained a world-wide repu-
tation for his scholarship and his vast out-
put of books on classical literature,
ancient Greece and Rome, and philo-
logy. The Oxford Press thought his
essay giving a new theory of the origin
of Indo-European words too revolutio-
nary for publication. He occupied the
chair of classics at Auckland University
before coming to Melbourne. His second
wife was the widow of Justice Weigall, of
the Victorian Supreme Court. Melbourne
University made him its first Emeritus
Professor.
Though Canterbury University College
(M.L.) has had a lecturer in music for
some years now, Victoria University Col-
lege has only recently taken the plunge.
Appointee to the first lectureship is Fred-
erick J. Page, a music teacher of Christ-
church, who holds the degree of Mus.B.
(N.Z.), and for two years attended the
Royal College of Music, London, under
a scholarship. The session of the College
Council that appointed Mr. Page also
decided that Prof. J. Rankine Browne,
who has retired from the Chair of Clas-
sics, should be Professor Emeritus. The
prof., who is still remarkably agile, had
been a member of the professorial staff
since the foundation of the college in
1899, had served on the University Senate
for almost a quarter of a century and had
been Vice-Chancellor,
Back in Brisbane after service with the
R.A.F. is J. R. Stewart, pre-war manager
of Qantas Empire Airways. He served
as an air-sea rescue launch commander,
with the rank of Flight-Lieutenant, in
North Africa, Malta and Southern Italy.
After discharge in England he had a
period with British Overseas Airways
Corporation, then acted as London
manager for Qantas.
A difficult task awaits Lieut.-General
Montagu Stopford, who replaces Lieut.-
General Christison as C,-in-C. Allied
Forces in Java, but on his past record
that is the sort of job he thrives on. He
commanded a brigade before Dunkirk
and was in some of the bitterest fighting
of that savage campaign. Twice his
brigade had its flank turned and the cita-
tion to his D.S.O. says “On each occasion
his personal intervention was largely in-
strumental in preventing the enemy ex-
ploiting his advantage.” When the Japs
made their second attack on India
General Stopford was in command of
33rd Indian Corps, which thrust south
from Kohima in a brilliant campaign that
ended with the fall of Mandalay. Last
year he took over the British 12th Army
in Burma and was military administrator
of the country until civil government was
restored. That experience may help him
in Java.
Into the silence:
At Rockhampton, at 76, John Joseph Ashe,
one-time District Inspector of Queensland Agri-
cultural and Stock Department. At various
times he was stationed at Helidon, Toowoomba,
Normanton, Mareeba and Rockhampton.
In Perth, at 75, Arthur Male, one-time
Broome pearler and Kimberley pastoralist.
M.L.A. for Kimberley 1905-1917, and Lloyd’s
agent at Broome.
In Sydney, at 56, Major Sydney Rosebery;
a veteran of two world wars. A leading
physician of his city and a member of the
Royal Art Society.


WOLFES
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
UOOIPHO WOLFE’S ORIGINAL fDRMOII
THIS
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
it warranted not only pure from every Injur
iout property and ingredient, but it la also ol
By its Attorney
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD, SYDNEY
Bellied in Bond unde? tbe jcpervhicft
of the Common Malik Caej/rma
NET: 1 PINT 6 fl. OZS.
WOLFE’S
ott urmtuc
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
-JI if lipiij
ii
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
**. METROPOLE”, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
If the gods had been feeling hungry last
Saturday afternoon they could have taken large
helpings of roast punter and broiled book-
maker at Rosehill. They may have been de-
terred by the amount of grit that would have
gone with the dish. However, in one or two
splendid finishes there was some compensation
for any who were capable of rising above the
dust and heat to take a sporting interest.
In the six-furlongs Flying Handicap no-
body except the judge could have said which
of Cragsman, Hall Stand and Cargeonel had
won. He made it Cragsman by a short head,
with the other pair, one on each side of the
winner, a dead-heat. Usually Cragsman is
ridden by D. Munro, but he changed to Hall
Stand, and apprentice T. Clarke had the win-
ning mount. Clarke is a capable boy, and his
51b. allowance decided the issue.
Cargeonel led early, but Cragsman moved
up to pace it with him and run clear at the
turn. Then Cargeonel came again on the in-
side, with Munro driving Hall Stand in a spec-
tacular finish on the outside. Hall Stand had
about four lengths to make up from the leger,
and failed by the barest margin. The time
was 1.124, a second outside Hall Stand’s track
record, and it looks as if the six-year-old Hall
Mark chestnut, who recently changed hands for
2200 guineas, isn’t quite the horse, he was be-
fore he broke down in the last Doomben New-
market. He did look unlucky to lose this race,
but he hqs run better time under a bigger
weight in damp conditions on this track, where
he has in the past been a noted specialist, his
wins there having included an A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes and the Rosehill Guineas.
The Plant stable, which trains Hall Stand
and which had a lot of luck earlier and has
had more of it recently in having Bern-
borough, found that essential ingredient miss-
ing in another of the day’s best finishes, when
the Hua-Night of Love filly Lady Charming
just got up to win by half a head from the
Plant-trained Native Son, who had the race
won from the straight entrance right to the last
stride. Double Gift, an evidently improved
filly this time up, was only the saipe distance
away third, with Flying Bomb, who had made
the running, a close fourth and Fra Diavolo,
after a bad start, also handy. For both legs
of a stable double to go down by half-heads
is among the rarest of turf happenings and
just about the limit in bad luck.
A good boy is often a better acquisition for
a stable than a good horse, and the Payten
stable has an extra good one in A. Mulley,
who, as'well as getting Lady Charming home,
won the Maiden Two-year-old (colts and geld-
ings) on the Hua-Field of Mons colt Smooth
Action, with Beau Pebble an improving second
and Bon Vite a distant third. Subsequently
Mulley rode High Flight to a half-length win
from the ex-Melbourne performer Peter Con,
with Puffham third. Now raced by A. F.
Williams, Peter Con was formerly Westralian-
owned, racing for that good judge of gallopers
P. A. Connolly. A six-year-old Peter Pan
entire, Peter Con made a promising showing.
Puffham shaped like an early winner.
The stable is not lacking in good
horses, either; especially youngsters. It houses
an extraordinary number of this season’s best
two-year-olds, Smooth Action, raced in part-
nership by the S.T.C. treasurer, G. E. Ryder,
being merely the latest of the long list which
includes such as Havoc and Chaperone, both
of whom should soon be testing the best of
them in Melbourne. Smooth Action came with
a fine late run, going so strongly to the post
that he should have no trouble getting a bit
of distance later on. His breeding seems all
right for it. Other Wen
stable include Concise, Vigaro y
all good winners.
• • e ’ vents the Equator-
_ln n I K. Glory <G Moore) won
Taishet filly Mornmg Glory Du ' Qtetra
AefillM Castlereagh (R. Parsons) beat
and ® eautlf ul Ca W fK > and
S.TC Handicap Cyet to be won by a
favorite) fnt to Nepean
Growdie), from Chaytor and- Mqn Fere it
a pretty good.run by w 2hYs V Nepeah RivS
the worst of weights. f p longs 2 4
equalled track record for b “ ed b
Duotetra will do better, bheis JN.Z. onea, oy
Nizami-Ashtarth. Her .™ p f ° rte !’■ C s w f tud ’
has also bought her sire for his N-SAV. stid.
* nartimlnrlv strikins at
Form did not look paiticularly struang <u
]ast Saturda y’s Mentone meeting, possible ex-
ceptions being Invasion Chief, Hiatus and
Logical. Making light of his 9st., Invasio
Chief gave a lot of weight and a smind beat-
ing to Still Flight, Anstey and a big field■ f
other three-year-olds in the mile Chelsea Handi-
cap. The Valiant Chief colt led most or me
way and won pulling up. However, thougn
he’s a consistent galloper, he beat very little
in this field, ,Still Flight hemg a country
performer and others in the field rather reguiai
failures.
*.*.'. * , T r
Hiatus’s win in the 13-furlongs J. L. Reii y
Stakes, beating Cavallo and Chatsol, looK
very promising for jumping events aneaci t
was mainly a field of jumpers), and Cogjca
won the first division of, the Mile-Welter well
enough from Jean Ercil and Cloudless to in
cate that he’s in good shape for coming dis-
tance events. Hiatus’s 2.47 j was only a frac-
tion outside the course record. The six-year-ola
gelding should be one of the best over me
sticks this year.
* ' / ’ ‘ ' . ,' . .
The crowd—or that section of it that n
made Golden Buddy a hot favorite
loud and long when the judge declared to
the Hellespont colt Stormy Sea by halt a nea,
with Irish Lullaby third. R. Heather seemed t
take things easy on the narrowly-deteate
favorite, and was outridden by H. Badger i
the finish. Having a much better season than
he had last year, Badger made it a double by
getting consistent Hellenist home nicely from
Bravesia and Void in the Welter second division.
Secu'rities-dose on a fivir mor'e than - whose
cost price could have been got back by stak-
ing £3 on him at the 10-to-l odds ottei ing
—won the Summer Hurdle, with Ashton and
Puckawidgee second and third at long intervals,
and Dukedom was too good for Firmament
and Somers in the Moorabbm Handicap over
six furlongs. It was Dukedom s best torm tor
some time.
* *
It’s astonishing how many Randwick Gim-
crack Stakes winners turn out badly later on,
Civic Pride being another. She was noted
here a while back as showing signs of getting
temperamental, and she gave her worst connr-
mation of the opinion at Randwick on January
28, standing stubborrily at the post in Bem-
borough’s Australia Day Handicap. Civic
Pride won the Gimcrack in 1944; and mpw the
1943 winner, Scaur Fel, a notorious barrier jib,
has been banned from Metropolitan tracks for
her cranky exhibition at the start of the Flying
at Rosehill.
* * * *
At the N.Z. yearling sales 40 lots were
bought for anonymous Australian owners, m-
eluding “a Melbourne firm’s” purchase for
3750 guineas of a brother by Foxbridge—Anne
Acre to the topnotch performer A 1 Sirat, winner
of the N.Z. Derby, and Barwon, rated this
year’s best N.Z. two-year-old. An Australian
offer of 6500 for Barwon was reported a month
or so back to have been turned down. In all,
the Trentham sales saw 261 offerings average
563 guineas and aggregate 148,000 guineas.
Good prices were paid for the products of the
English sire Balloch and those of Hyperion’s
son, Neptune. Maurice McCarten, who’s making
a solid success as a trainer in Sydney, where
so many leading jockeys have failed in that line,
bought a number of Foxbridge and other
youngsters for N.S.W. interests.
* * * *
Some idea of the colossal racing boom in
America is had from the fact that, though
there were 221 fewer racing days last season
than in 1944, attendances totalled 17 millions
and the incredible sum of over one billion three
hundred million dollars was put into the tote,
beating the previous year’s record by more than
two hundred millions. 'The State Treasuries
involved took the tidy rake-off of just on 654
million dollars.
The money to be made out of racing in
America is indicated by the success last year
of the new Main Chance stable —or “farm,”
as they call it over there. Its owner is Mrs.
Elizabeth M. Graham, who made her roll out
of a variety of brands of cosmetics, after the
exotic names of which she calls her horses,
that sort of advertising being considered O.K.
in America, as it once was in Australia. At
the end of the 1944 season Mrs. Graham put
$299,700 into horseflesh, and in the recent,
much-curtailed season took out $503,985 in
prize-money. That made Tom Smith the year’s
leading money-winning trainer. Tom, however,
didn’t see the season quite out, being sus-
pended near the end for allegedly “stimulating”
one of the Mrs. Graham string named Magnific
Duel. At a subsequent hearing it was stated
by an internationally-known pharmacologist
for the defence that the amount of ephedrine
puffed into the neddy’s nostrils with an atomiser
wouldn’t have been enough to stimulate a flea.
* * * Jfc
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Collingwood Handicap (two-year-old fillies);
Duotetra, 1; Morning Glory, 2; Anastasia, 3.
Ingleburn Handicap (two-year-old colts and
geldings): Concerto, 1; Co-Re, 2; Smooth
Action, 3. Encourage: King Lear, 1; Mirrigen,
2; Bourke, 3. Glenfield Handicap: Warlock,
1; Lunar, 2; Barnsley, 3. Warwick Handicap:
Royal Peer, 1; Grand Fils, 2; War Eagle, 3.
Sunnybrook Welter: Puffham, 1; Fire Chat, 2;
Felberta, 3,
* * * *
Jockeys, as a rule, are poor judges ot
horses, but you can’t beat retired boxers
for sizing up pugs of a later generation.
Old lightweight champion Jack Read said
in. The Bulletin office on Saturday
morning that he thought Patrick would
win the fight. Burns, he admitted, had
all the physical advantages, but Tommy
was a slow starter, and would find that a
handicap against an experienced lad with
a punch who could get into action
straightway.
And so Burns did. Faster than his foe,
Patrick soon began to score with straight
rights to the face, and with the points
already in his favor he floored the
Queenslander for “nine” with a left to
the jaw in the second round. But those
who reached for their hats had no im-
mediate need for them. Burns fought
gamely and well, though still second-best,
and put all he had into solid rights in the
seventh round. That was the lighter
man’s one bad round. For a brief period
he seemed sick, but his wits did not desert
him, and the bell came to his rescue
before Burns could land a finishing punch.
After that round it was all Patrick, and
the end came in the ninth. Working the
now bleeding and dazed Burns into
position for a knockout, Patrick got home
with a left on the chin, and the chal-
lenger sank to the floor, a beaten man.
The Sydney Stadium “gate” was the
biggest since Johnson v. Burns, and the
boxers collected nearly £l9OO apiece.
* * * *
Neither Patrick nor Burns was men-
tioned by the U.S. boxing paper the
“Ring” in its latest ratings of the world’s
best. The world lightweight title is
vacant; the “Ring” named the Mexican
Chalky Wright No. 1 with all other
likely contenders Americans except Dave
Castilloux, a Canadian, and Ronnie
James, of Wales. Freddie Cochrane is
the world welter champ., but the “Ring”
rates him second to the evidently extra-
good Ray Robinson. Ernie Roderick
(Eng.) gets a mention. Further of inter-
est, in view of all the ballyhoo about
Burns and Patrick, the “Ring,” while not
mentioning either of them, does include
Australians Narvo and Jack Johnson,
the latter in the light-heavy division, in
which it rates Archie Moore first and the
holder, Gus Lesnevich, nowhere.
* * * *
Keen on avenging a quick knockout,
Jack Brander made an excellent showing
in the early part of his return bout with
Ritchie Sands at Leichhardt, being fast
and full of fight. But a left body punch
hurt him as the fifth round was ending
and another in the sixth had still more
palpable effects. He was cautioned for
landing a low left. In the seventh a left
to the body floored Brander for “eight.”
He was down again in the ninth, appa-
rently more from exhaustion than a
punch, and, now unable to get away from
the Sands left, he was knocked out in the
tenth.
* * * *
Cabled that there’s to be a Britain-U.S.
flyweight world’s champion fixture in
America later this year, with the U.S.
contender likely to be Dado Marino. In
its recent ratings the “Ring” didn’t men-
tion Marino among the world’s five best
of the Jimmy Wilde poundage. Oddly,
while it included a big majority of Ameri-
cans in every other division, it didn’t
mention a single U.S. flyweight, giving
the places respectively to the title-holder,
Jackie Patterson, of Glasgow; Terry
Allen, of the Royal Navy ; Joe Curran,
of Liverpool; and Rinty Monaghan and
Bunty Doran, both of Ireland.
* * * *
The sparkle in Queensland’s 420 v. S. Aus-
tralia at Brisbane was a hard-hitting 138 by left-
hander Rex Rogers; other helpers were McCool
78, Brown 62, Tallon 50 and Young 42 n.o.
S.A.’s first innings produced only 169 (Craig
65). Christ (4 for 30), McCool (3 for 58) and
young (2 for 29) caused the collapse. In 48
inter-State innings for Queensland Rogers has
scored 1652 (no not outs), average 34.41,
highest score 181 against S.A. at-Adelaide in
1937.
* * * *
“Long Leg”: N.S.W. left-hand bowler E.
Toshack was not in the huge batch chosen to
practice at the beginning of the season. Up
to last week-end in first-class matches Toshack
had taken most wickets (31, averaging 19.64);
O’Reilly 30, McCool 29 and Lindwall 28.
Toshack has got his figures on hard wickets,
which makes the effort brighter; and his ability
to break the ball both ways, plus an excellent
command of length, suggests he is the bowlef
Australia is looking for on those damp English
wickets, where Jack Ferris and Charlie Macart-
ney had such success.
* * * *
In one of the most gruelling tennis
matches seen in Australia John Brom-
wich defeated D. Pails 5-7, 6-3, 7-5, 3-6,
6-2 for the Australian singles champion-
ship af Adelaide. The tussle waged for
three hours in a temperature ranging up
to 104 degrees. Bromwich now holds
the Australiah, Victorian and South Aus.
titles, and was second to Pails for the
N.S.W. title.
* * * *
The question whether tennis players
(allegedly amateurs) should write articles
for the press has been again discussed
by the Australian L.T.A., and a resolu-
tion to ban the practice carried. Norman
Brookes (who won the Australian title in
1911) was to the point: “We cannot stop
the individual from doing what he likes.
But when it comes to playing for his
country we can forbid a player from writ-
ing on a clause which states that it could
affect his good health and fitness. Cer-
tain players here would not be allowed
to play in Davis Cup matches in America.
They would not pass the Federated
amateur status.”
* * * , *
Twenty nations have entered to decide
which shall tackle Australia for the Davis
Cup at Kooyong (Vic.) in December.
Fifteen are in the European zone ; four
in the American zone; New Zealand is
the only entrant in the Pacific zone, and
will play the winner of the American
zone. It is the lowest entry of challengers
since 1924 (22); the highest was in 1933
(34). Of the 34 Davis Cup finals U.S.A.
has won 12, Great Britain 9, France 6,
Australasia 6 and Australia one.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Anniversary Day this year was hot and
sticky—just how hot and sticky the
weather must have felt to Captain Phillip
and his company on that far-away day
when they founded the colony is a shud-
dersome thought. Gentlemen didn’t wear
shorts and blouse shirts in those days.
Their uniforms and suits were almost
airproof. Their high stocks must have
just about choked them as they stood to
attention while Britain’s flag was broken
over Sydney Cove. As the generations
move further along the road of time
whose milestones are ice-chests, milk
bars, refrigerators and air-conditioning,
the rigors of those pioneer days take on
grimmer and grimmer aspect. So let us
admire the stern stuff of which our fore-
bears were made, and because they have
opened to us a life in this pleasant land
let us bless Captain Phillip, the early
settlers and the convicts.
Aileen Britton in the lacquered sophis-
tication of the part of Ruth Condomine,
second wife of Charles the scribe, carries
off the “dress” honors of “Blithe Spirit.”
Her long-sleeved dinner frock in the
second act was a delicate plum-bloom
blue, its tulle skirts very full and swaying
about Aileen’s slenderness. These parts
fit Aileen as smoothly as glove fits hand,
as smoothly as her pink tunic morning
dress and her torso kept company. The
Royal was crowded for the opening, in
spite of the Burns-Patrick fight, though the
thoughts of men kept turning to sterner
stuff, and in the intervals they kept
in touch, reporting progress to wife and
girl friend as they regained their places.
Petty Craydon, as the cycling medium
“Madame Afcati,” flashed some new ideas
on designs suitable for biking. Charles’s
first wife, Elvira, who drops down to
earth from the astral plane, billows in
and out in gracefully floating chiffons of
mignonette greens and greys. Elvira, in-
cidentally, had been recovering from a
severe attack of pneumonia, and died
from laughing helplessly at a 8.8. C. musi-
cal comedy. Edwin Styles is Charles, who
is successfully widowered a second time.
Lili Kraus, radiant in daffodil yellows,
drew Sydney’s music-lovers to the Town
Hall on Saturday night. Her fame had
gone forth, and netted a great and varied
catch of listeners. Of women pianists this
city has heard over many years, Lili
Kraus has a distinctive and appealing
charm. Her blithe approach to her music
is that of one who unfolds a glittering,
triumphant fairy story to children of all
ages. Women were interested in her
frock, which was completely shoulder-
strapless, thus displaying every rippling
sinew and muscle from the shoulder to
the finger-tips. The Haydn Sonata in
E Flat Major, which opened the pro-
gramme, and Schumann’s “Carneval
stirred the audience to a storm of ap-
plause.
The Australian Trained Nurses’ Asso-
ciation and the Australian Nursing
Federation are going to miss the
capable, good-looking Miss E. P. Evans,
who for over 20 years has been
secretary of the A.T.N.A. and general
secretary of the A.N.F. Miss Evans has
resigned and from the 28th of this month
will take a well-earned rest. The Federal
Council is meeting in Melbourne this
week (Lady Dugan opened the proceed-
ings), and when it ends on the Saturday
Miss Evans’s duties will cease. However,
the cause nearest to her heart, and to-
wards which much of her energy and
ability have been directed —A.T.N.A.
House for Aged Nurses —has material-
ised, and the house, which will most re-
semble a happy residential club, will soon
be opened.
The Women Pioneers didn’t go by
the calendar for the date of their Anni-
versary party, but held it during last
week. There were more than 130 guests,
a good sprinkling of the R.N, among
them. There were no speeches, and
toasts were dispatched in an efficient and
workmanlike manner: “The King” and
“Governor Phillip” caused sherry glasses
to be drained. Mrs. Lingham, Miss
Higman and Miss Carlotta Doyle were
notables. Knight Alfred Davidson (who
gave the toast of “The King”) and his
wife came down from Leura for the occa-
sion. Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre came with
a pretty young niece.' The Guy Blax-
lands, Milton Johnson and members of
the Historical Society were among the
applauders of the “Song of the Pioneers,”
music by Marjorie Plunkett, words by
Mary Lucy.
The thought of the great natural re-
sources and overwhelming manpower of
the U.S.A. is causing no sense of in-
feriority in the mind of the average
Englishman. It would appear that the
English are always happiest when the
odds are heavily against them. Here is
an extract from a last week’s letter from
London: —
I have been out of the army for three
months and am back at work again in my
normal civilian life. One calls it “normal,”
but really, of course, nothing is the same,
nor ever will be. It is a new world into
which we are moving, and I only hope it
will be a peaceful one. I think that the
British peoples will have tremendous oppor-
tunities in the years to come, as I am not
one of those who believe that the U.S.A.
has stepped into the shoes of the British
Empire as the leader of the world. The
British Commonwealth will soon take it's
old place again.
There you are. Dunkirk, Blitz, years of
austerity—nothing can defeat them!
Artist Margaret jPreston has been giv-
ing some talks on art appreciation to
educational groups. “Oh,” said a friend
who met the lecturer on her way from
one of such meetings, “your listeners
must have loved that.” “Fm not so sure,”
replied Margaret, twinkling remini-
scently. “I heard one young woman
remark ‘according to her, my house and
everything in it just stinks, artistically.’ ”
A library and a handicrafts shop for
the benefit of ex-servicemen and -women
is now in full cry at 19 Rowe-street. This
was until recently the C.U.S.A. Air Force
Library and is just the old firm switched
over to a peace-time job which it thought
was needed.
Visitors to the chapel of Sydney Hos-
pital stand for a moment of remem-
brance before the memorial tablet in
honor of Matron A. M. Kfellett, C.8.E.,
R.R.C. Matron Kellett’s splendid record
of service to Australia in peace and ii
war will not soon be forgotten. The
little chapel was crowded with her
friends and members of the nursing staff
for the unveiling. A, lasting tribute to
her memory is a memorial fund sub-
scribed to by nurses and friends, and
founded by the A.T.N.A., This will
endow the A. M. Kellett Prize, given
each year to the candidate who obtains
highest marks in the final examinations
of the Nurses’ Registration Board in this
State.
Diana Robinson is one of the pretty
girls Sydney is getting to know all over
again. Diana, who is just come of age,
was, during the war years, a transport
driver with the W.R.A.N.S., and has a
strenuous 15 months in Townsville to her
credit. Her parents are Dr. Clive Robin-
son and Mrs. Robinson, of Point Piper.
Her mother is one of the well-known
McMaster family—the Coolah branch.
Norton Trevaire photograph. .
Journeying across the Domain to gaze
on the Archibald prize entries the obser-
vant could not but feel that the only
thing right about our National Art Gal-
lery is its surroundings. The sylvan
setting is good; the hoofing up from
Macquarie-street, if the seeker after cul-
ture is earless, is setback number one.
Then the gallery itself is small, its space
constricted, so that the Government s
extra money to buy pictures brings up
the problem of wall space. Then there
is no artificial lighting. If the day is
overcast the visitor must put up with it.
The poor old Art Gallery, in spite of its
almost classical facade, loses face in com-
parison with its resplendent neighbor
across the fields —the Public Library. If
Trustee Sydney Ure Smith has his way
there will be one of the finest art refer-
ence libraries in the world under its roof,
when that roof spreads. Another bright
vision glimpsed by the president of the
Society of Artists is that of special buses
marked “Art Gallery” loaded with eager
humans rolling up to the doors of the
State’s art treasury. Well, they can’t jail
a man for dreaming!
,
From Melbourne
Many of the Patriotic Funds in this
city “are folding their tents and going
silently away.” A visit to the rooms of
the War Nurses’ Comforts Funds Com-
mittee found it a hive of industry.
Stocktaking was in progress and other
Committee members were packing parcels
which are going to all sick Victorian war
nurses, wherever they are. Two hundred
have been dispatched to R.A.A.F. nurses
and each parcel contained face and tal-
cum powder, eau-de-Cologne, powder
base, hand lotion, powder puff, lipstick,
soap, washer and knitted pullover. The
Fund was organised in the early days of
the war and a great sum of money has
been raised by these energetic women,
Under the leadership of Mrs. Charles
Allum, Mrs. Hugh Marsland and Mrs.
Rita Drew, the work went on apace. A
one-day shop, held in Howey-court,
brought in £lOO from the sale -of aprons.
Nurses in camp hospitals were not for-
gotten, and their quarters were made more
pleasant by gifts from this committee.
Recently the nurses home at Balcombe
received an electric radiator, electric jug,
toaster, glass dishes saucepans, knives
forks and spoons cushions and a floo
ru . g ' next 'Of'km A x y
with the committee, but is now disbanded.
The committee may make aimther con-
tribution tire Flo 8 8
Trust Fund for Victoria W
before it finally disperses.
Norma Neville, the brunette pictured
here, plays the role of Wanda in Rose
Marie.” Norma is a Sydney girl who
joined the Firm three years ago. She
was with the Borovansky ballet for some
time and went touring with that company
to Maoriland last year. Later she was
solo dancer in the “Rio Rita” co. She
got an excellent reception on her first
night as Wanda. In this revival of “Rose
Marie” there are many beautiful frocks
and much of the coloring is delightful.
The opening setting gives the players
an opportunity to wear winter sports’
clothes. In the name part Joy Beattie
was well in the color scheme with a short
white flared skirt, bordered with fur and
the same white fur repeated on her
scarlet jacket. Her white fur cap was
trimmed with ermine tails. In a later
scene she wears a gown of ice-blue crepe.
The finely-pleated skirt was inlet with
three Vandykes of ivory lace and was
allied to a bodice which repeated the
Vandykes of lace. The bridal gown worn
by Rose Marie is notable. It is made of
chalk-white crepe sprinkled with diamente
and she carries a bouquet of real flowers.
The ballet of the midinettes is danced
by very pretty girls whose short frocks
of palest pink crepe are trimmed with
narrow black bandings. Black silk stock-
ings and black shoes complete the pic-
ture. The Totem Dance is a sparkling
feature and brought forth so much
applause on the first night that it was
danced three times. Black satin uni-
forms with gay and colorful imprints
were worn with tall black hats, and this
was one opportunity Norma Neville had
of showing her dancing ability. She
had one othsr —the Fan Dance, which
was very graceful.
In the large audience was Mrs. C.
Mackay, cool and attractive in a long
blue and white patterned frock. With
her was daughter Robin, who wore a
little blue lame jacket with her long
black frock. Hazel Raff contrasted her
blue and white patterned frock with a
tiny fluffy hat of white flowers, and Hilda
Corbett chose her favorite blue frock
which sparkled with glittering diamente.
With her was Iris Vincent Smith, whose
black frock featured a filmy black lace
yoke.
Sheila Helpman was smart in a grace-
ful frock of black crepe. She wore the
largest earrings ever seen in this city—a
cluster of gay flowers finished with a
bow tie. They were a present from
brother Bobby, who is now back in Eng-
land after a tour of Germany with a
concert party, arranged by E.N.S.A. Mrs.
Stan Thonpkins, in a glamorous frock of
tea-rose pink covered by a long white fox
cape, was with Mrs. W. Horsfall, a de-
lightful contrast in her decorative flame
crepe dinner gown. Lelie Potter wore
a pale beige frock of hand-made lace.
With husband Rex she entertained at
their St. Kilda flat after the show. Guest
of honor was Natalie Raines, whose work
with Don Nicol is a highlight of the
show. Others at the party were Arnold
and Linka Isaacson, parents of Peter, who
made a name as a pilot in the R.A.A.F.
Peter has just announced his engagement
to Ann Mclntyre, and plans have been
made for a wedding later on in the year.
Judy Allan, hon. sec. for the Radio
Riot organised by the Women Journalists
in conjunction with Radio Women,
handed knight Thomas Nettlefold a
cheque for £BlB for the Florence Night-
ingale Trust Fund for War Nurses.
He is president of the fund, and
his inspiration was largely respon-
sible for the Radio Riot. In thank-
ing the hon. organisers, Margaret Saker
and Helen McDougall, both Melbourne
journalists, he quoted “So long as we love
to serve, so long as we are loved by
others, I would almost say we are indis-
pensable, and no woman is useless whilst
she has a friend.” These words by Steven-
son were specially applicable in this case,
as it was one group of women helping an-
other group. He urged that the Radio
Riot be made a yearly event to help the
funds of the Centaur Nurses Scholarship
Fund. With Judy Allan, Marion Bowser
helped in the presentation, and also pre-
sent were Zell Manners, production;
Cecilia Senior, publicity ; Jean Darragh,
raffle secretary; Joan Melwitt, pro-
grammes ; and Grace Macdonald, com-
mittee.
The swimming team of Melbourne
University covered itself with glory in the
recent inter-’Varsity swimming sports.
Kath True won three events in grand
style and Peg Jones and Pat Hannan
were winners in two other events. This
is a score which has not been equalled
since 1935.
Among the dos. arranged for the
swimming visitors from other States was
the party at Ripponlea, the home of
Peg Jones. With her mother, Mrs. T. J.
Jones, and sister Betty she entertained at
a party which began at 2.30 in the after-
noon. Guests amused themselves swim-
ming in the pool or wandered round the
grounds. At night the home teams and
visitors danced. A farewell luncheon
was given at the Victoria, when the
visitors thanked all those who had
extended them hospitality; they also
made reference to the weather, which
had surprised them by its warmth and
for the fact that it had not rained.
Melbourne has revelled in a wonderful
summer. Women have been able to wear
their lightest and flimsiest frocks, and for
days on end bathers have flocked to the
beaches. This change has kept summer-
houses open longer than the ordinary
space of time. The Wallace Mitchell
home, Billabong, at Frankston, has been
filled; not only by the family, but with
many house guests. Two daughters of
the house, Jean, holidaying in Sydney,
Betty, in Queensland with her unit (she
is a Lieut, in the A.M.W.A.S.) and son
Malcolm, in the R.A.N., were away, but
the Mitchells had their other five sons
for company.
This summer home is one of the most
attractive in Frankston. The main por-
tion of the house consists of lounge-
dining-room, kitchen and playrooms, and
the sleeping quarters are in a series of
well-fumished bungalows built down one
side of the spacious grounds. The
grounds go right to the beach, and guests
are out of sight almost the entire day,
bathing and rowing on the calm waters
of Port Phillip Bay. Guests during last
week-end were Major Dilip Chaudhri of
the Indian Army (he rode in the polo
event at the Frankston Show and was
successful). Captain Alice Adcock of the
AAN.S., and Mrs. Frank Martin and
daughter Shirley. Lieut. Robert Mitchell,
A.I.F. (ret.) with his brothers, lan,
Donald, Lauchlan and Hugh assisted their
parents entertain the guests. Even on
holidays Mrs. Wallace Mitchell is think-
ing of the months which lie ahead, anc
when she returns to town will find hersell
right in the forefront of the battle foi
funds for the St. John’s Boys’ Home.


fd
They’re AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can take swimming, fish-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado Waterproof Swiss
Watches are expected soon. Order now for
Christmas delivery.
swls?
WATCHES
Open 9 to 5
\II2 "MARKET ST. SYDNEY g.lPwh^aL
MOVADO
HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Wally Wiltshire—record-break-
ing Australian axeman. Broke
the world record for a 13-inch
underhand woodchop on June
18, 1945, at Richmond, Victoria.
Time: 21 1/5 seconds—a clear
3 seconds below the previous
record. A tribute to a hard-
hitting Australian.
Despite restrictions, limited
supplies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN
and .22 RIMFIRE CART -
RIDGES are available to
primary producers for essen -
tial pest destruction subject
to police permits, ALL
AUSTRALIAN.
_ UHPi
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA 4 NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
Mi''
SUMMER HEAT
WINTER CHILL
s i
?; x ' , - N s '
%
m
i
-but
CANE-ITE
MSOMTfS )fOROMS
Cosy in Winter, cool in Summer —when you
insulate your home with Cane-ite. It keeps the
house at an even, healthy temperature; cuts
Winter fuel bills by as much as 30%. Protect
and beautify your home with Cane-ite, the modern
building board which acts on the same principle
as a vacuum flask—insulates against both heat
and cold. Cane-ite is easy to use. In renovating
it goes right over unsightly walls, covering cracks
and stains quickly and inexpensively. Cane-ite
is whiteant proofed.
m
ms
Manufactured b>
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney—Melbourne—Brisbane—Adelaide —Perth
Other C.S.R. Products:—-Slagwool, Asbestos. Plaster Products
SMOHE-OH!
“Wanted: Experienced trimmers.” — Advt.
Must they be little trimmers?
•b
“Sex appeal wins more men than good cook-
ing ever will.” — “New Idea.”
Without it a woman’s cake is dough.
>l* -I" -I*
“The knowledge of Jane’s infidelity tore his
very being apart.”— Story.
And evidently he couldn’t pull himself
together.
❖
“Is the implication—that women lack the
ability to see the funny side of things—true?”
— l VOman’s paper.
That women’s humor is a flop
Has oft-times been debated.
But you need only look up top
To see it illustrated.
D. H. E.
*’♦ *l*
“Punters Without a Shirt.”— “Sun” heading.
Unplaced horses, however, were well
supplied.
•it •£••£. •$>
“Dog, brown bull terrier, lost. Mixture.”
—Daily paper.
Has anyone seen an animal answering
to this prescription?
>!• -I*
“Crumble a little chalk in one palm and rub
it on your nails, then repeat with the other
hand. Rub off with a buffer.” — “Woman.”
Preferably not an old one.
•I* Hh
“The first settlers seem to have regarded the
Australian bush with aw c.”-—Magazine article.
We gather that those pristine " chums’
Looked on the bush as ruthless
Till they discovered that its gums
Were absolutely toothless.
F.M.
f* * *
Mistaken Identity.
The other day my great-aunt Semolina
joined a city queue, the end of which
was outside the hall where she was to
attend a temperance rally. In the queue
were a number of women similar to her-
self in respect of years, though a little
more negligently dressed.
A faint aura of second-hand alcohol
which accompanied the queue she attri-
buted to a certain sprinkling of converts
who might have seen the light only re-
cently or who were perhaps in process
of being shown it by zealous friends.
During the half-hour wait my great-
aunt got into conversation with the lady
in front of her, and'the talk turned by
mutual consent to the subject of alcohol.
Though handicapped by a total deficiency
of teeth, the other lady managed to im-
part the information that she was utterly
opposed to the sale of liquor in bars ;
otherwise her views on the beverage use
of alcohol seemed to my great-aunt to be
a trifle on the liberal side.
Finally a door opened somewhere
ahead, and Aunt Semmy surged forward
with the mob, highly gratified, though a
little puzzled, at the degree of enthusi-
asm for the Cause thus being demon-
strated. Her recollections of the next few
minutes are mercifully vague, but she
eventually arrived home in a dazed con-
dition, clutching a bottle of cheap but
very welcome port in one hand.
We assume that she became a victim to
mob hysteria. This, at any rate,, is the
kindest explanation of the ravished human
ear which she carried unconsciously in
her other hand.
Plum.
•J* -V
Then there was the girl who thought
that a dryad was a piece of temperance
propaganda.
•J* *l* *l*
“Since, according to the Graham Law, the
rate of diffusion of the gas containing', U-235,
as compared with the gas containing uranium
238, would be inversely proportional to the
square roots of their molecular weights—that
is, in the ratio of the square root of 352
(18.76) to the square root of ,349 (18.68) —the
increase of the concentration of the U-235
hexafluoride would be by a factor of only
1.0043. Under actual operating conditions this
value is even smaller.” — “S. M. Herald.”
To be scientifically exact, about half
a dipperful.
Today’s Brain Twizzlers.
(Can You Solve Them?)
A man proposes to buy a house that
is being erected by the N.S.W. “Labor”
Government. Four months after the foun-
dation goes in the first brick is laid. Two
weeks later a second brick is acquired
and laid, and a week later the brickwork
is inspected and passed. Following a
promise of strong Ministerial action to
expedite brick supplies, a third brick is
delivered five weeks later. Two weeks
after that 50 bricks arrive, but they cannot
be used until an inter-union dispute as
to whether the structure should be classi-
fied as a bungalow or a cottage is settled,
While official approval is being sought
to allow the bricks in the meanwhile to
be used for the detached laundry a further
20 bricks are delivered and stacked along-
side the 50. A month later it is found
that the 20 bricks were meant for another
job 15 miles distant. A lorry comes and
takes the whole 70 bricks away. Three
weeks later the error is discovered and
a 92-page report is prepared for the Mm-
ister, cost of preparation being £B7 19s.
Id. It is estimated that the Minister s
decision as to the action to be taken to
restore the 50 bricks to the original site
will be announced in another five months.
Who,will attain his objective first: the
man who is waiting to occupy the house
or a blind, partly paralysed grasshopper
which is trying to cross a wide, swiftly-
running creek of molasses?
When a big industrial upheaval
threatens in N.S.W. four Federal Min-
isters, suddenly realising that it is now
quite safe to visit northern areas, depart
for separate undisclosed destinations with
the intention of boosting garrison morale
by making speeches. During their absence
approximately 450 gallons of high-octane
petrol would have been saved on each
Ministerial fluid-drive Chrysler if some-
one else hadn’t gone on using it. How-
ever, they do effect a saving each of
8500 gallons of aviation spirit, 600 gal-
lons of lubricating oil and £9289 in sundry
expenses by not doubling their journey
and going on to Tristan da Cunha to
study the latest methods of wig-making,
and by each limiting his retinue to three
secretaries, six assistant secretaries an
ichthyologist, two pidgin interpreters’, an
almoner and a speech-writer.
When the industrial situation unexpect-
edly eases and they are approaching Can-
berra on the return journey, they fly
through duststorms, which are estimated
to contain 2100 farms blown off eroded
areas. The storms average 42 m.ph
while the hot air in each luxury ’plane
rises two degrees with each paragraph of
the press statements being prepared.
Assuming that Bernborough could keep
up a steady Imin. 36sec. to the mile, could
he gallop over the MacDonnell Ranges
before each touring Minister could dis-
close to the press that not a single soldier
he had talked to had one complaint to
make about the food, beer and tobacco
supplies or the time , being taken to re-
patriate them?
The respective reporting space in a daily
for a girl-wife murder, the latest Holly-
wood separation and the deliberations of
an Empire trade conference are 4\ cols.,
2} cols, and The story of a 16-
year-old Sydney sweater girl’s formation
of a Sinatra Swoon Club can be deemed
in quality and lineage equal to the leader.
The s.-p. odds, form and lottery results
can be rated at 18 times the reader-value
of Cabinet decisions on defence and 54
times the reader-value of an expert's
warning on water-conservation problems.
What then is.the best bet: that the “S.
M. Herald” and “Daily Telegraph” will
cease publication of s.-p. odds on high
moral grounds or that the “Daily
Mirror” will rehash for the 17th time the
story (with picture) of the 22-year-old
French-swimsuit girl who is rung up by
a mysterious stranger every night and
given the wolf call?
Bo.
Ornithological Item.
The large, ungainly Ockle Bird
Has habits that are most absurd.
It loves to play with purple flies,
And very frequently it dies
Because it goes on hunger strikes
To nark the people it dislikes.
Some folk with energy insist
The Ockle Bird does not exist.
But this denial, I have heard,
Does not distress the Ockle Bird.
T. W. Nathan.
Ode to a Green Frog.
Perhaps you are not what you seem;
Perhaps we have been wrong
In holding you responsible
For such a dismal song.
Our world’s a batty one. We’re trapped
In baffle-pools of doubt.
Perhaps we now see nothing straight
But only inside-out.
Though free you seem, you may be
bond,
Green frog I hear and view.
Perhaps, old pest, it is the pond
That croaks inside of you.
EVE MERRITT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Dry” Ship
Press reports of trouble on the S.S.
Katoomba remind me of a trip I made
on her when she was a troopship.
There were about a thousand soldiers
on board. It was pretty hot, and the
ship, of course, was “dry.”
It was understood we were to call at
Lae, pick up some more troops there
and thence go straight to Townsville and
home. However, when we sighted the
coast of N.G. we were told that the
ship’s water supply was getting low and
required replenishing—hence we must
call at Finschhafen instead of Lae.
We tied up at the wharf after sunset.
Water was taken aboard —and spirits
and beer went out of the ship almost un-
interruptedly for 24 hours. There was
hardly any attempt to cloak the business.
The vendors (members of the ship’s
crew) appeared to be well known to the
purchasers (U.S. Army personnel), and
there were no formalities. On two occa-
sions at least jeeps pulled alongside port-
holes and loaded up with cartons of beer
and bottles of spirits. A U.S. M.P. made
a halfhearted appearance at one stage,
but took no action. Everyone was very
friendly and no harsh words were spoken
—except by the Diggers lining the rails
of the ship.
Several officers (including myself)
watched this display, and after about an
hour of it we decided that it was time
something was done about it. So we
paraded to the O.C. troops with a re-
quest that the traffic be stopped and the
racketeers dealt with. To our astonish-
ment the O.C. informed us that this per-
formance took place every time the ship
pulled into Finschhafen, and that he had
made strongly-worded reports about it
without avail. A ship’s officer said that
if any attempts were made to stop the
traffic the crew would walk off the ship.
The quantities sold indicated a well-
established organisation and spoke
volumes for the ineptitude of the depart-
ment which is supposed to police such
things.—M. C. C. (N.S.W.).
Punishing the Vanquished
“E.V.S.” (B. 9/1/’46) asks: “Can a
Jap be legally hanged for the murder of
a Queenslander in Papua, but not in
Queensland?” Of course he can, under
International Law, and why not? The
abolition of capital punishment in Queens-
land cannot apply outside that State,
“E.V.S.” expresses the fear that the
trials now in progress may be establish-
ing a right to exterminate the vanquished.
That fear of indiscriminate vengeance is
groundless. War criminals are given a
proper trial and evidence is being brought
to light in documents and diaries written
by those responsible for both the com-
mencement and cruel conduct of the war,
to show, without a shadow of doubt,
that some of the accused premeditated
crimes against humanity. And it is foi
that, and not for being defeated, that
they are being tried.
There must be no doubt in the minds
of any of us that we fought on the side
of right.— Taffy (Q.).
Non-Political Trade-Unions
Could pot trade-unions be formed,
the constitution of which should provide
that they could not support any political
party?
Such unions could deal with equal free-
dom with each Government as it came
into being, and its members would be
fully enfranchised, which many members
of present unions are not, being regi-
mented politically.
Moderate Laborites squeal (and I don’t
wonder) against their funds and influ-
ence being used by Communist schemers
in office to further political ideas to
which the moderates are strongly
opposed. The non-political union con-
stitution is the remedy.— Lan Thorn
(Tas.).
The Australian Cardinal
“Alpha Minor” (B. 16/1 / ’46) asserts that
criticisms of Mr. Calwell for his remarks
on the elevation of Dr. Gilroy to a
Cardinalate were based on the assumption
that a layman has no right to comment
on such a matter. This is not correct.
They were based on the fact that no lay-
man (or churchman) has the right to be
abusive and arrogant or to claim an ex-
clusive right to speak for the Catholic
laity. Mr. Calwell, in effect, lectured the
Pope on his choice of an ambassador to
Australia. Dr. Panico was sent to Aus-
tralia by Pius XI, who defied Hitler and
walked over Mussolini.
Many of us who “know the inner life
of the Catholic Church in Australia” as
well as “Alpha Minor” will receive with
a grim smile the observation that Vic-
toria’s Archbishop “bore the heat and
burden of a day when the Catholic com-
munity was still fighting for its place in
society.” Some of us have heard of
Ullathorn and Gould; some remember
Vaughan and Carr, who laid the founda-
tions and built the superstructure of the
Church in Australia. These were the men
who bore the burden and the heat and
established the Church’s place. That place
was jeopardised by a prelate who busied
himself with secular politics which had
no connection with the Church’s teach-
ing or his own spiritual mission.
It is against the policy of the Church
to confer its dignities upon a man who
is violently unpopular with a large sec-
tion of the community in which he lives,
and who has shown antagonism to the
secular Government when no principle of
religion was being assailed. So far from
making the path of the new Cardinal
easier, this policy has made the path more
difficult for every Catholic, whether cleric
or layman—and Rome knows it.—Lan-
scanet (Vic.).
While congratulating “Alpha Minor” (B.
16/1 /’46) on the restraint of his letter re-
garding the new Cardinal, I cannot com-
mend his understanding of Church policy
in these matters. He shows his lack in
writing of “the preferment of one prelate
“Unrequited loves brought him to this. Humans aren't the only goats ,
y ’ know."
over another.” Incidentally, Mr. Calwell
rtiade the same blunder.
The Holy See awards the Red Hat in
any of three ways. Firstly, to persons
who have done signal service. An ex-
ample would be to a priest who has given
long and meritorious service, as in the
case of Cardinal Galli, Secondly, to one
whose appointment calls for the rank of
cardinal, as in the case of the Papal
Secretary of State. Thirdly, to certain
great Metropolitan Sees, whose Arch-
bishops are invariably nominated as
Cardinals shortly after their appointment
to the office. In this category comes the
present appointment of Archbishop
Griffin, of Westminster.
In my opinion, the nomination of
Archbishop Gilroy also falls into this
third category. It seems very likely that
the Holy See has decided that the Catholic
Church in Australia merits that its senior
See should in future be numbered among
those whose Archbishops are Cardinals.
And let me assure “Alpha Minor” that it
is not merely a “matter of sentiment”
that Sydney is the senior See of Aus-
tralia. It is a matter of fact that the
Archbishop of Sydney takes official pre-
cedence over all other Australian Arch-
bishops. The point was mentioned in
the Papal Bull appointing Dr. Gilroy to
Sydney.
As to whether Melbourne is “the
spiritual capital” of Australia, I’m open
to argument, but meantime will judge
that claim to rest “purely on sentiment.”
—D. D. (N.S.W.).
A ’Phone for Every Farm
A year or more ago when the Federal
Government announced its intention ol
spending millions on inter-State telephone
lines and buildings, principally to im-
prove the service between the capitals, a
group of farmers in S.A. asked the Gov-
eminent to spend some of this money
on providing a ’phone for every farm
at a nominal rental (£1 a year was men-
tioned).
These country people wanted to stop
the drift to the city and proposed the pro-
vision of reasonable amenities for the
country as a means of turning the flow
the other way.
Not being unreasonable, we country
people do not want all the amenities city
people enjoy and, we admit, pay for, such
as tap water, electric light and power, gas,
sanitary service, daily letter and news-
paper deliveries, slot telephones, frequent
tram and train services and good roads.
But there are some conveniences which
country people can share, and the tele-
phone is one of them. — Stirling Taylor
(S.A.). ■
More About Pearling
“Alpha” (B. 26/12/’45) paints too rosy
a picture of pearling, pearlshell and
beche-de-mer trading prospects.
In the last year of pre-war pearling
181 boats were engaged. These cost, with
equipment, £168,133, so that about £9OO
of capital was required before wages or
supplies came into the picture. Now, even
if £9OO is handy, where are the boats?
Many of the old luggers were taken over
by the Government during the war. Some
were sunk, and most of those which were
not have been sold to fishermen and
sportsmen down south.
But even supposing a boat can be ob-
tained, before buying it it might be as
well to listen to Acting Chief Inspector of
Pearling E. J. Broomfield, reporting on
conditions at Broome:
There seems no question that if we are
to exploit this natural wealth Asiatic labor
must be used. White men, in general, will
not accept the (renditions required in the
industry, such as working at sea in small
craft for eight or nine months continuously.
Even if white men could do the work, the
rate of remuneration they would demand
could not be paid by the industry.
True, pearlshell has been fetching as
much as £2OO a ton, with mother-of-pearl
quoted at £A4OO landed in the U.S.A.;
but it isn’t just casually picked off the
beach and sold on the spot. As for pearls,
the market is not what it was. Whereas
in 1910 W.A, exported pearls worth
£102,843, this trade had dropped in 1940
to £16,000, and not simply because of the
war. In 1937 it was worth £35,000, in
1938 £32,000 and in 1939 only £22,000.
The Commonwealth report on beche-
de-mer fishing in 1938-39 says: “Prices
were not remunerative, and production
was valued at only £252.” The civilian
fishermen will have no quartermaster’s
store from which to draw supplies, and
food and labor are not to be obtained
cheap any more in the north. Further-
more, the growth of the plastics industry
is likely to put mother-of-pearl out of
demand.
If “Alpha” wants to carry on with “sails
of worn and discarded tents and engines
out of scraps collected from salvage” he
may get some good money—but it will
have to be collected from the insurance
companies by his widow. William
Beecham (W.A.),
Australians—Not Germans
“Alpha” (A.1.F.) (B. 9/1/’46), dealing
with German immigrants, though intend-
ing a eulogy, uses the term “German” in
a way which is objected to by descend-
ants of those immigrants.
The immigrants from Europe who
came to Australia in the decade 1836-46,
from whom the majority of those now
living in Australia are descended, came
from Silesia. The United Germany of a
later day did not exist at that time and
the country was divided into numerous
small States and kingdoms dominated
either by Prussia or Austria, Silesia was
an Austrian province until 1748. Prus-
sian dominance over that and surround-
ing provinces was assured after the third
partition of Poland in 1795. In 1817 the
Prussian King, Frederick Wilhelm 111,
attempted to force a Church Union in all
his provinces. Many Lutherans felt that
they could not take part in that Church
Union without denying Biblical prin-
ciples, Their refusal led to their perse-
cution.
To escape this persecution groups of
Silesians began to emigrate to Australia.
These first of all settled in S.A., but from
there their descendants scattered all over
the Commonwealth, mainly in the wheat
districts. Admittedly German immigrants
also came from other parts of Europe,
and for different reasons, but the majority
in Australia are descended from Silesian
immigrants who came seeking religious
liberty.
Because the term “German” is con-
fused with Prussianism and Nazism, and
as the immigrants were victims of the
former and have had nothing to do with
the latter, the label is objectionable. But
the main reason why the ex-Silesians
objected to the indiscriminate use of the
term as applied to themselves, their hold-
ings, and their Church, is that they are
Australians. Most of the descendants
of the original immigrants are third- and
fourth-generation Australians. Born and
bred in Australia, knowing only Australia
as their country, taught in their Church
schools to honor the king and be loyal
citizens of Australia and the Empire,
answering the call of their country in
Great War I and Great War 11, it is only
natural that they should object to being
called “German” when they are Aus-
tralian, and to their Church being called
German when it is Lutheran. — Rehm
Stedt (S.A.).
“Our Indernesian Comrades”
“R.K.0.” (B. 16/1/’46) can’t really
blame the Indonesian for putting up the
price of eggs, etc., because it was
Australians who first charged 6s. Bd. for
2oz. tobacco in the early days, and at
the time of departure were charging as
much as 10s. a tin and 3s. 4d. for 10
cigarettes. As to thieving, it would be
hard for the natives to exist otherwise.
A skilled tradesman, such as a turner,
gets Is. Bd. a day and a little rice irrespec-
tive of whether he is single or a man
with a family.
I don’t advocate giving the natives full
independence; but the Dutch treatment
of the natives could easily be more gener-
ous. On this I bet I have quite a few
servicemen with me. —J. S. S. (R.A.A.F.).
Depressions
There are still political optimists who
think that by financial conjuring recur-
ring periods of depression can be averted.
Depression, like prosperity, comes under
the law of supply and demand. We
must have depression after too much
prosperity. Too much prosperity pro-
duces a kind of financial stomachache.
A little bluebottle in the form of de-
pression restores the economic balance,
just as bluebottle of another kind restores
abdominal comfort after too much rich
food.
“Social”-services dope may preserve the
balance for a while. But, as with all dope,
when eventually and inevitably the com-
plaint takes charge the spasms are much
more acute.
The disciples of prodigality, of course,
don’t survive the complaint. They be-
come the have-nots. The thrifty and in-
dustrious come through and live to be
cussed again in the same old way.
Labor Governments disappear in de-
pressions, for there is not enough to
spend—that is, not enough of the other
fellow’s. It has become abundantly clear
that Labor’s barometer rises with pros-
perity and falls with depression. How-
ever unpleasant it is to take, depression
in adequate doses is good for the world.
— R. Anning (N.Q.).
Transport for Soldiers* Wives
I take it that the absence from “Old
Bore’s Almanack for 1946” (B. 16/1/’46)
of mention of servicemen’s wives
stranded in England and other countries
is due to “Old Bore’s” belief that this
matter wasn’t to receive attention before
1947.
He is well justified in thinking so, for
the matter has been so far shelved by
the powers that be that shipping space
could be found for a shipload of animals
from India, destined for the Parkes Zoo.
At present I and other soldiers who
married English girls are in the position
of having to maintain two homes. To
maintain the English one*w,e are slugged
with heavy exchange. It costs me £ASO
plus cost of the cable to send my wife
£4O stg.—Ex-P. O. W. (A.1.F.).


is-
,'/y
. tg in tra»B*
« w3 m 4 ££*- and
ssr*~* “ a Enslan ’ . „ aw . a . h .
° f oveißeM
**ofc
The A-.W. , technician - sC ience
-
coloring Beam Service
*** tation of the Be 7 tb f^^ththe
«.« “ rbtss"““
fflOSt efficent an*
services.
vwkMi
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you.
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages, rates, routes, etc.
Beam Wireless messages may oe lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone; MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
tßeam WheietA, Catnnumicatumt - - -
v * ‘
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
of the A.W.A. Wireless Telegraph staff first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24 hours.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (ASIA) LTD.
AV S T R A‘L I A ’ S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
