

ROlHbJbwl ~.
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67 —-No. 3440
Wednesday, January 16, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
University College.
TN London, University College was opened as the University
of London in 1828. This Gower Street frontage has a length
of 400 feet with projecting wings on each side. Established in
order to provide an educational centre free of all sectarian tests,
largely through the energy of Lord Brougham, London’s Univer-
sity College, during the reign of Queen Victoria, had some forty
professors, with about fifteen hundred students, whose yearly fees
at the time totalled about £30,000. Opposite University College
was University College Hospital, where Liston, on December 21,
1846, performed the first operation under an anaesthetic in Great
Britain. Within the building of University College was University
College School, and in the same building there were preserved in
the Flaxman gallery a large number of original drawings and
sketches by this famous British sculptor.


ď
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
* Please send, wiihovl obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, cu
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
Sly Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA'S LAND.
If a book had to be written about
what Hugh S. Roberton calls “the com-
parative failure of the general scheme of
land utilisation” in Australia, Roberton
is probably one of the best-equipped men
to write it. He has had 25 years on the
land, and is observant, shrewd and toler-
ant, with a sense of humor. Australian
by adoption, he likes Australia a great
deal better than some of its native-born
have seemed to like it. Also, he has been
active in the political cause of the farmer
for many years.
Roberton’s Now Blame the Farmer
(Angus and Robertson) is so good that
everybody ought to read it, though not
as good as he could have made it. He
seems to have rushed at his task with his
ears back, like a man with a burning sense
of injustice suddenly springing to his feet
and pouring out his feelings on a crowd
without giving the crowd a chance to
understand what he’s getting at. The
•style might have been dictated by an urge
to get the book published while oppor-
tunity offered; perhaps also by a fear
that people wouldn’t read him if he was
too long about it. The consequence is
that Now Blame the Farmer has a
machine-gun delivery and rushes rather
too rapidly to its conclusions. It is a
contribution to an important
national subject, but its value would have
been greatly increased had its author made
it a book rather than a booklet of com-
pression.
For all that, Now Blame the Farmer
should be read by Australians of all
kinds, especially by the gentlemen in good
Government jobs who are supposed to
be planning this country’s future. That
Australia has no future unless its land
management is drastically reformed is the
important truth of Roberton’s book—a
truth the author makes strikingly clear in
dealing with the history of land settle-
ment and the condition to which it has
reduced the country’s soil and the coun-
try’s farmers.
“Every cost,” says Roberton, “is in
the final analysis a cost against the land.”
He is standing in the midst of Riverina
drought (as much the fault of man as of
the weather):
It is a crime for which there is no
pardon. It is the most damning indictment
of a system that- robs the land to provide
metropolitan magnificence, that plunders
the land to sanctify money, contracts, and
that bleeds the land to pay for a soulless,
cheap and tawdry prosperity.
And, because of national and political
ineptitude,
We have reached the point where we
are openly apologising for this disaster to
the rest of the world. We are busy ex-
plaining that to think of populating the
“wide, open spaces” of Australia is a fal-
lacy, that pur country is largely desert,' and
that land settlement in the more favored
localities has already gone too far. All
that is untrue!
Robertson lays down five “essentials” ;
(1) To institute real agriculture that will
regard preservation and conservation of
the soil as a sacred trust, in place of the
present commercial farming ; (2) to people
the land under conditions that will give
the people the chance for a good and
useful life, rather than an occupation for
profit; (3) “provision of adequate
machinery to effect the change from bad
land usage to good land usage and from
a low conception of country life to a
high conception of country life” ; (4) im-
proved land tenures ; (5) stabilised prices
for land products. Not so simple and
easy as they may seem, because there is
another essential: overcome or change
or eradicate the habits and customs of
100 years.
That would be easy if Australians were
all Robertons, but there are few Rober-
tons on the land, in the Parliaments, in
the absentee landowning interests or in
the Government departments that control
the land. Still, there are some, and with
them lies Australia’s land future. Now
Blame the Farmer (and plenty of farmers
deserve blame) should add to their
number.
C. S.
"Green Armour."
As journalists’ war books go, Osmar
White’s Green Armour (Angus and Rob-
ertson) is a good one. An experienced
newspaperman and short - story writer
before the war (he has contributed stories
to The Bulletin) Mr. White was in New
Guinea and the Solomons as a war. cor-
respondent, and gives a clear account of
the early fighting in both places.
He is at his best in descriptions of wild
country, notably the jungles he travelled
with Damien Parer in a journey across
the island to the Huon Gulf at the time
when the New Guinea Volunteer Rifles
and Australian “commandos” were “the
needle point of Allied resistance in the
only area of conflict between ground
forces in the South and South-west
Pacific”: —
Next to this journey, the book’s most
interesting chapters are those dealing with
the early battles of the Kokoda Trail,
which Mr. White saw at first-hand ; and
next to these, descriptions of a rendezvous
on the water at night with American
marine raiders and scouts {“Shine the
lights on your faces !”) and of a night in
a foxhole in New Georgia:
In a little patch of moonlight about 15
yards away a Japanese soldier was stand-
ing upright, as still as a statue. I could
see the shapeless folds of his uniform, the
rifle he held, the glint of the bayonet,
the peaked, shoddy cap on, his head. I
saw him and perhaps twenty other men
saw him —but no one fired. We knew he
stood there deliberately inviting death, for
a reason.
Somewhere behind him were two or
three of his comrades with grenades ready.
If anyone had fired they would have
lobbed grenades at the flash. Four or
five Americans might have .died in ex-
change for one Japanese life.
U.S. reviewers liked the American edi-
tion of Green Armour so much that they
compared it to the writings of Conrad
and W. H. Hudson; which was more
than it deserved ; and more than Mr.
White aimed at. He set out to record
what he saw of the war, and did so
creditably. But a Green Mansions or a
Heart of Darkness could come only after
long meditation (on, say, that journey to
the Huon Gulf) when the mind had
selected from the mass of topical experi-
ence the essential and enduring core.
It’s three days since we’ve seen sun-
light. mould underfoot stinks of
epoch-old decay. In a thousand years the
sun never shone on it.
Queer things I saw today:
A peculiar flower with fleshy, liver-
colored sepals that looked like fungus.
A white spindly fungus like a ground
orchid.
Spiders three inches across the body,
waiting for butterflies and insect’s in great
golden webs strung between the trunks of
trees.
The skeleton of a Chinese crouched in a
hollow tree.... He gave the name—Dead
Chinaman—to the staging camp.... fled
with the miners from Bulolo when the
Japanese came.
A Sinister Beldam.
Hawthorn Press, Melbourne, has pub-
lished in its customary attractive format
a curious poem by Bartlett Adamson
entitled Bringer of Light. Mr. Adam-
son, it appears, is acquainted with a “bel-
dam” who lived in a cave.
The name of this old lady is not given,
but her life-history is told in full. She
had not always been a beldam, but, when
young and “morning-fair,” had been mar-
ried to a gentleman of “grave and gracious
mien” (rhyming, fortunately, with
“been”). The husband died, leaving her
heart in a hyphenated condition, “all
sorrow-sore.”
There was some comfort for the young
beldam in the fact that the deceased had
left her with a child, also hyphenated,
in the form of a “man-babe.” How-
ever, death came again to the stricken
household, and, with a “marauding jest,”
tore the “blossom babe” from the widow’s
hapless (and hyphenated) bosom.
Nov/ the young woman began in sooth
to become a beldam. For some weeks,
or at any rate for “many a day,” she
“murmured witlessly.” Then she sank
into a swoon —for what period is not
stated. Abruptly recovering, she “leapt
from out that lethargy” and swore like a
trooper, cursing the sun and moon, the
eve and noon, life, death and the neigh-
bors. “Woman and lass and loon” (con-
veniently rhyming with “noon”) were
upset about this ; “aghast,” in fact, and
sent the offender to Coventry:
Aghast they drove her forth to solitude,
Such solitude as chills the soul of man
When lonely through a demon-haunted wood
He walks at midnight.
Strange tales are told of this retired
gentlewoman when she now takes up
residence in her cave. Souls are bartered
for (hyphenated) “devil-gold” and un-
specified deeds are done which make Mr.
Adamson’s blood run cold. This goes
on for twenty years.
And then one day, as the beldam is
roaming a valley deep and wide search-
ing for “herbs and pulpy roots” —at least
she is a vegetarian—a traveller comes
riding by and, clearing his throat of a
couple of hyphens, peers at the devil’s
treasure in the cave. At the same time,
for some reason of his own, he whistles
“a roundelay.” The beldam cries “Be-
gone ! ” Whereupon he “totters forth” in
such a state of deshabille that even his
wits are undone.
Recovering, he becomes the father ol
a girl-babe. But the mother dies. The
beldam smiles. That will teach him to
whistle roundelays!
Having, through mystic means of het
own, obtained his address, the beldam
now comes silently and inylsibly to the
widower’s abode and steals away with
the sleeping girl-babe, whose name is
Zarazo. She takes Zarazo to a lonely
castle in a forest, “gossip-given to some
satanic brood.”
And there she keeps her very well.
Zarazo grows up into a dreamy girl, who
whispers to the moon a good deal. Hun-
gering for love, she finds herself often
“forlore” (usefully rhyming with “door”).
But Mr. Adamson is not going to leave
this lovely maiden shut up for ever in the
haunted castle with the beldam. Enter
a “stripling cavalier” with the resounding
name of Ronzavel, who is riding some-
where or-other on an “embassy.” Zarazo,
who doesn’t seem to know the story as
well as she ought to, is unaware of Ron-
zavel’s approach and is discovered warb-
ling at a window. Ronzavel blows a bugle
at her.
Reminded of her duties, Zarazo knots
a ladder for him out of tapestries, he
climbs to her “casement” and they indulge
in kisses for several stanzas. Zarazo’s
soul is swimming naked in her eyes, but,
fortunately, there are no beach inspectors
in the castle. And the old lady, of course,
is away gathering herbs.
The beldam cannot frighten Ronzavel;
but she scares his horse which, not being
hobbled, gallops madly away. Ronzavel
slides down the ladder and gallops after
it. Why he does not take Zarazo with
him is not explained.
By this time the beldam is “tottering.”
But she has enough life in her yet to put
a curse on Ronzavel that blinds him.
Then she falls dead.
“Himseemed Ronzavel,” Mr. Adamson
records, “he trod the sole Cimmerian
shore.” And indeed the unlucky gentle-
man spends the entire night standing
stock-still staring at nothing. But Zarazo
soon puts a stop to that sort of non-
sense. Speeding like a “butterfly,” if
butterflies do speed, she rushes to him
through the darkness and —after dreams,
terrors and an encounter with the now
repentant ghost of the beldam—finds
Ronzavel’s horse and leads it to him.
Ronzavel kisses her and trips over a
log. Zarazo kisses his eyes as he lies on
the ground, and 10, the spell is broken.
He rises. Zarazo rises. They mount the
prad and ride away into the dawn, never,
presumably, to be divorced. The rays
of morning, joining in their happiness,
dance a “rigadoon.”
And that is that.
Mr. Adamson says in an introduction
that he found seven reasons for publish-
ing this book. One could easily, of
course, find 531 reasons for not publish-
ing it, there being precisely that number
of lines in the poem. But the curious
thing is that, though the story is a swoon
of romantic nonsense, the versification is
unusually capable. There are blemishes,
certainly; the onomatopoeic effects are
too obvious ; the whole thing is admit-
tedly derivative ; but Mr. Adamson does
handle what he calls the “Spencerian”
stanza very competently, and his varia-
tion of the form may be admitted as an
improvement. It would have been better,
however, had he or his publishers spelt
the word “Spenserian.”
Cavorting Emus .
F. C. Francis’s Columbus Journeyed
South (Hawthorn Press) has a pleasant
sort of pastoral feeling about it. The
author knows the bush and likes it: —
Little streams that shear
The hills apart with clear
Deft blade of silver; in the pink
Shy bells of wild boronia
But nature writers should describe in
intimate detail what they have seen; not
merely, as Mr. Francis does, fall into
vague generalisations, either hackneyed
(“leaves from Nature’s tomes”) or (when
he surrenders to the exigencies of rhyme
and offers a flock of emus “cavorting
quaintly”) unintentionally comic.
The title poem, offering the astonishing
information that Columbus journeyed
south until he saw wattles, brolgas, bower-
birds, etc., seems incomprehensible until
one turns to the dedication of the book
“To General Douglas MacArthur”—the
general, it then appears, having become
a kind of reincarnation of the navigator.
Mr. Francis’s title may lead to some con-
fusion with W. Hart-Smith’s Columbus
Goes West —a recent book of verse of
altogether different quality.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Giselle,” put on in the third Borovan-
sky programme at Sydney Royal, is the
best thing the Melbourne company does.
Like “Swan Lake,” “Sea Legend” and
(according to the programme, which says
the young girl awakes “saddened and dis-
illusioned”) “The Spirit of the Rose,” it
is a sad item, about the destruction of a
dream, the doom and separation of young
lovers. Perhaps because of the Russian
origin of the art, or perhaps merely be-
cause dancers find it pleasant to stretch
their arms out in forlorn and appealing
gestures, this is a favorite theme of the
ballet. “Sea Legend,” in which the lover
appears to be drowned and resuscitated
and drowned again about 25 times, harps
too much on the theme —beautiful though
the sea movements are; and “Giselle”
uses the same theme in each of its acts,
separating the lovers as living beings in
the first and separating them again as
ghosts in the second. Possibly the Boro-
vansky company should broaden its
repertoire—but not by excluding
“Giselle” ; for here the dim sadness of,
the lost love theme is intensified to
genuine tragedy.... becoming most effec-
tive when Borovansky is portraying the
agony of the Huntsman and when Laurel
Martyn is depicting Giselle’s Ophelia-like
madness and death.
“L. de R.”: The prophets who pre-
dicted the demise of the circus as a result
of the advent of the talkies ought to swal-
low their words after visiting Wirth’s in
Melbourne. The “sessions” are not only
crowded with kids and adults but more
crowded than I have ever seen them. The
alleged disadvantages of the tent-show
(the tent in this case being of galvo.) are
really to its advantage. The circus can
let its human and animal complement
loose among its audience which the
talkies can’t do, and it does its scene-
shifting in public; and if there is any-
thing more calculated to arouse the en-
thusiasm of the juvenile population I
would-like to know it.
At the talkies:
“Brazil” (Sydney Victory) : Semi-musical with
a feeble story and a crooner.
“Johnny Angel” (Sydney Empire): Murder
melodrama at sea, reminiscent of the Marie
Celeste mystery. The characters are well drawn
and the photography good.
sees red:
If bulls really do burst into a homicidal
frenzy whenever they see the color red, a pos-
sible explanation is that the poor brutes have
.been to Sydney Macquarie Galleries’ “Review of
1945.” Thirty-eight artists are represented, and
a kind of scarlet fever rages among their
paintings. Jean Bellette, for instance, has two
reasonably lifelike and attractive female figures
against a sombre and red background. The
ladies are also black and red, and the picture
is called “Two Girls from Potts. Point.” Which
irresistibly raises the flattering proposition that
Potts Point is really a very wicked place, a sort
of Marseilles or Montmartre, and persons
from those parts carry their own Mephis-
tophelian aura around with them. “The
Last Act,” by Francis Lymburner, also seems
to owe a good deal to Mephistopheles. Wisps
of paint which might well be fire and smoke
envelop a large room, in the centre of
which may be seen a man in evening dress
reclining on a plush sofa (red). Judging by
his scowl, and generally villainous appearance,
he looks the type who has just ruined a village
or two, preparatory to taking his life in order
to bilk his s.p. bookie. On the other hand, he
might be suffering from a severe hangover.
“Backyards,” by Ruth Pasco, has a coffin-
headed horse with the smoothly-arched body of
a well-fed tapir brooding over a back fence.
And well he might, for the animal is sur-
rounded by a conglomeration of buildings and
fences of truly remarkable colors. Among
others, red. There are also in the exhibition
red flowers, red trees and red landscapes. In
“Monday Morning” S. Herman explores the
possibilities of a red eiderdown and red dress-
ing gown. Russell Drysdale’s “Drover’s Wife,”
however, is distinctly less red than his norm.
True, the same bare trees adorn the same
stark plain, and the lady is beefy and shape-
less, with immense feet. But there is a subtle
difference in her face. For one thing it is
plumper, and there is an expression of bovine
contentment in her eyes. Or, if not content-
ment, at least resignation; which, all things
considered, is just as well.
Delius’s “Sea-Drift,” set to the strange,
touching, passionate poem of Walt Whit-
man on the he-bird left with its brood of
offspring by its mate, was given its first
performance in Melbourne at the final
“celebrity concert” of the year. It would
be difficult to imagine a more appropriate
marriage between the broken rhythms of
the composer and the liberties the poet
habitually took with metre. Harold Wil-
liams wove his baritone sensitively
through the long dialogue between the
soloist and the Philharmonic chorus and
never lost the composer’s feeling, though
he could pardonably have expressed a bit
of resentment when he sang “This gentle
call is for you, my love, for you,” and the
just-sustained note was smothered in its
cradle by the over-heartiness of the
musicians.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW”
/
*
mm
■
mm.
We have purchased by tender large stocks of tables, forms, etc., made
for the use of the Armed Forces.
These articles are unused surplus stocks, and were made for hard and
rough wear.
The prices are remarkably low. Here is an opportunity for Cafes,
Halls, Schools, Clubs, Councils, etc., to secure these useful items at,
in many cases, less than the cost of production.
They will appeal to the home-maker for lawns, verandahs, sewing
rooms, etc.
Painting or lacquering will vastly improve their appearance.
We invite you to examine these tables and forms. You will appreciate
the value now being offered. , , .
/
w
6^
,*o°
iP^
TO
\o
ew
vf°°
a otv
aet'
top''
. CS v
\e@* AsX
of* ete
V>t a '
c es.
Ml''
e»°
<4 ~-fO LD INr Z.
y* r ,TAB i-«.
to n. ......
y««i.Q , TAB les. To === ====== === -«sC
ie ' &*%%%%5%
H'
d .
4- B
4B—FOLDING TABLES, 3ft ' Wo£/en'spr.ng )»“•
KaS'lcK «nt,e Va'L
390 available.
"
■ ■ ■ .
G> 0
2,1 o nly ° n **ch ’ n s d ft - by Bii
0f f °P. £ gs
BS^>,a *Ti[ ||||| /b e^ci,.
■
rv
\P7 ,
SgS/ . _ plywood
•* 'Vigor ooolburn^^j
r -" 11ND FL °S
3
1 t== ======= TTwoo aen top a
1 it. Varnished w an d
™ ,-C Aft. by J A A.O-F- in aR/9 each-
TABLES, btt - o ran ded A At 48/»
3*-^**r wo,k, ° '
G B
£
0
ll i
i
&J
6B.—WOODEN FORMS, 6ft. by 9ins., folding iron legs.
Branded A.C.F. at each end . and in centre of top.
These forms have been creosote dipped. Offered at 13/3
each. 1560 only.
r J AB V= T<3S eg ,, aw
SuTct’t r bt * din!as •»*
ir t d st
**s/2
£l5/1 7
lil
I
;'v ■
[TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX # 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


HE SLEET IN THE HALL
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
IT was one of those bitterly cold nights
they have on the South-west Slopes
after a winter rain. A strong south
wind was blowing across hundteds of
miles of sodden country ; showers of rain,
fringed with hail, blew over every now
and then, and the radio reported snow
on all the heights. It was the kind of
night when, as they said, “you wouldn’t
turn a dog out” ; the kind of night when
the extra-big back log, which has lain on
the woodheap for months, is brought in
with an armful of pine to set it roaring.
Just by sheer misfortune that was the
night appointed for the lecture on soil
erosion at the Chepley Hall. Only those
farmers who couldn’t think of a shred
of an excuse decided to go, and they told
their wives and families that Slater, the
fellow who organised it, was a hare-
brained gadabout fool, always burning
himself up about something or other and
never letting anyone have a decent night’s
rest.
Slater and Cochrane were the first to
arrive. They came together in Cochrane’s
snug new sedan, and they came early be-
cause Slater insisted on it. He was a lean,
dark, overcharged, spectacled fellow with
narrow, pointed face and searching brown
eyes. He was the district’s conscience,
always worrying it into doing the things
he thought it ought to do. He always
dragged Cochrane with him because
Cochrane was too goodhumored to
resist.
“We’d better unlock the doors and get
things ready,” said Slater, always in a
fever to do something, although there was
no sign yet of anyone else coming. Coch-
rane followed, protesting against having
to expose himself unnecessarily to the
cold, although he was so wrapped up with
cardigans and pullovers that he could
hardly button his overcoat. They stopped
when they saw that a man was sheltering
against the side of the hall. Even though
they could see him only indistinctly they
knew that he was not there for the meet-
ing ; he lacked the bulk of a respectable
citizen wrapped to face the weather.
Cochrance said “Goodnight” in his
amiable way. Slater flashed a torch on
him.
He was a thin, little, old fellow with
a great growth of beard and whisker
which practically hid his face. The rest
of his body was inadequately clad in a
flabby, cottony-looking suit. He wore no
overcoat. His eyes gleamed bright and
alert in the light of the torch.
“Are you looking for someone?”
Slater asked rather curtly. He was a
trustee of the hall and distrusted anyone
hanging round it. “There’s a meeting
here tonight.”
They hurried on and unlocked the
doors and lighted a pair of petrol pres-
sure lamps. The lamps revealed the age
and condition of the hall mercilessly. It
had been built in the old goldmining days
of galvanised iron and round bush timber.
The walls were low and leaning unani-
mously to the north; in places they had
parted from the floor and in others from
the window frames; they were full of
chinks and a determined man could have
made an entry anywhere in five minutes.
The floor was uneven and treacherous ;
the roof leaked at just those places where
unsuspecting people would choose to sit.
Slater went out with his torch to look
for some firewood. To his delight he
discovered a pile, apparently left there by
some farmer who had anticipated the
needs of the night. Slater took the entire
heap into his arms and staggered into the
hall. They soon had a fire going which
made the place look more cheerful, even
if it did not warm it very much.
The audience soon began to arrive.
Mullard was one of the first. “Who’s the
mangy-looking bloke hanging about out-
side?” he asked.
“He was there when we arrived,”
Slater told him. “Looked as if he was
trying to get into the hall; wanted to
camp in it, I think.”
“What a blasted nerve,” said Mullard.
“If he has to tramp the roads in this kind
of weather there are other places he can
camp; there’s the station waiting-room
and the wheatshed,”
“The waiting-room is open to the south
wind and the wheatshed has a high roof,
no walls and a cold concrete floor,” said
Cochrane, “If I was him I’d get into the
hall on a night like this if I could.”
No one,” said Slater, remembering
his responsibilities as a trustee, “has a
right to sleep in a public hall.”
1
DRESENTLY the lecturer arrived, and
a few more farmers came in ones
and twos. Slater was just getting the
audience settled when the old fellow came
in. He approached respectfully and asked
if there was any objection to his listening
to the meeting. Slater thought that he
would be much better occupied in find-
ing a place to sleep, but he did not try
to send him away. The old man sat on
his own, farthest from the fire. He
twisted his thin legs together and folded
his arms tightly against his body to keep
warm.
The lecturer did not take long. He
was aware that his audience was slowly
freezing from the feet upward, because
it was happening to him too. The talk
covered ground that was old to Slater.
He sat in the chair, setting a good ex-
ample by appearing to listen attentively,
but all the time he was studying the old
man. With his hat off under the bright
light he looked older; his hair was a
greyish white and his eyes were blood-
shot. His attitude seemed to be that of
one enjoying an undeserved privilege, but
there was something about the shape of
his round-backed head and the way he
sat up straight and looked the lecturer
and the chairman in the eye that gave
Slater the impression that there was as
much obstinacy as meekness in his make-
up.
When the meeting was over everyone
except the old man crowded around the
fire trying to get warm before facing the
trip home.
The first man to leave was back in a
minute shouting “There’s snow falling.”
They looked at the flakes on his over-
coat sleeve and started to talk about how
many years it was since snow had fallen
and how many lambs, chickens and old
people had died. When they had finished
Cochrane nodded his head towards the
old man still sitting screwed up in the
back of the hall. “What are we going to
do about him?” he asked. “Nobody
would be any worse off if we let him
camp in here by the fire for the night.”
A number of men agreed, but Mullard
turned aggressively on Cochrance. “We
can’t let him camp in here because it
wouldn’t stop at that. News like that gets
round. Soon every hobo who comes
along would think he has a right to camp
in the hall. They’d be breaking in soon ;
they’d make a mess of the place, and be-
fore you knew what was happening they’d
be using the seats and tables as firewood.”
It was generally agreed that Mullard
had the right idea.
Slater said “All right, then; everybody
out now. We’re locking up.”
He herded them before him out of the
front door. The old man was standing
alone at the back, and Cochrane took him
out that way as he went to lock the door.
COCHRANE drove quickly on the way
home, because he couldn’t wait to get
into his warm bed. Slater sat silently
watching the snowflakes settling on the
windshield. Just before he got out at his
gate he said “I feel rather bad about that
old man.”
“The worst part of it,” said Cochrane,
“is that you swiped his firewood and he
won’t be able to find any more in the
dark.”
“Hell! Was that his wood?” Slater said,
greatly distressed. “Now he’ll freeze to
death for certain.”
“Would you feel any better,” Cochrane
asked, “if you knew that I hadn’t locked
the back door?”
Slater assured him that he would. “I
only hope that Mullard doesn’t get to
hear about it,” he added.
But Mullard did get to hear about it,
as well as everyone else, because the old
man did not move on next day as ex-
pected but continued to camp in the hall.
Mullard made a great fuss about it, pro-
claiming that the trustees should resign
for failing to do their duty. Slater and
Cochrane were in a bad position. They
went to see the old man.
He was sitting on a box against the
north wall, soaking in the brief warmth
of the midday sun. He had hung a blan-
ket on one of the many stays which kept
the hall from falling over to keep away
the freshening east wind. He had had a
rather unsuccessful shave, leaving the
bristles in the deep lines on his face and
exposing the pallor of the rest. In the
bright light of the sun they saw his un-
healthy color, and noticed how his skin
was densely wrinkled even on his wrists
and the backs of his hands. Cochrane,
showing the results of forty-odd years of
good feeling, towered over him like a
larger-than-life statue to physical fitness.
The old man pulled' the lines of his
face into the wreck of a smile, and his
pale-blue eyes (not quite so bloodshot as
before) looked pleased when he recog-
nised Cochrane, “You saved my life,”
he said in his surprisingly firm voice.
Cochrane, looking uncomfortable,
started to talk hopefully about the
weather getting warmer now, but stopped
when the old fellow’s eyes took on an
expression of uneasy suspicion. Slater
had to carry on. He did it in the easiest
way possible: “The Parents and Citizens
are having a card evening here tonight,
so we can’t have you camping in the
hall.”
The old man nodded agreement. He
stood up, collected his blanket and walked
towards the back door. “I’ve been fixing
things up a bit,” he said ; “come and
have a look.”
He showed them how he had covered
some chinks in the wall and repaired a
broken window frame. Actually the work
did not amount to much, but in view of
the destruction which Mullard had fore-
cast, it was an effective gesture of good-
will. He had improvised a stretcher of
two long saplings thrust through a couple
of chaffbags and supported by crossed
sticks at the ends ; several iron hooks were
suspended over the fire, and he had a small
tin frying-pan, a soot-crusted quart billy
and a white enamelled mug hanging on
nails inside the wide fireplace. Cochrane,
who believed in comfort for its own sake,
and Slater, who went in for the best kinds
of furnishings because it promoted effi-
ciency, both felt that they had been brutal
when they left.
THE active members of the P. and C.
usually arrived early to clean the hall
and arrange tables and seats. But *when
the earliest arrived that evening the hall
had been scrupulously swept; the, long
board tabletops had been laid on their
trestles, dusted and were ready to be
covered with the rugs the ladies had
brought. Everybody was very pleased
with things, apart from a slight odor of
cooking and bedclothes. It was generally
conceded that the trustees had done the
right thing in saving the old tramp’s life
and then getting rid of him decently. But
they were decidedly taken aback when,
just as the games were about to com-
mence, the old man turned up, looking
polite and humble still, but with just the
suggestion of the host in his manner.
There was a great stirring of resent-
ment against him among some of the
ladies. Mrs, Pincott, wife of the Shire
Councillor, who had social aspirations
and only came to affairs at the hall as a
matter of duty, drew her fur coat around
her and averted her face when he came
near. She leaned over to the substantial,
jolly postmistress and said in a voice full
of malice: “Fancy playing cards in a
swaggie’s bedroom.”
The postmistress shook with her giggles.
“He does smell a bit, doesn’t he?” she
said.
The old man seemed to sense the hos-
tility, and passed out the back door. They
beard him chopping wood, and word was
passed that he was stoking the outside
fire which was used to boil the water for
supper. Presently he sent a respectful
message to Mrs. Pincott by way of a boy
asking her at what time she would like
to have the water boiling. When the
ladies came to make the tea they found
the kerosene-tin of water surrounded by
leaping flames and shaking with the fury
of its boiling. They allowed him to make
the tea. They noticed that his hands were
clean, and they permitted him to pour
out the tea and carry trays of cups to the
hall door. Mrs. Pincott directed that he
be given some supper. He thanked her
humbly, and when he had finished he
washed and packed the crockery.
THE result of the evening was that,
although opinion against him had
hardened, there was still no concerted
move to evict the old man
He began to improve his quarters. He
got some old tent flys from some railway
men who were camped near by and con-
structed an inner cubicle to subdue the
draughts and catch the drips. He made
a crude cooking range of bars of iron and
a table and chair. The next time the hall
was needed he had a busy day moving
out.
The function was a dance for the foot-
ball club, which did not end until 2.30.
He tried to be helpful but got tired toward
the end. They left him a great pile of
sandwiches and cakes because they were
sorry for him.
But the trouble he was put to did not
discourage him. He began to pick up
odd bits of building material from about
the railway yard, and bear them off as
industriously as an ant —pieces of timber,
sheets of old bent or burnt galvanised
iron, a couple of broken doors and a
damaged railway tarpaulin. Considerable
sounds of hammering were heard within
the hall. It was thought that he was
repairing the building, but Mullard was
suspicious and had a look inside. He
brought the news. “He’s subdividing the
hall into rooms.”
The trustees had to go to see the old
man again.
The position looked very serious when
they entered the hall. They saw a hideous
patchwork wall, cutting off about half the
hall at the fireplace end. They pushed
through a door into what apparently was
the man’s kitchen-dining room, and found
him busy partitioning off his bedroom.
He looked up at them as if he was sur-
prised that they hadn’t knocked before
entering, but when he saw the annoyance
and resolution on their faces he quickly
became humble. “These are only tem-
porary fittings,” he said. “I can dis-
mantle them and get them out in a couple
of hours.”
They looked dubiously at the big nails
he had used to fasten them to the floor,
but he went on quickly.
“Look what I’ve done to the floor.”
He showed them how he had put it into
excellent order at his end of the hall. “11l
fix it like that all over in a couple of
days.”
Slater and Cochrane looked at each
other. The biggest dance of the year
was due the following week, and they
knew that they really should have the
floor in better order for it. They weak-
ened and let the man stay on, but they
warned him of the consequences if he
failed to either repair the floor or get out
in time.
WHEN the organisers of the dance
arrived a short time before it was
due to commence they were dismayed and
outraged to find the hideous partitions
still in position. They stormed into the
old fellow’s flat and found him in bed.
He raised his head a little, as if that was
the only movement of which he was cap-
able, and said, “I tried to move out, but
I was too sick.”
They told him in robust language that
he was a blasted old fraud, and that they
had a good mind to heave him out naked
into the frost. A couple picked up his
bed and carried him outside. They
dumped the bed beside a near-by cart-
shed, told the old man he was well enough
to look after himself, then hurried in to
help to get the hall ready. The bus
brought the band and the visitors from
the town while they were still struggling
with the partitions.
However, the Chepley people made the
best of, the evening. The dance was a
great success and lasted until 3 a.m. The
men were getting things straight before
going home when one of them came
across the old man still in his bed where
he had been left. There was a thick coat-
ing of frost all over him, and he was as
cold as a corpse. They rushed him inside,
made up a huge fire and massaged him in
relays. Those who couldn’t get near
enough "to rub him helped by re-erecting
his partitions. It was six o’clock before
they thought it safe to leave him in the
hands of a couple of watchers.
nr HE new hall at Chepley is an attrac-
* tive building with a brick front, well-
lined walls and polished floor. It stands
beside the old galvanised-iron hall which
the old man has converted into a com-
fortable home, and of which he has un-
disputed possession. In return for this
concession he acts as caretaker for the
new hall. The trustees never cease to
caution him never to let anyone sleep in it


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3440
Wednesday, January 16, 1946
NO CREDENTIALS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
QUESTIONS ON A STRIKE.
A number of questions remain to be
answered on the 15-weeks’ strike launched
by the Communist-controlled Iron-
workers’ Union, with the Communist-
controlled Miners’ Federation and the
Communist-controlled Seamen’s Union
joining in—the strike which rendered up-
wards of half a million idle, including
many returned soldiers who had only
lately managed to get their jobs and some
of whom may not get them back; led to
the imposition of savage restrictions on
ordinary aids to existence, producing in
thousands of homes and places of indus-
try and business conditions escaped in
even the darkest days of the war; saw
the whole of a city’s trams locked up in
their depots throughout week-ends; led to
the refusal of admission to many in need
of hospital treatment and the emptying
out of others already in hospitals; the
strike which made Australia’s first peace-
time Christmas, instead of a time of re-
joicing and enjoyment, a period of gloom
and anger.
Question One: What has happened to
the Australian spirit? In few, if any,
other countries of the world could a com-
parable transition from national well-
being to chaos have been wilfully brought
about by a minority of the community
without a clear and positive, probably
a violent, reaction on the part of the
injured majority. Compared with the
state of affairs in many other countries,
Australia, at the worst, has not touched
the fringe of misery, but conditions in
those countries are the result of a lost
war or because the countries were prin-
cipal battlefields. It was in a peace-time
victorious Australia, which had escaped
the ravages of war and should have been
ready to take advantage of that good
luck, that the Communist-led minority
acted with such disastrous results. Thus
the conditions produced in Australia were
not an outcome of war-time failure.
Healthy reaction on the part of the
community there was none. One parson
stood up in his pulpit and spoke frankly
on the restrictions which had led to the
closing of churches (along with hun-
dreds of small places of business and
many industries). The result of that one
solitary display of spirit was instantane-
ous and should have been instructive.
There was immediate action to lift the
lighting restrictions applied to churches.
A women’s organisation promised a
public meeting of protest, but even that
came to nothing, the ladies, apparently,
failing to raise the energy to go on with
it. No other form of public meeting of
protest was even so much as mooted.
Lacking any positive sign to the contrary,
the public reaction generally appeared to
be that of dumb, driven cattle.
Australians have not always been like
that: hence another question, of why they
should have been so on this occasion?
There could be a lot of theoretical
answers under this head. More than one
thinking observer has held that the Aus-
tralian character is in slow process of
deterioration; that, lacking strong infu-
sions of new blood, it will proceed along
the same road to decadence under climatic
influence which the country’s earlier in-
habitants took. Such observers would
find supporting evidence in the well-nigh
complete inertia, the practically total lack
of any display of public spirit, in reaction
to the Communist strikes. Others might
point to the deadening influences of Gov-
ernment lotteries and starting-price bet-
ting, the appetite for which is fed by all
the Sydney dailies: “Aw, what’s the use
of worrying—l may win the lo’t’ry or
pick the card this week,”
Nor would such observers consider
their ideas shaken by the fact that, while
there was no visible public reaction, there
was almost universal anger. Sydney
people generally, the womenfolk in par-
ticular, were freely stated to be boiling
with rage. It is true that, in the privacy
of their homes, they broke the lighting
and cooking restrictions right and left.
Whole streets in some suburban inspec-
tions were found to be breaking the re-
strictions together. Naturally, there were no
prosecutions. The “Labor” Minister who
imposed the restrictions was reduced to
“putting housewives on their honor” to
obey his ukase, which, in the first place,
had been pronounced with fierce penal-
ties attaching to it; no penalties whatever
were even hinted against those who
brought these conditions about. As more
and more disobeyed, the “Labor” Min-
ister had to resort to appeals, which few
heeded; and in the end he thanked those
who had “ co-operated
While all this was true, it was hardly
a stirring example of spirit—women in
their homes turning the gas on to boil
themselves a cup of tea, with their child-
ren posted on the lookout to assist them
in breaking the “law.” In public places
—in the streets, on trams (when they ran)
and the like—people discussing the im-
positions seemed to lower their voices in
doing so. It was as if they feared some
sort of Government Gestapo ready to
pounce on them if they said too much ;
as if they had lost the habit of freedom,
even of expression. This could be an-
other theoretical answer —that there was
no spirited reaction simply because people
generally have lost the habit of freedom ;
that they have been controlled and cen-
sored and pushed around so much under
war-time regulations that, for the time
being, they have become mental serfs.
Yet another answer might lie in the
apparent total lack of leadership. Not
one public figure arose to give expres-
sion to what so many felt, not only re-
garding their enforced*unemployment and
the effects on their bare existence and
their health of the Communist-controlled
minority action, but also regarding the
utter failure of alleged “Governments”
to take any action whatever against those
responsible. The attitude of “Government”
leaders was one of abject resignation, as
to something inevitable and beyond cor-
rection. At no stage did the supposed
“leader” of the entire country take
action of any degree or description. The
very most he did was to attend confer-
ence with the strike-makers. He neither
punished nor even publicly condemned
them. By his negative stand he condoned
the strike and encouraged its makers.
That failure by the Prime Minister
might not be so inexplicable. Mr. Chif-
ley’s party has had the support of the
Communists in the past and is assured of
it in the future. It is not such valuable
support now as it was reckoned to be
when Communist Russia was a subject
for public emotional sentimentalism, but
Mr. Chifley could not be so ungrateful
as to forget that past so soon, and may
feel he will need any help offering in the
future.
The failure of Opposition leaders is
most certainly inexplicable. From not
one of them came anything that could be
construed as a bold and adequate ex-
pression of public feeling. Nobody in
the future will be able to turn back to
the great speech made by Mr. Menzies
or Mr. Mair or any of the rest of them
on the worst of all Communist actions
against the community to date. Not one
of them rose to even a note of just anger.
Mr. Menzies did say something about the
Prime Minister having the power, under
National Security Regulations, to order
the strikers back to work, but he let it go
at that. That he is not lacking in courage
he showed in 1940, when he bearded the
N.S.W. coal strikers in their den (a thing
which no “Labor” P.M. or Premier has
ever done), but on the occasion of the far
more destructive strikes he held his fire.
Another answer to the general ques-
tion of why there was practically no evi-
dence of public reaction to the recent
state of things—not ended yet by any
means —might be that the bulk of people
had enough put by to tide them over the
worst of their unemployment and lack
of earnings. If that is so, reaction to the
next —who believes there will be no next?
—Communist assault might possibly be
more in line with the true Australian
spirit; unless, that is, those who hold the
deterioration theory about Australians
may happen to be right.
One other question seems to require
consideration: Who, actually, were the
winners in this recent turmoil? This ques-
tion arises because of the attempts by the
“Governments’ ” boosters to represent it
all as having been a great victory for
these so - called “Governments” ; alter-
natively, a great victory for “moderate
Labor,” ably supported by the general
public, in its having—spare the mark!
obeyed the restrictions, and thus brought
about the “Communist defeat.”
That seems about as barefaced a mis-
representation as,could be attempted. In
what sense can it be said that anyone
suffered defeat except those who were
forced out of employment and earning
and who suffered the other privations of
the turmoil? When the Communist-led
mobs were ready to go back their jobs
were there waiting for every man of them.
That was not true of a great many of
the supposed victors, “moderate Labor.”
Not a solitary person in the Communist
crew in any way suffered. The leaders
in every case are as strongly entrenched
as ever. They are even in the position
to announce the formation of a triple
alliance among themselves for the
purpose of carrying on “the fight.”
“If,” one of the Communist leaders has
said, “the employers generally and those
who opposed the strike imagine that the
Ironworkers’ Union feel any sense of
defeat they are sadly mistaken.”
Of course they are mistaken. The
actual defeated were the alleged victors,
especially the seemingly inert, indifferent,
complacent, leaderless mass —the public
which took it on the chin, and is con-
fidently expected by the real victors to
take even worse next time.
Wonder-Worker Forde.
Anyone who could reduce to a compre-
hensible statement of facts the confusion
of Canberra assertions about shipping
for the repatriation of Australian service-
men in the northern islands would deserve
to appear in the New Year honors lists,
which, in the case of Britons, were still
appearing last week. Of course, no serv-
ing Australia could figure on any of
these lists, New Year and all other honors
having been refused by the “ ‘Labor’
Government” to soldiers, seamen, airmen
and civilian war workers being reserved
for “Labor” politicians like Mr. Beasley
and heads of departments ■> like the
Secretary of Defence, a “Labor”-recom-
mended K.C.M.G.
In the centre of the maze is the person
of Mr. Forde, gesturing and shouting in
all directions. Melbourne “Age,” though
friendly to this organiser of victory and
to all other “Labor” Ministers and their
party, has been driven to admitting that
“discontent among the forces in the
northern islands has a background of un-
filled assurances and repeated exasperat-
ing disappointments,” and that “demobi-
lisation has been the subject of so many
positive reports, idle rumors, conjectures
and denials that the problem requires
clear exposition at the highest level of
responsibility.”
In place of clear exposition there came
a Fordean crack at the British —a familiar
resource of the “ ‘Labor’ Government”
in emotional moments. A Royal Navy
public-relations officer revealed that
further R.N. assistance in the repatriation
of Australian servicemen had, in Can-
berra jargon, been “inhibited.” The
R.N. had arranged to send the aircraft-
carrier Implacable from Sydney to ship
2500 A.I.F. men from Labuan, which
would bring the number of homing A.I.F.
men carried by the Implacable alone to
7000. For this enterprise extra beds, bed-
ding, food and equipment were laid in
with the utmost cheerfulness, for British
officers and crews have delighted in carry-
ing Australian servicemen back to their
own country, and British and Australian
soldiers have delighted in being so carried,
their treatment aboard British aircraft-
carriers being that of honored guests. But
the voyage of the Implacable and a pro-
jected voyage of another carrier, the
Vindex, had, to the great disappointment
of officers and crews, been cancelled with-
out explanation.
This set Mr. Forde gesturing and shout-
ing again. Quoting “Australian Army
authorities,” he asserted that there were
“ships available sufficient to make the
transport of troops ready to come faster
than if Royal Navy vessels collected
them.” The ships that can travel faster
than aircraft-carriers were not named,
and Mr. Forde soon found it expedient
to think up another explanation, which
itself required explaining. It was that
“South East Asia Command,” which,
at the instance of General Mac-
Arthur, has a big unfinished job in
the Dutch East Indies from which
the “ ‘Labor’ Government” has dis-
sociated itself —even to the extent of let-
ting Communists hold up shipping for
Java, with evil results to the Australian
export trade among its more obvious con-
sequences —had “attempted to divert ship-
ping allotted to the repatriation of Aus-
tralian troops,” and had had to be stonk-
ered by the cool, calm, imperturbable
“Labor” politicians at Canberra who
(though oddly silent on the campaigns in
New Britain, Ambon, Java and Timor)
Saved Australia.
Meanwhile, there was turmoil among
“a thousand Westralian soldiers” who,
promised that they would be “home
by Christmas,” had been held up
for weeks at Yeerongpilly camp, Bris-
bane. All veterans of the three great
A.I.F. divisions, the Sixth, Seventh
and Ninth, they saw mates from
other States moved south immediately,
but they themselves were “detained” at
Yeerongpilly, many for a month. Their
annoyance was expressed in various ways,
among them telegrams to their news-
papers in Westralia. The “West Austra-
lian” alone received 34 protesting telegrams
in one day. Still sore, and with empty
pockets, the Westralian Diggers were at
length sent on their way, though a diffi-
culty arose at Pt. Pirie when the convey-
ances provided for the journey across the
Nullarbor Plain in summer-time were
found to be “converted cattle-trucks.”
Had a British carrier been requisitioned,
which would have been easy, these Diggers
could all have been taken direct to Fre-
mantle before Christmas. The “West
Australian” published a great many of
their telegrams. If compliments to Mr.
Forde were included in the text they were
omitted.
It is not to be supposed that the Min-
ister of the Army, who is now Acting
Minister of Defence, the Minister of
Defence being on his way to London and
not expected to, return for five years, is
without his admirers. There is, for
example, Mrs. H. V. Evatt, who, address-
ing a referendum meeting at Rockhamp-
ton on August 6, 1944, had a whole-
hearted tribute to the organiser of vic-
tory enshrined in the Rockhampton
“Bulletin”:
While Dr. Evatt and I were abroad in
1942 our hearts were heavy because there
was practically nothing in Australia to meet
the threat of a Japanese invasion. But
we had the knowledge that there were such
people as Mr. Forde guarding the country
and keeping it safe.
And there is Sydney “Terewth” (with por-
trait: “Mr. Forde Stab in Back”):
Everybody is in a position to know what
is behind this unwarranted and unprovoked
attack on Mr. Forde. A pre-election cam-
paign is obviously on the way to discredit
one of the hardest-working, most conscien-
tious and most able members of the Minis-
try—a man who has worked tirelessly, who
has cut through the red tape of the Army
Department, in order to pave the way for
the earliest release of the thousands of
soldiers who are awaiting the happy day
of discharge.
Mr. Forde has not been remiss in his
visits to the troops. It must' be remembered
that he visited them and succored them in
the height of the bombing menace up north.
What did—and does —it feel like.
Diggers, to be “succored” by Mr Forde?
On Its Way.
Considering all that has been written by
friendly newspapermen and uttered by
courtly South American gentlemen about
Dr. Evatt’s wonderful work on the United
Nations charter in San Francisco, it seems
ridiculous that he should have been
absent when the U.N.O. got into its stride
in London. He could have been present
without objections from any quarter had
commonsense arrangements been made by
himself and his P.M, The P.M. decided
to appoint Mr. Beasley and Mr. Makin
as “Resident Ministers” in London and
Washington respectively. With the P.M’s
concurrence. Dr, Evatt chose to attend
the Council of Foreign Ministers in Lon-
don and the Far Eastern Advisory Com-
mission in Washington. These unneces-
sary pilgrimages lasted four months, and,
having a shoal of things to attend to as
Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt could not be
spared for another long absence abroad.
“To appease the press” or something,
Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt decided that
Mr. Makin should go to London as head
of the U.N.O. delegation. Newspapers
had turned nasty, being particularly con-
cerned with the fact that the delegation,
then headed by Lieut.-Colonel Hodgson,
the Minister at Paris, had at the eleventh
hour been found without credentials. Mr.
Makin collected his luggage and secre-
taries (2) and arrived at the scene of
action in time to take part in the second
week’s proceedings under the presidency
of the Belgian Foreign Minister, M.
Spaak. It is alleged at Canberra that Dr.
Evatt would have been a moral for presi-
dent had he been available, but his
chances don’t seem to have been dis-
cussed even before it was known that he
would not be present; and these matters
are always arranged beforehand.
One of the 51 nations represented in
London is Iran (or Persia) and another is
Turkey. Each is threatened with dis-
memberment by Russia, and it is not
clear from the charter what the U.N.O.
can do about it or about anything in par-
ticular. It is provided in Article 2 that
“all members shall refrain in their inter-
national relations from the threat or use
of force against the territorial integrity
or political independence of any State,”
but this did not restrain Moscow from
white-anting Azerbaijan or from demand-
ing the “recovery” from Turkey of Kars
and Ardahan, Turkish provinces for
centuries prior to the Russo-Turkish war
of 1878, and returned to Turkey by the
Lenin Government after the last war. It
is provided in Article 6 that “a member
of the United Nations which has per-
sistently violated the principles contained
in the present charter may be expelled
from the organisation by the General
Assembly upon the recommendation of
the Security Council” ; but the U.S.S.R.
is a permanent member of the Security
Council, and may conceivably have the
power to veto its own expulsion, as well
as any amount of other things.
There is no provision in the charter for
the revision of peace treaties. Yet all
history suggests that the peace treaties,
when made, will need revision, especially
if, as seems certain, they hand over huge
masses of Germans occupying ancient
German territories, and of Poles occupy-
ing ancient Polish territories, to a Rus-
sian dictatorship, the durability of which
will be tested when the dictator, who is old
and has been ill, goes the way of all flesh.
Plain people may hope for the best
from U.N.O. and agree that the invention
of the atomic bomb has made it neces-
sary. Remembering the League, they
should not expect too much.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Consistency.
From Canberra to metropolitan news-
papers :
The Prime Minister said that his Cabinet
had decided against the issue of a Federal
honors list, and it was a decision with
which he heartily agreed. The Canadian
Government had not issued a list, and was
not explaining its action. It was the same
with the Commonwealth Government.
. This came badly from the leader of a
party which, while professing to be sternly
consistent, got a K.C.M.G. for the Secre-
tary of the Defence Department, and
which appointed the “Independent” Wil-
son, to whose vote it owed its attainment
of office in 1941, as Administrator of Nor-
folk Island, a post previously and very
properly reserved for servicemen who
fought for Australia against its foreign
enemies for much less than Wilson re-
cieved as a politician.
The Canadian Government, like the
Maoriland Labor Government, did issue
“a list.” Unlike Federal Labor, it did
not get a P.C. for a pal or a K.C.M.G.
for the head of a department, being
steady in its opposition to titles for
civilians, but it recognised its duty to
servicemen and servicewomen who had
fairly earned decorations which they
will prize throughout their lives.
Actually, the Canadian list (so headed
in capital letters) stretches over nearly
a closely-printed column of the London
“Times.” Two officers of the Royal
Canadian Navy and six officers of the
Canadian Army were awarded C.Bs.
Forty-seven officers and other ranks,
women included, received the C.B.E. and
151 others the 0.8. E., five 0.8. E. awards
being posthumous. And matrons and
nursing sisters were amply recog-
nised in the Royal Red Cross division.
Fourteen were made members and
30 others were named associates, the
Royal Red Cross (Second Class) receiving
half a dozen additions of matrons and
nursing sisters. Only an Australian
“ ‘Labor’ Government” would begrudge
such rewards to women who have served
their country and Empire with noble
sacrifice of self.
The New Zealand list (so headed) also
runs to nearly a column of the “Times.”
One of three new Knights Bachelor is
Mr. Perry, a member of Labor’s War
Cabinet and War Council. A K.GB.
went to Lieut.-Gen. Puttick, N.Z.M.F.;
a K.B.E. to Major-General Bowerbank,
N.Z.M.C.; and another to Air Vice-
Marshal Isitt, R.N.Z.A.F. And awards in
the Civil Division of the Order of the
British Empire take up half a “Times”
column. There were a K.B.E. (“Admini-
strator Mandated Territory, W. Samoa”),
13 C.B.Es. and 50 0.8. Es. —in most
cases with brief citations commending
the war work of the men and women
concerned —besides Royal Red Cross
associateships (2) and grants of the Air
Force Cross (6).
Only the so-called Government at Can-
berra dissociated itself from the recogni-
tion due to patriotic people who put
everything they had into the common
cause. In that and that alone it can claim
an arid consistency. There is not a spark
of generosity in its composition.
Too Outspoken,
Lieutenant-General Morgan, who was
deputy chief of staff to General Eisen-
hower, was afterwards named chief of
U.N.R.R.A. operations in Germany, and
as such he seems to have done a pretty
good job. The head of the organisation
is Mr. Lehman, a Jew, who was Governor
of New York. For saying he was con-
vinced that European Jews had a “posi-
tive plan for a second exodus, this time
from Europe,” Lieut-General Morgan
was furiously attacked by leaders of
Jewish organisations in Britain and
America, and his resignation was de-
manded, presumably by Mr. Lehman. He
ignored the demand, and was supported
in his attitude by his staff, members of
which are Jews.
In Lieut-General Morgan’s first state-
ment he said he had seen an “exodus of
Jews in Poland in Russian trains, on a
regular route from Lodz to Berlin”:
All were well dressed, well cared for,
healthy and had pockets bulging with
money. All told ffie same monotonous
story of threats, pogroms and atrocities
in Poland as a reason for their leaving.
A new factor in the United States zone, the
arrival of a whole carload of Jewish child-
ren from Rumania and Hungary, adds to
my belief that a world organisation of
Jews is being formed. I do not know who
is financing the movement or stuffing
Jewish pockets with Russian-printed occu-
pation marks. A committee of liberated
Jews in Bavaria formerly wrote to me on
scraps of paper. It is now writing on the
finest engraved stationery.
What the general said was in line with
what Anglo-American correspondents had
reported and what Zionist organisations in
the U.S.A. are all the time threatening.
After he made his statement Polish Jews
in the Russian sector of Berlin, under
orders to leave for a place called Prenz-
lau, defiantly announced that they in-
tended moving into the British and Ameri-
can zones, and this they did. Their object,
and that of their associates in the “exodus,”
is obviously to proceed by underground
passage to Palestine, where the British
already have their hands full with un-
grateful Jews —violent criminals, in the
worst cases —and anti-Zionist Arabs,
whose irreconcilables, after small-scale
pogroms in Tripolitania and Egypt, have
launched a boycott of Jews in Palestine.
U.N.R.R.A. H.Q., so sensitive on the
subject of the Jewish question in Europe,
has ignored criticism of its own opera-
tions ; and there has been plenty.
Strange items on its Budget for 1946
are the equivalent of £47,250,000 for
the Ukranian “republic” and £15,250,000
for White Russia. These are the great
grain-growing regions of the U.S.S.R., and
they have had time for at least one big
harvest, if not two. U.N.R.R.A. is also
devoting great attention to Yugoslavia
and other countries in the Russian sphere
of influence. There is no mention of help
for Norway, although the sufferings of
the Norwegians began the year before the
Communists ceased to regard the Nazis
as partners.
Of course, a great deal of good work
has been done by U.N.R.R.A., and there
are many devoted helpers on its staffs,
Australians among them. But the treat-
ment of Lieut.-General Morgan, who is
in no way anti-Semitic and who had a
perfect right to say what he did, especi-
ally as he was referring for the most part
to Jews who do not come under
U.N.R.R.A.’s jurisdiction, engenders
doubts and fears.
ADMIRAL MAKIN MAKES IT.
Strike Casualty.
FROM “S. M. Herald” of January 12—and
the other Sydney morning paper had much
the same report:—
A returned sfoldier, worried because
he was out of work as a result of the
strike, was found dead in his gas-
filled bedroom in Paddington on De-
cember 21.
This was stated in evidence when
Mr. Meagher, Acting City Coroner,
inquired into the death of Terence
Anthony McAleenan, 32, laborer.
Patrick George McAleenan, invalid
pensioner, of Surrey-street, King's
Cross, said that when he visited his
son’s room in a residential early in
the morning on December 21 the
door was blocked with paper and
there was a strong smell of gas. His
son was lying dead on the bed. He
had been in the Army for three
years and had served in Malaya. His
unemployment had worried him.
Death from the effects of carbon
monoxide poison, wilfully caused by
inhaling coal gas, was the Coroner’s
finding.
How many more ailing people died as
a result of being thrown out of work or
turned out of public hospitals or refused
admission because they were n'ot “urgent
cases” or having to totter up hilly streets
with “crocked” hearts because the Gov-
ernment trams had stopped running can
be calculated only when the mortality
figures for December are published. And
they are always late.
But the moral of the death of this over-
wrought Digger should be plain even to a
striking coalminer.
Communist strikes can he killer strikes.
Transport in Queensland.
Survey and suggestion:
Queensland Railways Commissioner Wills and
other high officials are due for retirement
■shortly. Mentioning this, somewhat invidiously,
while not meaning to hurt anyone, Transport
Minister Walsh promised the enforcement of
discipline, particularly among employees who
come into close contact with the travelling
public, adding that railway services are to be
“reformed generally.”
Railwaymen reply that they are handicapped
by, among other things, bad coal, inadequately
serviced locomotives, the short spacing of re-
freshment-room stations and the absence of
buffet cars.
Meanwhile, the public is getting the rawest
holiday deal in history. The Brisbane-Southport
“service” is a standing example. A 50-mile
journey, it takes anything up to 1\ hours or
more. The carriages are invariably dirty, seldom
fitted with sanitary conveniences and too few
for even moderate holiday traffic without gross
overcrowding. The corresponding section of
the north-coast service is equally bad.
For the greater part of their length both
lines are paralleled by first-rate bitumen roads,
with branches giving easy direct access between
Brisbane and all main seaside resorts. In many
cases these branch roads are used for co-ordi-
nation services from the nearest rail-point.
The obvious method of relieving the scandalous
overcrowding and discomfort would be to en-
courage through road transport, at any rate to
an extent capable of relieving the present dan-
gerous congestion.
But Queensland’s famous Transport Strangu-
lation Board thinks otherwise. It puts every
possible obstacle in the way of developing or
even permitting the use of State roads by the
people who provide the money for building and
maintaining, them. Extortionate fees are charged
for registration—in some cases up to £9OO a
year or more for a single truck —passenger
transport is practically forbidden except for co-
ordinated services running to and from railway
stations, classes of goods allowed to be car-
ried are severely restricted, and the whole sense-
less and unjust ramp is backed by threats of
seizure of vehicle and contents in the event of
any transgression of the board’s assorted
ukases.
Should the Government really wish to put
the transport system on an efficient basis,
whatever difficulties may arise in trade-union
and other quarters, it has the means to its hand,
and the man to apply them. All it needs do is
to abolish the Transport Strangulation Board
and give John R. Kemp, State Co-Ordinator
General of Public Works, a mandate to go
ahead. Kemp is the remarkable administrator
who evolved order, system and efficiency out
of the chaos created by the earlier flounderings
of the Civil Construction Corps in Queensland
and the Northern Territory.
The Secret Ballot.
One singular fact that emerged from the
criminal Red Fascist hold-up of industry,
presented to Australia as a taste of Things
to Come, is that the secret ballot is in
danger of being regarded as a device
foisted upon the worker to cheat him of
his rights. .
In all democratic countries the secur-
ing of the secret ballot was hailed as a
victory over the tyranny of fear and
oppression. This was so in South Aus-
tralia in 1864, in Britain in 1872, and in
other British and American States in later
years. The main argument there and
then advanced, it is the main argument
for the retention of the secret ballot.
That the cry of “victimisation” comes
from a different section does not affect
the issue. Fear—of eviction, loss of a job,
bitter poverty —justified the institution
of the secret ballot in other generations.
Fear —unemployment, expulsion from a
union, the ugly label of “scab” —is an
equally potent factor today.
If the landlord and factory-owner had
no right to bludgeon a man into voting
against his conscience then the Com-
munist or fellow-traveller union boss has
no sanction for doing the same to his
grandson. And that is what the new
tyrants are doing when they insist on the
mass meeting and the show of hands
(“shove yours up, Bill, or we’ll dong
you! ”).
Union leaders and Labor politicians
who object to Red Fascist dictatorship,
or say they do, give lip service to the
secret ballot but readily think up objec-
tions. Premier McKell, asked in his “Par-
liament” to invoke his “Government’s”
powers to enforce the holding of a secret
ballot of coalminers, spoke of “the tech-
nical difficulties involved,” Clarey, of
the A.C.T.U., who is also a Victorian
State Minister, recalled that in 1928 the
Sydney Timberworkers objected so
strongly that they burnt the ballot
papers. He did not say whether
the burning was the work of the
majority or of the militant minority that
instigated the Timberworkers’ strike ; the
Clareys never go deeply into such things.
The views of the “Standard” are sub-
joined ;
It may or it may not be democratic for
every trade-unionist to have the right to
declare himself secretly for or against a
strike, but if certainly would not make for
effective unionism The secret ballot is
a coward’s castle.
The “Standard” is the official organ of
the “Labor” party in N. S. Wales. It
claims to be “fighting” Red Fascists, while
prepared to leave in their hands one of
their most powerful weapons and that
anti-democratic.
Mr. McKell was asked by the “Daily
Telegraph,” now thoroughly scared by
the performances and threats of its
former friends, to comment on the “Stan-
dard’s” article. His reply was typical of
the Premier who sat on a far-away fence
all through the criminal strikes and then
congratulated the “winners,” among them
presumably the sick people against’whom
his Government closed the public hos-
pitals.
Why No Success Stories?
“0.T.”: People in other lands who try to
get a picture of Australian life from con-
temporary Australian literature must be
repulsed by what they read. Very rarely
indeed does an Australian book published
in the last 15 years reveal any pride in or
love for the author’s native land. One
that stands out is Eve Langley’s The
Pea-Pickers, which, aside from the other
qualities which will make it live, burns
with pride of birth and love of the good
Australian earth.
Leftism, of course, has much to do
with this curse on our literature, for to
the Leftist nothing successful that arises
out of the hated capitalistic system should
be countenanced. But the real culprit is
probably the so-called “Lawson tradi-
tion.” The people Lawson studied were
victims: swagmen, poor farmers, unlucky
gold-diggers, drunks, “bad girls” and
laborers. He saw the outback as a place
of horrible loneliness, “sickly dawns,”
“burning scrubs,” deserted drovers’ wives,
•greedy mortgagees and so forth. In the
city he saw only the bums and the Arvie
Aspinalls. Thus his characters were the
weak, the ignorant and the futile, his
pictures of them relieved only by his
humanity and his humor.
This isn’t to say that such characters
have no place in our native literature.
They have, but they have no right to the
centre or all of the stage. Lawson him-
self would not have insisted upon that.
But the “Lawson tradition” insists upon
it, every cheap little Leftist writer and
spouter insists upon it, and most of the
editors and book reviewers seem to insist
upon it. From this cursed “tradition”
springs the character who, without sense
or guts to see what’s wrong with himself,
frequently snarls “They orter give the
blasted country back to the blacks.
Thassall it’s fit for! ”
But for every character of that kind
there are a thousand Australians who
wouldn’t give it to anybody; who are,
indeed, prepared to shed their last drop
of blood to hold it. These are the Aus-
tralians who gave it the grander tradi-
tions of Anzac and Mont St. Quentin;
Tobruk and Milne Bay. But even they
suffer from the pens of the debunkers.
The Digger is exhibited to the world
as a rough and tough fighter given to bad
language, strong drink, vulgar repartee
and a general antipathy for courtsey and
culture. Most of him, in real life, is the
very reverse.
The Americans do it differently. For
every American book in the “Lawson
tradition” there are 20 which tell of the
mettle of Americans and the greatness
of their country and union. From the
settlement of Massachusetts to the build-
ing of the Coulee dam writers have
“covered” America’s growth and develop-
ment, and always their theme is the suc-
cess of the individual and the fine, grand
country in which he attains it. No wonder
European immigrants flocked to America.
No wonder Europeans of the kind we
want read our literature, shudder and
turn away. No wonder many of the
immigrants we get are fit for nothing else
than to fit into the “Lawson tradition.”
It isn’t as if this country had no real
success stories. It teems with them. Aus-
tralians who, largely by their own efforts,
have lifted themselves from the gutter,
can be found everywhere. They abound
in our agricultural, industrial, commer-
cial, professional and political history.
And there are plenty of big and success-
ful Australian enterprises to provide the
background and the framework in which
the hero may work out his achievement.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
SOME NEW BOOKS
Birds of the Day. Striking bird photographs,
by Hosking and Newberry, with descriptions
of rare and spectacular birds of Britain.
19/6 (post 6d.).
Thurber’s Men, Women and Dogs, A book of
drawings. 12/6 (post 6d.).
Augustus John—Paintings and Drawings, by
J. Rothenstein, Director of the Tate Gallery
(Phaidon Press). 31/3 (post 1/6.).
George Saintsbury. The Memorial Volume. A
new collection of his Essays and Papers with
memoir. 19/6 (post 6d.).
Boad to High Employment. Administrative
controls in a Free Economy, by Professor D.
B. Copland. The Godkin Lectures at Harvard
University, 1944-1945. 4/6 (post 2d.).
Home Circle, a new collection of drawings,
by Fougasse. 9/6 (post 3d.).
Ply-Tying. Principles and Practice for Trout
and Salmon flies, by Major Sir J, Burrard.
13/9 (post 4d.).
Theatrical Dancing in America. The develop-
ment of the Ballet from 1900, by W.
Palmer, with 20 photographs. 21/- (post 6d.).
One-Act Plays for To-day. Selected and edited
by Griffith and Mersand. 17/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
Science Tear Book of 1945. Stories of remark-
able discoveries told by writers of distinction
and authority. 15/- (post 6d.).
Bush Ways. A bush-lover’s wanderings on
plain and range in Central and Eastern
Australia, by Archer Russell. 9/6 (post 4d.).
Music for Fun. A grand book about music,
with a novel and light approach. By Sigmund
Spaeth. 7/6 (post 4d.).
Doctors Anonymous. The Story of Laboratory
Medicine by W. McKee German, with an
Introduction by Paul de Kruff. 8/6 (post 4d.).
Better Lawns. The essential facts for planning
and maintaining lawns easily and efficiently,
by H. B. Sprague. 15/- (post 6d.).
Freedom Is More Than a Word, by Marshall
Field. A vigorous effort to give democracy
and human beings a real chance.
17/6 (post 4d.).
Australian Wonders. A new book by Bill
Beatty. 2/6 (post 2d.).
Great Religious Stories. Edited by S. E. Frost.
15/- (post 5d,).
The English Spirit. Essays in History and
Literature, by A. L. Rowse. 19/6 (post 6d.).
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
To Melbourne “Herald,” which doesn’t
seem to be among the Evatt worshippers,
“it is a strange reversal of form that the
return of the peripatetic Dr, Evatt, the
sole repository of a knowledge of Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy, should coincide
with the U.N.O. meeting in London, ‘the
most momentous conference in history.’ ”
Well, the “peripatetic” politician chose to
go to London to the Council of Foreign
Ministers, of whom he was not one, and
then to Washington for the Far Eastern
Advisory Commission, to which the
U.S.A. sent second-rank men, and which
could easily have been attended by the
Australian Minister in Washington. Since
Dr. Evatt insists on being Attorney-
General he can’t expect to be “peripa-
tetic” all the time.
“Tonsi,” on bushfire prevention in Tas-
mania : —•
What did Cosgrove, the Labor Premier, say
in 1940? “Something must be. done about it.”
What did he say in 1946? “Something must be
done about it.” What did hb>do in 1940?
Nothing. What will he do in 19’46? Nothing,
probably, beyond deploring the carelessness
which in the Christmas period caused damage
to Tasmanian forests estimated at £lOO,OOO.
Canberra politicians and their personal
staffs don’t seem to have been needed at
the U.N.O. meeting after all. With
Evatt absent and Makin not arrived, Aus-
tralia was elected to the Security Coun-
cil, Canada gracefully retiring in its
favor after leading Australia in one of
three ballots. Lieut-Colonel Hodgson,
who was at the Gallipoli landing, came
over from Paris to attend to Australia’s
interests and it is allowed that he made a
distinct impression—which is in no way
astonishing. Old Diggers can generally
fake care of themselves in any company.
Hit high, hit low, there is no pleasing
some people. The N.Y. “Herald Tri-
bune,” which has been very kind to Dr.
Evatt, was outraged at “the clumsy
manoeuvring” in London concerning the
choice of a president of the U.N.O.
General Assembly when “the five major
Powers went into the election divided
about their candidates.” Dr. Evatt’s
grievance (his latest) is that “Major
Powers organised a slate or ticket for the
election of all the non-permanent mem-
bers of the Security Council,” from which
slate or ticket poor old Austrylia' was
excluded.
Girl-mad publications had little space
for the frightful affair of the Australian
soldiers done to death by-Japanese fiends
in Amboina and Borneo, but they gave
columns (with portraits) to the case of
15 young women employed by the U.S.
Army, and by it taken on to Manila.
“Smuggled” and “Shanghaied” were
among the expressions used. As always,
the “Government” came into the picture,
being in a dreadful state of mind because
the young women had departed without
passports or income-tax clearances,
although these trifles could have been
easily attended to after the event. Between
girl-mad papers and a “Government”
with early-Victorian notions it is a hard
world for young Australian women who
are perfectly capable of lookings after
themselves.
The Red Fascist Thornton (“We made
strikes our business ... I hope the ‘scabs’
of Downing-street will be defeated”) is
back from the Workers’ Paradise with the
latest issue of fairytales about the wonders
being wrought there—like all Red Fascists
from these parts he took dashed good
care not to stay. As on previous occa-
sions, he was given a seat in a ’plane over
the heads of thousands of servicemen and
servicemen’s wives and others with in-
finitely greater claims. It hasn’t been
stated who secured the privilege for the
fellow, but the “Labor” Government
must know.
No sooner had Victoria got rid of Fed-
eral bureaucracy, or some of it, than it
got the Rutherglen bug. This little
creature swoops down on fruit and vege-
tables by the million, and it has caused
an acute shortage in the Melbourne
market. Growers arrive early and begin
selling before the scheduled time to known
customers. These are ready to pay up
to £3 for a bag of peas (fixed price 405.)
and 48s. for a bushel of nectarines (fixed
price 28s.y. Black-market prices are
passed on to housewives by fruiterers and
greengrocers who charge “ceiling” for
lines in plentiful supply and recompense
themselves for the black-market prices
paid for lines in short supply, which is
why all fruit and vegetables are abnor-
mally high-priced in Melbourne and
suburbs. Incidentally, returned men try-
ing to break into the trade can’t get a
look in, being classed as “strangers.”
Sydney papers are still kind to Com-
munists. Only one—“Terewth”—gave-
prominence to the fact that Adam Ogston,
one of the heads of the party and its
chief executive official during its “stop-the-
Imperialist-War” period, was fined last
week for leading a larrikin street demon-
stration against backed by a
“large aggressive crowd.” During the
previous week there was a similar silence
about a case in which a woman witness
detailed her hours as manageress of the
International Sailors’ Club, another
Commo. show, as 10 a.m. to 10.45 p.m.
Commos. are all for a 40-hour week
where other employers are concerned.
An assistant director of the War Ser-
vice Homes Commission announced in
Melbourne that the Commission had
built 16 houses in 12 months and has 29
under construction. There are many
thousands of applicants waiting. Mean-
while a house has been pinched at Traral-
gon, and the owner is looking for it.
Members of the Security Council, along
.with Britain, the U.S.A., the U.S.S.R.,
France and China (permanents), are
Brazil, Australia, Poland, each for two
years; Egypt, Mexico and the Nether-
lands, each for one year. When the one-
year members drop out they will not be
“eligible for immediate re-election,” and
that goes also for the two-year members
when their period expires.
The Canberra “Labor” Government
has offered wheatgrowers a guarantee of
ss. 2d. a bushel f.o.b. (about 4s. 4d. at
country sidings in at least two wheat-
growing States) for five years, subject to
review and possible extension. When the
export price (now about Bs, a bushel)
exceeds the guarantee, 60 p.c. of the
excess is to go into a fund from which
the guaranteed price will be paid in years
when export price is below it. Nothing
explicit is said of licensing, but appar-
ently it is to go on, though to apply it
to returned-servicemen growers would be
a crime. Nor is" it explained why the
scheme wasn’t thought up last year, when
the crazy business of paying Westralians
for not growing wheat was continued.
Of course, 1946 is an election year, and
wheatgrowers’ votes are important.
For almost the first time in its history
N. S. Wales is without a Governor, Lord
Wakehurst’s period of leave having ex-
pired, McKell, the “Labor” Premier, is
determined on having a native-born
Governor, come what may. The story at
Tattersall’s Club is that he can’t choose
between Darby Munro, the jockey, and
Vic Patrick, the pug.
When the 15 U.S, Army girls, of
whose appearance and bearing any coun-
try would be proud, were flown back from
Manila (“to appease the press,” an
American general said, though Chifley
denied using the words), they were only at
the beginning of their troubles. A Collec-
tor of Customs “severely reprimanded
them.” And Calwell, who in his attitude
to women blends De Valera and Sammy
Smiles, said he would “in no circum-
stances issue passports to these women,
who have so violated immigration laws
of their country; they are now back in
their country, and, they are back to stay.”
What a country it has come to under
Labor-Communist rule!
A Melbourne “Argus” reporter has
learned from Dr. Turpin, South Africa’s
Director of Agricultural Education, that
his country has 3000 farms ready for
soldier-settlement, with “homes, outbuild-
ings and water, and land so pre-developed
that the settler can begin operations im-
mediately.” Australia, which is immen-
sely greater in size and white population
than South Africa, and has had five Labor
Governments since October, 1941 (a sixth
has been added recently), can’t show 3000
homes ready for servicemen, let alone
farms.
“Wheat Wheat” Wilson hung on to his
Parliamentary salary till the last moment.
He resigned as M.H.R. for Wimmera on
December 31, and was sworn in as Ad-
ministrator of Norfolk Island on January
1. His patron. Ward, commended him to
Norfolk Islanders as an authority on agri-
culture. Any Wimmera billposter knows
as much as Wilson about the sort of agri-
culture to which the islanders are
addicted.
Praising the work of the Army Edu-
cation Service, a Melbourne “Age” writer
admits that “Communist influence” in the
A.E.S. “has been and is there,” but de-
clares that “teachers and lecturers have
as a matter of duty to sink their "personal
views.”
1 am assured that men have been passed
out of the service for deliberate attempts
to use their pulpit for ideological pur-
poses... .indoctrinating their listeners.
Considering that no cry of “victimisation”
has been heard, and considering also the
cheek with which N.S.W. Communist
teachers proclaim their “ideological” con-
victions, the assertion is unconvincing
without names.
Maorilanders are worried over their
small increase in white population—only
172,000 in nine years and a half. The
“Dominion” recalls sadly that annual in-
crease between 1867 and 1887 averaged
5.9 p.c., in the last 20 years only 1.075 p.c.
War additions gave a fillip to the birthrate,
but without a permanent revival or steady
and substantial European immigration or
both, there is a prospect that “in 30
years’ time nearly one-quarter of the
people will be of the age to receive full-
time social-security benefits as pen-
sioners.”
Unlike Harrison, who was too effusive
altogether, Fadden was rather sarcastic
about Chifley’s Christmas visit to some of
the troops in the islands. Artie recalled
that during the war he had thrice asked
Curtin for authority to visit the battle
areas, but had been turned down on each
occasion. Curtin never visited those battle
areas once.
From an esteemed contemporary:
RACKETEER IS STILL “LUCKY.”
Charles (Lucky) Luciano, a former racke-
teer, has received a commuted sentence
from New York Governor Dewey, who, as
special prosecutor, was instrumental in con-
victing him in 1936. Luciano will be de-
ported to Italy.
What’s lucky about that?
Members of Cabinet and Caucus are
divided on the urgency of Parliamentary
broadcasts from Canberra. Some favor
an immediate beginning on a limited
scale. Others consider that a beginning
should not be made until the whole of the
proceedings can be broadcast inde-
pendently of any other radio programme.
It should not be made until all members
have taken a course in manners.
Uniform income taxation is to come
up for review at the Premiers’ Confer-
ence in the third week in January, and
threatening noises have been heard at
“Labor” headquarters in Sydney and
Brisbane. These “Labor” Governments
are not really opposed to uniform income
taxation, but they fear that if they don't
make a show of opposition they won’t
fare nearly so well under the new distri-
bution as under the current one. That
arrangement—unexpectedly on the part of
the innocents wh® prepared the formula,
among them Scullin and Spooner—favored
N. S. Wales and Queensland outrageously
compared with the other States, and that
gave uniform income taxation a bad start.
All the same, it has come to stay, and
nothing McKell or Hanlon may do will
affect this cardinal fact.
There is absolutely no truth in the
story that the green bars in the Pacific
service ribbon are there in recognition of
Francis Michael Forde, Minister for the
Army. It is officially explained that they
represent jungle warfare.
Edgar Hoover, director of the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, to the
International Association of Chiefs of
Police (Melbourne “Herald” cable):
The Fascist-minded tyrant we con-
quered on the battlefield is no different
from the American Communist corruption-
ist who is now using the tricks of the
confidence man until his forces are suffi-
ciently strong to rise with armp in revolt.
Same here, Mr. Hoover, same here! The
only difference is that Americans are
fighting the “Communist corruptionist,”
and have a number of strings to their
bow, one being* the deportation law,
whereas “Labor” is merely shadow-spar-
ring.
Replying to a man who complained
about the housing-cost limit, Barry, the
Victorian Housing Minister, announced
that permits to build houses costing more
than £l2OO would be granted by the State,
circumstances warranting. What his
Government should be doing is consider-
ing why the man on an average income
can’t get a decent house for £BOO let alone
£l2OO, as before Australia went bureau-
cracy-mad he could; and why cost of
labor has risen so high that the Govern-
ment is talking about cramming the
workers into sky-scraping flats after the
Communist or rabbit-warren fashion.
The army has saved, or partially saved,
Victoria from another food crisis.
Rutherglen bug appeared in countless
numbers in the Goulburn Valley, attack-
ing peach and apricot crops and tomatoes.
After 75 p.c. of the crop had been de-
stroyed the army placed its entire local
stock of D.D.T. at the State Government’s
disposal. The preparation was found to
be effective against other pests like cod-
lin and Oriental moth.
There’s no denying that the Queens-
land part of the Clapp plan for standard-
ising gauges will be of tremendous benefit
to the north if it comes off, but there
is a lot of loose optimism about with
regard to “developing the country.” What
Queenslanders want to know is who will
do the developing? The population of
inland Queensland, like the rest of inland
Australia, is either stationary or declining,
and the mere fact of running railways
through it won’t alter the position.
After 45 years: —-
In 1901, a Bulletin man, then a boy-reporter,
stood in Hannans-street, Kalgoorlie, listening
to the victory speech of W. D. Johnson, who
had become the first Labor M.L.A. for Kal-
goorlie that night. Last week the pair met
again in Sydney, and the newspaperman mar-
velled at Johnson’s appearance and mental
alertness. Outwardly he would pass for 50, and
he remains enthusiastic for causes he has at
heart, one being the co-operative movement,
surveying which he had a good word to say
for Gosford (N.S.W.). Johnson, bom a
Maorilander, was in the first and second West-
ralian Labor Ministries, was Speaker for a
year (1938-39), and has been Chairman of the
Parliamentary Labor party since 1924. Going
abroad during his Speakership, he had tea at
No. 10 Downing-street, and was in the Saar
Valley in July, 1939 —a close shave.


BEDTIME STORY.
“And Bogey-man Evatt said ‘If the undertakings given by Communists are not observed the Government will reimpose the ban.’ But he was only
pretending to be a Bogey-man. He was really a Good Fairy.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: Who said diplomacy was dead
in Canberra? A Minister had been a bit
off color. A few days later a rank-and-
filer, not seeing him around, asked one of
the Minister’s colleagues how old Soanso
was getting on. “Well, just fair,” replied
the colleagues; “you might say he’s im-
proving—physically.”
* Jk & *
“Galenus”: A dramatic illustration of
the newer medical knowledge was pro-
vided at the King Edward Memorial Hos-
pital in Perth. In October an expectant
mother was found on examination by a
Perth doctor to be one of the 15 per cent,
of white humanity whose blood is of Rh-
negative type. Should a woman of that
blood type marry a Rh-positive man their
children are likely to die, before or soon
after birth, from infantile jaundice on
account of the blood incompatibility be-
tween mother and child. Or, they may
survive, mentally deficient for life. In
the Perth case, blood from a donor of
suitable group was* ready when the child,
a girl, was born in December, normal in
weight and development but pallid, barely
breathing, apparently moribund. Thirteen
and a half ounces of her blood was im-
mediately withdrawn and replaced by 15
ounces of the sound blood. Within a few
minutes she had developed a healthy pink
skin and was breathing well, and, as I
write, she has displayed all the reactions
of a healthy baby ever since.
* * * *
“Findy”: Most radio stations feature
in some way or other the “request-
number” session. I switched on to one
the other night and found I was about to
be favored with a slice of “Cavalleria
Rusticana.” It is an eccentricity of the
station I was listening to that it wants to
know the reason why the listener asks for
the particular piece to be played. I
should have thought the mere desire to
hear it would be sufficient, but the appli-
cant must go deeper than that. And
deeper she did go, too. She wanted to
hear it because it always reminded her
of her airman son, still overseas. As a
small boy it was the first piece he tried
on his mouth-organ. The announcer
seemed to think it a perfectly valid
reason for calling on the Philadelphia
Symphony Orchestra to do its best. Per-
haps it was, but I can’t help feeling the
dear old lady was pulling his leg.
« * * *
“Jem” tastes the thrills of a navy trial
trip:
Machinery is tested to the limit of its capabili-
ties on a warship’s trials. Off Bondi (Sydney), in
a newly-commissioned Australian frigate, dock-
yard officials, a gunnery class, a couple of
Army officers, the skipper and her future crew
watched the experts try their best to tear her
apart. Oerlikon and Bofors raked fore and aft,
elevated and depressed. A couple of Spits
playing round the departing Aquitania drew off
in concern, then vanished shorewards. An
Oerlikon whamming away was trained at full
speed on to the bridge; the safety training
gear worked and she cut out just in time.
Then the four-inchers had their innings. At
90 deg., 80, 50, 30 and 10 they were fired with
full charges, the deck thrust, length of recoil and
pressure in the recoil cylinder being carefully
noted. Then the cylinders were packed to re-
duce cubic area, and the guns fired again. The
pressure inside was tremendous, much more
than the gun would normally be required to
bear. Small depth bombs for detecting sub-
marines, appropriately called “hedgehogs,” were
hurled from throwers on the fo’c’sle. The
engines were opened out to full speed ahead,
men reversed suddenly to full speed astern.
The whole ship shuddered, her sides streaming
with boiling froth. When steaming ahead flat
out the wheel was put hard over to starb’d;
then, while the craft was heeling to the pres-
.sure of rudder and thrusting screws, the wheel
was suddenly thrown hard-a-port. The frigate
faltered, staggered, then came gamely upright.
To test anchors, cable and capstan the mud-
hook was slipped in deep water. Its cable
jumped after it through the hawsepipe with a
din like trip hammers. The capstan was braked
hard. Fifty fathoms of iron cable with a two-
ton lump of steel on its end heading for the
bottom were brought to an abrupt standstill.
You’d think the plates would tear out of her,
but she bowed her head, shook it and ploughed
steadily on. Altogether an interesting day.
* * *
“Shufti George”: Old Middle East-
erners will appreciate the need for the
large quantity of explosives used in an
attack on police headquarters in Jerus-
alem. The Palestinian idea of a police
station is a fortress-like stone structure
standing clear of all other buildings, and
sited to give a clear, all-round field of
fire. The walls and turrets are plenti-
fully loopholed for rifles and machine-
guns, and the place is provisioned to
withstand a prolonged siege. During
the “troubles” of the early ’thirties the
malcontents, unable to get at the native
police inside the barracks, were apt to
take it out on their wives and families
who lived outside. Consequently the
more modern stations contain living
quarters for the families of all native
police and space for all the station
animals and vehicles. In emergencies
the families of white members also live
in. When the sites for the stations were
selected it was found that in nearly every
case they corresponded to those of old
Roman forts, built for the same purpose
over 2000 years ago.
• * * *
“Earpunisher”: A Melbourne journa-
list has been reminding the beer-garden
“How am I doing?"
controversialists that such an institution
flourished in the city no longer ago than
just before the outbreak of the late war.
A club at Abbotsford used to provide
Saturday and Sunday night concerts,
billiards, a skittle alley, dancing, excellent
food and light Australian ale at four-
pence a glass to patrons, who could
wander from room to room, meet new
acquaintances, have a drink at the bar
and return to the concert hall to listen to
first-class music. It isn’t recorded that the
baleful effects anticipated by the wowsers
was responsible for it being closed down.
The club happened to be German.
* * * $
“Wirui”: Tribulations of the Wewak
garrison have been a favorite subject for
cartoonists, and artists have contrived
to work a coconut palm into their draw-
ing. Intended as local color, that is just
what the palm is not. Before the Japs
came Wewak boasted a plantation of
scores of thousands of palms. The hope-
ful Nip built his hut in their shade ; then
came the Allied bombers. Coconuts just
can’t take bombing. Other trees lose
limbs and foliage, but soon put forth
fresh green leaves. Not so the coconut;
it stays bombed. It shakes off its graceful
top and gives up the ghost. In Wewak
today in a mile-long plantation it would
be hard to count half a dozen palms
still alive. The rest might be so many
telegraph poles. In fact, thanks to the
resourcefulness of Sixth Div. Sigs., many
of them are,
* * * *
“Vulco”: The stout-heartedness with
which residents in the vicinity of Maori-
land’s active volcano Ruapehu refuse to
worry about its antics is reflected in the
official attitude towards such thermal
manifestations. At the request of the
Prime Minister’s Department the Gfeolo-
gical Survey has established a geophysical
observatory on the mountain. Geophones-
have been planted in the crater and in
various places on and around the moun-
tain, and readings are recorded, charted
and correlated with meteorological and
tidal data. If Ruapehu starts to work up
anything really dangerous, the observers
say, they will be able to give warning
hours ahead. Already the crater has
belched forth 500,000 tons of ash, which
has been deposited over an area of 50 sq,
miles.
* * * •
“Craiser”; Admirals, generals and poli-
ticians assembled at the Queen’s Hall,
Victoria Parliament House, for the cere-
mony of handing over to Captain
Schofield a set of band instruments pro-
vided by the people of Victoria for the
battleship King George V, Musical
people were conspicuous by their absence,
bands being anathema in highbrow musi-
cal circles. It’s a snobbish prejudice.
Elgar early in his career was conductor
of a band in a lunatic asylum, and
Berlioz, whose pet solo instrument
(according to Heine) was the kettledrum,
wrote a work for massed military bands
and a choir of 12,000, of which it was
declared that when it was performed in
Paris it could be heard ail over France.
* * * *
“Si Ami”: The worst thing at Changi
(B. 2/1/’46) was the semi-starvation.
Food became an obsession and there was
even difficulty in getting water, the Nips
having omitted to keep the pipes which
served the jail in repair, so that they
rusted and fell to pieces. A Victorian
p.-0.-w. was in good condition when he
went in. He came out five stone lighter ;
nevertheless, he says he was reasonably
healthy because of the balanced diet the
Australian doctors had worked out. All
the same, the craving for food was so in-
tense that you would see a man walking
along picking leaves off the trees in the
hope they would have some nourishment
in them. A Sydney medico did miracles
with regard to organising the food and
developing counters to diseases of malnu-
trition. His fame was so great that a
conference on his work was held at Kan-
buri, in Siam, and Japanese doctors came
hundreds of miles to attend it. One of
the doctor’s discoveries was that tropical
ulcers could be cured by operation.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Sydney’s divorce .records
eclipsed those of Melbourne (B. 2/1 / ’46),
but it is now established as a matter of
course that each year will shower higher
figures, and the interest has gone out of
statistics. N. S. Wales now has four
Judges filing away at matrimonial fetters,
and business is so brisk that the Divorce
Court, alone among the higher courts,
continued its activities on the day after
Boxing Day. The Long Vacation for
legal men has gone out of memory so far
as this jurisdiction is concerned,
* * * *
“Hist”: The stamp commemorating
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (B. 2/1/’46)
completes a portrait gallery in which every
U.S. President appears except the living
holder of that office. In 1938 the U.S.
issued a Presidential set, 30 values of
which (from half-cent to five dollars)
portrayed in chronological order every
President from Washington to Coolidge.
The li cent and 4\ cent values depicted
Martha Washington and the White House
respectively. The U.S.A. fully appreciates
the national publicity value of postage
stamps. In 1940 tribute was paid to
Americans famous in the arts and
sciences by seven sets of stamps, each of
five similar values (one cent to 10 cents),
devoted respectively to novelists, poets,
educators, scientists, composers, artists
and inventors. Three women were in-
cluded in this gallery of fame—Louisa
May Alcott, Frances; E. Willard and Jane
Addams.
* ** * *
“Jasby”: A Sydney artist had a new
pupil recently. She told him she had
painted a little 40 years ago and wanted
to brush up a bit. He gave her a lesson,
and she went away. A week later she
called for a second lesson and told him
that in the interval she had had a picture
accepted by a contemporary art exhibi-
tion. “I gave it up in despair when I
was a girl,” she told him, “but a little
while back I visited one of those modern
art shows, and I decided I could paint
just as well as the people who_ showed
there. Now, sure enough, they’ve accepted
me.” What is worrying her teacher is
that if she has many more lessons she’ll
really be able to paint. Then the con-
temporaries will refuse her paintings, and
she’ll have to give up in despair again.
* * * %
“Avon”; It is so seldom that diplo-
mats accredited to Maoriland know any-
thing about the country that M. Armand
Gazel, who' has arrived to represent
France, made an excellent impression. He
complimented a Wellington audience on
the good use they had made of Colonel
Wakefield’s investment—he distributed
£9OOO worth of goods to Maori chiefs in
return for the Wellington district —and
on their broadmindedness in naming
their city after the Iron Duke, who so
bitterly opposed the colonisation of N.Z.
M. Gazel wound up an unusual speech
by offering evidence that Gauls were
on the winning side at Waterloo. Among
Wellington’s troops were some Royalist
Frenchmen under the Due du Berry, son
of the “King of France.” M. Gazel pro-
duced a hitherto unpublished letter from
Wellington to the Due, written just two
hours before the battle, in which “your
Royal Highness” is advised, if the enemy
outflanked Wellington’s troops (as he
thought might be possible), to go back to
Antwerp and send for “his Majesty Louis
XVIII.” However, Napoleon, instead of
persevering with his flank attack, switched
his assault to the centre, where he was held
up till Blucher arrived.
* * *
“Melbn”: Believe it or not,
striking coalminers in N. S.
Wales have caused a lake to dry
up in Victoria. In times of
drought the Albert Park Lake,
whose surface and surroundings
are Melbourne’s busiest play-
ground, where every sport, from
polo to sailing flatties and catch-
ing yabbies, is practised, is fed
from Dight’s Falls on the Yarra.
There is a pump at Dight’s Falls
which pumps the water 220 ft.
above the level of the fragrant
river, and it burns coal. With
the coal restrictions the furnaces
went from black coal to
briquettes and then to firewood,
and finally the Coal Commission inter-
vened and stopped the flow of water into
the lake, which promptly sank to a level
of a few inches, exposing an expanse of
evil-smelling mud, gasping trout and a
variety of queer debris. Having become
a threat to the public health, the lake is
to be allowed to rise a few inches.
COMS.
Once on a time, you may have heard,
A lot of mice in conclave saf
And, none dissenting, registered
A firm resolve to bell the cat.
But when it came to venturing near
The claws and teeth of tabs and toms
Not one but jibbed. And ’twould appear
The case is very similar here. ..
Is no one game to bell the Corns.?
From day to day one reads about
The webs of dark intrigue they spin,
And notes that enemies without
May work less harm than foes within.
Snakes in the grass, they crawl and hiss,
They snarl and snap like pampered poms;
But, whether you attribute this
To apathy or cowardice,
No word goes out to ban the Corns.
Some poet (Pope, I think) expressed
Loathing for several noxious things,
Especially some insect pest
Which, as he phrased it, “stinks and stings.”
From neither sting nor stink we’re free,
Though spared the hell of bursting bomb's;
Has no one in authority
The guts to issue a decree,
A ban with bell and book on Corns?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
SOCIAL STATUS.
“At the Australian Teachers’ Conference in Sydney,
complaint was made of the Tow social status of
teachers compared with other professions.’ ”
What’s this about the lack of social' status
For those who teach the young idea to shoot?
A’shrill complaint they’re reckoned small pota-
toes,
Few in a row, as one might say, to boot,
Divided by a definite hiatus
From callings held in goodlier repute,
Though no more learned or more cultural:
The Church, the Law, the Fourth Estate, et ah
They growl they’re ranked among the lower
layers
Of citizens who hustle for a crust
With brains, not brawn, such as piano-players
Or those to arts of salesmanship who trust,
Or clerks of works or quantities-surveyors,
And fell us that it isn’t fair or just
That those to whom so very much we owe
Should rate in popular regard so low.
One gathers that it tends to make them sadder,
Whene’er they think of it, our dominies,
Not to be higher up the social ladder
Than transient M.L.A.’s or M.L.C.’s.
It stings them like a serpent or an adder
To ,be adjudged of less account than these
Who never would be there to haw and hem
And pay chin-music out except for them.
Heart up, you pedagogues who breathe afflatus
In the receptive ears of youthfulness,
Knights of the chalk-and-blackboard apparatus,
With every move attended with success
For ampler pay your need for social status
Will most indubitably matter less.
The higher wage that you can prove your due,
The more society will think of you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nakhoda”: Hirohito is not the first
human god to repudiate his divinity. To
the discomfiture of his followers and dis-
ciples, not to mention his patron, Mrs.
Besant, Krishnamurti, the young Indian
in whom the noted theosophist found the
stigmata of the new Messiah, publicly an-
nounced that he was just a plain, igno-
rant. humble seeker after wisdom who
had never really felt there was anything
supernatural about him. The stocks of
the immense organisation which had been
built up around the myth created by Mrs.
Besant suffered a world-wide slump, and
the amphitheatre £t Balmoral, Sydney,
built for the youth’s anticipated glorious
second coming, was diverted to less lofty
functions. A few years after Krishna-
murti’s repudiation of the godhead I met
the young man in Melbourne and found
him a simple, gentle, very cultivated per-
son interested in philosophy and child-
ren’s education. It was probably his study
of philosophy whiel) made him doubt the
divinity Annie fastened on him.
* * * *
“Looby”: My florist friend is a bit
worried. He said a girl came into the
shop when he was a bit new at the game.
The lass asked him to make her a
shoulder-wallop of the prettiest flowers he
could find for her to wear at a dance.
He rose to the spirit of the occasion,
and when the girl collected the flowers
she admired them tremendously. It was
about midday next day that the florist
discovered he’d made the spray out of
flowers which close up at night. If the
girl wore them to the dance she must have
danced with rage.
* * * *
“Pawang”: No doubt modern medical
science has achieved miracles in making
the world safe for the arriving baby, but
I know an old-style practitioner in MeL
bourne who won’t be very much excited
about the new developments. Since 1890
he has.delivered 2000 mothers, and had
only one failure. He is 82 and still prac-
tises.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: To those well-meaning
dietitians who preach so loudly and so.
often the sound and admirable doctrine
of “Eat More Fruit,” the average Aus-
tralian housewife of moderate means can
reply only with a tired smile at best.
Queensland, complete with a special Act
for controlling fruit prices, and an expen-
sive Committee of Direction of Fruit
Marketing, is, as perhaps might be ex-
pected, worst off among the States. In
Brisbane, bananas sell retail at per
pound—three bananas to the pound ; four
apples cost lli-d.; a moderate-sized paw-
paw Is. 6d.; 10 plums. Is, 6d.; five
peaches, Is.; a smallish mango, Bd.;
eight apricots, Is. 6d.; a pound of
grapes, 2s. 6d. Such, at least, were the
prices paid by a press investigator on
January 2, totalling 10s. 3d. for barely
enough fruit to supply the needs of an
average household for two days. The
general manager of the expensive Com-
mittee of Director of Fruit Marketing
described the prices as “inexcusable,” and
quoted allowable wholesale values at less
than half the amounts paid. Nothing,
of course, could be done about it, but
housewives might be expected to select a
retailer who would give them a fair deal!
Which, of course, runs true to good old
bureaucratic “principle.”
* * * *
“Solver”: Connoisseurs of the cross-
word puzzle are agreed that among those
consistently worthy of an expert’s steel
(or pencil) the offerings of the “Times”
stand very high. One of them is reckoned
by addicts to be a fair day’s job, using
those odd moments that can be spared
from more serious pursuits. It was
humbling to London amateurs to read
(in the correspondence columns of the
“Times” itself) that there are intellectual
giants who use the puzzle as a mere
mental aperitif, and complete it before
breakfast. It was hinted that the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, the Lord Chief
Justice and Mr. Bevin belong to the
exalted fellowship. After this revela-
tion crossworders went about dejected
and despondent for a week. Then
came a day of brightness. Hilaire
Belloc wrote to the editor, congratu-
lated him on the toughness of his
crosswords and testified that every day
for 10 years he had tackled the puzzle,
his utmost measure of success being to fill
in four words. Hilaire’s joy over this was
dashed when he found next morning he
had got two of them wrong.
* * * *
“Yair”: When I went into the milkbar
Tony was at the far end of the counter
and obviously as mad as a hornet.
“What’s got you?” I asked. He, nodded
furiously towards a woman who was eat-
ing a sundae at the top table. “That
woman!” he hissed, wiping glasses in a
blind rage. The dame seemed harmless
enough, “What did she do?” I asked.
“Do?” —Tony’s English lapsed for a
moment; recovering, he got back to
words X could understand. “She ordered
a banana sundae. I make beautiful
banana sundae. You know how beautiful
they are, my banana sundae?” I nodded,
often having admired the base of fruit-
salad, the long strips of banana, the three
ice-creams each topped with a different
colored flavoring, the artistic mounds of
chopped nuts and the strawberry (when
in season) which Tony adds to the centre
“I saw a snifter Boris Karloff film last night."
ice-cream as a sort of flourish. “Did she
object to the way you made the sundae?”
I asked, sharing his indignation. “No,”
Tony snarled. “But she took it straight
over to the table, sat down and started
to eat it She did not look at it first.”
* ale * *
“C. 8.”: I read that an American
publisher is shortly issuing 100,000 copies
of The Amateur, by Mrs. Eileen Finlay,
a 60-year-old Melbourne authoress. The
same publisher issued The Specialist, by
Chic Sale, which caused a sensation 17
years ago and ran into a million copies.
Newspaper references imply that Mrs.
Finlay’s work has some link with the Chic
Sale opus.
*i* m * *
“Recco”: Training of pigeons men-
tioned by “Codar” (B. 26/12/’45) re-
minds me that the old No. 1 Squadron
had quite a job during the dust-up in
Palestine, when World War I was at its
height, training carrier pigeons to fly the
longer distances. They were handled by
their own gang for the short runs of
early training, but when it was necessary
to extend the range they were handed to
the squadron in pairs in wicker baskets.
They would be flown out in squadron air-
craft, and the observer would throw them
overboard one at a time. They got a
good dusting from the slip stream, but
did not seem to , mind, as I did not hear
of any bird not getting home. Each time
we took them the distance was extended,
and, in the case of those being trained
specially for the use of Lawrence of
“ Well, if it's too late for the Society Page, you'll just have to announce
it in the Stop-Press!"
Arabia, our direction was always out over
the Jordan. When these birds had com-
pleted their training, which usually in-
volved six different trips by air well out
over enemy country, they were delivered
by the squadron to Lawrence—dropped
by parachute in wicker baskets four at
a time. The birds proved invaluable dur-
ing the final push, when troops were mov-
ing rapidly, and enabled Lawrence to
keep Allenby regularly advised of posi-
tions without using the wireless to give
himself away.
* * * *
“X.S.”: One good thing came out of
the recent university exams in Melbourne.
Intermediate candidates were offered the
choice of British History, History of the
British Empire and History of Austral-
asia and the Pacific. Of 636 suburban
aspirants 22 did British History, 211 His-
tory of the British Empire and 403 His-
tory of Australasia.and the Pacific. In
former years the choice would have been
between British, Greek and Roman his-
tory. The larger number of candidates
plumped for what were most interesting
and living subjects.
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”: Whenever the holiday
invasion of city-dwelling paleskins in-
vades the beaches to get itself all burnt
and blistered by the sun I often wonder
why they aren’t put wise to the simplest
of all tips for protecting themselves
against the resultant discomfort, bad
temper and, sometimes, quite serious ill-
ness. All that is needed to prevent these
unpleasant results is a fresh potato, peeled
and sliced to convenient thickness for
rubbing well over all exposed surfaces
just before going in for the surf or sun-
bake and again after coming out. It is
the fresh juice that does the trick, and
the spud must not be allowed to dry out
or to get wet with salt water. Thereafter
reapply every hour or so while exposure
continues after wiping the skin dry. After
a day or two of the treatment the skin
hardens up and intervals may be much
longer. It is an old Queensland trick,
but I’ve never seen it used on southern
beaches.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Sporting celebrities who
write signed articles for newspapers irk
the professional newspaper man (B.
2/l/’46), and are almost invariably dull,
even after liberal sub-editorial assistance.
But, curiously enough, most week-end
sport is covered by casual reporters who
may be anything from bricklayers to ac-
countants during the week. A staff man
can be spared, as a rule, for only the most
important fixture of the day* In my
casual sport-reporting Says I numbered
among my associates an economist, an
industrial chemist, an undertaker, a civil
servant, a medical student and an unem-
ployed gardener. Most of them had
played the game they reported and two
were former first-grade men.
* * * *
“G.R.”: “Gryllus” (B. 19/12/’45) did
not sufficiently emphasise that the rain-
water tanks attached to almost every
house in Brisbane prove prolific breeding
places for mosquitoes, especially now
when so many are rust-perforated and
cannot be repaired or replaced until re-
strictions on galvanised iron are lifted.
One has only to survey a glassful of tank
water to see wrigglers gleefully doing their
daily dozen in preparation for their blitz
on luscious Brisbaneites. Water-soften-
ing plant should be installed at Mt.
Crosby weir as one of the first steps to-
wards mosquito eradication; Brisbane
could then boast of having a water supply
equal to that of Sydney or Melbourne.
This would also cut out paying inspectors.
Housewives have learnt from experience
to avoid using the lime-laden tap water
for the family’s weekly wash. The girls
agree that such sticky hard water is napoo
for a shampoo.
* * * *
“Gelt”: Many cabled references to
Jap atrocities refer to Kempei Tai as if it
were the equivalent of Gestapo or secret
police. There is nothing particularly
secret about K.T., though it has its under-
cover workers. Kempei is equivalent to
our military police and Tai denotes unit
or troop. The organisation was as popular
with the Jap troops as the Provost Corps
was with Diggers. Another misinter-
preted word is geisha, too often used as
equivalent to prostitute. A geisha is a
professional entertainer, whose training
occupies years of hard study in dancing,
singing, elocution and the arts. She must
be able to converse as intelligently on
folk lore as on the current political situa-
tion. A high-class geisha is very choosey
as to her clientele. During the Jap occu-
pation of Rabaul there were some 3000
prostitutes, mostly from Chosen (Korea),
but only a handful of - geishas.
* $ # K
“Orky”: Botanist Fitzgerald, who did
so much spadework in classifying the
orchids of Victoria and South Australia
in the early days, found a beautiful leek
orchid in S.A, A new member of this
aristocratic clan, he gave it his own name,
Prasophyllum fitzgeraldii. Though many
orchid-chasers have been on the rampage
for species and new species since Fitz-
gerald’s day, his orchid remained a rarity
even in S.A, Then one evening at a little
farm in the Central Highlands of N.S.W.
Strawberry the cow went astray and a
dear old lady, tagging after her to coax
her home, came upon acres and acres of
a strange new flower, right by the cow-
yard fence. A far cry to S.A., but it was
Fitzgerald’s own orchid blooming its head
off. Fitzgerald’s Orchids of Australia,
illustrated with colored plates t by the
author, was for a time the authority on
the subject, but, it being a luxury volume,
editions were strictly limited, and now
only a few enthusiasts are possessors.
“Jasby”: The fate of “Lord Haw-
Haw” depended on the Court’s decision
whether or not he was a naturalised Ger-
man subject. It decided he was not, so
the man was hanged. Sydney cable subs,
apparently were still at variance on the
subject after the execution. Here are two
versions, both credited to A.A.P.:
“S. M. Herald”: “To hang Joyce is
ridiculous,” the sympathiser added. “He
is a German citizen. It is like Hitler hang-
ing one Of our men for defending his own
country.”
“Daily Telegraph”: A Joyce sympathiser
said: “To hang Joyce was ridiculous. He
was not a Gernian citizen like Hitler. They
hanged one of our men for defending his
own country.”
♦ * * *
“Longshoreman”: The Union S.S. Co.
has been reviewing its war-time activities.
It transported 868,625 soldiers, 5560 air-
men and 18,400 refugees and civilian
repatriates. Its ships steamed 1,116,919
miles and burned 1,031,234 tons of fuel
oil. The co. lost by enemy action seven
ships aggregating 50,671 tons, and by
“marine casualties” three ships totalling
8514 tons. Two 6000-tonners were scrapped,
having become obsolete. Items in a fairly
extensile current building programme
are two ships of 1800 tons, three *of
3000 tons, one of 6000 tons and three of
10,000 tons. The co. hopes to get the
Monowai and the Aorangi back on the
Tasman run some time this year.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: It is only the Victorian
licensing laws that could produce a pheno-
menon like Cyril O’Brien, a barman at
Windsor. He can wash, fill without a
collar and deliver on the counter with the
correct change 1000 pots an hour. A tee-
totaller, he deplores Melbourne’s hog-
wallow drinking arrangements.


ABORIGINALITEIS
“Bo”: The School of Arts hall in the
little North Coast township was packed.
A Government pig inspector had been
going through the district, and he had
agreed to the Agricultural Society’s
suggestion that he give a lecture on pig-
breeding. After his appraisal of the value
of various breeds, what were best for
that particular district, diseases and cures,
etc., the lecturer wound up on a note of
criticism. “I have noticed that there is
vast room for improvement around these
parts,” he said. “I have seen some splen-
did specimens' of porkers and backfatters
about, concentrated mostly on a few well-
organised, progressive farms. But I must
honestly admit that I have also seen far
too many crossbred swine around here,
and they will never pay!” Immediately
a small man walked down the aisle from
the back of the hall, went up on to the
platform, shook the inspector warmly by
the hand and said “No truer word was
ever spoken in this hall. I thank you,
sir” ; then he turned and walked out. As
the hall began to empty the inspector
turned to the secretary of the society.
“He seemed an enthusiast,” he said.
“What is he —a breeder or a buyer?”
“Neither,” replied the secretary laconi-
cally. “He runs the store.”
* * * *
“S’Aussie”: Two of us carefully
worked on Peter Kiss-Kiss to take us to
an initiation ceremony. After weeks of
diplomacy Peter agreed, and got the con-
sent of old Jerry, chief officiator. But
a new corporal came to the shed where
the two of us and the Ungi tribesman
worked. The first afternoon he was there
Peter Kiss-Kiss was away on a job, and
the corporal gave each of the other two
abos. who worked with us a haircut. In
the morning a dignified Peter came to us.
Corporal belonga us had cut the hair of
Jimmy and Hambone and his was uncut.
We immediately arranged for the same
to be done for him ; but, laboriously, in
his faint English, Peter pointed out that
was not the point. He was friend belonga,
us, therefore he should have been the
first. After a couple of days we gave
it up, but we knew, from Peter’s sudden
loss of even his few words of our lan-
guage whenever initiation was mentioned,
that we had failed. Money, tobacco and
even a new pugaree were spurned by
Peter, and he did not discover he knew
any English again until after the initia-
tion was well past.
♦ * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”; The caprices of parent
birds can be bafflingly unpredictable.
Repeatedly the sole occupants of my
aviary, a pair of zebra finches, have built
nests, laid eggs, then for no visible reason
tossed the latter out or set up building
operations elsewhere. Twice the neglected
eggs held embryos, and once a healthy
live chick was flung out of the nest, and,
when I replaced it, allowed to starve.
While I was trying to decide whether the
parents were unnatural, or possessed of
an instinct that could detect a potential
abnormality or deformity in their off-
spring, the birds built again, laid four
eggs and hatched them. No mother was
ever more attentive, and even when her
family had left the nest the hen worked
frantically to keep feeding the little
loafers. But one bird received even more
attention than the others —it, though per-
fectly healthy, was a freak in that its
coloring was a cream-ivory, and except
for the zebra tail was unlike any other
bird I have ever seen. Now, if the parents
had neglected that chick it would have
been quite understandable. But I would
have been a savage man!
* * * *
“Wonk”: lamat a loss to understand
exactly what is meant by “rubbish
growth” in the query as to how Burkie
kept it down till his grass got going (B.
19/12/’45), If it means suckers on the
sapling stumps, surely it is easy enough
to knock these off and throw them hori-
zontally across the slope clear of their
stumps. As fire was not used in the clear-
ing operations, there would be no after-
math of scrub seedlings to deal with, while
the odd new plant shooting occasionally
into existence after the clearing of a slope
is scarcely worth mentioning. The only
other “rubbish growth” my experience
can hit on is patches of nettles, which.
"I'll lay two to one Pelagohydro Mirabilis .”
coming very little before the natural
grasses, are at certain times nipped off by
stock, or perhaps thistles, fat-hen, Prince
of Wales feather and other such nuis-
ances ; but even these are no more liable
to appear on freshly-cleared slopes than
on any other pasture land, and present
little concern. But I certainly agree that
in similar circumstances, and provided
the owner is in no hurry to use the area,
the idea of using rotting vegetation as a
means of encouraging growth of. grass
on eroded slopes is a winner,
* *• * *
“Blime”; With the bushfire approach-
ing as fast as the terrifying reports of its
latest desolations, Peter hitched a nag,
piled furniture and life-cherished posses-
sions on the cart and in frenzied haste
transferred them to a small sandy island
in the middle of the river. Then, in the
direct line of the fire, he glanced in fare-
well at his house, cut the nag loose on
to the road, and jumped for his car. Next
day he returned. Making his way slowly
and sorrowfully up the river, he stopped
to gaze in consternation at the blackened
debris on the sand island, where a flying
spark had accounted for his possessions.
For a while he hunted among the rubbish,
then despondently climbed the bank to
view the homestead site. Except for blis-
tered paint, there, as he had left it, stood
the house, the burnt grass on either side
showing where the fire had swept round
the spot and linked up again on the
further side.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventy-fiver arrived back
from a second-hand sale with a barometer.
“Te)ls the sort o’ weather we’re goin’ to
have,” he announced, shoving along the
collection on the table and setting up his
purchase between a broken dingo trap
and a jam-tin. Proud explanation of its
wonders occupied the evening, and next
morning he consulted the thing solemnly.
“Hey, Sol, this thing’s got two hands,’
he puzzled. “What’s it mean when one’s
pointing t’ ‘very dry’ an’ the other sez
“fair?” “Probably going t’ rain,” I
answered laconically. The old bloke pon-
dered for a bit, measured the distance
between the hands, then off he went with-
out his coat. About midday he got
soaked to the hide by a sudden storm.
The following morning he again sought
the barometer, measured between the
hands and collected his oiler. All through
the sweltering day he humped the encum-
brance. Entering the hut that evening I
ignored the screwdriver and handful of
parts that occupied the space between the
dingo trap and jam-tin. “What’s your
new jigger say about the weather today?”
I inquired with exaggerated innocence
next morning. In silence Seventyfiver
found his hat, kicked out the fire, and,
walking to the door, cocked an ear at
the outside world. “Aw, well, Sol,” he
summed up finally, “stands t’ reason a
blanky spring ’n’ a few undersized screws
wouldn’t, know as much as a rainbird,
anyway.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: An elephant towing some
teak logs passed through a p.-0.-w. camp
on the Burma-Bangkok railway and re-
fused to go further until he had his break-
fast. A Victorian, admiring the grain
of the wood, started expatiating on its
beauty to a cobber. A Nip guard ob-
served him, and a few minutes later an
officer came up and ordered him to go
into the jungle and look for building
timber. He had no objection to this
variation of his daily yakker and set out,
followed by a single escort. Turning a
corner in the narrow track, he was con-
fronted with an enormous orang-outang.
He stood paralysed with horror, while the
guard fled, dropping his rifle. After a
minute or so of trying to stare each other
out, the Victorian recovered his powers
of movement sufficiently to pick up the
abandoned rifle and slowly retreat. When
he got back to the camp he was charged
with stealing a private’s rifle and attempt-
ing to escape. He was getting the usual
bashing from the private and a sergeant
when a Jap officer with an Oxford accent
came up and asked for an explanation.
When the Victorian explained that it
wasn’t his fault that his aesthetic interest
in the timber had been mistaken for
scientific, the officer laughed and dis-
missed him. The private got a beating.
•£ iff
“Sur Cingle”: I met a netting rider
the other day. With 20 miles of iron-
stone gibbers between him and the end
of his section, with three snarling camels
under a blazing sun, with the memory of
months of monotony behind him and the
urge of a fierce thirst with him, he was
making for a homestead from which he
could get a lift to the train. And what
that thrice-cooked man had to say about
the “black-faced so-and-sos” who were
instrumental in making rail travel so difi-
cult that he’d only a slim chance of going
south for Christmas should be a solemn
warning, if not an obituary notice, to any
coalminer who crosses his path.
* * * *
“Zake”; I have often found in my
garden a snail shell, intact, but minus
its usual inhabitant. Never having seen
a snail, even ,on a hot day, browsing
among my young lettuce without its top-
coat, I was puzzled at the phenomenon.
Light has been cast on the mystery by an
announcement that the snail is regarded
by the rat as a gastromonic tit-bit, with
a warning by health authorities about the
rat menace consequent upon having too
many snails in one’s garden. This latter
will raise a real horselaugh among en-
thusiastic gardeners who, despite all their
snail - trapping, efforts, mourn over
mangled aster seedlings. Their view will
be good luck to the rodent which, with
epicurean delight, swallows a snail it has
snuk up on in the garden and sucked out
of its shell. And if anything, they will
be inclined to encourage these newly-dis-
covered friends >of the harassed gardener
to hang around.
“Susu”: Duck-shooting is not gener-
ally regarded as one of the more expen-
sive sporting pastimes, but it has proved
so to a South Australian sportsman.
Driving past a vineyard, he noticed a mob
feeding among the vines, got out the
trusty .22, and bagged a few for the pot.
Subsequent proceedings cost him £9 Bs.
6d. in fines and compensation. They
turned out to be educated ducks, specially
trained to destroy snails which had con-
stituted themselves a pest by feeding on
the vines.
* * *
“Gryllus”: Why are bats of all kinds
so generally disliked, even feared, by
otherwise sensible folk as harbingers of
evil to any house that they may enter?
Admitted that flying-foxes are a pest to
the northern orchardist, they include only
four of Australia’s 10 kinds of fruit-
eating bats. The remaining 40-odd species
live on insects and do us valuable service
in destroying mosquitoes as well as other
troublesome creeping and flying creatures.
They are falsely accused of dropping ver-
min, but, unlike birds, the only parasites
harbored by any kind of bat are certain
kinds of wingless flies which never leave
them in life and die with their hosts. Let
a small bat come silently through an
open window at night and women are
scared that it will knock over a lamp or
tangle itself in their hair. In reality they
are the most dexterous and sensitive of
all flying creatures, and never collide with
anything, even when blind. “Blind as a
bat,” however, is the most idiotic of all
the many wrong concepts concerning the
only mammals which have evolved the
power of continuous flight by turning
their hands into highly efficient wings
with the thumbs serving as hooks whereby
to hang themselves upside down when
they rest. So remarkable are they in
their structural and functional develop-
ment that they are classed among the
next highest animals to the primates,
which include lemurs, apes and even our
noble selves, who now seem so well on
the way towards destroying the whole lot.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Axe-swinging females (B.
12/12/’45)? A jolly family fresh from
station life came to live in our suburb.
When we got to know each other pretty
well one of the girls said to me critically
one day “Do you let a woman chop your
wood?” I said no ; I did it myself. “But
I’ve heard it,” she explained, “one can’t
mistake the sound.” So that was how
what I call chopping sounded to the stal-
wart girl from the bush.
* * * »
“G.V.S.”: Just as the cock sparrow
settled in my apple-tree, a grey flash
streaked down from a near-by gum, and
the “spadger” was firmly held by a
butcher-bird. Though apparently doomed,
the rowdy little immigrant screamed to
the high heavens. No bird twice his size
ever made half the din. For a while the
butcher-bird stood it; then, with an ob-
vious shudder, like a diner’s reaction to
modern dinner music, he released the
captive, and flew back to his native gum,
where he soothed outraged ears with a
few of his own liquid notes.
* * * *
“Munja”: Why pick a New Guinea
island for starry-eyed beachcombing?
(B. 28 /11 / ’45)? We have reef-fringed,
palm-clad islands of breath-taking beauty
off our own coastline, vivid jewels nest-
ling in the bosom of the Coral Sea.
Golden beaches slope down to lagoons,
crystal-clear; underneath are coral sea-
gardens of living, glowing spendor.
Nature has supplied sea-foods, birds,
fruits and yams with a lavish hand, has
omitted snakes and forgotten the creep-
ing and flying horrors which turn the
N.G. night into a nightmare. The island
abos. are well nourished, friendly and
prehistoric in courtship and marriage.
“Royal” dowries of pigs and “bully-moo-
cow” are neither asked nor offered. When
Binghi wants a damsel he glares at his
rivals, toys with a seven-foot shovel-
nosed spear, grabs the coy maid by the
wrist and says “This one is mine.” If
she has personality plus she goes to the
huskiest abo. or the most influential. In
any case, she is likely to change hus-
bands as often as a Hollywood head-
liner.
AUSTRALIA VICTRIX.
A threat came out of the North,
A treacherous foe drew near,
Then did you gird and go forth
Valorous, void of fear;
Swept through the fevered forest,
Conquered the swamp and fen,
Smote when the need was sorest
Bearing yourselves like men.
Few were your slender forces,
Thin were your lines, we know;
You went —and without your horses,
And that was the hardest blow!
But steadily, shoulder to shoulder,
Over the island capes,
Storming o’er crag and boulder
You hunted the foul man-apes.
Deep in your hearts you cherished
The dream of the land you left;
Daily your bravest perished
Leaving their homes bereft.
Victory only you sought for,
Dim though it seemed and far.
And always the land you fought for
Shone like a distant star.
Always your pride up-bore you
As you trod the perilous way
That your fathers trod before you
Who landed in Aczac Bay.
You knew that your rightful station
Was under the cannon’s breath,
And you stood for a martial nation
Whose sires had supped with Death.
And now to your homes returning
Victorious, wreathed with fame,
May you keep the torches burning
With jealously guarded flame;
No more mere part of the story
Of an Empire flag unfurled,
But a continent crowned with glory
And a Power in the brave new world.
Scotland.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“S.H.C.”: Bob Oakey, drover, turned
his 600 wethers into the lane just
on dusk, pegged his hessian fences and
hung lighted hurricane-lamps to them,
fed and watered dogs and horse, had his
tea and then retired to his wagonette for
a pre-bunk smoke. He was thinking of
turning in when a motor-horn sounded.
He went forth, opened the hessian and
let the car through. By the time the
seventh had passed Bob became irritated
and curious. He was informed that a
dance was being held in a hall three miles
along the lane, and he could expect cars
to be going and coming until after mid-
night. Bob pondered. The sheep were
tired, the night sultry. Pulling up his
hessian fences,' Bob re-erected them to
make a yard in a corner of the adjoining
paddock, cut a panel of the fence and
hoyed the sheep through it, tied up the
wire and retired. He was turning them
into the lane next morning when an in-
dignant man arrived on foot and de-
mapded whatinell he thought he was
doing. Bob combed his moustache
thoughtfully and said “That your pad-
dock, mister?” “You bet yoqr blanky
life it is an’ whatta you mean puttin’
y’r sheep.in? Trespassin’! I’ll” “I
never put ’em in. The panel was down
an’ they rushed”—— “Don’t gimme
that,” roared the indignant landowner,
pointing to Bob’s hessian fences. “Oh,
them,” said Bob winningly. “Well, y’ see,
it was dark when they rushed in an’ I
didn’t know but they’d get boxed, so I
run that hessian round while the dogs
held ’em. Y’ see, I suffer from night-
blindness and couldn’t find the panel t’
get ’em out again till daylight come.”
And he whipped up his horse.
* * * *
“Propalong”: This S.A. district is one
of grim ranges, reddish sandstone, black
ironstone, brown slates and shales, some-
times grand rocky scarps shimmering in
the heat-haze, sometimes wastes of
broken rock dotted with dark native pine
and grey oak scrub. A month or two
ago it brought out a fantastic display of
flowers in its rejoicing at the end of the
drought. But usually it’s country in
which any of the gayer greens, blues and
yellows are alien: it wears its sombre
purples, its harsh browns, its grim ink-
blues and dull greys by preference. The
flowers have gone now and the gibber
flats and rocky slopes have settled down
“They tell me this is the kind of Wood they
make cofins out of.”
to their usual summer monotony. But
in the ranges there are miracles. You
ride on to a gum creek and the gums have
leaves of tender young green. You strike
a clump of mallee in a dark gorge —more
soft green. And greenest and gayest of
all is the ordinarily blue-grey bullock-
bush. Every clump of the kangaroo’s
favorite shade tree is out in brilliant foli-
age and in flower —and the flowers are
surrounded by clouds of red-and-black
wasps. The greenery, you feel, is so out
of place as to be almost indecent, but it
typifies the capacity for change lurking
in the hard old land.
* * * *
“Tandan”: A far more complete form
of mummification than tree-burial (B.
19/12/’45) was carried out among tribes
of the Darling-Murray basin. With the
internal organs removed the body would
be smoked with great ceremonies, and
often carried about with the tribe for
gome time before final interment. The
Bibbulmun were not the only ones to
bury their dead in peculiar positions. In
some tribes hands and feet were tied to-
gether to prevent the dead from walking ;
in others the knees were bent and the
arms crossed; the Ngairo arranged a
corpse with open hands to the sides of
the face and knees drawn up ; and in
parts of N.S.W. a dead man was buried
with arms folded, his face to his knees
and his heels up to his hips.
* * * *
“Freedom”: That cove who is trying
to grow wheat in a gully behind Para-
chilna (B. 19/12/’45) apparently hasn’t
heard of the piece of Barnum-bait who
tried it in Wilpena Pound, that bowl in
the mountains a bit further south. Last
time I was in the Pound the walls of his
home were still standing, and erosion was
traceable from where his crop washed
out with the first big rains. But such
men are no less foolish than have been
Governments in the past. Wind-swept,
drifting Farina, even further up the line
than Parachilna, had its name changed
from Government Gums when it was be-
lieved that this Latin word for flour
would be a fitting name for a town that
it was hoped would become the granary
of northern S.A.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: From the Jurassic beds of
s.-e. Centralia I have obtained three extra-
good specimens of fossilised bottle-brush
flowers. They are long by 7jin.
in circumference, and present exactly the
same arrangement of growth as those
found flourishing along our coastal areas
today. There is the central stem about
the thickness of one’s finger, from which
arise the brushlike spicules which termi-
nate in the small flowerets covering the
whole bloom. Nothing has been done
on palaeobotany research in this part of
our continent, and it is probably safe to
say these three specimens are the only
ones yet discovered
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re toiling on a cane
farm up on the Clarence one time when
we hear shrieks and screams coming from
the homestead. We grab our scrubhooks
and tear down the hill, Mat drawing away
in thf lead. When I rush into the house
there’s the missus and her two grown-up
daughters shrieking and dancing about
in the living-room and Mat standing there
with his brushhook poised, eyeing a
bloomin’ great snake coiled round a big
glass vase on the sideboard. Mr. Snake
is swaying his head and making faces at
Mat. “Why don’t y’ hit him?” I yell.
“Oh, no, no! ” yells the
missus, “he’ll smash me
lovely vase. Oh, can’t y’
get him away from the vase
first?” Mat lowers his hook,
gives her a wild look and
says “Look, missus, I’m a
scrubcutter, not a flamin’
snake-charmer. If y’ don’t
want y’r vase broke y’ll have
t’ wait till he uncoils.” The
missus cools down a bit and
says “Very well. You two
men had better wait for
him.” Mat pushes his hat
back and says “Look, we're
on contract, makin’ a quid a
day an’ tucker. That’s a
half-dollar an hour. If you
want us t’ do snake-watchin’
it’ll cost y’ that much.” She
glares and snorts “Nothing
of the sort. You can go
back to work at once. I’ll
shut up the room and wait
till my husband comes
home.” As we make back
I chip him about it. “Don’t
be silly,” he growls. “Didn't
y’ see them two girls stand-
in’ there, big-eyed? An’
didn’t y’ recognise that
snake? He’s a carpet an’ bin
round that house ever since
we bin here. Next thing,
we’d have bin sittin’ there
drinkin’ tea an’ talkin’ t’
them wimmen.” *
* * *
“Munja”: For outstanding beauty, un-
rivalled speed and slickness of design the
canoes of Bougainville can run rings around
any other hand-propelled native craft in
the Pacific. The boongs take almost 12
months to build one (they average 40ft.
to 50ft. in length), using stone adzes.
Keel, frame and planks are lashed into
position ‘ with lawyer-vine—the tropical
substitute for bindertwine, fencing wire
or nails. Joints and seams are caulked
with a native gum which hardens likq
bitumen on contacting water. The Bft.
prows are beautifully inlaid with irides-
cent pearl, decorated with cowries and
topped with parrot feathers. Today, used
mainly for turtle-hunting or 90-mile
inter-island trips, they are relics of the
grim head-hunting days of the last cen-
“Look, Missus, I don't mind gettin' grilled by the cops, but I draw
the line at wimmen!”
tury, days when dusky warriors ranged as
far afield as New Georgia and Guadal-
canal for gruesome trophies—and the
fighter’s perquisites, slave women.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Skinner, who was well named,
put on Tommy Burcher for the busy part
of the season, and kept the undersized
youth going like a scalded cat with the
grass-hay harvest. By the week-end
Tommy was reduced to the energy of a
limp rag, and on Sunday morning, after
milking his share of cows, came in for
late breakfast on dragging feet. Skinner
favored him with a long speculative look,
“Sundee today,” he remarked with a
heavy attempt at cheerfulness. “We
alw’ys has a holidee Sundee. Be a good
idea f’r us* f fill in the time delousing the
pigs this mornin’; that’ll leave plenty ot
time t’ clean out the chookhouse an
stables this aryo. But if it s a holiday
I m not dolh any work, ec are
Tommy. Skinner gave his employee a
flinty look. “I dunno what you young
blokes are cornin’ to,” he said disgustedly,
“Gripes, delousin’ pigs ain’t work-it’s a
/ ’ ,»
P L * * *
“Lub”- “Once had a foxie bitch that
was a dab at killin’snakes,” said Mitchell,
“All y’ had t’ do was yell out ‘Snake!’
an’ she’d come tearin’ over an’ root
around till she got it. Not long after
she had ’em all cleaned up on the place
an old aunt come t’ stay with us. She
was full up of a lot of old women’s tales
about the deadly dangers of reptiles, an’
she kept seein’ ’em in ev’ry clump of
grass. One day she got a start at seein
a piece of garden hose pokin’ out of a
flowerbed, screeched her head orf about
it bein’ a snake an chucks a doubler
° n t i 6 I randa s' SSf r i!L Jh nut
round the garden an then cleared out
f’r the day. Of course, Auntie put on
another turn next mornin’ on seein’ a
dead tiger snake draped on the end of
her bed- then, when she’d recovered, got
orf her bike properly an’ accused me an’
Charlie of playin’ tricks on her. She left
on the train that day. It was useless tryin’
t’ explain t’ her how the dawg, so as
not to disappoint her after she yelled,
padded ten miles t’ the river t’ bring her
back that snake.”
■#* * *
“Fang”: Sandy hadn’t had much to
do with firearms, but the rabbits
coming down to drink at the river in the
evenings tempted him to borrow a rifle
from Joe and try his luck. Half a packet
of bullets gone without a kill convinced
him something wasn’t quite as it should
be so he decided the weapon needed
cleaning. With an improvised ramrod
he shoved and rammed till he got a piece
of rag hopelessly stuck halfway down the
barrel; then, remembering some advice
he’d once heard, he loaded up and fired,
There was a muffled detonation, and the
slug was added to the obstruction. But
Sandy wasn’t short of ideas, and later
he handed back the rifle with an air of
satisfaction. Joe noticed the changed hue
of the barrel and swore. “Wotinell did
y’do to it?” he asked peevishly. “Well,”
said Sandy, “after gittin’ the bit of rag
an’ the bullet stuck in it I hung the gun
over the fire to smoulder the rag an’ run
the lead out, o’ course. Anyway, what’s
a bit o’ discoloration matter? Y’ fire
through the inside o’ the spout, don’t y’?■’*
* * * *
“Muff”: The phenomenon of ships ob-
taining fresh-water supplies from the sea
takes place regularly at a point off the
shore of Hardy Island, adjacent to the
s.-w. shore of Arnhem Bay in the Gulf
of Carpentaria. The fresh water bubbles
up from a spring in the seabed and is
obtained by letting down a weighted hose
to the outlet of the spring, the fresh water
being pumped up. During the war the
spring became a well-known watering-
place for the small ships of the Navy,
Army and R.A.A.F. In pre-war days
it was used extensively by pearling ves-
sels and small traders. Natives extract
the fresh water by inserting long bamboo
poles into the spring outlet and running
the water off into large shells and other
natural containers which they take out
in their canoes,
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: We had been
sweltering for days in the Sepik River
(n_g.). Because of the recent Jap devas-
tation, fresh native foods were almost
un p rocura ble, so when a village abo.
brought on board a “new fella” egg, re-
elongated hen egg the
sembling an tonga d n gg,
skipper brightened up and asked if.the
product was from a fowl belong bush.
(They abound on Long Island and make
excellent omelettes.) The native in vague
pidgin explained it was something the
same. But later the skippers face
dropped when his personal boy informed
him he had bought a crocodile egg.
* * * *
Propalong : When Old Charlie pen-
sioned his horse and jinker in favor of
a vintaged Ford there was a lot of betting
in the township, whence Charlie set off
every Saturday night with a comfortable
sk inful on his 18-mile drive home, about
bow j on g jp d b e before the old chap went
s i ee as b e always had done behind
Qld g ankei . } and pded tk e car up against
a P° st - But wee ks went by without acci-
riaude the barman at
f en t, although Claude the barman at
the pub, reported that Charlie sank just
as many pots as formerly. Finally the
mob concluded that the hellish rattle ot
his car kept the old bloke awake over the
long featureless miles of open plain, where
the posts of the Long Fence jerked past in
the dim yellow beam of the lamps until the
solitary sugar-gum that marked his gate
warned him to pull up. And then Charlie
had a row with his neighbor, Alec Flem-
ing, from the Gap. It was a proper row,
and its personal reminiscences went right
back to far distant schooldays, and dug
up enough ground to leave a permanent
and unbridgeable gap m a lifetime s
friendship. The next Saturday Cfiadie
drove out as usual. On Sunday morning
Arthur Scott, B°' n S oat J or his cows,
found the Ford at the bottom of Scott s
creek, where it had gently slid back after
stalling on the far bank. Charlie was
asleep at the wheel, and seemed surprised
when Art told him he was 15 mileson
past his home. Now there s a squabble
about those bets in the township. Some
reckon Charlie didn’t go to sleep driving,
but only snored off when he found he was
bushed. Others reckoned the car got
bushed, not being able to see the sugar-
gum that Alec had cut down, and the old
chap was already asleep. J don t know.
CICADAS.
If I can hear cicadas sing
On any New Year’s Day,
I’ll nothing care how old I am,
Nor mourn what’s passed away.
Gold is the sun our summer knows,
And gold the pleasant heat
As swooning blossoms dust the road
Where the double-drummers beat.
The stranger shrinks from the wall of
sound
And pants for the pool of shade,
But I shall walk in the golden fire
My own strong sun has made.
What if the years in passing bring
The marks of time to me?
My heart still leaps to the summer call
Of the roysterers in the tree.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH,, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
. CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
ione-chewing Cattle
fxd-
Sterilised
BONE flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
r in Pastures and Fodders
Tn-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
- an y other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32,5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
—— l All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in _ will
give off a poison gas ■which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.o.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 25lb. tin, 68/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
1
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
d
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand. Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
The Land and the Nation.
“F.W.L.”: Fm with “C.S.” (B.
12/12/’45) on the need for revising the
present attitude to farming, though
there’s no easy and cheap method by
which the ideal may be attained. Root
of the trouble is that too few are trying
to farm too much land, and the large
scale on which so much land is worked
is in the main responsible for its ruin.
Large acreages, quick yields and big
profits are the aims of the majority, and
the modern way of life in rural districts
demands commercial enterprise at almost
any cost in land.
Under the present order careful hus-
bandry of all land is beyond possibility
and, failing to raise the rural popula-
tion quickly and adequately to people
and maintain the vast inland areas, the
most logical course of preservation is re-
afforestation in a big way and with-
drawal to the richer districts. There is
urgent need for a nation-wide survey of
what good soil is left. This would show
millions of acres which cannot survive
farming much longer, and there is a
chance of saving this land for posterity.
In proportion to other countries, there
is still sufficient rich land to absorb and
maintain the entire rural population of
this country in a reasonable degree of
prosperity. No good can come of perser-
vering with sparsely-settled, impoverished
land on which farmers have to depend
on Government bounties for their exist-
ence. Intensive farming on rich land,
with a view to permanence and stability,
is the key to prosperity of rural occupa-
tion.
I’ve noted from time to time the baffled
futility with which occupiers of im-
poverished and denuded lands face the
future. They hang on because they have
a genuine love for the soil and the heart
to battle on; yet they have never been
free of debt and worry, and their lives
are mortgaged to the prodigal and ruinous
system miscalled farming. They have no
chance except in fertile land and better
farming, and their blocks should be re-
turned to growing trees and native
shrubs.
“C.S.” mentions the self-contained
farms of America as a possible solution
to the rampant commercialisation of
Australian farming and the false economy
of subsidies and bounties. There seems
a link between intensive farming and
self-contained farms on a smaller scale.
Closer settlement of fertile areas would
bring that within reach, but I doubt if
there is much scope at present for a large
proportion of the farms to be worked
otherwise than as they are. The ways
and costs of living outback make it in-
evitable that all marketable produce
must be converted into the negotiable
medium of money, and the land is being
flogged to ultimate sterility.
Expenses of production are heavy, and
some relief in the prices of machinery
and fuels is necessary. There are, too,
in most cases the costs of starting out
and the debts incurred in stocking a
place, which militate against any but the
purely commercial style of farming.
CS. is right about absentee ownership
and disregard of responsibility in trustee-
“The ol' rogue 's only puttin' us orf the scent, Ma. I've a feelin' she’s
hidden ’er noo calf hereabouts.”
ship and an overhaul of the systems of
land tenure should be made.
The picture of the land and the nation
is incomplete until a national soil survey
is undertaken and the land mapped for
fertility. Then it will be possible to draw
a line of demarkation between the fertile
and the near-sterile and get to the prob-
lem of where and how out rural popula-
tion can be most fruitfully employed.
Land no longer fit for farming, if given
over to reafforestation, will be safe-
guarded for a future generation which,
with the backing of an adequate popula-
tion and extensive water conservation,
should be able successfully to redevelop
it.
Drift to the cities must be arrested,
and here, again, I’ve noticed the loss is
not so great in prosperous districts. The
attraction, apparently, is a higher standard
of living, and it will go on as long as does
farm drudgery, A new philosophy for
the land and nation is needed, and the
prodigal treatment of land must stop be-
fore ruin and chaos stop it between them.
Footrot.
“Myrrhee”: Dry summer months will
reduce but not eliminate footrot. Re-
infection will occur in autumn and winter
if only a small percentage of “carriers”
persists from year to year. Sometimes,
too, footrot spores lie in damp spots
awaiting a host.
Examine the sheep in summer and
isolate those showing old areas of infec-
tion. Pare misshapen hooves in search
of infected spots. Foot lesions should
be regarded with suspicion. Sheep elimi-
nated during the examination should be
isolated and treated. Pafe their feet and
treat with 10 p.c. formalin every two or
three days until cured. Cases which do
not respond should go to the butcher.
As an additional safeguard, put appar-
ently clean sheep through a foot-bath of
either 5 p.c. formalin or 10 p.c. copper
sulphate.
Pulpy Kidney.
“Sheepo”: It usually affects lambs up
to three months old that have been run-
ning with their mothers on succulent
green feed. English breeds and cross-
breds suffer most, although all breeds
and sheen of all ages may become
affected.
Symptoms vary, the most common
being a staggering walk prior to falling
down. Whilst lying on the ground with
its head invariably turned to the flank
the affected lamb grinds its teeth, its
muscles twitch violently and there is an
excessive flow of saliva. Before death it
may stagger to its feet and move away
a few yards before falling down again. It
usually dies within four hours of being
stricken.
Treatment is useless, but prevention
can be obtained by the injection of vac-
cine especially prepared for counteract-
ing entero-toxasmia. Inoculation is done
either inside the thigh or the arm of the
lamb, the first dose being given soon after
birth and the second a month later. The
operator must be skilled in the work, and
it is important that all instruments be
thoroughly sterilised and the floor of the
inoculation shed kept clean. Only vac-
cine from a reliable source should be
tolerated. Expert and careful inocula-
tion will give practically 100 p.c. im-
munity,
A Promising Legume.
; ‘Outback”: Tangier pea (Lathryus tin-
gilanus) is giving promising results in the
Brisbane valley. It is, however, proving
a shy seeder in Queensland, and this neces-
sitates seed being imported from W.A.
The pea has not so far been tested over
a wide range of soils and climatic condi-
tions In Queensland, but it is known to
be a strong resister to heat and cold. Its
quick response to rain makes it unneces-
sary for a farmer to depend on irrigation
to obtain a satisfactory yield.
The hard-shelled seeds* may remain
dormant in the soil until a suitable season,
as has been proved by R. J. Coleman,
of Toogoolawah. Seeds sown by him
late in 1944 germinated in 1945, despite
intensive cultivation of the paddock in
the interim. For forage purposes several
grazings can be obtained, the pea readily
making regrowth, or it can be allowed
to reach the flowering stage and be cut
for hay to feed either green or dry. It is
relished by all stock, and does not taint
milk. In food value it compares with
the field-pea, but its more prolific growth
returns a greater yield.
Hints for the Farm.
‘‘Bill C.”: So mistletoe is a menace be-
cause possums have been wiped out <B.
28/11/ ’45). Around Mackay (C.Q.) most
trees in the forest areas carry some mistle-
toe. During recent years the parasite has
made great headway, despite the presence
of a truly enormous possum population.
In my particular corner, 25 miles south
of Mackay, possums have always been a
serious agricultural pest. They were very
plentiful years ago when the first mistle-
toe growth appeared on scattered trees.
They did not worry the mjstletoe then and
they don’t now.
“V.G.L.”: For fluky pastures broadcast
fine crystalline bluestone mixed with four
parts of sand ; 251 b. of bluestone mixed
with 1001 b. of fine sand is enough to treat
an acre. Sprinkle the powder in swamp
areas and around the edges of pools and
dams. Broadcast from October onwards
as the principal escape of young fluke
from snails takes place from then till late
summer. Bluestone is harmless to stock.
One treatment is not always enough. In
Victoria the fluke snail has two egg hatch-
ings annually, one in December and the
other in July. Get ’em before they lay
their eggs.
“Hortus”: It’s the short, dark-green
Sudan grass that is high in cyanide. Don’t
graze it when it’s this color. It can be
seen in second growth after grazing or
removal of a hay crop, and again in a
droughty time when growth is arrested.
It’s a good point not to graze it at all
until it is 2ft. high. Don’t let cattle stay
on it for long. Leave it alone when it
it wet. Wait until the dew is off it. When
it is cut and dried, no harm can happen.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Grim in Europe.
(From an article by a N.Y. “Daily News”
correspondent.)
Slowly taking shape through the fog of
'a peace that is no peace is the brutal fact
that Europe is worse off than it was 27
years ago. The actual and terrifying con-
ditions of desperation and hunger-bred
savagery which now exist haven’t been
told as yet, and it’s high time they were.
Eisenhower has made it clear that he
wants control of Germany, the adminis-
tration of conquered people, removed
from the Army and responsibility for
what happens—which all intelligent ob-
servers dread —placed squarely on the
civilian shoulders which have thought up
the procedure of administering a “hard
peace” on conquered civilians—men,
women and children.
Even most hard-headed and practical
officials privately declare that unless there
is a sudden and drastic change—and they
don't expect this—middle-Europe by Feb-
ruary will be worse off than it was at the
end* of the Thirty Years’ War, when pre-
datory armies plundered from Dunkirk to
the Russian borders, from the Baltic to
Italy, and human hunger led to inevitable
cannibalism.
It has been driven home to the British
by debates in their Commons that guer-
rilla warfare, caused directly by starva-
tion of civilians and without any political
origin, is inevitable. That is the finding
of British-trained American intelligence
officers, whose reports have been pouring
into Washington in increasing volume.
Desperate bands of SO or 40 men (some
with women companions) recruited from
Germans, Hungarians, Austrians, Bo-
hemians, Italians, Greeks and displaced
natives of Russian-dominated Baltic and
Balkan States are on the march for food
and clothing for their wives and children
—and are ready to shoot to get them.
Significant facts in the reports from ob-
servers on the scene; (1) Starvation, not
politics nor resurgent Nazism, is the im-
pelling, driving force behind the despe-
rate men ; (2) the organised banditti of
former soldiers are in many cases led by
former officers ; (3) their objective is food,
clothing and fuel; (4) if the march of
events continues down the present path,
there will be bloody outbreaks between
the outlaw desperadoes and American
occupation troops; (5) the Army should
be relieved of the civilian job of adminis-
tering a conquered territory and respon-
sibility fixed on civilian officials who make
the policy and fix the rules way back in
Washington, and (6) U.N.R.R.A., under
New York’s former Governor Lehman,
has made a complete mess of its assign-
ment and made the American post-war
effort .in Europe a target for ridicule and
derision —particularly in eastern Europe,
where the Russian Bear throws its Com-
munist weight around.
Hitherto secret figures of the basic
cause of unrest in Germany and through-
out mid-Europe were revealed by editors
Felix Morley and Frank C. Hanighen in
their privately-circulated weekly analysis
“Human Events.” They report that offi-
cial surveys by American experts reveal
that “whereas Germany used to be about
80 per cent, self-sufficient in foodi, it is now
less than 50 per cent, self-sufficient, and
imports of food are negligible today. In
short, Germans and other inhabitants of
occupied zones will take to banditry in
order to obtain food. General Eisen-
hower’s warning on this subject was de-
signed to relieve the Army of the results
of Potsdam and the Morgenthau plan.”
These are the figures on food sent back
to Washington by our most expert Gov-
ernment observers. “In the German
areas ceded to Poland, the grain and
potato harvest is not more than 15 per
cent, of the 1935-39 average, or a loss of
grain equivalent to 8,000,000 tons. In
the Russian occupation zone between the
Elbe and the Oder the total crop will not
exceed 50 per cent, of the 1936-39 aver-
age. In the western-occupied zones the
total crop approximates 80 per cent, of
the 1936-39 average, but this is the least
important agricultural section. The total
loss of grain in the entire Reich is be-
tween 13,000,000 and 14,000,000 tons,
or about 40 per cent, of the average 1936-
39 production.”
Soviet Aid for Hitler.
(From a U.S. United Press report of evidence
at Nuremberg.)
Hitler in March, 1940, ordered top-
priority delivery of war goods to the
Soviet Union because of prompt Russian
shipments of raw materials to the Reich,
the War Crimes Court was told. The
shipments of war materials to Russia
were made in accordance with the Russo-
German economic pact of August, 1939.
Russia, the evidence disclosed, carried
out deliveries to Germany right up to
the time of the Nazi attack, and a Nazi
memorandum showed deliveries were
made “even during the last few days
(before June 22, 1941)” with transport of
India rubber from the Far East being
completed by express trains,
The initial deliveries by Russia, the
German documents reported, comprised
1,000,000 tons of cereals, 500,000 tons of
wheat, 900,000 tons of oil byproducts,
100,000 tons of cotton, 500,000 tons of
phosphates, 80,000,000 reichmarks’ worth
of timber and quantities of flax, manga-
nese, platinum and soy-beans,
Germany, the evidence revealed, had
difficulty in meeting her commitments to
deliver armaments to Russia and finally
in the spring of 1940 Hitler ordered the
Russian deliveries to be given priority
above those to the Wehrmacht.
War Danger in Iran.
(From N.Y. “World-Telegram
The danger of Iran goes far beyond a
Russian threat to the independence of an
ally. It involves the entire Middle East,
the most explosive area in the world
today. And it causes a worse strain on
British-Russian relations than any of the
numerous provocations elsewhere.
Even if only Iran were concerned it
would be bad enough. That country
early got rid of a Nazi puppet regime,
joined the Allies and welcomed Russian
and British and American troops in the
common war effort. The Iran route was
the only one by which Stalin could get
the American munitions and supplies so
desperately needed by the Red Army
in its darkest days. To that degree Russia
is indebted to Iran for survival.
In- 1941, when Russian and British
troops went into Iran, both Governments
pledged specifically that they would get
out as soon as the war was over and
would not transgress Iranian freedom.
Again that oath was repeated in the 1942
treaty of alliance. Once more at the
Tehran Conference of 1943 a Stalin-
Churchill-Roosevelt declaration under-
wrote Iranian independence. Again that
was confirmed by Iran’s acceptance as a
full member of the United Nations
Organisation.
Russia’s failure to withdraw her troops
from northern Iran and refusal to permit
Tehran forces to operate against the Red-
inspired separatist rebellion is a direct
violation of the numerous Stalin pledges.
Of course, even if there had been no
such specific pledges, Russia still would
be breaking U.N.O. commitments.
The international hazards are obvious.
The Russian-occupied area of Iran gives
Stalin another club against Turkey,
already threatened. Palestine and the
Arab nations are seething. Iran is the
road to India and cuts across the British
Empire lifeline. Iran is rich in oil re-
sources over which Russia and the other
Powers are contending. For a dozen
reasons this situation is dynamite.
If the U.N.O, is to function, it cannot
long ignore this danger.
Passing History: Jap War.
(The steps that led up to the war in the Pacific,
as revealed by Congressional inquiries and re-
ported by the authoritative “United States
News.”)
It now is possible to reconstruct in detail the
military pattern of American and Japanese
moves in the Pacific that led up to the attack
on Pearl Harbor. Intimate facts that might
have been hidden from the public for many
Some day■—the U.S. War Depart-
ment hopes it will come before an-
other Armistice Day arrives—the
great bulk of U.S. overseas dead
will be started homeward, each body
enfolded in the Stars and Stripes.
It will be the greatest repatriation
of the dead the world has ever seen.
—Washington “Post.”
years are being placed before Congressional in-
vestigators. Bit by bit they piece together into
this conclusion: The U.S., stalling for time to
prepare against the inevitable, knew-Japan was
bound for war; the surprise, to military leaders,
came in her target and her time of attack.
These additions to history’s record have been
revealed by top figures in the nation’s drama
of war —former Secretary of State Cordell Hull;
Fleet Admiral William D. Leahy, Chief of Staff
to the President; Admiral J. O, Richardson,
who for a time commanded the fleet in the
Pacific, and others who played prominent roles.
The story goes back to 1940, when the U.S.
found itself in danger in both oceans. Facing
the Navy, and the late President Roosevelt as
Commander-in-Chief, was this question: Should
the fleet be kept in the Atlantic or the Pacific,
or should if be divided between the two oceans?
If part or all of the fleet was to be kept in
the Pacific, should it be stationed at Pearl
Harbor or on the West Coast?
It is revealed now by Admiral Richardson
that Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll, then Assistant
Chief of Naval Operations, went tcf London late
in 1939 to discuss co-ordinating of U.S. naval
policy with that of Britain. His talks explored
the possibility of an arrangement under which
the United States would have the use of a
base at Singapore in return for defending North
and South America and Australia. Soon after-
ward, in March, 1940, the U.S. Fleet was
shifted from the West Coast, its usual home, to
Pearl Harbor for manoeuvres, with instructions
to stay until May 9. But when May arrived
orders went from Washington directing the fleet
to remain there longer.
Admiral Richardson wrote to Admiral H. R.
Stark, then Chief of Naval Operations, asking
why the fleet was being kept at Hawaii.
Admiral Stark explained: “You are there because
of the deterrent effect which it is thought your
presence may have on the Japs going into the
East Indies.” Germany had invaded France
and the Low Countries, and Italy was believed
to be on the verge of war. Admiral Stark said
that both the Germans and the Italians were
thought t'o have told Japan that it could have
a free hand in the Dutch East Indies, where
oil, rubber, sugar, quinine and other valuable
products were to be found. That could cut
off supplies of these materials. \
“You would naturally ask,” wrote Admiral
Stark, “suppose the Japs do go into the East
Indies? What are we going to do about it?
My answer to that is, I don’t know, and I think
there is nobody on God’s green earth who can
fell you. Even if the decision here were for
the U.S. to take no decisive action if the Japs
should decide to go into the Dutch East Indies,
we must not breathe it to a soul, as by so
doing we would completely nullify the reason
for your presence in the Hawaiian area. Just
remember that the Japs don’t know what we
are going to do, and so long as they don’t
know they may hesitate, or be deterred.”
Italy entered the war, and nothing happened
in the Pacific. Then, on June 22, Admiral
Stark wrote that disposition of the U.S. fleet
depended partly on what happened to the
French fleet. If the French fleet should be
turned over to the Germans, the situation in
the Atlantic would become critical, and part
of the U.S. fleet might have to be sent to
the East Coast. That crisis was passed, but,
in July, 1940, Admiral Richardson visited Wash-
ington and urged President Roosevelt to bring
the fleet, then undermanned by as much as 15
p.c., up to full strength. The President
objected, saying that mechanics could be taken
from civilian life, put in the Navy, and quickly
trained, if matters became serious.
Then, in October, came the signing of the
Tripartite Pact by Germany, Japan and Italy.
Again Admiral Richardson visited Washington.
He found the Navy and the White House suffer-
ing another scare. Britain was about to re-
open the Burma Road, and President Roose-
velt was considering a plan to blockade Japan
with a patrol of light ships from Hawaii to the
Philippines and the Dutch East Indies. In
conference with the late Frank Knox, then
Secretary of the Navy, Admiral Richardson ex-
pressed amazement at the proposal and stated
that the fleet was not prepared to put such a
plan into effect. He said the ships could be
picked off, one by one, and iriany would be
lost. An alternative plan was prepared, but
was not carried out. Japan was promised some
oil, and again the crisis passed.
It was on this visit, in October, 1940, that
President Roosevelt and Admiral Richardson
disagreed sharply over where the fleet should
be stationed. Admiral Richardson urged that
it be shifted back to the West Coast, so as to
prepare more effectively for possible war. But
President Roosevelt said he would agree to such
a step only if he could be given, a “good
statement which will convince the American
people and the Japanese Government that in
bringing the battleships* to the West Coast we
are not stepping backward.” The fleet stayed
in Hawaii.
Later on, as relations with Germany
worsened, a portion of the fleet was moved to
the Atlantic. Just before December 7, 1941,
there were eight battleships in the Atlantic, in-
cluding two new ones on a shakedown cruise,
compared with nine battleships in the Pacific.
The reasoning of Admiral Richardson was not
that the fleet was in greater danger at Pearl
Harbor than it would be on the West Coast.
He testified before the Joint Committee of
Congress that he had not thought Pearl Harbor
was in danger of either an air or submarine
attack. Instead, he considered there was a
much greater chance that sabotage would be
attempted, or that the entrance channel to the
harbor would be blocked by sinking an obstruc-
tion there, or that magnetic or other mines
would be laid in the approaches to the harbor.
He told the Committee that the fleet could have
been destroyed by a surprise air attack just as
easily at Puget Sound as at Pearl Harbor.
But even though Admiral Richardson did not
take the danger of air attack seriously others
in the Navy did. On December 30, 1940, a re-
port by Rear-Admiral Claude C. Bloch was
transmitted by Admiral Richardson to Admiral
Stark, holding that “aircraft attacking the base
at Pearl Harbor will undoubtedly be brought by
carriers.” This report became the basis of a
letter sent by Secretary Knox to the then Secre-
tary of War, Henry L. Stimson, in January,
1941, recommending that' the Pearl Harbor de-
fences be strengthened. More fighter ’planes
more anti-aircraft guns, use of barrage bal-
loons and artificial smoke were urged.
Admiral Richardson, out of step with his
superiors in Washington, was relieved of his
command in the Pacific on February 1, 1941,
and shifted to the Navy General Board in
Washington.
In July the Japanese took another big leap
info Indo-China. This move, Mr. Hull told
the Committee, was the “overt act” that so
changed the Far Eastern situation that it be-
came no longer a question of America avoiding
the risk of war, but of making a “definite and
clear move in self-defence.”
The Japanese move caused President Roose-
velt, on July 26, 1941, to freeze the Japanese
assets in the United States. The effect was to
bring a virtual cessation of trade between
the U.S. and Japan. That action, in turn,
led to the attempt of the Japanese to arrange
a meeting between their Prime Minister, Prince
Konoye, and President Roosevelt. Mr. Hull
told the Committee how an attempt was made
by the U.S. Government to lay a basis of
agreement prior to such a meeting. The
Japanese were evasive, and the meeting was
not held.
Anew crisis was precipitated by the fall
of the Konoye Government in October, 1941,
and its replacement by one headed by General
Tojo. Tension immediately increased. It is
known now that, under General Tojo, steps
were taken immediately to carry out a war plan
prepared the previous January by Admiral
Yamamoto. The details of this plan, based
on captured documents, interrogations of
prisoners-of-war and questionnaires submitted
to former members of the Japanese naval high
command by General MacArthur, were intro-
duced into the Committee’s record by Rear-
Admiral T. B. Inglis, head of the Office of
Naval Intelligence.
This war plan assumed that the U.S. fleet
would be at anchor within Pearl Harbor and
that a carrier force could he moved from Jap
home waters across the Pacific without undue
risk of detection. The objective was to cripple
the U.S. fleet so it could not interfere with
Japanese plans to invade the Dutch East Indies,
In case anything went wrong at Pearl Harbor,
heavy units were to move out from Japanese
home waters and support the carrier striking
force in a decisive battle with the U.S. fleet,
In August, 1941, this plan was rehearsed
m Japanese war games. In September the out-
hne of the operational order was completed.
By November 5 the order was issued to all fleet
and task-force commanders. On November 7
Admiral Yamamoto issued another order set-
tinS December 8 (December 7, Hawaii time)
as “Y Day,’ the tentative day for .attack,
While the Japanese were getting ready for
the surprise attack, the U.S. Government, not
yet prepared for war, was trying to gain a
breathing spell. On November 5, 1941, General
Fraternisation in Berlin is all
it is said to be and worse. Officers
walk arm-in-arm with the frauleins,
and G.l’s go swinging down the
streets hand-in-hand with the girls
as though they were home instead
of in an enemy country. W.A.C.S.
who wish to keep their pride in
their uniform and in themselves
don't stand a chance. No longer do
the words “I’m an American girl”
mean anything. The attitude of the
occupation troops is “Well, so
what?” Berlin correspondent,
Washington “Post.”
Marshall, then Chief of Staff, and Admiral
Stark recommended to President Roosevelt that
material aid to China be stepped up, but that
no ultimatum be delivered to Japan. Mr. Hull,
in the current hearings, testified that he con-
curred, and that he had been “striving for
months to avoid a showdown with Japan.”
Later, on Novehmber 20, Saburo Kurusu,
who had been sent to Washington as special
Ambassador, and Admiral Nomura, the regular
Ambassador, presented what Mr. Hull con-
sidered an “ultimatum,” demanding that the
U.S. agree to the (conquest of China and “un-
freeze” the Japanese assets. Shortly after-
ward President Roosevelt sent Mr. Hull a
pencilled memorandum suggesting the terms of
a compromise modus vivendi arrangement in-
tended to gain a six months’ delay in bringing
matters to a head. The U.S. was to resume
economic relations and provide some oil and
rice at once, with a promise of more later.
After extensive discussions by the President and
Secretary Hull with the Chinese, British, Aus-
tralian and Dutch Government's, this idea was
dropped. The main reason was that the Chinese
violently objected. It was finally decided to
limit the reply to a 10-point restatement of
U.S. principles. This was handed to the
Japanese on November 26.
On the same day the Japanese task force
left Hitokappu, in Northern Japan, bound for
Pearl Harbor. It carried these instructions:
“Should it appear certain that Japanese-Ameri-
can negotiations will reach an amicable settle-
ment prior to the commencement of hostile
action, all the forces of the combined fleet' are
to be ordered to reassemble and return to their
bases.” The Japanese fleet was directed to
deal a “mortal blow” to the American fleet if
hostilities opened. It was to turn hack it
detected as early as two days before the day
of the attack, but the commander was to use
his judgment if it should be detected only the
day before.
On November 27, in Washington, General
Marshall and Admiral Stark, while still- trying
to gain time, recommended to the President
that the U.S. should go to war if Japan
attacked or “directly threatened” Pacific areas
controlled by the U.S., Britain or the Nether-
lands. They said: “Japan may attack: the
Burma Road; Thailand; Malaya; the Nether-
lands East Indies; the Philippines; the Rus-
sian Maritime Provinces.” But' they did not
guess Pearl Harbor.
On December 1 the Japanese Cabinet
approved the- commencement of hostilities
against the U.S. On December 2 a Japanese
order was issued confirming December 8 (De-
cember 7, Hawaii time) as the date of the
attack. On December 5 the task force received
an order from Tokyo to “Climb Mt. Niitaka”
(code for going through with the attack plan).
The task force was then 800 miles north-west
of Oahu. By the morning of December 7 it
was less than 200 miles away. Despite the fact
that Japanese code messages intercepted by the
U.S. had revealed that Japan was poised for
war against America, Pearl Harbor and the
fleet were still unprepared. And so the Japa-
nese surprise attack won a crushing and as-
tounding success.
“Vodka Tours.”
( From an article by N.Y. “Times” Moscow
correspondent Brooks Atkinson.)
If anyone in the Soviet Union feels
that Westerners ought to know Russia
better, the Soviet Union has only itself
to blame. So far Westerners have made
all the efforts.
We are to try to understand Russia.
Russia is under no compulsion to try to
understand us. Living in isolation behind
inhospitable borders, Russia dwells in an


V
*
i
P I A W N 0 W T B
Protect
[% Costly
Farm
Machinery
= . t—- V
i
■ OR dependable weatherproof, fire-
proof protection plan NOW to build
garages, barns, and sheds in the
strongest and most economical of all
building materials -• Lysaghts Gal-
vanised Iron! Quicker, cheaper,
permanent, it has proved itself
ideal for all farm building pro-
jects. Supplies are still limited
at the present time but as
industry swings over to peace-
time production full stocks
will again be available
to all.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
L125a—4332
NO. I “MOTOR TRANSPORTATION SERVING AUSTRALIA”
mm
mmm
H
■mm
m
m
7Z*//
Even in the dark-
est period of the war
the taxis were still on the
roads—their operation curtailed per-
haps —but there has never been a
time when emergency taxis were not
available for urgent work—hospital
calls . . . trains . . . accidents . . .
The taxi’s record of service is a
tribute to the motor industry—and in
no small measure to Dunlop—for
without good honest tyres the taxi
service would never have recorded its
amazing mileages.
Dunlop sets the mileage records—
and will continue to do so !
DUNLOP
Throughout the
British Empire
ď
most people ride
on Dunlop Tyres
NOTE to all users of car and trkck tyres
Conservation of rubber is still necessary and car and
truck operators should observe strict control of inflation
pressures and loading , especially during the hot Summer
months.
Synthetic tyres are performing satisfactorily , but best
service will be ensured when they are operated under
favourable conditions. *
Observe the speed limitations and loading recommenda-
tions to SA VE rubber !
D 134
atmosphere of self-congratulation. She
gets considerable information from the
West, but does not understand it.
In America fanatic groups of idealistic
people are busily engaged in fostering
friendship with the Soviet Union, vainly
proposing cultural exchanges and trying
day and night to understand the domi-
nant nation of Europe and Asia. Most
of them are animated by nothing more
insidious than intellectual curiosity and
an earnest hope for peace everywhere.
When an occasional person of that sort
is permitted to visit Russia, the Soviet
Union has an organisation known as Voks
to take care of him. He gets what is
known as a “Vodka tour,” on which he
is very cordially treated.
But despite the warm-heartedness of
the individual Russian people the Soviet
Union as an organised State does not reci-
procate our passionate devotion to the
ideal of international understanding.
The Soviet Union goes on coldly repeat-
ing the Marxian myths that we have no
freedom of the press, that our democracy
is formal but not real. Only the other
day the Moscow “Bolshevik” was saying:
“In the conditions of bourgeois democ-
racy the workers do not have the mini-
mum material requirements for actual
use of the rights that are proclaimed.
They do not have at their disposal print-
ing presses and paper. Newspapers, clubs,
theatres—all are die property of private
individuals or groups.”
If these old myths are not deliberately
false then they are products of the lack
of a basic understanding. As a controlled
society Russia is not trying to understand
us as eagerly as many of us are trying
to understand Russia. In such matters
Russia imports a great deal more than
she exports. •
Dragnet Digest.
o Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
The United States built 3013 military and
other installations in foreign countries at a cost
of two billion 413 million dollars during the
last five years, the U.S. Commerce Department
has disclosed. Ninety-five p.c. of the construction
abroad consisted of military installations, and
more than half the total amount spent in con-
struction —one billion 327 million dollars—
financed the building of bases in the British
Commonwealth, the report said. American ex-
penditures in the British Commonwealth in-
cluded United Kingdom, 23 million; Australia
and New Zealand, 238 million; Canada, 370
million; India, 126 million; Bermuda, 77 mil-
lion; British Caribbean possessions, 186 million;
British Pacific islands, 146 million; Newfound-
land and Labrador, 123 million; and other
areas, 38 million. —Chicago “Tribune”
* * * »
It was not Stalin, it was Mr. Churchill, who
made Tito master of Yugoslavia. Mr.
Churchill’s hasty obdurate prepossessions were
reinforced both by those who had not sufficient
force of personality to show dissent, and by
those who, with similar prepossessions, ventured
into the Balkans and pronounced on Balkan
affairs without experience or deeper knowledge,
without mature consideration either for the
character, the outlook and interests of loyal
allies or for the wider interests of Great
Britain. These had the ear of the Prime
Minister who remained deaf to the ever-growing
volume of evidence of those who knew and
understood. Had he listened, the Balkan scene
would never have become what it is today—a
scene of ever-increasing tragedy, of blighted
hopes, of promises unfulfilled, of devoted
loyalties cruelly rebuffed, a scene full of
menace to the security of Great Britain and
to the peace of Europe. That Mr. Churchill
was completely wrong in his opinion of Mar-
shal Tito, that the support he gave him was
a terrible mistake, is now plain to every dis-
passionate and informal observer —and, no
doubt, to Mr. Churchill himself. — F. A. Voigt,
editor of “Nineteenth Century and After.’’
* * » *
“It has nqw become clear that the Soviet
Government’s post-'vyar policy is aimed at
stimulating the differences between London and
Washington, .i.e., at preventing by all possible
means the foundation of a solid Anglo-Ameri-
can bloc. Until now the Soviet policy of divid-
ing Britain and America has met with some
measure of success. Yet this policy, more than
anything else, leads to thtf strengthening in the
two countries of tendencies, arising from the
need of mutual defence, which cement new
blocs, and make Britain and America the bearers
of the idea of the defence of small nations.”
Professor David J. Dallin, quoted in N.Y.
“Sun.”
* * * *
The war has seen the system by which Britain
lived utterly smashed. In order to keep her
war gbing for six years she stopped manufac-
turing for export and made munitions instead;
the “carrying trade” meant carrying soldiers
to Egypt or Burma, or munitions to Mur-
mansk. The investments-of past generations,
interest on which had provided foods, were
sold and Britain changed over from being a
creditor to becoming a debtor with a vast
load of debt. The first problem of all, there-
fore, which faces Britain is to re-establish that
pre-war system. If Socialism can help to
do it, can help to sell ten thousand different
articles in ten thousand different places scat-
tered over the world, at the right time and at
the right price; if it can help build railways
or power stations in Africa or Asia or. the East;
find cargoes for unemployed shipping in the
seven seas; recover Britain’s foreign insurance
and banking business, so that once more the
frozen meat and the bananas and the rest of
it can flow into British cities —then Socialism
will be accepted by the British people. If
not, not. —Norman Angell; “American Mer-
cur ’ y ’’ * '* * *
“If private industry cannot provide full em-
ployment the Government must and will.”
There is no more familiar cliche at the
moment than this. But this would-be axiom
is loaded with, a whole set of dubious assump-
tions. It assumes that whenever unemployment
occurs it is the fault of private industry. Il
pictures the Government as a sort of interested
but inactive bystander, hoping that private in-
dustry can handle the matter but ready to come
to the rescue when it fails. The truth, of
course, is that the Government is already inter-
fering with private industry at a thousand
points. In scores of ways it now prevents
it from operating at its fullest capacity. And
when Government interferences finally bring
about unsettlement, disorder and unemployment
Government officials say that the only possible
cure is to give them more power for more
interferences to set things right.— Henry Hazlitt;
N.Y. Times.”
* * * *
U.S., whether consciously or not, is drifting
into a position where it is on one side and
Russia is on the other side —a dangerous posi-
tion Britain, consequently, finds herself in
the middle, where she likes to be. That’s hardly
the sort of line-up that assures lasting peace.
It is a far cry from the result that U.S.
expected from another war to end all wars.—■
“United States News.”
* * * *
The secret of how Germany, with only a
meagre supply of natural fuel, developed syn-
thetic production to the heights which kept the
German war machine rolling for five years had
been so well preserved that our scientists were
amazed at the information they found. They
were astounded to learn that some German
synthetic products excelled our own from
Today Switzerland stands as a bright
oasis in the economic desert of Europe 4
While the Swiss have maintained this
relative prosperity they have kept some-
thing even more important—individual
freedom. Perhaps they are prosperous
BECAUSE they are free. That runs
counter to a theory widely held today:
that individualism is not compatible with
well-being; that we must barter our free-
dom for prosperity; that there must be,
throughout the world, increasing govern-
ment control and central planning of
industry. But the Swiss haven’t aban-
doned free, competitive economy. Ex-
cept for the war emergency, they have
never had centralised government direc-
tion of all the economic life of the
nation. For the Swiss way of life rests
solidly on one concept: the resourceful-
ness and initiative of the individual —
every man solving his own problems, re-
sponsible for himself, striving constantly
to make his own living and free to
choose how to make it.—Edward Muller;
“American Mercury.”
natural petroleum. In a few short months in
Germany we have added 25 years of experience
to our own knowledge and have caught up in the
keenly-competitive world race for synthetic-
hquid-fuel development. Stakes are high in
this race. — “Saturday Evening Post” correspon-
dent.
* * * #
“American troops may have to occupy Ger-
many for generations. The wives of American
soldiers should be sent to join them as soon as
quarters can be obtained.”—Gen. Jacob L.
Devers, commander of U.S. Army Ground
Forces.
* * * *
President Truman has planted the U.S. flag
on 750,000 square miles of land under the sea,
which may eventually yield a vast amount of
petroleum and other minerals. What the Presi-
dent has done is to lay claim in the name
of the United States to the continental shelf —■
the land that reaches out from U.S. coasts to
a point where it is, covered by no more than
100 fathoms, or 600 feet of water. This is a
claim before the world. In some places the
continental shelf is narrow. In others, as along
the Gulf Coast from Brownsville at the tip of
Texas around to Tallahassee, Fla., it is some 75
miles wide. Already oil companies are drilling
for oil under the sea, and their technology
has advanced to the stage where they can drill
in 600 feet of water .-Scripps-Howard staff
writer.
♦ * * *
We cannot accept the theory that trade bar-
riers and controls can be broken down by
attaching appropriate conditions to foreign
loans. Once a loan has been made it will be
impossible to enforce the conditions if these run
counter, or seem to run counter, to the borrow-
ing nation’s immediate economic interests.
The mere provision of dollar credits to “keep
their balance of payments in line” will not
assure the abandonment of special controls or
the lowering of barriers to international trade.
As a general rule loans between Governments
are not “loans” in the literal sense of the
term. In modern times they have proved easy
to divert from economically sound application
and easy to repudiate in whole or in part.
If Congress should be persuaded that certain
“loans” must be made for reasons rooted in
world politics we shall do well to remember
why we made them and not expect too much in
the way of economic benefits or repayment.
There is a field for American foreign lending,
which should be left as nearly exclusively as
possible to bankers and private investors.
These, remembering their experiences of the
past two decades, may be expected to lend
cautiously on tangible collateral or under other
conditions required by sound banking prac-
tice. There is little of record to recommend
a mixture of international banking and world
politics and still less in world conditions of
today.— “ Wall-street Journal ’’
* * * *
The Democratic party of Persian Azerbaijan
is, according to American observers, an out-
spoken Communist party, strictly obedient to
the instructions which it receives from abroad.
Its leader is the 35-year-old Hussein Bi-Rya
(his self-given surname means in Iranian “with-
out hypocrisy”). Once a street sweeper in his
native city of Tabriz, Hussein Bi-Rya played
the flute in the municipal park of Tabriz until
he joined the Communist movement. He fled
Iran in 1937, went to Baku, where he received
political training in Communism, and returned
to the Soviet-occupied northern provinces of
Iran in 1942. He opened an office in Tabriz
for organising trade unions in northern Iran,
assumed great authority and made several trips
to Baku. In the autumn of 1945 he applied
for a passport to France, to represent the
Iranian trade unions at the International Labor
Conference. Despite the fact that he was re-
fused a passport by the Iranian Government,
he succeeded in getting to Paris and attending
the conference. — Washington “Post.”


"52k
And promote new growth . , 5 . with
McMahon's Hair Restorer- easy to
apply, pleasant and economical to use.
Obtainable from chemists, hairdressers
and stores..
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^w^^xxlZeiz/n.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months .. ~ ..£l4O
6 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 16 0
6„ 8 0
8„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
(*
■■V;:
>T)
f
That gets you nowhere, Mister!
FEW OF US WOULD be so foolish as to light our smokes with
pound notes. Yet people who indulge in any kind of wasteful
spending at the present time are doing what amounts to the
same thing.
The plain fact is that there is more money in the hands of the
Australian people now than there is money s worth of goods to
spend it on. If everybody bid against everybody else for these
goods prices would go up and up. The value of our pound
notes would grow less and less,
and most of us would end up
as poor as church mice.
i
If, on the other hand, we
wait until full production is
achieved, and in the meantime
buy only what we absolutely
need we will help to keep
prices down, preserve the value
of our money, and be sure of
a decently properous future—
especially if we keep investing
our savings in Commonwealth
Savings Certificates and Stamps
and hold them .
5 THINGS TO DO TO
HELP KEEP PRICES DOWN
1. Spend wisely. Get full value. Buy only
what you really need. Save all you can.
2. Share and share alike the goods avail-
able—don’t “ blackmarket”.
3. Keep your own prices down. Don’t
take advantage of shortages to ask more for
your goods or services.
4. Pay your way—settle your debts —
make no new ones.
5. Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth Savings
Certificates and Stamps. When goods are
plentiful again you can make good use of
the money you save now—for then you
will get more in everything you buy. Hold
all the Bonds and Certificates you own.
Be a Sawn Mot a Spender -Help Keep Prices
vj '
Issued by the Commonwealth Loans and National Savings Organisation
NS 14.113.125
iff
m.
6«®
-
CUhV ENT
vfinvuii a
¥ols’s; ap|>i|Bciat€||fib^
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS sw
UJ
am
i -.v m
m
m
M
iM
&
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy An Introduction to the Study of
Town Planning, by John Sulman, and Identifi-
cation Surveys, by Weingarth.—3688.
To buy any of the novels of Donn Byrne. —
3687.
Information Sought.
Apart from probate duty, is any form of
legacy subject to taxation ? For instance, is an
annuity taxable? Should the amount be stated
in the beneficiary’s income-tax return?
As part of the deceased’s estate, the amount
of the legacy is subject to State death duty and
Federal estate duty. An annuity in the hands
of a beneficiary is income and should be shown
in his income-tax return.
(1) Any information about the iron and steel
industry of India? (2) Extent to which control
and management are in the hands of Indians ?
(3) Information as to coal resources?
(1) In 1940 there were 24 establishments en-
gaged in steel manufacture employing 47,617
persons. (2) Mostly in hands of native Indians.
Biggest concern is Tata and Sons, which carries
on mills established by Sir Jamsetji Tata at
Nagpur in 1877 and in Bombay in 1887. (3)
Production of coal in 1938 (latest figure avail-
able) was 28,342,906 tons.
(1) If a batsman after completing 100 runs
is called out by the captain is his inHings
counted as “out” when compiling averages ?
(2) If the captain of the team after, making 100
runs retires is his innings considered as “out”
or “not out"?
(1) The batsman is not out in average com-
pilation since he retired on the captain’s orders.
(2) The captain is out in average compilation
if he retires “unless through illness, injury or
some unavoidable cause” (M.C.C. rule 36).
This ruling is supported by H. Heydpn, secre-
tary of N.S.W. Cricket Association.
What are the record single-day attendances
and gate-money at cricket and football in Aus-
tralia ?
Cricket: Australia v. England, 87,789, £7405,
in 1937. Football: Carlton v. Collingwood,
96,834, £6778, in 1938. Both matches were
played on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
When and where did N.S.W. and Queensland
Rugby Union teams play drawn games ?
At Sydney, 1890 (0-0); at Brisbane, 1891
(9-9); at Brisbane, 1898 (3-3); at Brisbane, 1908
(9-9); at Brisbane, 1930 (6-6); at Brisbane, 1931
(18-18); at Sydney, 1934 (8-8); at Brisbane,
1937 (17-17).
Brief Answers.
H.M.A.; Cheapest material for sheathing a
canoe is sheet galvanised-iron, using lin. by iin.
iron as framing. .Materials are probably hard
to get just now. Know of no book giving
instructions... .W.F.: Hands that score 13 in
cribbage are: 1-4-4-N-4 and 1-1-6-7-8. N signi-
fies His Nob J.J.L.: Both English and
American arithmetic textbooks calculate percen-
tages of profit by deducting cost price from
selling price, dividing the remainder by the
cost and multiplying the result by 100. The
method you suggest, whereby the excess of
selling price over cost is divided by selling
price and the resultant fraction multiplied by
100, so that profit can never attain 100 p.c.,
is incorrect S.M.: The school you men-
tion was in existence in London as late as
1939; can’t say if it was blitzed. A letter
to the old address should bring the information.
desired 0.M.C.: No known method of
coping with static in thunderstormy weather
Photo.: In commercial practice the unwanted
portion is obliterated under a wash of Chinese
white and the print rephotographed. Your best
plan would be to black out the unwanted por-
tion on the negative, using Indian ink G.S.:
Population of N. S. Wales in 1885 was esti-
mated to be 949,570; population of Sydney,
192,550 J.A.R.: Sorry; unable to advise.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
M.D.0.: Not enough brainwave in “Heat-
wave” C.V.G.: “this is no sooth song of
the sins I have sought.” It looks like an
exhibition of the “s’s” you have collected
M.A.: Pome about crook crook W.P.: Not
enough sting W.A.H.: Pleasant sort of
canter; but you’ll need to gallop to win
N.H.T,: Promising; too vague L.M.: Poetry
is not really improved by eccentricities of punc-
tuation W.P.E.: One among dozens
G.R.W.: Thought jumpy, verse bumpy....
A.N.H.: Prosy and prolonged J.W.E.: Not
much profit in those large, vague abstractions.
.... J.M.R.: Both thin... .E.S.: “I’m related
to each member of the zoo.” Which of them
wrote the poem? J.C.C.-; “Whither” is
neither hither nor thither.


d
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 67
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company 'Ltd*
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sic Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colraan,
C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
1M
%
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Budding, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J* Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland- A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
The WILD CAT COLOUM
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug-. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 }gg ggo 2 178,432
Written off premises, £30,000 ] „
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 .. 2,534,509
1939.. 335,614 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 .. 3,256,711
19 f 0-- 442,103 17.1 p.c.=176,239 1 2 !5,864 3,472,575
Written off premises, £50,000 j
Unexplained reductions, £74,042 , . 3,398,533
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3,822,472
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 . . 3,714,109
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,383 3,956,492
Unexplained reduction, £1,440 . . 3,955,052
1943.. 512,299 20 p.c.=206,328 305,971 4,261,023
Unexplained reduction, £81,453 .. 4,179,570
1944.. 20 p.c.=206,328 353,333 4,532,903
Unexplained additions, £5463 . . 4,538,366
1945.. 523,496 35 p.c.=361,074 162,422.4,700,788
Donation to “Heritage,” £lO,OOO .. 4,690,788
This 73-year-old Auckland-controlled
fire, marine and accident office, with
world-wide connections, commemorated
end of World War II by handing share-
holders a 15 p.c. bonus, in addition to
the usual 20 p.c. div., making 35 p.c.
for the year. And the lot called for
£162,422 less than the year’s profit.
Among qther things, it needs to be remem-
bered that the £1,031,640 of capital has
the support and assistance of £4,690,788
of reserves. On the two combined the
year’s £523,496 of profit was only 9.1 p.c.
And shareholders are entitled to a fair
return on their total funds, which need
turn in only 3.6 p.c. to show 20 p.c. on
capital alone.
Although the co.’s- branches in East
Asia —Hongkong, Shanghai, Tokyo and
Singapore —fell into enemy hands, and
£108,363 of reserves disappeared without
comment in 1942, war brought the co.
more business than ever. This mainly
from ir&rine risks, on which rates were
very high while the submarine and air
menaces were at their peak. These risks
originated largely in the U.S.A. and U.K.
Nearly the whole of the rapidly-expanded
American mercantile marine was insured
in the open market, and the British Min-
istries of Food and Supply placed large
contracts covering the bulk of their im-
ports with commercial underwriters. As
the war position improved, and naviga-
tion hazards were reduced, marine and
other war-risk rates were gradually re-
duced. The drop was pronounced after
defeat of Germany, and as the struggle
with Japan came to a close, which largely
explains the contraction in last year’s net
premium income. Fire business continues
to show satisfactory results, and so did
the accident section, in which workers’
compensation and motor vehicle insur-
ance predominate.
The shrinkage in net premium income
was £222,885, as the following compari-
son of the co.’s underwriting experiences
shows:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£, £, £j
1929. . 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 p.c. 30.2 p.c.
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1938.. 1,342,535 843,977 310,394 62.8 ~ 23.5 „
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 ~ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022,962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
1941.. 2,145,516 1,039,776 628,818 48.4 „ 29.3 ~
1942.. 2,235,471 1,361,333 593,704 60.9 „ 26.5 „
1943.. 2,421,430 1,366,966 710,192 56.4 „ 29.3 „
1944.. 2,612,012 1,408,581 825,258 53.7 31.6 „
1945.. 2,389,127 1,229,044 821,984 51.4 „ 84.4 „
The loss rate (down £2 6sj p.c.) was one
of the most favorable for many years.
Exes, were £2 Bs. p.c. heavier, which was
to be expected. Although the underwrit-
ing surplus (£338,099) slipped £45,074, it
was equal to 32.8 p.c. on capital. Interest
and rents turned in £185,398 (up £8909),
equal to 17.9 p.c. on capital. Thus the net
return from all sources was a juicy 50.7
p.c. on capital alone, compared with 54.2
p.c. and 48.7 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £5463 to the
exchange and investment fluctuation re-
serve (£1,058,777).
The large surpluses arising out of war-
time marine risks, etc., cannot, of course,
continue. Ordinary international trade
will help to fill the gap, but it will be
a while before this trade develops its full
volume. Meanwhile, arrangements are
being made for resumption of business in
East Asia, where American competition
promises to be keener than it was prd*
war. As building programmes every-
where get under way, premium income in
the fire section should benefit, but the
loss ratio in accident business can be
expected to increase as more petrol be-
comes available and the number of motor
vehicles on the road increases. Still, there
is nothing to suggest that the 20 p.c. div.
is in any danger.
The co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares, covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 435. 7d.,
are jammed at the ceiling price of 695, 6d.
in Australia. In Maoriland, where there
is a free market, they fetch 90s. 6d., at
which figure the immediate return is 2.1
p.c. on a2O p.c. div, basis. Thus has
the Federal Government officially de-
valued a private asset and imposed a capi-
tal loss where these things are least desir-
able —in cases of forced realisation, such
as the winding-up of estates, etc.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the solid
financial structure:
1940. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £1,081,640' £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* .. 625,691 1,756,952 1,912,328
Premises .. .. 473,250 526,452 525,019
Mortgages . . 246,000 496,251 549,839
Deposits, cash, etc. 971,101 1,116,574 1,201,201
Stocks, debentures, etc. 818,754 786,220 830,097
M’cipal debentures 469,373 812,636 815,297
Govt, securities . . 2,125,260 3,537,944 3,839,443
Book debts .. 129,331 148,584 141,770,
* Including reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
Last term available funds continued to
be channelled into Government securi-
ties, up £301,499.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 10,256 8 p.c. = 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 „ „ 9,000 2,525 51,855
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO .. . . 56,696
1938.. ,15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 . . 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,903
1940.. 19,198 10 „ „ 15,000 4,198 78,101
1941.. 19,749 10 „ „ 15,000 4,749 77,850
1942.. 17,988 10 „ „ 15,000 2,988 80,838
1943.. 21,086 10 „ „ 15,000 6,086 86,924
1944.. 22,645 10 „ „ 15,000 7,645 94,569
1945.. 20,767 „10 „ „ 15,000 5,767 100,336
The board’s Christmas box to share-
holders was a one-for-twelve bonus share
issue, which called for £12,500. Actually it
was not a bonus issue in the ordinary
sense of the term, inasmuch as it was
not a capitalisation of surplus earnings,
but of money previously subscribed by
shareholders in the form of share pre-
miums. At the same time (Dec. 18 last)
those on the register were offered 25,000
new £1 ords. at a premium of ss. each,
one for six. This new issue was also in
the nature of a bonus to shareholders,
because of the high price (41s. 3d.) at
which the scrip stood in the market
before announcement of the issue. After
exercising the rights, the average price of
the scrip to a buyer at 41s. 3d. would
be approximately 395., at which figure a
10 p.c. div. would return 5.1 p.c. To
those already on the register, and who
took up the new shares for cash, the pre-
mium reduced the actual return from a
10 p.c. div. to a shade under 8 p.c.
Indeed, the greater the share premium
the more nominal becomes the declared
rate of dividend, which is an exaggerated
statement of the actual return to share-
holders on the money put up by them in
such cases. For instance, the actual
return on shares issued at a premium of
100 p.c. would be only half the declared
rate of div. And investors are entitled to
a fair return on their money, whether
part of it is called share premium or not.
Since these facts are not generally under-
stood and appreciated, the wisdom of issu-
ing shares at a premium is open to ques-
tion, because the position lends itself to
easy misrepresentation by Communists
and Socialists.
The co. specialises in manufacture of
all kinds of office requisites and station-
ery, has associations with Paragon over-
seas, and factories in all Australian States
except the Speck, where a sales branch
at Hobart looks after the local market.
The Adelaide factory, established in 1942,
is now puffing its weight, and during the
war extensions had to be made to prem-
ises and plant at Melbourne. Only once
(in 1930) have shareholders gone without.
Since then the business has kept on ex-
panding, and the div. has remained
steady at 10 p.c. for the last nine years.
Last term gross earnings (£99,156)
slipped £9153, mainly on account of the
printers’ strike in N. S. Wales. Savings
in allowances for taxation (£20,000, down
£2108), depreciation (£8337, down £3247)
and allotment to the staff fund (£1424,
down £2694) were mainly responsible for
reducing the drop in the net result to
£lB7B. The £20,767 of profit was 13.7
p.c. on the £150,000 of capital employed.
Including the bonus scrip already referred
to, and when all the money on the new
cash issue is in, paid capital will be
£187,500, on which 10 p.c. will call for
£18,750, and only once in the last half-
dozen years has the co. failed to show
more profit than that.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities* 1 „„ 7a7 J 32,445 23,540 81,796
Tax reserve ) ) 19,500 27,500 24,482
Premises . . 66,047 68,478 57,519 65,652
Plant, etc. .. 61,516 62,629 65,037 64,079
Stock. . . . 61,864 94,088 97,862 182,109
Book debts . . 48,460 49,123 51,847 89,857
Cash k sundries 1,138 14,465 29,844 11,417
Share#. . . . 21,105 21,000 21,000 21,000
* Including unspecified provision for insurance.
The growth in stocks (up £34,747 last
term) mainly reflects the printers’ strike
already mentioned. The more or less
liquid surplus (£147,605) was only £l4OB
lighter than at the previous balance, de-
spite a net addition of £8133 to premises.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.) *
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 1 IQ . K 91 qn
Staff fund. £lOOO \ 1945 21,411
1937.. 25,578 9 p,c.= 21,780 ) 7pR 24 109
Staff fund, £lOOO 1 2798 ’
1938.. 22,655 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 94 4fi4
To staff fund, £5OO j 2 ’
1939.. 27,554 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) . 974 9a 7 so
To staff fund, £l5OO f 4274 28,758
1940.. 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) , R ,
To staff fund, £lOOO j 3426 32,184
1941.. 25,685 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 2405 84 589
To staff fund, £l6OO j • 0 ’
1942.. 23,990 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 91n
To staff fund, £2OOO S 2iU 4 ’
1943.. 24,800 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) n9n RIP
To staff fund, £lOOO f 2020 36,819
1944.. 24,683 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 00999
To staff fund, £5OO J 240 ° 39, ~ 22
1945.. 28,825 9 p.c. a 21,780 2045 41,267
Centrally situated alongside Melbourne
Town Hall, the Victoria, a “dry” hotel
with a moderate tariff, has always been
a popular rendezvous for country and
inter-State visitors. It has accommoda-
tion for around 900 guests, and consists
partly of freehold and partly of leasehold.
The lease, which expires in 1993, carries
a nine-storey building, erected in 1927.
Provision has been made to recover the
outlay through a sinking fund. The free-
hold section was rebuilt in 1934.
The div. has remained steady at 9 p.c.
throughout the war years, so shareholders
have nothing to complain about. Pros-
pects are bright enough ; the demand for
accommodation is likely to exceed supply
for some time yet, although recurrence of
coal strikes, necessitating reduction of rail
travel in Victoria as well as N.S.W., would
affect earnings.
Since end of World War 1 share-
holders have put up £135,100 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £74,800 of
share premiums; and over the same
period £80,900 of bonus scrip was
scattered as well, Divs. averaged 17.3 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts in
1931, since when they have averaged 9
p.c., despite slump and another long war.
War bumped up expenditure, especially
foodstuffs, taxation and wages. Military
and manpower call-ups complicated staff-
ing problems, and the influx of service
personnel taxed the Victoria’s capacity to
its limits. The peak was reached three
years ago, when hundreds of would-be
patrons were turned away.
Last term’s net result was £B5B lighter
at £23,825. That was after writing off
£379 more for depreciation (£11,631) and
spending £2658 (up £154) on maintenance.
The £23,825 of profit was 9.8 p.c. on


N
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose4Co..Pty.Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
TIRED KIDNEYS
OFTEN BRING
SLEEPLESS NIGHTS
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes or filters which help to purify the blood and
keep you healthy. When they get tired and don’t
work right in the daytime, many people have disturbed
nights. Frequent or poor kidney action sometimes
shows there is something wrong with your kidneys
or bladder. Don’t neglect this condition and -lose
valuable restful sleep.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may also cause
nagging backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss
of pep and energy, swelling, pufflness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anvx.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
jJtfMAe to -uj-CXyb
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globitel
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
f
'KEEP YOUR HAIR IN PLACE*
WITH
'the Original and- Only
Brylcreem
tHE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING
A little Brylcreem every
morning keeps your hair
smart and well-groomed
all day through. Brylcreem
is the purest and most
beneficial hair dressing you
can buy.« Use Brylcreem.
daily.
!/5 antfi/li
m
In Tubes .-v.
. 11 d. an* t/II
NO GUM* NO SOAP* NO SPIRIT* NO STARCH
w
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
"C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
"C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
"C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
"C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
mm
8 S
m/
mk//.
m
W ’
&
.BRANCHES fN ALL STATES
iii
capital as against 10, 10, 9.9, 10.6, 10.8,
11.3 and 9.3'p.c. back to 1938.
The co. has steadily reduced its outside
debt (incurred mostly through the 1934
rebuilding), and cash, etc., and the interest
bill have benefited;
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £242,000 £242,000 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities* .. 83,591 62,538 49,262 39,828
Freeholds . . 240,654 231,443 220,542 215,794
leaseholds .. 97,805 95,962 94,094 93,421
Plant & furniture 17,655 13,939 10,304 8,849
Stores .. 1,041 1,662 379 2,816
Debtors . • 289 254 2,465 391
Investments and „„„
cash .. 12,810 13,646 23,070 22,033
* Including taxation.
Last term the outside debt was reduced
by £9434. The amount owing to outsiders
now exceeds more or less liquids by
£14,588, an improvement of £8760 over
the twelvemonth. Expenditure on re-
newals and improvements, which has been
restricted during the war years, is now
likely to call for more. Still, there is
nothing in sight to suggest that the 9 p.c.
div. is likely to be interferred with.
Buyers are offering 19s. 3d. for the f.p.
10s. shares, with no sellers,
Mt. Isa (Q.) proposes to suspend copper
smelting at an early date, and will not
resume treatment of the red metal for
some 18 months, or possibly not until the
beginning of 1948. Among other things,
this means there will be no local smelter
available to treat copper ore from Clon-
curry gougers during 1946 and 1947 —
Chillagoe State Smelters shut down mid-
-1943, when Isa switched to an all-copper
production. So the Queensland Govern-
ment has asked the Federal Government
to finance purchase of owners’ ore
through a trust fund to be administered
by the Queensland Mines Department.
The proposal is that ore should be bought
on the basis of the present Mt. Isa cus-
toms tariff, payment being made 80-90
p.c. on delivery of ore, and the balance
when the copper is sold, the fund then
to be liquidated. Meanwhile, an extra
charge of 2s. a ton to be made to cover
stockpiling and rehandling. Since the
time factor would expose the fund to risk
of loss through fluctuations in the market
price of the metal, the Federal Govern-
ment has also been asked to peg the Aus-
tralian price of copper at its present level
for the duration of the proposed Govern-
ment purchase scheme.
* * * *
Pre-war Isa’s silver-lead bullion output
(some 48,000 tons lead bullion and
30.000 zinc concentrates) was shipped to
the Britannia refinery on the Thames,
near London. War so aggravated the
co.’s troubles in connection with man-
power, costs and shipping that it decided,
with the blessing of the Federal Govern-
ment, to switch to an all-copper output
(about 12,000 tons blister p.a.). The
changeover was made in 1943 at a total
cost of nearly £250,000. Soon the Allied
demand for copper tapered sharply, and
the statistical position of the metal con-
stitutes a threat to the price of the stuff
in the post-war market. The position of
lead is much more encouraging, and that
of zinc, though not so good as lead, is
also much better than copper. So the co.
decided on a plan for dual copper-lead
production, as soon as men and materials
become available. Under this new plan
the co. aims ultimately to produce some
50.000 tons lead bullion, 15,000 tons
blister copper and 30,000 tons zinc con-
centrates annually. It is estimated that
there will then be 1800 names on the pay-
roll, as against 850 at present and 1400
pre-war. The new programme involves
temporary suspension of copper produc-
tion, owing to alterations to existing plant
and introduction of new equipment,
* * * *
Operations of Cocks Eldorado (paid
capital £137,500 in 10s. shares), at
Wangaratta (Vic.), were disappointing
and unsatisfactory for the year to Sept.
30 last, and the outlook is not bright. In
the previous year the dredge encountered
seams of cement in the overburden along
the foothills on the northern
and the machine was diverted toward the
creek downstream. Here the ground had
not been thoroughly tested previously.
Two lines of bores put down ahead of
the dredge disclosed 2,800,000 c.y., aver-
aging 5.28 d. Ahead of this little boring
has been done, but indications are that
values fall. With working costs at 5.2 d.
per c.y., there is obviously no profit to
be had from ground of the same value.
So at end of November last it was de-
cided to abandon the ground downstream
and turn the dredge into richer dirt up-
stream, The year’s operations compare
with the three preceding terms as follows;
Av. Av. Net
Treated, Value, Cost, Profit, Dividends.
Sept., O.y. O.y. C.y. £ P.c. £
1942..2,401,460 6.86 d. 4.20 d. 21,218 15 1= 20,625
1943- 5.57 d. 4.33 d. 8,415 5„ 6,875
1944- 5.54 d. 4.19 d. 7,831 5 „ 6,875
1945- 5.22 d. 5.02 d. 879 Nil
Shortage of manpower, which 'reduced
operations to two shifts, aggravated the
co.’s difficulties. Abandonment of the
remaining downstream area has short-
ened the life of the property by H years,
reducing expectation to three years. Im-
mediately in front of the dredge is
4.356.000 c.y. (about two years’ work),
bored to average 6d. Ahead of this is
some 2,168,000 c.y. (about 12 months’
work), average value of which has yet
to be determined. Examination of ad-
joining areas has failed to disclose further
pay-dirt. At end of Sept, the co. was
holding £29,787 in Government bonds,
cash, etc. The amount coming to out-
siders was £3421. Dredge and plant
figures at £63,633, and freehold £51,423.
* * * *
Chairman C. T. Ley recently told
shareholders that North Kalgoorlie’s posi-
tive ore reserves at end 1944 were 986,920
tons (up 11,383 tons), averaging 6.24dwt.
(down 0.14dwt.). Probable ore was figured
at 408,270 tons (up 13,000 tons), averag-
ing 5.54dwt, and there was 185,451 tons
of s.B6dwt, stuff broken in the slopes.
Prospects of development disclosing more
pay-ore are encouraging, and, when
enough manpower and materials are
available again, an increase in production
and lift in the div. (37i p.c. for 1944) are
expected. The co. has been treating
South Kalgoorlie’s ore as well as its own,
thus raising mill throughput to a more
economical level, to the benefit of both
cos. The North’s mining and treatment
costs for 1944 were 31s. Bd. per ton as
against 31s. lOd. for the previous year.
* * * *
To date Westralian State batteries have
extracted gold and tin to the value of
nearly £13,000,000 from ore mined prin-
cipally by prospectors and small claim
holders. About 2\ million tons of auri-
ferous ore yielded all but £lOO,OOO of this
wealth. Working expenditure exceeded
revenue by over £lOO,OOO.


THE YEARS AHEAD
The Wise Man and his WILL
The Wise man recognises that economic
conditions continue to change.
By the appointment of Perpetual
Trustee Company as his Executor he
provides for the efficient management of
his estate and thus saves his family from
many difficulties.
Write for a copy of the booklet ‘‘Your
Executor and Trustee” which explains the
service that the Company renders and
what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX; H. NORMAN POPE.
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Plon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R. •
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB. Manager.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £64,000,000.
(The average Estate being less chan £10,000.)
33-3$ HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: 0. E. Cowdery,
■ Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw,
140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
ta6eyove(..
n
m
u
m
fS
_rvns
IQOCLAS
Among the greatest pleasures of peace,
magnificent world-wide Radio programmes
will help us realize good life can be
in a war-free world.
How important, then, to have
“His Master’s Voice”
RADIO
JiNII
His Maslers Voi«V
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (Inc. in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Golden Thread
Britain has ratified the Bretton Woods
currency agreement. This agreement
arose out of an attempt to solve two
major world problems, described as “how
to provide the initial machinery which
many nations will need in order to achieve
a stable economic equilibrium, each in its
own way, and, secondly, how to create
stable currency and exchange conditions
so that each nation can freely and safely
trade its products for other goods which
it cannot itself produce.” In attempting
to solve the problems an international
bank and an international exchange-con-
trol fund are to be formed. They are to
be financed by gold, U.S. dollars and
member-country currencies.
An attempt is here made to trace cur-
rency problems and “currency warfare”
from 1914 up to the present time, with
the relationship of various currencies to
gold threading through. It should be
remembered throughout that where a
country’s currency is depreciating there is
a tendency to turn that currency into
gold and get the gold out of the country.
In 1914 the pound sterling was the
equivalent of 4.86 dollars or 25.2 francs.
All three currencies, and most others,
were then on the gold standard—that is,
they were freely interchangeable with
gold. An ounce of gold was worth 85s.
in English or Australian money—Aus-
tralian currency at this time was worth
the same as English. Golden sovereigns
and pound notes meant identical things
in settlement of debts in both Britain and
the Commonwealth. In the United States,
on pre-1914 standards, an ounce of gold
was worth 20.67 dollars. There was little
advantage' in carrying gold round the
world with you on a trip, though there
was no embargo against doing such a
thing.
‘The emphasis placed here on the gold
value of currencies—for that is what the
value of gold expressed in currencies
means —is for the reason that gold has
become the only universally stable
measure of value since 1914. Not even
the mighty dollar has remained intact.
But, assuming that gold has remained
stable during the past 32 years, some
extraordinary things have happened to
other values.
The United States remained on the gold
standard during World War I. Britain
and other belligerents went off it; Britain,
however, maintained sterling at little
below the Mint par during the war by
disposing of its U.S. securities and by the
sale of Treasury bills on Wall-street. This
practice ceased in 1920, and sterling fell
to $3.20 in New York, The unhealthy
position of the Continent, with which
Britain was financially entangled, had a
lot to do with that low figure.
Britain set about deliberately to restore
the gold standard, and in 1925 this was
achieved. In the meantime the German
currency had disappeared, and great in-
flation had taken place in France, Italy,
Belgium and the Balkans, not to mention
Soviet Russia. France, after its currency
had depreciated to 250 francs to the £
sterling in 1926, stabilised it at 124.2
francs in early 1927, Poincare making the
devaluation legal in June, 1928.
At this time Britain’s pound had re-
turned to the same gold value as in 1914,
and debts contracted on the basis of pre-
-1914 pounds—as well as those contracted
in war-time paper money—were being
repaid on a gold basis. The French cur-
rency, on the other hand, had only a fifth
of its original value, and much of France’s
debt was thereby repudiated. In addi-
tion, Britain’s production costs, which
had risen during 1914-18, were still high,
taxation was heavy, while selling prices,
expressed in gold pounds, were often too
low to be profitable or too high to be
‘ attractive for foreigners to buy, especi-
ally where foreigners had put up a barrier
against imports by devaluing their own
currency.
The burden of debt, interest and taxa-
tion weighed heavily on British industry,
especially where debt had been incurred
to finance extensions to plant during the
costly war and post-war periods. By con-
trast, France and French industries were
relieved of much of their debt burden by
the “stabilised inflation,” and so many
francs could be bought for a sovereign
or a dollar —and, therefore, so much in
the way of French manufactures and ser-
vices—that French industry boomed while
British industry stagnated. At the same
time, assuming that Britain made a mis-
take in a return to the gold standard on
the 1914 basis, it should never be for-
gotten that financially, industrially and
politically it emerged, after years of test-
ing, far stronger than France. Its dogged
(perhaps pigheaded) adherence to a
principle was not entirely in vain.
The United States, given a tremendous
leg-up in the industrial world by the first
World War and by the evolution of
the internal - combustion engine using
petroleum as fuel, the improvement
in methods of harnessing and using
electricity, its facilities for mass-pro-
duction, and by the extent of its great
natural resources, maintained the gold
value of its dollar without difficulty and
showed the world something in the way
of “prosperity” the like of which had
never before been seen. But the United
States industrial and economic growth
was unbalanced both as regards internal
and external factors ; and, though it now
held most of the world’s gold, in 1929,
after a period of violent speculation, it
led the world into the greatest depres-
sion in history.
Following severe fluctuations in its gold
stocks over a period of three years, the
Bank of England suspended the gold
standard in September, 1931. Both
France and the United States were again
attracting gold at this time. Many parts
of the world were still captivated by
France’s apparent prosperity following
the devaluation of its currency.
Australia went off gold at the end of
1929, and its £ was eventually stabilised
at £125 Australian to £lOO sterling, after
falling to £ 130-odd Australian.
President Roosevelt in the United States
had become committed to a policy of rais-
ing prices in order to restore the balance
between costs and business incomes, thus
hoping to deal with the tragic unemploy-
ment in his country. But with the dollar
still fixed at 20.67 to the ounce of gold,
and with the pound sterling now finding
its natural level in the exchanges—nearly
all other important countries had cut
their currencies adrift—the lifting of
prices within the United States placed a
double burden on the U.S. export trade.
So on January 31, 1934, after some
months’ suspension of the gold standard,
the value of the United States dollar was
reduced by 41 p.c., making it roughly a
“60-cent dollar,” and the price of gold
was thereby raised to 35 dollars an
ounce. It has remained on that basis
ever since.
Following its departure from the gold
standard, Britain established an Exchange
Equalisation Fund. This dealt in gold
and foreign currencies as a buffer, with
the objective of shielding the domestic
credit system from disturbing movements
in the foreign-exchange rate. It bore the
losses and took the profits of !he Bank
of England in its gold dealings. British
trade and British credit under Chamber-
lain showed steady recovery until the
European war began to overshadow, all
other considerations.
France’s “prosperity” was not long-
lived. Though both Britain and the
United States revalued their currencies
at much nearer the old parity than was
the case with the postwar franc, France,
with a socialist Government in power
and a 40-hour week operating, was soon
in dire straits through rising production
costs offsetting all the advantages pre-
viously gained by devaluation. In 1936
Britain and America came to France’s
assistance with an exchange agreement.
The franc was again devalued, to a point
between 43 and 49 milligrammes of
gold nine-tenths fine—a depreciation
varying between 25 and 34 p.c. In
March, 1940, the franc was again re-
duced in gold content, this time to 21
milligrammes.
Soon after the outbreak of World War
II the pound sterling wa.s pegged at 4.03
dollars, the “60-cent dollar” retaining its
gold value. Australian money was estab-
lished at about 3.29 dollars. These rates
still obtain, although during the period
of lend-lease huge transactions were car-
ried out between the British Empire and
the United States on a lend-lease basis,
the foreign exchange involved being
almost nothing. Before lend-lease oper-
ated, however, Britain sold most of its
gold and foreign investments in order to
buy American and other goods in ordei
to fight Germany on its own.
With Allied gold output cut down during
the war as unessential, the spirit behind
lend-lease was such that in 1943 a U.S.
finance writer prophesied: “This is the
prosaic end to something that has been
second only to love in the hunger of the
human race. We don’t need gold now
except for filling teeth.” He certainly did
not foresee the way lend-lease would end.
A lend-lease liquidation step has been
the offer of a £llOO million sterling loan
to Britain by the United States to help
restore the shrunken financial resources
of Britain and to help her cope with the
£3500 million of external debt with which
she has ended this war. That is excluding
the U.S. debt incurred during the 1914-18
war, which, in terms of present currency
values, is approximately equal to the
latest American loan. The recent loan,
accepted by the British Government along
with the Bretton Woods agreement, has
yet to be ratified by Congress.
Another development has been a further
devaluation of the French franc. Fixed
at 200 to the £ sterling after liberation,
a new rate of 480 was established at the
beginning of 1946, with 119 to the dollar.
The franc is now 1 only about a nineteenth
of its pre-1914 value. The U.S. dollar
remains at 59 p.c. of its old gold value,
while the British pound, at the pegged
rate, stands at about half the value of a
golden sovereign. But it is not a free
rate.
Australia, on its debt to Britain (about
£522 million) pays interest in sterling (but
not in golden sovereigns). On its debt
of £4l million owing in New York the
Commonwealth pays in dollars at the
rate of 3.29 to the £ Australian, these
being “60-cent” dollars, not dollars of
the gold value ruling prior to 1934, in
which the debt was raised.
The United States now has more gold
than ever, though the British Empire is
the great gold-producer. The U.S. had the
biggest say at Bretton Woods. The ulti-
mate agreement provided for a money
fund, and an international bank, the fund
to aid in international trade and exchange
stabilising and the bank to make loans
for post-war reconstruction purposes, for
promoting private foreign investments by
way of guarantees and to assist in financ-
ing the productive resources of member
countries with the long-term objective of
a balanced growth in trade.
Each member country is to make a
contribution both to the fund and to the
bank. The member may exchange its


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAXSEASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
m.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
} has all the lines! features o! high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction at
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupl&>
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing
Plans. Mus|c. etc.
Binll entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E R KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
11 " G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. X. C. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
TH7T7*
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries, are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will bo forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - B. J. Noswortby - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mltchel
JP. T. W. Black. Manager - *L* S* Parker#
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIM 1 T E P
7 BRIDGE BTMRT. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. 543 ©.>•<>.. Sydn.*
BP <«.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
17 th September, 1944. —My interest and
powers of concentration have increased to a
suprising extent. I look forward to ea.ch day
with pleasurable anticipation and undertake
each new matter as it arises with added
confidence in my ability to see it through to
a satisfactory conclusion. — SOLICITOK Ea.-
SOLDIER.
3rd March, 1944. —Force of circumstances
had caused my fires of interest to die down.
Now I feel that I have regained my grip
and have definitely«laid the basis of a suc-
cessful course. I intend to make each small
task my immediate aim, whether it be to
correct some habit or to carry out duties.
— MAJOR.
31st October, 1944.—1 find myself becoming
more methodical about things and can deal
with problems more clearly and quickly. In
fact, Pelmanism has fulfilled exactly what I
wanted. It has widened my horizons socially
and culturally. — LIEUTENANT.
6th September,. 1944— 1 must thank the
Institute for the co-operation and the almost
unbelievable benefits I have received
through the Course, but most of all for
the happiness that I have derived since 1
started. — CORPORAL.
18th September, 1944— 1 n retrospect I find
that I have gone a long way to the accom-
plishment of my aim. Frankly, I feared
my future when I returned to civil me
Now I feel I am advancing towards the goal
of the fuller man. Fear of the future has
been replaced by willingness to embrace it
with open arms, and a desire to serve my
fellow-men in my own caIIing.— PRIVATE,
A.I.F.
12th October, 1944— Pelmanism has shown
me the road to success with keen percep-
tion, memory power, concentration and the
new emotional drive, which comes from
having a definite aim in life. — L.A.C.
30th September. 1944. —Without a doubt I
have made progress. My original aims—
clearer perception, concentration and more
astute mental employment —have become
clearly defined. In covering the ground 1
have found other information of which 1
had not previously thought.— CAPTAIN.
30th October, 1944. —One of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and refer-
ence numbers. By using the Pelman
methods. I was pleased to find I had the
whole list correctly reproduced. Similar
instances often occur.- — CORPORAL.
H.M. Forces.
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanisxn does is to quicken the perceptions so that
we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We
see more and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence
there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact
knowledge, remember it, and recall it as required. We learn to trust
our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then
open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and women.
The more important of these qualities are: —
Observation Self-Confidence ...
Will-power Organization
Decision Judgment
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
every kind.
The exercises are pleasant, and each has its special purpose. The
Pelman Course is a real training, its primary objects being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones,
to train the conscious and the sub-concious so that every faculty will,
when called upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of
anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 60.000
have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” are posted free. Inquiries are
regarded as confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
Concentration
Social Ease
Initiative
MEMORY
useful data of
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me. post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind."
NAME
ADDRESS....
172
own currency for other currencies (from
the fund) in order to meet adverse trade
balances, but it may not draw more than
125 p.c. of its contribution quota over a
period of five years without special per-
mission of the managers of the fund. This
provision, as explained by the United
Nations information office, is designed to
keep any nation from relying on the facili-
ties of the fund to pay its deficits
year after year without making a deter-
mined effort to balance its foreign trade.
Member countries have agreed to seek
approval of the fund managers in fixing
their exchange rates, and such fixed rates
may not be altered except under condi-
tions of the fund. After a transitional
period member countries must free their
exchanges and avoid discriminatory ex-
change practices not approved by the
fund. Each country must pay in gold
as a minimum 25 p.c. of its quota or
10 p.c. of its gold and dollar holdings,
whichever is the smaller, the rest in its
own currency.
There are 44 signatories to the scheme,
but Australia, Maoriland, Russia and six
other countries have not yet ratified it.
A section of the British people were all
against the plan because, they said, it
“restored gold to its throne,” as in 1925-
31.
The Federal Government has produced
a five-year plan for stabilising wheat at
a guaranteed price of ss. 2d. a bushel,
f.o.b. bagged, both for home consump-
tion and for export. The five seasons
suggested are 1945-46 to 1949-50. If
export wheat nets more than ss, 2d., 60
p.c. of the excess is to be carried forward
for stabilisation purposes. It is necessary
for the States to agree to the plan, and
conferences are to be arranged. Canada
has already introduced a long-term stabi-
lisation scheme, with a higher guaranteed
price. Wheat in London is worth more
than 10s. a bushel, Australian currency.
But, partly because of Government “regu-
lation,” partly because of drought, Aus-
tralia has had little or no wheat to export
for a couple of years. Even now it is
hard to get poultry feed.
* * * *
Though the Federal Budget for 1945-
46 allocated £1,600,000 for University
training, £2,743,000 for technical and
rural training and £300,000 for corre-
spondence courses —a total of £3,043,000,
ail to be spent by June 30 this year—
many returning servicemen are finding
it difficult to get educational aid. If
a youth matriculated before joining up
he usually has little difficulty in getting
quite liberal assistance in taking a uni-
versity course, and cause for complaint
here is not so pronounced. But if a re-
turned man who has spent some years
studying and operating radar in the ser-
vices wants to take a technical-college
course in things electrical he will pro-
bably meet difficulty if he was over 21
on enlistment. There have been frequent
complaints on this point. Many young
fellows made their first acquaintance
with mechanics, radio and electrical en-
gineering in the services, and some had
opportunities of learning things in a prac-
tical way denied in most civilian occu-
pations. The fact that they were over
21 at enlistment should not bar them from
fortifying their practical experience with
a course of comprehensive technical
training provided aptitude and other
tests indicate to the authorities that the
venture will be worth while all round.
**, * *
Getting the boys “home for Christmas,”
or even for some time in January, has
proved a prickly subject for Chifley,
Forde and co. This clumsy firm of poli-
tical strategists is in a devil of a mess. It
has been getting beans for not bringing
servicemen home quickly enough, and for
revealing a stunning ignorance about
what conditions really are like in those
parts that were recently battle areas. Now
it doesn’t know how it is going to cope
with the unemployment that mass dis-
charges from the services will bring,
especially with industry disrupted by the
Communist-inspired strike over Christ-
mas. Forde is having a torrid time trying
to explain why he asked the British Navy
to drop out of the picture in hurrying the
boys back home. Whatever his reasons,
dilutees in industry, and substitute labor
generally, are likely to be thrown out
of employment in increasing numbers as
servicemen return to take up the jobs that
have rightly been held for them during
their period in the fighting forces. And
this at a time when there should be more
jobs than men!
* * * »
Capital issues by business enterprises
may be made without Treasury permis-
sion provided not more than £lO,OOO is
asked for in any one year. Applications
for permission to make bigger issues will
be favorably received, according to Mr.
Chifley, provided the money is wanted to
finance ventures approved by the Govern-
ment. When do the National Security
Regulations, by virtue of which the
Treasury exercises control over capital
issues, expire? The Government remains
mute as to actual dates, but the Act under
which the regulations are issued defines its
own term —it runs only for the duration
of the war and six months afterwards.
That raises the question of when the war,
legally, came to an end —if, legally, it is
at an end. It is already more than four
moriths since the Japanese signed sur-
render terms in Tokio Bay, yet our
Federal Government has not made the
position at all clear. There are eminent
constitutional lawyers who go so far as
to say that the war ended, legally, with
the first acceptance of the Japanese
capitulation, and that September 2, at the
latest, marked the end of the Pacific war.
Unless the Australian Government puts
forward its view very shortly it may be
necessary to test the matter in the High
Court. Many thousands of individuals
have been dealt.with illegally under the
National Security Act even during the
period in which its operations were valid
within certain limits. The Government
has never shown great regard for scrupu-
lous administration of the law, and Dr.
-Evatt himself has been no champion of
the rights of the individual.
Stock Exchange controls and capital-
issues control are two items which seem
destined to come up for review in the
near future. Already the Federal Gov-
ernment has given up control of hous-
ing, largely because it found the matter
a hot potato, and it has handed the re-
sponsibility back to the States, which are
dealing with the problem in various ways
and not making much of a fist of it. The
N. S. Wales strikes have delayed the hous-
ing programme several months. Control
over prices of commodities and services
has been passed by the States to the
Commonwealth for a period of three
years, and the retiring Prices Commis-
sioner, Professor Copland, envisaged this
as a period of liquidation of price con-
trol. His successor in office is M. E. Mc-
Carthy.
* * * *
A revival in goldmining in Australia
seems certain as soon as labor and
materials are available. In any case, gold
will be a readily marketable commodity
in the post-war world, judging by pre-
sent trends. It will also be a useful source
of foreign exchange to the Common-
wealth. South Africa is still the world’s
greatest producer of the metal, but Aus-
tralia’s output before the war was handy
—1,590,406 fine ounces in 1938. Our pre-
war output helped greatly in bridging the
dollar deficit on United States merchan-
dise account. Gold is freely exportable
to any part of the world.


TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
Open to all, other than school pupils and those
of school age, who cannot personally attend
classes at Sydney or Country Technical Colleges.
The Technical Education Branch of the
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION offers
through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL COL-
LEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence :
Art : Dressmakers’ Art, Figure Drawing, Free-
hand Drawing, Lettering, Short Display Card
Writing, Still Life Drawing, Ticket Writing.
Building : Building Construction, Building
Trades Calculations, Carpentry and Joinery.
Commercial: Bookkeeping, Business Principles,
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Cost Accountancy, Company Secretarial Prac-
tice, Income Tax Law, Commercial Corre-
spondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
Electrical : Electrical Trades (Electricians’
Licence).
Engineering: Diesel Engine Operation, Engin-
eering Trades Calculations, Engineering Trades
Drawing, Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of motor vehicles), Steam Engine
Driving, Suction (Producer) Gas.
Home Handicrafts: Dressmaking, Millinery.
Local Government: Local Government (Town
and Shire), Clerks’ Certificate.
Preparatory: English and Mathematics
(approximately from First Year to Leaving
Certificate standard), French, History and
Mechanics (approximately from Intermediate
Certificate to Leaving Certificate standard).
Printing : Composing, Printers’ English and
Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
Public Examinations: Intermediate Certificate
(see Secondary), Leaving Certificate and Mat-
riculation (see Preparatory), Nurses’ Entrance,
Police Entrance, Telephonists’ and Telegraph
Messengers’ Entrance.
Public Health: Health Inspection, Meat In-
spection.
Rural: Agriculture, Care of Animals, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm Arithmetic, Farm
Machinery and Farm Science), Pig Raising,
Poultry Farming, Sheep and Woolclassing,
Station Bookkeeping.
Sanitation: House Drainage, Sanitary Engin-
eering, Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
Secondary: Art, Business Principles and Book-
keeping, English, French, General Mathe-
matics, Geography, History, Latin, Mathe-
matics I (Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathe-
matics II (Geometry and Trigonometry). (All
from First Year to Intermediate Certificate
standard.)
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE, STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE.
FEES.
25/- per year or 10/- per term per single sub-
ject. Course rates where applicable. Half
fees to students under 21 years and receiving
less than 30s. weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical _
MaTl — COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Officer in Charge, Correspondence
Teaching Division, Sydney Technical College,
Ultimo. ~ . ,„ , ■
Please send mo, without obligation, full details
Q f f] ie correspondence
course.
Name
Address
THE SERVICE MAN
"Mass Murder of
Australians."
“Ek Dum”: A remarkable feature of
current press reporting is the neglect of
the trials of Japanese concerned in the atro-
cities committed upon the bodies of Aus-
tralian soldiers in Borneo and Ambon.
The greatness of a nation can always
be measured by the price it puts upon the
citizens. One of the reasons why the
foreigner has always valued British citi-
zenship as beyond price has been the
strict respect which has always been
exacted for the rights and safety of
British citizens and the dire examples
which always have been made of those
who have transgressed against them.
Measured by British standards, the Aus-
tralian Government sets a poor value on
its sons and daughters. It was prepared
to send only a “token” force (“if pos-
sible”!) to rescue the Eighth Division,
and its arrangements for the trials of the
war criminals responsible for the deaths
of Australians in the East Indies have
been carried out in an atmosphere worthy
only of charges of striking an officer or
some such venial offence.
One would have imagined that the trials
would have been staged in a manner
which would have done justice to the
solemnity and magnitude of the occa-
sion, before a tribunal whose eminence
could have left no doubt in the eyes of
the world that justice had been done
majestically—in such a manner as to warn
potential future offenders and exhibit the
dignity of the Commonwealth.
However, the trials are being carried
out by minor military courts, the prose-
cutions in the hands of captains and lieu-
tenants whose names are unknown even
to those most familiar with the law in
the Commonwealth. And the press had
little interest in what was going on. With
one or two notable exceptions—the Mel-
bourne “Age,” for instance —they were
more concerned with the affair of a
party of office girls, alleged to have been
“smuggled” by the U.S. Army to Manila,
and the proceedings against a Sydney
evening paper reporter charged with the
killing of a lady bookie in her tobacco
kiosk, than with the trials of the mur-
derers or torturers of 3000 Australian
soldiers.
Perhaps the Government has little
desire to call attention to Ambon, where
the horrors would never have happened
had it not been for Canberra panic and
ineptitude. That should be all the more
reason why the public should know the
facts. Reports are being issued by Army
Public Relations. When Parliament meets
some pertinent questions need asking.
On Ambon, according to the prosecu-
tors of 93 Shirouzu prison guards
charged collectively with ill-treating
prisoners-of-war, 409 Australian soldiers
died in the Tantoei prison camp, 290 in
the last eight months before the war
ended. The prosecution alleged a “sys-
tematic policy of brutal sadism.”
Vale the Second Twenty-First!
The Australians, 807 members of the
2/21st Battalion and ancillaries, were cap-
tured on February 4, 1942, on the Latmer
Peninsula, on which Ambon town stands.
They were what was left of a total Aus-
tralian strength on the island of 1092 after
a four-day battle. It was in defiance of
all the accepted principles of strategy that
this forlorn-hope force was there at all.
With the Australians, there were cap-
tured 239 Netherlands servicemen, so hate-
ful to Red Fascists.
Some of the prisoners were sent to
Hainan Island, off the China coast. The
rest —528 Australians, 14 U.S. soldiers
from the Philippines and seven Nether-
landers—remained at Tantoei.
Their treatment was almost too horrible
to recount. Tortures were so standard-
ised that they received specific names.
The “Lockheed” was a form in which
prisoners were compelled to balance on
the ball of a foot with arms level at
shoulders and the second leg extended to
the They were compelled to hold
this posture for hours, failure being
punished with brutal batterings. The
“Stone” treatment involved holding a
heavy stone above the head till the stone
crashed down on the skull. And there
were beatings with heavy wooden sticks
three feet long and two inches thick.
Prisoners were ordered to carry loads
of 1501 b. up steep, rain-soaked slopes
which would have tried their endurance
without a load. The course over which
these loads were carried was eight miles,
and stragglers were brutally beaten. Other
prisoners were put in body presses or
made to stand with eyes open facing the
fierce sun. Men with raging tropical
ulcers were bashed and kicked. Opera-
tions were carried out without anaesthetics
and with butchers’ saws. Prisoners-of-
war unskilled in bomb-disposal were com-
pelled to break open picric-acid bombs
with hammers and gads and were
horribly burned. One man was killed by
an explosion.
Evidence was given by an Australian
adjutant that one Jap commissioned
officer hit a man 100 times with a pick-
handle, being careful not to break bones.
The victim was knocked down every five
or six strokes; when unable to stand, he
was bashed on the head and arms and
between the legs. He died of “beri-beri
and malnutrition.”
Men sometimes with only a few hours to
live were manhandled to work out of hos-
pital beds. Twenty-five accused of deal-
ing with natives for food were tied with
wire to tree branches and beaten for 90
minutes. Most of the victims died.
For all the specialists in these horrors
the prisoners-of-war had names: “Horse-
face Number One,” “Muttering Mick,”
“Charcoal Charlie,” “Giggling Gertie.”
Bomb Dump in Camp
A captain of the 2/21st —in the Army
Public Relations bulletins witnesses are
never named —declared that in November,
1942, the captors put 200,0001 b. of ex-
plosives in a dump in the prison camp,
15 feet from the A.I.F. officers’ barracks
and 75 feet from a camp of interned
Dutch women and children. protest
was met with the retort that prisoners had
no rights. The dump exploded after a
raid: 10 Australians were killed and 90
wounded, and about 27 of the women and
children were killed.
On August 28, 1944, a request was
made that the camp be marked for
identification by bombers. It was refused
on the ground that there was “no such
thing as international law.” The officer
who made the request was threatened with
execution in front of the whole camp if
he repeated it.
By that time it did not matter much what
happened. Prisoners were dying like flies.
Only 139 Survive
After the Japanese surrender only 139
Australians, all “in great need of medi-
cal attention,” remained out of the origi-
nal 1092 whom the Government that
Saved the Country had flung into
Ambon. Only 30 of the survivors owned
shoes or boots.
At the week-end the verdict had not
been given.
The Borneo Massacres
The criminals tried in Borneo were
Major Tarakuwa, held to be responsible
for the death of 824 A.I.F. men from
Sandakan Camp, and Captain Watanabe.
Both were sentenced to death, the former
by hanging,.the latter by shooting.
The 824 men lost were only a third
of the total Australian force of Eighth
Division men sent to Sandakan from
Singapore. Of 2500 the only ones who
escaped were the officers sent to Kuching
and 27 rank and file, who were charged
with attempting to escape and other
“crimes” and sent back to Singapore to
endure the horrors of Outram Road Jail.
According to the prosecutor the two
Jap -fiends were “undoubtedly responsible
for the greatest mass murder, of Aus-
tralians ever committed.”
In May last year the Australian prisoners,
sick and pitiful survivors of the camps,
were marched to Ranau, 165 miles away.
The camp was burned along with medi-
cal supplies, and the final survivors in
Sandakan were 27 men left behind to die
of hunger and thirst. About 400 of the
marchers were stretcher cases, the rest
sick and starving.
The balance set out on the 165-mile
march. Their ration was three ounces
of rice a day. The march lasted from
mid-May till June 25 —a month before
Canberra decided that it would associ-
ate, “if possible,” a “token force” of
Australians with the British and Indian
troops who were to retake Singapore and
rescue our prisoners.
The rice ration had soon given out.
Men lived on snails, roots and ferns. The
road was a slough, sometimes knee-deep.
Every morning there was held a
ghastly sick parade at which those unfit
to march were killed. It became a daily
occurrence for men to hand a comrade
their remaining rice and belongings before
staggering to the roadside, where they
knew that they would be dispatched by
their guards. Heroes all; their names
should be written on marble.
Only 133 lived to reach Ranau (a very
few escaped into the jungle). Takakuwa
then decided to kill them off. Sick
prisoners who could not walk were com-
pelled to crawl to the cemetery, where
they were shot beside their graves.
“Best to KMI Them”
The accused men did not deny the
allegations.
Takakuwa admitted that the march was
undertaken without medical or food Sup-
plies, and that the majority of the
prisoners were too sick to march. At
Sandakan he thought that few would sur-
vive, and prisoners were shot because they
were no use as workers.
It was best to kill them, because if any
prisoner fell out it would delay the march,
and be a burden upon war operations.
The only defence offered was that the
accused obeyed orders. Takakuwa ad-
mitted that he was entitled to disobey un-
lawful orders ; but he said “the Japanese
soldier always obeys orders.”
The Chief of Staff of the 37th Japanese
Army, Takagama Hikoichi, admitted that
his H.Q. had ordered the march. He
added: “I think it a very regrettable
business.”
Captain Horoshima, in charge of
Sandakan Compound, faced charges of
responsibility for the death of 1290 Aus-
tralians and 10 British, many of whom
were confined in small bamboo cages for
a month on end, compelled to sit at
attention and removed only to be beaten.
Horoshima, it was said, admitted gouging
out prisoners’ eyes.
More Fordean Figures
Meanwhile the supposedly final Army
casualty lists of the war have been issued:
Killed, 16,777 ; missing, 1972 ; p.-0.-w.
not accounted for, 9 ; wounded and in-
jured in action, 20,344,
It is interesting that in July the Prime
Minister declared Australian casualties as:
Killed, 21,415 ; wounded, 37,477 ; missing,
6519 ; p.-0.-w., 26,800.
Of these the Army was debited with
11,992 killed, 33,815 wounded. P.-0.-w.
in enemy hands were given at 18,570 and
those who had escaped at 6695.
Anybody who can reconcile the two
sets of figures will be rewarded with
Cabinet rank and a free trip to Bulgaria,
All p.-0.-w, in Japanese hands are de-
clared to have been accounted for.
Government Defence Plans.
“Ek Dum”: A singular development,
viewed in conjunction with the U.N.O.
Conference in London, the warnings of
Admiral Nimitz and others and events in
the East Indies, is the vigorous prepara-
tion being made for British Common-
wealth defence in the Pacific, and is signi-
ficant.
The, basic organisation for army pur-
poses arranged at the time of the visit of
General Alanbrooke will be a Chief of
Staffs Committee representative of the
U.K.,'Australia, Maoriland and India.
The British representative is to be
-Major-General Heyden; the Indian,
Major-General W. J. Cawthorn, who is
an Australian, and who has been Director
of Intelligence with the Indian Army.
Australian military organisation will re-
vert to the Military Board system, which
should soon be in workirfg order. Major-
General Sid Rowell, who has been Direc-
tor of Tactical Studies at the War Office,
has returned home to take up his duties
as Vice-Chief of the General Staff.
The Commonwealth Government has,
of course, not decided on its policy, or
rather its two policies, since Dr. Evatt
appears to favor the loaning of bits of this
Commonwealth to a protecting Power in
return for grants of bases for Australian
forces in the area of the protecting Power,
which won’t need our protection. A.L.P.
and Communist union bosses will also
have to be consulted as patrons of “our
Indernesiari comrades.”
Thus it is clear that the Chief of Staffs
Committee will be only a myth until it
has a chance of acting in concert. If the
C.O.S. desires to send troops to Indonesia
tomorrow because of the danger involved
in allowing a Japanese-armed insurrec-
tion with Communist aspirations and in-
ternal alliances with a body which plans
to arm the workers of Australia to secure
their ends (vide Communist Party Train-
ing Manual and Thornton’s report to the
Ironworkers’ Central Executive, 1942),
those troops will not be sent by the Aus-
tralian Government,
The Military Board’s status is shown
by the announcement that, before it has
come into existence, Mr. Forde and the
Army chiefs have drafted plans for the
peace-time defence of Australia which
their Cabinet will consider this week. The
important matter of the interim and
peace-time armies is to be decided. The
peace-time army is envisioned in some
quarters as likely to be on a Scullin scale
—30,000 men, or about enough to keep
and reinforce a couple of brigades in
action under active-service conditions.
But the Government proposes to "con-
sider” introducing compulsory training
“Consider” is the word The total
strength of A.I.F. garrisons in the Pacific
is to be 50,000, it is said. It will remain
at that strength if all the men wish to
remain. If not, all that the dissatisfied
element will have to do under present
conditions is to write to Mr. Ward, or
merely to jump on a ship or aircraft and
take a t ree ride home without credentials.
after which the Minister for the Arm J
will interview them courteously and the
flapper press will make heroes of them
f or deserting their mates
The fact is that all that is going on
at preS ent means nothing. The requisites
G f effective defence of Australia, as of
every other British Dominion in isolation
in the midst of the sea, are:
tn First simnn
turLl back the ' Japanese from
Australia, from the approaches to Ceylon,
to Hawaii at Midway, to Canada and Alaska
the Aleutians. It was naval power
t ch rammed home the attack on the
j apanese is i an d s . if there had been strong
Allied navies, modernised and co-ordinated
with air strength, which has become as much
?? “ degral weapon of naval might as the
pig gun, Japan could not have landed a man
m Malaya, Java, the Philippines or any of the
Australian territories.
(?) An expansive mercantile marine co-
ordmated with the Navy. Little Norway, a
barren sub-Arctic country with few more people
than N. S. Wales, provided the Allies with
40 p.c. of tanker strength and with 4,500,000
of shipping. Australia could do the same
“ there Were no Thorntons Or Wrights about,
(3) Strong, long-distance reconnaissance and
bomber and strafer forces, aggressively manned,
based on outposts on strategic routes,
Bntish L Co aBe °. f a }th theSe forces within the
(5) An up-to-the minute intensive compul-
sory training system backed by the existence of
first-class military, naval, air and engineering
colleges and an Imperial Staff College estab-
Australia. The colleges at present in
existence are puny efforts, so equipped and
staffed as to break the heart of any principal.
Under the new system they should provide not
mere - J y regulars but should be able to
arrange short courses for the citizen soldier,
(6) A rearrangement of the basis of pay and
pensions to attract the best men and keep
them. At the present time a chattering “special
write u r ” on a fla PP er newspaper can earn as
much as the commandant in an Australian
State. Moreover, pensions are a fair thing
a nd a necessity. It is disgraceful that soldiers
who have made the defence of the country
Sgs^/Seir^ldlge^ 6 t 0 SCratdl f ° r their
(7) Jh e organisation of heavy industries so
that they can swing instantly in time of emer-
gency to war production of pre-determined and
or s ani s ed armament.
U * der P r f ent conditions Australia,
standing on her own feet, is almost de-
fenceless for practical purposes against
any major attack.


&
u
&
n
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE
In your choice of a car battery be guided
by the Air Forces, They and the world’s leading
passenger air lines depend on Exide. They
still keep going when the rest have stopped.
when
'TSiAH
m
®mu
START
SEHj
2.45
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retiring from the A.M.F. Quarter-
master Generalship Major-General Jim
Cannan, one of the least-advertised senior
officers of the Commonwealth Forces.
Jim began his soldiering as a member of
“Bobby” Gross’s Brigade at Brisbane
Grammar School, whose ranks included
at various times Lavarack, L. C. Wilson,
Sellheim, Miles, Bob Jackson, Plant,
Boase, Nimmo and many more who have
reached general’s rank. Like his brother
D. H., who was killed on Gallipoli, a
keen soldier before War I, Jim Cannan
took the 15th Battalion through some of
the bloodiest fighting on the peninsula
before he was given the 11th Infantry
Brigade in France at 34 years old in 1916.
After the war he managed the Insurance
Office of Australia in his native State,
But 1939 saw him baqk in the army for
the duration.
Maorilander Keith Edward Bullen, first
occupant of the Chair of Applied
Mathematics at Sydney Uni., is best
known for his work in seismology. But
he’s always been a lad for sums. Obtain-
ing his M.A. with honors in maths, in
1927, he lectured in the subject at Auck-
land University College until 1940, when
he transferred to Melbourne. There was
a three-year gap in the Auckland job
while he was at Cambridge, gaining his
Doctorate of Philosophy and studying
geophysics and earth wobbles under Dr.
Harold Jeffreys. Now a world authority
on the subject, his work in seismology
was acknowledged by the British Asso-
ciation in 1937 as an outstanding contri-
bution to the science.
A deceptive figure in his photographs—
his hair went white at 33 —Edward Reilly
Stettinius, of U.N.0., is a type whose
counterpart doesn’t seem to exist in
Australia. A sort of infant prodigy
of the business world, he was a
vice-president of General Motors at
31, left the firm a few years later
to join U.S. Steel Corporation, be-
coming chairman at 38. That was seven
years ago, but when Roosevelt asked him
to go to Washington he cut clear of Big
Business and threw himself into a succes-
sion of big jobs, passing like a whirlwind
through N.R.A., War Resources Board,
Council for National Defence and the
office of Production Management. Tak-
ing over lend-lease just before Pearl Har-
bor, for two years he was responsible for
that war-winning weapon. Next move
was to the State Department as Under-
secretary, and just over a year ago he
succeeded Cordell Hull as Secretary for
State. President Truman sent him to the
San Francisco Conference, after which he
handed over the State Department to
James F. Byrnes to take on the post of
permanent U.S. representative on U.N.O.
Off the record Stettinius admits that he
almost became an Episcopalian minister ;
he believes in and employs bone-snappers
and collects rare books and vehicles —his
prize piece is an ancient Virginia fire
engine,
Holland Park Military Hospital (Bris-
bane) has as a patient Sergeant-major
Tauwita, a Sepik River boy, who was
blinded and lost one arm in action.
Tauwita joined the New Guinea Native
Police in 1933, and was in Rabaul when
the Japs landed but made his way to
Bougainville with the District Officer.
With Captain Reed, of A.N.G.A.U., he
went bush and for two years kept Allied
commands informed of Japanese move-
ments. He found Chinese refugees and
missionaries and guided them to U.S.
submarines, in one of which he was
eventually evacuated to Guadalcanal,
where he received the Loyalty Medal. He
was back on Bougainville before the
Americans landed, and after a spell in
Brisbane went there again with our troops
and for 12 months manned an O.P.
behind the Jap lines. Tauwita has been
recommended for the M.M.
Dr. E. W. Fowles, dead in Brisbane at
73, was one of Queensland’s leading
scholars. From Brisbane Grammar he
went to Melbourne University, where he
collected several scholarships and the ora-
tory prize and graduated M.A. and LL.B.
with first-class honors in classics and
logic in 1905. Admitted as a barrister
and solicitor in Victoria in 1905, he re-
turned to Queensland, and for 30 years
was examiner in law to the Queensland
Supreme Court. Dr. Fowies was also a
member of the old Legislative Council,
a Senator of the Queensland University,
and was for a time associate editor of the
Brisbane “Daily Mail.”
Most brilliant student of his year at
Fergusson College, Poona, Sir Raghunath
Purushottam Paranjpye, High Commis-
sioner for India in Australia, went to
England as a Government of India scholar
in 1897 and studied at Cambridge (Senior
Wrangler 1899), Paris and Gottingen.
Returning to India, he became principal
and Professor of Mathematics at Fergus-
HIGH COMMISSIONER.
son College, his old school, and held the
position for a quarter of a century. Dur-
ing that time he was closely associated
with social and educational reform, and
was a member of the Bombay Legislative
Council, In 1927 he went to London for
five years as a member of the Indian
Council, after which he became Vice-
Chancellor of Lucknow University. In
Australia since 1944 he’s always willing
to discuss India with or play bridge
against all comers.
Norman J. O. Makin’s last-minute jetty
jump into the U.N.O. conference virtu-
ally ends his 26-years career in the Federal
House, as he will be leaving for Washing-
ton soon after he gets back from London.
There will be a rush in S.A. for his seat,
Hindmarsh, which is about the safest safe
Labor seat in Australia. Industrial Adel-
aide is in the heart of Hindmarsh, and
Makin has never had to worry on elec-
tion nights ; come fair weather, come foul,
he’s been able to total up his majority in
groups of five figures. Makin worked
hard as Navy and Munitions Minister,
got along well with Navy chiefs on the
one hand and B.H.P.’s Essington Lewis
on the other. Pleasant-mannered, deeply
religious, and never greatly involved
in the Labor party’s inner storms and
intrigues, Makin should make a good
impression in Washington. With Casey,
Dixon and Eggleston to follow after, the
tracking won’t be easy. Makin was
Speaker at Canberra in the wild and
wooden Scullin days of 1929-31, when
controlling the Reps, demanded every-
thing a Speaker had. Makin ruled the
House in most difficult circumstances with
unexpected firmness, a knowledge of
Standing Orders and a fairness which no-
body questioned, though’it made some
of his own party feel a bit nettled at times.
“Feng-Shui” on a fallen Son of Heaven:
I see that the Russians have agreed to hand
over to the Chinese, presumably to be tried as
a war criminal, Henry Pu Yi, former puppet
Emperor of Manchuria and previous to that the
last Emperor of China. Kang-teh, to give him
his right name, had the misfortune to be a
son of a leading Manchu prince, which gave
him the succession to the Chinese throne at the
age of three. He played around his throne till
February, 1912, when the Republicans deposed
him. The passions raised by war in 1912 weren’t
as high as the passions of 1945 which have
produced the present world-wide witch hunt,
and the child was allowed to retain his title
and reside in the summer palace with his pros-
pective wives and concubines and his retinue
of eunuchs until 1924, while he learnt modern
history, economics, philosophy, logic and type-
writing under the tutorship of R. F. Johnstone,
the English Buddhist who, while district officer
at Wei-hai-wei had acquired a profound know-
ledge of Chinese thought and customs, wnen
an old-style general staged a counter revolu-
tion the young man was hustled off by pis
advisers to the British settlement at Tientsin,
thence to Korea, where he came under the in-
fluence of Nippon. He was installed as
Emperor of the Japanese State of Manchukuo
in 1934, the fact that his remote ancestors had
ruled there being a great asset. As Emperor
he was noteworthy for the number of edicts
he issued breathing the noblest sentiments or
brotherly love on all mankind. To say that
he was responsible for anything or that he had
any influence on the events of the past few years
is nonsense. They might just as well hang his
horse as hang poor Pu Yi.
In these days of soap operas, canned
music and permanent revivals, not many
Australian composers can claim to have
had a comic opera produced, but Denis
Gerity, of Melbourne, managed it a few
years ago with his “Crescent Moon.
Gerity, himself a singer, has had songs
recorded by Peter Dawson, and Gladys
Moncrieff sang his “Kingdom of Love
in “Katinka.” At present he’s campaign-
ing for a worth-while Australian anthem.
His own setting of Marie Pitt’s “Fling
Out the Flag” has plenty of supporters.
Rear-Admiral R. H. Portal, C. 8.,
D.S.C., flag officer in charge of R.N. Air
Stations in the Pacific, caught in quizzi-
cal mood by Dubois, met his first Aus-
tralians over a sticky brew of tea in a
fly-infested dugout at Anzac Cove in
1915. Attached to Bacchante, he was a
R.N.A.S. observer “spotting” in crazy
Voisin and Farman biplanes and, then
the last word in aircraft, Nieuports. After
Gallipoli he went back on deck for a few
years, but when the Fleet Air Arm was
formed in 1925 he got his wings, and
since then has alternated between carriers,
cruisers and battleships. Many vessels
on which he served in those years have
since been sunk —Royal Oak, Courageous,
Hood, Eagle—but in reply to a remark
that these were historic ships, he claims
that “all ships are historic.” Back in
1921 Portal was experimenting with
aerial torpedoes—“tin-fish” are his long
suit —so he felt a very personal satisfac-
tion 20 years later when as commander
of York he helped escort Illustrious when
her ’planes swooped down on the Italian
Fleet at Taranto and used this weapon
ADMIRAL WITH WINGS.
with such great success. York went down
fighting in Suda Bay after the epic evacua-
tion from Greece. That was the
Admiral’s second link with Australians,
not so far from where he had witnessed
the A.l.F.’s baptism of fire 26 years be-
fore. Royal Sovereign was his next com-
mand, from which he was called to the
Admiralty as Assistant Chief of Naval
Staff (Air). Twelve months ago, when
British sea and air power were being
switched to the Pacific, he took up his
present appointment. He collected his
D.S.C. in 1916 and his C.B. in the latest
Honors List.
James Kemp, retired from the job of
Melbourne’s fire chief after 42 years of
fire-fighting, has seen the Melbourne Fire
Brigade change from an affair that
clanged its way through the streets with
a crash of horses’ feet to the mechanised
column which keeps up radio communi-
cation with H.Q. at Eastern Hill as it
speeds to its destination. A veteran of
the South African' War, he holds the
Queen’s Medal and two bars, and he won
the Royal Humane Society’s medal by
dragging a man out of the bowels of a
ship filled with gas fumes.
“M.H.”: Charlie Eady was not the
first Tasmanian Test cricketdi'. That dis-
tinction belongs to Kenny Burn, who was
in Billy Murdoch’s 1890 Australian XI
as understudy to wicket-keeper Blackham,
and played ip matches at Lord’s and The
Oval. Eady was in Harry TrottV 1896
XI, and his sole Test on that tour was
at Lord’s ; on the tour he scored 290
runs with an average of 13, and took 16
wickets averaging 25. Another Tas-
manian, George Bailey, was included in
Dave Gregory’s team which toured Eng-
land. in 1878, but that team was not re-
garded as a representative side and its
victory over the M.C.C. is not classed as
a Test-match.
Following on Dr. John Dale, health
officer of Melbourne City, Professor Peter
McCallum has been elected president of
the 8.M.A., Victorian branch. A distin-
guished pathologist with an overseas repu-
tation, he won the M.C. in the first Ger-
man war for his services on the Western
Front. He was a member of the Royal
Commission on the Bundaberg fatalities
in 1928 when there was a worldwide
scare over the deaths of children inocu-
lated with anti-diphtheritic serum from
Royal Park in Melbourne. A Scot, he
was educated in M.L.
“B.”: Archbishop Gilroy is not the
only new cardinal to have played a non-
clerical part in the 1914-18 war. His
brother-prelate Griffin, of Westminster,
went through the show with the Royal
Naval Air Service. When peace came he
began to study for the Church, and was
at the English College in Rome in the
early nineteen-twenties, when Archbishop
Gilroy was also a student in Rome. He
succeeded Cardinal Hinsley as Arch-
bishop of Westminster two years ago.
A notable family association with the
Maoriland Legislative Council has been
terminated by the retirement of Chief
Messenger J. A. Gapper, after 38 years’
service. His father, who built the first
house in what is now Wellington’s popu-
lous suburb of Lyall Bay, served the
Upper House as a sessional messenger for
35 years. Of the Council staff at the time
he took up his duties, Gapper alone sur-
vives, and J. T. Paul, who had the oner-
ous job of Director of Publicity in the
recent war, is the only survivor among
the members.-
Into the silence:
At 37, near Blinman (S.A.), John McTaggart
(Bob) Lee, pastoralisf, killed instantly in a
fall from a windmill on his property, Angon-
china station. He represented the Blinman
local committee, and was a prominent member
of the Port Augusta District Committee of the
S.A. Stockowners’ Association.
At 68, in Brisbane, Dr. J. E. Streeter, well-
known medico and Social Credit advocate.
Born at Ballarat (Vic.), he was educated at
Melbourne Grammar and University: He prac-
tised in London and Scotland, and came to Bris-
bane after serving in World War I. At one
time he was Acting Chief Medical Officer in
Papua.
In Melbourne, at 66, E. W. Cole, eldest son
of the founder of the famous Book Arcade. He
retired when the Arcade was sold and interested
himself in shooting, fishing and racing. He was
a member of the V.R.C. and the Moonee Valley
R.C.
At Christchurch, M.L., Charles Joseph Payne,
one of Dunedin’s best-known barristers and
solicitors, aged 78. Born in South Australia,
he was taken to M.L. when a child; entered the
civil service; abandoned it for the law, and
entered Downie Stewart’s firm, being admitted
as a solicitor in 1896 and as a partner in 1898.
A keen sportsman, he skippered the first rink
of bowlers (“The All Whites”) to Australia in
1906.
In Melbourne, at 70, Leonard Lowsby, known
throughout Australia for his services to the
co-operative idea in the dairying .industry. He
was sub-manager and secretary of Gippsland
and Northern Co-op.
In Melbourne, at 70, Dr. Georgina Sweet,
0.8. E., D.Sc., only woman member of the Uni-
versity Council and one of the leading authori-
ties on social services in Australia. The first
woman to receive the degree of Doctor of
Science in Australia, her achievements in-
cluded the Mcßain Research Scholarship, the
David Syme Research Prize, and much original
research for the Commonwealth.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 85, Geelong-born
Charles Montrose Jenkins, noted bandsman
and winner of New Zealand double sculls title
in 1892.


I
%>
G
v
n/
VG26
Divorce Notice.
TO CYRIL VINCENT BROWNE formerly of Sydney
New South Wales now of address unknown the
husband of LILA ENDA BROWNE of Auckland
Married Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife has
filed in the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Auckland a Petition No. D.944/45 against you for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion in that she was
compelled to leave you on account of your cruelty
towards her and your failure to provide her and the
four children of the marriage with adequate main-
tenance Your wife relies for her domicile on Section
12 Subsection 3 of the Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes Act (New Zealand) 1928 which enables a wife
to acquire a domicile independant of her husbapd
A divorce under such enactment is good for all pur-
poses in New Zealand but it may not be so outside
the boundaries of New Zealand A copy of the petition
and notice will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same at my office Unless you file an answer
(having first given an address for service as provided
by the Rules of Court) in the said Court at Auckland
within forty days from publication of this advertement
the said petition will be heard and determined in
your absence Unless you give an address for service
the petitioner is not required to serve you with any
further documents and you are not entitled to receive
any further notice in connection with the proceedings.
—(l.s.) E. M. MOSLEY, Deputy Registrar, Supreme
Court, Auckland.
Solicitors for Petitioner, MESSRS. SCHRAMM &
ELWORTH, 208 Dilworth Buildings, Customs Street,
Auckland. Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
NT4S/37
PostV?
1
“Going away for a rest cure?
All you need is
a daily dose of
' NUGGET'
. . . that’s what
keeps me fit”.
For 50 years a GOOD polish
ITiTTO
n
fcnwpHOoy • mi >«om acid
The finest Leather
v Preservative S.
‘NOG6ET’ SHOE POLISH
SPORTING NOTIONS
As in America and England, 1945 was a
boom racing year in Australia, despite the
ban on mid-week meetings and the fodder
shortages an| strikes. There was no shortage
of £. s. d. for tote, bookie and sale ring. Some
of it flows fyack aga j n> but largely it’s a one-
way traffic, and its value to the permanent well-
being of the sport is dubious. Nothing kills a
sport more quickly than the development of
big betting and too-great financial interest.
Describing similar conditions in America,
sporting writer Leon Racht in a recent N.Y.
“Journal-American” article put things rather
neatly: “In the last war the common man
—that is the gee who made the bullets and
wads of dough—bought 20-dollar silk shirts
and then wore them to employment agencies
stalking a peace-time job. In this war he’s just
losing his shirt. And if looks like if and when
he gets round to hunting up one of those re-
conversion berths he’ll be doing it in a barrel.
All in all New York is on the wildest, dizziest,
shoot-the-works gambling spree in history. The
casual two-dollar bettors of old are trampling
each other in the 50- and 100-dollar fote-lines.
Thousands are there daily wagering away their
war-bloated bank accounts.”
Another comment came from an unexpected
quarter in Bing Crosby, whose garish racing
colors, complete with bow-tie and tasselled cap,
were sported on Sydney tracks a few years
back. The quality of Bing’s singing may be
a matter of opinion, but he has a deserved
reputation for shrewd business dealings. An-
nouncing that he was selling his large interest in
a successful racecourse, Bing remarked: “When
I see 20-dollar-a-week guys lining up at the
50-dollar tote windows I think it’s time to get
out.”
Both these comments are equally applicable
here, where huge sums are wagered every week
on any sort of race. Recently at Randwick
one bookie held over £9OOO on an ordinary
welter handicap. Naturally, with that sort of
money available, prices of bloodstock have also
reached fantastic levels.
A comparison between sales of bloodstock in
1944-45 and 1932-33, at the tail end of the
depression, throws interesting light on the
present inflated values of horseflesh, and, in
reverse, gives an indication of what may be
expected to come. The “Australasian Turf
Register” fists 1613 lots sold in public during
1932-33; more than two-thirds of them (1068)
failed to fetch 100 guineas, in some cases fail-
ing by as much as 99 guineas. Altogether 92
brought in less than a tenner. Only nine
changed hands for 1000 guineas or better and
only one of those was past the 2000 mark,
while of the 1512 lots sold at between 100
and 1000 guineas only 18 were at 500 guineas
or over. But when a big price was paid if
was with sound judgment. The one who did
bring a big bid was Brazen, sold as a stallion
for 4100 guineas. His progeny are still going
strong; 13 of them won races last season,
bringing in about twice as much in stake-
money as their sire cost 12 years ago, and
lifting the total won by Brazen stock to
£122,729.
Of the 2325 lots fisted in 1944-45 —about 50
p.c. more than in 1932-33 —roughly one-third
(856) went for less than 100 guineas, but of
those only 11 were at under a tenner and the
dead low was a fiver. At the other end of the
scale 153 lots were sold at prices ranging from
1000 guineas to the 5250 guineas paid for the
Ajax-Privet colt now racing as Tengur; and for
a further 307 lots bidding passed the 500-
guineas mark.
A classic example of what can be obtained is
the case of Prince Buzzard, recently sold to a
courageous Melbournite for an undisclosed
“four-figure sum.” Prince Buzzard, whose de-
parture for the South will be loudly bewailed
by MacShortodds in Sydney, has been tried on
every Sydney track in every class and at every
distance. At one time or another practically
every leading jockey has tried to do the trick
with him, but now, rising seven, he has yet to
win a race.
There has been a marked deterioration of
racecourses, due either to military occupation
or overuse because of the occupation of alterna-
tive courses. Brisbane has been worst hit, with
only the Albion Park sand-track available—
possibly a blessing in disguise as no turf could
have stood up to the continuous racing the
dirt-track has undergone, and the actual tracks
of other courses should be in reasonably good
order. Ascot is expected to be ready for use
early in May. Randwick, Rosehill and Can-
terbury have borne the brunt of the attack in
Sydney, with an occasional meeting also at
Moorefield. All those tracks are in a bad
way. Randwick, with acres of dust and sand
where once were lawns, is a complete wreck.
Actually an afternoon at the races these days
is anything but pleasant. Racegoers will not be
long in returning to the frame of mind in which
they require to do their money in at least
physical comfort.
Last year also saw the birth and develop-
ment of the Government-sponsored Sydney Turf
Club. The ethical correctness of launching a
racing organisation with Government backing
during war-time when fairly ample facilities
already existed was questionable, but there it
is, with a virtual monopoly of racing fixtures
other than those at Randwick. It has pro-
vided some excellent racing, but, with pro-
grammes embodying a disproportionate number
of Maiden, Novice and other restricted events,
has shown a tendency to cater too much for
beasts which scarcely merit consideration. At
the same time these events are welcomed by
many a battling owner-trainer, and the said
b.-0.-t. is a type of racing enthusiast who will
be still pursuing the sport when many a Johnny-
come-war-time and his purse have long de-
parted. Nevertheless too much experience of
trying to pick a winner from 20 or so noddies
with equally poor form is apt to dampen the
ardor of the most willing punter.
* * * *
The Dhoti breed carried on their good work
at Moonee Valley last Saturday, filling first
and second places in both the fivC-furlongs
sprints for youngsters. In the fillies section
Hawa Rani (from Air Queen), raced by her
breeder, E. A. Underwood, in partnership
with F. P. Cruftenden, carried 9st. to a com-
fortable win over Pink Pearl (from Miss Dev-
lin), and in the colts section Westminster Abbey
(from Princess Agnes) easily defeated Natural
(from Vingt-Un). Dhoti’s impress as sire does
not extend to color. Of these four money-
winners at the Valley Hawa Rani is a bay,
Pink Pearl a brown, Westminster Abbey a grey
and Natural a chestnut.
The special weighting for the Benefit Plate
at the Valley, where the huge attendance en-
sured a big contribution to charity, made the
race look a benefit event indeed for the En-
field three-year-old gelding Rimfire, and, start-
ing at odds-on, he had no trouble in winning
from Amnesia and Drama. This is a chancy
time of the year for picking out prospective
good ones, but Rimfire is shaping like a fair
stayer. He ran a good third in the mile-and-
threequarters Bagot Handicap at Flemington
on New Year’s Day, when the earlier unlucky
Peter scraped home from Peter Lalor.
In the other events at the Valley, the Valiant
Chief four-year-old gelding Chief Pilot won the
12-furlongs Hospital Handicap from Pleget,
Stenelaus and others of an only moderate
field ; the Manitoba four-year-old mare Delina,
despite suffering a check, got through to de-
feat Kindergold and Felstar in the six-furlongs
Appeal Handicap; and the John James five-
year-old gelding Tarabah won the mile Charity
Highweight from Macready and Real Guy, both
of whom look like improving.
Stenelaus and Kindergold were back from
S.A., where Stenelaus was an also-ran in Rain-
bird’s _ Port Adelaide Cup on December 29.
Rainbird won that mile-and-seven-furlongs Cup
most brilliantly from the favorite Eudunda and
Blue Express; the first time the Cup had been
won by a Melbourne Cup winner. The four-
year-old daughter of The Buzzard-Sequoia car-
ried 9st., and, provided handicappers are not
too unkind to her, should add more to her
good record this year. That same day Kinder-
gold won the Woodville sprint in a fraction of
a second outside record time, and the crack
S.A. filly Minion won the Oaklands Plate. A
couple of days later, at Morphettville, South
Australia’s racing Governor, Sir Willoughby
Norrie, saw his Shakuni filly Lady Rosemary
give him his first win in the State.
* * * «
Next to Rainbird—whose class was well estab-
lished, anyway—the Queenslander Bern-
borough, winning the Villiers at Randwick, put
up one of the best performances seen
towards the turn of the year. A six-year-
old bay horse by Emborough-Bern Maid, and
hence with notable breeding behind him, Bern-
borough had previously been restricted to racing
at Toowoomba. He was weighted at 9.2 for
the Villiers, and by the outcome could have
been rated a good <feal higher. He made the
field look very ordinary, winning by five
lengths from Good Idea, with Victory Lad
another three lengths away. Then, coming back
to six-furlongs sprinting, Bernborough carried
9.6 and comfortably won the Carrington from
Civic Pride and Felbeam. How Bernborough
may shape against, say, Royal Gern and others
of that ilk can be left open, but on his Sydney
runs he looks one out of the box. With the
false rail in use, the Villiers was 19 yards over
the mile and the Carrington 13 yards over the
six furlongs, and under his solid weights he
covered the distances in respectively 1.37$ and
I.lo£, the Randwick record for the exact six
being Gold Salute’s 1.10.
* * * *
The youngsters’ events at Randwick last Satur-
day were mainly notable for the narrow wins
in both sections, the Golden Sovereign-Royal
Visit filly Royal Court defeating the Titan
fillies Shining Vision and Tibalina half a head
and a head in the fillies division, and Co-Re
(Roxborough-The Cause) defeating Te Tana
and Beau Pebble in the colts-and-geldings sec-
tion with similar margins between them. Gay
King, back at last tp something approaching
his true form, accounted for Warlock and
Lunar in the Sefton Handicap sprint, and the
four-year-old Marabou horse Mentone, only
lately risen from restricted class, beat ageing
Grand Fils and Shining Night in the 12-furlongs
Warwick Handicap. Despite his pension-age,
the old Windbag gelding Bragger was too good
for Native Son, Felberta and a big field of
others in the welter-weighted Minto Handicap,
and the Marconigram four-year-old mare Grape
Vine nicely won the Novice from Manakau and
New Idea, the last-named running a very prom-
ising race.
* ♦ * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: Shining Vision, 1; Anastasia,
2; Leumas, 3. Encourage: New Idea, 1;
Pennicuik, 2; Four Square, 3. Flying: Crags-
man, 1; Gay King, 2; Gay Monarch, 3.
Three-year-old: Tamaroa, 1; King Lear, 2; Hi
Silva, 3. Lord Mayor’s Cup: Mentone, 1;
Mabson, 2; King’s Glen, 3. Welter: Babil-
lard, 1; Mariito, 2; Man o’ War, 3.
* * * *
' Rugby Unionists of the N.Z. fighting
forces have had a great season in Britain.
The Services team wound up their tour
with a brilliant victory over Bristol, hav-
ing lost only two of the 23 matches
played. The Kiwis —the N.Z. Army team
—defeated both England and Wales, the
latter win (11 to 3) with N.Z. Prime
Minister Fraser one of the crowd of
30,000.
* * * *
The Services XI:
The Services team, members of which have
never been thoroughly fit because of war
wounds and prison-camp experiences, played
60-odd games, compared with the A.l.F.’s 1918
tour of 32 in England, nine in South Africa
and three in Australia. At Perth, in reply to
Westralia’s 323 (McKenzie 88) and 144 for two
wickets, Services scored 301 (Miller 80,
Williams 61). At Adelaide they made 314
(Whitington 77, Pepper 63, and Stanford 59 not
out) against S.A.’s 319 (Craig 141 and Bradman
112 getting 253 of the total). In the match v.
Victoria Hassett, Pepper, Christofani and Sis-
mey took a rest (over which there were howls
from the not-so-weary press and other critics)
and Victoria’s XI (at full strength) scored 456,
Services replied feebly with 118
(Miller 37, Workman 31) and 182 (Miller 59,
Whitmgton 32). lan Johnson (10 for 44)
caused the wreckage.
* * * *
Services v. N. S. Wales:
At Sydney a strong N.S.W. team, going ic
first against the Services XI, scored 551 for
seven wickets (innings closed). Bames (102—
missed at 0 and 99) and Alley (119) added 109
second wicket; Alley and Donaldson
(99) 111 for the fifth; and Grieves (102 not
out) and Gulliver (72 .not out) 151 for the un-
finished eighth wicket. Of the eight bowlers
tried, Ellis finished with 6 for 144 off 27 overs;
Pepper’s slows got the other wicket for 137 off
32 overs. Fast bowler Miller showed pace in
eight overs for 39 runs, but he announces his
retirement from this brand of hard work.
Keeper Sismey stumped two and caught two
and allowed nine byes in 15 sundries in about
seven hours—a good effort.
A The Services’ first innings was a triumph for
Miller. He came in when the board showed
3 for 25, and played the bowling like a master
to finish with 105 not out, of a total of 204.
Whitington’s 49 was a good opener’s innings,
but too inclined to be venturesome; Carmody ,
and Pepper (each 14) were the only others to
get double figures. N.S.W. bowlers were used
in shock formation, giving the Services no
time to settle down. O’Reilly (3 for 46),
Toshack (2 for 36), Gulliver (1 for 58) and
Lindwall (3 for 35) shared the wickets. Lind-
wall’s bumpers justly earned ribald remarks
from the “Hill,” since there was no reason for
this waste of energy.
* * » #
Inter-State cricket resume:
To date six inter-State matches have been
played this season. Queensland defeated
N.S.W. and S.A.; N.S.W. accounted for Q.
and S.A.; and Victoria had wins over Q. and
N.S.W. Queensland has aggregated 1974 runs,
averaging 30.84; N.S.W. 1966, averaging 37.80;
Vic. 991, averaging 33.03; and S.A. 910,
averaging 29.35. Queensland has the highest
single innings (573 for eight wickets v. S.A.),
with N.S.W. next (552 for nine wickets v. Q.).
Busiest batsmen have been Bames (N.S.W.),
674 runs av. 112.33 ; Brown, (Q.), 346 av. 49 A\ ;
McCool (Q.), 345 av. 57.5; Jamblyn (Vic.),
206 av. 68.66; Hamence (S.A.), 186 av. 93.
Bradman made a welcome reappearance with
S.A. and scored 122 for once out.
Left-hander Toshack (N.S.W.) bagged 21
wickets av. 22.33. O’Reilly, who is 40, came
next with 19 wickets av. 12.89, but has used
himself sparingly because of doubtful legs.
Best of the rest have been slow bowler McCool
(Q.), 18 wickets av. 29.66; speed-merchant
Lindwall (N.S.W.), 13 wickets av. 39.61; and
Victorians Freer (10 av. 13.2) and Tribe (11 av.
27.72).
* * * *
In the early part of a twelve-rounder at
Leichhardt (Sydney) Jimmy Dundee
and George Elliott shaped like dear old
pals. Protests from the paying guests
effected a difference, especially on Elliott’s
part. From the sixth round on that young
man boxed with such effect that he re-
ceived the unimportant verdict.
In the course of an uncommonly inter-
esting night’s stoush at Sydney Stadium
Joe Grant (more aggressive than ever be-
fore) outpointed Terry O’Toole, and Art
Davis knocked out Jock Kane, of the
Royal Navy, Kane had the experience,
but Davis was there with the punch.
His left to the chin in the eighth was so
convincing that Wallis declared him the
winner without commencing a count.


Missing Friends.
WILL ERIC MOORE, who arrived in Sydney from
England in March, 1939, or anybody knowing his
present whereabouts* please communicate witn
STEPHEN JAQUES & STEPHEN, Solicitors, 12
Spring Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
One of the prettiest spots on the bayside
is Mornington, and many well-known
Melbourne residents have their summer
homes in this ideal town on Port Phillip
Bay. Prof. Bernard Heinze, with his wife
and two children, Julian and Adrian, have
chosen Mornington for holiday-making,
and are enjoying the sun and bathing.
Prof. Heinze is relaxing from his duties
with the A.B.C. and the Conservatorium,
and his wife from the cares of her job
as Lady Mayoress. He lately won a golf
tournament at the Peninsula Club.
Wearing a well-tailored slack suit of
green linen, Mrs. Heinze was caught sun-
ning on the beach in company with a
house guest, Patricia Turner. They have
had many guests .over the holidays, in-
cluding the Lord Mayor, who combined
business with pleasure. Many children
have been brought to Mt. Martha, which
is a little distance from Mornington, from
the Mallee to a holiday camp, and here
the children are having great fun. One
of the highlights of their visit was a trip
in a corvette, and the Mayor and City
Councillors spent a day with the young-
sters in their camp. The Premier was
also a visitor and spent a couple of days
with the children. Also at Mt. Martha
were Dr. R. G. Williams and Mrs. Wil-
liams, with son Noel and daughter
Margaret,
Mrs. H, G. Connell is in residence at
Glendalough, Mornington, and she has
had a stream of guests, among them the
Archbishop of Brisbane, Dr. R. C. Halse,
and Canon Farnham Maynard, of St.
Peter’s, Melbourne. Assisting his mother
in entertaining the guests is son Barry,
who recently won the Sutton prize for
classics at the Church of England Gram-
mar School. Other guests at Glendalough
included the father of the hostess, H. Bar-
wick, well known in Wagga and Narran-
dera (N.S.W.), and her brother Harold,
recently discharged from the A.I.F. He
was one of the “Rats of Tobruk.” Also
seen sunbaking on the sands of Morning-
ton were the two attractive daughters of
Dr. and Mrs. Melrose Mailer, Jean and
Rosemary.
There is activity among the women at
Frankston, who are anxious to raise
money for the Frankston Junior Library
and Craft Centre. To further these ends
Mrs. Ken Mather has organised a mon-
ster carnival and barbecue to be held at
Oliver’s Hill, just out of Frankston, on
January 19 from 2p.m. until midnight.
Many and varied attractions will provide
entertainment for visitors.. During the
afternoon there will be a dog show,
novelty and obstacle races, a dancing dis-
play by the girls of the Frankston Club
and boxing matches in which boys of the
Frankston Police Boys Club will take
part. Ken Mather has donated a steer,
which will be auctioned. There will be
afternoon tea and ice-cream, and a steer
and two sheep will be roasted over coals
from 5 p.m. until 6.30 p.m., when the
barbecue buffet supper will be served.
A dance floor has been laid down and,
as well as afternoon dancing, visitors will
dance by the light of the moon until mid-
night. They will be served with a supper
consisting of frankfurters and tea. The
committee appears to have thought of
everything: those uncertain of the way
from Frankston to Oliver’s Hill will be«
guided by red arrows all the way. Special
buses will run from the Frankston rail-
way station and those who come in cars
will have space for parking, which will
be free.
Reta Findlay, who has been active in
Y.W.C.A. circles and also in the Red
Cross, has been made a director of the
firm of Georges, one of the fashion
centres of Melbourne. Nine years ago
Reta joined this firm as advertising man-
ager. She has been abroad several times
to study fashions and to meet the people
wljo create them, and also wore the
clothes, and she was present at the Coro-
nation of the present King. She was one
of the first women in Melbourne to wear
a short dinner frock, and her clothes are
always of interest to other women. Reta
is interested in painting and sketching,
and is a lover of music. She is always
seen at celebrity concerts, and her flat
in Collins-street is a Mecca of devotees
of music and art. She had a lot to do
with the opening of Georges’ Gallery, in
which many artists had exhibitions.
Life is almost back to normal in Mel-
bourne, but the social front was quiet
last week —so many well-to-do people are
holidaying at the seaside or in the coun-
try. An event was the marriage of Mar-
jorie, only daughter of Melbourne’s
Town Clerk, Harold Wootton, and Mrs.
Wootton. Marjorie spent several years
in the W.A.A.A.F., and at the time of her
discharge had risen to the rank of Sec-
tion Officer. Bridegroom was Squadron-
Leader Archibald John Shields, R.A.A.F.,
and wedding took place at St. George’s,
Glenferrie. Archdeacon Roscoe Wilson
tied the knot, and the bride was given
away by her father. Her frock of ivory
embossed crepe was cut on classical lines.
A high draped neckline and long sleeves
and wide peplum were features of the
‘bodice, and the skirt, long and graceful,
ended in a train. On the train were two
embroidered horseshoes, which had orna-
mented the wedding dress of the wearer’s
mother. The Limerick lace veil, mounted
on tulle, was surmounted with a coronet
of gardenias. The bouquet was of the
same flowers, mixed with miniature water-
lilies. The heavy crepe frock of Mrs. K.
Lampel was in dusty-pink tonings, appli-
qued with leaves edged with emerald
green. A feather toque repeated the
green in the frock, and a bouquet of pink
gladioli completed the picture.
The bridegroom, "who is the only son
of W. Shields, Tatura, and the late Mrs.
Shields, had John Pigdon as best man.
Hydrangeas and foliage made the ban-
quet hall of Melbourne Town Hall festive
for the reception. The small tables were
dressed in pink carnations, and over 150
guests were present. Mother of the
bride, Mrs. Wootton, contrasted an aqua-
blue frock with a black and gold hat.
She carried a small bouquet of deep red
roses. Her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Harold
Wootton, jnr., was also in blue, with a
small flower-trimmed hat. Later the
newly-wedded couple flew to Tasmania.
Pictured here is Mrs. Bowen Pain, well
known for her work with the Women’s
Group of the Royal Empire Society. At
the moment she is busy with plans for
the formation of a Youth Group of ages
from 15 to 25. Mrs. Pain and her younger
set have worked in conjunction with the
Women’s Group and raised almost £l5OO
for the Library Fund of the R.E.S.
Back for a short stay in her home
town is Mrs. John Lindsay (Joan Moss
that was). Husband, who is a woolbuyer
and who spent many of his youthful years
in Melbourne, came from New Jersey on
a business trip and Joan followed him in
the Swedish motor-ship Kookaburra and
brought their small daughter Cheryl Ann,
so that grandmother and sister could have
their first glimpse of her. Before her
marriage and subsequent trip to America
to make her home, Joan was a figure in
radio circles. In America she studied
dramatic art under Madame Tindall, and
later had some acting experience.
Madame Tindall was the teacher of Jen-
nifer Jones, heroine of “The Song of Ber-
nadette” and other film opuses. Joan,
whose home is New Jersey, prefers the
West Coast of America to the East. While
in the West she visited Los Angeles and,
of course, Hollywood, and while there
had luncheon with Shirley Ann Richards,
formerly of Sydney. She also visited the
set of “Laura,” and there met Gene Tier-
ney and Dana Andrews. She also met
Ingrid Bergman and Lauren Bacall (Mrs.
Humphrey Bogart).
Living in the U.S.A., Joan says, is terri-
fically expensive. The shops are full- of
smart clothes and accessories, but they
are very highly priced. Dining out is
also much more costly than in Australia.
Though the girls naturally resent Ameri-
cans marrying English and Australian
girls, they are treating the strangers in
their midst with kindness, and the re-
turned soldiers, who spent so much time
in this country, speak very highly of Aus-
tralia and the kindness and hospitality
shown them.
From Sydney
The departure of the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester for their holiday in Tas-
mania was one of the talked-over events
of last week. Prince William and Prince
Richard, who made the voyage too, flew
from Canberra to Sydney. It was Prince
William’s first flight, and he was keenly
interested in all he saw. The battleship
King George V, in which the Royalties
travelled, was another joy to the young
Prince. Dog-lovers were pleased to note
that Prince William’s dog Piper was in-
cluded in the holiday group. Miss Eileen
Phipps and Commander A. W. P. Robert-
son are in attendance.
The hardest freeze she has known for
years, a shrunken yule-tide log, and
woollens worn thin during six austere
years when England was fighting for the
freedom of the world, are making this a
winter of no great content for our kins-
men overseas. The thought should make
every man and woman in Australia reach
for the uttermost traybit to drop into the
Food for Britain Fund. Donations of
money go further than the equivalent in
gifts of food because the fund can buy
everything wholesale. A very graceful
thing was done recently by a group of
Sydney girls headed by Pat Marsland (the
girl in this Norton Trevaire picture). They
organised a “Thank You, Britain,” dance,
made a great success of theff night at the
Roosevelt and handed a cheque for over
£237 to the fund. That will buy more
than half a tdn of food for Britain.
At the Town Hall there is a receiving
depot for gifts of food —tinned milk,
tinned meat and fruit are welcomed.
Dripping (clarified and treated for export)
and lard are also welcome. Lyceum Club
members headed by president Mrs. John
Metcalfe are busy every day at the depot.
Minister for External Affairs Evatt and
his wife returned to Sydney last week
after some months in England and the
United States. Mrs. Evatt renewed
acquaintance with the wife of Prime
Minister Attlee, and tells of a very swish
party given by Foreign Minister Bevin.
Smart hair-styles topped by even smarter
hats were noticeable among the women
guests. Hats, in spite of the “straight
above the eyebrows” dictum which Syd-
ney women have been following, were
still worn with a jaunty tilt to one side
when Mrs. Evatt left London.
Most visited place in London just
getting used to the presence of peace is
the National Gallery. It is crowded every
day by men and women giving a shy wel-
come to their favorite pictures, many of
which has been secreted in Wales and the
North Country during the blitz. The
roof of the Tate had been blown off,
but its treasures had been tucked away
and so suffered no damage. That is a
joy to those who recall the jade
pagoda on the ground floor, and now
know they may see it again. London
squares without their railings are as un-
conservative as the Government. Many
of them are filled with war equip-
ment. This is not the case with the little
park at the back of the Grosvenor. Lon-
don still shows its scars. She wears them
as proudly as a veteran wears his medals.
But now that the hour for being heroic
is past the English are getting on with the
job of living. Music, painting and writing
are important threads in the new design.
The week before last Sydney had prac-
tically no electricity. Last week the State
found itself without a Governor. This
week there will be precious little milk.
That’s the way things happen in New
South Wales. Never a bright moment.
Whether the privations this State is
periodically called upon to endure are
due to natural causes or to the cussedness
of human nature, the whipping boy is
always the same —the housewife. When
there is a shortage of essentials it is she
who gets threatened with the fine,
not the men who cause the shortage.
During six years of war with rationing
and queues and strained muscles from
carrying heavy loads she has had a hard
time. With the coming of peace she
might reasonably have expected an easing
up of conditions, but after weeks of
hurricane lamps and candles and cooking
over backyard fireplaces she is beginning
to feel that she is allowed many of the
privations without the luxury of leisure
enjoyed by her primitive sisters.
Lois Bateman, young and attractive
theatre sister at St. Vincent’s, has her ear
tuned for wedding bells. Early in Febru-
ary she will marry Flight-Lieutenant (Dr.)
Clem Walshe in St. Brigid’s, Marrickville.
She will wear white satin, and her veil
will be lent by sister-in-law Mrs. Tom
Bateman. White organdy frocks will be
worn by the five bridesmaids, who will
carry their bouquets in pale blue mittened
hands. A wedding reception at Amory
for about 250 guests is bringing relations
from the South and North Coasts for the
happy day. Lois’s great-great-grand-
father was the Bateman of Bateman’s Bay.
Her grandfather on the maternal side
was E. J. Doran, one-time Transport
Commissioner and a Governor of Rotary.
Tomorrow in the Pickwick Club Mrs.
Tom Bateman gives a pre-wedding tea in
honor of Lois.
At the Theatre Royal ballet first nights
have taken on the clubby atmosphere that
accompanies ballet and grand opera sea-
sons. The regulars either already know
one another or by frequent comings and
goings in the entrance to the circle and
the vestibule during the intervals soon get
to recognition point. As the programmes
unfold the Borovansky co. wins its way
further into the admiration and goodwill of
the audiences which continued to throng
the theatre even during,heat-wave nights.
One fashion the uncooled atmosphere
revived was the carrying of fans. Silk,
gaily printed paper and palm leaf, they
swayed in languid elegance or with a sort
of gasping rapidity according to the tem-
perament of the owner. Truth to tell, the
Royal was not unduly hot, but it was
a pretty sight to see Mrs. Bertie Kelly,
daughter Mrs. Volterra and small Tatia
Volterra (a student of the ballet) in a row
stirring the air with graceful gilt fans.
Frequenters of the productions are
Frances Scully, Helene Kirsova, Mrs. Ben
Edye, with tall daughters Stephanie and
Benonie, the Marcel Dekyveres, George
Edwards and his wife, the Max Affords,
the H. J. Bradys.
But missed from his usual seat is Lew
Parkes, J.C.W.’s popular publicity
manager. Lew, who had been with The
Firm for many years, and had friends
throughout Australia and Maoriland, died
after a short illness just before the ballet
season commenced.
The wife of noted painter and journalist
Howard Ashton died recently after a
long illness. As Mary Ethel Roberts she
won distinction as an artist, contributing
many sketches to The Bulletin, “The
Lone Hand” and “Steele Rudd’s Maga-
zine.” She came from Maryborough,
where her father was proprietor and editor
of the Maryborough “Chronicle,” to
study with Julian Ashton, and then mar-
ried his eldest son, Julian Howard. For
many years her paintings were exhibited
with the Society of Artists. Two of her
three sons are painters, and one, Cedric,
is among Sydney’s well-known ’cellists.
In spite of lighting restrictions Neroli
Whittle launched her Australian Play-
wrights’ Theatre. Instead of an opening
night she had an opening afternoon when
the bill was three one-acters by Australian
authors. The hall of St. Giles’s church at
Greenwich was packed for the weekly
performances, and even a wracking ex-
perience like having two of the actois
arrive too late through transport difficul-
ties didn’t overwhelm Neroli, who was
all prepared with understudies. This'pro-
ducer aims at presenting plays only by her
countrymen and -women. The next pro-
duction at this theatre is to be ar
three-acter. „ , f
Married last week in the, Chapel or
Shore, Patricia, youngest daughter of the
late Dr. P. F. Manchester, of Coburg,
Victoria, and Mrs. Manchester, of King’s
Vale, N.S.W., to Lieut. Phillip Mc-
Caghern (A.I.F), only son of the late W. J.
McCaghern and Mrs. McCaghern, of Cre-
morne. The bride wore magnolia satin.
Her Honiton lace veil was lent by Mrs.
D. Sturrock. Her flowers were water-
lilies and frangipanni. The bride s
attendants were her sister, Kathleen Man-
chester and Elaine McCaghern, of Mel-
bourne, sister of the bridegroom. Major
Tony Muston, A.1.F., and Lieut.-Com-
mander Alec Brittain, R.A.N., stood by
the ’groom. The Rev. W. Backhause,
assisted by the Padre James Trainer,
R.N., officiated. Reception was at me
Kiwi Club, Neutral Bay. __


1 • ~
v|
:
mg
'
: "f:
* & 'A ■ m
&.-• V3& i
m ™ ;: ii j-sfffl"
: 8 i mmmm
*
j; .4« '
SK«8»SS®»
* f jr*?«§ r5 Mmwl
>*?»*» <»
* 8 SS
Over Fifty Years of Leadership in
FINE ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH, TO-DAY,
architects and builders are preparing for the designing and construction
of monumental buildings; structures that will grace the sky-line, and
enchance the architectural beauty of our cities.
THE PLANNERS look to Wunderlich Limited (as leaders
in the fabrication of fine metal-work, for over 50 years) to provide the
decorative features, in metal, which embellish and impart individuality
in all types of building construction.
r' Your enquiries are invited.
Wimc/erhcA / tec/,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STHSET, REDFERN. SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
to*
S ° y ° M s no longer
home *s n 0 mk»c*.i
jus
*SI
0
I
H
H
Slil
Plan now for the home
you’ll build as soon as restrictions
permit. There’ll be new labour-savers
. . . new designs in furnishings . . .
X
Jcd-9
FELT and TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Flain $• Marbled Felt ex
As the demand for Feltex is so great, it is regretted that
intending purchasers may have to wait for delivery of
orders placed with their furnishing store.
SMOKE-OH!
“Most of the lunges will stay pen until sup-
plies run ut, and it is expected that ccktails will
make up fr any beer shrage.”— “Sun.”
More than make up, it seems.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“On arriving at the party, she apologised for
not bringing her pet cat.”— Social item.
She probably explained that it wasn’t
feeling up to scratch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Housekeeper or Companion-Help, as one
of a refined Protestant adult family of 1.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Must be able to take complete charge.
“When driving a car, Mrs. Edward Comfort,
of Brooklyn, was hit on the head by her 15-
month-old baby with a feeding bottle, let gp
the wheel, overturned the car.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The trouble started when her new off-
spring cracked.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I am married to the greatest liar possible.”
—Correspondent to Dorothy Dix.
No other wife will believe you, dear.
4* 4* ■ 4* 4*
“When you have the job of scaling fish,
rub all over with vinegar.”
“Women’s Weekly.”
Thus preventing the fishy smell from
adhering to your clothes.
“There are three ways in which a child can
deal with problems.”— “New Idea.”
The commonest being to get dad to
work them out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Austin’s cow, when if desired to leave
the backyard for pastures new, finding the gate
closed against it, would walk through the hotel
passage.”— Whyalla ( S.A .) “News.'”
This incident just goes to show
That fame unearned can spread afar ;
For any silly cow must know
A tavern passage is no bar.
Old Bore’s Almanack for 1946.
Jan.—A man from Atlanta (Ga.) will obtain
a divorce on the ground that his wife said she
would commit suicide, but subsequently
reneged. Intense excitement will prevail in
“S. M. Herald” editorial circles when a reader
will claim he has almost found out what the
“comic” strip “Skooner the Champ” is all
about. An Australian news commentary- will be
read over an A.B.C. station by a man who
talks in neither a Semitic nor a strong Teutonic
accent.
Feb. —A “hit” tune will be published that
is neither “lifted” from Tschaikowsky nor
rhymes “baby” with “maybe.” A Randwick
punter will tear up his betting ticket and sing
odt Rub him out!” as the winner returns to
scale, and next day the “Sunday Telegraph”
will spash headlines and two columns to
an “ugly incident.” An Aberdeen Scot will
fracture his right thumb and forefinger, and at
the hospital he will explain he was squeezing
an almost-empty toothpaste tube. A drunken
hit-run motorist who kills three people will be
fined ss. or the “rising” by a Sydney magistrate,
man who parked his car on the
wrong side of a quiet outer-suburban street will
be fined £2 by a Sydney magistrate. A panel
inserted in the syndicated-serial page of a
Sydney morning paper will announce a com-
petition to encourage Australian writers. A
man named Czrncszovicz will visit Australia
and it will transpire that he is not an American
film producer. A Newcastle coalminer will be
chiacked by his mates about the tie he wore at
a dance and he will call a pit-top meeting.
With the consequent strike 34 other pits will
come out in sympathy and the miners’ presi-
dent will condemn this latest “8.H.P.-inspired”
hold-up.
Ape. — A puzzling increase in accidents to
women pedestrians will eventually be traced to
the current mode of wearing the hat clamped
tightly over the right ear. The Commo. secre-
tary of a union which has for six weeks failed
to hand out strike pay to its members will be
photographed by an admiring Sydney daily en-
tering his limousine outside his £6OOO Bellevue
Hill home. An elderly American playboy-anil-
lionaire will marry for the 11th time, and his
17-year-old bride will confess that' with her it
was a case of love at first sight.
May. —When the collapse of another
Qpmmo.-led strike in N.S.W. appears immin-
ent Premier McKell will break his silence by
referring guardedly to “certain disruptive ele-
ments in the movement,” and the “Sun” will
laud his “courageous, straight-from-the-
shoulder talk.” Mr. Calwell will make a state-
ment that is neither stupid nor offensive to
somebody and there will be anxious inquiries
about-his health. As a further god-debunking
gesture to his people Emperor Hirohito will
have himself photographed doing the rhumba
with a Wave, who will immediately be offered
a fabulous long-term contract by a Hollywood
studio.
June. —There will be a fresh outburst of
violent crime in N.S.W., with a new record set
for unsolved murders, and 25 more police will
be detailed for a “drive” against Sydney fruit-
barrowmen. A man will state that he agrees
with the P.M’s denial that the simultaneous an-
nouncement of tax cuts, more beer and tobacco
and freeing of many clothing items from ration-
ing has anything to do with the forthcoming
Federal elections, and later he will be allowed
to leave the reception house. In its eight-
page starting-price issue “S. M. Herald” will
publish a leader condemning the “dangerously
increasing gambling craze.”
July. —The Kremlin will state that the Rus-
sian minority in Persian Azerbaijan is being
treated with inhuman cruelty and that to pro l
tect it the Red Army will be compelled to
occupy more parts of northern Persia. A Mel-
bourne centenarian in an interview will say she
thinks jive superior to old-time waltzes and
that she regrets the French swim suit wasn’t in
fashion when she was a girl. “S. M. Herald”
will increase its s.-p. betting supplement from
eight pages to 12. Mr. McKell will express
alarm at the mounting toll of the roads and
appeal to motorists to exercise more care. Mr.
Chifley will take time off from “exploring
avenues” to promise troops in northern gar-
risons that they’ll be home for Christmas,
Aug. —The N.S.W. Housing Commission will
announce that a “considerable saving” will be
effected by reducing the number of chimney-
measuring inspectors from 79 to 77. The
Chinese Communist leader Un Hung Lia will
announce that the conference with Nationalist
leaders was concluded amicably and that a
long period of internal peace for China is now
assured. Moscow Radio will announce that
the famous Soviet aircraft designer Pinchoff
has evolved a super fighter carrying two
m.gs. with a speed of 150 m.p.h. at 12,000 ft.
Road deaths in N.S.W. will leap by 35 p.c.
over the previous month’s total,
Sep. —The Kremlin will announce that it has
undeniable proof that the Russian minority in
the south Persian city of Shiraz is being
treated with inhuman cruelty and that to prev
tect it the Red Army will be compelled to
occupy that part of the country, including the
warm-water port of Banda Abbas. There will
be a big Hollywood divorce and an Atomic
Energy Conference report will be pushed on to
the inside pages of all Australian dailies. An
Australian Minister on a world tour will create
a sensation by leaving. with an entourage of
only 27, including a throat specialist and an
astrologer.
Oct. —Reports from Kwangtung will reveal
that the Chinese Communist 1743rd Route
Army is fiercely resisting the Chinese Nationalist
forces which moved into the Communist strong-
hold of Long Wei Awei. A Sydney woman
will be bashed by a thug. Her name and age
will be Millie Roberts, 32 (“S.M.H.) ; Minnie
Robertson, 48 (“D.T.”) ; Mollie Robinson, 23
(“Sun”) ; and Mattie Rollinson, 52 (“Daily
Mirror”). The Taxation Department will intro-
duce a simplified tax form. Senator Keane will
reveal that beer production is now greater than
pre-war.
Nov.—A correspondent in Berlin will pre-
diet that with the tragic shortage of clothing
and coal at least 60 p.c. of Berliners are in-
evitably doomed to freeze to death during the
coming winter. Sydney hotels will curtail
selling hours owing, to the beer shortage. A
strike on the N.S.W. northern coalfields will be
caused by a miner objecting to being addressed
in his Christian name by a wheeler. Mr.
Makin will make a speech in which he will not
refer to “cementing the ties of Empire.”
Dec. —A correspondent in Berlin will disclose
that the people there enjoy an abundance of
good-quality warm clothing and that coal is so
plentiful it is embarrassing the authorities where
to stack it all. The Customs will ban the
bowdlerised version of “Winnie the Pooh.” A
Melbourne Judge will ask a witness to explain
the phrase “he was dominoed.” A Sydney
daily will unaccountably fail to describe in
full detail the clothes worn by a murderer at
his trial. A brochure will be issued by the
Taxation Department to explain the new
simplified tax form. Black market bottled beer
will sell in Sydney at £5 a dozen,
Bo.
Crime Story.
I knew a little boy, divinely fair.
Who imitated birds with talent rare.
His Uncle Murgatroyd, a person vile.
Commanded him, with sly, Satanic smile,
To imitate an ostrich. Then the boy
Ran swiftly to the beach in childish joy,
And, with his head beneath a sand-
dune, he
Remained obediently.
This act, embarrassing his respiration,
Eventually led to suffocation.
The uncle then received the child’s estate,
Whose value, I am told, was very great.
And yet you still hear foolish people say
' Crime doesn’t pay.
T. W. Nathan.
The Kindlier Light.
“A 23-year-old firebug told police that flames
made girls appear more beautiful to him.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
When bent, at forty, on flirtation
A woman sensibly decides
That fire- or candle-light provides
More scope for kindly speculation
Than franker means of radiation;
The firelight’s flickering, besides,
Across the features, often hides
Their total lack of animation.
A homely lass of late I’ve wooed —
No Venus she, admittedly.
Save when the lighting is subdued;
In fact, her face acquires for me
A haunting beauty when it’s viewed
In stygian obscurity.
P. M. Lusk.
Vested Interest.
He kept on asserting that death was a
boon
Till we doubted his mental condition;
When he left us his card, though, we
altered our tune,
For it read “Simon Screwdown,
Mortician.”
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
- 4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Our Indemesian Comrades’
Having had some first-hand experience
of them as a soldier, my impressions may
be of some interest.
When we first came to Balikpapan the
natives were a novelty to most, so that
they were treated exceedingly well. We
fed, clothed and generally looked after
them as they had never previously been
accustomed. Medical attention was and
is still free.
Sooner or later the black market had
to arrive; but the Indonesian came
off best. Tobacco Jhe native bought for
a high price, but he made up for it and
more by the price he put on eggs, bananas
and fowls. The value of the guilder
dropped, and unholy sums were being
paid for even the smallest of articles.
Then, at first in tiny amounts, but
always increasing in scope and variety,
they began a campaign of theft. Clothes
are not the only attraction for them, as
these days rifles and other such equip-
ment, the use of which is only too clear,
are beginning to wander on shoeless feet.
Nowadays the only way to guard both
ourselves and our gear is to keep all
natives, irrespective of class or color or
creed, right off the area.
These thieves do not belong to the rela-
tively small percentage who have at-
tended the old Dutch schools where,
although the curriculum is below our
standards, they are at least taught the
elements of decency.
To most of us the idea of giving the
Indonesians democratic rule seems im-
practicable. The vast majority of them
don’t even know the meaning of the word
democracy, let alone the implications
behind the system. —R. K. O. (A.1.F.).
Socialism and Freedom
Among many servicemen the idea of
progressive socialisation of industry is
popular. This popularity derives some-
times from intellectual conviction, some-
times from hatred of the individual’s lot
prior to the war.
An incongruity in the attitude was ex-
emplified in the ambitions of a group of
servicemen, serving in Sydney and “living
out” under almost civilian conditions.
These men were unanimously favorable
to the present Government’s socialisation
plans, yet they were impatiently awaiting
their discharge under the points system.
They’d “had” the army.
The army is an example of socialistic
control and organisation. It feeds, clothes
and maintains its members, nurses them
when they are sick, gives them employ-
ment and an assured income ; in fact,
does everything for them except allow
an opposition voice in its higher coun-
cils. But these soldiers were not prepared
to continue to trade their individual free-
dom for security, and that may well be
the ultimate attitude of most Australians.
Hazlitt called public opinion “the bubble
of the moment,” and the current emo-
tional leaning toward socialism may
readily turn to hatred of its restrictions
and red tape in parallel with the attitude
of the soldier to the army.—J. B. (ex-
A.1.F.).
Hides
“Murrawong” (B. 19/12/’45) appar-
ently had an unfortunate pre-war experi-
ence with the sale of his unbranded hides.
I felt like jumping into one of my pits
when I read his par. ; first, for having
missed the opportunity to bid up for
them at the auction sale when they were
offered, and, second, for belonging to a
trade that has earned such a poor repu-
tation.
“Murrawong” might be interested to
know that for many years past I have
paid direct to the grower 3s. per hide for
all hides that carried a thigh brand only.
For the duration of the war I paid 9}d.
per pound for New Zealand freezer hides
and 7d. per pound for Australian hides
of equal weights, the difference of 2|d. per
pound being represented by the fact that
the New Zealand hides were 75 p.c.
unbranded.
All Australian hides have been under
the control of the Australian Hide and
Leather Industries Board since September,
1939, and have been appraised by a com-
mittee consisting of tanners, brokers and
merchants. This committee would un-
doubtedly have put a special value on
unbranded hides had it been aware of
them. Hence my conclusion that the
experience related by “Murrawong” was
pre-war.
My fellow-tanners have spent a lot of
time and money in efforts to educate the
cattle-grower on the evils of branding.
As a secondary industry that has to
export 20 p.c. of its product in worW
markets we have co-operated to the full
with graziers’ associations in efforts
to have the Branding Acts in the various
States amended. We have paid, and will
pay, more for hides unbranded or lightly
branded. — Simon the Tanner (Vic.),
The Legal Corps
G. S. Hanson’s complaint (B. 26/12/’45)
that officers in the Legal Corps were
refused discharges before the war ended,
and are now being retained for the war
crimes trials, will not meet with much
sympathy from those members of the
profession who served in field units. Most
of us, too, were “too young to have estab-
lished durable practices before the war” ;
but our years of service have, in most
cases, been by no means so advantage-
ous as the service years of those who
chose, or were directed, to serve in the
L.C.
Minimum rank for practitioners in the
L.C. was captain, with pay and allow-
ances on a princely scale when compared
with that paid to the man who chose
to shoulder a musket in the ranks, and
the great majority spent the bulk of their
service at Victoria Barracks and similar
establishments.
Even those sent as legal officers to
divisions enjoyed luxuries, comforts and
“There she goes—pulling that 1 Holier than thou act again!”
a degree of safety beyond the reach of
those in combatant units.
Doubtless they “have grown rusty in
civilian law” ; but in many cases they
have gained valuable experience on
counts-martial in procedure, rules of
evidence and cross-examination denied to
those who have been divorced from every
phase of their profession for so long.
I intend no disparagement of the L.C.,
which has done a useful and necessary
job; but the overwhelming opinion of
soldiers is that those who had the easiest
and least dangerous jobs in war-time
should be the last to complain if they are
asked to serve a little longer than the rest.
—Junius, Jr. (Q.).
Two Christmas Messages
One was from the Prime Minister,
addressed exclusively to his followers;
the other from Edmund Herring, Chief
Justice of Victoria, urging Australians to
consider their duties as citizens.
The contrast between the two messages
was striking and illuminating. On this,
the first Christmas of peace for many
years, we might have expected from the
head of the Government a message of
goodwill to all Australians irrespective
of their State, creed or political views—
a message that would be an inspiration
for the people as a whole. But it was not
so. The Prime Minister’s message was
an urge for solidarity of the Labor party,
an admonition to fight for its ideals and,
to quote his own words, as reported, “not
allow ourselves to be used for purposes
other than the purpose of the Labor
movement.” This at a time when Christ-
mas and all it stands for had been made a
mockery for thousands of Australians by
the actions of striking unions.
It was left to Edmund Herring, dis-
tinguished soldier and jurist who fought
for his country in two world wars, to con-
vey the truly Christian message. “The
message of Christmas is a call to toler-
ance, friendliness, co-operation and
national unity. On this first Victory
Christmas Day everyone should pause
and do some stocktaking of themselves
and their responsibilities as members of
the Australian nation and the British Em-
pire.” The Prime Minister, as well as
those he adjures not to allow themselves
to be used for purposes “other than the
purpose of the Labor movement,” might
well reflect on that message. — Taurus
(Vic.). x
The New Australian Cardinal
While deploring the violent tone of
Information Minister Calwell’s remarks
in connection with Archbishop Gilroy’s
appointment to the College of Cardinals,
as a Catholic I regret exceedingly the
attitude of his critics, both Catholic and
non-Catholic, who proceed on the assump-
tion that no layman, not even a Catholic
layman, is entitled to comment on a
church matter.
The Catholic Church tolerates no
adverse criticism from amateurs of theo-
logy within her own fold: But such
matters must be carefully distinguished
from mere matters of government or
such as the reform of the
College of Cardinals or individual ap-
pointments to that body. By whom could
the claims to preferment of one prelate
over another be more gracefully urged
than by a leading layman?
It is a matter of history that the long-
neglected claims of Newman (who was
not persona grata with Manning, the head
of the Catholic Church in England) were
in the end successfully urged directly to
the Pope by a committee of laymen
headed by the Duke of Norfolk. And
Newman was then 78.
On the merits of Mr. Calwell’s case, it
is clear to all who know the inner life of
the Catholic Church in Australia that
Melbourne is its spiritual capital. Syd-
ney’s claims to that distinction rest purely
on sentiment. Further, could anything be
more ungracious than the suggestion of
his critics that the archbishop who bore
the heats and burdens of a day when the
Catholic community was still fighting for
its place in society is too old for the
honor of cardinal, and must give way to
a younger prelate whose episcopate is
only just beginning, and whose path will
be infinitely easier than the older man’s?
—Alpha Minor (N.S.W.).
The State and Land Purchases
Under “Political Points” (B. 7/11/ ’45)
a paragraph cited the case of a Mel-
bourne citizen who bought a suburban
building allotment for £l2O, paid £2OO in
rates and taxes on it and has now been
deprived of it by compulsory acquisition
and received only £4O.
On the face of it that sounds high-
handed, but a little analysis and thought
may reveal that the property-owner has
not been ungenerously treated. In the
land boom of the decade 1920-30, go-
getter salesmen sold many building lots
for as much as £250 each on t.p. Many
of these are worth no more than £lO in
the open market today.
• If a Government desires to acquire such
land, three policies appear to be open
to it. It may refund the speculator
the whole of his outgoings, it may pay
current market value, plus perhaps a
small compensation on account of com-
pulsory nature of purchase, or it may
stultify progress by declining to deal with
any land not worth what the owner paid
for it.
The Government’s duty is to protect
taxpayers. Surely, then, of the above
courses, the second, which appears to
have been adopted in the case instanced,
is most soundly based on public interest.
—A. S. M. (S.A.).
Future of Wheat-farming
What is to be the future of the Aus-
tralian wheat-farmer? Not only well-
established growers but many ex-service-
men and would-be farmers are asking
themselves this important question. One
thing is certain: unless the Federal
Government is prepared to subsidise such
hard-hit forms of rural production, as
the Wheat industry, many farmers will
soon be forced to pack their swags. Any
half-hearted soldier settlement scheme
which fails to ensure financial security
to its beneficiaries will meet with inevit-
able disaster.
During the war no encouragement
was given to the wheat-grower to in-
crease the area under crop. In fact, he
was prevented from doing so by the
short - sighter Canberra agriculturists,
whose quota system virtually straight-
jacketed the farmer. Nature’s comment
on this attempt at bureaucratic control
was to usher in a long disastrous period
of drought.
Despite Nature’s rude rebuke, the
powers that be still advocate control, and
the alleged representatives of the growers
are supporting them.
With the high cost of machinery
high taxation, the wheat-farmer’s position
is steadily becoming intolerable, and thp
need for substantial Government assir -
ance is urgent if Australia is not to ia
deprived of one of her vital industries.—
Stuart DuNSTAN.(Vic.).
Strikes and Arbitration
Is the “right to strike” a necessary and
inevitable handmaiden of true liberty?
Before arbitration courts were constituted
to settle industrial disputes strikes may
have had some measure of justification ;
but, with proper courts established, why
should society continue to tolerate
methods which can only be regarded as
clumsy, unimaginative, unrealistic, un-
scientific and uncivilised?
Of what use are courts which are not
courts in the strict sense, since the able
and conscientious men who preside over
them, whilst accorded the status of
Supreme Court Judges, lack the power to
enforce their decisions? The right to flout
such decisions not merely discredits these
courts arid the presiding Judges but im-
perils the very fountain of justice itself,
which is the vital bastion of any civilised
society.
Effective courts of arbitration and the
right to strike cannot co-eXist, since the
one excludes the other. The present crude
and ambiguous system was doomed to
failure from the outset. As now exer-
cised, this “right” possesses all the in-
gredients of mass conspiracy and black-
mail, since it is not merely a question of
refusal to work by men acting inde-
pendently, but of such a refusal by con-
certed agreement, directed to forcibly ex-
tracting from society demands which the
courts have refused to grant.
Why should rank illegality be legalised
in favor of certain pressure groups, how-
ever strong numerically, whilst the bulk
of the population must toe the line and
observe the strict letter of the law? —
J. G. Clark (N.S.W.).
Palestine Propaganda
I have always been mildly anti-Semitic,
mainly, an uneasy conscience suggests,
because of a readiness many Jews appear
to have to study with concentration, to
work long hours and to deny themselves
present pleasures for future benefits, and
all this in excess of what I myself desire
to do.
It, therefore, disgusts me to learn from
E. J. Curtis (B. 26/12/’45) ’ how these
people curried favor with servicemen by
being hospitable, showing them flourish-
ing communities in Palestine, introducing
them to noted scientists and others or
brains, education and refinement reduced
to, but not too proud to perform, manual
labor. . ,
Many of these miscreants spoke good
English, and probably other languages
as well. It becomes obvious, therefore,
that all support should be accorded to the
Arabs, who are lazier, dirtier and poorer.
In enlightened Australia we are learn-
ing to realise that all men were created
equal and should remain so. It is obM-
ously impossible to make all men indus-
trious, provident and honest, so the solu-
tion must be to reduce to the lowest com-
mon denominator, shorten hours, lessen
production, lessen effort and insist on an
equal division of rewards.
No man should acquire luxury and
ease merely by dint of early self-denial,
study, efficiency or unremitting effort,
any advantages he acquires must be at
the expense of his fellows. Out upon he
muddled thinking which suggests that the
successful man creates opportunities for
others and merits a proportionate reward!
— Sherrard Warnock (Vic.).


iiiiii
Hi
MM
MB
i
m
mm
mm
MiL—.
! mSm
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
111
m
mm
m.
K
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
'' #:b
. •
ii
Hi
mm
w
-
: ‘ '
T
w
m
m
ill
■
i - m
ro
L
■
::::
■ : - : :
«n
m.
