

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,”
Vol. 67—No. 3463
Wednesday, June 26, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Windsor Castle; The Prison Chamber.
A BOVE the gateway through which the visitor passes before
entering the Round Tower of Windsor Castle is the prison
chamber, of which this view shows its appearance at the time of
The Queen. Here Charles I was imprisoned from December 22nd,
1648, until the following January 19th, the day before his trial.
The portrait seen in this view is believed to be his, but the name
of the painter has been forgotten. Other royal captives who have
used these quarters include David II of Scotland, John II of France
and James I of Scotland, and he it was who, while in residence at
Windsor, fell in love with Jane Beaufort, his future queen. The
names and arms of nobles imprisoned here were cut by them in the
walls, and one still legible reads “Edmund Fortesque, prisoner m
this chamber the 12th day of January, 1642, Devon.”


Learn
freelance
Journalism!
at HOW
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please tend, without obligation, your New free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
SLB. 140 AGE
The Red Page
THE DANGEROUS FARCE.
It may be that in the long run the
censorship of literature is always farcical
and always futile. What centuries of
buffeting the great and robust work of
Rabelais has shaken from its mighty
shoulders! Trimalchio feasts, Falstaff
drinks and Don Quixote rides eternally.
And certainly—though, liking books,
one would wish to see literature free in
one’s own time—there is an element of
the farcical even when a contemporary
novel is suppressed. In Lawson Glassop’s
case, for instance, the entire 15,000
copies that had been printed of We Were
the Rats had been sold out before the
prosecution was begun; and the pub-
lishers, still suffering from war-time dis-
abilities, had no immediate intention of
reprinting. The whole case, in a sense,
was meaningless.
And, of course, the immediate effect
of the prosecution was to start everybody
reading the book. The present writer’s
copy has already been seized by four
highly respectable citizens in rapid suc-
cession—none of whom had ever heard of
the book before the ban —and is at pres-
ent in the possession of the father of a
family of five ; who is hereby requested to
withhold it from his young—not for fear
of their immortal souls, but in order to
preserve it in some faint semblance of
its original condition.
A Sydney newspaper has already re-
vealed that one of the first consequences
of the ban was that Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia invited Mr. Glassop to figure in
its pages. When a book is suppressed the
author instantly becomes famous; and
when it is suppressed on the grounds of
dealing too much with “the sex theme”
it is impossible not to suspect that a
wave of interest in “the sex theme” sweeps
the whole community. Which surely can-
not have been the intention of the worthy
citizens who started the witch-hunt.
And then again, though this is a bitterer
kind of farce, it is fantastic to see that
while a work of literature is being sup-
pressed on the grounds of “tending to
deprave and corrupt those whose minds
are open to such immoral influences and
into whose hands a publication of this
sort may fall” matter far more likely to
be damaging is being read every day by
hundreds of thousands of readers of the
newspapers. On the very day when it
was announced that the appeal against the
ban on We Were the Rats had been dis-
missed, the Sydney dailies carried in full
and lurid detail the most ghastly story of
the rape and murder of a child. Since
the daily newspapers are not literature,
the literary world, as such, is not con-
cerned with what type of material they
publish ; but there is certainly nothing as
inflammatory as that newspaper story in
We Were the Rats.
And again—though this, too, is not
the merriest of farce—it is a peculiar
spectacle to see the whole might and
majesty of the community arrayed against
two pages of an Australian novel while
a thousand contemporary novels and
classics of world literature are just as
frank. There is a terrible fear —some-
thing very much like the fear of the
Gestapo—that prevents the literary
world from speaking openly on this
point; the fear that every book one
names will promptly be seized on and
banned. And, indeed, because of that
fear, the present commentator will men-
tion none, except one who ought surely to
be safe—Shakspeare. If We Were the
Rats is bannable under Australian law,
we can ban almost every one of Shaks-
peare’s plays; we can ban the whole of
me Elizabethan drama and most of the
Elizabethan and Cavalier lyrists; the
whole of the Restoration comedies;
tiie leading writers of France; several
of the very greatest English novelists
—the temptation to name them is
almost irresistible; we can ban all
the principal novels of the Great War;
and we can ban most of the leading Eng-
lish and American novelists of today.
As, indeed, Judge Studdert implied in the
Glassop appeal: “One could by no
feel assured that they would be immune
to tiie provisions of this Act.”
Here, it might seem, the farce begins
to become dangerous. And so, in a
measure, it is. As was shown by the list
of banned books recently published in
The Bulletin, the Australian Customs
Department, in its wisdom, has already
forbidden the Australian public to read
a number of the established classics of
the world.
But the Customs officials, and even the
Ministers, are no doubt amiable men;
they have left so much unbanned that
it is obvious they don’t move against a
book, generally speaking, unless they are
prodded by the wowsers. The same,
doubtless, goes for the police. We are
not really likely to ban all the great books
of the world.
No; we pick on Lawson Glassop. Mr.
Glassop has made the three fatal mis-
takes of being alive, Australian, and the
author of a vital novel. Here the farce
becomes immediately and urgently
dangerous.
Why is it that, when a book is sup-
pressed, the literary world —the world of
practising Australian writers—rises up as
one man in protest? Is it, perhaps, that
writers are a filthy-minded lot, wallowing
in blasphemy and pornography?
Really, that hardly seems likely. Hav-
ing read the world’s literature, writers
might well be fairly broadminded;
tolerant; but that, in our civilisation of
the twentieth century, is usually believed
a virtue. Why, then, does Mr. Camden
Morrisby, the secretary of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers, declare (Sydney
“Daily Telegraph”) that the ban on We
Were the Rats is “a menace to the growth
of Australian literature”?
Obviously, in the first place, to ban a
book is to strike directly at a writer’s
livelihood. Consider some of the facts
about Lawson Glassop; he spent five
years in the A.1.F., gave up every
moment of his spare time in the Middle
East to interviewing the men of Tobruk
and then to writing a novel in praise of
them; now, recently married, he is
courageously trying to make his living
out of creative writing; and we ban his
book and tell him to compromise with his
conscience or starve.
But it is more than that. To ban a
book is to strike at a writer’s whole rea-
son for existence.
Have we given up entirely the noble
traditional belief that the creative artist is
“inspired”? Then let us at least under-
stand that, fundamentally, men do not
write books to make money—the wharfie
and the coalminer do better these days—
but to tell the truth about life as they
see it. Force a writer to be false to his
vision and the game’s not worth the
candle. Carry censorship to its logical
conclusion and you will have no books
at all; except —for what they’re worth —
the works of moral cowards. The sincere
and honest writer will leave the country
or give up writing.
And censorship is already being carried
so far in this country as to be more
menace than farce. It is not only the
public and official censorship that is
fought out in the courts; nor are the
occasional secret bannings by the Cus-
toms Department the greatest danger.
What the Australian writer has most to
fear is the invisible censorship which
prosecution may drive Australian pub-
lishers to enforce—the suppression or
ruthless sub-editing of manuscripts. Pub-
lishers are human ; they are not likely to
relish being branded “obscene.” If Aus-
tralian publishers do not courageously
resist the censorship—even at the cost of
being prosecuted again and again—
then the last refuge of the honest writer
will be gone. For the films and the radio
are, of course, hopeless.
Throughout the proceedings against We
Were the Rats there was a clear note of
regret a wish that Glassop had not
written the two pages of “filth” chiefly
complained of. Men have felt the same
about Shakspeare; and about all those
other great but not-quite-respectable
authors one does not dare, in Australia,
to name. Why, it is asked, did the giants
of the world’s literature “go too far”?
The answer is, simply, they were telling
the truth as they saw it; and the sentence
that shocks, the page that offends, the
moment when the writer’s analysis of life
reaches its extreme —that is likely to be
the absolutely vital moment of his book
when the whole truth is revealed. An
honest writer cannot sacrifice that ex-
treme moment of truth. If he does—if
censorship makes him a liar —the falsity
will destroy his whole work.
On this point—the destruction of a
work by censorship—Laurence Olivier’s
film of “Henry the Fifth” provides a
most interesting illustration.
The technical weaknesses of the
film have already been discussed by
two Bulletin critics, one in Mel-
bourne, one in Sydney: the cardboard
castles, the feeble representation of the
battle of Agincourt, the impossible mix-
ture of talkie realism and stage artifice,
the inadequacy of Olivier’s performance ;
and the censorship—presumably by the
producer—of all the lines in which Henry
threatens or orders dire things to be done
to the French. What remains to be
stressed is that all the faults of the film
have their origin in censorship.
The talkie, after a glimpse of Eliza-
bethan London, opens with a scene in the
Globe Theatre, showing two doddering,
mumbling old clowns indulging in some
allegedly comic “business” with a sheaf
of papers.
In Shakspeare’s play, these two dismal
old goats are the Archbishop of Canter-
bury and the Bishop of Ely—ruthless,
Machiavellian clerics who, so that they
may retain possession of church lands, are
prepared not only to furnish the king
with a very specious title to the French
throne, but to offer him a gigantic bribe
to plunge the two nations into war.
“Gracious lord,” the archbishop
addresses the king:
Stand for your own; unwind your bloody flag.
Look back unto your mighty ancestors;
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire’s
tomb
From whom you claim; invoke his warlike
spirit.
And your great-uncle’s, Edward the Black
Prince,
Who on French ground play’d a tragedy,
Making defeat on the full power of France,
Whiles his most mighty father on a hill
Stood smiling to behold his lion’s whelp
Forage in blood of French nobility.
And the Bishop of Ely, portrayed in the
film as an utter noodle, urges on the king
to war:
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead
And with your puissant arm renew their feats;
You are their heir; you sit' upon their throne;
The blood and courage that renowned them
Runs in your veins; arid my thrice puissant
liege
Is in the veiy May-morn of his youth,
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Was the comic “business” introduced
into these opening scenes merely with the
mistaken idea that it was necessary to
relieve a long speech by the archbishop?
It may have been so ; but the subsequent
cuts make it seem more likely that it was
a form of censorship by falsification. The
film was made in war-time, and the pro-
duction seems to have been designed
throughout to prove that, even centuries
ago, England invariably went guiltless to
war and never committed atrocities.
Since both Shakspeare’s plays and Eng-
lish history lay open to the enemy as to
our own armies, it was a fantastic pro-
cedure ; but there can be no other ex-
planation for the censoring of Henry’s
threats to the citizens of Harfleur when
they are reluctant to surrender the town:
Look to see
The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking
daughters;
Your fathers taken by the silver beards
And their most reverend heads dash’d to the
walls;
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes....
When the film and the play are com-
pared, it is obvious that censorship has
taken two main lines: to make the play
politically and “morally” respectable.
So, for a start, no hint is conveyed of
the hypocrisy and savagery of the clerics ;
nor of Henry’s hypocrisy in asking them
to “justify” a war he has already decided
on. Then there is the omission of the
scene in which Henry sends to death the
three traitors. Scroop, Cambridge and
Grey—English history must have no “fifth
columnists.”
Next, the film brings on a respectable
and pathetic old gentlewoman named
Mistress Quickly, whose extremely lewd
description of the last hours of Falstaff
is shirred over so that it provokes none
of the ribald laughter—mingled with a
little pathos—that Shakspeare intended.
It is quite impossible to recognise in this
gentlewoman the gabbling old hen whom
Falstaff has so merrily wronged in “Henry
the Fourth” ; and when Pistol says to
Bardolph “Kiss her soft mouth and
march” the effect is all of pathos—never
of that great irony Shakspeare intended ;
for the real Mistress Quickly has a mouth
about as soft as an old boot.
The next important cut is Henry’s
threat to the people of Harfleur. Next,
there are Katharine and Alice. The
French princess is learning a few
words of English from her servant.
Shakspeare constructed this scene pre-
cisely as “Mo’s” sketches at the Tivoli are
constructed today, and it is intended to
have just about the same effect. There’s
a little mild fooling, leading up to an
uproarious and far from respectable pun.
The film makes everything clear except
the pun, and the whole scene in conse-
quence becomes a pretty-pretty piece of
girlish nonsense.
Then, another piece of political censor-
ship, out goes Henry’s order to kill the
French prisoners:—
But hark! what new alarum is this same?
The French have reinforced their scattered men.
Then every soldier kill his prisoners;
Give the word through.
By a curious oversight, the French hav-
ing been our allies in recent times, a
French atrocity is permitted to remain—
the killing of the boys. But a scene of
comedy which follows this pathetic inci-
dent—Henry’s practical joke on the Eng-
lish soldier he had quarrelled with the
previous night—is omitted.
And, finally, some mildly frank and
amusing remarks about the proper pur-
poses of marriage are removed from the
love-scene between Henry and Katharine,
which never achieves its intended boister-
ousness.
And so, to sum up: because the healthy
lewdness has been cut, the film is not as
funny as it should be; because of the
political censorship, it is not as fierce and
dramatic as it should be ; because scenes
of pathos have been overemphasised and
scenes of comedy omitted, the film is
sadder than it should be. And that is the
first result of the censorship: compara-
tively speaking, the film is dull, tame and
glum.
However, it was not the playwright’s
intention merely to entertain. In “Henry
the Fifth,” as in all his plays, Shakspeare
set out to tell the truth about people and
events. But how can one possibly have
the truth about Henry if he is shown
extending mercy to a man who has in-
sulted him but is not shown executing
his friends who have turned traitor? If
one is shown him sad before and after
a battle and not shown him playing prac-
tical jokes? If one is shown him indig-
nant at a French atrocity and not shown
him ferociously threatening to wipe out a
whole town? If one is shown him jocular
in love but not shown him Rabelaisian?
And as with Henry, so with all the
other characters. By far the best per-
formance in the film is given by the actor
who plays Fluellen ; partly, no doubt, be-
cause he is the best of the actors, but also
because his lines, being airy nonsense in
Welsh, do not have to be hacked about.
And that is the second result of the
censorship: character is falsified, history
is falsified; the whole thing—a work of
literature designed to form and inform
the human mind —is unreal and a lie. It
seems not merely fitting but inevitable
that the castles in the film should be made
of cardboard and that Katharine should
pluck from the fake garden in the fake
courtyard fake roses made of paper. And
that is exactly the sort of thing that
censorship—if it is not vigorously resisted
by authors, publishers and the public—
will do to Australia. We will not build
a sound civilisation on a lying literature.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE WHITE MOMENT.
In good times, when the heart is often
happy.
It is pleasant to wake in the morning and
to know.
Before lids open or thought begins, a
whiteness;
Then through loosed lashes see the pil-
low’s snow
And, if it is summer, the falls of white
net veiling
The deep blue not yet scorched by the
heat of the sun,
And to feel the coolness of limbs that
have lain uncovered
Through the dewy hours of dawn and
dark now done.
Better still in winter to see from a warm
white burrow
Your breath steam, mingling with rags
of fog that drift
Smoke-white on the verandah, the early
sunlight
Slant down, and the light, bright sky
gleam blue through the rift;
To see the white frost glint on the grass,
to feel it
Sharp at your nose, and the moment of
waking release
The spring of life’s delight and its wild
adventure —
In times when the heart is more or less
at peace.
N.s.w.
But in the bad times, in the days when
living
Is only endurance stretched from sleep
to sleep,
The one good moment is of at last
escaping
Into the darkness; through the thoughts
that keep
Guard like a ring of swords all the harsh
daylight, t
The bliss of the world falling away, to
■know
Relief has come, leave your post without
disaster.
Open clenched brain and hand and let
dll go.
Then the moment of waking is of all most
dreadful,
Wlateness the crest of the returning wave
That bursts and drowns with the sick
shock of remembering
Too late the mad plunge backward; the
help you crave.
The ark of darkness is swept away, the
frantic
Clutch at the ghost of sleep tears through
thin air;
The arid hours ahead stare plain and
shadeless —
In the evil days, in the time of your
despair.
NAN MCDONALD.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
THE
ITS SMARtZ
V >•:
&
m
m
m
,
mmm
■
i'
m
~WWW
;-s«r- v-»
✓
■
, IfK-
i- A
X(l r %
o \>\ j
\
))
y/ )/
mmm
V.
wsilil I
m
ißil.- --A
incs*
■
n
*e-si
W"'-- -
•Ai
/ ,-■
SsSS
fT-," > / i
: i : !■ 1 S-t
Bag in Pig grained hide , waterproof
lining fitted with two pockets. Fawn
with Brown piping. Brown with Fatvn
piping. Price 86/9
% V-A
mw :
i.y v a
-» >.:
COUNTRY TRAM'”
ap
m
A
r
mm
v.-m
mmm-
m4*Mi
WP
is? i sv #
« ■# .<
I •%:; a
m
m
M
1
The Senior Store
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Travel Bag in Pebble Grained Hide ,
Black with Red piping , Brown with
Fawn piping . Size 21 inches , 8 inch
base . Cloth lined. Price .. . 74/9
i
Crocodile Grained Hide , light weight,
compact shape, IS ins. long, 7 in. base.
Cloth lined with inside pocket . . 73/6
Smooth selected hide with pin head
grain, cloth lined , colours Blue , Fawn ,
and Black, Price 64/6
Grained Cowhide Bag , 16 inches
long, 8 inch base. Two-tone effect ,
Fawn and Brown , or all Black. Cloth
lined. Price 63/9
All bags are fitted with
zipper fastening, have ttco
handles, and cloth lined.
• Travel Goods—Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
Grained Cowhide Overnight
Bag , light weight. Cloth lined ,
with inside pocket. J 6 inches
long 9 4 inch base. Price , 50/-


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Masseuse Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W
ONLY
£l7/10/-
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features o! high-priced
Imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc-
(Built tnurely in
Aasrrolla'hy
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ ; ■; SYDNEY AND BRISBANE , ■ ~
thtt>
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of .a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Bams - R. J. Nos worthy - Eewls Armstrong- - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager— h. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.P.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Bo* 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP ?-«4.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And Yon'll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘‘up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3 1- St 1/3.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., In lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
è
5^
Cj*-
SAY
a
yi
m
w
é
THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED!
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Offers for a quantity of technical and classical
violin music.—3769.
Information Sought.
Facts about the Carnegie Institute?
Situated in Pittsburg, this institute was
founded by Andrew Carnegie in 1896. 1
building, which covers four acres, houses in
library, music hall, natural history museum ana
art museum. Art collections include on paint-
ings (with emphasis on contemporary America
and European works), drawings, prints, modern
sculpture and casts of classic sculpture ana
architecture. Works by Whistler, Sargent, Bel-
lows, Rouault, Carena, Derain, Orpen, Homer
and Stuart are included in the collection.
m * * *
Information about the Bayeux tapestry ?
It consists of a band of linen measuring
231ft. by 20in. on which have been worked
in worsteds of eight colors —scenes representing
the' conquest of England by the Normans.
There are 72 scenes beginning with Harolds
visit to Bosham on his way to Normandy, and
ending (though this part is now perished) with
the flight of the English from the Battle of
Hastings. Along the top and bottom run deco-
rative borders with figures of animals, scenes
from the fables of Aisop and of Phaedrus, from
husbandry and the chase, and occasionally from
the story of the conquest itself. The makers
of the tapestry are uncertain, but it is be-
lieved that Odo, Bishop of Bayeux and halt-
brother of William the Conqueror, had the
work done for his cathedral. Formerly known
as the Toile de St. Jean, it was used on certain
feast days to decorate the nave of Bayeux
Cathedral, and was exhibited in Paris in 1803-
04. Since that date it has been in civil custody
in Bayeux, except for being removed to a sate
place in the last war,
* * * ♦
In which of Shakspeare’s plays are “The
Seven Ages of Man,” and what are they?
In “As You Like It,” Act II, Scene 7. The
speech is that of the “melancholy Jacques,
commencing “All the world’s a stage,” on which
“one man in his time plays many parts, his acts
being seven ages”: the infant, the schoolboy,
the lover, the soldier, the justice, the “lean and
slippered pantaloon,” and lastly second child-
hood, “sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans
everything.”
* * * ♦
Has the chairman of a society the right to
exercise a deliberative and then, in the event of
equal voting, a casting vote?
There is no binding rule. In the House of
Commons the Chairman of Committees when
the numbers are equal gives a casting vote, but
does not otherwise vote. Municipal practice
here, where the Mayor presides as chairman
of committees, is for him to vote on a reso-
lution with other aldermen, and, should the
vote be equal, to give a casting vote.
« * * *
(1) What was the boxer Griffo’s real name,
where and when was he born, and where and
when did he die? (2) Where and when was
Larry Foley born and where and when did he
die?
(1) His real name was Albert Griffiths, and he
was born at Sofala, near Bathurst, N.S.W.,
March 21, 1871. He died at New York, De-
cember 6, 1927. (2) Born at Sofala, December
24, 1847, and died in St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Sydney, July 12, 1917.
* * * *
Recipes for smoking fish and name of a
book on the subject ?
The fish are gutted (but not necessarily
scaled), split down back or belly, and, if the
flesh is thick, slashed; then they are placed in
brine or packed in diy salt —best done under
cover. Period of curing depends on climatic
conditions aqd strength of cure required.
After curing, the fish are washed and allowed
to drain, and placed in a smokehouse.
Usually at least 12 hours’ smoking is necessary.
Smoke is best produced from chips, shavings,
bark or sawdust of pine, cedar or hardwoods,
while honeysuckle chips or sawdust are excel-
lent. Detailed accounts of fish smoking are
contained in Marine Products of Commerce,
by D, K. Tressler.
* * * *
I have an Alsatian pup that eats sand. Is
there something wrong with him ?
Sand-eating is usually due to worms or min-
eral deficiency. Give him the following capsule
first thing in the morning on an empty
stomach; Calomel Igr., areca nut 20gr., extract
of male fem 8 drops, sulphur 5gr. Follow
immediately after with a dose of castor oil.
lire pup should get a little sterilised bonemeal
in his feed once daily, and an occasional table-
spoonful of cod-liver oil will be beneficial.
Brief Answers.
D.W.: Gourmand ranges in sense from
greedy feeder to lover and judge of good
fare; gourmet from judge of wine to con-
noisseur of delicacies. The first implies some
•contempt, the other not... .R.P.J.: All are
slang words used in Malayan p.o.w. camps;
“Bronzie” means a member of the Eighth Divi-
sion (A.I.F.); “back-up king,” a man always
chasing second helpings; “up the ladder,” an
expression indicating someone thinking only
of himself U.S.: Monty Grover wrote two
serials for The Bulletin; “Thirty Pieces of
Silver,” commenced in issue of July 30, 1930,
and “One Punch Patsy” on September 7, 1932.
H.L.G.: Salvator Rosa (1615-73) was a
great Italian painter, who first attracted notice
by selling pictures in the streets of Naples.
Being encouraged by Lanfranco, he went from
Naples to Rome, and quickly became one of
the most noted artists of his time. His pic-
tures were chiefly landscapes and battle-pieces.
M.B.: The Encyclopcedia Britannica con-
tains a full history... .J.L.: The Australian
Artists and Writers’ Handbook was published
in 1937 and sold at 3s. 6d. It is not known
whether it will be republished M.A.C.:
Know of no firm that does that work J.P.:
The final year of the agricultural course at
Gallon College, Lawes (Q.), is devoted to
tropical agriculture C.C.: Motorists are
not liable to compensate the owners of dogs,
cats, poultry, etc., accidentally killed on the
highway. But if a motorist is injured under
such circumstances the owner of the animal
may be liable to compensate him J.E.W.:,
Have been unable to trace any such law....
E.B.: As far as ascertainable, Marie Burke
never played in “Katinka.” Her appearances
in Australia were in “Wildfiower,” “Kafja the
Dancer” and “Cousin from Nowhere.” She
was the original in the role of “Frasquita” in
1927, and appeared in the straight play. “The
y/hole Town Is Talking.”


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Tic.
Buy “The ‘Wild Cat ’ Monthly” — 2/-
If your
dog’s coat
Is dull,
loose or
ragged—
If he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course
ê
ë
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
ē
$J J
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
Why it pays to buy the
new Savings Certificates
and
Savings Certificate Stamps
* HIGH INTEREST
I RATE...
Buy for the best investment in
Australia to-day! Interest on
Savings Certificates works out at
approximately £3/4/- per cent,
per annum over the full seven-
year period. There is no safer
W investment for your money.
CERTIFICATES
L REDEEMABLE
If you need money to meet any
urgent need you can redeem
your Certificates at any Bank
or Money Order Post Office,
with value added for each
complete year you have held
them.
NO INCOME
TAX PAYABLE
You gain a tax-free extra
income from Savings Cer-
tificates. The increase in
value is free from Income
Tax ! Put your savings into
Savings Certificates it
pays 1
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NOW AVAILABLE
At Banks, Savings Banks and
Money Order Post Offices.
Through National
Savings Committees.
Through Savings Groups at
schools, factories, shops,
clubs, offices.
What you can buy:
You can buy Savings Certificates in the
following denominations ; —£x Certificates
for 16/-, £5 Certificates for £4, £lO Certifi-
cates for £B, £5O Certificates for £4O.
Savings Certificates reach their full face
value after seven years. Their value in-
creases each year until at maturity they
pay you approximately £3/4/- per cent,
per annum tax free.
Use Savings Certificate Stamps to purchase
Savings Certificates. 32 sixpenny Savings
Certificate Stamps buy a£i Savings Certifi-
cate. The new issue of Savings Certificate
Stamps may be combined with War Savings
Stamps for this purpose.
How much you can huy:
You, and every member of your family, can
hold up to £250 (face value) of Savings
Certificates. Thus a family of five people
can hold as much as £1,250 (face value) of
these tax-free securities —providing a higher
net return than any other equally secure
investment.
■f o l^TA
If you conduct a
Savings Group :
Remember National Saving is as important as
ever to help avoid inflation and to keep prices
down. Go your hardest to attract new
members for your Savings Group. Persuade
old members to maintain, and if possible to
increase, their rate of saving.
If you serve on a National Savings
Committee :
Give your Committee the utmost support.
Every school, every street, every factory,
office or shop should be, and must be, the
centre of a thriving Savings Group. Don’t let
interest flag in your organisation work —keep
it up all the time.
BE A SAVER, HOT A SPENDER —HELP KEEP PRICES
5C2.113.66
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted j and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
W.P.W.: Too big a bite to chew in that
space,,, ,E.P.D.: “Always Dreamin’ of Thee,
I Be” be cornin’ home it be... .S.D.S.: Chest-
nuts, and poor ones at that... .C.L.: You
should be reported to the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Editors N.T.W.:
Begone 8.N.0’M.: “Any suggestions? Re-
write it with a new plot K.A.P.: Threat
to “deluge” us with similar contributions
augurs well for P.M.G. revenue... .T.P.R.:
“Night Fighter” went in... .L.R.D.: Do you
ever play golf, ludo or lose your typrewriter,
or something? ... .C.P.: Your “new angle” was
a thousand years old when Boccaccio swiped
it from Indian mythology R.F.E.: What-
ever your sins, please don’t call ’em “literary
truffles”... .G.P.O’R.: “I Have Come.” But
you haven’t conquered U.P.D.: There’s a
faint stench of plagiarism in the air... .G.T.R.:
“I don’t know whether writers are bom or
made.” Your only hope is that they can be
made.,. .S.R.; Neat idea lost in a maelstrom
of clichds and platitudes... .P.M.Y.: The most
remarkable thing about that “remarkable coin-
cidence which actually happened to my
cousin” is the frequency with which it has
happened to other cousins during the last 30
years,., .Nix: Nix D.R.W.: “I have the
urge to write terribly.” You’re certainly
obeying it P.F.8.: Your best chance of
“seeing my work in print” would be to wrap
it in newspaper F.T.: You can’t leave that
“brain-child” on our doorstep... .V.G.J.:
Right off the beam... .D.T.8.: Away with your
“hists” and your “wisfs” and your “prithees.”
. ~.A.W.: Plot plausible, characters awful....
D. : Childish A.M.C.: Avoid jaw-
breakers and tortuous phraseology; simplicity
in style and language is the keynote of literary
success C.S.: “City slickers weren’t wel-
come in Bulemacanka any more.” Your swag-
men who use nail files aren’t welcome here
either... .J.F.: Drivel,.. .I.McD.: “Caspar
the Killer” might find a niche in your school
magazine K.C.: No, we’re not particularly
interested in the anatomy of octopi L.H.:
They’re slick yarns, but O. Henry was there
before you K.R.: At least it’s topical:
Stalin may be right, he may be wrong;
But if he’s not —there’s the atom bomb I
A.L.O.: “Drifting” is drifting back....
E. : No trick endings, please A.K.:
It might make a par. for Abo B.B.: “This
yarn is really incredible.” We agree W.M.:
Construction excellent, characters well drawn,
ending anaemic F.Y.: Three suicides and
a murder! Out! G.K.: Glamorous spies
who smoke cigarettes in long holders are
banned by the Religious Editor L.A.H.:
Insipid.... H.A.: Melodramatic and painfully
so W.K.L.: Hack stuff... .BJ.: “I wrote
this whilst in the throes of a terrible hang-
over.” Obviously C.O’D.: You have a
sound knowledge of dogs but you endow them
with supernatural faculties M.A.W.: Imi-
tating Omar Khayyam won’t get you anywhere.
J.J.: P. C. Wren may not have been
quite as imaginative as you, but at least he
didn’t have prehistoric monsters goring legion-
naires to death A.L.: Pistol packin’ mom-
mas are disarmed at this address and handed
over to the sheriff. .A.A.: Come again
when you’re not so verbose R.S.: Try a
daily S.W.: Hackneyed theme clumsily
handled M.M.: A woman’s magazine might
lap it up....C.N.: “Wherever Algy went he
could see glasses of whisky floating before his
eyes.” Send him to an oculist L.P.: In
case anyone is interested:
Wherever I wander, my thoughts ever stray
South of the Harbor
Where the beer’s on all day.
G.A.M.: “I’ll bet you won’t accept this.”
You win your bet P.McL.: Incognito
dukes are rarely convincing P.M.K.: “I am
sending you this ampsing trifle in the hope that
it will be suitable for your paper.” The hope
was unjustified and the trifle was not amusing.
. ...J.W.: Frothy... .C.R.8.: The covering
letter was well written... .0.Q.; Capital record
as airman in the Pacific has no vital bearing
on a short story about the A.I.F. in
Syria R.D,: Magazinish.... 1.T.: Come
again S.V.J.: Might make a par.. ..A.F.:
Written with the verve and gaiety of an official
report... .M.R.: Cut the slang and polish the
grammar W.W.L.: Your Surry Hills char-
acters are about as plausible as fish with
monocles Talbingo: “The Man Who
Came Back” is coming back again D.D.:
Sugary F. McN.: Description of the natural
beauties of the Monaro not unlike Zane Grey’s
descriptions of American mountains... .8.U.:
Make a comic strip out of it L.O’N.:
Cluttered by cliches and ponderous with puns,
but there seems hope for a hero who says
“marry me and we’ll live at your mother’s.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.; Miles off the track that leadeth to
the cashbox... .S.C.: What makes you think
that’s a humorous drawing?... .R.L.: Re-
jected with thoughts better left unprinted
T.H.D.: Figures are beginning to look more
like human beings W.S.: Discard that splut-
tering nib C.G.: So you tear up every
second effort. Percentage too low F.J.: No
use for illustrated schoolboy howlers E.D.:
The turtle rider came a cropper... .F.M.K.:
Decorative, but there’s no sparkle in the jest.
S.S.: By no means hopeless, although you
still need heaps of practice J.L.: Gone the
sad way of most first attempts A.C.N.:
Only a makeshift job—finish them before send-
ing them in A.R.: It’s a steep ascent all
right—too steep for you 8.H.G.: He curses
like a bullocky, but they’re not bullocks he’s
driving D.F.: It has an amazing number of
anatomical defects N.M.C.: Last time we
visited a two-up joint they didn’t play the
game that way W.H.: What have you
done? Upset a bottle of ink over a map of
Australia? P. 8.: Have to go on restraining
that drunk from taking a bath in the public
fountain A.J.8.: Not Bulletin material,
E.V.: You have a queer idea of what
constitutes a joke-block F.C.D.: Handed
over to the office executioner... .E.P.: Afraid
you’ll never raise a laugh with your pen
C.P.L.: Hang around the fruitmarket until
you learn to draw a watermelon S.W.H.:
Many caddies have made that retort R.P.:
Try to stand in the same position as your
policeman and see how long you would remain
on your feet C.W.: A bit late in the day
to get woiked up over that incident,


N «OiO
1
Build tvith these advantages of
STRUCTURAL STEEL TURING
If any climate demands steel tubing in the
construction of homes, it is our Australian climate.
Structural Steel Tubing gives . . .
Greater strength and stability.
Greater protection against fire.
Framework that cannot warp or shrink.
Complete freedom from attack by white ants
and borers.
When you use Structural Steel Tubing you build
your home faster, easier. Steel Tubular members
can also be used for Roof Framing with brick or
concrete construction.
Co
IjDINING * T
f KIT.
rp
LIVING “
LDY.
BED. 1
%
w.c
BATH
CZO
2.
! \
i O
NOTE: We regret it is not possible to
answer personal enquiries relating to
individual home - building problems.
Structural Steel Tubing is a development by
Stewarts and LloydiS (Ansi.) Piy. Lid.
HOUSING DIVISION, 75 PITT STREET, SYDNEY


ABOARD THE
REEFBIRD
By JTANDBY
OLD BILL BENTLEY looked up
and saw him standing on the
wharf, a tall, fair-haired, good-
looking young fellow with broad
shoulders and sun-tanned face and arms.
Admiration and longing shone in his blue
eyes as they took in every detail of Old
Bill’s lugger Reefbird, from her long
raking bowsprit to the steering wheel
right aft. “Lookin’ for someone?” Old
Bill inquired.
“Er, yes. I was wondering if I, er,
could see the skipper.”
“You’re seein’ him now,” Old Bill in-
formed him. “Come aboard.”
He watched his visitor lower himself
awkwardly to the deck. He himself would
have swung into the rigging and come
down a stay with the agility of a monkey.
But you’d expect that of Old Bill. There
was something very monkey-like in his
appearance. He was small and wiry, and
his wrinkled face was tanned to the tex-
ture of old leather. What little hair he
had was black and straight, a mere fringe
ending just above his ears, leaving a shin-
ing bald dome as brown as the well-
oiled masts of his own lugger. His small
brown eyes were bright, alert as any
monkey’s, and the arms and shoulders
revealed by his sleeveless singlet were
tanned and hairy.
“I was wondering,” his visitor said,
“if there’d be any chance of a job. Law-
son said you were wanting a man.”
“Know anythin’ about the sea?”
“I can row a flattie and sail a sixteen-
footer, I’ve always wanted to go to sea.
My grandfather was a sailor, and I sup-
pose it’s in my blood.”
“That don’t make a sailor out of you.
My granddad was a parson, but I’m not.
What do you mostly do for a livin’?”
“Anything at all. I’ve done a fair bit
of farm work. And truck-driving. Last
crushing I worked in one of the sugar
mills, and before that I had a go at fish-
ing.”
“Knocked around, eh?” There was an
amused twinkle in Old Bill’s eyes.
The fair young man shrugged his shoul-
ders uneasily. “I suppose so,” he -an-
swered. “Think you could put me on?”
Old Bill hitched up his khaki shorts.
“It’s hard work,” he said, “and rough,
this ’ere trochus fishin’.”
“I’m used to hard work, and the sea
can’t get too rough for me. I like it
rough.”
“You do, eh? Well, I can’t say as I
do. It can’t be too smooth for me. I’m
a fair-weather sailor, I am. What do they
call you?”
“Cliff. Cliff Shaw. Do I get the job?”
“I dunno.” Old Bill contemplated his
bare feet for a moment. “I’ll take y’
out for a trial trip. I’ll pay award wages
but I won’t sign y’ on. When we get
back I’ll take y’ up to the Customs House
and sign y’ on proper. That’s if y’
haven’t changed y’r mind about the sea
by then.” M
“I won’t change my mind. Skipper.’’
Cliff beamed. “I’ll go and get my gear.”
AT eleven o’clock next morning they
sailed, a small crew of two white men
and two black. They chugged slowly
downstream, the lugger’s progress re-
tarded by the strong run of the
incoming tide, and crossed the outer
bar. The bows lifted to the light
swell on the shallow bar and dropped
gently with a long pleasing crunch as the
bow wave curled over and bubbled aft.
In the deep water beyond the bar there
was no swell. The blue sea danced and
sparkled, its surface flecked with the
white caps of wavelets kicked up by the
morning breeze. Old Bill steadied the
lugger on her course, the two colored
boys rose from where they had been
squatting in the bows and looked, first to
wind’ard and then at the wrinkled face
of their skipper.
Old Bill nodded, a barely perceptible
nod. Perhaps it would be more correct
to say that he momentarily straightened
a few of the wrinkles out of his tanned
forehead, but the boys understood, for
they moved straight to the halyards and
began the business of getting the sail on
her.
With all sail set and drawing, the Reef-
bird heeled over slightly and gathered
headway. For the first time since they
had left the wharf Old Bill spoke to Clift:
“Like to take ’er for a bit? I’ll go
below and stop the engine.” He dis-
appeared down the hatchway. “Just keep
’er as she is; a bit to wind’ard of that
island.”
Cliff grasped the spokes of the wheel
eagerly. He’d never handled a vessel of
this size before and was rather amazed
that the skipper could hand over to him
so casually. He would have preferred to
have Old Bill standing by him for the
first half-hour or so until he “got the
hang of her.” The two Island boys were
on deck, certainly, but they had returned
to their position in the bows and were
taking no interest in the proceedings.
Evidently they were taking it for granted
that he knew his job.
She steered easily. Cliff found after a
few minutes, lying on her course with
very little assistance from him. He
glanced from the faint blue lump of the
island ahead to the tall masts and taut
sails above him. This, he told himself,
was the life for him, the life he had been
born for.
Beneath his feet the shuddering vibra-
tions of the engine died down and ceased
altogether. In silence the lugger ploughed
on —silent except for the hissing of her
bow wash and the gurgle of the water
boiling up under her counter. A lone gull
soared upwards, poised motionless for a
moment and then, lowering a pair of thin
red legs, settled comfortably on the truck
of the mainmast swaying gently against
the blue sky. Cliff felt like whistling or
singing for the joy of it all, the clean-
scrubbed decks, the big sails straining
gently at their sheets, the two boys squat-
ting in the bows, their naked backs glow-
ing like dull copper against the back-
ground of blue sea and sky, and away in
the distance the islands, hazy and mys-
terious. Beyond those islands lay their
destination, the Great Barrier Reef.
He hoped the skipper would stay
, below for hours; but Old Bill had
other ideas. His shining bald dome ap-
peared above the companion and he
climbed out on deck. The gull on the
masthead cocked a black inquiring eye
downwards and left, not with a shrill
squawking and flapping of wings, but
silently, merely spreading his wings and
floating downwind as a piece of thistle-
down is blown away.
“Want a spell there, young fella?” Old
Bill asked.
“No fear, skipper.” Cliff’s tone was
eager. “I could stay here all day.”
“You’ll get sick of it,” Old Bill pre-
dicted. He stretched himself out on deck
in the shade of the mainsail and clasped
his hands behind his head.
“Sing out when y’ want a spell,” he
called as he closed his eyes.
THEY anchored that night in the lee
of a small island. While Old Bill
started the motor up, the boys lowered
the sails and the Reefbird coughed and
chugged noisily into a palm-fringed bay.
The motor stopped and the anchor went
down, the noise of its rattling cable echo-
ing back from the rocky slopes.
“Better turn in early,” Old Bill advised
when they had finished their evening
meal. “We’ll be gettin’ under way pretty
early in the mornin’. We gotter strike
the Reef at low water.”
He rolled into his narrow bunk and
was asleep almost immediately. Cliff
climbed up on deck. Against the light
of the rising moon the hoop pines on the
island’s rugged slopes stood black and
sombre. The faint swell coming into the
bay rocked the lugger with a motion so
slight and gentle as to be almost imper-
ceptible. To be sure that she was mov-
ing Cliff had to look up to where the
masts swung like long black fingers point-
ing to and fro among the stars. Having
lazily stirred the lugger the swell passed
on to end with a long, soft swish on the
distant beach. The moon rose above the
highest peak, lighting up the strip of
white sand. Occasionally some freak of
the making tide moved the lugger till she
tightened her anchor chain. The cable
grated softly in its fairlead and the slight
movement lit its entire length with phos-
phorescent light until Cliff imagined he
could see the anchor lying four fathoms
down in that clear water.
It was nearly midnight when he turned
in, and at three-thirty he was aroused
by the spluttering of the motor. The
anchor was already up, he noticed as he
scrambled up on deck, and they were
gathering headway. One of the native
boys was at the wheel, but presently Old
Bill appeared and took over from him.
The boy vanished for’ard.
“I could take her off, Skipper,” Cliff
offered.
“No y’ couldn’t,” Old Bill contradicted.
“Not this time. I’m aimin’ to take ’er
to a pertickler spot on the Reef,” And
then, his teeth gleaming white in the
moonlight as his wrinkled face broke into
a grin. “Sorta made a night of it last
night, didn’t y’?” _
“It was Wonderful, Skipper,” Cliff
breathed. “You’ve never seen anything
like it was when the moon came up over
that island.”
“I know.” Old Bill’s tone was mildly
amused. “I seen moons and islands
aplenty. You better turn in again. Well
be droppin’ anchor at sunrise.”
“Are you sure there’s nothing I could
do for you, Skipper?”
“If there was I’d pretty soon tell y’.
I’m payin’ y’r wages, ain’t I?”
That, Cliff thought, was the wonderful
part of all this. He was being paid for
the most thrilling experience of his life.
He did not turn in again. Instead he
went for’ard and leaned against the main-
mast. The breeze had dropped during'
the night leaving a flat, calm sea. He
stood there until the island faded into the
darkness astern and the first faint light
of dawn showed in the east. One of the
boys emerged, and after scratching his
fuzzy head sleepily swung into the starb’d
rigging and commenced to climb. Cliff
watched him haul himself on to the cross-
trees and stand erect, one hand resting
against the mast and the other scratching
his bare ribs. Presently he descended to
the deck, and above the noise of the
engine Old Bill called “Catch ’im?”
The dark head nodded. “Catch ’im,”
the boy answered and moved quietly up
into the bows, there to indulge in a little
more scratching.
(
FROM where Cliff stood nothing was
visible but a vast expanse of dark,
flat ocean. The dark surface turned to
grey and then to silver, but it was an-
other ten minutes before the first features
of the reef lifted above the horizon. He
watched them rising one after the other
till they stretched in an endless line as far
as the eye could see —ugly, gnarled black
stumps standing like rows of decayed
teeth in this sea of silver, the hideous
“niggerheads” of dead coral that are the
first things to show on a coral reef. The
light breeze coming ahead of the rising
sun stirred the surface of the sea and
brought the smell of the reefs with it.
Cliff shuddered. He had expected life
and beauty, little islands with palm-trees
along their white shores, blue lagoons
full of brilliant fish, but here were only
death and ugliness. That breeze stank of
death, of dead coral, rotting seaweed and
nameless marine growths, all dead.
Even the rising sun tinting each black
niggerhead with gold could not give them
beauty, but it lit with an amazing bril-
liance a little island of the purest white
on the summit of which stood a tree. So
there was fife here, after all. Certainly
the tree was not a palm-tree, and the
island was only small, just ho'w small he
had no means of telling. Evidently Old
Bill was using it as a steering mark, for
he was heading straight for it.
After breakfast they got the dinghies
overside in readiness for the day’s work.
The preparations were simple. Sacks
were tossed in together with a number of
lengths of cord and short lengths of
bamboo and the party pulled across to
the reef. Old Bill and the two natives
wore only shorts, heavy boots, and rubber
diving goggles slung around their necks.
“There’s nothin’ y’ can do yet awhile,”
Old Bill told him when they climbed on
to the reef and made the boats fast.
“Take a look around if y’ want to.”
For some minutes Cliff was too spell-
bound to move from where he stood on
the edge of the reef. Here, he saw, look-
ing down into the clear water, was living
coral in all its forms and delicate colors,
giant blue-lipped clams and shoals of
tiny brilliant fish. The color of the water
changed in a few feet from pale-green to
a deep fathomless blue where the reef
edge hung suspended over some bottom-
less cavern.
The exposed surface of the reef was of
a dull uniform brown, slimy and treacher-
ous to walk on, but every few yards it
was broken by pools ; shallow pools and
deep pools and always under their surface
lay life and beauty.
The white island with its solitary tree
drew Cliff, but when he reached it he was
disappointed to find that it was made,
not of white sand, but of broken frag-
ments of coral bleached by the sun and
sea. The stuff tinkled like smashed china
under his heavy boots. The solitary tree
proved to be only a stunted mangrove
bush, with seaweed caught in its lower
branches. Away out to the eastward hung
a white, shimmering haze where the ocean
swell pounded on the outer edges. He
felt that he had seen all there was to be
seen and hurried back to the trochus
fishing.
OLD BILL was in a high good humor
and the two boys sang and laughed
as they splashed about in the shallow
pools. The shell, untouched through the
years of war, was plentiful and well-
grown. They were getting it at waist
depth and less, good shell up to four and
five inches across. Although he inspected
the brown flatfish cones and watched the
others prising them from crevices, Cliff
could never find one himself. These three
seemed to possess some instinct that en-
abled them to see a brown, barnacle-
encrusted shell in a mass of brown coral
and weed. When sufficient was gathered
to fill a sack, it was bagged and securely
tied. A length of cord with a bamboo
float on one end was attached and the
bag left on the reef.
So absorbed was Cliff in the work that
he did not notice the rising tide until
Old Bill called a halt for lunch. The
lugger was no longer in a land-locked
harbor. Reefs, niggerheads and even the
white island had vanished beneath the
sea. Only the now rather pathetic little
mangrove bush remained above water.
There was hard work and plenty of it
now. Cliff discovered. The floats had to
be located, the bags of shell hauled up
into the dinghies and rowed out to the
lugger. The shell had to be cleaned of
weeds and barnacles and boiled so that
the fish inside could be removed. At
high water the swell coming over the sub-
merged reef rocked the lugger and made
the work difficult, but for three days
they worked from dawn to dark. On the
third night Old Bill nodded towards a
low bank of cloud in the south east.
“That’s the end of the good weather,”
he announced. “There’ll be a dirty sou’-
easter bio win’ before momin’. We’ll get
the dinghies aboard and make ’em fast.”
They turned in early that night and
even Old Bill’s heavy snoring could not
keep Cliff awake. He slept soundly until
an unaccustomed motion awoke him in
the early hours of the morning. The
Reef bird was rolling heavily, and the little
cabin seemed to be filled with strange
noises. It wasn’t Old Bill’s snoring, for
when he struggled out of his bunk he
realised that his skipper was missing.
Feeling thoroughly scared, he climbed up
on deck.
It took him a few seconds to find where
the noises were coming from. It was
blowing hard and the tide was again at
its full. The wind moaned and whined
through the rigging, driving dark clouds
ahead of it, clouds that seemed only a
few feet above the wildly swaying mast-
heads. And the sea! It roared, boomed
and boiled over the submerged reefs in a
waste of wild broken water. Cliff knew
then what real fear was. He shouted
wildly.
“Skipper! Skipper! Where are you?”
A voice at his elbow said, “ ’Struth, son,
take it easy! No need t’ frighten a bloke
like that!” He turned and realised that
Old Bill was sitting on the hatch behind
him.
“What’s happened, Skipper? Where
are we?”
“We’re ’ere,” Old Bill announced
calmly, “But we won’t be much longer
(i Continued on page 32.)
Black Lace.
Behind the black lace of the printed page
Did you see everlasting life or age
Dressed in its leprous-skin of crinkled
paper ?
Look! Who walks through the sheet
with lighted taper ?
Who burns the page, so that your eyes
are red
When you have seen all this, gone late
to bed?
Yes, it is flesh behind the print’s black
lace.
If you can recognise the mantled face
That, peering back into your wondering
eyes.
Knows thoughts that troubled you; was
just as wise.
And just as foolish, and as mystified.
But here some lingered, though their
bodies died;
Some, ageing, mannered, speaking to a
few;
Some spirit only, deathless, ever new.
The veil was never lifted, but the lace
Showed well enough the presence of a
face ;
Or, hanging on a peg, an empty skull,
It looked like cobweb spiderless and dull.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THREAT OF THE RUSSIAN ADVANCE
( Condensed from an article by F. A. Voigt, editor of "Nineteenth Century and After.”)
Before she can be master of Europe,
Russia must be master of Germany, as
well as of Poland and Yugoslavia. The
conquest of Poland gave her access to
Germany and the industrial areas of
Central Europe. She secured herself in
advance against any challenge to her con-
quest of Poland by prevailing upon Great
Britain to override the Anglo-Polish
Treaty of Alliance and to connive in three
distinct, though related, measures: (1)
Annexation of Eastern Poland by Russia ;
(2) Annexation of German territories east
of the Rivers Oder and Neisse by Poland ;
(3) Establishment of a Polish Provisional
Government in Warsaw.
Eastern Poland, although of immense
value to Poland herself, had no intrinsic
value to Russia. To Russia it was a means
to an end-annexation of the Eastern Ger-
man territories. These are now part of
the Polish Republic, but as that Republic
is de facto a Russian dependency, the
Eastern German territories are also a
Russian dependency. The connivance of
Great Britain was secured by representing
the annexation of these German territories
as “compensation” to Poland for the loss
of her eastern territories, and by pro-
posing that her new eastern frontier
should follow the “Curzon Line.” This
line, though following,, with but slight
deviation, the same course as the line
negotiated between Germany and Russia
shortly before the war, and known as the
“Ribbentrop-Molotov Line,” bore a more
respectable name and was thereby made
the more acceptable to Great Britain.
The third measure secured in advance
the consent —in effect —of Great Britain
and the United States to the domination
of the Polish Republic by Russia, When
Great Britain and the United States recog-
nised the Polish Provisional Government,
they abandoned the legitimate Polish
Government —and thereby consented to
the extinction of Polish independence. It
would be hard to find in all history a
cleverer and more successful piece of de-
ception practised by one Power on others
than was practised by Russia on Great
Britain and the United States.
The Poles, a proud and valiant nation,
will never strike a bargain if their national
independence is the price. The situation,
skilfully brought about by Russia, denied
them every possibility either of bargaining
or of resisting. Their loss of indepen-
dence is absolute. They could not bar-
gain, for they were allowed no share in
the decisive negotiations. They could not
resist because they could not at the same
time fight Great Britain, the United States,
Russia and Germany—they could not
even attempt to do so, for their army,
navy and air force were fighting for Great
Britain, the United States and Russia and
were denied the possibility of fighting for
Poland.
The Russian conquest of Yugoslavia
affords another example of astuteness on
the part of Russia. By foisting her own
agent upon Great Britain as a suitable
liberator of Yugoslavia, Russia was not
only able, with almost no sacrifice on her
own part, to make Yugoslavia a Russian
dependency, but also to transform Yugo-
slavia, whose people always were, and still
are, pro-British, into a strongly anti-
British Power, despite the pro-British in-
clinations of the Yugoslav people. Tito,
the Russian agent, and his Partisans, who
Mr. Ralph Ingersoll might have
dedicated “Top Secret” [the book in
which he attacked Eisenhower and
Montgomery ] to the “Tribune” and
some other newspapers, “without
which," he might have said, “this
book could never have been written
because, except for them, its author
would have succeeded in his efforts
to escape military service.”
Chicago “Tribune”
were dominated by the Yugoslav Com-
munists, conquered Yugoslavia for Russia
with the help of arms and supplies pro-
vided by Great Britain. .
We shall realise the importance of
Poland and Yugoslavia to Russia if we
consider their importance to Europe—and
to Great Britain. If Poland and Yugo-
slavia were independent today there
would be no European problem—and,
therefore, no German problem. The
Peace, as well as the War, would have
been won by the Western Powers, and
the reconstruction and reintegration of
Europe would have begun by now,
whereas, today, disintegration continues,
If Poland and Yugoslavia were free,
Europe as a whole would be free, whereas
today about a third of Europe is unfree
and the remainder is menaced by unfree-
dom. The foundations of a united Europe
would have been laid. The relief of the
European famine could have begun
months ago out of Europe’s own re-
sources. Millions of lives would have
been saved—and not only German lives.
Great Britain would have had no cause
for apprehension with regard to Russia
in Europe, none with regard to Germany.
She would have had complete security in
Europe and in the Western Mediter-
ranean. And, as increased security in one
place means decreased insecurity in
others, she would have had less insecurity
in the Near East, the Middle East, and
even in the Far East.
By holding Yugoslavia, Russia can in-
tervene decisively in Central Europe and
the Eastern Mediterranean. That is why
she has made of Yugoslavia a Soviet Re-
public in all but name. Belgrade is, today,
the capital of Russia’s European
dominions, with the most powerful and
important wireless station, a centre from
which the Russian ascendancy is being
consolidated and her influence —hostile
to Great Britain, above all—is being
spread into th'e Near East and across the
Mediterranean. Tito is Stalin’s viceroy
in Europe. He is, on behalf of Russia,
consolidating the Eastern and South-
eastern European federation of Russian
vassal States ; he is Russia’s principal anti-
British agent.
The submissive nature of the Czechs,
which made them collaborate almost as
closely with the Germans as they are now
collaborating with the Russians, has pro-
moted the delusion that, unlike the Poles
and Yugoslavs, they have recovered their
national independence. The truth is that
they have as little independence under
the Russians as they had under the
Germans.
It is hardly conceivable that Czecho-
slovakia will ever be restored —not even
when Europe will at last have been liber-
ated When that happens the Sudeten-
landers will surely return to their own
country and the Slovaks will surely pro-
claim their independence. But the libera-
tion of Europe, which will surely in-
clude the liberation of the Czechs, can
but perpetuate the extinction of Czecho-
slovakia. There is no failure in Europe
so complete and so enduring as the
failure of Dr. Benes.
We should not ignore the importance
of Rumania. And for the permanent lib-
eration of Europe as a whole, the libera-
tion of Rumania is a necessity, because
Russia, even if in control of Rumania
and no more, can always renew her threat
to the Balkans and to Central Europe.
There can be no enduring peace in
Europe, indeed there can be no Europe,
and no permanent security for Great
Britain, unless the countries of the Middle
Zone, from the Arctic to the Aegean,
Rumania included, are independent.
Russia’s European conquests mean
much, even now —far more than is
realised —but they mean even more for the
future, seeing that they are a base, a
hinterland, a glacis and a source of sup-
ply, from which Russia can advance
westward towards further conquests. Her
control over the countries she has con-
quered is absolute. Their populations
number 130,000,000 or 140,000,000 in all
(death through war, hunger and disease,
deportations and “transfers” makes it im-
possible to give a precise figure), their
fighting forces, their skilled labor, their
roads and railways, their strategic ad-
vantages and so on, are all at the dis-
posal of Russia. All these countries are
severally and collectively a means to her
ends —not one of them can live for itself,
no one person in them can live for him-
self, or for his country, or for Europe,
for mankind, for science, art or religion,
but only for Russia.
There is a widespread illusion that if
Russia goes no further all will be well.
Let us suppose—though the supposition
flouts the obvious —that she does not
mean to go any further. Three genera-
tions of statesmen strove to avert what
she has achieved even now. Burke, Pitt,
Castlereagh, Palmerston, Disraeli, Glad-
stone would surely be appalled were they
to revisit this earth and see how the
European system, built up with immense
patience, resolution and statesmanship
during a period of more than 200 years
and defended in three great wars, has
been overthrown in little more than two
years.
It has always been necessary—and the
necessity was recognised at the Congress
of Vienna and by Hardenberg as well as
by Castlereagh—to keep Russia out of
Europe. It has been necessary, also, for
Europe to keep out of Russia. There can
never be an enduring peace between
Europe and Russia unless they respect
one another’s borders. The invasions of
Russia under Napoleon, Pilsudski and
Hitler were not only disastrous because
they failed —they would have been disas-
trous if they had succeeded. Russia will
never accept Europe—nor will Europe
accept Russia.
Russia has invaded Europe. She has
penetrated as far as Central Germany.
She has reached the Adriatic. She is con-
solidating her conquest by terrorism and
by subterfuge, by all the political, eco-
nomic and strategic means at her dis-
posal. She is preparing for further con-
quests Western Germany, Trieste,
Salonica and even Gibraltar are menaced,
directly or indirectly, in Europe alone.
Her aspirations in Asia are vaster even
than her aspirations in Europe.
She is converting her Eastern and
Central European conquests into an im-
mense glacis, with a war industry of its
own. Just as she developed an autono-
mous war industry in her Far Eastern
territories, so that they could, in a war
that might engage the main forces of the
Russian Empire, wage a long defensive
war of their own, so she is developing, or
rather, reconstructing for her own special
needs, a war industry in the glacis—a
war industry that/ will make her the
greatest military Power on the European
mainland without placing any undue
strain upon her war industry at home.
While in Great Britain and in the
United States demobilisation cannot pro-
ceed with sufficient speed, and while the
primacy of production for war has re-
ceded before the primacy of production
for peace, in Russia the primacy of pro-
duction for war is sustained —for use
against whom, now that Germany and
Japan have been overthrown?
There are three main centres of war
industry now/working for Russia in the
glacis the Silesian, the Bohemian-
Moravian and the Central German. The
resources (including human labor) of the
glacis are subordinated to one purpose—
the maintenance of an army and a war
.• -X t
industry which will enable Russia to pur-
sue her European plans, even to the
point of waging aggressive war, while
allowing her to make her main military
effort elsewhere, whether in the Middle
East or in the Far East,
Her German policy reveals her deter-
mination to advance further westward.
The Communists in Eastern and Central
Germany are under her direct control.
The Communists in Western Germany
are under her indirect control. > They
are the instrument by which she is
uniting all Germans so that all shall be
under her domination, and none shall be
even under the influence of the Western
Powers—and none shall ever be independ-
ent. She is establishing bureaucratic abso-
lutism in the regions she has occupied,
and is endeavoring, through the Com-
munists, to promote it in the regions occu-
pied by the British, the Americans and
the French. She is forcing the Social
Democrats into union with the Com-
munists so that they may come under
Communist and, therefore, under Russian
domination. It is through the so-called
“unity of the German working class”
that she is pushing the frontiers of her
empire towards the Rhine—and it would
be an illusion to suppose that when they
have reached the Rhine they will be
pushed no further,
She is, in the regions she has occupied,
reducing farmers and farm laborers to a
subjection such as they never knew, even
under Hitler. Having united and subju-
gated industrial and rural labor, first in
Eastern and Central, then in Western,
Germany, she can proceed to the subju-
gation of the entire bourgeoisie —by
direct means in the former region and by
indirect, or perhaps by revolutionary,
means in the latter. The time will surely
come when she will, in Western Ger-
many, promote a German national prole-
tarian revolution against the Western
Powers. This revolution, if it succeeds,
will inaugurate the anti-Western and,
more specifically, anti-British armed
alliance between Russia and Germany.
U.S. PACIFIC BASES.
(From a " Harper's v article by the leading U.S. war commentator Hanson W. Baldwin .)
Since last autumn, when the U.S. Navy
gave out a long list of proposed Pacific
bases, there has been a tendency to re-
view requirements
It is agreed that main U.S. Pacific bases
-with permanent docking, repair and
... rT* * u -
aviation facilities ought to be in the
Hawanan Islands and in the Mananas
(both sizable groups and rugged), with
secondary bases in the Philippines,
Bonins-Volcanoes, Okinawa, the Aleu-
tians and the Canal Zone. Virtually all
the rest of the islands in the Marshalls,
Carolines, Palaus, Ryukyus, Aleutians,
Bonins and Volcanoes would be de-
veloped but slightly, if at all, although
all of them would remain under U.S.
strategic control, according to present
pl ans *
These are sensible plans. U.S. cer-
tainly does not need airfields and dock-
yards on scores of Pacific islands. The
mobility of modern naval and air forces,
and the floating drydocks, shipboard
machine-shops and mobile supply devices
developed during the Pacific War make
unnecessary any extensive system of
secondary bases though U.S should
have a few air stnps and refuelling pro-
vjsions Qn some £ the smaller isla £ ds .
j t j s essen tial—lest main bases be neutra-
iised—that all of the groups enumerated
be under U.S. strategic control.
Such a base programme will help to
protect U.S. air-sea routes across the
Pacific, and will extend offensive reach in
the years immediately ahead. The Philip-
pines and Okinawa, in the Ryukyus, lie
squarely across the sea-air approaches to
the China coast; as long as U.S. retains
i ts interest in China it must retain bases
in these islands. But it does not need
Manus or other bases south of the
equator; no threat can come from that
direction.
SETTING JAPAN UP IN BUSINESS.
(Condensed from the “United States News.”)
The U.S. is starting now to set Japan
up in business again. The goal is to have
Japan reach, within five years, a volume
of exports about half as large as she had
before the war. It will give her a chance
to make a living on a limited scale, but
above the poverty level.
In terms of territory and resources
Japan is losing Manchuria, Formosa and
Korea. These areas had been important
sources of rice, sugar and soybeans, of
iron ore and other raw materials, and of
some industrial products. Without these
areas, Japan is less than 80 per cent, self-
sufficient in food, almost completely defi-
cient in some critical raw materials.
On the home islands, Japan faces
drastic cuts in heavy industries. All muni-
tions and aircraft industries are vanishing.
In addition, reparations policy is to cut
Japan’s steel industry back from a war-
time capacity of 12,000,000 tons to around
2,500,000 tons. Machine-tool capacity is
to be cut in half, ball-bearing plants elimi-
nated, synthetic-oil industry removed and
perhaps oil refineries as well, plants for
manufacturing magnesium and alumina
eliminated, and the chemical industry sub-
stantially reduced
Shipping on a big scale is to be denied
Japan Japanese shipyards are limited
to repair jobs to keep in service the rem-
nants of Japan’s once-large merchant
marine. Shipping id to be more important
in Japan’s future than ever before, in view
of her need for exports/and imports, but
a merchant marine large enough to give
Japan a real status as a sea Power is not
to be re-established,
Imports and exports are to stay under
Allied control for some time. Purpose
of the control is to keep out imports of
oil, scrap iron and other sinews of war,
and t 0 steer Japanese exports towards
approved areas,
Cotton textiles are to come back in a
big way. Japan’s textile industry, as it
did before the war, is to provide the big-
gest single item in Japanese exports. As
a start, the U.S. intends to ship 1,000,000
bales of raw cotton to Japan this year,
That will give her 200,000 bales over and
a bove domestic needs with which to pro-
duce exports to pay for needed imports
°f f° od and raw materials. _ Thereafter,
more cotton will be available until
Japanese textile exports reach the level
which her competitors on the Far Eastern
Commission set as the limit,
Silk industry, normally next to cotton
goods in Japan’s export fist, is to get as
much chance for a comeback as world
competition with rayon and nylon will
permit. This year 130,000 bales of raw
silk are to be exported, accounting for
nearly half the value of all 1946 exports.
Rayon, m which Japanese expor s once
led the field, is to be allowed a substan-
hal recovery. ,
Fishing industry, though restricted
chiefly to home waters, has already re-
vived to an efficiency of 75 per cent ox


normal. Some export surplus, especially
for China, is to be expected.
Other exports allowed to post-war
Japan will include a wide variety of items.
As an indication, exports for 1946 are to
include 4000 tons of tea, 40,000 tons of
porcelain and pottery, 200,000 fuis,
1.000. grams of cultured pearls, 1500
tons of medicine, principally agar-agar,
1.000. radio valves, 30,000 radios,
5.000. light bulbs, 10,000 cameras,
10,000 electric fans and 150,000 bicycles.
Many of these 1946 exports are from
existing stocks.
All told, they amount to $200,000,000.
Japan’s pre-war average, including exports
to Korea and Formosa, came to about
$1,000,000,000, or fourth from the top
among exporting nations. Japan no
longer will need to export in order to'
pay for imports consumed by her war
machine. A total export volume of
$500,000,000 a year should permit Japan
to live above the poverty level, yet not
rebuild a war potential.
To the Allies, revival of the Japanese
economy presents a dilemma. One horn
of the dilemma is the necessity to demili-
tarise and deindustrialise Japan so she
never again can make war. The other
horn of the dilemma is the necessity to
leave enough industry so Japan’s
75.000. people can support themselves
on islands whose land can grow food
enough for only 60,000,000. Conflicting
economic interests of the Allies are to
complicate the problem further. U.S.
policy-makers will have in mind the fact
that Japan once was America’s best
customer in the Far East, as the U.S. once
was Japan’s best customer.
Thorny Palestine.
(From an article by a N.Y. “limes corre-
spondent.)
The weakness in the Anglo-American
report was that it offered no programme
that would ‘pave the way or prepare the
two peoples of Palestine for self-govern-
ment. On the theory that hostility be-
tween Jews and Arabs is so bitter that'
any attempt to establish an independent
Palestinian State, or States, would result
in civil war, it recommends that govern-
ment by the present mandate be con-
tinued until a United Nations trusteeship
is set up.
But what then? How are the two
peoples to be reconciled in the mean-
time? Where is the place or the process
that will train them to work together in
administering a land that in any event
will be their common country?
The Commission agreed that Palestine
shall be neither a Jewish nor an Arab
State, which implies that Jews and Arabs
must govern it together. But even if this
view does not prevail, and at some future
time the Zionists fulfill the aim they have
pursued with such short-sighted assertive-
ness and become a majority; even if
there is civil war ; even if the land is
eventually partitioned; in no conceiv-
able set of circumstances will a whole
Palestine, a decimated Palestine or a
divided Palestine be anything but a bi-
national State, or two bi-national States.
At some point this bi-national State
must become independent. Except for the
inner conflict that makes it an armed
camp, a tense and precarious order main-
tained by British police power, this would
have happened long ago.
The transition to independence from an
all-British Government of two separate
communities may come about in various
ways. The United States might decide to
share the responsibility for fulfilling Presi-
dent Truman’s proposal for the admission
of 100,000 homeless Jews. Something
has to be done about the refugees figura-
tively beating their heads against the
bars in the camps in Germany. They
cannot be held there much longer, for
their own sakes and for the sake of the
occupying authorities. Doing something
does not necessarily mean accepting Mr.
Attlee’s condition to help disarm the
illegal armies in Palestine. If it is a
joint enterprise, it means that the Ameri-
can Government would participate in de-
cisions on how the Commission’s recom-
mendations are to be carried out, first in
handling the urgent immigration problem
and then in long-range policies. ,
U.S. participation might change the
American view, since even the suggestion
of action instead of agitation and advice
raises the cry against “intervention.”
Certainly it would enlarge the issue for
Arab and Jew and Briton. There is no
question that British-American joint
action could overcome Arab opposition
to the settlement. Also, since opinion in
U.S. would veto sharing the mandate with
Britain, it might expedite the transfer of
the mandate to an international trustee-
ship and thus prod the United Nations
into organising the system provided for
in the Charter, but as yet non-existent.
And this would so alter the position of
the British on the Suez that on second
thought they might be as reluctant to
accept active U.S. help as Americans
seem indisposed to give it.
But whether the British go on alone,
whether the U.S. joins in the attempt to
solve the problem, or whether the United
Nations takes over, the solution finally
depends on the relations between Arab
and Jew. They are the chief protagonists
in the tragic drama. Nothing that can
happen —abrogation of the White Paper,
unlimited immigration, American inter-
vention, international control —can cancel
the fundamental fayt that Jews and Arabs
will both remain and will have to march
together down the long vistas of history.
The inescapable reality of the future is
that, whichever group predominates, the
Holy Land is certain to be a bi-national
State. When will either get practice in
bi-national administration? Until each
group shares some responsibility for rul-
ing the other, there is no hope that the
two States can ever evolve into one inde-
pendent State.
Reshaping the German Mind.
( Condensed from an article by Drew Middleton
in New York “Times”)
It has become apparent to the rulers
of the Military Government that, although
they can destroy and dismantle steel plants
to their hearts’ content and, if they wish,
put everyone who ever raised his or her
hand in a Nazi salute behind barbed wire,
they will accomplish little
of lasting value unless they
can through re-education
cleanse the German mind
of the impulses which led
to National Socialism and
militarism.
The quadripartite division
of Germany is a permanent
complexity. Few spheres
of fhe Military Government
are more affected by the dif-
ferences between the poli-
cies of the various Allies
than is German re-educa-
tion. Each of the occupy-
ing Powers is convinced
that the German mind must
be changed, but each Power
has its own idea of the
direction of that chafige.
The United States and
Britain, the two Powers
which think most nearly
alike on this subject, believe
that German youth should
be educated to take part in
representative Government
and that German adults
should be induced to re-
sume participation in such a
Government where they left
off in 1933. The Soviet
idea is somewhat different.
French re-education em-
phasises the advantages of
attaching the Saar and other
German provinces occupied
by the French Army to
France and gives only pass-
ing attention to political
forms.
Two important difficulties are (1) the
tendency of the Germans to suspect any-
thing which reaches them through Ameri-
can or American-controlled agencies as
“propaganda” and (2) the inability of the
average German to assimilate the flood
of news which is suddenly inundating him.
So far we have not been successful in
convincing them of Germany’s war guilt
or of their own collective responsibility in
the National Socialist regime and its ex-
cesses. This is particularly true of the
younger Germans, including most of the
war veterans, who refuse to listen to either
Germans or Americans who emphasise
this point. No amount of pleading by
German politicians and political writers
in the press of the United States zone
seems to have any effect on the political
lethargy of most of the young people.
Young Germans of 15 to 22 or 23 are
the most unreconstructed elements of the
population. They still are a prey to dark
ideas bubbling at the bottom of the Ger-
man mind.
Free Enterprise Results.
(From “Wall-street Journal.' 1 ')
It is said so often that post-war con-
ditions are forcing the nations of Europe
into State controls of the totalitarian
variety that nearly all people have come
to accept the statement as fact. The
assertion is one of those half truths which
are dangerous.. Not hard necessity, but a
wish which springs from a philosophy of
government is the main reason for keep-
ing war-time controls and adding others.
Instead of looking to relaxation of con-
trols and a return to individual enter-
prise—as are the Dutch—other countries
are looking for new and more compli-
cated ways to put the Government into
everything. The main difference between
the Dutch and the others is that the
Dutch want to go in one direction while
such nations as Britain and France are
looking in another.
Recently Mr. Charles Hargrove, “Wall-
street Journal” European correspondent,
went to Switzerland. He told of how one
entering that little Republic suddenly left
behind him all the confusion and the
shortages and found a well-ordered busy
life. The Swiss said frankly that it was
because of their free enterprise system.
More recently Mr. Lewis Reynolds,
also writing in “Wall-street Journal,” told
of conditions in Mexico where enter-
prisers, instead of being confronted with
bureaucratic rules and Government-made
obstacles, were encouraged to go ahead.
The result is a burst of activity such as
Mexico had seldom seen. Foreign capital,
which once shunned Mexico because of
the Socialistic tendencies of its Govern-
ment, now finds there a better field for
venture than in the United States.
The real fact is that the free market
is a cure for the ills that the planners
attempt to dose with their various nos-
trums.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed fromj various acknowledged
sources.)
Lenin died of paresis, his brain in an almost
complete state of decomposition, and no one
will ever be able to ascertain to what extent
his politics, so full of genius and yet so sinister,
were influenced by his corrosive illness. A
Greek physician has testified to U.N.R.R.A.
that a great majority of political extremists
in Greece are tubercular. He estimated that
N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
“How’d you like to buy in on a nice quiet little place
I own?”
two-t'hirds of Greek Communists suffer from
the disease. — Dorothy Thompson; N.Y. “Post.”
« * * *
American foreign policy in the Mediterranean
is committed to keeping that important sea
lane open to free commerce of all nations, an
authoritative source has disclosed. American
policy is designed to oppose any manoeuvre
which threatens this concept. This policy, in
effect, means support of the British Navy and
British imperial interests in the Mediterranean
area. It also would mean opposition to power
moves by the Soviet Union to obtain naval
bases or other strategic positions which might
endanger such a policy.— Chicago “Tribune’''
staff correspondent.
* * * *
Earl Browder, expelled leader of the American
Communist party, was “called” to Moscow by
Stalin. It Was a call intended to secure a true
political picture of the United States and
what the future portends. Regardless of the
embarrassment caused to the U.S. Communist
party, which has excoriated Browder, Stalin
issued his order for a command appearance
because of the Kansas-born Communist’s 25
years’ experience in revolutionary activities and
party organisation. The rising tide of Ameri-
can sentiment against Communism and the
Soviet Union is keenly worrying Stalin. Aside
from Browder’s potential usefulness to Stalin
in orienting him on the prospects of Sovietising
the United States, the deposed Communist
chieftain is depicted as possessing other infor-
mation which should be of great value to the
U.S.S.R. — Washington correspondent, N.Y.
“Journal- American.”
* * * *
The United States has been forcefully pur-
suing trade, oil and aviation policies which
add up to -a large-scale economic penetration
of the Middle East. A number of Americans
have a direct hand in Iranian affairs. One
group, headed by Major-General Clarence S.
Ridley, has been reorganising the German-
trained, Russophobe Iranian Army. Colonel
Norman Schwarzkopf, former head of the
New Jersey State Police, has been organising
the Iranian constabulary. Others, employed
as private citizens, have been advising the
hopelessly incompetent Government on finance,
agriculture, irrigation, public health and oil.
—“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
In the minds of a majority of the Security
Council members the question arises as to
whether there should be some modification on
the methods of the meetings. To put it bluntly,
the question being asked by experienced diplo-
mats is whether the present' procedure does
not constitute too great a temptation to make
speeches. There is the large corps of corre-
spondents, there is the radio, there is every
facility for spreading to the four comers of the
earth what is being said. It is a grand place
to make speeches, those which are made for
propaganda purposes and those made for other
purposes. There have been, by general agree-
ment, too many speeches at meetings which
must get somewhere on the issues at stake.
There is no doubt in the minds of the diplo-
mats that they could get more done, and get
it done faster, if some meetings could be held
without the set-up which appears sometimes
to offer an irresistible temptation to deliver
orations. But, more than that, they could in-
dulge in frankness which some of them con-
sider beneficial. There are all sorts of replies
which occur inevitably to some of the speeches
which have been made, notably on the Iranian
issue. But these replies do not show up in the
public meetings because they would then appear
to be affronts to the nations involved. In
camera, it would be less so. It is all too
apparent that many of the speeches which
have been made have been made for propa-
ganda purposes, without any direct idea that
they would contribute to finding desired solu-
tions.—N.Y. “Times” manager Edwin L. James,
in his weekly column.
«fc sfc
France has had a bad press in the U.S.
Two things have chiefly contributed to this:
(1) The remarks of returning G.ls., (2) the
growth of the Communist party in France.
G.ls. say France is decadent, that morale is
non-existent, that people aren’t working. With
all due respect to the sincerity of their convic-
tions, they don’t know what they are talking
about. With but few exceptions, they saw
nothing of the real France, the country of
thrifty artisans, skilled handicraft workers, in-
dustrious farmers. Of course, the G.ls. saw
Frenchmen not working. It’s hard to work
when you have no raw materials and those you
have are lying in a port because your rail-
roads are mostly hauling troops of another
country. It’s hard to work when your coal
supply won’t produce enough electricity even
for half normal home use and your factories
must close most of the time for lack of power.
But today France is swiftly reviving; as the
people get tools with which to work they are
back on the job. What of the growth of Com-
munism? The Communists polled about a
third of the popular vote in France. They polled
that number simply and solely because that
number of Frenchmen were discouraged and
ready to think any change must be a change
for the better. But given a resurgence of in-
dustry in France that vote will recede. No
people in all the world cling more tenaciously
to the concept of personal freedom than the
French.— Kenneth Collins, general manager
N.Y. “Herald Tribune I'’ 1 '’ European edition.
Britain’s efforts to foster cohesion among
the Arab States are in part a defensive re-
joinder to the Soviet s exploratory attempts to
exploit the smouldering discontents and mino-
rity problems of the still feudal Arab world.
Soviet Information Bureaus are now active in
Syria and Lebanon, and Tass distributes a
weekly news review free of charge to the local
papers. The lately-formed Arab Workers’
Society in Jaffa, Palestine, has obvious Soviet
affiliations; unlike the other Arab parties, it
is notably more anti-British than anti-Zionist.
—“Atlantic Monthly.”
•Jt
Senator Ball has raised the illusory notion
that elimination of the single-nation veto
power in U.N.O. will cure the ills of the in-
ternational world. Senator Ball’s, diagnosis is
accurate enough: “The ideological gulf in
political thinking between the democracies and
.Russia is the greatest and most difficult
obstacle in the path of maintenance of world
peace and justice.” But elimination of the
veto will not close that gulf; it is, in fact,
the existence of the gulf which makes the veto
power absolutely indispensable. A world uni-
versally devoted to the “fundamentals of demo-
cratic political procedure and to the freedom
and dignity of the individual,” as Senator 'Ball
puts it, could dispense with the obstructions of
the veto and confine itself to some form of
basic majority rule. But to a world in which
only a rather small minority—mainly the
United States, Great Britain, north-western
Europe and the English-speaking Dominions —
has really been born and bred to democratic
concepts, the veto is an essential to any effec-
tive international action. This is because the
existence of the veto compels that before any
important action can be taken the chasm be-
tween the democratic and authoritarian sys-
tems must be faced and bridged in a way satis-
factory to the case in question. The hard
business of doing this imposes endless delay
and inefficiency upon the conduct of inter-*
national affairs, but unless it is done the only
result would be an irreparable fracture of inter-
national society. It is, of course, also true
that too frequent use of the veto can result
only in an utter paralysis which would amount
to the same thing.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’’’
* * * *
“The agreement on the level of German in-
dustry,” says London “Economist,” “is without
exaggeration a plan for dislocation and im-
poverishment. It is negative, restrictive and
basically unworkable.” Any plan for the eco-
nomic control of Germany must assure the
Allied nations that it will effectively prevent
rearmament, if if is to prove acceptable. The
British and American views lean increasingly
toward attaining this end by the prohibition
of the manufacture of specified end-products,
rather than drastic restriction of industrial out-
put as a whole, and particularly basic indus-
tries. Only by the adoption of such a policy,
the “Economist” argues, can the Allies “pre-
vent the conversion of Germany into an idle,
starving slum, without at the same time restor-
ing German power to threaten the world.” —
N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”
4: *
An able member of the British Parliament
declares bluntly that the atom bomb has made
the British Isles “completely indefensible in any
third world war” and many agree with him.
Such a limited area may not have either
the depth or dispersal facilities to withstand a
heavy attack by so deadly a weapon. It might
even become necessary to remove many people
from the isles. But the Commonwealth will
not be abandoned. Sacrificial experience in
the war has only strengthened the ties which
bind the peoples of England, Scotland, North-
ern Ireland and the self-governing Dominions
and steeled their determination not only to
perpetuate their union but to build empire-
wide defences and draw dissident elements to
their support. If the British Navy, as in the
past, is no longer able to defend them they
will develop empire airpower and industrial
strength all over the world. A broad plan for
“combined operations” will be worked out
for the armies. Better protection for the water
links must be assured, and all pressure against
them resisted. — N.Y. “Times.”


Metropolitan Life
so
a
n
I
m
I
x
tv<N^
I
V/
///.
I #
R
mgts* *
R
Vs
:s>
i
A
M
m
W'S&M
W*
N
I Tf ■ »-< / >
L -tM
m
h'*
I
*r*
m
w
m
•Xf x
. ■.- ;■ ‘• ■ ■■•
«lbi|
m
mmf* ■
n
gi
I.::-;
■
V 5
SffiSggSfcS S 8& ? fcg
m
i ■
i
m
m
m
m
«r«
#r-
Hi
*
; . - ,;■ w#% i
VT
at
&
All classes of Life Assurance
transacted.
Annual Bonuses—Prompt
Claim Settlements.
THE METROPOLITAN-
TODAY’S PROTECTION,
TOMORROW’S SECURITY
Branch Offices;
VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Hunter Street, Sydney, in the early and
gay nineties! Horses toiling up the
hill . . . hansom cabs with their untold
stories of business—and pleasure . . . the
young man in the boxer hat smiling
roguishly at the young lady with the
muff or the pert little parasol.
It was in this era that the Metropolitan
Life was founded, and in this vicinity was
destined to rebuild its Head Office on
the site where Norwich Chambers stands
in the photograph.
It is a spot hallowed in history, being the
site of the first Church in Australia—the
original ‘‘wattle and daub” Church built
by the Reverend Richard Johnson.
From the small beginnings of fifty years
ago the Metropolitan has attained its
jubilee as one of Australia’s leading
financial institutions proud of its benefits
and service in the national welfare; and
with all confidence entering a future of
continued progress and prosperity.
A
L
TR A
*
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITT)
HUNTER. AND BLIG-H STREETS,SYDNEY.
(Inc. 1895
Queensland.)
DIRECTORS.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH (Chairman). D. F. STEWART. COL. ALFRED SPAIN.
J. A. HENDERSON.
Asst. General Manager and Actuary : General Manager j Secretary :
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A. E. W. ROBINSON. GEORGE LESLIE, F.A.I.S.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3463
Wednesday, June 26, 1946
BEAR WITH A SORE HEAD.


The Bulletin
The NMional Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
„ Directors;
p J - E - Webb
** "• Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
v Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AT THE BOMB CROSSROADS
With his country’s flair for the spec-
tacular, Vice-Admiral William H. P.
Blandy, of the U.S. Navy, chose “Opera-
tions Crossroads” to designate the atom-
bomb tests set down for about July 1 at
Atoll in the Marshalls—“Cross-
roads” because “we might now be at a
very real turning-point in the history of
warfare, perhaps even in the history of
civilisation.”
The King, opening the Royal Society’s
Empire scientific conference in London
last week, is sure to have had that and
the intended subsequent tests in mind, as
will the whole of civilised humanity—at
least in countries where world informa-
tion is allowed uncensored circulation
when “Operations Crossroads” is
launched. In the King’s words, the atom
bomb “has brought home to the world
with terrifying directness the fact that
the increase in man’s knowledge of the
material universe may be fraught with
infinite possibilities fdr good or evil.”
He saw atomic discovery, however, as no
unmitigated evil:
There is good reason, to believe that the
nearness of war to the civilian population
in their home and daily Jives has brought
about an awareness of the power of scien-
tific method, and a realisation that what
helped to win the war will also be of ser?
vice in making the world healthier, happier
and more prosperous.
Certainly that is the “consummation
devoutly to be wished,” though the sapie
could have been said of the aeroplane,
which, more than any other agency,
brought “the nearness of war” to civilian
populations; of radio, which, above all
other agencies, can ensure the regimenta-
tion of whole nations as a herd support-
ing whatever an all-powerful, totalitarian
Government may decide upon; and
of other products of the scientists that
similarly lend themselves to the uses of
both war and peace.
Except where they have been thus suc-
cessfully shut off from the world and
regimented—as Hitler’s Germans were ;
as the Russians are now —the general run
of people have anything but a liking for
war. Unfortunately, as in the past, wars
are not brought about by any will for
war among the general run of people,
especially those in democracies. As far
as such ordinary people were concerned
the last war was something they were
forced into by the aggression of others;
and only imbeciles would pretend that
it could not happen again, or that it is
not even now a serious possibility in the
making.
Even in the last war—which reached
its peak as a warning against wars in the
dropping of the atom bombs —people
everywhere (unless propaganda - regi-
mented Germans and Japs can be ex-
cepted) went in with a shuddering knowl-
edge of what it must mean; actually
expecting worse than did happen, since
there was no resort to gas and bacteria
warfare,-and the unexpected atom bombs
came only in very limited use as the
climax. Thus, though the coming tests
of the bombs will deepen still further the
general fear and horror of war, the ex-
istence of the things will never prevent
war if the rulers of some great nations
determine on aggression and can carry
their people with them. In that event
there must always be defensive action for
survival, and world war will be on.
But even that represents something of
an advance in the progress of civilisa-
tion. The sort of war that could be
lightly entered into by any country,
knowing that it would be fought out by
a mere fraction of the nation and decided
on isolated battlefields, has gone for
ever. Now the whole civilian population
—men, women and children alike—must
all be in it; all of them under the daily
threat of death in its most terrifying
form. In the circumstances nothing less
than the threat of enslavement or de-
struction of the whole race by some war-
mad aggressive foreign Power will make
war possible, and in the standing choice
between war and peace that represents the
greatest advance humanity has made to
date.
Whatever is going shortly to happen at
Bikini Atoll it is not going to alter that
steadying outlook on war. This first and
the intended subsequent tests might even
serve the healthy purpose of spreading
that outlook to potential aggressive
nations. For the time being—very for-
tunately—the atom-bomb secrets are
shared by the United States, Britain and
Canada, with the United States pos-
sessing the means of manufacture
and currently spending a reported
$500,000,000 a year on further research
and in adding to the “stockpile.” On
the best information available, those
countries believe there is little possibility
of any other -country developing the
bombs for war use inside another five
years, despite the efforts of traitors like
Nunn May, in England, “Rose,” in
Canada, and Russia-loyal Communists
everywhere.
The coming tests could serve also to
clinch acceptance of the American-
sponsored plan for atom control; depend-
ing mainly, as the peace of the world to-
day depends, on the real intentions of
Russian policy—since the war’s end, a
policy of undisguised and dangerously
threatening aggression: The control offer
was neatly timed to ensure the first bomb
test having its greatest possible effect in
that respect, and what it fails in that to
accomplish could be brought about by
the second, more drastic, test arranged for
later in July, or the still more drastic
one intended for some time next year. If
such a result could thus be brought about
—acceptance of the plan for renunciation
of the atom bomb as a weapon ; ending
of manufacture and wiping out of exist-
ing stocks ; placing full atomic informa-
tion in the possession of a United Nations
controlling authority with (a very import-
ant with) Towers of international
supervision and inspection a peace-
ful world would have at last been
brought within sight, and the atom bomb
would have served a supreme purpose
for good, after all.
Pending any such certainly proble-
matical outcome, this coming first of the
bomb tests can be depended upon with
much more assurance to serve another
purpose—as a morbid sort of entertain-
ment dished up to produce the maximum
reaction of jitters in a jittery world.
“Bomb Test May Start Huge Undersea
Landslide” (“S. M. . Herald” heading
14/6/’46) can be taken as typical of what
people will be told to await in fear be-
tween now and “Operations Crossroads.”
This rubbish has another kind of typical-
ness —it is typical of the artificial daily
newspaper sensationalism based on the
catchpenny acceptance that the public
dearly loves to be harrowed.
That brand of rubbish has been heartily
debunked by scientists who have not lost
their heads in the startling limelight cast
upon them by their discovery, and the
man in charge of “Operations Cross-
roads” has added his ridiculing assur-
ances to theirs. The bomb, he has
assured the prospective jittery, will not
kill half the fish in the sea and poison
the other half, so that they will kill all the
people who eat fish hereafter. It will
not cause an earthquake or push up new
mountain ranges. It will not cause a
tidal wave, and any landslide will be a
local piece of the atoll. Neither will the
bomb start a chain of reaction in the
water, converting it all to gas and letting
all the ships on all the oceans drop down
to the bottom. And it will not blow out
the bottom of the sea and let all the water
run down the hole.
What the bomb tests most certainly will
do will be to focus upon themselves the
interest of those already well aware of
the bomb’s meaning in war; and the
tests will as certainly have been worth
holding if that awareness is still further
deepened, and further spread.
A Pre-election Sham.
The N.S.W. branch of the “Labor”
organisation can claim to be represented
in the Commonwealth Parliament by its
State’s six Senators and by 20 of the 74
voting members in the House. At its
annual conference, “without hesitation or
qualification,” it rejected “any pact,
agreement or association” with the Com-
munist party.
The St. George chosen to slay or make
passes at the Communist dragon was a
Mr. Ferguson, M.L.C., J.P. Mr. Fergu-
son had to admit that he had himself
been a Communist, and he hadn’t pub-
licly recanted when “Labor” elevated him
to the Leg. Council. Mr, Ferguson repre-
sents the Australian Railways Union,
which 20 years ago imported Communism
into its direction on a large scale. Com-
munists still prevail in the Victorian part
of the A.R.U. outfit.
Supporting Mr. Ferguson is a Mr.
Kenny. Mr. Kenny, like Mr. Ferguson,
has belatedly discovered that Communists
(1) owe allegiance “only to a foreign
Power, which supplies them with un-
limited funds to carry on their policy of
espionage and disruption,” (2) have
brought the workers under “foreign Con-
trol, close to treason,” a reference to the
Communist-led strikes which have con-
vulsed industry and secured a Red domi-
nation of Australian foreign policy as it
concerns the Dutch, and (3) made “filthy
and diabolical statements to split Labor.”
Mr. Kenny’s audience did not listen to
him with full approbation. Though Mr.
Chifley was dumb on the Communist
question when he spoke his piece, a dele-
gate from his electorate, a Mr. Millis,
opposed the resolution to oust the Com-
munists —he called it a “vicious, anti-work-
ing-class recommendation.” And a repre-
sentative of the Public Service, a Mr.
Baker, cried out that this was “the most
calculated piece of Red-baiting ever laid
before the Australian Labor party.”
Mr. Chifley’s dumbness may be
ascribed to a lively sense of the pre-
dominance of Reds and Pinks in the lead-
ing “Labor” organisation in his elector-
ate. Mr. Chifley was present at a meet-
ing of the Macquarie A.L.P. Assembly in
September, 1943, when he and his fellow-
Ministers and fellow-Laborites were com-
manded to “make it clear to Mr.
Churchill that the people of Australia feel
themselves involved in the disgrace that
the British Government has incurred
through its failure.” What failure?
To fulfil the promise) first made in 1942,
since then twice repeated, to take action
that will relieve the intolerable burden borne
by the Russians. We regard this failure as
bringing unnecessary suffering and death
....not only to the Russians but to the
people of all democracies and to all those
in occupied countries who are still heroic-
ally struggling against the Fascists.
Mr. Chifley heard out this home-front
fustian in silence. Then he said “It is
pleasing to see that the Macquarie A.L.P.
Assembly is becoming more representa-
tive.”
After the State A.L.P. conference
debate, it was decided, among other
things, to form an anti-Communist
organisation of workers’ “cells” along
Communist lines. And Eureka Youth,
the Ryde-Gladesville Citizens’ Com-
mittee, the Friends of the Soviet, the
Friendship with Russia League and the
Society of Cultural Relations with the
U.S.S.R. were declared “black.”
Buf no move was made to declare
“black” the host of unions dominated by
Communist officials. The association of
these fellows with Labor Councils and the
A.C.T.U. remains unaffected. Indeed, if
Communists and fellow-travellers choose
to withdraw from the organisations de-
clared “black” or to give them other
labels they will continue to be welcome
in the highest circles of political “Labor.”
The career of the Communist ruffian
Thornton at the darkest part of the war
is illustration enough of the futility of
these pre-election methods of dealing with
Communists. At the time of the events
to be related, Thornton was a leading
official of the Communist party and
general secretary of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association—as he still is.
On 19, 1940, Thornton said at a
conference in Sydney (as reported by
the “S. M. Herald”) that he “hoped the
‘scabs’ of Downing-street would be de-
feated,” adding—no doubt for his own
protection—“as I hope Hitler will be
defeated.” That was a few days after
Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands
had been brutally invaded. Thornton’s
report to his union in June, 1941,
showed the nature of his activities in the
11 months which succeeded Hitler’s felon
blow at the little democracies: the period
in which France fell; in which Britain
—thrown upon its own resources and
cruelly scourged—struggled desperately to
hold North Africa; in which German
raiders roamed the Pacific up to Aus-
tralia’s shores; in which thousands of
Australians suffered wounds, captivity
and death, and in which the foreign
Power to which Thornton proclaims his
devotion repeatedly “demanded” that
Britain, the “imperialist aggressor,”
should stop “starving German women
and children” (Molotov) and make peace
with a victorious Hitler, the Russian
Communist friendship with Nazi Ger-
many having been “cemented in blood”
—the blood of Poles.
From Thornton’s report to his con-
federates and serfs, presented in that
period:
We have seen in the past 12 months the
greatest wave of strikes yet known in the
history of our union.... The main feature
of the recent strikes was that they were
offensive strikes the union secured the
admiration of the workers. We fought
all along against wages being fixed and
workers’ movements restricted by National
Security Regulations.
A list of Ironworkers’ strikes at this
crucial period of the war shows that
almost every one of them was in a war
factory.
Between June, 1940, and March, 1941,
there were strikes at the Brass Co. works,
Melbourne; at the Deer Park (Vic.) ex-
plosives factory; at Commonwealth
Steel, Newcastle (against the introduction
of a seven-day roster); at the
Metal Manufacturers at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.); at B.H.P.’s Whyalla (S.A.)
works (because of “the victimisa-
tion of our branch secretary”); at
Cockatoo Island, Sydney, “in order to
force an increase of 3 s. per week”' —
Cockatoo was then building small naval
vessels; at Sydney Foundries (for “an-
other 6s. a week on existing rates”);
and at Stewarts and Lloyds, Newcastle.
Then, in N. S. Wales, Thornton’s Iron-
workers “imposed an overtime embargo
in opposition to the Federal Budget tax-
ation increases.” There followed strikes
in Adelaide foundries for another 6s. a
week, and three strikes (“in quick suc-
cession,” according to the exultant ruffian
who organised them) at Austral Bronze,
G. E. Crane’s and A.W.A. “as the result
of victimisation of shop delegates.”
Another strike at the Brass Co., Mel-
bourne, was followed by “the fight of
the Victorian members for the 65.-a-week
increase in wages. There were also
strikes at Bright’s Steel, Balmain (Sydney),
and at Wilson’s Transformers and Mc-
Pherson’s, Melbourne.” i
All of a sudden Hitler turned dog on
his Moscow pal. At once Thornton was
heard screaming that “all things pale into
insignificance compared with the major
task of defending the Soviet Union and
defeating the Nazis,” and that the reason
why “Australians were belted in Greece
and Crete, why there were such shocking
losses in North Africa and at Dunkirk” —
while this imported tough was doing his
best to tie up the Australian munitions
industry—was that the British Empire
had not been Sovietised.
Yet after all these outrages Thornton
was accepted by the Commonwealth
“Labor” Government as a member of the
Trade-union Committee appointed early
in 1942 to advise the then Prime Minister
on industrial affairs. Mr. Curtin wrote a
cordial letter to the fellow, and he was
sent abroad as “Australian” representa-
tive to the World Trade-union Conference
(with liberty to charge up expenses to the
taxpayer) and to other conferences. In-
cidentally, though the Communist party
was then illegal, the 1942 Trade-union
Advisory Committee included seven Com-
munists, all of whom were or were about
to become members of the Communist
party’s Central Committee,
In three months or so there will be
Commonwealth elections, and- within 12
months there will be State elections in
N. S. Wales and other parts of the Com-
monwealth. It is obvious that the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. bosses had these con-
tests in mind when they decided on a
breach with their pals of the 1943 elec-
tions and the 1944 constitutional referen-
dum, hoping that the electors would
accept appearances and would not be too
curious as to motives. But in their
anxiety to prop up the fading fortunes
of the Federal “Labor” Government and
party they forgot important things, one
being the necessity for care in their choice
of language.
In the executive recommendations,
which secured overwhelming endorsement
(300 votes to 40), these words appear:
We declare the Communist party to be
a danger to Australian democracy.
We call upon the [A.L.P.] executive to
intensify the campaign against the Com-
munist party by declaring illegal the
Eureka Youth League [and the rest].
Manifestly, the organisation which has
excommunicated these Communist sub-
sidiaries can have no logical objection to
their being outlawed by the Common-
wealth Parliament in which “Labor” is
predominant in both Houses. This organ-
isation has proclaimed the Communist
party “a danger to Australian demo-
cracy,” and since it gives orders to so
many Commonwealth Ministers and
Ms.H.R. it is morally bound to look to
those Ministers and members to protect
the nation against the “danger” by Act
of Parliament and stern administrative
enforcement.
Indeed, if the declaration against the
Communist party and its offshoots is not
all humbug and pre-election birdlime, the
A.L.P. executive will break into Dr.
Evatt’s dream of settling Franco’s hash
and obliging General MacArthur to
arrest the Emperor of Japan and bring
the doctor down to earth.
This A.L.P. executive and conference,
in effect, have dissociated themselves from
the wandering Minister’s “view,” ex-
pressed at Canberra in March, that “the
Soviet Union’s policy is directed towards
self-protection and security against future
attacks.” If the executive is honest it will
draw the wandering Minister’s attention
to the terms in which “the Government”
(meaning himself) “lifted the general pro-
hibition imposed in June, 1940, upon the
Communist party and its press,” and to
the specific undertakings “entered into by
a committee of certain individuals repre-
senting themselves and the Communist
party,” one of which is that they would
“do their utmost to promote harmony in
industry and minimise absenteeism, stop-
pages, strikes or other hold-ups.” It will
remind him that these were his own ex-
pressions, published in a State paper, that
they closed with the words “If the under-
takings given are not observed the Gov-
ernment will reimpose the ban” and that
since the Communist party is “concerned
solely in pursuing the foreign policies
of Soviet Russia,” in the process resort-
ing to “treacherous methods,” reimposi-
tion of the ban has become a solemn and
urgent duty.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Saga of the Sea.
“It was most inappropriate, in view of
existing trouble in Australia with Dutch
commercial ships, that the Piet Hein was
sent here.”—Mr. Chifley in Parliament.
Faintly through the howling of the gale
the young officer heard six bells in the
middle watch. He peered into the black-
ness ahead, noted the spray flying against
the glass and felt the steel ship shudder as
a big comber took her on the starboard
bow. He was reflecting that within an
hour he could leave the bridge and all
the chaos of night and wind and a
strong sea running, when the helmsman
spoke.
“She isn’t answering at all well, sijr.”
“What’s your course?”
“North, two degrees west, sir.”
“H’m.”
At that instant the ship paused,
appeared to rest, then sluggishly drove
through the sea. Eye met eye; then the
young officer had the captain called.
Apprised of the situation, the bluff
skipper issued rapid orders and in two
minutes was listening to the bosun’s
report: “She’s making water for’ard and
on the starb’d, sir. Two pumps out of
action. We can’t hold it, sir.”
“All right, lad. Call the crew to stand
by. Where are we, Mr. Vanderpeel?”
The navigator made a swift calculation.
“It’s Port Jackson or sink, sir.”
With the decision that has marked his
kind in man’s long battle with the seas,
the captain plugged in the ship’s ampli-
fiers and addressed his crew: “Officers
and men, our ship is sinking. We are
Dutchmen and this is a Dutch ship. We
could make Sydney Harbor in an hour,
but to do that would discommode Mr.
Chifley, the Prime Minister of our great
ally Australia. He is having some
trouble with the bosses of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, the Seamen’s Union
and the Ship Painters and Dockers, and
for us to solicit help would annoy them
and embarrass him. Lads, you must
look to yourselves! Be brave! Be
Dutch! I will remain with the ship.
What is my life to me or to my family
or our countrymen compared with Mr.
Chifley’s feelings? Good-bye and good
luck! Prepare to abandon ship! Long
live the Queen! ”
The bosun swam to a bulwark —a real
one, not Dr. Evatt, that “bulwark against
Communism in Australia,” so visioned by
an American peacemaker, a Mr. Dulles —
and spoke up, after expelling a
mouthful of the old Pacific. “No, cap-
tain,” he said, “we’ll all stick to the ship
so long as the ship sticks to us. We’d
rather die a thousand deaths than cause
a moment’s worry to Mr. Chifley.”
In the trough of a giant wave the
vessel overturned. Only mollyhawks heard
the last broken cry of the last drown-
ing seaman giving Mr. Chifley a mariner’s
farewell.
" 'Labor 1 Every Time"!
The Sydney “Labor” Government’s prin-
cipal war-time activity was the setting-up
of a racing club with Treasury backing.
Its principal post-war activity—as ser-
vicemen looking for promised houses and
farms know only too well —has been the
enactment of a measure authorising pen-
sions for politicians (mostly “Labor”)
far in excess of those provided for
maimed servicemen and for widows and
children of dead servicemen like Ser-
geant Brown, V.C., D.C.MI, who when
Singapore was about to fall went towards
the enemy lines laden with grenades and
saying “No surrender for me!”
So it was characteristic of this “Labor”
Government to round off an announce-
ment of 25 p.c. cuts in railway and tram-
way services, with no Sunday trams,
blackouts already frequent and total
darkness threatened, with the intimation
that special trains would be available for
Small Punters and for such Big Punters
and Dashing Bookmakers (if any) whose
flash cars might be but of order, “be-
cause the Sydney Turf Club” —the Gov-
ernment’s war-time improvisation
“arranged a big meeting at Rosehill.”
Special trains for the races and no church
trams! As it happened, the special race
trains didn’t run. The guards, presumably
all family men, refused to man them.
But on the no-work Monday at the
coalmines special trams had been avail-
able for a professional football match at
the Sydney Cricket Ground between a
team of Englishmen and Welshmen and a
N.S.W.-Queensland side. This to oblige
the Rugby League, which is “hun-
dred per cent. Labor.” In the course of
the match, which was brightened by the
efforts of thousands of “sports” to put
the visiting captain off his shot when
kicking for goal, a little difficulty arose.
An Englishman was sent off the field for
punching, an experience which has be-
fallen no Australian addicted to adminis-
tering “stiff-arm jabs”—a charming
League euphemism.
When the Englishman had recovered
somewhat from the effects of the humilia-
tion and the savage hooting which accom-
panied him to the pavilion, he was heard
to say that in 15 years as a footballer he
had played the game so fairly that on no
previous occasion had he been even
cautioned. He protested that all he had
done was to break loose from an oppo-
nent who had bitten him. The opponent
denied the impeachment. Newspaper and
newsreel photographs clearly indicated a
bite, whoever owned the teeth. The
League verdict was, in substance, that
the Englishman had not been bitten, and
anyone who chooses may conclude from
the “inquiry” that if he had been bitten it
must have been an Act of God, like a
previous case in which a forward reeled
out of a “scrum” minus half an ear. In-
cidentally, an R.A.A.F. footballer who
objected to the mutilation of that organ,
and who refused to accept the theory
that it was an Act of God, has since been
denied selection in representative teams,
though popularly reckoned the best for-
ward in the business.
A dreadful report has come from
Queensland, which narrowly escaped the
VETO POWER.
“Sorry, sports, my bullfight is off. The Soviet Union, whose policy is directed
towards self-protection and security, has vetoed it!"
addition of a railway strike to its meat,
coal and waterside strikes, that transport
restrictions necessitated by the Com-
munist-caused coal shortage may affect
the tour of the English-Welsh side.
As Dogberry said “this is intolerable,
and not to be endured.” Dr. Evatt is
patron of the N.S.W. Rugby League, and
the tour is, as it were, his own “pigeon,”
the British Government, hoping to humor
him, having placed an aircraft-carrier
at the service of the tourists. This is
scarcely a matter in which the Lion’s
tail can be twisted again, but something
might possibly be achieved by bringing it
before the Security Council of the United
Nations.
The Murray Valley.
The Murray Valley Development League,
born at Yarrawonga (Vic.) in August,
1944, came strongly into the world and
bawled lustily for attention. It is grow-
ing stronger and bawling more lustily, so
much so that the leaders of the Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide Governments
have suddenly become aware of the fact
that it won’t be quietened, and have
agreed to a general inquiry concerning the
Murray Valley, its present condition and
future possibilities. Whether that will
achieve anything remains to be seen, but
it is certain that the M.V.D.L. will bring
sufficient evidence to convince the States
concerned that the Murray people are no
longer content to sit quietly and take
whatever Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide
chooses to hand out.
All along the Murray, from Kosciusko
to the sea, and for 100 miles on each
side of the river, lies an area that could
carry a prosperous population of
5,000,000 and become the richest belt of
country in Australia. There seems no
end to its possibilities, provided the
watersheds are protected and improved,
the dam capacity of the Hume is in-
creased and the systems of dry and irri-
gated farming are renovated. The Murray
Valley could absorb, without strain, a
million immigrants by 1950 and be
hungry for more. As it is, through
neglect and the' indifference of politicians
with their ears closed to anything but
metropolitan demands, most of the
Murray’s 1100 miles or so is an unin-
habited stretch, with odd clusters of,
people in a few towns and half a dozen,
irrigation settlements, dotted at wide
intervals.
And like that it will remain unless the
league can rally more strength and roar
even more loudly. It has to get its mess-
age into the ears of v the cities, to convince
city people that southern Australia’s future
lies, not along Bourke-street or in Martin-
place, but in the great wide lands flank-
ing the great brown river. The Murray
Valley has a literature. There are as
many poems and books about it as about
any other part of Australia. Hatters and
whalers and steamboat crews of earlier
days created among them legends and
yarns that may yet be regarded as the
beginnings of pur folk-lore. The Murray
Valley has an unsurpassed climate, and
produces fruits and meats and people the
equal of anything in the world. Most im-
portant of all, it offers for young Aus-
tralians with a bit of go in them a grand
chance.
But both the M.V.D.L. and the old
river itself face a tremendous obstacle so
long as their fate is in the hands of city-
minded Governments. The league’s first
duty, which it sees clearly enough itself,
is to force those Governments to recog-
nise the Murray, not as something be-
longing to Victoria or N.S.W. or S.A.
and therefore to be squabbled over, but
as a tremendous Australian asset, the
further neglect of which would be a
crime against the nation.
No Kid Gloves!
The N.S.W, Country party and Graziers
are for making short work of Communist
organisations and publications, having ex-
perienced the full force of Communist
larrikinism. The Liberals propose milder
measures, and they have received the
doubtful compliment of Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” approval.
That newspaper asserts, characteristi-
cally, that “the Communist party has
never suffered from any official ban on
its activities.”
During the war, when it was an illegal
organisation, it developed more rapidly
and widely than ever before.
Mr. Lang knows better, and his “Cen-
tury” put its erratic contemporary right:
When the Curtin Government took office
the Communist party was almost broken.
Its business enterprises had been suppressed
and all its newspapers closed.
“Labor” fears and favors and romantic
accounts of the Russian war, the work
of reporters who never saw Russians in
action, amplified by homekeeping “com-
mentators” and headline artists, contri-
buted vastly to the change. Exploiting
the false romance and the Labor fears
and favors —as the “Century” says, when
newspapers in general were “rationed,”
some out of existence, “Communists were
given licences, not only for suppressed
publications but for additional ones” —
the Communist conspiracy became power-
ful and menacing. Powerful and menacing
it still is, though by sabotaging industry
and transport and by championing colored
murderers in Indonesia against a friendly
white people who have every claim to
consideration from White Australia, it
has become hated even in quarters where
idealistic pictures of the Red Army and
the ruling gang, now revealed as heartless,
faithless and greedy Oriental “narks,”
were accepted as gospel truth.
In the liberal tradition of English-speak-
ing countries, any person is entitled to
entertain individual views on political and
economic questions and to express them
in print or in public places. But if his
opinions are hostile to the existing
economy and system of government, and
if he organises with others to overthrow
them or to make it impossible, by lawless
methods, for them to carry on, he and bis
associates must be opposed with every
resource at the disposal of the threatened
institutions. The very existence of demo-
cracy implies a right and duty to defend
it against internal, as well as foreign,
enemies.
The founders of our Federation had no
illusions on this score. They foresaw that
civil foes might arise and might become
supreme in one or more of the States ;
therefore they provided in Section 114
that “a State shall not, without the con-
sent of the Parliament of the Common-
wealth, raise or maintain any naval dr
military force.” In 1942 it was proposed
by Communists, with the enthusiastic
approval of the “Daily Telegraph,” that
so-called “people’s armies” should be
raised and maintained in N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
The Founding Fathers also laid it down
in Section 119 that “the Commonwealth
shall protect every State,” not only
“against invasion, but, on the application
of the Executive Government of the State,
against domestic violence.” And in Section
44, going beyond anything contained in
the Constitutions of the United States and
Canada, they 7 did everything they could
to protect the people of Australia against
the admission to the national Parliament
of traitors and wreckers:
Any person who (1) is under any acknow-
ledgment of allegiance, obedience or adher-
ence to a foreign Power, or is a subject
or a citizen or entitled to the rights or
privileges of a subject or a citizen of a
foreign Power shall be incapable of
being chosen or of sitting as a Senator or
a member of the House of Representatives.
No occasion has arisen for Section 44
*o be enforced, but it remains for use
against any creature or gang sold to a
foreign Power. This was the case with
the Polish Jew Rosenberg, alias “Rose,”
who has been found guilty on the first
of several charges of betraying Canadian
secrets to Russian agents. A great deal
of mud is thrown at our Constitution by
“Labor” politicians and Communists, and,
united as in 1944, or separated for tactical
reasons, they are to have another shot
at “amending” it. Canadian Consti-
tutionalists, musing on the case of the
Rosenberg ruffian, must admire the
prescience of the men who wrote Sec-,,
tion 44 into Australia’s instrument of
national government.
The "Indispensable 11 Bookie.
A nice little comedy is being played in
S.A., where the Betting Control Board, in
pursuance of legislation passed last year,
has been inquiring as to whether or not
betting shops should be permitted in
places outside the Adelaide area. Taking
as a guide to its decisions the question
“whether licensed betting premises are
reasonably necessary in the public in-
terest” and, holding that “reasonably
necessary” means indispensable, it resolved
to favor betting shops only in those towns
where there is a very large volume of
illegal betting, the betting laws are being
“more or less openly defied and the posi-
tion is beyond police control.”
Such conditions the board found .at
Port Pirie, Quorn and Peterborough, but
not at Balaklava, Jamestown, Kapunda,
Clare or Burra. Whyalla, that lusty
young industrial giant on the western
shore of Spencer Gulf, whose population
jumped from 300 in 1933 to 9000 in
1945, is held to be a “special case.” At
Whyalla:
A large amount of illegal betting is going
on. The betting laws are openly defied, •
and the position is beyond effective police
control. About half the population is
juvenile. The character of the town is
changing. If we register premises there is
a very strong probability that betting will
increase. We shall watch the position.
We refrain from doing something which
may prejudice the development of this town.
By cynics this may be taken to mean that
a betting shop aids the development of
a town. There will now be a rush by
interested parties in places like Murray
Bridge, Mt. Gambier, Port Augusta,
Snowtown, Moonta, Kadina and so forth,
where the Board has yet to hold inquiries,
to prove that in these places there is
“open defiance of the law and a position
beyond police control.” Meantime,
councils in the “lucky” towns will be
rushed for approval of sites and premises
by indispensables.


é
CRAVENA
tkofte ahm/sl
smooth * fash!
Obtainable In 10's & 20’s
m
S7Q7
PREVENT SORE THRO ATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Nothing so ignoble has been heard
from a P.M. at Canberra as Chifley’s
defence” of the indefensible boycott of
the damaged Dutch destroyer and his
threat that he would “have something
very much more to say if those who
claim to represent the Dutch Govern-
ment persist in making statements such as
Were made recently.” “Claim” was a
weak impertinence, since the Government
for whom the Dutch Minister spoke re-
presents nearly nine-tenths of the people ;
the Communists, to whose “Australian”
associates the Chifleys crawl, as no other
Government in any English-speaking
country has ever crawled, have 11 p.c. of
the representation. But Chifley’s pitiful
stuff evoked a smashing speech from
Menzies and a good one from young
Gullett. As usual, great “dailies” were
far more interested in commercial sport
than- in what Menzies had to say, but
“S. M. Herald” found space for a shrewd
thrust at the Franco obsession of “the
man who alone seems to be responsible
for Australia’s foreign policy”—“while he
is poking his nose in the domestic prob-
lems of another country our relations
with an Allied country very close to us
are simply going downstream.”
With the exuberant author of Through
Six Gaols back from his glorious holiday
at the public cost, the “Government” had
the numbers in the Senate on the referen-
dum bills, the debate on which was re-
markable only for the sturdy speech
made by Fraser, the new Senator for
Victoria. But if Dr. Evatt is to frame
the questions and prepare the Yes case,
he will have to drop his brooding concen-
tration on the ways of Franco and Mac-
Arthur, and come home at speed.
At the end of a week during which the
Communist “Tribune” boasted that the
N.S.W. miners were “making production
records”—anything above a bag of coal
per man per shift, five bags a - “working”
week, must be a “record” to Corns —
power, lighting, fuel and transport cuts
had come or were coming in the four prin-
cipal States. Housewives have once more
been reduced to distraction and hundreds
of thousands of long-suffering Australian
workers are facing suspension or dis-
missal. From Brisbane round to Ade-
laide, the cause is the same —strikes, go-
slow and absenteeism on Communist-
controlled coalfields—and the guilt is
shared by Communists with the “ ‘Labor’
Government” in Canberra, which has all
along been too feeble to enforce its own
laws and regulations. It is characteristic
of this palsied mob that while the
materials for this disaster were accumu-
lating the Attorney-General was in the
U.S.A. trying to sool the United Nations
on to Franco.
Whatever else it may say against the
Chifley “Government,” Sydney must ad-
mit that time and again that “Govern-
ment” has put it on its feet. It has walked
to work, to church, to play and home
again more times under Chifley than
under anybody else.
On Thursday the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” celebrated its v 100th anniversary.
Born as the Moreton Bay “Courier,” it
became the Brisbane “Courier” and took
its present name a few years ago. The
office desk calendar makes the date June
24. That Monday issue was expected to
include a Queensland Government procla-
mation of a state of emergency, conse-
quence of strikes of meatworkers, coal-
miners and wharflaborers, though not
a general railway strike —that calamity
was prevented by the resolute action
of the Industrial Court, which had
been asked for an injunction by four dis-
senting railway unions; more power to
.their elbows! The State Government
could appeal to the Commonwealth for
protection against domestic violence, but
presumably it won’t crucify Chifley.
Queensland, suffering a coal shortage
in common with N. S. Wales, Victoria
and S.A., with its own miners and its
wharfies on strike in sympathy with meat
strikers, whose union is deregistered (the
bacon workers who struck at the begin-
ning are mostly back at work), thought it
had reached the limit when all Brisbane
Sunday trains were cancelled. The Han-
lon Government said it would proclaim a
state of emergency and take power to
draft workers, with heavy penalties for
refusal, “if considered necessary.” But
it can’t draft the fellows who have caused
all the trouble, Communist mobs organ-
ised in federated unions, and the Chifleys
won’t.
In the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court on June 19 Judge O’Mara can-
celled the registration of the Arms, Ex-
plosives and Munition Workers’ Federa-
tion on —as he said with an expression of
regret —“a technical point.” His Honor
said he had given careful considera-
tion to the earnest and well-prepared
arguments of the applicants, but he was
not convinced that the Federation (“amal-
gamated” with the Federated Iron-
workers) could be revived in a way which
would enable it to function under the
Arbitration Act. Thus (for the time be-
ing), thousands of loyal workers are
forced back under the Communist domi-
nation of Thornton and his gang, though
there may be a ray of hope for them in
a judicial suggestion that “if it is desired
to revive the Federation under its present
name the appropriate course is to secure
a fresh registration.” Any Government
concerned with the safety of the country
would hasten to help the Arms men to-
wards their objective. The thought that
the armament industry might remain
under Communist direction chills the
blood.
Last week everything was ready on the
mechanical side for the broadcasting of
Canberra debates, but the necessary legis-
lation was lagging. A question of privi-
lege has arisen. It should be qualified.
No privilege should be given to members
who make themselves the instruments of
Communist ruffianism, as did Mountjoy
when he delivered his foul attack on an
old newspaperman whose only son, who
went to New Guinea with a grand Middle
East reputation, fell fighting gloriously
with dead Japs all about him. Without
bringing a particle of evidence, even
when challenged, the lout from Swan
(W.A.) alleged that the mourning father
was interested in an assignation house.
In an able review of “Labor” finance,
Fadden repeated his frequent request for
information as to individual subscriptions
to Commonwealth loans, specifying the
last four, and challenged the “Govern-
ment” to explain why “over 70 p.c. of
expenditure, lumped under the heading
of ‘Defence and War Services,’ is unac-
counted for in detail.” No one took
him on. On the subject he has made his
own Artie carries too many guns for the
tyros on the Ministerial benches.
Cain professed to be delighted with
the Victorian Leg. Council elections.
Actually, they have left his party hope-
lessly outnumbered in the House, as it
was before, W. J. Beckett, Ministers
Fraser and Kennelly and Paul Jones
(once M.H.R. for Indi) having been re-
turned for seats which have been safe for
many years ; Beckett unopposed and the
others with only Independents in the field.
One (1) attempt was made to gain a seat,
Western, and the Labor nominee, Hardy,
was beaten 10 to 4 by the C.P. member,
R. G. Rankin,
A fact missed by the newspapermen
who surround Chifley (“The Circus”) is
that he has become the oldest man who
has ever been P.M. Curtin, who pre-
viously held the distinction, was just on
604- years when he died ; b. Jan. 8, 1885 ;
d. July 5, 1945. Chiiley was born on
September 22, 1885. Of their predeces-
sors, Reid was the nearest to them in
age ; he was born on February 25, 1845,
and had to retire on July 5, 1905. Ages
of the others when they ceased to hold
the office: Barton, Deakin and Cook,
54 ; Fisher, 53 ; Hughes, 58 ; Bruce, 46 ;
Scullin, 56 ; Lyons, 59 ; Page (19 days),
58 ; Menzies, 45; Fadden, 46; Forde
(7 days), 55.
The Queensland People’s party, which
has an alliance with the Liberals, has
offered to support Casey for Brisbane or
Lilley. With all the Opposition groups
behind him, he would be a certainty for
Lilley, which was never Labor before the
forcible-feeble Hadley fluked it in 1943,
and he could very likely win Brisbane,
where old George Lawson is very shaky.
It would be appropriate if the Australian
who has brought off a unique double, as
British Minister of State with a seat in
the War Cabinet and as Governor-
General of Bengal, sitting in the place
immortalised by Warren Hastings, should
re-enter public life by way of Queens-
land. He was born there.
One reason why State Governments
have gone cold on Ward’s £230,000,000
rail-standardisation scheme is that the
war-time boom in railway receipts has
gone and is never likely to return, even
though there should be another war.
Slump is already evident in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, which enjoyed most of
the boom. The three States with small
populations never shared in it. The Wes-
tralian Railway Department reported a
loss of £538,500 for the year to June 30,
1945, and expects a bigger one at the end
of the present month. And it has a vast
reconstruction programme to finance
somehow, being short of even modern
locomotives.
If Attlee comes to Australia, he is
booked to go on to New Zealand, which
also is to have a general election this
year. Reminded tartly of this fact by an
Opposition member, Peter Fraser pro-
tested that there was no connection, and
that he had “repeatedly invited Mr.
Churchill to visit New Zealand,” even
when he thought Churchill would come
as P.M., “last year or early this year.”
If Canberra has “repeatedly” asked for
a Churchill visit it has been unwontedly
silent about it.
N. J. McKenna, the Tasmanian
lawyer-Senator, scored in the Caucus
ballot over seven opponents; Amour,
Armstrong, Arnold (N.S.W.); Aylett
(Tas.); Sheehan (Vic.); Nicholls and
O’Flaherty (S.A.). Perhaps to compensate
for the defeat of the four As, Ashley
(N.S.W.) was named leader of the House,
Tasmania has now two Ministers, like
Queensland and Westralia. S.A. has only
one, Makin, and he is going.
Queensland’s meat strike and “sympa-
thetic” strikes have coincided with a
drought that is being felt from the cane
country to the Downs, On the Burnett,
cream supplies to factories are down 50
p.a on last June’s figures ; the Bundaberg
cane harvest is down 250,000 tons, and
hard frosts hit the hungry sheep in the
south and west. There is almost no
lambing in the sheep country, and the
meat strike means that about £2,000,000
worth of cattle ready for slaughter won’t
be treated and will go back to store, if
not poor, condition. Faced with the
ferocity of Nature and the criminal con-
spiracy of strike bosses the North is not
in a welcoming mood for the gents from
Canberra who will soon be seeking its
approval for the “Labor” cause.
At their convention in Sydney last
week the N.S.W. Liberals plumped,
among other things, for a 25 p.c. reduc-
tion in taxation at once and the setting-
up of a commission to inquire into Com-
munist activities, with power to indict
personages adjudged guilty of treachery
and subversion. The first aim is laudable ;
the second is something like a man facing
a poisonous snake and warning it not to
go too far.
Humorous conclusion (in large, black
type) of a lavish and expensive pamph-
let:—
Australia has no time for drones, no
room for slackers. This young Common-
wealth is big and free, anxious and willing
to welcome you. She has a lot to offer to
active and ambitious men and women who
wish to make a new life in a land of happy
workers.
The delightful thing is published “by
authority and under the direction of the
Australian Minister for Immigration and
Information, Hon. A. A. Calwell, M.P.”
Truman, Fadden and The Bulletin
have been devoted to execration by the
Bendigo Trades Hall Council; the Presi-
dent on the score of “the savage anti-
strike laws he attempted to bring into
operation,” and the ex-Priminister and
the paper for a local crime against Marx-
ism. Condemnation and sentence were
conveyed in a resolution which was typed
on letter-paper with an old German
Jew’s hogwash (“The Workers Have No-
thing to Lose but Their Chains Workers
of the World Unite”) printed at the top:
That this Trades Hall Council strongly
condemns the anti-working [sic] recommen-
dations of Mr. A. Fadden, Country party
leader, and the Sydney “Bulletin.” The
“Bulletin” and Mr. Fadden advocate the
application of the Crimes Act against
Trades Unions and their leaders. Mr.
Fadden’s statements should be a warning
to the workers of the type of New Order
the Opposition had in store for them if
they won the Federal elections. We further
suggest that to achieve peace in industries
the first step would be to suppress those
papers which spread hate and 'prejudice
such as the Sydney “Bulletin.”
So The Bulletin is to be suppressed for
proposing the enforcement of an unre-
pealed Commonwealth law drafted and
steered through the House by the man
who is now Chief Justice of the High
Court. What are these silly fellows
coming to?
About 50,000 Leg. Council electors
failed to vote jn Victoria and the Elec-
toral Department is preparing a special
report on the matter for Chief Secretary
Slater. Voting is compulsory; so the
absentees are liable to prosecution. It
would be better to strike all their
names off the rolls and charge 10s. a nob
for restoration in cases where good cause
cannot be pleaded.
Going to Brazil, and finding Govern-
ment and people “eager” to do what they
could to “relieve the world famine,” ex-
President Hoover was attacked by Com-
munist newspapers, and said bitterly that
he had had that experience everywhere:
. Communists in every country are trying
to break down the provision of food for
hungry people, and thus to produce chaos,
where they can fish in the troubled waters.
They allege that food has been used for
political purposes. The fact is that in
France, Belgium, Italy, Poland, Yugoslavia
and more than a score of other countries
millions of Communists are among those
being saved from starvation. It is time
Moscow established a new party line.
Australia’s old friend and one-time resi-
dent could have added that Moscow,
while cadging hard for White Russia, the
Ukraine and its new province of Yugo-
slavia, sent 500,000 tons of grain to
France for “political purposes,” hoping
thereby to make the Constitutional refer-
endum and the elections safe for the party
headed by the deserter Thorez, It didn’t
come off.
Returning to England after a sojourn
in his native Australia, Alan Moorehead
wrote an article in London “Daily Ex-
press” criticising this Commonwealth for
its failure to appreciate the food position
in Britain and other parts and instancing
cases of food hold-ups on the water-
front. His conclusion;
It is difficult to pin the blame on any
one person or organisation. There are
bottlenecks all along the line, partly caused
by unpredictable acts of God, partly by
the imperfections of man.
There is no difficulty about pinning the
blame. It lies with the Cabinet in Can-
berra and Communist Party headquarters
in Sydney—with the latter because it is
carrying out a Moscow strike programme,
and with the former because, being dead-
scared of Cpmmunists, it isn’t game to
enforce its Own measures.


ANOTHER “STINKEROO.”
“Make it look as if you meant it, boys, or we’ll never get another ‘gate’.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLESINDS"
“Findy”: Memories of “Wee Mac-
gregor” are recalled by the cabled news
that a man in America is deputising for
a hen ostrich which has refused to hatch
its egg. The broody gent, is reported as
saying “I have no offspring, and I feel
this sentimentally. I have nothing better
to do for a month.” Sentimental or other-
wise, I can think of many more useful
things he could be doing with his month
while a prosaic incubator made light work
of the hatching, but I’m interested in
other aspects of the incident. For in-
stance, will the hatcher be entitled to
claim the chick as his own? And will
he be the legal father or the mother? If
the raa ostrich has a belated attack of
mother-love will she be able to claim the
nestling she was unwilling to hatch?
These are points that should be cleared
up before this foster-sitter business starts
to spread, or in a year or so the Federal
Treasurer will find himself faced with a
poser when a claim comes in from some
tender-hearted citizen claiming child en-
dowment on a mixed clutch of white leg-
horns and muscovy ducklings hatched
while convalescing from an attack of
measles.
* * * *
“W.O, Two”: It would be interesting
to learn how many policemen who en-
listed in the Army saw service with the
Provost Corps, My impression is that
the number who did so is not as high as
is generally believed. In my unit we had
a couple of ex-coppers who were always
being asked by the boys why they didn’t
join the jacks. Their invariable retort
was that they enlisted to get away from
police duties and they didn’t fancy being
a Johnhop in khaki.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Filmed for at least the third
time —I recall silent and talkie versions
before the present technicolor opus—
“ The Virginian” is again going the rounds
of the screen-houses. Publicity splurges
proclaim it as “The Most Famous Love
Story of the West,” “The Greatest Wes-
tern of Them All,” “The Western Classic
of All Time” and “The Greatest Western
Romance Ever Written.” All these it
may be, but why in the name of Sam
Goldwyn can’t Hollywood pay a slight
tribute to the man who wrote it by in-
cluding his name in the ads.? Ad-
mittedly Owen Wister’s name mightn’t
mean much to the bobby-soxers of all
ages at whom most films are these days
aimed; but, after all, he did write the
yarn. In this matter of shying off
authors’ names Hollywood gave a classic
example a few years ago. A rather amus-
ing film, set in ancient Athens, pictured
the muddled misadventures of two pairs
of twins. At the end a brief notice was
flashed on the screen admitting that the
film was based on Shakspeare’s “Comedy
of Errors.”
« * * *
“Frank Mauri”: I also remember
“George,” the Korean guard at the 26-
mile on the Burma railway (B. 29/5/’46).
He spoke better English than any other
man of that, guard, and had ideas of his
own. When Thambuzaiat was bombed
in 1943 “George” said “Our officer say
all British, all American ’planes finish.
What I want know is who the hell is
bombing Thambuzaiat?”
* * * *
“Petermac”: An artist friend of mine
has been hard up ever since he swapped
a clerk’s pen for a brush. Arranging an
exhibition of his masterpieces he was pre-
vailed upon by his wife to leave a re-
ceptacle for cash donations in a prominent
place near said works. The exhibi-
tion was fairly well attended, and seeing
him the next day I thought it a good
time to ask the return of a quid I’d lent
him. “Haven’t got a bean,” he said dis-
mally. “But what about your paintings
—didn’t you sell any?” “Not one,” he
groaned. “Well, surely you must have
got a few bob out of the cash tin?” I
queried. He looked sheepish as he re-
plied “Cash tin! They used the darn
thing as an ash-tray! ”
* * * *
“K.McC.”: “WJ.E.” is not altogether
right when he mentions that Johnnie
Sandes’ skit, hailing Pat McCaughan as
a “mountain of moving brawn,” involved
the “Argus” in “its merriest libel action,
which it won” (B. 12 /6 / ’46). As the
only living grandson of that “colorful
character of Falstaffian proportions” who
“Reporting fire in the magazine, sir!”
was everything from a shellback to a
civil engineer, and who hired his own
special trains to chase and belt a poli-
tician, I hope the old boy sleeps sound at
“W.J.E.’s” reference to him going to a
fancy dress ball as one of Shakspeare’s
lovers. He went —it was a Government
House ball in 1898 —in a tight-fitting blue
uniform as Lafayette, the French general.
Sandes alluded to him as “the grandest
figure of all that went to the fancy-dress
ball,” But the lines my grandfather took
exception to began “Were you as tight as
you looked that night, come tell me, Pat
McCaughan?” In the libel action, which
kept Melbourne amused for days, the
“Argus” defence was that the poet was
only referring to his clothes being tight.
Grandpa was awarded a farthing dam-
ages, without costs, which were heavy.
But that didn’t worry him, for he cele-
brated his win by shouting a dinner to
all witnesses and counsel concerned.
“T.F ”: It was not as a Shakspearean
lover that Pat McCaughan went to that
ball (B. 12 /6 / ’46), but I recall the verse
that gave “WJ.E.” that impression:
All the girls went wild
When Romeo smiled
In his beautiful pants of fawn;
But he never could get ,
Like Lafayette
As rendered by Pat McCaughan.
John Sandes infused spice and variety
into the drab journalism of his day;
pathos, too —I remember his fine veises
on the death of the comedy pet Violet
Varley.
“X.S.”: A Melbourne tobacconist has
taken a leaf out of the motor garageman’s
book. Hanging at the side of his counter,
under a notice “Cigarette Papers Free,”
is a roll of flimsy paper from which cus-
tomers are invited to cut all the weed
wrappings they stand in need of.
* * * *
“Melbn”': By the sale to the National
Bank in Melbourne of Miller’s Corner,
on the nor’-west cape of Swanston and
Bourke''Streets, a link is snapped with
old-time Melbourne. Facing Poverty
Point, on the opposing corner, it was a
place where overflow meetings of barn-
stormers discussed their conditions. It
is part of an allotment sold at Mel-
bourne’s first land sale in 1837 for £4O;
the bank gave £165,000 for Miller’s
Corner, it being in one of the richest
blocks in the Yarra city. The other end
is to have the new G.P.O. erected on it
at a cost of £2,000,000.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I have encountered
several “religious dogs”—a local designa-
tion for animals that follow their owners
to church —but Peter, a canine resident
of Concord (N.S.W.), earns the title in his
own right. On Sunday nights he watches
the family board the car, farewells them
at the gate, then streaks away on his own,
cutting corners and taking shortcuts in
a route that brings him to the church
first. When the family arrives his large
body is draped comfortably in the aisle
and his eyes are deep in meditation. Re-
cently, however, he was deceived by the
unwonted use of the car on a Tuesday
night. A meeting was being held in the
church building when he arrived, so he
walked in as usual, his presence causing
no more comment than that his master
and mistress must be coming. Possibly
the unusual proceeding bored him, for
he fell asleep and was locked in. In the
morning, when pitiful howls were
heard and the doors opened, it was found
that the terrified creature had chewed
inches deep into the wood in his frantic
endeavors to escape. Claustrophobia is
a very real factor in the canine make-up.
* H? * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Yes, the theatre is
full of tricks of the trade. Take this
stage direction from an old script of
“East Lynne”: “Enter Sir Francis Levi-
son at French window, centre left. Paus-
ing outside, he lights a cigarette. He re-
gards Lady Isabel cynically. Throwing
away his cigarette, Levison comes down
stage.” The “he lights a cigarette” re-
vealed to the audience that here was the
scoundrel of the piece; the cigarette was
the vice of the villainous; the honest,
manly hero and all the decent male
characters smoked pipes. Audiences were
largely unsophisticated, and they liked
their theme made plain for them. The
cigarette served this purpose long after it
had achieved- respectability off the stage.
* * * ♦
“Spasebo”; I see that Soviet scientists
have a five-year plan for a sporting revo-
lution aimed at producing Russian
athletes who will break all world
records. The programme calls for the
working out of scientific principles for
the study of physical culture and the
nature of locomotory habits, training and
teaching of the principles of sports or-
ganisation. It is claimed that eminent
members of the Soviet Academy of Labor
have already produced learned treatises
on “the role of peripheric vision during
the javelin throw and in the discus throw”
and delved profoundly into th'e physio-
logical mechanics of swimming, jumping
and other activities which a shark or a
flea can do better than any human being.
Russian Communists are very serious, if
not solemn, persons, and no doubt they
will achieve miracles of organisation.
Then some perfectly obscure and unscien-
tific individual will come along from
Finland or Norway and walk over the
Soviet’s synthetic athletes.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: This city modestly sug-
gests that its new fire-alarm system is
the world’s best to date. Anyway, Britain,
U.S.A., and the other Australian cities
are already inquiring about it. Break a
bit of thin glass at any one of 60 alarms
about the city, press a button, and you’re
talking to the brigade headquarters ; and
while the bells go for a quick start you
can talk to the control-room and tell
exactly where and why the brigade is
needed.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”; After hearing the
broadcast description of the Louis-Conn
dance, I was inclined to agree with one
announcer’s verdict that Conn “could
run, but couldn’t hide.” Seeking a more
detailed analysis, however, I turned to
Sydney “Sun,” the front page of which
informed me how the show concluded:
... .Louis attacked and hurt Conn with stiff
lefts to the head. He went in again and in
a cool burst he nailed the challenger with
a right uppercut and left hook that put
him on his back.
I turned to the back page of the same
newspaper:
Louis fired a hard left that staggered
Billy and followed it by a hard left and
right that stretched Billy full on his back
on the floor.
Slightly bewildered, I sought the truth
from the “Mirror.” The front page of
that sheet stated that:
Louis shot a nice right to the head. As
Conn collapsed Louis uppercut him with a
right and then, as Conn went backwards,
clipped him on the chin with a beautiful
left —a left that left nothing to doubt.
Wary by this time, I looked for con-
firmation on another “Mirror” page —5:
In the eighth round, after a series of
terrific rights to the jaw and lefts 19 the
body, Louis knocked out Conn with a
powerful right to the jaw.
About three inches down the same
column, the situation wab clarified:
He [Louis] got the challenger in posi-
tion, and, with a left to the jaw followed
by a right to the face, sent Conn down
to the canvas for the final count.
So the end of the “fight” seems about as
clear as the war situation in China.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: The strip has gained
in importance (B. 12/6/’46). Alec
Gurney, who started on The Bulletin,
flew Bluey and Curley to London for the
Victory celebrations, his productions be-
ing shot back to the Melbourne “Herald”
chain of papers by Beam Wireless. The
cost doesn’t matter, daily journalism hav-
ing reached the point of prestige and
arrogance where its alleged service to the
people has precedence over even the feel-
ings of distinguished virtuosi. While Todd
Duncan, the negro baritone, was singing
at his second concert at Melbourne Town
Hall, a photographer shot up under his
nose and fired off his flashlight into the
face of the singer. The baritone con-
tinued, apparently unshaken, and the
young man shot up again and fired off
another. At the third attempt the negro
raised an imploring hand while he kept
on singing, but this did not deter the
hero, who discharged a third shot. Then
he calmly made off to his paper.
* * * *
“Fitz”: As one who has often had the
pleasure of cashing a Bulletin cheque, 1
wish to enter an emphatic protest against
the proposal to standardise cheque forms
and call upon the “Wild Cat” editor to
rake the proposers of the scheme fore
and aft with all the invective at his com-
mand. No contributor worth his salt
would want to see the present Bulletin
cheque exchanged for the formal
document which the banks are anxious
to introduce. Half the joy of getting a
cheque from “The Bushman’s Bible” has
been Hop’s delightful picture on the right-
hand side of Micawber pointing with a
walking-stick to a gentleman hplding an
1.0. U. and exclaiming “Thank Heaven!
that's paid.” Many a* Bulletin con-
tributor has asked for his cheque back —
after it has been cashed and cancelled —
so that he might have it framed.
* * * *
“Stone”: When it comes to posers for
book collectors (B. 12/ 6/ ’46) A. G.
Stephens wins easily with a Bulletin
issue of Fair Girls and Gray Horses,
by Will Ogilvie. The first edition is dated
1898, the fourth edition 1901. Then in
1905 we get “Second edition, 10th
thousand,” An enlarged edition ap-
peared in 1899, and would appear to be
the genuine second. In the case
of Mary Hannay Foott’s book it may
have helped sales to pretend that the first
edition was the second. But this reason-
ing will not explain A. G. S. and Ogilvie’s
book.
THE WATERFRONT.
Who are the bosses before whom bur Canberra
heads must bow,
For fear that otherwise they’ll face a most
unholy row?
Who are the chaps who call the tune and pull
the strings to which
Chifley and Co. must dance —or risk being
landed in the ditch?
Well, there are quite a lot of them, you’ll
probably agree,
Determined to impose their will upon the
powers that be,
But none more domineering and imperiously
blunt
In all these pressure gangs than those upon the
waterfront.
The miners and the slaughtermen "can take dis-
turbing stands,
We’ve cause to know, when bent upon forcing
their “demands,”
And those in other industries, particularly steel,
Keep frequent darts to plant in what Forde
terms “Achilles’ heel.”
But Chifley has a tender heart —or should the
word be hide?
Whate’er it costs, “he will not have the workers
crucified”;
To find excuses for them he’ll diligently hunt,
In abject terror of a blaze upon the waterfront.
Who are the figures, dimly seen, who really
run the State
And periodically crack the whip to indicate
That those who are supposed to rule the roost
will only hold
Their jobs by heeding what they’re bid and
doing as they’re told?
Who, scornful of all public needs, assert their
right to strike
And flout the arbitration courts as often as
they like?
Well, you may find them anywhere, dug-in and
hard to shunt,
But nowhere more abundantly than on the
waterfront.
Who frames our foreign policy? Not Canberra,
it’s clear,
Not even Doctor Evatt, tearing round the
hemisphere.
Who makes a neighbor nation, and a firm and
fast ally,
A target for malignant spite and wanton
injury?
Who is it going callously the way to get us
viewed
Askance for inhumanity and base ingratitude?
No need to ask. But one and all will have to
bear the brunt
For orders that our “Government” takes from
the waterfront.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: They were blocking the aisle
in the chain store, and as I pushed past
them the fat woman peered intently into
the face of the scrawny one and asked
“Was yer ’usband on the tank w’en 'e
give it to yer?” The scrawny one had a
beautiful shanty hung on each eye. “No,
he wasn't,” she retorted. “He done it in
his sleep. Y’ know, he’s that wrapped up
in fights, always goin’ t’ the stadium,
and he got reel excited all the week
readin’ about that Joe Conn an’ Billy
Louis. Well, the day o’ the fight he
listens-in to the radio an’ when he comes
home he torks nothin’ else all night. He
goes to bed and dreams he’s got a ring-
side seat, an’ I wake up with him lam-
min’ in to me an’ yellin’ somethin’ about
a hook uppercut. Now look at me. An’
just after I’d had a perm, too!” The
fat woman’s expression indicated the same
degree of credulity as is usually accorded
explanations involving woodchopping
and walking into shut doors.
y * * *
“Spokeshave”; Lud Mayor Connelly,
of Melbourne, has been solemnly admon-
ished by the “Argus” for wanting an
annual carnival on the European pattern
on the ground that such traditional festi-
vals have never been manufactured syn-
thetically, but had their starting-point in
some event of social, historical or
religious importance. True enough. The
Dionysian revels of ancient Greece were
allegedly inaugurated by Bacchus, the
first viticulturist, and the feasts in his
honor developed into orgies in which
women devotees, called Maenads or Bac-
chantes, sometimes tore men to pieces by
the simple process of bending down two
fir trees and tying a leg of the pros-
pective victim to each tree and then re-
leasing them. With modern alterations,
they are still maintained in parts of
Europe. There are also Battles of
Flowers annually along the Riviera. I
have seen several, and they are just as
silly as the Victory Day celebrations in
“It's not fair! You get all the ones with holes in them."
Melbourne. But why not try to establish
an annual festival of art, drama and
music?
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: The verdict of
the Judge who considered We Were the
Rats, that it was a fine work of art
and at the same time filthy, obscene and
pornographic, may be in strict accordance
with the law, but if so the law has as
long ears as ever. As the edition was
almost sold out before action was taken,
there must be at least 15,000 copies in
circulation. The publicity given to it
means that three or four times that
number of people, stimulated by the
prosecution, will want to borrow and
read it. When Ulysses was banned by
the Australian Customs there were only
two or three copies, to my knowledge, in
Melbourne, but after a few months every
second person I met seemed to have read
it. A similar thing happened with Lady
Chatterley’s Lover. A friend whom I had
never suspected of intellectual interests
told me later that he couldn’t find any-
thing objectionable in that book. He had
got hold of an expurgated edition in
which the alleged obscene passages had
been excised and asterisks substituted, the
effect being definitely pornographic. If no
official notice had been taken of The Rats
nine-tenths of the people who are reading
Glassop’s novel at the present moment
may never have heard of it.
* * * *
“Eve”: The sign near the driver’s cabin
in the bus said the usual “Don’t Speak
to the Driver.” The sweet young thing
got into the bus, looked at the sign, and
said huffily to her friend, “ Speak to him?
Why, I don’t even like the look of him! ”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: In citing the aero-
drome as the scene of the immolation
of those blasted, Milne Bay cows, “Five By
Two” (B. 5/6/’46) is a lot more astray
than were the zebus. Their self-demoli-
tion took place over three miles from the
’drome when they wandered on to some
land-mines. I remember the circumstances
poignantly, for the explosion created
a panic impression that the Nips had in-
filtrated in devastating numbers. This
misapprehension resulted in the initiation
of a scorched-earth policy at the expense
of the bulk canteen, which was blown
sky high. With it went the first consign-
ment of beer to arrive at the Bay.
* * * *
“E.G.”: Impostor heroes don’t always
overdo it as “Bethune” (B. 12/6/’46) sug-
gests. One youngster, an R.A.A.F. cook’s
offsider, when on leave used to wear
wings and the stripes of a sergeant. His
downfall came when he was asked by an
S.P. sergeant for his leave pass. He would
have been free of such embarrassment
in the habiliments of a senior officer,
though he looked less like one than
a swagman, and, of course, it was
easier to hang three stripes on his air-
man’s uniform than to get officer’s dress.
Some, however, got away with it,
and the higher, the rank assumed the
less chance there was of detection. It
needed real effrontery to ask a group-
captain for his credentials even if he did
show signs of being phoney.
“Trackline S.”: “Harap” (B. 29/5/’46)
reminds me of a shipmate who had a
grand scheme for financing his drinking
bouts while passing through the Suez. As
drums of paint were used, the thick skins
from the top were preserved, and the
empties filled with sand. Above this went
the skins, lids were neatly replaced, and
the drums kept ready for brisk trade in
the Canal. The frequent inebriations of
the trader eventually cost him his job. All
went well until the new bosun opened
up the remainder for the usual homeward
bound painting. When the ship got home,
grimy and unpainted, the superintendent
had to hark back to his sailing-ship days
to find adjectives expressive of his opinion
of bosuns in general, and of one in par-
ticular.
* * * *
“L, de R.”; Actors’ Equity has
ordained that principals in imported pro-
ductions, except in grand opera, must
be 75 per cent, home-grown. I
have often felt when watching a much-
boomed star from the Hippodrome or
Broadway that some obscure amateur
actor round the corner could do the job
better. Still, I agree with Oscar Ham-
merstein 11, who, while expressing sym-
pathy with Equity’s zeal for local talent
(he didn’t refer to its zeal for union dues
and levies and arbitrary power), sug-
gests that the rule should be applied
with “reasonable flexibility” since it would
cut out altogether some admirable pro-
ductions It isn’t likely, for instance, that
the Stratford Memorial Shakspearean
Company would want to come to Aus-
tralia in the emasculated condition that
“Wed get through them quicker if We simply said ‘All those in favor
say aye!"
would satisfy Comrade Alexander. An
extreme example is Hammerstein’s own
light opera “Carmen Jones” —it has 130
negroes in the cast.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Talk of front-line censor-
ship in the late war (B. 12/6/’46) reminds
me of a piquant incident on the home
front in the war against the Central
Powers. Military censors were located
in the cable-station building. One after-
noon the chief censor, a retired colonel,
rushed into the cable office looking as if
he had seen a ghost. A very high official
from Melbourne had called for the
most secret of all secret files, and it was
missing. Last unofficial person to be
seen in the chief censor’s office was the
cleaner, a tall, muscular lady with the
map of Ireland printed all over her
face. Dragged out of her suburban soli-
tude, she walked into the chief censor’s
office, strode to a window, threw it up,
and there was the missing file lying on
the window-sill where she had laid it
while she was dusting that morning, and
where it could have easily been reached
by any passing pedestrian. Sweeping out
of the room in a cyclone of acid com-
ment on censors in general, she left the
C.C. to “explain” things to his boss.
« * « *
“S.E. and O.”: I have every sympathy
with the lady (B. 15/5/’46) who, on being
confronted with a china cat, complained
that it gave her asthma. My grandmother,
hating all cats, declared to her sceptical
family that they gave her asthma, and she
invariably knew if puss had managed to
secrete herself in the same room. Though
I love cats I dare not touch them on
account of hayfever; but dust is my
especial bugbear, and an attack is brought
on by merely seeing dust blowing around
—even in a picture show. As I write
my nose is tickling at the thought, and I
once had an attack from sitting next to
a lady in a fur coat. Imagination? Well,
I once met a young woman who had such
an aversion to snakes that she burst into
tears and had to leave the room when a
stranger described how he caught and
dispatched a brother of Joe Blake.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: After Clugchuck, Gabbler
and I had had our usual Saturday stand-up
at the pub Clugchuck suggested that we
meander along to his flat for a feed.
Clugchuck had no sooner set the table
and tossed some frankfurts into a sauce-
pan when Mrs. Clugchuck, an unpleasant
creature at the best of times, entered and
ordered Gabbler and me off the premises.
We departed, with the lady’s abuse ring-
ing in our ears, and made tracks for a
nearby bar. When the cry “Time, gents.
Six o’clock” rent the air poor Gabbler ex-
claimed “My Sunday dinner! I’ve left
my duck at Clugchuck’s.” “Go and get
it,” I suggested. “No,” said Gabbler.
“I’m not facing that woman again.”
Gallantly, I offered to rescue the duck
and made my way back to the flat. “Come
in,” said Mrs. Clugchuck, strangely sweet-
tempered, “we’re just going to have dinner
—a poultry dinner.” Well —I hadn’t
eaten since breakfast, and I do like duck,
especially if there’s plenty of good season-
ing.
“Plum”: Having intentionally left a
dry-cleaner’s tag stapled to the hem of
m y CO at one morning, lam able to re-
fute the charge that city folk are churlish
and unheeding. In the train an acquaint-
ance tugged my arm. “You’ve got a
cleaner’s tag at the back of your coat,”
he beamed. “I know,” I told him coldly,
and watched the benevolent radiance in
his face turn to puzzlement. The recep-
tionist at the office told me about it, a
woman telephoning in a ham-and-beef
shop interrupted her conversation to do
likewise, a customer called out the same
intelligence from the other side of the
shop and finally, as I leaned on the
counter waiting my turn, the ham-and-
beefer hailed me urgently. “I say, he
began. “I know,” I interrupted him.
“There’s a cleaner’s tag at the back of
my coat.” “Dunno about that,” he
grinned, “but there soon will be. That
paint’s wet.”
* * * *
“NX65381”: It happened during a lec-
ture at an Army school for quarter-
masters. The lecturer, a warrant-officer,
was eX pi a i n l ng the correct procedure for
the d j sposa i G f unserviceable stores. Com-
menting U p on broken crockery belonging
to a sergeant’s mess, he told the class that
tße dinkum drill was for a Board of Sur-
vey condemn the crockery and order
j ts burial. The crockery must be buried
j n t b e presence of the members of the
board, who would then issue a “certifi-
cate destruction” to enable replace-
ments being obtained. “Instances have
occurred, gentlemen,” remarked the
w.CX, “of unscrupulous quartermasters
wa jti n g until the board has left the camp
and t b e n digging up the broken crockery,
At a later date such articles can be pro-
duced as evidence of further unservice-
abie stores. Of course, gentlemen, Ido
not SU gg es t that any of you would stoop
to such dishonesty. I merely pass the
information on as an example of what
i engt hs some Q.Ms. will go to.”
**. * *
» LaQ dah „.
Sq Sarawak ' has become a Crown colony .
g e f ore the war the charming country was the
so ie remaining instance of half a million
Dyaks, Chinese, Malays, Muruts, Bisayas and
goodness knows what else being the responsi-
g of an individua i. T he first white rajah
was a British ex-official who had inherited a
fortune and who, while on a visit to the region,
had happened to notice the beauty of the place
and the fact that lts politics were completely
tang]ed Brunei Malays, little better than
pi rates> were tyrannising over the native popu-
lation and slaughtering them wholesale. Brooke
aided a native chieftain in putting down a re-
bem and the impofent and opium-sodden
g u j tan 0 f Brunei gave him the kingdom, over
wb j cb he ruled as rajah. He established law
and order by personally leading one tribe of
Sf h ““£| S? k ft,T*M ££
one end 0 £ tbe courdr y to the other and keep
its head on its shoulders. Brooke the First
named his nephew as his successor, and Brooke
the Second was an individual much like his
unc j e _ jj e i ed Sarawak along peaceful and
pro ductive paths against the opposition of
Singapore traders and British and American
entrepreneurs who would have dearly loved to
exp i o Yt its potentialities. He would walk alone
across his country and pop up unexpectedly
a t some remote station, engage the district
o°ae n«i™ cu"
toms and adat If the d 0 fai i ed j n this un-
conventional test he was supplanted—Brtpoke
had no time for civil-service examinations.
Brooke the Third may or may not be of the
same ca i ibre as b is predecessors, but when I
bved j n those parts he was much disliked by
European business for his resolute defermina-
tion not to allow his State to go the way of
most Asiatic countries and be swept into the
stream Q f international finance and economics.
jjis State was without a public debt when he
was driven out by the Japs, and he himself
had no property there whatever. Sarawak was
e £ ceptionally gifted men whom the
Brookes had selected, and it was probably the
best example of personal government in the
world. Now that committee rule is the
fashion from Russia to Australia, and from
< - ;b j na to Ar g en tina, personal government is
van i s hi n g, and it seems a pity that Sarawak
wasn’t kept as, at least, a museum example.
CORROBOREE.
“At a native corroboree in N.Q. held beneath the
full moon in honor of the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester, the performers chanted legendary tribal
songs the meaning of which none of them could
explain.’’
Streaked with quaint hues they pirouetted pant-
ing
With all the ceremony that belongs
To such shivoos, fanatically chanting
What passed with them for songs.
They carolled with gyrations weird and many,
These sable substitutes for fauns and elves,
Staves the significance of which (if any)
They didn’t know themselves.
Their royal audience, it’s safe to guess,
Following Shakspeare’s Theseus, would admit
That “nothing comes amiss when simpleness
And duty tender if.”
These artless abos. with their age-old antics
Labored their hardest to concoct a dish
Fit for a prince, with cryptic corybantics
And tribal gibberish.
Their eldritch numbers, charged with glad
emotion
And welcome wild, up to the welkin went,
Though nobody had got the faintest notion
Of what those numbers meant.
Yet, just because it baffled comprehension,
There’s nothing to suggest that it was worse
Than quite a lot which modernist convention
Bids us regard as verse.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


that speaks
for itself!
<>
SNAP you’ll hear that
SNAP every time you break
a • block of Small’s Club
Chocolate.
SNAP —what does it mean?
It means the same thing to
you as it means to the expert
chocolate maker. The ex-
pert listens when he breaks
a block of chocolate. If he
HEARS it snap he knows
it’s good chocolate. The
louder the snap the better
the chocolate.
SNAP ! Small’s Club
Chocolate breaks with a
good loud snap every time.
It’s the not-so-sweet choco-
late that we made especially
for men. That’s why we
called it Club Chocolate.
But now we find that wives,
sweethearts and daughters
go for Small’s Club Choco-
late just as much as men do.
Ask for
Small’s Club Chocolate
in the famous
black and white wrapper
SMALL’S MAKE
GREAT
CHOCOLATE
m
\V£
i
%
%
%
When your pleasure
is again top priority
yjtipiC TYRES
will be right in the picture
But, in the meantime, ensure
extra mileage from your present
tyres with careful driving and
road courtesy.
KEEP ON BUYING SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND STAMPS
OLYMPIC
WIRES
. A PRODUCT IF
THE OLYMPIC TYRE
& RUBBER CO. LTD.
AND
CABLES
FOUNDERS OF THE ROBBER INSULATED
CABLE IN DO S TRY IH AOSTRALIA
THE SERVICE MAN
Australia Was Wide Open.
“Ek Dum”; Mr. Chifley’s “revelation”
of what took place at the Empire Defence
Conference adds nothing to general know-
ledge of plans. Briefly what has happened
is that Mr. Chifley has been told that
Australia must begin to pull its weight,
to put its war industry on a permanent
footing ; that it must never again have to
resort to the abject begging for defence of
which this “Government” was guilty when
the Japanese declared war.
Meanwhile, Dr. Evatt is discussing with
Pi esident Truman what he is prepared to
do with his bases.
The Australian people, unfortunately,
have never realised what the actual posi-
tion of Australian defence was early in
1942 —how inadequate and how perilous.
In Britain, the people have long ago
been taken into the confidence of the
Government as to the actuality of its
defence effort. Figures have been pub-
lished in full and officially analysed.
No such figures have been published in
“Revv'er up a bit, Bill — l'm anxious to see what's on it."
Australia. They would show that the
claims of Mr. Ward and his friends about
the Brisbane Line were so much brazen
lying, and would send a cold shiver down
the spines of every man and woman with
a sense of danger.
Here was roughly the position of the
threat to Australia and of the “defence”
which had been organised against it on
March 1, 1942, when the Government
was hourly expecting invasion.
The Japanese had control of the New
Guinea mandated area and of everything
around it, both in sea and air. They had
control of sea and air north of Darwin.
They had available to attack Moresby
two or three carriers with from 90 to 120
medium aircraft. They had within strik-
ing distance equipment, men and artillery
to land at Moresby a fully-equipped-and-
serviced division.
To ward off the menace there would
have been needed a heavy cruiser squad-
ron backed by two or three aircraft-
carriers, a destroyer division or so, and a
division of men on land fully equipped
and able to stand on its own feet, with
adequate reinforcements within reach and
transport to carry them. Also strong ack-
ack and airborne defence.
What actually was available in naval
defence was whatever the combined Allied
squadron in the southern Pacific could
have spared, and that wasn’t a tithe of
what was necessary.
The military forces consisted of one
brigade group—a third nominally of the
available Jap strength but, in terms of
equipment and training, nothing like that
in ratio of strength. It had two whole
coastal six-inch guns and round about a
dozen ack-ack guns.
The air force consisted of six Catalinas,
seven Hudsons and 12 Wirraways.
Darwin’s “Might”
On the Darwin approaches, the enemy
had at least three and probably four air-
craft-carriers, capable of bringing 200
machines up to Australian shores. He
also had a strong heavy-bomber force
capable of operating from land bases
against Darwin, as he had proved all too
effectively on February 19. He had facili-
ties for landing a division immediately
and providing it with communications.
He had heavy and light cruisers and
destroyer flotillas.
Australia’s naval defence in the area
was non-est. On land there was two thirds
of a division—nominally—some of it
about a quarter-trained and by European
standards about 40 per cent, equipped.
There were a half-dozen or so guns and
perhaps 20 ack-ack guns all told,
The R.A.A.F. equipment looked like
something out of the War Museum,
There was not a modern machine among
it and those which were available were
weary with work, the crews worn out in
many cases and inexperienced. There
were two squadrons of Hudsons, which
badly needed reconditioning—on a nor-
mal front they would not have been in
the air. There was a squadron of Wirra-
ways, in about equal dilapidated condi-
tion. There were two squadrons of U.S.
A24s, also in none too good condition
because of over-use,
This was the air defence of the North
Coast of which Mr. Ward and his col-
leagues were so proud. At least a division
of land forces with all ancillaries was
needed on the spot, along with a heavy
naval squadron, about nine squadrons of
aircraft, including three or four up to the
fighter standard of Zeros, heavy bombers,
flying-boats, torpedo bombers, etc.
On the East
The East Coast defences, including
New Caledonia, were covered navally
only by the Allied squadron somewhere
on the sea, which had to range three or
four thousand miles afield. The land
forces consisted of nine so-called divi-
sions, most of which had never seen a shot
fired, and 25 garrison battalions, mostly
middle-aged and elderly men, experienced
in the 1914-18 kind of fighting but
poorly armed. Thousands of men at arms
had not handled a rifle off a range. They
were 90 per cent, untrained in jungle
warfare or in almost anything else. In
any case, there were scarcely enough effec-
tive arms among them to fill a bucket in
a first-class battle. They were short of
everything, particularly artillery and air-
craft cover. And they were virtually
without tanks or anything within miles
of adequate motorised transport—even if
there had been military roads in the right
places for defence.
The air defence of the whole of the east
coast of Australia, plus New Caledonia,
consisted of two Hudson squadrons—
neither fully equipped, one being a train-
ing squadron ; four Wirraway squadrons ;
an operational training Beaufort squad-
ron, not in fighting trim ; a fleet co-opera-
tion squadron which looked as. if its last
service had been with the Ark, and five
whole ship-borne aircraft of the Walrus
vintage. Many more would have been
superfluous since aerodromes were
limited.
It would have needed at least a dozen
fighter squadrons, and 17 to 20 other
squadrons, including heavies and long-
distance reconnaissance machines, to put
up anything like a show in the East, plus
11 to 15 effective and fully-equipped divi-
sions, with adequate coast and other
artillery to carry on against the power
which the enemy could have thrown
against the coast, and which at that time
the Government believed he would throw


Learn the Secrets of
SUCCESSFUL WRITING
I
V-
&
\v
BRILLIANT HOME-STUDY COURSE
)■ If you could discuss your writing with Alan
Marshall —if you could get the inside story of
Beatrice Grimshaw’s world success —if you
could have a long, enlightening chat with
Vance Palmer, with Myra Morris, with William
Hatfield —what wonderful help these famous
people could give you! And that —precisely
is the delightful experience which awaits you
between the pages of a great Home Study
Course in Freelance Journalism, Radio, Verse
and Story Writing, prepared by Australia’s
outstanding authors. This stimulating Train-
ing Course, into which has been poured the
harvest of so many years’ achievement, super-
cedes the old painful School of Experience,
where authors were obliged to fumble in the
dark until, by luck or dogged perseverance,
they finally stumbled upon the technical essen-
tials of their craft. Here at last is the short-
cut to success, a complete and practical train-
ing in present-day writing for profit presented
from the inside.
Sarn as you learn
■■ Australian School of Journalism students begin selling their
* work so early in the Course that many actually pay their way
as they study. This is due partly to upiquely practical method
of training and partly to the friendly and understanding guid-
ance of the A.S.J. Instructors, every one of whom is an
established author with long teaching and writing experience.
Send the Coupon for
FREE ILLUSTRATED PROSPECTUS
FROM
FAMOUS
AUTHORS
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me a copy of your Free Illustrated Prospectus without
cost or obligation. I enclose sd. postage.
NAME.
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS.
.STATE.
Bui. June,’46.
Australian School of
OURNALISM
80 Swanston St., Melbourne
against it before the month was out. The
Government’s notion —not shared by Mr.
Churchill, Mr, Roosevelt and their ad-
visers—was that invasion was imminent.
W.A.’s Wirraways
The “defences” of Westralia and the
south-west were made up of a six-inch
cruiser with a destroyer flotilla and some
submarines in Admiral Glassfurd’s force.
On land there was an enlarged brigade
group, four garrison battalions (as in the
East, old steady troops in part, largely
Diggers of the First War, but equipped
like a South American insurrectionary
mob). The air defence of the vast area
of the West consisted of a Hudson squad-
ron and a Wirraway squadron.
In the whole continent there were no
new modern heavy guns, not a modern
aircraft, not a tank up to European or
African standards (except the Beauforts).
Until the British and Americans covered
it with their naval cover, stacked it with
their guns, aircraft, road-building mach-
inery and mountains of material, the con-
tinent was wide open, as naked of real
defence as the lady in September morn.
It is no wonder the Government does
not'publish the facts.
Mihailovich the Traitor (?).
“Ek Dum”: The reporting of the trial
of General Mihailovich is as sketchy as
most such efforts of the daily press, but
enough has come out to show that it
follows the normal pattern of the trials
of persons grabbed by Sovietised Govern-
ments and brought before “people s
courts.” The accused is held a long time
in a dungeon while his guilt is trumpeted,
to the four winds. What happens in the
dungeon is veiled in mystery, but torture
is always suspected. Then the accused
appears, a wild-eyed, quivering scarecrow,
and makes half-delirious confession of
the most dreadful crimes, invariably or
almost invariably involving the British
Government and its agents in them.
The tales now told disjointedly from the
dock, and half-denied next morning, are
the most suspicious sort of evidence. One
w'hich this poor, emaciated prisoner put
out and afterwards half-retracted was
that British officers had incited him to
destroy Communists. This was not before
June, 1941, when Russia was hand in
glove with Germany; but the charge
has been explicitly and officially denied.
In Parliament on April 3 Mr. Bevin
credited Mihailovich with haying ren-
dered useful service to the Allied cause
in the latter half of 1941, but the Yugo-
slav Government has refused to allow
British officers to give evidence on his
behalf because “his crimes are too great
and terrible to allow of any discussions
whether he is guilty.”
Such is Sovietised justice, but it is worth
while to quote a few Allied messages
which show that there were at least some
highly-placed Allies who did not agree
with the bloodthirsty Tito in the period
when the Russians were being driven back
to the Caucasus, and even after the turn
of the tide.
Thus Rear-Admiral Sir Henry Har-
wood, R.N. (victor of the battle of the
River Plate), Sir Claude Auchinleck
(C.-in-C. Middle East), and Air Marshal
Tedder (G.0.C.A., Middle East) on
August 16, 1942, telegraphed;
With admiration we are following your
directed operations which are of inestimable
value to the Allied cause.
Lord Alanbrooke, Chief of the Imperial
General Staff, congratulated Mihailovich
just before Christmas, 1942, on the work
of “your undefeatable Chetniks, who are
fighting night and day under the most
difficult war conditions.”
On New Year’s day, 1943, General
Eisenhower sent his message:
The American armed forces in Europe
and Africa greet their brothers-in-arms in
eminent and gallant military units under
your resolute command. These brave men
who joined your ranks in the land of their
birth in order to throw the enemy out of
your homeland are fighting with complete
devotion and sacrifice for the mutual cause
of the Allies. May their struggle bring them
complete success!
Lastly came General de Gaulle, who
decorated the Serb leader with the Croix
de Guerre with palm, in an order of the
day read to French troops on the con-
clusion of the African campaign:
This legendary hero, the symbol of the
purest patriotism and the highest military
virtues, has never ceased to fight on his
invaded native soil. ~Thanks to the aid
which Yugoslav patriots give him, he is
preparing, by unceasing effort, the way for
the final battle which will bring about the
liberation of his.homeland.
Then Russia took a hand, with dire
results to Mihailovich.
Mr. Chifley and the Dutch.
“Ek Dum”: Those who know some-
thing of the facts and have at heart the
reputation of this country for fair deal-
ing, honesty and gratitude must have
shrunk in shame as they read Mr. Chifley’s
“rebuke” to Baron van Aerssen, the
Netherlands Minister, for saying that
Dutchmen would fail to understand the
hold-up of Dutch ships in Australia and
that the ban on the destroyer Piet Hein
was a threat to Dutch-Australian relations.
As translated by A.B.C. Mr. Chifley s
effort sounded like the reprimand
delivered on a parade ground to a
degraded officer on the verge of his exe-
cution. And this shocking outburst was
allowed to go out over the shortwaves to
Indonesian terrorists, with the blood of
Australian officers fresh on their hands,
to their Japanese mentors and to all the
Communist organisers of Southern Asia,
who take every success of the Australian
brethren in directing the foreign policy of
Australia as an incitement to further pro-
motion of their own insurrections.
This is apart from the fact that others,
including Lord Louis Mountbatten
(judging by known details of his inter-
views with Australian union leaders),
have feelings nearly as strong as those of
the Dutch themselves —(feelings largely
due to the fact that throughout the ages
of exploration the fates of Dutch and
British have always been linked in this
part of the world. The Dutch succored
Cook ; they succored Bligh and any other
distressed British voyager who happened
to come along in the days of exploration.
The dreadful ignominy of the position,
however, lies in recent events connected
with the war:
Australia’s Responsibilities
When war became imminent it was not
the Dutch who came to Australia to ask
for help. It was the Australian Govern-
ment, of which Mr. Chifley is a member,
in conjunction with the rest of the British
Commonwealth, which proposed a mili-
tary arrangement to the Dutch, in con-
sonance with an earlier promise, each
side to employ the whole of its military
resources against the Japanese in the
event of either being attacked. It was
the wholehearted acceptance of this sug-
gestion which made it inevitable that the
Indies would be invaded.
Mr. Chifley cannot deny that one of
the terms of the offer made to the Dutch
authorities on December 5, 1941, or there-
abouts, through the Dominions Office in
London, was that the British Common-
wealth would, in the event of the Nether-
lands Indies being invaded, assume the
duty of protecting to the utmost Nether-
lands territory in the East Indies and of
restoring it if invaded. The Government
in which Mr. Chifley was No. 3 went out
of its way to endorse this arrangement
and clinch the bargain.
The Dutch permitted the R.A.A.F. to
use Dutch East Indies bases even before
they were at war, thus assuring communi-
cation lines with Singapore during a
dangerous period.
It was the Australian Government’s
insistence that Australian defence should
be paramount and that all Australian
units should return at once to their home-
land which made any substantive de-
fence of Java impossible. It was not
merely the question of the availability of
Australian troops but of the shipping
which carried and covered them which
was involved. The Dutch wished to fight
for the islands. It fell to the lot of Aus-
tralian delegates to persuade them to
agree to the Allied evacuation, leaving
everything they owned and many of Iheir
nationals at the mercy of the enemy.
They took this decision manfully. They
were compelled to leave behind millions
of loyal subjects at the mercy of the
Japanese, including thousands of Dutch
women and children, after their fleet had
been sunk and many of their ships and
transport aircraft had been lost in the
Allied cause.
Will Mr. Chifley deny that in the face
of this, so soon as the evacuation was
agreed upon, his Government made the
disgraceful request that Australians
should have priority over everybody in
evacuation?
There were on Java at the time of the
evacuation roughly 6000 British ground
troops, 3000 Australian ground troops
and about 2000 Americans. There were
also 9000 to 10,000 R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
men, of whom a large section were not
armed.
The Part of Dutch Ships
It needs to be emphasised that success-
ful evacuation depended entirely on the
ability and willingness to provide ship-
ping (the Dutch, incidentally, provided
a great deal of the shipping which had
taken Australian divisions to the Middle
East and contributed largely towards
making it possible to bring them home
at “Labor’s” panic-stricken demand).
They at once intimated that if it was
thought necessary to evacuate these troops
they would hold their shipping in N.E.I.
ports, but otherwise they would move
their ships to Allied ports for safety.
This was directly after the evacuation had
been agreed upon at the personal request
of Curtin-Chifley agents.
In the face of this there could be no
baser show of ingratitude than that of
the so-called “Australian Government.”


ê
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
~Officer had no sooner moved into
ms diggings at The Hague than the Dutch
started asking awkward questions about
hls , country’s policy towards Dutch ships
and Dutch goods. Officer has had a fair
bit of experience in diplomacy, but it is
doubtful whether his reply that his Gov-
ernment was unable to do anything about
the hold-up for fear of causing further
trouble with the wharfies satisfied the
Dutch any more than it pleased Can-
berra. The new Minister graduated in
Law at Melbourne Uni., and served five
years with the First A.1.F., earning
an M.C. and four mentions in dis-
patches. After that he went to Nigeria
in the Colonial Service and in 1927 re-
turned to Australia, joining the Depart-
ment of External Affairs. Sent to London
in 1933, he was in Washington four years
later as Australian Counsellor to the
British Embassy. When the Common-
wealth opened a Legation in Washington
Officer became first Counsellor and has
since held the same post in Tokyo, Mos-
cow and Chungking.
Officer’s opposite number, Baron van
Aerssen, who crossed swords with the
P.M. over the Piet Hein affair, is no land-
lubber. He joined Queen Wilhelmina’s
navy in 1902 and left it 10 years later a
lieutenant-commander, becoming general-
manager of a shipping co. in Sumatra.
Reurning to Government service in
1928 he was appointed Consul-General
at Hamburg and from there graduated
to the Diplomatic Service proper, first
as Minister to Iran and then to Canberra.
He’s off now on a trip to Manila to repre-
sent his country at the Philippine Inde-
pendence celebrations.
Amongst Victorian medicoes men-
tioned as having specially distinguished
themselves in war-time was Colonel John
Gerald Hayden, C.8.E., M.R.C.P., of
Melbourne. He was educated at St.
Patrick’s College, Ballarat, and the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, and while doing his
medical course he paid for his own and
four brothers’ education by raising
poultry. He built his own henhouses,
and having very little money made them
of mudbrick and secondhand palings.
He not only won all the prizes current
at the University in his time, but all the
prizes at the chook shows. Before the
war Hayden commanded the Third Field
Hygiene Section, and from 1940 was in
charge of the Seventh A.G.H. Instead of
resuming his highly lucrative Collins-
street practice after his discharge he is
devoting himself to research.
Lawyer, accountant and ex-public
servant. Senator McKenna, who became
Federal Minister for Health in the slight
Cabinet reshuffle caused by the death of
Senator Keane, has been a handy man to
Chifley since Chifley became Prime Mini-
ster. Born 50 years ago at Carlton (Vic.),
McKenna worked for a time in the Com-
monwealth Audit Office, Defence Depart-
ment and Crown Solicitor’s office, but re-
signed from the service in 1924 to enter
practice as a solicitor and accountant.
He set up his shingle in Melbourne, had a
brief spell in Townsville and then went
south to Tasmania. His adopted State
sent him to Canberra in 1943.
Many an old sailorman will mourn
the passing, in Sydney, of Captain Albert
Edward Lytton. Born in the Channel
Islands, 82 years ago, son and grandson
of master mariners, Ned, at 14, was cabin
boy in a fore-and-aft schooner trading to
Newfoundland for fish and to Mediter-
ranean ports for fruit. His first voyage to
Australia was as an A.B. in the wool
clipper Carlisle Castle; his first Austra-
lian job was as second mate in the]
steamer Barrabool on the Melboume-
Brisbane run. Joining A.U.S.N. as
master, he skippered their Aramac, Ara-
watta, Wodonga, Suva, Pilbarra and other
well-known passenger and cargo steamers
of the day. In 1915 he became a pilot
in Townsville, and on reaching the official
retiring age got a five-year extension. In
1938 the Navigation Department renamed
Elf Reef in northern Barrier Reef waters
as Lytton Reef in his honor and “in
recognition of his splendid record as a
pilot and a master mariner.”
A new recruit to the semi-diplomatic
service and occupant of a new post, Lieut.-
General Edward Kenneth Smart goes to
San Francisco as Consul-General for
Australia. In the first World War Smart
collected a Military Cross and a D. 5.0.;
when the return match began he became
Quartermaster-General and member of
the Military Board, but in 1942 he went
to London as head of the Australian Mili-
tary Mission, a job from which he only
recently returned. In between the wars
he held various Army appointments and
was for three years Military Liaison
Officer with Stanley Bruce in London.
James C. Govenlock, of Adelaide, has
been awarded the Elder Scholarship
. which entitles him to study for three years
at the Royal College of Music, London.
Organist of St. Francis Xavier’s Cathedral
in Adelaide, he is the first organist to
gain the scholarship. Govenlock is 27 and
was recently discharged from the Army
after five years’ service. A Mus. Bac.
and a student of the Elder Conserva-
torium, he has given piano and organ
recitals in his home city, and a few years
ago won a prize in an Australasian Per-
forming Rights Association competition
for an original pianoforte composition.
Awarded the International Federation
of University Women Fellowship—one of
three world-wide university scholarships
for women —Margaret Thomas, of the
Waite Institute, Adelaide, will continue
soil bacteriology work at Rothamsted
(Eng.). She’s Federal treasurer of the Uni.
Women Graduates Association, a gradu-
ate of Melbourne Uni., and before leaving
Adelaide will complete a thesis for her
Science degree.
Jimmy Bain, dead recently in Bris-
bane, at 73, was a boyhood associate in
his native Ipswich of two afterwards-
famous youngsters: Dr. Bradfield, of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, and knight James
Blair, Chief Justice of Queensland, A
photograph of the three is a notable Ips-
wich exhibit in evidence of the kind of
boys it produced in the good old days,
Jimmy was a singing comedian, and a
first-class one, but he abandoned the
boards for front-of-the-house.
Considering the grimness of the hous-
ing situation, the proceedings of any Fair
Rents Court would be expected to have
the atmosphere of a witch-hunt and the
man who presides over it to be a cross
between a Grand Inquisitor and the Judge
of a war crimes tribunal. Melbourne’s
F.R.C., a one-man show, has rather the
air of a discussion circle, and R. E.
Stapleton, P.M., has something of the
air, coupled, with the globular appearance,
of a Laughing Buddha. Possessing that
keen sense of humor which chases away
the clouds of wrath and plenty of tact
developed through years of sitting on
FAIR RENTS.
Benches, this magistrate draws out the true
facts and comes to decisions almost be-
fore the warring parties have time to get
in the first shriek. When not settling
squabbles between landlords and tenants,
Stapleton, P.M., spends a good deal of
his time swinging a golf stick. He recently
pulled off the Public Service tourney.
To fill the job of Dr. F. J. Turner, who
has gone to California as professor of
petrology, Dr. Colin Osborne Hutton has
been named lecturer in geology at
Otago Uni., Maoriland. He was
petrologist to the Government Geologi-
cal Survey in Wellington. Educated at
John McGlashan College, Dunedin, he
later entered Otago Uni. and won his
M.Sc. degree in 1934, and a year ago, at
the age of 33, was elected a Fellow of
the Royal Society of N.Z. He gained an
External Research Studentship of Em-
manuel College, Cambridge, in 1936.
“Cauboy” on a great inventor:
John L. Baird, who died in his sleep in Lon-
don, passed out comparatively young for an
inventor. They’re a long-lived tribe—Edison
was 84 and Ford is still going strong at 83.
the son or a parson, Baird was born at
Helensburgh, Scotland, and educated at the
Royal Technical College and the University of
Glasgow. Among his inventions was a noc-
tovisor for seeing in the dark, from which
developed radar and the televisor for sending
pictures through a wire or the ether. Baird,
having perfected an apparatus to enable people
in special cinemas to see events occurring miles
away, died on the eve of what looks Idee
a rush by movie magnates for his system
similar to the talkie stampede which ousted the
silents from the pictures. I was present at a
hotel in Melbourne years ago at the first demon-
stration of his television gadget in Australia. A
party sat in a room four floors up while a girl
cavorted somewhere on the roof above if.
Sometimes the top of her head would appear
at the bottom of the foot-square screen, and
at others her mouth made strange contortions
at the top. For one thrilling moment all of
her countenance appeared on the screen at one
and the same time. The consensus of opinion
that day was similar to the opinion come to
by a professor at Oxford about the first splitting
of the atom —that Mr. Baird was an ingenious
fellow and he had hit on a clever notion; but,
of course, it would never have a!ny practical
application. 8.8. C. started a television service
using Baird’s system in 1929. Three years
later people at the Metropole Cinema in
London saw the Derby televised from Epsom
Downs, and in 1941 Baird demonstrated tele-
vision in relief and natural color. Although
the miraculous achievements of radar as a
war-winning weapon are due to the combined
efforts of a team of scientists, Baird’s were the
hands that laid the foundation.
“Pawang”; An item of news which
didn’t reach the dailies is that a son of
Sigmund Freud spent several war years
in a concentration camp in Australia. A
nice, intelligent, well-educated, reserved
young man of 20, according to fellow-
internees, he was one of those enemy
aliens put into concentration camps in
England at the beginning of the war,
transferred to Australia and then found
to be an anti-Nazi. Eventually he volun-
teered for the British Pioneer Corps as a
means of getting back to England.
Granted leave of absence by the Mel-
bourne University to tour Canada as
guest conductor. Professor Bernard
Heinze goes in his 21st year of sitting in
the Ormond Chair of Music, Sitting isn’t
the precise word. In between conducting
children’s concerts, at which he is an
adept, and symphony seasons, the prof,
is artistic director of the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra, Dean of the Faculty of
Music in the University of Melbourne,
director of the Melbourne University
Conservatorium, honorary conductor of
the Royal Melbourne Philharmonics and
chairman of the Music Advisory Com-
mittee of the A.B.C. He has enormously
increased his stature as a conductor;
critics* who used to belittle him, pre-
sumably because he was an Australian,
are now almost fulsome in their praises.
He studied in London, Paris and Berlin,
with an interval when he served in the
last war as a gunner. He has since been
a guest conductor in London, Helsing-
fors, Paris, Budapest, Zurich and Berlin
and holds a Belgian order. Even as a
young man Heinze never wasted time.
When conducting some theatre orchestra
through the simplicities of a musicomedy
he would read a score of Bach or
Beethoven while waving his baton over
the heads of the musicians.
Re-elected to the Victorian Legislative
Council seat he has held since 1912,
William Angliss, the Melbourne master
butcher, who began his career in a
butcher’s shop in Carlton, pioneered
the Australian frozen meat trade by
first shipping meat to the W.A,
goldfields and then to South Africa
during the Boer War and in the process
has slaughtered 50,000,000 head of Aus-
tralian cattle. A man of many benefac-
tions, one of his most spectacular is the
Angliss School of Cooking, where research
workers conduct investigations into
esoteric methods of preparing foodstuffs
in Wellsian laboratories which look like
anything but kitchens and where hundreds
of chefs were trained for the Australian
Army and Air Force.
Charles de Monchaux, depicted here by
Scorfield, is yet another medico who is
out to try his hand at curing some of the
ills of the body politic. As a preliminary
formality he proposes to amputate Maxie
Falstein from Watson. With degrees in
medicine and surgery from Sydney Uni.,
De Monchaux studied radiology in
OBJECTIVE CANBERRA
Britain and on the Continent, practised
a while in Brisbane and went to
Maoriland to take charge of the
X-Ray and Radium Department of
Dunedin Hospital and lecture in radiology
at the University of Otago. While on
the other side of the Tasman he was
granted a Rockefeller Travelling Fellow-
ship, which took him again to Europe
with a spell in Canada and the U.S.A.
During the war the doctor served as
radiologist with the A.A.M.C.
First blind musician to receive the
degree of Bachelor of Music in Maoriland
is J. H. Papesch. He has been director of
music at the Blind Institute at Auckland,
and completed his course in the minimum
of three years, the Braille system enabling
him to go through all his studies and
exams. In addition he holds the diploma
of L.R.S.M. in organ-playing.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 77, Arthur McElhone, a
former Lord Maypr of Sydney. Son of John
McElhone, who was a member of the N.S.W.
Assembly for 23 years in the days of Henry
Parkes and George Dibbs, he early turned his
attention to municipal affairs, was first elected
alderman in 1899 and died in office. A per-
tinacious fighter for his opinions, he was always
active in local politics. He was Lord Mayor
in 1935.
In Adelaide, suddenly, at 46, Len Martin,
secretary of Norwood Football Club—he
learned the game at Broken Hill. He had over
10 years as an administrator on S.A. Football
League, and he leaves his club at the top of
the list.
Also in Adelaide, at 52, Scott Robertson,
who went to Egypt in 1915 with the 14th Light
Horse, transferred there to the Camel Corps,
and came home as a captain. His only son is
in H.M.A.S. Australia.
At Toronto (N-S.W.), at 78, John Charles
Osborne, retired banker. A native of Gosford,
he was with the ’Wales for more than 40
years, and was well known in the Newcastle,
Barraba and Singleton districts.
In Brisbane, at 86, Edward Bowdich Swayne,
M.L.A. for Mackay from 1907 to 1912, and
thereafter M.L.A. for Mirahi until his retire-
ment in 1935. In his younger days a noted
amateur rider, when past 70 he carried on his
last election campaign on horseback when the
wet season interfered with road traffic.
In Melbourne, at 66, Thomas Laby, Pro-
fessor of Natural Philosophy at Melbourne
Uni. 1915-1944. A great student himself, dis-
tinguished in research in many branches of
physics, Laby had also the gift of imparting
knowledge, and many of his students have
won recognition in Australia and abroad.
In Brisbane, at 64, John Lundie Michie, Pro-
fessor of Classics at Brisbane Uni. A Scot
from Aberdeen and Trinity College, Cambridge,
he came to Brisbane in 1910.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Just before this Letter was getting into
print the Duke and Duchess of Glou-
cester, back from their tour of the
North and its outback, were sitting down
to lunch with the members of the Royal
Empire Society. There were nearly 600*
guests, and Colonel Spain, the genia
president of the society, looked even more
beneficent than ever as he read the
address to their Royal Highnesses. All
were at their places before the great
arrival. In the foyer the president and
council received the Duke and Duchess,
and the councillors were presented. After
the bows and curtseys, the councillors
walked into the ballroom and took their
places. Then came the Royalties, with
Colonel and Mrs. Spain.
Saturday was Ingleburn’s great day. The
Horse and Pony Club held a gymkhana
and polocrosse pony show on the grounds
close to the railway station, and after
lunch there was a polocrosse match that
kept the field a bright movement of
ponies and the red and yellow and gold
flash of their riders. Women seem to
take to polocrosse more aptly than men ;
Mrs. Tom Kelly, who captained Ingle-
burn, and Carma Nathan, who led the
team from Burradoo, came in for much
admiring encouragement. Ingleburn beat
Burradoo, but everybody had had a
grand day. The Cup, given by Alice
English and brimming with champagne
for victors and vanquished, was handed to
Mrs. Tom Kelly by Lady Gifford. The
grounds were thick with Burradoo,
Bowral and Ingleburn well-knowns.
Bob Ashton judged the ring events in the
morning.
Anyone who has been idling by bush
and rock, by valley and mountain road
during the past year must have deplored
the fact that Nature is so old-fashioned.
In spite of the art critics it still keeps to
its immemorial ways of presenting its
beauties... no sense of the stylised, no
idea of giving any expression to flower
and fern except that of petal and leaf
and general grace. Well, the members
of the Australian Art Society still see
landscape in that fashion and like it well
enough to perpetuate the Australian
scene as Nature presents it.
Up in Anthony Horderns’ Art Gallery
they opened their 21st show last week.
A.B.C.’s chairman Boyer made opening
speech through a “fog of cold. Presi-
dent Jerrold Nathan made introductory
remarks. With him came Mrs. Nathan
and a daughter who is the one with back
turned of the attractive ballet study on the
walls. If you love Sydney then you will
love her father’s Macquarie-place. A por-
trait of Dr. Bradfield, who designed our
Harbor Bridge, had among its admirers
the doctor’s son. The portrait is to hang
in the University. In the company J.
Salvana towered tall as his own trees.
Cliff Peir and Erik Langker were others
on the dais.
Shirley Ann Richards shared the
honors of belle of the party with her
mother at the welcome-home given for
her by Mrs. Richards last week. Shirley
Ann’s smile was radiant under the curve
of her big black velvet hat, and her slim-
ness was frocked in brightly-printed silks
with a real sheen. Mrs. Richards wore
a long afternoon frock of black ring vel-
vet with deep cuffs and revers of creamy
Brussels lace ... quite a nice mother-and-
daughter study. Kinneil, where the party
was held, was gay with red roses and soft
lights. The reception rooms of this old
Elizabeth Bay house were crowded with
family friends, among whom were many
Australian film celebrities.
Waiters are fashionable again. There
was a covey of them handing around
bright drinks and lush savories.
Among the guests was General Few-
trell, very spick and sparkling in uni-
form. He was leaving the party to go on
to a very important dinner, and if you
remember your history and what hap-
pened on June 18, 1815, you’d know the
dinner was in commemoration of Water-
loo. There were 90 celebrating that night,
and the dinner was at the Wentworth.
Sydney had everything but a snow-
storm last Wednesday, but even that
would not have kept his admirers away
from the Town Hall and the Solomon
concert. Superlatives can’t do justice to
this musician, so just say the programme
gave the listener back all the delights ever
known of the intellect and the imagina-
tion. The audience was rapt and
wrapped, for the night, as said before,
was bitter chill. Topcoats, fur coats (and
one or two lucky men in the audience
had fur collars on their coats), a few
muffs and sheepskin caps, and even some
envied gaitered legs were glimpsed. The
two Miss Edwardses from Neutral Bay,
who studied with Solomon in London,
were applauders, as usual. It would be
almost easier to name the pianists absent
than those among the listeners.
To Australians who knew England
before the war, her generously stocked
shops where foodstuffs from not only her
own Dominions but from every country
in the world could be bought in any
quantity, there is sadness in every fresh
message of thanks for the food parcels
this country can send to her. Latest
arrival to express this gratitude is
Britain’s new High Commissioner, E. J.
Williams. He arrived last week in the
Stirling Castle with his wife and daughter,
whose name is Ivy. They expect to be in
Australia for five years, and are look-
ing forward to life among us. Miss
Williams worked for four and a hall
years in the Ministry of Food. In the
Stirling Castle, too, came hundreds of
war brides and their children—2B6 ot
them are welcomed to this State.
The Young Chinese Relief Movement
will send £l2OO to the wife of General-
issimo Chiang Kai-shek’s Warphans
fund. It is the sequel to the Dragon
Festival ball held last week at the Troc-
adero. Decorations were reminiscent of
the guests’ vast homeland. Miniature
Chinese gardens and bright lanterns gave
atmosphere, and each of the 1500 present
received a fan bearing a photograph ot
Madame Chiang Kai-shek as a memento.
There were 14 debutantes, all in soft
white frocks, and they were presented to
Mrs Cheng, wife of China’s Minister to
Australia. Mrs. Cheng flew from China
in time to receive her young country-
women, to keep a promise made to the
ball committee before she went off to
China early in the year. The president ot
the ball committee was Mrs. D. Y.
Narme.
In Lynn Foster, pictured by Norton
Trevaire, Australia has a woman play-
wright of ability. She is already
on the high road to achievement. She
has written many radio plays, and pro-
duced them, and she has the gift of
christening her creations with titles of
charm. Her play “And the Moon Will
Shine” has been adjudged with one by
G. L. Dann as joint first winner of the
Playwrights’ Advisory Board play com-
petition. Another of her works, “There
Is No Armor,” already produced by the
Independents, has been published recently
by the Mulga Press.
Next Saturday the Smilin’ Thru Club
is having a barbecue supper in the en-
chanted surroundings of Fig Tree.
Special ferries will run to the wharf
during the afternoon, and the picnic
grounds are close by. The show is, as
they say in the films, “for general exhi-
bition.” Children are not only welcomed,
they will be specially entertained with an
animal circus and games during the day.
As evening falls a fatted calf will be
roasted whole, and everyone present will
have a serving. The Smilin’ Thru Club
works for many good causes, principally
the 113th A.G.H.
During the electricity restrictions this
Letter published a recipe for doing the
week’s wash in cold water. This \vas sent
by a Bulletin friend who had lived as
a young girl in a station home far from
gas coppers, electric washers and so on.
So many inquiries for the same recipe
have been received within the past week
or two that it is now reprinted:
Take a piece of laundry soap weighing
about seven ounces and boil it down in a
small quantity of water. After it has been
boiled down, but while the mixture is still
hot, add a dessertspoonful of turpentine
and a teaspoonful of pure ammonia. Put
in a wash tub, adding just enough cold
water to cover the soiled clothes. Oyer
the top of these place a towel or fairly
thick cloth—the idea being to keep the
clothes damp so that there will be no water
marks. Leave in tub for week-end, and on
Monday morning the clothes (says the
Bulletin friend) will be snowy white and
ready for rinsing.
From Melbourne
With a refreshing absence of fuss,
Lieut.-Governor Edmund Herring and
his wife announced the engagement
of their second daughter, Judith Ann, to
Nicholas Hume Turnbull, son of Dr. and
Mrs. Hume Turnbull of St. Georges-road,
Toorak. Judith, who was educated at the
Melbourne C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School, is in the second year of her physio-
therapy course at the Uni. Nicholas,
who is an old Geelong Grammar School
boy and graduated from Melbourne’s seat
of learning as a Master of Science, is an
industrial chemist. Wedding plans are
indefinite.
The decorative damsel pictured here
is Shirley, only child of Mr. and Mrs.
W. Stevenson of East St. Kilda. Now
an aris student at the Uni., she is deeply
interested in dramatic work 'and hopes
soon to go abroad to gain more experi-
ence. In the meantime she is cutting her
histrionic teeth on the role of Princess
Maya in Rene Mitchell’s production of
“The Simpleton of the Unexpected Isles.’
Rene is Shirley’s tutor in the dramatic
sphere. Photo, by Athol Shmith.
It was a joy to come from muddy
streets and the whistle of icy winds into
the warmth and gaiety of the All Nations
Fair at the Town Hall. Stalls decorated
with national colors and emblems made
a fitting background for stallholders
dressed in the national costumes of the
country they represented. The British
stall, which was in the foyer, was a repre-
sentation of Piccadilly. The Dixon lady
and her helpers, clad as the famous flower-
girls of Piccadilly Circus, were suitably
wrapped in shawls or rugs and wore
straw hats, set at a rakish angle and
decorated with flowers. The Swedish
and Chinese groups served luncheon, and
included dishes of their national food.
Mrs, Marchant Penfold had to seek pro-
tection from four stalwart policemen
she sold cigarettes as well as sweets. At
the hat bazaar, convened and staffed by
American women, business was brisk.
Madame Andr£e was in charge of the
French perfume bar, while Mrs. Fraser,
wife of the Canadian Trade Commis-
sioner, had a busy time with her group
of helpers at the stall of the Maple Leaf.
The Lt-Governor’s wife declared the
fair open. The official party included the
Lord Mayor, Gr. R. Connelly, and the
Ladv Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
president of the National Y.W.C.A. Mrs.
F G. Kumm, Mrs. Essington Lewis and
Mrs. Gerald Bacon, hon. organiser of the
fair. At night “taxi dancers” under the
supervision of Mrs. E. Minert had a busy
time The American Women’s Group, con-
vened by Mrs. Judd Holt, served supper.
Earlier in the evening they had served a
buffet dinner. Proceeds from the fair
helped the Town and Country Appeal for
the Y.W.C.A. work among young women
and girls.
The shape of things to come was agree-
ably demonstrated at the private display
of original model gowns by Margaret
Murdoch, and proved convincingly to
viewers that Australian designers can hold
their own with overseas competitors in
the fashion world. All these local models
were excellent both in cut and finish as
well as originality. It was pleasing to find
that the larger figure, so often forgotten,
had been the inspiration for many elegant
designs. By careful planning a slim line
had been achieved, giving to the matronly
figure a graceful silhouette. All designs
featured the new vogue for the rounded
figure and slender skirts were topped
with jackets, featuring the rounded
shoulder line, the very definite waist and,
still with the urge towards femininity, a
decided flare at the back. There is no
escape from the basic tones: black, navy
and beige. One suit of fine black wool
crepe was greatly admired. The jacket,
topping a straight slim skirt, was cut in
clever panels which were piped with black
satin. For the young girl a soft powder-
blue crepe jacket, cut on mandarin lines
and worn with a black skirt, was an in-
spiration. The tiny upstanding collar, in
the Chinese tradition, was braided with
rouleaux of black velvet to match the
buttons on the coat.
But it was in the evening modes that
Margaret Murdoch showed her true flair
for designing. One lovely creation of
ivory crepe was in the Grecian mode.
The new rolled shoulder line, with its
waist defined by linked diamond-shaped
appliques of copper and gold lame, made
a frock that most women would envy.
When it was first produced in 1907 at
Dublin’s Abbey Theatre Synge’s “Play-
boy of the Western World” caused a very
loud theatrical rumpus. The audience
decided that the play was a considered
insult to “Ould Oireland.” Yeats and
other literary friends rallied to their author
friend’s defence and, although audiences
continued to be so noisy that the actors
were forced to go through their parts in
dumb show, the theatre did a roaring
business. The Tin Alley Players found
this play no less troublesome, but after
two previously unsuccessful attempts dur-
ing the war years they have at last staged
it. Gwen Izzard played the heroine
“Pegeen Mike,” with Ruby May as “The
Widow Quin” —two good portrayals.
Among the large audience were Uni.
Vice-Chancellor J. D. G. Medley and his
wife; Professor Maurice Belz, who was
accompanied by his wife ; Mary Ward,
Nan Summers and Margaret Reid were a
well-known theatrical trio; • Leontine
Sagan, Max Oldaker, soon to make his
appearance in “The Dancing Years ;
Matt McDougall, Lieut. Gerald van Ryn,
of the Royal Netherlands Army, and his
attractive wife, Joy.
Surprise marriage was that of John
Wood, star of “The Hasty Heart.” His
bride, Phyl Buchanan, flew out recently
from England. The new Mrs. Wood, slim
and attractive, was known in London as
“the pocket Gladys Cooper.” She has
been on the stage, and during the war
drove an ambulance. The happy pair are
nicely settled in a flat in South Yarra.
To outline the objectives of the United
Nations Association Mrs. Herbert
Brookes entertained members of the Press
at afternoon tea in the Quamby Club.
She explained that it is a non-political
body which aims to promote peace in the
world by spreading knowledge of the
United Nations, by helping people who
wish to become better informed on inter-
national affairs and by bringing together
peoples of all nations. The Victorian
division of this world-wide association
was formed a year ago and already has
a membership of seven hundred. Mrs.
Brookes, who is a vice-president, indicated
also how members intend to achieve their
objectives, and stressed the importance
of both gaining the interest of youth and
extending activities to country centres.
Kurrajong House, which is the meeting
place for members, already has a well-
equipped library. Mrs. W. Riddell, whose
war-time job was handling the A.C.F.
Hospitality and Information Bureau, is
U.N.A.’s hon. Public Relations Officer ;
she has arranged weekly luncheons at
which addresses will be given on various
aspects of world affairs. The association
has also a progressive youth forum, two
study circles and an ever increasing pen-
friends department. In this popular de-
partment it has contacts with England,
Canada, Sweden and Czechoslovakia, and
even the Pacific Islands. So great is the
demand for pen-friends from overseas
that at present the department cannot
keep up with them.
The officers’ mess at Ormond Hall
presented a gay scene for the party
given by Air Vice-Marshal George
Jones and officers of the R.A.A.F.
Headquarters staff. Party was m
honor of Air Chief-Marshal Sir
Keith Rodney Park, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
M.C., D.F.C., and Lady Park, but owmg
to illness the latter was unable to attend.
To the strains of music, provided by a
R.A.A.F. band, guests were received by
Air Vice-Marshal Jones and Mrs. Jones,
whose glowing red crepe frock was worn
with a matching hat and fur coat, and
were then presented to the guest of honor.
Women were warmly wrapped in furs or
fur-trimmed coats and depended upon
their gay flower or ribbon hats to supply
the necessary touch of glamor. With
Air-Commodore Alan Walters was his
pretty wife, her black frock contrasting
with the wide floral wreath she wore m
her hair. Spending the week-end in Mel-
bourne was Air Vice-Marshal Brown,
R.A.F., C. 8., C.8.E., D.S.C., A.F.C, He
flew from England in three days, stayed
the week-end and left for home the
day after the party. Col. Ralph Michaelis,
U.S.A. Air Attache, was with Mrs.
Michaelis, and with Capt. B. F. Tomp-
kins, U.S.A. Naval Attache, was Mrs.
Tompkins. Petite Mrs. Wrigley accom-
panied husband Air Vice-Marshal Wrig-
ley, and Muriel McCaulay, wrapped m a
fur coat and flower bonnet, came with her
Air-Commodore husband.


ē
The Safety and Security
of Your Estate
Are Paramount
What a man wishes to do with
his possessions after death, and
the selection of his executor, are
two vitally important matters.
The faculties of men were never more
strained than at the present, and there
are now fewer competent men willing
to undertake the control of the affairs
of other persons.
In everyday life people usually hesitate
before entrusting their private business
matters to others, until fully satisfied
as to their competency and integrity.
Naturally even more consideration
should be given to the matter when it
is for the sacred and onerous trust of
administering an estate.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia Ltd, is a company of sixty
years' standing, with its executives all
specially trained, and with facilities to
undertake the administration of all
classes of estates. Why not obtain the
greatest benefit with the least incon-
venience by appointing the company as
your executor ?
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e,; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, 0.5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.A.
Assistant Manager ; C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst, A.i.c.A. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
CUTHRiOGE
GEORGE ST,
To
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
n ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund,
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,8'87
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1930 ..1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31.080 549.»3 +
1935 ~ 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1938 .. 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,268 )
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 f 540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO J
1939 .. 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,565
1940 .. 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down £557,308 —£322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1941 .. 1,457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
1942 .. 1,509.888 636,190 261,342 7,761 ) r9Q ro .
Reserved for contingencies, £75.000 ( 0,0
1943 .. 1,586,207 663,209 218,235 8,321 )621,442
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 )
1944 .. 1,712,023 697,274 233,745 15,411 ]
To staff fund, £5OOO 1 741,236
Reserved for contingencies, £19,357 I
1945 .. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 26,727 ] '
To general reserve, £50,000 .. sft ,
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. >■024,301
W/o assets, £13,204 .. .. ..J
Outstanding feature of the latest accounts
of this 67-year-old mutual life office,
whose activities are confined to Australia
and do not include industrial assurance, is
the record amount of new business put on
the books —£3,302,452, up £730,626. And
the average amount per policy was £541
as against £375 in 1939. The growth of
group assurance, now popular among
commercial organisations as a means of
providing staff pensions, has been a big
factor in swelling the figures. And this
class of business costs less to secure and
handle than would a similar number of
isolated contracts. There are, of course,
other sound reasons why expansion should
be the order of the day. One is that
prices generally are higher than they were
pre-war, and it seems unlikely that they
will fall to their old level again. This
calls for a larger volume of assurance
from all classes.
Certainly the forcing down of interest
rates over the last decade has resulted in
an all-round lowering of bonus rates to
policyholders ; but this is a common ex-
perience, and it has resulted mainly
in placing more emphasis on the
security aspect of life assurance. There
is no substitute for the protection afforded
to the individual by a contract with a
sound fife office. If the benefits payable
at maturity under a with-profits contract
are to exceed the amount paid by way of
premiums, the interest earned on the
premiums must cover the death risk and
all expenses associated with the contract,
as well as provide a margin for bonuses.
The Australian type of bonus scale re-
quires a rapid release of surplus as the
duration of the policy increases. This
need is met by a low rate of valuation,
which locks up in the early years sums
which would be otherwise available as
surplus and releases them with interest at
a later date.
The City Mutual lowered the basis of
valuation of its policy liabilities from
3 p.c. to 2| p.c. in 1943, and to 2\ p.c.
(the most stringent rate now in use in
Australia) in the following year.* This
meant extra additions to actuarial reserves
of £300,000 in 1942 and £314,965 in 1944.
The next table shows surpluses (excess of
assurance funds over policy liabilities)
and how they were used over the last three
years:—■
1943. 1944. 1945.
Amount brought forward £19,828 £161,423 £36,252
Surplus earned.. .. 274,032 336,818 260,454
Total surplus .. £293,860 £498,241 £296,706
Bonuses policyholders.. 132,437 147,024 209,780
To actuarial reserves.. 314,965
To other reserves .. 78,204
Amount carried forward 161,423 36,252 8,722
The sharp drop of £76,364 in surplus
earned last year was due to (1) the lower-
ing of the basis of valuation in the pre-
vious term and consequent increase in
policy liabilities and (2) a sharp fall in the
rate of interest earned. The average rate of
interest earned on mean assurance funds
last year was £4 6s. 6d. p.c. as against
£4 16s. 6d. p.c. in 1944. The net rate
(after deducting taxation) was £3 13s. 9d.
p.c. as against £4 7s. lOd. p.c., 1944, and
the figures might shrink a trifle yet before
they begin to improve. Still, there is a very
satisfactory margin between the assumed
and the actual rate of interest earned.
And, since no extra strengthening of
actuarial reserves was necessary, more
was distributed among policyholders at
increased bonus rates.
Now consider this comparison of the
co.’s investment portfolio:
1944. p.c. 1945. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £6,366,238 47.7 £8,191,819 57.8
Mortgages, etc... 2,382,518 17.9 1,964,288 13.9
Loans on policies 1,051,417 8.0 1,017,241 7.2
Properties .. 2,488,414 18.6 1,928,838 13.6
Shares and deben-
tures, etc. .. 930,909 7.0 947,732 6.7
Cash and sundries 116,202 .8 126,552 .8
The reduction in relatively high-interest-
bearing mortgage (down £418,230) and
property (down £560,076) securities and
reinvestment of the money, together with
the year’s surplus earnings, in low-interest-
bearing Government loans (up £1,825,571)
were mainly responsible for the reduction
in the net interest rate. When money
from maturing securities has to be rein-
vested these days, the problem of obtain-
ing approximately an equal return be-
comes practically insoluble. The aim
behind the investment policy of life
offices will be to get as high a return as
possible for as long a period as circum-
stances permit, consistent with security.
Growth in the year’s income from all
sources (£1,786,135) was £74,113. After
paying all legitimate claims and exes.,
£729,238 remained, of which £624,307 was
added to the assurance funds (making
them £13,311,870), £39,931 was written
off the book value of assets, £50,000 was
sent to general reserve (now £400,000) and
£15,000 to the tax reserve (£65,000).
Leaving taxes and contribution to staff
fund (together £84,742, up £29,081) out
of the reckoning, exes, took 10.9 p.c, of
the total income compared with 10.7,
10.3 and 11.5 p.c. for the three preceding
terms.
General Industries, Ltd.
Parent Co.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 12* „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12* „ ~79,646 904 8,607
1939 103,528 20,851 12* „ „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Assets revaluation, £4882 .. ■.. .. 179,249
1940 154,060 20,851 12*p.c.= 79,646 53,563 232,812
1941 112,206 20,851 12* „ „ 79,646 11,709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12* „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,605 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 89,968 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,400 281,419
1946 95,933 20,851 10 „„ 63,717'11,365 292,784
When Australia settles down to more
“normal,” or stable, conditions again, it
promises to be a very different equili-
brium from that of 1939. Pre-war levels
of prices, costs, revenue, etc., are all now
on a different basis, and may never re-
turn to their old levels and relationships
one to another. We are a nation of pro-
ducers with a greatly increased national
debt, with an ever-increasing overhead of
social charges, and with an ever-expand-
ing realm of doubtful experimentation in
State regulation and ownership. If a
lower standard of living is to be avoided
Australia can afford these expensive
commitments only if production is greatly
increased on the basis of a properly co-
ordinated wage-price structure.
The general economic background is
favorable enough. Consumer demand is
abundant, and supplies of goods are still
small. Yet industrial hold-ups, such as
strikes, stoppages and “bottlenecks,” are
dislocating the entire programme of re-
habilitation ; men and women willing and
able to work are making no contribution
to solution of our housing and other
shortages because others refuse to supply
coal, power, etc.
From factories at Sydney, Footscray,
Adelaide and Perth the two subsidiaries
(Metters, Ltd., and Metters, K.F.B. Pty.)
in which General Industries holds all the
shares and little else turn out a wide
range of stoves, baths, gas heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel goods, radi-
ators and other electrical equipment, etc.
Concerning last year’s activities chairman
R. A, Spring says;
There has been a decided acceleration in
the building trade throughout the Com-
monwealth, both by private enterprise and
by Government activity, resulting in a sub-
stantially increased demand for our sub-
sidiaries’ products. Unfortunately, how-
ever, whilst production has increased, this
increase has not been up to expectations,
making it impossible to meet all demands.
A number of reasons have contributed to
this position, the .main being shortage of
skilled tradesmen and abnormal absentee-
ism, together with the serious loss of pro-
duction which resulted from the Bunnerong
powerhouse strike in September and the
complete closedown of the works in De-
cember owing to the coal strike.
Occupation bottlenecks exist mainly in
connection with cast-iron founders, core-
makers and electrical fitters, especially
those experienced in armature winding.
Some of the older men are leaving their
once war-time reserved occupations and
going to better-paid jobs or into business
on their own account.
Combined net earnings of the organisa-
tion were £5965 better at £95,933. That
was after providing whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and de-
preciation and dropping £1895 from
somewhere into reserves. The £95,933
was enough to pay the parent’s prefs.
their 7 p.c. and shbw 11.7 p.c. on the
£637,167 of ord. capital as against 10.8,
10.8, 12.1, 14.2, 14.4 and 20.9 p.c. back to
1940. The div. was kept steady at 10 p.c.,
which is worth only 6.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the financial
spring-cleaning in 1934.
There is nothing to worry about in the
financial position:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1940. 1942. 1945. 1916.
Paid capital.. £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors .. 132,808 170,160 136,342 114,568
Tax reserve . . 98,441 265,388 165,479 173,021
Staff fund .. 12,645 15,521 11,938 17,174
Freeholds . . 314,176 335,164 329,423 332,404
Plant, etc. . . 400,119 428,206 419,806 425,720
Stocks . . 485,047 593,438 539,091 493,927
Book debts .. 242,875 285,841 151,559 128,743
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,680 24,630 24,630
Cash, etc. .. 837 32,453 146,442 208,445
Last term a reduction of £45,164 in
stocks and of £22,816 in book debts was
accompanied by a growth of £62,003 in
cash, etc., and contraction of £21,774 in
the amount coming to trade creditors.
The more or less liquid surplus (£550,982)
was £3019 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The outlook favors a strong demand
for the co.’s products for some time. Two
executives recently visited U.S.A., and
new lines are to be added to the list of
manufactures and new methods of pro-
duction introduced. Physical capacity
output will depend partly upon hours
and conditions of work as well as avail-
ability of labor and continuous produc-
tion, and the value of this output will be
largely governed by such vital questions
as the Government’s wage, price and
taxation policies. '
On the market the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords.
are jammed at the official ceiling of
235. 3d., at which figure the return would
be 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 295. 6d. return 4.7 p.c.
The net tangible backing is £4 2s. sd.
prefs. and 18s. 3d. ords.
Perpetual Exec. & Trustees Assn. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935 5,226 6pc. = 3,0091 99Q g 53
W/o premises, etc., £1236 )
1936 ‘ ‘w/ 5 ’ 453 • 6 p 'f■ = 1 1,339 57,292
W/o premises, etc., £lll4 \ f
1937 ‘'w/ 7,168 • 8 P f'• = A’?no I 1,065 58,857
W/o premises, etc., £2103 )
1938.. 5,508 8 p.c. = 4,000 ) i-ino c Q
W/o furniture, etc., £3BO ) I>l2B 69 ’ 485
1939.. 5,363 8 p.c. = 4,000 1,363 60,848
!940.. 9,946* if. , S.OOOI 4>259 65j107
Staff bonus, £687 . . J
1941.. 6,349 10 p.c. = 5,000 1,349 66,456
1942.. 5,341 10 „ „ 5,000 341 66,797
1943.. 6,497 10 „ „ 5,000 1,497 68,294
1944.. 6,692 10 „ „ 5,000 1,692 69,986
1945.. 7,884 11 „ „ 5,500 ) fiq fi2o
To staff fund, £2250 .. J
• Includes arrears of interest on old investments.
Never has the need for revision of
wills been greater, and never have the
advantages of the corporate over the pri-
vate trustee been thrown into bolder re-
lief. This because of economic changes
and uncertainties and the complications
associated with taxation and other legis-
lative and quasi-legislative controls. For
these and other reasons more business is
being entrusted to the expert care of the
cos. However, their moderate corpus and
other commission charges are anchored
by legislation, which means that they
have been unable to pass on war-time
costs inflation. At the same time
financial and other controls forced down
interest rates, kept rents low and retarded
realisation of estates, thus affecting corpus
and other commission earnings, and, in
some cases, inflicting needless capital loss
upon beneficiaries.
The P.E, and T., which set up in Mel-
bourne 61 years ago, doesn’t broadcast
the volume of trust business on its books,
but it appears to have stepped along in
fine style over the last half dozen years.
Consider these figures:
Income;— 1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Commis., etc. . . £23,578 £28,194 £29,992 £31,403
Int. and rents.. 5,189 4,444 5,131 4,841
Total income .. £28,767 £32,638 £35,123 £36,244
Exes 23,404 27,297 28,431 28,860
Exes., p.c. income 81.4 83.6 80.9 79.6
With the exception of 1940, when takings
were swollen by arrears of interest on an
old investment, practically the whole of
the increase in earnings since 1939 has
been due to expanding corpus and other
commission earnings. And a tight hold
has been kept upon controllable out-
goings. For the five years to the close


Public Notice.
Hampton Gold Mining Areas, Ltd.
NOTICE is hereby given that at an extraordinary
general meeting of the company, duly convened and
held at the company’s office in the city of London, a
resolution was passed converting the issued ordinary
fully-paid ss. shares into stock units of ss. To
facilitate the preparation of stock certificates mem-
bers are advised that the Colonial Transfer Books
will be closed from 25th June, 1946, to 30th June,
1946, both days inclusive. No transfer of shares
will be registered after 24th June, 1946. Upon
surrender of relative share certificates members will
be issued with new stock certificates in exchange
for Hampton Gold Mining Areas, Limited.
R. I). MORRISON, Attorney, Kalgoorlie, W.A.
. OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
0 We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
» than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 500 GNS.
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 3805.
Gallery open Daily from 9.50 a.m. to 5.50 p.m.
Saturday, 9.50 a.m. to 1 p.m.
O’
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
\J pi exion I UseCuticura
' Soap regularly I* 3
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
ĕ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign, patents.— Abvt.
* * * m
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collina
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager.
Patient Men Prefer...
SWE (XPRESS
"The Secret's in the 333’s
blend." Patient moments
bring extra pleasure when
you “Ask please for
333’5,” because . . .
ssga
to 'f oUR
P 0 S T-W A R
Maly
h^r
I
1111
.
IN
a
f e
W%
\ w
fr. 4
1
-m"'
St
m
m
m
:ite-
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against fdulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and s— an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. R 6
ė
ę
of last accounts net earnings averaged
£6452, compared with an average of
£5743 for the five years to end September,
1939. Last year’s £7384 (up £692) of
profit was 14.7 p.c. on capital as against
13.4, 12.9, 10.7 and 12.7 p.c. back to
1941. A victory bonds of 1 p.c. was
added to the 10 p.c. div., making 11 p.c.
for the year. Interest and rents turned in
all but £659 of the £5500 called for. The
10 p.c. distribution has a very secure
“appearance.
When the books closed the £50,000 of
capital had the support and assistance of
£69,620 of reserves. The lot, together
with £1066 coming to creditors, was in-
vested in public securities, £53,276 ; free-
holds, etc., £56,765 ; mortgages, £11,182;
debtors’ balances, - £16,186; and cash,
£7039.
On the market the £5 shares paid to £1
are jammed at the ceiling price of 41s. 3d.,
at which figure the return would be 5.3
p.c. on an 11 p.«. div. basis, or 4.8 p.c,
on a 10 p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover is 475. lOd.
After inspection of Lake View’s Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile group of mines, its
fuel-oil storage facilities at Esperance,
and the Porphyry auriferous deposit
near Edjudina in which the co. has an
option interest, chairman G. Goldthorp
Hay has left for London via Canada.
Before departure he said that pro-
eress of the industry in Westralia
was being held back by restric-
tions and lack of encouragement, which
created difficulties and didn’t benefit the
country. He added that greater help was
being given by the authorities in Canada,
the United States and South Africa.
As regards the Lake View group, he
thought the organisation and co-ordina-
tion of everything were excellent.
Monthly output has risen progres-
sively from 24,000 tons during the
height of the Japanese threat to
42,000 tons, and further improvement m
the figures can be expected.
* .* * *
“O.B.”: Paringa’s shares are being
boosted in London on the strength of
developments in the co.’s main blocks at
the north end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.) and prospects of the Mari-
tana group adjoining Mt. Charlotte, two
miles further north. H. C. Hoover once
said that to make a share in an estab-
lished goldmine worth its market price at
least two-thirds of such price should be
represented by profit in sight, and the
lode and values should be unim-
paired in the bottom workings. On this
basis Paringas at 3s. lOd. stg. are high
enough, if not too high. A rise of Is.
a share means an addition of £270,439
to the market value of the property.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines presi-
dent, F. G. Brinsden, backs the State
Government’s protest against the Federal
Government’s proposal to transfer the
main activities of the Perth Mint to Can-
berra. He argues (1) that the transfer
would be contrary to the policy of de-
centralisation repeatedly proclaimed by
members of the present Federal Ministry,
and (2) that it would put producers of
the major portion of Australia’s gold to
the unnecessary expense and trouble of
transporting bullion to Canberra. Perth
Stock Exchange concurs.
* sjc * *
Perth Mint reports that since the be-
ginning of 1946 £912,170 worth of gold
bullion has been issued, and £6507 worth
of silver sent to the Melbourne Mint.
Kalgoorlie continues to supply the bulk
of the gold taken by Perth Mint.
sit * * *
Latest addition to Western Mining
Corp.’s Westralian gold options is Bur-
bank’s Birthday Gift (B. 8/ 5 / ’46). The
property, which is in the Coolgardie dis-
trict, was one of the first opened up
there, and until 1917 yielded 271,7590 z.
of gold from 354,586 tons of ore.
* * * *
London-controlled Hampton Gold
Mining Areas —it is a third reconstruc-
tion of Hampton Plains Estates, Ltd.—
has a new board which, besides continu-
ing to “build up cash reserves,” proposes
to “initiate a more active policy than has
been pursued and create greater interest”
in its large property near Coolgardie
(W.A.). A State Government survey of
a section of this property known as Block
59 is said (1) to indicate the north-eastern
extension of makes of ore mined in
Tindals, which is outside the “Plains”
boundary, and (2) that alluvial which
passes through the centre of Block 59
may obscure some profitable lodes, while
the bed of wash occurring at the base of
the alluvial may contain, some gold. The
co.’s ss. shares are being converted into
stock certificates of a like amount.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines’ statistics
show that since the beginning of the war
gold ore treated in the State has aver-
aged about 54dwt. a ton. Since 1929,
when the average grade was 12dwt., there
has been a persistent decline in the aver-
age assay figure, mainly because of the
rise in the price of gold. In 1932 the assay
was down to 9.12dwt., and in 1935 to
under 7dwt., and further rises in price
brought it to s.Bdwt..in 1939. Improved
treatment methods and mining practice
also played an important part by bringing
big tonnages of lower-grade ore into the
payable class. In the four years before
war annual aggregate dividends varied
fiom £1,101,967 to £1,337,111 p.a. In 1940
they still topped £1,000,000, and then
shrank sharply, owing to decreased out-
put following manpower and other
shortages.


è
Hour of chatter and charm, when friends
meet happily. Hour of skilful
entertaining, with knowing hostess
making clever cocktails from Vickers Gin and
simple ingredients. Vickers always
excellent, always satisfying
is the universally accepted
drink of the times.
the Gin wilt h<
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VGS/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
PAINTINGS FROM TAHITI.
Like another French artist, Gauguin,
M. Guy Huze, whose paintings are on ex-
hibition at David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
has painted Tahitians. Unlike Gauguin,
however, M. Huze has given them beauti-
ful bodies, although, as one critic com-
plained, he has totally neglected their
souls.
Looking at the bright and comely
youths and maidens who prance
about the walls of the gallery, or splash in
the gleaming water, or bask in the sun, it
is indubitably hard to find any evidence
of soul in them, or even of character. It
may even be doubted whether they are
Tahitians at all. But that is relatively
unimportant, for the majority of the
paintings are a delight to the eye.
They are divided, roughly, into
three sections. Sketches, colored and
vital, a little extravagant at times,
and usually amusing; paintings of
Tahitian beaches and waters, with
suitably beautiful natives; and studies,
light and serious, of Sydney and
its environs. Of these the best are the
serious Tahitian studies. There is a lum-
inous quality about the water, a verve and
a sparkle, quite unlike anything seen
recently in Sydney. And this, to a lesser
extent, is true of all the artist’s work. In
the sketches he has looked at our citizens
and customs with a ribald and remorseless
eye, and caught the mood of clamoring
crowds and comic individuals. In other
paintings the streets and Sydney buildings
are lit by a light not of this city, a
borrowed fire from his Tahitian paintings,
and here the results are not so happy.
But taken all round the paintings are
good, and almost extravagantly vital.
**#>(!
Another one-man show in Sydney is
John Rowell’s, at the Grosvenor Gallery.
The best of the paintings are concerned
with Australian landscape. An exception.
“Polperro, Cornwall,” is large and
ornate and rather unconvincing. But the
artist has achieved some good paintings
of clear blue skies, creeks, pad-
docks, and some very convincing trees,
spangled, at times, with light. All very
much in the style of Streeton, except that
much of the paint, unfortunately, is mean-
ingless.
• ♦ * •
Most of E. A. Harvey’s paintings, on
exhibition at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, seem to be smitten by some fell
disease that freezes all animation ; they
are paralysed, as it were, in mid-flower.
Much of the work is pleasant, but
patchy; stiff trees and incredible skies
keep cropping up everywhere, like ex-
clamation marks. “Lorna,” a portrait, is
the sort of thing at which the artist has
always been more successful. The face has
character, a smallish forehead, a red,
generous mouth and an alert expression
heightened by a suggestion of tension in
the lines of the neck. The eyes are light-
blue and prominent, but they just miss
distinction. Some flaw in technique has
prevented them from being truly vivid,
and the brown hair, repeating the faults
of the landscapes, is frozen unnaturally
in mid-wave.
* * * ♦
There were 159 pictures in the Aus-
tralian Art Society’s 21st annual exhibi-
tion at Anthony Hordern’s Galleries, and
they ranged from very poor to average
quality, with the accent on the lower
grade. Both J. Salvana’s “The Hot Gold
Hush of Noon” and H. Edgecombe’s
“Nerriga Afternoon” were beneath these
artists’ usual standard, and two nudes by
Garrett Kingsley developed unexpected
idiosyncrasies. The larger, and the better
of the two, “Joanne and the Dragon,” was
a conventional study of a nude reclining
among silks, a red and a blue. The
color was nicely assembled, and the lady
was well-painted, with a charming and
enigmatic smile; but, whether or not it
was anatomically correct, her left knee
hit one a deadly blow in the eye. “In the
Woods,” a study of a nude in a floppy
hat, was strangely sad. Another sylvan
study, “L’apres-midi d’un Faune,” by
K. Vetsch, had the same, incongruous air.
Fhe faun was depicted enjoying his after-
noon by peering around a tree, like a
small, shaggy and exceedingly timorous
mouse.
* * * *
Two contrary aims seem to be warring
in the work of Captain Elsdon Storey,
Junior, at the Velasquez Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Some of his landscapes give the
vivid contrasts of light and dark in Nature
—good examples are “Windsor Station at
Sunset,” “Market Garden,” “The Road
Home” and “The Ploughed Earth,” in
which there is a lively impression of the
dark earth upturned against a brilliant
background. But he does not upturn any
earth, as it were, in his portraits, nor
paint the light and dark of human
nature. However, he is experimental and
if his results are somewhat rocky they are
livelier than Alfred Coleman’s at the
Athenaeum. Mr. Coleman is an old cam-
paigner and paints pleasantly, but not
very profoundly—though there is a deeper
note in “So Ends the Day.” Orban,
who is showing at Myer’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne, and whose work in a
Sydney exhibition was recently reviewed
in “Sundry Shows,” strides the present
commentator as a rather heavy-handed
exponent of an artistic fashion that was
current 30 years ago in Europe. It is
the pattern one sees, whether he is paint-
ing Prague or an Australian landscape.
Two Russian Films.
A Russian film entitled “A Tribute to
Tschaikowsky,” shown at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne University, was bald
and inept, except for the lovely music.
To emphasise the genius of Tschai-
kowsky sheets of his music and a tableful
of his opuses were thrown upon the
screen, also photographs of performances
of his operas, “Swan Lake” being
equipped with four dancers. Borovansky
was showing the composer more respect
up at His Majesty’s the same evening.
There was nothing in the film of the
man himself. It was as if the Soviet
producer could believe in Tschaikowsky’s
genius but couldn’t feel it.
The second film, “Sands of Middle
Asia,” was a nature study. The endless
struggle for existence that goes on in the
desert spaces was symbolised by a few
ants and beetles, lizards, a desert croco-
dile, an eagle, a small herd of deer and
assorted members of the reptilian family,
all horribly concentrated on devouring
one another.
Shivers went up and down the spines of
the packed house as the murders went on,
ruthlessly, silently and impersonally, in
every hole and cranny, after which the
assassins drew the sand over them-
selves and retired from the heat of the
day to assimilate their victims.
It was nature red in tooth and claw
and surprisingly like human nature except
that the desert creatures didn’t form gov-
ernments and committees to justify their
actions on grounds of the rights of the
freedom-loving little countries. It was a
remarkable achievement, for which tele-
photo. lenses must have been responsible,
but a very depressing picture.
Solomon and Others.
Solomon did an unprecedented thing
by taking Melbourne Tbwn Hall for a
Saturday afternoon concert, and there
were sufficient genuine music-lovers to
justify his action. Solomon is prob-
ably the nearest to perfection of
any pianist Melbourne has heard for
a long time. His Chopin group
produced a burst of enthusiasm which,
if it had lasted a bit longer, would have
merged into the excitement which greeted
Todd Duncan, the negro baritone, when
he started running through a succession
of Strauss numbers in the same place on
the same evening.
As his season progresses Duncan’s
accompanist William Allen, who belongs
to the same race, begins to take a slice of
the attention away from his leader. He
is a notable pianist in his own right.
At the Assembly Hall adjacent,
Clement Q. Williams, a Sydney business-
man turned musician, who has since
gained a name overseas, and was
acclaimed as Canada’s leading singer, has
been singing an unusual programme, with
Enid Conley at the piano. Mr. Williams
explores the modern field for composers
nobody has ever heard of and sings them
with distinction.
A gap which threatened in the musical
procession will be filled by the National
Theatre, which is billed to produce
“Faust,” with John Lanigan in the name
part. Lanigan is the rising young singei
who recently caused a riot of apprecia-
tion at the Town Hall,
Af fhe Talkies
Presented with restraint and,, for the
most part, convincing realism, “The Last
Chance” (Sydney Liberty)—the story
of the escape of three prisoners-of-war
from Italy after the Germans had taken
over following the Italian surrender —is
reported to ,be acted largely by people
who have lived through the experiences
depicted in the film. If so, they’re sur-
prisingly good actors and must have had
the guidance of an uncommonly capable
director.
Half-way through their journey to
the Swiss border, the three prisoners
—two English and one American —find
themselves with the added responsibility
of shepherding over the mountains a
crowd of refugees from all over Europe.
All these people speak in their own
languages, translations being provided by
printed captions or by bi-lingual char-
acters in the story, and the effect adds
immensely to the realism of the piece.
The weakness of the film is that its
dramatic force diminishes —though by
no means vanishes —about half-way
through. It’s a fault that would have
been hard to avoid —with the introduction
of the refugees the character studies be-
come more numerous and less concen-
trated and, as the urgency of their flight
increases, the drama of character changes
to the weaker drama of action. And it
takes a good writer to inject propaganda
and sermons into a play. A consistently
good feature is the photography by Emil
Benia.
Other current films include “Deadline
at Dawn,” at Sydney Plaza, and “Whistle
Stop,” at the Civic. The Plaza show has
murder on a hot night for its subject, and
the suspense is built up as steadily as the
mystery is sustained ; Paul Lukas tosses
off the main role without having to think
about it, and Susan Hayward and new-
comer Billy Williams provide the neces-
sary. “Whistle Stop” concerns the return
of a disillusioned night-plub wench to her
home town, where she runs into pother in
the form of two earlier suitors, one a
successful crook and the other a no-good
loafer (George Raft), for whom she has
an unexplained affection and whom, of
course, she eventually reforms. The film
is noteworthy for the reappearance of
Victor McLaglen, whose depiction in the
closing scenes of animal mentality,
strength and ferocity, recalls the masterly
job he did in the film version of Liam
O’Flaherty’s The Informer.


LIMITED. ENGLAND
' .moF-
M
RAYON
for loveliness
that lasts
y
■view clothes are an event these l
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayon. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds rayon is still avail-
able, although the quantity is’
restricted
é
World distributors for
Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd.,
London, England.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co.
(Aust.)Pty. Ltd., 181 Clarence Street.
Hi Notions
Prospects for the big jumping double were
fined down considerably in Saturday s Hurdle
and Steeple events at Caulfield, the respective
winners, Solvent and Walladale, putting up
performances a repetition of which would see
both of them very hard to beat on July 6 and
13. They both won in a style to suggest that
they should be capable of making the longer
distances of the Nationals, but one or two can-
didates not present in Saturday’s events have
still to be reckoned wim.
One of the absentees not to be despised,
Hiatus, did have a run on Saturday, but in the
mile Welter, where, naturally, nothing was ex-
pected of him. Hiatus has top weight, 11.6, m
the National Hurdle, 241 b. more than he carried
into fourth place last year. It represents a
handicapper’s comment that the field isn’t so
good this year, but also that, in his view,
Hiatus has very much improved; a comment
emphasised further by the fact that Isambard,
second a year ago to Bay David and twice before
placed in Nationals, is now weighted to meet
Hiatus 191 b. better than last year. Hiatus
is not over-powerfully built, so 11.6 might be
quite enough for him at three miles, but he
won several Hurdles like a good horse early
in the season, and all going well should be
thereabouts oq July 6.
Whether the penalties clause in the Nationals’
conditions is a good thing looks questionable.
Hiatus no doubt ran in the Welter on Satur-
day to keep in racing trim without penalty risk,
but the form of some other Hurdle candidates
might improve on National Day. Under the
conditions the \yinner of any handicap hurdle
race or races after declaration of National
Hurdle weights can be penalised up to 141 b.,
and Solvent' copped an extra 51b. for Saturday s
win. That has not deterred early backers from
making Solvent the National Hurdle favorite,
a comment on the riskiness of which is that he
was also favorite last' year and sold out at
the first hurdle.
Other National Hurdle absentees on Saturday
that must enter into the reckoning included old
Isambard and the brilliant Krallis. Isambard
has been finishing on in his safe plugging style,
and Krallis is nicely weighted at 10.6. That
was also Solvent’s issue in the original weights,
and in very comfortably downing John Mase-
field and the South Australian First Aid (on
whom a lot of money has been dropped since
he came over) Solvent lumped his increased
National weight, 10.11. First Aid, now set
to meet Solvent 91b. better in the National
Hurdle, on Saturday seemed to have every
chance and failed to respond to urging at the
end of the slightly over two miles journey.
Being a six-year-old gelding by The Buzzard
(whose stock sometimes shows its best round
about that age), Solvent should stay indefinitely,
and he will noyv have 91b. pull in the weights
over Hiatus.
A recent winner, John Masefield, at the
bottom of the weights, ran well enough again
on Saturday to have a definite National chance.
Walladale, a six-year-old Friarsdale gelding,
swooped clearly into NationaF Steeple calcula-
tions with his Wanda Steeplechase win, beat-
ing Night Life and Hearsay as pointlessly over
the two miles and three furlongs as Solvent
had won the Hurdle. Moreover, it was Walla-
dale’s first shot at ’chasing, and he equalled
the course record. The disappointment of the
event was Gay Invader, who was well away and
always handy enough to win if he could have
come on. Night Life and Hearsay made much
of the running, Walladale moving up confi-
dently over the final seven furlongs to join
Night Life near the last fence and then shoot
away. Gay Invader is sure to be improved by
the run, his first for about a year, despite
which he was made favorite.
Absentees from the Wanda field included old
Tente, who has 11.3 in the big Steeple and
seems to be going better just now than ever,
and Leicester Square, who looked lucky to have
a recent win when Garofil nearly toppled, but
who is definitely improving in the ’chasing
business. However, they may have to keep
going fast - to down Walladale if Saturday’s
run is a sound pointer to his ability over the
fences.
Switched some time back from his former
leaping occupation to the flat', the aged Paren-
thesis gelding Ellipsis made his wins three in
a row by downing the dead-heaters Bisley and
Star Shell in the 12-furlongs Richmond Handi-
cap. Sensible handicapping made the perform-
ance possible, Ellipsis not having been weighted
out of it for his wins, as happens pretty often
in some weightings.
A solid and consistent miler, the four-year-
old Valiant Chief gelding Medicine improved
on a string of placmgs—one or two of them
unlucky—to beat Baffin Bay, Leryhen and a
number of fancied others in the June Welter.
A. Breasley, back from Adelaide, made a
big difference to Aggressor in winning the six-
furlongs Rosny Plate from Carngham and
Tamerlane; and Revinach, an improving bay
colt by English Derby winner Coronach, was
half a neck and a head too good for the Law
Maker colt King’s Law and the Hostile gelding
Upheaval in the seven-furlongs Minook Handi-
cap for two-year-olds.
* * * *
Cancellation of special trains to the other-
wise rather inaccessible Rosehill course, and
bleak weather, resulted in attendance at the
S.T.C. meeting dropping to around 17,000 —
well below what is these days regarded as
normal, but actually surprisingly good.
It has been a long time between wins for
Prince, the last in November, but the poor
quality of the S.T.C. Handicap field gave him
his chance. Starting at 6 to 4, the warmest
favorite of the day, he comfortably defeated
Spearex and Silent, giving A. Mulley his 50th
winning mount this season. After carrying Mrs.
P. Osborne’s colors for several seasons, Prince
is to be sold at Inglis’s sales next month,
which may imply that his winning days are con-
sidered ended.
An improved version of the starting stalls was
in operation at Rosehill, the boxes being at
the seven-furlongs barrier, from which point
four of Saturday’s seven races were started.
One that appeared to benefit a good deal from
the box start was Jamelie, a notoriously un-
reliable starter. She got away with them, and
at least gave her supporters a run, leading to
the distance. Brazier, who had been trailing
the filly, then took over, but Field Captain,
whom Fordyce managed to extricate from some
early trouble, found a lucky opening on the
rails and came through under punishment to
down Brazier a head, with Sir Neith nex .
Fordyce was fined for excessive use of the
spurs.
Field Captain has always had the handi-
capper’s very high regard, and that gentleman
“Purse be damned , sir—this is strictly an affair of
honor!”
once more proved correct, rating the three-year-
old Nuffield colt only 21b. inferior to the
Epsom winner Kiaree, who, incidentally, is
nearing a win.
Punters did not agree with the handicapper’s
opinion of Double Mint, top-weight of the
Maiden Two-year-olds (colts and geldings).
Allowed to start at eights, Double Mint proved
too good for the favorite, Uranium, in a close
finish; Mr. Punch was third, with Mulley’s
assistance. Maxwell, who 'rode the winner,
was suspended for two months, being held
responsible for a scrimmage early in the race.
A fine-looking filly by the imported Mid
Kent, November accounted for Foolfox, Engage-
ment and other maiden two-year-old fillies.
November races for Mrs. R. Wootton, the
family evidently making a hobby of Mid
Kent’s progeny. In the same race R. Wootton
had Kentish Maid a runner, while he scratched
Gay Fly, both by the same sire. Later in the
afternoon Mrs. Wootton had further success
with the breed when her three-year-old filly
Midlander finished ahead of Dieppe to be
second to Yankee Lad (G. Moore), an easy
winner of the Trial first division. Midlander re-
turned £8 Bs. on the place tote. The second
division of the Trial went to Blanmar, who
also won by several lengths from Double Gift
and Winfate, In the concluding nine-furlongs
Welter the ex-Melbourne galloper Codicil (F.
Williams) had the better of a desperate finish
with Philgita; King’s Glen third.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Kurrajong Two-year-old (colts and geldings):
Lucky Escape, 1; Uranium, 2; Denali, 3.
Castlereagh Two-year-old (fillies): Foolfox, 1;
Photinia, 2; November, 3. Windsor Novice:
Lucky Attunga, 1; New Cashmere, 2; The
Doctor, 3. Clarendon Flying: Cragsman, 1;
Field Captain, 2; Sir Neith, 3. Hawkesbury
Handicap: Kiaree, 1; Spearex, 2; War Eagle,
3. Richmond Highweight: Strauss, 1; Marshal
Tito, 2; Dieppe, 3.
* * * *
A distinct exception from the blight that is
on a lot of N.S.W. country racing is Grafton,
the leafy Cathedral City on the Clarence, where
they run an excellent racing carnival annually
in July, this year mainly on the 17th, 18th
(Cup Day) and 20th. The Cup, run over a
mile and a quarter and 100 yards, is worth
£lOOO, with other chief attractions the Clarence
River Jockey Club Handicap (first leg of the
double) and the Ramornie, for many years
one of the best sprint events in country racing.
The V.F.L. had one of the biggest days
in recent years when well over 100,000
Melboumites, scorning transport troubles
and threats of lightless and gasless days
ahead, turned out for Saturday’s six
matches. More than a third of ’em went
to Carlton and, in a ding-dong last
quarter between the locals and Footscray,
saw ’Scray beaten for the first time this
year by four points, 12.20 to 13.10. But
’Scray’s bitterness was as a sunny day
to the blight which fell upon Essendon,
whose team went to Geelong for a picnic
and was grabbed, minced and salted by
the rejuvenated Sleepy Hollow team, 18.18-
12.15. Richmond Tigers, also regarding
their game with Melbourne as a “Pleasant
Saturday Afternoon,” were detoothed, de-
roared and defeated by 13.8 to 9.16.
Meantime Collingwood beat South,
18.17-12.12; North beat Fitzroy with
exactly the same figures ; and St. Kilda
10.24 beat Hawthorn 9.12.
Footscray heads the V.F.L. four with
nine wins. Essendon, Collingwood and
Carlton are next, North and South Mel-
bourne heading the rest way back in the
distance. Essendon, stoushed by Gee-
long on Saturday, must be contemplating
the Carlton defeat of Footscray sourly —
a win over Geelong, which usually
couldn’t beat West Wonnangatta, would
have put the ’Dons level with the leaders.
« » « «
The English Rugby League team had
an easy match at Tamworth with a Nor-
thern N.S.W. side and a hard one at Bris-
bane two days later —three in five days.
Improving greatly on its exhibitions in
Sydney, the Queensland XIII won 25-24,
Grice the half-back, getting good protec-
tion from forwards —denied in the first
match with “Australia.” As the game
was played the Queenslanders would have
been unlucky to lose, but too much travel
ling without needed intervals for rest and
too many casualties on and off the field
are giving the
tourists far more
worry than the
quality of the
opposition.
* H<
Randwick was
never seriously
troubled to beat
Drummoyne 28-6
in Sat u r day’s
Rugby Union,
scoring six tries
to two, but Uni-
versity found
Manly donkey-
licked by Rand-
wick the previous
Saturday too
strong, the Vil-
lagers leading 9-0
at “lemons” and
going on to win
18-13. St. George
making good Use
of a strong wind
had 19-0 u p
against Gordon in
the first half, and
despite some fine
play by centre
Allan, who scored 14 points for the High-
landers, had a six points’ advantage,
23-17, at the finish. Other games: North
11, Parramatta 10; East 20, West 6-
Randwick is still four points ahead of
East, with Uni. third and Manly fourth.
» * * *
Withdrawal of the American Kramer
took some interest from the Queen’s Club
tournament in England, but the Ecua-
dorian Segura restored it and upset the
Wimbledon seedings a trifle by defeating
Pails in the final, a three-set match ; those
at Wimbledon will be five sets. Winning
the first set 6-4, Segura then had a breather
while Pails took the second set 6-0 and
gained a 4-3 lead in the third. Then the
Ecuadorian put in another burst and won
the deciding set 6-4.
For the Wimbledon men’s singles the
Australian pair. Pails and Brown, were
seeded Nos. 1 and 3 respectively, with
Kramer No. 2 and Segura surprisingly
placed behind Brown, who, after all, had
no international form on which to base
the preference. Pails and Brown were
rated first for the doubles. An interest-
ing entry for Wimbledon was Don Clay-
ton, a youngster over there on the Shrop-
shire. He’s a Sydney E. Suburbs Hardcourt
Assoc, player who when the war started
was representing Sydney Boys’ High.
jjc He * *
Among the many old fighters who
weighed in with accurate enough fore-
casts of the Louis-Conn meeting the most
emphatic was Gene Tunney. Months be-
fore the event Tunney offered to bet ten
thousand dollars that welterweight Ray
Robinson could beat Conn over the title
distance. “Conn,” said Tunney, “has been
a playboy for the last five years and is in
no more condition to fight than I am. Or
less.” Tunney further predicted that “it
will be the worst heavyweight champion-
ship match since Johnson and Jeffries at
Reno, and may wind up setting boxing
back 20 years as a sport.” Pretty accurate
forecasting in all particulars, Louis merely
carrying Conn for seven rounds, then
coming out and giving the final-round
glove-touch in the eighth, in which, with
a right cross and left hook, he knocked
Conn clean out of the business. The most
emphatic post-mortem finding was that of
an American Senator, who fruitily des-
cribed the whole thing as “a stinkeroo.”
* * * *
In the second round of the fourth fight
between Leo Heaney and Les Fuller at
Sydney Stadium two customers began a
brawl and made it so willing that most of
the other customers shifted their gaze
from the affair in the ring. When they
shifted it back Fuller was down and out,
effect of a right cross to the chin. The
Westralian had not previously been sus-
pected of owning such a punch.
* * * *
While he lasted, a young lightweight,
Norm Richards, looked pretty good
against Ted Sprouster at Leichhardt. For
a few rounds *he outfought the more ex-
perienced Sprouster. But a double-
barrelled body battery bothered the
aspiring youth in the sixth, and his mouth
was a study in crimson throughout the
ninth. The referee then decided that he
had taken enough for one night and
crowned Sprouster.


acnp
\ x mi
<7l
l
a
7
\N
N
k
->•
“OSRAM” BRIGHTENS
HOME LIFE
With Henry Smith you’ll sympathise,
He suffered trouble with his eyes;
The cause, of course, was feeble lights,
That’s why he couldn’t read at nights,
Which made him cranky with his wife
And kids, and filled the home with strife.
But brightness now replaces gloom,
They’ve “OSRAM” lamps in every room.
O
for
an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Guaranteed by:
fumbaC S&efoie Ca s<£.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The £&(?. of England.)
ISYDNEY • NEWCASTLE . MELBOURNE . PERTH
HOBART . LAUNCESTON . ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
The Wi11... \SSs?
of o man on the land
Needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who
will conserve his Estate for those whom, under his Will,
he desires to benefit.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
has for over fifty years successfully managed country
estates with pastoral, grazing and mixed farming
interests and during that period the Company has
surmounted the difficulties associated with adverse
seasonal conditions, marketing problems and the ever-
changing economic situation.
The Company is aided in its management by the expert
and practical knowledge of its Pastoral Inspector—a
landowner himself—who is available to report on all
properties under its control.
Write for Booklet.
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY
Business. Rollery. Etc.
THE ROAD TO RECOVERY.
[This article on Australia’s present economic and social difficulties and the indicated
solution will be published in two parts. Part II will appear next week.]
(I)
Australians at present feel that their
future, economically and politically, is very
clouded. Fundamentally a free and vigor-
ous people, they want to be able to see a
track leading with reasonable certainty
to objectives which they have in mind.
There is no such clarity now, and the
years have been running away fast since
the pre-war period of bountiful civilian
production ended in 1939.
Opportunity to lead a full, productive
life is now restricted. During the depres-
sion of the early 1930’s three or four
years of economic disorganisation was
considered to be a national tragedy, as
no doubt it was. Today, after six years
of war wastage, we are in a production
depression that is as threatening in its
social and economic consequences as any-
thing that we passed through in 1932.
This time almost everyone is on a dole
or a ration.
Two Kinds of “Vicious Circle”
In the 1930 depression, following a
borrowing, spending and importing boom,
we suffered a severe deflation of values,
with “overproduction.” Now we have
serious inflation, with underproduction
even of present living requirements, as
well as of luxuries and machinery, etc., to
restore production. Cannot we do some-
thing to bring production up to a level
where it will beat inflation before an
economic collapse forces on us, the hard
way, a desire to work?
The “vicious circle” of the 1930’s was
represented as one in which overproduc-
tion prevailed ; falling sales resulted in the
putting-off of staff, and the additional
unemployment thus created caused a
further drop in sales, a further'
cut in staff, and so on. Another
such circle was that of the deflation
policy; if you attempted to reduce costs,
it was contended, you decreased the
already-shrinking volume of spending
power, caused a further fall in prices that
demanded a further cut in costs, bank-
ruptcies increased, investors held tightly
to their money, unemployment became
widespread and business activity stag-
nated. Such was the popular story of
financial-depression economics, and up to
a point it was quite true, though rarely
so unqualifiedly true as to justify a policy
of' indiscriminate inflation as a cure for
a slump that was the natural follower of
previous inflation.
Today Australia is circumscribed by a
vicious circle of a different kind. War
reduced civil production, created a short-
age of civil manpower. Manpower de-
manded higher wages because of its
“strategic” position, and mostly got them.
Manpower, with little danger of the sack,
reduced its production also. Higher wages
resulted in higher spending power; war
and reduced production ratio brought a
big cut in goods available for civilians,
giving rise to rationing and price control.
Heavy taxation, highest on investors and
management side of industry, while not
high enough to reduce spending power to
the level of reduced civilian production,
discouraged the working of overtime be-
cause of the increasing. tax rates on in-
creasing incomes. Financial incentives
disappeared both among wage-earners and
many employers, and the difficulty of
spending money in a useful or attractive
way further reduced the incentive to earn.
With production in many key industries
fallen to danger point the “strategic”
position of trade-unionists further “im-
proved,” bringing further demands for
higher pay, shorter working week, other
concessions that increase the excess
of money (inflation), increase costs, re-
duce production, further strengthen the
hand of industrial anarchists and union-
ists lacking in moral qualities. Those in
the community who have striven, directly
or indirectly, to achieve this production
impasse and costs and credit inflation
have been given political concessions all
“I may be late tonight. Warden—will you leave the gates unlocked ?”
through the piece, strengthening their
position, weakening the hands of those
who have fought for social unity, main-
tained (or improved) production, stable
costs, stable money.
That is an outline of our present vicious
circle.
In 1933 and onward the slump circle
was broken by restoring the spread of
buying power, reducing costs, lifting
prices, where possible, by curbing exces-
sive production, rationing employment
until the shortage of jobs had largely
disappeared, expanding the Government
Budget in the direction of spending on
reproductive public works and assisting
private industry to give jobs.
Getting Out of the “Spin”
Our present problem is in many,
though not all, cases a reverse one;
it can be solved only by restor-
ing production, restraining costs, re-
straining prices, curbing consumer
spending, rationing goods until they
become more plentiful in relation to the
money supply, calling upon labor for a
bigger output per hour than at any time
in its history (helped, as it has been, by
improved methods and machines), and a
reduction of Government spending that
is not productive of needed consumer
goods. If Labor refuses to increase its
production, then a certain amount of
unemployment might be a necessary evil.
Those who won’t learn willingly must be
taught sense through hardship.
Labor is fully capable of doing its part
in solving our present production problem
without straining itself in any way pro-
vided it is firmly directed along the right
lines by a productively-minded Govern-
ment and experienced industrial organ-
isers. It. is necessary for the Government
to use its centralised powers over finance
very skilfully, with full regard for econo-
mic consequences.
It may be that certain elements of the
Labor movement want to perpetuate a
state of economic and political civil war
in Australia. That is the sort of thing
we are seeing now, and it is something
from which the general public gets no
benefit, even if certain sections find it a
payable racket and a source of personal
elevation.
We Must Work as a Nation
But if we believe in government
of the people by the people for
the people, then we cannot sit idly
by and see the welfare of the whole
nation obstructed by the stranglehold that
militant minorities have established, a<
least for the time being, over Australian
industry and, to some extent, finance.
Government financial policy has in a con-
siderable measure been dictated by the
trade-union leaders. 0
We must again function as a nation,
and our Government must accept national
views. Australian wage-earners are not
downtrodden ; they get as big a share of
the national income as in almost any
country of the world. But because of the
political and industrial attitude of wage-
earners generally our standard of living
is falling. The country can no longer
afford to be run to suit the envious,
ignorant, selfish, shortsighted and dis-
gruntled elements.
The energetic, the willing, the brainy
and the enterprising must be given full
opportunity and incentive to play their
part in the nation’s affairs. Labor, as it
is politically constituted in Australia, can-
not lead ; it has to be led. It has shown
that when given power it does not accept
responsibility or honor moral values. It
cannot look ahead. Therefore, to give
of its best, it must be subject to firm,
benevolent discipline. When it gives of
its best it does best for itself.
Capital has found that it does best
when Labor is fully employed and earn-
ing most. In Australia Labor is envious
of Capital, and begrudges even the expan-
sion by Capital that means greater indus-
try, more and better jobs. Capital, on
the whole, has learned to live and let live,
and it knows more about the rules of
economics than does Labor. Labor is
too prone to a policy of pure exploitation
of others. As a political force it is selfish
rather than scientific, cunning rather than
capable. It lacks administrative ability,
this being shown particularly during the
recent war, when the running of the
nation’s affairs was largely left to the
fancies of a Federal Labor Government
dictated to by the trade-unions. Wishes
father its thinking.
There is too much that is utterly fanci-
ful and emotional in Labor’s philosophy.
In our present crisis Parliamentary Labor
is still reluctant to look facts in the face ;
it is in a state of retreat from political
and economic difficulties, governing only
those of the people willing to be governed.
It has supporters on all political sides for
some form of price-control, for example,
so it “enforces” price-control. But it
shies off the disciplining of refractory
unions striking at our whole productive
system.
A great deal has been said here about
Labor and the Labor party in outlining
our present production crisis. That is


* *
K
•A'
V
The sky's the limit
when you use stainle
There is practically no limit to the uses for
Stainless Steel Tubing in many profitable fields
of post-war production—in the chemical, textile,
food - processing, brewing industries and many
more—in furniture, fittings, domestic and com-
mercial appliances—in plant and products alike.
These tubes are not only corrosion-resistant,
enduring and attractive. They have high mech-
anical strength; they can be bent, coiled, welded,
threaded and fabricated by ordinary engineering
methods to meet the needs of the job.
Available with either descaled (silvery-matt) or
polished finish inside and out, in gauges and
diameters to suit any need. Our nearest Branch
Warehouse will supply you.
GOMSTEEI
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—Head Office and Works: Waratah, N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth.
because the crisis has been mainly created
by our own people, and largely by Labor
people. Labor, unrepentant as yet, will
have to suffer with the rest of the com-
munity. It will have to learn that it can-
not rise to power without accepting full
responsibility for the consequences. If
it refuses to pull its weight with the rest
of the people the sooner hardship brings
it back to commonsense the better.
Higher standards of living, better work-
ing conditions and social-security arrange-
ments cannot be given to a section of the
people merely to be used irresponsibly as
ammunition to batter the livelihood and
and security of the whole nation. If»
given strength. Labor follows a policy
of national self-destruction it will have
to be weakened again for the good of
itself and all others.
Centralised Government Spending
Clearly the wisdom or otherwise of
Government financial policy now must
have a profound effect on the economic
welfare of the whole nation. If Gov-
ernment spending policy at present is
wrong, then it is enormously wrong, and
almost every citizen must suffer. It can
be said with certainty that the £76 million
a year spent by Canberra before the war
was spent far more skilfully and wisely
than the present £6OO million a year.
With the growth in its control over the
national income. Government responsi-
bility seems to have decreased rather than
increased, and quality of administration
has slumped.
Government expenditure can involve
waste in more ways than one. Waste
may simply mean the payment of too
high a price for a useful job reasonably
well done. On the other hand it may
involve the misdirection of money, labor
and materials on a large scale, with little
or nothing useful to the nation arising
from the expenditure. In the first case
the taxpayer is taxed too much for the
service the Government renders, and little
worse happens. In the second case
valuable effort and materials, both
urgently needed at the present time, are
wasted, and the taxpayer is slugged by
the Treasury in addition. A Government
commanding such huge spending powers
as those possessed by the Canberra
Administration now can waste national
resources on a most damaging scale if
its planning is faulty and its execution
negligent or haphazard.
The effect of public waste and mis-
directed effort is stressed here because too
many people are inclined to believe that
money wasted does no one harm be-
cause it “circulates” afterwards. Let
them remember their present taxation
rates and the present shortage of desired
goods, houses and necessary public works.
Continued waste will make that position
permanent. It becomes hard to see, too,
what pressing need exists for a standard-
gauge railway throughout the Common-
wealth, especially if used simply as a
means of “giving employment” regardless
of cost or efficiency. We could waste
much labor, material and money that
way.
Private industry, at its most primitive,
endeavors to manufacture for public
demand at a profit. Public demand may
at times be extravagant, but, on the
whole, it is influenced by actual require-
ments. At the present time private in-
dustry has comparatively little discretion,
and it and the people are certainly de-
prived of their discretion in the outlay of
several hundred millions of pounds a year
that now pass through Government in-
stead of private hands.
{Continued next week.)
Textile Exports
The development of our textile im-
ports has captured public attention a
great deal lately, partly for the reason
that such textiles are in short supply in
Australia, partly because the exports re-
flect credit on the quality of our woollen
textiles, and partly because they repre-
sent a further source of strength to our
principal primary industry —woolgrow-
ing.
In the latest 10 months yarns and
manufactured fibres, textiles and “apparel
and attire” were valued for export pur-
poses at £5.6 million, compared with
£1.9 million in the same period of 1944-
45 and £523,000 in July-April, 1938-39.
Manufacturers, no doubt, are torn be-
tween a desire to fill the undersupplied
Australian market and at the same time
establish connections with overseas
countries for expansion of trade later on.
The present is obviously an advantageous
time to breach new markets.
One of the difficulties in meeting both
requirements at the moment is the prob-
lem of adequate labor supplies. If there
was enough willing and competent labor
to keep all our mills working at full
capacity present textile exports from Aus-
tralia would represent little or no drain
on our production. Other countries have
found it necessary to ration the home
market in order to build up export con-
nections, and Australia should not be
shortsighted in this regard, though, of
course, it is worth making sacrifices at
home now only in cases where some per-
manent post-war trading advantage is
likely to accrue from them. New Zea-
land has become quite a big importer of
Australian worsteds and hosiery since the
end of the war.
Broken Hill Prop, shares are selling at
525. in New Zealand, and the London
market is at the equivalent of 495. In the
Commonwealth, home of the industry,
the Treasury has limited the price to
465. 3d. North Broken Hill ss. shares
are the equivalent of 675, in London, but
are kept at 595. 6d. in the Common-
wealth. Morris Hedstrom is at 565. in
Maoriland, 31s. 6d. in Australia. In the
case of Huddart, Parker the figures are
725. and 545. 6d. respectively. For how
much longer is Mr. Chifley going to
carry on this childish restriction of what
should be a free market?
* * * *
For the 11 months to May 31 Com-
monwealth accounts show a net “war”
expenditure of £365 million, already £5
million above the Budget estimate for
the full year, even allowing for £44 mil-
lion of credits deducted in March. In
that month we had to meet £l2 million
of deferred claims from Britain, making
the net credit £32 million. Assuming
that all credits relate to services rendered
in previous years, Australian “war” ex-
penditure rises to £397 million for the 11
months, against a Budget estimate of
£360 million (deducting £2O million of
recoverable expenditure relating to
previous years) for the full year. The
Budget also allowed for an income of
£2B million from disposals. It is likely
that more than this sum has been re-
ceived by the Treasury from the sale of
surplus war goods and that, altogether,
“war” spending has been very much in
excess of Budget estimates. The ac-
counts, so far as these credits are con-
cerned, are oysterlike. More detail is
also required so far as “war” spending
is concerned. A sum that will be in ex-
cess of £4OO million by any calculation
when totals go up on June 30 should be
open to the closest scrutiny by taxpayers.
The Budget papers usually give a fair
amount of detail in this respect, and it
will be interesting to see if the Budget
is brought down before the elections in
August or September, or whether past
“achievements” and future intentions will
be kept hidden from the people until they
have cast their vote.
* * * *
After a year of abject submission to the
threats of the Seamen’s Union the
Federal “Government” is “considering”
the question of war-risk bonuses. More
than a year ago there was a recommenda-
tion by the Maritime Industries Commis-
sion that the bonus be reduced, but, fol-
lowing a shipping holdup that ensued.
Judge de Baun resigned from the com-
mission because some members of it
were not abiding by its decisions. The
Government then surrendered to the mili-
tants, and “war”-risk bonuses on a high
scale have been paid ever since, even
though war in the Pacific has been over
since August, When it is remembered
that maritime unions defied the law in
going out on strike in sympathy with the
Communist ironworkers there should be
little tenderness for these hold-up mer-
chants in the hearts of Ministers when
the “war”-risk bonus is “considered.” It
is obvious that Communist unions are out
to get, by standover methods, a continua-
tion in the peace of every war-time con-
cession that was granted to them. Where
these concessions and bonuses represent
a burden on the rest of the community
they will have to be eliminated and the
standover unionists taught that “crime
does not pay.” One difficulty in the way
of getting to a showdown with the sea-
men and ships’ cooks is that the Govern-
ment is at present the employer under its
war-time shipping arrangements. It will
probably be left to private enterprise to
fight it out with militants and Corns., just
as it has been left to the Sydney County
Council, B.H.P. and others.
* * *" *
Though the basic wage is reckoned to
be about 22 p.c. above the pre-war level,
hourly wage rates, as a general thing, are
calculated by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician to have lifted more than 28 p.c,
above the 1938-39 standard. That is ex-
clusive of pastoral and agricultural
groups, where the increase has been 50
p.c. on a weekly-wage basis. In a number
c' 'ndustrial groups the hourly Wage rate
v. uld appear to have increased at least
50 p.c., especially in those parts of the
shipping industry receiving a war-risk
bonus.


ABORIGINALITIES
“X.E.D.”: “Ferretin’ ain’t sich a bad
hobby with a string of lively young bucks
an’ a trained pet rabbit, like I useter
have,” said Ned. “When a ferret got
stuck up I’d send the bunny down t’
coax him out, savin’ a lot of me time. I
expected any time that the ferrets’d wake
up t’ the caper an’ cop the bunny, but
things went smoothly f’r a couple of
munce. I was draggin’ in rabbits as fast
as I could skin an’ peg out. Then one
day a ferret snuck on me pet an’ nipped
him, an’ after that I jist had t’ go back
t’ trappin’.” “Spoiled y’r rabbit f’r the
job?” I asked. “No, it weren’t 'that,”
Ned said. “It made him too vicious. That
night he got in the cage somehow an’
bashed hell out of me ferrets. Y’
couldn’t git ’em down a burrer after
that.”
* * * *
“T. ,McN.”: “Nor’west” reports (B.
12/6/’46) that “My experience of biting
sharks is that they do turn over when
snapping at a human.” Well, if he will
go round biting the things, what does he
expect?
* * * *
“E. 2”: “The new hand is the biggest
gawk I ever struck,” said Tom. “I gave
him a bucket an’ a couple of udder
cloths an’ told him t’ git a start with the
milkin’ while I dressed a sheep. ‘Wot’s
them rags f’r?’ he asks. ‘Y’ve got t’ wash
’em before y’ milk here’ I ses. After-
wards I catch him scrubbin’ Strawb from
head t’ tail, with her bellerin’ fit t’ bust.
‘Slows the milkin’ down,’ he grumbles as
I gape at him. ‘An’ y’ didn’t gimme no
soap t’ git up a decent larther.’ ”
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”: “Exkewex” (B.
5/6/’46) is a bit obtuse. It was canned
whale meat that earned my deserved
encomiums, not the loose article, though
that isn’t to be sneezed at, especially when
the beef is varied with liver, sweetbread
and brains. Whale meat as food goes
back in human gastronomic history far
beyond “E.’s” Moby Dick and Bullen
days. A thousand years and more ago
coast - dwellers in Norway, Sweden,
Britain and Ireland kept close watch for
whales stranded during the annual mi-
grations and offered up thanksgiving for
any such splendid replenishment of their
scanty meat supplies. The Vikings went
whaling to provide for the dark winter
season when piracy was no longer pos-
sible. Far beyond them again are clear
references to whale meat in the Vedas,
the ancient Sanskrit holy books of the
Hindus.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Those “catfish rings” (B.
12/6/’46) in fresh-water streams are the
nests in which the female deposits her
spawn. The male fish hovers above
them, adding his contribution for ferti-
lisation, and presently the tiny “cats” are
ducking and dodging about trying to
avoid being swallowed by cod, perch,
bream and their own parents. I never
saw a ring Bft. wide.
* * ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: “I had one of them
cunnin’ blokes for a mate once,” said
Mat. “Always workin’ out schemes an’
dodges t’ make money. We was on a
stone-crusher near Bacchus Marsh (Vic.),
and at the pub he runs across one of
them medical books. It’s all about heart
troubles, an’ he gets wrapped up in it,
an’ I notice him studyin’ it mighty close
an’ gettin’ about thinkin’ hard. One day
he’s up on the elevator an’ falls off. He’s
groanin’ and complainin’, an* they get
him to a doctor. Well, y’ see, he knew
all the symptoms and where the pain
ought t’ be for a strained heart, an’ he
pours ’em into that doc., and the doc,
reckons he’s got about six months to live.
So, o’ course, he goes t’ the city an’ gets
a lawyer an’ goes the company for big
damages. They get the doc. into the wit-
ness-box an’ he repeats the bit about all
the symptoms showin’ a life limit of
about six months. Then the company’s
lawyer starts on the cunnin’ bloke, an’
when he’s done with him the Beak
looks down an’ says ‘So you believe
“Which o’ you kids left the gate open inter the lucerne paddock ?”
you’ve only six months, my man?’ ‘Yes,
y’r worship,’ the cunnin’ bloke pipes.
‘Well, you’re wrong,’ comes back the
Beak. ‘l’m committin’ y’ for false pre-
tences, attempted fraud an’ perjury, an’
you’ll be lucky if it’s less than twelve
months.’ Cripes, his heart ruddy near gave
out then!”
* * * *
“Motukuri”; In all the months I
worked on Maoriland’s Kaiangaroa
Plains with a survey party, chopping up
4500 acres into 500-acre blocks so that
the tree-planters couldn’t get lost, I didn’t
see a patch of real soil. Not much rock,
either, except at the bottom of the huge
wadis, as the boss, a Middle East veteran,
called the deep gullies that slash those
plains. In case you are thinking they
planted the trees in cornflakes or some-
thing, I’ll tell you: it was all pumice—
miles of it, and pretty deep, too. Lumps
of it as big as jeeps could be pushed over
with one hand. Mostly it was pumice
sand, but it grew Finns insignis well
enough. And rabbits; but they were
lazy, and burrowed only a foot or two
below the surface. It was too easy:
a few hearty stamps with a boot and
there was a feed.
♦ * ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: “No. 1 Bench”
misses “the mosf remarkable thing about
those jarrah road blocks” which resisted
the white-ants (B. 15/5/’46) —which is
that a big proportion of them were not
jarrah but white-gum. This timber also
grows in the locality, and is manna to
the termite, as an examination of any
of it within 20 yards of the road will dis-
close. Standing or fallen, it is riddled,
and many a tree still showing green
leaves is merely a shell, the termite ap-
pearing to favor the butt of the living
tree as a home site. Yet, as “No. 1
Bench” says, none of the road blocks
was attacked. Thought it might have
been due to the traffic until I recalled
the fine flooring boards in the house my
grandfather built. They had plenty of
traffic, too, but they attracted every ter-
mite for miles. My guess is that the
white-ants, appalled at the enormity of a
task at which even insects would have
boggled, left the road as an example to
their progeny of what can be achieved
by heroic tenacity of purpose and disre-
gard of cost of labor.
* * * *
“Fang”: The bar was deserted except
for the little wizened man perched dis-
consolately on the corner-stool with head
in hands and the yellow hound standing
on his hind legs and licking him gently
behind one ear. The man stirred a little
and spoke to the dog. “G’on outshidesh,”
he muttered. The dog backed off, looked
appealingly at his boss and returned to
lick his coat sleeve. The drunk stirred
again and uncertainly opened his eyes.
“G’on outshidesh,” he repeated. “Sh-
shouldn’t be in ’ere. Cripesh, ain’t it bad
f nough me bein’ ’ere?”
* * ♦ «
“Blime”: “Bullocky Ned” had sold his
rainbow team and gone out of business,
but a year or two spent mooning around
the pubs convinced him there was no
other life worth while, and he announced
his intention of returning to the roads.
Then started his hunt for bullocks. Time
after time Ned would hear of a few
workers 20 miles north or a likely sale 30
miles south and, borrowing Bung’s bike,
would make the trip, only to find the
animals were too old or beyond range
of his resources. Then came reliable
news of a big team offering about 40
miles west. Young beasts, well broken
and at a reasonably attractive price. Ned
left early, but the following day found
him back once more, weary, dry and
noticeably downcast. “Buy your bul-
locks, Ned?” Bung inquired. The old
chap shook his head. “Why? Wasn’t it
right about ’em being a good team?”
Ned drained his glass carefully. “Yair,
they wus good beasts,” he nodded. “Never
seen such a even team in me life. But,
cripes, they wus all black polls.” Bung
looked puzzled. “Yair? Ain’t the blacks
good workers, then?” “Aw, it ain’t
that,” drawled Ned, “but, cripes, how’d
a bloke ever tell which was the leaders?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Exkewex”: Dollar birds used to visit
our South Queensland farm every spring
and continue further south as the weather
warmed. Then one pair decided to stay,
nesting in a termites’ nest exactly as
kookaburras do. They stayed on for over
10 years, never going more than half a
mile from the home tree and nesting in
the same spot each year. Neither bird
was injured in any way, so far as its
flying apparatus was concerned, and each
indulged in the antics which have earned
them their other name of “Rollers.”
Strangely enough none of their progeny
showed the least inclination to settle down
near the old folks. Incidentally, those
birds upset one of the most cherished of
our local weather prophet’s beliefs: “You
never get frost when there are dollar birds
about.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Ted, who worked for
years on the Trans line and some of the
more remote of Westralia’s country rail-
ways, stakes an enginedriver’s reputation
on the statement that men perishing from
thirst die happy, immersed, in their de-
lirium, in lakes of sweet water. He bases
his claim on the fact that, of the dozens
of prospectors who have reached the rails
in an exhahsted condition, all to be res-
cued by his train were smiling and
appeared contented. The real agony, he
avers, occurs on the way back to life.
It may well be. Men frozen almost to
death have no recollection of pain after
a certain point in the process of refrigera-
tion, but experience the torments of hell
while being thawed out. I’ve long held
the theory that animals in the wild, in the
knowledge of approaching death at the
hands of carnivorous enemies, are fear-
driven into a condition of insensibility to
pain. Nature in many respects is merci-
ful. Ask any man who has experienced a
sustained bombardment to recount his
experiences and I’ll warrant that his most
vivid account will be a marvel of under-
statement.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Aboscribes have
named a long list of uses for bamboo.
I cite as an example of unusual utility
to which it can be put the grand organ
in the ancient church at Las Pinas, near
Manila in the Philippines. A Father
Diego Cera began its construction in 1818
and it took him four years to build. The
bamboos were buried for six months in
the beach sand to preserve them from
borers. There are 950 pipes, the largest
16 inches in diameter. An earthquake in
1862 and a typhoon in 1882 partially
wrecked it, but on each occasion it was
restored. I haven’t heard whether it sur-
vived the Japanese occupation.
>p jp * ,
“Notaden”: Intelligence service
amongst ants regarding tucker supplies
has that of bees (B. 5/6/’46) beaten to a
frazzle. A tiny black species, uncom-
fortably prevalent in this S.Q. locality,
seems to possess powers of communica-
tion with its kind equivalent to radio
signalling. A scrap of raw
meat placed on the ground with
no ant anywhere in sight may
remain undiscovered for an
hour or more, but sooner or
later it will be found by one
of the questing worker-scouts
who are always on the lookout.
After inspecting the find she
walks round it for a few
seconds waving her antennas
vigorously, and then begins
sucking at the juice. Within
a few minutes she will be
joined by a couple more, who
repeat the antennae - waving
and share the feast with her.
Five minutes later the meat
will be fringed by fresh arrivals,
with more converging on it
from every direction. But
once it is completely sur-
rounded and covered by
feasters without room for an-
other some sort of “House
Full” signal seems to go out,
and no more come along. How
is it done? It would be in-
teresting to try out the arffennse-
waving with some delicate
form of radio-detecting appar-
atus.
“X.E.D.”: I called at the
store for a few things and
Charlie ticked off my order and
Sam’s list doubtfully. Finally he
wrapped a couple of small parcels. “The
one with tobacco is Sam’s,” he said.
“Square up, Charlie!” I said. “I’ve
ridden seven miles t’ get some weed. I’m
clean out.” “But I on’y had the one,”
protested Charlie. “I gave it t’ Sam
becos he seems t’ be needin’ it more’n
you. He had six packets on his list an’
you on’y asked f’r one.”
* * * ♦
“K.8.C.”: “Long Jack’s” blue heeler
had a tail like a dingo, but he answered
to Stumpy, The commercial at the
Tumbledown pub asked the inevitable
question. “Well,” said Jack, “it was when
me and my brother were dairying to-
gether that I got him. He was just a pup
then, but he used to go with me every
night and morning to bring the hornies
home. We had our own yards, but the
place had never been properly fenced,
and most of the time the two herds ran
together. One evening I was late getting
home, and when I went over to the yard
there’s the cows rounded up, I looked
them all over carefully, and all mine was
there and not one of Bill’s. At first I
reckoned they might have sort of drafted
themselves, but knowing how stubborn
cows can be I didn’t reckon that was
likely. Next night I kept out of sight and
looked. After glancing at the sun a couple
of times and taking a screw at the shadow
the hut made, the pup started off down
the paddock. Sure enough, he’d tumbled
to it. Bill and me had different brands,
but being only a pup and all the cows
being branded on the rump he couldn’t
see too well, so if he was doubtful he’d
drive the cow over to where there was a
stump he could climb up on to get a
screw at the brand. His name came
naturally then.”
THE DINGO.
High on a Warrumbungle scarp, under the stars’
cold light/
A red dog lifted a questing cry and flung it to
the night.
The startled silence woke and cried along the
valley wall
And the broken uplands echoed the wild dog’s
lonely call.
And far below on the open plain, where the
hand of man was set,
The tame dogs rattled their iron chains and
knew an age-old fret.
The wild dog snarled on his mountain ledge
at the smell on the mountain wind
That brought from the sleeping valley floor a
challenge to his kind:
Tang of sheep and milch cow’s breath and the
hostile scent of man,
Swelling up in the darkness there across the
valley’s span.
Then down from the Warrumbungle height, a
shadow on the hill,
With ears alert and eyes alight the dingo sped
to the kill.
By straggly oak and tumbled rocks, running
the ridges down,
He dropped in the dark to the last long slope
under the mountain’s frown;
And things of the night that saw him pass,
owls and their silent race.
Froze on the limb or under the rock and held
them still a space.
Saliva dropped from his open jaws and his
tipped tail made a sweep
As, fresh and strong, on the night there came
the urging smell of sheep.
Oh, hot the blood and soft the flesh as, ewe
by ewe, they died.
They ran together, the foolish things; he struck
from side to side.
Under the cold, uncaring stars, king for a mad,
red hour,
Heart ablaze with the primal flame —the ecstasy
of power,
The warrigal raged till, spent at last, all bloody
from the kill.
He ate his fill on the dreadful plain, then crept
to the waiting hill.
Deep in a Warrumbungle hole, replete and
warm, asleep,
The dingo lay as dawn light came to the field
of mangled sheep;
Deaf to the curses far below, blind to the hatred
there,
Mild and soft in his winter coat, safe in his
secret lair.
Fair is the day on the mountain spur, sapphire,
purple and brown,
But night is the time of the dingo where the
Warrumbungles frown.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Bo”: The mailman swung around the
bend and stopped opposite the rusty half
kerosene-tin nailed to the ironbark stump
near Joe Fleming’s main gate. He tossed
the mail in ; then his idle glance up at the
dense stand of timber on the rise turned
to comic popeyedness as his eyes in-
formed his brain that Joe’s familiar white
weatherboard cottage had disappeared!
He went up to investigate. It was a dull
day, and it wasn’t until he was more than
halfway up the rise that he saw that the
front of the house had been newly
painted in black. He went round to the
side, and there was Joe up a home-made
ladder wielding a brush. Half the wall
had already assumed the same funereal
garb as the front. Joe looked down.
“G’day, George,” he said. He held up
his brush. “Just brightenin’ up the old
place—thought it was just about time.”
The mailman stared, “Gripes!” he ex-
claimed. “What’s the idea of doin’ y’r
joint in black, though, Joe?” “Well,”
drawled Fleming, “last time, as y’ know,
I did it in white, an’ before the paint
dried millions o’ blasted flyin’ insecks
“We don't like bein' called bobby-soxers, and We still reckon Frankie
Sinatra's good — see!"
lobbed on it an’ spoiled the effect. Well,
they can’t make this unsightly—y’ won’t
be able to see ’em against it!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; When a dingo got across
the river from the Slab Hut country and
slaughtered a few of his sheep the boss
sent word to “White Bob,” a famed
stiffener, and Bob replied that he was
leaving Mallee Cliffs next day. There
was £2O on that red dog’s scalp, and on
the following Sunday “Little Curl,” “Red
Louis” and myself set out on a prospect
of the back parts of the run, armed with
tucker for the day, rifles, ammo, and
optimism. All day we rode the porcu-
pine ridges, searched the mallee scrubs
and scouted the hopbush plains. When
night came we decided to split up, it
being bright moonlight, and drift into
the station three different ways. An hour
or so later I was walking the nag across
a sandhill near the river when the
characteristic howl of a dingo arose some-
where close ahead. I slipped from the
horse and, with ready rifle, cat-footed
through the porcupine to the edge of a
little plain dotted with blue-bush. The
dingo howled again, and I picked a clump
of blue-bush about 300 yards away.
Under the moon the plain was almost as
clear as day as I waited. The howl came
again, and this time I was sure the dog
was in the clump. There was no way to
sneak closer in that light so, on the off-
chance, I aimed at the bush and fired
three quick shots from the .32 repeater.
You'never heard a dingo use such langu-
age. It was “White Bob” trying to decoy
the real outlaw. When he leaped from
that bush yelling I leaped for my horse
and went home at full gallop, got hold of
“Curl” and “Louis” and swore ’em to
secrecy. When Bob came in, full of a
yarn about goats who shot uselessly at
bushes, everybody thought he was trying
to square off for not landing the bacon.
He was so unnerved that he left us and
our dingo and retired to the fastness of
Kulkyne, where, in time, he married a
fisherman’s widow and conducted a
wood-pile for the steamers,
* * H= *
“Koolinju”: A writer in one of our
Great Dailies objects to the proposal of
some Melbourne ladies who intend to go
to Centralia to shoot crocodiles. I am
all for their trip myself, although the only
thick-skinned denizens I ever struck in
those parts were goannas, civil servants
and speculators looking for Lasseter’s
Last Reef. Still there is always a chance
that a croc, or two, beating even a water-
front celebrity in his wholehearted rush
towards the Centre when the first bombs
began to drop on Darwin, may still be
wandering around there. Anyhow, good
hunting, girls!
« * * *
“Zake”: Probably no other timber cut
out so quickly and was put to such stupid
use as the Ma State’s red cedar —
thousands of corner-posts, sheds and pig
troughs throughout the country are stand-
ing monuments to misuse of one of our
most beautiful cabinet timbers. Nowa-
days red cedar is a rare sight in furniture
factories. A flitch from one of the last of
the famous red cedars from the Dorrigo
district, its natural home, now graces
the Railway Commissioner’s office —it was
made up around 25 years ago. I saw one
of the last of the big trees to come out of
Paddy’s Plains, From stump to the first
limb is measured 48ft,, and its middle girth
was 20ft. It yielded 14,000 ft. of flitch
cedar, one 12ft. long board being 48in.
wide and 18in. deep. Over 30 years ago
it brought over £lBO. At present-day
values a vegetable of the same dimensions
would haul in between £7OO and £BOO.
* * * »
“Goldie”; In the face of the drive was
a mixture of yellow candlelight and
gloomy, uncertain shadows, the rock
itself an indefinite grey with a thin,
streaky seam of white quartz a few inches
from the hanging wall. The air had the
unpleasant feel of warm, sweating bodies
and the stale odor of burned fracture.
The walls were smooth and greasy from
seepage and confined a passage about
4ft. wide. The ragged dome slightly
above the men’s heads oozed a casual
shower of drips. It was nine hours a
day, six days a week, while the partners
blasted a way into the mountain to the
shoot of gold. Sundays were washing
days at the camp, when an hour might be
spared to separate a trout or two from
the stream close by. Joe was swinging
the hammer with smooth, forceful
strokes; Andy, turning the drill, braced
his muscles to keep it from bucking
through his hands. After a lengthy pass
Andy inspected the dulled bit and tossed
the drill aside. “A bloke’d be better orf
workin’ on the road job near the town-
ship,” he growled. “Five days a week,
He c’d have a few drinks at the pub and
a bet or two on Saturdee an’ a good loaf
on Sundee. Be an easier life than this.”
Joe, without answering, picked up the
hammer and belted a fresh drill into the
“I don't think you'll do any good down there—they use all the Water to
make beer."
hole for five solid minutes. Then he let
go the handle and leaned against the
footwall. “Bit easier, X s’pose,” he said.
“But it wouldn’t suit me. Gripes, if I
had t’ put up with the same thing week
after week like that it’d give me the
dingbats 1 ”
* * * *
“Exkewex”: The sparrow - hawk
swooped on the mob of starlings, but
although there must have been at least
200 of them they all got safely off the
ground and gradually climbed as they
wheeled and turned. The hawk hung on
and tried repeatedly to cut one out from
the flock, but they kept a tight forma-
tion and foiled every attempt. Sometimes
the flight looked like a sphere, sometimes
like an hour-glass; then the birds would
break into crescent-shaped formation;
but not once did they cease to be a
closely packed whole. Why there was
no collision in that mob, where the posi-
tion of individuals relative to one another
was constantly changing as the direction
and shape of the mass altered, has me
beaten. Swarming bees also appear to
understand the art of shaped flight with-
out collisions. When man learns this bird
secret aerodrome control towers will be-
come obsolete,
* * * *
“Solitude”: With hundreds of square
miles of bush to get himself lost in,
“Seventyfiver” got bitten by the tree-
planting bug. Back he came one night
with a dozen or so acorns tied in the
corner of a sugar-bag, and armed with a
book on tree culture. Then, instead of
lighting the fire for tea, he walked round
inspecting the surroundings as though
he’d never seen the joint before. “Think
I’ll stick in a oak hedge on that north
side,” he decided that evening. “Listen,
y’ silly coot,” I growled ; “those things
don’t make hedges, an’ if they did they’d
take about a hundred years, and, anyway,
they won’t grow in this district.” There
was a resentful silence from the table.
“Wonder,” mused his voice half an hour
later, “if cows eat young oaks.” “Cows
eat ’em,” I mentioned, “sheep nip ’em off
for devilment, bullocks use ’em for
scratchers, Toos and wallabies pick the
new shoots, nags roll on ’em, dogs like
’em to sleep on, rabbits ringbark ’em,
possums eat the leaves an’ grubs eat the
loots. Any more y’ want to know?”
Apparently there wasn’t, so I turned in.
Must have been three hours later that I
rolled over to find the old bloke still
poring over his new book. His pipe was
out, Blue slept carefully on the bag of
acorns, and the rising wind whisded
through the hut slabs and rattled the
sheet-iron chimney, “Hey, Sol,” I heard
before 1 dragged the horserug over my
head, “d’ y’ reckon a round- or a square-
tonped hedge’d look best with this type o’
bmldin’?”
♦ * * ♦
“Betcha”: It threatened to be a big
storm, and Ted was hurrying through
the milking in an effort to finish before
it broke. Suddenly there was a blinding
crash, the milking bucket shot out under
the rail and Ted landed backwards on
the floor several feet away. Even the
cow dropped, remained sprawling a few
seconds, then, pop-eyed and bawling,
scrambled to her feet in puddles of milk,
Ted likens the happening to a determined
blow on every part of his anatomy at
once by someone armed with a wool
mattress. He received neither a bruise
nor a headache. The cow, too, seemed
unharmed, but a huge tree near the shed
was split open from top to root. “Well,
you were lucky,” I ventured as Ted
paused in his recital. “Not even any
after-effects.” “Aw, no?” he grimaced,
“See that?”—pointing to where a big
Jersey eyed him from a corner of the
yards. “Best bloomin’ milker I ever
had,” he mourned “An’ Bill Hodge
stings me a few bob a day t’ come up
an’ milk her. What about that? An’ all
becos that idiot of a cow won’t come
within cooee o’ the flamin’ bail now if
she sees me anywhere around.”
*-* * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: On looks and breed-
ing our dogs were the best in the district,
but they were too well fed for ’rooing.
Wilson, who scratched what passed for
a living out of 20 acres of pure sand,
owned a starved, repulsive-looking mong,
of doubtful parentage but a wizard on
the kill. So whenever we were out with
the dogs we made a point of passing
Wilson’s place and picking up him and
his dog. We arrived one morning when,
having completed a successful dawn
attack on a wild bees’ hive, Wilson had
deposited a barrow-load of honey-laden
comb in a big zinc-lined box to drain out,
and was busy searching for Fincher.
Our assistance proving of no avail, we
pushed on, leaving Wilson to his gloomy
predictions that the mong had gone bush,
where, as Bill pointed out, he’d catch
more meals for himself than he could
scrounge around the Wilson homestead.
Returning that evening from a kill that
lacked the dash that only Fincher could
have given it, we saw Wilson waving a
jarrah branch and cursing a mobile
swarm of flies that hovered near,“l found
’im,” he called triumphantly and unneces-
sarily, “in the honey-box. Look at ’im
with them flies.” He chuckled, then sud-
denly sobered. “By cripes,” he assured
us earnestly, “wasn’t the missus wild!
Said she got more fleas on her bread than
honey!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Wonk”: There was a crowd in the
pub when “Scratcher” arrived and, con-
trary to his usual custom of waiting for
a shout, leaned over the bar and whis-
pered to Bung. From the corner old
Charlie watched Bung’s eyebrows lift, and
saw his nod as he slid the works in
“Scratcher’s” direction. The old miner
had followed many a strike, and he knew
the signs. Quietly he sidled closer.
“Scratcher” swallowed another, slipped
outside, and, followed by Charlie, visited
the store. There he bought a liberal
supply of flour and necessities, whispered
in the storeman’s ear, and returned.
“Have a drink, ‘Scratch’,” invited Charlie.
“Been out Long Gully way, ain’t y’?”
“Scratcher” lined up in silence. “For a
bloke that pulls on any sort o’ work,”
continues Chas., “you do awright. Tell
me y’ve dropped on t’ somethin’; well,
there might be money in it.” “Too right
there is,” blurted “Scratcher.” “That
gully’s been clean missed. There’s thou-
sands there. I seen it.” “Yair? Have
another, will y’? D’you say Long Gully?”
“No.” For the next hour Charlie paid
steadily and vainly for drinks, then shep-
herded “Scratcher” to bed, only to find
at daylight that he had disappeared. He
sought Bung. “ ‘Scratcher’ landed a
patch, has he?” he quizzed. “Yes. Good
too. Didn’t say where.” Charlie sighed.
“It’ll be coarse stuff,” he mused. “Heavy
alluvial.” Bung puzzled a minute, then,
“Alluvial nuthin’,” he scoffed. “He’s
found a good patch o’ rabbits.”
THE TWENTY-NINE SHIPS.
Evening and I were on the eastern coast,
And the wind that came up from the sea was
grey
With their drowned names, who lie beneath its
pall—
The William Dawes, the Centaur, Iron Crown,
Kowarra, Portmar and the Wollonbar,
The Fingal and the Limerick —twenty-nine
Moored in death’s haven. The deep-sea streams
Run, where the winds ran, through their ban-
nered stars,
And rigging rock-brown hands knotted and
sliced
Dead fingers, white as coral, have unravelled.
Home waters, these, that wash from Sandy
Cape
To Gabo Island —not a swallow’s span
At dusk from neighboring eaves to those grey
birds
That once, upon a white and far-off day
(A parrot’s opal on their funnelled throats),
Plied all their magic arts until the sun
And the enchanted waters, weaving light and
blue,
Rippled a silk screen, gay with butterflies,
To set before the casements of the summer.
Somewhere between the sunset and the dawn —
Shell and torpedo; dark hulls quivering,
Like young men bending on a bullet’s pain;
Somewhere the stars that blazed the trailing
wake,
Surprised by dark confusion, shook and
vanished,
And all their beauty ended in a sigh.
I saw the Sun-God lean across the cliff
To warm with life the grey lips of the wave.
Here, once, his fingers slipped the rigging’s
snoods,
Letting brown tresses smoke-stream in the wind.
But the sea has robbed him of his lovely ships;
They lie upon the altars of the deep,
And cassocked groper, ghosts in the sea’s night,
Shudder above the sloping decks and pass
Into the quiet cells of their alien home. . .
They he not there, the stones are rolled away,
And memory has unwrapped the shrouding
sands.
When the archers of the wind bend she-oak
bows
And the last barb of swans across the sky
Wounds Day in flight, her ruffled white and
grey
Flaming with blood above the mourning waves,
And comes the moon, a shining pearl sea-
tossed
Upon the cloud-rocked beaches of the night,
They will rise, the freighted convoys of the
Dead,
To sail wide oceans in the minds of men
Who steer their ships through tempests to the
calm
And know the clawed compassion of the sea.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMDLLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
I'f IV
i'WJW
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CvanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem. . .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
Li
w
W,.
PORTABLE FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES
ON STANDS
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each in-
stallation is individually designed
and built to fit your particular
needs. Cost per acre is
very attractive, and some
purchasers have reported
recovering their full out-
lay in one season.
THE "MAXIMUM" PATENTED OUTLET
This enables continuous spraying ami changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented “MAXIMUM”
Coupling is the only one on the market possessing its all-round flexibility
and ease of connection. It can be coupled by a simple movement to
any inclination up to 15 degrees in any direction and remain watertight.
Agents : Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street. Sydney. HA 7858.
<B*
30/462
/ >
n*
i
£
rs
3
«
ipiiiPii
1 |
* ■
nip
■■■pi
Mm
L **. «
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
e
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Servian Machine Tools (Aust,), 343 A Sydney Road, Brunswick. _
New Zealand : Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland, Branches throughout the Dominion.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lotting the Wool Clip.
Vic. and S.A, Wool Buyers’ Assoc.:
There are far too many lots. Average
number of bales per lot appraised in Mel-
bourne this season is 2.08. There will
have to be bigger and fewer lots if sales
are not to be choked up, and both
growers and brokers could do more to
increase the size of lots. The trouble
probably starts with the grower or
classer who makes fine and unreal distinc-
tion between some of his fleece and skirt-
ing lines and instructs that they be sold
in the way he has prepared them. The
broker feels that these instructions must
be observed, although often it is certain
that by careful lotting and examination
prior to sale lines could be blended to
everyone’s satisfaction.
Continuing subdivision of properties
has led to a fall in the size of the
average clip, and the number of lots has
consequently increased, but from obser-
vations we are convinced that a consider-
able saving in lots could be made in large
and moderate-sized clips in which fre-
quently there are numbers of lines of
fleece and skirtings which could be put
together. This applies particularly to
topmaking wools, which form a very sub-
stantial proportion of the total clip. The
preparation of spinner wools is, of course,
in a different category and smaller lots
must be expected, but even then the
danger of overclassing is real.
The essential point in classing is to
achieve a broad distinction between lines
in regard to quality, style, length and
condition, the factors needing most em-
phasis depending upon the kind of clip
being classed. Classing is not sorting,
and no buyer expects any clip to be
sorted when it is offered for sale. It is
probably true that the multiplicity of
types under the appraisement system,
essential when the clip is sold on Gov-
ernment types, has led classer or owner
to attempt too much in the preparation
of his clip.
As wool in the coming season is to be
auctioned, the grower would do well to
remember
(a) that the buyer is attracted by large,
well-classed lines; (b) that the maximum
amount of competition is probable when
lines are large and sold in the big-lot
section of the catalogues; (c) that unless
a determined effort is made to increase the
size of lots the sale of a large number
of clips will be considerably delayed; (d)
that the delay in offering a good deal of
the late shorn wool will be great enough
to depreciate its value because of loss of
appearance due to long storage; O) that
the world wool trade desires the staple in
as large and broad uniform lines as is pos-
sible. The savings to the industry if this is
brought about will be very considerable
and will help to reduce the ultimate cost
of wool to the consumer and make it more
attractive to him, thus improving its com-
petitive position with other fibres.
The buying trade has raised these issues
because they are of great importance.
It is not for us to suggest detailed pro-
cedure as to how the necessary reforms
should be carried out, because many of
the questions involved lie outside our
sphere. We do, however, draw attention
to the consequences which will follow
if effective remedial action is not taken
at the earliest opportunity.
Spray Dipping.
‘Atlanta”: Our dip is built on the end
of the shearing shed, constructed of 10ft.
sheets of galvanised iron on a founda-
tion of adzed cypress-pine, equipped with
nine overhead sprays and a 2in. centri-
fugal pump powered by the 3 h.p. shear-
ing engine. Set up inside the shed, the
pump is dismantled and carried outside
“ Don't feed 'er no cake — she'll only eat the raisins and leave the rest.”
when not in use. We are thus able to use
existing yards.
Before dipping see that everything is
in order —pump and sprays working,
foot valve watertight. Yard sheep over-
night and water them before yarding.
Have adequate shade in holding yards.
Don’t dip in threatening weather, as rain
will nullify the effect of the dip, and
losses may occur through scalding. In
hot weather arrange hours of work and
size of mobs so that the job will be
completed before 10 a.m. Unless abso-
lutely necessary, avoid dipping in ex-
tremely cold weather, or, if unavoidable,
wait until the sun rises, and take chill
from the dip by pouring in two kerosene-
tins of boiling water. Avoid driving and
overheating until sheep are dry.
A conveniently situated 5000-gallon
tank filled by rain from the shed roof
will provide enough water to dip the
average-sized flock.
Any dip which requires constant
stirring with spray equipment is un-
desirable, as much of the finely broken
manure and silt which have accumulated
on the bottom of the dip tank will be
redistributed through the mixture, with
resultant discoloration of wool and
clogging of the sprays. These should be
watched constantly and cleaned regularly
to ensure an even pressure, as minute
particles of wool or dirt have a habit of
slipping through even the most efficient
strainers.
Straining is one of the secrets of suc-
cess with the spray dip. Wire gauze is
the best protection, and the mixture
flowing from the dipping-pen back into
the dip tank—which is usually sunk in
the ground—should be strained at least
twice, including once at the foot valve,
where a large cylindrical strainer is em-
ployed, If the foot valve refuses to hold
liquid temporary repairs can be effected
by smearing the leather liberally with
heavy axle grease and then priming the
pump. A small air lock in the suction
pipe can often be eliminated by starting
the pump and tapping the pipe sharply
along its length with a hammer.
Grazing Land.
"Tub”; A lot of trouble arises in low-
rainfall areas where mixed farming is
carried on without irrigation. Late
summer grasses and stubble dry and
ready to blow away. Farmers, endeavor-
ing to keep stock going till the weather
breaks, handfeed and give them the run
of bare paddocks. Timbered grazing land
in these districts is far too scarce, and
the annual damage to cultivation pad-
docks is enormous.
Hilly districts, too, lose heavily when
the slopes are overstocked, and the dam-
age occurs mainly after the grass dries
off or is kept closely grazed during
summer. Slopes are best if left in a
partly rough state, with patches of scrub
and clumps of trees to check the spread
of damage. Fire clearing should be
abolished.
River flats are severely punished by
Overgrazing, and this means loss of con-
play tricks. Flooding may strip the soil
down to the gravel if it’s left bare in the
dition and weak stock when the seasons
danger period. Some of the best grazing
land I’ve seen is on river flats carrying
a fair growth of tussocks; it stays green
through the summer. Floods every year
or two topdress it with a rich layer of
silt, and the resultant stands of grass are
winners.
Rabbiting.
“Atlanta”: Skin prices this winter look
like breaking records, an added induce-
ment to the professional as well as to
the man whose land feeds the rabbits.
On larger holdings it is well to employ
a professional, one who is reliable and
who won’t merely skim the country for
the sake of quick returns. Rabbits soon
become trap-shy with a careless or in-
experienced worker, which adds to the
problem of their ultimate destruction.
In sheep country avoid, if possible, set-
ting traps on dunghills or open sets.
Sheep feeding or travelling are liable to
be caught. The effectiveness of poison
isn’t always assured, as bunny is fasti-
dious in his habits, but the best time for
experiment is about a week after rain,
when the green shoot is showing. Mix
a little more than a wax-matchbox lid of
finely-ground strychnine to each 21b. of
jam (preferably quince), with the chopped-
up roots of nutgrass—well-cleaned and
peeled—as an added attraction. Using
this formula I’ve averaged 120-200 per
night, while on a 7000-acre property out-
side Singleton (N.S.W.) a pair of
poisoners dropped 700 in a single night,
although this is well below the 1500
claimed by a lone stiffener on the A.P.
Co.’s Nareen station (s.-w. Q.) some years
ago.
If skins are to be collected, baits should
be distributed on feeding grounds well
away from burrows. When laying baits
use a tin of desired capacity, around
which a piece of No, 8 wire has been
securely tied with one end protruding
horizontally about 6in. from the side of
the tin. The use of this wire, on which the
measuring stick is scraped, will facilitate
the dropping of a small, even-sized bait.
Keep down blowflies and risk to dogs
by burning all poisoned carcasses, and
see that no baits are laid on country where
stock are grazing.
Poultry Sideline.
“Rooster”: Egg production is essen-
tially a farm enterprise. There’s no
reason why it shouldn’t make a profit-
able sideline for most mixed farmers. A
flock of 200 can be managed with little
additional labor or expense. As with all
other stock-raising four essentials are
necessary for success: (1) pure-bred stock
of reliable strain, (2) good housing, (3)
good feeding, (4) intelligent marketing.
Pure-breds lay consistently and have
more uniformity when sold for table
birds. High-producing strains of chickens
cost little more, but repay handsomely.
Never buy from other than reputable
poultry breeders. With good shedding,
plenty of straw litter on the floor, auto-
matic water supply and dry-mash feeding,
200 birds will return about £lOO annu-
ally over food costs. Houses should have
dry floors, be rainproof and windproof,
yet well ventilated. A tree for a roosting
place is wasting time and labor. Where
bush timber is available a shed 30ft. by
15ft. with a depth of 14ft. is easily con-
structed at minimum cost. This will house
up to 100 birds.
Mixed farmers can feed fowls economi-
cally. Hoppers can hold sufficient dry


Personal.
HARRY SANDERS. —If Mr. Harry Sanders, formerly
actively connected with Sanders Binder File Coy.
of Sydney, N.S.W., and believed to have gone to
New' Zealand about 1930, will communicate with
Mr. W. H. LYONS, Watson, Ferguson & Co.,
Stanley Street, South Brisbane, Q., he will hear
something to his advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DAVID MITCHELL DRUMMOND formerly of
5 Mangerton Road West Wollongong but late of
1 Rowland Avenue Wollongong. TAKE NOTICE
that DAISY DRUMMOND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2331 of 1946 on the ground of desertion
without just cause for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 19th of July 1946 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from A. D.
McKENZIE Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.
■ —(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRY BIRCH late of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
FLORENCE GERTRUDE BIRCH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2410 of 1946 against you on the
ground of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
day of July 1946 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.9.) 0. K. BODY',
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROWLAND JOHN WHIPPEY late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife VERA MARGARET WHIPPEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2420 of 1946 against
you on the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just' cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 22nd day of July 1946 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from ADRIAN C. R.
TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NX72563 Pte ERNEST MILTON CLARE late
of Leichhardt in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GRACE PHYLLIS
CLARE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2317 of
1946 against you on the ground of desertion . for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 22nd day of July 1946
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from JOSEPH WALTER KENNY Solicitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
In Divorce.
TO MARGARET ALISON TIMS formerly of 37
King’s Cross Road King’s Cross Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.-—-TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the charges
ft the Petition of MAXWELL KEITH TIMS of
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of adultery with a person
or persons unknown In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid within thirty days after the date
of this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. — (1.5.) F. N.
PRINGLE, Deputy Registrar.
N. 8.: Friends of the abovementioned MARGARET
ALISON TIMS who may see this advertisement are
requested to bring it under her notice.
a
sag
A
s
m
cvM
=5
"Mi.
IF AUSTRALIA is to take her right-
ful place in world affairs she must get
on with the job of developing her
national resources. The construction of
new permanent ways and roads, subways
and bridges, reservoirs and canals, will
call for the most efficient of modern
earth-moving equipment to speed the
jobs and to keep down costs.
One of the. most efficient ways to move
materials is by the front-end loader on a
"Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor like the one
pictured above. It is shown in the deep
mud of a subway project, handling thirty
yards of sticky clay every hour—l 6 hours
a day. This is one way "Caterpillar”
products bring down earth-moving costs
—a reason why more and still more
"Caterpillar” outfits, with their tremen-
dous power and amazing economy, will be
required where the job must be done in
record time and at record low cost.
CATERPILLAR OltS£l
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland!
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
n Rd St Peters Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone — Gunnedah 326.
wl EnaineeryMr.J. 57 Cambridge St.. South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle Pod Macquarie.
'Phone—Pod Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St.. W°99 a - 'Mone— 2M9. JO2 Melhourne Sf ‘<
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Inmsfail. Phone—lnnisfail 475.
mash to last a week, so that labor is
reduced. A little green feed at midday,
a full feed of grain at night, followed
by plenty of green feed, is an ideal
balanced diet. And there is no better
aid to egg-production than separated milk.
On the Werribee Research Farm (Vic.)
it has been proved that dried butler-milk
increases egg-laying to a marked degree.
In autumn eggs are at their highest
market value.
Money in Trees.
“H.A.L.”: When planting trees, plant
the sort which will grow into money. You
must have the right climate and soil to
produce a good grade of timber, the trees
must be planted close enough to produce
straight trunks without overcrowding, and
they must mature quickly enough to pro-
duce a return within reasonable time.
Apart from pines, which in a rainfall of
28in. and upward, will produce mill logs
in about 20 to 25 years, the best seem to
be those whose timbers are used for tool
handles or sporting goods. Cricket bat
willow, American ash, Osage orange,
American hickory, now being grown in
Australia, and the yew (Taxus baccata or
Taxus canadensis} could give a good
profit to those who don’t mind waiting
for a return, or who plant for those who
come after them.
All the trees mentioned do best in the
colder and wetter parts of southern Aus-
tralia, the yew especially; the more ex-
posed the hillside on which the yew grows
the better the bowmaker likes it. Don’t
be afraid of finding the market flooded
—there are never enough tree-planters in
any community to do that. Minimise the
risk of failure by enlisting the aid of the
Forestry Department.
The Atomic Future.
“Fissure”: Promise of atomic energy
as a future source of power may spell a
new dawn for the dry inland. Water for
the Centre is among the possibilities —
condensation of rainclouds to bring
bounteous seasons to parts of the con-
tinent now lapsing to sterility through
lack of water. Diversion and damming
of existing watercourses should be a
problem overcome when giant earth-
moving equipment is energised by the
controllable atom. The at-present-
thirsty inland may yet support millions.
But atomic ways of milking cows,
shearing and growing crops are not yet
in the scientists’ dreambpok, nor is any-
thing said of humus. Machinery has
taken the farmer a step away from the
secrets of the soil, and no artificial
method has yet been evolved to improve
on Nature’s slow process of building
fertility. Whatever secrets are yet to be
unlocked, it is safe to assume at present
that the strength or weakness of a nation
will rest as always with the primary prin-
ciples of farming for fertility.
Bronze Orange Bug.
“Bennie”: It is one of the most de-
structive pests of citrus in coastal Queens-
land, feeding chiefly by sucking the sap
of young twigs, flowers and fruit. The
resin-caustic soda-fish oil spray is very
effective and should be applied late in
April or early in May, when the insect
has transformed to the second nymphal
stage.
Where spraying is not convenient jar
the branches of infested trees with a
padded mallet in the spring months (third
and fourth stage nymphs) and the bugs
will fall. Have close around the base
of the tree a circular strip of galvanised-
iron approximately 7in. high. The fallen
bugs, wingless at this time, gather round,
the barrier and can then be destroyed.
Hints for the Farm.
■E.2”: Maize-meal is fattening and
heat-producing and valuable for inclu-
sion in winter rations of stock and
poultry. In relative food value maize is
cheap compared with most other grains,
has high protein and starch content and
can be produced at low cost in suitable
districts. Whole, dry grain is improperly
digested by stock, and should be crushed ;
cracked or kibbled for poultry.
“Sundowner”: .Lack of tone in a
horse’s system due to indigestion reduces
the general efficiency of the team. Among
common errors are feeding when the
animals are tired, allowing too long an
interval between feeds, inadequate time
for morning and midday meals and a
too bulky and consequently ill-balanced
ration. Overfeeding horses in non-work-
ing periods such as week-ends with the
idea of making them fitter for work in
a day or two is a common mistake, as
is the giving of fodder of low quality and
doubtful soundness. Hot and tired
horses, though they may be hungry, are
unable to digest food until they have had
a drink.
“Billjim”: Waite Research Institute
(S.A.) tests have disclosed that molyb-
denum oxide mixed with superphosphate
has produced remarkable results in the
Adelaide hills where there is ironstone.
Tests show that, while 2oz. of molyb-
denum oxide to the acre gave good
results, Boz. had a depressing effect on
the pasture. The right quantity has yet
to be discovered. Molybdenum is not
expensive, and landholders with rough
ironstone country could try it.
“H erbert”: Keep fowl - houses
thoroughly clean or perches and nests will
soon become lice infested. Once a
month give walls, perches and nests a
scrubbing with boiling water to which
phenyl has been added. Then lime them,
mixing an ounce of sulphate of iron with
the limewash. Frequently sprinkle sul-
phur on the dust-bath in the fowl-run.
“Ned”: If boxes are used for hen nests,
scald them at least every fortnight with
boiling water, whitewash them and renew
the bedding. Fowls’ nests are best on the
ground ; eggs derive their necessary mois-
ture from the earth. A circle of bricks,
stones or heavy timber pieces laid on the
ground in a secluded spot, with a bedding
of soft straw or bracken-fern leaves, makes
the ideal nest. Insect pests don’t like the
smell of fem leaves.
“Bill C.”: Should you kill a goanna
near the henhouse, burn the carcass or
bury it somewhere where the fowls won’t
be able to find it. There’s nothing more
poisonous to poultry than putrid goanna
flesh; search for a dead goanna if some
of your fowls die suddenly from what
appears to be poisoning. They seem to
have a great liking for the deadly fare.


f
Is Price
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
Saij: *NO!"
PRICE, up to a point, might be a sound reason
for buying, but the REAL background to bear
in mind is:
(1) Who builds the engine?
(2) How does the engine do its job?
Ronaldson.Tippett are the largest specialist
makers of high-grade engines in Australia. They
build engines to give a LIFETIME of economical
service in return for your investment.
To buy for less money an engine offering
less fs to overlook the priceless advantages of
Ronaldson-Tippett proved design, proud craftsmanship, unfailing de-
pendability, surprising economy, with an after-sales service extending all
over the Commonwealth.
MORAL : Buy the right engine first —RONALDSON-TIPPETT!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourlie Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd,
Erazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
r . ; : : ; ; ;y.-:vx ,• v.
.
Igg::::;
'V:
mml
p
wl
r . t>
5 f
; ' ys
iSS"? ■■ ■ , >j - c
f v * . ** ■*sss
PSmmMiQ ■■■ ■ •>
® '.-x. ■,... | p
i \ki
mmm& w&
xm
mmm
mmM
!
PiPi;
. ■:•
m&M
. - ■
a *
Pi?y. : ;;'.:
■
w
Pi
, ,
■
™sßas%
■
u
o
Xi,
«
*o
m
&
msm
O
m
Q
1
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG Products
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
if this keeps up. Pity it couldn’t ’a’ held
off another day or two.”
Cliff was angry. Couldn’t the old fool
realise the danger and do something about
it instead of sitting there like one of
those wizened-up little idols?
WHEN, in the first cold streak of dawn,
they hove up and got under way even
Cliff noticed that the motor was not run-
ning well. It coughed and spluttered and
several times seemed about to stall.
The tide was falling now and the ugly
niggerheads showed black and menacing
in the troughs of the waves'. The main-
sail shook and filled with a bang as Old
Bill swung the Reefbird out through
the channel. Slowly gathering headway
the Reefbird surged through the gap,
passing so close to the niggerhead on her
lee side that the spray from a breaker
dashing against it was flung back in Cliff’s
scared face. With agonising slowness it
slipped astern and Cliff realised that Old
Bill was speaking.
“If you’ve quite finished lookin’ at it,”
he was saying, “you might get that peak
up.” And then, as Cliff struggled in-
effectually with the halyard, “Leave it,
son, and come and take the wheel.”
With the agility of a monkey Old Bill
sprang to the mizzenmast. He seized
the halyard and, placing one bare foot
against the mast, heaved. The fluttering
peak rose and was still. The native boys
finished setting the jib and came aft.
“Keep ’er well up into it,” Old Bill
called to Cliff. “But keep ’er full. We’ll
have t’ see what’s wrong with, this engine.
Might need it later on.”
The three vanished below before Cliff
could utter a word of protest.
To Old Bill this was just an ordinary
sou’-easter. But to Cliff, clinging franti-
cally to the kicking wheel, it was a howling
cyclonic gale that might at any moment
tear the masts out of this puny lugger.
The Reef bird was no longer a fine stuidy
craft slipping majestically through a blue
sea ; she was a frail thing, driven half
under this wild waste of grey-green
water, heeling over from the wind until
her lee rail was buried deep in swirling
foam. The Reefbird came up into the
wind, main and mizzen sails fluttered and
the jib shook itself with a force that made
the lugger tremble from stem to stern.
Old Bill’s face, streaked with grease and
sweat, appeared above the hatch.
“What the hell are y’ doin’?” he
roared. “Starb’d, blast y’! Keep ’er full
and watch what y’re doin’.”
Obedient to a will stronger than his
own. Cliff brought her back on her course.
The threshing booms swung over, the
sails filled with crashes like exploding
shells and the bald head withdrew. Once
more the lugger was heeling over and
lying on her course and for a while Cliff
struggled with his feelings and strove to
keep her there.
Down below Old Bill did not hurry
over his job. He knew exactly what was
wrong with the engine and he could easily
fix it unaided. Because he himself had
been brought up in a hard school he was
leaving Cliff alone on deck to fight this
thing out for himself.
Old Bill had seen the fear in
his face as they cleared the reef.
If he conquered it unaided he’d be
a good shipmate, the type of man he
was looking for ; if not he was of no use
to any man engaged in the trochus game.
There comes a time in the life of every
seaman when he realises that he is afraid
of the sea and only by his ability to con-
quer that fear is he able to carry on.
Cliff, faced with this fear for the first
time, found himself incapable of con-
quering it. Twice in the next hour he let
the Reefbird come up into the wind and
flog herself with slatting sails and madly
dancing sheets and blocks. The last time
it happened Old Bill scrambled up and
brought her back on her course himself.
He had to use all his strength to tear the
wheel from Cliff’s grasp.
i i\ \ / HAT in hell’s wrong with y’?” Bill
Vv asked when he had her sailing
again. “It ain’t as if y’ don’t know how
to sail ’er. You managed all right coming
out the other day. Why can’t y’ ke«?
’er on ’er course now?”
“It’s no good. Skipper,” Cliff mumbled.
“I can’t stand it, can’t stand looking at
them. They’re so big and, and I —you'll
have to take her,” he finished weakly.
Old Bill motioned him back to the
wheel.
“You’ll stay ’ere,” he announced, “until
we finish this job on the engine. And if
y’ let ’er flog like that again I’ll dump
y’ overboard.”
For half an hour that seemed like half
a day Cliff managed to keep her some-
where near her course, and when Old
Bill finally came up to relieve him he had
just sufficient strength left to crawl below
to his bunk.
It was nearly midnight when they
crossed the bar and glided up river to the
wharf. Old Bill satisfied himself that the
mooring-lines were secure and went be-
low. He grinned cheerfully at the
motionless figure of his deckhand lying
wrapped in a blanket and rolled into his
own bunk. For half an hour he lay
quite still listening in the darkness. He
heard the rustling of Cliff stowing his few
belongings into his suitcase and then a
stealthy tread as he ascended the com-
panionway.
“Hey, young fella,” he called. “You’ve
forgot your wages.”
No answer came from on deck and a
few moments later Old Bill heard him
scrambling up on to the wharf.
“I wonder,” he mused as he off
to sleep, “what ’e’ll ’ave a go at next.”


MR46>
SYMBOL of
UNCHANGING QUALITY
With its integrity unquestioned in
every part of the world, a hall-mark is
a guarantee of quality. Since 1544 the
Lion Passant has been the symbol of
the sterling mark the mark most
expressive of quality. The symbol of
sterling quality found only upon
confectionery of the highest grade is
the signature
c
OLD GOLD
CHOCOLATE
MAC- ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
WOLFES
mmm
AROMATIC alcoholic BEVERAGE
■mi papfitf b« * •• »*M «l
day
One
u
a
99
sake
health
for
your
OLFE’S Aromafic SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
W 5.174
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted.—Ten acres, or more, required for
factory site for big industrial concert.
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Pastoral symphony?
4* 4* f "l*
“Wanted, casual waitresses.”
—Daily paper advt.
Hash-house diners know what they’re
like!
4* 4* *l* tf
“Lounge diningroom, bed rock.”
—Suburban paper.
To deal with a snoring spouse?
“Athletes are staunch and reliable, but apt
to be egotistical.”— “New Idea.”
However, they make good husbands in
the long run.
•1* Ar *l* *J* .
“He aimed to take a sock at Louis.
—“Sunday Sun.
He’d probably take a lacing instead.
“One Crazy Hat in a Parliament.”
—“Sunday Sun” heading.
But no shortage of hatters,
*J» HE* .*F *£*
“Australian carving knives, 14 12in. cooking
knives, 40 tin-opening knives, 50 ladies, 227
hurricane lamps, 87 bedside lockers, six minc-
ing machines. — Commonwealth Disposals sale
advt., Queensland paper.
So that’s where the old A.W.A.S. go!
•b 4* 4*
“I have seen a hat change the whole course
of a life.”— “S.M.H.”
* . _
“Mr. Chifley smoked 360 z. of tobacco m five
weeks.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
This explains why the P.M. has his
head so much in the clouds.
•J*
“A man who died from the effects of acute
and chronic alcoholism was not the same since
he had been bitten by a dog two years ago.
— “Sun.”
He had too many hairs of the dog
that bit him.
•j» *l* *i* *J*
“2000-year-old Youth’s Body Found m
Swamp.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
Some prehistoric Peter Pan,
“Crooning has nothing to do with singing.
—“Sunday Sun.
Except that exponents of each handle
the same sort of notes.
•i* 4* 4* ~
“You need a comfortable mattress. It should
be soft enough for relaxation yet firm enough
to hold your body without allowing it to sm
too far.” — Advt. in woman’s paper ,
Well, well!
“Children are the chief ingredients in the
cement that binds man and wife together.
—Doctor Who Tells.
A little grit also helps.
Froth and Bubble.
When I hear boozers babbling at a bar
I often think how twaddlesome they cue,
How vain and futile is their windy tain.
As different from sense as cheese from
chalk
But, sad to say, such vapid conversation
Is not due solely to intoxication;
For oft when I hear sober men converse
I find that they are just as bad—or worse.
T. W . NATHAN.
Straight Tip.
The jockey read the menu through.
Then gave his order for some stew;
Whereat the waitress, in a hoarse
Contralto, warned him off the course.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Her chance of wealth and fame had gone.
Because, to please some clown.
She wrapped a silken turban on
And threw away a crown.
D.H.E.
Representative Government.
Though 49 per cent, vote Tweedledum,
If 51 per cent, vote Tweedledee,
The latter party’s boss for years. Lest
some
Should rail against it—that’s Demo-
cracy.
F.M.
Larceny.
“A robber at Oakland (California) demanded
and got a kiss when a girl he held up told
him she had no money.”—“ Sunday Telegraph.
A resolute marauder, this —
Accustomed men of worth to sunder
From worldly goods, in fact, you d
wonder
How he could choose his prey amiss.
So, foiled in dreams of avarice.
He took occasion from his blunder •
To snatch a less material plunder.
And stole {to coin a phrase) a kiss.
The local coppers, you’ll agree,
Were hardly likely to foresee
The crime, and collar him red-handed.
And yet the sleuths could guarantee
To find the thief indelibly
Elsewhere with just that color branded.
P. M. LUSK.
Shipwreck.
“He was cited as co-re. in a fashionable
divorce, and the cost of defending the suit
left him penniless”—Bankruptcy case.
Illicit love he gaily tried.
Then followed nasty shocks.
For when he drifted with the tied
He lanaed on the rocks.
NAT.
China Week.
Bungwing, Monday: Roysterers’ cor-
respondent reports that no Chinese Com-
munist forces have been in the region of
Bungwing for three months. He has
reliable authority for stating that the
withdrawal of General Chu Wun Kat’s
1672nd Communist Route Army from
Go Bush, capital of Li Lo province,
means the end of all hostilities in the
north and the certainty of permanent
peace between the hitherto irreconcilable
factions. The correspondent further
states he has learned from a source whose
authenticity cannot be questioned that
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek is re-
forming his Cabinet to include two Com-
munist members,
Bi Gosh, Tuesday: The correspondent
of Amalgamated Press reports that three
days ago General Un Hung Lia led his
2148th Communist Route Army in a
sudden attack on Bungwing, massacring
every man of the Central Government
garrison troops under General Hea Bing
Croon. After sacking the city General
Lia put every civilian to the sword and
razed the place —not one brick now stands
on another in this city of tragedy. The
wholesale destruction is said to have
caused some annoyance among wealthy
property owners. Grave fears are held
for the safety of foreign newspapermen,
including Roysterers’ correspondent.
Bungwing, Wednesday: Broadcasting
over Bungwing Radio, General Por Kow,
who is Quartermaster-General for. all
Central Government armies in the north,
and who has just set up his headquarters
in the beautiful Palace of the Mandarins,
made an announcement of tremendous
import to Mr. Bevin and Mr. Byrnes.
The general declared that General Chu
Wun Kat had named as his Chief of Staff
Lieut.-General Ivan Ichigutski, who had
been specially assigned to the post by the
Soviet Far Eastern High Command, which
is unofficially directing all operations
against Central Government. The appoint-
ment constituted an outrageous inter-
ference in China’s internal affairs.
General For Kow also disclosed that
when General Un Hung Lia was captured
three months ago he confessed just before
being beheaded that the Soviet had since
1936 financed his armies on condition that
he fought with the Japs against Chiang
Kai-shek. General Por Kow is in Bung-
wing to comb nearby provinces for sup-
plies of baseball bats, goldfish, birds’ nests
and lacquered fans, which are urgently
needed for the campaigns against the
Communist armies now swarming into
Manchuria.
Mukden, Thursday: The correspondent
of the Chicago “Bugle” reports that all
Communist armies in Manchuria, which
were under the command of General
Sing Wun Song, evacuated the country
two months ago after having assisted
General Messovich to move all heavy
industries into Vladivostock. The “Bugle”
man says the capture and execution
by the Communist army in Li Lo of
General Por Kow, whose bitter anti-
Communism was regarded as the chief
stumbling block to co-operation between
the Communist and Central Government
regimes, will pave the way for a happy
termination of internecine strife.
Bungwing, Friday: Roysterers’ corre-
spondent reports that General Por Kow
was arrested two days ago in Korea on
Chiang Kai-shek’s orders for secretly
working in with the Communists. He
also states the Russian reports deny
that any Soviet general named Ivan
Ichigutski is fighting with General
Chu Wun Kat’s army. There is no
known general of that name in the
Soviet’s armed forces, but a British
General Ivan Ichigutski served with the
Buffs in Montgomery’s Eighth Army at
El Alamein.
Hop Hi, Saturday: A report from the
Scented News Agency makes it clear that
the Central Government troops are faced
with bitter campaigns against the Com-
munists in Li Lo, Hop Hi and Ho Ho Ho
when the fighting season starts. General
Por Kow has revealed that goldfish are
tragically scarce, whilst the paucity of
lacquered fans will seriously incommode
the campaign, even though the Com-
munist forces were weakened by the death
in action last year of Generals Chu Wun
Kat, Un Hung Lia and Sing Wun Song.
The appointment of General Hea Bing
Croon as Chief of Staff is announced
from Bungwing.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2}d. per line.
Domestic Economy
I was having a cup of tea with an old
couple who live in a humble cot of the
“wondrous neat and clean” variety. They
started a friendly argument about what
they would buy first if they won a lottery.
The lady’s lifelong wish had been a
wall-to-wall carpet. Her lord wanted an
encyclopaedia of about 20 volumes in a
revolving bookcase beside his Morris
chair.
Neither of them had any , hope of their
dreams coming true. They explained that
they were both eligible for the old-age
pension as to years, but were disquali-
fied by a trifling surplus in their bank
balance. They might apply for the pen-
sion in about a year, when the surplus
was gone.
“Look,” I said, “if you buy your carpet
and your books right away you’ll reduce
your balance and qualify for the pension
at the same time. That means that you’ll
get your stuff for nothing and make a
few pounds on the deal.”
It seemed too good to be true at first
glance, but they discovered it was as
dinkum as a lottery win. So now the old
lady has a floor covering and the old man
has the whole world at his elbow. Who
said “Means Test”? — Economics (S.A.).
Unity of Servicemen
Complete unity of ex-servicemen (B.
29/ 5/ ’46) is not possible. Haven’t re-
turned men just as much diversity of
political opinion as anyone else? Have
service personnel a strong desire to stick
together as comrades? Protests against
rudeness and inconsideration often bring
a brusque retort such as “I’m a returned
man myself.” Man’s inhumanity to man
is persistent, and all the getting-together
of homecoming warriors won’t alter it or
direct men’s thoughts into the same
channels.
There was a parallel in the League of
Nations, and another in U.N.O. Both
ex-servicemen and ex-service nations
have demonstrated that those who fought
on the same side do not all want the
same kind of future world. —R. H. C.
(N-.5.W.).
Wise Men of the East
A “S. M. Herald” correspondent in
London quotes Arabic-speaking soldiers
of many nations as being particularly
anxious, while in England for victory
celebrations, to see Mr. Churchill —“a
mighty .warrior,” who had taken legend-
ary proportions in their minds. A
Lebanese mountaineer, on being re-
minded that Mr. Attlee was now P.M.,
dnd that he had a distinguished record
in World War I, replied “Then we are
content. For what man can rule in
peace who has not experienced war?”
Perhaps our London Minister will
modestly cite some of his own achieve-
ments since August, 1914, supporting his
status as a great warrior by quoting the
quantities of choice meats and spices
which he finds necessary when under-
taking a journey to the far-off land of
the King.
And it is a great pity that this Minister
was not able to produce for the Iraki
and Lebanese mountaineers our Prime
Minister and his Minister for Informa-
tion—the former an authority on “mili-
tary bearing and discipline” (recalling his
statement on return from a week-end in
Japan), and the latter competent to de-
scribe as “Nazi hooliganism” the be-
havior of some Adelaide University
students. —W. R. E. I. (N.S.W.).
The Forgotten N.T.
“Out of sight, out of mind” appears
to be the Government’s policy towards
the N.T. In the Payne-Fletcher report
of 1937 on the “Land and Land Indus-
tries” of the Territory, the Federal Gov-
ernment has all the recommendations re-
quired for forming a sound land-develop-
mental policy, 1 suppose the report is
now comfortably housed in the Canberra
archives.
When questioned in Brisbane regard-
ing the Territory, the former Administra-
tor, C. L. A. Abbott, said that lack of a
Governmental policy was retarding
development —all that he and the Darwin
Land Board had been able to do was to
make recommendations. In 1938 the
board had framed all the amendments to
the Crown Lessees’ Ordinance necessary to
give effect to the recommendations in
the Payne-Fletcher report, particularly
those relating to developmental leases,
but he presumed that these had been
pigeon-holed along with the report.
If the Government waits until all the
leases expire in 1965, it will be many years
yet before the Territory even begins on
an adequate developmental programme.
The only alternative is that recommended
in the Payne-Fletcher report —that lessees
should be asked to surrender their existing
leases and be granted developmental leases
covering a period of 20 years over and
above their existing title.
But the Territory will never come into
its own until the settlers are provided
with railway facilities for transport of
their stock. Some time ago Mr. Abbott
investigated the cost of taking up about
1000 square miles of country in the Terri-
tory, fencing it, putting down water im-
provements, stocking, etc. The cost
worked out at £15,000. Obviously it’s not
a poor man’s proposition, and this may
account for the lack of interest shown in
the Territory by the present Federal Gov-
ernment.
With a railway, Mr. Abbott estimates
that a comfortable living could be made
with cattle on the Barkly Tablelands on
400 square miles. — Outback (Q.).
Darwin Wharfies
It has not taken Darwin wharfies long
to strike their old form —they used to
give you the impression that they believed
all time not spent in striking was wasted.
Consider the case of the Westralia’s cargo
of beer, a commodity declared “black.”
I spent many years around Darwin in
surveying ships, and more often than not
we had to load our own coal into trucks
and push them down to the jetty. Red
comrades ashore did not like the White
Ensign, but they always waited until the
last hawser had been slipped before mak-
ing rude remarks.
It would seem as if the same element
is creeping back —after a record exit when
the Jap first called—and it’s a poor adver-
tisement for Australia. Sextant
(N.S.W.).
In Support
It doesn’t seem to occur to P. O. Mac-
Cabe (B. 5/6/’46) that shortages of
necessary commodities may be due to a
“go-slow” policy on the part of manu-
facturers in the expectation that company
taxation will be reduced. Such a policy
cannot be thwarted by the interference
of any Government.
The Government that can overcome
shortages and strikes overnight never
existed, and never will exist. During the
war there was little time to do anything
but supply the wherewithal to fight. Evi-
dently some people expected a Utopia
immediately the “cease fire” was given.
Give the present Government a chance
to prove itself under peace-time condi-
tions. Shortages in Australia are nothing
compared with those the people of Britain
are experiencing.
P. O. MacCabe should make his
criticism a little more constructive before
he rushes off to the polling booth to cast
out the existing Government with a stroke
of the pen. —J. F. H. (S.A.).
A Brighter Melbourne
During Melbourne’s Victory celebra-
tions Lud Mayor Connelly came to the
balcony of the Town Hall. “Do you
want to have a carnival every spring?” he
shouted through the amplifiers. “Yes,”
the crowd roared. “That is good,” re-
plied the Lud Mayor. “I hope that by
next spring we will be able to turn on a
big Mardi Gras so that all may enjoy
themselves.”
Before Cr. Connelly spoke (and doubt-
less the pleasantries went on while he
was speaking), 900 people were crushed,
trampled on and battered somewhere or
other in the crowd of half a million
that milled about the city. Several
hundreds had to be conveyed to casualty
wards. One old lady dropped dead.
Hundreds of women fainted. Sobbing
children, parted from their mothers, were
knocked down and trodden under foot or
sought refuge in the arms of mounted
policemen, who were powerless to regu-
late the tightly-packed mob that filled
Swanston-street from Alexandra-avenue
to Latrobe-street. A man who lay ex-
hausted or drunk on a Collins-street
pavement was trodden on by at least 500
people.
Meanwhile, a crew of decent Chinese
actors who had gone to great pains to
erect a theatre in Bourke-street, as
Chinese actors do in China, were trying
to make themselves heard above the din
of loudspeakers, rattles and other obscene
noises. Hooligans were pushing other
well-known artists from the microphones
at which they were trying to entertain the
populace. Still more hooligans were
forming crocodiles and breaking up any
other form of amusement but their own.
Black eyes were being exchanged in
countless numbers. Cafes and hotels being
closed, food exploiters were selling hot-
dogs worth a penny for ninepence. As
the trams could not surmount the con-
fetti, after midnight girls walked home
with half their clothes tom off them. In
short, a gay night.
Nevertheless, if Melbourne’s Victory
celebrations were dropped down any-
where in Paris on any evening they would
look like a funeral as far as real jolli-
ness is concerned. Every little boulevard
in that city is gayer every evening. The
citizen who wants to sit and sip an
aperitif and discuss politics or just sit and
with his wife and family has the
choice of scores of famous cafes, and
the most ordinary cafe frequented by
taxi drivers serves food and wine that only
millionaires can indulge in in Cr. Con-
nelly’s city. Artists, poets, philosophers
and writers can sit at a table in the street
and discuss their problems without any
fear of being knocked over by a human
crocodile or hit on the head by a flying
bottle.
I admire the Lud Mayor for his per-
sistence with his beer garden and Mardi
Gras idea for Melbourne, which, con-
trary to Sydney opinion, has more lovely
evenings, even in winter, than the Harbor
City. He also has my sympathy insofar
as not one word of approval for his
project has come from the liquor interests
—because, no doubt, they can sell more
beer in the six o’clock scramble than they
would all day under the Connelly regime
—or from the movie magnates, who, no
doubt, would find their cinemas half-
empty. I fear, however, that our social
reformer has the dice loaded against him.
This display of hysteria begot of repres-
sion offered no encouragement for mak-
ing the occasion an annual fixture.
Perhaps the Lud Mayor could send a
commission to Paris to see how the Par-
isians do it. — Cauboy (Vic.).
Should They Have Votes?
On the evening of Victory Day I went
to hear the open-air concerts presented
from balconies at various points on the
main streets. Each concert party had a
good programme and a large audience
representing a cross-section of the com-
munity. Unfortunately, each party and
audience suffered from the unwelcome
attentions of hundreds of larrikins, aged
about 18, who belonged neither to the
entertainers nor to the listeners.
These unattached revellers seemed to
derive great pleasure from spoiling the
pleasure of everyone else in the streets.
Marching from one gathering to another,
they jostled their way through the
crowds, scattered stink - bombs and
drowned the voices of singers with every
conceivable kind of silly noise.
During one of the hooligan raids I was
forced to seek safety in a doorway, where
I was asked “Would you grant them the
right to vote at eighteen? Are they
qualified to pick the best legislators for
the Commonwealth and States?”
Now I’m asking you other fellows. —
Ditto (S.A.).
Rice
I know the coastal country in Queens-
land from Coolangatta to 100 miles north
of Cooktown, and I agree with “H.S.”
(B. 29/5/’46) that there are large tracts
suitable for rice. However, there is a
beetle in the coconut.
In 1931 I interested myself in forming
a syndicate to grow rice in the N.T. I
knew that a syndicate of Chinese growers
had inspected the Adelaide River Plains
in the ’eighties and reported them to be
ideal —"all same Saigon. I had access
to old reports by S.A. Government Resi-
dents and competent botanists, and I had
seen the land myself. It was a rice-
grower’s paradise —cheap, nicely flooded
every year, ideal climate and a deep-sea
port reasonably close. The then Ad-
ministrator was moaning about the diffi-
culty of establishing agriculture and the
necessity for it if the Territory was to
become self-supporting. And I knew,
from long bank experience, how many
thousands of young land-hungry Aus-
tralians there were on the eastern coast of
Australia, and probably in Victoria and
S.A.
So I boxed on. I interested several in-
fluential people in the Territory, and
some in Brisbane. Then I wrote to the
Department of the Interior (Home and
Territories I think they called it then), I
was bluntly told that an agreement
existed with N. S. Wales whereby that
State was to have a complete monopoly
of the Australian market for all rice pro-
duced in Australia. If I could establish
the industry in the N.T. and export the
whole crop overseas, well and good. But
I could not even sell a bushel in Darwin.
Apparently the agreement is to last for
all time, for no limit was specified in the
letter to me. So I gracefully faded out.
I know the Territory pretty well, and
I’m firmly convinced that the two
branches of agriculture offering most
prospects of success are rice-growing and
pig-raising. On the latter subject 1 have
submitted several reports to the Federal
Government, all to no purpose. — Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
Training of Nurses
Except in depression years, shortage of
nurses for hospitals has been chronic
for a very long time —recently, the hospi-
tal at Boggabri (N.S.W.) had to close,
leaving people in outlying districts a
hundred miles from hospital.
A reasonable rate of pay would relieve
the situation, but the trouble lies deeper
than that. When girls stayed at home
during their teens, the age minimum of
18 years was satisfactory, but, today,
very few girls can do that. On leaving
high school, they must go to work some-
where, and industry and commerce are
clamoring for them.
Many girls would like to take up nurs-
ing, despite its present drawbacks, but
how are they going to cool their heels
for two or three years until the hospital
will take them at 18? So they take up
other work, become absorbed and rooted
in it, and at 18 are simply not available.
The remedy lies in a system of pre-
liminary training at technical schools.
Girls could then graduate at about 18 to
practical hospital work with two or three
years’ theory behind them. The hospital
training period could then be shortened
by a couple of years.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
“But if this is the Hume Highway, wouldn't there be a few telegraph
poles about?"


Duntroon
Some senior Army officers have scath-
ingly condemned the R.A.M.C. training
as outdated and narrow in its confines.
Most of these critics did not graduate
from Duntroon. Other senior Army
officers have hotly defended the R.A.M.C.
training methods, pointing to many of
Australia’s most successful soldiers as
typical products of the officer-training
system. These defenders are, of course,
graduates of Duntroon.
Our most successful soldiers gained
recognition on the battlefields despite
R.A.M.C. training rather than because
of it, and the fact remains that there is
not sufficient inducement to attract the
right type of recruit to Duntroon.
Neither the Army nor any of the
armed services offers anything like an
attractive career to the young men in it.
Under present conditions of pay they
can only look forward to years of
service dogged by miserable pay and
allowances. At any time they must be
prepared for retirement on an equally
miserable pension.
At any time, too, the serving officer
must be prepared for political juggling
by Ministers and interference from
public servants —both of whom dominate
the armed services to a far greater degree
than is generally realised. If he survives
this juggling and interference then he
can look forward to early retirement.
Conditions such as these cannot possibly
attract the right type of young man.
Rates of pay consistent with those en-
joyed in other professions, retirement pay
designed to provide something more than
“genteel” poverty in old age, and a re-
spect in the community for the permanent
officer would go far towards making the
armed services an attractive career,
f They would also provide Duntroon and
other officer-training establishments with
some suitable material to train. At
present those establishments are con-
demned to mediocrity because the armed
I services offer little more than the promise
of mental stultification during service
and insecurity in old age.— Sagittarius
(Vic.).
Staff and Command
Although its own successes in battle
should have taught the Army better, for-
mations kept separate lists of officers
graded as being suitable for command or
staff, and it was very much the excep-
tion for an officer to move from one cate-
gory to the other. Perhaps the Army
considered that the suitability for one im-
plied a suitability for the other; if so,
this was neither understood nor complied
with. The officer earmarked for high
command normally went to the Tactical
School, and his promotion went in a
straight line from company to brigade
commander. The officer marked for staff
was sent to the Staff School, and went
from one staff appointment to another.
Many a staff officer had no practical
knowledge of the inside workings of a
battalion or regiment either in training
or battle.
Some of the ill-effects of this policy are
well known to the general public, but bad
staff work was by no means confined to
L. of C. areas and movements-control
offices. Too many staff officer? knew no-
thing of the vital, flesh-and-blood nature
of command, with its emphasis on leader-
ship. In their eyes command meant an
order peremptorily given, enforced by
weight and power, and blindly obeyed
through fear of punishment. They
thought that, unless an officer travelled
in a railway compartment as a sentry,
trained and battle-disciplined soldiers
would indulge in vandalism or rioting.
Their most notable disservices were to
prejudice Army efficiency in the mind of
the man in the ranks, and to prejudice
the status and prestige of the regimental
officer in the mind of the man in the
street. These two prejudices still exist.
There is further proof that the Army’s
attitude towards staff and command was
unsound. The Staff School was an effi-
cient institution which did much to im-
prove the standard and status of staff offi-
cers, but it made one great blunder. It
claimed that it was not a tactical school
and that its tactical exercises were no
more than props on which to hang its
staff duties. The barrier between staff and
command was being built higher than
ever at the very place where it should
have been destroyed.
Staff and Tactical Schools should be
together, with an Assistant Deputy Direc-
tor of Military Training responsible for
complete liaison. This would give the
staff officer the tactical knowledge which
so often he lacks, and would assist the Staff
School to discover those officers whose
tactical ineptitude makes them unsuited
for any field appointment.
There are other urgently-required re-
forms. No officer should be placed in a
staff appointment without a minimum of
six months’ regimental experience; and
he should return each alternate year for
further regimental experience. A copper-
plate handwriting and a knowledge of
clerical duties should not be regarded as
the main attributes of a potential staff
officer. Influence or sympathy should
not be allowed to place inefficient, lazy
or battle-tired regimental officers in staff
jobs.
The standard required of our staff offi-
cers is easily laid down: it is the standard
set by Australian staff officers at Bardia
and Alamein and by the airborne attack
on Lae. Nothing better could be de-
manded ; nothing inferior should be toler-
ated. — Peter Mike (W.A.).
“A Sergeant of the Eighth”
As a 1914-18 Digger and a personal
friend of' Sergeant Brown, I know
that everything you said about him and
his exploits (B. 12/6/’46) was richly
merited. A more unassuming, quiet and
unostentatious fellow it would be hard to
imagine. That our present-day legisla-
tors, after a few years’ “service” and on
payment of a small premium, should be
entitled to a pension more than twice
that received by Sergeant Brown’s widow
is disgraceful.
All of Sergeant Brown’s many friends
in Leeton hoped for news of his safety as
a p.-0.-w., and the news of his presumed
death was received with mingled regret
and respect for a fine and gallant man.
I know for a fact that Sergeant Brown
bluffed the M.O. about his age when he
volunteered for the Second A.I.F. He
would not wear his ribbons from the
1914-18 war —the V.C. and D.C.M. —and
it was only on the distinct command of
his C.O. that he put them up. That alone
was an indication of his modesty and un-
assuming demeanor —he would never
even wear his decorations at Leeton
Anzac parades.
This is written as an indication of the
respect and admiration Walter Brown’s
friends in Leeton had for him. There
should be no difficulty in helping his
widow and daughter if they peed any
assistance.—O. M. (N.S.W.).
P.-0.-w. Reflections
As an Eighth Division p.-0.-w. I saw
Japanese war criminals in operation.
My satisfaction at knowing that some of
them have been punished is dimin-
ished by the knowledge that many
persons as loathsome will go scot free.
I mean our war profiteers, black-
marketeers and strike promoters. After
all the Japanese criminals committed their
crimes against enemies.
Looking further afield I see the opera-
tion of that type of law which attends to
the man or wopnan
who steals the goose from off the common,
but lets the greater villain loose
who steals the common from the goose.
And turning up my old notes I see the
words of Stalin to the Directing Com-
mittee in May, 1938:
The direct surprise of a revolutionary
action of spread [sic] will only be possible
if we succeed in exploiting the antagonisms
between the capitalist States to hurl them
into an armed struggle. The principal work
on our part ought to consist in facilitating
such a conflict.
I give those words their full mean-
ing!—Miles Gregarius (Q.).
Experimental Farms
Farmers will agree with the N. S. Wales
Minister for Agriculture about the un-
satisfactory condition of experimental
farms, and would be glad to see them
become “farms of real experiment
and research.”
William Farrar and J. T. Pridhaiji did
a great job in breeding wheats to suit our
climate, but a wheat is still to be found
that will combine the drought- and rust-
resistant qualities and high yield of the
Farrar and Pridham breeds with out-
standing milling qualities. We need a
wheat that will fill the bags, and at the
same time command a place in world
markets because of its milling superiority.
There is also a big field in this coun-
try for research in production of vege-
table oils, and of latex from plants that
will grow here.—W. E. N. (N.S.W.).
Franco
The report of the U.N.O. Committee
on Spain shows that those who are deter-
mined to pick a quarrel with Franco rely
mainly on the grounds that his regime
is “Fascist in origin, nature and
general conduct” and that it “gave sub-
stantial aid to the Axis.”
People who use “Fascism” as a term of
abuse usually take care to leave it un-
defined. Originally meant to describe the
sort of government and economy set up
by Mussolini, it has been applied so in-
discriminately that it now means almost
any political set-up which the speaker
happens to dislike or fear. To Commun-
ists everyone, whatever his nationality,
who is active in opposing their conspiracy
is a “Fascist.”
As for the charge of giving aid to the
Axis, there is little doubt that Franco did
a great deal to repay those who had
helped him to power. But we have
Churchill’s word that he could have done
a lot more. The Finns actually did more,
and they are already back in America’s
good graces. And we know, too, that
Russia gave substantial help to Germany,
shared in Germany’s early conquests (add-
ing conquests of its own with Hitler’s
permission), and vilified Britain’s cause
until Hitler turned eastward.
The menace to security is not Franco,
nor is it “potential.”— Col (N.S.W.).
Control of Share Prices
Can anyone give a good reason for
the continued control of stock-exchange
prices? It may be thought that a free
sharemarket would affect the sale of
Government bonds, but money paid for
shares is not annihilated. What the buyer
gives, the seller receives, and who is the
more likely investor in bonds —he who
wants to get out of shares, or he who
wants to get in?
Yet the Government frustrates both by
refusing to allow the sale at a mutually
acceptable price. So the shareholder sells
only when he wants cash for some emer-
gency, while the would-be buyer, wait-
ing for such an opportunity, keeps his
money in the bank —not in bonds.
Further, if stock-exchange prices were
allowed to find their own level, the in-
come yield on shares would fail, and
Government bonds would become rela-
tively a more attractive investment. —
Arc (N.S.W.).
To the small investor the Government’s
“policy” of fixing ceiling prices on the
Stock Exchange is beyond comprehen-
sion. Take Paringa, a w goldmining con-
cern.
Recently the company offered a small
new issue at 3s. l£d. to present share-
holders in the proportion of two to five.
For some weeks now investors have been
bidding around Is. lOd. for these rights,
which in simple arithmetic means would-
“That the Surefire Extinguisher Company? Can y' send up an
extinguisher on tonight’s train?”
be owners are prepared to pay ss. for
shares. The Government ceiling price is
3s. 9d.— Tex (W.A.).
Payment of Members
“W.S.W.’s” suggestion (B. 22/5/’46)
that Parliamentarians should be paid
directly by their constituents is not
original. It was the practice in Eng-
land from the early days of Parliament
until the Stuart period. Then member-
ship of the Commons began to be re-
garded as an honor for which rich men
were glad to pay. Payment of members,
therefore, fell into abeyance and was
not revived till 1911.
Community responsibility for payment
of representatives was so unpopular that
it was regarded as a privilege for a
borough to be relieved of the necessity
of returning members. Thus Southamp-
ton was disfranchised in reward for the
citizens’ gallant repulse of a French raid.
An equivalent dislike of the consti-
tuency being charged with its member’s
salary would, it is safe to say, wreck any
attempt to institute the system in Aus-
tralia.
The present method of paying politi-
cians is certainly unsatisfactory—in what
other sphere would recipients be permitted
to fix their own salaries? They should
be determined by Arbitration Court
Judges, no decision to be altered without
a referendum.
Such a matter as the Parliamentary
Pension Scheme should be decided by the
same authority under the same condi-
tions. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Country Industries
Certainly the breweries have gone from
country towns (B. 12/6/’46), but a
good many flourmills remain. The
reason for some flourmills closing was
the bakers’ preference for a flour made
with mixed grain—flour made entirely
from the wheat of one district had its
disadvantages.
But what about other industries which
flourished in the country in the old days
—tanneries, soapworks, brickworks, chaff-
mills, coachbuilders, cordial factories
and saddlery shops? Now that cars
have replaced buggies, and motor-trucks
the old horsedrawn wagons, I often won-
der where the farmer buys his horse-
drawn vehicles which must still be used
on many farms.
And I doubt if garages give as much
local employment as did the coach-
builders, harness-makers and chaffmills
of the older days.— Ceg (Vic.).
Soviet Education
An article in the “Australian Chemical
Institute Journal” of May, 1946, contains
some interesting information about higher
education in the U.S.S.R. The article is
signed by Eric Ashby, D.Sc., D.1.C.,
F.L.S., Professor of Botany, University of,
Sydney, lately Counsellor and Charge
d’Affaires, Australian Legation, Moscow.
Professor Ashby says:
In the more highly developed regions
of the Soviet Union primary and secondary
education is combined in a “ten-year
school.” Every such school follows the
same curriculum. There is no choice of
subjects. The syllabus is rigidly prescribed
by the Commissariat of Education. The
preamble states that the subject should
be taught in such a way as to give an
anti-religious bias.
Apparently higher education is avail-
able only to a few and those few in only
certain areas of the Union. Note the
emphasis on rigidity and the stifling of
individualism, even in what, in this coun-
try, would be called matters of conscience.
Professor Ashby again:
There is severe competition to enter the
better institutes, and only a limited number
are admitted, after a stiff examination.
The university course extends over five
years. Details of the courses (most of
which are common to all large universities
and which are laid down by an All-Union
Committee) are as follows:
First Year: Marxism-Leninism, foreign
language, military training, maths., physics
and general chemistry.
Second Year: Marxism-Leninism, ana-
lytical and organic chemistry, and other
subjects as in first year.
Third, fourth and fifth years are devoted
to various branches of chemistry.
Courses at the technical institutes, which
cover much the same ground as university
courses, also include Marxism-Leninism
and military training in the first two years.
Contemplate for a moment the howl
there would be from our own Red
Fascists if Capitalism and military train-
ing were introduced as compulsory sub-
jects in university courses in this country.
According to Professor Ashby again,
“At the end of the fifth year the student
has an examination in (a) Marxism-
Leninism, ( b ) his special field of chemis-
try.” The professor doesn’t say so, but
it’s pretty obvious that nobody except a
member of the party has any chance of
getting any education beyond the most
elementary stages. The professor appears
to think the ground is fairly well covered
in the courses, and probably it turns out
some fairly capable chemists. But the
excessive rigidity of the syllabus, the time
spent on political matters and the short-
age of equipment (which Ashby stresses)
would all sadly handicap any experi-
menter as compared to a student in a
capitalist country.
The chief objection of our own Com-
munists to our educational system is that
it limits opportunities for higher study to
the rich. Apparently the Soviet system
limits opportunities to those of the correct
political creed. Under our system scholar-
ships, bursaries and the like assist the poor
lad with the necessary ability to succeed,
despite the system. There is none of that
nonsense in Russia, adequate safeguards
being provided to ensure that no outsider
can possibly creep through.— Five by
Two (Q.).


ras-
-
s<f o <v-
JS« V
e^
\o
N pC^
e* x;
\ot
*! P tV' 0 ' .o «•%*•* .
Ae^ C .«\e*.\ a te'^o^
N®
*A*t\ /• %\|\
o> Xe !
V «a* 6
\h <e^
*s* r&r>“
StfS*
B«b9 s
f\ans
wil
*'
*•* ;
I *'
' '?• '
_ m
* «<*
ip '
1; *<» «
' i
* 'J* »
*' *
' V* -
Jfcii
»?> .
V^.,^o/
'r*
fa * -”'
™
r
Steel being teemed into
ingot moulds at A.I.S.
Kembla Works.
•JHE news of the day covers many ambitious plans and projects
. . . housing schemes, railway development, rehabilitation
of Servicemen, motor car manufacture, and other activities . . .
formulated in the cause of economic and industrial development.
Steel is the basic material which enables such plans to become
realities . . . and Australia has the industrial capacity to produce
steel in sufficient quantity for the nation’s requirements.
Australian Iron and Steel Ltd. has helped materially in the
building of Australia’s steel-making potential, and the company’s
Kembla Works, which produces approximately one-third of this
country’s total annual steel production, is one of the most
efficient steel plants in the world.
Steel from the A.I.S. Kembla Works is to be found in wide
■
variety implementing the plans, big and little, national and
individual, which in turn contribute to Australia’s progress.
Australian Iron a Steel Ltd.
IRON a STEEL WORKS, PORT KEMRLA, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Offices also at 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney (Iron and Steel Department), and Kembla Buildings*
58 Margaret Street, Sydney (Pipe, Fabricated Steel and Coal Department);
Fabricating Works: Alexandria, N.S.W., and South Melbourne, Vic.
