

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol 67~~N0. 3479
Wednesday, October 16, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE ORATORY OF ST PHILIP NERI.
•jjntil the building of Westminster Cathedral this handsome
Renaissance building was the finest Catholic Church in London.
The Oratory derived its name from the fact that it served by
priests of the order of St. Philip Neri, an Italian order which
Cardinal Newman introduced into England to establish a com-
munity at Birmingham in 1847. Later another community was set
up in London by Father Faber, its quarters being near the Oratory,
which was completed in 1897. The most notable interior feature of
this church was the Lady Altar, brought from a church at Brescia,
built by Francis di Corborelli after the designs of Sandrino. The
marbles were the finest Italy had produced, and the inlaid work
was very attractively decorated with amethysts, lapis lazuli and
cornelian. The Oratory also contained statues of the apostles by
Mazzotti from Siena and a replica of Maderno’s figure of St. Cecilia.


freelance Journalism
t HOHF
This Book FREE to YOU'
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation t your New Pree
booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin," ' ‘
My Name
My Address *
S.B. US
AGE
The Red Page
JUDITH WRIGHT'S POETRY.
In April, 1575, at his “pore house in
Walkamstowe,” George Gascoigne,
Esquire, completed his poem “Philomene”
and sent it to his “singuler good Lord,
the L. Gray of Wilton, Knight of the
most noble order of the Garter” ; who
read;
In sweet April, the messenger to May,
When hoonie drops do melt in golden showres,
When every bird records hir lover’s lay
And western windes do foster forth our floures,
Late in an even I walked out alone
To hear the descant of the Nightingale.
Times change. When Judith Wright
completed the poems of The Moving
Image she sent them to the Meanjin Press,
Melbourne ; which was the appropriate
publisher, for Judith Wright, though The
Bulletin has printed a good many of
her verses, was “discovered” by “Mean-
jin Papers.” And a notable discovery it
was:
Times change; but poetry does not.
Not in its fundamentals—either in the
way it is made or in the effect it has on
the reader. The hoonie drops still melt
in golden showres. It is a pity George
Gascoigne .did not live to read four lines
of Judith Wright’s “Bullocky”;—
While past the campfire’s crimson ring
the star-struck darkness cupped him round,
and centuries of cattlebells
rang with their sweet uneasy sound.
Indeed, a drop of “hoonie”! There
are technical explanations for the exqui-
site melody of this quatrain; and here
George Gascoigne may be invited, in his
capacity as “first English critic,” to
demonstrate that criticism, too, does not
alter in its essentials down the ages ; for
Judith Wright’s music comes from the
subtle alliteration of “c’s” and “m’s” and
“n’s”, and George, though rightly fearing
the tendency of writers of his time to
“hunte a letter to death,” declared that
the device (“being moderately used”)
would lend “good grace to a verse.”
George’s precepts, it seems, were better
than his practice ; a slur not uncommonly
cast on the unfortunate tribe of critics.
For his “Steele Glas”—a satire one might
compare with Dr. Johnson’s equally
heavy-handed “London”—has a wealth
of alliteration which looks all the more
immoderate in the antique spelling: —
I fee and figh (bycaufe it makes me fadde)
That peuifhe pryde doth al the world poffeffe.
Philomene, ’ though unquestionably
hoonied, is hardly more than an exercise in
the fashion of the day, Chaucer sweetened
by Euphuism.
George was. a man of some parts. He
fought for the Prince of Orange against
the Spaniards and, being in correspon-
dence with a lady at The Hague—which
city was then in the hands of the enemy
—was accused of treachery; quite
wrongly, for his only error was amorous-
ness. His comings and goings at The
Hague caused the burghers to nickname
him The Green Knight.” These green
and knightly doings, however—the passion
and excitement of them—were but palely
reflected in his poetry. In emotional
range, in the depth of poetry, Judith
Wright is altogether more profound;
“The Company of Lovers,” for instance
—a tragic and beautiful lyric of the war:
Death marshals up his armies round us now.
Their footsteps crowd too near.
Lock your warm hand above the chilling heart
and for a time I live without my fear.
Grope in the night to find me and embrace,
for the dark preludes of the drums begin,
and round us, round the company of lovers,
Death draws his cordons in.
But as a critic, if not as a poet in the
highest sense, George is never to be
faulted, never tied down in his own
period. He has even a word to say on
the kind of metre —scansion by “strong”
syllables—That Judith Wright uses in the
memorable “South of My Days” and in
her title poem, new to the present com-
mentator ; —
Listen to the voices mingle, the songs entwine.
‘The world is my heart, the world is love • or
hate.
With these I master the world.’ ‘The world
is my body;
is what my eyes can see and my hands hold.
My strength subdues it; strength will make me
' great
when I, the builder, claim all I build for mine.’
But he whose eyes are diamond and as cold
sits head on hand, unheeding, passionate,
piercing the cloaks of the world, fold after fold.
This is not strict iambic measure ; but
George Gascoigne would have recog-
nised and approved it: —
Also our father Chaucer used the same
libertie in feete and measures that the
Latinists do use: and who so ever do
peruse and well consider his workes, he
shall finde that although his lines are not
alwayes of one selfe same number of
Syllables, yet beyng redde by one that hath
understanding, the longest verse and that
which has most syllables in it, will fall (to
the eare) correspondent unto that whiche
hath fewest sillables in it: and like wise
that whiche hath in it fewest syllables shall
be founde yet to consist of woordes that
have such naturall sounde as may seeme
equall in length to a verse which hath
many moe sillables of lighter accents.
These remarks —which conclude with
a lament against the more mechanical
scansion Gascoigne felt obliged to employ
in his own verses —are quoted from “Cer-
tayne Notes of Instruction” written for
the benefit of a Master Edouardo Donati,
an Italian who aspired to the making of
English poetry, reprinted along with
“The Steele Glas” and “Philomene” by
the English Reprint Society in 1868 under
the title George Gascoigne, Esquire.
The "Certayne Notes” is a masterly little
essay, setting down the fundamental
principles of poetry so capably that suc-
ceeding generations of critics can only
rediscover them or, at best, as did Hazlitt
and Matthew Arnold, elaborate them.
Says George; —
The first and most necessary point in
making of a delectable poeme is this, to
ground it upon some fine invention. For
it is not enough to roll in pleasant woordes.
Judith Wright’s lyrical narratives—
“The Hawthorn Hedge,” “South of My
Days,” “Trapped Dingo,” “Remittance
Man,” “The Idler,” “Bullocky,” “Brothers
and Sisters” and the charming “Half-
Caste Girl”; —
Little Josie buried under the bright moon
is tired of being dead, death lasts too long,
She would like to push death aside, and stand
on the hill
and beat with a waddy on the bright moon
like a gong—
these are all poems grounded upon some
fine invention ; and, consequently, as the
critic prophesies, “pleasant woordes fol-
low well inoughi and fast inough.”
George’s second rule was; —
Your Invention being once devised, take
heede that neither pleasure of rime nor
varietie of device do carie you from it.
And here, too, Judith Wright errs not;
for it has previously been pointed out on
the Red Page how swiftly and economi-
cally is told the story of “Brothers and
Sisters,” and the same is true of “The
Hawthorn Hedge”—a novel compressed
into a lyric.
George said further: —
Remembre to place every worde in his
natural Emphasis or sound;
And a little later: —
So would I wishe you to frame all sen-
tences in their mother phrase and proper
Idioma.
And herein he was as modern as Yeats,
who advised, “The natural words in their
natural order.” Judith Wright—“The
world is my heart, the world is love or
hate” —is certainly not to be faulted on
this ground ; which is one of the prin-
cipal reasons why her poetry is modern
in the best sense of the term and at the
same time admirably traditional.
That same (typical) line—“The world
is my heart, the world is love or hate” —
fulfills another of Gascoigne’s require-
ments : —
. The most auncient English wordes are
of one sillable, so that the more mono-
syllables that you use, the truer English-
man you shall seeme, and the lesse you
shall smell of the Inkehorne.
“Eschew straunge words or obsoleta
and inusitata,” says George ; and further:
And as much as you may, frame your
stile to perspecuity and to be sensible:
for the haughty obscure verse doth not
much delight, and the verse that is too
easie is like a tale of a rested horse: but
let your Poeme be such as may both
delight and draw attentive readyng.
There is no tale of a rosted horse in The
Moving Image, nothing cheap and facile.
But there is, perhaps, especially in the
title poem, a tendency here and there to
the “haughty and obscure verse.” Cer-
tainly “The Moving Image” is not
grounded upon a fine invention —is not,
essentially, lyrical or narrative or
dramatic poetry—but is one of those
mystical and philosophical explanations
of the universe that every poet since Eliot
has felt obliged to attempt; and all of
which do a little smack of the Inkehorne.
A fashion of darkly philosophising may
be just as dangerous to poetry in the long
run as a fashion of Euphuism. Consider-
ing The Moving Image as the .first book
of a young—but not so very young—
writer one must note the comparative
smallness of output; a certain lack of
joy, spontaneity and simplicity ; and, in
consequence, an impression of seriousness
and, sometimes, strain. “Our unfortu-
nate century,” said William Gaunt in
The Aesthetic Adventure, “was born
middle-aged.” One can only hope that,
as it grows older, it will grow younger.
Judith Wright’s serious and analytical
verses hardly deserve in themselves this
criticism. Poets must have a licence to
explore the universe; and, as George
says, “This poeticall licence is a shrewde
fellow, and covereth many faults.” The
title poem is not really obscure, not even
difficult when given the “attentive
readyng” it deserves ; moreover it is writ-
ten with a power and a passion altogether
rare in philosophical poetry. The imagery
is rich and beautiful and one is aware
all the time of the masterly handling of
rhythm ; strong, like a heart beating. It
is the tendency that is dimly alarming,
for it is towards abstraction and away
from everything George Gascoigne be-
lieved to be poetry.
But the tendency of the other poems—
expressing Australia in terms of heat and
surf and cattlebells, humanity in the
figures of drovers, bushrangers, the half-
caste girl, the “mad old girl on the hill”
and the gently terrified “Brothers and
Sisters” ; and expressing the writer’s own
richly feminine genius in the imagery of
blossoming trees—these promise any-
thing ; everything; the world. Judith
Wright may well say with the good
George Gascoigne, “And (my good
Lorde) though the skorneful do mocke
me for a time, yet in the ende I hope
to give them al a rybbe of roste for their
paynes.”
How Jong ago she planted the hawthorn hedge—
she forgets how long ago—
that barrier thorn across the hungry ridge;
thorn and snow.
It is twice as tall as the rider on the tall mare
who draws his reins to peer
in through the bee-hung blossom. Let him stare.
No-one is here.
Only the mad old girl from the hut on the hill,
unkempt as an old tree.
She will hide away if you wave your hand or
call;
she will not see.
Year-long, wind turns her grindstone heart and
whets
a thorn-branch like a knife,
shouting in winter ‘Death’; and when the white
bud sets,
more loudly, ‘Life.’
She has forgotten when she planted the haw-
thorn hedge;
that thorn, that green, that snow;
birdsong and sun dazzled across the ridge—
it was long ago. ,
Her hands were strong in the earth, her glance
on the sky,
her song was sweet on the wind.
The hawthorn hedge took root, grew wild and
high
to hide behind.
Babies by the Billion.
There are enough babies in Belle J.
Benchley’s My Animal Babies (Faber) to
make a strong man run for miles.
Yet whoso ran —and a photograph of
the fawn which was the original for Walt
Disney’s Bambi, not to mention its even
more sentimental mother, would make
one run fast and far —would miss much
interesting information about the wart-
hog. For it seems that the male wart-
hog as well as the mother suffers from
parental feelings and, when urged by his
infant, will stir from the sleep of wart-
hogs to edge closer to his spouse so that
the young one may slumber between
them, held up by their bodies from the
cold and damp of the ground.
And then, too, concerning another of
the pig tribe, an infant peccary named
Coche, it is told that, being adopted
by a young man, he recognised his
master’s shoes as the fountain of all bless-
ings and, wherever they went, followed
the Shoes and adored them. He did not
—perhaps could not —raise his head. He
was fed by the Shoes, caressed by the
Shoes, spoken to by the Shoes; and
though he was aware of the cuffs of the
Trousers, which he chewed, he had
apparently no conception at all of the fact
that there was anything or anyone above
the ankles:
He followed, just as Lew had said, nose
against the cloth and eyes glued on the big
black shoes, and apparently oblivious to
everything else. When Lew sat still he
would let his baby curiosity get the better
of his caution and would venture a little
exploring, returning periodically to re-
assure himself with the touch and odor
of the beloved feet. Once Lew stepped up
on the seat of a chair, and the conster-
nation of Coche knew no bounds. He
squealed frantically and showed every sign
of terror until suddenly the feet were once
more, without warning, back where the
little nose could touch them. This time
Coche lay down across them, perfectly
content.
Director of San Diego Zoo, Belle
Benchley wrote My Life in a Man-Made
Jungle, as pleasing an animal book as one
could wish for ; and My Animal Babies
is well up to her own high standard.
In spite of one’s natural fears, and the
photograph of Bambi, the book is not
sentimental, but charming, comical and
informative.
A polar bear cub, for instance, weighs
only 20oz. at birth —no bigger than the
average Alsatian dog puppy. And there
is an American “elf owl” which makes
its home in the holes dug by wood-
peckers in giant cactus plants. And the
hippopotamus is a' nervous and excit-
able mother. And a villainous immi-
grant to California, the Argentine ant,
is a killer of humming birds.
And the eggs of the Surinam toad are
forced into the lady toad’s spongy back,
forming cavities which are covered by a
horny growth until the young push their
way through and greet the world looking
exactly like their parents, without ever
having been tadpoles. And, it appears.
Nature has invented an extraordinarily
cunning device for “weaning” the young
of seabirds accustomed to eat pre-di-
gested, regurgitated meals from the
parents’ mouths: “As the babies grow
and the demand for more and more food
harasses the parents, the fish becomes
less and less digested until gradually the
young birds are capable of eating the
bits of raw food carried to them and
finally of obtaining it for themselves.”
Mrs. Benchley is not correct when she
says there are no wild camels today—
unless the descendants of domesticated
camels gone wild don’t count, * And,
though doubtless it is true that snakes
don’t swallow their young when alarmed
—“Anatomists have searched in vain for
an auxiliary chamber devoted to safety
rather than food storage”—it is a pity.
Mrs. Benchley is, in fact, very disillusion-
ing on the subject of snakes: she informs
Americans that when they kill a baby
rattlesnake they need have no fear that
its parents will come to avenge it, and
she tells the world at large that, except
for brief and strictly biological purposes,
snakes don’t have “mates” and take not
the slightest interest in their eggs or their
young.
As pleasant as any of the anecdotes of
which the book is compiled is, the story
of the ordinary house cat, gone half-
wild, who took her kittens for safety to
the cage in which the giant birds of
prey were housed ; but there is also the
description of the polar bear cub trying to
prevent his mother having a bath—drag-
ging at the scruff of her neck to keep her
away from the dangerous water; and —
somewhat grim this one the three
panda mothers who got their youngsters
mixed, held a perilous tug-of-war over
one of them, and literally wore another
one out, carrying him from one lair to
another.
There are monkey stories, elephant
stories, camels, zebras, seals, birds; even
wallabies and dingoes. It is revealed
that the male baboon takes a pride in
the birth of his offspring—“ The father
welcomed his keeper and immediately
stalked over to the family group, smack-
ing his lips, grunting loudly, and doing
all he knew how to attract Moore’s atten-
tion to the event”; and, with the authority
of an expert, Mrs. Benchley declares:
The comical grimacing, the pathos and
the winsomeness in the face of a baby
orang surpass those of any baby in the
world, including the human infant.
There’s no doubt whatever about this
book. No mother should miss it; no
father, no child, no nature-lover ; and, in
particular, no orang-outang.
The "Yellow Peril."
Let me rush in to the defence of my
friend Chis (R.P. 18/9/’46) to point out
to “C.M.” that he is hardly fair in his
tailpiece to an excellent piece of help-
ful criticism.
Referring to Chisholm’s assertion that
the framework of “The Glugs of Gosh”
was based on our supply of warlike
goods to the Japanese, “C.M.” scouts the
idea that Dennis —in 1917 —was trying
to warn us. Well, we were being warned
against both the Japs and the Chinese
from many quarters, and long before
1917.
I recall long before we youngsters
sailed avyay to the First World War that I
was one of the hopefuls of the dramatic
company headed by bustling little Alf
Williamson and his Junoesque wife,
Maud Williamson, and one of our most
lurid melodramas was a shrieking thing
called “The Yellow Peril,” in which all
the wickedness of the warmongers of the
East was the main theme.
Then again, I recall my old colleague
on the Sydney “Sun,” E. George Marks,
the dapper Court reporter with the tall
“whitewashed fence” collar, the cane and
the donkey’s-breakfast straw hat, who
from 1912 onwards, was indefatigable in
writing books about Napoleon’s strategy,
and interspersing them with such paper-
covered shockers as The Yellow Peril
and Watch the Pacific. George was cer-
tain that either China or Japan, or both,
would belt the lights out of us if we
didn’t watch out, though I must confess
that he made little impression upon
Australians.
Dennis undoubtedly had the same idea,
and anyone reading “The Glugs of Gosh”
in that light must see that the warning
sticks out a mile.
STAN EAST.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
Julius
Murlom
fractional
fittings
#■
-
m
sssss
m
■y
X
Sx
• men's multiple fitting shoe section
GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
COUNTRY CLIENTS
PLEASE NOTES
BRISTOL
Swing to style in this new and different toe. Being a
“Marlow,” with so many fittings, foot comfort is
assured. In soft, pliable Black Box or Tan Willow Calf.
When you take your stand on the Tee
THE ESSEX (Below)
From the first stroke to the final putt—in round after
round—Julius Marlow Coif Shoes prove their worth.
These famous golf shoes with their specially designed
soles are reinforced to resist strain and hardest wear.
Available in Brown Calf only.
ALL ONE
PRICE
3T'»
To our COUNTRY CLIENTS we bring this
message . Future service is guaranteed if you will
have your feet accurately measured by a trained
fitter. These shoes are obtained in fractional sizes
and we would suggest that when next in town
you obtain your correct fitting. ■ Your measure-
ment will then be filed in our Footwear Register,
thus enabling you to order by mail at any future
date. We cannot stress too deeply the value of
this service which exists for your benefit and
would strongly advise a visit so that you may
secure a correct fit in Julius Marlow Footwear.
SAXON
So you suffer discomfort because of your
short and broad foot! There’s no need to—
not while the Saxon Shoe is available to give
you that little extra in the width. You’ll revel
in the luxurious comfort of this superior shoe.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
44 The Senior Store”
TELEPHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


MAXSEASB
the perfect comfort male
rapport for every man’i
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by SEND FQR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ' ' '
£
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© redid! to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy p Eewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—!,. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.P.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
EP ?-«.
mm
1
Mr
Successful men always pay attention to the daily shave. They
know from experience that no other method of shaving gives them
the fresh, keen, well-groomed look that is the outstanding
characteristic of Gillette. But remember a Gillette Shave means
a genuine Gillette Blue Blade in a genuine
® Gillette precision-built razor. Both
are now in good supply. Ask
your local retailer.
a:
\
n
%
t FOR
' TRADc. MAR«
‘GOOD MORNINGS’
BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
Personal.
TOHNSON, Elizabeth, late of Goulburn, Spinster,
deceased, died Btb February, 1915. Born at loung,
NSW. 17th June, 1886, daughter of Anne Margarei
Johnson (nee Kelly) and George Wilmot Johnson,
labourer (whose first marriage is believed to have
been with Mary O’Neil, of Melbourne Victoria, about
1854). The next of kin of the said Elizabeth John-
son deceased, or any person knowing of their where-
Xnts or death are requested to communicate with
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street. Sydney,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Love Sonnets of a Hoodlum, by
Wallace Irwin.—3892.
To buy all-paper map of South America
about 38in. long. —3893.
Information Sought.
If a military hut has been erected on a per-
son’s ground can the owner claim rent as
well as rates and can the military authorities
be ejected ?
The owner is entitled to proper compensation
in respect of the army’s occupation of the
land. If it is still required for military
purposes the authorities cannot be evicted.
Write to Hirings Officer, c/o local Military
H.Q.
* * * *
How many Commonwealth commemorative
stamps have been issued?
Ud. Canberra, 32,213,680; 3d. Kookaburra,
4,500,000; Ud. Swan, 20,000,000; Ud. Sturt,
20,250,000 ; 3d. Sturt, 2,000,000 ; 2d. Kmgs-
ford-Smith, 20,250,000 ; 6d. Kingsford-Smith,
700,000; 2d. Bridge surface print, 27,280,616;
2d. Bridge engraved, 9,503,680; 3d. Bridge
engraved, 2,500,000 ; 5s. Bridge engraved,
120,000; 2d. Victoria, 105,000,000 ; 3d. Vic-
toria, 8,000,000; Is. Victoria, 1,190,000 ; 2d. Mac-
arthur, 15,000,000 ; 3d. Macarthur, 1,000,000;
9d. Macarthur, 150,000; 2d. Anzac, 18,000,000;
Is. Anzac, 120,000 ; 2d. Jubilee, 18,000,000;
3d. Jubilee, 2,000,000 ; 2s. Jubilee, 80,000;
24d. Gloucester, 88,290,000; 3£d. Gloucester,
4,048,320; Gloucester, 5,886,900.
» * * *
I have a canary that, after a moult that
lasted for months, suddenly stopped whistling;
is there any treatment for this?
These oases are mostly health cases. Check
its food and make sure it is getting good fresh
seed. Twice weekly take a portion of the
yolk of a hard-boiled egg, grate it into small
pieces and mix with the seed; once weekly
dissolve a saltspoon of Irradol A in a glass
of warm water and pour on seed, making
sure that all food not eaten after 24 hours
is removed. Add a few drops of Parrish s
Food in the daily drinking wafer for a fort-
night. It is a good rule to clean and disinfect
food- and drinking-cups with a little Condys
Fluid daily, while green food such as shredded
lettuce, spinach or green lucerne is beneficial.
¥ * . * ♦
(1) Cast of the film “Smithy"? (2) Are all
incidents in the film historically accurate, e.g.,
the scene where Smithy takes Truscott as a
boy for a ride in the Southern Cross? (3)
Are George and Joy Nichols relations?
(1) Sir Charles Kingsford-Smith, Ron Ran-
dell; Lady Mary Kingsford-Smith, Muriel
Steinbeck; Charles Ulm, Jphn Tate; Kay Sut-
ton, Joy Nichols; Nan Kingsford-Smith, Nan
Taylor; Captain G. Allan Hancock, Alec
Kellaway; Sir Hubert Wilkins, John Dease;
Stringer, Joe Valli; Arthur Powell, Marshall
Crosby; Harold Kingsford-Smith, John Dunne;
Beau Shiel, Edward Smith; Tommy Pethy-
bridge, Alan Herbert; Rt. Hon. W. M. Hughes,
Captain P. G. Taylor and John Stannage as
themselves. (2) The major incidents are authen-
tic. That particular scene is not factual, but
with the permission of Truscott’s parents the
scene was incorporated in the film. (3) They
are brother and sister.
$ * ♦ *
On what type of tennis court is the Davis
Cup played? . „, s
Davis Cup Regulation 8 (a>—revised in 1936
—states that “the surface of the courts to be
used in the competition shall be either grass,
turf or a natural or artificial fine gritty
material, but in no case shall a tie be played
under cover or on a surface of wood, stone,
concrete, asphalt, cement or other similar sub-
stance or composition.”
* * * *
What is the M.C.C. rule concerning the size
of wickets, and have the umpires any duties
concerning them ?
Law 6 states: “Each wicket shall be not
less than Sin. nor more than 9in. in width.
The stumps shall be not less than 27m. nor
more than 28in. out of the ground, The bails
shall be each not less than 4in. nor more
than 4£in. in length, and when in position on
top of the stumps shall not project more than
iin. above them.” It is the umpires’ duties
to inspect and measure the wickets before
play takes place.
* * * *
(1) Is frangipanni (Plumeria acutifolia) a
native Australian shrub ? (2) Can it be grown
in Sydney ? (3) Can it be grown from seeds ?
Best method of planting?
(1) No, it is a native of Mexico. (2) Yes,
and it flowers profusely. (3) It is usually grown
from cuttings in October, when it roots readily.
It can be propagated from seed, but seed is
difficult to obtain. Cuttings six inches long
should be taken from leafless plants when the
wood is ripe.
* * * *
Can ordinary salt be prepared commercially
by boiling salt water until only the solid is
left ?
Coarse salt can be produced by boiling salt
water in open pans. Fine salt is made by boil-
ing salt water in a vacuum evaporating plant.
These methods are used in England; they have
been tried in Australia, but found to be a
failure on account of the brine containing mag-
nesium chloride and calcium sulphate. The
calcium sulphate is precipitated at an earlier
stage than the sodium chloride, and causes in-
crustation, which discolors the salt.
* * * *
What gives the ocean its peculiar color ?
The molecular scattering of sunlight in water.
The sunlight penetrates the water and the blue
component is scattered in all directions; some
of this blue light emerges and reaches the obser-
ver’s eye. By means of a Nicol’s prism the
skylight reflected from the sea can be cut off
and observed. When the surface reflections are
thus suppressed the hue of the water is of such
fullness and saturation that the bluest sky m
comparison seems a dull grey.
* * * *
Formula for making a permanent varnish for
gun-barrels ?
Dissolve one ounce of shellac and two
drachms of dragon’s blood in a quart of methy-
lated spirits and filter the solution through
blotting-paper into a bottle, which must be kept
tightly corked. After the varnish has been
applied, let it dry thoroughly on the barrel,
and then rub with chamois leather vigorously so
as to render it smooth and glossy.
f Brief Answers.
J.G.: Prizes won in lotteries are nof
subject to income tax J.M.: (1) There is
a market in Australia for all kinds of stamps*
and dealers are concerned only in their own
business and do not act for overseas firing
(2) The Hd. Fiji issued in 1938 is sold locally
for 2s 6d J.R.: Contact a banking firm-
.A.A.: The Dairy Manual obtainable from
Gov Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney; Feeds and
Feeding, by Morrison; The Farmer’s Hand-
book, obtainable from Gov. Printer. Leaflets
on various aspects of dairying are obtainable
from the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.....J.C.
Baedeker states that the Vatican has about 1000
subdivisions, including galleries, museums,
offices and factories, and covers 1131 ft. by
767 ft Area of the City is 110 acres. Further
facts'can be obtained from Sladen’s How to
See the Vatican A.W.C.: Contact officer-
in-charge, Commonwealth Experimental Build-
Sg Station, Delhi-road, N Ryde, N.S.W and
state location of floor, what use it is to be
nut to, whether subject to heavy loads ana
materials with which it will come into contact,
so that the best advice may be obtained.
..E.P.D.: Trumper, who played with Manly
in Svdney premiership cricket, is a son ot
Test batsman the late Victor Trumper...•
QP • would be advisable to consult 2
solicitor.


Legal Notice.
FRANCIS ALEXANDER OLIVER deceased son of
Robert and Janet OIiver.—PURSUANT to an order
of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in Equity
made in suit No. 294 of 1944 entitled (as amended)
IN THE MATTER of the Estate of FRANCIS ALEX-
ANDER OLIVER late of ‘Craig House’ Linden
Avenue Double Bay Sydney in the State of New
South Wales Solicitor deceased BETWEEN ALICE
MARY EARLS GEORGE Plaintiff and JESSIE
LOUISE OLIVER MAWSON Defendant” WHEREBY
the following inquiry was directed namely;—what
persons living at the time of the death of the above-
named Francis Alexander Oliver deceased were entitled
according to the statutes for the distribution of intes-
tate estates to that portion of the estate of the said
deceased in respect of which he died intestate, and
whether any of them are since dead and if so who
legal re P rese ntatives NOTICE IS .HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be entitled under
S*. e , “ ld t “Sniry are to send by post prepaid to
Nicholl & Hicks Solicitors 66 Hunter Street Sydney
New South Wales so as to reach them on or before
the 11th January 1947 their .full names addresses
and descriptions and full particulars of their claims
or in default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order unless the Court or the
Master in Equity on application otherwise orders
bew a +h! m 6 * 1 ® , att « nd Penalty or by Solicitor
before the Master in Equity Supreme Court Elizabeth
frv ee i t Qiv dn f y t S ' W ‘ u n Wednesda y the 12th Febru-
+v7 1 j 47 .. at ,- 11 a ' m ‘ bein S th e time appointed for
the adjudication upon claims A claimant not re-
ew ® outh Wales must send with particu-
lars of claim the name and address of a person in
New South Wales to whom notices to the claimant
& a HICKS nt- 6R D w TE ? 25 qi Sept ” 1946.—NICHOLL
Solicitors.®’ et ’ Sydney * Ptaintiff’s
Missing Friends.
MILLER.—WouW Adam Miller, last heard from at
» to s’ but Previously living at Christchurch and
Banks Peninsula, N.Z., his children, or anyone
knowmg his or their present address, kindly com-
“ e K.S W W h ? DAVID MILLER ' ° entre sS *
REUBEN SOUTH, son of James
South, Spring Creek, Tolga, via Cairns, Queensland,
please communicate with his cousin, JANET WHITE
England? 166 ’ Farm Cottage ’ Blyth > Northumberland!
WHISKY
6TCH
C
■ LTD.
AIC LT£&
/ m*rzl: s
hn Haig & Co.
:::: e/lhrjp, <£ TUcot^f. mL^CcO
>1 A RKINCH. Scotia
GOLD LABEL
===::: BLENDED
SCOTCH WHIS
m %%kmi
HA/6&o° A
■ Whisky has been a study with Haig, not only for a
lifetime, but for generation upon generation. Haig
WJiisky is old and is thoroughly matured in wood,
4to Aifui/t, tmis
(fO€S Utfy j
IP D
Q
..
Quality
S h
the
Still
Same
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS 9 WEAR
#&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor,
E.D.S.: Reduced by half it might pass muster.
V.S.: Not a bad idea, but you’ve over-
loaded it with technical terms... .M.M.; Story
of romantic flapper and rajah completely off
our beat F. 8.: Characters are as unreal
as their conversation H.W.S.: It didn’t even
reach the first hurdle C.F.: Belongs to an
outmoded school of short stories N.K.8.:
About as much like a short story as an extract
from Queen Victoria’s diary J. 8,: It doesn’t
seem to get anywhere E.J.F.: One is an
echo of P. G. Wodehouse, the other of W. W.
Jacobs T.H.: Tale of down-and-out who
picks up a nugget of gold “as big as his head”
on his first prospecting trip takes too much
swallowing M. 8., N.Z.: The following
samples of polysyllabic drollery seldom amuse,
and often confuse: “When the district in which
Tinkers’ Gully was situate carried no licence
consternation reigned among the sawmill hands
of that delectable settlement patrons....
plunged into a morass of despondency
hostile criticism of the laws that imposed the
will of the large t0wn....0n the denizens of
Tinkers’ Gully deemed the occasion one
that could not be permitted to pass unnoticed”
C.B.: Fair sample of its kind, but hope-
lessly magazinish S.K.N.: Promising
A.McC.: Be indignant, if you must, but don’t
be shrill J.P .S.: Slight A.J .K.: Interest-
ing material for a book on abos and pioneer-
ing, bjjt hardly a short story Yarraman:
Come again* with something more in our line
in the way of style H.J.C.: As you modestly
state, the story is “bubbling with vitality’’; but
the result is only a bubble N.8.M.: Take
that swagman away! V.M.; Archaic words
and puerile sentiments, loosely wrapped round
a dull story T.O’C.: “Pirate Gold” is weak
and old F.A.L.: Too many adjectives
R.W.: Beware of abstractions... .E.Q.: Trite.
B.B.: Pardonable if you’re young....
E.L.K.:
And that’s about birds’ songs! H.C.: “I
hope you will take into consideration that I
am sixteen years of age.” Dismissed with a
caution A.J.: Read the epic as far as
“yawning void” M.C.: Ragged W. 8.:
One line, then, for it has a certain swing:
“Come, Rocket Men! Come blast this great
Australian blight! ”... .J.F.8.: So it’s rained,
has it? M.K.D.; And a drought up your
way? M.J.M.: If that’s what the sight of
plonk does to you, for heaven’s sake never
taste it... .M.H.H.:
Goforth, go forth J.C.: Both featherweights.
... .W.J.M.: .Do you mean to say he could fly?
>...D.D.: Sugary 0.G.: Too many charac-
ters... .M.M.; Sentimental V.A.; “Bottle
Party” bare record of commonplace crime
J.McK.: Not bad; now see if you can write
amusing . stories with some realism... .F.L.:
Not a good story, but there is “atmosphere”
somewhere behind the cliches and sentimen-
tality L.K.0.: Don’t ramble... .R.D.:
Eschew those polysyllables... .J.M.A.: Visualise
your characters... .T.W.: Don’t repeat stock
phrases....A.M.B.: Little in it S.C.: Farce
crude and improbable... .G.E.; Doleful widow
and homeless child put to rest in the w.p.b
F-O’C.: Thin... .YJ.: N 0.... J.J.McG.: The
only mystery is—why bother to write it?....
C.C.: Too many characters, who seem to have
interchangeable parts D.P.: Familiar
swaggie shown the eternal door 0.N.: Try
your hand at pars... .V.H.T.: “Do you think
I have talent as a writer, or should I stick to
bricklaying?” By all means stick to brick-
laying. .. .M. 8.; Wordy E.G.E.: Talkative
drover too aggressively Australian to be
altogether natural C.R.; Formless 1.D.:
Rabelaisian baker promising, but story trails
away into nothing B.B.: “Purple patches”
too self-consciously “arty” H.NP.: Improb-
able conversations ruin it W.M.: Use adjec-
tives of c010r... .J.McM.: Overwritten....
... .M.H.: Damon Runyon and water... .T. 0.:
Pallid L.P.S.: Noisy, but empty W.J.:
It you can find somebody else, give them
“Beans” E.D.E.: Might suit a woman’s
paper... .W.S.M.: “In each there runs a strain
primeval and is somewhat confusing unless
explained.” It’s clear enough; but if is a bit
primeval L. 8.: Come again, less bumpily.
In mimicry or earnest emulation
Each artist, ardent, leads in turn the glees
That swells above the tintinnabulation,
And harmonies, hilarious, hit the breeze.
In my boat I go forth alone
Hoping the current will carry me to the utmost
horizons of the sea,
Not shelve me with scorn upon a bank
Like lifeless driftwood. -
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G.D.: The iron prison bars at least look
realistic M.P.: Looks as if you soaked a
prickly-pear in ink and hurled it at the draw-
ing paper W.J.K.: No billet at 252 George-
street for the obese general and his lopsided
aide-de-camp P.C.A.: We remember laugh-
ing at it when we were very young
Take lessons before you have another shot at
publication F.L.H.: “The Circus Comes to
Our Town” on the road back to your town
J.R.: We always receive a crop of talking-
horse pictures around about Melbourne Cup
time 8.H.5.: Returning the Chinese dwarf
and his mate the beery shearer’s c00k....
G.N.8.: The answer is no to all three D.C.:
Illustrated baby sayings much too tender for
this adult journal E.L.: You should have sent
the idea along before the elections A.S.W.:
Strive for a more flowing line T.E.: Get
more humor into your work R.F.: Can’t
see you breaking into print this side of the
half-century L.8.G.: You appear to have
used rocking horses as models for your neddies.
K.P.J.: A palpable first attempt N.M.T.:
Pity your crystal-gazer didn’t warn you it was
a dud joke S.D.N.: Call and collect draw-
ings, not cheque, at your leisure J.M.:
There’s not a winner in the whole batch
R.H.D.: Conversation between caterpillars was
hardly hilarious enough F.H.: Several score
bush artists beat you to the post with that
gag M.K.: Not the brightest, is it?
C.W.; The sort of sketch drunks might draw
on each other’s starched shirt fronts G.P.8.:
“Spring Meeting” met with no success
T.M.P.: Slammed the door on the unwashed
rattle-jumpers N.F.: It’s time that wheeze
was pensioned off SJ.: There’s a faint
glimmer of hope somewhere there.


m
9
m
am
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
'
.VJJ.
wamf
i
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
iM
■ 'ScA-'v
H
- ■
.
"•' s
..
m
<,: * J, « * * < o; N, * % »■ ss >?* '< * < <j
I
*
-
m
m
mmmmw
tmntn
w
wmm
PMiimmmim
rnmMmmm
» ? iffM wlllll
W*'
ti||l|||l||l
hliUintU
i
s .- si ? ■■ m I § -.... rn I
■■
iliii
:
m
ill
iilii
mm
II
m
Hi
m
mm
m
WWM
1111111
wm
m
m
am
mam
m
im
i
...
mm
m
m
111
■ .'■ S
Y
mm
M
THE EXCELLENCE OF ITS WORSTED MANUFACTURES
A, • ■' : ' "• : ■'
I liiiiii
r
... r <
:
m
Sj;;;
ii
■
m
m
■
■ .
mm
ipplilliiil#
sM I \ s >''
Sg*
i&ZM-
am


THISFELLA THINK
By J.B. BLAIR
IT was kai time and Motai sat with
the other police boys and the native
carriers a few yards away from the
little knot of infantry. All were
enjoying, or at least suffering the same
menu —bully beef, a slab of tinned
cheese, biscuits and jam.
Motai was talking. “Yufella boy
plenty strong. Yufella boy paitim good,
suitim good.” Pause. “But yufella boy
no thipk! No usim head!”
He tapped his woolly skull to give
point to his lecture, then proceeded, not
boastfully or in vainglorious mood, but
as one stating a simple and undeniable
truth. “Thisfella boy think. Thisfella
boy usim head.”
The other boys listened to him with the
respect due to Lance-corporal Motai of
the Royal Papuan Constabulary.
Motai was not an Aitape boy like most
of his audience. Nor did he come from
the tribes from which the original mem-
bers of that force were usually drawn.
He was a recruit from among the savage
Orokaiva people who live on the north-
ern side of the Owen Stanleys. When
the Japs landed at Buna and began their
thrust across the Kokoda Trail, the
Orokaivas, never very friendly towards
the whites, threw in their lot with the
invader, to their subsequent sorrow and
disillusionment.
But when the Japs came Motai was no
longer with his tribe. Two years before
that a recruiter had attracted him with
the glamor of a rifle, armlet and belt of
the R.P.C. and Motai had gone to serve
his apprenticeship at 11010 in the hills
behind Moresby. By the time war
came to New Guinea he was an alert,
efficient guardian of the law, known and
respected throughout the villages over
a large portion of Papua.
When the invader made his attack on
Wau, Motai claimed the first of a long
list of victims. Already he was a legend
in the battalions, and little less than a
god to the boys of the Boong Train.
“Usim head,” he repeated ; “thisfella
usim head.”
The young*lieutenant looked around
his party. He was tall, lean and had an
air of quiet self-confidence, a veteran of
Libya and the early New Guinea cam-
paigns. His sergeant had been with him
from the first; most of the others were
later arrivals, but all were battle-tried-
all except young Scotton, newly-arrived
and about to have his first experience of
patrolling.
The officer’s eyes rested on the lad
for a moment. How would he shape?
He was glad the boy’s first job was not a
fighting patrol. The task in hand was a
recce job—“to probe and test the
enemy’s defences around Numigin,” the
screed said, “and to ascertain his strength
in the village.”
Orders were not to fire unless fired on.
His glance passed on to Motai and he
smiled grimly. Just the job for Motai!
H 'JNGER was over and cigarettes half-
smoked. It was time to get on their
way. The lieutenant called to Motai and
rose to his feet. A few minutes later
the patrol was strung 4 out along the
slippery track that slanted-down the hill-
side from the company position.
The patrol moved cautiously—silently
would be an exaggeration on a track
where boots squelched out of mud at
every step. Some risks must be taken if
an already tedious campaign was not to
be stretched out indefinitely. The enemy,
as always, would have the advantage of
the first shot.
Like its hun-
dred predecessors
the patrol sweated
on. At this early
stage an infanteer
was acting as
forward s c o,u t.
Later when near-
ing the objective Motai would lead,
but at present he was lying third
or fourth, next to the officer. Be-
hind him was the reinforcement lad,
Scotton, eager and intense, watching
Motai’s every movement.
Suddenly the always expected shot
came. The forward scout dropped and
the whole line followed suit, those at the
end of the file doing so purely from in-
stinct as in that thick jungle no man could
see more than two mates ahead, if that.
A fusillade of Bren and Owen fire was
dispatched in the direction from which
the shot had come.
Motai and the sergeant wormed their
way off the muddy track into the under-
growth on the right. Scotton made as
if to follow, but the lieutenant waved him
back. All the men wriggled to whatever
cover they could find, to await develop-
ments. Motai and the sergeant would
report whether the sniper was still a
danger.
It was clear that the scout was not
badly injured. The bullet had in fact
grazed his shoulder, ripping through his
shirt and barely scratching his skin.
Then the unexpected happened. Out
of the scrub leaped a Jap bleeding from
several wounds. He stood there a
moment, tottering, his rifle in unsteady
hands. It was sheer suicide, but the Jap
was always unpredictable. Young
Scotton rose and fired a burst from his
Owen gun. Then, white and trembling,
he emptied his magazine into the fallen
foe and stood there, hand still on trigger,
staring fixedly at the riddled body.
The officer tapped him on the shoulder.
“Good work, Jack,” he said, “but you
shouldn’t have wasted your ammo. One
burst was enough. Change your maga-
zine.”
Scotton obeyed and sat down on a
log. Others came up to pat him on the
back.
“You’ll do, son,” they told him.
Motai added his word of praise and
encouragement and the lad grinned. He
had heard all about the police boy’s
record and he felt in some indefinable
way that the brown man’s approval
meant that he had really made the grade
as a man among men. The others might
be just jollying him along, encouraging
a reo ; Motai must be genuine.
But Motai was not all approval. There
was a lesson to be driven home. “You
stan’ up,” he said reprovingly. “Motai
see; sargin’ see. Sipos more Japanee
man along bush. Sipos Motai Japanee
man ; sipos sargin’ Japanee man. Bang!
You beggerup finish.”
NO further incident enlivened the
patrol’s progress. It squelched its
muddy way around the ridges to Numi-
gin, where the lieutenant, Motai and a
private—a lad from Daintree River whose
jungle-craft was little inferior to Motai’s
—went forward to do the recce.
The sergeant and the rest of the party
crouched in the bushes, uncomfortable
and impatient, awaiting their return.
They had* not long to wait. The three
men knew their job and how to go about
. it; knew what to look for and how to
make accurate deductions from their ob-
servations.
Before they moved off again the officer
gave the sergeant a rough outline of his
findings. The place was held in strength
—over 100 Nips, with at least eight
L.M.Gs. Japs seen appeared to be well-
clad and in good condition —in much
better shape than those they had met
lately, -A native garden was still being
cultivated and the place was a depot for
the sac-sac train. Artillery harassing fire
had not touched the village • faulty maps
would account for that, but with a little
adjustment tonight’s dose would be on
the spot.
For an hour the patrol plodded
stealthily back along the trail. When they
reached a point a few hundred yards short
of the place where young Scotton had
got his man they made a slight detour to
the left. A week previously a small pocket
of Japs had been cleaned out of a tiny
village and the huts destroyed, and it was
the intention of the patrol to give the
place a check-up; the Nip often came
back to his hidey-hole.
As they neared the spot the men, with-
out prompting, became more cautious;
their pace slowed down and they were
more choosy in placing their feet. Motai
had slipped to the head of the file, his
face tense and expectant.
Presently he turned and held up his
hand. Those near him passed back the
signal. The lieutenant moved up to join
him and together they peered through
the foliage.
The bumt-out village had been very
small —two huts in a pocket-handkerchief
clearing. They were now almost upon it.
Motai pointed.
Seated around a log near the ashes of
the huts were 10 or a dozen Japs, intent
on a meal. They obviously had not the
slightest suspicion that they were being
observed, and with the incredible careless-
ness the Jap sometimes displayed they
seemed to have given no thought to post-
ing a lookout. The patrol had been told
not to go looking for trouble, but this
could hardly be called trouble.
The officer crept back
to the sergeant. There
was a whispered con-
sultation. The Bren
gun was carefully sited,
the Owen gunners and
riflemen disposed. The
officer placed himself
near the Bren. Its
opening burst would
be the signal for the
rest of the patrol to fire. Just as he was
about to give the word, Motai came
slithering back. “Masta, wait,” he said
imploringly. /
The lieutenant turned impatiently.
“What’s wrong?” he protested. “There’s
no time to waste.”
The native shook his head vigorously
and gestured towards the men in ambush.
“Sipos you shoot,” he said, “you kill
five Japanee man. Maybe you kill six.
Sipos Motai put soldiers along bush. All
Japanee ftian beggerup finish.”
The Australian had a momentary
mental conflict between pride and com-
monsense, but he was a man of character
and he sank his pride. “0.K.,” he said,
“Go ahead,”
“You give me two Owen gun?” asked
Motai.
The officer signed to two men to go
with the police boy. Motai grinned as he
moved off.
“When I say ‘suitim’ you suitim,”. he
said, and disapeared down the track with
the two Owen gunners. Following him,
they wormed their way for some distance
till he posted them at a spot where a faint
track came from the burnt huts. The
undergrowth was dense and they could
not see the enemy.
“Watch track,” Motai‘told them. “Jap-
anee man come this way.”
He disappeared, making back towards
the main body.
Back at the Bren the officer was full
of misgivings. At any moment, he felt,
the Nips might take it into their heads
to disperse, or an unnoticed sentry might
detect the ambush. He felt tempted to
ignore Motai and give the signal.
Just then the police boy’s voice shrilled
out,
“Suitim. Suitim!”
“Let her go!” said the officer.
The Bren chattered and the Owen-guns
and rifles on each side joined in. Several
Japs fell at once, but three or four man-
aged to dodge behind a large tree.
Wounded they might be, but for the
moment they were safe! The lieutenant
swore, but smiled grimly a second later
when he heard the sound of Motai’s two
Owen gunners a hundred yards to the
right.
“Well, most of the credit is Motai’s,”
the lieutenant said to his C.O. an hour
later, “We’d have got most of them, but
he made sure we got the lot,”
Which is more or less what Motai was
telling his admirers a little further down
the hill.
“Australian soldier plenty strong.
Paitim good, suitim good.” Pause. “But
Australian no think! No usim head.”
He transferred a hunk of bullybeef from
his right hand to his left and tapped his
skull with his right forefinger. “Thisfella
boy think,” he added —“usim head,”
Knights of the Willow
By F.L. COMBS.
I LEAVE it to Mr. Neville Cardus to
mount to transcendental heights re-
garding knights of the willow. My
approach is a homelier one. I main-
tain that cricket, as no other game does,
brings out all that is best in a man.
A case in point was Herb Brosnahan.
Herb drove us afield in his lorry when we
went to play matches away from home,
the lorry being equipped with very hard
seats for the purpose. As we were
nearly always a man (and sometimes two
men) short it was necessary for Herb to
take strike. He hated cricket, having as
a youngster been hit full in the eye by
a slogged ball. But, equipped with one
pad (only the semi-professionals among
us wore two), he was animated by the
loftiest sense of responsibility to the side.
The pitches away from home (and at
home) were nearly always vile. Herb’s
invariable instructions were to keep his
end up, and he did.
Smitten on the buttocks, on the fingers,
on the body, he adhered dourly to his
technique as a stonewaller; keeping the
bat rooted on the blockhole or advancing
it a few inches to meet a shooter. He
always swore freely after being hit the
third time, but flinch he did not.
H. Carboy, our official umpire, who
has our signed photos in a frame over his
mantelpiece, stood to our stonewaller.
I remember one game in which a con-
fident appeal for l.b.w. against Herb
was followed next ball by an angry, and
and after the third ball by an outraged,
appeal. Each time H. Carboy replied
firmly and emphatically, “Not hout!”
When Herb, lumbering like a plough-
horse, galloped up to his end, H. Carboy
took him aside and admonished him.
“You know,” he said, “you was hout
that time. If it ’appens again I shall
’ave to give you hout.”
But Paka Puki’s greatest devotee of
cricket was Ted Twining. It was hard
for Ted to get away for matches away
from home. He drove a baker’s cart, and
more than once I have gone with him
on Saturday mornings to help him ex-
pedite his round. Ted was not a force-
ful man. How he would abase himself
when some old girl delayed him with
complaints about the tinned loaves this
last fortnight, and how he would simmer
up into profanity when, smiting the half-
draught Charley unjustly into an unwill-
ing canter, he would endeavor to make
good the wasted minutes!
Ted’s selfless attachment to cricket
made him a leader and we always elected
him captain. It was a load off our minds.
Following on his election, at each annual
meeting, Ted would always exhort us,
“We must get in more time at the nets
this year, chaps, and arrange a rota to
roll out a decent practice pitch.” Our
response to his exhortation was hearten-
ing, but not, I am afraid, trustworthy,
for our practice pitches were never any-
thing to write home about.
Ted coached those of us who would
let him and, however exasperated he
was by their vagaries, he always flattered
the two or three indispensable men in the
team to the skies. He always went to
the nets last and, in a bumping pitch
and a blinding light, -his comrades rocked
them in. “Have a heart, chaps, have a
heart,” Ted would plead as, bulky of
body, he bounded nimbly out of the way
of fast ones that rose a bit.
The closing time of the Cri. near by
always awoke a restlessness in the team
just when Ted was self-abnegatingly tak-
ing his five minutes at the nets last. Ted
was left to put away the gear alone —
with the help of one or two of the sort
of stripling who succumbs early to the
fascination of cricket. How roundly Ted
would then in the gathering gloom curse
the team for a lot of selfish cows and
wasters!
TED really knew a lot about cricket.
In the Old Country he had trundled
(at the nets) for men whose names are
‘more famous than those of Kings and he
has shown me time and again how
blithely and deftly Ranji was wont to
pull off-theory.
In his prime he had bowled a vicious
in-swinger, but he was now sway-bellied
and tired rapidly.
By hook or by crook, and he worked
for a hard master, he always got away to
Auckland to see any visiting talent —
such great Australians as Warwick Arm-
strong, Grimmett and Noble. Grimmett
himself had shown Ted how to hold the
ball for a “wrong ’un.”
Ted’s difficulties were by no means all
overcome when, his round completed,
he turned Charley out to grass with a
whack on his fat lazy rump. He had
next to tackle a different sort of round,
that of rounding up his team.
In a little township few enjoy freedom
to devote themselves entirely to cricket.
Arty Paddock (one of the indispensables)
was esteemed and in request as an expert
pig-sticker. Les Walkley—a poor per-
former, granted, but an enthusiast —had
the use for the day of the firm’s wagon,
to go and get a load of wood. Bill
Baddeley, our ’keeper, was none too sure
of his thumb ; and so on and so on. It
was rather a triumph when, counting
Herb Brosnahan, the team got away
eleven strong.
Then, joking, scolding, protesting,
cajoling, Ted set himself the task of
o Continued on Page 32.)


530
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous i
trio—Cuticura Soap, I
Ointment and Tal-HiftllJld
cum Powder.
dfg
PERMANENCE
Who will manage
YOUR ESTATE?
You are at the helm now. You know how to manage
your business to the best advantage. Your years of
experience 'have taught how to safeguard your assets
against varying industrial conditions and the ever-changing economic situation.
BUT
Have you appointed an Executor qualified to carry on your expert management
and to ensure for your dependants their rightful heritage?
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
has had over fifty years’ experience in the management of all types of Estates,
the assets of which include businesses and manufacturing concerns.
If you appoint the Company as Executor and Trustee of your Will, it will ensure
for your Estate the benefit of this experience backed by integrity and financial
stability and, through its permanence, uninterrupted administration until tne
completion of the Trust.
E. V. T. Whittle ( Manager ) N. L. Shaw ( Assist . Manager)
PERMANENT
Write to-day for free Booklet.
TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23- as O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provided employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
11 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHO SHALL RULE THE STRAITS?
The Russian demand for control of die
Dardanelles, expressed in a Note calling
for a revision of the Montreux conven-
tion sent to the Turkish Government by
the Soviet, brought clear and emphatic
Noes in answer from Turkey, Britain and
the U.S. In this demand more than in
any other was seen the live and glowing
spark that might touch another war into
explosion. All three Governments sent
Notes in answer. All three showed a clear
refusal of the Russian claims.
The N.Y. “Times” outlined the situa-
tion :
“The Dardanelles and the Bosphorus
are administered under the terms of the
Russia is pressing an old policy from
a new front, a front which already runs
from the western Baltic to the Adriatic.
If she establishes herself on the Dar-
danelles, eastern Europe would be a solid
Soviet belt from Sweden to western Asia.
Turkey would become a puppet State
like Rumania and Bulgaria, with Greece'
soon folded into the Soviet coil. — N.Y.
“Times.”
The U.S. believes that its plan for the
revision of the Montreux convention
gives Moscow all the safeguards and
freedoms it can rightfully expect. It
opens the Dardanelles to the merchant
vessels of all nations at all times. It
proposes that the Straits be open to the
warships of Black Sea Powers at all
times. And it recommends that there
be a limited tonnage on warships of
other Powers that can enter the Straits
in peace-time. But to let Moscow move
in to defend the Straits would infringe
Turkey’s sovereignty, if not destroy it.
Moscow in its demands on Turkey is
bidding for high stakes. Washington
sees no possibility of the Kremlin’s win-
ning them by any means but force.—
“Christian Science Monitor.”
There is every reason to feel that the
Russians will not commit themselves to
an act of force against Turkey. The
only thing that might persuade them to
take an overt step would be a feeling
that the rest of the world is indifferent.
On this score Russia must not be allowed
to entertain any illusions. An inter-
national treaty is involved in the regu-
lation of the Straits; it cannot be made
into a scrap of paper with impunity. —
Washington “Post.”
10-year-old Montreux convention, with
Turkey as the guardian Power. It has 10
years more to run. Russia proposes that
this treaty be scrapped and replaced by a
new pact drawn up exclusively by the
Black Sea Powers: that is, Russia, Bul-
garia, Rumania and Turkey. It called for
navigational control of the Straits resting
in the hands of the Black Sea Powers
alone, and asked that Russia share with
Turkey their military defence. Thus
Turkey, hopelessly outvoted by Russia
and her two puppets and with alien, mili-
tary bases established on her soil, would
cease to be a sovereign nation. Turkey,
naturally, will accept no such status.
The U.S. takes its stand beside Turkey.”
“Times” correspondent Mallory
Browne amplified it: “The basis of the
Soviet’s insistence on settling the Straits
regime in a tete-a-tete with the Turks is a
so-called secret agreement at the Potsdam
conference. According to the Soviet Note
to Turkey, this conference decided that
the Montreux convention should be re-
vised, and the three Governments agreed
that as the next step the question would
be the subject of direct negotiation be-
tween each of the three Powers and the
Turkish Government. Russians appar-
ently interpret this as authorisation to go
ahead and negotiate a new Straits regime
directly and bilaterally with Turkey.
Whereas in' the British and U.S. view the
reference to next step meant that Notes
setting forth the views of each of the three
Powers should be sent to Turkey as pre-
liminary to a conference at which pro-
posed amendments would be discussed
and a decision taken by international
agreement of all the Powers concerned.”
There was a surprising unanimity in
comment. Neal Stanford, writing in the
“Christian Science Monitor,” pointed out
that “Napoleon once wrote of the Dar-
danelles, ‘He who controls the Straits can
rule the world.’ That was why in his
treaty of friendship with Russia in 1807
he would not hand Constantinople over to
Moscow, as he said: T cannot give it to
her. It is too valuable a key; it alone
is worth a whole State.’
“Napoleon’s reason,” said Stanford, “is
also the reason of Britain, Turkey and the
U.S. They cannot hand over the Straits
to Stalin because they are not prepared
to see the Black Sea made a Soviet lake.
London and Ankara and Washington are
agreeable to modernising the terms of
the Montreux convention that govern
usage of the Straits. They are not willing,
however, to hand over defence of the
Straits to Moscow. That is what the
Soviets are demanding. No responsible
American official interprets joint defence
to be anything but Soviet control. Mos-
cow is not asking for a revision of Mon-
treux. It is demanding that Montreux be
scrapped. Its plan would exclude
Britain and France from any say in the
Straits’ control. It would rule out the
U.S., which at Potsdam was Recognised
as an interested party.
“The U.S. will not permit Russia to
dominate the Dardanelles. This is the
considered and unanimous decision of
President Truman, Secretary of State
Byrnes and the joint Chiefs of Staff. It
is both a military and a diplomatic de-
cision.
“The U.S. has taken this decision be-
cause it is convinced that Moscow’s de-
mand would turn Turkey into a Soviet
satellite. With Ankara taking orders from
the Kremlin, the whole Near East,
Middle East and even Far East would
be open to Soviet infiltration, penetration
and domination.
“In reply to the Kremlin Washington
says unqualifiedly: (1) This Government
cannot agree that the establishment of the
rdginte of the Straits should come under
the competence of the Black Sea Powers
to the exclusion of other Powers. (2) It
is the firm opinion of this Government
that Turkey should continue to be
primarily responsible for the defence of
the Straits. Defence does not de-
pend today on construction of a fort or
two here and there. It requires depth,
authority and power. For the Soviets to
share in defence of the Straits Russia
would have to occupy Turkish territory.
Washington is not prepared to turn
Turkey into another Azerbaijan.
“The Turks are as aware of their fate
should Russia control the Straits as is
Washington. They are outspoken in their
determination to preserve their indepen-
dence and sovereignty. Premier Recep
Peker declared; ‘We must defend and
safeguard our soil and sovereignty. This
is our unchangeable view.’ And the
Turkish press stated: ‘Giving the Rus-
sians a base on the Straits is the same as
giving them the key to the country.’ ”
Mallory Browne wondered if the Dar-
danelles might not be “the Danzig of the
next war. If the Russians press their
demands then Turkey might well be-
come the Poland of the next war. She
might, on the other hand, play the role
of Czechoslovakia. If the Turkish Gov-
ernment does not feel itself strongly
backed by Britain and the U.S., then the
Turks, like the Czechs in the face of
Hitler’s ‘nerve war,’ might give in. If
so, it would only be the prelude to con-
flict at Russia’s next demand, as Czecho-
slovakia’s loss was followed by Poland’s
resistance and by the outbreak of the
war.”
He asked “Why is there this feeling that
the Russian demand for the ‘bear’s share’
in the control and defence of the Dardan-
elles prefigures a grave threat to peace?
First of ail, because of the aggressive
manner in which Moscow’s proposals
were presented. Ever since March, 1945,
when the Soviet Government denounced
the 1925 pact of Russo-Turkish friendship,
the Russians have been conducting an
anti-Turkish propaganda campaign.
“The Russians take a belligerently
hostile attitude toward Turkey. They ex-
plicitly blame the Turkish Government
for failure to prevent enemy Powers from
using the Straits for military purposes
against the Soviet. At the same time
ignoring the Montreux convention,
which specifies that revision must be by
unanimous vote of the signatories, they
propose that the matter be settled bilater-
ally between Russia and a Turkish Gov-
ernment which it has been violently
attacking.
“The Straits are the throat of Turkey,
and the Turks are sure that what the
Russians really want is to get across their
throat. They assert that they would fight
rather than yield to Russian demands
either for the north-eastern territories of
Ars and Ardahan, which the Soviets
claim, or for bases on the Straits.”
Browne then posed the question
whether Britain would back Turkish re-
sistance to the point of war. The answer,
he thinks, “depends on what it is the
Russians really want. If all they want is
free passage through the Straits and per-
manent access to the Mediterranean, then
the British would never fight to prevent
the Soviet attaining those ends. But the
British more than half suspect that the
Russians want to get ‘across the throat
of Turkey as a preliminary to ‘getting
across the throat’ of the British Empire in
the eastern Mediterranean.”
The “Christian Science Monitor” again
found “not one but two issues involved:
the clash of Great Power interests and
the clash of Soviet-Turkish interests. A
revision of the Montreux convention
must be expected to bring British and
Soviet interests into conflict, though not
into a conflict which time and diplomacy
could not solve. But a revision of the
Montreux convention on the terms sug-
gested by Moscow involves a challenge
to Turkish independence and sovereignty.
“This is unquestionably a more critical
issue. It would involve the grant of
military bases. Soviet bases in the Straits
could cut off Turkey in Europe from
Asia Minor and could dominate Istanbul,
thus destroying Turkish independence. If
the Soviet is determined not only to re-
vise the Montreux convention but at the
same time to acquire bases in Turkey the
impasse is complete.”
MAKING GERMANY PAY.
The belated Russian agreement to the
appointment of a Four-Power Commis-
sion to “co-ordinate the economic and
military disarmament of Germany”—it
came when Britain and the U.S. had al-
ready given up hope of any agreement,
and were a long way advanced with a
plan for the economic unification of their
own zones of occupation—promises to
remove very many of the obstacles to the
reconstruction of Germany as an eco-
nomic whole, but offers no solution to a
problem that is related to that question
and of almost equal importance—the
problem of reparations.
“All the nations that helped defeat
Germany agree that the Germans ought
to pay for the loss and suffering caused
by the war,” says the “World Report,”
“but the agreement on reparations is not
working. The Big Powers fail to agree
on how Germany shall be made to pay
for the damage she wrought. The total
sum involved is not large. The maximum
amount Germany has ever been asked to
pay is 20 billion dollars, about a tenth
of what the war cost U.S. taxpayers alone.
Yet over this sum has arisen a disagree-
ment that threatens to split Germany into
at least two separate zones and divide
Europe down the middle.
“After the First World War Germany
was presented with a bill for 33 billion
dollars, to be paid mainly in cash. Her
attempts to do so placed an unbearable
strain on Germany’s foreign exchange
machinery. The mark crumpled under
the pressure. Reparations had to be
scaled down, and the U.S. loaned about
two and a half billion dollars to Germany,
■which, as it turned out, was used to re-
build the country’s industrial power.
Germany finally paid less than 10 billion
dollars in reparations, a great deal of
which went to cover costs of collection
and the cost of occupying the Rhineland.”
The “World Report” says that “Presi-
dent Roosevelt was determined not to
repeat the mistake. His policy was to
reduce Germany to an agricultural
nation. Heavy industries were to be dis-
mantled. If reparations were to be paid
at all, they would come from the excess
factory equipment removed from Ger-
many. By this process, the President
reasoned, reparations would all be paid
in a few years. The generation of Ger-
mans that started the war would pay for
it. There would be no currency problem
likely to produce skyhigh inflation. It
would be unnecessary for the U.S. to lend
Germany money. Reparations would not
be used as a cover for building up Ger-
man industries.”.
However at Yalta the President “found
himself confronted with a Russian de-
mand for a heavy reparations bill. Stalin
declared Germany should pay 20 billion
dollars, half of which should go to Russia.
Roosevelt opposed setting any exact price
and, as the Yalta agreement was pub-
lished, it did not give any precise sum
for reparations. Roosevelt was under the
impression he had won Stalin’s consent
to his plan. As it turned out later, that
was a wrong impression. It remained for
Potsdam to reveal how wide was the split
on reparations between allies who could
put their names to the same document.
“The Potsdam agreement incorporated
two conflicting policies into one docu-
ment. It declares on one page that Ger-
many shall be treated as an economic unit
with common policies for every phase of
her economic life applied uniformly in the
four occupation zones. On another
page, the agreement provides a blue-
print for another type of Germany.
For reparations purposes, it splits
Germany into two parts. Russia
is to take reparations for herself and for
Poland from the area east of the Elbe
River, Reparations for the U.S., the U.K.
and other countries are to be met from
the western zone. In addition, Russia is
to get 25 per cent, of the excess capital
equipment in the western zone. The in-
evitable happened. Germany has been
run under two, three and sometimes even
four different policies.
“The Americans began dismantling
heavy shipped and earmarked
plants for Russia, got started on the re-
conversion. They found, however, that
the occupation was costing the U.S.
200 million dollars a year, and every
sign indicated that the cost would
go up rather than down. Uncertain
now of the future, American offi-
cials are hanging on to the industry in
their zone, trying to make it productive
enough to pay for imports needed to
sustain the German standard of living.
The British, who never thought well of
the plan to destroy German heavy, in-
dustry, have spent more effort on raising
German production than on dismantling
factories. They have been more con-
cerned with raising coal and steel output,
so that Germany would not continue to
cost British taxpayers 320 million dollars
a year. They want German industry to


wm
k?su
m
’
ingCeoroelV
| Q& Scotch Whisky
like all worth-while products, is in very short
supply to-day; but so far as Quality goes,
nothing has been lost of its original charac-
teristics ; indeed, the present unavoidable
restrictions on the release of stocks mean
increased maturity with unsurpassed mellow-
ness.
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.
Head Office : Edinburgh
’
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
.
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO PTY.LTD.
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers.
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE
Distributing Agents : N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney. Victoria: Servian
Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 a Sydney Road, Brunswick. Queensland; Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd., 450 Ann
St., Brisbane. New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
height (approx.) 2| tons
contribute to the revival of Europe.
France has consistently opposed German
unity either for political or economic
purposes. The Russians, when they first
entered Germany, looted and stripped the
country of factory facilities. Now, how-
ever, they have discovered that a dead
goose lays no golden eggs. Consequently,
they have changed their policy and are
doing more to expand German produc-
tion than has been done in any other
zone.
“In other words, they are taking their
reparations from current production. This
maintains German industry at a level
of high activity. It is the very build-up
of German industrial strength that
President Roosevelt was determined
to avoid. Further, the Russians have
reverted to Stalin’s original demand for
10 billion dollars in reparations which
Roosevelt thought he had buried for ever.
The only source now for such a sum would
be from production of German factories,
the factories that the Potsdam agreement
says are to be dismantled.”
Summing up the problem the “World
Report” says “there is this, much agree-
ment : Germany ought to pay. Germany
ought to pay in goods, not in money.
Germany can pay. Disagreements start
at this point. The argument over how
to extract the payment has turned into
an international dispute that far over-
shadows reparations. What is happen-
ing is a tug-of-war between Russia, on
the one hand, and the Anglo-Americans
on the other—with the French really on
the side lines. Germany is the tug rope.
The. struggle is to determine whether
Germany will be pulled into the Russian
or the Anglo-American camp. In the
course of the struggle the rope may tear
apart. Germany may be split in two,
each side holding half. The danger has
been phrased by Edwin W. Pauley, U.S.
Reparations Commissioner: ‘We must
see to it that the nations of the world
do not place Germany in the position
where she can offer the might of Europe
to the highest bidder.’ ”
Britain, too, takes a serious view of
the problem. Its attitude was explained
in a statement by Mr. Noel-Baker.
Minister of State: “It is a fundamental
principle of the Potsdam agreement that
payment of reparations should leave suf-
ficient resources to enable the German
people to subsist without external assist-
ance. His Majesty’s Government has
never accepted the Soviet claim to
$10,000,000,000-worth of reparations
from Germany. Moreover, the point
at issue is not whether the Soviet has a
claim to reparation to any specific
amount. Unless and until Germany as
a whole has an export surplus, the Soviet
not entitled to take by way of repara-
tion goods currently produced or stocks.”
And as the “Christian Science
Monitor” sees it “Soviet diplomacy is
directed toward securing reparations
from Germany regardless of who foots
the bill. The Soviet has shown that
priority for its reparations dominates
its occupation policy to the exclusion
of almost all other considerations. It
still demands $10,000,000,000. The U.S.
and Britain, however, refuse to accept
this figure. In fact, many experts main-
tain that the Soviet already has had more
than this. One U.S. estimate placed re-
parations already received by the Soviet
at fourteen billion dollars.
“The Soviet’s answer has been to seize
200 leading industries in its own zone
and run them for its own special benefit.
These works employ about one-third of
the total population of the Soviet zone.
If and when economic unity comes for
all four occupied zones, one thing is
clear; the Soviet Union will have had
its reparations and its occupied zone
will have been economically absorbed
into the Soviet economic system.”
It would seem that the time has now
arrived, that the programme is complete.
A German Victory.
Early in the war Goebbels claimed
that no matter what the outcome Ger-
many would prove eventually to have
succeeded in a large measure through a
policy of depleting the populations of
the countries surrounding her in Europe.
That has, in part, been the case. Ger-
many was the only European belligerent
nation to gain in population during the
war. She now has 7.5 per cent, more
people than in 1939. Poland has lost
13.6 per cent., Yugoslavia 10.5 per cent.,
the Soviet 3.7 per cent., Britain 0.75 per
cent. The figures are given in a report
of the International Committee for the
Study of European Questions reviewed
by Lord Beveridge for the N.Y. “Times.”
Beveridge quotes from the report the
statement that the Nazis’ “original plan
did not aim only at territorial conquests.
It was intended also to achieve the demo-
graphic increase of the German popula-
tion and the weakening demographically
of neighboring countries, in order to
— N.Y. “Journal-American.”
SPOILED CHILD.
assure the supremacy of the Germanic
peoples in the coming years.
“Hitler and the disciplined, efficient
German people pursued this aim by
measures of many kinds for many years.
There were measures to encourage
marriages and births of Germans before
the war so as to begin hostilities with a
biological reserve; measures of remark-
able efficiency to protect the civilian popu-
lation against bombing ; measures to pre-
serve the health of Germans by adequate
rations whoever else went short ;
measures to maintain the birthrate during
the war. During the four years 1914-18
the decrease of births in Germany as
compared with a normal peace-time
period was over 3,000,000. During the
first four years of the later war the de-
crease was only about 750,000.
“As the other side of the picture,”
Beveridge claims, “in addition to the kill-
ing of combatants, there was direct kill-
ing of particular classes of civilians ; there
was indirect killing of many more by
starvation or semi-starvation and exces-
sive labor : there was designed prevention
of births by mass deportations separating
married partners—on this point the re-
port estimates that 11 to 12 million men
and women of the countries overrun by
Germany have been kept away from
normal married life for five years.
“This is demographic war. And so far
it has been won by Germany. According
to estimates the total of German deaths
was about 3,600,000. Deaths in European
countries opposed to Germany are set
out as follows;
Civilian Per cent,
and of
Pre-war Military Pre-war
Population. Losses. Popu-
(approx.) (approx.) lation.
U.S.S.R. ..193,000,000 7,000,000 3.7
France .. 41,500,000 820,000 ' 2
Poland .. 35,400,000 4,620,000 13.6
Czecho-
slovakia.. 15,200,000 190,000 1.25
Yugoslavia. 16,000,000 1,680,000 10.5.
Holland .. 9,300,000 204,000 2.2
Belgium .. 8,300,000 125,000 1.5
Greece .. 7,150,000 490,000 6.8
Norway .. 3,000,000 11,000
Total civilian, and military losses, approxi-
mately 15,000,000.
“To this may be added the British total
of just under 400,000 deaths, or about one
per cent, of the population.
“Whatever correction may ultimately
be made in these figures they cannot well
affect the main conclusion. The deaths
inflicted by Germany during the war will
have befen three or four times those suf-
fered by her. And this is only one side of
the demographic war. It takes no account
of the other side: maintenance of the
German birthrate and lowering of the
birthrate elsewhere. , The destruction of
health on subject populations, even among
those who showed no ill-treatment, is
illustrated grimly by figures as to tuber-
culosis. Twelve to 15 per cent, of French
deportees returned 'from Germany to
France were suffering from tuberculosis,
as compared with a normal rate for the
French population of one per cent. In
Poland 1,500,000 are now tubercular,
“German population in 1935 was
approximately 67,000,000. The counted
population of occupied Germany at the
end of 1945 was 65,250,000. Adding to
this the 7,000,000 Germans expelled from
other countries and lost territories, the
report reaches a figure of the present
population of Germany of about
72,000,000, with at least 2,000,000
prisoners-of-war still to come. By losing
the territorial war while winning the
demographic war, Germany will have a
larger population than before to main-
tain in three-quarters of the living room
that she thought insufficient before. By
contrast, just outside Germany will be
relatively empty spaces; most notably,
perhaps, in the Sudetenland of Czecho-
slovakia ; in the new Poland, where the
losses of war will be aggravated by the
losses of peace, through unwillingness of
so many Poles who fought Germany and
Italy to return to their changed country;
and further east, in the various territories
acquired by Russia.”
Beveridge says he does not himself
“count as serious the mere size of the
German population or its size in relation
to its territory. It will be no harder to
keep 70,000,000 Germans disarmed than
it would be to keep 50,000,000 in the same
condition, and there is no impossibility
in 70,000,000 Germans living well on the
territory still left to them.” But “Hitler’s
demographic war raises a general issue
for the world. Each of the three Axis
Powers —Germany, Italy, Japan —made
increase of their numbers an excuse for
aggression, to win living room at the
expense of other nations. This excuse
should be formally rejected for all nations
in future.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.')
“While Western democracy and Communism
are in many respects opposed, they have much
to learn from each other —Communism in the
working of political institutions and in the
establishment of individual rights, Western
democracy in the development of economic
planning and of social aims and incentives,”
said the London “Times.” The idea of these
two (or any two) strongly-held systems of
political thought sitting down to learn from
each other like women exchanging dress-
patterns at a Sevang meeting is fatuous. It
is obvious that if Communism showed any
signs of developing political institutions or
individual rights as we understand such things
it would cease, ipso facto, to be Communism;
and if we developed our economic planning
or organised our social aims and incentives
on Communistic lines we should cease to pos-
sess anything that could even aspire to the
name of a democratic system of government.
It becomes more difficult every day to say what
democracy is. This does not mean that there
is the least difficulty in saying what it is not.
It is not Communism or neo-Communism. —
W. L. Burn in the “Nineteenth Century.”
* * * *
Russia has been parading far too long under
the completely false colors of maximum effort
and decisive achievement in the war. This
deception has created the impression throughout
the world that Russia made the Allied victory
passible, and much of the world believes
Russia did it single-handedly. In Russia itself
the people were wholly unaware that an Anglo-
American invasion was carried out in Western
Europe. They were unaware that a vast part
of the equipment of their own armies came
from the U.S. They were told, and actually
believe, that the defeat of Japan was accom-
plished by Russian forces —when the truth of
the matter is that Russia was at war with
Japan a total of exactly five days. Millions
of people in other countries throughout Europe
have been told the same lies and believe them.
Even in the U.S. and Britain the lies about
Russia’s contribution to victory have been so
persistently told that many people have come to
believe them. Responsible statesmen of Britain
and the U.S. have been silent and have per-
mitted and condoned the Red Fascist mas-
querade. It is a good thing that Secretary
Byrnes has been provoked at last into break-
ing this silence. Molotov provided the provo-
cation by saying that “certain nations” had
enriched themselves in the war, plainly implying
that the U.S. was the principal beneficiary.
Byrnes replied that the U.S. had spent four
hundred billion dollars, financing not only her-
self but all of her allies, including Russia. He
cited the further fact that the U.S. had sup-
plied Russia with 11 billion dollars in lend-
lease, and that without this American assistance
Russia would not have been in the war at the
end of the first summer. There has indeed
been enrichment of one nation by the war.
Russia has vastly enriched herself by the
acquisition of the territories and resources, not
only of enemy nations, but of Allied nations.
Russia has stripped one nation after another,
including the nearest and friendliest of her
neighbors, of their factories and tools and
food —meantime imposing her own sovereignty
upon them and enslaving their people.— N.Y.
“Journal- American.”


... . • ;
ul ' ***:■
Emmr
Mm _
m. > ihe
si&s
/
..
M»| ***►
if
«*
-
4' : " : ':
-. A
.-T--
***
r
m
■
I
m
ip*
m
m
fX ' . :
M
m
r
' ■. ... <: : '
RH
mmm
:-
■' X
■
r
- 3T
• ii
>^«4^BS«^S?3
-• V -- -..:•:-
M
; ’> , ■ ....
1
r
i<}
■
•4: ■' ■, »,
■
a
a
||£
.... 4tamt **F / '
•*•' mmyr
*m -s'-
A bright name
in Australian
As pioneers of the luminous-tube industry in Australia, Claude Neon
Ltd., has earned a secure and prominent place in the industrial and
commercial life of the nation. Claude Neon first revolutionised outdoor
advertising in Australia and is now revolutionising working conditions
in factories, offices and shops with Claude Fluorescent Interior Lighting.
Claude Neon Ltd. is the only Company of Its kind with a nation-
wide organisation . . . able to offer manufacturing, sales and service
facilities in all States. It is an all-Australian company entirely operated
by Australian capital. Our long years of specialised experience and
our extensive resources are our customers" guarantee of continuous and
conscientious service.
Claude Neon Limited
FIRST IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3479
Wednesday, October 16, 1946
AFTER THE BENDER.
By 432 votes to five, the minority including two Communists, the Japanese Diet has approved of a new Constitution renouncing war for ever.”
"The little guy says he wants to take the pledge, and, if you don’t mind, he’ll make his mark with a Samurai sword.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J- E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A NOBLE AUSTRALIAN.
There died in a Cambridge nursing home
on November 20, 1945, an Australian of
rare quality. Dr. Herbert M. Moran,
whose fame, modest in his lifetime—he
was himself modest, and withal merciful,
as the best type of Australian is—will,
grow with the years.
A graduate of Sydney University, an
international footballer, a young doctor
in Whitechapel, a cancer specialist in
his own country, patriotic to the core of
his being yet never dominated by the bias
of patriotism, Dr. Moran had a richly-
stored mind and led a full life. He was
a student of affairs, able to read in the
original the representative political organs
of France, Italy and Germany and versed
in the literature of all their countries as
well as his own ; and a champion of luck-
less peoples and lost causes, the first of
which was peace. But he was never one
to repine at disappointments, much less
sulk in his tent, and both wars found
him in the service of the British Army,
in the second after overcoming official
objections on the score of his age. To
embattled Britain he gave up ten years
of his busy life.
But all his days he was haunted by
the art, letters and antiquities of Italy
and the majestic history of Rome and
the Renaissance, and he had a kindness
for the overcrowded and poverty-stricken
Italian people. Revisiting Italy in 1935,
he found the deterioration in Anglo-
Italian relations even worse than he had
anticipated, and he joined a society, “open
to all British and American nationals
and to the British and American wives of
Italian citizens,” which had been formed
in the hope of arresting it. At the
society’s instance, he journeyed to
Britain, where he saw Sir Arnold Wilson,
Sir Edward Grigg and Mr. Amery.
Mr. Amery was all for my suggestion
that some gesture of friendship above the
political storm should be made, and after
discussion we agreed that it could be made
best by the Prince of Wales.... But within
forty-eight hours of that conversation we
were reading the bulletins announcing the
impending disease, and later the death, of a
monarch the most beloved in my time....
Thus I returned with empty hands to the
little society in Rome.
Mussolini saw me a few days after my
return. This time he greeted me cordially
with the inquiry “How did you find public
opinion in England?” I replied “Every-
where against your Excellency.” He
seemed intensely surprised, and kept repeat-
ing “Why, why?” I made some com-
ments on the harm being done by his
methods of propaganda.
On a previous occasion when Dr.
Moran, fresh from Australia, had been
admitted to the Presence, Mussolini, his
face “lined and agitated,” barked “Why
have you come to Italy?”
There existed in Europe at that time a
widespread belief, which we British have
never been encouraged to share, in the uni-
versal character and efficiency of our
espionage; and evidently he was suspicious
that I was being planted on him as a
British agent. It was my fate later on
similarly to be regarded in Germany.
“Although somewhat taken aback by this
abrupt greeting,” Dr. Moran replied that
he wanted to go to Abyssinia with the
Red Cross. Mussolini “shook his head
with one of those exaggerated gestures
for which he was well known” and
rapped out an “Impossibile,” several times
repeated. The Australian, nevertheless,
made the Abyssinian campaign “as a free-
lance doctor.” He found Abyssinia “a
vile country” and the “highly syphilised”
Abyssinians “the most unpleasant native
race that ever I had the misfortune to
meet.” The invaders among whom he
moved, though excellent navvies and
rather pathetically land-hungry, had
primitive ways and were in poor shape;
“their medical examination must have
been of the most superficial character.”
To Dr. Moran the “immediate causes
of Mussolini’s adventure were the
economic difficulties of his country,
quickened by the extravagance of a Gov-
ernment ever seeking publicity for spec-
tacular works.” But an “important factor
also was the denied outlet for emigra-
tion.”
The entry of Italians into North America
and Australia since the last war had been
rigidly curtailed. We Australians must for
ever have our own scruples of conscience
when we remember that we refused admis-
sion, not only to restless Southern
European races, but even to our own in
Great Britain, while we refused ourselves to
populate a continent as large as Europe
Any scheme for the future peace of
Europe is doomed to certain failure which
does not take info account the needs of
the highly compressed European races.
It was “Laval” who gave “Musso-
lini the all-clear signal, assuring him that
there would be no official opposition
from his friends in British quarters.” This
“was but one of the many tragic examples
of Mussolini’s faulty judgment of men
and his lamentable ignorance of countries
outside. He lived in an atmosphere of
adulation.” Yet he tried to save Austria
from the Nazis, had “proposed a Stresa
Front, which we all thought might save
Europe,” and was not alone in mis-
taking the temper and spirit of Britain:
Nearly everyone in Italy' was convinced
that the English would never fight. They
were tireless in quoting the motion passed
at the Oxford Union [“We will not fight for
King and country”]. At home, no doubt,
the average Englishman assessed it at its
proper value, but abroad the news of this
renunciation penetrated into every cafe and
every home. I came across it everywhere,
in Italy, France and Germany. It pro-
vided a wonderful opportunity for people
hostile to us to circulate the final evidence
of our decadence. Many also believed that
we could not, as well as would not, fight.
And there was the Peace Ballot; and
there were the Leftists and their writing
boys, who wanted war in Europe and
Asia without preparation.
Going to Munich for a year, Dr.
Moran “gathered the impression that not
40 per cent, of the Bavarians then sym-
pathised with National Socialism”;
But in spite of my letters of introduc-
tion they remained shy and fearful; fearful
lest, through some indiscretion on my part,
persecution should be their lot. One dis-
interested German doctor, whose fate I
can scarcely doubt, asked me almost im-
ploringly not to call again; he knew that
he was under close observation by the
Secret Police In the smaller cafes men
would sit in groups of two or three read-
ing the newspapers. I used to listen in-
tently to them, but never once heard any
of them refer to the Leaders by name; it
was dangerous, even if the remarks made
were complimentary.
Going to the cathedral and finding it
difficult even to get standing room, because
Cardinal Faulhaber had been announced as
giving the sermon, I could make out no
word of his address. A Nazi-loudspeaker
arrived to blare away political addresses
and tunes in the square just outside the
cathedral door,, and the blare completely
drowned the cardinal’s sermon.
In this city, as in Rome, the most con-
temptible were always those followers who
did not believe in the new form of Socialism
but who went through all the business,
making all the required signs for their own
material benefit. Moral courage ii> both
places was at its lowest ebb.
And the state of France, “in which I
had lived for more than two years at
different times,” was little better;
For years prior to the war France had
sunk deep in the heavy coma of a spiritual
marasmus. She had felt and known it. 1
never had any confidence in her ability to
withstand long or violent assaults. Her
leaders, so much acclaimed in English
newspapers, I believed to be false or weak
or corrupt, We always have had an
amazing capacity for bolstering up wrong
types in foreign countries.
Yet “on the night of horror when the
Lancastria was dive-bombed and sunk,
and the oil-covered waters were set
aflame, some of the survivors were
brought ashore, and stood stark naked
while the women of France, having boiled
hot water, scrubbed them free and clean.”
Old women, young women, even nuns
succored and cleansed and made them
warm. This was the spirit of France—of
France charitable, the spirit unconquerable.
All through that night the Germans bombed
and dive-bombed. France in a grey night,
through it's women, with 'an eternal com-
passion washing mankind free!
In England Dr. Moran found “a dis-
trust of the French everywhere” and
“confusion everywhere in the medical
sphere.” Nor at the beginning did the
quality of the military material, the
“army in the pangs of formation,” im-
press him, with his memories of an older
army.
All but a few of these militia were wear-
ing their uniform as if it were a garb of
shame. Others were excited and aggressively
ostentatious. Very few of them had ever
learnt to rough it. Many looked ill-
nourished, especially those from the north
of England. Their teeth were incredibly
bad. Picture shows, always picture shows,
were their hobby and dominant passion.
These young men had up to now always
taken their adventures vicariously oh the
seat of a cinema or the bench of a foot-
ball ground. They could not bear having
to sleep in a single mattress on the floor
of the luxury hotels we had comman-
deered. They seemed extraordinarily poor
material.
Yet “these youngsters of the militia,
after two or three weeks’ training, could
be seen marching up the streets with the
swing and assurance of a Guards regi-
ment. Even the officer commanding, a
tough Regular of the old school, could
not withhold his admiration.” And in the
bitter education of battle in many strange
countries they were to exhibit “never-to-
be-forgotten valor.”
But when at the end of one lecture to
over 1000 soldiers I suggested that once
the war was over they should consider the
matter of emigrating to Australia or New
Zealand, where they would find oppor-
tunities much greater and wages much
higher, their reply was a shout of derision.
“Why should we?” they exclaimed.
At first listed for general duties as a
medical officer “with the rank of full
lieutenant,” Dr. Moran was sent to Col-
chester, Essex, as lieutenant-colonel “to
act as president of the Medical Board.”
He was at Colchester when Australians
of the Sixth Division arrived.
They did not represent the cream of our
fighting forces; a higher proportion than
usual were elderly. One of the padres
told me that an unusual, though very, very
small, percentage of men with criminal
records had slipped in. The bulk of them,
however, were splendid big fellows with
particularly humorous, hearty manners.
Their subsequent history does them honor.
There were two excellent field ambulances
full of good fellows and some first-class
doctors. A number of them went into cap-
tivity with the wounded troops of Greece
and Crete whom they very nobly refused
to desert.
Dr. Moran was fated to die of the
disease which is the worst scourge of our
age, and to the study and treatment of
which he had brought all the resources
of a powerful mind and a.generous heart.
Dying, he wrote In My Fashion, in the
closing chapters of which he traced un-
forgettably the appearance and course of
the fatal cancer and set down the sensa-
tions and thoughts of a man of the world
about to leave it who yet casts “one
longing, ling’ring look behind.” Poignant
chapters, worthy of Barbellion, as the
writer’s enchanting glimpses of the Essex
countryside are worthy of Hudson; nor
will a future Gibbon neglect the social
and political studies, full of penetrating
observations, which form the greater
part of the book. In My Fashion has
been hailed in London as an enduring
contribution to Englisji literature.
From his deathbed Dr, Moran wrote
to The Bulletin pleading for the ad-
mission to Australia of fighting Poles,
those gallant comrades of the A.I.F. at
Tobruk and the N.Z.E.F. at Monte Cas-
sino who have become men without a
country, since they refuse to become sub-
jects of “Asiatic Nihilism.” He always
voted Labor, though he had no illusions
about Labor’s materialism and its con-
centration on the unskilled worker:
while “young scientists” are “abominably
paid” the unskilled laborer is the “petted,
coddled citizen of the Government.”
Visiting the Sydney waterfront, the
American Norman Corwin, according to
a “Sun” reporter, asked the assembled
unskilled laborers “What sort of migrants
do you want here?” A Communist re-
plied “We don’t want any Poles,” and
Corwin’s comment was “I can’t under-
stand that.” Knowing Communists, Dr.
Moran would have understood. It was
not reserved for him to remind his
countrymen that opening the gates to
Poles gave other countries a Chopin, a
Conrad and a Madame Curie,
A Lead for "Labor."
One thing certainly cannot be said about
lying—that it never pays. Hitler knew
the technique—the greater the lie the
greater the belief —and it paid him hand-
somely ; it was other things that failed
to pay. He would have applauded one
of the most successful Australian adop-
tions of the technique; one of the most
lasting, too, in returning profits—the
monstrous political “Labor” lie that the
other side was solely and wholly respon-
sible for the state of unpreparedness that
Australia was caught in by the war.
That lie has served “Labor” well and
the other side badly at election lifter
election. Even in the latest election there
were signs that it had by no means out-
lived its usefulness. Yet anyone had
only to examine his own memory of
relevant events between the wars to have
proof of the falsehood. It would then
have been seen that the “unpreparedness”
and “defeatist” lie measured right up to
the Flihrer standard in being actually the
truth in reverse.
The easily demonstrable fact —which
the hawkers of the lie would not even
dare attempt to refute —is that through-
out the period between the wars “Labor”
was not merely a passive but a most
active no-defence party. Australia as a
whole might have the excuse that it was
at least only passive ; leaving national
policy to its elected representatives. The
active part —in wrecking Australia’s
defence establishment, and, right on into
actual war-time, opposing moves to set it
up again—was taken by “Labor” and by
nobody else, unless Communists can be
regarded as separate.
Paradoxically, one of the facts demon-
strating the nature of the lie has served
the anti-“ Labor” side as badly as the lie
itself. From when it took action —the
first action it did take in its brief term
of office between the wars —to abolish
universal service “Labor” has been anti-
conscription,” except when the war forced
it to change. And even then, by limiting
the area of service to exclude compul-
sorily enlisted men helping in the rescue
of the Jap-held and Jap-tortured Aus-
tralian prisoners-of-war, “Labor” still
looked after the voting angle —at that
frightful price.
That is the “Labor” record which the
most blatant hawker of the “unprepared-
ness” and “defeatist” lie would not
attempt to disprove. It has paid regu-
larly in votes, and the whole side knows
it; knows it so well, in fact, that Aus-
tralia now looks certain to continue its
present rapid drift back into complete
unpreparedness as far as the vital defence
matter of manpower is concerned.
On the other hand, even in the latest
election Mr. Menzies, as leader of the
alleged “unpreparedness” and “defeatist”
side, came out definitely for “universal
training of a kind suited to our obliga-
tions” among his plans for a positive
defence programme. While Mr. Chifley
merely mentioned defence in the vaguest
possible terms, Mr. Menzies outlined, as
well, plans for “permanent nucleus forces,
with special facilities for military re-
search and overseas experience; an
adequate permanent Air Force supple-
mented by citizen air forces and equipped
and trained for close Empire co-opera-
lion ; a Royal Australian Navy backed
by adequate constructional, docking and
repair services, and working in close co-
operation with the Royal Navy; and
maintenance of munitions production.”
The snag in all this —the rest would
have been applauded—was “universal
training of a kind suited to our obli-
gations.” It was nothing new for Mr.
Menzies. In 1939 he had seen at once
that it was vital to set up a new A.I.F.
and buttress it with Universal training —
both strenuously opposed by the then
utterly defeatist “Labor” side —and, on
the subject again in 1944, he spoke as a
prophet:
Australia must have as the foundation
of any foreign policy an adequate per-
manent defence structure. It may seem a
paradox, but the events of the last few
years have shown that the first essential
of a real foreign policy is a good domestic
policy of military training and equipment.
When this war is over there will be just
as great a temptation as in the past for
Australia to slip back to some inadequate
and sketchy military training. If we suc-
cumb to such a notion it may well be fatal.
We cannot indefinitely rely upon others.
That Australia is in process of suc-
cumbing to such a notion is everywhere
evident. On the promise of the late Army
Minister, all those not wishing to remain
in the forces will be discharged by Feb-
ruary 1. Mr. Forde spoke also of the
enlisting of an “interim army” of 39,000
and a “permanent military force of
17,950.” How any forces measuring up
to the pretensions of Dr, Evatt’s foreign
policy are to be raised and kept going
Mr. Forde did not venture to say. There
was always an airy optimism about Mr.
Forde, but he would have been the
greatest in that line ever born if he had
not been well aware that the proposal
made by Mr. Menzies was the only one
with any hope of success. Without uni-
versal training it is certain that the much-
trumpeted “obligations” will never be
met.
Australians have not shown in the
past, and are not now showing, any par-
ticular eagerness for peace-time soldier-
ing. The only hope the voluntary
method, which is apparently to be relied
upon, would have of success would lie in
peace-time soldiering being made as
attractive to Australians as their normal
civilian life. There would need to be
similar pay, similar living conditions,
similar chances for individuals to get on.
Even with all that, or better, provided fo*
there could be no certainty of the volun-
tary method succeeding. The Australian
character would still have to be reckoned
with, and, while it goes to make the
best of war-time soldiers, it has always in-
clined to show a marked preference for
civilian living in peace-time.
One thing which advocates of universal
training, like Mr. Menzies, have never
troubled to make clear, though the trouble
might pay them, is that the idea is not
mere massed infantry drill. That is the
conception of nearly everybody when uni-
versal training is mentioned, but if the
aim was no more than that no good could
result; in fact, a lot of harm wopld be
done, because all thatt would be achieved
would be a perpetuation of fighting
methods that get outmoded overnight. All
sorts of new weapons were introduced in
the last war, as in every war; other new
ones will continue to be made from day
to day. The real purpose of a properly
functioning universal service would be to
keep the maximum possible of the
country’s manhood experts in the use of
the very latest weapons and all the fight-
ing changes such things must entail.
That would have been accomplished if
Australia had accepted the Menzies line
of defence-to-meet-obligations proposals.
It is certain not to be accomplished unless
“Labor” finds itself forced by the threats
of peace to follow the same lead that the
threats of war made it so very willmg to
follow.


[For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams, Cecil Mann and Malcolm
Ellis (“Ek Dum”), all of 252 George-street,
Sydney, are responsible.]
PLAIN ENGLISH
Victory Without Peace.
Before he had Had leisure for a calm
survey of the changed situation in the
Cabinet and the House Mr. Chifley, and
with him, of course, the country, struck
trouble in large quantities. Ho was
assailed by unleashed demands, withheld
during the election campaign, for a
pound on the pegged wage—2Bs. 6d. to
30s. 6d. in an “amended” A.C.T.U. ver-
sion—and four hours off the working
week. Pointed by strikes here and there,
also withheld during the election cam-
paign, these demands constituted a deadly
threat to the Prime Minister’s wage-
pegging policy, which, while he stood for
divers inflationary measures, such as
maintenance of war-time taxes and the
excessive cost of government, he had
chosen to regard as a barrier against in-
flation.
While saying something vague about
continuation of wagerpegging, Mr.
Chifley was reduced to promising a con-
ference with a chosen band of its noisy
opponents. These worthies must have
gone to it with the confident expectation
that the Chifley tail would go down.
Meanwhile, there was a 24-hour strike
of Government railwaymen and tram-
waymen in Victoria. The “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment” of that State verbally objected
to it. When its railwaymen and tram-
waymen condescended to return to work
the “ ‘Labor’ Government” brought in a
measure designed to “nationalise” Vic-
torian gasworks at a cost of £12,000,000.
To the obvious question whether it had
any proposal for obliging the “nation-
alised” gasworkers to labor in their voca-
tion it had no reply. Two days after the
railway and tramway strike it brought
down its Budget, one item of which pro-
vided for an anticipated loss of £107,000
on the Government coalmine, a loss
which will, of course, be increased if the
Government coalminers choose to absent
themselves for any period which may
occur to them as desirable or expedient.
Fortified by the Victorian example, the
N.S.W. Government tramwaymen and
busmen decided upon a 24-hour stop-
page in Sydney and Newcastle. The
N.S.W. Auditor-General had meanwhile
reported a loss on Government tram and
bus services of £379,000 for the year to
June 30, and for the year to June 30,1947,
it would be £540,000, Premier MclQell
said. A prey to distraction, Mr.
O’Sullivan, the Transport Minister, “de-
nied charges that his Government had
done nothing to meet the men’s de-
mands,” and audibly wondered whether
it would not be “in the best interests of
all to let private enterprise take over”
the insolvent concerns.
Mr. O’Sullivan said also that the stop-
page had been decided on by 300 men,
300 out of 7000, and muttered something
about a secret ballot. He failed to
remember that secret ballots had been
dismissed as impracticable by Mr. Mc-
Kell and by Mr. Chifley, whose election-
campaign excuse was that secret ballots
were ruled out by the fact that union
bosses were unacquainted with the ad-
dresses of their members.
As things are 4t looks as if a first-class
war will start even earlier than antici-
pated between the Chifley wing of
Federal “Labor” and the Ward wing,
which is all for interest-free Common-
wealth bank loans, with £200,000,000 for
rail standardisation as a beginning
Whether Mr. Chifley holds out or gives
in he already has ground for regretting
his mandate for resistance to tax-reduc-
tion. Tax-reduction, with wholesale cuts
in the prodigal cost of government,
would at least have allayed the current
discontents, which have been vamped up
by “Labor’s” faithless Communist larri-
kin allies, who, routed in the constitu-
encies, still hold “Labor” in utter con-
tempt.
A Dismissed Digger.
Ax least one story of a dismissed Digger
has had a happy ending—that is, for the
Digger. The other party involved
Nepean (N.S.W.) Shire Council—could
not feel happy.
In as scathing a judgment as could be
handed down, Judge Studdert dismissed
an appeal by the council against its con-
viction under National Security (Rein-
statement in Civil Employment) Regu-
lations, the charge arising from the sack-
ing of shire engineer Joseph Henry Mc-
Gowan “without reasonable excuse.”
One of the “rather startling” grounds
for the dismissal had been: “You [Mc-
Gowan] showed a total disregard to
the council’s interest and authority by the
manner in which you left the council in
the middle of 1940.” The facts, his Honor
said, were that McGowan was on the
reserve of officers, and that he was called
up at short notice in June, 1940. Dis-
charged after four years of war service,
McGowan wrote that he was prepared
to resume duties, and received a reply
that “by virtue of the compulsion imposed
on the council by the National Security
Regulations” the request had been
acceded to.
The judgment stated that the day after
McGowan reported back the shire presi-
dent, accompanied by a stenographer,
took him to certain places where works
had been undertaken and questioned him
about their efficiency. Subsequently Mc-
Gowan was suspended;
Both the president and the members of
the council who endorsed his action seem
to have completely jettisoned all the
elementary rules of fair play and justice
in their anxiety to get rid of the engineer.
These and other matters expose the alleged
re-employment as a sham —a mere lip-
service to the law—and show intention in
the council to avail itself of any oppor-
tunity that arose for terminating his
services.
The questioning of McGowan on the
works his Honor described as “a deliber-
ate attempt to catch the engineer off his
guard on matters that took place four,
five and six years before, and to make a
case by admissions for dismissal against
him.” A commission which inquired into
the charges found against the council and
ordered payment of half-salary for the
period of suspension and £2OO costs. Six
days after receiving the commission’s re-
port the council passed a resolution to
dismiss McGowan. Voting on the resolu-
tion was even.
It was passed by the president, Rose, using
his casting vote in favor of the dismissal,
when in the ordinary way one would have
expected him to use that vote in favor of
SEASONABLE SUBSTITUTES.
“The N.S.W. Brickmasters’ allegation as to flouting of the wage-pegging regulations at
‘Labor’ brickyards coincided with a private concern’s offer of free ‘scamp swimsuits’ to girls
taken on the strength.”
“Since they're raising a dust about more pay, will you take these instead ?”
maintaining the status quo. The reasons
which he has given in evidence for so doing
would not deceive a child, and I am satis-
fied he did so because he was determined
to have the engineer dismissed at all costs.
After further castigating both president
and council on points to their “great
discredit,” Judge Studdert concluded:
This is a miserable charge to bring
against the engineer. It is without sub-
stance, and I entirely reject it.
The Digger in this case had the good
luck to come under the re-employment
provisions of the Dedman Act —the only
section that has so far proved to be as
purported. Preference in employment is
quite another story—anything but a
happy one.
Newspaper Idols.
Bookmaking is illegal in Maoriland,
Canada and the United States, as also
are lotteries, to which five Australian
“Labor” Governments give their support,
four actively and the fifth passively to
the extent that it exempts lottery prizes
from income tax, punitive in respect of
large earned incomes. In Britain book-
makers are permitted, though lotteries
are not, but no English bookmaker
could hope to see his name men-
tioned in great newspapers like the
London “Times” and the Manchester
“Guardian”; and the same applies to
punters.
How different in Australia! Here the
person who makes a trade or an obses-
sion of gambling gets a great deal more
newspaper attention than any of the
leaders of the A.1.F., the R.A.A.F. or
the R.A.N. or any of the V.Cs. He is
even praised for altruism,
Mr. Arthur Browning, for example. A
young man of athletic appearance who
was spared the annoyances incident to
fighting in deserts and jungles, Mr,
Arthur Browning figured in “Terewth,”
which is abjectly “Labor,” as “Australia’s
greatest turf plunger... .the 32-year-old
betting Colossus, who has sped across
racing’s skyline like a supercharged
meteor.” Mr. Browning was hailed as an
altruist because he had “decided to put
his cue in the rack as a punter.” Him-
self a bookmaker, he had nobly resolved
to give up punting because the thought
that he might impoverish brother-book-
makers wounded him to the soul.
“It’s nice to have a good horse, and it
is very nice to win,” said Arthur, “but
some of the best friends I have are my
fellow-fielders, and I can tell you honestly
that the thrill of staging these big coups
loses so much of its glamor when the
realisation hits home that some of the
doubles boys might find themselves colossal
losers.”
The “good horse” is called Good Idea,
and was favorite for the Metropolitan.
Its owner, the supercharged meteor, con-
fided to “Terewth” that he had brought
off a “mammoth coupling of Good Idea
with the fancied Epsom horses Shannon,
Puffham, Blue Legend and Scotch Gift,
bracketing each of these Epsom hopes
for sums totalling £200,000.” Good Idea
failed, so “some of the best friends I
have” got the supercharged meteor’s
money, chuckling, no doubt, at the
childish simplicity of the paper.
There is fierce competition in the Syd-
ney newspaper world, and the Sunday
“Sun” felt impelled to dig up a counter-
attraction to the supercharged meteor.
It found the article in Melbourne in
the person of “52-years-old Ossie Porter,
owner of a shoe factory” which “employs
300 hands, turns out 1600 pairs of shoes
a day”; owner also of “22 horses,”
punter in a big way (he “wagers in
thousands”) and philanthropist-in-general
to his employees.
Last year [he] won 19 race§, collected
£21,000 in stakes and £33,000 in bets
Of last year’s racing profits of £50,000
Porter distributed in bonuses and in special
gifts to the needy more than half.
On the door of the factory is a notice:
“No vacancies .”
The reason is simple. Every time a
Porter horse wins each employee gets a
bonus in his next pay envelope.
The bonus starts at £1 to £5 for the little
girl that runs the messages, goes up on a
sliding scale till the highest-paid workers
get anything from £5O to £lOO.
Once, after Porter’s horses had had three
wins on three successive Saturdays, the
normal pay envelope looked a bit thin.
Said one of the staff: “Blimey, this
isn’t a full week —the boss hasn’t won a
race.”
And, “in sharp contrast with the general
run of turfmen. Porter tells everybody
everything.” If so, his “information” of
recent months has been rotten, Porter
horses having developed a nasty habit
of losing. There was no mention of this,
or of the effect on pay envelopes, in the
Sunday “Sun” narrative. For the Game
Must Go On —the sorry game of teach-
ing Australians to become a race of
gamblers, credulous, greedy, irresponsible
and ill-conditioned.
Rational Rationing.
Nobody will question the Common-
wealth Government’s apparent decision to
continue the rationing of certain foods
and wearing apparel, though it’s high
time a little commonsense was brought to
bear on clothes rationing in general.
Maintaining of high-coupon ratings on
things like pyjamas, raincoats, household
linen and men’s suits is silly, since no man
is likely to buy more pyjamas or rain-
coats than he really needs, nor is the
average housewife likely to buy more
than the necessary supplies of household
linen. They did in other days, when
rationing was about to be introduced; buf
not now, for the very good reason that
few can afford it. But the result is that
goods stay idle in retail stores because
people are unable to meet the coupon
rating on them —particularly so in the
case of families.
On the other hand, a lot of wild-eyed
housewives reading what sundry females
wore or were to wear at Randwick
and Flemington in the way of chiffons
and cottons and velvets and so forth, to-
gether with descriptions of their holiday
“ensembles,” gnashed their teeth, eyed
their own scanty wardrobe, the holes in
the boy’s bedsheets and the husband’s
battered overcoat and furiously asked
themselves whence came the coupons for
such outfits.
But the supreme rationing anomaly is
petrol. There is more of the stuff avail-
able than the country can use. During
election-time political “workers” went
about with their pockets stuffed with
petrol tickets and handed out bunches of
them to anybody who would drive a car
in the “cause,” whatever it was. The
monthly ration itself is more than the
average private motorist needs, and most
commercial motor-users now have ample
supplies. Petrol rationing is costing the
taxpayer £250,000 a year to administer,
and the only excuse for it seems to be
“Labor’s” desire to keep a lot of people
in jobs.
"Grow More Fruit!"
W. J. McCullough, an economist in
the N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culture, reports that, after a survey by
the Commonwealth Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics, the Australian Agricul-
tural Council has come to the decision
that it would be safe to place ex-service-
men on 28,750 acres of new fruit and
vine lands, 7050 acres of the total in N. S.
Wales. Taking 1956 as a basic year on
which to make assumptions, the C.B.A.E.
held that by then
Population will have increased by
1,000,000 and demand for fruit will have
expanded accordingly by 14 p.c. over the
1938-39 level. There will be an overall
increase in consumption per head of 5 p.c.
for all fruits except dried vine, prune and
citrus fruits; for these there will be an
increased consumption per head of 16 p.c.,
20 p.c. and 30 p.c. respectively.
Mr. McCullough doesn’t say so, but
presumably he assumes that by 1956 the
multitude of boards controlling various
fruits will have either faded out or been
thrown out, for it’s hard to see how con-
sumption of any controlled commodity
can increase in this country under pre-
sent conditions. What will interest those
now in the game or considering enter-
ing it is the C.B.A.E.’s two estimates of
export prospects. In one it allows that if
there is no improvement in living
standards in countries which bought our
fruit before the war, in countries which
competed with us on world fruit markets
or in international trade generally, then,
except for fresh pear exports to Britain
and citrus to Maoriland, no export ex-
pansion can be expected. If there are
improvements as above, and if the
United States eats more of its own pro-
duce, expansion can be expected.
All of which suggests that the
C.B.A.E. and the A.A.A. haven’t noticed
developments in air transport, now
brought to a high pitch in America for
the carriage of perishable fruit and vege-
tables. Yet Don Shand, the Armidale
(N.S.W.) man whom the Commonwealth
sent to America to look into agricultural
matters, came back convinced that given
half a chance American air-freight
companies would rush to carry Australian
fresh fruits to the American market.
Shand instanced cherries, which, as he
stated, could be flown from the Aus-
tralian orchards and landed in New York
for about Is. 2d. a pound, to sell readily
at round ss. a pound, because they would
hit New York in the middle of the Ameri-
can winter. As with cherries, so with
other fruits, and if a twin-engined Lock-
heed could lift a load of 85,0001 b. from
Perth (W.A.) and land at Columbus
(Ohio) 55i hours later, having flown
11,237 miles, what could a four-engined
freight ’plane, refuelling at New Cale-
donia, Fiji, Canton Is. and Honolulu,
carry?
We’ll get nowhere with fruit exports of
any kind if we don’t exploit air carriage
to the utmost, irrespective of boards and
departments and their deadening “con-
trols.” Australians themselves will eat
more fruit when they get it fresh from
the orchards by air and at a reasonable
price. At present far too much has to
be packed green in order to survive slow
rail carriage. Many Australians seldom
see a really fresh peach, apricot, banana
or apple.


s
x 38
CRAVENS
jare so different,
smooth, yet satlsfyliii
..
■
?:>• *
k
CARRERAS LTD.- OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL PIONTS
Down 1090 on total votes, Scully got
enough Independent preferences in
Gwydir to put him 5099 ahead of Tre-
loar, the C.P. man from Tamworth. But
2070 Liberal and 2939 “Protestant
People’s party” preferences remained
uncounted, and few of them would have
gone to Commerce and Agriculture. His
absolute majority in 1943 was 9072, and
he may count himself exceedingly lucky
to have escaped the fate of fellow-
Ministers Forde (Capricornia) and Frost
(Franklin).
“Put not your trust in preferences!”
is the bitter cry of Roberton (Riverina),
Mackinnon (Wannon) and Wilson
(Lilley). Solid for Lang in Reid, Neville
Howse’s son in Calare and Mrs, Black-
burn in Bourke, preferences put these can-
didates in at the expense of “Labor”
members Morgan, Breen and Bryson
respectively. But they “leaked” so badly
in the other three electorates that Langtry,
McLeod and Hadley return to the scene
of their undistinguished exertions;
Hadley, never a serviceman, actually re-
ceived almost as many Service-Group
preferences (nearly 8000) as his Liberal
opponent, Wilson, a returned soldier and
the son of a returned soldier.
Had the Calare example been general
Riverina, Gwydir, Wannon and Lilley
would have changed hands. In Calare
10,814 of 11,198 C.P. preferences went
to young Howse, giving him a majority
of 1860 over Breen. And if the veteran
Thorby had fought it out with Breen
an equal proportion pf Howse’s prefer-
ences would have gone his way. This is
the preferential system working out logi-
cally, as was the case also in Bourke,
Reid and Bendigo, where, on Liberal
preferences, Rankin’s majority was in-
creased from 2083 in 1943 to 5228. The
Lilley, Wannon and Riverina votes don’t
make sense.
Against Government ’bus and tram
losses of £379,000 last year N.S.W.
“Labor” collected record revenues from
gambling and booze. Bookies, race-clubs,
the tote and greyhounds among them
turned in £804,328, the Government
“lot’ry” contributed £1,379,817 and booze
£751,922. Shutting its eyes to drought,
“industrial troubles,” the houseless cbn-
ditipn of many people and the rest,
“Labor” contemplates with complacency
the mounting revenue from booze and
gambling. Once a party with laudable
ambitions, it no longer bothers to hide
its execrable notion that the N. S. Welsh
are such a poor lot that their favor can
be won with kegs of beer and bundles of
betting and lottery tickets.
Every Federal “Labor” politician would
be indignant if any unionist publicly
offered to do a job a little cheaper so as
to do another unionist out of it. But that
doesn’t stop Federal “Labor” politicians
running a cut-price airline. If there are
losses through the cut-price, the taxpayer
will have to meet them, as he meets them
now on Government railways.
There’s a sum of £427,000 lying idle
in the Commonwealth Treasury, not even
earning interest. It was collected from
patriotic Australians when a fund was
launched to replace the cruiser Sydney—
the second Sydney—lost with all hands
in the Indian Ocean. Repeated repre-
sentations that the Chifley Government
should do something about the money
were ignored. It should be applied to
the original purpose or returned.
Any radio station is welcome to this
question, which can be guaranteed to beat
any Quiz Kid from now on: Who was
Francis Michael Forde?
There is ordinarily a great deal of sym-
pathy with the Sydney trammies, who
have had a rotten deal from their State
“Labor” Government, but it vanishes
when they leave the public flat, as they
did on Monday, and the ’bus employees
with them. Monday’s silly strike, which,
among other things, led to thousands of
cars, trucks and taxis being pressed into
service to convey people to work, must
have sent cold shivers down the spines of
all with imagination to picture the city
in 1956. At every point converging on
the city there were traffic jams, some of
them a quarter-mile long. Ten years
hence, when motors will be multiplied
enormously, it won’t be possible to get
into Sydney at all on the present road
system.
As Central Coal Authority, “good old
Albert” Willis, once leader of a miners’
strike that cost the unions £750,000, has
awarded N.S.W. coalies three weeks’
holiday every year, provided they work
225 days. On a five-day week, that
allows 45 weeks’ work, three weeks’ holi-
day and four weeks for —er —“fighting
for their rights.” A 225-day working
year, with two-day week-ends, accounts
for 315 days in a year which, plus 21
days’ holiday, leaves 29 days to spare.
The first mine to strike because the spare
period hasn’t been made a 30-day month
will be awarded the Order of Willis,
second-class.
Asked by the Russian-born Alexander
Werth whether he thought Communism
in one country was possible, Stalin re-
plied: “Communism in one country is
perfectly possible, especially in a country
like Russia.” If he said that, he said
something completely contrary to what
his master, Marx, said. Although Marx
began by believing that Communist revo-
lution could arise only “in highly in-
dustrialised countries” he modified his
opinion when his works began to sell in
Russia. He admitted that if a revolution
in Russia should be the signal for a
general uprising of the European prole-
tariat, it was conceivable that Commu-
nism in Russia could be founded on the
semi-feudal communal ownership of land.
But he made the important condition that
this could not occur if capitalism con-
tinued in Russia’s neighbors. This must
inevitably force Russia in sheer economic
self-defence along the path trodden
already by the more advanced European
countries. Events have proved that Marx
was right on this one point if on no
other.
Nobody, except an “Australian” Com-
munist, would say that there is Com-
munism in Russia. There is a totalitarian
dictatorship; there is mass industrial
production by hordes of regimented
workers; there is State control of agri-
culture much more complete than in any
other country, though it has broken down
in the Ukraine and White Russia, which
are now living on U.N.R.R.A. charity;
there is the sudden glorification of
generals and statesmen of the past; and
there was the Red Army, now the Soviet
Army. The State is all-powerful, the
individual nothing. This is as unlike
the Communism of Marx, under which
the State was to wither away, as anything
could be. Could Marx appear in Russia
today, he would be a dyed-in-the-wool
war criminal and collaborator.
The Communist-cwm-“Labor”-Socialist
interpretation of freedom of expression is
being illustrated in England, where
“Labor” journalist Ms.P. are trying to get
what they call “an inquiry into the owner-
ship of newspapers.” The thing is being
dutifully echoed by the A.J.A. (Sydney
branch), which has strong “Labor” asso-
ciations. In July the London “Evening
Standard” published, without comment,
this shattering item: “The Egyptian
Budget provides the equivalent of £20,000
for the erection and maintenance of a
special prison for newspapermen who
have offended the Government.”
A queer feature of waterfront politics
is that the so-called Permanent and
Casual Wharflaborers’ Union, formed in
consequence of the 1917 strike, wants to
be absorbed in the larger Communist-
controlled organisation. One of its
bosses had the face to declare that
there would “never be peace on the
waterfront until the unions do their own
stevedoring on a co-operative basis, as in
N.Z. ports.” This when the Auckland
Harbor Board had appealed to Prime
Minister Fraser to institute “a searching
public inquiry into the causes of stop-
pages on N.Z. waterfronts,” saying that,
though it has spared no expense in pro-
viding up-to-date wharves and mechanical
equipment for the rapid handling of cargo
and improving and enlarging accommo-
dation for waterside' workers, matters
have “gone from bad to worse: the rate
of cargo handling is slower than it has
ever been,”
Unable to stomach a decision of the
Queensland United Graziers to seek com-
pulsory organisation of graziers, P. B.
Newcomen resigned his job as president.
A vote showed 1445 to 1204 for “yes.”
The snag, as Newcomen insists, is the
definition of “grazier.”
Charged with failure to arrange for
alternative transport in the Victorian 24-
hour rail and tram strike, Premier Cain
bleated that he didn’t even know the
•thing was about to happen, having been
away in the Mallee opening the Hope-
toun show. Opening shows and drawing
their screws are about the only things
State “Labor” Premiers can do with
success.
When the Victorian Parliament de-
bated the Cain Government’s failure to
prevent the Melbourne rail and tram
strike and to provide alternative trans-
port the galleries of the House of
Assembly were crowded. In a gallery
seat was J. J. Brown, the A.R.U. secre-
tary, described by Dunstan (C.P.) as “an
avowed Communist.” Brown, of course,
couldn’t speak there, but he must have
been pleased with “Labor’s” feeble reply
to the Opposition indictment.
Only two golf balls of a consignment
of 1800 sent from Melbourne to Bris-
bane reached their destination. The
others doubtless go into the übiquitous
and growing blackmarket, along with
cigarette papers, underwear, liquor,
cigarettes, .housing materials and so on.
Attorney-General Evatt was told by
the N.S.W. brickmasters that the State
“Labor” Government was flouting the
Federal wage-pegging regulations by pay-
ing brickyard workers more than the
award. They gave chapter and verse for
the accusation—denied by Minister Cahill
without giving chapter and verse. The
doctor’s private secretary “formally re-
plied,” stating that the letter had been
forwarded to Holloway. “Poor old
Holloway!”
On October 5 the first land for soldier-
settlers of the 1939-45 war was resumed in
Queensland. It is an area of 795 acres
near Dalby, No prizes are offered for
forecasts of when the first soldier-settler
will- actually walk on to his block—that
is looking too far ahead.
If necessary, the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Act should be amended to admit of
returning officers counting the preference
votes in closely-contested electorates be-
fore all the No. 1 votes are in. Waiting
day after day and week after week for
boxes of primaries to come in imposes
too great a strain on the candidates con-
cerned. There is ground for believing
that it was responsible in the past for
at least two early deaths.
Before young Falkinder came along,
Franklin was esteemed the safest “Labor”
electorate in Tasmania, especially as parts
of it have been industrialised of recent
years. There are 13 subdivisions, and in
1943 Frost had a towering majority over
each of his two opponents in all. In
other parts of Australia it seems to have
been a disadvantage to have had com-
batant service, but it wasn’t so in Frank-
lin, Calare or Capricornia,
Not only trade-union bosses are issuing
orders to “Labor.” A body of “sports
in Victoria is out with an ultimatum on
the subject of mid-week racing, saying it
“must be” reintroduced. Nothing could
so illustrate the contempt into which
“ ‘Labor’ Government” has fallen in Aus-
tralia.
Closing sentence of a Chifley thanks-
giving advertisement:
We renew our promise to make the
interest and the welfare of the nation the
first and major responsibility of the Labor
Government.
Rather suggestive of a lady protesting
that she will be virtuous. In other
countries, this sort of thing is taken for
granted. s
Every boat from China is bringing
Jewish refugees to Australia, and more
are on the way from France. A
Jewish professor at McGill University, in
an address to the Canadian Club, “de-
clared that the refusal of political
Zionists in Australia to accept the Aus-
tralian Government’s generous offers to
open its doors” —presumably a lot wider
—was in substance “a betrayal of the
tortured Jews of Europe.” The gentle-
man, a Dr. Rabinowitch, enlarged “on
the recent failure of Jewry to accept the
Australian offer.” “A Government spokes-
man at Canberra” asserted that he knew
nothing of any such offer beyond a
general policy of “immigration based on
its merits with a view to integration.”
“Merits” and “integration” should be de-
fined, Perhaps Watkins, of Newcastle,
will ask for definitions from Calwell if
he doesn’t get into the Ministry.
Though there was nothing for Bruce
when he returned to Australia, and when
last seen he was reading a book on an
empty deck, he is not forgotten in other
countries. It was remembered that when
representing Australia on the League of
Nations he suggested and strove for a
policy designed to give all the peoples of
the earth what the Americans call a “full
dinner pail,” He has now been appointed
chairman of the international commission
which will have the task of preparing
plans for U.N.O.’s World Food Authority
when U.N.R.R.A. passes out. A high
compliment, but the man has the neces-
sary equipment of brains and heart.
With time the essence of the contract,
as other countries considered, Australia
{i.e.. Dr. Evatt) proposed “more than 70
amendments” to the draft peace treaties
with Italy, Finland, Hungary, Rumania
and Bulgaria. One (1) has been adopted.
A Sydney “Herald” reporter at Paris
comments that “the Australian delegation
tabled many amendments without having
ascertained probable support from other
nations, even Britain and the other
Dominions,” adding that “the procedure
appears to most observers as excessively
independent.”
A lesson the Liberals should learn
from the experience they are going
through is that they need a daily paper
of their own, preferably in Sydney. An-
other is that they should abandon pre-
selection, one feature of which was that
able young servicemen like Brigadier
Dougherty and the R.A.N. youngster
Watson were sacrificed in hopeless con-
tests, and get back to the “open go.”
When the “open go” prevailed Perth
(W.A.) was a hopeless proposition for
“Labor.” Since it was abandoned Perth
has twice elected a “Labor” man. Obvi-
ously he could have been beaten on Sep-
tember 28 had the Liberals endorsed a
young serviceman as an alternative to
Paton, a worthy but stodgy soul.
The average Left-wing journalist has
become a prey to conflicting emotions
about Russia. He is too conceited to
admit that his picture of the U.S.S.R. as
a land of superb soldiers, beautiful girl
guerrillas and marvellous generals and
statesmen was false, so he tries to have a
bit both ways.


VICTORY WAR DANCE.
“Big Chif. Pipe-in-Face no good, ugh!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES LNKS
“Jasby”: So they’re hanging folk on
lamp-posts again in Bolivia! Whenever
I read of another outbreak of this out-
moded method of street decoration I
marvel at the short-sighted stupidity of
South American Presidents. One would
think that by now the first thing an in-
coming President would do would be to
root up every lamp-post within miles of
his palace or at least introduce a type of
streamlined post over which it would be
impossible to sling a rope. The revo-
lutionaries seem to be just as hidebound
as their rulers, and if they were deprived
of their traditional hitching-posts it prob-
ably would not occur to them to use a
tree or a church steeple. Possibly the
explanation is sentimental. A new Gov-
ernment having risen to power by means
of the lamp-posts feels that it would be
churlish to abolish them. So the posts
remain, and for a space their activities
are confined to lighting the streets of the
capital. But sooner or later there comes
a day when the wind is blowing from the
wrong direction or the same number has
turned up once too often in the lottery.
Out come the ropes and the Lantern
Fiesta is on again.
* *
“Bozo”; I wish “Ceg’s” peashooting
friend (B. 2/10/’46) had been with me the
other day—he might have helped me with
reprisals against an exhibition of jet
propulsion given by the diner opposite.
That gentleman was just about to spear
a chunk qf steak when he paused, fork
in midair, and let go the grandfather of
all sneezes. His hastily raised napkin
was too late to stop the full set
of snappers which shot neatly across the
table on to my lap. In the horrified
silence which followed 1 placed the
dentures on the table and departed
hungry.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne City Coun-
cil is strongly advocating a Ministry of
Fine Arts to protect the city from the
vandals who would despoil her beauty,
though the council is the biggest de-
spoiler of the lot. One Bumble remarked
the other day on the ridiculous appear-
ance of the Houses of Parliaments, whose
classic Greek proportions, when viewed
along the vista of Bourke-street, appear
to be incongruously topped by the Gothic
spires of St. Patrick’s Cathedral. He
didn’t state whether he wanted the
cathedral or the talking shop shifted and
it would be interesting to speculate as
to what he would do with Paris or Rome
or any other old European city. He
would have to reshuffle the whole place,
since Roman, Byzantine, Gothic, Re-
naissance, Romanesque and a dozen other
styles are always found in juxtaposition.
The real reason why the Victorian Par-
liament House looks so queerly finished
off with Gothic spires is that it was never
completed—the architect planned a dome.
“F.S.”: In the spring a Melbourne
Bumble’s fancy lightly turns to chopping
down trees. Cheated of the trees in
Flinders-street and Wellington-parade,
the City Fathers have ordered an on-
slaught on the huge palms which make
the stretch of the Yarra above Prince’s
Bridge reminiscent of the Nile. One of
their excuses is that a branch might fall
off and injure a member of the public,
though boatmen in the vicinity can’t
remember anybody ever being injured by
one. One councillor gave the show away
by saying they were ugly. They were
beautiful enough to attract the interest
of the late Clarice Beckett, one of Aus-
tralia’s finest painters. Having an amaz-
ing visual memory, in passing in the train
to her Beaumaris home she used to take
a mental note of their form, tone and
color as seen against a Melbourne sunset,
and when she got home would commit
her memory to canvas with an accuracy
which would seem uncanny to anybody
who didn’t know the immense amount of
training that had gone to the making of
her artistic eye. Her pictures of the
palms appeared frequently in exhibitions,
and it would be a nice piece of retribution
if some treelover presented one to the
City Council.
♦ * * *
“Pitt St.”: The Melbourne paper which
occasionally reaches me in Sydney
carried a full-sized picture of the Swan-
ston-Flinders-streets intersection on the
morning of that city’s one-day tram and
train strike, showing streams of cars and
pedestrians coming in from the southern
suburbs. For me the picture had nostalgic
memories in the facade of Young and
“These French, mannequins certainly know how to put on dog."
Jackson’s, wherein reposes the paint-
ing of “Chloe,” and I was recalling
old times there and thinking of how the
Melbourne citizens were getting a taste of
what Sydney has had its share of, when
my eye fell upon a large poster on
Flinders-street station. It read: “Invest
in the Security Loan.” Security! When
a man doesn’t even know whether or
not there’ll be transport available to take
him to work.
» * * ♦
“Clooter”: A Sydney habit that intrigues
me is that of the city’s office workers
who rush forth in the lunch hour to have
what they call “a break.” For most of
them this break consists of battling des-'
perately through-a great scrum of people
along the footpaths, being bumped and
jostled and collided with, frequently
threatened, abused or snarled at, and
often swept against walls or around
corners by surges of the crowd. Mean-
time, on the fringes of the'city’s heart,
other office workers jam themselves into
trams, hang on by their eyebrows, are
stood upon, crushed, elbow-jabbed and
generally carried past their stops, leave
the tram, join the wild pack on the
footpaths, then clamber back with thou-
sands of others on board the same
crammed trams, suffer the same indigni-
ties and are finally ejected to race madly
to the office, often minutes late and con-
scious of the boss’s cold scrutiny. It
seems to me much more restful to stay in
the peace and quiet of the building while
others enjoy their “break.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: This month three postage
stamps are issued to commemorate the
centenary of the explorations of Sir
Thomas Mitchell; October 4 was the 91st
anniversary of his death at Carthona,
Darling Point. His tomb is one of the
many historic ones in the sadly-neglected
Camperdown cemetery at Newtown, the
scene of a recent shocking tragedy, a
little girl being outraged and murdered
there. Perhaps Mitchell’s greatest monu-
ment is seen hanging on the front or
back of almost every motor-car on a long
trip in hot weather, hanging from the
saddle of the drover, from the ridgepole
of every bush tent and in the home of
most bush dwellers. It is the canvas
water-bag which he is said to have in-
vented on one of his journeys in Queens-
land.
ft ft ft ft
“U. Bute”: This ought to start the
know-alls fighting. Montacute, an Ade-
laide outer suburb, held a centenary car-
nival last Saturday to mark the 100th
anniversary of the settlement and the
first discovery of gold in Australia there
in January, 1846.
* ft ft ft
“Hist”: It is pleasing to be able to
testify that the Disposals Commission is
safeguarding the taxpayers’ interests.
Cowra Agricultural Machinery Pool
plant—some £20,000 worth of it —is to be
sold by auction this month and the cata-
logue is before me. I intend to bid for
the only three lots within reach of my
purse, to wit: Lot 574, one shorthand
notebook; Lot 577, one box paper
fasteners; Lot 581, two pencils (one red,
one. blue).
* * * *
“W.O. Two”: Every army unit had
its share of “hard cases” who devised ways
and means of dodging drill and fatigues ;
our outfit was no exception. There was
Dusty Miller, a born smoodger if ever
there was one, who set up shop as the
unit signwriter. While most of us
sweated in the bullring or peeled spuds
in the cookhouse Dusty found himself
a cool spot at the back of the Q. store
and produced a signpost or notice-board
at the rate of one a week. His mate,
Bluey Jones, established himself as a
semi-official stenciller of kit-bags, and
was more often asleep than at work.
Nobby Clarke got himself a full-time
job looking after the unit’s sporting gear
—a few medicine balls, a cricket set, a
couple of footballs, a set of boxing
gloves and a punching bag—and as a
promoter of sporting fixtures. The Pro-
fessor—I forget his surname—produced
a unit newspaper on a broken-down
duplicator, and Skipper made it known
that he knew something about sail-
making, and was occasionally seen
repairing a tent, but more often spent the
day in the pub in the nearest town. Mutt
and Jeff, a pair of rough diamonds who
had been fruit-hawkers, called them-
selves carpenters and wandered around
the camp doing nothing with a hammer
and a few nails, while Tiger Kelly, our
crown-and-anchor king, insinuated him-
self into a job as handyman to the
Y.M.C.A. rep. It wasn’t until a. new and
tough R.S.M. descended upon us that
every man jack of them was rounded up
and ordered to shoulder a rifle,
“Seaforth”: In the scrublands bordering
the outer suburb where I live a com-
mon sight at week-ends is the number of
young couples clearing allotments in
preparation for home-building. They
arrive early in old cars or by motor-
bike. Often the man is clad in jungle
green, and an old slouch hat keeps the
sun off his thatch. While he swings an
axe, levels off an outcrop of sandstone
or attempts a job of amateur masonry
many have raised expert-looking stone
fences or put in substantial foundations
—the wife tackles the lighter under-
growth, assists in buming-off and pre-
pares the meals. There’s usually a nipper
or two romping around, and often the
parents of one or other of the pair come
along to give a hand. While the billy
boils they sit around and trace plans in
the sand or discuss the lay-out of flower
gardens and vegetable plots. High costs,
labor and material shortages are prevent-
ing most of them from building im-
mediately, but they’re getting lots of
satisfaction from these preliminary
chores and are living for the day when
they’ll enter their own homes.
« * * *
“Old Comp”; I had a lot of dealings
with John Barr (B. 9/10/’46) in the old
days. He was the most generous of
pressmen, especially regarding mistakes.
“Never mind, we can all make ’em,” was
his benevolent judgment. He had one
asset; he would never let any problem
beat him. I recall particularly, too, his
fetish that “gags” for joke-blocks must
be clean and good; and he’d sit for
hours over one to get it to his liking. I
don’t, know whether he ever got round to
using a typewriter, but in his heyday he
loathed them. In later years I often met
him, and his regrets were (Archibald had
the same complex) that the best he had
ever done was not good enough.
* * * ♦
“Craiser”: At the first performance of
“The Twilight of the Gods” conducted by
Wagner at Bayreuth the neck of the
dragon had not arrived, and the head
had to be jammed on to the body with
incongruous results. The neck, manu-
factured by an English firm, had been
erroneously dispatched to Beyrout, in
Syria. A similar situation occurred in
amateur theatrical circles in Melbourne.
Two companies had ordered costumes
from the same firm. One was putting on
a miracle play of the fourteenth century,
the other was doing a modern revue. The
messengers got muddled, and on the
opening night the ecclesiastical vestments
were delivered at the modern play and
vice versa. By the time the situation had
been sorted out the two audiences had
been stamping for 40 minutes.
* * * *
“Port Jackson Pilot”: Whose leg is
that fellow “Lumen” pulling (B.
2/10/’46)? The, horizontal red neon
bar (which replaced the diamond-shaped
neon several years ago) marks the
central point of Sydney Harbor Bridge
where the greatest clearance for ships’
masts is obtained. The blue lights are
placed on the two travelling under-deck
gantries to indicate their position which
reduces the clearance by 8ft. This is
their sole purpose and they have no other
navigational significance. They were
never removed during the blackout re-
strictions.
* * * *
“Findy”: I have strong suspicions
that the master mind behind the stone-
throwing outbreak in an Adelaide
schoolroom (B. 9/10/’46) must have been
the offspring of a classmate of mine of
30 years ago. This bright youth’s favorite
method of relieving the tedium of a dull
lesson was to release grasshoppers or
fledgling sparrows while the teacher’s
back was turned. The whole class would
then join in the hunt till the “intruder”
was captured and put out through the
window, through which it was assumed
to have entered. On one occasion the
same lad saved himself with a display of
presence of mind worthy of a better
cause. He was idly whirling a cotton-
reel tied to a length of string when it
slipped from his fingers, whizzed across
the room and struck the teacher —
Edmund Farrow, affectionately remem-
bered by all who passed through his
hands during 40-odd years as a teacher.
In a flash the culprit was out of his seat,
picked up the missile and said indignantly
“Sir! Look what someone threw in
through the window,” Eddie rubbed his
nose. “A pity they didn’t tie a pound
note on it,” he commented ruefully.
9 * * *
“Wippegong”: “Fancar’s” mention
of Charles Lamb (B. 25/9/’46) took me
back to Miyajima, the exquisite little
watering place included in the first trio
of classic examples which no Japanese
student of scenery may miss. In a book-
shop there I chanced on a volume of
Elia. It had been used by a student of
English. Six essays only had been “set,”
but I have never seen such intensive appli-
cation to the mastery of a task —the
marginal notes on “Roast Pig” probably
exceed the essay itself in volume. They
are mostly in Japanese, but many
synonyms are in English too, as are the
cross references from Coleridge, Milton,
Shakspeare, the Bible and Confucius.
Yet apart from the prescribed tasks the
essays are untouched. I suspected Stan-
dish in The Three Bamboos of over-
drawing the capabilities of the Jap for
passionate study toward a chosen goal.
My paper-covered copy of Elia, from
Miyajima, removed that doubt.
THE QUIZ FAN.
“A puzzling thing, this game of quiz,
And tricky, eh?” I asked a bloke.
He answered as he lit a smoke,
“Too right, too blanky right it is.”
Slowly he turned from gamering
Some information from a book,
At which I stole a hasty took,
“Inquire Within For Everything.”
He seemed bewildered and perplexed.
“A chap may think he’s doing well,’ 1
He said, “but he can never tell
What poser he’ll be handed next.
“Some questions wouldn’t stump a kid,
While others sound like double Dutch,
Though you may think you know as much
As ‘Lord Macaulay’s schoolboy’ did.
“They range from art and science up
(Or down) to courteous requests
For Bradman’s average in Tests
Or who won when the Melbourne Cup.
“It’s hard to find you’ve missed the ’bus,
For all the mother wit you claim, _
When stuck for Trotsky’s 1 real name
Or who was Sardanapalus?
“On Junius and Prester John
I’m ready with the dinkum oil
And yet, in spite of all my toil,
I’ve yet to get among the mon’.”
“Cheer up,” I said. “From day to day
Think of the knowledge they dispense,
The educative influence
Of quizzical symposia.”
He brightened. “Little though I’ve earned
As a competitor for dough
In these affairs, I can’t but know
How much in finer ways I’ve learned.
“I feel, in spite of many a fall
When from the list my name was crossed,
’Tis better to have quizzed and lost
Than never to have quizzed at all.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“J.K.”: The A.N.A. has undertaken
the perpetual upkeep of Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s grave in Brighton (Vic.)
cemetery. The broken column over it
was erected by his friends and was in
place four months after his tragic death.
“Never a stone or rail fences his bed,”
but a descendant of the wattle planted
over his grave flourishes. From the
original tree 60,000 seeds have been sent
to Gordon admirers in every part of the
Commonwealth.


“Eve”: In my long years of association
with Uncle I’ve been struck by the variety
of excuses the “new” ones give for being
in such a place as a pledge department.
There was the woman who had lost her
purse and must have a taxi fare; the
elderly man who had to borrow a pound
to give to his son, who otherwise might
be tempted to borrow it himself in order
to go to the races—and he didn’t want
his son to get started off on Pawnshop-
Avenue. A Uni. art student told me he’d
popped his overcoat because he’d lost
the receipt-slip from a watch-repairer
and preferred to buy another watch rather
than go to the repairer and explain. If
/ ever find an overcoat I can pop for
sufficient to buy a new watch, I’ll feel
inclined to make a racket of it! But
last week I struck a brand-new excuse.
He was young, well-dressed, out-of-place,
and eager to appear out-of-place. He
said, with a too-carefree laugh, “Most
amusing, you know, but rather annoy-
ing! Dad’s gone out of town for a week
and he accidentally took my cheque-book
with him!”
* * * *
“Passun”: Almost three years ago a
mate of mine travelling on the back of a
Jap truck had a malarial blackout and
fell off unnoticed on the roadway. He
cracked his skull and lay there until some
Chinese picked him up, took him to their
village, dressed his head, gave him
quinine and rice and handed him back
to the Japs. The other night in his
native city he staggered out of a picture
show. He bumped into a passing bevy of
flappers—they pushed him off saying
“disgusting drunken lout” —lurched in
front of a car as he crossed the road, the
driver yelling “Crimson blankard drunk,”
and almost made the taxi rank on the
I've set the alarm for four. The train leaves at six.”
other side. While he was trying to ex-
plain his condition to a taxi-driver, who
said “no drunks,” the blackout hit him
and he crashed his head on a projecting
bumper-bar as he fell. When he woke up
he was in the casualty ward of a hospital
and the M.O. was dressing his head. The
first words he heard were “What the hell
have you been drinking?” and then as
he felt for his wallet he knew it had
gone. Now he’s talking about going
back to China, where human kindness
still exists and where people know
malaria when they see it.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Claims to powers in
psychometry, clairvoyance, healing and
trance proved unfortunate for a woman
who appeared before a Melbourne
magistrate on charges of having pre-
tended to tell fortunes —policewomen’s
fortunes. Asked by the prosecutor why
she did not know the policewomen were
present, defendant could only say that
at the time she was not using her powers
of clairvoyance, b.ut was engaged ex-
clusively in psychometry, whatever that
mbans. This novel argument failed to
convince the Beak, who imposed a fine.
Allegations by a policewoman that she
had been told of a new job were
staunchly denied by the defendant, who
declared that she “did not like hurting
people’s feeling by mentioning work.”
Whatever the weakness of her clairvoy-
ance, her knowledge of human nature
was sound.
* * * *
“Blank File”: 1 have had my military
greatcoat nearly seven years and if, per-
haps, not as good as the day it was issued
it still has a long life ahead of it. It has
been drenched innumerable times, covered
in mud and grease and crushed into kit-
bags ; it served as a blanket on the floors
of troop trains and open ground, and
was once used as a mat. But visits to a
dry-cleaner have restored it to its
original shape and cleanliness. Poems
have been written in praise of the Aussie
slouch hat and even Army boots, but 1
have yet to read one that immortalises the
greatcoat. Perhaps some Digger poet will
remedy the deficiency.
* * * *
“S.E. & O.” with a correction:
The Leopold who was offered the Greek
throne (B. 18/9/ ’46) was uncle, not brother, to
Victoria’s Albei t. A minor German princeling,
he raised the House of Coburg from obscurity
to one of dominating importance. He began
his career in the service of the Tsar, later toyed
with the idea of hitching his wagon to that
rising star Napoleon, but instead moved to
England, where, in 1816, he married Princess
Charlotte, only daughter of the Prince Regent.
Created Duke of Kendall and given an annuity
of £50,000 his future seemed assured, but
Charlotte died in childbirth the following year.
Seven months later Leopold’s widowed sister
married Edward, Duke of Kent, and when he
died suddenly within a year of his daughter’s
birth, Leopold seemed the likeliest choice of
regent for the future Queen Victoria. Mexico,
in the throes of revolution, hinted that it wanted
a king, and Greece made a definite offer, but
Leopold remained in his adopted country until
he accepted the newly-created Belgian throne
in 1831. Marrying the daughter of Louis
Philippe, he had three children. The eldest be-
came Leopold 11, of Belgian Congo notoriety;
the second was grandfather of Leopold 111.
The daughter, whom Leopold named in honor
of his first wife, Charlotte, married Maxi-
milian, the unfortunate Emperor of Mexico.
He was murdered by his unwilling subjects and
she went mad (at 28), but lived on in a Belgian
castle unseeing and unseen (except once by the
last Kaiser) until 1927. Leopold I, King
of the Belgians, corresponded with his niece
Victoria until his death. It is curious to re-
flect that had the 22-year-old Charlotte not
died (in 1817) he would surely have been Prince
Consort of England instead of reigning in Bel-
gium. Victoria, his niece, would never have
been born —her father married for purely
dynastic reasons after the death of Charlotte.
» * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”; When the Taijo
went away The Mad Sojo became Camp
Commandant. To our amazement he
presented a front of affability and kind-
ness contradictory to his previous be-
havior. An increase in the rice ration,
an issue of two gaspers per man and the
first fresh meat in two years encouraged
us to pray for his permanent conversion.
Before -a week had passed he sent for the
Old Man, told him the Taijo was
coming back and suggested that the Aus-
tralians make him a “presento” on
account of his un-Japanese spirit. He
handed "‘the colonel a list containing the
names of the Australian officers who pos-
sessed the best watches and made it plain
that if they were not handed over he
would take them forcibly. Inside the
half-hour tlje Old Man dumped six
watches, including his own, on the guard-
room table. The thief grabbed and ex-
amined them and then said furiously,
“These watches no good—no tick.” Pain-
fully getting back on his feet the colonel
explained that when Nippon captured the
“It says here if you repress a child's natural inclinations you'll ruin
his spirit.”
Australian officers their watches immedi-
ately stopped and even the Dutch
watchmaker could not make them
go. The God of Australia had
evidently decided to make time stand
still until the officers were liberated. The
Jap. fell for it and handed' back the
treasures. They were buried under the
hut and one by one were traded to trust-
worthy Chinese for medical supplies—
after the Dutch watchmaker had replaced
the balance staffs.
* * * *
“Ex-S.X.”; Demobbed after five years’
service, and with no job awaiting him, a
R.A.A.F. man applied for a course of
instruction in a trade under C.R.T.S. He
received no reply and, anxious to get on
a payroll, he placed an advt. in a daily
paper. The first letter he opened was
from C.R.T.S. advising him to apply for
a rehabilitation course.
* * * *
“Sextant”; The old Waterhen was rac-
ing for Tobruk. The decks were covered
with ammo and stores. Soldiers were
lounging around taking it easy. Sud-
denly someone shouted “Stukas,” and
then it started. The soldiers dived for
what little cover was afforded on a
destroyer’s deck. From the bridge, I
could see forms disappearing behind
funnels and ventilators. One soldier was
trying to get under a locker. He man-
aged his head and shoulders, but the- rest
stayed outside. As the rat-a-tat of
machine-gun bullets spattering the steel
decks was heard, there was a convulsive
movement from the body, and an arm
came out holding a steel-helmet. Despite
the seriousness of the moment, there was
a roar of laughter as he covered his stern
with the tin-hat.
* * ■ >
“B. A. Ker”: Education and its effect
on calligraphy (B. 18/9/’46)? One of my
earlier schoolteachers noticed my chok-
ing grip on the pen, inspected my book,
and after quoting an extract from
“Clancy of the Overflow” to the effect
that he thought the same was written
with a thumb-nail dipped in tar, starlet)/
to teach me the correct method of hold-
ing the pen. It was a bitter and painful
process—but he won. Now I automati-
cally sit in the specified position: right
incline, eyes at least 12 inches from the
page, left forearm in the prescribed posi-
tion, pen held lightly between the thumb
and slightly bent first two fingers, the
handle resting on the top knuckle and
pointing over the right shoulder. All ex-
actly as it was driven into my skull more
than 30 years ago. But if there is a
worse writer in Australia I have yet to
meet him.
* * * *
A little, tubby fellow
with a lined face and a drooping sandy
moustache, the suitcase he was carrying
was obviously more than a load for him,
so I offered to give him a hand. “Hell’s
bells,” I said as I lifted the case from
the ground, “what have you got in it—
pig-iron?” “Books —only books,” he
answered curtly as we hastened to the
ferry. A week or so later I ran into him
again struggling up the hill from the
wharf with the same suitcase. “Don’t
tell me that you’re still lugging those
books about,” I said as I relieved him of
his burden. “Yes,” he said shortly, and
switched the talk on to the weather.
Several weeks later still while walking
to the ferry with a cobber I sighted the
little bloke well ahead moving slowly '
with his suitcase. My friend laughed.
“There goes the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica man,” he said. “So he’s a book sales-
man?” I asked. “Not at all,” answered
my cobber, “that encyclopaedia is his
most prized possession. Every time he
has a bust-up with his wife she threatens
to tear it up, so he packs the set and takes
it to his office till the row blows over.”
* * * *
“1.D.”: Anyone with naval experience
can easily distinguish real sailors from
rookies. Many of the older hands in
Flinders Naval Depot made a small for-
tune during the war selling “salty” cloth-
ing to recruits. Worn collars brought
10s.; a perfectly new article cost
3s. 6d, in the store. Many amateur
tailors made white fronts with the blue
lining specially faded. These fetched 7s.
6d. Worn faded overalls could be ex-
changed for new ones any time.
* * * *
“V. Ciuse”: When Mrs. Jephson first
appeared in a natty coat and skirt —a sort
of cinnamon-colored design in small check
—which she had made herself, Jephson
was charmed and congratulated her en-
thusiastically on her taste and aptitude
with needle and thread. About a fort-
night later he came home full of excite-
ment. “What do you think,” he declared,
“I was out at lunch-time and thought I
saw you, but when I got closer it was a
woman about your size wearing exactly
the same kind of coat apd skirt as the one
you just made.” It was then he dis-
covered the virtue of a still tongue, for
his wife curtly announced that she
wouldn’t wear the thing again and Jeph-
son knows he is up for the cost of an-
other outfit. “Wimmen,” he mourns. “A
man wouldn’t care a darn if 10 other men
had the same kind of suit.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Mention of the impending
visit of Canada Lee to appear as
Othello (B. 9/10/’46) recalls the stir in
England when negotiations were in
progress between Paul Robeson and a
London syndicate for Paul to play
the Moor at a West End theatre. The
howl ,of protest came, not from Actors’
Equity or from any color-line-drawing
playgoers—in this respect England is the
most tolerant of countries—but from a
private firm. Yes, it specialised in
make-up.
* * * *
“Balgowlah”: As one who. has been
earbashed for more years than I care to
remember by as weird a collection of
bores as ever existed, I feel qualified to
set up shop as a professional listener.
There must be a great number of garru-
lous individuals willing to pay anyone pre-
pared to act as an audience. Golfers,
fishermen, blokes with marital troubles,
cranks with a bee in their bonnets and
even the ordinary cove in love with the
sound of his own voice must find it
difficult at times to hold the attention of
the person whom they have cornered at
the moment. For a fee—in cash or kind in
the shape of a dozen bottles of beer or
half a pound of tobacco —I announce my
readiness to sit and listen with a written
guarantee that I shall not attempt to talk
back. For those who wish to read to
me their own “poetry” there’ll be a
special fee.
THE SPORTS WHO LOSE THEIR
TIN.
“Heav’n has no rage like love to hatred
turn’d,”
So Congreve tells us in “The Mourning
Bride”;
“Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned,”
He further confidently verified.
Proof that, whatever he knew of Hell or
Heaven,
He lived too soon to hear the hideous din,
The yells of rage occasionally given
By sports who’ve lost their tin.
He had no chance to stand on crowded courses
Where high and low, with gay and sanguine
looks,
Assemble to improve the breed of horses
And incidentally to beat the books.
He never heard the rumpus—to be sure, he
Couldn’t —when some hot favorite takes the
knock,
The hoots of hatred and the howls of fury
Directed at the jock.
He never watched two pugs in brisk collision
And heard, to finish off the swipe and swing,
The pandemonium when some decision
Exasperates the patrons of the ring,
And chaps who loathe the thought of separation
Between their sturdy selves and £ s. d.
Join in a contumelious demonstration
Against the referee.
Ah, Bad the poet only lived and lilted
Two centuries later he might well have learned.
What’s more resentful than a lover jilted
And less forgiving than a woman spurned,
Namely, the sport who through some business
funny
That he suspects, some game he reckons
_“skin,”
Has irretrievably disbursed his money
And done his good brass in.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


THE SERVICE MAN
THE UNDERGROUND AT SANDAKAN.
( Continued .)
“Ek Dum”: By June, 1943, there was
something like a well-organised under-
ground at the A.l.F.’s Sandakan prison
camp. The gallant Dr. P. J. Taylor had
his financial arrangements for escape
parties well in train. There was little
that those in the camp did not know
about maps and Japanese organisation.
The radio was a comfort, though at the
same time a source of anxiety. The
arrival of “E”- Force of prisoners on
Berhala Island, at the mouth of Sandakan
Harbor, was like a breath of fresh air,
but not more so than the even more
heartening news from the Sulus.
There was a man named Mu Sing, a
Chinese of Jolo, who had been trading in
sandalwood round North Borneo before
the war. He owned a number of sam-
pans and a couple of motor-boats. He
had turned up in Borneo suddenly in
October, 1942, to report that he was now
an officer of a guerrilla force of Filipinos
which, commanded by a son-in-law of the
Sultan of Sulu, was sitting, 1000-strong,
on Batu Batu
Mu Sing bore a message from the com-
mander of this legion, saying that two
Allied submarines had sheltered at Batu
Batu, that one of them was coming back
and that a report was needed on the posi-
tion of “B” Force.
No time was lost in meeting this re-
quest. In December, 1942, a signal came
through from Batu Batu that the informa-
tion supplied had been passed on. The
Filipinos sent a map of Batu Batu with
news about the disposition of their troops,
and, what was still more encouraging, two
machine-guns, 27 rifles and 2500 rounds
of ammunition from their meagre store.
These were buried at the 15-mile peg,
seven miles from the “B” Force camp,
for the happy day when they could be
dug up and used in conjunction with the
arms of the British North Borneo Police
against the Japanese.
In April, 1343, the guerrilla commander
sent to know whether “B” Force felt in-
clined to leave for Batu Batu or whether
it wished to make contact with the Allied
submarine. Any move was thought im-
prudent, but contact was maintained with
the Batu Batu Force through Mu Sing
and Felix Azcona, a Filipino whose father
had a radio shop in Sandakan, and who
formed a link between Batu and the
friendly 8.N.8. Police, now under control
of Matthews, Intelligence Officer of “B”
Force. Corporal Arbin, Ojaga Singh and
others of this force in turn formed a
channel of communication to Matthews
and Wells and the others of the A.1.F.,
with Dr, Taylor, Mr. Mavor, the power-
house manager, and Mr. Phillips of the
Trading Co.
About this time escape attempts were
very much in the air, for the grapevine
which brought in news was loaded with
hope.
The Escapes Begin
Earlier attempts had not been encourag-
ing. The first, soon after “B” Force had
arrived at Sandakan, had been made by
six daring members of the A.A.S.C.
Four had been caught at once in the en-
virons of Sandakan. The other two —
QX15173 Cpl. H. R. Trackson and
QXIO9OO Pte. M. J. Carr, both of 2 Coy.,
A.A.S.C. —had been picked up 40 miles
down the coast on August 25, 1942, and
had been sentenced at Kuching in October
to four years’ imprisonment in Outram
jail.
The other four —NX72445 Driver E. A.
Allen, 5X13760 Driver M. E. Jacka,
NX71802 Driver N. A. Shelley and
VX23760 Driver T. I. Harrington—re-
ceived similar sentences. All were of 1
Coy., A.A.S.C. Only one of the four
survived —Driver Harrington died in
Kuching jail on December 15, 1942,
Driver Allen at Outram Road on July 10,
1943, and Driver Shelley at Changi on
October 29, 1944.
Next, five men of the 2/29th made a
break, but they apparently found the task
of leaving Borneo too much for them, so
they continued in the jungle. Their main-
tenance proved an exercise for Dr,
Taylor’s organisation, which had been
built up to provision escapees. Here it
operated through two Chinese, Go Tieck
Sing and his brother Go Tieck Chai, after
a wealthy compatriot, Su Chow, had
established a link with them near the
15-mile peg, a little after a week from
the time of their escape. The five men
' were all taken in January, 1943, and given
sentences ranging from six months to six
years. One, YX48685 Corporal W. R.
Fairy, who was sentenced to five years,
died at Changi on June 4, 1944. The
others survived.
In April, 1943, NX56669 Sergeant
A. M. Blain, 2/12 Field Coy., M.H.R.
for the Northern Territory, and NX10567
Staff-Sergeant James, 27 Dental Unit, pro-
posed to escape and made plans, but the
escape organisation was not then working
on oiled wheels. Blain sent messages to
Dr. Taylor, who told him to wait. A
little, gentle Chinaman named Chin Pain
Chang (or Chin Chee Kong), better
known to the troops as “Sini,” came into
the picture and did his best to make plans.
In this business, apart from Blain and
Staff-Sergeant James, Driver Scott of
C.A.S.P. was concerned. Blain’s Parlia-
mentary gold pass served a romantic part
as a talisman. However, the time was
not propitious, and the plotters had to be
satisfied with getting a letter out through
Chin Pain Chang,
This letter was written by Blain to Mr.
Forde, the Army Minister. It stressed
the condition of the men in the camp and
the need for succor, particularly medical
supplies. The intention was that it should
be carried out by NX73282 Signalman
Frank Martin, but it found its way into
the hands of Chin Pain Chang, and
then those of S/Sergt. W. Wallace, of
Eighth Division Signals, who, with Sig-
nalmen Mackenzie and Harvey, had got
away independently of the escape organi-
sation on May 8, 1943. The last two were
seen by the Japs near the camp on May 8
and were shot. But Wallace, through Ju
Ming, sent an SOS for assistance to the
gallant Matthews, i./c. Intelligence, who
was virtually commander of the under-
ground.
At this time “E” Force had arrived on
Berhala, and a few days before Corporal
Korum, of the British North Borneo
Police, had brought a message from the
island saying that Captain Steele, 2/i.c. of
the “E” Force, intended to escape early in
June and needed plans and help from
natives. A plan was made to take the
party to a rendezvous on the northern
part of Berhala, whence they would be
wafted over to Jolo and Tawi Tawi
islands, and then to the H.Q. of the
guerrilla force on Batu Batu, where they
would be picked up by the Allied sub-
marine. Routes were planned. Money
was made available through Dr. Taylor’s
organisation.
On June 5, about 3.30 a.m., as they
were about to transfer “E” Force to the
mainland, the Japs noticed a certain
sparsity of captives. They hunted fran-
tically. But Captain Steele, Lieut.
Wagner, Lieut. R. Blow, 2/1 Field Regt.,
and Lieut. L. N. Gillon, 2/10 Field
Regt., Pte. R. N. Butler, 2/10 A.S.P.,
Pte. R. K. McLaren and Pte. R. J.
Kennedy, 2/10 Ord Workshops, had
escaped in accordance with the arrange-
ments perfected by Taylor, Matthews and
Wells.
Into the company of this band S/Sergt.
Wallace was decanted by Matthews
and his organisation. And so well was
the plan worked that all got away. The
party divided in two and was safely
brought to Batu Batu, Six months later
Captain Steele and his men reached Aus-
tralia, save for S/Sergt. Wallace, who
arrived some time later, carrying the letter
from Sergeant Blain, M.H.R. It seems to
have reached Mr. Forde and the Cabinet,
but produced no result. The escapes
were kept a dead secret, which was only
discreet.
Ready for Rescue
Hopes of rescue at this time began to
run high in Sandakan, and Major Flem-
ming, in the face of information placed
before him by Matthews, sanctioned the
organisation of key personnel to put the
camp in a condition of organisation to
assist an incoming force of rescuers. The
work on the radio transmitter was
speeded up to make touch with Allied
forces outside and pass on data to them.
Naturally the weary prisoners did not
realise that all “Labor” was troubling
about at that time was getting back into
office. Mr. Ward was busy inventing the
Brisbane Line lie. Others were dwelling
on their glorious military record. San-
dakan was far from their ken and in
the face of Mr, Forde’s promise of “an
overwhelming torrent” of reinforcements
the Administration preferred to forget
the name of Singapore for the time being.
While the Government was conduct-
ing the 1943 election campaign, an Indian
mender on the Sandakan aerodrome was
trying to blackmail the faithful Chinese
Ju Ming, who had been one of the
biggest factors in obtaining parts
and who had had a hand in transferring
Wallace from the mainland to Steele’s
party, apart from other duties. The
attempt was not successful.
Pioneers’ Plans
It happened that about the same time
the original pioneers of the escape move-
ment in “E” Force, Privates Jensen,
Marshall and Keating, with Sergt R. B.
Holly, 2/18 Battalion, Sergt. C. Lander,
2/18 Battalion, Lance-Sergt. A. Weston,
Bth Division Signals, Privates S. .G.
Davis, 2/10 Ord. Workshops, and
T. H. Rumble, 27 Ord. Workshops,
planned an attempt to follow the good
example of Captain Steele and party.
Keating and Davis, working on the
aerodrome, conspired with little Chin
Pain Chang, who was an emissary of the
guerrilla officer Mu Sing. “Sini” carried
letters to Apostel, servant of Mr. Brown
of the Forestry Department, and P. H.
Funk. Apostel sent money and cigar-
ettes. Funk wrote telling the party to
wait until a well-laid plan could be
placed before them. But disaster
appeared on all sides.
. The Indian blackmailer went to the
Japanese with a vengeful tale of Ju Ming’s
activities on July 16, 1943. Ju Ming and
his father-in-law were arrested, and
under torture they gave away informa-
tion about the help of Funk and Lagan
of the 8.N.8. Police, who had been
one of the earliest links with Dr. Taylor
and Mavor of the powerhouse. Both
were arrested. Lagan seems to have said
something about Matthews. Ju Ming
admitted having given radio parts to
WctllclCC
On July 22, 1943, the “B” Force camp
was searched for radio sets. Not every-
ing was found —some had gone very sud-
denly under water. But there was
enough—a couple of firearms belonging
to Cpl. Graham of 22 Bde. H.Q., and
Sapper Davis, 2/12 Field Co., R.A.E.;
some notes by Wells, prepared to be
sent to Cpl. Arbin, of the Borneo Police,
next day, and a map, in the possession
of Lieut. A. K. Rae. . The Jap camp
commandant in person went through the
belongings of Matthews and Wells. '
Matthews Arrested
That night Matthews, Rae, Graham
and Davis were arrested. Two days later
Wells was confronted with a list of wire-
less parts sent to the camp —extracted
from the tortured natives and Chinese.
To save the receiving set, he handed over
some parts of the transmitter. More
arrests swiftly followed as natives
screamed their information in pain—
arrests of Captain St. John, who shared
a cubicle with Matthews ; Capt. Brown,
of the 2/10 Field Regt, who slept next
to Matthews ; Lieut. Wells,- 2 i./c. Intelli-
gence. Dr. Taylor and Mavor, the en-
gineer at the powerhouse—who had made
and supplied parts and risked his life
daily, along with his brave wife, who
acted as his code clerk in communica-
tions with the camp—were flung into jail
with Phillips, of the Borneo Trading
Company.
Next Ju Ming, under torture, men-
tioned Signalman Frank Martin’s name,
opening a chain of investigation which
led to the taking of Blain and James.
Pte. Stevens, who had been helping at
the power station (with a little sabotage
of Jap heavy equipment on the side), and
Ah Ping, the engineer, were scooped in,
opening the way to Cpl. W. G. Roffey,
84 L.A.D., and J. A. MacMillan, 22 Bde.
H.Q. Lt. Weynton was arrested on July
29. Then the Japs found the transmitter,
the guards of which, Cpls. Rickards and
Mills, 2/3 M.A.C., and Small, 2 Coy.
A.A.S.C., were arrested.
In September all the Keating party
were in trouble, Keating’s note to
Apostel having fallen into Japanese
hands. Admissions under severe torture
of the faithful Corporal Arbin, who had
been the beginning and the end of the
communication system, forced the dis-
closure of the names of two officers.
Lieutenant J. Morrison, 2/4 M.G. Bn.,
and Lieutenant J. Poole, A.A.S.C., who
had sent notes to Berhala, It was Arbin’s
information, again given under torture,
which led to the arrests of Dr. Labande
and of Mrs. Cohen, who had subscribed
to Dr. Taylor’s funds.
Torture and Brutality
But it was little wonder that these poor
natives and Chinese weakened. The
shrieks of beaten and tortured Chinese,
Filipinos and Malays were heard all day
and day after day. Ojaga Singh, the
brave Sikh policeman of Berhala Island
communications, who was to pay for his
loyalty with his life, came out of the
dreadful experience with an arm broken
at the elbow and was given no medical
treatment.
From 7.30 a.m. till 9.30 p.m. each day
the European prisoners were made to sit
crosslegged, looking straight in front.
They were forced to sleep under
the glare of a brilliant light. They
were not allowed to speak or com-
municate in any way with others. Wash-
ing was allowed only when the guards
felt inclined to empty the latrine bucket
—sometimes only twice a week. There
was no bedding, nor clothing other than
a singlet and shorts per man. Rations
came twice a day—a small afternoon-
teacup of rice and half a cubic inch of
salt fish or rock salt. The two brave
women, Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Mavor,
were not much better off than their hus-
bands, but they were lucky in escaping
torture and, later, conviction. They were
sent in the end to the Kuching intern-
ment camp.
Torture was applied at regular intervals.
Sometimes the prisoners were compelled
to swallow large quantities of raw rice
and then consume large draughts of water.
Sometimes they were hung up by their
wrists in handcuffs with a beam across
the heels to stretch the body. One par-
ticularly big man was placed in a cage
on the aerodrome and left there for days
in the heat and rain. Burning cigarettes
were applied to the skins of Sergt.
Stevens, of the powerhouse, and Cpl.
MacMillan. All these sufferings were
interspersed with frequent heavy beat-
ings with riding whips and wooden
swords.
Most of all, little Dr. Taylor was
flogged, almost beyond the point of en-
durance, but never by word or deed did
he give the Japanese any information of
use. Had he broken, all would have died
without doubt; for all were guilty of
contacts with natives, a crime beyond
"forgiveness in Japanese eyes. To the
doctor therefore a large number not
even arrested owed their lives. And
despite his continual suffering and weak-
ening condition, the devoted medico
never ceased to give what medical com-
fort to his injured and ailing comrades
his enemies would allow.
Signaller Martin was badly beaten,
also, in the investigation of Blain’s case.
He it was who was left in the cage in
the rain on the aerodrome —he is a six-
footer.
Off to Kuching
The remarkable fact was the manner
in which the tortured and the hungry
kept their heads during the terrible
period which preceded their being sent to
Kuching for trial. Matthews, through
Mu Sing and his wife, succeeded in
getting out regular messages which en-
abled his fellows free in the camp to
avoid incriminating themselves. Escapes*
were organised for natives of the Borneo
Police, so that they might not be tried
beyond endurance by torture. One of
these organised attempts saved Cpl.
Koruna. Had he been found the cases
of all would have been gravely compli-
On October 25, 1943, 19 Australian
p.-0.-w, and five European civilians,
among them Dr. Taylor and Mavor and
their wives, and 50 natives arrived in
Kuching. Mrs. Cohen, after some time
in solitary confinement, was fined and sent
back to Sandakan.
All the male prisoners were put in
barred cages like wild beasts.
From the time of their arrival until
the following February, interrogations
and the attendant torture continued, but
fortunately for most of the prisoners
sufficient was kept back to save them
from the extreme penalty. Dr. Taylor
and Mr. Mavor were tried on February
3, 1944, and sentenced each to 15 years’
imprisonment as spies. The same day
S/ Sergt. James, Sgt. Blain, Cpl. Graham,
Spr. Davis and Signalman Martin were
sentenced to various terms of imprison-
ment.
Matthews Executed
On February 29, 1944, all the rest were
tried except Matthews, Wells and three
other ranks whose trial was held back till
March 2. The sentence on Wells was
12 years’ penal servitude. Matthews,
head and front of the whole of the under-
ground, was sentenced to death on per-
jured evidence of the Jap interpreter
Osawa, who told a baseless tale'that the
prisoner had tried to raise a native re-
volt. Matthews came back from the
court and by signs told his companions
in their cages what his fate was to be.
The Japs gave him two letters from his
wife to read. Then, almost immediately,
he was taken away and was not seen
again. Neither were Jemadar Ojaga
Singh, Cpl. Arbin, Alex. Funk, Ju Ming,
Lagan, Mu Sing, Felix Azcona and Matu
Sop, all of whom had given their lives
in the service of the A.1.F., for they were
all that morning beheaded. Matthews, it
was believed,^was shot.
Death of Mavor
Taylor and Mavor, the engineer,
reached Singapore on March 10, 1944,
and were transferred from the military
jail to the civil jail. There poor Mavor
died at 7.30 a.m. on May 5, 1945, of mal-
nutrition and beriberi. It is pertinent to
(Continued on page 24.)


mi w
H ifauH,
A fresh page in Australia’s aviation History unfolds with the advent of Trans Australia Airlines,
from every State in the Commonwealth TAA has drawn its'staff from the ranks of ex-service-
men. and women, who bring with them a true conception of service to the public.
Commencing on October 7, with four flights daily between Melbourne and Sydney, and one
daily between Sydney and Brisbane, TAA will, in November, extend its services to other capital
cities. There will be “one fare for all”-—the lowest consistent - with economical operation
• • • no hooked passenger will be “off-loaded” to give preference to another traveller.
TAA is owned and operated by and for the people of Australia
TAA is, in fact, your own airline. Book your seat or send your
freight by TAA.
TRANS AU ST R ALIA AIRLINES
TAA has declare
ed itself to be a
*common carried
in line with other
public transport
utilities. Passen-
gers are not
required to sign
tickets .
w-.
DISTINCTIVE UNIFORMS of all TAA staff
make it easy for you to pick them out at air-
ports— look for the smart Dark Blue and Gold
TAA uniform.
BAGGAGE RESTRICTIONS Every travel-
ler is allowed up to 35 lbs. of personal luggage
free, ample for normal requirements. Only a
small fee is charged for luggage exceeding
35 lbs.
TAKE IT EASY The seat In your TAA liner
is more than just a chair . . . It's the product of
intensive research through years of airline
operation . . . framed in light, strong metal,
it's cushioned in all the luxury of your own bed.
It's adjustable for sitting up to write, read, or
to see the view or for stretching out for forty
winks.
THE COLD STAYS OUT—Every 1,000 ft. you
go up, the air temperature goes down 3 de-
grees— and that means that at 10,000 feet it's
pretty near freezing point . . . but inside your
TAA liner you're as snug and cosy as can be, for
each TAA Douglas is air-conditioned for sea-
level warmth. A turn of a switch gives you fire-
side comfort 2 miles up.
HOT FROM THE OVEN—Whan it's breakfast-
time on your TAA liner, the Air Hostess brings
you a delicious hot meal to satisfy your mid-air
hunger. One outstanding service feature is
TAA’s modern equipment, which permits hot
food, right from the kitchen, to be set before
you.
READ AND RELAX —To while away time In
the air, the Air Hostess will bring you maga-
zines and playing cards, or toys to keep the
kiddles happy.
CUT OUT DELAY —Comfortable vehicles
between city terminals and airports add the
finishing touch of enjoyment to your journey
by air.
THANKS ALL THE SAME —The question of
tipping does not intrude when you fly with
TAA . . . our employees are glad to be of
service at all times and definitely will not
accept tips.
TIMES OF DEPARTURE to be adver-
tised in daily Classified Columns,
SYDNEY to
MELBOURNE
£510'6
SYDNEY to
BRISBANE
£616
MELBOURNE £ll/10/
to BRISBANE Xil 11 “
Children under 4 years Free (one per adult
passenger], under 14 years, Half Fare.
Where to buy Your Ticket
SYDNEY . . . Phillip House, Phillip Street
MELBOURNE . . . 269 Lonsdale Street
BRISBANE . . . cr. Adelaide & Creek Sts.
CANBERRA . . . Civic Centre
HOBART . , . cr. Collins & .Argyle Sts.
LAUNCESTON, cr. Brisbane & George Sts.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
, *.«.«


t
ROYLO
Royal Reservei Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
There will be some new faces in the
House of Representatives next month.
C. W. Davidson, a sugar-farmer and a
veteran of two wars, replaces Frank
Forde in Capricornia and A.W.U. State
president W. F. Edmonds will occupy
the Herbert seat, held since 1928 by G.
W. Martens. N.S.W. newcomers include
Jack Lang, whose advent in Canberra
has been prophesied for years and who
gets there at last, just in time for his
70th birthday; W. P. O’Connor, who
walks in to Beasley’s seat in West Syd-
ney ; Howard Beale, Stewart’s successor
in Parramatta, and John Howse, who re-
captured for his party the Calare seat,
held for three terms by his father,
Victorian members are much as they
were, but Mrs. Blackburn, widow of
Maurice, becomes the second woman to
sit in the Reps., unseating W. G. Bryson.
South Australia sends one new member,
A. V. Thompson, who resigned from the
S.A. Parliament to stand in place of Am-
bassador Makin, and one old one staging
a comeback—P. A. Mcßride was M.H.R.
for Grey from 1931-37, S.A. Senator'
1937-44; he returns as member for
Wakefield. Wilmot (Tas.) electors have
sent an ex-parson, G. W. Duthie, to Can-
berra in place of J. A. Guy, their repre-
sentative since 1940 and M.H.R. for
Bass from 1929-34 ; and in Franklin Re-
pat. Minister Frost has had to give way
to C. W. J. Falkinder, an airman with a
distinguished flying record and one of
the youngest members ever to be elected
to the Reps. In the Senate —after next
June—newcomers will be so numerous
that old hands will feel out of place.
They will include Miss Annabelle Rankin
from Queensland, second of her sex to
reach the Senate, for which Vida Gold-
stein polled handsomely in Victoria as
long ago as 1903.
Appointed to succeed Group-Capt.
Keith Hampshire as operations man-
ager of T.A.A., John Ryland was a pilot
with Ansett Airways before being recalled
to the R.A.A.F. in 1939. He was first
stationed at Richmond and Canberra
instructing permanent Air Force officers
in the mysteries of modern transport air-
craft. Then he commanded 13 Squadron
up Ambon way, where he collected a
D. and the rank of group-captain.
Joining T.A.A. as manager of the flying
training school for pilots, he was a natural
choice for his present job. He went to
Britain and U.S.A. with the McVey
Mission in 1943 as one of the R.A.A.F.
reps, to examine and report on suitable
types of aircraft for manufacture in Aus-
tralia. He has totted up some 4500 hours
in the air and is still a comparatively
young man as airmen go.
Recently appointed private secretary to
Victorian Governor Sir Winston Dugan
is Commander Viscount Dunwich, R.N.,
retired. A son of Lord Stradbroke, a
former Governor of Victoria, he is a
grand-nephew of Henry John Rous, first
Viscount Dunwich, who was in charge of
the H.M.S. Rainbow, when that vessel
was on the Australian naval station in
1826. The earlier Rous organised the
first regatta in Sydney Harbor and laid
out old Parramatta racecourse. A keen
racing man, he imported Theorem and
Rous Emigrant, also Rainbow, an Arab
stallion. Several places in Australia are
named in honor of the Rous family:
Dunwich Island, Rous Channel and Rain-
bow Anchorage in Queensland, and the
county of Rous in N.S.W.
Another Australian to make good in
Britain is Bob Danvers-Walker, since
1940 the “Voice” of Pathe Newsreel, On
leaving Launceston Grammar he started
work in a motor garage and after a time
drifted into radio to become an an-
nouncer, first on 3DB and then on
A.B.C.’s Melbourne stations. As a radio
reporter he covered Amy Johhson’s Aus-
tralian visit, the 1932-33 tour of the Eng-
lish cricketers and the opening of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge by Lang and De
Groot. Then he went abroad, made film
and radio contacts in England, in-
vented a gadget delightfully called the
Synchronous Film Footage Indicator,
and when the war came got mixed up
with various forms of troop entertain-
ment. He managed Will Hay’s company
on a French tour, broadcast to Europe
for 8.8. C, and spoke commentaries for
instructional shorts and training films.
He still broadcasts over 8.8. C., but as
the Voice of Pathe he has a world-wide
audience.
At an age estimated somewhere around
the century a truly dinkum Aussie finished
a well-filled life at the Maryborough (Q.)
Hospital. Willy Wondunna, last sur-
vivor of the once-powerfui Bithalla tribe,
which occupied Fraser Island and made
a hobby of raiding the mainlanders, was
for many years the acknowledged ctyef
of the abo. camp at Urangan on Wide
Bay, and even as a very old man the
most accomplished spear and boomerang
artist of them all. In earlier days he
was a police tracker, and with two
other Bithalla men, under an officer of
the Queensland native police, was lent to
the Victorian, police to help hunt the
Kelly Gang. A difference of opinion as
to methods ended in their return to
Queensland. In his youth Willy worked
for Tom Petrie on the Pine River, and to
the end of his days “Mas’r Tom” re-
mained in his memory as the ideal
amongst white men.
When Balkan affairs are being dis-
cussed at U.N. conference tables Britain’s
permanent delegate to the Security Coun-
cil, Alexander George Montagu Cadogan,
doesn’t have to rely upon textbooks and
White Papers for his background. Con-
stantinople was his first stamping ground
as a diplomat—he was there as an
attache in the stormy years before World
War One, when the Young Turks were
sending Abdul Hamid about his business
and the Balkan wars were looming up,
and he was in Vienna before the break-
up of the Austrian Empire. When the
League of Nations was formed Cadogan
became secretary-general to the British
delegation, and by 1933 he was in Peking,
first as envoy and later as ambassador.
Called home to.become Deputy Under-
secretary for Foreign Affairs, he was
made Permanent Under-Secretary in 1938,
and in that job he has been indispensable
to successive Prime Ministers and
Foreign Secretaries, Chamberlain took
him to Rome for talks with Mussolini,
Churchill to Moscow to meet Stalin and
Bevin has found him a tower of strength.
Cadogan is the novelist’s conception of
the imperturbable Foreign Office official,
but in recent clashes with Manuilsky he
revealed a vein of humorous satire that
brought smiles to the faces of all but the
Eastern European delegates. •
If there were a Crimes-against-Trees
Tribunal in Melbourne at the moment,
the head here depicted by Tram would
probably be one of the first to drop into
the basket. It belongs to William John
Brens, Melbourne City Councillor since
1938 and Chairman of the Parks and
Gardens Committee, which has passed
the death sentence op the ancient palm-
trees that decorate the Yarra in front of
MELBOURNE COUNCILLOR.
the boatsheds. Born at Terang 47
years ago and trained in the coachbuild-
ing trade, he conceived in 1916 the idea
of manufacturing motor-car wheels. In
those days 18 wheels repaired a week was
considered big business. Now, apart
from new wheels, repairs alone run over
the thousand. During the war practi-
cally the whole of the firm’s business was
devoted to army maintenance —repair of
jeep wheels, truck wheels, aeroplane
wheels. Although in some eyes his chief
function appears to be tree-slaughter,
Councillor Brens is an amiable man with
an intense interest in the city’s arboreal
necklace.
“Q.P.S.”: The man on the land in
Queensland lost a good friend when Jack
A. Spence died early this month. Jack,
a veteran of the First War, to attend
which he had to get his parents’ consent,
was badly gassed. He never complained
—saying there were enough growlers in
the world without his adding to them. He
studied stock needs and, just be-
fore his death, had been specialising in
trace elements —that elusive whiff of
next to nothing which makes all the dif-
ference to stock. That is a life’s study ;
Jack had only a limited time to give it—
and he knew his sentence. He went
ahead, and, before the finish, had the
satisfaction of doing something towards
the welfare of the stock he loved—he
brought out a trace-element lick which
may be the beginning of great things.
“Feng-Shui” on China’s head man:
I doubt if anybody who lived in China
during the last days of the Manchu could have
predicted Generalissimo Chiang. The Chinese
of those days rated the soldier as the lowest
figure in the social order, and a Celestial
proverb has it that just as you don’t use good
iron to make nails you don’t use good men
to make soldiers. Chiang’s predilection for
soldiering began almost before he left the
cradle. He was a student at the Paoting mili-
tary school, the West Point of China, while
still in his childhood. He was such a promis-
ing pupil that the Government sent him to the
Tokio Military College, where he met Sun
Yat Sen, the founder of the Republic. Recog-
nising his military talent, Sun sent him to
Moscow to study the art of war as taught in
Soviet Russia. He returned to establish the
Whampoa Military Academy, which became the
nucleus of the National Army, led by Chiang
from Canton to Peking. After his master’s
death he became China’s Cromwell and started
bowling over one warlord after another. At
first he had Communist assistance, but he
dispensed with that later. He was fighting
the Reds on a wide front when the Japs came.
He then led a more-or-less united China against
the new invader. The only interlude in this
history of continuous warfare was when he
married a daughter of the great financial house
of Soong and espoused his bride’s religion.
One of his wife’s main obsessions is teaching
the Chinese modern sanitation. Chiang’s is
reading the Bible. He has just completed a
two years’ task of editing a new transfation of
the New Testament, involving 200,000 Chinese
characters and, according to report, he went
over the work three limes, making numerous
corrections.
R. H. Croll, a Victorian who has
written a good deal of prose in his time
(he has about a dozen books to his
name), is entitled to a look-in on the
controversy (B. 2/10/’46) as to who has
been writing Bulletin verse longest. He
reckons he beats Ogilvie and Quinn by
years and he is nearly a dead-heat with
his old cobber E. J. Brady. Brady’s
first piece appeared on May 23, 1891;
Croll’s on August 8, 1891 —“A Ballade of
Beggars.” His latest was on the Abo.
page of April 28, 1943 —“Cold Col-
lation.” - Most modest of verse-writers,
Croll puts up no claim against the other
three for quality or quantity. How he
has regarded his own efforts in metre is
indicated in the title of the book of verse
he published in 1932; he called it By-
products.
F. C. Richards, appointed general sec-
retary of the Agricultural Bureau in S.A.,
knows all about its 366 branches, as he’s
been associated with the bureau for the
past 29 years—the last three as acting
secretary. He’s also secretary of the
Pastoral and Marginal Agricultural
Areas Inquiry Committee and acting sec-
retary of the Advisory Board of Agricul-
ture.
W. A. Holman was probably respon-
sible at long range for the entry into
Parliament of Howard Beale, new M.H.R.
for Parramatta, sketched here by Prior.
It was Holman who introduced Beale to
the Bar in 1925 after the young man had
graduated in Law at Sydney Uni., and at
the time he urged his protege to try his
hand at politics, saying when he declined,
“Well, you’ll probably finish up there,
anyway.” Son of a Tamworth clergyman,
Beale was associated early in his legal
career with A. B. Piddington—also a
Tamworth parson’s son —in drawing up
the first N.S.W. scheme for Child Endow-
ment, Frederick Stewart held the Parra-
matta seat for 15 years and had a strong
personal following, and when he resigned
political Cassandras on Sydney dailies
prophesied that Beale would have a tough
PARRAMATTA’S NEW MEMBER.
fight to gain the succession. After a
strenuous campaign in which he addressed
well over 100 meetings he had the satis-
faction of romping in with a majority of
14,402. An energetic worker, with con-
structive ideas on social reform, he should
be an asset to his party both in council
and debate.
Dead after a short illness in Melbourne,
where he was engaged in the hearing of
the 40-hour-week case. Judge Thomas
O’Mara, of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, was a World War I Digger
who took up law after he was invalided
back to Australia after four years’ ser-
vice with the Anzac Mounted Corps in
Egypt and Palestine. Born at Jugiong
(N.S.W.) in 1897, he was educated at St.
Patricks College, Goulburn, and became
a clerk in the N.S.W. Crown Law Office.
After his admission to the Bar in 1924
he was attached to the Department of
Labor and Industry as legal officer until
he set up his shingle as a barrister in
1930. Specialising in industrial court
work, he was appointed Hyman Lecturer
in Industrial Law at Sydney Uni. in 1937,
and two years later was elevated to the
Arbitration Bench. War service and the
burden of Arbitration Court work con-
tributed to his death at the comparatively
early age of 49.
Into the silence;
Dead in Adelaide, at 78, Dr. Edward John
Counter, g.o.m. of dentistry in S.A. He col-
lected his D.D.S. in America in 1897, registered
as a dentist in S.A. in 1903, and became a
foundation member of the Dental Board, a
member of the first faculty of dentistry at
Adelaide Uni., and was several times president
of the Odontological Society of S.A. He was
president of the Australian Dental Congress in
Adelaide in 1921.
In Adelaide, at 60, Alfred Roy LeMessurier,
chairman of the Shipping firm founded by his
father and uncle. He was also managing-
director of Gunnerson, LeMessurier and asso-
ciated with the S,A. Gas Coy. and other firms.
In his young days he was a crack footballer
and played for his State against Victoria.
In Brisbane, at 54, Alfred Robert Bottomer.
Brisbane manager of Burns, Philp, president
of the Automobile Association of Queensland,
the Brisbane Wholesale Merchants’ Association,
and the Queensland division of the Australian
National Football League.
At Cooma (N.S.W.) at 98, Daniel McGregor,
pastoralist, of “Springfield.” Associated with
the land since he started as a shepherd boy of
10 on William Bradley’s Coobringdon, he died
within a mile of his birthplace.
In Brisbane, at 80, Charles Joseph Pound,
for many years a leading figure in stock experi-
mental work. Trained at King’s College,
London, and the Pasteur Institute, Paris, he
came to Queensland in 1893 as Director of the
Stock Institute, thereafter becoming succes-
sively Government Bacteriologist and bac-
teriologist to the Stock Experimental Station
until his retirement in 1932.
In Melbourne, at 48, Harry Owen White.
M-L.A. for Bulla-Dalhousie for nine years. He
was U.A.P. Whip and party secretary for some
years and resigned his seat to join the Army.
He was discharged in 1942 because of ill-health.
In Ayr (N.Q.), at 64, W. F. Frisby, a
Londoner who fought in Boerland before
coming to Australia. Settling- first at Innisfail.
he took oq sugar farming at Ayr, was captain
of the Ayr Gun Club and held a Bisley certifi-
cate for marksmanship.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LIONEL LEONARD RAYMOND formerly of
Murwillumbah and Brisbane. —TAKE NOTICE that
IDA PEARL RAYMOND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4364 of 1946 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 11th day of November 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS J. J. CARROLL, CECIL O’DEA &
CO., Solicitors, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DATED this 4th day of October, 1946.—J0HN J.
LYONS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Peel Street,
Tamworth. By his City Agent, CECIL O’DEA, 11c
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS FREDERICK PERCIVAL WILKINSON
late of Hobart in the State of Tasmania Chemist
departed this life on the Twenty-eighth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty and
Arthur Leslie Wilkinson of No. 466 Ann Street Bris-
bane in Queensland Chemist and William Edward
Masters of Bellerive in Tasmania Legal Practitioner
retired have obtained Probate of the Will of the said
Frederick Percival Wilkinson deceased NOTICE is
hereby given that all persons having claims against
the estate of the said Frederick Percival Wilkinson
deceased are required to send to the Registrar of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania the particulars of such
claims in writing on or before the, Nineteenth day
of December now next otherwise they will be excluded
from any benefit in the hands of the executors.
DATED this Sixteenth day of October, 1946.
FINLAY, WATCHORN, BAKER & SOLOMON, of
No. 82 Murray Street, Hobart aforesaid, Proctors for
the said executors.
Women's letters
From Sydney
For the first time in the State’s history
an Australian Governor held reception
in Government House. At the bidding
of Lieut.-General John Northcott and
Mrs. Northcott hundreds of guests con-
verged on the vice-regal residence at the
ninth hour of last Thursday evening. It
was a perfect night for a party. The air
was mild, so that the fire in the hall was
cheery rather than necessary; the moon
was high and silver. Thin silk and even
diaphanous frocks were word by the
women. Uniforms occurred only at
infrequent intervals. But the Gover-
nor wore uniform. Mrs. Northcott’s
frock of cyclamen and black—the cycla-
men bodice was thickly-beaded and
made with a peplum—was striking and
attractive. Daughter Elizabeth’s black
crepe frock had neckline and little sleeves
of net.
The flowers in the hall and the recep-
tion rooms were all fresh picked from
the gardens, and had been arranged by
Mrs, M. E. Black, Melbourne. In
the gallery above the ballroom the
Police band played loud and gay,
and soon every inch of floorage was
covered by human feet. All the Consular
people were seen, and the Navy, Army
and Air Force and their wives were
among the many. Chief Justice Jordan
and his wife were there—her frock a
shimmering white affair. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s frock of black velvet with its train
and diamante shoulder straps was one of
the handsome happenings.
Premier McKell and daughter Betty
came. The Mark Sheldon lady, Dame
Constance D’Arcy, Mrs. J, C. Windeyer
and Dr. Marie Hamilton were notable.
In the hall Mrs, Sydney Herring and Mrs,
Ridley talked zoning while girlish Mrs.
Hinde from Canada listened. Commodore
John Collins and his wife —her frock of
rich brocade—made entry. Admiral G. D.
Moore and Mrs. Moore, the knightly
Morshead couple, the Brigadier Hol-
lands, official secretary Robb and his wife,
the Will Ashtons, the Hope Gibsons —
soft black taffeta and net her choice —
Lord Mayor Bartley and Mrs. Bartley,
Sheila Collett, in lobelia-blue chiffons,
the wife of India’s Trade Commissioner
Saksena in graceful sari helped to make
the pattern of the night, which ended with
supper on the terrace and strolls across
the moonlit lawns.
The main hall of the Y.W. last Thurs-
day was a heady brew of embroidered
garments in shiny cellophane, of floral
art, of pottery and of handcrafts gener-
ally. They, with frocks —day, evening
and wedding, and outfits for every kind
of sport, arctic as well as torrid zone—
were the result of the Handicrafts classes,
of which there are no fewer than 11 a
week. President Mrs. C. P. Johnson,
whose hat was an inspiration for any
millinery student, Mrs. Hope Gibson,
chairman of the educational programme
committee, director Mrs, W. Milne, whose
hats also recognised spring, and Miss L.
Ruddick, chieftainess of the Handicrafts
and Floral Art, had a right to be as
pleased as they looked. The John Butters
lady dispensed certificates, and the show
was opened by Superintendent of Tech-
nical Education Riddell.
Trees looking as though their arms
held up a snowdrift that sparkled with
frost stood at frozen attention in the
foyer of the Trocadero on the night of
the White Ball.
The Governor, Mrs. John Northcott
and daughter Elizabeth came to this
party, and they sat at the long official
table high up on the right-hand side of
the room. This was decorated with flat
boxes of small white lilies and silvered
and feathery blooms. At each end rose
a tall silver basket brimming with horti-
culture. Mrs. Northcott wore parma
violet crepes, and Elizabeth Northcott’s
frock was of white marquisette, its waist-
line embroidered with colored flowers.
President Mrs. Roy Buckland sparkled in
white satin starry with diamante. Mrs.
Bob Buckland wore her wedding frock of
flowing white crepe.
If Mrs. Charley Lloyd Jones hadn’t
been a judge she’d have probably been
one of the prize-winners. White chiffons,
with delicate touches of embroidery, were
allied in her frock of classic sim-
plicity, The young girls shimmered
prettily in their lucent fabrics. Wendy
Playfair, in white organdy, looked a
Barrie-like creation —a special prize went
to her. Admiral Moore’s daughter Bar-
bara wore a swirl of white net dusted
with sequins. Mrs. Don Service and
Mrs, Hunter Kerr were the prize-winners.
Mrs. Scott Waine’s slim black-frocked
figure threw Into relief the white dresses
around her. Other belles were Mrs,
Wallace Anderson and Mrs. Sani
Hordern. Mrs. Chic Bouvet was another
whose frock was enviable,
Sydney will be following the girls for
months to come judging by the laughs
raised by Don Nicol, the admiring
“Oh!” that followed Bebe de Roland’s
dancing and the quick applause given
to Lois Green’s numbers. “Follow the
Girls” is a frivolous, frothy fun-maker
in spanking clothes and sparkling make-
up. Saturday night’s audience wore its
best clothes, too. Most-gazed-at lady was
Mrs. Carpenter, producer Freddie’s
mother. Her black frock was crusted with
sequins blue as Arctic moonlight, ac-
cording to one who had been to Alaska.
Her son has done a good job, and she is
justly proud of him.
Then there were Strella Wilson in a
box and Diana Hartt and first-nighters
like the Bertie Kellys. Mrs. A. E. Grace
with friends Mrs. Wunderlich and Mrs.
Farley, the H. J. Bradys, the Max
Affords, the Harald Bowdens and the
Ernest Lashmars were in their usual
places. Nellie Barnes in E.N.S.A. uniform
and actor |ack Gordon, both off to Japan
this week, called in to give a cheer.
Minnie Hooper, Freddie’s first dancing
teacher, was another who beamed ap-
proval.
Pianist Hephzibah Menuhin (Mrs.
Lindsay Nicholas, of Terrinallum, Vic.)
has been in Sydney for two concerts with
the Queensland String Quartet, and two
Brahms concerts with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra. Her musicianship is be-
yond question and she won great applause
for her playing. The symphony concerts
were conducted by Professor Bernard
Heinze, and these were his farewell
appearances in Sydney before he leaves
for Canada early in December. Bernard,
who is very popular, was the storm
centre of a great leave-taking last Mon-
day afternoon when the executive of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra coo-eed all
musical Sydney to rally round in Vere
Mathews’ big reception room from five-
thirty onwards. This is a new photograph
of Hephzibah.
Do remember to go along to the
annual fete at Graythwaite, disabled
soldiers’ home, Edward-street, North
Sydney, on Saturday, October 26. This
is always a very popular fete, and makes
particular appeal to North side of the
Harbor friends.
“Gunfire” from H.M.A.S. Adelaide,
which was really a brew of explosive,
sped the white-sailed yachts on their way
in the opening race of the R.S.Y.S. season.
The Kirribilii clubhouse and its grounds
have never worn a more pleasant air.
Down to the water’s edge they were all a-
flutter with flags, and the top lawns were
festive with striped marquee and tea-
tables. Commodore John Collins and
Mrs. Collins and Admiral G. D. Moore
and his wife were among the afternoon’s
official guests. They were first welcomed
by R.S.Y.S. Vice-Commodore James
Milson, Rear-Commodore Furber and
Captain D’Arcy Shelley, and at the top
of the path near the clubhouse, members
of the Associates’ Committee, Mrs. Don
Taylor, Mrs. David Garment, Mrs,
Shelley among them, added further smiles
of greeting.
Mrs. Pat Taylor and Mrs. Don Taylor
junior were there, excited when Pat
Taylor’s skiff had a win. The Royles
and Major and Mrs. Manley, Mrs. T.
Furber, Dr. and Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland
(her greeny-bronze felt hat with its gar-
land of flowers one of the day’s good
effects), the H. J. Bradys, her linen suit
topped by a large black hat, Mrs. J.
Daley, the Harry Budge lady and daughter
Rosemary, Mrs. Patterson, Mrs. Marquis,
Mrs. Sautelle, and R.P.E.Y.C. Com-
modore Muston were a few who followed
the races with expert attention.
The Partially and Permanently Disabled
Soldiers’ Association is in need of £25,000.
To help this appeal buttons will be on
sale at all metropolitan and suburban
stations on Friday, October 18. The
price of the buttons starts at sixpence
and goes up to £5.
From Melbourne
In the sudden sweltering heat which
caught women racegoers at Caulfield un-
prepared a crop of smart blouses and
skirts were seen when coats were removed
and carried over the arms of wearers.
Lily-of-the-valley sprays, which are
always a feature of decoration during the
spring racing carnival, wilted visibly and
were soon discarded. Hats were again a
colorful feature of the day’s dressing and
floral chapeaux made a comeback. Gay
floral frocks were well in evidence and
the favorite, black suit or frock, was
seen on many smart women. Recent
arrival from U.S.A. Mrs. H. Kuhlken
was one who chose a tailored black suit
and highlighted it with a shell-pink
blouse. The same note of pink was re-
peated in the osprey she wore in her
small black hat. With her was Mrs.
Charles Hotmer; her Donegal tweed
suit of grey and mauve mixture was
worn with a pink blouse, and her small
black felt Breton sailor hat had follow-
me-lad ribbon tails.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
chairman of the V.A.T.C., had a small
luncheon in the committee room before
the races and was smartly attired in
black. One of her guests, the Hon. Mrs.
Ronald Douglas, chose a robin-blue
blouse with her grey suit. Mrs, Harold
Rabling favored a flower hat; white
flowers softly veiled in green matched
the posy of lily-of-the-valley she pinned
in her simple black frock. Ann McLean
looked cool and refreshing in her corn-
colored dressmaker suit, her hat of the
same tone being trimmed with pastel
flowers. Mrs, R. Sturdee, who has just
arrived from England, wore white pique
bows in her hair and white plastic ear-
rings to set off her black frock. Navy-
blue and white ensembles were popular ;
Mrs. Bowen Pain favored this two-toned
outfit. Pink will be seen a lot this
summer. Mrs. Lindsey Mildred was
attractive in a dusty-rose and black frock
which she wore under a black coat. Mrs.
Fred Dennett’s black sailor hat was
trimmed with pink camellias ; the same
tone was repeated in the blouse which
she wore with a black suit. Soon-to-be-
married Valerie Purves wore a pastel
flowered frock under a nectarine-toned
wool coat. Her hat was laden with
flowers in the same tones as her frock.
A wedding which created great interest
last week was that of Mrs. Zara Fell,
whose picture you see here, to Harold
Holt, Federal member for Fawkner.
Zara, who is the younger daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Dickins, of Toorak,
has three small sons by a former
marriage—Nicholas, nine, and twins
Sam and Andy, aged seven. Although
the marriage was quietly celebrated at
the home of her parents, 150 guests met
at the Australia for a buffet wedding
breakfast. The bride’s sole attendant was
little Jenny Home, charming in a pink
candy-striped frock, Barney Connelly
was best man. Zara wore a smoky-blue
woollen suit which featured a flared skirt
and high-necked jacket, with a bonnet-
shaped crownless matching felt hat
trimmed with loops of wide satin ribbon
of deep plum tonings. She carried a
spray of lily of the valley and also wore
her bridegroom’s present, a pair of
aquamarine and diamond clips. Bob
Menzies, whose wife came with him, set
the ball rolling with a witty,, scintillating
speech. Mrs. Olive Thring, smartly
tailored in black, was with son Frank;
Kath Hiskins, cousin of the bride, wore
an Ali Baba turban of brown and beige
ribbon which was an excellent foil for
her beige tailored frock. Mr. and Mrs.
Holt are honeymooning in Sydney before
returning to Canberra for the opening of
Parliament.
A festive atmosphere prevailed at the
reception given by the Consul for China,
Mr. L. M. Wang, and Mrs. Wang at
the Australia, to mark the anniversary
of the 35th year of the Chinese Republic.
Mrs. Wang, who always wears national
costume for formal occasions, chose a
lovely gown of midnight-blue and silver
lame. She was assisted at the party by
several of 1 her countrywomen, also in
national dress. Chinese residents among
the guests included Mr. Y, M. Lui,
Deputy-Consul for China, and Mrs. Lui.’
With Air Vice-Marshal Jones was Mrs;
Jones, attired in her favorite blue;
General Blarney was there with his wife ;
Arthur Cal well and Mrs. Calwell dropped
m to extend felicitations. Consul-General
|® r U.S.A., Richard Boyce, was with
Mrs. Boyce. Attracting the eye of the
guests was the hat worn by Titian-haired
Mrs R. Michaelis, wife of Col. R.
Michaelis, U.S. Air Attache. Fashioned
of ciel-blue silk straw, it featured loops
of matching satin ribbon at one side
and was worn with a black suit. Brig -
Gen. Sebree, U.S. Military Attache, was
with Capt. B. F. Tompkins, U.S. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Tompkins, whose beige
tailored frock was worn under a brown
coat. With Col, F, H, Wright, Consul
for the Netherlands, was Mrs. Wright;
Commander Eardley Wflmot, R.N.,
brought his charming American wife. A
stunning black suit, lavishly trimmed with
gold sequins, was worn by Mrs. Norman
Myer.
With orchids, scarlet blooms and
tropical foliage in which nestled bright
plumaged birds, a gay setting was achieved
for the Bird of Paradise Ball, organised
by the New Guinea Women’s Association
and held at the St. Kilda Town Hall, The
sweet scent of frangipanni, arranged in
true New Guinea fashion on sticks, filled
the air, and red and white blooms were
scattered on the supper-tables just as
they would have been had native boys
arranged them. Among the attractions
enjoyed by the thousand dancers was
the “Bird of Paradise” Ballet, with speci-
ally-written music, choreography and
costumes, danced by Rachel Cameron
and Philippe Perrottet. President of the
ball committee, Clare Cooper, received
the guests, white orchids decorating her
floral crepe gown. Ticket secretary, Mrs.
S. Best, was attractive in a gown of
French grey crepe. Hon. secretary,
Dorothy Stewart, chose an American
model gown of emerald-green crepe. An-
other member of the committee, Miss O.
Burston, wore a striped crepe dinner frock
and fur cape. Proceeds go to swell the
Memorial Scholarship Fund for children
of New Guinea men who lost their lives
in the war.
Top stunt of the Journalists’ Ball, held
at Earl’s Court, St. Kilda—the first for
five years—was the appearance of the
“Midnight Etaoin,” complete with pic-
tures taken earlier on the dance floor.
Fancy dress was optional, but many
dancers observed old custom and wore
amusing costumes. One well-known
woman writer came as a French man-
nequin ; another girl was a circus per-
former. Editor of a Melbourne weekly
made an imposing Arab chieftain, while
his chief-of-staff decided for a Chinese
mandarin turn-out. Ball was organised
by a special committee headed by presi-
dent Roy Shaw, with Ron Warden as
secretary. May Peake, a popular A.J.A.
personality, also did an excellent job of
work.
Mrs. John Howse is back in Melbourne
for a short stay with her mother, Mrs.
Rupert Downes, after helping her hus-
band to become a new M.H.R. for
Calare, N.S.W. Mrs. Howse was a popu-
lar member of Melbourne’s younger set,
known for her flair for clothes, and was
to be seen at most G.H. affairs. Hav-
ing found a flat at Orange (N.S.W.), her
next job is to furnish it.


df
The Safely and Security
of Your Estate
Are Paramount
What a man wishes to do with
his possessions after death, and
the selection of his executor, are
two vitally important matters.
The faculties of men were never more
strained than at' the present, and there
are now fewer competent men willing
to undertake the control of the affairs
of other persons.
In everyday life people usually hesitate
before entrusting their private business
matters to others, until fully satisfied
as to their competency and integrity.
Naturally even more consideration
should be given to the matter when it
is for the sacred and onerous trust of
administering an estate.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia Ltd. is a company of sixty
years’ standing, with its executives all
specially trained, and with facilities to
undertake the administration of all
classes of estates. Why not obtain the
greatest benefit with the* least incon-
venience by appointing the company as
your executor ?
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) ' Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson,
Advisor; Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt,
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral inspector: H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.k. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager: J, G. H. Shipway, Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD ;
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.h.g., d. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart, _
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., 8.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.t.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N, Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager),
, Pastoral Inspectors : C, W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGE ST
CAHPEROOWN
F I
To
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W. _____
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47/000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,000,000/
M. 0.
Alder, A-I-A.,
General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
( Dividends \
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’36 194,702 —10 i 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. •• 277,808
'37 218,179' 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’3O 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Sneciai reserve disappears, £25,000 .. 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 p.c.=165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1,027 .. 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 36,775 526,652
’46 227,312 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 5,312 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
Australia has made a slow getaway in
the transition race. For the most part
production has fallen substantially below
its war-time level, because shortage of
coal and Communist-inspired industrial
disputes have slowed down plant activity,
and that at a time when a war-starved
civilian market is hungry for goods. It
is an ignorant and discouraging approach
to the problems of inflation, full employ-
ment and social security.
Since 1942 A.P.M.’s management has
planned and prepared for a quick and
smooth switchover, as well as to reach
out for wider markets by expanding and
cheapening production. Yet for over
three months some of the co.’s Victorian
mills—Fairfield, Melbourne and Brad-
ford —have been unable to get enough
coal to meet requirements. Complete
stoppage has been prevented only by use
of fuel oil, firewood and sawdust at
heavy extra cost. Quick to act in cir-
cumvention of its troubles, the co. aims
to make itself more or less independent
of black coal from N. S. Wales by mid-
-1947. To this end it has bought a
“large” interest in an open-cut brown coal
deposit near Bacchus Marsh (Vic.).
Brightest spot in the picture last term
was a lift of 2170 tons in output (38,670
tons) of the Maryvale (Vic.) pulpmill.
Eucalyptus pulp from this plant is supple-
mented by supplies of long-fibred wood-
pulp, now drawn from Scandinavia and
North America on normal commercial
terms, lend-lease supplies having ceased.
This overseas pulp is in short supply, and
prices remain high. The co.’s total out-
turn of board and paper, which stepped
up from 91,556 tons in 1939 to a peak of
130,966 tons in 1942, dropped to 117,902
tons in 1945 and to 112,945 tons last
term.
Gross earnings from all sources
(£717,027) advanced £19,811, owing to
an extra £31,542 received from interest,
etc. (£37,959). Including £62,437 interest
on debentures issued early in the term,
exes. (£489,715) took all the gain and
£31,463 besides. All that was after allow-
ing £190,732 (down £44,370) for taxa-
tion, £341,184 (up £23,513) for deprecia-
tion and £19,625 (down £90,576) for de-
ferred maintenance. The £227,312 of
profit was enough to cover the pref. div.
and show 7.6 p.c. on ord, capital, com-
pared with 9, 8.9, 8.8 and 8.3 p.c. for
the four preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 7.3 p.c., or enough to enable the
holding cos. to pay their pref. divs. and
show 6.2 p.c. on their combined ord.
capitals.
Australasian Paper and Pulp and
Cumberland Paper Board Mills, which
own 77.6 p.c. and 22.4 p.c. of A.P.M.’s
ords. respectively, maintained their ord.
divs. at 6 p.c. Nothing is said about the
scheme, under consideration when war
broke out, for distribution of the operat-
ing co.’s ords. among those on the hold-
ing cos.’ registers.
To finance part of its programme of
expansion—which includes new plant at
Fairfield and Botany (N.S.W.), extensions
and additions at Maryvale and elsewhere,
and probable erection of a board mill at
Brisbane—£2,2so,ooo of 3i p.c. 25-year
debentures were offered and fully sub-
scribed shortly before the close of ac-
counts in 1945. At June 30 last
£2,045,650 of the money was in hand.
But industrial troubles already referred
to and difficulties associated with build-
ing, etc., prevented immediate employ-
ment of most of it in the business:
1938. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital— £ £ £ £
Pref. . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Ord. . . 1,600,000 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Debentures 2,045,650
Mortgages 16,290 13,574 13,979
Loans, etc. 33,937 109,673 50,325 109,348
Other cr’tors 119,199 628,947 200,459 266,944
Tax reserve,
etc. .. 113,197 200,000 342,500 334,000
Freehold and
plant .. 1,708,127 2,785,020 2,194,918 2,133,148
Shares other
cos. . . 23,242 23,240 30,234 30,234
Stock . . 990,950 1,178,743 1,163,744 1,741,632
Book debts 368,314 670,492 634,994 673,071
Cash, etc... 302,302 58,208 530,820 2,095,956
Last term stocks increased by £577,888
and cash, etc., by £1,565,136, which in-
cludes £1,488,315 temporarily invested in
Government securities. When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities by £1,770,972.
The- expansion programme will call
for more than the debenture money sub-
scribed, and ord. shareholders (the two
holding cos.) are to be asked to assist as
and when required. For this purpose
A.P.M.’s nominal capital has been lifted
to £10,000,000 by creation of 5,400,000
new £1 shares. The present £3,200,000
of paid capital is in 1,000,000 £l6 p.c.
cum. prefs., 600,000 £1 ords. and
2.000. ords. of 16s. each. So there
are 6,800,000 unissued £1 shares on the
books.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Ke-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1986.. 57,884 8 p.c. = 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 7} „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7 „ „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7„ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6 ~ „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed .. 100,000 385,400
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,309 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7„ „ 38,500 15,159 418,868
1946.. 57,156 7„ „ 38,500 18,656 487,524
The co. is in the wool- and stock-
broking, pastoral-finance and agency
business in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
The improvement of £3497 in last term’s
net earnings is remarkable because of
loss of livestock, owing to drought and
the fly pest, and because of the shearers’
strike and the hold-up in the Queensland
meat trade, which together bumped up
both growers’ and sellers’ costs and
affected sales of fat stock. After provid-
ing for taxation and other contingencies,
the net result was 10.4 p.c. on capital as
against 9.4, 10.3, 9, 6.8, 8, 9.6 and 8.7
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
7 p.c., and, subject to the effect of Gov-
ernment policy upon costs, prospects of
a bit better are encouraging. The £18,656
put on the shelf lifted the lay-by to
£437,524, which means that shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
need turn in only 3.9 p.c. to show 7 p.c.
on capital alone.
Altogether the co. sold an extra 4557
bales of wool and 747 more head of
cattle, but put 85,477 fewer sheep under
the hammer:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1939 . . 207,364 395,256 29,272
1940 . . 259,596 434,870 28,500
1941 . . 239,856 504,617 17,346
1942 . . 242,581 493,326 18,931 .
1943 '. . 238,900 569,271 23,183
1944 . . 255,330 616,852 23,347
1945 . . 222,995 521,743 21,727
1946 . . 227,552 486,266 22,474
The wool was the last sold under
the old Imperial contract at the
flat rate of 15.4 d. per pound. Advanced
prices for livestock helped to offset the
reduction in numbers, and there was in-
creased turnover at a higher range of
values for skins in the produce depart-
ment. Shortage of supplies stood in the
way of substantially increased sales in
the Brisbane machinery department.
The immediate seasonal outlook has
been brightened by recent rains, which
means much so far as lambing, restock-
ing and meeting export and butchers’
requirements are concerned. Still, the
number of sheep shorn, this season isn’t
likely to be very much greater than for
the year on whose heels it treads, but
the clip per head should be heavier and
the staple more robust.
Wool auctions —first since 1939 —
opened with bids in advance of
the Realisation Commission’s reserve
limits, and prices have strengthened
a little since. Reserve limits are
based on a flat rate of 18.14 d. per
pound, less a contributory charge of 5 p.c.
Appearances are that prices for the staple
will remain strong for some time. The
test of prices for wool, as for other pro-
ducts, will be the end of post-war sellers’
market conditions. Aware of this, the
growing and using sides of the industry
are spending a lot of money on research.
Meanwhile, growers are assured of orderly
marketing at minimum prices, thus re-
moving the worst of the danger from
pressure of accumulated war-time stocks
on growers’ incomes. Chief fight will be
against seasons and costs, especially the
latter.
Balance-sheet movements suggest that
most of the co.’s clients were outside the
worst drought-stricken areas:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Capital . . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Creditors . . 285,862 254,056 347,365 364,784
Overdraft . . 282,759 225,333 285,291 198,481
Freeholds . . 220,624 255,901 260,241 274,326
Plant.. .. 16,452 15,618 10,686 9,585
Stocks . . 65,775 77,821 48,828 73,979
Advances, etc. 1,107,380 944,045 1,274,725 1,198,878
Investments and
cash . . 11,851 26,856 26,294 11,272
A contraction of £75,847 in advances
was accompanied by a reduction of
£86,810 in the overdraft. The year’s im-
provement'in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£720,846) was £3673.
At 355. 6d. (ceiling price) the pound
shares, covered by 345. lid, in net tan-
gibles, yield 4.2. p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
Robub Tea and Subsidiary.
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7J p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.f
£• £• £ £ £
1940.. 11.119.9,375 Nil 1744 88,433
15 p.c.
1941. .20,000 18,750 Nil 1250 87,183
10 p.c.
1942. .11,493 12,500 Nil 88,190
m p.c.
1943. .21,988 21,8751 Nil 113 88,077
13J p.c.
1944. .33,162 17,188 Nil 15,974 72,103
Replacement reserve taken in, £6507 65,596
71 p.c.
1945.. 25,713 9,375 Nil 10,338 49,258
Added replacement reserve, £3037 .. 46,221
From tax reserve, £2957 .. .. 43,264
1946.. 20,721 9,375 2J p.c. = 3125 8,221 35,043
t Goodwill (£75,000) not treated as an asset.
t Less deduction of £ 2300 proportionate share ol
war-time (company) tax.
This co., which took over the business
of James Service and Co. in 1928, has
£250,000 of capital to feed, one half pref.
and the other half ord. The ords., which
are held privately, got 8| p.c. for the
first year, and then went hungry until the
last term, when a modest 2i p.c. was
distributed. Public interest is confined
to the 7i p.c. cum. prefs., which also
enjoy priority as to capital. They got
half a meal, for the three slump years to
the close of accounts in 1935, and nothing
at all in 1938 and 1939. Arrears ol
divs. were overtaken in 1944, since when
they have received their full contract
rate, subject to taxation. Prospects ol
their continuing to do so appear bright
enough under existing conditions, though
some further recession in net earnings
appears likely.
For a variety of reasons, conditions in
the trade pre-war were such that tea
merchants generally were unable to
squeeze much profit out of the business.
War altered the set-up. The Federal Gov-
ernment became sole importer of tea.
Civilian distribution was made, and con-
tinues to be made, through normal trade
channels, subject to rigid Government
control as to quantity (2oz. a week per
head), quality (grades are limited to two),
prices and profit margins. The margins
are very narrow, but many of the traders’
pre-war risks arising from fluctuations in
overseas prices and variations in ex-
change and insurance rates and shipping
difficulties have been eliminated. A factor
which helped to lift profits was mass-pro-
duction of service requirements, including
coffee for the U.S. forces.
Next table shows separately trading re-
sults of the parent and its wholly-owned
subsidiary, the Oriental Tea Co., which
operates in Sydney and Brisbane:
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Trading result: — .
Parent co. .. £SOP £17,598P £10,455P £14,664P
Subsidiary .. 6543 L 15.664 P 15.278 P 6.057 P
Net profit .. £6493L £33,162P £25,713P £20,721P
P = Profit. L = Loss.
Last term the parent’s earnings benefited
from the stronger demand which followed
demobilisation. Evaporation of service
demands was largely responsible for the
contraction of the subsidiary’s figures—the
offshoot, which the board had thought of
winding up in 1939, concentrated on this
class of business. The £20,721 (down
£4994) of profit covered the pref. div. and
9 p.c. on ord. capital. A year ago the
board said “the result is not normal in


Contractors to Government Municipal t
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULUVAv
l^rrca nTj
fRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PATENTS, trade marks,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS —EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St. Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. 8W4931
Positions Vacant.
NEW OCCIDENTAL GOLD MINES, N.L.,
requires the services of an
ASSISTANT METALLURGIST
for its mines at Cobar, N.S.W. Both Cyanide and
Flotation processes are in operation on Gold and
Gold-copper ores, and applicants should have some
knowledge of such treatment.
Also required is an
ASSISTANT SURVEYOR
with some Geological knowledge to collect and cata-
logue Diamond Drilling data as part of his duties.
Salaries commensurate with ability for both posi-
tions. Apply direct to
THE GENERAL MANAGER, Cobar, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr, L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine ih its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23G) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
JUST RfSHT ton Firms
t
ttottrvntsHT lOGumi
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airway!
Made by FORD SHEHINGTON LTD
■v\VuVki>
gdf
Goidonis
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON 2 CB. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
THE
%/«
A
THE NATION'S
URGENT NEED:
✓
Tp Check Inflation
t
of the burning problems with which our Nation
is faced to-day is to check inflation.
A man's duty is twofold. He has a duty to his
family to keep it fed and clothed, but he has also a
duty to the Nation to see that every available penny
he can save is put into the hands of those who can set
it to work to provide more goods and services for the
people as a whole.
The first duty of a man with family responsibilities is
to provide security for his family. By getting in touch
with the nearest A.M.P. office or representative he
will probably find that such provision can be more
easily made than he thought.
The money that he puts into A.M.P. policies is set
to work in a hundred ways: in helping municipalities
and shires to build roads; companies to build factories
and develop electricity undertakings and the like;
individuals to extend their business or farm activities.
Every pound you put into the A.M.P. not only adds
to your security, but it helps to check inflation.
AM P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Canberra, A.C.T.
the true sense that like results can be
expected post-war.”
Finances are comfortable enough:
1938. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 107,544 43,810 95,619 102,895
Property and
plant .. 41,869 40,660 32,433 31,724
Investments .. 53,805 15,000 69,500 88,610
Stocks .. 70,808 102,696 87,934 143,817
Book debts . . 26,494 29,792 16,159 12,958
Cash .. . . 85,219 45,875 99,612 53,245
Investments (up £19,110 last term) con-
sist of Government securities. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£195,735) was £18,049.
' Uncertain as to what the future holds
for the business, the market prices the f.-p.
pound prefs. at 255. 6d., at which figure
the return is 5.8 p.c., subject to war-time
(co.) tax deduction made by the co. The
cover is 345. 4d. in net tangibles.
Zinc Corp.
During the years 1939-45 the co. milled
over 3,300,000 tons ore, produced over
480,000 tons lead, 12,000,000 ounces
silver, 627,500 tons zinc concentrate and
added 771,000 tons to the total ore re-
serves in the lead and zinc lodes.
During the war the greater portion of
the exportable surplus of Broken Hill
lead was sold to the British Government
on “cost -plus” terms. Sales of lead
within Australia were made at prices
fixed by the Commonwealth Price Con-
troller. With termination of hostilities
the greater part of Broken Hill lead is still
being sold to Britain, though the war-
time cost-plus contract has been termi-
nated and replaced by purchase of ton-
nages governed by a percentage of the
exportable surplus of Broken Hill pro-
duction, at prices periodically fixed at a
level advantageous to the buyers.
The prices, in sterling, actually realised
by the co. were;
Zinc
Lead Silver Concentrates
Per Ton P.o.b. Per Per Ton F.o.r.
Port Pirie. Fine Oz. Broken Hill.
£ s. d. s. d. s. d.
1939 15 2 0 1 10.3 27 0
1940 .. 15 3 1 2 0.1 38 6
1941 .. 16 7 3 2 1.3 41 5
1942 .. 17 2 11 2 1.4 41 2
1943 .. 18 12 6 2 1.2 44 11
1944 . . 21 0 6 2 0.8 49 10
1945 . . 25 4 3 2 7.5 60 6
1946 (6 mos.)* 33 4 3 3 8 78 7
1946 (June)* 37 9 7 3 10 73 7
* Provisional.
Explaining the difference between pub-
licly quoted prices for lead and the aver-
age prices received, the co.’s chairman
points out that the Australian export
price of lead has recently varied between
£5O and £56 sterling, or £A62 10s. and
£A7O f.o.b. Port Pirie. The official ceil-
ing price of lead in Australia has been
throughout the war £A22, or £A4O 10s.
to £A4B below the current export prices.
Domestic consumption of lead has to
be supplied at the Government’ ceiling
price, and this consumption has risen
sharply from the pre-war level to a rate of
over 40,000 tons per annum, or more
than 25 p.c. of Broken Hill’s output.
Zinc Corp. is responsible for more than
40 p.c. of the Broken Hill output of pig
lead. The chairman points out that the
loss to the co. is insignificant, because
practically the whole of any gain from
an adjustment would be absorbed by in-
creases in tax.
S, E. Pearson writes:
Goldmining on the Cloncurry (Q.) mineral
belt has been at a standstill for many years.
Yet this field is perhaps one of the most promis-
ing in Australia. There is much ground, reefing
and alluvial, not yet given a fair trial; in some
cases not even touched. In the old days so
much yellow metal was got at Palmer River,
Woolgar, Clermont, etc., that much of the
Cloncurry country was scampered over. Large
areas of the Cloncurry belt are potentially
auriferous, having the same combination of
Proterozoic rocks (granites, greenstones, garnet-
iferous mica-schists, etc.) that has yielded the
enormous gold-wealth of Western Australia. It
is only during the last decade that any work
has been done in the deep alluvials on this
field, and that hjainly by the writer. Drift de-
posits, possibly of Carboniferous Age (same
as Clermont), are now known to exist in this
district at depths to 100 ft. below the surface.
Most of the alluvial gold hitherto won in the
Cloncurry area has been obtained from shallow
workings in earthy rubble straight off the hills.
It is only in the deeper leads that the richer
concentrations will be found. There is no
basalt in this district to form a sealing-rock, as
there appears to have been no volcanicity in this
area since Proterozoic time, but there is deep
ground masked by sheets of conglomerate, with
matrices of lime, iron and manganese. The
conclusion is that Cloncurry will come again
as a goldfield as soon as the searchers get to
know where to look.
» * * •
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) is asking the
Government for another loan to finance
continued boring. The £40,000 already
advanced by the Federal and State Gov-
ernments has been spent, and co. wants
£30,000 more. The Federal Govt, is
willing to lend, provided it is given a
two-thirds interest in the co. and £BOOO
additional capital is found. The direc-
tors ask for better terms. The bore on
Freney’s 550-square-mile holding in the
Kimberley district is down 4271 ft., which
is “only a few hundred feet above the
depth at which the co. has been in-
formed it might strike oil.” Caltex Co.
has two well-equipped parties on the
hunt for oil on 110,000 square miles of
country surrounding _ Freney’s holding.
♦ * » 9
Gold-chasing is as chancy as horse-
racing. Burma Malay Tin, after a year’s
work on the Edna Beryl mine, north of
Tennant Creek, didn’t consider prospects
good enough to warrant exercising its
option over the show. A. L. McDonald,
the owner, started in when the co. left
off and struck a pocket running up to
200 oz. to the ton. Some of the nuggets
weighed 3oz.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) reports (1) en-
couraging results from boring in hitherto
untested ground at No. 28 level, (2) an
improvement in the manpower position
and (3) ore reserves of 702,483 tons, aver-
aging s.7dwt, compared with 731,048
tons of the same grade a year ago. De-
velopment, greatly affected by shortage
of labor, exposed last year 33,000 tons of
s.sdwt. ore at Nos. 30 and 31 levels.
Driving at these two levels has given
further indications that the gold-carriers,
known as the South Gwalia series and
from which considerable wealth was ex-
tracted in the past, might again contri-
bute substantially to the mill.
* If * s
“O.B.”; Removal of the lOOft.-high all-
steel head frame which for years towered
over the grave of Great Fingall, recalls
memories of that once great gold pro-
ducer. It was the biggest quartz mine
ever opened up in Westralia, and for a
time was listed among the world’s best.
Had a better system of mining and slop-
ing been adopted, Great Fingall might
still be a profitable producer today.
Its resurrection would mean sinking a
deep and expensive shaft, and the quantity
and grade of ore known to be down
under are not considered sufficient to
justify the expenditure.' The shaft head
frame mentioned goes to Boulder Perse-
verance to replace the old wooden head
frame there.
* * ♦ ♦
“Fine Gold”: Sterling and Dundas, two
of a number of small Adelaide No
Liability goldmining cos. operating on
Westralian goldfields, have each declared
threepenny calls. It is not the first time
that shareholders in both ventures have
been asked for more, and it probably
won’t be the last. Some mines have been
strangled because of the non-payment of
calls, whereas had ample capital been
found at the start it would have been a
different story.
*** t *
Boulder Perseverance is to have a new
chairman. He is Dr. K. B. Edwards, a
metallurgist who has been on the board
for some time and has visited the mine
more than once. He had much to do
with the designing of the treatment plant
and the changing of managers now and
then. He succeeds C. R Bell.


m
u
%0 k
a v
then. w me
'Whisks
By the time he reaches for his hat to go home, the normal responsible
man has had many hours of close concentration and wants to relax
the tension a little before eating. Doctors commend this, insisting that
calm nerves are essential for good digestion.
To relax tension, successful men in all walks of life favour taking a
little whisky before the evening meal.
Whisky suits them particularly well because, for one thing, the excep-
tional purity of well matured whisky aids digestion, and, for another,
because the quantity needed is relatively small.
The secret is moderation, plus insistence on sound quality and adequate
maturity. The best Australian brands of whisky are excellent in
quality and purity, and have been aged for the exceptional period of
over 5 years.
Inserted on Behalf of the Brands of The United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
The Distillers Corporation Pty. Ltd., and Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd. W.13/2
ask whether the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has done anything for his wife, who
was his assistant, and who shared his
dangers in the attempt to establish link-
age with the outside world and save the
force of 2500 Australians who were at
one time captive in Borneo. Mavor s
death seems to have been directly caused
by the failure of the Japanese to send
him to hospital or to give him suitable
food and medicine when he fell ill.
The list of the officers and other ranks
charged and their sentences:
VX24597 Capt. Matthews, L. C., 8 Div. Sigs.,
death; VX14024 Lieut. Wells, R. G., 8 Div Sigs
12 years; VX28397 Lieut. Weynton, A. G.,8 Div.
Sigs., 10 years; QX7940 Sgt. McDonough, W.
J., 10 A.G.H., 6 months; Stevens,
A., 2/4 M.G. Bn., 6 years; NX1685 Cpl.
Graham. T. G., 22 Bde H.Q., H years;
MX3234§ Cpl. MacMillan, J. A., 22 Bde. H.Q.,
14 years; TX4197 Cpl. Mills, C.C. 2/3, M.A.C.,
2 years; NX68389 Cpl. Rickards, J., 2/3
M.A.C., 6 years; NX67260 Cpl. Roffey, W G ,
84 L.A.D., 14 years; NX26960 Cpl. Small, A.
L., 2 Coy. A.A.S.C., NX27101 Spr. Davis, R.,
2/12 Fd. Coy., NX10567 S/Sgt. James, J. H-,
27 Den. Unit, NX56669 Sgt. Blain, A. M-,
2/12 Fd. Coy., NX52132 Sgt. Holly, R. 8.,
2/18 Bn., each 18 months; NX3BBIB Pte. Davis,
S G, 2/10 Ord., 2 years; WX9682 Spr. Jen-
sen, C. E., 2/6 Fd. Pk., 2 years; WX10932
Spr. Marshall, D. G., 2/6 Fd. Pk., 4 yeap,
VX64660 Pte. Rumble, T. H., 27 Ord. Bde.,
six months; NX73282 Sgm. Martin, F. J., «
Div. Sigs., 3 years.
All did not survive the trials and
brutality of Outram. Cpl. Small, Spr.
Davis and Spr. Marshall died late in
1944. Spr. Keating died before he could
be tried in Kuching—died of malnutrition
and beriberi on February 11, 1944. Dr.
Taylor, who was with him, said that he
might have been saved with only a little
medicine. The rest emerged on the day
of victory, pitiful wrecks most of them,
some bags of skin and bone under seven
stone in weight, having lived to feel them-
selves, for all they had suffered, to be
fortunate men.
With Captain Steele’s party and the
eight men who had been sent to jail for
previous escape attempts, a few officers
and others at Kuching, and a handful ot
living skeletons who crawled out of the
jungles, these were the only survivors or
the 2500 who had been so loosely held m
Borneo and whose leaders at one time
felt themselves to near to the chance or
rescue that they had organised for it m
the middle of 1943.
The rest had perished of starvation,
torture or massacre, or on the awful
jungle march, which caused less horroi
among the heartless mobs of racing-mad
people in Sydney than the fall of a single
jockey at Randwick.
There is no public memorial in Aus-
tralia to the brave Matthews, who in any
other country would be a national hero,
or to the Indians, Chinese, Malays and
Filipinos who gave their lives for the
A.I.F.
The one manifestation of Australian
gratitude so far seen was the gesture o
A. M. Blain, who brought the little
Chinese, Chin Pain Chang, to Australia at
his own expense and found work for
him. But after one startled glance at the
chaos which is Darwin the little Chinese
wrote: “My future is perhaps dark and
short Every day here like a madman
thinking to go home Please dear Mr.
Blain, please help me once more. Lei me
homeward go.”
Sunsay shows
"A DOLL'S HOUSE."
If morality needs emotions to become
a religion, sermons need at least wit to
become entertainment. Whether it’s a
lecture on feminism or, as Ibsen’s pre-
servers would have it, on individualism —
one is only a broader application of the
other, anyway—“A Doll’s House” (In-
dependent Theatre, North Sydney) is still
a sermon, and certainly not a witty one.
In its day, no doubt, it was a novel and
topical social drama, but social dramas
are as transient as the social conditions
they depict—if Shaw is to last it will be
by virtue of his wit and not his political
and social ideas or the characters de-
signed to deliver them.
The characters of “A Doll’s House”
being similarly designed as vehicles for
a “message” are, therefore, more like
museum pieces than human beings—they
are moved to illustrate an argument
rather than to portray the human pas-
sions which should be the force behind
any lasting drama. If the later Ibsen
had been less concerned with expounding
his feminist or individualistic creed, Nora,
the “doll wife,” who is suddenly confronted
with the fact that her husband loves his
place in society more than he loves her,
would have been the secondary character
in the play; Torvald, instead of being
a roughly-carved frame for her, would
have been the main one. A fully-rounded
portrait of his supreme egoism, his de-
flation and self-destruction would have
made a human tragicomedy much more
entertaining and enduring than a topical
social drama.
Ibsen, however, rarely created a male
character to approach his women—a com-
plaint with which he infected Shaw, whose
plays, incidentally, seem to be thickly
populated with descendants of Nora —and
Nora is at least alive. Anne Bullen, at the
Independent’s performance, made her a
noisy, gesticulating child, wholly satisfac-
tory for Ibsen’s purpose—a shade of be-
wilderment or uncertainty in the final
scenes would have added credibility to
what is an almost incredibly sudden and
complete transformation. Charles Casper-
sonn, as Torvald, had his role of pompous
egoism under complete control from start
to finish John Cameron (Krogstad)
could have added a little more force to
what was otherwise a good stretch of act-
ing as the moneylending clerk trying to
live down a bad reputation. Teresa Lin-
den, as Mrs. Linde, and David Magoffin,
as Dr. Rank, were excellent.
"Follow the Girls."
Sydney Royal’s latest gift to the stage
is a light confection of songandance and
vaudeville jokes, with Lois Green pro-
viding most of the songs, Bebe de
Roland the dancing and Don Nicol the
humor. There are fewer purple patches
than arid ones, and, although Miss Green
and Miss Roland were “specially flown
from England” for the show, the local
product in the form of Mr. Nicol is the
backbone of the business. Costumes,
from furs, orchids and stiff shirts in
the audience, to a procession of fanciful
creations on the stage, are the most ex-
travagant and novel item on the bill.
* * * ♦
Doris Fitton’s Independents have a
most interesting season lined up for the
next few months. Plays to be presented
include Schiller’s “Mary Stuart,” Piran-
dello’s “Six Characters in Search of An
Author,” Flaubert’s “Madame Bovary,”
and six others by Ben Jonson, Chekhov,
O’Neill, Hans Heijermans, the Kapeks
and Klabund. One could hardly ask for
more, except, perhaps, the inclusion of
an Australian play.
* * * *
The most notable feature of Sydney
Radio Players’ current presentation, at
Bryant’s Playhouse—“ They Walk Alone,”
by Max Catto —is the excellence of the
acting and production. A psychological
thriller of the “Night Must Fall” variety,
it has Lyndall Barbour figuring as a Cor-
nish servant who wreaks horror and
havoc on a cheery English farmhouse
and surrounding district. Miss Barbour’s
acting is a study in detail and polish and
her projection of every mood of a highly-
complex character is no mean histrionic
achievement. Therese Desmond, in a less
complicated role as the farmer’s wife,
turns in an equally good performance,
natural and convincing. The other
players—Marie Clarke, Edward Howell,
John Alden, Walter Sullivan and Donald
Bamforth—are more than competent and
between thpm all they contrive to fill the
theatre not only with the atmosphere of
the farmhouse living-room, but of every-
thing that occurs outside it.
Artbursts.
An exhibition of paintings by the
Studio of Realist Art, at David Jones’
Art Gallery, includes several C.C.C. paint-
ings by William Dobell, an interesting
documentary painting, “Barge off Forti-
fication Point,” by Walter E. Pidgeon,
and some very unrealistic paintings by
George Finey, Nan Hortin, Joseph
Bergner, Douglas Campbell and Hal
Missingham.
* * * *
Peter Bousfield’s “Vanished Europe”
exhibition of watercolor sketches at the
Margaret Jaye Gallery, Sydney, is inter-
esting only in its subject matter —a good
part of Europe is represented. The most
effective paintings are “Kufstein, Austria,”
which shows a Calvary, a road and a
promising shimmer of light; “Farmhouse,
Sassenage, near Grenoble,” a picturesque
piece ot brick with a bare tree and an
old, high brick stable, authentically
Gallic. But in neither case is the state-
ment made with the clarity of art.
* * * *
The Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has
an interesting exhibition of paintings by
Tom Roberts, Streeton, Gruner, Blamire
Young, Lambert, Rupert Bunny,
Charles Conder, J. Muir Auld, Julian
Ashton, Samuel Elyard, L. Hopkins,
P. Nerli and Conrad Martens. A
“Sketch in Oils” by Tom Roberts
is very small. Streeton’s “Sydney
Harbor,” though small in canvas,
is large in scope, with a calm blue harbor,
fragile white puffs of smoke and minute
detail of timber and buildings. Another
Streeton, “From Pozzuoli,” dated 1897,
is a fine, slight Mediterranean sketch, seen
from a height, with a long cream ribbon
of road, olive-green hills and pale build-
ings. His self-portrait, “Smike,” is mainly
of historical interest. Rupert Bunny s
“Sun Bath” has a fine spangling of light
on a vivid nude with a bright background
of hangings, walls and carpet.
At the Talkies.
“Two Sisters From Boston” (Sydney Liberty):
Light froth about an aspiring young singer
(Kathryn Grayson) who displays her limbs and
voice in a Brooklyn beer joint to earn the
wherewithal to study for the Metropolitan
Opera. Worth a visit for the final glorious
flood of song from Miss Grayson and Launtz
Melchior.
“Monsieur Beaucaire” (Sydney Prince Ed-
ward) : Bob Hope’s usual drollery—this time as
a barber from the French Court forced to
masquerade in the Spanish Court as a young
lordling and swordsman and elected husband
of the Spanish princess.
“San Antonio” (Sydney Plaza): Errol Flynn
and Alexis Smith in a technicolor western. De-
partures from the ancient pattern are some
fine scenery, plausible villains and six-guns
which run out of ammunition like normal fire-
arms. But the horses, as always, gallop and
gallop and gallop for mile after impossible
mile.
“Kitty” (Sydney State): A “Pygmalion”-like
story of London in Gainsborough’s day.
Paulette Goddard’s Cockney is passable and
Ray Milland’s Sir Hugh Marcy elegant. Cecil
Kellaway’s Gainsborough is a sound portrait,
and Reginald Owen- makes a nice job of the
aged, uxorious Duke of Malminster.
“Maisie Goes Up” (Sydney Capitol). Further
adventures of Ann Sothern as the high-
stepping blonde—this time with the inventor
of a helicopter (George Murphy) and those
who try to lift the contraption from'him. Sup;
ported by “What Next, Corporal Hargrove?
a war-time comedy which missed the war.


t h&i • • •
ch^ p ‘ oM
, OA
x I
S' »■' -
#;::IM' ,| vt||' l '1 ri ''ll2
a.
-iiof?
ffiCSQ
AX,
XL
rr
Picking a winner at the races may be
a tricky business, but when it comes
to tobacco, the answer is obvious—
Champion. Whatever your choice,
Ready Rubbed (in the 2oz. "Pouch-
pak") or Flake Cut for your pipe,
you'll vote it a really Champion
smoke.
CHAMPION
Also In Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
REDMILL RUM.
in the w.f.a. Caulfield Stakes on Saturday
Bernborough made his successive wins 15; one
better than Phar Lap; level with Carbine, and
three to go to equal Ajax; he’d then still have
to win another to catch up with Gloaming and
Desert Gold. Bernborough ran the nine fur-
longs in course record time (1.50), winning
by two lengths from Columnist, with First In
a length and a quarter away third. The am-
placed included St. Fairy, Noble Prince, Don
Pedro, Valcurl and Leonard.
There were remarkable features about the
win. One was that this was the first time in
the big bay’s winning sequence that he had
been credited with record time, though at
Randwick with the “false rail” in use, he ran
the 6 furlongs 19 yards in I.KH, so must have
chipped a fraction off the recognised record
for six furlongs (1,10). The odd distance, how-
ever, apparently isn’t recognised for records.
An even more remarkable feature about the
win was that it did nothing to stay a set
against Bernborough for the Caulfield Cup.
Nobody would suggest that the big fellow has
anything but the toughest of jobs to win the
Cup with 10.10; but the drift, even if tem-
porary, seemed none the less curious. It began
after Bernborough had to be shaken up to beat
Attley at that good miler’s pet distance. It
was said the race must have taken a lot out
of Bernborough; but he proved by running
his record that it had done nothing unless
improve him.
A heavy track could beat the big fellow;
but it can surely be taken that" his connections
wouldn’t be silly enough to run him with his
huge weight unless the track is right. Inter-
ference could beat him; but he’s such a power-
ful horse that it would have to be exceptionally
bad. The handicapper may have caught up
with him; but Bernborough is proportioned to
carry weight if ever a horse was, and in Bris-
bane he won over 11 furlongs with 10.11. A
horse to beat him could be one far enough
down in the weights to do it on sheer difference
of poundage; say, The Sirdar (7.9). The
handicapper, however, seems to have looked
after most of them as well as the topweighf;
so the Caulfield Cup picks are: Bernborough,
1; First In (8.8), 2; Flight (9.4), 3; The Sirdar,
4 (he collects a prize if he gets there).
Suffering a very rough spin, Bold Beau
failed to catch the leaders in the mile Caulfield
Guineas, Praetor winning very narrowly from
Proctor, with Tribunal third. Bold Beau was
finishing well right on their heels, and could
still win the Derby, though that looks like
being a very strongly contested event.
Royal Gem defeated Victory Lad and The
Sirdar well enough in the mile Toorak Handi-
cap to have some sort of Caulfield Cup chance;
but the distance was that which he likes best,
and he has his share of weight (9st.) in the
Cup.
The Bernborough colors went close to a
treble, Lady Ajax comfortably defeating Jalna
and Eba in the four-furlongs Debutante Stakes
(fillies), and the Le Grand Due colt Caruso
being unlucky to be beaten by the Dhoti
colt Denhoti, with Helicon third, in the division
for colts and geldings. Sir Actor downed
Carey and Orthodox in the 12-furlongs Herbert
Power Handicap.
* * * *
The perennial argument “Horses of to-day
v. those of yesteryear” usually reaches a dead-
lock when admirers of - the moderns raise a
comparison of times; After all, the object of
breeders is constant improvement and, to cite
one shining example, the recent performances
of Shannon speak volumes for the present
thoroughbred.
At his first start this season the Midstream
five-year-old won at six furlongs, recording
without much effort 1.111 —fair enough. Then
he scored over seven furlongs in 1.221, lower-
ing the Rosehill course record by no less than
Hsec. Sprint records are usually reduced by
a fraction at a time. One would not expect
really exceptional times at Rosehill, yet there
Shannon clocked only a half second worse
than the Commonwealth record, a figure which
also stands in the U.S.A. Then Shannon ran
his remarkable Epsom—failing by a half-head
after being left 50 yards at the start, where he
lost probably 2sec., and the winner’s time was
1.361.
On those efforts Shannon deserved to get
his name in the book for an Australasian
record, and he did so in the George Main
Stakes —1.341 for the mile. At that he was
being eased up before they’d passed the post,
and could, with pressure, have done a half-
second better, but the measure of his brilliance
was in the appearance of Flight, who had tried
to pace it with him. She looked fit to drop
on the spot.
Leaving Bernborough out of it, Shannon
had proved himself the best in the land at up
to’ a mile, but beyond that distance he was
an unknown quantity. The Rosehill 81 fur-
longs was as far as he had won at, and in
the A.J.C. Derby he had finished out of a
place (he was then suffering the after-effects
of having come off second-best in a stand-up
fight with Gay King at Rosehill a week earlier).
Nevertheless the handicapper awarded him the
maximum 9.5 for the King’s Cup, the public
supported him to hot favoritism, and he justi-
fied both. Flight was again his stoutest
opponent. Realising that the mare’s chance lay
in making it a thorough test of stamina,
O’Sullivan took her to the front and kept the
pace on as soon as the early leader, Quadrant,
showed signs of flagging at the mile. Shannon
moved up behind her, joined her round the
turn, and below the distance raced away to
the lead and an easy win. Flight ran out the
full distance for second money, Good Idea
making no impression on her. The time for
'this exceptionally truly run 12 furlongs was
2.29|, just the fraction worse than the course
record.
Arguments as to the relative merits of
Shannon and Bernborough are now of course
in full sway. There is a fair chance that they
may be settled, as Shannon will probably now
perforce be restricted to w.f.a. races.
Otherwise the racing at Randwick on Satur-
day was not of the standard one would expect
at a Spring meeting, and attendance was on the
light side. The two-year-old filly Kindly Light,
by Kinderscout from Mellow Light, proved
propitiously named, leading throughout to
win the Widden Stakes from Courtesy and
Santa Maria, but there her connection with
matters hymnal ended. She was actually
observed quaffing a middy of beer in her
stall before the race, and, perhaps imbued by
the spirit (or fermented), later kicked a lady-
owner.
The Canonbury Stakes for fwo-year-old colts
was won by the Nizami-Mimulus colt Deep
Sea (W. Cook), who got a flying start from
the outside at the barrier and led all the way
to down Set Purpose and Skip Court. Having
only his second start since winning the
Breeders’ Plate a year ago, Havoc showed
momentary brilliance in the seven-furlongs
Chester Handicap to lead by four lengths at
the turn, but then faded badly. The favorite,
Warspite, went on to win it from Puffham
“What are y' backin' for the Caulfield, Athol?"
(anchored by his 9.13 and conceding the win-
ner 161 b.) and Craftsman. Another by Nizami,
the grey New Zealand-bred Hiraji (E. Swm-
ton), displayed unexpected gameness in win-
ning the 10-furlongs Clibborn Stakes from
Rotten Row and Decorate. Warat'ah (A. Ward),
Rouge D’Or and Gray Monarch filled the places
in the Welter.
* * ♦ *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Novice: Prince Consort, 1; Bowturn, 2;
Birralee, 3. Two-year-old: Set Purpose, 1;
Bikini, 2; Jocular, 3. James Clarke Stakes:
Puffham, 1; Cragsman, 2; Warspite, 3. City
Tattersall’s Club Cup: Buzz Oft, 1; Kiaree,
2; Crusader, 3. Three-year-old: Persian Prince,
1; Denali,.2; Le Fusil, 3. Welter: Rouge
d’Or, 1; Laudus, 2; Gay Monarch, 3.
* * * *
Adelaide Hunt Cup has been revived at
2m. sf. for the first time since 1940, when it
was three miles, and won by John Orby,
ridden by A. M. Sanders, now a stipe. In the
revived race Mrs. Sanders’s aged black gelding
Dress Parade cleared away with another horse
and, when that one fell, came home alone,
winner by about 30 lengths.
* * * *
English racing has been suffering a dearth
of jockeys, resulting from a cause not notably
paralleled in Australia —the number of former
riders on war service. Naturally, steeplechasing
has particularly suffered; but most of the riders
are now out, and for that and other reasons
it’s expected that ’chasing in the season ahead
will be better than since before the war. One
great difference noted between the good riders
and the poor substitutes has been the latter’s
excessive use of the whip; a difference to be
noted just as commonly at Randwick,
An Adelaide “sportsman,” reputedly wealthy,
was found guilty of trying to induce the
trainer of Chief Watchman to “defraud per-
sons unknown by dishonest and corrupt prac-
tices,” in preventing the horse from winning
a given race. The police were able to produce
evidence by detectives and by the chairman
of stipendiary stewards; but the Judge, though
agreeing with the verdict, cut the penalty down
to £3OO, on medical evidence that the accused
is a cripple not suited for imprisonment.
* * * *
If they were capable of learning anything—
which might, perhaps, be doubted —the vast
numbers of s.-p. punters would be greatly re-
duced if they went more often to the races.
There they could see for themselves how many
things can happen in a race, quite apart from
such obvious deterrents to reckless punting as
a horse like Shannon being left flat-footed.
To go on to the flat at Randwick and get as
close a view as possible of a big field making
the turn is itself an education to shake the
most confident. Perhaps a good many who do
go to the races could also profit by a bit of
that sort of education, or even by using their
own eyes instead of taking the broadcasting
as complete. As it is, many thousands can be
seen at every race meeting who never watch
any part of a race and don’t seem to want to.
It would be no surprise to hear of somebody
who’s been going to the races for years and
has yet to look at a horse. Certainly it’s very
probable that thousands of regular s.-p. punters
have never seen one outside a pair of shafts.
♦ * *
Port Adelaide Racing Club, which believes*
in giving other local clubs something to live
up to, has announced for Christmas “the most
valuable programme ever arranged in S.A. for
three days.” If includes the first Port Cup
since before the war, and runs to over £16,000.
* * * *
In the first official match at Perth the
Englishmen gave the keen Westralians,
most of them ex-servicemen, some
batting practice. On the first day
310 went up for six wickets, and the
total reached 366 ; Watt (85), Herbert
(53) —this partnership hit up 118 for the
fifth wicket in an hour —Kessey (44) and
Edwards (43) got the bulk of the runs.
The visitors had 215 for five wickets on
the board at the end of the second day:
Hammond 45 and going strong. The
Westralians’ fine showing should help
to make Sheffield Shield cricket all-
Australian. If it is good enough to ask
Eastern State players to make up a Com-
bined XI in Westralia, promising players
in W.A. might well be given a trial in the
Australian XI match at Melbourne on
November 8-12.
* * * *
Gordon Harris, who used to open the
batting for S.A. with Pritchard, in the
Hone and Victor Richardson (or pre-
Bradman) period, has been appointed
S.A. inter-State selector, along with Brad-
man and Bridgman. Grimmelt has given
up his coaching job to do journalistic
work while the Englishmen are here.
James and Cheetham, ex-Sydney, are
now with the Adelaide XI, and Len
Darling is coaching Sturt.
* * * *
Bromwich and Quist (the potential
combination) failed to reveal Davis Cup
doubles form in the Strathfield Metro-
politan championships. They defeated
Jack Crawford and Lionel Brodie 6-4, 6-4,
but their game was, as a team, scratchy
and unimpressive. In the singles final
Brodie, his consistency prevailing, dis-
posed of Crawford 6-3, 6-3.
* * * *
Sandy Bay won the Tasmanian F.L.
premiership from Newtown, 12.16-5.16.
The winners were coached by former
Carlton champion Lance Collins.
* * * *
At least an indication of how well
Rugby Unionists did their bit for Britain
in the war has been seen as clubs have got
going for the current season. Finchley is
typical of the tragic cost in the best type
of young fellows; 13 of its playing
members lost their lives in the fighting.
Another typical club, Barnet, had 90 per
cent, of its members in the forces, and
consequently the club lapsed. It has been
revived, but, like Finchley and others, has
had to find a new ground as well as new
players.
* * * *
Ron Sharpe has retired from S.A.
baseball after 27 years of it. He repre-
sented his State for 26 years, and twice
played for Australia against American
teams.
* * * *
SAfrican golfer A. D. Locke became
this year’s winner of the Harry Yard on
Trophy, awarded yearly by the Profes-
sional Golfers’ Association for the best
record in the leading stroke competitions.
Locke’s score was 2634 strokes; 36
rounds (which had to include the four of
the Open Championship); average 73.16.
Rees, Ward and Cotton were next in that
order.
* * * *
Having his first fight for four months
A 1 Walker was nearly all beef and slug-
gishness when he met Tommy Ward,
quite two stone lighter, at Leichhardt.
The referee’s verdict for Ward met with
a mixed reception, but it was correct.
Ward had done most of whatever fight-
ing there was.
♦ * * *
In the process of picking easy marks
for “Tommy Burns” Murphy, Jacky
Daniels, of Melbourne, was selected. To
the astonishment of the Stadium con-
cern, Jacky gave at least as good as he
got, and most of the crowd thought he
should hfive received the verdict. Bris-
bane crowd, too.
* * * *
The ageing Jack Johnson has been
stopped again by Dave Sands, this time
in less than a round at Melbourne. He
had no guard for Sands’s punches and
landed none himself.
* * * *
Displaying unusual speed for so big a
boxer, Melbourne light - heavyweight
Jackie Marr made it a nasty night for Alf
Gallagher at Sydney Stadium. He had
already twice outpointed that pug, and
the majority of those presept not
many —were satisfied that he had made
it three ; but not so Joe Wallis, who de-
clared Gallagher the winner. It is to be
hoped Joseph is not losing his grip of
affairs.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking
out an endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“The A.C.A ”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
accounts and progress, refer to “The Bulletin” annual analyses.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States,
WHEN BELOW PAR
Try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
Even those folk who usually enjoy good health do not
always feel right up to the mark. At times they have
their bouts of perhaps Biliousness, Constipation, or
Rheumatism. When these attacks do occur, a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found helpful.
They stir the Liver, aid the Digestion, and regulate
the bowels, thus helping the system back to normal.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
Businees,Rollery,Etc.
The Responsibility
In Australia, New Zealand and the
United States particularly, everyday life is
now subject to the strain of what is
called “industrial unrest.” There are
strikes and threats of more strikes by
wage-earners, usually with the declared
object of obtaining “better conditions”
of some kind. But while the strikes are
in progress the national, pool of produc-
tion and available services shrinks in size,
so that, for the time being, there can be
no all-round improvement in wage-
earners’ conditions, since higher living
standards come out of the production
pool, and not out of financial jugglery.
Mere raising of wages does not improve
the wage-earner’s lot.
It is the wish of most industrialists
—that is, manufacturers and distributors
employing labor —to raise the living stan-
dards of their employees to the highest
possible extent in keeping with a fair dis-
tribution of the products of industry,
since manufacturers as a body depend on
the mass of consumers for their markets,
and the mass of consumers is mainly
represented by wage-earners.
By far the greater proportion of all
production passed to wage-earners each
year before the war, and, including ser-
vicemen’s pay, during the war the per-
centage became greater still. In 1944-45
wage- and salary-earners collected 62
p.c. of the national income, while farmers,
prospectors, small and large shopkeepers
and traders, doctors, lawyers, accountants,
architects, landlords, companies, holders
of shares, war loans, mortgages and the
like, as well as public authorities from their
business undertakings, split up the rest.
It will be seen that the person most
likely to benefit from increased produc-
tion in the Commonwealth is the wage-
earner. At the same time it is hard to
see how he is going to prosper without
increased production. If the productive
capacity of Australia rose in proportion
to each .citizen, the Arbitration Courts
would be the first to recognise it and
allow the wage-earner to share. On the
other hand, whilst production per man
is low, intelligent, level-headed men sit-
ting in judgment on an arbitration case
must find it extremely hard to grant con-
cessions to sections of trade-unionism,
however unruly they become. Indeed,
their unruliness is often regarded as
grounds for keeping them right out of
court.
There are factions in Australia which
desire to keep trade-unions “on the outer”
so far as the industrial law is concerned.
Heading these factions are Communists
like Thornton, Pf the Ironworkers’ Union.
Thornton has made some of his own
ideas on the matter clear enough; he
wants “collective bargaining” to take the
place of industrial arbitration, realising,
apparently, that under his proposed sys-
tem he would cut a much bigger figure
in his capacity of trade-union boss. But
it is difficult to see how the wage-earner
would get any benefit out of such a
change, especially if the infiltration and
methods of Communism, as advocated
by the likes of Thornton, Wells, Healy,
etc., dragged down the national produc-
tive capacity to the level of that in Soviet
Russia.
The Communist element, which is in
a very strategic position in the key
unions working in the coal, steel, shipping
and transport industries, adds confusion
to the wage-earner’s problem of how he
is going to better his lot —a betterment
which every right-thinking Australian
would like to see. There is no evidence
whatsoever that the Communist party in
Australia really desires an elevation of
the social and economic status, of the
working man.
Every demand by Communism made
on industry has the aim eventually of
causing a breakdown of our present
economic and social system, after which
a dictatorship of the Communist trade-
union secretary would arise. Demands
made by Communist unions, in total, are
grossly excessive, and generally are so
utterly unreasonable and impudent that
no good purpose could be rendered to
the wage-earner in the long run by em-
ployers giving in to them. Once our
present democratic system vanished and
the Communist method prevailed, it is
not to be expected that any more strike
action would be allowed to be taken by
workers against their new Commo
bosses.
It is unlikely that Communism will
ever come to Australia as a system of
Government even if wage-earners do
tolerate Commo leadership almost to the
brink of disaster. But so long as tolera-
tion is continued Communists will con-
tinue to feed like parasites upon the trade-
unions and upon industry, and to cause
industrial strife that strikes at the living
standards of all whenever the occasion
suits them.
The Communist parasites which infest,
irritate and weaken industry have no-
“If you postpone your honeymoon for about eighteen months we might
have a prospect.”
thing to offer Australians within the
democratic framework and rule of law
that we know. They are, obviously,- a
great obstruction to the achievement of
a higher wage-earners’ living standard
through evolutionary and amicable demo-
cratic methods. They are practised in
the art of propaganda and have made
a close study of mob psychology. The
sophistry and cunning being encountered
among leading Australian Corns were
well exhibited by Comrade Thornton
when he tried, in public debate, to dis-
credit the charges made against the
Soviet Administration by Maloney, former
Minister to Moscow.
Away from the Communists there are
“militant Labor” and other sections that
have a warped view of the position-of
the Australian working man and who
stand in the way of his social and eco-
nomic elevation. The Labor party has
grown to great numerical strength in
Australia —in industry and in Parlia-
ment —and-where Labor is ill-advised or
badly led it strikes at itself more than it
strikes at anyone else. Labor, in short,
at present has risen to a position of great
political power; to do for itself the good
it originally aimed to do it will have to
accept equally great responsibility. In-
stead of that, through bad advisers and
through its parasitical hangers-on, it con-
tinues to “promote the class-war.” When
will it learn that it has taken all it can
from the other fellow, and can only im-
prove its lot from now onwards by
working in a way that will bring in-
dustrial harmony and greater production
for all?
Labor unions among themselves need
to put their house in order, and they
should protect the rights of their own
minorities. Many wage inequities rest on
their own doorstep.
If we are to continue to have a system
of private enterprise as our chief means
of production—no other system has been
more efficient or more fruitful for the
wage-earner then the wage-earner,
especially if his representatives are in
political power, must not continue to re-
sent the making of reasonable, attractive
profits by the owners of businesses,
whether the owners are on their own or
a collection of shareholders.
It is out of profits that plant and
other facilities for increased produc-
tion and employment are acquired.
Most profits above the living require-
ments of business proprietors are
reinvested in businesses, promoting
more employment and production; and,
taking the long view, business owners
are little more than the custodians of
their enterprises on behalf of workers
and consumers. It is true that the busi-
ness owner runs his business in the way
he wants to ; that is the privilege as well
as the responsibility of private enterprise.
The profits of private enterprise, as a
whole, serve the people more than they
serve any individual or section. Wage-
earners are traditionally consumers
rather than investors. We must have in-
vestors to establish new industries, and
to build up new industries investors must
see prospects of profits, as well as having
previously retained profits awaiting in-
vestment. The other way to establish
and expand industries is to allow the
State to be the only profit-maker and
the only investor. And what wage-earner
in his right senses, possessing a regard
for his country, would not despair at the
thought of that ?
Militant unions are “ganging up” on
Prime Minister Chifley and demanding
the abolition of wage-pegging. Various
industries have also been served with
union demands for extra pay, the grant-
ing of which would be illegal under the
regulations introduced in February, 1942 ;
from this time property values and share
prices were also “controlled.” Wage-
pegging has been policed less strictly than
prices since 1942, and many small firms
not belonging to employers’ associations
have paid above awards in order to get
staff ; furthermore, manpower authorities
have been known to tell prospective em-
ployers that they’d get nowhere offering
merely the legal wage for iabor. The
N. S. Wales Brickmasters’ Association
complained to Federal Attorney-General
Evatt on September 23 that the
State Government Brickworks were
paying as much as 13s. a week
above award wages, with an extra
10 p.c. bonus on piecework. Although
it is claimed officially that the
basic wage has risen by about only
23 p.c. since war began, rates of factory
wages in the year to June 30, 1945, were
roughly 40 p.c. higher than in 1938-39. The
national production rate per wage-earner
has fallen since war began, which has
assisted in raising the cost of living. It
is this increase in living costs, largely
brought about by wage-earners them-
selves, that is making it difficult for some
of them to live in spite of their increased
money. If wage-pegging—such as it is—
is abandoned it will be hard for the
Government to continue to justify its
policy of price- and profits-control. If
wages rise, prices must also go up. Com-
pany earnings and dividends have' fallen
over the past six years, and a sharp rise
in wages would cut out profits and pro-
duction incentive altogether in many
cases. If living costs are behind the
unions’ demands for abolition of wage-
pegging regulations—sometimes the de-
mands are purely obstructive —they are
clearly on the wrong track; the remedy
is in unionists’ own hands. Harder,
more productive work by themselves is
the medicine.
* * * *
The directors of A.W.A. propose to pay
off in cash the bonus shares (B. 9/10/’46)
to be issued following completion of the
sale of the telecommunications assets and
goodwill to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. The deal to nationalise Empire
cable and wireless communications
in accordance with the Bermuda Agree-
ment (in which the United States was
consulted) is still the subject of wide
criticism in Britain. One reason put for-
ward for the nationalisation has been
that cable services, though becoming
superseded in some respects for peace-
time international telegraphy, are valu-
able in time of war because of their
secrecy. Each Empire country is ex-
pected first of all to nationalise its own
telecommunications assets and then to
fall in with a common plan laid down by
agreement. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has been extremely evasive where
information has been asked for at this
end.
* * # *
There is a great deal of ignorance as
to the price at which we have been
selling butter and similar commodities
to Britain during the war, some people
imagining that Australian butter is still
being landed in Britain at a price far
below that which we pay in this country.
Such ideas are preposterous delusions.
Britain is paying 1735. 6d. sterling per
cwt., f.0.b., for choicest Australian butter,
and that is 2165.' lOd. in Australian
money, or more than Is. lid. a pound
at the Australian port of shipment. If
the British people pay less than that for
butter it is simply because the U.K. Gov-
ernment is bearing a part of the increased
price in order to keep the cost of living
down.
* * * *
During the first six months of this year
Commonwealth output of bricks was at
less than half the rate established in
1938-39. So much for the contention by
Senator Ashley that homebuilding is now
going on at a greater rate than at any
time in the Commonwealth’s history. The
issue of permits is not the same thing
as the erection of dwellings.


m
nr*
T.'!'
v I
••SK
0
Hi iMm
■a
tik:
»uu#
3 {
SYONEY-LONDON
Easy to take—a skyway tour of 5! days from
Sydney Bridge to Westminster !
Relax in your comfortable chair, stretch out your
legs and enjoy the 24-hour steward service, the
varied and excellent meals ; or take a turn along
the promenade and look down on the world that
rolls away far below the mighty wing-span of
your Flying-Boat; take in a glimpse of the
colourful East during over-night stops. And for
an even quicker trip, those who take the
Lancastrian Express can make it in less than
63 hours !
Your reservation is waiting for you
now I No priority is necessary.
Book now for early departure!
Qantfa
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLIKE
la association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
BO AC
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces.
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme.
The following are taken from several
similar communications received whilst
this announcement was being prepared.
The writers have got half way or further
through the Pelman Course. Our mail
each day contains many such apprecia-
tive references from service members and
civilians alike.
12th June, 1946.
“My wife advises me that nowadays' I
appear to be more affable and in my work
I have noticed that at times •! remember
little things which other people have not been
able to recall. This is a definite help, and
I feel that I am improving in all respects
as I progress with the Course.’’
12th June, 1946.
“Since I began the Pelman Course 1 have
found a great improvement in myself gener-
ally. I have acquired the ability to make
decisions and have confidence in those deci-
sions. I have more confidence in myself and
I am more precise in the way I do things.”
24th June, 1946.
“I consider I have benefited greatly and I
intend, on the completion of this Course, and
winn lest- adverse conditions prevail, to go
completely through the Lessons a second time
and carefully look for points which I may
have missed.”
24th June, 1946.
“My aim was social, moral and financial
gain. Have easily doubled social contacts.
Morally, have made good progress. Have
improved my employment situation and am
earning more than before starting your
Course. The Course is very helpful in my
other studies, even if only because of more
agile brain.”
QUALIFICATIONS: The Quali-
fications the Pelman Institute
looks for in those seeking its help
are:
( a ) the ability to read and write
intelligently;
{b) a sincere desire for self-
improvement ; and
( c ) a willingness in the pupil to
co-operate fully with the
Institute in its effort to
develop his aptitudes and
powers quickly and per-
manently.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that
we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We
see more and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence
there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact
knowledge, remember it, and recall it as required. We learn to trust
our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then
open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and women.
The more important of these qualities are:—
Observation
Will-power
Decision
Self-Confidence*.
Organization
Judgment
Concentration
Social Ease
Initiative
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
The exercises are pleasant, and each has its special purpose. The
Pelman Course is a real training, its primary objects being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones,
to train the conscious and the sub-concious so that every faculty will,
when called upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of
anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 60,000
have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” are posted free. Inquiries are
regarded as confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind/*
NAME
ADDRESS
During 1945-46 Australia’s reserves of
gold and balances abroad improved by
£7 million, and we repaid £43 million
of overseas debt during the same period.
On the last Monday in June, 1939, total
reserves were £55.7 million in Australian
currency; in June last they totalled £215.4
million, Whilst approximately £75 mil-
lion net of Government overseas debt
was repaid in the eight-year period.
The National Bank of Australasia, in its
resumed “Monthly Summary of Aus-
tralian Conditions,” has summarised
official figures relating to the Common-
wealth balance of payments from 1938-39
to 1944-45 inclusive. This seven-year
aggregation covers an interesting
period:
RECEIPTS FROM:
Current-account Items.
Merchandise exports—civil .. £A925 m.
Recoveries from administrations
for war goods, services, etc.,
supplied 185
U.S. forces in Australia .. .. 143
Gold produced 88
Other civil goods and services (net) 66
U.K. forces in Australia .... 4
Capital Account.
Private capital movements (net) 123*
£A1534 m.
w , PAYMENTS FOR:
Merchandise imports—civil .. £A67B m.
Overseas war expenditure ~ .. 273
Interest on public borrowings .. 190
Freight and insurance . . .. 135
Other income, etc., payable over-
seas (net) 106
Government repayment of over-
seas loans (net) 31
Requisitioned cargoes 3
£A1416 m.
* Approximate only, as this figure represents
a residual balance.
The spendings by U.S. forces in Aus-
tralia, totalling £143 million up to the
end of 1944-45, were principally those of
soldiers out of their pay, and a great
deal of this money went into the black-
market. In 1941-42 the U.S. spendings
were £7 million, in 1942-43 £4O million,
in 1943-44 £63 million and in 1944-45
£33 million. In this period a Wide sec-
tion of Australians were working for —
or otherwise obtaining the Yankee
dollar. The amount of U.S. spending
in this country altogether was colossal —
equal to the proceeds of two bumper
wool clips in three years. As is shown
by the Statistician’s method of dealing
with the item, the pay of U.S. troops
was not covered by Australian reverse
lend-lease to the United States, and the
spending of their pay by U.S.. troops
brought large actual credits to the
Empire dollar pool.
* * * *
Shortages of liquor, cigarettes, petrol,
tyres, cars, clothing, butter, etc., have
been the principal reasons for the growth
of the blackmarket in Australia. As in
the days of prohibition in the United
States, blackmarketing has brought into
being a new criminal element, the black-
marketeer being in a similar category
to the bootlegger. The car thief and
the dodger from military service and
those helping him to dodge it have often
linked up with the same part of the
underworld in Australia during the war.
Gradually avenues for blackmarketing
are closing up —in petrol and tyres
especially—and crooks are finding it
harder to earn a dishonest living in their
old fashion. They are now very often
indulging in more violent crimes, and
it is surprising to read of young gunmen
who were of military age during the war
who have no record of war service. The
cancer of the blackmarket will have to
be summed up by Authority and the
people for what it really is—a hotbed of
crime, especially in States like N. S.
Wales, where the death penalty is not
imposed even for the most wanton and
stupid taking of life. Young killers
and potential killers seem to think
they are cutting quite a dash across the
newspaper pages these days of distorted
values.
* * * *
Although Australian wine production
for 1945 was the lowest for many years—
the total was just over 13,000,000 gallons,
of which 10,573,000 gallons was the pro-
duce of South Australia—the estimate
for 1946 suggests possibilities of a record
vintage. Nearly 20,000,000 gallons is ex-
pected from S.A. alone, with 25,000,000
gallons from the entire Commonwealth.
Chief reason for current high pro-
duction is that grapes of the dtied-
fruit variety were damaged by rain
nt vintage time and were diverted
to the wine presses. As a consequence
dried-fruit production this season is again
abnormally low. The total pack of dried
vine fruits for 1946 is estimated at
72,600 tons, compared with 104,261 tons
in 1944. There is a great demand in
Britain both for our dried fruits and our
wine.
Consumption of wine in Australia rose
sharply during the war, and it would
have risen more still if supplies had been
readily available. Even now the demand,
especially for sherry types, far exceeds
the supply. The industry is hopeful that
the taste for wine cultivated in a period
when all liquors were scarce will persist
in the future, especially so far as light
wines are concerned; it is essential that
table wines be drunk in full proportion
to fortified wines to make production
economic. The record output of wine in
the Commonwealth during 1945-46 is a
happy circumstance, coinciding as it does
with a high Australian and overseas de-
mand. Only a proportion of the wine
will be available over the next 12 months,
but it is a fact that Australian vintages
mature quickly.
* * * *
Lead, zinc, tin and copper are dearer
in overseas markets than in Aus-
tralia, and in the case of lead and zinc
this position has prevailed all during the
war. These two metals are now more
than twice as high in London as in the
Commonwealth, and the mining of them
is not subject to the taxation concessions
allowed in the production of most other
minerals. The Australian price of all the
metals mentioned herein is being kept
down now without any promise by Can-
berra that price-stabilisation will be
offered to the mining industry in periods
when world prices of metals slump.
Without a doubt Australia is getting its
metals at bargain prices at the present
time. The same thing, of course, applies
to wheat.
* * # *
Associated Pulp and Paper, the Burnie
(Tas.) fine-printing paper concern, is in-
creasing the productive capacity of its
plant, and shareholders are likely to be
asked for more capital. The co, has found
a ready market for all its output during
the war years, and even now users are
supplied only on a quota basis. Prices
of the product have been controlled —the
co. has not been allowed to cash-in on
the war-time shortage of paper—and the
div. has never risen to above 6 p.c. on
the £1,600,000 of ord, capital since
operations commenced. The co. makes
its paper out of hardwood pulp, plus
some imported pine pulp. Timber that
cannot be used either for paper-making
or for building purposes will be con-
verted into hard-pressed fibre-board,
which is greatly in demand for helping
along the housing programme. This new
activity will fit in well with other opera-
tions. The co.’s £1 shares are now sought
after at 365, each.


ABORINGINALITIES
“Bo”: Ben, the wood-and-water joey,
had been limping around all day. After
tea Tom, one of the shearers, came out
of the men’s hut as Ben, his right boot
and sock off, was cutting a hole in his
fioot upper with a penknife. “What’s the
big idea, Ben?” asked Tom. “You only
bought those boots yesterday, didn’t y’?”
“That’s right,” replied the old bloke.
“But, y’ see, this here corn o’ mine’s bin
givin’ me gyp all day rubbin’ against the
stiff new leather. This’ll fix it.” “But
why don’t y’ cut y 4 r com out instead o’
muckin’ up a good pair o’ trilbies?”
wondered Tom. Old Ben looked at the
barber pityingly. “Listen, son,” he said,
“Ain’t y’ heard o’ the word gratitood?
This corn savefl me life once. It’s like
this. I’m strikin’ across to the Kimber-
leys from the Centre. The boong who’s
with me missed a soak an’ we did a perish
for a coupla days. We’re jist about dried
out an’ ready to chuck in the sponge when
wt comes to a stream, an’ there’s a deep
’ole in it an’ y’ can see the fish in it —
big ones, too. X got a short length o’ cotd
an’ a few ’ooks I always keep for emer-
gency in me hatband, but I got nothin’ to
use as bait. The boong sees me fingerin'
me knife an’ screwin’ at his big toe, so
he does a boh. Then I remcnbers the
corn on me little toe. I sliced some oif,
puts it on the ’dok an’ lands a big yaller-
belly, which I cuts up f’r ba t an’ lands
a dozen more an’ saves me life. ’Ow
could y’ expect a man to hoist ’is poor
tlanky corn out after that?”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Unable any longer to
tolerate the row a mob of Kellys were
making in a near-by tuart, Harry picked
up a kero.-tin and the poker, strode to
the door and gave the tin a single hard
smack. Instantly every crow was in flight.
“Thought it was a shot, eh?” I said.
Harry grinned. “An old trick. But just
wait; in a minute or so you’ll see a scout
come back to see if anyone was really
shot.” Sure enough a few minutes later a
solitary black gent came winging bach 1 ,
circled slowly round, then with a con-
temptuous “Quark” flew off with the good
tidings that the poor human trash was
a crook shot.
* * * *
“8.A.”: Prospecting a bit of country
near the head of the Howqua River
(Vic.), I came on a curious rock forma-
tion showing in the face of a deep wash-
out. A soft sandstone, it was divided
into vertical sections about lin. in dia-
meter and shaped like columnar basalt.
On breaking out several sft. lengths of
the stone I found that each length could
be bent to about the same curvature as
a strung bow without breaking.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Tallangatta (Vic.), the town
which will have to save itself from drown-
ing when the Hume Weir is raised, has
lately developed a lively sense of the
potentialities of furthermost n.-e. Vic-
toria as a stamping ground for tourists.
And rightly so. This large tract is chock-
full with mountain scenery that chal-
lenges comparison with any; the rugged
heights piling up from the hamlet sleeping
at their feet to the alpine rooftop of the
State. Buffalo, Bogong and the Omeo
and Upper Murray districts are all with-
in range of one- and two-day jaunts by
parlor car. Trout maniacs will find sport
equal to any on the mainland, for the
streams are numerous and keep on yield-
ing well even after the most gluttonous
punishment. Summer nights are cool and
mossies are few, twin attractions to
campers pitching their tents or parking
caravans on the willow banks of rivers or
creeks in idyllic valley surroundings.
There’s expected to be a severe strain on
hotel and guesthouse accommodation
this summer.
* * * *
“Atlanta”: On any big cattle holding
you’ll strike the beast which through
careless handling or an inherent cunning
has gained a reputation for roguishness,
but an old Territory stockman assures
me of the effectiveness of his own
methods. Taking delivery of fats from
Monkira station, on the Diamantina
(w. Queensland) —then carrying 27,000
head of Kidman’s cattle —he was told by
the manager that the mob included seven
five-year-old bullocks which on several
occasions had broken away from drovers
and returned to the station. They were
worth £25 to the man who landed them
at Charleville. Two days out from the
station the mob had settled down, but
the rogues persisted in their attempts to
break away. On camp that night their
taming began. Horsemen singled them
out, and with a deft, running jerk of the
tail, tossed them and hobbled their hind
legs. Three days further on the straps
“ Gripes, here comes another Jonah!”
were unbuckled, but those dogies were
“mute as milkers” as they drifted along
with the rest.
* * * *
“Zake”: I record a strange sight—a
bushman who, when his dog picked up a
bait, didn’t give the afflicted hound a
gobful of, salt and swing it around by
the tail in time-honored fashion. This
fellow gave it instead a potion of boiled
mistletoe leaves which he always kept.
An hour later the dog was little the
worse for its mishap. Its owner explained
that long observation had proved to him
that birds which had picked up poisoned
wheat invariably made for a tree on
which mistletoe grew and survived by
eating leaves or the berries of the para-
site,
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: In casual conversation
with a Royal Navy man I was stumped
when he remarked: “I notice that your
Workmen don’t wear ‘whirlies.’ ” I con-
fessed my ignorance—and learnt that the
English “whirlie” is synonymous with
the Aussie “bowyang.” But the visitor’s
observation started me thinking. The
passing has been so gradual that it wasn’t
noticeable, but it is extremely rare to
see a toiler sporting bowyangs these days.
Yet at one time the accessories were as
essential to the well-dressed son of yacka
as his pants. In my innocent youth I
was once naive enough to ask a navvy
“What are those things round your pants
for?” His facetious reply left me won-
dering for days how they kept the dust
out of his eyes. Later I heard many
reasons justifying their use. One was
that they kept the bottoms of the trousers
from dragging in the mud, tar, mortar or
whatever was being shovelled. Another
was that the thong caused a fold
of the pants to fall loosely over the
shin, thus serving as a protection against
flying pieces when the wearer was
“napping” stone, or working with a
fettler’s pick on small ballast. The most
novel reason for their continued use was
advanced by "a veteran who, on
hearing that I’d lost my week’s wages (as
billyboy), callously informed me: “Serves
yer right. You young ’uns are too flash
to wear bowyangs ; and what ’appens?
Yer get a ’ole in yer pocket and bang
goes yer money. I’ve got a ’ole in me
pocket, but” (he pulled the bow of his
right bowyang, and like a conjuror pro-
duced his money purse from inside his
trouser leg) “there,” was his triumphant
exclamation, “as safe as the Bank of Eng-
land ! ”
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: A student of the great
Australian slanguage, I’ve got one com-
ing up for “Bo.” In his par. (B.
25/9/’46) doubts arise as to which of two
daughters young Tom is “holding his hat
up to.” The correct usage is “hanging,”
not “holding.” When Dad Wiregrass
spotted a dilapidated felt hanging on a
nail on the back verandah long enough
for it to become familiar he decided that
the hope of the Hayseeds had his “hat
hung up” while inside wooing one of the
daughters. “Holding” may possibly be
a later corruption, though I doubt it.
* * * *
“Blime”: The unfenced track to one
of the back paddocks lies through the
property of a neighbor, and down the
years my old sheepdog has grown expert
at shepherding the jumbucks through.
After working them inside the first gate,
he dashes ahead, collects any of the
neighbors’ sheep near the track, and after
driving them to a safe distance returns
for his own mob. Approaching each
corner or rise he repeats the performance,
never letting up on his alert watchfulness
till the woollies are safely out the farther
side. Eight years without any boxing,
and I was prepared to bet my only shirt
on the old Border. Then the other day,
after taking the jummies through, I
turned to-find him holding one lone ewe
against the gate I had just closed after the
mob. “Gripes, what’ve you got?” I
bawled at him, going back, “That’s not
our sheep, is it? Or, er, . . . is it?” Nig
looked concernedly up the slope to where
a bunch of the neighbor’s sheep fed
busily, squinted worriedly through at his
own mob, then crept in close to investi-
gate. I leaned over, the gate. The old
ewe was unbranded.
* * * •
“Hanko”: I’ve neither heard nor read
of bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis ) being
a nuisance in this country ; in fact, in the
croplands and grazing areas, where this
pretty pink-flowering creeper festoons
the fences and spills over otherwise un-
sightly stone-heaps, it is regarded as
ornamental. Yet I read that bindweed
is America’s No. 1 pest, but because the
article failed to state just what the weed
injured in Yankland I’m left in the air
somewhat. Can it be that the stuff
throttles singing cowboys?
* * * *
“Betcha”: It was 10 years since I’d
visited The Gap country, and riding
along I grinned as I remembered the old
bloke that had been standing up jum-
bucks hereabouts. “Spend me life pickin’
up woollies,” he had growled, as I drew
opposite. “Too flamin’ weak t’ stand up.
No, it ain’t the season erzactly—it’s this
belt o’ starvation country. Won’t feed a
grasshopper.” I recalled the scant tufts
of coarse feed, and was contrasting it
with the thick mat of clover now decora-
ting the flats as I breasted the low rise.
Presently I let out a gasp and dropped
my fag. Yes, hang me if it wasn’t the
same old figure lifting up jummies in that
same paddock. He hoisted one right side
up and made towards the road where an-
other fat, well-fed specimen lay on its
back, four feet pointing heavenward.
“Spend me life pickin’ up woollies, ’
growled the familiar voice as I came close.
“Too flamin’ heavy t’ git up. No, it ain’t
the season erzactly,” he went on, “it’s
this belt of improved pasture. They do
so well on these flats now that ev’ry year,
cornin’ on shearin’ an’ carryin’ a heavy
fleece, when they lie down their wool
spreads, an’ the bloomin’ nuisances can t
git up again without a shove.”
* * * *
“Hist”: “It’s a small world, all right,”
quoth Long Paddock Ned, “I’m just back
from delivering a mob o’ wethers 200
miles west o’ here, to a bit of a place
called Koollabie, where I ain’t bin before.
Well, I hands over the woollies late in
the evening and I’m camping just outside
the town by a bit of a dry creek. Pre-
sently a bloke comes riding along with
three or four dogs and stops for a bit of
a yarn and what do you know!”
“An old school cobber you hadn’t seen
for 30 years, I suppose,” I said with weary
resignation. “No,” said Ned excitedly,
“but it turns out his red kelpie dog and
my Sandy’s both out o’ that bitch o’
Henderson’s, up Chalky Bridge way!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We blew into a mid-
west N.S.W. town, broke and hungry,
and found the place one of the tightest
we’d ever struck. At last, knocked back
for jobs or hand-outs and with a 60-
mile lead through uninhabited country
ahead of us, Mat said “Well, we never
did it before, but there’s always got t’
be a first time, Here’s for the police an’
pop it on ’em for some track rations.”
At the station we saw an officer in a
chair with his back to us, and Mat said
“How’s it, mate? This where we get
rations?” The figure turned slowly and
a heavy, official face regarded us coldly.
Then, displaying a blue sleeve with a
sergeant’s chevrons on it and tapping
them significantly, he said pompously
“I’m a sergeant, see. You loafers have
got t’ learn t’ conduct yourselves
properly. *That’s not the way t’ speak to
a sergeant.” Mat leaned against the
door, “Sorry, sergeant,” he said mock-
ingly, “we thought be the look of you
you was the ruddy blacktracker.” Ten
minutes later, sans rations, we were head-
ing out of that town, the sergeant’s warn-
ing to be gone in 15 minutes or be
“vagged” ringing in our ears.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A small stony
creek runs through my property at the
foot of the Darling Ranges (W.A.). It
spells life to the myriads of fresh-water
life that inhabit it and assist it to bite
deeper into the hillside and carry the
loosened soil to the river. Above me, on
the hill, an old well-sinker is driving his
shaft through white clay, beyond which
he confidently expects to strike good
water. That white clay was once granite,
and was reduced to its present composi-
tion by the action of soil acids. Along
the valley below me an orchardist is
ploughing the rich red loam between his
trees. That loam was once diorite. It’s
all rather complicated, and it’s rather
difficult to assign a reason for the trouble
Nature is going to to reduce all earth
to a common level, but the almost-
inevitable result can be visualised. When
the hills have all been wind-blown and
water-carried to the level of the sea land
life will be forced to reverse its original
process and return to the sea, where it
may be unaffected by the monotony of
winds, which will remain constant in the
absence of any low- or high-pressure
areas and water-laden with no ranges to
drive them into the colder altitudes. A
dreary prospect and a far one, but ap-
parently the inescapable end of Nature’s
unceasing efforts to smooth off a globe
which, size for size, is already smoother
than a billiard ball.
♦ * * ♦
“Oxmead”: Plenty of people who,
like myself, were on the Westralian gold-
fields in the early days will recall a story
that, somewhere away to the east, was a
tribe of abos with more than the usual
allowance of fingers and toes. It w’as
generally dismissed as a fantastic figment,
to be classed with the wild extravagances
of De Rougemont, the most famous liar
of thq period. But Mrs. Daisy Bates,
who has had a closer acquaintance with
the natives than any other person in
Australia, seems to think that there was
something in it. In her book The Passing
of the Aborigines, she writes:
Between Eucla and Eyre a group of six-
fingered and six-toed natives existed. They
had been seen by Helms as late as the
’sixties, and though they were extinct in
my time I learned both from the natives
at Eucla and from Mr. Chichester Beadon
that they had come from the Petermann
Ranges and had intermarried with the five-
fingered groups. The six-fingered men were
believed to transmit their peculiarity to
their offspring.
It would be interesting to know some-
thing more about Helms, who he was
and whether he left any written record
of his discovery, and of Chichester
Beadon. There is no other mention of
either in the book.
WOOL LORRIES.
Across the bare New England plains,
From woolsheds far out west,
By Riverina’s leafy lanes
They thunder without rest.
The mallee scrub is rusty brown
Where dust clouds trail the loads
As wool goes down to Sydney Town
Along the country roads.
The red-tipped wool from Wyalong,
Tire fine fleece in the bales
From Queanbeyan to Binalong
Is rushing to the sales.
It’s light and dry from Narrabn
And burry from the Bland,
But there’ll be plenty pleased to buy
Whate’er the breed or brand.
Old men about Temora say
Before the line came through
A yearly wool trip Wagga way
The station teams would do.
For weeks they’d plough the rutted track
From run to river side,
And every ridge rang to the crack
Of whips of plaited hide.
By waterholes the days were timed,
The teams fed through the night
While hobblechains and cowbells chimed
Beyond the campfire’s light;
And on the hills where wagons weaved
Through holes that hid the spokes,
And gravel-scratching bullocks heaved
Bellowing in their yokes,
The carter changes gear today
And roars up to the crest;
The power of ten teams must obey
A pedal lightly pressed.
Tonight his lights will drill the murk
Along the mountain road,
And Sydney, scurrying to work,
Will mark his dusty load.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSIER.


“Bull-ant Bill”: Polling day had one
useful bit of work to its credit in our
particular electoral district —at least to
Old Joe’s way of thinking. As we drove
home from the township, our nearest
polling place, I remarked on the nuisance
of having to waste time and petrol on what
the papers hailed as a foregone conclusion,
and with the pubs closed at that, “No,”
said Joe, “I don’t ’old with yer, Bill, over
that. Pollin’ days ’as their uses, gettin’
the blokes tergether. Look at terday.
Bill Gorman was tellin’ me ’ow it was
only last week that the School uv Arts
Kermittee found out that a couple uv out-
’ouses wasn’t on their land at all. Ten
foot acrost their bound’ry they was, on
that there vacant allotment uv old
‘Grinder’ ’Arris’s. ’E’d uv pinched ’em
quick and lively if ’e’d dropped to it an’
they’d uv ’ad ter build noo ’uns. Bill’s
the chairman, so ’e words some uv the
blokes when, they was in votin’ terday,
an’ they makes up a workin’ party an
gets ’em shifted in a couple uv hours.
Mighter bin there fer munce if it ’adn’t
bin fer pollin’ day gettin’ the right blokes
inter town all tergether.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When word passed
around that Long Harry and The Whited
Sepulchre—the latter had once attended
a church service while inebriated and,
upon being asked about it afterwards,
could only remember that according to
the parson we were a lot of whited
sepulchres—were lost somewhere in the
scrub north of Euston station, there was
a gathering of horsemen and motor cars,
and presently a spreading fan of searchers
was opening out. It so happened that at
that time Prill, Tammit and Euston had
a jackeroo each, and it was inevitable
that they should be together. Old Harry,
by tacit consent the boss of the search,
gave shotguns to various searchers and
ordered them to fire into the air now and
then so that the lost might hear. Three
quick shots would announce their dis-
covery. The search began in the morning,
and it was late that afternoon when
Little Curl, mounted, led the missing
into the camp, himself obviously full of
indignation. “Stupid cows,” he declared.
“Found ’em hiding in that patch of hop-
bush an’ stuff near the Tolpra corner.
Wanted t’ wait there till night. Man
ought t’ be kicked wastin’ his time
lookin’ for such” Long Harry in-
terrupted. “Gripes,” he said. “Me an’
the old Sepulchre was slewed, all right.
Doin’ a perish, too. Then we hear
shootin’ an’ see them jackeroo blokes
ridin’ through the scrub firin’ guns.
Gawsh! Y’ wouldn’t want a man t’
show himself while them gun cranks was
about, would y’!” And knowing some-
thing of jackeroos and their ways, we
agreed. We sent Harry and his mate
home and then settled down to wait, be-
cause we knew that presently, when their
ammunition was shot away, we’d have to
go and find the jackeroos.
* * * t *
“Horseless Horseman”; Victoria’s
quaintest mail service is carried by fish-
ing-boat from Mallacoota Inlet to Gabo
once a fortnight, weather and other cir-
cumstances permitting. Even when the
surf on the shallow, shifting entrance
allows a departure of the mail the time
of sailing is then regulated by high
water —and the number of people the
contractors, Messrs. Hughie Brady and
Albert Greer, converse with on the walk
to the jetty. But there are no better
blokes anywhere and no two more con-
versant with Mallacoota’s treacherous
entrance. Albert has been on the run for
15 years, and even on the calmish day we
recently put out across the bar with him
in his staunch 26-footer he kicks off his
boots through force of habit. Besides
mails, stores and building timber, we
carry as passengers a linesman, two car-
penters and a lighthouse - keeper’s
daughter with two children. Once under
way the trip is short. A little more than
an hour’s steaming and we enter
granite-bound Santa Barbara. Cove,
where on the little wharf the island’s en-
tire population, three light-keepers and
two women, await our arrival —the first
“That next batch of bricks done yet?"
mail for three weeks. As we tie up the
head keeper holds up two bags of mail
and says “Now give me your two bags
of mail and I’ll give you these. Then you
won’t take the same two bags back —like
you did last time!” After a yarn the
“two-bag mail-boat” heads homeward to
’Coota.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Long Tom, pensioner and
odd-job man, had a cot and living
quarters in the disused chaffshed, which
was overrun with rats. But Tom could
never be persuaded to do away with the
pests, declaring that they did him no
harm and fell in with his ways so agree-
ably that he found them good company.
I foresaw a cocky’s blitz on the rats
v/hen Tom passed on, but Raddle had
other ideas. “I’m waitin’ till I git one o’
them traps wot catches ’em alive,” he
told me. “Gripes, a man must make his
forchune in a circus with a team of rats
wot c’n chew terbaccer, spit an’ cough in
the same wheezy notes old Tom used.”
* * * *
“Phoongyee” (Johannesburg): “Nor’-
west” (B. 17/7/’46) refers to the baobab-
tree of the Kimberieys. In South Africa,
the Rhodesias and more especially Central
Africa the baobab is mostly referred to
as the cream-of-tartar-tree, as the seeds
are used for making this acid salt usually
deposited from wine. During the East
African campaign. First World War, the
Germans frequently hollowed out the
trunk 12 or so feet from the ground
“Well, they're heads, aren't they?"
and, where the branches shoot out, made
spy-holes and placed an outlook therein.
Frequently during an advance shots came
out of “the blue,” yet there seemed no
enemy in front. It was found that some
enterprising Askari, carried away with
enthusiasm, had loosed off a few rounds.
Whereupon half a dozen men would give
the fork of this prehistoric tree three
rounds rapid and never failed to get the
sniper in his lair. It is sometimes claimed
that, given sufficient time, this tree could
be cut down with a penknife. Anyway,
troops were forbidden to take cover be-
hind a baobab because it was established
that a bullet would penetrate it. Re-
inforcements to my regiment were taken
out to see a moderate-sized baobab
literally felled by a stream of traversing
m.-g. bullets fired from some 100yds.
away. That taught them to avoid
baobabs as cover, despite their huge girth.
♦ * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: Beachcombing whites
generally prefer their turtle steak fried
or stewed; also they are particular in
their choice of shellback, preferring the
greenback. Binghi, however, is im-
partial ; hawksbill or loggerhead, it is all
the same to him. In fact, he rather pre-
fers the loggerhead on account of its
size, although whites seldom touch it.
Whatever the species, he appreciates that
nature has provided him with both the
meat and the cooking vessel in one;
also, as the female is the only turtle that
comes ashore, a few score unlaid eggs
can be depended upon to supplement the
roast. The juiciest cuts are reserved, of
course, for the bucks; scraping of what
is left clinging to the big shell is the
perquisite of the gins and piccaninnies.
* * * *
“Notaden”; With admirable punctu-
ality the dollar birds have reoccupied
their summer quarters in the tall dead
grey gum whose gaunt limbs reach up
within some 50 yards from this S.Q.
cliff edge. In eight years of observation
they have never arrived before Michael-
mas Day or later than October 3 from
their winter haunts at least 1200 miles
northward, maybe even from Java or
the Philippines. Handsome folk they
are, with broad red bills and dark-blue
wings each bearing the round silvery
“dollar” patch which flashes as they per-
form in turn the strange aerobatic antics
which have gained for them their other
name of Rollers. Soon they will reline
the nesting place in the hollow of a lofty
limb, and thereafter Heaven help any in-
truder upon their chosen territory. Last
year I saw them curse, buffet and peck
a 4ft. goanna until it abandoned its
attempted ascent to the nest and fled
down the tree. By January they will be
instructing their two youngsters in the
elements of air-capering and insect-
catching, and towards the end of Feb-
ruary the family will depart on the first
stage of their long northward journey.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: My experience of the #
salmon gum of the W.A. goldfields (B.
18/9/' 46) is that it is burnable in much
less time than a few months. In the
days when the fireboxes of the Golden
Mile mines depended wholly on local
fuel the fact that salmon gum was fit to
go under the boilers immediately it was
felled meant an enormous saving in
handling and labor costs. Most other
hardwoods on the goldfields of other
States had to be stacked to dry for a
twelvemonth or so before becoming
economically burnable. Another curious
fact is that salmon-gum ash probably
contains a larger amount of potash than
any other Australian timber.
* * *
“Goldie”: Reef men develop an easy
familiarity with the use of explosives,
and a too-casual attitude in clinch-
ing the detonator occasionally results in
a missing finger or two. I’d hate to see
the results of an accident to one of those
foolhardy coves who nip the soft metal
cylinder on with their teeth. Nitro-
glycerine is fairly stable till submitted
to the forceful kick of a detonator, and
it usually survives a blow from a pick in
loose mullock or being run over by a
heavy truck on iron rails. A youthful
employee on a mine some years ago was
taking a dray with 3001 b. of gelignite on
board down a steep cutting when a wheel
collapsed and put the lot over a rocky
incline. He scrambled clear and rescued
one case from under the thrashing hooves
of the horse; the rest was strewn safely
all the way down.
* * * *
“Lub”: “Y’ never want t’ try bein’
smarter than the boss,” said “Thirsty”
Jimmy. “I was workin’ f’r a couple
who ran a chook farm, an’ the old man
kept a pair of racin’ greyhounds as a
sideline. We ’ad a bit o’ bad luck f’r
a stretch with a plague of crows pinchin’
the googs. Musta bin real cunnin’, for
they could sneak in an’ lift the henfruit
almost from under our eyes an’ us not
even catchin’ a sight or sound of ’em.
The old girl was pretty worried about
it, so one night I got t’ work on me
own an’ dosed up a nest of eggs with,
strychnine. Things were lookin’ pretty
black f’r a time, ’specially with the old
man havin’ the hard luck of both his
coursin’ dawgs dyin’ on him that week.
But the baits went an’ I must’ve got the
Kellys, f’r the layers filled the boxes
ev’ry day after that. When I told the
boss about me brainy move he gave me
a funny look an’ invited me t’ git orf
the place before he c’d load the shotgun,
Jist goes t’ show how narked he was that
he hadn’t nutted out the idea first his-
self.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Ben’s nag labored up the
slope to the brush fence, where he stood
blowing heavily while Ben slid off and
released the pack. Shouldering one of
the bags, Ben continued up the spur on
foot until he reached a large new salt-
trough on the ridge. Ten minutes later
he was staggering under the second bag.
“That stock bloke was right about the
jummies in the bush paddick wantin’ salt,”
he remarked to Bert that evening.
“Reckon they wouldn’t eat it ’Jess they
needed it, an’ they mop it up as fast as
it’s put out. Keeps me dog-poor humpin’
the stuff.” “D’ they all come down an’
get a fair whack at that one trough?”
asked Bert. “Dunno,” frowned Ben.
“Come t’ think of it, I ain’t seen ’em.
Must get it ’bout daylight. I’ll slip up in
the mornin’ an’ see if I c’n get a rough
count.” Shortly after daylight the nag
once more made the slope to the brush
fence, and taking advantage of the scrub
patches Ben crept within comfortable
distance of the trough. Followed five
solid minutes of subdued but heartfelt
profanity; then he began to count.
“F-fifty-five,” he muttered. “Fifty-five
perishin’ big ’roos all saltin’ their greedy
hides like veterans, an’ not a flamin’
jummie in miles.”
♦ * * *
“Aperist”: Prior to undertaking a
boundary rider on a bee farm I suffered
quite a bit from “the screws,” especially
in the feet. Now regarded definitely as
an old pot, I can perform gymnastics
with impunity. The fact that a person
stung for the first time generally suffers
severely, whereas the bee-keeper, stung
quite often, becomes immune from all ill
effects, demonstrates that certain anti-
toxins build up in his bloodstream.
Whether it is these anti-toxins that
eliminate the uric acid, or whether it is
the bee venom that does the trick, is
possibly the point that needs defining.
THE OLD COWBOY.
Would you take me out for a walk, boy,
where the radio station stands?
For in days of yore I was well to the fore with
the yodelling cowboy bands.
I was “Two Gun Pete” with a little crowd that
was ruled by “Death’s Head Rupe,”
But a falsetto note in the top of the throat
has given me crooner’s croup.
I admit that if left on the “prairie” for even a
single night,
Myself and Rupe and the rest of the troupe
would have looked for a switch for the
light,
But the listeners lapped it up, lad, and they
kept on asking for more;
So our salaries grew, and our fan-mail too,
with gifts by the dozen and score.
I had saddles and whips and revolvers for my
frequent unbloody affrays,
With stirrups and spurs and occasional curs
and oodles of newspaper praise.
All rootin’ and tootin’ but —shootin’, you may
as well realise, son,
We didn’t know how they got milk from a
cow, much less handle a rope or a gun.
So I ask you to take me around, son, where
the wires and the a/rials are.
Let me think of the days of that yodelling
craze, with a banjo or uke or guitar.
It’s far too late to alter my fate, yet I feel a
twinge of remorse:
It’s not for the songs I sang, me lad, but I wish
I had seen a horse.
QUEENSLAND.
A.B. LUCY.


THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
The Only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
• Excellent climate.
• Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
• Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
• Matrons are trained Sisters.
• Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
Entrance Scholarships.
Four Entrance Scholarships, valued at
£5O per annum (to become £6O when the
boy reaches the age of 14), are available
for 1947. These are tenable for five years.
Entry forms and scholarship conditions
may be obtained from the Headmaster.
Candidates may sit at approved centres.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Se., Headmaster.
R.M.L. & F. leads!
It leads in its standards of appraisal, grading, lotting and
auctioneering—and, as a result, it leads in the securing of
the maximum price per lb. for every item offered.
The Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
leads also in the complete service it provides its clients—
service such as only a company with its wide facilities
can provide.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
_A3J2.IL
list"
II your
dog's coat
is dull.,
loose or
ragged—
if he is
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive,
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
dfg
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always witn
Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION S/8
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO lodine
BARKO
Do you need
6rsonal
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
[Loan?
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN;
• LOAN
inch disc.
• Weekly
instalment
• Fortnightly
instalment
• Four-weekly
instalment
£lO
£5O
£lOO
3 11
19 3
£1 18 6
7 9
£1 18 6
£3 17 0
15 5
£3 17 0
£7 13 11
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department. 4th Floor.
Qural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
LI
SMMm
w *A ■ vv
jam
'S9
fl/7
W£
>v
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray irrigatio ll
system is extremely adaptable and eachinsta
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs. Cost per acre is ve .
attractive, and some purchasers have reported
recovering their full outlay m one season.
"MAXIMUM" COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS
This enables continuous spraying and cha “| in ® tbe patented
rsx sst sr&sss?z s ras-tjs
df
direction and watery 164 . 166 Clarence Street, Sydney M 2977
WAimH & jSpHSON™. Ltd. 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane. JUS6.
WAU 2?JLi° * PO Ltd. 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M7l2 '; fX4889
WELLING & OROSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 148-149 Clarendon Steeet, South ST BEBT,
MANUFAC. MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO., SYDNEY.
TUBERS ;
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Classing.
‘J.R.D.”: “R. Ney” (B. 18/9/’46) ap-
parently presumes that the classer, at the
beginning of shearing, knows exactly the
types of wool each flock is going to cut.
In my experience even the owners can’t
give a reliable estimate, and those who
try are seldom accurate. It’s hard to get
reliable information about -the number
of sheep in any flock until the last one
is in the shed.
The classer’s job, in a nutshell, is to
get for his employer the best possible
return for his clip. Undoubtedly this
means getting every bale possible into
the big lots, but, under auction selling,
he will have failed in his purpose if,
through following “R.N.’s” suggestions,
the proportion of A is greater than
AAA. Both brokers and buyers will re-
mind him forcibly of that.
An experienced classer working on
orthodox lines may find two or more
flocks in a clip whose wool, or certain
lines of whose wool, are of similar type.
He will give this information to the
broker in his report, and if, on opening
up the bales, the broker is satisfied that
they match he will lot them together. He
may even lot the AA of one flock with
the AAA of another—practically every
catalogue reveals such instances.
To carry out “R.N.’s” idea of sticking
to the same AAA standard throughout a
clip would in most cases demand the
provision of more bins and woolroom
than the best-equipped shed can boast,
and, in principle, would be more akin to
sorting than to classing. The smaller the
clip the greater would be the difficulties,
as on account of little or no culling and
the use of nondescript rams the average
farmer’s flock of 500 sheep contains
more types than a well-managed flock of
50,000.
Fodder Farms.
“K.Mc.”: On a conservative estimate
25 p.c. of sheep in north-west N.S.W.
died this year through drought and
bogging in the black mud after the Sep-
tember rains. Lambs marked were either
nil or only a fraction of normal.
Ten million pounds would not cover
drought losses in that area.
Out of the last three fodder crops
sown in a comparatively safe district of
N.S.W. I have reaped only one harvest —
it would have been cheaper to have
bought wheat or corn and stored it.
Cropgrowing in such places as Bourke
and Brewarrina is too precarious under
present conditions. Ten millions spent on
water conservation and irrigation would
make this part of the State independent
of fodder supplies from elsewhere.
Fodder conservation can be done, but
tractors, ploughs, graders, combines,
headers, stationary and pick-up balers,
maize-planters and harvesters are beyond
the means of most graziers. The hire
rate per hour by machine pools is pretty
heavy. Why not try fodder-farms? By
using modem machinery fodder-farmers
should be able to sell hay and maize
cheaper than graziers could grow them.
Maize is the most popular sheep food.
With the aid of maize-planters sowing
15 acres per day and maize-harvesters
pulling, husking and shelling maize from
10 acres per day it should be possible to
sell to graziers at ss. or less a bushel.
Abundance of fertile soil is within easy
“ C'mon , 'Any! What's the hold-up?"
reach of the Darling, Namoi and
Gwydir, and-irrigation would assure regu-
lar crops. Water and fodder conserva-
tion and soldier settlement on some such
lines offer big chances.
breaking-in to Harness.
,‘E.H.S.”: The first part of a draught
horse’s training should be the same as
that for a saddle horse (B. 25/9/’46).
Before putting the collar and chains on,
he should be driven with frequent short
twists and turns until he is thoroughly
accustomed to the feel of the lines and
chains on his legs. Then hitch him to a
light log, taking care that the drag-chain
is hooked as low as possible to give a
slight lift to the end of the log and prevent
it from ploughing into inequalities in the
ground and suddenly increasing the pull. •
Work him in an open bridle, keep a firm
hand on him in starting and don’t allow
him to go into the collar with a jerk,
otherwise you may soon have a jib on
your hands.
When he has become accustomed to
working in chains, harness him to a dray
and lash a stout rope to the offside shaft,
pass it over his loins and make it fast to
the nearside shaft to prevent him getting
his legs over the shafts if he should play
up. Start as quietly as possible, give a
few turns on flat ground and then take
him over a fairly steep grade, stopping
and starting at short intervals. Continue
this until he understands what is required
of him. A dray with a brake is best, as
its use prevents backing on flat ground or
when the animal is stopped on a grade.
The colt should be broken-in and worked
in an open bridle, in preference to
winkers, so that he may get a full view
of what is going on around him and be-
come familiar with the sight of the
vehicle following close behind.
When thoroughly broken to single
harness, there will be little or no difficulty
experienced in working him in a team.
In a team his position should be changed
from time to time to make him familiar
with working either near- or offside
in the shafts or as a leader. If this is not
done, there’ll be trouble when he has to
be changed from one place in the team
to another. Work him well within his
power and never allow him to rush in
starting. Breaking-in should always be
done when the grass is soft and sappy, as
the horse’s mouth will be tender from his
exercise on the bit during the training.
Ploughless Farming.
“Gecko”: Several of us practise it in
this N.Q. tobacco-growing area (Mareeba-
Dimbulah). The soil is mostly light and
sandy. One chap sweated through his
ploughing year after year before plant-
ing his maize, cowpeas and peanuts. Then
he woke up. Now he uses only a swing-
tail cultivator and finds it to be success-
ful.
If the soil is light it is necessary to
plough new land for the first time only.
After that, we rip it up with the swingtail,
gangs set inward, and after a once-over
the ground is ready for planting. To split
hilled-up rows reverse disks to throw out-
ward. We find it gives better results than
ploughing, for the swingtail turns in sur-
face weeds and stalks of old crops more
effectively, and the subsoil is not dis-
turbed, thereby lessening erosion danger.
Maize on land thus treated produced
one ton of good quality grain to the acre,
and cowpeas and peanuts produced heavy
crops. Once a sceptic, I’m now converted
to ploughless farming.
Pasture Improvement.
“Agric”: When is some practical in-
terest in pasture improvement in Queens-
land to be shown by the State Govern-
ment? We get lectures in plenty on the
harm caused to soil fertility by “soil
mining,” but the Government, which
owns most of the land, has taken no
notice of them. The Government Statis-
tician, Colin Clark, has stated that while
temporarily expanding wheatgrowing
farmers should prepare eventually to re-
duce their wheat acreage and return to
more animal products —beef, cattle, pigs
and dairying.
This must be done on either natural or
improved pastures and by growing fodder
and grain crops. Using natural pastures
in the coastal and sub-coastal areas is
the easiest way to feed stock, but it is
the most inefficient way to use the land.
Farmers have been urging the Govern-
ment to establish pasture research
stations for the development of legumes
best suited to Queensland conditions.
Tests on the wet north coast at South
Johnstone have added nitrogen equivalent
to one ton of sulphate of ammonia per
acre, through the ploughing-in of 18
months’ growth of legumes, but the officer
who conducted the tests resigned from
the department and the work appears to
have been forgotten.
The C.S.I.R. has always shown a keen
interest in pasture improvement in
Queensland, and three or four years ago
Sir David Rivett, then chief executive
officer, asked the Government to provide
buildings within the new university at St.
Lucia for a pasture research laboratory,
to be staffed by C.S.I.R. officers, and
about 80 acres of land in the neighbor-
hood for experiment. The war, of course,
held up work on the new university, but
today, with millions apparently available
for standardisation of railways and other
questionable projects, it should be pos-
sible to make available the funds re-
quired for pasture research in Queensland.
“Backyard” Fowls.
“Whiteleg”: The N.S.W. Poultry-
farmers’ Association has been putting up
a howl in the press to the effect that
poultry-farmers are being pushed out of
business allegedly because those who
keep fowls for family use —in N.S.W.
you may keep up to 40 “adult, domesti-
cated female fowls” without a licence
and without having your eggs seized by
the Egg Board —have collared a large
quantity of fowl-feed and thus created a
blackmarket on which wheat is 255. a bag
as against its proper price of 15s. 6d.
Well, I’m a “backyard” chook-keeper.
I took it on during the war so as to have
a few eggs for the family and an occa-
sional poultry dinner, and when the


C^NOGAS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“It’s the Gas
That Kills Them.”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
—— the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas A Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
IN MIDDLE AGE
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age
note a slowing down of the healthy
bladder action of youth._ While this
is to bo expected to a degree, if fre-
quent and poor kidney action _is
experienced Nature may be warning
that there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature's chief way
of taking excess acids and poisonous
wastes out of the blood. -They help
most people eliminate about 3 pints
a day.
An excess of acids or poisonous
matter in your blood, when due to
functional kidney disorders, may be
the cause of nagging backache,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, disturbed nights,
swelling and puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don't delay! Ask your chemist or
store for Doan's Backache Kidney Pills,
s stimulant-diuretic used successfully
by millions for over 40 years, Doan's
are a special medicine for the kidneys
and will help the 15 miles of kidney
tubes eliminate poisonous wastes from
the blood.
Ask your Chemist or Store for
nOANfi
Backache Kidnev Pills^i^
DP9
*|M //fcv.;^
& hS£xls£ •«& -~.wv- ft *.y. v • • s*w?:
SH
, ■ v >-
iiiiiiii
mi^LiAsy
» pioneer
TOURS
Be waited on. Be luxurious.
Go on an expertly planned and thoughtfully
detailed Pioneer Tour. The best accom-
modation and meals are always arranged.
At ease in an aircraft-type seat or sipping
tea on some friendly country verandah you
meet this land of ours face to face you
learn to love its rugged grandeur and its idly
winding streams as you move, in a Pioneer
Roadcruiser, through the ever-changing pic-
ture of Australia's highways and by-ways.
Let the Pioneer Travel Expert tell you of
coming tours.
★
Sleek blue-and-silver Roadcruisers bring a new,
exciting thrill to highway holidaying!
★
MELBOURNE
MU6014
SYDNEY
8U5511
BRISBANE
84635
ADELAIDE
C 2514
Lit MIXED. ENGLAND
RAYON
When you are consid-
ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yams provide
quality and service as
gdf
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS :
Melbourne- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office _ Ltd., Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane.
Sydney - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., BroughtonHouse, 181 Clarence St.
Brisbane - Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
Adelaide K. T. Flint, 178 Rundle Street.
r£rth - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
I ted
3590
gdf
number of unlicensed fowls it was per-
mitted to keep was raised from 20 to 40
I increased my flock because I had a
fairly large area and a family of 10 liv-
ing next door who needed all the eggs
and poultry they could get. This the
Government urged us to do.
All around me are commercial
poultrymen, and a lot of them are getting
out, not because of feed prices but be-
cause the departure of the American
forces, the end of the war and other
things have reduced what were big
profits. Many of these people had
stored vast quantities of fowl feed by
overstating their flock numbers to the
grain controller; others had overstocked
when the going was good. The P.F.A.
wants the “backyard” flock limited to six
birds, and thereby antagonises people
like me, who wouldn’t complain if it
were reduced to the original 20. It’s a
queer sort of liberty we have won when
a man can’t keep a hen or two without
exciting the dislike of registered poultry-
farmers.
M.L. Hedges.
“Ngaire”: Don’t know what part of
M.L. “Mac” (B. 28/8/’46) comes from,
but here in the Waikato, “the world’s
dairy farm,” gorse hedges are out; you’d
have to drive miles to see one. First
favorite is the common barberry, with
Lawsoniana a close second, and here and
there a boxthorn or hawthorn on some
of the older farms, though these are
gradually being cut out. On our 78
acres, virgin bush 23 years ago, 56 cows
are milked ; about 10 heifer calves are
kept each year for replacements, and
five horses for general use. About
Christmas-time 80 to 100 cull lambs
are bought for the house and to
fatten for the freezing works. Average
production of cows is about 3001 b. fat
per cow, factory returns. No concen-
trates (except meal for calves) are bought,
cows being wintered on hay grown on
the farm.
Natural Grasses.
“W. Court”; The destruction of
natural grasses (B. 11/9/’46) is not so
much a national calamity, bad though it
be, as that so many dairyfarmers rely
solely on natural grasses to feed their
stock.
Australia is not well endowed with
good forage grasses. In Queensland in-
terior districts Mitchell and Flinders
grasses provide very good grazing for
stock even under adverse conditions, but
on the coast spear, blady and similar
grasses are starvation grub except when
very young and green.
In one of the driest seasons on record
Queensland dairymen are finding just
how “good” are our natural grasses. It
may be that, when the weather breaks,
there will be large-scale ploughing-out
of these grasses and a general move to-
wards the establishment of nutritious
grasses imported from abroad. We have
many such grasses already here, but far
too little has been done with them in
most districts.
Hints for the Farm.
“E.M.R.”: Pig-raisers short of meat-
meal can make up the loss by replacing
half the meat-meal requirements with
linseed-meal, the other half by half gallon
or more of separated milk per pig per
day. Half a gallon of separated milk
gives better results than |lb. of meat-
meal. Meat-meal can be saved for the
younger pigs by eliminating it from the
diet of fattening pigs during the last two
weeks before they are marketed. There
should always be green feed on tap
“Bennie”: When building a hay stack,
whether of sheaved or loose hay, make
the centre higher than the edges upon
the completion of each layer. Through-
out the stack the straws should point
downwards and outwards in order to
shed heavy rain from the sides and roof.
To test seeds, cover a dish
or plate with sand, dampen it, then lay
over it a piece of cloth or flannel, also
damp. Drop a few of the seeds on this,
stand plate in a warm place, and if 75
per cent, sprout the seed can be used.
Two pests that will be mak-
ing a spring call in the vegetable garden
are tomato grub and green shield bug.
The former can be controlled by spray-
ing with arsenate of lead (2oz. in 4gal. of
water); but the shield bug, which attacks
beans, peas, tomatoes and any green
foliage, must be handpicked and thrown
into a basin containing kerosene.
“Aperist”: With hives all the one shape,
size, color and standing in a row bees
often become flummoxed. Almost any-
thing will serve as a guide ; a slight differ-
ence in the landing board, hives of dif-
ferent colors, or irregularly spaced serve
the observant Apis in identifying its own
hive.
“Billjim”: If hay is stacked in damp
weather it is advisable to add salt to
check mould and decomposition.
“Big Billy”; For sarcoptic mange in
pigs, shown by small, irritable areas which
the pig rubs until bleeding begins, use an
ointment consisting of one part of sulphur
to eight parts of lard rubbed well into the
skin. ’
“Courtcreek”: Thousands of vegie
seedlings are lost yearly because a hot
day strikes before they’ve got over being
moved from the seedbeds into the open
ground. Transplanting is better done
after or about sundown than early in the
morning. Shading should be practised for
at least a week unless the weather is very
cloudy and cool. If leafy twigs are
scarce, take a paper like The Bulletin
and cut it across into strips lOin. to 12in.
long by Sin. wide. Arched over the seed-
lings like tents and held down each side
by lumps of soil, the strips of paper give
the seedlings plenty of shelter until they
have got over being transplanted.
“Mr.”; To make good the calcium
deficiency in most grains and other con-
centrates, add to every 1001 b. of them
31b. of a mineral mixture —four parts
lime (ground limestone, chalk or slaked
lime) and one part salt.
“Plane Creek”: Overseas experiments
aimed at the eradication of couch grass
in cultivations suggest that the best
method is to shallow-plough the land
often during the*dry season, and root out
the rhizomes by harrowing and forking.
They soon dry and may be burned in
heaps, the farmer standing by with a fork
to turn them for a complete burn. In my
wet N.Q. district I like to have a few
burning logs in the paddocks so that I
can burn the couch while still green, and
checkmate possible regrowth after rain.
“F.L.”: Sweet corn is not used for the
table here to the extent it deserves.
Easily grown, a patch will supply cobs
for a long while. Don’t confuse the
table variety with ordinary maize, for
tlje latter hasn’t the tenderness or delect-
able flavor of sweet corn. Golden Ban-
tam is one of the best; requirements, a
fairly rich soil and plenty of water.
“Plane Creek”: White ants are good
feed for very small chickens. Simply lift
the ant mounds with a bar or pick and
trolley them home. A small piece of the
nest ground up every few hours keeps the
chicks busy scratching and prevents them
from wandering off into the bush.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And Yon’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ’’up and up.’’ Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
New
Cream Deodorant
Stops Perspiration
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
2 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can ha
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-day 1
ARRID
Alsoii.9id.jar9 sellin3 toilet 3 ° ods
Distributors; Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
safely
I Does not irritate skin.
At all chemists & stores
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
m
■1
■■■■■■ m&m
This photo shows a 300 c.p. Tilley
Lamp for domestic use but there
are also 5000 c.p. Floodlights, Out-
door Lamps, Radiators, etc. All
burn ordinary kerosene.
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
Table Lamp Model
T.L. 13
BE SURE YOU BUY A TILLEY LAMP
LOOK FOR THE NAME!
A quality product born of long
Manufacturing Experience
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES.:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BBYEN HOARE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders ,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
imbuing his team with the real cricketing
zeal.
There were two inns on the road and
at each the team became skittish. “Come
now, chaps,” Ted would say, “remember
what we all agreed to at the last meet-
ing” ; but he was the only one with
a trustworthy memory. It was a relief to
the captain when Herb’s bus reached the
paddock or park or rec. where the game
was to be played.
In these days Ted was past his best.
But there was one occasion when he
starred. He had changed over to slow
bowling with a leg trap. It worked.
A powerful slogger sent the first
delivery of Ted’s over with the velocity
of a cannon ball just where Ted meant it
to go—straight in the direction of square-
leg—but flying rather high. Herb Bros-
nahan at square-leg was probably full of
misgivings, but he never shirked. He
thrust out his hairy arms and took the
blow full on the fingers. Then the game
paused while he expressed his candid
opinion of Ted and his leg-theory.
But he was destined to be a victim yet
a second time. The third ball, hit with
even more vim, came to Herb waist-high
and, groaning and blaspheming, he held
it. Ted’s acknowledgment of his co-
operation he bitterly repudiated.
Another slogger came to the crease.
Ted’s fifth delivery was one of those
subtle high tosses that tempt a hitter.
Ted followed it half-way down the pitch.
The hitter did not resist the temptation.
There was no hope of Ted getting out
of the way and he, too, held the catch.
Herb’s delight to see the bowler like-
wise doubled up with pain found vent in
a savage cachinnation.
“You see, chaps,” said Ted with modest
complacency as we were preparing to go
home, “a batsman of that type can always
be kidded to give it a go, and it’s a
moral that between fine-leg and square-
leg you’ll get him. My toss was only a
ruse to put him off his guard. The sixth
ball would have gone to Herb for
certain.”
Herb said nothing, but there was a
strange look on his face which did not
resemble gratitude.
Only on such occasions, when victori-
ous we rolled and bumped home in the
gloaming, did Ted Twining relax. Then,
too, the team remembered what had been
agreed to at the last meeting. It was
a cask which, having travelled up between
the captain’s legs, was now, so to speak,
released from custody and rolled into the
back of the bus.
The cask was tapped and, in as many
rounds, we each had three or four glasses.
Then came what was almost a tribute.
Ted always rode on the front seat, so the
bus was stopped while he waddled round
to the back and downed his quota of
three or four straight off the reel.
In the darkness, singing, joking, josh-
ing and laughing, we passed the Arms and
the Cri.,'Ted full of the glories of the
grandest of games and one at least of the
indispensables too full for words.
THE TOLLGATE ISLANDS.
The Shag :
The night comes up behind them, and the
squalls
Darken and swell and drag their blinding
grey
Rain-skirts across them as they pass and
sweep
White-heralded up the enormous bay ;
The surges crash on them, and suck and
swirl
Flotsam of shipwreck in their hollow
caves.
This is the toll they have taken—dark of
night,
Coldness of rain, salt of the deepsea
waves.
And in their name a knell tolls for
drowned seamen.
I never fly there ; I’ve no taste for death.
Though my wings are black, and who but
death would roost
In that aching barrenness ? Whose biting
breath
Carved out those staring cliffs ? Even in
the glo w
That softens all these rock-edged miles of
land
At day’s ending, harsh yet and pitiless,
Their high, far walls stark in a misty sea,
The Tailgates stand.
The Boat:
These many days I have idled down the
river
At little, green-legged wharves in the bush
where dogs
And children gossiped with while
their fathers
Brought for me fragrant cargo of new-
sawn logs.
I have glimpsed the heron in green back-
waters
Still in snow-dazzled dreams, and from
the reeds
Sedately the blue crane has greeted me ;
But lately it seems a stronger current
speeds
N.S.W.
Me on, hurries me on my way unwilling,
and now
White-paper gulls blow over me, and vast
And foaming with reefs and shallows the
bay lies
Before me, and he who guides me drives
me fast
And faster yet; past the pleasant inner
islands
Decked with curled trees and bracelets of
warm sand.
And will not pause, though looming in
my path
—Demanding what dark fee, what cruel
payment ?
The Tailgates stand.
The Albatross :
Run on, my heart, run on; now is fair
wind
And turning tide; now, if you groan and jib
And will not answer, other tides may find
you
A stranded hulk, your naked, sun-warpea
rib
Perch for your gloomy friend, never to
find
The dark-blue, flashing glory of outer sea.
Your master sees and knows each hidden
peril:
Not lightly your course is set and steered,
for he
Reads the bright-feathered clouds and
brilliant marches
Of clustering stars —can you not trust
him still ?
He called your loveliness from senseless
planks
And your life is not life but in his will.
Then gather all your strength in one swift
shape.
Run on, run sweetly on under his hand;
Stride down the bay, though ahead, larger
and larger,
Blind-hard as shipwreck, beautiful as
death.
The Tailgates stand.
NAN MCDONALD.


SddVNHDS
mpnmjLU-2t
:V-V ,;
n
*
a
SOTOM
i m
“One a
\ y ° ur
day for
health*s sake**
HEHiS IHi SECRET.'
OF
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
//inm um .
insulation with
T
SIMWOOI
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
will be freely given.
sss-
Jmumtwn
PTY.
LTD.
; Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell House,
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representaflves; P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; .Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents; BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street. Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
SMOKE-OH
To the bestl
with the bestl
IT'S RBIY MARTIN BRANDY
“Newlyweds want H.W. Supperclofh, also
White Linen Cloth, and Naps, new.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
They’ll then be prepared for strangers
big and little.
+ •1* 4* 4*
“The easiest men to get into matrimony are
men who have been in it before.”
—Sunday paper.
Remarry in haste and have no leisure
to repent.
“The high heel what is the secret of
its lasting popularity?”— “New Idea.”
Probably the fact that it has kept
woman on her toes.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“When they were married the girl had *to
sneak out unknown to her mother, who smelt
a rat, and made a horrible scene at church.”
—“New Idea.”
Did she trap him there?
“Shop assistants improving.”— Article.
On odd occasions they are even pre-
pared to admit that the customer is half
right.
•J* •h •b •b
“Steam from a kettle quickly ‘lifts’ a veil.”
—Millinery note.
From a boarder’s correspondence.
•F *l* *F
“What will Forde do?” — “Argus.”
Rejoin MacArthur’s General Staff,
perhaps.'
“City waiter in Stadium bout.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Dishing out upper-cuts instead of
under-cuts.
“It looks, alas, as if we shall be seeing fewer
stuffed birds.” — “Sun.”
And without stuffing the Christmas
goose just won’t be the same.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A naked native boy was hired to sit in the
circle.” — “Women’s Weekly.”
Not the dress-circle, evidently.
4* 4* 4* *F
“Now women not only have legs—and very
attractive ones —and brains, but they are in
the front seat.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
All bar the back-seat drivers.
“For sale, 20 laying pullets and cockerels.”
—Suburban paper.
This score is something to crow about.
Prime Condition.
“Cattle glands may turn men into giants.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
If men of meagre size could quaff
Some elongating hormone potion,
’Twould be extracted, I’ve a notion.
From glands of the absurd giraffe;
And though the envious would chaff
A few whose length might cause com-
motion.
With lots of bobby-sox devotion
The latter could afford to laugh.
However, if the implementing
Of giant growth depends on kine,
There’s ample basis for belief
That scientists’ experimenting
Will give us reason to repine,
When men run less to height than beef.
D.H.E.
Professional Jealousy.
When royal jesters quipped a king
Into convulsive fits
Of merriment, they failed to bring
A laugh from brother wits.
Only when jokers coin and use
Such jests as srhooth the frown
From rivals’ brows will they amuse
Both emperor and clown.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Outsider.
“Declaring that Mabel’s face resembled that
of a horse, he said that he intended to marry
Fay, in spite of her fast reputation.”
—Magazine story.
’Twas Fay, the girl who made the pace,
Who landed in the winning place.
For Mabel, with her horselike face.
Was simply never in the race!
NAT.
Supernumerary.
“A New York man was present at the
exhumation of ‘his own’ body.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
It was when my father received his tax
assessment that we decided a £5OO policy
on Uncle Achilles’ life was the only thing
that would save the family fortunes.
The insurance company paid up all
right, but Uncle’s lodge insisted on a mili-
tary funeral. In spite
of a nasty cold. Uncle
submitted to being on
display in a draughty
coffin during a cere-
monial march past, but
my father got an un-
deserved reputation for
religious fervor through
having to shout
“Glory! Glory! ” at
odd moments whenever
Uncle seemed about
to sneeze. Uncle, un-
re as o nably difficult
about having the lid
screwed down, suc-
ceeded in substituting
a couple of bags of
sand at the last
moment.
He caused another
argument by wanting
to come to the funeral,
to make sure every-
thing was done pro-
perly. This was settled by disguising him
as a visiting patriarch of the Russian
Orthodox Church and letting him ride
on the gun-carriage.
The funeral oration which he volun-
teered, in an unconvincing guttural
accent, to deliver at the cemetery was well
received by the large crowd, although
some of his personal friends wore expres-
sions of utter incredulity during the best
parts of the panegyric. He was finally
overcome with some emotion or other
and had to be led away and comforted
with brandy.
This led to his undoing. On returning
home he attempted to continue the ora-
tion from the front steps, lost his footing
and broke his neck.
Having planted Uncle once, we are
now stuck with a totally redundant
corpse.
PLUM.
Real He-Fighters.
“Rebel Qashqui tribesmen, after failing to
break through Persian Government troops in an
attack on Shiraz, arranged a truce. They then
entered the town, did some shopping and had
afternoon tea.”
El Panhzi, leader of the fierce and
desperate rebels, emerged from his myrrh-
strewn silken tent, delicately scratched
himself through his dusty-pink satin
nightie and yawned as two girls sprayed
him with eau-de-Cologne while two others
waved fans in front of him. If only his
camp could have run to a few more
flower-strewers and a professional dog-
walloper his cup of contentment would
have been full.
“Oo! What a perfectly gorgeous day
for a battle!” he exclaimed in his deep
contralto. Clenching a fist, he looked with
You girls Want anything from Paris ?”
pride at where his biceps should have
been, then flexed his arms. But the only
thing that rippled was some girlish
laughter.
“Oh, go away, you horrid things!” he
cried, petulantly stamping a foot. “And
send in my Chief of Staff.”
A minute later El Gigolo, his C. of S.,
strolled in with a handful of bobbypins.
“I do wish you’d fix these in for me, El,”
he simpered. “I wouldn’t for the world
be seen in even a skirmish with my hair
like looks a positive fright! And
don’t forget, I like a deep crimp in it.
I had it shampooed last night and I
can’t do a thing with it this morning. Do
you like the henna effect? I simply
couldn’t fight those beastly Government
fellows with my hair the ghastly color it
was. How is the campaign going?”
El Panhzi frowned. “Not as good as
A anticipated,” he said. “In that attack
on Pehlevi one of our men was set upon
in a harem and a brutal Government
trooper, wielding a poppy stalk, gave
him a terrific thrashing. I still come over
all funny whenever my mind dwells on
such bestial conduct. That isn’t war-
fare as we fight it, Gig.”
“Horrible!” shuddered the C. of S.
“I saw the victim later at the casualty
clearing station where I was having a
manicure,” went on the rebel leader.
“The fearful sight made me almost swoon.
After having suffered such a casualty
what could I do but break off the en-
gagement? Besides, by then our men
were almost out on their horses’ feet.
They hadn’t had a wink of sleep for fully
two hours ; and don’t forget they were
up till half-past nine the night before.
Men of iron though they be, there is
a physical limit beyond which even
they can’t go.”
“I, myself,” broke in the C. of S.,
“marvelled, after all the sherbert
they’d consumed, that they were able to
take the field at all. But,” he added,
pride in his voice, “wild men that they
are, they can still fight like tigers even
with hangovers.”
“True. Take, for instance, their dash-
ing capture of Dambadh after having
recklessly swilled a pint of sarsaparilla
each. Once assured the Government
troops had evacuated the town they
charged. What a thrilling affair that was!
Had the enemy not then been safe across
the river there must have been fearful
carnage, especially with our men armed
to the teeth with balloons on sticks.”
“Like at Lotza-bul, remember, when
some Government troops were still drink-
ing coffee as our men entered the
town. The way our troops poked their
tongues out at them was magnificent,
and they stood their ground gallantly
when the enemy went berserk and called
them rude names. It was only afternoon
nap time that saved the Government
troops from having their faces slapped
quite hard.”
“There’s no doubt,” said El Panhzi,
“we’ve moulded them into a grand fight-
ing force —‘Terrible as an army with
bandannas,’ isn’t that it?”
“That’s us,” said his C. of S. “Also
cummerbunds and Paisley eiderdowns.
And, by the way, El, are we fighting to-
day?”
El Panhzi heaved a sigh. “Unfortu-
nately no,” he said. “Intelligence re-
ports that we outnumber the enemy only
ten to one. Anyway, I couldn’t possibly
go fighting today. For one thing, my
corsets aren’t back from being repaired
yet, and for another we don’t want to
tire ourselves out before the dance to-
night I,”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
• The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Ambon Men
Twelve months ago today I stood on
the flight deck of his Majesty’s aircraft-
carrier Vlndex and looked upon the
shores of my native land for the first
time in three years nine months and 29
days. I could do nothing to control the
tears of joy. There were many beside
me raising broken cheers and pathetically
imitating the hooters of civilian-laden
ferries whose passengers had recognised
another cargo of liberated prisoners home
at last.
We had sailed for Ambon, in ’4l, after
10 miserable months of unsoldierly inac-
tivity at Darwin, straining the leash of
discipline, longing for the excitement of
battle. We little realised that in 50 days
we should lose our freedom for years
that seemed interminable, that we would
suffer as slaves under uncivilised masters,
and that before we could see our own
country again three of every five com-
panions would be destroyed through the
indescribable barbarity of the Japanese,
while every survivor would carry for ever
the scars of brutality and disease on body
and mind.
On a Pacific island known only to
cartographers, politicians, strategists and
Victoria Barracks, 1092 of us fought
against 20,000 Japanese. They had
’planes and a navy. We were miserably
under-equipped, without any naval or air
support, and received reinforcements
totalling 16 very raw rookies with rifles
on January 11, 1942. I personally intro-
duced them to Ambon and regarded their
arrival as a grim joke.
After the futile resistance ended in
captivity, we had the satisfaction of
believing that we had held the Japs up in
their drive on Australia. We liked to
think childishly that we had helped to
save our country. But in those long
years of thinking time we resolved to
live and learn why we had to let our-
selves be trapped on Ambon when obvi-
ously it was known that there was no way
out. We wondered if we were a political
sacrifice, and to whom. As mates died
miserably day after day, until it seemed
that survival for any was an impossibility,
we asked if we had been helplessly sent to
our doom by blunderers. We were cer-
tain that we would know the answers if
we reached home again.
Some of us lived and yet the questions
are still in our hearts. I do not think
now that we shall ever know. Ido not
believe that these men’s devotion
to duty, personal sacrifice and mili-
tary heroism will ever be recog-
nised as it should be —by the customary
citation and medal award —despite the
available historical records of their
bravery. Instead I believe that people
in high places want the awful history
of Ambon and the Eighth Division
obliterated from memory. In that task
they seem to be succeeding.
. Just by way of epilogue I must add
that I write this from hospital, where I
seem to have spent most of my days of
liberation. Nearly always my ward-
mates have been p.-0.-w. Most of them,
far from being “rehabilitated,” are broken
in health, disillusioned and bitter about
their treatment since repatriation. Last
night some of us for tea ate cold soup,
fried saveloy and bread. As an anni-
versary celebration it fell flat, but it
brought home to us all the disappoint-
ments and near despair still within us
since Darwin, 1941.
At least it has been some relief writing
this —it pleased my mates and, who
knows, it may do somebody else some
good. Mr. Forde, for instance, who now
himself knows the bitterness of defeat. —
Sgt. Damocles (Vic.).
Milne Bay
I doubt whether surviving members of
the 61st Militia Battalion and members of
the 18th Brigade (mainly Seventh Divi-
sion veterans) will be tolerant about “Ek
Dum’s” statement (B. 18/9/’46) that, at the
time of the Jap landing, Milne Bay was
garrisoned by a “half-trained militia bat-
talion which hardly knew one end of a
rifle from the other.”
The Queensland Cameron Highlanders,
nucleus of the 61st, had won many effi-
ciency awards before they went into
action at Milne Bay. There, they stood
off a Jap force of 2000 for two days and
three nights, though short of almost an
entire company—“ Don,” returning in
launches from a coastal patrol, tragically
steamed into the mass of the Jap landing
barges.
Pushed back by sheer weight of
numbers, the 61st fell back to a newly-
cleared air strip, where they joined up
with the rest of the Queensland 7th Militia
Brigade, led by Field of Middle East
fame. Strategy required that this strip
must be held by the 7th Brigade; and
held it was. Of the defenders —“who
hardly knew one end of a rifle from the
other”—several won decorations.
The 18th Brigade—an independent
. formation which had served with the
Sixth and Seventh Divisions —was held in
reserve for three days before it went for-
ward. Save for an early and bloody re-
verse through an unexpected encounter
with Jap tanks by one battalion, the 18th
Brigade continued going forward despite
their allegedly casual acquaintance with
a rifle. By pushing the Jap into the sea
they made amends for their neglect to
acquire this acquaintance while they were
in Africa, Greece and Syria. In the pro-
cess Corporal Jack French won a post-
humous V.C,
If “E.D.” looks over the graves at
Milne Bay he’ll see from the numbers
that many members of the A.M.F. other
than a half-trained militia battalion were
at the Bay in plenty when the Nips
landed on the night of August 25, 1942.
— Laetitia (Q.).
“Ek Dum” replies:
I have never said that Milne Bay was
“garrisoned by a ‘half-trained militia bat-
talion.”’ Of the battle I wrote (B. 9/9/’42)
that when the enemy landed he “came up
against a formation well disposed for defence
under a determined artillerist, Major-General
Cyril Clowes.” In B. 18/9/’46 I wrote that
the Milne Bay force was “largely made up
of raw, untrained militia,” for which I con-
demned the Minister but not the militia. So
soon as the censorship permitted me to men-
tion units during the war, which was not till
August,. 1944, I set out the performance of the
61st Battalion:
It was militia —the 61st Queenslanders
(Cameron Highlanders) that landed at
Milne Bay on the fateful August 3, 1942.
It had emptied its ranks twice by enlist-
ments during the war, having first volun-
teered for service in a body. And the third
helping made a brave showing when the
Japs landed at Milne Bay.
To the 61st was assigned the holding
role to prevent the advancing A.I.F. from
being outflanked. It had a considerable
part in the crucial operations round the
bay which marked the turning point of
the land war in the New Guinea area.
The Japan Zone
The calm with which the public has
greeted continued reports of conditions
at Kure and the arrival of a shipload of
neurosis cases is lamentable. Main con-
tributing cause is that home-front Aus-
tralians, lacking experience of those con-
ditions themselves, and having listened to
such complaints for more than six years,
have falsely concluded them to be ex-
aggerated and to think that soldiers just
naturally complain, anyway.
Another reason may be the popular
notion that the men in Japan are young-
sters who should be thankful that they
missed the war. The fact is that large
numbers d£ veterans volunteered, and
went to Kure from the Islands without a
break or any leave.
It is time we demanded that our occu-
pation troops be raised to the level of
white men, if not of conquerors. If
there ever was justification for the attitude
of those who sneered at American equip-
ment and said that Australian toughness
had no need of essentials such as
stretchers to sleep on, there is surely none
now.
I hope that the new Army Minister
will set a precedent by. taking an interest
in the Army, and have the initiative to
probe beyond departmental reports. This
can only be done by personal investiga-
tion —as distinct from flying visits to base
areas where, after a meal at some
general’s mess, one is apt to come away
perfectly satisfied with the food and every
other situation. — Bondi Beachcomber
(N.S.W.),
“Button Days”
As a city of beggars, Sydney is be-
coming worse. From the busker who
pokes a battered cornet through the bar-
door and nearly blasts the froth off your
schooner to the whiskery individual
who displays fourpence in a grimy palm
and whines, “Can y’ build on this, mate?”
the old army of pub and street cadgers
is back in force. Door-to-door collectors
for various charities are on the increase
in my suburb, and, in city streets, “art-
union” ticketsellers abound.
Hardly a Friday goes by without my
being asked to buy a charity button by
some young girl who could be more use-
fully employed in helping to make the
goods of which Australia is so woefully
short—largely through lack of female
labor in factories. And the variety of
appeals seems to be without end. Unless
there is considerable overlapping, there
must be hundreds of thousands who are
in hospital, convalescent, diseased, deaf,
dumb, blind, crippled, limbless, incapa-
citated, in need of holidays, orphaned,
veterans of war, destitute, senile, un-
rehabilitated, or otherwise in need of
assistance.
What an appalling reflection it is on
the system under which we live, and on
the Government whose responsibility it
should be to provide for the sick and
the needy! The Government could do
it, too, without any increase in taxation,
if it didn’t waste money in so many ways,
such as (to quote only one) keeping alive
a host of boards, committees, commis-
sions and other controlling bodies created
purely as a war measure, and still strag-
gling grimly to retain their emergency
bureaucratic powers.
As for the rehabilitation of ex-service-
men, there is obviously something wrong
when the ordinary citizen has to fork out
to privately-organised charities for this
purpose, A man has to be in a pretty
bad way to get much out of the Repatri-
ation Commission, but what about the
several millions of canteen profits which,
so we were told, were to be used for the
relief of necessitous cases not ordinarily
covered by the Repat.?— Tightwad
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
I am with both “1.A.C.” and “Screw-
ball” (B. 2/10/’46) in their remarks on
military training: The senior cadets in
the old compulsory-training days did a
very similar job to that being done by the
public schools today, and from there the
cadets passed easily into the citizen
forces, where more advanced training
was given. True, training camps tended
to degenerate into free and easy picnics,
but many of the advantages such as
comradeship and co-operation remained.
Surely the salutary lessons in unpre-
paredness we have just had are sufficient
argument for compulsory training. If
the “compulsory” is too hard a pill for
Labor to swallow, then suitable en-
couragement should be given to volun-
tary systems such as senior cadets. —
Bozo (Vic.)..
Australian Demography
The Commonwealth Bureau of Census
and Statistics is to be congratulated on
producing its admirable Demography
Bulletin for 1944 at this comparatively
early date, taking war and post-war con-
ditions into account. Some items are
unavoidably subject to revision, but it is
unlikely that any substantial future cor-
rections will be required. The issue of
civilian registration cards in June, 1943,
amounted to a fairly thorough census for
population figures, and the Occupational
Survey of June, 1945, will have cleared
up most of the remaining details.
At the end of 1944 estimated population
was 7,341,715, the excess (28,033) of
males over females giving a masculinity
“Stop Waving that thing about and come and help me Wash up.”
figure of 100.77 per cent. Westralia
(108.09) showed the highest masculinity
among States, with Queensland (106.43)
second and Victoria (97.62) lowest.
However, nearly half of Australia’s total
population (3,634,800) was reckoned to
have been living in the seven capital cities
at the end of 1943, a disquieting feature
in a country which depends so greatly
on the land.
Percentages of total population, to
nearest decimal, in the several States
were: N. S. Wales 39, Victoria 27,
Queensland 15, S.A. nine, W.A. seven and
Tasmania three. Density of population
per square mile was 2.47 for all Aus-
tralia, Victoria leading with 23, the
A.C.T. coming next with 16, N. S. Wales
and Tasmania third with nine each, fol-
lowed by S.A. and Queensland with two
each. The N.T. averaged one civilian
per 10 square miles.
Births for the year (153,344) consti-
tuted an all-time record and exceeded
total civilian deaths by 83,748, another
record for natural increase. Even after
allowing for the 6291 deaths of defence
personnel during the year, they were in
excess by 77,457. There were 1778 cases
of twins and 18 of triplets, male children
predominating substantially in all mul-
tiple births. The infantile mortality rate
was 31.34 per 1000 bom —lowest on
record. The youngest recorded mother
was aged 14 and bore twins; the oldest
mother was 51. The youngest mother of
triplets was 20; the oldest 42.
Twenty-nine individuals aged 100 and
over died during the year, 18 of them
women. Circulatory diseases were, as is
usual, the greatest single cause of death.
The effect of the newer drugs would
seem to appear in a smaller deathrate
from certain respiratory diseases. Can-
cer killed 8571 persons, the age-periods
from 45 onwards providing the great
majority of victims, and males tending
to predominate after 60. Tubercular
diseases accounted for 2837 deaths, the
majority (1547) being among males. Of
all persons dying from this cause, 1950
had been bom in Australia, and of the
remainder the majority had lived in Aus-
tralia for 15 years or more,
A striking tribute to the efficiency of
modem sanitation and prophylaxis is
afforded by the fact that there were only
18 recorded cases of typhoid fever, that
deadly scourge of former Australian
generations.— Puyyaka (Q.).
The Japanese
The attitude of “Sgt. Damocles” (B.
11/9/’46) towards the defeated Japanese
is typical and dangerous. It is typical
not only of ex-servicemen but of people
in all ranks of life. “Sgt. Damocles”
boasts that General Mac Arthur is taking
away the traditions and superstitions of
the Japanase, which, apparently, he thinks
is a good thing. It may seem paradoxical,
but anyone who stops to think will see
that a nation’s social life retains its
stability and sanity by means of these
very traditions and superstitions. Elimi-
nate them and you make room for all the
“isms” to flourish —a splendid set-up for
warmongers and dictators.
This attitude of vindictiveness is un-
desirable both from a humane and a
selfish point of view. In the long run
ill-treatment of a nation rebounds upon
the aggressor. Today one nation’s pros-
perity and internal harmony are essential
to the wellbeing of all the others.
The superstitions and traditions of the
Japanese undoubtedly have characteristics
undesirable in a civilised world, and must
therefore be eliminated. But these social
points can only be eradicated after years
of patient re-education, and the chief
means employed should be example.
The daily press articles of the tone
“Japs are a kindly and amiable race”
are a much needed antidote to the bitter
destructive spirit with which defeated
enemies are so often faced. Punishment
never was and never will be a successful
corrective for aggressions. R. C. S.
(N.S.W.).


Income Tax
Since uniform taxation was introduced
in 1942, the Income Tax Assessment Act,
which imposes the tax and provides for
taxable income, exemptions, rebates anc
deductions, has been amended seven
times. The section which provides fo
rebates for dependants has been altered
six times. Nine Income Tax Acts
each fixing a different rate of taxa
tion assessment, have been passed in
four years. Prize effort was the Income
Tax Act (No. 2) of 1945 —which sub-
stituted a different schedule for that in
the No. 1 Act passed only a few months
earlier —and provided that the rate
“should be half the sum of the rates which
would be applicable if both schedules to
the Acts were applied in respect of the
taxable income.”
I gather these facts from the several
stout volumes of Butterworth’s Income
Tax Laws of Australia, with whose assis-
tance, plus many sheets of foolscap and
much labor and profanity, I have been
trying to check my assessment. I think
it is correctly assessed, but 1 would not
swear to it. The Income Tax laws of the
Commonwealth are so chaotic that few
taxpayers who are not taxation specialists
are able to check their assessments when
they receive them. The task of estimating,
and making provision for, future income
tax is, of course, beyond the powers even
of the expert—nobody knows what the
rates and allowable deductions will be
when the assessments are prepared.
Employees are on a better wicket than
employers, having a scale of weekly de-
ductions to guide them, but even they fre-
quently find that their deductions fall
short of the tax assessed. A ludicrous
situation was reported recently in Bris-
bane. A taxpayer who claimed a refund
of tax fiaid under the instalment system
was informed that, as he was late in apply-
ing, he would be fined for “late payment
of tax.” Under the Assessment Act, tax
is not considered as paid until the tax-
payer produces his certificate, though the
Taxation Department may have had his
money in its coffers for nearly a year. —
Sol Brass (Q.).
In support of “Junius Jr.’s” claim (B.
18/9/’46) that tax evasion is not a
privilege of the farmer I instance the
suspicious vigilance of authority over
every transaction and head of stock.
With the passing of the days when a
normally intelligent farmer could make
up his own income-tax sheet, my bush
cobber now files every receipt and ac-
count sales, pays all money by cheque
and at the end- of the year sends the lot,
plus bankbook and stock list, to a city
accountant.
True to lifelong habits, my cobber lives
frugally—a couple of pair of working
pants, a flannel and a pair of boots are
his usual annual clothing purchases. A
bi-weekly loaf and stray items of grocery
fill his larder. His outings are stock
sales and his recreation shooting trips
that provide meat.
Painstakingly honest, and with his
papers carefully in order, he was very
worried recently to receive a suspicious
“please explain” from the seat oJ:
authority. Insufficient money had been
drawn to cover the average man’s private
yearly spending, the inference being that
the country man was receiving money
from private sources. Immediate furnish-
ing of details was demanded. —C. E
(Vic.),
How can a taxpayer know from the
present cryptic forms if his tax is cor-
rectly assessed or not?
Two brothers I know have been share-
farmers with their father for a number
of years. With the same expenses and
rebate items, they are assessed one for
£l2 and the other for £24.
Another pair of bachelor brothers
whose income-tax returns have been
identical for 10 years recently had a
difference of £3. In neither case, although
both sets of brothers are men of average
intellect, can they work out if there was
an over- or under-assessment. The theory
of one man who saw the assessments is
that the officials understand the scheme
little better than we do. — Carmi (Q.).
Indirect Taxation
. Indirect taxation is, by now, an almost
incurable disease, but the extent to which
it has grown and its effect on the cost of
living in Australia needs investigation.
It is a convenient instrument and not
nearly _so obvious as direct taxation,
w ™?“ IS . why it appeals to politicians.
That it is of ancient origin is shown
by the extract from an article by Syd-
ney Smith (1771-1845), who, protesting
at the heavy taxation in his day, con-
cludes with the picture of a dying Eng-
lishman:—
7 kis medicine which had paid
?. s P°, on that has paid 15 p.c.,
?)??? himself back upon his chintz
£fiiJ hlch has £ paid 22 P-c., and expires
“J he f. rms of an apothecary who has
fnr ttfp ,c ? n .? e °f a few hundred pounds
Hk ®h^ nV ‘ ege of P u ttmg him to death.
His whole property is then immediately
taxed from 2 to 10 p.c. Besides the pro-
bate, large fees are demanded for burying
him in the chancel: his virtues are handed
down to posterity on taxed marble; and
he is then gathered to his fathers —to be
taxed no more.
What kind of a picture could be drawn
of a live Australian! —Lex (N.S.W.).
Inflation
Applied to the purchasing power of
money, the term should be “shrinkage,”
but by that or any other name it smells
to Heaven. I know nothing of high
finance, but a lot about low finance, so
I can speak with authority.
When I lobbed on these shores 40
years ago I brought with me £lOO, and
was shocked to find that during the
voyage its purchasing power had shrunk
to £5O. One of my first investments was
in an endowment insurance policy, pay-
able in 20 years. In due time I realised
the cash, and, simultaneously, the fact
that its purchasing power had shrunk to
£5O during the currency of the policy.
Nothing daunted, I again insured for a
similar sum and period. Once more I
have realised the cash and the shrinkage,
plus the further fact that if I bank the
money it will continue to shrink in real
value at an increasing rate.
Thirty years ago I bought a house for
£BOO. I could sell it today for the same
sum, but the cash would have less than
half its purchasing power when first in-
vested. If put in cold storage it would
continue to shrink in real value faster
and faster the longer it was stored.
I’m not arguing about the cause of
the shrinkage, only offering a synonym
for “inflation.” The cure must be left
to the economists. But whichever word
is used the result for the individual and
the nation is the same. — Bust (S.A.).
License Radio Servicemen!
In one week I received three radio sets
which, according to their owners, had been
“repaired” by a radio serviceman. In each
case the set required readjusting and in
one instance a number of components
had to be replaced. Although none of
the sets had worked really satisfactorily
after their alleged repair, each owner
had been charged well over £l.
Since television and frequency modula-
tion are approaching, some scheme of
licensing radio servicemen should be in-
troduced, both in fairness to the public
and to the genuine serviceman—who
would not be afraid to submit to a quali-
fication test if necessary.
Plumbers and electricians are licensed,
so why not radio repair men? — Hut 60
(N.S.W.).
Education
I received a good education —history,
geography and so forth but I was
almost 20 before I knew how to sign a
cheque, what an endorsement was, the
use of an invoice, and other such matters
of everyday business. Reason? I was
never enlightened on these matters at
school, and on leaving my college days
behind me I was too ashamed to ask
for fear of being thought an ignoramus.
It might be argued that such matters
are taken care of in the junior com-
mercial courses which are available for
the asking at most colleges, but the
fundamentals of business practice and
commercial jargon should be taught to
every child before he or she leaves
school.
Education departments are at fault too
in the selection of languages for schools.
Latin should stay in the*curriculum, as
it is the basis of most Mediterranean
tongues, and a sound knowledge of it
facilitates the mastering of Spanish,
Italian and, to a certain extent, French.
But the gentlemen who decide what we
should learn seem to forget that Aus-
tralians are hemmed in by Malays,
Chinese and Japanese. These are the
languages that should be taught to chil-
dren. I would add Dutch to the list, but
the present and possible future deeds of
“our Indernesian comrades” stay my
hand. — Kennis (Q.),
Jury Service
Why hasn’t some authority caught the
idea of using retired civil servants for
jury service? The proposal is very timely
now when unions are trying to lower the
retiring age for civil servants.
Consider the host of ex-schoolmasters,
policemen, postmasters, lighthouse -
keepers, taxation officials and other
Government servants who could thus be
usefully employed for the State’s benefit.
Most of them are men trained in the
analysis of evidence, with a long experi-
ence of the wiles of evildoers. They
would welcome an occasional*spell of
jury service and the consequent addition
to their meagre pensions.—T. O. R.
(N.S.W.).
Talkies in Churches
Why not? We already have sacred
edifices, sacred music and religious radio.
We have also in our Sacred Writings an
inexhaustible supply of the best scripts
for “shorts” ever penned. The produc-
tion would entail only a fraction of the
cost of the secular article, and could
safely be left in the capable hands of
clerical historians, elocutionists and
masters of pageantry.
Much of the acting could be done by
enthusiastic volunteers, clerical or lay.
“She’s five-feet four; eight-stone eight; and honey blonde. I left her
on the four-fifteen”
Circuits would be limitless, opposition on
Sundays non-existent. The usual devo-
tional exercises would not be disturbed
if the times were extended by 15 minutes.
Attendances would be multiplied.
The only real difficulty to be sur-
mounted is the outworn creed that a
“still” picture in stained glass has a
higher spiritual priority than a moving
and speaking picture of the same person
or incident. A referendum of the faith-
ful would prove that such views are held
by only a small minority.
Preachers, after some soul-searching,
went on the air at the risk of encouraging
absenteeism. They could now adopt the
screen in the assurance that the innova-
tion would conduce to that “gathering
together” which is one of the first aims
of their organised ministry.— Usher
(S.A.). i
Late Shopping
“D.J.G.” (B. 25/9/’46) doesn’t show
much concern for shop employees in his
urge for the reintroduction of Friday
night shopping.
The people behind the counters are on
their feet from early morning till night.
They work five days a week from 9 a.m.
to 5.45 p.m., and from 9 a.m. to 12.30
p.m. on Saturday; yet “D.J.G.” wants to
add another two or three hours to their
labors.
Friday-night shopping might be a fair
thing if Saturday-morning shopping were
abolished. Otherwise I can’t see shop
employees consenting to work longer
hours while most other callings are getting
reductions all round.—l. A. C. (N.S.W.).
Possum Farms
The trouble with possum farms (B.
25/9/’46) is the boundary fence. How
is a man to keep his stock at home? I
was in good possum country for years,
and worked out plans from galvanised
iron to electric fences —I reckoned iron
posts and electrified v&res would make it
possible. Then the trouble would be
regulations, inspectors, permits, licences
and other items. I dropped the idea.
Later I looked at some of the islands
off our north Queensland coast. The
idea of possum farms sprang to life again
—perfect boundaries, good timber and
regulations easily policed. I was almost
on the point of buying an island to run
possums. They would have done well.
Dent Island, one of our few treeless
islands, is overrun with “possies.” Some
years ago a lightkeeper liberated a pair
of pets. They’re as thick as rats now,
living in crannies in the rocks and feed-
ing on grass.
I made a few discreet inquiries, but
regulations were adamant. The swivel-
chair addict knew nothing about native
fauna, but he knew his regulations. I
still think a man could do well with
possums on the islands, breed a distinct
strain, add to the wealth of the country
and do better for himself than wait for
the old-age pension.— Snares (Q.).
M.T. Maintenance
“Bondi Beachcomber’s” ideas of motor
transport maintenance (B. 18/9/’46) re-
calls the old gag “Yes, she gets greased
once a year, whether she needs it or not.”
Some cars do stand up to the mur-
derous programme “B.B.” advocates—
oil changes every 10,000 miles and annual
grease-ups—but they aren’t worth two-
bob after a few years of that. Trucks are
a different matter. I drive a five-tonner
on road w r ork. Carrying an average of
six-ton loads of gravel over dusty, bumpy
tracks, or bashing through slush and bogs
in the winter, the grease-gun must be
whizzed over most points every day.
Hydraulic-hoist points suck up a full gun
each time.
Engine oil should never be allowed to
go more than 1000 miles, and personally
I never let it go that far. I never have
to add any, and one gallon per 1000 is
nothing against the benefit to the engine
which “breathes” clean oil all its life.
With a clean engine 100,000 miles without
the heads off is commonplace.
In my experience with ex-Army
vehicles, and with some during the show,
cars and “utes” certainly didn’t suffer
from too much attention —they were
wrecks from a mechanic’s point of view.
Most of the trucks were in fair shape.
But it's impossible to over-maintain
trucks. Grease and oil are a lot cheaper
than spare parts and lost time. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
State and Federal Seats
That section of the Commonwealth
Electoral Act requiring State members to
resign their seats before accepting nomi-
nation for the Federal House amounts to
a serious anomaly and an added expense
to tax-burdened electors. An effect in
N. S. Wales is three by-elections for
which three unsuccessful Federal candi-
dates must undertake further campaigns
almost immediately.
There seems no good reason why the
Act should not be amended to permit
the resignation of a State seat to be held
in .abeyance until the result of the
Federal poll is known. As matters stand,
capable State Parliamentarians must be
seriously discouraged from seeking elec-
tion to Canberra, which. Heaven knows,
can do with all the ability available, —
Traymon (N.S.W.),
Parliamentary Debates
No one will despute with “West Rid-
ing” (B. 2/10/’46) that the main business
of politicians is “to get on with the job
of governing the Commonwealth.” But
surely, after so many years of compulsory
education, one is entitled to expect our
legislators to express their ideas ac-
curately in correct language.
“W.R.” enunciates a dangerous
proposition when he states that “it’s not
how a man speaks that counts, but what
he says.” How can anyone convey his
ideas clearly if he does not understand
the medium through which his thoughts
are expressed? Correct language is not
merely the dress of thought; it is the
vehicle which conveys the idea from the
thinker to the recipient.
Our greatest writers and speakers
have assiduously cultivated style for the
main purpose of clearly conveying then-
thoughts to their readers and listeners.
How, then, can any person who is
ignorant of the use of the aspirate and
the ordinary rules of grammar under-
stand that nice selection of word and
phrase that is indispensable for the ac-
curate expression of thought?
“West Riding” destroys his own argu-
ment with the statement that “the real
trouble with the broadcast debates was
that so little was said in so many words.”
Exactly. If the debaters had a better
knowledge of the language they could
express themselves more tersely and
forcefully, and would realise when a
matter was dealt with adequately by
other speakers.— Jay Em (Q.).


/
\
/1 '
These are the facts about 10 o'clock closing, and
what it will mean here—proven beyond doubt in
overseas countries and other Australian states.
J Sensible hotel hours that serve public needs and
public convenience.
2 More comfort and better conditions in our hotels.
2 .An end to the 6 o'clock rush drinking.
£ The long-denied right for man and wife to enjoy an
after-dinner drink together.
Leisurely drinking, which means moderation and
less drunkenness.
Similar amenities to those enjoyed in Queensland
(hotel hours 10 a.m.-IO p.m.), West Australia (9
a.m.-9 p.m.), Tasmania (10 a.m.-IO p.m.).
A better home life for all.
g An end to the illegal sly-grog trade.
The achievement of a greater degree of personal
freedom, our right in a democratic community.
10 More convenient hours, NOT longer hours. Trad-
ing hours under 10 o'clock closing (! 0 a.m.-10 p.m.,
with all bars and lounges closed between 6.30 and
7.30 p.m.) total I I hours, compared with 12 hours
under pre-war regulations.
Inserted by Liquor Trade Council of N.S.W., 22 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
LT.ir.r.*
