

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3448
Wednesday, March 13, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
HARROW SCHOOL: THE FOURTH FORM ROOM.
'T'HE rriost historically interesting room at Harrow School, which
1 was chartered in 1571, is the Fourth Form Room. Preserved
as the original schoolroom of John Lyon’s foundation, this room
contains the old canopied seat provided for the first mastermind the
uncomfortable forms upon which the first generation of Harrow
boys sat. Carved on the oak panelling which surrounds the room
are the names, rudely cut by their own hands,, of.® yron ’ w
Peel, Sir William Jones, Lord Palmerston, Shendan and of many
other Harrovians who became famous m at er- 1 e. .
classroom—the largest of the Harrow rooms, oug
comparison with the Upper School at Eton w
Queen Victoria used only for prayers.


s'toruWriting j
wjtu.V at home
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovi obligation, your Sew Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney ‘‘Bulletin. ’
Mil Same
My Addretr
S B. 246 AGE
The Red Page
DIDO AND MR. ELIOT.
In the name of Dido there is a fine and
tragic ring, the echo of “old, unhappy,
far-off things, and battles long ago.”
Dido, Queen of Carthage. Even if one
has forgotten precisely who she was and
what she did or suffered the name retains
its magic. Somebody must have put her
in a poem, for to speak of her brings to
the mind the image of a weeping willow.
* In such a night
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
Upon the wild sea-banks, and wav’d her love
To come again to Carthage.
It is probably Shakspeare who has kept
the lady alive for us, and, in their setting
in “The Merchant of Venice” and in the
mood of that setting, those are some of
the loveliest lines in all English poetry.
But we are a barbarous generation and
do not read the ancients. Dido, as T. S.
Eliot’s What Is a Classic ? (Faber ; Angus
and Robertson) reminds us, is Virgil’s
creation ; Virgil’s property ; an immortal
gift to the world from a Roman poet who
died at Brindisi nineteen years before the
birth of Christ.
It would be absurd to claim her for
Shakspeare, for against those four lines
of English poetry must be set the whole
of the fourth book of the AZneid —one
of the supreme achievements of Latin
poetry—in which is told the full story of
the queen’s love for Tineas (how he came
to her as a suppliant after the fall of
Troy, how she cherished him, how he
deserted her and went away to fight
Turnus and found the Roman Empire,'
and how she stabbed herself on a funeral
pyre and died with the cry of “Thus, thus
it is good to pass into the dark. Let the
pitiless Dardanian’s gaze drink in this fire
out at sea, and my death be the omen he
carries on his way”); and to this must be
added the scene in the sixth book when
Tineas, venturing alive into the gloomy
country of the dead, makes his futile ex-
cuses to her indignant shade:
Among whom Dido the Phoenician, fresh
from her death-wound, wandered into the
vast forest; by her the Trojan hero stood,
and knew the dim form through the dark-
ness, even as the moon at the month’s be-
ginning to him who sees or thinks he sees
her rising through the vapors; he let .tears
fall, and spoke to her lovingly and sweet:
“Alas, Dido! so the news was true that
reached me; thou didst perish, and the
sword sealed thy doom! Ah me, was I
the cause of thy death? By the stars I
swear, by the heavenly powers and all that
is sacred beneath the earth, unwillingly,
O queen, I left thy shore. But the gods’
commands, which now compel me to pass
through this shadowy place, this land of
ragged overgrowth and deep night, drove
me imperiously forth; nor could I deem
my departure would bring thee pain so
great. Stay thy footstep, and withdraw not
from our gaze. From whom fliest thou?”
In such words and with starting tears
Tineas soothed the burning and fieree-eyed
spirit. She turned away with looks fixed
fast on the ground, stirred no more in
countenance by the speech he essays than
if she stood in iron flint or Marpesian
stone. At length she started, and fled
wrathfully «into the shadowy woodland
where Sychaeus, in responsive passion and
equal love, is her husband as long ago.
Yet Tineas, dismayed by her cruel doom,
follows her far on her way with pitying
tears.
Thence he pursues his appointed path.
This is, of course, truly great poetry.
Even in the prose translation, foregoing
altogether that consummate felicity of
expression for which Virgil is usually
most acclaimed, its pathos moves the
heart. The whole episode is, in Matthew
Arnold’s phrase, a “great human action”:
and, since it can thus emerge almost urn
dimmed through all the disabilities of
translation, it attests the truth of
Arnold’s contention that the action or
the passion of poetry is of the primary
importance. And, in fact, it was to this
very episode that Arnold turned when he
sought in Virgil an example of that pas-
sionate excellence he found also in the
Iliad and the Oresteia . Mr. Eliot likewise
turns to Dido:
I have always thought the meeting
of /Eneas with the shade of Dido, in Book
VI, not only one of the most poignant but
one of the most civilised passages in poetry.
It is complex in meaning and economical
in expression, for it not only tells us about
the attitude of Dido—lyhat is still more
important is that it tells us about the
attitude of /Eneas. Dido’s behavior appears
almost as a projection of /Eneas’s own con-
science: this, we feel, is the way in which
Tineas’s conscience would expect Dido to
behave to him. The point, it seems
to me, is not that Dido is un-
forgiving though it is important
that, instead of railing at him, she
merely snubs him perhaps the most
telling snub in all poetry;- what matters
most is, that Tineas does not forgive him-
self —and this, significantly, in spite of the
fact of which he is well aware, that all he
has done has been in compliance with
destiny.
Mr. Eliot is here overgenerous to the
Roman poet. The incident tells us a good
deal about the character of Dido, who, as
a woman scorned, becomes a figure more
pathetic, if less furiously impassioned,
than the great Medea of Euripides: and
who is, consequently, the most memorable
creation in the AHneid. And, just for a
moment, Tineas also begins to become
interesting as a human being. But merely
to state that is to ignore the fact that, in
the poem as a whole, the portrait of
-(Eneas is vague, shadowy and incon-
sistent ; he is not a character “in the
round” but the mere puppet of a pseudo-
historical epic. Commenting on the
scene in Book IV when Eneas deserts
Dido, Mr. F. J. H. Letters, lecturer in
classics at New England University
College, N.S.W., remarked in his
excellently balanced Virgil, published
a year or so ago: “If the un-
righteous piety of his reply arouses in us
the same scorn as in Dido, it is only fair
to remember that here, as so often hence-
forward, he is hdrdly more than an
abstraction, a symbol of the Empire.”
Moreover, while considering what the
Dido incident is—a moving portrait of
a woman deserted by her lover, marred
by the fact that the lover is an “abstrac-
tion”-—it is important also to consider
what it is not. In the first place, it is not
original.
Mr. Letters itemises a great many of
the Roman’s borrowings. Mr. Eliot
clears this awkward fence with one
prodigious bound, recording simply—with
approval—that the maker of the epic was
“rewriting” the poetry of his Greek and
Roman predecessors. But it would
surely be more exact to say that, by and
large, Virgil was simply an imitator of
Homer, It is true that Virgil celebrated
the idea of imperial Rome; but —the
Greeks had the Iliad and the Odyssey;
the Romans must have the Asneid.
Odysseus had deserted Circe and
Calypso; Eneas must desert Dido.
Odysseus had journeyed down to Hades ;
then Eneas must go there also.
Both Circe and Calypso having re-
ceived the news of the impending de-
parture of Odysseus with divine
tranquillity, Virgil has undoubtedly im-
proved on Homer in the present instance.
His version is more human, more mov-
ing, dramatically more exciting. But it
can hardly be denied that in the epic as
a whole we are aware at every turn of
the mighty ghost of Homer. And sel-
dom does Virgil improve on him. Dido
still misleads the voyager.
The second great fault that must be
found with the Dido story—beautiful as
it is in itself —is that it does not belong.
It is an incident, an interlude, an episode ;
something by-the-way.
It is true, of course, that the affair with
Dido delays Eneas on the travels that
will lead him to Italy; true again that
when he meets that pitiful shadow in
Hades he is on his way to an extremely
improbable interview with some Roman
heroes. And so Mr. Letters is justi-
fied when he speaks of the “formal
oneness” of the poem. But this is a
mere political unity, as it were, not the
organic unity of a living work of art.
There is no steady development in the
character of Eneas, mounting to some
great crisis. It is not even possible to
feel that he is really driven by any passion
to rush about the world and found the
Roman Empire. He is a drifting dummy,
following in the wake of Odysseus, who
happens to call on Dido because Odysseus
had called on Circe and Calypso: but the
wanderings of Homer’s hero are held in
an organic unity by the drama of Pene-
lope and her suitors which underlies the
whole. All the time we are listening to
Odysseus boasting about his travels to
such ladies as he meets on way, we
are wondering whether or not he will get
home in time to save his wife and his
lands. Homer, in a word, knew the im-
portance of suspense. There is no
human, mo dramatic suspense in Virgil’s
poem as a whole.
The suspense of the Odyssey does not
quite “work” ; for Odysseus takes a long
time telling the ladies about Odysseus.
But the beautiful structure is there, all the
same. And so, too, is the Iliad beauti-
fully constructed.
More than anything else in Homer —
except his characterisation —one admires
his sense of form; that, with the
whole confusion and turmoil of the
Trojan war before him, tempting him into
the mere chronicling of events, he should
have pruned and selected, shaped and
moulded until the great mass was com-
pressed into the simple triangle-story of
Agamemnon, Achilles and Briseis of the
fair cheeks. No doubt he interspersed
too much of the history of the war ; but
it should never be forgotten that he told
it within the framework of a human
drama:
Only from me of all the Achaians took
he my darling lady and keepeth her —■
let him sleep beside her and take his joy!
But why must the Argives make war on
the Trojans?
And against the vapidity of yEneas,
how resolute, how firm and clear and
strong are the characters of the Iliad!
Then Achilles fleet of foot looked at him
scowling and said: “Ah me, thou clothed
in shamelessness, thou of crafty mind,
how shall any Achaian hearken to thy
bidding with all his heart, be it to go on
a journey or to fight the foe amain? Not
by reason of the Trojan spearmen came
I hither to fight, for they have not wronged
me....but thee, thou shameless one, fol-
lowed we hither t'o make thee glad, by earn-
ing recompense at the Trojans’ hands for
Menelaos and for thee, thou dog-face!”
Then Agamemnon king of men made
answer to him: “Go home with thy ships
and company and dord it among thy Myrmi-
dons; I reck not‘aught of thee nor care I
for thy indignation; and this shall be my
threat to thee: seeing Phoebus Apollo be-
reaveth me of Chryseis, her with my ship
and my company will I send back; and
mine own self will I go to thy hut and take
B’nseis of the fair cheeks, even that thy
meed of honor, that thou mayest well know
how far greater I am than thou, and so
shall another hereafter abhor to match
his words with mine and rival me to my
face.”
These are not “abstractions” talking,
but men.
And what is it, essentially, that Homer
is offering us? More, certainly, than an
exciting interlude in a political chronicle,
for the whole of the Iliad is built around
this quarrel. But merely, then, a trivial
squabble between two warlords for the
possession of a slave-girl?
To think that would be completely to
misapprehend the profundity of Homer’s
mind. For the loss of Briseis, the poem
subsequently makes clear, is only the
excuse Achilles seizes upon to escape his
destiny, just as the death of Patroklos is
only the excuse he will seize upon when
later he decides to face his doom like a
man and a hero. The whole of the Iliad
revolves upon the question, will Achilles
join in battle again or will he not? ; and
the fatal question that he must answer in
his own soul is most clearly stated:
For thus my goddess mother telleth me,
Thetis the silver-footed, that twain fates
are bearing me to the issue of death. If I
abide here .and besiege the Trojans’ city,
then my returning home is taken from me,
but my fame shall be imperishable; but if
I go home to my dear native land, my
high fame is taken from me, but my life
shall endure long while, neither shall the
issue of death soon reach me.
Shall I escape, or shall I fight? Shall
I die with honor or live without it?
What is best for a man—riches or a high
fame, comfort or a great endeavor? That
is what the Iliad is about. That is the
human problem it sets, discusses and
answers ; and, today as it was when Troy
was besieggd, and as it will be while the
race of man walks the earth, it is the
fundamental human problem: it’s a
harsh and unjust world —how are we
going to face it? I
If, then, a comparison is made between
the art of Virgil as a whole and the art
of Homer—and this is to exclude the tre-
mendous development of Greek litera-
ture by the dramatists of the Golden Age
—one must find the Roman epic inferior
in form, drama, characterisation, pas-
sion ; uninspired in conception—it was
written to the order of Augustus ; imita-
tive in execution; its virtues those of
serious-mindedness rather than profun-
dity, sonority rather rather vitality . . .
the work of a great talent that, like Mil-
ton’s, never found its proper direction.
When Mr. Eliot asserts —
In Homer, the conflict between the
Greeks and the Trojans is hardly larger
in scope than a feud between one Greek
city-State and a coalition of otner city-
States: behind the story of Aneas is the
consciousness of a more radical distinc-
tion, a distinction which is at the same
time a statement of relatedness .between
the two great cultures and, finally, of
their reconciliation under an all-embracing
destiny—
he proves, as is not difficult to do, that
Virgil wrote a better political epic than
Homer, but he ignores—for the purposes
of his essay—the fact that Homer didn't
try to write anything of the sort, the
Iliad being primarily a drama of the
human passions.
And when these considerations are
borne in mind, it is difficult, in spite of
his masterly analysis of the development
of culture within a nation, to accept
Mr. Eliot’s final contention that Virgil is
“Our classic, the classic of all Europe.”
Whether or not one can do so depends,
of course, entirely on the definition of
“classic.” Mr. Eliot, who argues with a
fine lucidity and with many brilliant
asides, does not assert that Virgff was
“the greatest poet who ever wrote” nor
even, necessarily—he is not specific on
the point—that he was greater ihan
Homer:
I want to define one kind of art', and I
am not concerned that it is absolutely and
in every respect better or worse than
another kind.
Associating with his particular mean-
ing of “classic” chiefly the idea of “matu-
rity”—“maturity of mind, maturity of
manners, maturity of language and per-
fection of the common style”—Mr. Eliot
believes that for our standard of the
classic “we owe more to Virgil than to
any other one poet” ; and he declares;—
To preserve the classical standard and
to measure every other individual work of
literature by it is to see that, while our
literature as a whole may contain every-
thing, every single work in it may be defec-
tive in something... .Without the constant
application of the classical measure we
fend to become provincial... .What com-
mon measure of excellence have we in
literature, among our several languages,
which is not the classical measure? It
is sufficient that this standard should have
been established once for all: the task
does not have to be done again.
The flaw in What Is a Classic ? is Mr.
Eliot’s refusal to define his term “matu-
rity.” That there must be a “classical
criterion,” by which all works of litera-
ture —even those of Shakspeare—are to
be judged less or more defective, no
one could deny. The classic standard, as
Mr. Eliot points out, will be distinguished
by maturity of mind, manners, language
and style; and, since he exploited to the
full (or nearly so) the resources of the
Roman language at a time when the
Roman culture was at its most mature,
Virgil is, in a unique sense, a classic.
But, before we can accept that
“we owe more to Virgil than to any
other one poet” for a comprehensive
measure of the. classic, we would
have to agree that the Roman’s
borrowings from Homer attest his
maturity of mind; whereas, to the
present commentator, they suggest —in
Mr. Eliot’s own sense of the term—a
provinciality. Roman poetry, to use an-
other of Mr. Eliot’s terms, was born
“exhausted” ; and only in the prose fic-
tion of Petronius did Roman letters really
escape from the gigantic shadow of the
Greeks.
Where shall we turn, then, if Virgil
does not fulfil Mr. Eliot’s own require-
ments, for our standard of the classic?
The truly supreme classic is not a human
but an imagined being: a Platonic Idea.
And the nearest one can come to the
realisation of that mythical Ideal Poet is
in the total of Greek literature, or the
total achievement of Shakspeare.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the talkies:
“This Love of Ours” (Sydney State): A
Pirandello play of considerable dramatic power.
It has to do with a jealous husband’s desertion
of his wife through a misunderstanding, their
eventual reconciliation and the consequent task
of the wife of winning the affection of the
child to whom she is not only a stranger but
an interloper.
“They Were Sisters” (Sydney Embassy): A
firstrate British film about a family of girls,
the youngest of whom, sensitive and weak,
marries a man who delights to see her suffer.
James Mason demonstrates how subtly cruelty
can be practised, and Phyllis Calvert as the
avenging elder sister does her best work to date.
“Thrill of a Romance” (Sydney St. James):
An M.G.M. musical in color; its most pleas-
ing feature being the singing of Lauritz
Melchior.
“lire Conspirators” (Sydney Plaza): A
Prokosch spy story; setting, Lisbon in the war
years.
“Our Vines Have Tender Grapes” (Melb. St.
James): A gentle story of the struggles of an
American-Norwegian farming community in
Wisconsin. A fine performance by Edward G.
Robinson and two clever children, Margaret
O’Brien and Jackie Jenkins.
“Love.in a Mist,” put on by Melbourne
Little Theatre, concerns a newly-married
couple marooned by fog at a duck-
farmer’s remote bungalow at Exmoor,
and another couple consisting of a young
businessman and his. father’s typist, whom
he has picked up for the week-end. The
queer associations around' love of the
married couple and the ill consciences of
the unmarried make .a shallow but
brightly written entertainment. As the
duck-farmer’s wife Dorothy O’Keeffe was
particularly funny.
Most of the 32 oils, drawings and watercolors
at H. Weaver Hawkins’s exhibition at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries are of a uniform,
conventional mediocrity; but the excep-
tions, if mercifully few, are bizarre enough,
and startling among their dull companions:
as though they had been dashed off as an
afterthought or to prove that the artist can do
the “modernist” sort of thing as well as the
next. The most extraordinary of these is called
“Aftermath,” and has an unlovely nude sitting
on a chair, staring with dull loathing at a man,
likewise seated, naked and ugly. He returns her
look sullenly. Around and behind them I s
heaped symbolic debris, but, surprisingly, the
legs of the lady’s chair are not broken. But
for this it might well be called “The Wheel of
the Wagon Is Broken.” True, there is no
wagon, but it’s symbolic, anyhow, and has a
popular ring.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
THE SENIOR STORE"
ihC
m
II
m — 1
t
io<*
*AS«* ?
\0
rB
»r
■i
'
\L
M R ANDRE
AUGH
e
A WAV***
6m^
c Vw?
; !
»/ k
a
rwi
fv\
1
vv*£- .
j^~s=s-
-
■y
\0
*0
vtRAWt
Will HP SOLVI YOUR IVtRYDAY NOME PROBIfMS/
Consult our Handyman, Mr. Andrew Waugh, about any of your
home difficulties. He will be found on our Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street, next to the Paints Department, and is available during
Business Hours. We offer you his valuable assistance as a free **l
service. \o*
LISTEN TO STATION 2GB EACH
SUNDAY MORNING AT 10.15 A.M.
Many of those odd jobs around the home
will become simple if you listen to Mr.
Waughs weekly chats over Station 2GB
remember each Sunday at 10.15 a.m.
;
A
-
\
i'
y
I
=5
n
si\voA
sgaasat
mmM
ffiii
mrv?i
UULfcS
- =1
IQ
JLii
Ol
■ -
;< V/Ai
m
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
fAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


E ' ‘ 'A
.
!i '=s I'
j.jhm \< '\
Hi m
m
mm
m
m :
±: ....;
,
fl
N . st*##** I **
1
- ...
-
J
....
.
Mi
■
* - „
•': ; ■
m
mu
■ . ;
:
■
:
a
■
:
m
S’*
'•■ ■ ■ ■
-
Steelbilt Locker Installation in Ladies’ Change
Room at Kellogg’s Factory, Botany, Sydney.
?. d She invisible force flint builds efficiency
ond helps production!
Today, Australian employers have recognised the importance of providing
safe locker facilities for employees.
Everywhere Steelbilt Standardised Lockers have replaced old fashioned
Cloakroom fittings in stores and institutions. Whilst in modern factories it
is being made a first consideration.
Security, cleanliness, privacy, these are the major advantages offered in
a Steelbilt Locker Installation.
Solidly constructed, distinctively finished in olive green, Steelbilt Lockers
can be assembled individually Tack to back, back to wall or flush with wall.
A call to Wormald Brothers will bring a Steelbilt expert to your factory.
rr
■ ?
E
H
■ ■
■s.
r.!*
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD. (Inc. in N.S.W.) Fire Protection Engineers since 1889 : All Australian States and New Zealand


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3448
Wednesday, March 13, 1946
“CHARGE, MOUNSEER—IF YOU CAN!”
“The tepid Note to Franco, which has enraged Leftists, was, according to a Washington message, designed to prevent France from seconding Russia in taking
direct action against Spain.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings C opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIAN? GOOD GOD!
For upwards of four years and five
months this part of the British Common-
wealth has been run in a spirit and by
methods which are neither characteristi-
cally British nor characteristically Aus-
tralian.
As in the unfortunate Scullin period,
many of the “Labor” Ministers and
members are of Irish descent. This would
have been* a decided advantage had they
been anything like Finucane and Fogarty
Fegen or the Irish-American leaders A 1
Smith and Jim Farley ; but there was not
even the remotest resemblance. The
attitude of their party in the early months
of the war had the De Valera touch. Yet
not altogether, and Mr. de Valera pos-
sibly had misgivings ; after all, he was a
fighter who staked his life on his convic-
tions. As demonstrated particularly in
1944, “Labor’s” bent was for fighting its
fellow-countrymen in its fashion.
To go back-to that last quarter of 1939
is to experience a feeling of nausea. There
was to be no A.1.F., no Empire Air Train-
ing scheme, no obligation on the part
of any young man to learn the rudiments
of soldiering nor (base corollary!) any
defence of the mandated territories,
Papua, Norfolk Island and Nauru by men
called up on the continent. What did
Mr. Curtin say in the House on Sep-
tember 21, 1939?
These territories which have been added
to the Commonwealth under various
arrangements ought not to be made the
subject of conscribed service. We say
there should be no conscription of the
Australian people for the defence of Aus-
tralian overseas territories, which may be
described as extra-territorial to the Com-
monwealth. We say they ought to be
defended by forces voluntarily recruited.
And what on November 15, 1939, in
condemnation of “the introduction by the
Government of compulsory military train-
ing and its decision in respect of an ex-
peditionary air force for overseas”?
We are against compulsory training. I
see no justification for it. And we ought
not to agree to the depletion of our man-
power, more especially in respect of our
men who are trained or are about to be
trained for the Air Force.
The England-hating Mr. Ward had
“demanded a more definite assurance
that the Government is not proposing to
raise an expeditionary force.” Refused
any such assurance, and taking over from
his leader, he tried to secure a Defence
Act “amendment” forbidding the sending
of called-rup men to Mandated New
Guinea, the Solomons, Papua, Nauru or
Norfolk Island. The proposal was de-
feated on a party vote.
There was even at this time a “Labor”
adaptation of the old “England’s neces-
sity - is - Ireland’s - opportunity” cry.
“Labor” proposed that Australia should
keep out of the war unless attacked on
the continent or in Tasmania, but should
make money out of it by supply-
ing the British services and the
forces of the fighting Dominions with
foodstuffs and other requirements. Here
again the numbers were against it; but
Mr. Ward preserved the conviction that
the majority was wrong.
In February, 1944, when Mr. Curtin
was about to go abroad, very reluctantly,
his junior Minister’s feelings overflowed.
Shortly after the outbreak of war I
pointed out that it was unwise to denude
this country of its manpower, because by
doing so we were actually rendering a dis-
service to the Allied cause. We then
pointed out that the most effective role
Australia could play was that of the great
supplier to the Allied nations and that we
should devote our efforts to building up
supplies to that end. That view has since
been proved to be correct.
Which showed, among other unspeakably
ugly things, that Bardia, Tobruk, the
Syrian campaign, El Alamein, Milne Bay,
Buna-Gona and Finschhafen meant
nothing to this Sydney demagogue. They
and the battles of Britain, the Atlantic,
the Mediterranean, the Java Sea, the
Coral Sea and Midway should have
meant something to Mr, Curtin, who, with
the same racial origins as Mr. *Ward, was
a politician of a somewhat different
stamp. The time came when many
American conscripts died in defence of
Australian mandated territory. In modest
and entirely warrantable emulation of
Lincoln on the field of Gettysburg Mr.
Curtin .could have visited the Americans
and their Australian comrades in the
theatre of their glory and agony and
dedicated at least one of their cemeteries.
He never went. Mr. Churchill (of
course), Marshal Smuts and Mr. Fraser
made it a point of honor to visit the
fighting men of their nations on battle-
fronts (Mr. Fraser in Italy as well as the
Pacific), but not Mr. Curtin.
In the meantime, Malaya, Timor,
Borneo, Java and New Britain remained
in Japanese hands. In all these places
the barbarous enemy had taken many
thousands of Australian prisoners, a
tragically large proportion of whom,
victims of inhuman treatment or battened
down in sunken ships, had already gone to
join their comrades who had been killed in
action or died of wounds. Of the cam-
paigns in which these Australians were
lost, “Labor” said little, and of their
fate it said less. It had a campaign of
its own to “fight” in 1943, and won it on
the cry that its opponents’ policy for the
defence of Australia had been “defeatist”
and had proposed a retirement behind
“the Brisbane line,” which “Labor” had
countermanded. The fact that the
tragedies of Rabaul, Ambon, Java and
Timor, all far north of “the Brisbane
line,” had occurred during “Labor’s”
period of office an<4 strategy was never
even hinted at; and neither then nor since
has there been any attempt to explain or
excuse Mr. Forde’s words of cheer to
the Australians and their companions on
Singapore Island when the ghastliest
tragedy in the history of Australia and
the Empire was moving swiftly to its
close. “Labor’s” Army Minister promised
immediate and ample assistance:
It will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming
torrent.
Mr. Ward had no difficulty in persuad-
ing himself that Singapore demonstrated
the rottenness of “British imperialism,”
dwelling triumphantly on two material
“facts” of which he had been in-
formed, presumably by some of his
Communist friends: (1) “The native
laborers deserted because they saw
no reason to be enthusiastic in
defending a form of government which
had kept them in a state of illiteracy and
starvation”; (2) “the military caste spent
the bulk of their time at cocktail parties
and were in a semi-drunken state when
they should have been attending to their
military duties.” He contrasted these dis-
gusting scenes with the grand picture
presented by Soviet Russia, towering
above the wretched “imperialist” coun-
tries, though exposed to their envy and
malice:
More progress has been, made in Soviet
Russia in 25 years than has been achieved
by any capitalist country in ten times that
period. British and American imperialists
are alarmed at what the success of the
Soviet armies may bring. There has been
a widely-shared opinion, not only in Aus-
tralia but also in other countries, that cer-
tain of the Allied nations tend to with-
hold their strength and build it up while
allowing the Soviet to bleed itself white,
so that they will be the strongest military
influence at the Peace Conference.
After that there was no doubt (if there
ever could have been any) as to which
side the Communists would take at the
Evatt referendum, which was “Labor’s”
major campaign in 1944. The Communists
threw themselves into the struggle with
everything they had, and virtually took
control of it in N. S. Wales. They were
not slow in pointing out that they and
“Labor” aimed at the same objective, “the
socialisation of industry, production, dis-
tribution and exchange,” differing only
as to methods. The alliance survived the
vote in the constituencies, a shock to each
partner, who had counted on success
everywhere. Meanwhile the “Govern-
ment” kept most of the men in uniform
in mainland camps, depots, “guard com-
pounds and detention barracks” (these
for the very large number that went
a.w.1., in N. S. Wales alone 32,881 soldiers
in 1944-45), as it had been doing for
two years, though after Midway there
was no danger of a Japanese invasion in
force. Mainly for this reason, the Japa-
nese war, as waged, cost twice as much
as it should have cost.
Since “Labor” came in we have had
“socialism in our time,” with acres of
regulations administered by hordes of
officials and all the evil consequences of
a socialist despotism informed by a
coarse and inept materialism.
We have seen innocent men, among
them wounded soldiers of World War I,
consigned to internment camps for many
months without being tried or even
charged ; and we have heard the undenied
boasts of Communists of the kind that
Canada has been rounding up as traitors
that they had these men, proved guiltless
by a Judge, put there. We have
seen production blasted because land-
men were denied machinery, imple-
ments, parts, fuel, fertiliser and labor,
the labor being held uselessly in
military camps and depots, and because
the “Government” was blind to the neces-
sities of war- and famine - stricken
peoples in the two great continents and
of the British nation, after six years
of fighting and suffering reduced to
meagre and monotonous rations. With
wheat authorities reporting a frightful
world shortage, we can read these
deadly expenditure items in Mr. Chifley’s
Budget papers, published only five months
ago;
Wheat - acreage restriction, Western
Australia: 1943-44, £599,348; 1944-45,
£586,964; 1945-46, £285,000.
We have witnessed a prodigious boom in
“Labor” Government lotteries in four
States, all competing all too successfully with
war and post-war loans. And returned
servicemen, searching in vain for the
industrial training, jobs, houses and farms
that “Labor” effusively promised, find
that, though supplies were reduced
and prices fixed and tax on in-
come exceeding £5OOO was 18s. 6d. in
the £, a new-rich class has sprung
up, a class in which betting men, publi-
cans and proprietors of dinner-dance
joints are conspicuous, along with others
who prefer not to parade their callings.
And along with all this there has gone
a nasty attitude to Britain, evidenced last
year in peevish complaints that Australia
had been excluded from the Council of
Foreign Ministers (at most five , some-
times three), refused foreknowledge of the
Potsdam Declaration (which, in respect of
Mr. Churchill, Mr. Attlee and Mr. Tru-
man, meant admission to the secret of the
atomic bomb), and even denied represen-
tation at the surrender ceremony in
Tokyo Bay until the British Labor Gov-
ernment was put in its place as a result
of Evatt-Beasley appeals to Washington.
The British Labor Dominions Secretary
protested that exclusion of Australia from
the surrender ceremony had never
entered his mind, and his protest has been
confirmed by the complete American con-
trol of affairs in Japan, from the sur-
render ceremony onwards; but one of
those rags which support “Labor” in
appreciation of favors received and to
come branded him as a liar.
It might have been expected that
“Labor” would at least do nothing to
add to the almost insupportable burdens
of the British Labor Government; but the
expectation has not been realised. On
the contrary, a Canberra Minister, the
snarling Calwell, has attacked British
Labor for not placing the Queen Mary
at the disposal of his “Government” for
the shipment of 2000 or 3000 Australian
servicemen’s wives and children (she
could carry 15,000), when he himself has
commissioned two ships to take “our
Indernesian comrades” to Java, where
they could only give the British libera-
tion forces another headache, and says
he is chartering another. And, heedless
of the effect on the White Aus-
tralia doctrine, to which it still gives lip-
service, “Labor” has been a party to the
six-months’ Communist boycott of Dutch
ships chartered to carry foodstuffs, medi-
cines and other Australian produce to
Dutch East Indies.
Communists hate the Dutch, be-
cause they have rejected all Com-
munist overtures, and because they
have maintained their steady attachment
to the British —cemented at Arnhem,
where, on the testimony of the com-
mander of the British Airborne Division,
many survivors of the battle were helped
across the river to safety by heroic Dutch
of both sexes. “Labor’s” attitude is one
of dislike rather than hatred, but “Labor”
shares the guilt of the Communist war
oh the Dutch in the N.E.I. A colored
Communist republic directed from Mos-
cow having a common frontier with
Australian New Guinea would be a
serious menace to this country ; but Mr.
Chifley, trying to defend the indefen-
sible, found comfort in the thought,
extraordinary for a professed champion of
the White Australia doctrine, that “the old
order in Indonesia will not continue after
the final settlement in May.”
Everywhere but in Australia parties in
which people of Irish extraction predo-
minate or are prominent stand for free
enterprise and refuse to have any truck
with Communists or even Socialists; and
from Irish-Americans, as from Irish-
Australians (here notably in the Food for
Britain appeals), has come generous sup-
port for the British people in their ex-
tremity. Mr. Joe Kennedy, the former
U.S. Ambassador in London, was thought
to be no friend of Britain, but he has come
out with the suggestion that the proposed
U.S. loan should be transformed into
a gift, on the ground that “the British
are in a bad economic situation, and it is
in our interest to help that fine people
lest they be driven into the arms of Com-
munists.” In London during the same
week it was announced that Canada was
lending Britain $1,250,000,000 for 50
years at two per cent, (“payable after
January 1, 1951”), in the process “can-
celling the $425,000,000 indebtedness of
the U.K. for the Empire Air Training
Scheme and agreeing that the interest-
free loan granted to Britain by Canada
in 1942 will be continued on the same
basis till January, 1951, repayment of any
balance to be discussed in the meantime.”
Mr. Mair, the N.S.W. Opposition-leader,
suggested an Australian loan to Britain,
but “Labor” would not even consider it.
Canada has made generous gifts to
Britain and stinted itself to increase its
food shipments, and so has New Zealand.
Canadian food ships bearing gifts to dis-
tressed allies have become a feature of
the European seascape from the Piraeus
to Oslo. “Labor’s” Food Controller came
out against the Food for Britain move-
ment, and “Labor” has demanded pay-
ment for every ton of foodstuffs it has
sent to Britain. It still fails to perceive
any moral obligation to send even a side
of bacon or a dozen eggs as a present
from the nation.
The affair of the Yoizuki found
“Labor” in a pit of its own digging, self-
exposed to nation-wide indignation and
contempt. According to custom, it tried
to pass the buck to a “higher authority,”
identified later as General MacArthur,
but this ignoble expedient availed it little
at any time and less than nothing when
the general issued a plain statement from
Tokyo repudiating responsibility for the
infamy disgracefully attributed to him
and placing it in the real quarter.
In spite of “Labor” (and Communist)
preachings of hate and deadly materialism,
expressed as to the latter in direct en-
couragement of gambling and toleration
of the beastly side of the liquor traffic,
the Australian nation still has a con-
science. Its conscience revolted against
the packing of 100 Formosan women and
112 children (two of the women preg-
nant and 15 of thepi stretcher cases),
in all nearly 1200 persons, most of them
sex-starved buck Asiatics, into a
destroyer with latrines hanging over the
stern, the women and children being con-
fined in a deckhouse with 400 men —
and this in the cyclone season,
when the destroyer might plug into the
tail of one of the worst cyclones in North
Queensland history.
In words which revealed his disgust
with the crowd which hid behind his
broad shoulders so often during the war,
General MacArthur flatly declared that
“nothing was known in Japan of the in-
tent to load these women and children”
by “the Australian authorities,” and
he “immediately requested” ' those
“authorities” to “debark all the women
and children with the males of their
families at Rabaul or some port nearer
Sydney,” arranging, for his part, that “a
Japanese hospital ship” should carry
them the rest of their journey to Formosa.
A complete crusher, if there ever was one.
So for all its posturings and preten-
sions “Labor” has drifted to the point
of moral collapse, though not yet in
eclipse. That is one lesson of a ghastly
business. Another, much more import-
ant in the long run, is that Australians,
bred in the tradition of their ancestors
who abolished slavery, remain true to it;
are still a Christian people, humane and
kindly even in the case of their enemies,
though they refuse to consider women
and children as enemies. And let
“Labor” make of it what “Labor” can!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Bradfield's Vision.
North Queensland has suffered tragedy,
damage- and loss through one of the
greatest floods in its history. Most of the
country from Cairns to Mackay and west
to a line from Mt. Surprise to Sellheim
was drowned under tropic rains, floods
reaching to over 80 feet in height. It
happened in a couple of days, leaving
ruin all along the Burdekin valley. The
material loss is reckoned at £3,000,000.
The floods have passed, most of that
enormous volume of water having run
away to the seas, But they will come
again. North Queensland being no
stranger to these visitations. Further
west lies a vast country which could be
turned into a productive wonderland
could the water from the heavy annual
summer rains of the coast be turned
into it.
Dr. Bradfield, an engineer and scientist
of world-wide reputation, died believing it
could be done, and left behind a plan
for the doing of it. He proposed col-
lecting the floodwaters of the Tully,
Herbert, Burdekin and Clarke and passing
them over the ranges into the head-
waters of the Flinders system, thence by
canals into the west to irrigate over
2,000,000 acres. Further west, he visu-
alised dams in the Mac Donnell and Mus-
grave Ranges at Glen Helen Gorge,
Simpson’s Gap, Ganger Waters and on
the Finke and Valley of the Plains rivers,
to irrigate 500 square miles. He wanted
the Cooper floodwaters impounded at
Kullymurra Gorge (near Innamincka).
Advancing these plans, Dr. Bradfield
dealt fully with the engineering, evapora-
tion and other problems. He estimated
the cost at £30,000,000 and the sheep in-
crease alone at 20,000,000. There would
be enormous development in addition, of
course, with settlements and cities spring-
ing up on the plains.
Dr. Bradfield’s dream has been argued
and wrangled over for several years. No
official investigation has ever been made.
That one should be made wall not be
denied by anyone contemplating the
disaster in the Burdekin valley.


New States.
The constitutional barriers to the forma-
tion of new States (in the U.S.A.,
a continuous process, as witness the
admission of 10 States in 23 years,
1889-1912, and the proposed admis-
sion of two more) were mentioned
in B. 27/2/’46. They amount to
“the consent of the Parliament of a
State, and the approval of the majority
of electors of the State voting upon the
question,” where it is proposed to form
a new State or States out of unwieldy
aggregations of territory and population
like N. S. Wales and Queensland (Section
123), and “the consent of the Parliaments
of the States affected” where “parts of
States” want to set up in business under
the Commonwealth —for example, the
Riverina, with a Victorian extension.
It has been recalled to The Bulletin
that a way of hurdling the barriers was
proposed at a Riverina New State con-
ference held at Narrandera (N.S W.) in
1921. For the Narrandera people dele-
gate J. A. Lorimer moved that Sections
123 and 124 be amended to enable the
Commonwealth to admit a new State or
new States “with the consent of a three-
fifths majority of Commonwealth electors
in the area or areas affected.” There was
unanimous agreement, and this was forth-
coming also for a motion that a new
section be added to the relevant part of
the Constitution (“Chapter vi New
States”); “The Commonwealth Parlia-
ment shall, on a petition signed by 10,000
electors in an area containing not less
than the equivalent of the population of
one Commonwealth electorate, cause a
vote to be taken in such area without
further delay.”
“These resolutions,” Mr. Lorimer re-
calls, “were submitted to three major
parties but got no sort of hearing from
any of them. They caused some friction
with the northern N.S.W. movement, the
then leader of that movement being of
opinion that they would, if carried, tend
towards unification.” He was needlessly
apprehensive.
The Albury branch also secured unani-
mous support for a motion which has a
curious ring in these days of unbridled
extravagance when politicians decide what
pay, allowances, holidays and pensions
they should award themselves:
That any new State Parliament or Coun-
cil shall contain not more than 30 mem-
bers, each member to be paid not more
than two guineas per sitting; no payment
in absence or during recess, and sittings
to be not more than 60 days per year.
And there was a Narrandera resolution,
adopted by “a large majority,” which
should interest Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt,
who are interesting themselves with no
perceptible enthusiasm in another refer-
endum but are not looking for petitions.
That any proposed enactnient for the
alteration of the Constitution or any matter
of vital importance affecting the welfare
of the Commonwealth or any of the
States or parts of States shall, on the re-
ceipt of a petition signed by not less than
20 per cent, of the electors in the part or
parts affected, within six months of the
time when the petition is presented be sub-
mitted to the electors in the part or parts
affected.
Objectors maintained that it would be
“wrong to give a district like Darwin the
right to take a referendum as to whether
the Union Jack should be hauled down
and a Soviet Government established.”
For “Darwin” substitute any of the N. S.
Wales coastal districts infested by Com-
munists and the objection would still be
valid and pertinent.
Leader or Led?
One of the most disturbing characteristics
of those at present in control of public
finance in Australia is the contemptu-
ous manner in which they speak of sums
of money which by any normal Aus-
tralian standards would be considered
large.
The latest example comes from the
Prime Minister himself. It was given
during the debate on the censure motion
before the debate was gagged and while
Mr, Chifley was trying to brazen out his
“Government’s” connivance at the long
hold-up of Dutch mercy ships.
Said “the leader of this country”:
Published statements that between
£30,000,000 and £40,000,000 worth of sup-
plies for relief in Indonesia has been held
up were complete rubbish. Value of the
goods is between £3,000,000 and
£5,000,000, and probably it is nearer
£3,000,000.
The implication is surely that
£3,000,000 worth of trade is hardly worth
worrying about.
For years before the war politicians
and merchants alike were stressing the
importance of trade with the Dutch East
Indies —in those days not even a wharfie
had heard of “Indonesia.” The amount
of newsprint used to publicise the idea of
trade with the N.E.I. would be sufficient
to form a white carpet from Canberra to
Batavia; trade missions have toured the
N.E.1., and in pre-war years a trade
commissioner) was maintained in Batavia.
Despite all this Australian exports to
the Dutch East Indies for the decade
ended 1939 averaged only £1,336,965 per
annum. Both this figure and the actual
exports for the year 1939 were below
those recorded for the first year of the
decade, although imports from the Indies
had increased during the ’thirties from
£4,011,194 to £7,119,785. No one doubts
that the trade commissioner and his staff
and the mercantile interests involved did
their best to dig in on the Indies market;
their comparative failure is the measure
of the competition they encountered.
After a war-enforced breaking-off of
all commerce with conquered territory the
Commonwealth had a heaven-sent oppor-
tunity of capturing markets which geo-
graphically could rightly be considered
hers. She had no need to go after them ;
they were offered to her. In these matters
a leg-in is half the battle, and through
the muddled state of world affairs Aus-
tralian producers had the opportunity not
only to get a leg in but to step in
with both feet. Communist-controlled
wharfies, with the tacit consent of “the
leader of this country” and with the
active assistance of Communist-controlled
coal, iron and steel and shipping strikers,
preferred to sink the boat.
The usual approach to this question
of relief ships for Java has been on
humanitarian lines. That approach ignores
the fact that Communists and their
blood brothers, while giving lip-service to
the cause of the weak and the suffering,
are devoid of compassion and pity and,
as Australians learnt during the December
Communist-led strikes, have a callous dis-
regard for the victims of their irrespon-
sible caprices.
Mr. Chifley, as “Labor” member for
Macquarie, with recollections of his own
part in the strikes of 1917, may have a
fellow-feeling for the gang that dictates
“COMRADES, COMRADES!”
(But not exactly “ever since they were born.”)
“There is a great deal of feeling in Australia that there is room for reform in the
administration of the Netherlands East Indies... .The old order in Indonesia will not
continue after the final settlement in May.” — Mr. Chifley.
Australia’s foreign policy—his attack on
their critics certainly suggests this;
as leader of the Government with
an eye on the next election he may have
thought it politic to pamper his “sup-
porters” and nurse the Communist vote ;
but as Treasurer and “leader of this
country” he can hardly blind himself to
the fact that he is undoing the work of
years as far as trade with the East is con-
cerned, and that the ones who will ulti-
mately suffer from his passivity will be
not “capitalist” merchants but the
workers and producers of Australia.
The goods held up in Dutch ships
represent the equivalent of more than
any two pre-war years’ exports to the
N.E.I. Three millions is not merely a
figure on a slip of paper passed over to
the Treasurer at Question Time. It
represents a year’s pay at the basic wage
for 12,000 men ; a year’s food, clothing
and shelter for their families. In terms
of Government housing it means homes
for 2400 ex-servicemen. It is an item of
foreign trade that cannot be glibly dis-
missed even by a party politician seeking
to gloss over the criminal misdeeds of his
followers. But the hold-up means more
than that; it means the prejudicing of all
future trade with the Dutch East Indies.
For Dutch they will remain, and it is in
Australia’s interests that they should,
despite Mr. Chifley’s ill-considered pro-
phecy of a new order in Indonesia after
“the final settlement in May.”
Brisbane Comes of Age.
With the election of the first Greater
Brisbane Council on February 21, 1925,
Queensland’s capital city began existence
in its present administrative form amid
a fanfare of civic and political trumpet-
ings and fervent prophecies that it would
make all other Australian cities look
like squalid villages within a decade.
With 385 square miles of area, was it not
Australia’s biggest city already, and one
of the‘largest in the world? Before it
was three years old the lusty infant had
swallowed £s} million in municipal loans.
Ail other Queensland local authorities
combined had spent less than £2 million
of loan money in the same period.
By 1939 Greater Brisbane had reached
its adolescence, having acquired a mil-
lion-pound City Hall, a further tre-
mendous load of loan-debt and greatly
increased rates. Its water supply was still
inadequate, its sewerage much more so,
its traffic facilities inferior. But its
mosquitoes were still far ahead of all
civic competitors in numbers and
voracity.
Then war descended on the world,
Japan essayed Pacific conquest, and
from 1942 to 1945 Brisbane became, in
effect, a garrison town with a vastly
increased migrant population and greatly
reduced resources in manpower for
carrying out municipal work, A “Labor”-
dominated Council naturally fell down
on such a job, and an alarmed citizenry
replaced it at the first opportunity by a
more dependable article under the
leadership of J. B. Chandler as Lud-
mayor. For three strenuous years he and
it made the best of a difficult situation.
Another Council election is due late in
April, and the opposing parties are
skirmishing for position. The City Hall
is heavily marked down from its original
£1 million, but rates and loan interest
still soar ; the famous mosquitoes flourish
better than ever and housing conditions
for many families, even in better-class
areas, are unspeakably bad. During re-
cent inquiries into infectious diseases by
the Health Committee 20 individuals,
comprising four families, were found to
be living in a house suitable for no more
than five persons, 37 in two houses
neither of which should have housed
more than six persons and three families
totalling ten individuals in one weather-
board room with a detached kitchen. All
included children. But that, of course,
is a “Commonwealth matter,” though the
Commonwealth “ ‘Labor’ Government”
--as always—is busy passing the buck.
Whichever party is returned at next
month’s election, the incoming Council
will have ahead of it the most extensive
and complicated task ever faced by .any
Australian municipality. Brisbane’s resi-
dential population has increased greatly
during the war years; housing accom-
modation is at a dangerously low level,
with little or no prospect of any early
improvement. Heavy expenditure is still
required before sewerage, water supply
and other basic municipal services essen-
tial to public safety and wellbeing can
be brought up to the level of those pro-
vided for citizens by Melbourne and
Adelaide.
"New Land Tax."
L. W Galvin, Victorian Minister of
Lands and Water Supply, writes:
The paragraph from a contributor sign-
ing himself “Nilsa” (B. 13/2/ ’46) has
been brought fo my notice. It is obvious
that the person who wrote the paragraph
does not understand at all the idea put
forward in my broadcast.
I quote the following extracts:
“It will be clear to all who give the matter
the slightest consideration that successful
irrigation means an immediate increase m
the value of land. But not only does the
land to which water is applied increase in
value; there is also an immediate increase
in values in adjacent farming lands and in
the towns which arise or expand because
of the advent of irrigation. Businesses,
factories and other commercial enterprises
are also established in towns adjacent to
irrigation areas, which also brings about
increasing land values.
“The increased production and the general
prosperity which have followed successful
irrigation settlements are also reflected in
the metropolitan land values, and what I
have said about land values and irrigation
applies equally to the establishment of any
other State developmental works. This
raises the question of what contribution, if
any, is obtained towards the cost of de-
velopmental works from those who have
benefited by increased land values It
was considered that many owners of land
in Australia had obtained unearned re-
wards from State expenditure of public
moneys simply because they have been for-
- tunate enough to hold land adjacent to
large State developmental works
“I consider that there must be a com-
pletely new approach to the method of
financing these developmental works, and
the suggestion made by Mr. East for the
establishment of a State development tax
on all land values, the return from which
shall be set aside to meet interest charges
on State developmental works, is of con-
siderable merit. It would have the effect
of placing the responsibility for the in-
terest on the cost of State [printed
as received, but it should obviously be
“on those”] who benefited directly or in-
directly from such works, particularly
those who, because of increased land
values, have gained substantial financial
benefits without having done anything to
bring about increased land values. In the
past these fortunate people have been able
to avoid making any contribution to the
cost of developmental works. They have
been lucky because they happened to own
land which increased in value simply be-
cause the State carried out projects which
brought about a demand for the land they
held, which would not have been the case
had the works not been undertaken.
“The real meaning of my proposals would
be that the towns and cities would contri-
bute nearly four-fifths of the total revenue
that would be obtained from such' a tax.
This is because the values in the towns
and cities from which the greater part
of the revenue would be obtained are
much higher than in the country, which
would provide a comparatively small part
of the tax, city values running into thou-
sands of pounds per foot frontage in some
cases.”
There is a case for a betterment tax in
districts where land values increase as a
result of State expenditure on new
“developmental works.” There is no case
for putting the clock back and making
the whole body of landowners (many of
whom will be young servicemen when,
or if, they get houses) bear the burden
of interest on loans for “developmental
works” in being, or perhaps abandoned,
many of which have been sinks for bor-
rowed money.
Victoria already has three sets of land
taxes. Federal, State and municipal. In
the latest Victorian Year-Book issued
(1942-43), they are shown as having re-
turned £5,750,881 in 1942-43 —municipal
£4,187,601, Federal £1,028,273 and
State £355,007. There are also Common-
wealth probate and succession duties and
Victorian probate duties which in 1942-43
returned £2,696,000 in Australia and
£1,490,978 in Victoria. And there is a
Commonwealth income tax which started
at 6d. in the £ on the first £lOO and
reached 222 d. in the £ on anything
over £5OOO. Certainly a bit has been
taken off income tax, but any Victorian
who wants another tax is a glutton. Inci-
derltally, before uniform income tax came
in Victorians in receipt of income from
property (very largely thrifty people past
working) were taxed at double the rates
imposed on receivers of “earned” income.
These people paid more' than their share
of the interest (and losses) on “develop-
mental works.”
\ ‘
A Modern Scourge.
According to statistics, cancer comes
third in the general causes of death, next
after heart disease and pneumonia. In
Victoria it is estimated that one out of
every eight of the adult population will
die of cancer under present conditions of
knowledge and treatment.
The Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria
has decided to start an intensive cam-
paign against the menace. One aim is to
induce patients suffering from any signs
or symptoms to submit themselves
promptly for treatment. Failure to report
considerably reduces the chance pf ulti-
mate cure and eventually prolongs the
time of treatment.
Generally speaking, cancer is curable
if diagnosis and treatment are started
early; if they are delayed all the results
of modern treatment by surgery, radium
or deep X-ray may go for nothing.
In America the average delay in seek-
ing advice in common cancer cases has
been found to be nine months.
The Victorian Council is working on a
plan for a hospital centre entirely devoted
to treatment by radio-therapy along the
lines of an institution which has had re-
markable success in Manchester.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ~.
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
OUTSTANDING NEW BOOKS
THE DICKENS DIGEST. Four great Dickens
masterpieces condensed for the modern
reader—David Copperfleld, Oliver Twist,
Martin Chuzzlewit, Pickwick Papers. With
5 coloured plates and 40 other drawings.
26/3 (post, 1/3).
homes IN THE SDN. The past, present and
future of Australian Housing with 182 illust-
rations, by Walter Punning. 13/6 (post. 4d.).
THE CHANGING SHAPE OF THINGS. Illust-
rations of the old and the new with descrip-
tions by Paul Redmayne, illustrated by
Frances McNally. 7/3 (post. 3d.).
THE BOOK OF POTTERY & PORCELAIN,
ihe most complete book on the subject ever
issued. All types of china, pottery and
porcelain, Oriental, European, English,
American. 3000 illustrations, complete tables
of marks. 76/- (post. 1/6).
D^ SI £ N t-, OF modern INTERIORS, by J. &
K. M. Ford. Interiors of 106 American houses
and apartments, profusely illustrated from
photographs. 35/- (post. 1/-).
BREWER’S DICTIONARY OF PHRASE &
FABEE. New and revised edition of the
*.«™ <iard work - 1158 Pages. 37/6 (post. 1/-).
SOUTH OF THE SAHARA. Perilous encounters
with big game and strange peoples in the
African Wilds, by Attillo Gatti. 21/- (post.
6d.).
PAY DIRT FARMING & GARDENING WITH
COMPOSTS, by Rodale. A revolution in
gardening. 21/- (post. 6d.).
MAKE THE MOST OF YOUR FIFE, by D.
Lurton. This book gives ways and means of
using to the utmost what talents and oppor-
tunities the reader now has. 14/- (post. 6d.).
THE BUILDING OF THE BURMA ROAD, by
Tan Pei-Ying. This great human drama has
a strong appeal. 19/3 (post. 6d.).
THE SPEAKER’S NOTE BOOK. Methods of
effective speaking, also stories, epigrams,
etc., by W. G. Hoffman. 17/6 (post. 6d.).
DESERT EPISODE, by George Greenfield,
awarded the first prize for Fiction in The
Macmillan Centenary awards. 9/9 (post. 6d.).
GIVE BACK MY RIVERS & HILLS, by I.
Feng, translated from the Chinese. It is a
story of simplicity and beauty. 11/- (post.
3d.).
PLAYS FOR PLAIN PEOPLE. Six plays by
James Bridle. 15/9 (post. 4d.).
ANTOINE. Through Antoine’s autobiography
are candid unusual portraits of Sarah Bern-
hardt, Duce, Greta Garbo, Duchess of Wind-
sor, etc. 19/3 (post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD., 89 Castlereaqh St., Sydney.
need a
Do
you
fcun/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed o£
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
m/mlSmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Parliament reopened with a censure
motion: subjects, chiefly the “Govern-
ment’s” crawl to Communist foreign
policy in the matter of the Dutch East
Indies and the howling mess it has made
of housing and the food position. The
expected happened: the debate was
gagged said Menzies, “a regular prac-
tice of this power-drunk Government,
although' it gives no opportunity for
general debate on matters of great
public interest, even when Ministers make
statements on foreign affairs.” But there
is sure to be a debate on the Yoizuki
affair, and it won’t be so easy to gag that.
General MacArthur no longer has a
shred of authority in this Commonwealth.
All authority respecting the comings and
goings of Japanese ships in Australian
waters resides in the “Government” at
Canberra, which is charged with the exer-
cise of the defence and navigation powers.
This was illustrated after the Baikal
Maru entered Sydney Harbor flying the
Japanese flag. As was extensively adver-
tised, a young woman protested by tele-
gram, and “removal of the flag was
ordered by Dr. Evatt, the Minister for
External Affairs, after discussions with
Mr. Makin, Minister for the Navy.” But
in the case of the Formosan women and
children thrust into an already crowded
and insanitary destroyer, this feeble and
two-faced “Government” alleged that “it
was our imperative duty to conform to
the instruction given regarding these
people,” therewith passing the buck to
General MacArthur, He passed it back —
and then came the deluge.
Leftists and Leftist papers all the world
over are dreadfully disappointed with the
Three-Power Note to Franco. The real
fundamental fault was that it was sent
to the wrong address.
Twelve “mysterious” fires have broken
out on British ships in port, the latest
being the Queen Elizabeth, with “strong
suspicion of sabotage in each case.” That
would be Franco, wouldn’t it? Or
would it?
“All the bankers and politicians and
lawyers could go on holiday and there
would be no serious effect on the economy
of Australia ; yet those are the people
who are always lecturing the workers.”
Thus Chifley, blithering on the censure
motion. Yet from that day the 111 Com-
monwealth politicians, at Chifley’s in-
stance, had been granted a “maintenance
allowance of £1 2s. 6d. for each day they
attend Parliament,” payments being
“limited” to £lOO a year for N.S.W. and
Victorian members (both Houses) and
£125 for those from other States and the
Northern Territory. No mention of what
most of these gentlemen have collected
in committee fees and travelling expenses,
in addition to their £lOOO a year. In
all trades and callings except that of
“politicians who could go on holiday
with no serious effect on the economy
of Australia,” wages and salaries are still
pegged by National Security regulations.
According to that prince of optimists
Scully, the “Government” is urging
wheatgrowers to “increase production,”
and “prospects for the next harvest are
exceedingly good.” From a seasonal
viewpoint “prospects” are good, but
without labor, parts, fertiliser and a pri-
vate secretary to fill in all the forms,
production of the pre-war scale is a Scully
pipe-dream.
The doping of a Melbourne Cup
favorite or the call-up of a representative
pug could scarcely have thrown the
Sydney daily and Sunday papers into
such transports of indignation as did the
affair of the Yoizuki. There was cause
from the beginning, but it seems strange
that a press so zealous for the welfare
of Orientals and so concerned about “the
blackening of Australia’s name” had
nothing to say when loyal Australians
were thrown into internment camps and
kept there for most of 1942 without
being brought to trial or given a chance
to prove their innocence. In that case
also women and children suffered, the
wife of one victim, a wounded and
gassed Old Digger, being left a widow ;
but they had only one champion among
the Sydney papers— The Bulletin.
First and last “Labor” impressions of
the Yoizuki business were that the daily
and Sunday papers were looking for a
chance to “twist” —and will.
The stage has been reached when the
Ministry can decide not merely the con-
ditions under which the Opposition may
speak—all Parliamentary precedent has
gone to the wall since the present Admini-
stration set up its dictatorship—but,
within limits, who shall speak. Thus
both Earle Page and Archie Cameron,
men whom the “Government” fears.
Were deprived of their chance on Friday
by a juggling of the order of speakers.
When Forgan Smith became Premier
of Queensland in 1932 F. A. Cooper be-
came his deputy. On Forgan Smith’s
retirement in 1942, Cooper became
Premier and Chief Secretary, with E, M.
Hanlon as deputy. Now Cooper has re-
tired and Hanlon is Premier and Chief
Secretary. His deputy is E. J. Walsh,
who was Forgan Smith’s Minister of Lands
(“Secretary” is the name in Queensland)
and Cooper’s Minister of Transport.
Walsh’s elevation to the No. 2 post
in Queensland is obnoxious to Commu-
nists and their masters, who hate the man
for his courage. H. H. Collins, an Ather-
ton Tableland farmer, is the new Mini-
ster of Agriculture. T. L. Williams goes
from Agriculture to Public Instruction
and Jimmy Larcombe from Public In-
struction to the Treasury. Since 1919
Larcombe has held almost every port-
folio there is—Justice, Public Works and
Transport among them. His new leader
was a railwayman, then a grocer, then a
Ninth Battalion Digger (1915-19), a grocer
again, then M.L.A. for Ithaca, becoming
Home Secretary in 1933.
The smooth changes in the North must
cause Sydneysider “Labor” politicians
some envy. Their Premier McKell
doesn’t know whether he’s coming or
going and has been babbling about an
Australian Governor for his State.
Cooper is slated for the Lieut.-Governor-
ship, a position held by ex-Premier James
Mitchell in the West since 1937. Both
are fine old boys without enemies.
Downing, the N.S.W. Minister for Jus-
tice, has been engaged in a wrangle with
Penton, editor of the “Daily Telegraph,”
about remissions of jail sentences. The
wrangle was at its height when two youths
awaiting trial cut their way out of a tram
carrying them and a lot of other men in
the same situation, and there followed
what the papers complacently described
as “the biggest manhunt for years,” After
this interruption the wrangle was resumed.
Sayings of Herbert Morrison, Lord
President of the Council;
I don’t think our country is ready for a
system whereby the State takes a hand in
fixing wages in particular trades and
industries. We had better all face the fact
that to enjoy things we must produce them,
and they must be paid for. We must
never imagine these things come by magic.
They come from energy, toil and industry.
Why, the fellow talks just like one of
those cursed capitalists!
The S. Aus. A.L.P. council has pro-
nounced the Communist party anti-
British, anti-Australian and anti-Labor.
When the news reached Wesfralia a Mrs.
Leah Healy, “State secretary of the Com-
munist party,” uprose with a shrill denial
of the impeachment. But just then news
of what Communists had been up to in
Canada reached the West, and the lady
returned to the study of “Abie’s Irish
Rose” or something.
The only useful sort of government
N.S.W. people are getting these days is
local government, and. this notwithstand-
ing handicaps imposed by “Labor,” en-
trenched in Canberra and Sydney. For
example, the Mosman Council is
campaigning vigorously against zoning
and non-delivery of meat and green-
groceries, and has secured deliveries of
greengroceries and ice, together with an
improvement in the quality of bread “in
some instances.” It has also introduced
street barrows manned by ex-servicemen,
of whom it has many, there being no
more loyal suburb in Australia. In point
of finance many N.S.W. municipalities
have managed their affairs infinitely better
than the Macquarie-street concern, bad
examples having become such by dint
of the No. 1 bad example’s inspiration
and interference.
When Caucus was about to meet to
discuss Dr, Evatt’s second referendum, a
sympathiser questioned whether it would
“accept the Government’s proposal that
the referendum should be held with the
general election”:
As a good working rule, most politicians
fight shy of combining the campaigns, and
there is a strong traditional adherence to
this principle in the Labor party.
Yet the financial agreement-State debts
proposals were submitted at the general
election of 1928 and got great majorities
in all the States and the Commonwealth.
It hasn’t mattered whether Labor put
Constitutional alterations to the vote be-
tween elections (as in-1911 and 1944) of
at an election (as in 1913): it lost the lot.
Harold Clapp, now designated Direp-
tor-General of Railways Standardisation
of Gauges, said in East Melbourne that
he had struck off the Plan not for
million people but for 25 millions; that
it was “violently necessary” for the safety
of the country, and that “if we cannot
absorb immigrants in this way I don’t
know of any other way in which it could
be done.” Nature replied in North
Queensland, pointing the moral with
waste of life and property, as well as
water. Man was heard from in an A.B.C.
debate, even a fellow-railway manager;
During the war, when the railways did
a mammoth job, there was no serious delay
caused by breaks of gauge. Standardisa-
tion is not a No. 1 priority. The money
would be better spent on irrigation, soil
conservation, electricity projects and pro-
ductive works.— Queensland Railway Com-
missioner Wills.
Standardisation would play a very small
part in the development of Australian re-
sources or in defence. — E. R. Bradshaw,
sometime Deputy Director of the Allied
Works Council.
And Dr. Louat said “The proposal to
spend hundreds of millions en ‘standard-
ising,’ while people want for houses and
country towns and farms for water sup-
plies, is sheer lunacy.”
In Sydney Sunday papers which have
published acres of romantic mush about
Russia, varied by bitter attacks on
Britain, the Soviet spy plot in Canada
seems to be a Forbidden Subject. For
three weeks there hasn’t been a word
about it in the “Telegraph’s” keyhole
supplement, edited by an agitated Parlor
Pink named Pearl, who sometimes gives
the impression that he writes his articles
with his nose.
America has no abler writer on foreign
affairs than William Henry Chamberlin,
who studied Soviet Russia at first hand.
Turning his attention to the position in
Japan, Chamberlin had this to say:
General MacArthur was peevishly
scolded by some civilians in Washington
because he suggested that the American
force in Japan could be reduced to 200,000
within a fairly near future. It should now
be evident that the general spoke with a
pretty good idea of the mood which was
likely to develop among soldiers kept in
service indefinitely for guard duty in a
ruined and shattered country. His policy
of indirect rule in Japan was wise on
general principles; it is doubly wise in
view of present indications.
Not only in Washington was MacArthur
peevishly scolded by civilians. He came in
for a lot of peevish scolding from Sydney
politicians, newspapermen and Professor
Stone. A.B.C. placed its national net-
work at the service of that 1942 immi-
grant for peevish scolding of the general
on the score of his policy of indirect rule
in Japan till the 1942 immigrant found it
expedient to shift to other topics.
Fed up with Canberra’s sketchy ideas
of “a great food drive for Britain,” a
Wee Waa (N.S.W.) wheatgrower grabbed
his pen and wrote to “S. M. Herald”:
Before a farmer can embark on wheat
production he must secure a licence, lead-
ing to lengthy correspondence, a searching
investigation into his qualifications and an
interview by a local committee. All this
may take months, and it has caused two
men I know to miss the season.
As for his own case;
When my tractor broke down last
November I found it was one of seven
awaiting vital parts at one workshop. I
am still waiting; reconciled to not sowing
a crop this year. The position for parts is
tragic.
Tragic for the British, particularly.
Note on the Polish Jews who reached
the Russian part of Berlin and stampeded
into the American zone;
There is no denying the desperation with
which these people want to get away
from Poland. One newly-arrived man
showed pictures of nine sprawled corpses
in a ruined room. These frightened
migrants submit to thorough plundering
by border guards, Polish and Russian,
who often leave them only the clothes
they stand in, no matter how much they
may have started out with. They put up
with appalling conditions here in Berlin,
but still they come; and they will continue
to come until the last Polish Jew has left
the last Polish anti-Semite in undisputed
possession of his former home.
Strange, for in Poland they were under
a Communist dispensation, and the
Russian border guards have enjoyed the
blessings of Communist civilisation for
28 years. Yet the dispatch is from the
Leftist N.Y.*“Post,” owned by a Jewish
lady.
While Baddeley, the Sydney Minister
for Miners’ Pensions, was telling the
newspapers all about a new Coal Con-
trol Bill to set up a Coal Commission —
said bill being duly welcomed by Wells,
the Communist boss of the Miners’
Federation —Williams, Mighell’s succes-
sor as Commonwealth Coal Commis-
sioner, let it out that 1945 production was
down nearly 2,000,000 tons, stocks are
meagre and export markets can’t be
supplied. Whereupon, B.H.P. said it
couldn’t get enough coal to run its own
enterprises at full capacity, Sydney
County Council said it was getting just
enough to keep things going, gas com-
panies announced that they were' no
better off and the railways that they
could neither extend nor improve ser-
vices till they got more coal. Victoria
and S.A., sick to death of Sydney-New-
castle Communists, are flat out to find
fuels that will make them independent
of N.S.W. coal. No doubt the miners
will strike again to show, in the P.M.’s
words, how “important” they are.
From Molongloside:
For a Government which usually does not
disdain any device, however paltry, to defend
itself, the Canberra Administration showed
itself singularly lacking in resource in dealing
with the accusations hurled at it by former
press friends over the Yoizuki. What it should
have done was to explain to reporters that the
Formosans were all anti-Soviet and anti-
Jewish. This course was followed with the
Australia First internees, and nobody in any
newspaper office went into hysterics when a
retired bank manager (73), who had given £25
to the H.M.A.S. Sydney Fund the week before
he was interned and had lost his wife three
weeks before internment, was flung first, behind
barbed-wire, then on to a lorry under bayonet
guard and finally into an enemy alien hospital
ward between a Jap and an Italian. And
no newspaper staff showed any sympathy for
a badly wounded returned-soldier internee when
he died lonely and broken in Prince of Wales
Hospital while Crown counsel was testifying
that he was “a loyal and decent citizen.”


PARDNERS.
“Speaking at Fulton, Missouri, Mr. Truman’s State, the President being present, Mr. Churchill proposed an Anglo-American military alliance and a definite stand
against Soviet Russia, with its “world-wide Fifth Columns.” He said “There i$ nothing the Russians admire so much as strength; there is nothing they have less respect
for than military weakness.”
“When we've sworn the oath and smoked these segars we’ll go after Injun Joe.”


MODERNIZE
YOUR WILL
HE lives and the secur-
ity of your family after
your death will be affected
more by your Will than by
any other document that
you will ever sign.
Are you satisfied that
the Executor you have
appointed will have the
time and energy and judg-
ment to get the most out of
your Estate for your
family?
Modernize your will.
Have it soundly drawn
under legal advice. Follow
the modern practice and
appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your
Executor—conjointly with
a friend if you so desire.
In this way you can
ensure that your family will
enjoy the maximum bene-
fits of your Estate as you
intend.
Writ£ for a copy of the
Company’s interesting and
informative booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee.”
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.: E R KNOT •
H V DoS m° PE: - AL £? N f C - LEWIS i Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R ’
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64.000.000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £lO 000)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
S6uthern and Riverina District Representative? D. A. Cormaek
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga. ’
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
LET
r ATLAS i
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
W
m >
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged ,
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.AV.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Clear Call for Great Production
In the early part of the war the loud
call was for munitions. It took years
for Britain, Australia and America
to tool-up for war. The change-
over from peace-time production to
munitions manufacture could not be
arranged overnight. The manpower, the
money, the machines and the materials
had all to be marshalled, reallocated and
put to work in a new way. But there
was one comparatively simple objective
ahead —production for war purposes,
with a ruthless cutting-down of unessen-
tial civilian production. Eventually,
allowed time for reorganisation, there
was an overwhelming flood of Allied
war equipment.
Post-war Confusion
Peace is now with us, and our objec-
tives are not so clearly defined. In Aus-
tralia political and industrial unity, never
good even when the war was at its worst,
is in bad shape. There is, intermittently,
confused talk about a “new order” from
some who have done a great deal to
undermine any kind of industrial order
and law. War-time incentives to pro-
duce no longer exist, and monetary in-
centives are not generally attractive, so
great is the taxation burden, especially
on the management side of industry.
Many trade-unionists accumulated a
stack of easy money during the war, and
they are collar-proud now. They are un-
able to buy homes or much in the way of
furniture largely because of their own
poor productive efforts and those of
fellow-unionists. Their money is not as
attractive to them as it should be; it
can rarely be well spent. Militant trade-
union policy also blunts the individual
incentive of the trade-union Worker even
when he wants to pull his weight. He
is restricted from doing a fair thing in
many industries and discouraged from
doing his best in nearly all.
Basically our economy is one designed
for civil production. But it has been
strained by war-time financial and politi-
cal abuse, and it has to cope with a more
befuddled and disunited people. On the
managerial side of industry there are
many more problems, and far greater dis-
cretion is required, economically and
otherwise, than in a war-time, economy.
The big question ahead is how to break
out of a war-time set-up, with its controls,
deadening taxation, inflation and political
excrescences, and establish a stable,
dynamic peace-time productive tempo.
Let’s Have Full Production!
The Federal Government still holds
great and detailed powers over finance
and industry through war-time legislation.
So long as Canberra administrative
methods remain obstructive to industrial
initiative and financial discretion we shall
be in trouble. Central controls must be
outstandingly good to take the place of
individual initiative limited only by
national policy. Our central controls are
often administered deplorably.
Complex though our position is, there
is one very plain line of action indicated:
for two or three years to come at least
Australians can produce essential
materials and manufactures to the fullness
of their capacity and there will be little
danger of overproduction. The immedi-
ate salvation of this war-stricken world
lies in the speedy restoration of civi-
lian production—food, clothing, homes,
transport vehicles and almost all raw
materials, whether animal, vegetable or
mineral. Steady, conscientious work is
called for from the employable millions,
and the present is not the time to press
for higher money wages or shorter work-
ing time unless there is an accompani-
ment of greater production.
During the war there was generally a
fall in Australian output per worker, and
that lost ground will have to be regained.
The main issue before us is crystal-
clear. The medicine for many of
our present ailments, economic, social,
political, is the restoration of healthy,
voluminous production. We can be
a little indiscriminate in the quantity
of major necessities we produce for a
year or two. Wool, wheat, dairy produce,
steel, base metals, building materials, suit-
ings, cotton-goods and other items of
clothing—there is an insatiable demand
for most of these things at present, and
we can hardly go wrong in producing
them in any quantity. Later on we, no
doubt, shall have to become more selec-
tive, adapting our best productive capa-
city to the best or most urgent demand.
But that is definitely a later chapter. It
is only necessary to remember it as a
matter of long-term planning. While
it might be unwise to extend plant and
capital investment in some industries too
far, all existing civilian-goods plant can
be worked to capacity. In certain indus-
tries, too, plant capacity could be safely
doubled or trebled as a permanent thing.
Cause and Effect of Production Anaemia
Economic diseases that are growing in
danger because of lack of production are
price inflation, blackraarketing, housing
shortage and industrial unrest. A social-
economic disease that is taking deeper
root from the same cause is Communist
and militant-unionist dictation of the
country’s affairs. So long as production is
short it is easier to win strikes, extort
extravagant pay and coerce the people
into agreeing to action calculated to
bring about economic breakdown and
revolution in the form of law and Gov-
ernment,
Factors which are causing this lack of
production to persist include the damage
done to the country’s economic system
and industrial morale by the Govern-
ment’s weak war-time financial policy,
its socialistic regulations and its conces-
sions to industrial anarchy; obstructionism,
deliberate and wefl-planned, by Commu-
nists and other militants, is also a promi-
nent feature. There is, too, the readjust-
ment period following the war the
readjustment in people’s minds, whether
they are servicemen or wage-earners, their
feeling that they need a holiday and that,
with their war-time savings and/or de-
ferred pay, they can pay for it. There
is also the difficulty of reconciling citizens
to taxation at war-time rates under peace-
time conditions.
The Obstruction of Excessive Taxes
The Labor Government at Canberra
has loaded the national Budget with costs
of “cradle-to-grave security.” Coupled
with the inflation and industrial break-
down that are such prominent features of
the Australian scene at present it is mostly
phony “security,” peddled tongue-in-
cheek to the people by smarmy political
racketeers, who usually have no good
word to say for wage-payers or for the
British or British systems. But its cost
in taxation is enormous, and it is one
of the principal obstructions to a return
to reasonable peace-time tax rates. If
taxation were levied now for the purpose
of reducing the inflationary bulge in the
national credit there might be some justi-
fication for it. It is not. The way it is
levied and allocated tends to create
further inflation, to kill production in-
centive, to undermine confidence in in-
vestments, including Government loans.
Our credit structure is weakened already
with war-time inflation. The right treat-
ment in combating this inflation, let it be
emphasised, is to increase production.
But we are using also an expedient to
check the effects of inflation—price con-
trols particularly, as well as some spend-
ing and investment controls. These ex-
pedients tend to thwart the real cure for
inflation, which is increased production.
There is a continual conflict between
controls and our production aims. But,
up to a point, controls are still neces-
sary. The task ahead is to use them in
a practical manner helpful to the main
need—increased production.
Menzies’ Opinion
R, G. Menzies, leader of the Liberals,
has put his views on the subject thus:
To sum up, we believe that you should not
just abolish all economic controls overnight
because the war is ended. Such a course
would almost certainly produce inflation. What
we believe is that, having regard fo the par-
ticular nature of each individual control, its
operation should be tapered down as the
country recovers its normal civil and produc-
tive character. After all, one great feature
of this problem of economic stability has so
far received far too little attention. It is the
feature of restored production. Inflation simply
arises from an excess of purchasing power as
compared with the volume of goods and ser-
vices to be bought. The constructive approach
to the inflation problem is, therefore, not to
talk merely in terms of controls but to talk
primarily in terms of getting the volume of
production up. When we have full production
the danger of inflation will have largely
disappeared.
How are we to increase production? Here,
again, we regard the problem as an entirely
practical one. The reinstatement of service
people into civilian life must be accelerated,
every possible step must be taken to produce
continuity of work by eliminating the causes
of industrial disputes, people must be en-
couraged to earn more by being permitted to
retain more of their earnings as a result of
income-tax reduction, the wage-earner must be
allowed to feel that he has a real interest in
the prosperity of the business that employs
him, either by being paid higher wages for
higher production or by being given, in suit-
able cases, a share in the profits.
In effect, all restrictions which prevent a man
from doing the best job he can for the best
wage he can get should be struck away and
the greatest possible effort made to get em-
ployers and employees to realise that their
mutual prosperity and the security of the
country both depend upon our productive
effort, particularly in the next few years.
There is one other point. This question of
productive effort does not relate merely to the
production of goods to fill our own require-
ments. If we are to have high and constant
employment in Australia it is essential that we
should develop new and constant markets, not
only for our primary products but for manu-
factured goods. During the war we developed
an almost astonishing manufacturing capacity,
and if we are to keep it fully employed we
must get markets outside our own country.
From this point of view it will be seen
that the proper and prosperous relations be-
tween Australia and such neighbor countries
as the Netherlands East Indies are of great
importance to the factory employees of the
Commonwealth, and, by increasing the de-
mands upon our production, will render the
earlier abolition of war-time controls all the
more feasible.
To many the technicalities of economic
and the obscurities of politics are repel
lent. But to them the issue can be pul
very simply and briefly: Our position is
such that we urgently need diligent work
from all, intelligent work, an elimination
of waste and a return of firm and honest
government. Much that is going on in
Australia today is palpably crazy, un-
Australian and vicious.
The £7O million Security Loatn is open
for subscription. The money is needed,
among other things, to meet deferred-
pay and rehabilitation commitments and,
generally, to clean up the expensive
year in which actual war figured. There
is ample money about for filling the loan.
A full subscription really by the public
would help to combat that post-war
menace, inflation.
* * * »
Canada is to lend Britain $1250 mil-
lion, equal to £282 million sterling. The
loan will have a currency of 50 years
from January 1, 1951, and will carry in-
terest at 2 p.c. The interest-free loan
granted by Canada will be continued
until 1951, when any outstanding balance
will be dealt with. The present agree-
ment cancels $425 million of debt owing
by Britain in respect of the Common-
wealth Air Training Scheme. A recipro-
cal most-favored-nation agreement has
been reached in regard to trade, and a
settlement of outstanding current bal-
ances on both sides (up to February 28,
1946) has been arranged with the pay-
ment by Britain of $l5O million to
Canada. The Canadian loan is very simi-
lar in terms to the U.S. loan to Britain,
including a clause waiving interest in
years of special difficulty. ,
* ♦ * ♦
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove has an-
nounced the registration of Tasmanian
Paper and Timber Mills, Ltd., which,
according to Mr. Cosgrove, will spend
£3 million on its undertaking. Captain
Ivan N. Holyman, well known in the
Tasmanian shipping industry and in Aus-
tralian National Airways, who is a direc-
tor of the new concern, said that paid
capital will be about £2 million, of which
£1,500,000 will be offered to the public,
granted Treasury permission. The co.
will absorb two Holyman enterprises,
K. D. Atkins Pty., Ltd., and Kiln Dried
Hardwoods Pty., Ltd. Cardboard, litho-
graphic and photographic materials, dye-
stuffs, paints, varnishes, drugs and wood-
pulp products will be produced, and the
co. will operate sawmills and coalmines.
Directors are Captain Holyman, K. C.
Holyman, E. A. Alstergren, W. G. Nos-
worthy and K. D, Atkins.
* * * ♦
Payments made to demobilised service-
men in lieu of leave will not be taxed by
the Income Tax Department. Some part
of the pay would be exempt, and only
5 p.c. of the lump sum would be taxable
anyway. So,
it has been decided that the amount of
revenue involved in the taxation of portion
of the payment in lieu of the three classes
of leave [war-service, recreation and re-
establishment] would not be commensurate
with the administrative costs involved in
ascertaining the particulars necessary to
determine the assessable amount in each
•case. Payments for the three classes of
leave are therefore to be regarded as
wholly free from income tax, both for
instalment and assessment purposes.
Surely the first case on record in which
a Government department has decided
that the revenue is not worth the expense!


BRANDALIER'S
sm
JR
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
CBRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
GC.V
■■IIIIIIIBIH
Tt
mm
m
SB
3
1111""
2S
2S
sss
“Our stern alarums
changed to merry meetings
99
Now
are our brows bound by victorious wreaths.
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments.
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures,
—-Richar d 111.
Throughout the War, the Great White Yacht*
of the K.P.M. Line gallantly served the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas all over the World.
One day, not too far distant, they will be
sailing from Australian ports again on their
peace time schedules to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated In
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD . SYDNEY
: =
mm
VACUUM
s
cn
o
'K
1
o
P///
'///
"///
\ ''
S
/
<£.
me
Q
u
D
s
a —
c
I \
u
«s
/ / /
72% of the cars and trucks on the road
today are oyer 10 years old so look
after the one you now have. It may be
some time yet before cars and trucks
are plentiful, but Mobiloil, the World's
Quality Oil, will protect your ageing
vehicle under all conditions.
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. LTD. (Incorp.in Aust.)
The U.S. Loan to Britain
Further questions have arisen as to
whether the United States loan to Britain
will be sanctioned by Congress (B.
13/2/’46 and B. 20/2/’46). United States
Treasury experts have deemed this loan
to be the best practicable plan for trade
rehabilitation between Britain, the United
States and the rest of the world, but the
“voice of America,” as represented by
Congress, seems to be divided on the idea,
especially since Russia and France have
asked for loans. To many people in the
world, including some Americans (not-
ably Joseph P. Kennedy, formerly
U.S. Ambassador in London), it would
have been a fair and honorable thing
for the United States to have made
a grant-in-aid to Britain of the amount it
was proposed to lend, in view of Britain’s
earlier entrance to the war and greater
proportionate sacrifices. Furthermore, it
would certainly have been better eco-
nomics.
But, as has been asked here before,
“Can the United States lead?” It does
not seem well fitted to do so in matters of
world politics or economics. While at
war the Administration can do, and has
done, prodigious things—Churchill has
described Roosevelt’s lend-lease as “the
most unsordid act in the history of
nations.” But, with the return to peace,
there has been a return to silver- and
wool-State politics and similar economi-
cally indefensible manoeuvrings. When
the war ended the idea in the United
States was to go back to peace —and how!
It seems that Wilson had little more diffi-
culty in getting support for his League of
Nations than the Washington Administra-
tion is going to have in getting followers
for a new world order in economics.
Canada has far less political difficulty in
doing a big job the right way than has
the United States.
If the U.S. loan to Britain did not
eventuate it would mean the end of British
co-operation in the Bretton Woods plan,
and, for that reason, probably the end
of Bretton Woods. It would also bring
about a closer sterling bloc, on the prin-
ciple of needs must when the dollar
drives. If Britain does not get a loan of
dollars, and is prevented from earning
dollars by American politics that exclude
British goods from America —Australian
wool, for example—then it must restrain
its people, and those of the Empire, from
buying goods that have to be paid for in
dollars. In adopting such a course it would
leave America in no position to criticise.
There are sections of the United States
which have been luxuriating in the day-
dreams that have followed the end of the
war. There is still plenty of money about
(as in Australia), and enough leisure for
those who have long had such a bias to
indulge again their prejudices against
Britain. There have been prolonged and
economically-devastating strikes and
orgies of gambling. Even during the war
United States citizens suffered compara-
tively minor hardship in their living re-
quirements, and it has been difficult for
the majority of them to sum-up the post-
war position, especially on a world basis.
(There are many Australians with a
similar difficulty.)
A people which is considerably “off-
base” as regards its own domestic
economic position is likely to be even
more astray with regard to overseas
affairs. But realities are crowding in on
the American people with the passing of
each week, and daydreams are becoming
less a feature of the post-war picture.
The stockmarket has crashed heavily,
and strikes are becoming wearying and
profitless to those engaged in them, as
well as obstructive to the full return of
peace-time living standards. The Prices
Administration has become very con-
cerned for the continuance of price
control after June 30, and Henry Kaiser,
the spectacular war-time shipbuilder, has
asked for a continuance of the control,
declaring that inflation would otherwise
sweep through the whole field of produc-
tion and distribution.
If consideration by Congress of the
loan to Britain is deferred for a month or
two it is likely that, learning the hard way,
the United States will be more agree-
able to listen to reason, and not so ready
to throw away its British Empire markets
by a too-peremptory dismissal of the post-
war circumstances of its best customer,
friend and ally.
The Australian wheat harvest for 1945-
46 is expected to amount to just under 145
million bushels. After local requirements
are met, it is estimated that about 64
million bushels will be available for ex-
port, Valued at 9s. a bushel at ports,
this would mean a matter of about £29
million overseas revenue (Australian cur-
rency) from wheat exports during 1945-
46, even if the grower, under the “stabilis-
ation” scheme, only gets a part of that im-
mediately. In 1937-38, when our wheat
exports were about 95 million bushels,
their export value was £2l million. Next
year the harvest was smaller, but a col-
lapse in price was the main reason for a
drop to £9 million in the value of 62
million bushels exported. The big
1939-40 harvest was the one which filled
the silos —it totalled 210 million bushels
—but was followed by a drought year
in which the average yield fell from 15.8
bushels to 6.5 bushels per acre and the
harvest to 82 million bushels. After that
Labor started its restriction scheme, and,
though the average yield rose to 16.8
bushels in 1942-43, the total harvest was
only 166 million bushels. Next year a
14-bushel yield produced 110 million
bushels, and in 1944-45, when drought
cut the yield to 6 bushels, the harvest
slumped to 52 million bushels. Mr.
Scully, whose forecasts and “plans” in
the past have been anything but success-
ful, tips an “all-time record” harvest in
1946-47. In view of the price obtainable,
the promising season and the crying need
by Britain and the Continent for our
wheat, there will be something bewilder-
ingly wrong with Government “planning”
if the coming crop is not a record.
* # * *
Britain has ordered 30 million dozen
eggs from the Commonwealth for delivery
during 1946, as well as a quantity of
powdered egg and egg-pulp. During the
war Australia’s egg output rose by nearly
100 p.c., stimulated by demands from the
services, including America. Pre-war pro-
duction of eggs was about 56 million
dozen a year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Becks”: Towards the end of January
two young men escaped from a Sydney
Black Maria by prising off a wire grille
and a ventilator with a tableknife Both
were recaptured and lodged in Long Bay
jail. Last week one of them, this time
with another partner, repeated the per-
formance. In company with 28 other
prisoners the two were journeying in a
special prison tram from the Bay to
Darlinghurst police station. Nobody had
thought to handcuff them, and with a
breadknife filed to do service as a saw
they hacked a small hole in the roof of
the tram and made their exit. Within a
short space of time “300 armed police,
by wireless patrols,” three
Alsation dogs and representatives of
the four daily papers were busy in tradi-
tional manhunt style throwing cordons in
all directions, exploring every avenue and
leaving no stone unturned. It took them
two days to run the quarry down.
Innocent members of the public
wondered how Ike escapees got hold of
the breadknife. Anyone familiar with
Long Bay routine can answer that one.
Obviously it was smuggled into the jail
wrapped up in a racing supplement or
a form guide. Two rumors are waiting
to be scotched: (a) that the breadknife
bore the imprint of a tony supper-dance
joint and ( b ) that the Force is negotiat-
ing with the Disposals Board for the pur-
chase of surplus Army tanks for use as
Black Marias.
* * * *
“Zake”: Should an expansion of bank
staff force Federal politicians to vacate
their offices in the Commonwealth Bank
building in Sydney, there’ll be a rare old
dogfight. For the convenience of its staff,
the bank runs a dining-room, at which a
good three-course meal is available for
a bob. The appearance of a flunkey
who goes from the ninth to the
eighth floor with a laden tray is
a sure sign that a Canberra big-
shot is in town splashing his shillings
around. A while ago politicians dis-
covered that their dignity was being
undermined ; sometimes they’d go up to
the dining-room to find that they’d paid
their hard-earned deener and couldn’t
even sit together, just because those
damned outsiders of bank clerks were
using the tables. Then one day the bank
staff went up to lunch, and there was a
table on which stood a printed notice:
“This table reserved for Federal mem-
bers.” So it just shows you!
* * *
“Morehead”: The presence in our
midst of a vast number of Allied friends
with a taste for exotic edibles and a
stream of refugees from Europe, who,
we are informed by experts, prepare and
consume their victuals in a civilised
manner, have caused no revolutionary
changes in Australian menus. Mrs. More-
head continues to serve up the same old
lound of Irish stew, corned beef and cab-
bage, sausage and mash, tripe and
onions and the inevitable roast on Sun-
days. Recently Mrs. M. and I were in-
vited to dinner by a Hungarian friend,
who, ever since he landed here, has com-
plained of the lack of imagination shown
by Australian cooks. We both antici-
pated a meal that would satisfy the most
exacting epicure. We got canned soup,
boiled mutton and suet pudding. Appar-
ently it is we who have altered the gastro-
nomic habits of our friends from abroad.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: In Perth a few days ago
the “West Australian” had to report an
imposition of jail sentences on nine men
and a woman, the crimes beipg abortion,
incest, theft, forgery, perjury and bur-
glary. There was a column about it- —
and “West Australian” columns are prob-
ably the longest in Australia—but what
rocked me was the heading “Sinners Sen-
tenced,” Simple and sufficient, it sent
my mind flying back to Puritan days; it
was in startling contrast to the flamboyant
heads of eastern papers, and how literally
true! It cheered me up for several days.
* * # *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Gazing sadly
on the ultimate stub of my very last pre-
war pencil, I wonder when —if ever—we
shall see its like again. Thick enough to
afford a real grip, its smooth, black. Tin,
length balanced accurately between
thumb and fingers, while the thick, soft
lead slid smoothly over the copy paper
in clear, bold lines. This one and its
departed brethren were Storks, German-
made but uncontaminated by Hitlerism.
There were British ones, too, even better,
a graceful, white-coated kind in particu-
lar, whose name I have ungratefully for-
“The 'groom's gift to the bride.”
gotten. Compared with the dwarfed,
shrunken article of today, with its hard,
skimpy lead scratching the paper like a
pin and leaving only the faintest of marks,
they were as Chaliapin to Sinatra.
* * * *
“Seaforth”: After reading the “per-
sonals” printed in “The Saturday Review
of Literature,” an American literary
magazine, I find the “view mat.” ads. in
our papers depressingly conventional
and uninviting. What woman could feel
her heart beat faster after reading this
“S.M.H.” petition? :
Gent., 45, non-smoker, wishes to corre-
spond with refined lady, means, view
matrimony.
Compare such dull, uninspired bait with
this “S.R.L,” plea:
Needed: Lovable damosel who dotes on
the deep stuff, Dostoieffsky, for instance,
yet is very, very feminine, nevertheless.
And has any rural widower in search for
a second wife to help on the farm ever
broken into the columns of the “Age”
with a cry as tempting as this:
Literate farmer, palled by birds, trees
and cattle, desires to establish contact with
his own species via a feminine corre-
spondent.
I am contemplating submitting the fol-
lowing to the “Herald” merely to observe
the face of the manager when I am re-
ferred to him by a horrified clerk:
Dipsomaniac, insolvent but holding key
to Joyce’s Finnegan's Wake , wants to
meet comely wench able finance benders
and dispel alcoholic remorse.
♦ * * ♦
“Melbn”: Melbourne celebrated
another centenary the other day; in
this case one that justifies the sort of
civic self-gratulation which got such
liberal expression on the occasion of the
city’s 100th birthday. The Botanic
Gardens were established on March 1,
1846. To sequestrate for the purposes of
beauty such a huge area of the best resi-
dential land near Batman’s village was
a remarkable achievement for the early
settlers. The first director was John
Arthur, who was followed by John
Dallachy and then by that noted
botanical scientist Baron von Mueller;
but the man who did most to draw from
Sir Conan Doyle, an expert on the sub-
ject, the statement that the Melbourne
gardens were “the best in the world”
was William Guilfoyle. He was the
author of the plan which made a stale
billabong of the Yarra into a chain of
lakes surrounded by impressive vistas of
greensward, coppices and glades, and he
stuck to his plan during his 40 years of
office. Subsequent directors have nibbled
at the scheme in the interests of botani-
cal science, but they haven’t completely
spoiled it. There aren’t many gardens in
the world which could provide an audi-
torium for 100,000 people to listen to
orchestral concerts.
jjc sle
“Bon Accord”: Three Sydney news-
papers discovered through their London
newshounds a young woman research
worker who had found a system of fuel
economy whereby she could save two-
thirds of the fuel necessary to heat a
room. This was done by the use of
“heat-reflecting wallpaper.” Not one of
the news sheets seemed to doubt the com-
plete novelty of the idea, yet metallic
insulation paper of the type required has
been on the Australian market for years,
and has been used with success by the
Victorian railways.
* * * *
“Overproof”: So N.S.W. police are to
have a Scottish pipe band, Commissioner
Mac Kay having consented conditionally
on the band’s adopting the Mac Kay
tartan and playing the air “Ishbel Mac-
Kay.” It opens up attractive possibili-
ties. If by some strange reversal of form
" Authority decided to enforce the
liquor laws, raids on pubs could be pre-
ceded by a full-dress march by the band
playing such stirring airs as “Lord Lovat’s
Lament” or “Will Ye No Come Back
Again?” This would beat the sirens of
the movie police hollow, and would have
great entertainment value. Then, as the
Black Maria left the scene of its raid —
with heaven knows what personalities in
its innards —the haunting strains of “Fu
the Noo” would be an appropriate fade-
out. But, as a second-generation Austra-
lian Scot, fairly well up on Hielan’ feuds,
I shudder at the prospect if a Campbell
or a McGregor should succeed Mr. Mac-
Kay, One sight of the tartan might have
so violent an effect that the band might
have to run him in for disturbing the
peace.
♦ * * *
“Proctor”: State types (B. 20/2/’46)
are nowhere so clearly seen as in the
language of slang and idiom. At a Gram-
pians boarding-house I found myself at
the same table as a doctor from the Ma
State and a young Victorian. Recount-
ing a boyish escapade 1 used the word
“stinkers,” the name in S.A. for the
familiar clay marble. The Gumsucker
stared at me. “Stonkers,” he corrected.
I stared in turn. Then he came out with
a flood of outlandish lingo that might
have been Arabic —in fact, it was the
Victorian catalogue of marbles: “reallies,
commos, stonkers, etc.” The New South
Welshman then asked the name of stones
boys throw from a hillside on to unsus-
pecting heads below; he called them
“gibbers” or “goolies”; the Victorian
said “yonnies”; to me they had always
been “qualers.” When the doctor men-
tioned his days at the uni. we burst out
laughing. To the Melburnian it was “the
shop” ; to me “the ’varsity.”
* * * «
“Arpeos”: The frequency with which
two-up players in court hit the news
columns must recall to thousands of re-
turned men memories of Australia’s
“national game” played in many places
and under varied conditions. Old New
Guinea hands will remember the daddy
of all swi games run nightly at Moresby
in ’42. Two tables operated, one for the
big bettors and one where you could bet
as low as two bob. This was a de-luxe
game, with bright electric lights hanging
low over the tables, and the ringkeepers
using long wooden rakes, Monte Carlo
fashion. I’ve seen £5OO change hands on
a single spin. Interruptions through air
raids were frequent occurrences at these
N.G. schools, and those who were there
will never forget an open-air game one
night at Oro Bay, when a lone Nip raider
sneaked in undetected to drop a stick of
bombs along the waterfront. We all
hugged the ground hard and nobody was
hurt, though coconut palms around us
were ripped and torn. Young Bluey was
the first to find his voice. “Gee whiz!”
he said. “I bet this is the first swi game
on record where all the players were
lucky.”
* * * *
“Traintrav”; On my suburban train
during the last few months I’ve heard
the atomic bomb blamed for a lot of
things: the hot weather, the rains, the
high winds, the still evening, headaches
and a decrease in the egg-output of
white leghorns. But the best came the
other morning, when an old gentleman
in the corner said he hadn’t been able
to settle down to read at nights lately.
“But I expect I’ll be able to,” he told us,
“when all the rays from the atomic
bomb have cleared out of the atmos-
phere.”
* * * *
“Squizz”: Recent lowflying accidents
remind me that it was in a German
p.-0.-w. camp that I saw
my first. A few kilos across
the spudfields was an air-
field at which Junkers
pilots were trained for
combat. Early in the
spring of 1944 the word
apparently spread that
there was a bunch of
British fliegers imprisoned
in the local cage, because
from then on hardly a
’plane landed after the
day’s flying without hav-
ing “shot-up” the stalag
in traditional manner.
Eventually one of those
ham-handed fliers you
find in any air force
arrived over the camp
and started on the usual
routine. After one up-
ward zoom he banked the Ju 88
over into a more than 45 deg.
dive, pulled out too late and too
hard and “squashed” down on to a
crowded exercise . compound at about
200 m.p.h. The starboard prop decapi-
tated a Canadian pilot, the tailplane
fractured the leg of another stroller and
the aircraft, after bouncing through two
heavy barbed wire fences into a vegetable
garden, climbed away and disappeared to-
wards the airfield flying tail-down as it
was still trailing most of what it hit. We
were told later that the Junkers landed
safely at base, but I still think that Jerry
was the luckiest pilot I have ever seen.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: “Let it be clearly under-
stood that the Russian is a delightful
person till he tucks in his shirt. As an
Oriental he is charming. It is only when
he insists upon being treated as the most
easterly of western peoples instead of
the most westerly of easterns that he be-
comes a racial anomaly, extremely diffi-
cult to handle. The host never knows
which side of his nature will turn up
next.” The pressman who penned the
foregoing certainly knew his Russian. He
was Rudyard Kipling, in his “The Man
Who Was,” one of the finest stories in
the English language.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I wonder whether
drivers of modern transport, with their
improved conditions, hours and rates of
wages, will last out the distance as well
as Cobb and Co.’s jehus, who fought
wind and storm, flood, appalling roads,
bushrangers and other perils away back
into last century? At the annual reunion
of Cobb’s Old Coachdrivers’ Association
in Melbourne 20 veterans attended to
reminisce about John Conway, who
drove the first passengers to Sydney in
1840, and to listen to Jack Elder, still
able to entertain an audience as he used
to entertain his coachfui. The average
age was 81; some were over 90.
THE CAVEMAN’S TEETH.
“It is claimed, as evidence of the probable long-
evity of our remote ancestors, that the teeth of
prehistoric skeletons are often found to have been
worn right down to the sockets.”— British Medical
J ournaL
He lived in a cave by the sea
Some aeons or cycles ago,
Or roosted belike in a tree
Secure from night-prowlers below.
But he left us some data to show
His life had a lengthier span
Than ours, as biologists know
From the molars of primitive man.
He wore them, quite often maybe,
From the top you might say to the toe,
A period of usefulness we
Can hardly expect from them, though
We should live to a hundred or so
Before the attrition began;
But they stayed in a workmanlike row
In the jawbone of primitive man.
From ravenous beasts he might flee
Or fall by the club of a foe,
But he never paid doctors a fee
Or parted to dentists with dough.
Such tusks we no longer may grow
As the grinders that tore at the scran
Or into the tucker would hoe
That satisfied primitive man.
From perils he never was free,
Mayhap, such as none of us know.
But at least he’d a sure guarantee
Till into the silence he’d go
He could masticate, swiftly or slow,
With what Nature alone might bestow
On his antediluvian clan. /
For which there are times when (heigh-ho!)
I’ve envy for. primitive man.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”; Cruel is the tigress robbed
of her young; crueller still the publican
winning a beer strike, with only a thinning
picket line to beat. The Ryde (Sydney)
pub which has been the scene of one of
these combats fronts two streets, and the
bar seems half a mile long. Entrance
to it is through about 20 glass doors,
always swung open a trifle —just
enough to constitute a dreadful lure
on a hot day. And the day was hot
when I passed the joint, pausing to read
the legends scrawled on the home-made
half-“sandwiches” carried by the pickets
—one I couldn’t read, it being in the
native language of the Mr. Romano who
has become Sydney journalism’s new
hero. The pickets (reduced to three)
looked like men who were struggling with
a great temptation in a Lost Cause ; and,
turning to die pub, I divined the reason.
On every sheet of glass Bung had chalked
in bold letters the words “Beer On!”
“Beer 11 aim. to 6 p.m.!” “Open All
.Day” ; and so on all along the line in
the two streets. Fiendish, I call it.
V » »r
“Jasby”: Though two-up was, of
course, the No. 1 game in the A.1.F., and
poker, bridge and other card games
had a big following, a surprising thing
was the popularity of chess, which
gained more and more devotees as the
war went on. After the Jap surrender,
when units in the islands were organis-
ing sports and entertainments to combat
boredom, our show ran a chess tourna-
ment. To everyone’s delight, Quizz, a
mere beginner, downed the regimental
champ, in the first round, mating him in
four moves. “Strewth!” said one of
the onlookers to the victor, “you’ve only
played about three games, haven’t you?”
“Oh, no,” said Quizz earnestly. “This
is my fifth.”
* * * ♦ ,
“F.M.”: Melbourne’s cable trams
used to sell the books of tickets admired
by “Bethune” (B. 27/2/’46) in Brisbane.
At the old Royal Mail Hotel at the
corner of Bourke- and Swanston-streets I
often bought a threepenny tram ticket
for tuppence. On the trams one could get
this concession only by buying a shilling
strip of six tickets, so the pub retailed
them for the convenience of the im-
pecunious. Postage stamps could be
bought there, too; and, as the beer-
pullers accepted both items as currency,
old-timers took no notice when a toper
tendered a twopenny tram ticket with a
penny stamp and demanded a pint.
* * * *
“NX65381”: With all due respect to
the Angry Penguins, the Jindyworobaks,
the Bread and Cheese Club, contributors to
“Meanjin Papers” and “Southerly” and Mr.
Era Malley (dec.), all the Diggers I came
into contact with, as an A.E.S. lecturer,
were unfamiliar with contemporary Aus-
tralian poetry. I once arranged a series
of readings of Australian verse —both old
and new—before a fairly mixed batch in
a convalescent camp. They gave an en-
thusiastic reception to various old bush
ballads but took little notice of render-
ings of modern pieces, though some com-
mented favorably during the discussion
period on individual poems by Fitz-
Gerald, Slessor, Stewart and Vrepont. At
the end of the series I conducted a poll
as to their preferences, and the first six
placings were: “The Man from Snowy
River,” “Clancy of the Overflow,” “The
Sentimental Bloke,” “The Faces in the
Street,” “Nine Miles from Gundagai” and
“The Wide Brown Land.” I ruled out
“Waltzing Matilda” at the beginning; it
would otherwise have topped the poll.
There was strong support for a piece
called “Bullocky Bill the B which
I hadn’t met before.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: The whirligig of time
brings in its revenges, most certainly,
and some of them are queer ones. One
might have been noted when those who
are agitating for better beerselling con-
ditions suggested that there should be a
“Plimsoll mark” on beer glasses to pre-
vent drinkers being cheated by too much
froth. Of course, the mark named after
the man who campaigned so valiantly,
and at last successfully, against seamen
being sent to sea in overloaded ships
has been associated with beer before;
a drunk, for instance, is a man who is
“loaded over the Plimsoll mark”; but
Samuel Plimsoll, although his name lives
“And next time you go and get knocked down, Henry, I do wish you
wouldn't pick my bridge afternoon
in association with the great shipping
reform now adopted by every civilised
country, was a reformer in other things.
For his name to be associated with a
mark on a glass intended to hold the
stuff he hated seems the limit in irony.
* * * *
“Deir Suneid”: Although a fellow-
Australian of “Clooter” (B. 27/2/’46),
I have not (1) registered for mili-
tary service, (2) completed an occu-
pational survey form, (3) filled in
a national register, (4) filled in
a manpower form, (5) filled in an
application for an identity card or (6)
given N.E.S. all family particulars. I
am sure there are many thousands of
Australians who are in the same position
as myself, as when the A.I.F. was at its
peak in the ME. it numbered 120,000;
and, in addition, there are the early en-
listments in the R.A.A.F. and the R.A.N.
Also, for all we know, “Clooter” may
pass over very shortly or, on the other
hand, we may have pleasure of having
with us another little “Clooter” or so
in the near future, so perhaps the com-
ing census is not so damned silly after
all.
* » * ♦
“Shufti George”: The Yankee sailor
popped his head into my New Guinea
tent to ask if I knew where the grass-
skirt factory was. I hadn’t heard of it,
but one of the lads owned up that he
“was in the syndicate.” A Digger who
had learnt raffia work in hospital had
roped in a few industrious souls, taught
them the game, and kept the production
line going. They sold the product to the
boongs, who retailed them to American
seamen as examples of native craft. The
Yank who interrupted me had heard of
the scheme, and wanted to buy a skirt at
wholesale rates. Further inquiries re-
vealed other syndicates. One was con-
verting old Jap bayonets into hara-kiri
knives; another group had a good line
of rings and wristbands made out of junk
metal from crashed aircraft. Three lads
spent their evenings catching butterflies,
mounting them on cardboard covered
with the cellophane from cigarette
packets, and selling them to merchant
seamen. I was just getting them all nicely
merged into a company, with myself as
managing director, when the wretched
fever caught up with me.
# * * »
“Findy”: Pigeons and city buildings
(“Melbn,” B. 6/3/’46)? Why do these
birds show such a marked preference for
Gdvernment offices? In Adelaide the
Museum and Public Library have their
colonies, but the main flock claims the
Exhibition Building as its own. In
Sydney the Australian Museum has far
more than its rightful share of pigeons
and patina, and in Melbourne the birds
also haunt public buildings, while com-
mercial edifices seem relatively free of
them. Is it a matter of architectural taste,
a contempt for commerce, a love for the
drowsy atmosphere of a Government
department or a feeling on the part of
the birds that they are wards of the
State and that the onus of housing them
is on the Government?
* * * *
“Surge”: Visiting a Dutch canteen in
Singapore I watched a bridge game. To
surmount the language difficulty it was
necessary to use two interpreters, one to
translate English into Malay, and one to
turn the Malay into Dutch. Bidding was
done by holding up so many fingers, to-
gether with a card from a spare pack to
show suit being called. Incidentally, is
English the only language in which a
question can be asked, and the answer
given, in less than a dozen words? When
I tell my interpreter to “Ask him how old
he is,” the result is usually a conversa-
tion of anything up to five minutes, when
I may be informed “He is 32 in
eight weeks past Christmas.” That’s why
I’m studying languages.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: It happened
many years ago in a Sydney residential.
I was wakened by an intense drama in
the next apartment; as good a domestic
brawl as I have ever listened-in to. There
was a thunderous “So this is the end!
Perfidious woman, I will go ; and never
again shall I see you!” He didn’t go,
and when the pair heaved chunks of
Shakspeare and popular drama at one
another there was no need for anyone to
tell me that they were mummers. There
seemed to be a real tragedy at the back
of the staginess, however; it might be
that the man would indeed “cast aside
this mortal coil that is now but a weari-
ness,” and that the lady would “repent in
unavailing remorse my parting from one
who luhoved me, discarded like a soiled
glove.” The drama boiled to the climax
of the fourth act, which ended like an
Ibsen play, with the banging of a door
“Guess what, darling—the landlord says We may have a bahy!"
and silence. Real tragedy, it seemed; and
then the soprano called the man back;
the anticlimax was staged outside my
door, “I’m sorry, darling,” she said
sweetly. “After you’ve bought the saus-
ages you can take sixpence for a drink
out of that two shillings.”
* * * *
“Grandad”: When young Neville was
given a toy printing set his active brain
started working; so he organised a “grand”
concert in aid of something in order to
have an excuse for printing tickets and
programmes. The affair is to be held on
the roofgarden of the flats where lives
the kid impresario. Besides some pre-
liminary cash assistance, my help was
sought for drafting of programmes.
Neville wanted the layout to be
“swanky” ; the advice given was in a jest-
ing spirit. According to the tickets I
have had to buy grandson took heed, but
didn’t get the details quite right. The
affair is to be, so the pasteboard tells me,
“Under Vice-Eagle Parentage.” For an
affair on the roof of a tall flat building
vice-eagle seems fair enough, and .prob-
ably the “parentage” is better than
“patronage.”
* * * *
“Deir Suneid”: Add to “Exdig’s” (B.
27/2/’46) list of Diggers who stayed
behind after the 1914-18 war, Stubbs and
another, name forgotten, who took jobs
with the Lands Department in Palestine.
Stubbs was the happiest man in Jerusalem
when the Second A.I.F. arrived in the
ME. in 1940, and spent many a pleasant
hour in the A.C.F.’s Fast Hotel, hob-
nobbing with the new generation of
Diggers and renewing friendship with
many an old one. The Seventh Div.
found' another 1914-18 Digger running a
cafe in Beirut, and Shafto, who ran the
picture shows in Egyptian camps, was
reputed to be another. Incidentally, the
Nairn brothers, who formed the Bagdad-
Damascus bus service, were New Zea-
land, not Australian, Diggers, and were
still going strong in 1941.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: After the rainstorms
over Sydney a. large and healthy
toadstool appeared fairly in the middle of
the Jephsons’ lawn. Mrs. Jephson de-
cided to leave it there to see how large
it would grow. By the second day it was
nine inches high, erect and crowned with
a beautifully rounded head. Young
Jephson, given to jest, printed a card and
stuck it beside the thing, reading, “This
rare specimen of the fungi auditorium
will spawn shortly. Qrders taken for
samples.” That night the toadstool was
neatly and efficiently pinched.
» ¥ * #
“B, A. Ker”: Although I have never
known the urge that impels a man to
make a picture-book of himself, tattoo
designs intrigue me—when they depart
from the stereotyped encircling snake and
buxom female. A Digger I noticed re-
cently literally “bore his honors thick
upon him”: all of his campaigns from
Libya to New Guinea were recorded on
a muscular forearm. On the chest
of an old featherweight champion
two pugs have for more than 50 years
glared at each other from within
the roped square depicted. In Pitt-street,
Sydney, I once saw a character that might
easily have stepped out of Treasure
Island. The high-necked guernsey, gold
earrings and empty right sleeve would
have positively identified the old gentle-
man as an ex-seafarer, even if the re-
maining hand had not been a maze or
tattoo designs, with purple rings on every
finger. That wasn t all: from bom
temples a purple swallow appeared to be
winging directly to the corner of he
e Y e - But I never see a girl s name
scrolled on a masculine arm without
thinking of an acquaintance of my youth,
With the first twinge of the grand pas-
sion he had “Lucy” worked on his arm
—with suitable hearts and lovers knots,
He married Alice.
VERNAL MEMORY.
“Even in winter women like to remember the
spring. Why? Come now, ladies, tell us your most
personal springtime memory.”— Woman’s paper.
Mauve bunches of wistaria trailing over
The lattice and the roof across the way;
Green paddocks, to be powdered with the
clover
Which thrills Sir Bee on every summer’s
day;
And nesting birds, while butterflies went
quivering
Along each sweetly-scented path. All that
Concerned me not a whit, for I was shivering
With fear I’d miss out on a new spring hat.
N.S.W.
EVE MERRITT.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Mason’s, a few hundred yards
beyond Deadgum’s straggling main street,
was well alight by the time the township s
fire-brigade got the alarm. It was then
discovered how neglected electrolysis will
play up with a battery. This, combined
with the fact that the starting handle
couldn’t be found. Mason’s was on a hill
which made coasting impossible, and no
other substitute vehicle was available,
made Mason’s chances of having the con-
flagration doused become more slender
with every wasted minute. The brigade
was arguing as to the best method of
manhandling the gear along to the out-
break when Carruthers put his hands
above his screwed-up eyes and looked out
along the Pennyroyal-road, which led
into the other end of the township from
Mason’s, “That’ll be Jack Curran with
his team,” he said, pointing to a distant
moving dustcloud. “He’s got a load o’
logs and he’ll be takin’ ’em to the saw-
mill. Looks as if Mason’s luck’s in-
Jack’s got to go right past his joint, an’
we can all get a lift.”,
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Once, when browsing
around Coolgardie, I came on a buck
just in from the spinifex who was lump-
ing all the family belongings, including
a pitchi and a gunny-bag, while his
spouse strode ahead encumbered only
with three spears. But she was the biggest
lubra I ever saw ; he the tiniest shrimp
that ever ran down a bungarra. That
was the only inverted abo. couple I ever
saw out of all the hundreds I have met.
* * * *
“Algy”: The reef-enclosed waters
round Madang, New Guinea, abound
in large schools of mullet and “big
fella” mackerel which follow the mullet.
Troops in the area tried for a long time
to hook them, using every bait imagin-
able, from live mullet to canned pil-
chards, without success. We noticed,
however, that the natives frequently
landed a beauty. For a long time any
queries about the bait they used caused
large grins and eloquent signs that the
dusky ones had not the faintest idea
what we meant by “bait.” Eventually
the secret was discovered. The bait was
the rind of a large plant like an over-
grown arum-lily. This, attached to the
hook in strips, apparently disseminated
a powerful odor which irresistibly
attracted the mackerel. The plant was
rare, and grew only in the
infested lagoons known only to the
boong ; consequently a brisk trade began,
a fair-sized lily stalk bringing as much as
ten tins of bullamacow on the open
market. Any signs of a decreased price
brought the inevitable “not go, marsta,”
from the boong.
* * * *
“Shark’s Bay”: In the “Illustrated
London News” (20/10/ ’45), is the picture
of a hefty gent struggling to lift a mass
of ambergris, found floating on the sea
near the Azores by the crew of the Santi-
ago Inglesia, said lump being valued at,
roughly, £50,000 —£200 per pound. This
par is written as a gentle reproof to those
debunkers who have assured hopeful
beachcombers that even if they happened
to find half a ton of the whale’s indiges-
tion it wouldn’t be worth carrying as
far as the village store.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Had King Solomon lived
in Australia instead of a country which
is poor in ants, he would not have com-
mitted the indiscretion of advising man-
kind to regard those fraudulent insects
as outstanding models of probity and in-
dustry. It is highly surprising that he,
an autocratic ruler, regarded them with
any other feeling than horrified dislike.
“Having no chief, overseer or ruler,” as
Proverbs vi, 6 puts it, they are obvious
Commos., and they certainly show it in
their utter disregard of the property rights
of others. For us, sluggards or otherwise,
it is not a matter of going to the ant but
of preventing the brutes from coming to
us with felonious intent. They produce
nothing useful to mankind, but spoil and
destroy much that is useful. Many of
them sting poisonously and painfully.
Their moral standards are of the lowest
order. The males live in idleness under
the domination of a lot of embittered old
maids. Some of them—that unspeakably
vicious tribe the green-tree ants in par-
ticular—practise Child slavery by using
the helpless infants of the community as
silk-shuttles for sticking leaves together,
the Wretched infants having to go
naked. It is high time for a Society for
the Debunking of Ants, King Solomon
notwithstanding.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Visiting N.E.S. head-
quarters in 1942 I was interested to
note that a swarm of bees existed in a
wall of that historic structure the Mint
building, Sydney. Through a crevice in
the stonework an army of workers found
ingress and exit, and I marvelled at the in-
stinct that sent the pioneer bee explor-
ing the tiny opening, thus finding a cavern
in the heart of 24 inches of apparently
“I don't har black sheep!”
solid stonework a cavern capable of
holding a hive that could never be robbed
while the massive walls stood. With the
passing of N.E.S. the building was reno-
vated and adapted for the Housing Com-
mission. The walls have been painted,
and in the process a daub of cement has
been plugged into the mouth of the hive,
sealing it completely. How like the
Housing Commission!
* * * *
“Spearwood”: Yes, we do put sulphur
on the tomato plants, but not, as sug-
gested by “H.A.L.” (B. 30/1/’46), to kill
wasps. Sulphur and lime keep down
mildew wilt and other fungus diseases;
sulphur, lime and powdered tobacco
stonker cutworm grubs, the minute red
spider and the even tinier thrips. But
I don’t think sulphur merely dusted
around affects the wasp at all,
* * * *
“Betcha”: When Stan’s young brumby
was old enough he broke it in and used
it as a pack until the day it walked out
on him in the middle of a job and went
bush. Stan made several trips outback in
an endeavor to trace the brute and re-
cover his equipment, but despite all
efforts no one sighted the pack animal
for several years. Then during a drive
it was wedged into the receiving yard
with a bunch of cronies. It still
carried the pack. Wearing it day and
night had long ago caused blisters and
back sores that had no chance to heal,
and the saddle.had actually grafted to the
animal’s back. Trying to remove it
proved such a horrible process that a
bullet ended the nag’s troubles.
♦ * * *
“Blime”; Lockie stopped to gaze open-
mouthed at the driver of a small motor-
lorry as it rattled down the road and
round the corner, “Who’s the cove
drivin’ the store truck?” he asked old
Jim, as he stepped on to the pub
verandah. “Little dark bloke, with
glasses an’ a ziff.” Jim looked up lazily.
“Eh? I dunno. Young Ted, I s’pose.”
“No, it ain’t Ted,” protested Lockie.
“It’s a little dark bloke.” “Must be
George, then,” suggested Jim. “Gripes,
think I dunno George?” said Lockie.
“Anyway, George ain’t little an’ dark,
an’ he don’t wear glasses or a mo,”
“Perhaps Fitz is givin’ ’em a hand,” Jim
went on. “No, it ain’t Fitzie, either,”
puzzled Lockie; “I tell y’ this is a little
dark coot. What’s that cousin o’ George’s
like?” “Wouldn’t be him,” answered
Jim. “He’s over at The Bridges with the
tractor.” “Yair? Well this bloke wears
glasses, an’ a ziff, an’ he’s little an’ dark.
Must be a stranger stoppin’ up.”
“Stranger?” Jim rubbed his forehead.
“Gripes, I ain’t seen no stranger about.
What’s this here chap look like?”
* # » •
“Gill Guy”: A lot of sheep together
will go to any extremes to get fresh, cool
water. Where troughing is used at bores
or wells, sheep will always crowd up to
the intake end and jostle for the first
flow from the supply tank. The ground
at both sides of this end of the troughing
becomes worn into holes and often boggy
from the splashing, as some even climb
over the backs of their mates and get
right into the trough, while perhaps 40ft.
or 50ft. at the other end is scarcely patron-
ised. Where these watering places are
neglected for only a few days, one or
more sheep have been trampled to death
in a boggy patch in their fastidious
scramble for the clean water at the top
end,
* * * *
“Narrin”; The boss came through the
door just in time to miss by a frog’s
whisker a wild swing that was not in-
tended for him. He watched the whirling
mass of punching fists and heaving shoul-
ders and listened to the sobbing grunts
and the stamp and shuffle of shifting feet.
Suddenly Dan ricocheted out of the
melee, fell over himself and collapsed on
the floor., Scotty, with one eye in eclipse
and marks on his face like bullock tracks
in a bog, leaned gladly against the wall.
“What the devil’s the matter with you
two?” demanded the boss. Scotty whirled
round, his belligerence reviving with the
memory of the cause of the stoush. “Aw,”
he growled out, “the adjectival blank
went an’ called me a lurid Russian.” The
boss patched it up and went off musing
on the new insult that has arrived out-
back.
* * * *
“S’Aussie”: With the decision of the
S.A. Government to make Wilpena Pound
in the Flinders Ranges the site of a tourist
hostel, it’s a certainty that the old stories
connecting Starlight with the place are
sure to crop up again. The big Pound,
which is a basin almost surrounded by
something like sheer mountain walls, has
for entrance only a narrow pass, and, the
story has been made for the,benefit of
tourists that Starlight used to operate
in the ranges and use the Pound as hide-
out for his stolen cattle. Truth is that
Wilpena homestead has been within a
short walk of the entrance to the Pound
since Starlight was in short trousers, and
the residents would have known if any
strange cattle went in ; anyway, Starlight
sold his duffed victims up at the top end
of the ranges, at the first bit of settle-
ment he met when he got down into
South Aus. from Queensland. If he went
anywhere near Wilpena it was on his
way down to Adelaide to celebrate the
success of the biggest bit of duffing in
history.
* * * *
“Stern-Wheeler”: To anyone with a
love for the Murray River, Morgan
(S.A.) is no cheerful sight. The Marion
has just come from the Mfidura slip,
where she was overhauled, and only the
Gem is in commission, apart from the
Oscar W„ now owned by the Govern-
ment and used for servicing punts. The
Success is tied up alongside the willows
and gum saplings that have been tended
by her owners, the Baileys, for many a
year, and the remains of the hull of the
burned Waikerie lie behind her. The
Monada, once the Princess Royal, is half
under water, canted over to one side,
her day done for ever; the Murrabit is
tied up and out of work. Alongside the
slip stands the hull of the 80-year-old
Waradgery, now used as a storeshed, her
timbers warped but not rotted. The Suc-
cess wps last out three years ago ; no
cargo boats have had work since, and,
where in the great days there were, often
five trains a day out of Morgan taking
the wool, wheat and dried fruits brought
down by the boats, there are now three
a week. Even the old puntside Morgue,
which once had many a riverman, fallen
overboard after a spree ashore, laid on
its slab, looks deserted. The one sign of
modernity, the pumping station that sends
the Murray water to faraway Whyalla,
is out of sight of the town.
* * * «
“G’Roper”: “Edjudina’s” yarn (B.
6/2/’46) reminds me of how often I
have passed by crustaceans fearing to
sample them lest they be poisonous.
Take the numerous rock crabs found in
numbers on practically every reef and
breakwater around this continent; half
a dozen species, varying in size, but all
carrying bright scarlet coloration, either
entirely or in sizable patches.. Longshore
tradition has it that scarlet is Nature’s
danger signal, as with the red-backed
spider, for instance. But red-colored
parrotfish are edible, also red mullet,
ditto gurnet, while there is even a red
snapper. Have even eaten a negro fish,
coal-black, colloquially known out from
Fremantle as a Jack Johnson. Can any-
one inform me, from experience, whether
those scarlet rock crabs are really
poisonous?
• * * *
“O’Yen”: Although the placename
ending in Too (abo. for place) is to be
found at least once In every State, S.A.
leads with six of these: Orroroo, Walla-
roo, Pinnaroo, Lameroo, Taperoo,
Booleroo, not to mention Kangaroo
(Island!), Incidentally, there are in S.A.
more placenames of purely native origin
than in any other State.
* * * *
“Koros Tumas”: “Munja’s” hit at
planters “expecting their pound of flesh”
(B. 30/1/’46) does no justice to the names
of many good Australians who pioneered
and developed the Mandated Territory be-
tween the wars. Most of them were
1914-18 veterans, and many fought again
in the recent show. The casualty list
was tragically high, and most of the
remainder went down on the Montevideo
Maru, Plantations are sited at close
intervals along all the coasts of the Terri-
tory. In one stretch alone, between
Namatanai and Kavieng (176 miles), there
are 52 plantations, besides numerous mis-
sion and trading stations. Out of all
these there are only 10 survivors that I
know of. The local natives depended
upon these places for their rice, meat,
tobacco and other stores, and traded in
return their copra and native foods. He
was a shortsighted owner or manager
who was not prepared to make handouts
when the drought was on. From a busi-
ness angle alone it paid dividends in secur-
ing a share of the local trade and labor
when times were good. And, strange as it
may seem to “Munja” and others who
have “discovered” New Guinea in war-
time, many of us had good friends among
the natives, and were interested in their
welfare.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Sam’s three sheep-dogs are
from the same litter. Blacks of the same
size and appearance, they follow the boss
everywhere, and Sam works all three.
Nigger is broken to a whistle, Darkie
obeys a voice, while Coon responds to
a bellow and a system of signals. Was
mustering with Sam the other week when
he sent a couple of his mongs, by different
routes, to the far top of a hill to collect
some woollies. The dogs came together
at the top, boxed their mobs and started
back, but hadn’t got far when the bunch
split with, luckily enough, a dog in charge
of each section. Down a small gully
came one bunch, while those on the spur
stuck up in a patch of blackberries. Sam
turned, took a screw at the black spot
working like a pendulum behind the
obstinate mob and, sticking a couple of
fingers in his mouth, whistled shrilly. The
dog on the spur began to bark. “That's
the best o’ training ’em diff’rent,” he
remarked casually. '“Yes ” I agreed ; “but
what gets me is how in the name o’ Pete
y’ know which dog it is.” A slow grin
seeped over Sam’s dial. “Gripes, thats
easy,” he said, his eyes narrowing to
watch the black patch behind the sheep.
“Ain’t y’ noticed? Old Nigger’s got halt
a dozen white hairs under his belly.”
THE RIVER.
The river ran between us and the town,
When I was young, and boats went seldom
over:
It was enough for me to wander down,
To lie this side the river in the clover.
It was enough for me who never ventured far
Beyond the station, where the women stayed;
Why men despised me, men who spoke of war,
Strong honest men whose promise I betrayed.
But I sat out my days beside the river;
Perhaps ! worshipped, in my simple way,
That shining god who would live on for ever;
And felt no shame whatever men might say.
What was the good, I dreamed, of going over,
When from this side, the rest was plain to me?
I could stay on forgotten in the clover;
This side was life, the other may not be.
I pondered on it often, where I lay,
The men who crossed it and were gone for ever.
“Yes, they have progressed,” Time would seem
to say,
“While you are part of me, and progress never,
The backward poet in you. Dream, my son,
I have bewitched you and the drowsy stream.
Alas, I sighed, for those brave souls who’ve
gone
Beyond the river and my idle dream.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


"Bath's all right now , missus!"
“Narrin”: Another of the war’s secrets
can now be revealed: the inner history
of why Macarty’s land girl left. She had
come up from Adelaide, where she was
known as a horsewoman, especially over
the sticks at the annual royal shows. She
got on well at Mac’s, didn’t try to show
that she was as good as any two men,
didn’t loaf on her sex either. But one
day Mac caught a bay mare he had and
saddled her up to ride out after some
sheep. The mare was fresh ; she got into
it as soon as Mac hit the saddle, and
dumped him. The land girl was looking
on and laughed like blazes, and for weeks
after she didn’t let the old chap forget
his buster. For she rode the mare, which
was naturally quiet. Then came harvest,
and she started driving the tractor
for Mac, using the mare to ride back
to the house to fetch out lunches. On
the second day she started across from
the house with the scran in front of the
saddle and a billy of tea in her right
hand. At the cow-paddock gate the mare
stumbled and the hot tea splashed her
shoulder. She gave one of those little
short, low-looking jumps; the girl felt
the saddle give an upward heave, and she
flew like a little dicky bird. She left
next day.
* * * *
“C.W.”: A tale that one Skillicorn (or
some such name), a Sydney butcher, rode
from Sydney to Bathurst in a day on a
small thoroughbred mare has been heard
of by an older generation. Does anyone
recall the date of the ride, the actual time
taken and other data? I’m trying to
convince a newer generation, which is
sceptical, about the feat’s possibility.
jH % Jfc *
“Mat’s Mate”: When Mat and I were
on the transhipping at Terowie (S.A.) we
were perforce members of the good old
A.W.U. There arrived three oily blokes
who seemed to have a lot of money; they
announced that what the workers needed
was a social revolution, and that the pre-
liminary step was the formation of One
Big Union. They kept at it until they got
most of the transhipping mob and the
railway staff to a public meeting, where,
after each of them had harangued the
crowd, they called for a show of hands
on a resolution for the formation of
0.8. U. Up shot a forest of hands. Then
the leader of the trio noticed Mat and
me sitting with our hands in our pockets.
He fixed Mat with a baleful eye, thrust
out his jaw, stabbed a truculent finger at
him and roared “So, you! You dont
want to join in one big union! ” Mat
got slowly to his feet, eyed the agitator
coldly, allowed his gaze to move slowly
round the hall, then said “No! Not it
all them silly blanks are goin’t’ be in it.
It’s bad enough t’ have t’ work with some
of ’em.” Then we walked out —and most
of the crowd walked with us. I’ve never
Trusted a show of hands since.
* « * *
“Naturala”: I shall be as interested
as “B. A. Ker” (B, 6/2/’46) in learning
if those black and white swans of Parra-
matta do mate and produce young. Tradi-
tion has it that it doesn’t happen, the
species being very far apart. A more
likely mating would be white swan and
goose, but that doesn’t seem to happen
either. Nature seems much concerned in
preventing interbreeding among fowl,
though she is more liberal among
the quadrupeds. Horse and ass, for
instance; lion and tiger: though the
offspring in both cases is sterile. Even
among ducks Nature raises barriers. The
Muscovy will interbreed with the Indian
runner, but the progeny again is sterile.
Apparently birds, having great powers
of locomotion, with consequent in-
termingling, have to be more rigidly
guarded against interbreeding, which
would tend to reduce all fowl to the one
common type.
*.* * *
“Chuck”: Don’t know whether it is
what a bloke is used to, plain imagina-
tion, or whether some coves really have
more, trouble to keep warm. No one
who knows Jock and “Pull-through”
would agree that condition had anything
to do with it, for Jock is a prime heavy-
weight, while it seems that “Pull-
through’s” leathery hide is all that keeps
his bones from rattling. Jock soon
khocks up his hut mate on any heavy job
they undertake, he eats twice the tucker,
and his muscles stand out in strong con-
trast to the other’s Gandhian physique.
Yet when cold weather comes “Pull-
through” has it all over the big bloke.
With two blankets and a folded coat on
his bunk he sleeps warm and comfort-
able through the coldest snap, whereas
Jock collars everything he can lay hands
on to add to his bunk collection.
Nightly he climbs into four blankets,
three skin mats, seven chaffbags, a horse-
rug and one overcoat. And he still
growls about the cold.
“Sur * Cingle”*: If “The 0.D.” (B.
13/2/’46) had been less of a golfer and
more of a bushman he’d have asked for
what special kind of ’rooing I needed a
rifle instead of dashing in with his re-
marks. As a matter of fact, living in a
region remote from Pitt-street, I’ve made
a handy few quid in the last four months
shooting euros with a .22, my parcels of
skins including a good percentage of big
bucks. But I’m not green enough to
think, because I can stop them with a
pearifle, that the .22 is ideal for that game.
And, anyway, it’s as useless as a shanghai
if I should go out on the plains after the
red blokes.
“Zake”: Away with these riflemen and
their claims of accuracy and their fancy
gadgets! For short distances none of
them is in it with America’s champion
archer, who, as seen in a newsreel, split
a playing card, end on, at around 30
yards That would represent a target of
no more than l-64th of an inch. And
he didn’t need to screw at his target
through a brace of sights for a minute
either. He just drew back the bow —it
took around 751 b. ; n pulling weight to
do that —gave a two-second glance and
let fly. And his eye was not on a level
with the flying missile.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It’s many a long year
since my father headed into the back
country as a shearers’ cook, having taken
on the job in desperation —there was
what later came to be known as a “de-
pression” at the time. Mother was in-
trigued by his daring. She knew some-
thing about shearers, and she doubted
if Dad could cook a chop. The weeks
went by, and, judging by his infrequent
letters, he had survived the first shed and
was passing on to others. At last he
returned, cashed up and with a black
beard a foot long, which scared the tripe
out of me and the younger kids. Mother
wanted to know how he’d managed to
get by as a cook. I can see the old man s
twinkle yet as he replied “Well, I wasn’t
too sure of meself, but I hashed up a
feed an’ then I wrote a menoo an’ put
it on the table.” Here he produced the
menu:
Stewed Uppers and Baked Soles.
Roast, Burnt Black Snake.
Ipecacuanha.
Jugged Frog. Goanna.
Mineralty: Watercress Oil.
Specialty: Mosquito Brain Sauce.
“Yair,” he said, “they laughed like the
dickens an’ then started bettin’ about
whether the hash I give ’em was uppers
or soles, an’ one big bloke roared out
that he’d shot them ipecacuanhas up in
Queensland an’ they was good eatin’. It
gave me time t’ study up bn that cook
book y’ gave me, missus, an’ within a
week I was cookin’ like a champion.”
And he proved it by dishing up a bonzer
feed for us kids.
* * * $
“Propalong”: There was an unusually
large gang in at the head station when
the boss came back from his holiday,
bringing a brand-new,missus. The third
night after her arrival the lady poked her
head into the men’s kitchen, looked for
half a minute of silence at six hungry
stockmen surrounding mutton stew, and
jyanished. A couple of nights after that
Lefty, who was in the cook’s good books,
said “The missus’s bin keepin’ an’ eye
on our flamin’ tucker. Reckon she’s
goin’ t’ get the trump t’ cut our
rations.” Stan scooped a plate of “frogs’
“He backs out, yawns and says What time is it?' ”
eggs” off the slide and grunted “Boss
won’t let ’er.” Next morning we had
omelette for breakfast. Lefty, who didn’t
know what it was, swore a bit. At night
we were dished up serves of vegetable
marrow stuffed with something and a
smattering of mincemeat, followed by jelly
and custard. Next morning brought a
salty-tasting mess that the babbler de-
clared sulkily was lurid Welsh rabbit,
and we dined on veg. pie and Spanish
cream. The crib game didn’t go with a
swing that night, and when breakfast
came —curried eggs—Lefty tore off to
see the boss. That night we had as
much boiled mutton and spuds as we
could stow away, and another disastrous
strike was averted.
* * * *
“Warcowie”: The kids had brought in
a spider; one of the tribe that build a
huge web of yellow silk strong enough
to sew with and almost to pull a man off
a horse between two prickly acacias. It
was a beauty with a greenish-white
abdomen about as big as the ball of my
thumb, darker cephalothorax, with an
orange spot underneath, and brown-
striped legs, each of the fore pair being
about 3in. long. For all its great size it
showed no pugnacity, and I turned it
loose in the vine trellis. Next morning
that spider was sitting motionless in the
middle of a geometrical snare of fine
yellow strands about 18in. across, which
was stayed by strong cables to the pine
slabs of the washhouse wall some Bft.
away. Unfortunately the missus had to
use the lane between the trellis and the
washhouse, and occasionally she forgot
to duck her head in time to avoid stretch-
ing or breaking the lower stay cables.
For two or three days Her Spidership re-
paired the damage patiently each even-
ing ; then one morning I came out to find
things changed. She had strengthened
the upper cables, which were above head-
height, and by doing so ensured that the
web would be held in place. But these
high strands could not keep the web fully
extended as the laterals that were always
being broken had done. However, she
has got over that difficulty by using three
guys, pot across the lane but extending
to vine limbs. Only an engineer could
appreciate and describe the scheme which
seems so far to be entirely successful and
is quite free from interference.
* * * ♦
“B 4”: As some well-conditioned pikers
ran with the scrubbers in dense timber
well peppered with dead-finish, which
ripped our canvas scrubjackets and tore
off the leather guards on the backs of our
hands, we slung scrub-dashing in favor
of moonlighting. As the coachers worked
along a moonlit glade several small lots
were raked in, and the questing, bawling
and mooing of scattered cows and calves
attracted scrubbers from the fringes, who
made the pace a cracker when they
sighted the ringers racing to hold and
head them into the wings of a scrub trap-
yard. Several breaking bulls raced back
in a frenzy of fear when some of the 14
scrubber dogs slashed heels, hocks and
elsewheres. One black bull we often
collected but never yarded, as the vicious
brute weaved backwards, ripping and
tossing cattle when the mob jammed in
the converging wings. Many heavy bul-
lets from Tranter revolvers and .577
Sniders had often spanged his hide and
crashed him over a wing when fired at.
One night two of us rode outside the
wing beside the blacklead depot, and as
he swerved and jumped to the squirting
slugs we raced behind, and, getting him
on a bit of open, closed and tossed him.
We quickly hit the saddles, leaving him
earmarked, hornless and minus, hence-
forth to lead the less turbulent career of
a sable stag.
THOUGHT BACK HOME.
There is no window in my mind tonight
To let the moonlight in; outside my tent
She floats the shadow of a palm
On waters resting now that the alarm
Of rain is spent.
Why should my lonely thought deny
A thousand palms the company
Of stars set in eternity,
And moon so near the branches tie
Her silver streamers to each tree?
Each palm seems solitary with an ease
The mind cannot accept, for loneliness
Is thrown like a Shadow from the trees
Across each thought that beauty teases out.
The Shadow does not move or turn about’
Like those that shuffle with the moon
Around each sleepy tent; the sea-winds tease
The nostrils with the scent of home, and I
This moment would deny
The moon and stars to any sky
Save one back home; my mind
Is lit by one gold moon whose early bloom
Float's on a run of paddocks, changing step
With every fence across a Queensland scene.
Cane-bound to earth, these fields tug at a root
The sun has tangled in my heart; and now 1
wheel
My thoughts down one long road whose green
Leads to that home; the dreams of footsteps
On her soft peace; the echoes seem to find
A passage down, the mind whose key unlocks
The doors which open to each room
So soft to sound, whose minstrel tunes his
notes
To any bough in song outside the door,
To any leaf inquisitive with wind,
To footsteps like a hush upon the floor,
And to the spoons and forks that peal
With gossip at the evening meal.
At last my mind grows weary like the moon.
Tired, like a sleeper, in the west;
The silence is complete and night
Immense with quiet and rest.
R.A.A.F.
JOHN HENDERSON.


&
A*
S
s
'-Vr>
/'W
/
V
kHtii
INGRAMS
L
I
s?
W
W
I \r
£3
y '9V i
n
z
/I'
YOUR CHEMIST
IS SELLING
INGRAM’S
Vour old friend, INGRAM S, is back in civvies again
after six year* with the fighting services. Now you
can buy 120 COOL SHAVES for 2/-.
IN.*.
THERE’S A
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
r:
sdf
EXQUISITE
BEAUTY
.
GENERAL
UTILITY
COMPLETE
PREFABRICATION
li!ywood is not just “3-ply,” it
is a scientifically constructed wood
that comes in any thickness from 3
to 11 plies, even greater numbers iri
special cases, and all in large wide
flat sheets. This variety of thickness
makes it so versatile and unlimited
in its uses that Plywood will ade-
quately fill the needs of any design
or building problem. Prom meticu-
lous and exquisite veneered cabinet
work; interior panelling of walls,
cupboards and storage space; to
complete prefabrication of homes.
Plywood is unequalled in its beauty,
utility and prominence.
Strong, light and durable, there is
no substitute for Plywood.
The Product of the
AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD BOARD
FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET
on the uses of Plywood is
available. To ensure receipt
of your copy write now to
the address for your State.
Secretary, Plywood Distribu-
tors of Victoria, 1 Collins
Place, Melbourne, C.I.
Secretary, Australian Ply-
wood Board, Box 2056 X,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
Secretary, Plywood Distribu-
tors’ Association of N.S.W.,
18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary, Plywood Distribu-
tors’ Association of S.A.,
Box 343 C, G.P.0., Adelaide.
Secretary, Queensland Ply-
wood Agents’ Association of
W.A., Box B 93, G.P.0., Perth.
p - w^
Another Yalta Deal.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
04 United States News” editorial, referring
to the secret deal at Yalta by which Russia
was handed the Kuriles, has asked: ‘‘How can
the people of the world trust the heads of
Governments any more when they make evasive
and equivocal statements in their official com-
muniques and speeches, declaring that no secret
deals or commitments have been made, and
then a few months later the opposite is revealed
as the truth?” The following is an account of
yet another of the secret Yalta deals—the
arrangement by which the Soviet secured three
seats on U.N.0., as reported by a Washington
correspondent of the ‘‘Christian Science
Monitor.”)
Just to prove that the much-tapped
Yalta well of secret diplomacy is far
from running dry, here is the heretofore
unrecorded story of how one of the Big
Three’s Yalta secret agreements was
made—or better, watered down.
This concerns that promise President
Roosevelt made Premier Stalin that
Byelorussia and the Ukraine, as well as
the Soviet Union proper, should be full-
fledged members of the United Nations
Organisation.
In return, Stalin agreed the United
States should have three votes in the
General Assembly, though, when the
American people got wind of this com-
pletely illogical deal, the President
dropped the scheme.
The result was that at San Francisco
the Soviet Union came up with three
votes in the Assembly and the United
States with one. However, Stalin had
originally wanted 17 votes. This is how
that 17 was cut by sharp bargaining to
16, to 5, to 4, to 3.
Stalin proposed to Roosevelt and
Churchill that, really, because oL their
war sacrifice, because of the multi-repre-
sentation of Britain in U.N.O. via the
Commonwealth, and of the United States
(as he was persuaded) via Latin America,
the 16 Russian republics constituting the
Soviet Union should also be members.
This was obviously overbidding his hand.
Roosevelt and Churchill said no.
Stalin staged a strategic withdrawal
from 17 to 16, pointing out that the
Soviet Union’s 16 republics were really
autonomous and that since the R.S.F.S.R.
(Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Re-
public) took in the major part of the
Soviet Union and its capital was at Mos-
cow, where was also the capital of the
Soviet Union, he would accept 16.
Roosevelt then became involved in a
lengthy and persuasive explanation of
how impossible it would be to sell any
such deal to the American people. After
all, 16 for Russia ; then 48 for the United
States —but America didn’t want 48!
Finally, Stalin was cut down to 5. After
one for the Soviet Union he insisted cer-
tain of the republics must get represen-
tation, because of their war sacrifices, if
nothing else; the Ukraine, Byelorussia,
the R.S.F.S.R. and Lithuania.
Roosevelt countered by pointing out it
was politically impossible for him to give
an Assembly seat to the Soviet republic
of Lithuania, since the United States
didn’t recognise Lithuania as a Soviet
republic. Stalin then cut Lithuania off
the list.
Next to go was the R.S.F.S.R,, which
Stalin had previously pointed out was
closely synonymous with the Soviet
Union. But on Byelorussia and the
Ukraine he would not budge. Finally,
their staggering war losses and war con-
tributions became the officially accepted
explanation of why these two were
secretly awarded U.N.O. seats at Yalta.
And so, dear readers, we conclude to-
day’s instalment of the deals and personal
diplomacy that make Yalta a mine of
mystery.
British-Soviet Relations.
(From the London “Times” report of the de-
bate on foreign policy in the House of Com-
mons, 20/2/’46.)
Mr. MacMillan (Bromley, C.), opening
a debate on foreign affairs, said that the
whole House recognised the heavy labors
of the Foreign Secretary and the excep-
tional strain to which he had recently
been subjected [at the U.N.O. confer-
ence]. Mr. Bevin had played a great
national and international part. He had
carried on the major policies of honor
and duty that he had inherited from his
predecessors, Mr. Churchill and Mr-
Eden,
It could not be disguised that the
relations between the great Powers were
greatly, even alarmingly, strained. New
groups of minor satellite nations round
one or other of the Big Three had taken
shape. Soviet diplomacy, for whatever
reason, seemed to be concentrating upon
outward pressure in the Mediterranean
and the Middle East against well-recog-
nised and established British interests. In
the Security Council a technique of attack,
direct and indirect, had been developed
upon all the weak links in the chain of
world security and peace. New rivalries,
based upon strategical fears and sup-
ported by ideological weapons, had been
sedulously promoted. It would be folly
not to recognise that the Anglo-American-
Russian alliance, that held so firmly in
spite of so many difficulties throughout
the years of war, was virtually, if not
formally, in abeyance.
There were many perplexing problems
amounting to what seemed to be a
planned diplomatic offensive. There were
some questions that had to be asked.
What of Poland? Were the conditions
worsening or improving? What of the
Polish Army? Might we now know that
no man of this force would be sent back
to Poland against his will, and, for those
who were unwilling to go back, were we
prepared to carry out Mr. Churchill’s
suggestion of offering such men citizen-
ship in the British Commonwealth?
(Opposition cheers.)
What of the Greek territorial claims?
Would we agree that the Dodecanese
Islands would be returned to Greece? And
were we ready to resist any claims against
the integrity of the Greek mainland? He
was absolutely convinced, in spite of all
that had happened in the inter-war years,
that the recovery of Italy as a stable and
democratic Power in the Mediterranean
was a British and a world interest. Italy
had been a long way in working her
passage home, but it was now really essen-
tial that peace should be made and made
quickly. Hitherto Soviet support of
Yugoslav claims had been a stumbling
block, but now were we to expect a
sudden and dramatic change in Soviet
policy? He feared that Italy was going
to become a pawn in a great diplomatic
game.
It was tine that the more realistic
opinion of today was a healthy symptom,
but realism must not be allowed to de-
generate into cynicism, or disillusionment
into despair. We did not want this to be
an age of open diplomacy and secret fear.
(Loud Opposition cheers.) What did
Russia want? What was the motive be-
hind these manoeuvres? Were they a
manifestation of the expansionist policy
which inspired Tsarist Russia? Had the
ideological aspirations of the
tionary party once more taken control, or
was Russia yielding to those secular forces
which seized nations in turn, Spain,
France and Germany, and made up its
mind to dominate the world?
Was there to be a manifestation of a
new imperialism, or a return to the prose-
lytising fervor of international Com-
munism? Did it mean that the military
theorists were once again back in control?
All these were possible explanations, but
if any of them were correct we should
know where we were and we should frame
our policy accordingly, and so long as
there was breath in British bodies we
should defend ourselves and our heritage
against aggression. Nor should we accept
any political or economic doctrines except
as a result of our own free and demo-
cratic choice. It might be that any of
these was the real motive behind Soviet
foreign policy, but it was absolutely vital
for ourselves and for the future of the
world that we should try to learn the
truth. (Loud Opposition cheers.)
These matters were all too grave to
deal with on party or preconceived lines.
We could not be pro-Russian or anti-
Russian. We must be pro-mankind. The
situation was full of danger, threatening
ultimate disaster. Was there nothing that
could be done to make anew start, anew
approach to the problem?
There was another possible explana-
tion. Was sufficient allowance made for
Russia’s experiences and Russia’s psy-
chological background? All through her
history she had been invaded, both from
the east and west, by a succession of


mm r 5 i Tfs
K'Sm
■■■Uu
%
m
Mi
f /
Qq u
Ol.*!
-=<9^
**Tv ®
lo '-s=,
ft.
3 Generations of Road-users have restored
energy and good humour with Tintara Gold Label
Port —or, perhaps, with such other Tintara Wines
as Gold Label Muscatel, Amontillado Sherry
the Tintara Sparkling Wines—Champagne, Hock,
Moselle, and Burgundy—and Tintara
Old Brandy.
1 often wonder what the Vintners buy.
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
Omar Khayyam
w
1 \ At left: Anodised Aluminium Casing to
»» Escalators.
Below: Chromium Plated Balustrading to
Staircase.
mm
Ik
’ •
m
m
r : k
ill
iii
m s
m
■
m
m
wm
■
m m
m
V
K
Distinctive
ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
THE NAME OF WUNDERLICH has (for
over fifty years) been synonymous with individuality in architectural
metal-work of every type; fabricated to the satisfaction of the
most exacting architects and builders.
SOON the craftsmen of Wunderlich Limited
(having been fully occupied on defence requirements throughout the
war years) will employ their skill in the production of distinctive,
beautiful architectural metal features for embellishing the institu-
tional and commercial buildings now being planned for the years
ahead. ... . ,
Your enquiries are invited.
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALTITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., and BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
PFT THF BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHm™NAGEMENT" 3.. 6d, POST FREE, "BULLETIN" OFFICE.
enemies. There had been four invasions
of Russian territory during the last 130
years. Now that the world was exhausted
might seem to the Russians the oppor-
tunity to seize and fortify bastions against
future aggression.
If that interpretation were the right
one, it need not be fatal if it was dealt
with in time. Whether we liked it or
not the world was being divided into
different spheres of influence, economic,
political and military. There were great
differences in the political conceptions
and economic practices of the dominant
Powers. The task of statesmanship was
to reconcile them at the points where
they met and on the matters where all
were interested.
The Security Council was being used as
an instrument of power politics, to play
under the new rules but the old motives.
At this stage the tangle could only be
dealt with by the meeting of those men
who were vested with the power not only
to frame policy but to carry it into
effect. Let the Government take note of
the anxiety which, more than domestic
troubles, was now beginning to darken
the whole spirit of the nation.
Unless an accommodation could be
found and firmly established between the
Eastern and Western spheres there could
be no single policy in regard to Germany.
If that accommodation were reached Ger-
many could be transformed in due course
into a healthy and valuable member of
the European family ; only so could the
soul of the German people be saved. But
if not, she would once more become a
menace to peace. Germany, now cast
down, despised, shunned like an unclean
thing, would once more be courted by
the two groups, and from a starving out-
cast would become the pampered
courtesan of Europe, selling her favors
to the highest bidder. She would once
more lose the war and win the peace.
Hitler’s dreams and mad imaginings
would have come true.
“Chaos of Hatred.”
(Further representative details of some of the
happenings round about Germany since the
end of the war. Published by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century and After” from
firsthand reports, they suggest that seeds of
hate have been and are still being sown there
that may some day make a terrible harvest .)
According to a report by a member
of the German Red Cross, a migration
of 700 severely-wounded German soldiers,
taken by the Russians, but who had been
released, about 100 women and children,
eight German doctors and 43 sisters of
the Red Cross moved towards the Ger-
man frontier on foot. They were robbed
of money, clothing, identity cards,
watches, food and so on by Russian
soldiers. Czech civilians menaced them
with automatic pistols—a wounded lieu-
tenant and a corporal wore shot dead,
apparently because they did not surrender
their wrist watches with sufficient promp-
titude. The Czechs constantly pelted the
wounded men with stones.
The migrants had no food and the
wounded, in particular, were tormented
by thirst. But they were denied access
to the village pumps and wells by the
Czech villagers. Several of the wounded
died of sunstroke. At night the migrants
slept in the ditches by the roadside. When
Russian motor transport passed the Rus-
sians would stop and rape the sisters and
the younger women. Some of the
wounded died on the roads, but could
not be buried because the Czechs allowed
none to tarry. Some of the severer cases
—especially those with head- or lung-
wounds —had to be led. Some collapsed
again and again through exhaustion or
fever. All bandages and medicine with
which they had started off were stolen
on the way.
When the migrants reached Kommotau
the wounded, with the doctors and sisters,
were allowed to proceed in goods trucks.
They travelled on for five days, with con-
stant stoppages. They were constantly
assaulted by Czechs and Russians. The
sisters were raped again and again. All
the men, and nearly all the women, were
robbed of their footwear. Outside Karls-
bad a Russian officer gave them 15 loaves
of bread —the first bread they tasted for
weeks. At Roderisch they reached the
American zone and their worst troubles
were over.
A report by a German doctor tells of
events in Preussisch-Holland and the sur-
rounding villages, which were over-
crowded with fugitives. By the end of
the summer there was hardly a man or
woman who had not been robbed of
everything. Much depended on the local
Russian commanders. Some of these
showed occasional kindness, and yvould
give a woman or a child some milk or
a piece of bread. Others would drive
men and women to work by hitting them
with the butts of their rifles. Mortality
was very high, chiefly as the result of
undernourishment:
I did not see one child under 12 months
old survive this period [of five months].
Of children aged from one to two, 50 p.c.
or 60 p.c. survived.
Women were constantly assaulted with-
out regard for their age —even girls aged
eight, nine or ten were not spared, nor
were women aged 60 or even more:
I shall never [so the author of this report
relates] forget the hopeless resignation With
which these girls told us, as though it were
an everyday occurrence, how they had been
misused by 12, 15 or 25 men in succession,
often in a single night. Their pleading and
their prayers were usually in vain. Those
who tried to resist were beaten with rifle-
butts on the head or on the shoulders
Within a few weeks venereal disease spread
over the land. Of the women who sought
our aid 50 p.c. were certainly infected,
20-25 p.c. were probably infected.
Seven girls under seven were found to
have contracted venereal disease.
And there were no medicines. The
chemists’ shops had been looted of all they
contained We could give no treatment
to arrest the progress of the disease.
In a local hospital, with 130 beds, there
were 230 patients, of whom about two-
thirds were suffering from typhus. The
mortality was extremely high as the result
of undernourishment and exhaustion.
Again, much depended upon the Rus-
sian officer-in-charge:
I admit, willingly and gratefully, that
from several officers of the Russian Kom-
mendcmtura I received help and compli-
ance.
The Russians gave the hospital three
cows, some milk, meat, sugar and fat.
But such help was only occasional and
afforded no more than temporary allevia-
tion. The Russians were not, apparently,
animated by hatred or by the spirit of
revenge:—
Again and again I had the impression
that the [Russian] soldiers and their com-
manders were merely inefficient and primi-
tive.,., and blunted by seeing others
suffer. But they were unbridled and in-
calculable when they had taken alcohol.
Other reports also seem to show that
the Russians, unlike the Poles and Czechs,
do pot hate the Germans. Indeed, their
behavior in non-German countries hardly
differs from their behavior in Germany.
The author of the report relates that:
The treatment of the Germans by the
Poles was modified by a certain civilisation,
but dictated by a substantially greater
hatred than was felt by the Russians. The
honor of German women remained un-
molested [by the Poles]. But nothing else
remained so.
The Poles made whole families leave their
homes within half an hour, allowing none
to take more than they could carry on
their backs—and even this was generally
stolen later on by the Polish militia.
The report closes with the words:
During these five months I have ex-
perienced every degree of indignation and
of shame over the behavior of men towards
men, of impotent anger when I stood help-
less in the presence of some new misdeed
or some new misery endured by my fellow-
countrymen. As I write this report I feel
free of every base reaction... .but pity
and a sense of shame have remained. I
believe my fellow-countrymen deserve pity,
even if they are Germans, members of the
nation which, knowingly or thoughtlessly,
allowed the S.S. and the Gestapo to run
wild in Poland. Pity, because the end of
this war and all its consequences will have
given them their full share of punishment
and retribution —pity, also, for Europe,
which can no longer extricate itself from
this chaos of hatred.
New Cures for Malaria.
(Condensed from a Washington report in N.Y.
“Times.”)
A new synthetic drug superior to ate-
brin or quinine for malaria called “SN
7618” relieves acute attacks of the disease
three times faster than the other two
drugs, according to the U.S. Board for
the Co-ordination of Malarial Studies.
The scientists disclosed that another
new drug was offering “definite promise”
of being the long-sought actual cure for
the relapsing form of malaria, the type
with which many returning servicemen
are afflicted. The second is still in an
early experimental stage.
Both developments resulted from a
$5,000,000 war-time research programme
in which 14,000 compounds were tested,
seeking improved weapons against the
malady which strikes up to 300,000,000
persons throughout the world annually.
Conscientious objectors and prison in-
mates participated as volunteer “human
guinea pigs,” allowing themselves to be
infected with the disease and treated.
Several hundred thousand canary birds,
ducks, chickens, monkeys, dogs, rabbits
and mice were used in laboratory tests.
The drug nicknamed “SN 7618” be-
cause it was the 7618th drug tested in the
four-year programme is made by linking
part of an atebrin molecule with another
chemical. Its formal name is “7-chloro-
-4 - (4 - diethylamino-l-methylbutylamino)
quinoline.”
The scientists said six or other new
drugs of the same chemical family
appeared to be superior to atebrin, but
whether they were superior to “SN 7618”
remained to be seen.
“SN 7618” was described by the board
as superior to atebrin for these reasons:
(1) It relieves acute attacks of malaria in


m
use
mm
99
iron
GaWanteed
X
I
iiii
11
*8
«**
w
r»*
O RJ2
if##
qUA I -'" l^
Because of its great strength
and extreme rig idity.
Lysaght's RED ORB Galvan-
ized Iron requires less tim-
bering, goes up faster, lasts
longer, and is both vermin
and fireproof. Id 24 and
26g., and lengths 5' to 12'.
John lysaght (Australia) Ply. ltd.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane
v Adelaide • Perth
LI 32 A—4562
it
■
BP&
iW.
■m,
7 /m .v '’<■'s> •■’••■• •.■••:• jss*:V v : t&SSf
wfliiir 1 ✓ r^l
|/£' ‘i
;...,
I
Keep on
Buying
Savings Certificates
and Stamps,
iipnpie
TYRES
'
S ü back ■ ■ bi 9 value ' niileage
OLYMPICS which were always your first choice. Keep
nivi /T OLYMPIC dealer .. . confident that
OLYMPIC will offer tomorrow's top value in tyres
and in the meantime . . . drive carefully, conserve your
present tyres. 7
You II get better service from synthetic tyres
by strictly observing speed limitations and
load and inflation recommendations.
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE AUSTRAUA*|
sjibv:
i
m
so.
If any THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
«o the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
one to two days, compared with four to
six with atebrin. (2) It need be taken
only once a week instead of daily—as
must atebrin—to keep the disease mild
or dormant. And the once-a-week dosage
for this purpose is less than half the total
amount of atebrin that must be con-
sumed in a week. (3) It doesn’t stain the
skin. (4) It doesn’t produce disagreeable
stomach ailments. (5) It can be produced
at the same cost as atebrin.
Like atebrin and quinine, “SN 7618”
can actually cure the form of malaria
called “falciparum malaria,” the board
reported. This type is often fatal, but it
is non-relapsing. “SN 7618” can cure it
in about two days, compared with be-
tween four and six days with the older
drugs, members said.
A more common type of malaria is
called “vivax.” It is non-fatal in adults,
but up to 20 relapses may occur within
three years. “SN 7618” can suppress this
form, or relieve acute attacks of it, more
quickly than can atebrin or quinine, the
board stated, but the new drug cannot
cure it. Neither can atebrin or quinine.
The second new drug described by the
scientists is designed to cure this “vivax”
form.
World War 111.
(Condensed from an article in “Forward” by
Bertrand Russell.)
Is it possible to prevent a third world
war, between Russia on one side and
America and Great Britain on the other?
If not, the outlook for the world is appal-
ling. A war between America and Russia
might well last for 30 years and end, not
in victory for either, but in the extinction
of civilised ways of life. All large towns
in Great Britain would be wiped out by
atomic bombs at an early stage.
The difficulties arise through Russian
imperialism. Many deny that the Soviet
Government is imperialistic. They say
imperialism is an outcome of private
capitalism, and since private capitalism
has been abolished in Russia, there can-
not be imperialism in that country. This
argument is refuted by the facts. Russia
has annexed eastern Poland and the
Baltic Provinces, has established subser-
vient Governments in Poland, Bulgaria
and Rumania, and is demanding Port
Arthur and a half-share of the Chinese
Eastern Railway. If this is not imperial-
ism, what is?
This is not the end of Russia’s ambi-
tions. Ancient designs against Turkey
and Persia are being revived. There are
reasons for suspicion as to Russian intern
tions in eastern Germany. Russia’s im-
mense military strength, as revealed by
the war, is held in check for the moment
by the atomic bomb, but before long
Russia, no doubt, will have as' good (or
bad) a bomb as that of the Americans,
and as soon as -this has happened it will
be possible to have a really serious war.
Such madness must be prevented if pos-
sible, but it is not easy to see how.
I do not think peace can be perma-
nently preserved by a policy of appease-
ment. Such a policy encourages continu-
ally greater demands on the other side
until a point is reached where further
yielding is thought, rightly or wrongly,
to be impossible; then war results in cir-
cumstances made more unfavorable by
previous concessions. In the case of
Russia, this point would be reached, at
latest, when attempts were made to estab-
lish a Communist Government in France
by unconstitutional means. What is
wanted is not vague appeasement but a
clear policy, publicly proclaimed, making
clear in advance what issues we consider
vital.
We should, I think, concede a free
hand to Russia in eastern Europe (exclud-
ing Greece and Turkey), on the ground
that in that region we cannot effectively
intervene ; but in return we should have
an acknowledgment of our interest in the
Mediterranean. To this degree, spheres
of influence, though undesirable, seem im-
possible to avoid. But our main policy
should be guided by motives of principles,
not of national power.
The advent to power of the Labor party
in Great Britain has given hope through-
out Europe to those Socialists who have
remained faithful to democracy. In
almost every country of the Continent
there are strong Left-Wing movements
which hitherto have had to look to Russia
for support. Our policy should be not
to support the Left where it is in a minor*
ity but to secure democracy wherever
Anglo-American influence is sufficiently
strong, and to accept whatever Govern-
ment, whether of the Right or of the Left,
may result from free elections.
The first step should be to see that this
policy is genuinely applied in Greece,
where the Conservatives left us an evil
legacy. X do not know what is possible
in regard to Spain, but whatever can legi-
timately be done should be done to hasten
the fall of Franco. We should make it
clear, if possible in conjunction with
America, that we should not be tolerant
of unconstitutional attempts to substitute
dictatorships for democracies in countries
where a democratic Government had been
established.
All this, however, should not be at-
tempted within the Russian sphere. Any
concessions to America and Britain in
Poland, Bulgaria or Rumania are likely
to prove illusory and to generate more
irritation than they are worth.
The present British Government can,
aud I hope will, acquire great moral pres-
tige by abandoning certain imperialist
claims. In regard to India, dramatic and
unequivocal pronouncements should be
made, embodying what is in fact our
policy, but stating it in a manner to
appeal to the imagination. Hong Kong
should be restored to China by the peace
treaty.
These things are necessary if we are
to aspire, as we legitimately may, to the
moral leadership of Socialist Europe. By
this means we can build up a western
European bloc which, while by no means
hostile to Russia, will also be not subser-
vient and not susceptible to political pene-
tration by Communist totalitarianism.
In this way an equilibrium may be estab-
lished which, though at first precarious,
may gradually become more stable as war
passions cool and commonsense revives.
I do not think that either side would
deliberately provoke a great war, for
Stalin is not a fanatic like Hitler. The
danger would come through lack of defi-
niteness as to what each side considered
sufficiently vital to be worth fighting for.
If this is made clear in advance the rest
can be left to compromise, provided we
all remember that the next great war will
ruin everybody equally.
I have so far said nothing about the
most difficult problem—namely, Ger-
many.
What the Russians are doing in the part
which they occupy is hard to ascertain ;
it is said that they give better rations to
those who declare themselves Commu-
nists. It seems natural to expect that the
eastern and western halves of Germany
will become exceedingly different if occu-
pation by separate forces continues for
a considerable time. So far, there has not
been much approach to a common policy
and a common system of administration,
and it is hard to see how such an ap-
proach can be made until there are
genuine good relations between Russia
and the Western Powers.
One of the chief difficulties is the
Soviet Government’s dread of any con-
tact between its soldiers and employees
and those of the Americans, the British
or the French. This dread, no doubt,
results from the expectation that contact
would show up official Russian propa-
ganda ; it would never do for Russian
soldiers to discover that American soldiers
have higher pay and better rations, for
this might undermine their faith.
If administrative co-operation could be
established in Germany, a long step
would have been taken towards world-
wide co-operation.
The outlook, rationally considered,
allows only a moderate degree of hope-
fulness. All past history suggests the
likelihood of a clash, sooner or later,
between America and Russia, the two
Great Powers with a claim to world hege-
mony. Some may hope that the atomic
bomb and the further horrors that science
presumably will bring forth might cause
a general revulsion against war; but I
am afraid this is to suppose mankind
more reasonable than it is.
For the moment we must trust to ex-
pedients, hoping that in time the Russian
regime may become more liberal and
more co-operative. But this will not
happen unless the limits of Russian power
are made plain to the Soviet Government,
while at the same time it is unmistakably
shown that within those limits Russia has
nothing to fear.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
On October 3, 1945, a World Federation of
Trade Unions was founded in Paris under Com-
munist asgis. This is the new International,
the successor to the Third. The Communists
were smart enough to make Paris, rather than
Moscow, the centre of this new organ, and to
concentrate on Left-Wing trade-unionism rather
than international Communism. The American
representative is the C. 1.0.; the A.F.L. would
have nothing to do with the outfit. It is this
organisation that Soviet Russia brought up for
membership of U.N.O. —George E. Sokolsky;
N.Y. “Sun.”
» ♦ ♦ •
Lend-lease aid totalling $46,040,000,000 was
supplied by the U.S. from March 11, 1941, to
October 1, 1945. Reverse lend-lease —aid given
to the U.S. by other nations —totalled
$6,256,871,000 to July 1, 1945, the latest date
for which information is available. —Chicago
“Sun.”
# * * *
Lord Knollys, chairman of the British Over-
seas Airways Corporation, delivering the
Brancker Memorial Lecture on “Air Transport
and the Public” at the Institute of Transport,
said: “The Tudor airliner will carry as many.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
1?
HUGHES
id
v m
T>.B
*wd
Twenty-five years of service to
Australia under nine successive Prime
Ministers is one of the records of
“Qantas” achievements in the field
of air transportation.
Serving without prejudice from
Hughes in 1920 to Chijfley to-day,
from peace, through war and on to
peace, 144,000,000 passenger miles
have been flown by “Qantas” air-
craft in establishing and maintaining
Australia’s overseas air finks.
Equipped with experience based on
past achievements, “ Qantas” is
pre-eminently qualified to assist in
developing Australia’s International
routes.
Qcmtcu
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
horsepower as a 10,000-ton steamer, an elec-
tricity system the capacity of which would
light a large lecture theatre, a system of gyro-
control three times as complex as that used on
board ship, two radio transmitting stations,
three or more radio receivers, a vacuum system,
a compressed-air system, a hydraulic system,
ah air-conditioning plant, a refrigerator, an
electric cooker, attachments for electric razors,
and a large number of instruments for navi-
gation and control. A large aircraft might
cost anything from £IOO,OOO upwards, and
generally a civil aircraft is obsolete after
five years. That means a depreciation at the
rate of £20,000 a year, well over £2 an hour.
Passengers, particularly on long flights, are fo
be provided with a tiny loudspeaker in the
headrest of the seat for broadcast programmes
if desired; facilities for wireless and radio tele-
phone communication; route maps; descrip-
tive booklets of countries and objects of interest
over which the passenger is flying; and the
carrying once more of ships’ libraries.
Amenities to be offered include the serving of
meals of the same high standard over the
tropical deserts as over the North Atlantic in
mid-winter.” — London “Times” report.
* * * *
At Moscow the United States agreed that
France should have no part in the negotiation
of the Balkan peace treaties although France
possesses vital interests in the eastern Mediter-
ranean and in the Balkans. At Moscow the
United States agreed that the final European
peace treaties would be dictated solely by the
Big Three. There is no smaller member of
the United Nations which will be deluded as to
the real character of the so-called peace con-
ference to be held before May 1 next at which
the lesser Powers will be* permitted to make
“recommendations,” but will be given no
asurance that their recommendations will be
adopted. The course now followed by the
United States constitutes a complete reversal
of what this Government previously had main-
tained. Can it be surprising that the French
Government bluntly asked whether the so-called
peace conference is summoned merely to ratify
decisions already taken by the Big Three?
Or that it serves notice that France is “inter-
ested in all important questions concerning
Europe or any region whatever of Europe?”
Have we any reason to wonder that Frangois
Mauriac, in a bitter allocution to the French
people, quotes these words of La Bruyere:
“It costs the powerful so little to bestow mere
words upon us, and their power makes it so
unnecessary for them to carry out the fine
promises which they have made, that it is really
true modesty on their part not to make
even more sweeping promises.” — Former U.S.
Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles;
Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
The blackface minstrel show and the strip
tease, in which a girl disrobes piece by piece,
are the only forms of theatrical entertainment
that originated in the United States. —
“Collier’s.”
* * * *
As counter to the Americans’ support of a
Jewish national home in Palestine, a deputy
t'o the Iraqi Parliament suggested that Cali-
fornia be detached from the United States and
Arab immigration to California be permitted.
The proposal was reported by the Secretariat
of the Arab League. It is in line with frequent
comments from Arabs that if Palestine is given
back to the Jews the United States should be
given back to the Indians. — Cairo correspon-
dent, N.Y. “Times. v
# * * #
On the ground that a state of war did not
exist between the United States and Japan until
Congress issued its declaration of war on De-
cember 8, 1941, two Federal and two State
Courts have recently ruled that persons killed
in the attack oh Pearl Harbor were victims of
murder, not casualties of war, and that their
life insurance, therefore, had to be paid, de-
spite the fact that the policy contained a clause
releasing the insurance company if death was
“due to war or incidents thereof.” — “Collier’s.”
* * * *
Whatever hopes may be reposed in the use-
fulness of U.N.O. and of its Security Council,
theie is no danger that the country will yield
itself once more to the illusion, so fatal in the
experience of the League of Nations, that mem-
bership of an international organisation is a
substitute for a foreign policy.— London
“Times.”
* * * *
Mr. Bevin’s statement in the House of Com-
mons placed the number of German homeless
and displaced persons at between 20 and 25
millions. It would seem to be a very close
estimate. In effect it means the compulsory
removal and resettlement of a mass of people
exceeding in number the combined populations
of Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium.
As things stand at present it implies a mass
influx and subsequent resettlement within areas
which, according to Field-Marshal Montgomery
and General Eisenhower, already have to
accommodate and feed millions of refugees
under totally inadequate conditions of hous-
ing, nutrition and employment. In the Soviet
zone of occupation the situation is still worse,
since this zone bears not only the full brunt
of the expulsion but has as well to supply
the Red Army. These facts confirm the general
conclusion that such mass removal and re-
settlement schemes in Austria and rump-Ger-
many constitute an almost unmanageable task
which, if carried through without due dis-
crimination, can only lead to chaos and revolu-
tion outside as well as within the countries
concerned. — R. H. M. Worsley; London
“Nineteenth Century and After.’’
* * * £
It turns out that at Yalta, in direct violation
of the pledges made under the Atlantic Charter,
Russia—although still at peace with Japan-
asked for and obtained from the heads of the
British and American Governments an agree-
ment that Japanese territory in the Kurile
Islands and in the southern half of Sakhalin
Island should be annexed by the Soviet. But,
it will be asked, was it not necessary for the
American and British representatives at the
Yalta Conference to make such a promise in
order to induce Russia to enter the war eventu-
ally against Japan? This question implies that
Russia was not interested in helping us out
against Japan except at a price, and had to be
bribed with promises of territory in order to co-
operate with us. It implies that the help we
gave the Red armies, with our billions of
dollars of lend-lease and with our sacrifices
of American lives in opening a second front in
France, was not sufficient to appease Marshal
Stalin. It implies that, although we, by our
help in Europe, saved Russia from ignominious
defeat at the hands of the Nazis, Russia was
not willing to come to our aid in the Far
East against the enemy which had attacked u?
unless given a large piece of Japanese terri-
tory. — David Lawrence; “United States News”
editorial.
# * * *
In the House of Commons debate on foreign
policy Brigadier Head (Carshalton, C.) said that
Russia should not be deceived in judging this
country’s [Britain’s] strategical strength. Britain’s
great failing was that it appeared very weak
when it was nothing of the sort. He would
say to Russia “Outwardly this country appears
weak strategically, but that is wrong. Strategi-
cally she is really strong.” It would be fatal
if Russia thought that she could play fast and
loose with us in the game of power politics.—
London “Times” report.
* * * *
The Rumanian Communist leader, Anna
Pauker, openly talked —and still does it—of
moves to communise the country. King Michael
is recognised as an obstacle to this, and it is
thought the Russians would be happy to get
former King Carol back as a steppingstone to
their aims. It is understood that Princess
Marthe Bibescu was sent to London as an
advance agent for such a scheme. Carol has
not been able to return to Europe, largely be-
cause of the British refusal to grant transpor-
tation facilities. French Communists are put-
ting pressure on the Paris Government to help
Carol. — N.Y. “Times” staff correspondent in
Europe.
* * ♦ •
While President Truman asked Congress to
approve the $4,400,000,000 credit to Britain as
a contribution to world peace and prosperity,
many feel that the real argument for some
financial help to Britain goes far deeper than
that. Fundamentally it is this: If it was worth
29 billion lend-lease dollars of the taxpayers’
money to prevent the destruction of the British
Commonwealth in the war, an additional out-
lay would seem reasonable to preserve its peace-
time existence, along with U.S., as a bulwark
of world democracy. The ugly truth, it is ob-
served, is that Anglo-American democracy was
never more in danger than it is today. Dictator-
ships, totalitarian style, are more in evidence,
or in preparation, than ever before, with de-
mocracy increasingly on the defensive. — Wil-
liam Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegrani.”
« * ♦ •
Visitors to Stalin say that he contemplates
asking for U.S. loans, but is waiting until less
prosperous times increase the Leftist power
in America. This seems like doubtful strategy.
He would be better advised to get in line be-
fore Americans begin to reckon the cost of
world ascendancy. As the world’s financial
centre U.S. must take the nations as they come.
It can do little to correct their political quirks
through financial limitations. But it is ironical
to see how determinedly the descendants of
Karl Marx believe in Santa Claus. — Raymond
Moley; “Wall-street Journal.’’
« * ■* *
The most recent propaganda concerning
China is that the Communists of China are
not Communists at all. They are now supposed
to be agrarians, unrelated to Soviet Russia or
the Third International. The fact is that the
Chinese Communist party is a well-established
OKgan of Russian foreign policy as all Com-
munist parties in all countries are. — George E.
Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
* # * *
Reviewing their most profitable year in his-
tory, the chairman of Britain’s “Big Five”
banks found grounds for modified optimism
about the future of, their institutions as well as
of the country in general, but expressed vary-
ing degrees of concern about the impact of
Government controls upon the economic sys-
tem. The bankers, however, all expressed the
belief that private enterprise would continue
to play an important role in the British eco-
nomy, contributing, in the words of the Mar-
quess of Linlithgow of the Midland Bank, “the
old and tried qualities of imagination and readi-
ness to venture personal resources to the build-
ing of a new era of national welfare.” —
London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
If the U.N.O. is to capture the confidence of
the people, it must be more than a Town Hall
of the World. No phrase has been more un-
fortunate in describing the function of a world
organisation. Talk will not save anybody.
Action, guided by fine thinking, is what
is needed. — Raymond Moley; “Wall-street
Journal.”
« * * *
The Archbishop of Westminster, Dr. Bernard
Griffin, speaking at a reception at Archbishop’s
House to Roman Catholic delegates to U.N.0.,
said Democracy had, on different lips, an en-
tirely different significance. It was false to de-
scribe as democratic a system where liberty
was refused to the individual and where elec-
tions were held with no choice of candidates
allowed to the electors. It was difficult to
imagine freedom existing in countries where
secret police and the dread of concentration
camps were the most potent sanction of a
nation’s law. Personally, he had great hope
that eventually the United Nations would
secure the restoration of world order. His
belief was founded on two convictions, one
positive and other negative. The first was that
he was sincerely convinced that no State, great
or small, wanted to see the world plunged
once more into conflict. In the second place,
he believed that the fundamental decency of
human nature and the strength of Christianity
among so many of the delegates would be
sufficiently strong to turn the judgment of the
world against paganism and totalitarianism,
whether of the Left or the Right, by whatever
name it might be called. — London “Times.’''


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE.; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
3
%
Y&
n
9a
W/
?
«mnw WWW
»r»« «••'•»•■*•
\
■ jj
The HYctli DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS,
AND THE ONEY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEES INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
■WARNING !
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the Public
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd... the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not toe misled toy specious statements. Buy only that which has
an unsullied reputation.
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more in other States.
WRJTE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET
HfGEKA
SANITARY CO. PTY,
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Est. 1927
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 83 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Viet.: Victorian Producers Co-op. Co. Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
S. Aust.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
m
m
V %
i
7
mm
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer-
CYanogaS
(Regd.)
Use the rabbits’ natural home —
the warren; destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem. .. the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
m
MM
%
m
tr«
HILLMAN MINX
y/is I?£~tUl lj(* a ~htsA aJ£,U clcru£. /
AVAILABLE SOON. See Your Distributor for Particulars*
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
CATHCART HOUSE, 11c CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Temporary Address)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.: 222 Exhibition St., Melbourne
JOHN McGRATH LTD.: Steamship Building, Eagle St., Brisbane
(Temporary Address)
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.; 900 Hay St., Perth
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY. LTD.: Cr. York and St. John Sts., Launceston
Routes Group RegToiml Representative! 47a_j^urke_St^et ! _M^lbottrne.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Earmarking and Branding.
‘Sheepo”: In a Court neither a brand
nor an earmark can be depended upon
to prove positive ownership (B.
14 /11 / ’45), simply because a tar or fluid
brand can be clipped out, and an ear-
mark in most cases is easy to mutilate.
Two or more graziers in the same dis-
trict often have the same registered mark.
A watertight method of identification
has yet to be evolved.
Over 25 years ago the late W. A. N.
Robertson, then chief vet. in Victoria,
patented a method for branding and ear-
marking. It was passed by the Legisla-
tive Assembly, but pigeonholed by the
Legislative Council. Robertson’s method
was essentially a numerical one, signs
and symbols being used to indicate
various values, and by it each owner
would be given his own distinctive brand
and/or mark. It permitted the distri-
bution of no fewer than 81,599 distinc-
tive earmarks and 97,599 brands, and
although it did not make mutilation and
blotching or removal of brands imposs-
ible it at least provided for practically
every owner in Victoria to have his own
distinctive earmark and brand,
Robertson’s method was good for
cattle, but in sheep there were many dis-
advantages. As the numbers increased
so did the marks in the ear, and some
of them required as many as five, most
of them of a different design. Apart
from seeing five marks in an ear when
drafting, there was slowness involved at
marking-time. There was also the neces-
sity for three or four pairs of pliers.
In discussions with Robertson I sug-
gested a modification whereby each State
might be divided into districts and every
owner in each district have a distinctive
earmark and brand, the States in turn
to have different ears for carrying the
marks; Queensland the near ear,
N.S.W. the off ear, Victoria near ear
and so on. This would prevent owners
in adjoining States from having the same
earmark. But it came to nothing.
Land Reform.
“C.S.”: “R.McL.” (B. 27/2/’46) in-
vites me to “put up a practical plan by
which the position of hopelessly-involved
landholders may be alleviated and some
prospect given them of ultimately be-
coming owners of their land and of leav-
ing a fair equity to their children.” Like
most people interested in the land and
its future, I’ve my own ideas about it.
Putting them into operation is another
matter, and there certainly isn’t space in
any newspaper in the land to publish
them. Even were they published, by
what power could Governments and
others be persuaded to put them to
work?
On the question of land values alone
I would be regarded as a hopeless
visionary by any actuary or economist,
for to me a block of productive land
has no value assessable by the known
rules of finance. The land is something
more than an asset that, managed by
man, produces wealth. It is our life;
the force which drives all our endeavor,
the base on which we stand, the heart of
our earthly being. I can’t place a value
on it because it is invaluable.
What, then, of its servants, the
farmers? In the national economy these
people are cold units. They produce so
much for which other people pay so
much, and in financial and Government
offices the one set of figures is balanced
against another and the result comes
forth expressed in £ s. and. But I see the
farmer as in charge of something which
is neither his, nor yours, nor mine, but
which belongs to all of us —up to a
point. That point of our ownership is a
delicate thing. The land is ours only so
long as we recognise it for what it is ; the
farmer should be given charge of it for
only so long as he also recognises it.
But —and here “R.McL.” and I come
close to the heart of his matter —no true
farmer should ever have to (a) denude
the land of its fertility in order to meet
a purely commercial demand from either
public or private interests for their
pound of flesh, or ( b ) fear that he or
his sons shall be forced off the land by
the callous power called “debt.”
There, we’re at the beginning again—
how to prevent outraging the soil and
dispossessing the farmer. Well, it would
have to be a major revolution, beginning
in the Governments and sweeping from
them right through the financial institu-
tions, the commercial dealers in land
products, the big land-owning concerns,
right down to the farmer himself. Hugh
S. Roberton, in “Now Blame the
Farmer,” remarks that every time a huge
and palatial Government building (like
the Commonwealth Savings Bank or the
Rural Bank or the Wynyard railway
offices in Sydney) or a private palace
such as some banks and pastoral com-
pany headquarters are is erected the
ultimate charge is on the land. So it is,
and the land is forced to meet the charge,
though, as Roberton further remarks,
nobody really needs a palace in which
to tot up figures or rattle a typewriter.
No, short of passing a revolutionary
law vesting the right of valuation in
visionaries like myself, I see little hope
of achieving “R.McL.’s” desirable end
unless enough of us can be found to edu-
cate the nation up to a true appreciation
of what both land and farmers mean to
it. Meantime, the evil can be reduced,
and a first step in that direction would
be to free the farmer from the grip of
Government chaps who believe he can
be kept afloat by boards, commissions,
restrictions, licenses, subsidies, cheap
loans, outright grants and other panaceas
for a bankruptcy forced upon him by die
commercialism of the age.
Horse Events.
“Haute Ecole”; One of the worst fea-
tures of our agricultural shows is the
sameness of the light-horse events. Apart
from the difference in the animals them-
selves, one sees the same old trots,
jumps, “best lady’s hack,” “best buggy
horse,” etc. It’s about time show
societies realised that in this machine
age the light horse is becoming more of
a pet, fed and trained more for the
pleasure it can give than for its purely
utilitarian aspect. Comparatively few
Australians know what there is in a good
horse today.
It’s different in America and England.
There the art of equitation is expanding
and attracting large crowds. A beautiful
saddle horse at Madison Square Garden,
with perfect action in five different gaits,
gets thunderous applause from a packed
arena. In England and Ireland it often
takes two days to judge a class of 30
hunters or hacks ; our judges get through
the same number here in a day.
Our camp-drafters and police horses
are as good as one would find anywhere,
but there’s room for improvement on
other lines. Here’s a test for a saddle
horse which the R.A.S. could consider as
a beginning: 1, ride to judge and dis-
mount ; 2, walk, trot and canter, making
one complete circle; 3, stop, passage tc
right and left; 4, rein back; 5, canter
on and cut figure eight, passing closely
as possible around two posts 45ft. apart;
6, take small brush jump, say 2ft. 6in.,
no wings ; 7, pull up and walk off ; time
allowed, smin.
This sort of thing is becoming popular
at smaller shows. The larger shows
ought to encourage it.
New Mallee Wheat.
“Mr.”; It is Insignia, produced at the
Victorian Research Station at Walpeup,
and is from a Gurkha-Ranee cross, but
matures earlier than either of its parents.
With a short, strong straw slightly taller
than that of Gurkha, and standing better
than most early types, Insignia is resistant
to flagsmut and fairly non-susceptible to
rust. The red, short-awned head threshes
well. Baking quality is equal to that of
Ranee and superior to Gurkha and
Quadrat.
Insignia has given consistent results in
replicated trials during the past six years.


For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
. Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
________________ All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.a BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
/ / 'V, V*
r-/ Vv •-«
\Vf; &
-:A
-S’
; Ay-
PORTABLE— FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES ON
STANDS.
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and
built to tit your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very
attractive and some pur-
chasers have reported re-
covering their full outlay
in one season.
THE MAXIMUM PATENTED OUTLET.
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor.
The patented Coupling, is the only one on the market that lias
positive flexibility, for it can be coupled in any direction to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight.
Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
TUBERS? MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
Agents; SMITH & GDUYAS PTY., DTD./ 154-156 Clarence St., Sydney.
Telephone: M 2977.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY., DTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., South
Brisbane. Box 21 South Brisbane. ’Phone, J 1456.
WEDDING & CKOSSDEY Pty., Dtd., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. ’Phone, MX 4889.
PASCOE & CO. PTY., DTD., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia.
MSI 953 mm II I wm ——| 1 ——
sd
fsd
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
«-
mm
■
llill m -..x • •
///////
--■-
ff
.
%
9.
9.
s un
SHUTS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
Out of the flaming cru-
cible of war have come new and
improved grades of sheet steel. One
of the results is that kitchen appli-
ances of the future are likely to be
lighter, stronger, more efficient and
attractive than anything we have
known in the past. Their design will
be highly functional, and stoves and
refrigerators will be integrated into
the architecture of the kitchen ... a
new beauty and a new convenience
for a new world.
One of the many improvements
developed in COMROL Sheet Steel
is in enamelling sheets, ivhich will
give a better porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances.
Average at Walpeup, 18.3 bushels, is 1.3
bushels more than Quadrat. At Woome-
lang, Insignia gave an average of 17.7
bushels, at Ultima, in two bad seasons,
9.6 bushels over five years, at Berriwil-
lock 15.4 bushels. Limited quantities of
seed are on tap. Apply to the Agricul-
tural Superintendent, Department ; of
Agriculture, Melbourne.
Country Garden Layout.
“Pat O’Day”: For the N.S.W. eastern
Riverina an oblong or circular lawn
should be the central design. The best
lawn grass, to suit the vagaries of our
climatic conditions, is Kikuyu, which
establishes itself quickly and remains
green throughout a hot summer and even
during a severe winter. Next favorite is
a “surround” of Phoenix ( Cariensis )
palms, forming a car drive. Plant the
palms at least 15ft. apart, so that in a
few years their fronds meet and beautify
the lawn and drive. Standard roses
should be put together, such varieties as
President Hoover, Una Webber, Ambas-
sador, etc.
Grow a geranium hedge as a back-
ground to offset the flowerbeds. Orange-
trees are indispensable. In their shade
tree ferns may be grown. Camphor
laurel is an acquisition to inland
gardens; so are the various Primus
—plum, quince, etc. —and the beautiful
bottlebrush. Build a 3ft. high stone wall,
where space allows, at the foot of the
garden, plant a Macrocarpa cupress at
each end of it and grow pelagoniums.
Alternately plant Lambertiana horizon-
talis and Horizontalis aurea in a straight
row, 12ft. apart. They make an ornamental
and practical addition. These flowers
and trees can be adapted to most country
homesteads.
Don’t Clean Eggs.
“Plane Creek”: Eggs shouldn’t be
rubbed with a damp rag before being
set in the incubator (B. 20/2/’46), a dis-
covery made by a M.L. poultry expert.
He put four gross of eggs in an incubator,
two gross being first cleaned with a damp
rag, the others untouched. The eggs
occupied separate trays, were all the
same age and received similar treatment.
Seven days after setting, an examina-
tion revealed almost twice as many
“crooks” among the cleaned eggs as
among the uncleaned. Next test gave the
same result. In the end it was found that
(n) 106 of the cleaned eggs had failed to
hatch as against 62 of the uncleaned, ( b )
chicks came from the cleaned eggs 10-12
hours later than from the uncleaned and
(c) eight cripples came from cleaned eggs
that hatched, none from the uncleaned.
Bees in the Orchard.
“E. 2”: Heafy losses occur in apiaries
in the vicinity of orchards whenever
arsenical sprays are used, and losses of
bees are bound to increase when D.D.T.
is used more generally. It isn’t neces-
sarily when fruit blossoms are out that
trouble occurs, for the spray drifts on to
ground flora and is picked up from any
which may be in flower. Arsenic on
blossoms appears to hold a fatal attrac-
tion for bees, and, carried into the hives,
accounts for a large proportion of the
brood. A small amount of D.D.T.
carried in by affected bees would be
disastrous.
A close bond should exist between
orchardist and beekeeper. The value of
bees in fertilising the blossoms of fruit-
trees is too well known to need elabora-
tion ; yet orchard sprayings are too apt
to lead to bee destruction. Beekeepers
do not usually get large crops from fruit
blossoms, though as a seasonal source of
nectar and pollen they prove very useful
in some seasons. But bees are too valu-
able to risk for whatever gains may be
had in orchard districts.
The solution appears to lie with
orchardists co- operating to allow
migratory beekeepers in for safe periods
to ensure the heavier crops which follow
the concentrated energies of bees in ferti-
lising the blossoms. The service would be
worth paying for. On the other hand,
beekeepers should not linger among the
orchards when a dearth of nectar occurs
simultanequsly with ripening fruit. The
bees, on getting a start with split fruit,
are liable to cause a great deal of damage
to the mature crop.
A Bandicoot Killer.
“Plane Creek”; Cassava was planted
in the Plane Creek (N.Q.) sugar mill area
in the hope that cassava and excess sugar
might be used in the production of
power alcohol. A. Langdon, my neighbor,
was one of many farmers who refused to
waste good cane land on such a crop. He
planted some cassava cuttings later when
he was told by other Plane Creek farmers
that cassava roots had been the last meal
of many ’coots on their properties. He
knows from personal experience that
’coots have only to take a few bites from
a cassava root to die. But he admits that
he cannot advise on how to make a cas-
sava root bite a ’coot that is too cunning
or too well fed to touch it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: Pigs will clean up weed
pests, such as nut grass, bracken and
flannel weeds, if small areas are pig-netted
or electric-fenced. It is useless, however,
to expect them to handle a patch of
prickly burrs. Pig paddocks, when tree-
less, should be provided with shelters. If
only a few bushes are present enclose
them with stakes or pig-netting to prevent
the pigs from barking them.
“Sundowner”; On heavy country
lucerne benefits from applications of
lime, slaked and broadcast at the rate
of 5-lOcwt. per acre. Most suitable time
is after grazing in April. Lime should
be left on the surface until cultivation in
winter. Where limestone outcrops occur
and lime powder can be secured dressings
„ of 40-60 cwt. per acre are not costly and
give a beneficial result.
“Billjim”: Mercurial pickle is better
for cereal grains, like barley and oats,
which have a tougher covering of husk,
because mercury has greater penetrating
ability and will destroy disease beneath
the skin of the grain. For wheat there
isn’t much difference between mercury
and copper carbonate for pickling.
“W. Court”: A commonly fatal turkey
ailment is “blackhead,” which is helped
along by damp, and often breaks out
among turkeys that are in close contact
with fowls. Queensland Agricultural
Department states that ipecacuanha wine,
obtainable from any chemist, is some-
times effective. I gave the recipe to a
friend and it cured all his birds of the
disease. Dosage is 10 drops twice daily
until the birds regain their health.
“Old Jake”: To check feather-picking
and -eating among young Muscovys paint
the rump and wings, the spots most often
attacked, with used crankcase oil. Harm-
less to the bird but repellant both in smell
and taste. As mineral deficiency, or even
lack of pollard, is often the cause, mix
plenty of crushed burnt bone with such
mash as is given ; also a level teaspoon-
ful each of salt and flowers of sulphur
to every 20 birds every second day until
the habit passes away. Dust wounds
caused by picking with dry sulphur.
Separate the victims or they may be eaten.


OO
GO
P
7m
" JTV a
£\ I\S
"Good Mornings 9 begin
with Gillette
Behold Mr. Chips,
Shining light of the College
t Who chooses his blades with
Profound shaving knowledge!
2/126
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents:
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
Qualil
I
m
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. . . . Their judg-
ment has made Olrußahrr (Elotlf the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Eruaaher (filollj is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
J
a®?
l\j
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
faaAer(M
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
“False teeth charge.”— “Sun.”
Fortunately their fury soon spent itself
and police dispersed them before any
damage was done.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bull’s world record price.”— “Sun.”
Marvellous what some of these writing
boys make.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Whereupon we all had some champagne
and the party broke up.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Funny. That’s when most parties start.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The power of suggestion is nothing short of
remarkable. ’ ’ — Psychology article.
He cut her dead.
’Twas sad, because
She cut her throat —
And then she was.
Yair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For sale —extra large oak man’s wardrobe.”
—Suburban paper.
It went against his grain to sell.
4* 4* 4* 4*
/ Even a pet lamb can pull the wool over
a man's eyes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The behavior of Wee Sun, the Chinese
cook, was anything but commendable.”
—Short Story.
Wee Sun wasn’t a shining example.
*l* A*
“Officer’s V.A. winter suite, bust 34, good
condition.” — For sale ad. in suburban paper.
Something to lounge about in.
4* 4* , 4* # 4*
Reflections on a Polished Floor.
I love the smell of dust
After a storm has bust.
But when the mudmarks swarm
I’d like to bust the storm.
Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“You can look weird, comic or even fiendish
with a misplaced paint job.”— Woman’s mag.
And men will give you the brush-off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A Sydney man invented a silent rock-drill.”
— “World’s News.”
Our dentist hasn’t heard of it.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“I am a young man of 18 years head over
heels in love with a widow of 30 who has a
club foot.”— Correspondent to Dorothy Dix.
She’ll put it over you, just the same.
“ ‘lt will be a lodestone around our necks,’
declared Alderman Laws.” — “S.M.H.”
Why reject an attractive proposition?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Statuary declarations are becoming a
farce,’ declared Mr. Deuchars.”
—Suburban paper.
Too much scope for the chiselers.
.4* “b "b
I was taking the Corsair on a test fligrt. A
gasket blew out, and fuel sprayed over me in
the cockpit. I decided to bail out, but the
oil was blinding me and I dlcouldn’t see what
I was doing,’ Griffin went on.”— “Sun.”
Lino, operators frequently experience
a similar complaint.
“By cripes, Annie, that makes y look quite DISTINGUISHED!”
“She was about 60, pretended to be 45 and
had the figure and face of a nice warm bun.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Not the hot-cross variety, however.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man from Arizona named George Joseph
Death was cited as a co-respondent in a
divorce suit.” — “World’s Newsi”
Till Death do us part!
“Designers have suddenly reverted to plain,
severe clothes, with waists nipped in to
nothing.”— “Sunday Sun.”
The stoutest women will now feel the
pinch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Recently-felt Want.
Are You a Sydney Rugby Footballer?
Then Prepare for the Coming Season.
Consult Us !!
Toughstuff Tutorial College, Ltd., takes
pleasure in announcing that various
classes will shortly begin, all under expert
tutors in all forms of persuasion and
carefree jollity on the field.
Events during the 1945 season made it
all too clear that the chewing of one’s
opponents in the scrums was performed
with a lamentable lack of appreciation
for the niceties of this important phase of
professional football. It was to remedy
this that the Toughstuff Tutorial College
was formed. The principals guarantee
to send you on to the field in the open-
ing round with the ability not only to
combat teeth, nails, sprigs, fists and
bristles but to hand it out with equal
aplomb—gnaw off a lug or claw a frontis-
piece to ribbons with the certain know-
ledge that at the subsequent “inquiry”
you will not only be “whitewashed” but
emerge as a hero far more popular than
a mere V.C. winner.
When the broken “bugle” of your ex-
pug opposite number comes within easy
range of your teeth as you and he go
down for the scrum, do you squeamishly
boggle at the thought of your set of ivory
tombstones meeting on it? Here is where
our classes can assist you! Demonstra-
tions will be given on dummies by experts
on how to bite off the organ, leaving as
few ragged ends as possible, and spit it
out into the second row ot the opposing
team. Thus it will be clear, when the scrum
breaks up and the victim loudly com-
plains to the ref. about the hole in his
face, that one of his own mates did it
out of sheer exuberance of spirits or
from ulterior motives.
Have you been reluctant in the past
to try a swipe at a nearby ear or chin
through fear that your set of shop teeth
mightn’t stand up to the strain? Banish
your fears! If, afraid of breaking your
top set on a “cauliflower” ear, you were
wont to park them in your dressing-room
locker, and take the field wretchedly
aware of your inability to do more than
“gum” an opponent’s physiognomy, then
your need of the tuition and advice we
can give you is manifest.
One of our key men is a dental mechanic.
He will show you how, by filing the
teeth of a special aluminium set to a
point and having them fitted on the morn-
ing of the match with a quick-setting,
fast-gripping cement, you can not only
enjoy the game to the full but draw
more gore in one scrum than the old-
timers cpuld do in several seasons.
Every hooker should realise the value
of a two-days’ growth. Are you fully
appreciative of its potentialities? Can
you, with one obliquely sweeping stroke,
go through three skins of a clean-shaven
opponent with your own bristles? And
do you know which parts of the face
grow the toughest beard? Of course
you don’t! The one sure way to learn
how to get the best of the weapons that
nature provided you with is to join
Toughstuff Tutorial College classes
immediately.
Another point. How many R.L.
footballers can, in open country, admini-
ster a half-arm jolt or snap an uppercut
to an opponent and make it appear to
the referee that he was simply clapping
him good-naturedly on the shoulder or
considerately flicking some dust off him?
The tyro might be seht off, and, if he
were to put his adversary in hospital,
might even be warned at the “inquiry”
that if he kept those tactics up he’d
be stood down for a match. Don’t you
take such a risk of losing good money.
Learn from the ex-chucker-out of a
Dario pub just how to dong an opponent
yet' diddle- the ref.
Remember that when you go down on
the ball a surreptitious backlash to the
chin with a sprigged heel, if not as spec-
tacular or as satisfying t& the fans as
a severed lug, makes a man short for the
other side just as surely.
So roll up! Roll up and enrol! Join
the classes now and don’t be too late,
for a rush is expected!
80.
Then and Now.
Hebe, in days far more serene and
spacious,
Talked Art and other subjects of the
soul;
Poised, charming, skilled at repartee and
gracious,
To be the perfect hostess was her goal.
Today the barmaid scoffs at such aesthetic
Pretensions; her ambition, it appears,
Is to excel at something more athletic.
To break existing records —pulling
beers.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Party Thought.
If you were Dracula, and Dan
Were horrid Frankenstein,
And Harry here were Superman,
And Popeye’s punch were mine;
Oh, just imagine what a night
Would thrill us through and through,
If all of us got roaring tight
In a bath of my home brew !
T. W . NATHAN.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL TERRITORY
No. 5 of 1945.
IN THE MATTER of the Companies Ordinances 1933-
1936 (New Guinea) AND IN THE MATTER of the
Companies Ordinances 1911-1926 (Papua) AND IN
THE MATTER of Greenwood & Laws Limited.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a petition for
the winding up of the abovenarned Company by the
Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory
was on the twenty-ninth day of October 1945 pre-
sented to the said Court by Darling Downs Co-op.
Bacon Association Ltd., W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd.,
British Australian Lead Manufacturers Ltd., Paterson,
Laing & Bruce Ltd., Thomas Playfair Ltd., Norco
Co-op. Ltd., Edwards Dunlop & Co. Ltd., S. Hoffnung
& Co. Ltd., Mandated Airlines Ltd., Australian Soaps
Ltd., Colyer Watson (New Guinea) Ltd., Vacuum
Oil Co. Pty. Ltd., Simpson Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tooth &
Co. Ltd., Morobe Bakery Ltd., Agnes Wilson Laws,
Charles Chute Beckett, Claes Adolph Melbourne
Adelskold, Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd., Guinea
Airways Ltd., Annie Parer, Phillips Lamps (N.Z.) Ltd.,
Sullivan Enterprises Ltd. and C. Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
being creditors of the said Company Richard John
Sinclair Laws, Charles Thomas Boodle Maisey,
Broughton Gordon Edgell, Ernest Ralph Mitchell,
Daniel Joseph Leahy, Robert George Morgan, George
Henry Smith, Michael James Leahy, George Archibald
Loudon, Winifred Loudon, Charles Alfred deKantzow,
Thomas Wood, Clifford Benjamin Austin, Davis Wood,__
Roy McConnon, Charles Wooller Marshall, Jack Mahalm
Ireland, Patrick Leonard Byrne, Francis Martindale
Blackwood, Ruby Budden, Walter William Taylor, Oscar
George Hilbert, Gilbert Renton, Francis Murray Draper,
Ina Sara Mingay Pryke, Roger Wheeler Watson,
Margaret Gordon Hayes, Alan Roderick McCay,
James Luby Leahy, John Maclean, Chiarina Cavaleiri,
Edward Roberts, Arthur Hyde, Kathleen Hyde and
Winifred Olive Foreman being preference shareholders
in the said Company and by Richard Arthur Laws
being an ordinary shareholder in the said Company
and that the said petition is directed to be heard
before the Court on the first day of April 1946 at
10 a.m. at the Patent Office Building Canberra in
the Australian Capital Territory and any creditor
or contributory of the said Company desirous to
support or oppose the making of an order on the said
petition may appear at the time of hearing in person
or by his Counsel for that purpose and a copy of the
petition will be furnished to any creditor or contribu-
tory of the said Company requiring the same by the
undersigned on payment of the regulated charge for
the same. —H. T. MACREADY & ERIC JONES,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Note: —Any person who intends to appear on the
hearing of the said petition must serve on or send
by post to the abovenarned H. T. Macready and Eric
Jones notice in writing of his intention so to do.
The notice must state the name and address of the
person or if a firm the name and address of the
firm and must be signed by the person or firm or his
or their solicitor (if any) and must be served or if
posted must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach
the abovenarned not later than twelve o’clock noon on
the 20th day of March, 1946.
ILBEYS
Gin
and
WATER
SQUASH
GINGER BEER
PEPPERMINT
LEMONADE
BITTERS
LIME
ORANGE
GINGER ALE
FRUIT JUICES
VERMOUTH
TONIC
SODA
gTART your parties off in the right spirit with
Gilbey’s the purest of all gins. Served with
wa ter —or your favourite cordials or fruit juices
Gilbey’s provides a drink to delight every palate.
Sdy&At
SS5£
GL.J3O
CRAVEN A
~ me atwoifs
smdkffadi!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
80
\;
5786
■
wm
■m
ammm
■'■yM
m
*•.
PREVENT
S P E
MADE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Back copies of Australian literary magazines.
—;mo.
To buy books dealing with life in the
Northern Territory; also Digging, Squatting
and Pioneering Life in the Northern Territory,
by Mrs. Dominic Daly; Buffalo Trails, by Carl
Warburfon; Far-North Memories, by J. S.
Litchfield; and An Untamed Territory, by Elsie
Masson.—37ll. .. . ,
To buy early Bulletin publications and col-
lectors’ items; also A Golden Shanty.— -3712. >
Offers for collection of Wisden’s Cricketers
Almanack from 1898 to 1946.—3713.
Old Christmas and birthday cards; also
colored pictures for distribution to children in
hospitals.—37l4.
Information Sought.
(1) When and where was the first Test
cricket match played? (2) Names of players
and highest scorers in both teams? (3) Where
and when did W. G. Grace play his first Test
match? (4) How many Tests have been played
in Melbourne ?
(1) The first official Test was played at Mel-
bourne, March 15-17, 1877. (2) Australia; D.
Gregory (capt.), N. Thompson, T. Horan, B.
Cooper, W. Midwinter, E. Gregory, J. Blackham,
T. Garrett, T. Kendall, J. Hodges and C.
Bannerman (who topscored with 165). Totals
were 245 and 104. England: J. Lillywhite
(capt.), H. Jupp (topscorer with 63 runs), J.
Selby, H. Charlewood, G. Ulyett, A. Green-
wood, T. Armitage, A. Shaw, T. Emmett - , A.
Hill, J. Southerton. Totals were 196 and 108.
(3) At Kennington Oval, Sept. 6-8, 1880. His
first Australian Test was at Melbourne, Jan.
1-6, 1892. (4) 31 matches.
What causes stains on teeth and what is the
best method of removing them?
Stains are usually due to smoking or to some
types of food. To remove them have a dentist
repolish the teeth, then use a suitable type of
brush and paste or powder regularly.
Brief Answers.
D.C.: First newspaper published in SA. was
the “South Australian Gazette and Colonial
Register.” It was issued by Robert Thomas.
The first number appeared in London, June
18, 1836, prior to the departure of the first band
of settlers, and the second in S.A., June 3,
1837 H.C.; The 1946 edition of the Stanley
Gibbons Catalogue will not be on sale until
the end of this year J.W.J.D.: Some Syd-
ney firms that sell pipeclay are Minerals, Ltd.,
318 Botany-road, Alexandria; McLeod and
Co., Ralph-street, Alexandria; Tubal Pty.,
Ltd., Gordon-street, Rozelle; and Non-Metal-
lics, Ltd., 74 Pitt-street, Sydney. The price
depends on type and quantity, but the usual
is about £lO per ton for best quality and £5
or less per ton for lower grades R.W.: In
Sheffield Shield cricket a game is drawn when
both teams fail to complete a first innings; in
Test cricket all uncompleted matches are drawn
games....K.McK.: Cannot trace either of the
ballads F. 0.: “The Referee” was published
in its last years by Smith’s Newspapers....
T.H.C.: Contact Angus and Robertson
or Dymock’s... .K. 8.: (1) fhe phrase
“to eaglehawk” means to pluck wool
from a dead sheep (2) a
brand” is a large brand nsed by cattle
thieves to covei the Cha gfr
brand A. 8.. W._ , o vc j n ev who
Gibbes - street, Chatewoo ’oroduct no
prior to the war bought P’ d
longer do so. v; A J: In honest
owner of * h r ® g n S d a Sd Depart-
m,St f ke f t t instructed 1 to rebrand
ment of Amculhnt te is
correctly underneath f Brands .
notify the nearest Inspector ot manas. „
C.M.: Words of Tack Donahoo” will
LshSongseStedbyA. B.
Paterson d LT: A greatly ’expanded version
1 ; SSSft
fin?&SSg % bS'Torn,
under the same title by the Viking Press, New
York
Answers to Correspondents.
P.M.: “The mighty hammering of his heart
shook bis powerful frame as though he were
a frail launch with the engine of the Queen
Mary inside him. ‘Never, Gloria,’ he whispered,
‘has love like ours been on this earth.’ ” Ah,
well, if he can swallow the Queen Mary maybe
Gloria will swallow that T.G.: Promising,
but scrap the smart ending R.C.F.G.: Our
handwriting experts are baffled by your signa-
ture G.A.: Ever read Wodehouse?
E.C.C.: “Can human imagination create a
more pitiful o.bject than Rupert?” Hardly
R.H.McG.: Pleasant humorous writing, but
what did the people look like? T.M.D.:
“No Imagination” was an unconsciously apt
title S.L.: Alack-a-day, the Swaggie’s Ghost.
G.A.R.: “Hope stamps may be gift.”
They weren’t.


A KU B R A
hat hint No. 2
m
m
Brush your hat fre-
quently with a soft
bristle brush, with the
nap (see arrow) —brush-
ing keeps the hat free from dust.
One drop of water on a dusty hat,
makes a dirt spot that soaks into the
fur felt and, is hard to remove.
Take the hint—good hats are scarce.
1. The correct way to put on a hat—grasp
brim at back and front.
3. When rain-soaked, push out dents, turn up
brim and stand hat on level surface.
4. Always rest SIDE of hat on hat peg—this
allows hat to hang clear.
5. Never allow your hat to be placed In a pile
with other hats.
6. Turn out leather—this allows perspiration
and hair oil to dry out.
7. When laying aside a hat, put It away in a
hat box.
AKIiBRA
OtUBR
HATS
WONDERFUL BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES . . .
Take advantage of these splen-
did offers in Surplus War-time
Military Equipment.
Strong Quality
12ft. by 14ft. TENTS £7-0-0 P lus
ditto, (with small tear or tears) . £5-0-0 reig
Ideal for emergency accommodation or camping.
Waterproof Combination Military Ground Sheets & Capes . . 7/6
Mosquito Nets . . 10/-, R.A.A.F. Kit Bags . . 5/6, 8/6, 10/6
R.A.A.F. Blue Combination Overalls (Send Measurements) . .
Add 1/6 Postage for each above 4-items
Canvas Buckets for campers, fishermen, etc.— Heavyweight. (Post Free) 2/6
Military Water Bottles for hikers. (Post Free) 3/6
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
15 McKillop Street Melbourne
sdf
THE BLACK HAT
By J. H. MELVILLE
A FENCE showed up suddenly in the
light of his hurricane lamp, and
old Herb Fea, shuffling out of the
brooms, propped and jerked erect.
The patter of sheep breaking from a
huddle sounded faintly ahead, and there
was the brief movement of their woolly
rumps bobbing away into the darkness.
The old man thrust out his white-
whiskered wedge of a chin as he peered
about for a continuation of the track
through the scrub.
“Couldn’t we climb over?”
Hardly above a whisper, the plea came
from a round-eyed boy who edged out
towards the fence. A pair of sandals
hung from his leather jacket.
“See, I can hold up the bottom wire
for you, Mr. Fea”
Old Herb stood snapping his fingers.
“Nope,” he decided. “Back down to
the gravel, Charley. We’ll take to the
bank again downstream.”
He hunched his narrow shoulders and
swung back into the brooms. The boy
followed timidly, hugging the lantern by
dint of a grim bare-footed dance through
the thistles. Against his back he felt the
rushing antagonism of the darkness,
closing in too quickly, urging them on to
the crossing and the threat of Darkie
Loudon’s wrath. He glanced up fre-
quently from the spell of shining brown
boots trampling decay underfoot and
took heart from the authority of the old
man’s hat; for there in the world of the
brooms that hat old Herb was wearing
carried all the authority there was.
Sturdy as a helmet, it was an outsize
bowler that sat low over his ears. Twigs
scratched at it harmlessly and a pigtail
of paper packing hung out over his collar
from underneath. The hat was no
ordinary piece of headgear; it was a
badge to be flaunted at every oppor-
tunity, a relic of past glory. It was a hat
that set its wearer apart.
“Always wore it in me early missionary
work,” old Herb would explain, tilting
back his head in a pet gesture and suck-
ing pensively at his withered lips. “They
reckoned up there that a christenin’ or a
burial wasn’t done fair and square with-
out I had it on.”
“Early missionary work” there cer-
tainly had been —a swaggie’s exploitation
of the hospitality once offered by a King
Country mission—and the black hat, if
the sorry truth must be told, was a keep-
sake he’d been obliged to accept at a
horse-trainer’s funeral.
But the old man’s pretence was the butt
for only mild ridicule. It was carried off
so brazenly as to keep even the street-
comer idlers fairly subdued. People of
the township were proud of old Herb and
proud of his hat. What did it matter if
their pride was really rooted in the smug-
ness of their own patronage? More
wholesome appreciation could be drawn
from a generation unspoiled by discern-
ment ; pupils dawdling over the stone
bridge to his daughter’s elocution classes
could be counted on to show keen interest
in the sight of a shovel flying up out of
one of the network of ditches surround-
ing his house and in seeing old Herb
leap out after it, wailing, as he clutched
at his back, “I’m payin’ for it now! Be
Gawd, I’m payin’ now for me early mis-
sionary work!”
Gladly displayed then as evidence of
self-sacrifice, the crackling of his knobbly
knees —especially the one marked by the
“tomahawk” scar —had more than once
moved small members of his audience to
tears, and the old man, affected in turn,
had crawled back into the ditch wiping a
ragged sleeve across his eyes.
But the boy trailing him wonderingly
through the brooms had a higher value.
Tomorrow he’d be triumphantly paraded
as a witness: “Well, Darkie Loudon
won’t be pinchin’ coal again in a hurry
after the lesson Charley and me’s taught
him,” old Herb would say, briskly and
with a nice touch of modesty. And when
his story was told he’d be appreciated
and there would be no more “undertaker”
jokes about his hat.
As they pushed along the bank the
paper pigtail was whipped from his hat
and left hanging in the scrub.
“'“THEY say he’s got two shotguns,”
i the boy blurted out, suddenly
anxious to hear the old man speak.
“Who’s got two shotguns, Charley?”
Such unconcern shamed the boy, and
he mumbled “The man at the crossing.”
Old Herb stopped. He raised the lan-
tern until he had the boy looking into his
own watery eyes. »
“And so had the wild Maori a shot-
gun,” he said, “and I’ve told you how I
fixed him, haven’t 1, Charley?”
“Yes.”
“And he was a big brute, too. Every
bit as big as Darkie Loudon. And we’ll
teach Darkie a lesson tonight that’ll slop
his thievin’ tricks, eh, Charley?”
“He might fight us.”
“Fight an old hand at the missionary
game that uses his wits?”
As if he’d never heard anything so
fantastic the old man let out a squeal of
delight that was taken up by startled birds
across the stream. Chuckling, he moved
on, jauntily swinging the lantern by its
creaking handle.
The boy clutched grimly at this assur-
ance. But down in the bed of the stream,
where the tops of trees were lost in mist,
the unreality of the scene dismayed him.
He looked longer and with less certainty
at the black hat.
What he understood as fixed in its own
day-time pattern was being dragged out
piecemeal now by the unreeling light of
the lantern. Trunks of willows emerged
oddly warped. The reflection moving
alongside in the water skimmed over the
saddleback log, and the pool where the
big eel had lashed himself round the
spear-handle might have been miles deep.
“A water-rat!”
The exclamation was scared out of
him by a plop in the water ahead.
It hadn’t been until they were crossing
the paddocks to the stream that night
that Charley had known the old man was
out seeking vengeance for the theft of his
coal.
“Who else but Darkie Loudon would
come at a trick like that?” old Herb
had asked after an outburst of indigna-
tion—and thus the man at the crossing
stood convicted.
He burned away from the clay bank
and scrambled up to the light.
“Keep with the light, Charley,” the
old man said.
Down the bank a culvert gargled the
overflow of the plantation creek.
“Haven’t heard the goods go through yet.”
“We’ll have to watch,” the boy said.
“She’s mostly late on a Tuesday
though.”
“She’ll come round the trees pretty
quiet, won’t she, Mr. Fea? She doesn’t
always whistle either, does she?”
“Mostly, Charley.”
“She didn’t last night.”
Eager to challenge any contradiction,
the boy had a special reason of his own
for knowing how often the train curved
round the plantation without whistling ;
the blast of its whistle echoing round
the hills made a comforting sort of end
to the day, for it was only when there
was no warning that somebody was likely
to be caught at the crossing as his neigh-
-bor, the top butcher, had been. And
another accident like that, old Herb Fea
had told him confidentially, was just what
Darkie Loudon watched and waited for
as he leaned across his bushy hedge, his
face often such a faint blur that it was
hard to know whether he was really there
or not.
The old man led the way up a track
where the cows crossed, and the pair of
them climbed over the white railway gate.
As they turned down the line to the
crossing, the boy fingered a cigarette-
lighter in • his pocket and took morbid
satisfaction from the thought that even
if he was caught there would be poor
pickings for Darkie Loudon —no gold
watch like he’d taken from the butcher.
Some people said anything might have
happened to that watch, the boy told
himself, as he argued the case and tried
for the first time to credit Darkie Loudon
with the benefit of the doubt. But Darkie
had been the first to find the butcher’s
body in the long grass a chain or so down
the line. He didn’t deny having taken
it, either. He said he didn’t give a
damn what people thought. His queer
knowledge of trains made it more awk-
ward Still, Long before they reached the
crossing he could tell their length and
the time they’d arrive; he worked it out
from the sound over the bridge, they said.
“I don’t believe he waits for an acci-
dent,” he said aloud. “I don’t believe
he took the butcher’s watch, either.”
“Who?”
“The man at the crossing.”
“Darkie Loudon’s bad clean through,”
the old man replied sadly.
“Nobody’s caught him at anything.”
“Oh, haven’t they? Didn’t Ned Dean’s
missus catch him at her fowlhouse?”
This rebuke stung the boy to open
defiance. “She said she did. She saw
a big comet, too, but nobody believed
her. You didn’t believe her yourself.”
“Maybe not, maybe not,” the old man
granted tartly. “But did Darkie Loudon
see the comet?”
“I don’t know.”
“You don’t know? Then what in
Heaven’s name are you trying to tell me
about comets?”
“Nothing,” the boy answered dully.
“There, you see,” old Herb crowed.
“You see. You’re talking nonsense,
Charley.”
Confusedly, the boy accepted the rebuff.
AS they walked through the cutting,
one on either side of the rails, he
recalled apprehensively his own righteous
vigil on the shack at the crossing;
“Darkie Loudon’s home from the shear-
ing!” he’d go round warning, when the
first smoke of the year came from
Darkie’s chimney, and the of
the neighborhood would thank him and
vow they’d not be caught leaving their
washing out overnight. He wondered if
the man at the crossing would know.
“Well, we’ve caught Darkie at home,”
the old man observed.
From the mouth of the cutting they
could see the crossing lights. A duller
glow lit the back window of Darkie’s
shack. They walked on in silence.
“I can lift a bag of sugar easy now,
up the store,” the boy asserted dourly,
as they approached the crossing.
“That’s fine, Charley.”
“And I could help you to carry back
a sack of coal. We could take it from
his coalshed.”
“Charley! ” Old Herb clicked his
tongue. “You know what that would be?”
“Yes, I do ; it’d be getting back the
coal he pinched, and that’s what we
came for.”
“We’d be thieves,” the old man said
quietly. “Criminals! ”
The boy had no answer. Resignedly
he followed the old man’s slithering lead
down the embankment and into the back
of Darkie Loudon’s section.
The old man kicked the debris off a
piece of roofing-iron lying under a plum-
tree, and the boy sat down. A pigsty
adjoining an old shed hid them from the
shack.
“You’ll be safe with me, Charley,” the
old man said, leaning over with his lan-
tern. “You won’t be frightened by any-
thing I say, not a big boy like you?”
“No, Mr. Fea.”
“Remember, you came over to hear his
flute.”
“You’ll tell him?”
“I’ll tell him all right,” the old man
boasted. “Oh, yes. I’ll tell him. I’ll fix
his tricks. You just”—-
Suddenly the place was in an uproar.
The darkness was given texture and
ripped up in the same instant. Dogs —a
pack of them, it seemed, was kennelled
in the sty —were barking in fierce com-
petition. The boy leapt away like a hare,
but old Herb, ready to swing up into the
' tree, grabbed him as he passed.
“Steady,” he whispered hoarsely.
“They’re tied up.”
THE racket brought Darkie Loudon to
his door.
“Lie down!” he bellowed. “What the
hell’s going on down there?”
Leading the boy by the arm, the old
man came diffidently round the end of
the shed.
“It’s all right, Darkie. It’s all right.
It’s only me.”
“Herb Fea!” Darkie’s voice dropped.
“What’s the game?”
The old man gave a foolish, shaky laugh.
“I want to hear your flute,” the boy
squeaked out.
“That’s it, Darkie,” Herb said. “Been
pesterin’ me for weeks to bring him over.”
The big man came out to the edge of
his yard. He was in his stockinged feet.
“How’d you happen to be pokin’ about
the shed?” he asked. “I got some good
tools in there.”
“Took the shortcut along the stream,
Daikie. We just left the line.”
Darkie thought this over for a minute
and then beckoned them into the hut.
Inside, the air was rank with tobacco
smoke.
“Throw that ferret stuff off the chairs.”
“Thank you, Darkie.”
Old Herb was encouraged to affect an
air of brisk familiarity. He was dumping
an armful of netting when the boy darted


you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
THIS ■
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction d
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupll l
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
£l7/10/- Ktks
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE i
7M JUskt
olJbadmhip
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
•f/erei Me
mxy cA/ve-trecmm
:■] 8 vrm <
a soft wfiite
lig
Wi
iliiiiil
iiii;
Ivory white Cane-ite ceilings catch and throw back every
available degree of light with a soft ivory-white
reflection. Ivory Cane-ite insulates the room from roof
heat during hot weather —keeps out winter s cold
draughts and icy blasts.
It’s just like standard Cane-ite,
but with a beautiful soft ivory-
white texture that makes it ideal
for ceilings. Ivory Cane-ite is
as easy to erect as standard
Cane-ite, too —and costs only
a few pence more. For smart
modern ceilings and for
insulation —use Ivory Cane-ite.
X,;*'
a
CANE-ITE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Other C.S.R, Products Slagwogl, Asbestos, Plaster Products,
his hand among it and brought out a pair
of spectacles.
“Nothing wrong with your eyesight,
lad,” Darkie chuckled, reaching out for
them.
The boy sat down proudly. The sur-
prising fact that the man at the crossing
was subject to the defects of people as
ordinary as his own father was eagerly
noted. Old Herb edged his chair over
to the stove.
“Won’t keep you from mendin’ your
pets for more’n a few minutes, Darkie,
he said. “Just waitin’ long enough to
hear a tune or two.”
Darkie laughed lustily. “Play your
flute and let’s get out of your bad com-
pany, is that it. Herb?”
Taking their cue from the big man s
show of yellowing teeth, old Herb and
the boy strained after laughter together.
Darkie’s trick of wrinkling up his broad,
flat nose when he laughed disappointed
the boy, a weak inconsistency under such
dark, glowering eyes.
Then Darkie was up on tiptoe, feeling
round the top of a high cupboard.
“Things always falling down the back,”
he grumbled. He dropped on his knees
against the wall, and from behind the
cupboard began to rake out an assort-
ment of tins and gaudy-colored maga-
zines in his search for his flute.
“See the cannons, they used in the olden
days, Charley?” old Herb said, pointing
up with a poker at a picture on the wall.
The boy nodded. Such patronage m
Darkie Loudon’s presence humiliated
him. He was wondering where the home-
made wine was hidden; Darkie made it
out of vegetables he stole from the
Ghows’ garden, people said, and kept it
under the floor of his shack. There was
a trapdoor under the pigskin mat, per-
haps, or under the rough bench by the
window.
“Used to fire one of them cannonballs
backwards and forwards like at a game of
tennis,” the old man went on authori-
tatively as he poked at the fire.
Darkie scowled over his shoulder at
the old man’s reference. The picture, its
frame charred down one side, a
souvenir of his job “on the disposal —~
a diversion that had been ended by the
suspicions of ratepayers, who saw more
than a zealous hunt for ashes in his back-
yard prowling.
kWOU know, Darkie,” the old man
1 said, “there’s somebody’s 1
wouldn't want to be sittin at tonight.
Darkie swung up from behind the cup-
board, holding his flutecase. “I suppose
you’ve been chased out. Herb.
“Nope. I’d likely be blown up in an
explosion.”
This improbability brought no comment.
“So it’s a tune on my flute you want,
lad?” Darkie asked.
The boy nodded, fascinated by the
sight of the big man’s fingers curling
round his flute.
“Had me coal pinched on me last
night,” old Herb persisted ; “but I didn t
mind; not when I had a trap set ready.
He picked a lump of coal out of me
bucket beside him. “Planted a bit oi
‘gelly’ in a piece the size of this and
sealed ’er over.” He paused to relish
Darkie’s interest. “This morning, ne
finished slowly, “it was gone.”
The boy was deceived only tor a
moment. Then he hooked his feet round
the legs of his chair and tensely awaited
Darkie’s response. . , , . .
“So you had your coal pinched last
night, Herb?” Darkie pondered. “And
tonight you come over for a bit ot
music?” _ T ..
“No connection! No connection!
The old man contradicted himself by the
vigor of his denial. “Think I’d be waitin
here to be blown up?” He flung out his
bandy legs and laughed the idea to den-
Darkie Loudon seemed to find the idea
amusing, too. He grinned.
Old Herb waved away any further dis-
cussion of the coal. “Ready with a tune
for us, then, Darkie?” he asked, flattering
and expectant. . .
The big man blew wmdily through his
flute “Itwants some oij byrights,” he said.
He curled his lip over the flute and
began to play. Thin at first, the tone
broadened out and filled the shack.
Then casually, only briefly relaxing his
study of the dingy ceiling, the old man
picked out of the bucket a piece of coal
of the size he’d used as an example, and
held it poised ominously over the open
top of the stove.
Darkie Loudon saw it and rolled his
eyes. He shuffled back over the pigskin
mat. Old Herb dropped the coal into the
fire and the big man crouched against
the*cupboard, his fingers still moving un-
falteringly among the keys of his flute.
The play of light in the hollows of
the old man’s face lent him a sort of
statued serenity as he lay slumped back
there in his chair, apparently unconcerned.
A second or two later he held another
piece of coal over the stove. ,
The boy sat gaping. The big mans
show of terror was incredible. Questions
presented themselves for answers that
didn’t make sense—unless . . . Enlighten-
ment came as old Herb bent again over
the coalbucket. Darkie winked He
screwed up the side of his face like a
knot of wood.
The boy thrilled to this confidence ; the
man at the crossing was making a fiasco
of Herb Pea’s stunt, and he was in on it.
The old man was fooling nobody but
himself. An awareness of a daring alli-
ance —partnership in the notoriety of the
crossing—was borne in upon him, setting
aglow a strange new power of detach-
ment. He suddenly saw, in its light, the
absurdity of an old man doomed to
flaunt his black hat and all its pretence.
p\ARKIE went clowning on through a
U medley of tunes, showing the whites
of his eyes and pressing further behind
the cupboard each time the old man
stoked the fire. The heat was stifling.
Old Herb’s forelock of white, silky hair
was gummed down with sweat, but he
made no move to loosen his scarf or un-
button his heavy coat. .
“A real treat, Darkie,” he said when
the music stopped. “A real treat. There
was fine gloating in his restraint. And
now what about ‘Afton Water’? ’
The big man goggled despairingly and
began to play again. Outside, a tram
clattered through the crossing.
But the boy didn’t laugh ; there was a
comedy beyond laughter in the old man’s
delusion.
... “My Mary’s asleep’’
The old man sang in a rusty falsetto
and swayed happily in his chair as he
kept dropping coal into the fire. ,
Darkie had pushed nearly out of sight
behind the cupboard. It rocked dan-
gerously. Glass was clinking inside.
. .“Thy screaming forbear’’ ....
The old man crooned on till the last
soulful note. ■„
“Beautiful,” he said, “beautiful.’
Then he clasped his hands and leaned
forward ingratiatingly. “Now, Charley,
see if you can tell Darkie what we ve got
instead of lapwings.”
“Sparrows.”
“Sparrows?” Darkie asked eagerly,
apparently welcoming the relief. He
shambled out from behind the cupboard.
“Sparrows that raise hell under your
roof first thing in the morning?”
“A strip of wire-netting” old Herb
began airily, then broke off as the big
man darted past him and picked up one
of a pair of boots lying under the bench.
“Shut up, you noisy devils, and let a
man get some sleep! ” he roared, and
flicked the boot up over his shoulder
It thumped against the ceiling and
dropped by the stove. .
“Eh?” Old Herb sat blinking. He
reached down furtively for his hat.
ALL the way back to the stream bank
old Herb strove to impress the boy
with a gleeful interpretation of his
triumph. “Ever see a man so scared in
your life? He, he, he! Expectin that
stove to go up any minute and him with
it. We fixed him, eh, Charley?”
They climbed back over the white gate
and old Herb was searching again for a
track through the brooms.
“Through here, Charley,” he said.
The boy stepped back resentfully. He
had caught himself moving up to the
lantern. The old man’s tone was patron-
ising ; it implied a continued and humili-
ating expectation of faith in the black
hat and belief in the slander of the
butcher’s watch.
“I’m going to paddle along the stream,
he said, and took off his sandals.
“Keep with the light then,” the old
man warned him.
But wading through the cold bracing
water of the stream he carried with him
the light kindled at the crossing. Up the
bank, the lantern showed the old man's
hat bobbing up and down with the per-
sistence of a victim held at drowning point.
Old Herb was still gloating... “and to
think you were scared to come over with
me.”
“I wasn’t scared.”
The old man chuckled. “Just a little, eh?
“I wasn’t scared!” the boy flung back.
“And neither was Darkie Loudon. He
was pulling your leg.”
“Eh?”
The reply when it came was from a
long way ahead: “Darkie Loudon was
pulling your leg.”
“You little liar!” the old man
screeched out. He ran to the water’s
edge and held his lantern high.
“Charley! Char-ley!”
There was only the bustling of the
wind through the trees.
The old man swung round and went
blundering back into the brooms, scream-
ing abuse in one breath and whimpering
in questioning selfipity the next.
Branches ripped at his clothes and hands.
all but tearing the lantern from his gnp.
His black hat was being battered right
and left, but that hat was sturdy—sturdy
enough to survive" the old man’s ram-
page and again find followers dawdling
over the stone bridge in the sun.


fs
How Will My Estate
he Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 67 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges arc
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sit Lennon Raws,C.B.E.; G.S. Coltnan, C.8.8.j
Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W, Sydney Jones.
Manager: K, M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
The Tmstees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNEYj Chairmanj F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phono (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'KEEP YOUR HAIR IN PLACE"
WITH
'the Opiefined cuift Only
Brylcreem
THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING
A little Brylcreem" every
morning keeps- your ..hair
smart and well-groomed
all day through. Bryhrreem
is the purest and most
beneficial hair dressing you
can buy.* Use Brylcreem
daily.
Wide-neck Jars,~* 1/5 ondi/ii
In Tubes llrf. and 1/1
*:%
mm
II;
df
[no GUH’NO soap * no spirit • no starch
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, — —Dividends s
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 881,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
124 p.c. 124 p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 ..1,782,424
1939.. 528,892 37,500 328,125 163,267 1,945,691
1940. . 570,610 37,500 328,125 204,985 2,150,676
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
( Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Net
Profit. 124 p.c. 124 p.c. serves. Reserves.
1941.. 559,576 37,500 328,125 193,951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.. 430,097 30,000 262,500 137,597 1,977,771
Added good-will, etc., £19,938 ..1,957,833
Added difference par value and cost
shares subsidiaries, £204,318 .. 1,753,515
b/f net from cos. acquired, £32,359 1,785,874
1944.. 472,128 30,000 262,500 179,628 1,965,502
Reduction intangibles, £l2l .. 1,965,623
1945.. 471,991 30,000 262,500 179,491 2,145,114
* Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
! Eliminating outsiders’ interests.
Shortage of raw materials (barley and
hops) was the chief trouble last term. It
was brought about by seasonal and labor
conditions, and was overcome by im-
ports. Heavy demands from the services,
particularly for bottled beer, made it diffi-
cult to keep up the full ration to the civi-
lian trade. In November last, in addition
to bulk beer, the co. supplied 750,000
bottles of ale to the services. Still, in
accordance with statutory requirements,
the board declares that, apart from war-
time disabilities, results of the year’s
operations have not been materially
affected by items of an abnormal char-
After allowing £57,080 (down £4745)
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation, as well as
for minor reserve adjustments and out-
side interests, there was little change in
declared net earnings (down £137). The
£471,991 of profit was 16.1 p.c. on the
£2,925,000 of capital—it includes £300,000
of 7 p.c. cum. prefs., which advance with
the ords. beyond that point—compared
with 16,1, 14.7, 17.2 and 19.1 p.c. back
to 1941. The div. was maintained at
10 p.c., compared with p.c. for the
six years to 1942. The £179,491 that
remained lifted the book value of tan-
gible support for capital to £2,145,114.
Goodwill (£844,514) and excess cost of
inter-company holdings over their par
value (£207,544) are not treated as assets
herein.
By absorptions and otherwise C.U.B.
has secured a tight hold upon most of
the trade in Victoria, and does a brisk
business with the N.S.W. Riverina as well.
Its pre-war trade with North Queensland
and Tasmania, largely in bottled beer,
has been interrupted by the ban on inter-
state freighting of ale. Civilian demand
remains pegged at two-thirds the Jan.-
Feb., 1942, level. However, the date
should not be very far distant when the
peg can be removed; end of June or
thereabouts is spoken of. As demobilisa-
tion continues service demands diminish
and civilian requirements increase. At
the moment some sections of the services
are drawing beer in excess of their
needs. Relinquishment of Australian
bases by the Royal Navy might result in
a slight overall reduction in beer con-
sumption. But chief problem for the
brewer, and for other traders, will be to
restrain costs, which the agitation for a
40-hour week and for a lift in the basic
wage threatens to bump up. The only
recoverable portion of the brewers’ in-
creased costs since war began has been
a lift in excise on beer totalling 2s. lOd.
per gallon, making total excise 4s. 7d. per
gallon. This 4s. 7d., equal to about 75
p.c. of gross receipts for beer, is taken
by the Government. The other 25 p.c.,
approximately ss. sd. in the £, has to
cover increased production, distribution
and other costs (including co. tax), as
well as profit. Still, the wide margin
between C.U.B.’s earnings and distribu-
tions suggests that the 10 p.c. div. is in
no immediate danger.
When manpower and materials become
available, a number of the co.’s city and
country hotels are to be remodelled, and
a lot of deferred repair and maintenance
work has to be carried out on others. The
next table shows- what the management
has been doing to provide for the outlay:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 9,993 12,142 12,856
Creditors!.. .. 901,868 925,949 924,209
Suspense account.. 11,279 3,917 7,761
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 2,429,160 2,795,505 2,809,698
Plant .. .. 689,461 640,827 600,243
Stocks, etc. .. 580,139 632,325 515,750
Book debts . . 1,293,306 1,066,716 895,029
Cash, etc. . . 740,257 843,387 1,340,770
* Includes proportion reserves, f Includes tax reserves.
Last term stocks were reduced by
£116,575 and book debts by £171,687, and
cash, etc,, was strengthened by £497,383.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£1,819,579) was
£207,017.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but by the following cos., of
which the first six are listed on the Stock
Exchange;—
Mar-
Stating Last ket
Paid C.U.B. Div., Yield,
Capital. Par Value. p.c. p.c.
Melbourne Co-op.. . £431,981 £987,268 23.3 3.6
Carlton .. .. 816,992 928,295 13.0 3.4
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,12 i 7.7 3.4
Foster .. .. 115,200 124,573 10.75 3.6
Shamrock.. .. 141,345 124,573 9.0 3.6
McCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 10.0 3.6
Cohn Bros. .. 93,750 150,000
Melb. & Gen. Inv.
Trust .. .. 150,000 219,062
Miscellaneous ~ 152,670 —•—
In addition to divs. from their holdings
in C.U.8,, some of the cos. gather rents,
etc., from property on their own account.
The market yield is that obtainable from
the latest market quote for the scrip.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June. Loss. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 29,349 6* p.c. Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2500 .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6* „ 14 p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6*„ 14 „ 15,989 64,756
1940.. 28,307 6*,, 14 ~ 15,989 12,318 77,074
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO .. .. 76,074
1941.. 32,033 6* p.c. 24 p.c. 22,210 9,823 85,897
1942.. 23,961 6* „ 14 ~ 15,989 7,972 93,869
1943'.. 24,971 6* „ 14 „ 15,989 8,982 102,851
1944.. 27,301 6* „ 24 „ 22,210 5,091 107,942
1945.. 30,297 6* „ 3 „ 25,321 4,976 112,918
* Includes 5 p.c. on 240 old prefs.
The importance of superphosphate as a
factor in rural and pastoral production
makes manufacturers of the stuff import-
ant though indirect contributors to the
national output of foodstuffs, Cresco
operates three plants in South Aus, and
one at Geelong (Vic.), and has a £90,432
share interest in Cresco Fertilizers (W.A.).
Though shareholders, who are largely
users of super, themselves, have had only
very moderate returns from the business,
the outlook is more encouraging than at
any time since the big break in the
markets some 15 years ago.
Last term a little more phosphate rock
was made available, the output of super,
increased and, after making unspecified
provision for taxation and depreciation,
the co.’s net earnings stepped up £2996,
reaching £30,297, That covered the 6 p.c.
pref. div. (£6655) and 3.8 p.c. on the
£622,200 of ord. capital. The div,
advanced half a point, making it 3 p.c.
The Westralian co. has paid 4 p.c, for
each of the last four years, as against
5 p.c, and then 6 p.c. for several years
before that.
Supplies of super., still below require-
ments in both quantity and quality, con-
tinue to be rationed, and the selling price
remains fixed at £5 Is. a ton, which is
below cost of production. A Govern-
ment subsidy covers the difference, plus
a unit margin for profit. Since the Jap
occupation of Nauru and Ocean Islands,
phosphate rock of low-grade has been
obtained from Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco,
U.S.A. and Makatea Island (South Pacific),
at greatly increased cost, of course.
Though Ocean and Nauru are again in
British hands, so much damage has been
done to production and other plant there
that delivery of high-grade rock to Aus-
tralian manufacturers is not expected to
commence for a year or so. And it is
likely to be a year or more after that
before Australia’s total requirements of
rock can be met from these two sources.
During the current season Australian
production of super, is to be stepped up
40 p.c. above last year’s level, thanks
to more shipping space becoming avail-
able for transport of rock. And increased
acreage sown to wheat and the posi-
tion in the pastoral industry will provide
a ready market for the stuff. Lighter
dressings used during the war years, to-
gether with crop and pastoral statistics,
show that maximum primary production
cannot be attained without use of an ade-
quate supply of super.
In South Aus. the Government has
acquired several properties in the south-
east of the State, and some 26,000 acres
on Eyre Peninsula, in the 25in. rainfall
belt, for soldier settlement. There is also
talk of the Government taking over about
275,000 acres on Kangaroo Island, also
in the 25in. rainfall area, for the same
purpose, while the Parliamentary Com-
mittee on Land Settlement has recom-
mended Government purchase of 12,000
acres at Loxton for irrigation purposes.
It all spells increased demand for super,
in the future. But until the industry can
be got on to a self-supporting price-cost
structure, and the subsidy eliminated,
only modest returns to shareholders need
be looked for.
The co.’s financial position improved:
1938. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £738,165 £733,165 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities . . 307,509 204,546 120,161 142,001
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 572,098 535,099 494,456 488,498
Stocks . . 161,499 185,254 121,836 231,714
Shares in other
cos. . . 90,005 90,011 90,043 90,043
Debtors .. 176,124 75,971 76,411 119,760
Cash, etc. . . 87,155 108,668 141,991 27,970
Farm property,
etc. . . 41,737 62,567 58,744 55,421
To carry an extra £109,878 of stocks —
users of super, were reluctant to take
early delivery—and add £43,349 to
debtors’ balances the board drew upon
cash, etc., for £114,021 and went outside
for a further £21,840. Under the co.’s
method of trading “there is very small
likelihood of losses arising through bad
debts,” the chairman says. The more or
less liquid surplus (£327,486) was £17,366
stronger than at the previous balance.
On the market 15s. is offered for the
f.-p. pound ords. as against 4s. 6d. three
years back. The return at 15s. is 4 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at


BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY.
WELL-ESTABLISHED Firm in Hong-
** kong desires importation of Food-
stuffs, Chemicals, Textiles, Piece Goods,
Knitting Wopls, Metals, Paper and Other
General Merchandise or Daily Necessi-
ties. Prefer acting as Sole Agents for
Manufacturers. Also Exporters of China
Produce and Local-made Articles. First-
class references. Please address G.P.O.
Box 1165, Hongkong.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark,®'. LocaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance* Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
fl FINE HOFEI
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in.
S.
7**7
Thone BW 1361 (1,0 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
INVENTORS—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adyt.
» * • *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, SCO Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Adyt,
HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
%
mm.
MW
Jim Ferrier, holder Australian National
open and Amateur championships, 1938
and 1939.
A fine world-class Australian player.
While production of 1.C.1,
SHOTGUN and .22 RIMFIRE
CARTRIDGES is increasing
steadily, existing conditions pre-
vent full supplies at the moment.
Police permits are still necessary,
hut holders must
not be disappointed
if supplies are not
immediately
available.
8(1 W VI
131
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
Bsvf
m
mm
am.
m
m
THIS
MAM
■COttfiU j/ofyow /
‘‘Eight bells and all’s well..but it’s not always
fair weather and smooth sailing on a tanker.
You’ll find this man, and hundreds like him, on
every ocean, living in constant hazard. He is
another of the vast army behind CALTEX,
bringing petroleum from the
world’s richest oil fields to your nearby
CALTEX dealer . . . and your car.
6/166
sd
LISTEN. TO
“YOUTH SPEAKS”
EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT
235. 9d. yield 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribu-
tion. They enjoy priority as to capital
and div., participate in surplus assets and
advance with the ords. in any distribution
after the latter have had 9 p.c. Net
asset backing (book value) is 235. Id.
per pound of paid capital (pref. and ord.
combined).
Hampton Court, Ltd.
, Dividends A To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 7,049 6.9 p.c. 5 p.c. 7,093 853
Reserves.
Intangibles disappear, £3OOB .. 2,155
1938.. 8,533 6.9 p.c. 5.5 p.c. 7,593 940 3,095
1939.. 9,334 7 „ 7 „ 9,100 234 3,329
1940.. 9,827 7 „ 7 „ 9,100 727 4,056
1941.. 9,696 8 ~ 8 ~ 10,400 3,352
Trans, depreciation reserve, £2849..]
Tax underprovided, £2734 .. . . [- 156
1942.. 7,479 6.9 p.c. 3 p.c. 5,092 J
1943.. 8,866 6.9 „ 6.5 „ 8,592 274 430
1944.. 13,450 8 „ 8 „ 10,400 3,050 3,480
1945.. 14,108 8 ~ 8 „ 10,400 3,708 7,188
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now £46,500.
The co. owns the fashionable Hampton
Court flats at Darlinghurst, Sydney, hav-
ing bought the freehold in 1920. There
is £130,000 of capital to feed in 30,000
9 p.c. cum. prefs. (a reminder of the early
1920’s boom) and 100,000 ords., all of
£1 each. A run of 10 p.c. divs. to the
ords. was broken in 1928, and competi-
tion and slump wiped out divs. altogether
in 1931. After that the prefs. regularly
received their statutorily reduced rate —
they are subject to a 22\ p.c. cut under
the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act —with
a bit extra in 1941, 1944 and 1945, when
an all-round 8 p.c. was handed out.
Annual distributions to the ords. aver-
aged 4.5 p.c. for the six years to 1938.
Then acquisition of a liquor license put
some starch into earnings, and for the
seven years to the close of last accounts
divs. averaged 6.8 p.c.
Liquor rationing, austerity meals at
fixed prices and the invasion scare affected
earnings in 1942. But the management
kept a tight hold upon controllable exes.,'
and, following an influx of our own and
Allied service personnel, demand for
accommodation ran ahead of supply, the
bar trade improved, and the dining-room
became payable. Earnings over the last
couple of years have been among the best
in the co.’s history. Last term’s £14,108
(up £658) of profit was written after
allowing the usual £2OOO for depreciation
and £12,365 (down £131) for taxation. It
was enough to give the prefs. their full
contract rate (£2700) and show 11.4 p.c.
on ord. capital. The div. was kept at an
all-round 8 p.c. No harm will be done
if it remains at that level, or a little lower,
until the prop for capital (now only
£7188) is strengthened.
The co.’s prospects are encouraging,
provided it is able to keep its appoint-
ments, service, entertainment attractions
and prices abreast of competition, which
promises to be keen. Outlook on the
demand side appears favorable for some
years ahead. The shortage of hous-
ing accommodation has made the public
more hotel-minded, and the domestic-
labor problem promises to foster hotel
patronage. The board proposes to sell
the King’s Cross-road section of the
premises, which are unlicensed and sub-
ject to a mortgage of £20,275,»and to use
the net proceeds for reconditioning the
Bayswater-road, or licensed, portion of
the property, which carries a mortgage
of £6o*ooo and is the chief contributor
to profits. No details of the proposed
reconstruction, or estimated cost thereof,
are given, but it is likely to be some time
before labor and materials fer the work
are made available. Much will depend
upon the price obtained for the property
to be sold, and the extent, if any, to which
it contributed to net earnings.
The two properties, which adjoin one
another, figure in the books together at
£182,381 (cost):
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities . . 89,492 86,091 83,316 83,741
Freeholds .. 178,766 182,381 182,381 182,381
Furnishings and
plant . . 72,973 76,800 79,009 79,006
Liquids . . 3,941 6,011 20,055 24,181
Liabilities comprise the mortgages already
referred to and £3466 coming to sundry
creditors.
The market offers 225. (ceiling price)
for the ords., at which figure the return
is 7.2 p.c. on Vn 8 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs., which seldom appear on ’Change,
last sold at 28s. 6d., at which figure the
yield is 5.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover (book value) js £4 11s.
sd. prefs. and 20s. 2d. ords,
“O.B.”: Owing to shortage of fuel on
the KalgoorUe Golden Mile, a request has
been made to the Federal Government to
assist financially in opening up the un-
developed Wilga coalfield. Wilga, owned
by a De Bernales co., is near Collie, which
is Westralia’s only local source of coal
supply at present. So far the miners and
business people at Collie and the State
Labor Government have opposed the
working of Wilga deposits. The distance
by rail from Wilga or Collie to Kalgoorlie
is 500 miles, so, even if the Railway
Department has the trucks, which is
doubtful, the cost of haulage to the
Golden Mile would be stiff.
* * * *
Linden Gold (W.A.) reports a loss of
£75 for the 12 months to end of October
last, compared with a loss of £358 for
the year before. In May last the board
said an option on an “important” prop-
erty had been turned down because of
insufficient capital for development;
meanwhile various other offers have been
considered, but none warranted inspec-
tion. Co.’s assets in bonds and cash total
£1656.
* * *
Empowered by shareholders to borrow
up to £20,000 on the co.’s assets, directors
of Spafgo’s Reward (W.A.) propose to
ask the Commonwealth Government,
through the State Mines Department, for
financial assistance to put operations on
a profitable basis. Similar representations
are likely to be made by other goldmining
concerns in the West.
«** • •
Northampton, Westralia’s once prosper-
ous lead-producing centre, is in the news
again. This time two brothers claim to
have exposed payable galena in the old
workings of the Protheroe mine. Pro-
duction began at Northampton nearly a
hundred years ago. A lot of wealth has
been taken out, but very little in recent
times. The field is north of Geraldton.
* * * *
London-controlled Star Explorations,
Ltd., reports a profit of £4856 stg. for
year to end October last. Bank overdraft
was reduced by £6130, leaving it at
£25,000. Investments at market value are
worth £100,442. During the year 100,000
2s shares were issued, one for three, at
par, mainly to extend the range of in-
vestments. Since the close of accounts
the board decided to offer a further
350 000 shares at par. Co. is an invest-
ment concern interested in Australian,
South and West African, Rhodesian and
Malayan gold and base-metal mining.
A. H. Collier, a former Adelaide stock-
broker, is chairman. He is also a director
of Lake View and Wiluna.
# * * *
From London: Mt. Malcolm Invest-
ment, Ltd., which took over the Australian
assets of Westralian Gold and Finance
in 1943, and is reported to be interested
in S. African and Canadian mining ven-
tures, has formed a development co. to
acquire options on Block 59, Hampton
Plains (W.A.), and there is talk of pur-
chasing lots in the main street of a pro-
posed new townsite in the area, which is
about six miles south-east of Coolgardie.
* * * *
, Westrahan Mint has published the
eighth edition of “Hints to Prospectors
and Owners of Treatment Plants,” edited
by Major Corbet, a former Master of
the Mint. It includes useful hints on
prospecting, dryblowing, disposal of bul-
non, miners’ rights and regulations, geolo-
-Blcal features, use of treatment plants in
the early stages of a mine’s development,
battery and cyamdation work, valuation
°* residue dumps, preparation of samples
for assay, use of explosives and health.
Under-Secretary for Mines A. H. Telfer t
Superintendent of State Batteries D. F.
Browne, Government Geologist H A.
Ellis, Assistant Under-Secretary for Mines
E. G. Flannagan, State Mining Engineer
L S. Foxall and Dr. B. H. Moove, who
recently gave up the job of Director of
the Kalgoorlie School of Mines, are
among the contributors.


***** /J ‘
AUSTRALIAN
WHEN Victory came,
“Mars” switched all its
plant, equipment and skilled
craftsmen from Production
for War to Reconstruction
for Peace.
In addition to the three
Machine Tools pictured here,
“Mars” also manufactures 6", 8"
and 10" Lathes, Millers, Shapers,
Planers and Boring Mills, as
well as Special Machines for
any specific Industrial need.
Full details gladly supplied
by the manufacturers or the
Distributing Agents listed below.
The MARS
Ue*rvy=Duly
Radial Drill
mmm
w.
>W
SI
I m
Hi
MM *
HR
m m
' ~^A
*oo**}
!
Biliii
mm
I % :■.,: t
m
Si
,
wii
~v
M |
.
■US
f I
■
Distributing Agents:
New South Wales: THOMAS HERBERT & CO. PTV. LTD.. 183 Clarence St.. SYDNEY
New Zealand: MOTOR SPECIALITIES LTD., Anzae Avenue, AUCKLAND
Branches throughout the Dominion
J. & O'S. Advt
Accurate
Sturdy
Durable
Produced fn response to
the demand for a High*
Efficiency Radial Drill
for Australian condi-
tions at a price within
the reach of the average
Engineering Shop.
m!
Bm*;
Li
3 Pi
.. M ■■
The “HERCULES” s|in. LATHE
“The little GIANT of the Lathe World”
m
i ms
I Hi
The “VENUS” 7 in. LATHE
Sturdy , Accurate , Quick-Action Lathe
All “Mars” Machine Tools are distinguished by these
outstanding features: ACCURACY—buiIt to Schlesinger
standards of accuracy. BALANCE—aII necessary re-
volving parts are dynamically balanced. FINISH—aII
surfaces are machine ground. SMOOTH RUNNING —
all Gear Teeth are generated. '‘VERSATILITY —all
Lathes have Detachable Gap Bridge.
f
i
k
GE SIRE E T
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT BRITAIN)


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
WHIN it's
R
S^^^PsTART
6-45
Exide serves the public in a hundred
ways, from telephonic communication to
the production of coal. In your choice
of a car battery be guided by un-
dertakings that depend upon Exide.
ft
tt
cm :
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retirement of Air Vice-Marshal A. T.
(“King”) Cole, C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C,
D.F.C., removes from the stage one of
the most picturesque members of the
R.A.A.F. He joined the A.F.C. in 1916,
and served first with No. 1 Squadron in
Palestine before going to France, where
he collected the M.C, and D.F.C. Join-
ing the R.A.A.F. on formation, he com-
manded Point Cook 1926-29; Rich-
mond, 1936-37. Attended the Staff Col-
lege at Andover and also the Imperial
Defence College round ’3B, and com-
manded Laverton on outbreak of war.
Sent to U.K. on loan to the R.A.F, in
1941, he picked up a D.S.O. in the
Dieppe raid, plus a broken jaw.
Eighteen days later he took com-
mand of Eighty-four Fighter Group
in Northern Ireland. “King” is the
highest-ranking officer in the Guinea Pig
club of fliers who have had faces or
limbs restored by plastic surgery. On
return to Australia he took command in
Darwin. Followed a short period as Air
Member for Personnel, and he ended the
war in charge of R.A.A.F. in India and
Burma. Noted for his ability to speak
his mind, come what may, he was
popular with all ranks.
Back in Adelaide on a few weeks’
leave, R. F. Bristowe, one of the first
Dominion-born men to become a King’s
Messenger, has covered half a million
miles in his job. Educated at St. Peter’s
College, he went to London in 1931 and
set up with an engineering firm. When
the war came he went to the Admiralty,
thence to the Foreign Office, where he
became a King’s Messenger. These
couriers, familiar to readers of Phillips
Oppenheim and William Le Queux, get
around fairly comfortably in peace-time,
enjoying diplomatic privileges and special
passports that even Calwell couldn’t
ignore. In war-time it’s different, for
there’s nobody an enemy would sooner
capture and destroy than a wearer of the
Silver Greyhound, Bristowe once went
on a destroyer in convoy from Scapa
Flow to Murmansk, and the vessel was
almost continuously in action from Ice-
land on. He did that trip several times
subsequently, and flew over several dan-
gerous routes round the Middle East. He
doesn’t know where he’ll be heading next.
Lieutenant Reginald Walter Saunders,
the first fullblooded Australian aborigine
to get a commission in the Australian
Army, is now the first of his race to be em-
ployed by the Tramways Board in Mel-
bourne. The new conductor was born
at Lake Condah near Warrnambool, Vic.,
and was in the sawmilling business before
he enlisted as a private—his father served
with the 10th Battalion in the last war
and was at the Landing. Saunders was
in the first Libyan campaign, escaped
from Greece in a ship that was sunk,
and landed in Crete where, after the
island fell, he evaded the Germans for
12 months. In New Guinea he led an
infantry platoon in some of the stiffest
fighting between Mubo and Salamaua.
Sent to an 0.T.C., he passed 10th out of
33, and got his commission in 1944. Re-
turning to the islands, he took part in
the Wewak show. A brother was killed
at Buna ; his wife was a W.A.A.A.F.
Thomas Faulkner Berwick, knighted
at an investiture at New Delhi, was born
in Melbourne and educated at Scotch
College and the University of Melbourne,
where a couple of fellow-students were
R. G. Casey and R. G. Menzies. He
fought at Gallipoli and in France in the
last war, was twice wounded, mentioned
in dispatches and got a D.S.O. An
Australian delegate at the Versailles Con-
ference, he was in England a few years
later superintending the building of
Fogarty Fegen’s Jervis Bay and other
vessels for the Commonwealth line of
steamers. From the job of superinten-
dent of the gun carriage factory at
lubbulpore, the second World War lifted
him to the big appointment of Director-
General of Ordnance Production in Hin-
dustan.
“Morehead”; Will Ogilvie and Rod
Quinn may be the holders of The Bulle-
tin’s long-distance record for poets (B.
6/3/’46), but neither could compete with
C. W. A. Hayward for quantity of out-
put. Eighty, or thereabouts, “T. the R.”
(abbreviation of “Thoma% the Rhymer”)
has been writing topical verse for The
Bulletin since 1922, but before that was
delighting readers in the West as far back
as the early ’nineties. By now he must
be miles ahead of such prolific writers of
light verse as Dennis, Dyson, Murphy
and Goodge, all now dead. Son of a
South Australian pioneer, Hayward went
to Oxford, graduated in law and practised
his profession in South Africa. In 1892 he
went to Westralia, founded the Murchison
“Times” and edited the Kalgoorlie “Sun”
and Perth “Sunday Times.” “T. the R.’s”
only book of verse, Along the Road
to Cue, is out of print, and many
Bulletin readers would welcome both a
reprint and a selection of his best verses.
But, a rare bird among bards, he is not
keen on book publication.
Westminster Abbey’s new organist
is Dr. William Neil McKie, one-time city
organist in Melbourne. During his tenure
of office he succeeded in making lunch-
time concerts of an elevated nature part
of the life of the city. A councillor
objected that McKie was playing
above the heads of the people, and
that it was the city organist’s busi-
ness to play popular music. “Well,” re-
torted McKie, “I didn’t place the organ
where it is, so I can’t help playing above
the heads of the people ; and as for play-
ing popular music audiences are so large
that they have to be split up into two
sessions.” McKie was born at Colling-
wood and educated at Melbourne Gram-
mar, the Royal College of Music, London,
and Oxford. He got the, Abbey job in
1941, but had to await his discharge from
the R.A.F. before he could take it.
Major R. S. Caprara, Director-General
of the South African Broadcasting Cor-
poration, has his headquarters 6000 feet
above sea-level at Johannesburg, from
which lofty eyrie he prescribes and con-
trols all radio fare for Union listeners.
The dual-language difficulty in S’Africa
is overcome by running parallel pro-
grammes ; if you can’t stomach the
9 o’clock news in English you twiddle
the knobs a bit and see whether you can
take it in Afrikaans. Listeners pay 355.
RADIO CHIEF, SAFRICA.
for their licences, compared with our £l,
but there are no commercial stations and
consequently no advertising, so they don’t
have to spend half their time building up
sales resistance against somebody’s soap
or pills. Major Caprara has been . sent
to these parts by his Board to run an
eye and ear over Australian and Maori-
land broadcasting systems. He will report
on the advisability of S.A.B.C. selling
some of its air for advertisements. Dubois
caught him considering his verdict.
Brig. Alexander Moore Forbes,
M.V.0., M.C., Base Commandant in S.A.,
was among the first batch of cadets to
pass through Duntroon, and as an artil-
lery officer of 102 Battery he won the
M.C. on the Somme in 1916. He had
the pleasure of seeing his eldest son
follow closely in his footsteps; Lieut.
Jim Forbes also graduated at Duntroon,
and last year he matched his father’s
M.C. The Brig, has recently crossed to
Adelaide from Sydney Fortress Com-
COMMANDANT, SOUTH AUS.
mand, but it’s not his first spell there ;
he was a staff officer at Keswick Barracks
when the balloon up in ’39. Coven-
try caught him in a spare moment when
he was sorting his collection of cigarette
holders. He’s a keen golfer, and there’s
a legend that an opponent once agreed to
concede him any putt that could be
measured by his cigarette holder. At
the time the longest in his collection was
a mere 10in., but now the daddy of them
all protrudes nearly 2ft. 6in. through the
Forbes moustache.
Over £lOO,OOO will be distributed
among Victorian religious, charitable and
educational institutions under the will of
Dr. Georgina Sweet, the remarkable
woman who entered the medical profes-
sion at a time when practitioners of her
sex were rare. She was the last survivor
of a well-known Methodist family,
founded the University Women’s College
and fought for the interests of women.
Three gifts of £7500 each go to the found-
ing and maintenance of fellowships in
medicine, economic geology and zoology.
The average impression of a book-
seller is that his sole recreation is books.
An exception, by no means rare, is Guy
Moore, whose Pitt-street, Sydney, book-
shop is sandwiched between a pub—the
Criterion of “Poverty Point” fame—and
a Congregational church. Guy’s burning
passion is bees. Whenever he can snatch
time from the struggle for a crust in the
book world he converts himself into an
ardent apiarist, and will be found as far
afield as Yarrangobilly and Coolac
(N.S.W.) persuading a queen bee and her
co-workers to do something about the
honey situation. An allied interest is his
keenness for reafforestation, for which he
has barracked hard as a member of the
N.S.W, Forestry Advisory Council.
Away'from the printed tome he has
found time to become a Kqgarah aider-
man and a St. George County Council
chairman. Of Welsh-Irish parentage, Guy
was 10 years with Angus and Robertson,
and Sydney manager for Cole’s Book
Arcade. He affirms that the Bible is still
the best seller. Until recently the British
and Foreign Bible Society was in the
next Pitt-street block, and he suspects that
he often gained a sale intended for it.
The N.S.W. Booksellers’ Association
knows him as one of its more outspoken
and vigorous members.
Wing-Commander O. B. (Pat) Hall,
A.F.C., was taught to fly by Scotty Allen.
He was chief pilot for the Broken Hill
mining companies in the immediate pre-
war days, using a Lockheed 10.
Pat volunteered for the R.A.A.F.
on the outbreak of war and was
given the job of teaching Permanent
Air Force officers to fly Lockheeds,
among them —yes —Scotty Allen. He
worked in a navigation reconnais-
sance course as well as piloting an
aircraft on all the operations connected
with the escort of A.I.F. convoys
between Sydney and Melbourne. Con-
sidered too old for active operations, he
was transferred to Transport Command,
and did a great job in New Guinea, in-
cluding the dodging of Zeros in an un-
armed crate down in the valleys. Later
he flew Beauforts as first pilot in a squad-
ron of which the C.O. held only the rank
of Squadron-Leader. A just-awarded
D.F.C. is a tribute to his courage and
efficiency.
John McConnell Black, of S.A.,
awarded the 1946 Clarke Memorial
Medal for “distinguished contributions to
natural history in Australia,” collected the
Sir Joseph Verco Medal in 1930, the
Baron von Mueller Medal in ’32 and the
Medal of the Natural History Society
of hfelbourne. Scottish-born and -edu-
cated, he came to S.A. in 1877, farmed
at Baroota for five years, then Spent 20
years on the literary staffs of Adelaide
.dailies until he became lecturer in syste-
matic botany at Adelaide Uni. in 1902.
A former president of the S.A. Royal
Society, Black represented Australian
societies and institutes at the International
Botanic Congress, Cambridge, in 1930,
and is one of the 25 associates of the
Linnean Society, London. Now 91 he’s
the author of many publications on the
flora of S.A.
Flight-Sergt. Leonard George William
Williams, of S.A., awarded the George
Medal for rescuing a navigator from a
blazing Beaufighter at Noemfoor, Dutch
New Guinea, is a scoutmaster in civil
life, and the first member of the R.A.A.F.
Service Police to collect a decoration.
The citation says “He worked with com-
plete disregard for his personal danger,
his heroism and devotion to duty being
an inspiration to all who saw the crash.”
Several years ago his father, W. J. Wil-
liams, received a Certificate of Merit for
rescuing two men from a wrecked cutter.
Though authority has existed since
1941 to appoint women to the Maoriland
Upper House, the first to share the dis-
tinction have only lately been announced.
One is Mrs. Mary M. Dreaver, former
member for Waitemata, who during
her term introduced an empowering
measure which was dropped when Pri-
minister Peter Fraser gave an undertak-
ing of Government action. The other
is Miss Mary P. Anderson, of Grey-
mouth, a former schoolteacher, who has
had a long association with the Labor
party.
“King’s Pawn”: Lagos Steiner, the
Australian chess champion, has received
word that his brother Endre, his equal in
chess prowess, is dead. When Steiner,
after a world toiir, decided that Australia
would be his home, he had a thought for
his brother also. Arrangements were prac-
tically complete for Endre to go to
Maoriland, where a job awaited him, but,
intent on marriage, he delayed, and the
Nazi flood overwhelmed the family. A
sister survived in a concentration camp
in Germany; the mother was rescued
when close to death, and the father died
before Endre. Another chess-playing
brother finished high up in the Hastings
international tourney. Lagos himself is
now a naturalised Australian, and is
married to an Australian girl.
Into the silence:—•
At 72, in Melbourne, M. Edouard Theodore
Gay, Ojficier d’Academic, a well-known figure
in French circles. Born in Geneva, he came
to Melbourne in 1901 and formed the Anglo-
Swiss Watch Co. He was a pillar of the
dramatic productions of the Alliance Frangais.
In Brisbane at 69, Roy Graeme Groom, one
of the city’s leading accountants. Lt.-colonel
in the old garrison artillery and served as
transport officer in 1914-18, taking troops to
Egypt.in the Kyarra. One of the founders of
Brisbane’s United Service Club and a life
member.
In Adelaide, at 69, Oliver Uppill, S.A.
Senator 1934-44. Born at Nantawarra (S.A.),
he spent' most of his life on the land, and was
a producers’ representative on the S.A. State
Bank Board.
At Wellington, at 83, Envoy William John
Colley, last survivor of the original Salvation
Army officers sent over to Maoriland from
Australia to found General William Booth’s
new evangel in Wellington.


EDWARD lUMLEY
& SONS PTY. HD.
The oldest and largest
Insurance Brokers in the
Southern Hemisphere
effecting insurances at—
Your passport to Security
io any part of the World
Wherever you go, however you travel, what-
ever your business . . . there is a Lloyd’s
policy to cover you against any and every .
contingency. In Australia, for example ,
thousands of policies have been under-
written by Lloyd’s of London during the
past fifty years, through the oldest and
largest brokers in the Southern Hemisphere
• . . Bennie S. Cohen & Son, now known
as Edward Lumley & Sons Pty. Ltd. To-
day, more than ever , you will appreciate
the sense of security that only a Lloyd’s
policy can provide.
All enquiries will he promptly and cour-
teously answered by: —
EDWARD LUMLEY ASONS PTYLTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George St. and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
St. Melbourne: 57 Queen St. Adelaide; T. & G. Bldg. Brisbane;
A.M.P. Bldg. Perth: 156 St. George's Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
St.; also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, new
Zealand; and edward lumley inc., London, new York, Paris,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL,
LL.2.10
AFKONS OFF!
nr
v*l
$
ii
m.
Any woman fortunate enough to possess an AGA Cooker will tell you
how much more leisure she enjoys. Delicious meals just cook themselves
on AGA’s scientific, continuous, economical heat-storage principle.
The economy of AGA is assured by a specific guarantee never to burn
more than on amazingly small fixed quantity of fuel per annum. AGA’s
special insulation keeps kitchens cool. Its vitreous enamelled surfaces are
as clean as a china plate. Operation is simple. AGA Cookers are
guaranteed against faulty material and workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. ~ 3.'
A G A
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est 18S2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents; Colton p almet
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Asstf. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
r.
KZ
rl
-rnJ
THE SERVICE MAN
Pacific Co-operation.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Churchill’s speech in
Missouri in favor of an Anglo-American
military alliance has a special appeal for
consideration in the Pacific.
It is possible to vision wars in Europe
from which the United States might stand
aloof. It is not possible to vision one
of any magnitude in the Pacific, threaten-
ing the British, Americans, Australians,
New Zealanders, Dutch or Chinese, in
which defence is not indivisible.
An attack can only be anticipated from
Asia, whether it is internal or external.
Kalinin • whose title is (or was) Chair-
• man of the Presidium of the Supreme
Soviet of the U.S.S.R., has followed the
militarisation of the United Soviet Gov-
ernments and movements of troops ail
round the Soviet borders by declaring
war on all non-Communist systems of
government throughout the world.
His declaration repeats Stalin’s injunc-
tion of November, 1939, to Communist
parties, wherever they are, to break down
existing constitutional systems and re-
place them with Communist Govern-
ments linked to Moscow. Moscow,
Stalin made it clear, was not merely the
source of inspiration but the “firm base”
for these operations.
In the end the aims of Communist
parties, as ordered from Moscow, can
be achieved only by bloodshed, because
they involve the “liquidation” of all
classes opposed to Communism. This
means insurrection and civil war at the
point at which the insurrectionaries feel
that they have created a chaos sufficiently
wild to enable them to win.
As the Communist movement is inter-
national in character, with common ob-
jectives in all countries, defence against
it must be international as well as
national. There must be exchange of
information and plans for concerted
action Wherever Communism won in
one English-speaking country it would
form a basis from which to attack the
rest.
With the use of long-distance aircraft,
the development of super-heavy bombers,
the improved technique of heavy glider
and parachute landings, defence against
invasion has become a new science. So
experienced an authority as Vice-Admiral
Vian, R.N., in command of British air-
craft-carrier squadrons in the Pacific war,
has said that the aircraft-carrier repre-
sents only a stepping-stone between ordi-
nary naval operations and the point at
which bombers will be able to operate
everywhere from land bases.
North Australia is now reachable from
the Asiatic mainland during the hours
of darkness —Darwin is six hours by the
fastest jet machines from Singapore;
Rabaul less from the Philippines and
within an hour or two of Truk. The
Canadian coast could during the hours of
darkness become infested with divisions
from a properly air-equipped enemy
based on the Kuriles, or such shortly will
be the case within a couple of years of
intensive development.
Japan could be attacked from Vladi-
vostok in a couple of hours ; Okinawa
from the Chinese coast in the same
period. Timor is noW less than an hour
by. the fastest fighters from the North
Australian coast.
And, wherever there is invasion or
attack upon the territory of one counfiy,
that of another is threatened. The Dutch
cannot lose the East Indies to people
ideologically hostile to the White Aus-
tralia policy without
(a) our communication lines with
Britain and India being cut;
(Ip) a Power potentially hostile to the
United States being placed on the flank of
the Philippines and the American de-
fence chains of islands in the mid-Pacific.
No enemy could or would attack the
American mid-Pacific islands without try-
ing to get behind them as a first move.
which means invasion of New Guinea.
No attack could be made on New Guinea
and Australia from Eastern Asia without
a precautionary seizure of American
screen islands, which would also provide
stepping-stones southward.
The moment a military force of any
description is thrown against Canada,
from whatever direction, the defence of
not only that Dominion but of Britain,
Australia and particularly the United
States is menaced, since Canada has be-
come a vast potential arsenal.
Attack upon involves also an
operation to separate the United States
from its Alaskan territories. Attack on
Alaska would mean automatic war with
Canada.
Pearl Harbor’s Position
Attack on Hawaii immediately be-
comes the concern of Australia, the
Dutch and the British. Seizure of it
means a threat to all Pacific communi-
cations. It is equally of importance to
Canada, since a hostile Hawaii would be
like a live bomb in the garden. It is
within heavy bomber reach of Vancouver
sea lanes.
Even attack on India or the develop-
ment there of a hostile regime would be
of • great consequence to Americans,
besides being of vital consequence to
Australians. To cut the lifeline between
Britain and the South Pacific would
destroy an important defence link of
the U.S.A. and menace the flank of its
equatorial communication lines with Asia
and Australia.
Exchanges Necessary
There can be much disagreement about
Mr. Churchill’s proposals for close alli-
ance, and perhaps ultimate union, between
the British Commonwealth and the
U.S.A., which will be received with sus-
picion and even dislike by Americans and
American legislators, traditionally averse
to international treaties and entangle-
ments.
But there can be no disagreement about
the concerting of rational mutual-defence
arrangements, in which each country is
necessary to the other.
Students of the world today, with its
long series of Communist encroachments
and open threats to the stability of con-
stitutional systems, would sleep very un-
easily if they felt that there were no
prudent exchange agreements on defence
plans between all the English-speaking
countries, including, to a lesser extent,
the Dutch and Chinese.
There is little danger, however, of that.
The Pacific war taught how vast were
the forces necessary and how wide the
dispersion can be in case of aggression
by a Power of even medium strength,
which is able to dictate the initial direc-
tions of its blows and to compel pre-
cautionary concentrations of large forces
by its opponents at a number of points
until the main lines of the attack become
clear and defensive concentration can pin
down the capital forces of the aggressors.
No one nation can defend the Pacific.
It calls for the power of all the English-
speaking peoples, with the co-operation
of some others. And all must build forces
of such a nature that they will be able
to co-operate integrally with other defen-
sive forces.
Mr. Attlee’s announcement that Britain’s
three defence services must be prepared
to work in a single compartment comes
directly on the heels of a similar pro-
posal in Washington. It shows the way
the wind is blowing.
Soviet Plot in Canada.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Mackenzie King
revealed in Ottawa the preliminary
details of the Soviet spy plot in Canada,
authenticated by the investigations of two
Judges, of the Canadian Supreme Court
who acted as a Royal Commission.
The Commissioners found as a fact
that the Soviet Government had organ-
ised in Canada a network of under-
ground Soviet agents to obtain secret
information from Canadian Govern-
ment employees and employees of the
British High Commissioner to Canada:
These operations were carried on under
direct instructions from Moscow by cer-
tain members of the Soviet Embassy staff
in Ottawa. The Soviet military
(Colonel Zabotin) was directly in charge
of operations. His assistants were the
assistant Soviet military attache (Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Motinov), Lieutenant-
Colonel Rogov, the assistant military air
attache Major Sokolovjne and other mem-
bers of the Embassy known by undercover
names.
Colonel Zabotin spoke in his report of
Canadian civil servants and others as
being in “the net,” a term expressive
enough.
The Royal Commissioners examined
Igor Gousenko, a cipher clerk in the
Soviet military attache’s office, who told
the details of the organisation and its
functions, and produced original docu-
ments. The original documents proved
that Zabotin last August had received
telegraphed instructions from Moscow to
discover secret Canadian methods of


Missing Friends.
LITTLEWOOD, Herbert Paul: Would any person
having any knowledge of the present whereabouts of
the abovenamed, who resided at Smithfield Road, St.
Johns Park, near Fairfield, N.S.W., in 1939, or any
information concerning his movements since that date
please communicate with A. R. BALDWIN & 00.,
Solicitors, 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney? Telephone
BW 6924.
TO IVY MARY ALICE FAWCETT formerly of 99
Boundary Street Darlinghurst Sydney New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your husband WILLIAM
STANLEY FAWCETT has filed a Petition in the
Supreme Court of Victoria (1946 No. 5) for a dis-
solution of Marriage on the ground of desertion
If you desire to defend the suit you must enter an
appearance on or before the Seventeenth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and forty-six and file an
answer on or before the Twenty-ninth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and forty-six at the
Office of the Deputy Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Ballarat Victoria and in default of your
so doing the petition may be heard in your absence. —
R. H. RAMSAY, of 41 Lydiard Street, Ballarat,
Solicitor for the Petitioner !
Re EMMA MARY CASTEN Deceased Intestate Late
of Maroochydore Queensland. —Will Mrs. Dorothy
Emma Adams, daughter of the above-named, please
communicate with Messrs. Fox & Fox, Solicitors,
Nambour, Queensland ? '
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO FELICITY MURIEL SCOTT late of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband RONALD BRUCE SCOTT has filed a Petition
for Divorce Number 401 of 1946 against you on the
grounds of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 10th day
of Mav 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG Solieitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(L.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN VICTOR ROSE. —TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
ROSE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 789 of 1946
on the ground of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 10th May 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
WILLIAM RUTHERFORD THOMSON of 14 Martin
Place Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K, BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO LENA FLORENCE HERR late of Wellington
Road Auburn AND EDWARD HOWARD MANS-
BRIDGB late of Great Western Road Wentworth-
£ue._TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD JAMES HERR
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4343 of 1945
on the grounds of your adultery If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Court Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 3rd
dav of May 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from WARRINGTON CONNOLLY
Solicitor for the Petitioner 12 O’Connell Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
arC 12 months 4 ®
a .. •• •• 12 6
3” 7 0
Concession” rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. •• 15 0
{} 8 0
O ~ .... . _
s„ 4 o
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£lOO
Ik Worlds Greatest
MINDER
LOOK FOR
THIS
TRADE MARK
LRZANS GRIP
MENDS AND FIXES EVERYTHING
Tarzan's Grip not only has a greater
variety of uses than glue, gums,
cements and solders but it also
effectively sticks together many
materials of different natures. It
resists moisture, acids, alkalies and
extreme heat. Get some NOW
something may break to-day.
IF BACK ACHES,
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Many sufferers relieve nagging backache quickly,
once they discover that the real cause of their trouble
may be tired kidneys.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking the
excess acids and waste out of the blood. They help
most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from vour blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
NUMBER FOUR OF A SERIES MOTOR TRANSPORTATION SERVING AUSTRALIA
St f
V.
S&Bgag®s
Mils
&
¥
;.-
#
# .
«
TALI TIMBERS . . .
TOUCH TYRES
It’s a big job, shifting mountains of huge logs,
some of them seven and eight feet in diameter,
from the virgin timber stands where they are
felled, to the mills that cut them into building
timber timber that will go to alleviate the
national housing shortage. Timber' trucking
is a high priority job for motor transport
a job that calls for the toughest and most
economical of tyres Dunlop of course, the
tyre that sets the quality standard.
DUNLOP
• TRAKGRIP •
TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
D 136 . ——rn—mmmmmmmmmmm
production of explosives and chemical
materials, to secure Soviet agents in the
Defence Department and the Naval Minis-
try, to obtain particulars of atom-bomb
materials and technology and to secure
information about the movement ot U.S.
and even Canadian troops, which could
have been connected only with Russia s
intention .to grab Manchuria, in opposi-
tion to which Chiang’s Chinese have
organised great demonstrations.
Four people, public servants, three of
them with foreign-sounding names, were
arrested in Canada. Among them were
a young woman clerk in the Canadian
External Affairs Department (Mrs.
Wolkin); a captain named Lumin in the
Information Department, who “headed
a group under command of Lieut.-
Colonel Gogor, of the Soviet military
attache’s office”; and a 40-year-old
woman deputy-registrar of the British
High Commissioner’s office, who had
access to almost all secret documents.
The younger woman charged pleaded
guilty. Since that time Dr. A. Nunn
May, a lecturer in physics and an expert
in atomic energy, has been arrested in
London, and other arrests appear to be
pending.
A woman who gave the first alarm has
since been threatened through the post
with death. Moscow’s reaction has been
a flood of gutter abuse at Mr. Mackenzie
King (the bulk of it in German), whose
Government has been generous to Russia
almost to the point of folly. It brought
a reply from the Premier of Ontario —
“Unless Russian aggression is stopped we
are in the front line” ; and unless A.B.C.
is dreaming he suggested the possibility
of a Russian aerial attack on the Great
Bear Lake uranium district.
It is about time Australia put its house
in order. Under the rule of the party
in office Government departments
have become riddled with Communists
who owe their allegiance to Russia and
not to this country. High secrets are
available to some of them or their
associates.
First Jap Criminals Executed.
The executions took place on Morotai
on March 6, the criminals being Colonel
Kora, Major Tamura, Captains Misumi,
Nakata, Iwas and Kato; Lieutenants
Yabe, Nomura, Tanaka and Yamamoto ;
Sergeant-Major Sugina ; Sergeants Okada
and Hosotani.
These men had been involved in some
of the most dreadful atrocities of the war.
But accounts such as that issued by the
Army Public Relations Department are
unlikely to deter others in the future from
similar atrocities or drive home to the
Japanese the horror of their crimes.
The 13 were responsible for the murder
of Australian prisoners at Taulavo Island,
the dreadful and mortal ill-treatment of
{5.-0.-w. in Borneo and the deliberate with-
holding of medical supplies from mem-
bers of the A.1.F., who in consequence
perished, many in agony.
Army Public Relations, however,
did not stress these matters. It
seemed more concerned in provid-
ing the flapper press —which a few
months ago was only too ready to
capitalise p.-0.-w. horrors, irrespective of
the effect on bereaved relatives —with
bright stories, such as how little death
meant to the criminals, how they sang
and chattered gaily till the bullets hit them
and how reverently the Japanese burial
party “bowed to each Corpse before re-
moving it from the chair.” The report
went even the length of conveying the
wish “for friendly relations between
Japan and Australia” from one cheeky
ruffian whose crimes chill the blood and
who appears to have shown nq contrition
for them.
The Army should send somebody to
Germany to take a few lessons from the
grim British persons who conducted the
trials and executions of the Belsen camp
managers.
Up to the end of last week 196 Japa-
nese had been tried by Australian mili-
tary courts. Of- these 23 have been
acquitted and the remainder have been
sentenced to terms of imprisonment or to
death by shooting or hanging. It needs
to be remarked that if the imprisonment
is to be under Australian conditions it
will represent a period of luxury to most
of the prisoners.
The Darwin Trials
Meantime the trials at Darwin of the
men charged with crimes committed on
Timor continue to produce horrible
stories of maltreatment. Some of this
has been admitted by the Jap prisoners
and witnesses.
Captain Kasukane Saiki, Intelligence
Officer to the 48th Japanese Division, one
of the prisoners, said that the Japanese
thought nothing of inflicting pain and
beatings. These methods were used freely
on Japanese troops, who, both as punish-
ments and as part of their ordinary train-
ing, were forced to squat on logs while
they were beaten with sticks. Sometimes
their hands were tied to a bar above their
heads for lengthy periods, and they were
forced to squat for hours with heavy
packs on their shoulders or to sit on their
haunches under low beds. He admitted
that, on the orders of Major Koboyashi,
Captain Cashman, A.1.F., had been sub-
mitted to the log torture and beaten while
tied to a chair to force him to give vital
information on codes, ciphers and signals.
He also admitted having slapped the face
of Captain Ellwood, of Melbourne, and
having ordered the captain to be beaten.
Sergeant Arai (he said) had slashed Cap-
tain Ellwood across the face with a belt.
Saiki admitted torturing other Austra-
lians.
Much of the hearing during last week
was given over to the matter of the tor-
turing of Captain Wynne, a well-known
newspaperman, who was parachuted into
Timor last July with Corporal John B.
Lawrence to reconnoitre the enemy’s
withdrawal.
After 14 days Captain Wynne, who had
previously been in Timor with the Spar-
row Force and spoke the Tetun language,
surrounded at night and subjected to
log torture while being questioned. Cor-
poral Lawrence also was submitted to
extreme torture, but maintained an obsti-
nate silence. One Jap sergeant said that
Lawrence did not cry out, even when
smashed in the face with a fist and
whipped. He bit his tongue several times
to prevent himself from speaking.
Evidence was given that the torturing
of Australians in Timor was carried out
under the supervision of an investigating
committee headed by Major-General
Fukabori, which was particularly inter-
ested in the lugger maintenance service
and the defences of the Darwin Com-
mando School. One corporal said that
he beat Captain Cashman on the orders
of senior officers, but when these were
away he asked Cashman s pardon.
The trials were unfinished at the week-
end.


debt of honour —
now due for payment
When the going was tough, when the Japs were less than 40 miles from
Moresby, when only the courage of our servicemen stood between us
and disaster—then, and throughout the war, we incurred a debt which
money alone can never repay.
But our money can discharge at least part of the debt—it can provide
the fresh start in life, the medical care, the training and opportunities,
the pensions earned by valour—the material benefits we owe and will
gladly pay.
Do this by investing to the fullest extent in the Security Loan . . . for
rehabilitation.
And remember your investment is for
their security—and yours. You build up
a fund of money for use later on. Your
savings earn better than bank rates
of interest. Payment of interest, and
repayment of the loan on maturity, are
backed by the whole assets of Australia.
In emergency, your Bonds will provide
ready cash.
Help repay the debt we owe to those who
fought for us—buy Security Bonds with your
savings, and buy more by instalments out of
income.
iMSi
»
v.
I - !
SECURE THEIR FUTURE AND YOURS
99
INVEST NOW IN THE
Security Loan
FACTS ABOUT THE
£70,000,000 SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will he used to meet commitments arising out of the
war, particularly the rehabilitation of Australian service men and
women.
2. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock, may
be purchased for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Savings
Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. Interest is payable
each six months, at 3i% per annum for 12 years or 2% per annum
for 3 years. The 2% short term interest rate should appeal to com-
panies and individuals with money temporarily available for investment.
3. Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
Bonds and Inscribed Stock are readily saleable to meet an emergency.
4. On your application form credit your subscription to your district
to help its quota.
5L4.113.26
MAKE AERATED CORDIALS.
Gingerale, Lemonade, Kola, Hop Beer, etc., also
legal refreshing 2 p.c. proof spirit beer. In-
gredients to make a season’s supply. Simply
make a bottle as you want it. Costs about one
penny per bottle. Free patent pressure regulator
ensures the correct amount of gas in every
bottle. Obtainable from A. Holmes, Chemist,
Portarlington, Victoria, or £1 post free from
Beerx Registered, Box 14 Portarlington, Vic.
EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pty.Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
Him on a /, “" rco ..m WJW |
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to- the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
o
fs
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/V
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SPORTING NOTIONS
• Fu i, t I her brilliant wins by Flight and the fly-
ing filly Chaperone were the outstanding fea-
tures of Australian Cup Day at Flemington,
Knockarlow completing a nice treble for the
sex by downing Silurian and the heavily-
backed Oatcake in the Cup.
Despite Chaperone’s remarkable record in
winning margins and times in all her races
up to six furlongs, there was solid backing for
the South Australian filly Minion to beat her
over that distance in the Ascot Vale Stakes. In
the event neither Minion nor anything else
looked like getting near the big Ajax filly, let
alone beating her, once A. Mulley, after riding
her with restraint for a couple of furlongs, gave
her her head. She won by more than eight
lengths in 1.12 y (faster than Bernborough’s
Newmarket win over the same course), and at
that Chaperone was being eased up some dist-
ance from the post. Minion and Bray Law,
in that order, took the minor money.
Chaperone’s win was an exhibition of
dazzling speed; Flight’s was even more spec-
tacular as an exhibition of sheer dogged
gameness. It recalled how a year ago she used
to be regularly beaten in such w.f.a. events
by the old entire Katanga, repeatedly refusing
to fight out a finish with him. The younger
Don Pedro, drawing up to her with the last
of the Lloyd Stakes 14 furlongs to go, had
no such influence on her. They fought it out
side by side many lengths in front of the next
best (St. Fairy), and the mare still had her
head in front at the post.
The Lloyd Stakes is one of the few races in
which the distance has steadily increased, from
one mile when Tranquil Star first ran in it,
next to a mile and a half, and last year and
this year one and three-quarter miles. The
Australian Cup is one of the shortened dist-
ance events, having had half a furlong lopped
off its former two and a quarter miles. Not
that that made any difference in Knockarlow’s
win. The Parenthesis five-year-old mare looked
the best stayer at the weights on the day, and
would no doubt have defeated Silurian how-
ever the race was run. Still, being taken to
the front with half a mile to go could not have
improved Silurian’s chance.
In the other Flemington events Silgaro
carried top weight (11.6) to an easy Hurdle
win from Gyrone and Quixotic; the Hellespont
gelding Sigeum accounted for Tilston, Lord
Beaufort and a fair field of other three-year--
olds in the, 10-furlongs Leonard Stakes; the
consistent Tudor King-Connfino colt Tudor
Prince, ridden forcefully by H. Badger, won
the seven-furlongs Gibson Carmichael Stakes
(for two-year-olds), with Durbar and heavily-
weighted Tribunal in the places; and the four-
year-old St. Magnus mare Comedy Call was
far too good for Britisher, Sir Marfield and
the rest in the 10-furlongs Farewell, winding up
a meeting that produced some of the best
racing seen in years.
* * * £
Attendance at Randwick on Saturday was a
pleasant surprise for the A.J.C. —34,500, com-
pared with 24,300 on the same day last year.
The majority of the extra 10,000-odd probably
wished they’d gone hiking. From the spec-
tatorial viewpoint there was some fine racing,
but winning favorites were conspicuous by
their utter absence.
The Denham Court Handicap attracted as
classy a bunch of stayers as has been seen in
a Sydney sprint race in a long time. The
distance was seven furlongs, and the 10
starters included Metropolitan winner Murray
Stream; Sydney Cup winner Craigie; dual
Derby winner Magnificent; Silver Link, runner-
up in the Melbourne Cup; Modulation, who
has won up to a mile and three-quarters; and
War Eagle, holder of the Rosehill mile and a
half record. Best genuine sprinters engaged
were Tahmoor and Kingsdale, the handicapper
expressing a lowered opinion of the latter by
giving him 181 b. less than Tahmoor, who had
topweight, 9.5.
Tahmoor set a sizzling pace to the home
turn, with Magnificent hanging on his heels,
but down the straight it became a stayers’
race. Magnificent took charge, but near the
distance was overhauled by Murray Stream,
who in turn had no answer for Craigie’s
withering run at the finish; three-quarters of
a length to Murray Stream and a further
length to Magnificent, who hung on well.
They cut out the seven furlongs in 1.24, two
seconds outside the remarkable Randwick and
Commonwealth record put up by Freckles, but
still excellent time, comparing favorably with
Bernhorough’s Futurity Magnificent’s
next race may be a w.f.a. clash with Bern-
borough in the Rawson Stakes, in which case
the mighty freak will strike a young and very
tough opponent.
The March Nursery seemed, on paper, a very
open affair, half the field having struck winning
form in their brief space of racing. However,
the Titan colt Euryalus was backed like a
certainty; 5 to 1 bar one was the opening
call, and the 5-to-l shots went out a point as
Euryalus was backed to 5 to 4. Two New-
castle winners, Star Vite and Tiger Royal,
showed the way early, but were not equal to
the job when the pressure came on in the run
down the straight. The favorite hit the front
at the distance, but Son of Persia, finishing
along the rails, had him soundly beaten half a
furlong from home, with Lady Matthew finish-
ing well for third place. Superfort, who won
very easily at his only previous start some
months ago, has developed into a beautiful-
looking colt, though he was carrying enough
surplus weight to discourage backing him till
he has bad another run or two.
Another who has suddenly struck particularly
good form is the three-year-old Veilmond
f elding Native Son. Despite his win at Moore-
eld last start he was not made favorite for
the Three-year-old Handicap, Edinburgh being
preferred. It was simply not a race. Native
Son went straight to the front and led all the
way, winning under restraint by six lengths
from Cayalero and Gallant Law. With noth-
ing pushing him, Native Son did the mile in
L 37^ —pretty fair in any company. Among
the also-rans Don Giovanni showed promise.
Premier jockey of last season, J. Thompson
was riding with atrocious luck in the early
months of the current season, but resuming
on Saturday after a couple of months’ “holi-
day” he struck form, bringing home the last
two winners at odds not usual for his mounts
—7 to 1 and 14 to 1. The first was the three-
year-old Chaytor, on whom he rode a perfect
race to land the 12 furlongs’ Warwick March
Handicap from honest old Shining Night and
Loyal March. Chaytor is a sound galloper,
one of the best of his age; the type of colt
that could win one of the big handicaps be-
fore he’s much older.
In the Edensor Handicap, a seven furlongs’
welter, Thompson’s mount was the aged
Pentheus mare Rough Caste, a Newcastle per-
former who last month won the Armidale Cup
(seven furlongs) in track record time of I.2S£.
In the Edensor she reproduced that time, and
it proved good enough to win at' Randwick. It
was a great finish, however, with Golden
Buzzard only a half length away, and then five
horses in line for third place. The judge made
it Constable next, but confessed himself un-
able to give an official fourth placing.
Just scrambling home to win the March
Trial from Simla and Sir Alex, Valaire, a
Valamita gelding, was one of those turn-ups
the wild and woolly tote punter dreams of.
For ss. each way the winner returned over
£7O; £59 17s. 6d. win and £lO 18s. place.
Bookmakers offered 100 to 1.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Two-year-old (colts and geldings): In Vigaro’s
absence, Euryalus, 1; Superfort, 2; Star Vite,
3. Two-year-old (fillies): Lady Matthew, I;
Gold Taj, 2; Tibalina, 3. Encourage: Cavalero,
1; Avalanche, 2; Adept, 3. Flying; Gay King
or John Halifax, 1; Tahmoor, 2; Earl
Pentheus. 3. Three-and-four-year-old (mares
and fillies): Rose Glory, 1; Felberta, 2; Fair-
ness, 3. S.T.C. Handicap; Grand Prodige, 1;
Shining Night, 2; Cordale, 3. Welter; PuS-
ham, 1; Craftsman, 2; Rainglare, 3.
* * * *
Quixotic, Savant, Sigeum, Royal Gem, Don
Pedro and Reperio, who have all been shaping
well, may improve on their recent runs if
started at the Moonee Valley meeting next
Saturday.
* * * *
Australians in N.Z.:
The Australian Xl’s first innings of 579 was
too much for Auckland by an innings and 180
runs. Auckland scored 138 and 261. Wallace’s
78 and 22, Scott’s 56 and 41 (both not out)
and Kerr’s 47 were the only efforts to stand
up to the attack. The Aucklanders had all the
worst of the conditions, including a wicket
affected by rain. O’Reilly bagged nine for
103, Toshack seven for 91, Lindwall two for
59 and Johnson one for 20.
Toshack was reported to have made 17
appeals during the day, “which irked the
crowd,” and “the habit of throwing his hands
above his head and then passing his hands
despairingly through his hair did not help to
make him popular.”
V/. M. Wallace, Auckland captain and one
of M.L. Test selectors, has packed a lot of
first-class cricket into his 29 years, and is one
of the finest batsmen the Dominion has pro-
duced. Against M.C.C. in M.L. in 1936 a


PLAN m HIS
fUTUBEW
) i
Wise Is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family's
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available!
EQUITABLE PROBATE
i GENERAL INSURANCE CO.iTIi
Brisbane.,
WINBELLO PLACE,SYDNEY
COLLINS HDUSE/COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
!iSS
14
JVSTSIGHT Tffff TLYiHG
t
/GffTW f tStfT I VS St G f
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airwayl
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
icfufm’ ol GLOB! TE Trdvei Coses
I
. jggS
NP4S/34
ii
I So you feel dull & dispirited?
Well, a daily
dose of . . .
' NUGGET ’ will
make you merry
and bright".
For 50 years a GOOD polish
•I6ISTIOID
TMDI
3MB
PHOOI
The Fine* I Leather
V Preservative >
JHIGGBT' SHOE POLISH
'■'vr.
|S
n
0
The HIGH-way needs no Pavement
From the first wheezing puffs of
steam, the railroads held a promise
of great utility. So did the automo-
bile, when it sputtered into life
around the turn of the century. But
think of the astronomical total of
money which had to be spent on
railway and highway construction
to bring out the full use of these
two carriers on a world scale.
The airplane, with all of its in-
herent utility, needs no similar
sums. For the plane travels a ready-
made highway which reaches every
spot in the world. Only an airport
is needed to place any community
on a world-wide air transport sys-
tem of trunk and feeder lines.
Lower air fares and cargo rates
in the future will increase the
value of such air transport to each
city and nation. Reduced rates will
result both from traffic gains and
new equipment. Wright Aeronau-
tical is helping to make such rates
a reality by constant improvements
in aircraft engines, by building en-
gines that pay their way in use.
THE JOB FOR PLANES TO COME
In the post-war air transport field,
the Curtiss Commando is designed
to carry heavy loads at high speed
on inter-city flights with maximum
economy. Over distances from 200
to 1,000 miles, it carries 36 passen-
gers, plus cargo. Its power: two Cy-
clone 18’s of over 2,200 HP each.
m
WRIGHT
aircraft engines
division e»
CURTISS^i^WRIGHT
first in flight
Wright Aeronautical Corporation • Paterson ; New Jersey, US.A.
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA,
■
NEW
GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E. L HEYMANSON & COMPANY,
, , in nllt 0 f 306 for six wickets for
Hkland sot hto a niche in the cricket world,
4d to England in 1937 he headed the tour
fff„ro u n' gSHM'in *
?46) V Sussex His . best was 52 and 56 m
th Ai?s r tralto eS won toss against Canterbury
(Plunket Shield holders), and after scoring 415
for 8 wickets called it a day. Poor he ding
helped the total considerably. Brown (}t7)
was missed at 17 and 32, and Meuleman (61)
S had a “life.” These openers put on 144,
eclipsing their first wicket 98 v. Auckland
Barnes (48), Hassett (43), Miller (42) and
Tailon (38 not out) helped swell the tally.
Scott bagged 2 for 86, Burtt 2 for 108. Canter-
bu?v failed badly with 141. W. Anderson,
who scored 137 in the final Shield match v.
Otaao tried to save the side, and hit up a
Sod 61 Barnes (3 for 0), O’Reilly (3 f 9 r 28)
and Lindwall (2 for 35) /hared the wickets.
Canterbury had 6 down for 136 (Shand 60,
Scott 23 not out) in their second effort.
The M L team to tackle Australia at Welling-
ton on March 29 are Hadlee (Otago) captain;
Rowe, Tindill (Wellington); Mcßae, Anderson,
Butterfield (Canterbury); Wallace, Whitelaw,
Scott, Cowie, Cleverley and Burke (Welling-
ton). Cowie, Wallace, Tindill and Hadlee were
in the M.L. team lb England in 1937, when
Cowie took 19 wickets (out of 40) in the three
Tests, and 114 wickets averaging 20.04 on the
tour. Hadlee’s 93 at Manchester was the
highest M.L. innings in the Tests.
* * * *
The Victorians maintained their remarkable
batting form in the final inter-State match v.
S.A., rattling up 697. It was their highest
score made at Adelaide, the next best 8 for 646
in 1927. All the side got double figures. N.
Harvey (163) and Tamblyn (90) put on 246 for
the first wicket—a Victorian record in Adel-
aide, but a long way behind the first wicket
Sheffield Shield figures made by Woodfuil and
Ponsford v. N.S.W. at Melbourne in 1926.
Stackpole (159) and Fothergill (74) also scored
heavily. South Australia, with 5 out for 75,
was struggling to make a few runs when time
was called on the second day.
* * * *
In an innings in which 912 runs went up
for eight wickets, six Holkar State (India) bats-
men scored centuries. The previous best noted
by “Wisden” was five by N.S.W. v. South
Australia at Sydney in 1900 —Syd Gregory
(168), Noble (153), Poidevin (140), Reg Duff
(119) and Iredale (118). In that innings N.S.W.
scored 918.
* * * *
In Adelaide a Country Cricket Week
brought together over 30 teams, the
winners being Mount Torrens in the Hills
by a decimal-point from Ardrossan
across the Gulf. An interesting feature
was the appearance for Torrens of Jack
Murray, of the old S.A. station-owning
family, who was in the A.I.F. team in
England in 1919 and in the State side
as far back as 1913. He ended the
Country Week with five wickets for 12,
and headed all the bowling averages with
21 wickets at 5.7 each.
# * * *
“D.R.”: Prospects for Rugby Union in
South Australia now look exceptionally
bright. The first-grade competition is
to be resumed after a break of five years.
Actually, a modified “senior” competition
has been conducted over the last two
seasons, so clubs will have no bother in
fielding strong sides in both the first and
second grades. There are eight clubs,
and each fields two or more teams.
* * * *
In England, where they like their foot-
ball, and where sporting crowds are gen-
erally goodhumored, enthusiasm getting
out of hand led to a terrible tragedy at
a Cup Tie match at Bolton, Lancashire.
Thousands who burst into the ground
after the gates had been closed surged
forward, and the uncontrollable crush
broke through steel barriers on to a
crowded slope, causing deaths of 33
spectators and injuries to 500. Acting ou
police advice, the referee kept the game
going to distract the attention of the huge
crowd and prevent panic.
* * * *
On a specially-made track at Sydney
Cricket Ground and under most favor-
able conditions John Treloar failed by
one-tenth of a second to upset Queens-
lander Graham McLachlan’s Australian
100 metres record of lOisec. The effort,
however, equalled Ted Hampson’s N.S.W.
figures (10.6) made in 1935. Jesse Owens
holds the world's figures (10.2 in 1936),
and Eddie Tolan has the Olympic best
(10.3 in 1932); both are U.S.A. athletes,
* * * *
Adelaide’s longest freshwater swim,
one mile 200 yards in the Torrens Lake,
was this year as usual handed to a long-
starter, A boy of 14 did it in 35min.
41 sec. The fastest time made was 27min.
23sec,, but the boy had 11 minutes’
start. It was the 26th attempt in this
event for one veteran swimmer.
♦ * * ♦
In his first fight since July the Scotch
welterweight Tommy Ward outpointed
Clem Sands at Leichhardt. Sands landed
solid right uppercuts, but the tough Ward
assimilated everything that came his way,
and at the end of the ninth round Sands
had punched himself out. Then Ward
attacked, and his work was so effective
that he won the referee’s blessing. Clem
is the second Sands Ward has defeated,
but there*are plenty more at home.
* * * *
Two evenly-matched lightweights, Leo
Heaney (from W.A.) and Les Fuller, had
their third tussle at Sydney Stadium. It
was exciting from start to finish, and when
Joe Wallis declared it a draw only cheers
were heard —very unusual in Sydney. Re-
membering the Blay-Delaney series, the
management vows that it will never bring
the boys together again, and it is a vow
that should be kept.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Latham lady, well known for her
splendid work as president of the
Children’s Hospital, gathered a represen-
tative group of prominent women and
presswomen of this city round a luncheon
table at Menzies to discuss plans for the
coming bridge party and cafe chrmtant,
to be held early in April at Government
House. The Governor and Lady Dugan
have handed over to the committee the
ballroom and State drawing-room for
the occasion, and money raised will go to
the rebuilding of the Children’s Hospital.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas will assist Mrs. M. Gluth as
ticket secretaries for the bridge, while
Katherine Grant Hay will share ticket
secretarial duties with Mrs. John Guest.
James Grant is in charge of the musical
programme. The Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra conducted by Joseph Post will
give its services, and there will be well-
known supporting artists. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell is general secretary for the Gov-
ernment House festivities, and Mrs. H.
D, Giddy, another guest at the luncheon,
is treasurer.
The Lady Mayoress, who chose a navy-
blue outfit with a small navy-blue straw
sailor hat swathed in cyclamen veiling,
is very interested in the Children’s Hospi-
tal and is assisting enthusiastically.
Tickets for the cafe chantant will cost
£2 2s. and tables for bridge £4 45.; as
the State drawing-room will hold 50
bridge tables, a considerable sum should
be handed in. If pep and hard work
count, Mrs. Edgar Rouse, who is in
charge of catering, will with her helpers
make that part of the function a success.
The new Grosvenor opened its
doors to 200 guests for a house-
warming party recently. Among the
guests were the newly - arrived Cap-
tain B. F. Tompkins, U.S.A. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Tompkins. Her beige
suit was highlighted by a brown fur hat.
Valerie Purves, in a royal-blue velvet
tailored coat and wearing a gay little
floral toque, was busy greeting friends,
among whom was noticed Lillian Wight-
man, who had a brown ermine coat over
her smart black frock. Mrs. Clarence
Weber chose a silver' fox cape to add
glamor to her outfit, and was wearing the
ever-popular floral hat. Mrs. Tom Gill’s
delightful dinner suit of pale amethyst
crepe was lavishly trimmed with gold
sequins.
Shades of the past and romantic figures
strolled once again through the walls of
the Aquarium and visited the seals and
fishes when James and Janet Bowen Pain
gave their memorable party for the Food
for Britain Fund. A feature of the even-
ing was Dorothy O’Keefe, in the part of
• Queen Victoria. Her dressing and make-
up were magnificent, and she sustained
the role all through the evening, even to
receiving the bows of the men and curt-
seys of the women who were presented.
She was accompanied by Lord Beacons-
field, played by Collins Hilton. Janet and
Bowen Pain were in the characters of Cr.
and Mrs. Matthew Lang, Janet exquisitely
gowned in stiff scarlet taffetas braided
with gold, and James in a snuff-brown
suit and high stock and side whiskers.
Mrs. Isobel Green was an imposing figure,
representing the Countess of Carlton, her
gown being of blue moire with draped
panniers, her hair powdered and dressed
high on her head. Another guest who
wore a splendid gown was Rita Findlay ;
she came as the Duchess of Roxburghe.
The low-cut neckline of her ice-blue taf-*
feta gown revealed her shoulders, and she
added a pearl choker for effect. The
wide skirts were embroidered in gold.
The Court Chamberlain was played by
S. M. Menzies, brother of Robert —a
most successful part. Among the throng
was seen the Fraser lady, a gracious figure
in a bustle frock of black lace and with
a large hat swathed with a pink ostrich
feather. Her two daughters, Dorothy and
Peggy, were Gibson Girls, and they were
accompanied by men sporting large
moustaches, tight white trousers and
colorful blazers. The Prince of Wales
was there with Lily Langtry (the Jersey
Lily)—they were Harry Best and his wife.
An older Prince of Wales, portrayed by
Frank Thring, was a masterpiece of make-
up and dressing. His mother, Mrs. Olive
Thring, made an imposing Princess Alex-
andra. Mrs. T. W. Wright, wife of the
Netherlands Consul, framed her fhce m
a poke bonnet, which was worn with a
delightful period frock of royal-blue
watered silk. Even the men joined in making
this eventful night cplorful. Bill Staugh-
ton made an excellent Hussar, Kenneth
Menzies was a brave soldier back frbm
the Boer War, Bob Boberski represented
an Indian rajah.
Mrs. Lindsay Biggins was a fetching
Isadora Duncan; husband dressed as
Rodin, Keira Tuson, whose hairdo of the
’nineties was effective with her white lace
gown, portrayed Grace Palotta. Although
the Robinson lady wore a modern
frock of black taffeta it featured
a bustle and a charming hat of
deep pink roses. Mrs; Aubrey Gibson, in
a frock of ecru lace, was the heroine of
Forever Amber. The most amusing frock
and makeup were worn by Mrs. Ivor Mc-
Innes, who came to the party as Mrs.
Pankhurst. Elastic-sided boots were worn
with a pale-brown taffeta frock, the bodice
tightly buttoned to the neckline and the
skirt very full. Her small straw boater
featured three daisies in front, and they
nodded vigorously as this lady expounded
her views. Queen Victoria was not
amused. With the Lord Mayor, Cr. Con-
nelly, was the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Ber-
nard Heinze, and although they were not
in costume they joined in the fun by
being presented to “her Majesty.” An
original note was struck by a girl as
“Bubbles,” in knee-breeches and velvet
jacket, complete with bowl and bubble
pipe. Striking- a more serious note was
the tall stack of food parcels destined for
Britain, brought by the guests.
Pictured here is Betty Ince, bride of
the week, who was married to Dr. John
Grantley Shelton at St. Peter’s, Toorak.
Betty, who is the elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Wesley Ince, Glenferrie-road,
Malvern, was given away by her father.
She'wore a lovely frock —the one in which
she made her debut at the Queen Char-
lotte’s Hospital Ball in London prior to
the war. It was fashioned of ivory Chan-
tilly lace and tulle, and with it she wore
a fingertip-length tulle veil. Her bouquet
was of white orchids. She was attended
by her sister, Mrs. John Baragwanath,
110 whose Empire gown was of shot taffeta
in gleaming shades of mauve and green.
Her little bonnet was of taffeta and lace,
and she carried green orchids. The bride-
groom, who is the only son of the late
Dr. Grantley Shelton and of Mrs. Shel-
ton, Glenferrie-road, Malvern, had Harold
Young, of Hamilton, as best man. The
reception was held at the home of the
bride’s parents, and the reception-rooms
were decorated with beautiful bowls of
pale-pink and cream gladioli and tiger
lilies.
Within a few months, Ascher, of
London, will be supplying its materials
to Australia. This was told by Miss
Matilda Etches, who has come to this
country as hostess for the firm; and
although Melbourne women have not
seen them the materials seem, from the
descriptions of them, very lovely. Miss
Etches is taking her exhibition to Sydney,
where they will be displayed at the Hotel
Australia for the Food for Britain Fund.
The prints have been designed by Cecil
Bearon (well known for his photographs of
the Queen and Princesses Elizabeth and
Margaret), Christian Berard, the French
artist, and others. Miss Etches is herself
a person of some celebrity, for she has
done much designing of clothes. She
designed for the film “Henry V,” Daphne
du Manner's “Hungry Hill” and “Gaiety
George.” For nine months she worked
on the 250 costumes worn in “Caesar
and Cleopatra.” She is a close friend of
Vivien Leigh and husband Laurence
Olivier. All the prints to be shown are
in wool, pure silk and rayon.
At a charmingly-arranged late after-
noon party hostessed by Rita Findlay
and held in the George’s Gallery, Miss
Etches had an opportunity to renew
friendships made in London, Among
old friends greeted were Vi Temple Smith,
smart in a black tailored suit and with
one of the new high hats adding a dis-
tinctive note; and Mr. and Mrs. Derek
• Prentice, the latter in a cool grey, white-
patterned frock and large white hat.
Margaret Cochran also favored black, and
with her was John Holdsworth, just out
of the Army. Everett Ball popped in for
a few moments to meet the guest of
honor. ,
From Sydney
Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten and
Lady Louis will, according to news from
Canberra, be two days in Sydney be-
fore flying off to Maoriland. Part of this
time will be taken up with official lunches
and engagements. Parties not so official
include lunch at the Union Club, a re-
ception by the Imperial Service Club and
a late-afternoon do at the Australia by
the members of King George’s Fund for
Sailors. Admiralty House will be the
visitors’ Sydney address.
More than 50 A.A.M.W.S. who left
.last week in the Manunda to
serve with the British ‘Common-
wealth Occupation. Force in Japan
raised the eyebrow over the issue
of long woollen underpants, waist
measurement 36in. Well, the length and
the waist can be made less, but definitely
the woollies are worth hanging on to.
Parts of Nippon can be > quite nippy.
Fleecy-lined coats and warm pyjamas
were other hand-outs to the girls, who
have volunteered for a year or a year
and a half in Japan. They are 21 to 35,
and all have served for over three years.
Major Flora McNab is in charge of the
A.A.M.W.S. Lieutenant Constance Judd,
of Adelaide, and Lieutenant Joan Gordon
Bennett, daughter of Lieut.-General
Gordon Bennett, were in the departing
group. Also in the Manunda for Japan
travelled a number of members of the
A.A.N.S. and two Westralian Red Cross
field officers-—Sheila Graham and Wini-
fred Skelly. „
There is an ever-widening ripple of
excitement over the coming wedding of
Mary Dixson and barrister Ivan Black,
newly-elected State member for Neutral
Bay. Mary is the only daughter of the
Robert C. Dixsons, of Elwatan, Castle
Hill, and the reception will have the deco-
rative setting of this home so well-known
for its spacious gardens. Four girl friends
will be the young bride’s attendants on
the evening of March 30, and St. Paul’s
Church, Castle Hill, will bless the partner-
ship. The guest list is a long one, and
Mrs. Dixson, with her flair for organising,
has two sets of arrangements planned ;
one for the hoped-for fine and starry
night and one should the evening be wet
and stormy, Norton Trevaire took this
photograph of the bride-to-be.
Those of us who knew London before
the war remember the Mayfair Hotel and
are pleased to learn that it remained un-
bombed, and that its gilt and greqn ball-
room was the setting of the first non-
austerity fashion show in Britain for six
long years. To hear Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones tell the story of the display (she
was one of the 500 guests), of the two
years of hard work and planning that
went into it, of the search for fine
materials, for skilled labor, for exquisite
stitchers, is as exciting as listening to the
story of a treasure hunt. Indeed, that is
exactly what this designing, this building-
up of the fashion collection by the Guild
of British Creative Designers, is—a hunt
for treasure for Great Britain.
Sydney women have been rushing the
display in David Jones’s auditorium since
the opening day. All the local sisterhood
is fashion-hungry, too. It was after seeing
many of the frocks in parade, and others,
motionless in beauty on stands about the
art gallery, that the presswomen were given
tea and a simple and vivid description of
the collection’s launching by Mrs. Jones.
Airliner and twylon are two new
names for fabrics. Both are silkly, softly
draping, and suited to afternoon and
evening wear. There’s everything in
this show—dignity, gaiety and the smart-
ness of woollens and tweeds cut as only
the English know how. There’s glitter
in sequinned embroideries, as in the pale-
amber frock of airliner with its Tudor
sleeves, each emblazoned beneath its puff
with a gilt and jewelled ornament. A
green tulle dress, suitable for youth, was
wide-eyed with green daisies about the
shoulder-line. There’s a black dinner
frock of heavy crepe, pleated all over —
the pleats in the skirt getting wider as
they near the hem. And there’s a white
crepe frock, tunic-top and pleated skirt,
shimmering with pearl dewdrops that’s
worth a visit all by itself.
Anzac Buffet workers gathered at the
Trocadero in great numbers last Thurs-
day afternoon. Business was the final
general meeting of that well-known Hyde
Park restaurant, and there were hundreds
and hundreds in at the finish as there had
been at the start. These volunteer helpers
sitting at the teatables were as smart as
paint and looked as though they had just
emerged from a beauty course instead of
six years’ toil at and for the Buffet.
Sydney’s Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress were at the meeting, which Miss
Leo Wray opened in pleasant, easy
fashion. There was an amazing and very
efficient treasurer’s report read by Mrs.
R. Scott; and Mrs. Sam Jones forgot
nobody at all in her list of “Thank you.”
The expenses were ridiculously low;
the amounts brought in by the women’s
auxiliary in money and foodstuffs ran
into more than £70,000. There was a
special word of praise for the transport
workers and for the women who had gone
out in all weathers with collection boxes.
There was also honorable mention of the
gentleman who had made splendid bins
for the flour and bread and other perish-
able foodstuffs —also honorable mention
of him who had successfully baffled the
rats with cunning intricacy of wire-net-
ting. There was a hint that later on the
forces might rally and reunite in some
post-war work. There were baskets of
lovely flowers, one each for Miss Wray
and Mrs. Jones.
Mr. Chifley is to fly to Britain after
Easter. Never a thought of booking pas-
sage in the luxury liner Yoizuki.
Sydneyites are beginning to tell one
another about Dr. “Paddy” Moran’s
book with the euphonious title Beyond
the Hill Lies China. Readers are be-
ginning to realise that if the author, who
recently died in England, had not been
one of this city’s best doctors he would
have been one of its foremost writers.
Every here and there in this book are
passages clear, lucid and vivid —yet with
no suggestion of “purple patch” to be
met. How is this for a phrase: “Slowly
a grey mist fell upon a twilight which
had stayed, too long tethered to the re-
tiring day”?
Patricia Adams chose the late after-
noon for her wedding with cricketer
Wendell Bill. Archbishop Mowll came
along to St. Philip’s on Church Hill to
perform the ceremony, and Mrs. Mowll
was one of the wedding guests. Patricia,
who is the only daughter of Mrs. Grace
Adams, of Rose Bay, wore with her white
satins a Brussels lace veil loaned by a
friend of her mother in whose family
it is an heirloom. The pretty bride had
a pretty ’maid in Beatrice Peel, Bride’s
cousin Judith Dewar was the little
flower girl.
Coyly peeping from the leaves of the
programmes at the first concert of the
Singers of Australia were two forms. One
was white, and if you intended becoming
a subscriber you signed this. The othei
was yellow, and, if you sought audition
for the soprano, the tenor, the contralto
or the basso that was in you, you signed
it. In either case the slips were handed
to an army of young hostesses, who could
also oblige with a lead pencil. Everything
went off well. The net hauled in £l4OO
in subs, and 350 singers.
Roland Foster suggests the movement
become known as S.O.F.A. This has a
reminiscent ring of the descending scale
as well as taking in the initial letters.
Organising secretary Oliver King has
reason to look pleased in spite of the
recent injury to his back —now recover-
ing nicely, thank you. The Town Hall
couldn’t have held another person at last
week’s combined meeting and concert.
Strella Wilson and Evelyn Hall were two
striking examples of Australian singers
on the programme. Strella’s long frock
of moonlight blue was very up to the
minute with its little coat and slit skirt.
Evelyn’s black satins were also right in
the fashion news.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others per line.
Regulations
It is a most disturbing fact that regu-
lations and proclamations are still being
issued under the National Security
measure enacted “to make provision for
the safety and defence of the Common-
wealth and its territories during the
present state of war.”
The emergency legislation of World
War I ran to only a few hundred pages.
In the first two years after this National
Security Act was passed, the regulations
and proclamations issued under it reached
2000 pages. In 1944, 118 sets of regu-
lations (many of them covering 10 to 20
pages) and 1079 proclamations were
issued. And the four months from the
surrender of Japan to the end of the year
brought 43 regulations and 435 procla-
mations.
Some of these regulations are neces-
sary ; for instance, the amendment
tightening up the soldiers’ moratorium.
But it is hard to understand why the
Government should still be tinkering with
Landlord and Tenant Regs., Transfer of
Land Regs, and Economic Organisation
Regs, (under which purchasers of land
are still being harried), all of which have
been amended and reamended since the
war ended.
By comparison with the National
Security Act, the regulations issued under
the Re-establishment and Employment
Act of 1945 (“the soldiers’ charter”) have
been meagre.
By Section 45 of that Act, regulations
may be made to modify or suspend in
relation to discharged members of the
forces (1) the requirements by way of
training or practical experience ; (2) the
completion of any course of training ;
(3) the passing of any examination ordi-
narily required by any person desiring
to engage in any occupation, trade or
industry.
No regulations have been issued under
that Act to compel trade-unions to open
their membership rolls to returned men
who have had training or experience in
the Army in skilled trades, though there
is ample authority to do so. —Sol Brass
(Q-).
Post-graduate Army Education
Former members of the Army Educa-
tion Service are planning to continue
some of its war-time work. A.E.S.
provided Australian service personnel,
men and women, with adult-education
facilities of considerable scope and use-
fulness. It conducted correspondence
classes in a great number of subjects;
ran debates, discussion groups and open
forums; gave concerts and established
music clubs; arranged art exhibitions;
set up reference libraries wherever large
bodies of troops were situated and pro-
vided half a million books for recreational
reading; had classes in hobbies and han-
dicrafts ; and generally attended to the
educational and cultural needs of service
people on the mainland and elsewhere.
Much of its work, especially in the
fields of vocational, professional and rural
training, could now be best carried out
on behalf of discharged soldiers by exist-
ing civilian educational organisations,
but it still could do a lot for ex-service-
men and -women in the cultural sphere.
A body of previous A.E.S. personnel
could, for instance, supply returned
soldiers’ clubs with lecturers on topical
and educational subjects, assist in the set-
ting-up of libraries, arrange for musical
recitals, art shows, screening of docu-
mentary films, classes in handicrafts and
help the Young Digger to become a
better-educated and more useful and con-
tented' citizen. —Wongajong (N.S.W.).
War Medal Anomalies
Things were much the same in World
War I. Take the case of reinforcements
who landed on Gallipoli in the later
months of 1915. Some were invalided,
wounded or sick within a few days of
getting into the trenches. Such casualties
often found their way back to Australia
almost at once, there being a lot of luck
in the matter of sailing dates of hospital
and semi-hospital ships.
Many of these men remained in Aus-
tralia. On discharge they collected the
1915 Star and the Victory and Allies’
medals Diggers who arrived in France
fnd Belgium in T 6, T 7 and ’lB got only
the Victory and Allies’ medals after
much more trying experiences.
How to avoid these inconsistencies is
a problem. The solution may he in a
reversion to the granting of clasps for
various operations and dates, as is the
case with the Indian General - Service
medals, the ribbons of which are changed
every five years or so. With the vastly-
improved system of record-keeping, which
shows wherever a man happened to be
during any given period of his service,
the readoption of the clasp system should
present no insurmountable difficulty. --
Scotty (N.S.W.)
More Inquiries Needed
Now that we’ve had a Gordon Bennett
inquiry and a Clive Caldwell inquiry,
let us have some more.
Why was no effort made to rescue
our fellows from the horror-camps of
Ambon, Sandakan and Singapore? Were
the slant-eyed barbarians carrying too
many guns for the brain-trust in Can-
berra? Where was our “underground”
organisation, or didn’t we have any?
Why was that senseless New Guinea-
Bougainville campaign inaugurated, and
afterwards persisted in, when it was
known that the American objective was
Tokyo, and that the Japs were likely to
“squib it” when their home islands re-
ceived a bashing?
Why were men’s lives thrown away in
those jungle-clad stinkholes, rotten with
malaria, when the Japs could have been
left there to rot? Suitably rewarded, the
Bougainville and New Guinea Fuzzy-
wuzzies would have cleaned up the rem-
nants.
Coming nearer home, why was it that
up to the date of cessation of hostilities
more than half of the men enlisted for
active service had not left their native
shores? Why was manpower so griev-
“Well sit this end, darling—that's father s place"
ously wasted at one end of the scale while
shortages of manpower and food supplies
were serious at the other end? S. E.
Pearson (N.Q.).
The Flying Nurses
Many courageous servicewomen showed
their fine qualities during World War 11,
but Australia’s flying nurses stand out
proudly among them all. Beginning as a
unit of 15, they never numbered more
than 40, but they did an amazing job of
hard, dangerous and vitally responsible
work. Two of them were posted missing
in lost transport ’planes. Some put in
more than 1000 flying hours.
There was no glamor about their job
of evacuating urgent cases of sick and
wounded men from Lae and Nadzab,
Morolai and Borneo, often in treacher-
ous weather and over wild mountainous
country. There was none of it in trans-
forming rough jungle huts into modern
hospitals, or in having to get up before
daybreak after a gasping tropic night to
iron their own uniforms before going
on duty. They shirked none of the many
repulsive jobs necessitated by that duty.
And their reward from a grateful coun-
try? Their opposite numbers in the R.N.
and other Allied services were given fly-
' ing badges as a mark of appreciation of
their splendid services. Our flying hero-
ines have had no such recognition—and
not even a word of thanks. — Puyyaka
(Q-).
Land Valuations
Pegging of land prices at the valuation
as at 10/2/’42 (not now plus 10 p.c.) has
some absurd results.
In a case where a block of land sold
for £230 and a valuation supporting the
sale estimated the land to be worth £227
10s., the Treasurer’s delegate required the
vendor to reduce his price to the valua-
tion figure. What authority on earth
could dogmatically say that, although a
piece of land was worth £227 10s., it was
not worth £230? After all, a valuation
is only one-man’s estimate —but try to
explain that to a Government official!
Another instance. In a street in a
Victorian city two adjoining blocks of
land have been sold in the last 15 months.
Although they are as alike as two peas
in a pod, for official Treasury purposes
one is valued 33 p.c. higher than that next
door.
Strange, indeed, are the ways of the
bureaucrat! — Dutigalla (Vic.).
Coal Freight-rates
Concerning S.A.’s Leigh Creek coal-
field (B. 6/2/ ’46), it is stated that the high
cost of haulage is a factor against de-
velopment—l7s. a ton for the 400-odd
miles to Adelaide. What is there to
moan about in that?
My firm, battling to “decentralise” in-
dustry in a N.S.W. country town, pays
16s. 2d. a ton (in truck-lots) for a haul
of 130 miles; and, according to the Gov-
ernment railways freight-book, it costs
17s. a ton for a 140-mile run. In the
State that produces the most and best
coal, a 400-mile haul would run to 275.
3d. a ton. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Soviet Elections
I had the opportunity of witnessing
one in a small town in one of the Baltic
States in 1940, a few months after the
Red Army had marched in and the
U.S.S.R. had established its “Govern-
ment” and annexed the country.
There were printed voting papers con-
taining the names of the candidates all
Communists and all unknown to the
electors. Voting was compulsory. Voters,
with their identity papers, had to present
themselves at the polling booths, where
their names were checked up. They then
had to place the voting papers in the box
and every vote was recorded. If they
objected to the procedure, the candidates
and the invasion, the only recourse they
had was to absent themselves. But there
were very few absentees, as absence
meant an early domiciliary visit by mem-
bers of the political police, the O.G.P.U.
or the N.K.V.D.
Although there was not a vestige of
civil commotion or unrest, the polling
booths were closely guarded by Red
Army sentries with bayonets fixed, and
armored cars were patrolling the streets
all day. The result was that all the
Communist candidates got in with nearly
100 p.c. votes. So they did at the
recent Soviet elections. And yet I note
that some heroic souls voted against the
Communists though it meant taking
their lives in their hands. — Balt (Q.).
Discouraging Exports
The job in hand was the export of a
few samples of lambswool rugs. This
was the procedure required:
(1) Filling-in a form for the Department of
Supply and Shipping, which could recom-
mend or refuse export.
(2) Presentation of the same form to the
Rationing Commission, which could veto ex-
port if satisfied the goods were rationed.
(3) The goods being woollen, a certificate
of permission had to be secured from the
N.S.W. State Wool Committee.
(4) Certificate forwarded to the Collector ot
Customs, Sydney, his approval being neces-
53(5) As the goods were destined for America,
two forms had to be obtained from the Amen-
can Consul: (u) “permission to export by-pro-
ducts of an animal (mending wool and wool
rug),” and (fe) a consular invoice.
Consider the time lag and the expense
involved in so small a transaction. —C. S.
(N.S.W.).
Mountbatlen for G.-G.
I, for one, am in favor of it.
In November, while with the R.A.A.r.
at Balik Papan, I had the good fortune
to be present at an address given by
Lord Louis. The general opinion of
■ man and speech was expressed by an
army major: “Head and shoulders above
most men in every respect.”
The usual parade was ordered but
shattered when our visitor told us to gather
round comfortably where he could see
us all. He spoke for 15 minutes, sin-
cerely and so amusingly that we all
laughed. But not at him, as was the case
when another distinguished visitor called
and spoke—need I give the name?—
W.O.A.G. (N.S.W.).
War Memorials
Tell J. Darling (B. 27/2/’46) that my
R.S.L. sub-branch one recent night ran
a debate on a motion “that war
memorials should take a utilitarian
form.” When points were totalled up the
negative debaters had won the day. Cer-
tainly, it was only a theoretical argu-
ment, but it was surprising to see just
how many points could be raised in de-
fence of the traditional statue or column.
My own idea is that we should build
hospitals, schools, etc., and incorporate
appropriate memorials in the layout of
the buildings.— Squizz (Vic.).
Country Pubs
The booze side of the hotel business is
controlled against the would-be drinker
until he almost feels he is committing a
social crime in having a beer ; but surely
something should be done about the food
in country pubs. The traveller, no matter
how hearty-looking he may be, is too
often treated as if he were an invalid
restricted to a very light diet. Ask for
a second serve of anything and the
chances are that at the next meal the
waitress will treat you like the plague till
all others are served. I’ve tried complain-
ing—and the chambermaid left my bed
unmade.
I suggest a league of hotel guests, issu-
ing a list of “approved,” “not approved”
and “often ■ complained about” pubs.
Bungs who hoped to make anything out
of travellers would then have to attend
to the food side of the business or have
their bedrooms empty. — Seacliff (S.A.).
Tourist Trade
The return of peace should mean the
return of tourists. The value of this
traffic cannot be measured in terms of
pounds Australian alone. Roads and air-
fields in Central and North Australia have
opened up some of the most interesting
country in the Pacific. Provision of
modern transport and tourist facilities—
at reasonable rates —in these areas would
return Australia a twofold dividend:
tourists from overseas would make a
healthy contribution to the national in-
come ; Australians - would be given a
reasonable opportunity to become
acquainted with their own country.
The latfer reason is the more import-
ant. Too many Aussies are lacking in a
truly Australian outlook ; too many dis-
parage their country’s possibilities of be-
coming a real force among the nations of
the world. One of the finest correctives
of this inferiority complex is a real know-
ledge of the homeland. —D. S. M.
(N.S.W.).
Cars
Apropos of Lord Nuffield’s return to
Australia and his welcome enterprise in
this country, couldn’t a cheap light car,
without frills, be produced for us who
need to motor and must do it inexpen-
sively? What about a three-wheeled
car? , * .
The three-wheeler can be quite fast
enough for present roads. The air-
cooled engine is simple and cheap, and,
with one driving wheel, there is no
differential or heavy back-axle. With the
passengers in front of the engine, floor
and forward view are unobstructed by the
motive gear, and independent springing
£r the front wheels can easily be
arranged. .
Lower weight and fewer wheels greatly
reduce tyre and fuel costs, and, by virtue
of its tapering layout, the three-wheeler
has naturally a streamlined shape. Even
if that is of little value except at high
speeds, one could, in parking, poke the
single rear-wheel close against the kerb,
and the front would then be facing well
out towards the road for a handy get-
I hundreds of buyers would be
not too proud to use a cheap three-
wheeler. — Aerogenes (Q.)-
Before supplies of petrol to the public
are increased, the hospital casualty wards
will need to be enlarged to cope with
the crop of accidents which inevitably
will occur through the use of old and
wornout motor vehicles.
At June 30, 1945, 795,880 motor
vehicles were registered in the Common-
wealth, and of these 218,452 were 15
years old or over. Those 10 years old
and over totalled 364,825, or 4 . P- •
One of the trade bulletins refers to thi
aggregation of potential killers (and there
are many more unregistered) as a morass
of obsolescence,” which is P
mildly Surely no country in the world
except places like Tibet) has such anti-
quated transport. The condition of brakes
and tyres can best be left to the imagma-
has been estimated, by those com-
petent to form an opinion, that Austiaha
needs about 300,000 new cars and about
half that number of trucks andutihty cars
to remedy the position which has been
allowed to arise. — Ceg (Vic.).


m
I
mm
m :
iimmimrn
> \ ~°°>y '
■ ' ■
mm
m
■fefeiiP* ■ •
. ■
T'JE f- i
t&Zw ■
, - j
• k .i ~s
s*» .4iiZM-i ■ ■
' .;• : ’ •-■ SS&&*
.:oyf':o ■ ■
i' i I
, *v*iv ’'<sSS^
. .
wmmmm*Mmmm
H
s#/' 1
wsmmmmmmmmm
•:;?;:
ii—M»i
.- , ; ,V
lllli
i}
P" j
■H
iMiiiii
■■■
t v * " " -. ><
.\ iffis/m tstisf' >■■ ' '■'/*:
V-B
i
Piiiiii
■*?'■■•’■•*•:■:•: ,y - :v;v>j;*™:-xSfc '..■.yy/A
■v,' :
I' ' "P
i ' \ r*4s*' w :■ i
L - M . • : • . .
■M
HI
&,.; ■ •, ‘v ' ..
■ mm
n
/
V
#? •.: •
ra g
888888888
Wi
liiii
:.
/
"■>: >C.
ill
H
9
r J
mm
■ ■ ■ :/ - v '
m
A TYPE FOR EVERY SOCKET Of EVERY RADIO
«
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LT D.— SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—ADELAIDE—PERTH—BRISBANE
Incandescent and Fluorescent Lamps; Lighting Equipment and Fittings; Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves; Radioplayers; Radio Transmitters; Sound Systems;
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro*Medical Equipment; Industrial and Medical Infra-Red Apparatus; Electronic Devices; Radio Accessories; Electrical Measuring
Instruments; Metal Pressings and Stampings.
