

ROYAL
PURPLE PAfeA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No
Wednesday, January 23, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
St. John’s Gate, Clerkenwell.
gT. JOHN’S GATE, CLERKENWELL, is a relic of the Order
of St. John which had here a beautiful Priory built in the late
Gothic style by Prior Docwra in 1504. Queen Elizabeth dissolved
the order but it was revived in 1829 to attend to men wounded in
battle and is now best known as the St. John Ambulance Association.
In St. John Street, not far from the Charterhouse, St. John’s Gate is
now the Headquarters of the St. John Ambulance Association, but it
was once occupied by Edward Cave who here published “The
Gentleman’s Magazine” for which Dr. Johnson wrote parliamentary
debates. Below the windows are heraldic shields including that of
Henry VIII and of Prior Docwra. Through the archway is seen
a glimpse of St. John’s Square.


ißedawJwggSg!
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Rootlet explaining how to Write ]or Profit , at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address .
S.B. 146 AGE......
The Red Page
BOOKS AND THE PLATYPUS.
Books after a fortnight’s holiday in the
bush . . .
A slow brown creek meanders between
the mountains ; a place remote and lonely,
where a grey kangaroo might be surprised
on a stony slope, ears pricked, sitting up
erect and tense, trying to look like a
stump and doing very well until he
bounds prodigiously for cover, racing,
springing, bumping, dwindling among the
trees and looking much more like a
kangaroo than a stump —though more
like ah apparition than anything out of
either the animal or vegetable worlds . . .
so graceful, so fleeting, so improbable.
There were other unexpected visitors;
or, rather, inhabitants. That “rise” at
dusk in the long pool, not the deceptive
smack and splash of a little fish who
thinks that a moth must be taken with
a rush because there may never be
another on his roof, but the slow, heavy
swirl that only a big trout makes, a kind
of heave of the waters. There, again, in
the centre, out from the straggling
wattles . . . the glimpse of a brown side
.. . big ... but surely too big for a trout;
and the surface broken by too big, too
oily a ripple. The big fish now should
quietly be sucking in their supper; not
swirling or gulping, but sucking; rising
with the great mouth open, sipping down
the fly, making the gentlest of rings on
the water as if, from below, they had
breathed on the darkening mirror.
TTiough sometimes . . . And then he
“rises” again, five yards away; he bulges
to the surface ; and it is a platypus.
“Look for the scrap of velvet brown”
Paterson wrote. But this is more than a
scrap ; he lies full-length on the stream,
floating in his brown fur, the duck-bill
half submerged, the black eyes watching.
Will he stay? What now? There is a
motion that swimmers call “bottoms-up,”
He performs it. The dive sends a splash-
sound into the night and a wavelet
runs swiftly across the pool from which
the platypus has vanished. Again, more
like an apparition than an animal —if
that’s what he is; so graceful, so fleeting,
so improbable.
The problem, after keeping such com-
pany and returning to the world of letters
is why among three books, none with-
out merit, Charles Morgan’s Reflections
in a Mirror (Macmillan) should seem
more attractive than Jean Devanny’s Bird
of Paradise (Frank Johnson) and C. S.
Lewis’s That Hideous Strength (Bodley
Head; Moore’s Bookshop) the most
pleasing of all. •
In her first chapter Miss Devanny her-
self has gone bush. She travels among,
the timbermen of North Queensland,
describes their lives and recounts their
lore: “The best cutting timber is silky
oak, because the heart doesn’t pop and
pinch the saw like a lot of other tim-
bers.” And later when she meets some
“dinky-di” Australians of the outback
and hears tales of danger from the blacks
in the early days, or when she visits Mr.
St. John Robinson’s 3000 acres of private
zoo in North Queensland and watches
him feeding his 13 crocodiles, or when,
among the cane farmers, she hears the
history of a cassowary named Jerry, her
explorations range from the interesting
to the captivating:
“Another bad habit he [Jerry, the casso-
wary] had was pinching the kids’ marbles.
Perhaps he thought they were quandong
fruits. Besides the dinkum marbles, they
would use some old ball-bearings about an
inch in diameter. Up would come Jerry
and gobble them up. As many as twelve
ball-bearings at a time. When the kids
chased hkn you could hear them rattling
inside him.”
Writing of this kind might well be
accepted as a contribution to civilisation
of the kind that Charles Morgan approves
throughout Reflections in a Mirror, to
describe which he borrows a phrase from
Talleyrand, “la douceur de. vivre” :
The idea of poetry is intertwined with
the idea of “la douceur de vivre,” which
is the minor poetry of life—the word
“minor” being used not in disparagement
but as an indication of scale. It is that
good in life which is bounded by the
words “grace,” “charm,” “quiet,” “gaiety,”
“sweetness,” “light.”
True, the quotation about the casso-
wary is not particularly graceful prose ;
but it is reported dialogue, in which
warmth, color, rhythm and verisimili-
tude are more important than pretty
sounds; and as such it is satisfactory.
Moreover, when she is using her own
words to describe the weather and the
scenery. Miss Devanny does often write
gracefully. And whether she is using the
language well herself, or is accurately re-
porting the natural speech of farmers and
bushmen, she has —at not too distant in-
tervals—a “charm,” a “gaiety,” a “light”
about her work because of the feeling
behind it ; an interest in the oddities of
nature, a love for the Australian earth—
hardly, one would think, a passion for
either, but quite enough affection to pre-
vent these sections of her book from jar-
ring on a mind that still has the figure
of a platypus one of its eyes and a
kangaroo in the other.
But this is to consider only the merits
of the book. Bird of Paradise does jar
—badly. To come back from the coun-
try and be confronted with Miss
Devanny’s preface is like running head-
long into a tram;
He interrupted me. “Books! This is
not a time for writing books! What we
want from writers these days are short,
passionate appeals to action. Stuff that
can be got out quickly on a big scale.”
With that first wild hoot of ‘'Books!
Books!” the World is upon us. War,
politics, controversy, exclamation marks.
La douceur de vivre has departed.
Miss Devanny is reporting a discus-
sion with a “friend” to whom she had
confessed her desire to write a book in
wartime. When she has argued that she
must write for her living, permission is
granted;
“Oh, all right. If that’s how it is you
had better go ahead and write it. But,
mind you, you can only justify yourself as
a writer these days by getting among the
people, by studying the people, getting the •
facts and making your book a contribution
to the war effort and the peace that will
come after it.”
So Miss Devanny went out and “got
the facts” about all sorts of people—
fettlers, munition workers, Mrs. Eleanor
Dark, Mr. Alfred Hill, aboriginals, a
Communist, Mme. Helene Kirsova, the
secretary of Actors’ Equity—and made a
book that any Australian would read with
interest. She asked everybody what he
or she was doing for the “war effort”
and, naturally, everybody said he was
doing splendid things for the “war effort.”
She asked everybody what he or she
thought should be done in the “New
Order” and, naturally, the fettler thought
something should be done for fettlers,
the aboriginals thought something should
be done for aboriginals, Mr. Alfred Hill
thought something should be done for the
music of Mr. Alfred Hill (in which he
was perfectly correct); and so on.
And so on until it becomes truly de-
lightful to learn that the cassowary does
not think anything at all should be done
lor cassowaries in the New Order, and
that the 13 crocodiles are not even in-
terested in the “war effort.”
These, it may be, are reprehensible
sentiments; even “escapist.” Political
and sociological books have their uses
and one cannot reasonably ask from all
literature the full measure of that “dou-
ceur de vivre” which Charles Morgan
finds in the novels of Turgenev. • As
Morgan admits, the territory of the idea
is limited; it “does not extend to the
vital epic, the ardors and endurances.”
Miss Devanny does deal in the epic, the
ardors and endurances. But so does
Morgan, whose essays are nearly all re-
lated to the war; and so does .C. S.
Lewis, whose novel —the third of a trilogy
of which the earlier volumes were Out
of the Silent Planet and Perelandra —is
a parable of the menace of science and
the gullibility of the intellectual Left.
If Miss Devanny makes the problems
of Australian humanity difficult to read
about, the fault is her own. Her sub-
ject-matter is beyond reproach; it is not
necessary to criticise her ideas in .detail
—presumably a Leftist in politics, she has
done her best to be impartial, and has
succeeded at least in sounding forgiving.
The great fault is the style. Charles
Morgan’s thought—one might sum it up
as a liberal conservatism —is expressed
with a beautiful precision:—•
A young man of today—Turgenev’s pos-
terity—who goes to On the Eve or Tor-
rents of Spring to be made happy and
wise, will not be, and ought not to be,
greatly troubled for Turgenev’s approach
to the Nihilists or his distance from them.
What matters in Elena after eighty-four
years is what matters in all Elenas after
eighty-four years—“the young girl’s soul.”
Nothing else is of enduring interest' except
her body and the art which created her.
It was the knowledge that this is true of
love-stories, and that no contemporary
symbolism can make it less true, which
led Tolstoy, as a moralist, to repudiate
novels.
Reading That Hideous Strength, too.
one pauses at intervals all the way through
to admire some felicity of style ; either
a fine piece of clear-thinking or some
flash of wit; “Husbands,” says Mrs.
Dimble, “were made to be talked to. It
helps them to concentrate their minds on
what they’re reading—like the sound of a
weir.” But Miss Devanny far too often
writes like this;
Eleanor Dark’s appreciation of the unity
and harmony of all aspects of her own
environment lends weight to her credence
and philosophy in respect to the needs and
social shortcomings of less fortunately-
placed Australian writers. Though she her-
self fears the contrary. She talks as
though she feels that some sort of guilt
attaches to an expression on her part of
opinion regarding the tendency of some
writers to regard their writing as subsidiary
to political and social activity.
There is a curious nervousness about
this jargon, a groping, as it were, not for
the “right” word but for placatory words,
as if Miss Devanny feared that some in-
quisitor—perhaps the “friend” who cried
“Books! Books!” would use her
writings in evidence against her. And
the same political timidity is pos-
sibly responsible for the unnatural-
ness of most of the dialogue. If it
seems at times, as when she speaks of the
“verdant vicinage” or (in the mixed meta-
phor on page 62) the “pith” of a river,
that Miss Devanny’s Muse is capable of
erring without the threat or temptations
of politics, it should not be forgotten
that her “friend” ordered her to “justify
herself as a writer” not by writing well
but by “getting the facts” that would be
politically useful: on which principle, of
course, a Government report on, say, soil
erosion, or psittacosis, would be a greater
work of literature than “Macbeth.” The
New South Wales postal directory is a
valuable collection of socially useful facts,
but one is not usually invited to criticise
it as a work of* literature.
“I have been at pains,” Miss Dev&nny
says in that regrettable preface (so much
worse than what is, after all, an enter-
taining and informative book) —“I have
been at pains to include the environmen-
tal influences at work in each section of
our people and in the individuals, con-
sidering that to be of more value than
literary form.” To which Charles Morgan
replies:
Form is not, as the heathen suppose, a
decoration, a frosting of the glass through
which meaning comes, but a purification
of it.
Morgan# is attacking here the trend
towards chaos in contemporary prose—
specifically in Theodore Dreiser’s novels
—but the quotation serves equally well
for a rebuttal of that fantastic state-
ment that “environmental influences”
are of “more value than literary
form.” Form is not, as Miss Devanny’s
“friend” may suppose, a decoration in
literature but the very heart of it,
the sine qua non ... for without form
a book is nothing, as a man is nothing
without his inner integrity ; as the uni-
verse without form would be nothing.
And form in literature, which is a micro-
cosm of the form of the universe, has a
great deal to do with forming the mind
and the soul of man . . . which, one hopes,
is the first concern of the sociologist.
Nations and men are not made wise and
great by shoddy prose.
That is why one asks for something of
the douceur de vivre even in a work con-
cerned with the “ardors and endurances”:
the best possible prose, the clearest pos-
sible crystallisation into form ; and the
greatest degree possible of truly creative
energy—for that, too, that above all, is a
“grace.”
The territory is restricted —but is wide
enough if we remember what meaning was
given to quiet at Little Gidding and what
Matthew Arnold intended by “sweetness
and light.”
And that is why, in spite of its un-
prepossessing title. That Hideous Strength
is more attractive than even Charles Mor-
gan’s essays. Apart from minor objec-
tions —the “fashionable iciness of criti-
cism” which Morgan attacks in other
writers (presumably Eliot) but is not alto-
gether free from himself; and his blind
approval of everything French, even
Baudelaire— Reflections in a Mirror calls
for nothing but praise. The writing is
always capable and sometimes beautiful;
the thought is that of a fine and balanced
mind. Only, an expression of his reflec-
tive rather than his creative powers, it is
not quite the same thing as a new novel
by Charles Morgan.
C. S. Lewis’s ideas on art and politics
are very much in agreement with those
in Reflections in a Mirror. Criticising
“the stale vanguard of the Leftists”
Charles Morgan writes:
They will say that truth consists in the
notebook of a “mass observer” and in re-
pudiation of such pretty simpletons as
Keats. Much depends, indeed almost every-
thing (including the peace of the world)
depends, upon whether the young man who
is being born now accepts or rejects
these intellectual justifications of despair.
The power of these men depended upon
the skill with which they played unon tu
emotion of self-pity. p ttle
Dealing with the menace to individual
personality of regimentation by the Left
Morgan says:
The supreme insolence of the regimenters
and their most profound delusion, is their
belief that “the masses” exist.
C. S. Lewis, analysing Mark Studdock
the typical intellectual of the day, whose
destructiveness and threatened destruction
form the central story of this “modern
fairytale for grown-ups,” observes:
His education had had the curious effect
of making things that he read and wrote
more real to him than things he saw
Statistics about agricultural laborers were
the substance; any real ditcher, plough-
man or farmer’s boy, was the shadow
Though he had never noticed it himself, he
had a great reluctance, in his work, ever
to use such words as “man” or “woman.”
He preferred to write about “vocational
group,” “elements,” “classes” and “popu-
lations”: for, in his own way, he believed
as firmly as any mystic in the superior
reality of things that are not seen.
Charles Morgan attacks formlessness
in writing. C. S. Lewis has Mark Stud-
dock shut in a room of surrealist horror
pictures (the usual mutilated woman; “a
giant mantis playing a fiddle while being
eaten by another mantis” and so on):
At first sight most of them seemed rather
ordinary, though Mark was a little sur-
prised at the predominance -of scriptural
themes... .When once these questions had
been raised the apparent ordinariness of
the pictures became their supreme menace
—like the ominous surface innocence at the
beginning of certain dreams. Every fold
of drapery, every piece of architecture, had
a meaning one could not grasp but which
withered the mind. Long ago Mark had
read somewhere of “things of that extreme
evil which seeing innocent to the uninitiate,”
and had wondered what sort of things
they might be. Now he felt he knew.
He turned his back on the pictures and
sat down. He understood the whole busi-
ness now. Frost was not frying to make
him insane; at least not in the sense Mark
had hitherto given to the word “insanity.”
Frost hac} meant what he said. To sit
in the room was the first step to what
Frost called “objectivity”—the process
whereby all specifically human reactions
were killed in a man so that he might be-
come fit for the fastidious society of the
Macrobes. Higher degrees in the asceticism
of anti-nature would doubtless follow: the
eating of abominable food, the dabbling in
dirt and blood, the ritual performances of
calculated obscenities.
Morgan asks for beauty in art, "la
douceur de vivre” : to “the perverted
man,” says C. S. Lewis, ‘‘‘it is ugliness
itself that becomes in the end the goal
of his lechery; beauty has long since
grown too weak a stimulant.” Morgan
asks for song and simplicity in verse, a
change from “poetry with a frown”: the
logical end of the whole “modernist”
movement, says C. S. Lewis, ingeniously
parodying Finnegans Wake, is “the doom
of gibberish”—the curse of Babel:
The Deputy Director could not under-
stand this, for to him his own voice
seemed to be uttering the speech he had
resolved to make. But the audience heard
him saying, “Tidies and fugleman—l sheel
foor that we all —er —most steeply re,but
the defensible, though, I trust, lavatory,
Aspasia which gleams to have selected our
redeemed inspector this deceiving. It
would —ah—be shark, very shark, for any-
one’s debenture”....
The woman who had laughed rose hastily
from her chair. The man seated next to
her heard her murmur in his ear, “Vood
wooloo”... .To each of them it seemed
plain that things were just at that stage
when a word or so of plain sense, spoken
in a new voice, would restore the whole
room to sanity. One thought of a sharp
word, one of a joke, one of something
very quiet and telling. As a result fresh
gibberish in a great variety of tones rang
out from several places at once.
Both in Morgan’s essays and in Lewis’s
novel there is the most urgent warning
to the modern world. Mark Studdock is
portrayed as a kind of Faust: he has sold
his soul to scientists and super-bureau-
crats, who have sold theirs to the devil.
But —however necessary they may be-
there is not much “gaiety,” not much
“sweetness and light” about Warnings.
Lewis makes a contribution to the grace
of life —to civilisation —because his warn-
ing is embodied in a finished work of art,
capable and attractive in its own right.
That Hideous Strength is a curious
story, like a blend of the scientific
romances of H. G. Wells and the mystical
novels of John Cowper Powys. Perhaps
in its resuscitation of Merlin, its pictures
of sinister machinations by scientists, it
is more incredible than is acceptable even
in fantasy; but the characters in them-
selves are certainly credible. The fand-
liar Mad Scientist of the talkies and the
newspaper “strips”—even before the
atomic bomb, popular mythology ha<t
singled out the scientist as potentially the
villain of the age—has here been made
convincing as a human being. The por*
trait of the Deputy Director is a master-
piece. Mark Studdock and his wife
too, and the conflict between them, are
excellently handled.
Lewis’s amused and penetrating obser-
vation of mankind —heroes and villain 5
alike —gives his novel a surprising warmth
and humor ; his style gives it grace; hi s
imagination makes it, above all, strange-
It is almost as pleasing as the platypus.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
122 YEARS OF SERVICE
iLUIiSr.
1
■
BY
- ’ •*v.^;
’ \ A\ V r
r r r
•' r .
Powder in the right shade.
Finest quality, Ivory, Ochre,
Rachel, Naturelle, Peach,
Gypsy, Hindu, Flesh and
Brunette 6/6
:
.......
Lipstick in Light, Medium,
Vivid, Poppy, Raspberry,
Terra Cotta, Cffral, Fushia,
Cyclamen . 5/6
sth5 th AYE MEW YORK
Skin Texture
relieves dryness
the complexion a satin-
smooth texture, 4/6 and 7/6
Rapid Cleansing Cream—
\ liquifying, its thorough
I action loosens dirt, assures
a clearer, cleaner skin.
Prices ........ 3/6 and 7/6
'
As every skin is different and requires its
own particular treatment —“CONTOURE”
will take care of your skin, and will advise
you how to apply their preparations.
“Contoure” Products are obtainable in our
Perfumery Section, Ground Floor, Pitt St.
. . ■ :: : ?
COSMETICS OF DISTINCTION
. -V.
.
,
.
v.
if-
Vi
ws
■ ■ ■
%
*
*
mmm
msm.
mm
■
.
< .- r *''/ ' ,
\
m
... ... ..... _ m , ....jiiiiiiiii
,
■
;■ P lf : ■ v ' . •
,
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Skin Freshener a bracing mildly astringent liquid,
stimulates and freshens the skin. Prices .. 4/6 and 7/6
Liquid Bandage—a masque treatment, a “pick-up” for
sagging facial muscles, and when impurities are present.
Price 9/6
Rouge to match your shade of Lipstick. Price .... 5/6
Finishing Lotion—a mild bland astringent for skins that
are inclined to dryness. Perfect powder base, 4/6, 7/6
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 G, G.P.0., SYDNEY


HERMAN
By “STANDBY.”
I KNEW, as I walked ashore and past
the sentry at the yard gates, that he
would be waiting, just as 1 knew what
his first real question would be.
“You have been across to Milne Bay
again?”
“Yes, Herman.”
“You have seen the Seabird this time?”
“Yes, and she looks just the same.”
“Good. You will perhaps come up to
my room? I have a bottle of beer, cold,
on the ice, waiting.” He knew, this big,
lumbering, slow-speaking old German,
that I could not resist the appeal to sit
yarning over a cold bottle of beer.
Although he had been born in Ger-
many I doubt if he remembered anything
of the country of his birth. At the age
of twelve he left home and ran away to
sea, and for the next thirty years he served
in one ship after another, most of them
British, till now only the faintest trace
of an accent and a quaint twist of
speech remained. Evidently none of the
many countries he had visited had made
any impression on him till he came to
Queensland, for he came ashore here and
settled down, and for some years before
the war his home, his friends and all his
interests had been here on the coast. His
homeland and all his past rovings were
nothing but vague memories.
When war broke out he must have been
almost sixty, but he was a tough old dog
and had weathered well. His broad,
always freshly-shaven face was only
faintly lined, and his blonde hair had
always been so light that it was difficult
to see the grey in it now. Everything
about Herman was big. His great barrel
of a chest bulged so that his massive
tattooed arms, instead of hanging by his
sides, jutted out awkwardly. His hands
and feet were immense and, ashore in his
best clothes, he walked with a slow,
lumbering gait. Even the big curved pipe
that always hung from the corner of his
mouth was heavy enough to strain the
jaw of the average man. The war de-
prived him of everything he loved and
valued, yet except for the wistful look in
his blue eyes he gave no sign of his loss
and I never heard him complain. “What
is the good?” he said once. “I do not
blame them. And,” shrugging his great
shoulders, “some day the war it will end
and then perhaps I will get her back.”
I MET him soon after he came to
1 Queensland, and for a month or two
we were shipmates on one of the coastal
ships. The seed of his great idea must
have been sown then, for he saved every
penny he earned and, after a few years
of coasting, he bought a boat and took
up fishing. As fishing boats go, she was
nothing to boast of, for she was old and
slow, her ancient engine was unreliable
and she leaked badly. Still, Herman
learned where the best fishing grounds
were and, in spite of everything, he made
money. He saved hard during those years
and put everything aside for the one pur-
pose. And then, when he had enough put
by, he sold the old boat for what little he
could get for it and commenced to build
a new one.
Besides being a seaman Herman was a
craftsman, and the Seabird, when she took
the water, was the secret envy of every
fisherman on the coast. She was too big
for fishing, some of them said; she’d
need two or probably three men to work
her ; she had too large a sail area —with
her big Diesel there was no need for all
that sail —sail was out of date, anyhow ;
her living quarters were too big and too
luxurious for a fishing boat. But there
wasn’t a man among them who would
not have given all he owned to possess
her.
Their criticisms worried Herman not at
| all. He had built well and he knew it.
The Seabird was fast and sturdy. She
1 could battle home through a gale when
all the other fishing boats were shelter-
ing, And she was a comfortable home.
Her tall masts and long bowsprit stood
out among the other craft as a racehorse
stands out from a team of draught
horses. Herman got two lads for her
crew, and paid them well. The Sea-
bird proved herself by making good
money for Herman and in return he
lavished money on her. She lacked
for nothing in the way of paint, running
gear and the score of things necessary to
keep a boat in first-class trim. She was
beached, scrubbed and painted far more
often than was necessary, some of the
other fishermen said, but Herman only
smiled.
On all the waterfronts he was popular,
for he was by nature generous and easy-
going and he loved his beer. He drank
enormous quantities of it when he was in
port, but then, as he laughingly pointed
out, there was an enormous lot of him
to fill up. The deadbeats around the
waterfront hotels knew the big lumbering
fisherman as an easy mark, for they had
only to praise his Seabird to get Herman
to pay for their beer. I don’t think he
was really taken in, for he was no fool; it
was simply that he loved to hear praise
of his boat and was willing to pay for the
pleasure of hearing it. But best of all he
liked to take a few friends on a fishing
cruise where, for several days, he could
let them see the Seabird’s good points and
listen to their admiration. “Yes,” he
would say, glancing proudly along the
deck and aloft to the tall masts, “she
is good, the old Bird.”
{CAN picture Herman now, moving
barefooted about the deck—there was
nothing lumbering or awkward about him
then ; he was home here and in his ele-
ment —or see him at the wheel while the
Seabird bucked into a head sea, huge,
bare feet planted wide apart, balancing
himself easily against the wild, pitching
motion, the smoke from his great pipe
blowing aft in long wisps no whiter than
his uncovered hair. I can see him laugh-
ing in great bellows as the stinging spray
sent the rest of us dashing for shelter
while he stood there with his ancient
flannel shirt and khaki shorts drenched
with sea water, but, miraculously, his
pipe still burning ; or on the mackerel
grounds, hauling in a giant, fiercely-fight-
ing kingfish, hauling him in hand over
hand in great, powerful, long-armed
swings, laughing as he hurled the snap-
ping, threshing brute on the deck and
quietened him with a mighty swipe of the
“donger”; laughing his deep-chested
laugh as he held up some particularly
weighty catch, a great, gaspiiig, glittering
beauty. “By Yasus!” he would say, his
accent becoming more marked in his ex-
citement. “He vos der fine-looking fel-
low, that.”
That’s how it was with Herman;
always judging his catch not in pounds,
shillings and pence, but as so much sheer
beauty or as so much game, fighting
strength. He counted most the joy of
living, of being his own master and own-
ing the finest boat on the coast. I’ve seen
him homeward bound with a leading
wind, the iceboxes full to their lids with
fish neatly packed in layers of ice and the
Seabird, all her canvas set and drawing,
heeling over to the breeze. He stood by
the wheel, both thumbs hooked in his
belt as he let his ship steer herself. On
his' broad old face was a look of pride
and supreme content. “It is as it should
be,” he said, “A good ship, properly
trimmed, will sail herself.” *
And then came war and with it
Authority and Regulations, One of the
Regulations said that, although Herman
was a naturalised British subject, he was
not permitted to take his boat to sea
while the war lasted. He could either sell
her or tie her up for the duration.
Sell her! Sell the Seabird! Herman
scoffed at the idea. The Commonwealth
Bank did not hold enough money to buy
her.
"THE truth of the old saying “Men and
1 ships rot in port” was proved once
again. Herman, unable to get a job and
still look after the Seabird, took to drink-
ing more than was good even for one of
his robust build, and, as his small capital
ran out, began to neglect his Seabird.
He must have been fairly heavily in debt
when an American Army officer ap-
proached him with an offer to buy his
boat. Herman told him to take his
money to hell and informed him that if
the authorities would only let him take
the Seabird to sea the United States Mint
could not produce enough money to buy
her. The American increased his offer
by fifty pounds, but Herman shook his
massive head obstinately. It was not a
question of money, he said. The Seabird
was no ordinary boat to be bought and
sold like so much goods. She was,
he finished up, well —she was the Sea-
bird.
Whatever she was the American officer
was determined to have her. He tried
another line of approach. First he bought
Herman a couple of beers, and, when they
had softened the big fellow’s mood, he
pointed out that the authorities were not
likely to change their decision at this
stage of the war and furthermore if Her-
man didn’t accept his offer the Australian
Government or the Navy would probably
step in and impress the boat. Herman
gave in.
Three days later he watched a com-
plete stranger take the Seabird down
stream and out to sea.
Herman got very drunk that night.
So drunk that, for the first time since he
came to Queensland, he got mixed up in
a brawl and spent the rest of the night
in the jail. Next day he paid his fine
and took the magistrate’s advice to look
for a job. Because he was ashamed of the
thing he had done in selling his boat he
went up to Cairns and got a job there.
No one knew him in Cairns, for he had
never taken the Seabird north of Towns-
ville. It was a routine laboring job
where he had to start when the whistle
blew in the morning and work till it
blew at five in the evening. It must have
been hell after the happy, carefree life
Herman had lived for so many years,
but he stuck to it doggedly because once
more he was working and saving for a
purpose. He had paid off his debts out of
the eight hundred pounds he received for
the Seabird, and now he must save every
penny till he brought his bank account up
to eight hundred pounds again. “Some
day,” he said, “the war it will end,” and
when it did end he must be in a position
to buy the Seabird back again,
| T was in Cairns that I met him after my
* first trip to Milne Bay, and his first
question had been about the Seabird.
Had I seen her? How was she looking?
and a score of other questions about her.
Next time we berthed at Cairns he was
there at the dock gates to meet me, though
how he found that my ship was in port I
don’t know. This evening he was there
again. He took me to his room and
carefully filled the- two glasses and placed
mine in front of me.
“It is cold, yes;” he stated, picking up
his own glass and studying the beads of
moisture clouding the outside of the glass.
“As beer should be. I have not tasted
beer since you were last in port.”
W,e sipped the beer in silence. After
my two previous visits I was beginning
to know the rules. No conversation until
the glasses had been emptied and refilled.
Once that was done we would resume
where we left off at the dock gates.
Herman poured the beer again and, to
my amazement, rolled himself a cigarette.
“What’s happened to the pipe, Her-
man?” I asked.
“She is there.” He smiled, indicating
a trunk under his narrow iron bed. “This
war, you know. You could not now buy
the tobacco to keep her filled.”
He filled his lungs with smoke and then,
letting it trickle slowly from his nostrils,
asked: “They are looking after her?”
“Yes.”
“And the paint? They keep the paint
up to her?”
“Yes.”
“That is good. In that climate a boat
needs much paint. And this chap they
have put skipper of her? He under-
stands small boats, you say?”
“Yes. I told you. He thinks a lot of
your Seabird.”
Herman’s great snort implied that the
man who didn’t think a lot of the Sea-
bird must be mentally deficient.
“And she has not been bombed?” he
asked after a while.
“No. Nothing anywhere near her.”
For half an hour we talked of old
times ; of my fishing trip in the Seabird ;
of other trips the Seabird had made, but
always of the Seabird.
“It is not permitted that you say when
you will be back again, I know,” he said
as I was leaving. “But I will watch for
you.”
[ WALKED up town feeling pretty
1 rotten about the whole business. I
counted old Herman as my friend and
for the first tune I realised he was old,
A man cannot look old as he stands at
the wheel of his ship, laughing in great
lusty bellows as a mighty comber
crashes over the bows and swirls knee-
deep along the deck. Nor can he look
old as, laughing still, he hurls a giant
kmgfish on the deck and bounds clear
of the brute’s savagely-snapping jaws.
But Herman working at a dull routine
job from eight, to five had lost that joy of
living. In looks he had altered little; it
was just that he no longer sparkled.
Of course I had lied to him about the
Seabird, but how could I tell him the
truth? That they had sawn off her long,
raking bowsprit, cut her masts down to
mere stumps and ripped out ail her elabo-
rate fittings, leaving merely a hull and
engine. Her once carefully-scrubbed
decks were dirty and scarred from heavy
weights and hobnailed army boots; her
gunwales were scored and splintered
from constant crashing against lighters
and steel-sided ships in many seaways.
Like all her kind she $/as suffering from
the rush and turmoil of heavy work. The
odds were fifty to one that Herman
would ever see her again, so why let him
know that she, like the man who built
her and loved her, was suffering through
war?
1 ‘ CT OME day the war it will end,”
Herman had said. And it ended
sooner than most of us had dared hope.
A publican in Cairns afterwards told me
that Herman’s part in the peace demon-
strations will long be remembered up
there. “You wouldn’t have thought
that old squarehead would have cared
who won the war,” he said. “But from
the way he acted you’d have thought he
won it himself,”
The Seabird, her war job done, was
brought down to Townsville in company
with several other small craft and offered
for sale to the highest bidder. Of course
Herman heard the news and was in
Townsville well before the sale. By care-
ful saving he had added another fifty
pounds to the eight hundred pounds he
had received for his boat. What his feel-
ings were when he saw her I can only
guess. He told me all about the sale
when I met him a few weeks after-
wards but he was never a great hand
at talking about himself. Nor did he
reproach me for lying to him. Battered,
scarred, altered as she was she was still
the Seabird, the boat he had built and
loved.
There were only two bidders —Herman
and the young chap who had skippered
her in New Guinea. In one thing I had
told Herman the truth. This lad had
formed a genuine liking for the Seabird.
Moreover he had plenty of money. He’d
been getting big wages and there had been
nothing to spend his money on. Her-
man bid eight hundred and fifty pounds,
his whole capital, but the young chap
went to nine hundred pounds. Both bids
were well over the boat’s value. Even
Herman admitted that. But sentiment is
a thing beyond price. “She was riot the
old Seabird as I knew her,” he said sadly.
“But still, if I had saved more money” —-
He filled his great chest and shrugged his
shoulders like a man ridding himself of
a memory.
Because I could think of nothing suit-
able to say I took out my tobacco pouch
and rolled a cigarette. It was a hard
knock to this man who had waited so
long and so patiently. Doubly hard
coming on top of all he had suffered
during the years he was parted from his
boat. What would he do now, I won-
dered, Had he been a young man he
could have started all over again, but
Herman was not young. A man of sixty-
odd years of age cannot start life afresh!
“What are you thinking of doing now,
Herman?” I asked after a while.
He brought his great ham of a hand
down on my shoulder with a force that
almost upset my balance. His blue eyes
were dancing again and there was a look
in his face like the old Herman I knew
before the war, when he was taking the
Seabird out to sea. “I am building
another boat,” he announced in his old
bellowing voice. “Some day you will
again come fishing with me and we will
catch the big emperor. Already I have
made arrangements about the timber and
tomorrow I go out into the bush to cut
the knees myself. We will call her ‘Sea-
bird the Second,’ yes?”
PAIN.
Manjack home from the wars walked down the
street —
bent like a bow his body round its great scar —
and held his head upright. I saw his eyes
flaring and fixed, a tiger or a dark star.
Pain, what is it? The scythe turned under the
ribs;
the soft explosion in the belly that means death;
the hornet where were berries; the snake in
flowers;
the ice about the Treart; the lung that leaks
its breath —
that which drives out love, hunger, thirst or
hate;
the trap that waits, the precipice past hope
upon whose edge we walk, how delicately—
the loaded whip no shoulders can escape.
Pain, what is it? That which keeps alive
amoebae doubling from the acid; pain
that forces flesh to wisdom; hedge of swords
beside the road from protoplasm to man.
Pain the fierce darkness thrusting at all' life
that drives it up to light; pain the black No
that knifes us in blind alleys; pain that can only
say
You have chosen wrong, this is no way to go.
Manjack home from the wars walked down the
street,
and in his flesh, a fire that ate him lean.
Vision of famine, death 'with blazing eyes,
what shall we do to save ourselves from Pain?
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3441
Wednesday, January 23, 1946
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR.
“The Commonwealth Government has decided to have the Mandated Territory of New Guinea brought under the trusteeship system embodied in the United Nations Charter.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 232IBB; 'Phone 87971.
.Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstralia:' 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London. E.C.4.
FACERS FOR RED FASCISTS.
The election of the Netherlands to a seat
on the Security Council of the United
Nations, one of the six reserved for mem-
bers other than the “permanents” (Britain,
the U.S.A., the U.S.S.R., China and
France), was a facer for “Australian”
Communists and their obedient servants
at Canberra, who have acquiesced in their
war on the Dutch. Thirty-four votes
were required for election, and the Dutch
received 37 in the first ballot, nine more
than Australia got.
This vote for the Dutch was some-
thing more than a demonstration of
the high regard in which they are
held in other than “Australian” Com-
munist and “Labor” quarters for the
qualities which sustained them in years
of defeat and oppression against the over-
whelming forces of Germany and Japan.
It amounted to a world ratification of the
Constitution of their kingdom, proclaimed
in 1922, which “declared that the Kingdom
of the Netherlands consists of the terri-
tory of the Netherlands, the Netherlands
Indies, Surinam and Curasao.” And no
string was tied to it. Not even the three
delegates from Russia or the delegates,
from Moscow-controlled Yugoslavia and
Czechoslovakia (where Moscow control
seems to be wearing thin) advanced the
claims of “our Indernesian comrades.”
There were immediate repercussions in
this country. Fortuitously an Australian
Associated Press correspondent, Harry
Plumridge, returned from Java with the
report that it had become “extremely
embarrassing for an Australian to be in
Batavia.”
The Dutch think we have declared war on
them. They want to know what has hap-
pened to our goodwill. One effect of the
holdup of supplies has been to deprive
people suffering from malnutrition of
special food, and to cause dangerous and
often fatal relapses. The Dutch claim that
hundreds of such cases have died who
might have been saved, Indonesians as well
as Dutch and Eurasians. The British
troops cannot understand why Australians
should make helpless women and children
suffer.
Women go about in the pathetic rags
they wore through the squalid years of
internment. Medical stores are critically
short, not only life-saving drugs but
common medicaments, disinfectants, aids to
cleanliness that Australians take for granted.
Supplies, “more than 15,000 tons, stored
in eight warehouses,” have been held up
for many weeks by the Red Fascist boy-
cott of Dutch shipping in Australian
ports. Dutch orders for many other
commodities, among them 100,000 tons
of flour, have been withheld or can-
celled because of the Red Fascist coal and
shipping strikes. The N.E.I. market for
flour has always been important to Aus-
tralian millers. The order for 100,000
tons was for the most part diverted to
the U.S.A.
The Communist-controlled Waterside
Workers’ Federation, which has been the
chief instrument in the boycott of Dutch
shipping, had the face to “announce” that
it would condescend to load cargoes if
“Dutch ships were taken over by Aus-
tralian crews or were worked under Aus-
tralian charters,” in the latter case “if a
‘Government observer’ were deposited in
each ship, and if the cargoes were handed
over to the British Commander-in-Chief
or the Red Cross for distribution.”
This brought the Minister of Shipping,
Senator Ashley, out of his funkhoU with
an intimation that “if the union proposals
were acceptable to the Dutch authorities,
supplies could be made available to get
the first vessel away within three days.”
Returning to the subject, Mr. Ashley said
“We (we!) are prepared to ship all the
40,000 tons of goods which the Dutch
claim are piling up in warehouses if they
do not include arms or ammunition..” So
“we” have been a party to the boycott,
and if soldiers of King George, as well
as Dutch soldiers and civilians, are
butchered for lack of arms held up in
this country the “Australian” Govern-
ment is quite prepared to wash its hands,
as Pilate did. Should the Dutch repre-
sentative on the Security Council choose
to remonstrate, the chairman, Mr. Makin,
will have some uneasy moments.
Support for the “Government” came
from the Sydney Labor Council. “The
onus is now on the Dutch authorities,”
said Comrade King, secretary of that
semi - Communist show. And the sec-
retary of the Waterside Workers
Federation came out with the brazen lie
that “the plight of the internees can be
laid at the door of the Dutch authorities,
who are apparently determined to get
supplies, not to relieve distress, but to
advance their aims against the Indonesian
republican movement.”
This secretary is a fellow named Healy,
not an Australian but a Manchester Irish-
man. His concern had a very bad war
record for stoppages and stealings, but in
no known case did any of the thieves get
more than a three-months’ sentence, fines
being the usual “punishment.” Of late
waterside “workers,” presumably with
union tickets, have been involved in a
startling number of crimes of violence.
The “Labor” Government, at least five
of whose members represent water-
front constituencies, would have been
infinitely better occupied in cleaning up
the union and closing it against bad char-
acters, whose presence must be obnoxious
to decent members, than in letting it
lawlessly decide Australia’s foreign policy
in favor of colored savages and against
a friendly white people, many of whose
internees are still at the mercy of “our
Indernesian comrades,” and are exposed
to threats that they will be massacred to
the last man, woman and child unless the
British relieving force gives up the task
committed to it by the Governments of
Britain and the U.S.A. through General
MacArthur. Admittedly the “Govern-
ment’s” attitude all along has been consis-
tent with the new “ ‘Labor’ principle”:
union bosses and mobs, whether they
attack the Dutch or the Australian nation
itself, and though their wicked proceed-
ings bring loss, suffering and death to
decent people, have the right to make
their own laws and dictate any foreign
policy they can get away with, being in-
capable of doing punishable wrong.
Nelson, the Communist president of the
Sydney Waterside Workers, had a shot
at answering the Australian newspaper-
man from Batavia. His tale was that
Plumridge couldn’t be right because he.
Nelson, had it in a letter from “a friend
in Java” that “the prestige of Australians,
particularly the Waterside Workers,” had
“never” stood “so high” in that country ;
“the Indonesians are grateful for the sup-
port of Australian workers.” And the
“friend” had “described a tumultuous
reception given to an Australian soldier
at a rally of 100,000 Indonesians.” Un-
fortunately, there are Communists in the
services, though not many, but the pi es-
ence of an Australian soldier at “a rally
of 100,000 Indonesians” should be matter
for inquiry. It would have been impos-
sible to muster “100,000 Indonesians” in
any of the districts occupied by Austra-
lians, and if the “Australian soldier” hied
himself to other parts where no Austra-
lian soldier had a right to be, he should
be brought to book—that is, if the whole
thing is not a Communist lie.
In the same week the Communists were
placed on the defensive. They failed in
an attempt to capture the N.S.W. branch
of the Australian Workers’ Union, and
the branch secretary, who was returned
with a great majority as Federal vice-
president, made wounding remarks about
“the Communist campaign which pre-
ceded the ballot,” which he described as
“the filthiest ever conducted in N.S.W.”:
Scurrilous pamphlets libelling me and
other A.W.U. officials were widely circu-
lated. Paid emissaries were sent through-
out the country to disseminate Communist
propaganda and anti-union lies. A.W.U.
members are now asking where the money
came from.
The representative of the branch on
the Sydney Labor Council went to a meet-
ing of that body with other awkward
questions. He wanted to know why the
hat had been taken round for “our Inder-
nesian comrades” when Indonesian sea-
men alone had £34,000 for investment in
die Fourth Victory Loan. Though the
Labor Council had endorsed the cadge
and should have controlled it, “the appeal
was actually made by three people,” two
non-members and the third non-British.
An organiser for the “appeal” had
“ridden round the waterfront in a £2OOO
limousine,” and contributors had been
“invited to send money to a box-number
belonging to a Communist auxiliary.”
And there was the matter of “a cheque
for £lOOO, still in the office of the Labor
Council.”
Here Mr, Facing-both-ways Anderson
interposed with a statement that the
cheque was for £1066, and had been
“placed to the credit of the Labor
Council,” of which he is president. The
£34,000 was sent to the Queensland Labor
Council “to be invested in Queeensland” ;
and that was done.
Mr. Facing-both-ways said he sup-
ported the A.W.U. delegate’s demand
for “a searching inquiry into all the
activities of the Indonesian Commit-
tee, including the collection and
disbursement of funds.” He did not
explain why his council had endorsed
a begging campaign when, on his own
showing, alms were not required, the
Indonesians having so much money that
they could write a cheque for £1066 as
supplement to a Victory Loan subscrip-
tion of £34,000.
The A.W.U. has no unblemished
record, but it has stood firm for indus-
trial arbitration and has never compro-
mised on the White Australia principles
of its founders. It draws its main strength
from the two frontier States, Queensland
and Westralia. In the sight of Red Fas-
cist treachery and Labor poltroonery it
is inspiriting to see this old Australian
union refusing to have any truck with
the Red Fascist intrigues among the
natives of the northern islands, the suc-
cess of which, as it well knows, would be
followed by Red Fascist demands for the
free admission of “our Indernesian com-
rades” and, of course, Java sugar.
The Real Conservative.
It is the boast and claim of Labor that
it is in the forefront of Reform, the van-
guard of Progress ; that it strives at all
times to cast otf the dead hand of the
past and to live in the present. Politi-
cally, the word “conservative” brings to
Labor minds everything antiquated, out-
worn —minds stagnant, ideas musty,
mental processes clogged and actions cob-
webbed. Yet is Labor receptive to new
ideas? Does it consistently scrap old
shibboleths and open its mind to the
modern idea, the progressive movement?
Instances of such a policy in the indus-
trial wing of Australian Labor —the wing
that does most of the flapping—are
extremely rare. In many ways Industrial
Labor fulfils all the requirements of a
dyed-in-the-wool Conservative —in cling-
ing to old privileges, in devotion to out-
worn tradition, in stubborn opposition
to change.
In 1916 and 1917, in defeating con-
scription, Labor won its greatest “fights.”
Between the wars no Labor conference
was complete without impassioned refer-
ences to those great “victories” and no
true Labor man dare suggest that the
“victories” were not of greater import-
ance than any won in France by the Dig-
gers, who through them were condemned
to fight on below strength without hope
of adequate reinforcement.
The present Prime Minister seems never
to have doubted the greatness of these
“victories” ; nor did his predecessor. The
Labor movement as a whole has no
doubts. Belief in the “victories” is a
creed, an article of faith. The No votes
were blows for Liberty —a liberty that
could never have been sustained had not
Britain, France and America enforced
conscription on their peoples.
And because No-Compulsion-to-
Defend-Australia became a party tradi-
tion, Australia began this war weaker
than in 1914, and waged it on a
limited-liability basis with a dual
Army set-up that roused bitter feel-
ings between two parts of an army
that should have been one from the out-
set —feelings that have never completely
died out. And all through the worship
of a tradition, the 1916 and 1917 “vic-
tories,” despite the fact that the German
War Part 2 was one which Labor not
only claimed to support but in which
it claimed the right to tell volunteer
soldiers the objects for which they were
fighting —objects which many of them had
never even heard of —a mixture of high-
falutin’ Utopian dogma and Land-of-
Tomorrow fantasy, anything rather than
the plain fact that we, with Britain, were
fighting for existence.
The 1916-17 attitude was still there;
is still there. Hatred of Britain still sim-
mers near the surface of parts of the
Labor movement and bursts through in
little bubbles of boiling spleen at the least
excuse —even at a time when Britain s
moral prestige has never been so high or
her material prospects so dire. But it
was the tradition to kick England 40, 50,
100 years ago, and tradition dies hard.
Traditional approach to strikes is an-
other case of conservatism, of slavish ob-
servance of an outworn code. When
there were no industrial laws, no fix,ed
wages, no laid-down conditions of work
and no protective regulations for workers
a striker could often rightly hold that
he was, through his own direct action,
furthering the cause of the workers as a
whole, and for that reason could with
some justification claim the sympathy and
support of workers in other industries.
A strike was a more or less clear-cut
issue between worker and employer. The
very right to strike had to be fought for
—the right of a man to choose whether
he would work or not, and as a necessary
corollary, the right to band himself with
other workers to this end.
The death of laissez-faire , the com-
ing of Factory Acts, workmen’s compen-
sation and other industrial legislation
placed at least a moral limitation on the
strike weapon, and Labor itself by accept-
ing industrial arbitration—to Justice
Higgins, a member of the original Com-
monwealth Labor Cabinet, a new pro-
vince for law and order”—agreed to fore-
But Industrial Labor has not caught
up with this yet. It is still living m the
bad old days when every strike was a
good strike.
There should now be no moral obliga-
tion on any Labor man to side with
strikers who act in defiance of the Court
they are pledged to uphold and in con-
tempt of the interests and even the
health of all the people. There is no
moral obligation, but there still lingers
the tradition —a striker must be supported
even if you disagree with him ; he is fight-
ing for you as well as for himself, and
even though he is wrong the boss can't
possibly be right.
What is this but obstinate adherence
to old beliefs? ’ Blind refusal to recognise
changed times and changed conditions —
the very charges Labor delights to hurl
at its*' opponents. The fact that a strike
is no longer a straightout conflict between
employee and employer, with the strikers’
families suffering on the sidelines, but an
all-in disaster, a total war in which the
whole population are the victims, is not
recognised by Industrial Labor. Tradi-
tion says that the striker must have a legi-
timate grievance even if you can’t see it.
He must be supported or at least not
opposed, even if you feel sure he is being
used by Communists for their own ends;
even if he is led by professed Commu-
nists who have avowed their intention of
wrecking the Labor movement. The
Stuart kings, the Bourbons, clinging to
their outworn creed of Divine Right,
were no more slaves to tradition than
this.
The material progress of the past two
centuries has been due almost entirely to
mechanical invention and scientific dis-
covery. Early spinning and weaving
machines were smashed by workmen fear-
ful of losing their livelihood. Has the
attitude of Industrial Labor changed
much since then? Coalminers oppose
mechanisation; wharf-laborers object to
appliances which will speed up loading;
bricklayers protest against the supplant-
ing of the ages-old hod.
It is understandable perhaps that the
rank and file should take this short-sighted
attitude, but it is inexcusable that their
leaders should encourage and lead
them in it. The idea, of course, is that
where men are paid by the hour any-
thing that reduces the time spent on a
job is a blow at the worker and must be
strenuously opposed, lest the job be
finished too soon and no other be avail-
able. In short-term thinking the argu-
ment sounds convincing in normal times,
but for six years the coal industry has
offered full employment for all with an
assured market for every ton mined. On
the wharves, even with soldiers assisting,
there has been more work than the
wharfies could cope with. Ahead of the
building industry looms the greatest pros-
pect of continuous employment ever
known in the country.
Yet these hoary traditions are still sup-
ported! Is Labor progressive or is it
living in the cobwebbed past? Is Labor
or the opposition party the true conser-
vative?
PLAIN ENGLISH
Election-year “ Stabilisation. ”
Spokesmen for organisations of wheat-
growers profess to be satisfied with the
latest Canberra proposal for, “stabilising”
their industry: a guarantee of ss. 2d. a
bushel f.o.b. for bagged wheat and an
equivalent home-consumption price, in
each case for five years. State Ministers
of Agriculture have approved of the plan.
There are undisclosed features, and
farmers in general and returned soldiers
in particular will be interested to know
whether the ss. 2d. is to be paid for all
f.a.q. wheat delivered, and whether
licensing is to be continued ; but for this
information they will presumably have
to wait, „ „ , .
There is no mention of farmers being
paid for not growing wheat; and that is
an improvement. In the Commonwealth
Government estimates for 1945-46 this
appalling expenditure entry appeared:
Wheat-acreage restriction —Western Aus-
tralia: — „„„
1944.45 . ~ .. .. £586,000
ms-46 :: 285,000
And this apropos of the State whicli
escaped the worst effects of the drought;
indeed, had fairly good seasons, and could
have grown and harvested many million
more bushels had “wheat-acreage restric-
tion” not been applied. Nature avenged
itself, as Nature has an uncanny way ot
doing. If the facts should reach wheat-
and flour-starved Europe interested people
there will wonder whether Australia is
not controlled by halfwits.
Country-party people protest that
“the guaranteed price is a long way
below world parity,” which is true.
They also aver that it is “below
the cost of production,” and that it is
“merely the Page stabilisation plan shorn
of some of its best features which Labor
rejected in favor of the Scully plan,’
with its provision for “wheat-acreage
restriction.” They see in it merely an
attempt to held precarious Federal seats


in four States, seats wrested from their
party when so many young men in wheat-
and-sheep districts were away at the wars.
Beyond question, enlistments in all the
services hurt the Country party more than
they did any other. Most of the V.Cs. came
from the bush, and wheat-and-sheep farms
had in many cases to be carried on by
old people who were subjected to all sorts
of disabilities. On the other hand, the
population of country townships, which
always give the Labor candidate a good
start, increased, especially where munition
factories were established. With demobi-
lisation of farmers and graziers and their
sons, the Country party will be a much
more formidable proposition in electorates
like Hume, Riverina, Calare, Wannon,
Wakefield,Grey, Forrest and Swan, seldom
—in some cases never —Labor before 1943.
“Stabilisation” may possibly retain such
seats for the party which, in time of world
scarcity, paid wheatgrowers for not grow-
ing wheat. The Country party has other
expectations.
Another Union Town.
After Sydney, Canberra:
The writing boys had a fine and juicy week
retailing—in the main one-sidedly—the case
of Brigadier Derek Schreiber and his valet,
Corporal E. C. Field.
The papers made much play with the fact that
the valet had “been at Dunkirk,” but none
at all with the fact that Brigadier Schreiber was
himself a very badly wounded permanent
soldier, like all other members of the Governor-
General’s personal staff;
Brigadier Schreiber and his valet parted. That
much is clear, and it is alleged that when the
valet called on the Government House cook,
whom he had married “secretly,” Brigadier
Schreiber ordered him off the premises. No
picture of how, when or where the meeting
between husband and wife took place was pro-
vided; but obviously Brigadier Schreiber did
not know they were married, and out Mr.
Field, the valet, went. His wife decided to
go with him, breaking her contract and leaving
her employers, the Duke and Duchess (for
whom she and her husband professed venera-
tion), in the lurch.
Mr. Field, for some reason, still unexplained,
received no reference. He went to the Hotel
Kingston. According to his own account,
the manager, Mr. Bacon, employed him; but
after a few days “stood him down” with the
explanation that officials of the brewery which
is interested in the license, and in the licenses of
two other Canberra hotels, said that he could
not be employed without a reference. Field rang
the brigadier, who “flew into a rage, refused
and hung up on me.”
The valet attended a meeting of the Can-
berra Trades and Labor Council; Comrade
Blumenthal, secretary. Comrade Blumenthal
alleged that the hotel manager had said he
was acting on orders from the brewery, which
had been told by Brigadier Schreiber that Field
must not be employed. Comrade Gardiner
shouted “He can’t take away this man’s living
without something being done.” No shout had
been heard from Comrade Gardiner when Com-
munists took away the livings of hundreds of
thousands of Australians in the late steel, coal
and shipping strikes. A suggestion of further
inquiry was swept aside. Nobody waited to hear
what the brigadier or the brewery had to say.
And, though Brigadier Schreiber gave a
categorical denial that he had directly or in-
directly approached the Hotel Kingston or the
brewery—a statement which was confirmed by
brewery representatives, who pronounced the
whole affair ridiculous —Comrade Blumenthal
and the other Comrades went straight ahead.
Their target was, of course, not the brigadier
or the brewery, but the Government. It is the
policy of Comrades to prove again and again
that they are bosses, until the people come to
believe that - it will pay them to shortcut their
contacts with Ministers, omit the Government
altogether and accept the rule of union mob
leaders and mobs.
So Comrade Blumenthal issued orders to Mr.
Chifley to “send Brigadier Schreiber back to the
land of his ancestors” — i.e., England. The
brigadier is an 11th Hussar, son of a British
soldier and of a mother whose ancestors have
been associated with the British Army ever
since there has been a British Army.
The “Government” acted in the spirit of Mr.
Chifley’s statement, made during the Bunnerong
strike, that it would not “crucify the workers.”
It's Interior Department found a job for the
Schreiber gardener, who was “withdrawn.” Ser-
vicing of a Schreiber car was refused. Mr.
Chifley dutifully ordered an “inquiry,” deliveries
to the Schreiber household having meanwhile
been under a union boycott—ignored by
public-spirited tradesmen.
When this was written, the inquiry had not
taken place, but the boycott of Brigadier
Schreiber’s household had been lifted. Brigadier
Schreiber is leaving for England in April, no
doubt glad to get away from a union town.
Other residents of Canberra and of Sydney re-
main at the mercy of union bosses and union
mobs.
At Canberra the Trades and Labor Council
will continue to be master of the situation, and
of any situation that may arise. If Parliament
displeases it Parliament may be boycotted; and
so may the Governor-General. Whatever its
caprices dictate, it will force good, grey Mr.
Chifley to follow the course which his party has
followed since it took office —in the case of the
Communists Ratliff and Thomas, immediate
release; in the case of the Australia Firsters,
internment without trial; in the case of
the Bunnerong strikers, the coal strikers of
Christmas, 1946, the wharflaborers who have
held up succor for Dutch women and children
threatened with slaughter in the Indies, ignoble
acquiescence. As in all these cases, Mr.
Chifley and his Ministers will be “firm”—firm
in a determination to sway to the prompting
of every “militant” breath like a feather in the
wind.
Full Steam Ahead.
The Clapp plan for the standardising of
railway gauges, which is blithely expected
to cost more than T.V.A., was presented
early last year, which necessarily means
that it was drawn up regardless of de-
velopments in many parts of the world
which should be considered as having a
bearing on the project.
Among them may be reckoned the lay-
ing of a submarine pipeline from England
to Normandy and the carrying of it to
the German border; the successful
advance into Europe, from the plans
for which use of railways was
secondary to roads; the tremendous
employment of transport and cargo-
carrying ’planes in the campaign
against the Japanese in Burma (676,000
tons of freight carried across the
Chindwin, an entire division with light
tanks and all equipment and supplies
shifted 1000 miles in a few days and
500,000 fighting men maintained in the
field entirely by aircraft), and, of course,
the dropping of the atomic bomb. The
planner conceived Australia as it was in
1942 and 1943, when large bodies of
troops had to be shifted across the con-
tinent from over-populated coastal cities,
and visioned the necessity of their having
some day to be shifted a bit faster on
standardised tracks. The atomic bomb
alone, made deadlier and fired from long
distances, as it will be, has outmoded that
part of the plan.
Nor do developments and improve-
ments in heavy road transport seem to
have been considered. Mr. Clapp is
wholly a railwayman, and his Ministerial
backer, Mr. Ward, has the notion that all
forms of transport competing with “the
Government” are “capitalistic” and
should be put down —which goes for all
the impressive proposals of Australian
airline companies, frowned on by Can-
berra but welcomed by country-dwel-
lers. And the end of the war-
caused boom in railway receipts, with
the Commonwealth Government as prin-
cipal customer, was not taken into
account. Yet it has arrived, as the
EXPROPRIATED.
“You’ll have to get another fluid-drive Chrysler, Mr. Lazzarini. That Digger moved in with
his family when my back was turned.”
Queensland Government, one of the chief
beneficiaries, can ruefdlly testify. Indeed,
Government railway finance shows every
sign of returning to the between-wars
position, when all the State and Com-
monwealth systems showed huge annual
losses even after “reductions in capi-
tal indebtedness (Victoria £25,684,000,
Queensland £28,000,000 and Tasmania
£4,378,000),” made by transferring the
obligations to the taxpayers (see any
Commonwealth Year-Book ).
So it would be common prudence to
review the scheme and go into the far
greater possibilities of water conservation,
meanwhile pushing on with housing,
the neglect of which has become
a national tragedy. But that isn’t
“Labor’s” way. “Standardising of rail-
way gauges has been agreed upon at
the Premiers’ conference” (five of the six
Premiers being “Labor”), and the Com-
monwealth Cabinet has decided that it
“should be proceeded with as early as pos-
sible,” with Alice Springs-Birdum and
Bourke-Dajarra (via Windorah and
Boulia) lines substituted for Clapp pro-
posals. To “Labor”
presents itself as an outsize in unem-
ployed-relief projects. And unemployed
servicemen are already disturbing its com-
placency—there were 500 applicants for
a cleaner’s job in Sydney the other day.
Air-Force Linen.
In March, 1945, The Bulletin’s John
Brennan reported from Morotai on the
R.A.A.F.’s “forgotten fighter squadrons”:
Machines and men are held in areas where
they have no hope of encountering enemy
’planes Spitfire pilots fly on routine
cover missions over the Morotai airfields.
... .It was the same at Darwin during
weary month after weary month.
Spitfires, peculiarly pursuit ’planes, are
being used in strafing missions against
barges. Pilots, highly-trained and hand-
chosen for the specific task of aerial com-
bat, are risking their lives in operations
which could be performed as easily and
better in more heavily-armed aircraft de-
signed for the purpose... .All would wel-
come the chance to get on with the job
for which they enlisted and for which they
were trained —to fight the enemy in the air.
One sequel to the discontent among
R.A.A.F. personnel at Morotai was a
request by eight officers that they be
allowed to resign their commissions to
direct public attention to the fact that
the RA.A.F. lacked leaders who could
carry out the “honest, economical prose-
cution of the war.” Air Vice-Marshal
Bostock investigated and reported that
“morale throughout the Tactical Air
Force is at a dangerous, low 1eve1....
widespread dissatisfaction pervades the
whole T.A.F.” Later, J. V. Barry, K.C.,
sat as a commissioner to inquire into the
causes of the “dissatisfaction.” His re-
port quoted U.S. commanders in the
South-West Pacific as saying that the
R.A.A.F. did not and could not pull its
weight.
There was a further sequel in Sydney
last week when Acting Group-Captain C.
R. Caldwell, who commanded the Spitfire
Wing at Morotai, and who was one of
the “eight officers” who wished to resign
—the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice-
Marshal Jones, told Mr. Barry that they
“sincerely held their beliefs, no matter
how ill-founded, coupled possibly with a
rather exaggerated sense of national duty”
—was charged before a R.A.A.F. court
martial with “conduct to the prejudice” 1
in that “improperly, and contrary to his
duty, he engaged in the selling of alco-
holic liquor, namely, whisky and gin,”
chiefly to Americans. The offences
were said to have been committed be-
tween December, 1944, and February,
1945.
On the first charge the Court found
against the Group Captain, and to a
second similar charge he pleaded “guilty.”
The sentences are subject to confirma-
tion and will be “promulgated later.”
- Mr. Barry had recommended that “no
action should be taken against the officers
involved in these liquor charges.” Then
why was Caldwell, and Caldwell alone,
struck at? Because his was the most
towering head or because he was
the most active critic of R.A.A.F.
administration? It is deplorable that
he should have gone trading in liquor,
but what he did was common practice in
the area, and in Australia thousands of
civilians engaged lawlessly in the business
and got away with it. And none off
these fellows had the excuse that they
wanted to fight and were prevented from
fighting, and were thus a prey to inertia
and discontent. Non-combatants all,
they were all having the time of their
useless lives in Big Cities.
What is still necessary is some explana-
tion as to why Caldwell and other
R.A.A.F. fighter pilots were held in an
area where they could find no useful em-
ployment for proved skill and daring in
combat. At that time American squad-
rons were briskly engaged in the battles
for the Philippines.
Clive Caldwell is Australia’s top-rank-
ing fighter pilot. At one time the
’planes he had to his credit placed him
third on the list of Allied pilots. When
he incurred official displeasure at Moro-
tai he had not seen an enemy ’plane in
the air for more than a year, though he
had been all that time in monotonous
tropical service. Whatever penalties may
be imposed on him, the R.A.A.F. wifi
not cease to regard him as a pilots’ pilot
or his fellow-Australians as one who —
to quote the merciful judgment on Clive,
praised by Voltaire —rendered “great and
meritorious services to his. country.”
Bugs and Other Pests.
Much has been heard of the depredations
of the Rutherglen bug in Victoria.
Fruitgrowers in N.S.W. are reported to
be worried at the prospect of its invading
their State. Alderman Bartley, Lord
Mayor of Sydney, could tell them that
the Rutherglen bug is only a clumsy be-
ginner compared with the pests his city
gardeners have to contend with.
The creatures who prey upon the shrubs
and trees of Sydney’s parks and gardens
are not insects obeying a natural urge
to survive, but citizens or children of
citizens of a democratic country, educated
according to the standards of the day
and possessing or soon to possess the
right to select their own reresentatives.
People who were disgusted and amazed
when one of the Flanders poplars at Syd-
ney’s Cenotaph was uprooted during the
V.-P, celebrations would not have been
so surprised had they been familiar with
the sorry experience of the City Council
in its efforts to improve the appearance
of the city parks. According to the Lord
Mayor, every year Council gardeners
plant more than 300,000 trees and shrubs
in the city parks and gardens. Scarcely
one of these escapes the conscienceless
vandals who senselessly wreck all efforts
to beautify a city richly endowed by
Nature but shabbily treated by man.
Many of the trees are stolen. This per-
haps is the lesser crime as the thief pre-
sumably steals for his own garden or to
sell to others, so that in either case the
tree indirectly serves the Council’s pur-
pose of beautifying some corner of Syd-
ney. But by far the greater portion of
the plants are wantonly destroyed—up-
rooted, broken or trampled down. The
destruction is not confined to Council
property. Last month a Sydney golf club
* lost all its young ornamental trees ; stolen
or broken and left on the ground.
There are larrikins in every city. In
Melbourne Captain Cook’s cottage in
Fitzroy Gardens had to be closed to the
public because of the activities of that
witless type of vandal that cannot re-
frain from carving its futile name on
public monuments and historic land-
marks. But Melbourne’s gardens are
still a joy: its parks fair pools of restful
green in a desert of brick and concrete ;
its tree-lined streets an object of civic
pride and an emblem of civic responsi-
bility. Even the larrikin element shares
this to a degree and directs its anti-social
bent in other directions.
But Sydney seems to have little civic
pride and no sense of civic responsibility.
When a Lord Mayor is forced to admit
that it is useless for his municipality to
plant a tree less than five years old as
it would simply be uprooted there is little
hope of his city ever achieving much in
the way of parks and gardens. And while
so many of its people have the Ruther-
glen-bug mentality there is little hope of
a city achieving anything at all.
There should be a lesson for earnest
Socialists in this utter disregard for public
property. Can a community which has
so little regard for its own property be
considered ripe for further experiments
in public ownership? A lesson for edu-
cationists —is it worth while teaching
children the right way to fill in a ballot-
paper and leave them ignorant of their
elementary duties as citizens? A lesson
for Rutherglen bugs come to Sydney
and learn your job from experts.
Information Refused.
“V. Cluse”: Between September 3,
1939, and last Tuesday week mine eyes
have beheld a multitude of printed, type-
written and roneoed forms issued
by Governmental, semi-, demi- and
semi-demi-quasi-Governmental depart-
ments in respect of matters ranging
from requisitions for whistles (A.R.P.,
wardens, for the use of) to permits
to buy whitewash (for fences, rabbit-
proof, treatment of) on the N.S.W.-
S.A. border. In that time I believed I
had beheld not only the acme, but the
absolute and the pluperfect in official
obtuseness ; but it remained for a Queens-
land friend, a poultry-farmer, to supply
the stunner of them all.
My friend invited the Queensland Feed
Wheat Rationing Committee to apprise
him of the possibilities of obtaining grain
in the future. Thereupon he received a
questionnaire requesting information on
several and sundry matters affecting his
birth, nationality, age, intentions, ambi-
tions and diversions (if any), and con-
taining this vital and important question:
“Are you an Ex-Serviceman... .or
Returned Soldier.... ?”
“I have decided,” my Queensland friend
writes, “not to complete and return the
form.”
For myself I shall lie abed o’ nights
chuckling at visions of the baffled official
who will now never know whether my
friend is an ex-serviceman or a returned
soldier.


, For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia's
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
Head
Office:
11 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Your WILL ..
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
his Solicitor and appointing a qualified Executor and
Trustee.
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
N
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
need a
Do
you
PcfUt/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed ol
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, caU
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
/fhtialink
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
If “militant” unionism can boycott the
Governor-General’s chief of staff —as it
did—it can boycott the Governor-General
and Parliament itself. One way of beat-
ing the mob would be to make Albury
the venue of the next Parliamentary ses-
sion, which could be done with little
difficulty.
The A.W.U., always interested in the
mystery of Red Fascist finance, has asked
Dr. Evatt to probe the collection and dis-
posal of funds raised for “our Inder-
nesian comrades,” not only in N.S.W.
but in Queensland. Fallon, for many
years Federal president of the A.L.P., is
the active party in Queensland, and
Fallon can’t be ignored or fobbed off with
an empty compliment.
Taken from troop-transport duty to
ship stranded Maorilanders, many of
them houseless, back to their own coun-
try, the Katoomba was held up because
the Seamen’s Union demanded the em-
ployment of 24 ship’s firemen. It had
agreed with the Maritime Commission
that 21 should be the number below the
tropics, but, being a Communist union,
its word is not worth a rush. Word of
another ship being held up in North
Queensland on a similar pretext was re-
ceived when it came out that the “Gov-
ernment” had agreed to carry on the
Communist union’s war bonuses to the
end of March.
Makin, trying to be magnanimous
when named first (alphabetical) chairman
of the Security Council:
whole international standing
is the result of the work of Dr. Evatt and
his assistants, like Messrs. Hodgson, Watt,
Hasluck and Bailey, at recent conferences.
Still, it’s just possible that the R.A.N.,
the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F. had a bit
to do with it.
The latest estimate of a position eter-
nally disgraceful to the “Labor” Govern-
ment is' that Australia is 400,000 houses
short. Six months ago the Federal Laz-
zarini, “Minister for Works and Housing
and Home Security,” was blithely declar-
ing that 24,000 would be up “by the end
of June.” Reporting “progress” last week,
he said that “between April, 1944, and
December, 1945, 3077 homes were built
under the Government-sponsored pro-
gramme” {i.e., his crowd’s); but when
the “States were getting well into theii
stride industrial disturbances occurred,”
So it was “possible that some retarda-
tion would be observed.” Unfortunately
“retardation” never operates in the case
of blobs like Lazzarini.
From Persia, threatened with dismem-
berment by assorted tribesmen, backed
by the Red Army, came the first appeal
to U.N.O. that it mete out justice or let
the heavens fall. And Persia, though
militarily almost the weakest of the 51
nations, is in an unassailably strong moral
position, not only entitled to the benefit
of all the relevant Articles but able to
quote a Stalin guarantee, signed in its
own capital in December, 1943, of
“maintenance of” its “independence,
sovereignty and territorial integrity.” The
beautiful instrument closed with an invi-
tation to Persians to join the U.N.O. and
help in carrying out the “principles of
the Atlantic Charter, to which all four
Governments” —of Britain, the U.S.A.,
the U.S.S.R. and Persia—“have continued
to subscribe.”
There is a report on Brazil in Premier
McKell’s account of his overseas tour,
“April to September, 1945,” issued as a
Government publication. It mentions
that “the Government of Brazil extended
to me an official invitation to visit that
country,” and that he was “very pleased
indeed; I felt it was a most friendly ges-
ture.” And he “had a long interview with
the President,” saw ironworks and othei
things, and came away feeling that “we
in Australia do not generally appreciate
the importance of Brazil.” Not a word
about the friendly President being a dic-
tator who had ruled as such without Par-
liamentary elections for 15 years. Had
any “Tory” Premier gone to Brazil as
the guest of a 15-years’ dictator he would
never hear the end of it.
According to Fadden, Keane, the Min-
ister for Customs, “recently advised me”
by letter that rationing of tobacco and
cigarettes would be “off” in the “near
future.” Artie passed on the information
to the newspapers, only to read in the
same newspapers that “Senator Keane
reported that there was no intention to
end tobacco rationing soon.” “Denying
a statement which he made in a letter
signed by himself!” the indignant C.P.
leader commented: “Clearly he doesn’t
know what is happening in his own de-
partment.” Does any of them?
Announcing a £1,198,319 deficit for
the first six months of 1945-46, Queens-
land Treasurer Hanlon said it was “more
than accounted for” by the drop in rail-
way revenue, £1,157,728. He added that
the decrease had been “anticipated,” but
there seems to have been a whale of a
difference between “anticipation” and
preparation.
Danny Sullivan, the N.Z. Minister ol
Industries and Commerce, crossed the
Tasman when the criminal Communist
strikes were on and retailed his experiences
to the party paper, the “Standard.” In
Sydney he had a meal at a “big hotel”
where the “only lights were candles and
hurricane lamps,” Going on to Canberra
he met the “new Australian P.M.”:
Tall, long-featured, large-eyed, humorous,
self-contained, serene, firm Ben Chifley,
tough, likeable and trusted; a great man in
a crisis.
Some of these adjectives seem a little
excessive.
No doubt hoarse cries of mirth broke
from Sixth Division Diggers when they
read that a pugilist who had had a post-
war trip to the islands as a non-combatant
was back in Sydney and ready for ring
engagements. Much the worse for wear
after their Middle East and New Guinea
campaigns, they met the bruiser in a camp
not too far from the city and inquired
about his history of offensive operations
against the Nazis and the Nips. It was
a blank. “S. M. Herald” rounded off
the tale of his exit from the Army by
saying he had been discharged “partly on
occupational grounds,” being a carpenter
by trade. All the carpentry he has done
of late years has been on skin and hair.
Something mysterious must be going
on in Russia. Molotov did not turn up
for the U.N.O.’s proceedings, and Vishin-
sky, his announced substitute, was re-
ported back in Moscow from Sofia just
when he was expected to join Bevin,
Byrnes and the rest in London. Mean-
time, it came out that Marshal Beria had
“resigned” as head of the Political Police
Department, a post fatal to his predeces-
sors Yagoda and Yezhov. A Georgian,
like Stalin, Beria has been one of the
leaders since 1938, when Yezhov dis-
appeared—member of the Presidium, Cen-
tral Committee, Order of Lenin and all
that. Most of the other marshals have
put up for “Parliament,” evidently with
the idea of being on hand when Some-
thing happens.
P. T. Byrnes, M.L.C., was chosen as
the C.P. candidate for Federal Wimmera,
but a combination of circumstances pre-
vented his resigning his State seat in
time. A. C. Everett, one of his oppo-
nents in the ballot, was moved up, but,
much to his disgust, was bracketed with
W, G. Turnbull, a returned p.-0.-w. They
are to have opposition, but not
from Labor or the Liberals, the lattei
party having decided that its local organ-
isation was too rudimentary or something.
The Westralian Liberals, having different
ideas, put up a Young Digger for Gren-
nough, an electorate abandoned for many
years to C.P. and Labor, and he won
handily. In these matters no party can
afford to play for safety. Courage pays.
It was strange to read the statement of
Robert Patterson, the U.S. Secretary of
War, that he did not know when or
whether a British Commonwealth occupa-
tion force would arrive in Japan. No-
body in the State Department ever seems
to know what any of his colleagues is
doing, but precise information was ex-
pected of the War Department. The
Patterson statement moved Australian
editors to expressions of wonder and
anger. Then it was asserted that “Aus-
tralia and New Zealand” had named the
Emperor as a war criminal —No. 1,
according to the New York “Herald
Tribune,” “in alphabetical order under
H,” according to Canberra. Maoriland
promptly denied the impeachment,
and the name should certainly be
struck off the list before the British
Commonwealth occupation force sets
forth. Its job will be unpleasant
enough without having to contend with
murderous fanatics.
The N.S.W. Liberals have had an em-
barrassment of candidates for Federal
nominations —25 in Parramatta, 17 in
Parkes, 15 in Watson, 12 each in War-
ringah and Robertson, nine in Martin.
Comrade Haylen, the accidental “Labor”
member for Parkes, was moved to sneer
that they were “the same old collection
of brasshats and seatwarmers.” The
only “brasshat” in the bunch —in the
front line throughout—might con his
Byron:
Behold ye tarts (one moment spare the text)
Haylen’s last work and worst —until his next.
Whether he spin poor couplets into plays,
Or damn the dead with purgatorial praise.
His style in youth or age is still the same,
For ever feeble and for ever tame.
One altered letter modernised it.
A heat-wave in south-east Australia has
been followed by drought-breaking rains
from south-west Queensland to south-east
S.A., accompanied by the inevitable
damage by flood and washaway. Places
like Milparinka and Broken Hill, dire-
fully short of water, have been relieved
by about five years’ rain in one and won’t
have to worry about a drink for a long
time. City people, reading of the rain
and the general joy outback, suddenly
realised that the same old drought had
been with us all the time —they’d for-
gotten it in the mess of strikes, short-
ages, boycotts and discomforts with which
“Labor” Governments allow them to be
inflicted —and it gave all hands heart of
hope for a better year.
Earle Page made his entry into politics
on the strength of. his advocacy of a New
State for the rich N.S.W. North Coast
and hinterland. That was in 1919.
Nothing came of the New State, but the
movement for independence from Syd-
ney’s remote control was the main factor
in setting up the Nymboida hydro-electric
scheme. Another objective was a sepa-
rate port for the proposed New State
area (for which New England would be
as good a name as any), but that still
awaits a live revival of the enthusiasm
engendered by Page’s early campaigning.
The right time for a revival would be
now; no part of Australia resents the
effects of the Communist hold on the
Sydney area more than the Doctor’s
country.
Although a lot of Important People
are trying to stop him, a Queensland
Digger is opening a meat-delivery
run in a Brisbane suburb. Retail
butchers prefer to keep the poor old
housewife queueing up at their shops.
The State Labor Minister somewhat
ominously stated that the Digger had not
“approached” his “department.” The
Digger won’t be dashed —un|ess it’s by the
host of housewives who fall on his neck
in gratitude when he brings meat to their
doors.
Comment of W. M. Hughes on
Chifley’s proposal to hand over Austra-
lia’s New Guinea defence areas to an
“international trusteeship”:
When mandates were granted after the
last war they were properly regarded as
essential to our safety. They were obtained
by Australia after heated discussion and
bitter opposition. Although 1 don’t know
what “international trusteeship” means, 1
do know that this is a matter of life and
death to Australia. Our security can never
be ensured unless there is full control of
these bastions of defence.
In these matters Billy’s little finger is
thicker than the Chifley Dorcas Society’s
loin.
It is a debatable question whether the
Rutherglen bug is doing as much damage
as price-fixing officials in Victoria. One
effect of putting a maximum price on
fruit and vegetables is that growers
get apathetic about raising good
crops, since retailers charge the maxi-
mum for everything, good, bad or
indifferent. In a time of acute
shortage like the present, when even the
shops of the superior class look mouldy,
the temptation is even greater. Conse-
quently the grower tends to get careless,
neglects his defences against the scores
of pests that beset him and loses heart,
and his lettuce and cauliflowers follow
his example. Even the Rutherglen bug
itself may be partly a consequence of his
discouragement.
Thoughts of U.S. Senator Burton K.
Wheeler, expressed in Congress on
November 27:
Let us quit appeasing Russia and let
her know once and for all that we did not
fight this war to admit of her enslaving
Europe. By our liberation of the tragic
peoples of Europe and Asia we have de-
livered them from the hands of one cruel
and inhuman dictator into the bloody and
tyrannical hands of another. To permit
the United Nations to use American troops
as part of an international force to put
down aggression leads us inevitably down
the road to the annihilation of an atomic
war. I want to ask my colleagues if they
know of any major treaty the Russians have
not broken since they joined the League of
Nations,
A Democrat, too —from Montana.
Barry, the Victorian Housing Minister,
has instructed the Public Works Depart-
ment to house 300 people evicted, or
about to be evicted, from their homes—
house them in “reasonable comfort” in
converted service huts. He voiced a
criticism of this arrangement: “In the
huts we are converting we could house
a lot more, but the last thing we want
to do is create overnight slums.” Well,
isn’t that what he is doing?
The “Argus” found a precedent, against
Calwell in the matter of refusing pass-
ports to individuals who have annoyed
him. In the last war a Melbourne mer-
chant was charged with alleged income-
tax breaches. Exonerated, he applied
for a passport to go to England and was
refused under National Security regula-
tions. George Maxwell, then a member
of Parliament, took the case to Billy
Hughes. Billy has something of the
dictator in him, too, but it is a bit differ-
ent from the bit that is in Calwell. He
ordered Solicitor-General Garran to hear
an appeal which was argued before him
by young John Latham. The merchant
won his appeal on the ground that a
British subject could not be arbitrarily
confined to Australia, which is what hap-
pens when a Minister refuses a passport.
In another of those beautifully-worded
advertisements which apparently dazzle
their originators, if nobody else, the
Ministry of Post-War Reconstruction has
for the fifth time tried to explain what it
is doing to “rehabilitate” ex-service per-
sonnel. It is “Land Settlement” this time,
with 22in. of costly space devoted to the
subject. But there isn’t a single acre
of land in the whole forest of words.


VETO POWER.
“The Persian delegation to U.N.O. has appealed to the General Assembly against ‘the interference of the Soviet Union, through its officials and armed forces, in the internal
affairs of Persia,' ,and asked it to ‘bring the matter to the attention of the Security Council,’ of which our Mr. Makin is first chairman.”
“Now I’m telling you this has got to be a no-decision bout—or else.”


with WIMBLE'S INKS*
“Stagnant Waters” on the sabotaged
’plane mystery:
Although I have retired from crime detection
in order to devote my full time to the produc-
tion of smokeless smoke-rings I feel it my
duty to explain how the atebrin got in Mr.
Chifiey’s petrol. To anyone with even a super-
ficial knowledge of the points system, army
medical hygiene and service furphies and super-
stitions the solution is obvious. A Bougainville
veteran due for early discharge became con-
vinced that there was something in the army
rumor that atebrin causes sterility. Being un-
able to avoid taking the tablet —I understand
an officer throws one into each man’s mouth
with considerable force —he had parked it in
his cheek for subsequent disposal. Having occa-
sion to fill his cigarette lighter he took a short
piece of rubber hose and proceeded to siphon
some petrol from the nearest ’plane. Some-
thing alarmed him —perhaps he saw Mr.
Chifley—and he blew back, disgorging the
concealed atebrin. He should be easy to find —
a man with high points, recently discharged,
suffering from malaria, slightly less yellow in
complexion than his ward mates and in pos-
session of a Comforts Fund cigarette lighter—
they ■ always need refilling.
* * ♦ »
“Melbn”: Another weather prophet
has appeared in Melbourne. Basing his
predictions on the movements of the
planets, he announced that Mars and
Saturn were moving nearer to one an-
other, and their ultimate conjunction on
January 20 would most likely disturb the
atmosphere and produce a break-up of
the dry spell. He wasn’t far out; on
January 18 and 19 the dry spell was
broken to considerable purpose over vast
parts of Victoria and N. S. Wales. So it
seems rank ingratitude to point out
that Mars’s orbit is completely outside
this planet’s, and its mean distance from
the sun is 141,500,000 miles, while
Saturn’s is 886,779,000. Which shows
that the “conjunction,” like all such
events, is an optical illusion residing in
the earthbound observer.
* * * *
“D.A.”; Cabled that the English-cnm-
Welsh. deathrate for the first three months
of peace was nine per thousand, the lowest
in history. The average for the same
quarter of the previous five years was
9.7. In Australia the war has brought
both a higher average birthrate and death-
rate. In 1938 deaths averaged 9.6 per
thousand, in 1939 9.9, 1940 9.7, 1941 10,
1942 10.5, 1943 10.3, 1944 9.5. During
the first half of 1945 the rate fell to 8.9
—all figures excluding service losses. The
Australian birthrate rose from 17.5 per
thousand in 1938 and 17.6 id 1939 to
21 in 1944 and 22.3 during the first half
of 1945. The white population of the
Commonwealth, 7,341,715 on Dec, 31,
1944, must have passed 7,400,000 at the
end of 1945. Incidentally, between 1938
and 1944 the population of Canberra
had grown from 11,124 to 14,444.
• * • ♦
“Clooter”: One of the things I like
about Sydney is its distance from any-
where else. This makes it possible to
move about Australia without continu-
ously bumping into large crowds, queues,
broken-down buses, stalled trams, over-
loaded and slow trains, black markets,
procurers, s.-p. agents, lottery shops and
the rest. To anyone forced by the circum-
stances of war and travel restrictions to
have put up four or five years in close
confinement in the Sydney area, great
refreshment awaits beyond its borders.
Recently I’ve made One or two tentative
sorties into the big land beyond the pave-
ments and known the pleased astonish-
ment of meeting people who haven’t for-
gotten how to laugh, who don’t want to
take me down, aren’t worried about get-
ting to the races on Saturday and really
know Whether their union is on strike
or not. This is a thing the Sydney Gov-
ernment should concern itself with, for
should such discoveries become common
knowledge a lot of people may arise and
go forth into the hinterland and stay
there —a dreadful prospect for any city
Government to contemplate.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: It was asserted by a Jap
lieutenant-general at the trial in Tokyo
of Chotaro Furushima, commander of a
p.-0.-w. camp, that ugly burns found
on the stomachs, hands and necks of
American prisoners were the result of
medical treatment by an ancient Chinese
and Japanese method. “Kyu” was prac-
tised as far back as the fourth century
and was heard of in the twentieth, but is no
“Tell those people to keep quiel, Radcliff. They're not Watching a
football match!”
longer found in Japanese Army manuals.
It was orthodox practice when I was in
pre-war Nippon, and I have a photograph
I took of my Kyoto innkeeper’s back.
On each side of the spine is a neat row
of scorched circles like the portholes of
an ocean liner. The owner explained that
he had received the treatment for small-
pox, and the fact that he was alive con-
vinced him it was effective.
* * * ♦
“Ike Hollar”: Howlers are not only
with the schoolboys. I learned from some
essays written for a prize competition in
a suburban newspaper (open to adults)
that the native bear does not hyphenate
in the winter as do the true bears of
other countries, that the story of gold
discoveries are included in “the alcoves
of the State” and that Australia had its
“catechism of fire” on Gallipoli. My
prize would have gone to the essayist
who dwelt upon the beauty of “lying in
my tent in the morning listening to
the loud machinations of the laughing
jackasses as they hail the sun.” The
prize-donor (who wanted “A Thought
About Australia”) got his money’s worth.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Few things are more conducive
to disgust than complaining and growling
by some citizen when there is no justi-
fication for it. As an instance, I quote
a Surry Hills (Sydney) witness in an assault
case, who stated that, at a New Year
party she gave, one of the guests brought
a loaded sawn-off shotgun in a banjo-
mandolin case. What is she moaning
about? He might have brought the
banjo-mandolin!
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The case of the 15
Australian girls who journeyed to Manila
without taxation clearances and pass-
ports has thrown a strong light on the
lengths to which bureaucracy has gone in
this fair land and how it will cling to its
tyrannies long after the necessity or
alleged necessity for them has departed.
It seems that no person over the age of
16 can leave Australia without Mr. Cal-
well’s august permission and that the some-
what erratic gentleman can withhold per-
mission if in his opinion the person con-
cerned would be better off here than he
would be somewhere else. In the case of
the Fifteen it was argued that there was no
need for them to go to Manila because
the staffing shortage there could be met by
American servicewomen. A regulation
like that, administered by a person like
Mr. Calwell, could have prevented
Columbus discovering America, Cook
discovering Australia, Raffles founding
Singapore and Darwin obtaining the
material in the South Seas for his theory
of natural selection.
* * * *
“Marby”: Tasmania has celebrated the
rarest of Australian jubilees—that of
Tatt.’s “Consultations,” which began to
rake in the cash at Hobart on January 7,
1896. Of the staff (nine) at the
launching, A. Leach and W. Ramsay are
(though retired) the only survivors; and
at a bit o’ lunch to commemorate the
occasion they were presented with replicas
of the barrel used in drawings just
a reminder of the whizz and whirl of
the marbles —in the days when George
Adams was regarded by many as the
greatest man in Australia.
* * * ♦
“A. Major”: One of the by-products
of Australia’s war-time plenitude of cur-
rency has been a generous hand-out
to maintain a permanent symphony
orchestra in Sydney. *The State gives
£20,000 a year for three years, and the
City Council £lO,OOO a year for a similar
period, with use of the Town Hall rent
free for concerts and rehearsals. A.B.C.
Manager Moses claims this as “the cul-
mination of 12 years’ orchestral develop-
ment undertaken by the A.8.C.,” and says
it entitles Sydney, at least, to “take her
place musically with the world’s great
centres.” There are those who will regard
the subsidisation as an attempt to re-
capture a lost glory. Sydney did have
a musical .reputation 30 years ago, earned
by the engagement of Henri Verbrugg-
hen, whose sojourn in these parts made
1915-22 a very important period in
Australia’s musical history. If the well-
subsidised band of 1946-48 is merely to
be the vehicle of a succession of visiting
conductors it is not likely to add much
to Sydney’s mana in the musical world.
*' * * ♦
“Eros”: Kate Baker, 0.8. E., of Mel-
bourne, who has done more than any-
body else in the country to put the work
of Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”),
author of Such Is Life, on the literary
map, has completed arrangements with
Angus and Robertson for the issuing of
an edition this year of Rigby’s Romance.
Thereby hangs a tale. When A. G.
Stephens, of The Bulletin, cast his eye
over Furphy’s masterpiece and declared
it well fit for publication after many
others had passed it by, he advised very
severe pruning. One of the rejected by-
products was Rigby’s Romance. The
novel was subsequently retrieved from
the columns of “Barrier Daily Truth,”
Broken Hill, which had published it in
serial form, and issued by a De Garis
publishing co., which predeceased its un-
fortunate founder.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A stingray has been respon-
sible for a £9OOO claim for damages in
Melbourne. The creature, a, gigantic
brute, got into the St. Kilda baths in
January last year and struck a bather.
The stroke was at the heart, and the
victim died almost immediately. A writ
issued on behalf of widow and daughter
asserts that the boundary fence of the
baths was broken, decayed, incomplete
and out of repair, and thereby incapable
of excluding dangerous fish. There are
plenty of public sea baths in Australia
that would fit this description. A whale
could get into some of them.
* * * *
“Kay” on Australian war stamps;
~ The Pending new issue of Commonwealth
peace commemoration” stamps recalls Aus-
tralian war issues of the past. Stamps represen-
tative of the Boer War and World Wars I and
II have already been produced, Queensland in
1900 printed two special stamps, one depicting
Queen Victoria, two soldiers and a sailor and
the Australian flag, the other illustrating
ships of the R.N. in battle line, in addition to
a mounted trooper and a likeness of the Queen.
The Victoria Cross was seen on one of the
stamps struck by Victoria in 1900. The sub-
ject for the accompanying value of the set was
two mounted troopers and a sentry “somewhere
in South Africa.” Commemorative of the
20th anniversary of the Anzac landing on Galli-
poli were two labels issued by the Common-
wealth postal people in March, 1935. Made at
the original behest of the N.S.W. Returned
Soldiers’ Association, the stamps had as de-
sign a picture of the Whitehall cenotaph en-
circled by a laurel wreath. Maoriland produced
two war stamps in 1936. By using a surtax
over £17,000 was raised, half of which bene-
fited the dependants of returned soldiers. A
typical “Anzac” at the historic cove was the
stamps’ design. Four other Aussie “specials”
were printed in July, 1940, to celebrate the
Commonwealth participation in World War 11,
being the first unit of the Empire to produce a
“war” issue for the just-concluded conflict. The
stamp showed representatives of Navy, Army
and Air Force, with the head and shoulders of
a nurse in the background.
» * * *
“F.S.”; The extraordinarily bad paint-
ing and weird subjects in a Mel-
bourne show of “moderns” prompted me
to inquire what sort of lighting the
artists used in their studios. I
found there was a cult of high-
powered lighting, some of the
executants not being satisfied
with less than a couple of thou-
sand c.p. to illuminate their
models. Probably an old-
fashioned candle would have
served them better. The
brighter the lighting the more
detail is revealed, and when
every hair and wrinkle and
tonal variation can be clearly
seen it is impossible to do
justice to the subject unless the
artist’s skill is enormous. What
most contemporary artists lack
is observation, and when they
look at their work it seems so
inadequate in relation to the
subject and so vastly inferior to
that of the great masters that
their vanity leads them to the
conclusion that to paint what
one sees has already been
pushed as far as it can
go by men like Rembrandt. So to
make their work look different and im-
portant they start painting figures with
distended stomachs or heads three times
too big for the bodies.
X.
“For almost the first time in its history N. S.
Wales is without a Governor.”
The letter X, so oft employed
In algebra, has come to be
The symbol of an aching void,
An undiscovered quantity.
And the same problem comes to vex
When one endeavors to foretell
Who’s like to be our coming Ex. —
For no man knows except McKell.
He fancies for a figurehead
Some local lad, it’s safe to say,
But certain hints are hazarded
Of difficulties in the way.
It all depends if Attlee’s crowd
Consider it desirable,
A secret nobody’s allowed
To share as yet with Bill McKell.
When information to extract
Importunate reporters try
He heads them off with gentle tact
“And smiling puts the question by.’
He emulates the “Wait and See”
That Asquith’s hearers knew so well.
A whale for taciturnity
In this regard is Bill McKell.
However quidnuncs speculate
Who next will claim the proud address
Of Ex. in this our mother State,
It’s clearly anybody’s guess.
He still remains, you can’t but see,
Quite unidentifiable.
In short, an unknown quantity—
Except of course to Bill McKell. .
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
HOME-BREWERS, BEWARE!
“Prosecutions will follow discoveries of the home-
brewing of beer in Sydney suburbs, according to
Customs ofiicials.”
Time was when something infinitely pleasant
Lurked in the bold announcement “Home-
brewed Beer”
On English inns. It promised peer and peasant
Alike a special brand of liquid cheer
From the top drawer. But, it would seem, at
present
There’s no such differentiation here.
The very phrase, it’s clear as beer can be,
Stinks in the nostrils of authority.
To hustle round collecting such ingredients
As seem adapted for synthetic ales
And substituting various expedients
For malt and hops, when search for either
fails,
Is viewed as rank and flagrant disobedience
To law as it exists in New South Wales,
A dire offence that, sheeted home, will fetch
A fine and, if it isn’t paid, a stretch.
It matters not a tinker’s malediction
Whether you err for pleasure or for pelt;
It’s just as palpably a dereliction
Whether you stack the bottles on the shell
For furtive sales, or with the sure conviction
You can assimilate the lot yourself
And thus escape discomfiture that mars
Frequent excursions to congested bars.
It matters not if your investigations
Are motivated by a genuine bent
For purely scientific observations
And pharmaceutical experiment,
Not by a vulgar urge for more potations
That post-war opportunities present.
No sympathy such fine distinction stirs
In the hard hearts of Customs officers.
Take warning, you ingenious resorters,
To recipes our rude forefathers knew
For ersatz ales and imitation porters!
The game is definitely ruled taboo.
Bake, if you will, but from exalted
The fiat emanates “Thou Shalt Not Brew.
And none, you know, have keener scent than
cops
For anything resembling malt and hops.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Macnell”: The Fighter Director
Officer of the battleship Duke of York
is a bi-linguist. He has to be, for the jargon
he employs to direct his fleet fighters was
designed to confuse the Jap. A Walrus
rescue ’plane becomes “Chicken,” a
“Bogie” an identified aircraft, seven
“Angels” a height of 7000 feet. A typical
“run"’ in action sounded something like
this: “This is Knocker. Four Bandits
in your sector bearing zero nine zero,
“Well, Sergeant, she liked it, so she bought it.”
seven Angels. I leave it to you. Over.”
Then, “Calling 291. This is Knocker.
Am sending out a Chicken and Dog Dog.
Pancake near leading Baker Baker.
Over.” This conversation piece implies
that the ship’s radar has picked up and
identified four enemy aircraft, height
7000 feet; that the Fighter Direction
Officer has set his hawks on to them, and
has given permission for their liquida-
tion. 'Plane 291 has become a casualty,
so his mentor down below, whose appa-
rent omniscience, by the way, is bounded
by four W/T bulkheads, is dispatching
a Walrus and destroyer to his assistance.
He is to ditch near the leading battleship.
The report made on sighting the quarry
is still, of course, “Tallyho!”
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment contemplates sending 50 of the
best drawings of old colonial architecture
in the Hardy Wilson collection to be hung
as representative Australian art in our
overseas legations. Why present them as
a picture of .this country? Australian
early-colonial architecture rivalled in
beauty and dignity the old colonial homes
of the United States, but where are they
today? Most of them have long since
gone to the wreckers, and there is no
trace of their influence in modern Aus-
tralian architecture. Instead of sending
abroad these drawings the Government
ought to have reproductions of them
made, printed on postcards, exhibited in
trams and trains and put up in the offices
of every department concerned with
post-war reconstruction.
* * * *
“Free Jim”: After three years’ compul-
sory sojourn in Maoriland 800 Japanese
fighting men and laborers have left for
home aboard two American LST’s. An
incident of their internment at Feather-
ston was that in February, 1943, armed
guards quelling a riot killed 48 and
wounded 63. On nearly all other
occasions the internees were tract-
able, and padres report that “many”
have been converted to the Christian
faith. When they left they ex-
pressed “thanks and appreciation for
just and considerate treatment.” Jour-
ney back to their battered homeland is
taking six weeks.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The British Government's
proposal to socialise Cables and Wireless
has snags in front of it. The private
companies built up their world system
by direct negotiation with foreign coun-
tries for landing rights. Eastern Exten-
sion obtained a concession from the Man-
chus to lay a cable to Shanghai. The
political scene had changed, however,
when the £1,000,000 cable reached the
Whangpoo, and while guns popped on
shore the operator had to work the cable
from a barge anchored in midstream. One
morning a sampan came alongside and
a Chinese coolie raised his head above
the gunwale. He grinned and said “My
name’s Morrison.” He was “Chinese”
Morrison, then “Times” correspondent,
using his customary method of obtaining
information. When, by treaty with native
princes, adventurers like Ross, of Cocos
Island, and Governments (some of these
antagonistic to Britain)., the companies
had established a network of communi-
cations over most of the world. Govern-
ments began to take an interest in them.
An international convention sitting at
Geneva fixed conditions, rates and 'ter-
minal and transit dues, but, generally
speaking, landing rights were respected,
and frequently a country would pay a
handsome subsidy to a company for the
privilege of being brought into the ambit
of world communications. There are lots
of countries, however, which are likely to
look askance at a request for landing
rights from a State pf a different poli-
tical complexion. The Indonesian “re-
public,” for instance, wouldn’t like to
grant landing rights to a Dutch cable at
the present moment, any more than it
would want to provide berths for Dutch
warships.
* * * *
“X.S.”; The way of the crook is be-
coming harder. Scotland Yard recently
cabled a picturegraph to Russell-street,
Melbourne, giving personal details, finger-
prints, code index and photographs of a
man standing his trial at Bow-street for
conspiracy to defraud and believed to
have Melbourne convictions for house-
breaking and possession of counter-
feit coins. The request and the reply
took only four hours in transit.
* * * *
“Uco”: Lethal weapons? Magistrates
are continually imposing fines for the
possession of unregistered firearms,
although daggers, swords, poniards, krises
and other pointed weapons involve their
owners in no pecuniary risk. A Sydney
shop window suggests a new temptation
for the would-be assassin—an aboriginal
death bone, all ready for pointing. Guar-
anteed made of kangaroo bone and
human hair, it is reasonably priced at
10s. 6d. A ticket concludes with the
cryptic remark “An ideal gift for over-
seas.”
* * * *
“Ceg” on fire risks in the old days:
The hundred or so cos. writing fire insur-
ance in Australia must be having a fairly good
time nowadays so far as risks on house
property are concerned. Cities and country towns
are all suffering acutely from housing shortage
and there is little temptation for the most ardent
firebug to commit arson. Very different was
the experience of old goldmining towns in Vic-
toria 40 years and more ago when the gold
gave out. Oile place had seven fires in six
nights. Fires became so frequent that it was
almost impossible to take out a new policy on
an unoccupied house. The insurers stood to
existing* policies but eventually had to pay their
own watchmen to patrol during the nights—a
revival of the original practice in England when
the cos. maintained their own fire-fighting units.
A method of starting a fire which was very
popular was to place a piece of phosphorus in
a very wet blanket somewhere under the house
and then depart. Usually a day or so would
pass before the blanket dried out, and when it
did the phosphorus would automatically ignite
and up she went. Drenching everything
with kerosene was surer, but it left a very
suspicious smell.
* * * *
“Pom Pom”: Despite the efforts of
reporters to clothe the rather dull affair
with glamor, the Sydney-Hobart race was
not one of the events that make sailing
history. Sydney’s older yachtsmen when-
ever they hear of ocean voyaging by small
sailing craft remember the arrival in Port
Jackson of Captain Voss, out of Vic-
toria, British Columbia, on the first leg
of his voyage round the world in the
Tilikum, a Chinook dugout canoe, 30ft.
long on the keel by 4ft. 6in. at the widest.
Voss fitted three masts with trysails and a
foresail; the masts were so short that
when the Tilikum was in the trough be-
tween the waves her sails were useless
until she rode out of the sheltering hol-
low, where the wind could once more
reach them. Voss came into Sydney alone
and without a compass (lost overboard),
but made his landfall with less than a
mile in error, a fine feat of dead-reckon-
ing. After leaving Sydney he went on his
way, via Torres Strait and the Arafura
Sea, across the Indian Ocean to Rodri-
guez, Durban and Capetown, and then
to Pernambuco, Brazil, before proceeding
to London. There he dropped the pick
just three years and one hundred days
after leaving Victoria, B.C.
* * * *
“J.K.”: Preparations are being made to
celebrate the centenary of Marcus Clarke s
birth, April 23, 1846. Melbourne Public
Library Trustees have been asked to make
a display, and seeing that Clarke was
employed there for years there should be
no lack of material. Already a book deal-
ing with the writing of Long Odds,
Clarke’s first novel, has appeared, written,
printed and bound by one man, Samuel
Simmons. It is free to genuinely inter-
ested students of Australiana. Brian
Elliott, of Adelaide University, is also
engaged on a book to mark the occasion.
Clarke does not appear to have received
deserved recognition by Victorians. His
tombstone in Melbourne General Ceme-
tery was erected by South Australian
admirers.
* * * *
“Anti-Hooey”: A picture in Sydney’s
“Daily Telegraph” of a pair of wistful,
puzzled youngsters, members of a party
of schoolchildren, gazing at one of
those “modernist” paintings came the
day after a “S.M.H.” report of a
performance of Saroyan’s play “The
Beautiful People” (also very much
in the “modernist” manner). The kids,
of course, couldn’t make much of
futurist pictures or of Saroyan’s crowded
nightmare, and they said so in no uncer-
tain terms. Their judgment, palpably
sincere, is, of course, that of children
everywhere when confronted with calcu-
lated and sophisticated infantility. Like the
one honest critic, the child, in the old
story of the King’s wonderful new robe,
they see that there is nothing there.
* * * *
“Pitt St ”: Passing by a Sydney fancy-
goods shop I spotted a set of crockery
being set up for display and sale in the
window. Having long sought for the
very thing, I dived in and bought it,
price 70s. “You’re lucky,” said the sales-
man. “These things go like hot cakes,
mostly to curio shops. Yair, they
cheerfully pay our retail price, take the
sets to their shops and either sell ’em
at a quid or so more or separate’ em and
sell ’em as odd pieces, very rare, for about
three times the money. There’s more
mugs walk along a Sydney street in one
hour than in the rest of Australia (and
I’m not excluding Euglo West or Back
Bobbra Wobbra) in a year.” I’m now
debating whether to give the set to the
wife as first intended, or turn it into
a whacking profit sans taxation or com-
mission.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Australia should certainly
have had a Boston among its more not-
able town names. Not in imitation of
the U.S. centre of culture, itself named
“Tell me straight, doctor—is it broken ?”
after the pretty old town on the River
Whitham in Lincolnshire, a few miles
from the turbulent Wash estuary, where
King John once had such a rough passage,
but for good reasons of national grati-
tude. Joseph Banks, who, more than
any other man was responsible for
bringing about the birth and develop-
ment of Australia as a British colony as
an outcome of his voyage with Cook as
a young man, was the squire of near-by
Revesby, and the first kangaroos ever
taken to Britain were acclimatised in
Revesby Park. George Bass, that adven-
turous young naval surgeon who, with
Flinders, himself a fellow-townsman of
Boston, discovered Bass Strait, still has
descendants living there. It was to Boston
that Matthew Flinders returned to die
after yearp of unjust imprisonment by
De Caen, the ruffianly French Governor
of Mauritius. Boston-born John Frank-
lin, the Arctic explorer, was Governor of
Tasmania. Other Boston men were active
agents in establishing in Australia the
Lincoln sheep, which, after careful cross-
ing and selection, have given us the
world’s most prolific wool-producer.
* * * *
“Didak”: Tasmania’s Chief Justice,
John Morris, offered to a summer school
gathering some sensible _ observations on
the subject of the demand for a shorter
working week. He was concerned with
the use that would be made of more play
time, and suggested that “mass leisure
could be a great social nuisance, bringing
unrest, discontent and strife.” Commer-
cial interests would step in to cater for
mass leisure, and the trouble there was
that amusements today were entirely
external. He continued:
If people are to get happiness out of life
they must learn the art of living, and an
essential for that is an attitude of dignity
and awareness. A man should be aware of
beauty wherever it is to be found. He
should appreciate achievements of the mind,
of scholarship, mathematics *and science.
It is useless to talk of leisure or of edu-
cation unless we can create such an attitude
to life.
The reference to education is apt. It
should have two aims the special to
equip the young to be useful members of
society ; the general to equip the citizenry
with an appreciation of beauty and an
awareness of every important field of
human thought and endeavor. A system
of education that produces a community
almost universally focussed on “what won
the ’urdles” evidently does not serve the
second and most important purpose.
* * * *
“Limey”: Announcement that appeared
on the noticeboard of one of the smaller
English golf clubs during the 1940 blitz:
At an emergency meeting of the com-
mittee held to consider questions arising
from enemy action the following temporary
rules were adopted:
(1) A ball coming to rest in a bomb-
crater may be picked up and dropped not
nearer the hole and in a direct line with
the hole without penalty.
(2) Ground littered with bomb-debris
may be treated as ground under repair.
Quite in the spirit of Drake’s “The good
souls must wait their turn.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: Fifteen years ago a Mel-
bqurne wine merchant who grows his own
grapes found some wine at the bottom
of a cask that hadn’t been completely
emptied and had been forgotten. It
turned out to be an exceptionally good
port. He had it bottled and brought it
out only on special occasions. Year by
year the port got better, and the occa-
sions on which he produced it became
rarer and rarer. Just before Christmas
he made a present of one of the few re-
maining bottles to a friend. In the New
Year he ran across his friend’s wife and
asked her how they liked it. “Oh,” she
said, “I put it in a trifle and we had it
with our Christmas dinner. The trifle was
simply scrumptious,”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old Timer”: The earnest person who
sets out to eradicate class-consciousness
under the dictum that all men are born
equal ought to have been sitting on the
verandah of the Capertee pub the after-
noon old Andy blew in from Mudgee.
Andy, shaven and wearing well-washed
shirt and pants and with his boots pro-
perly laced, dropped his large but neat
swag on the floorboards, accepted our in-
vitation to irrigate, then joined the desul-
torily talk about weather, rabbits, sheep
and so forth. Somebody asked Andy
how he was doing, and Andy confessed
he had just tramped 100 miles, hadn’t
held a deener for weeks and was a bit
short of tucker. But he wasn’t worried
about it. Then, over the railway bridge
from the Portland side came another bag-
man. He wore a long and ragged over-
coat, a rime of dust and whisker on his
dial, boots held together with wire and
string, tattered pants and a greasy, un-
washed and furtive look. “Ha,” remarked
the local humorist to Andy, “a brother
in adversity.” Andy eyed the newcomer,
spat and growled, “There’s too many of
them low-heels about this country. Com-
mon, that’s what they are. By cripes,
he ain’t no brother o’ mine.” And the
aristocrat shouldered his tidy swag and
headed for the Turon, remarking,
“Better get out before he sights me. The
cow might camp near a man.”
5= * # *
“E. 2”: Dan sold his cattle and the
scrub selection and shifted to a nice
little farm on the river. The new place
had a few conveniences that were some-
thing of a novelty to the old chap, and
it took him a while to get the hang of
things. On the day I called he was wait-
ing expectantly on the verandah for some-
thing, but I didn’t get a clue till I men-
tioned that he’d find it handy having the
’phone on. “Yairs,” he said. “It saves
a lot of time. I’m waitin’ t’ put a call
through as soon as Joey gits back. I
sent him down t’ Fred’s on his bike t’ tell
Fred I’m goin’t’ ring him up.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: High, hot winds and a
few fires had broken sundry barriers, and
the boss found himself with a mixed mob
of merinos. Border Leicesters, crossbreds
and what nots of varied ages and sexes
to the tune of about 3000. We got ’em
into the yards and began drafting. By
10 a.m. the day was a scorcher, windless.
and the dust hung over the yards so thick
you could almost climb upon it. The
sheep, of course, began to baulk. By this
time neither the boss. Mat nor I could
see each other, the dogs or the jummies.
Then the boss croaked “It’s no good,
boys. Run this pen through an’ we’ll turn
it up till she cools off.” I was in the
forcing pen, feeling rather than seeing
the sheep, and I was glad to smack what
looked like the biggest B.L. ram in the
world on the rump as it followed the
last of ’em through. “WhoTe y’ hittin’?”
yelled Mat, straightening up. “Blime,”
I yelled back, “what’re y’ tryin’ t’ do?”
His grin caused the dust to cascade off
his dial. “Well,” he said, “I couldn't
see anythin’ standin’ up, but I reckoned
if the flamin’ sheep could see t’ get
through the race I better follow ’em.”
When the boss heard about it he said
“Gripes, just as well y’ mate saw you.
I was thinkin’ of droppin’ the last sheep
for mutton.”
* * * «
“Notaden”: A clump of tall saplings
in a bend of the creek is the undisputed
domain of a colony of Australia’s tiniest
birds, the weebills. From tail-tip to the
end of their saucy little bills none of them
are much longer than an average man’s
middle finger. Cheery sprites ‘they are,
neatly attired in shades of brown with a
yellow waistcoat, flitting about in little
“Turn the engine off. Doc. —no need to Waste petrol”
companies or hunting insects in the tree-
tops, their clear three-note whistle coming
delicately down through the afternoon
silence. Just now they are very busy,
teaching their young families the busi-
ness of fending for themselves when the
little round house of feather-lined grass
hanging in the treetop is no longer avail-
able and father and mother are busy with
next season’s brood. Soon, the young-
sters will have learned that life is a busi-
ness of catching your own tucker instead
of shutting your eyes and squealing until
it is shoved down your throat. By March
they will be off their parent’s consciences
and the adult community will be able to
settle down to enjoy itself until family
duties begin again with spring.
* * sfc * \
“Dicky Beach”: Long-continued dry
weather has created a serious risk to river
bathers in S.Q. and Northern N.S.W. The
increased salinity has enabled sharks to
travel upstream for surprisingly long dis-
tances, extending in some observed cases
to nearly 200 miles from the river mouth.
The whaler, a savage and aggressive
brute, is the most enterprising species in
the inland-travel line, and will venture up
quite small creeks with barely enough
water to submerge it. I have shot one
nearly eight feet long in a narrow creek
with less than four feet of water, more
than 20 miles ffom the sea. They favor,
especially, the murky pools which are so
attractive to youngsters as swimming
places in hot weather.
“Physalia”: Surfers on S.Q. beaches
will have good reason to remember the
first week of 1946. It achieved an all-
time record for bluebottles. From
Tewantin to the Tweed every beach was
littered with the bluish-purple floats and
long blue tentacles of the poisonous crea-
tures, brought ashore by big tides and
persistent fresh north-easterly winds.
Hundreds of victims received ambulance
treatment, and hundreds more treated
themselves by rubbing the stung places
with sand to break up the tiny barbs left
by contacting tentacles and applying
diluted ammonia-to neutralise the poison
which they contain. Extensive stings may
cause shock in weak or elderly people,
but serious results are rare. Fatalities
have occurred through swimmers getting
tentacles wrapped round their bodies in
deep water, the uncontrollable outward
gasp of breath from the sudden severe
pain diminishing flotation power and the
subsequent involuntary intake- drawing
water into the lungs. With bluebottles
about the good old-fashioned bathers are
much healthier wear for sharkbait-
surfers than trunks.
* * * *
“Round O”: The town of Arbroath
(26,000 inhabitants) on the east coast of
Scotland for many years derived its water
supply from water seeping the
sands of an adjacent beach (B. 2/1/’46).
An adit was driven to intercept the water,
which was pumped to a reservoir and
thence distributed throughout the town.
The reservoir took the form of a battle-
mented stone building and, being on the
top of a hill, formed a distinctive adjunct
to the surrounding district. A dry season
diminished the supply and caused the
Town Council to look for a fresh supply,
which now comes by gravitation from an
inland loch.
* * ❖ •
“Horseless Horseman”: When “Munja”
(B. 14/11 /’45) smiles at my statement re
N.G. natives growing only enough food
for their bare needs, “Koros Tumas” (B.
5 /'l2 l ’45) says that “M.” lets sentiment run
away with hard facts,” but I say it’s gross
imagination, “M’s” par. is so inaccurate.
Old N.G. hands who’ve read the par.
have laughed at “M’s” mention of “coons
growing citrus fruits and tomatoes far
in access of immediate requirements,”
etc. However, “K.T.” has exploded that
fallacy. “M’s” experience, too, that
natives “go back to Mother Earth very
quickly” isn’t mine, especially along the
Rye and Madang coasts after retreating
Japs ruined all gardens. There, for
months, we carted rations to villages
while Angau fed the inhabitants to en-
able them to get their gardens going. But
scarcely a garden was started until Angau
cut out the stores. And “bulla-moo-cow”
“just a passing phase”? Rot! It was in-
troduced in the German regime. In
pre-war years it wasn’t a trade store or a
recruiter’s pinnace if it didn’t carry bully
and rice. And, if up the Sepik
one “wouldn’t swap a case of bully for
a couple of bananas” how is it that re-
cently 250 miles up above Avatip, where
there had been no Allied troops, but only
a few Japs without trade, and where
gardens, pigs and poultry are still intact —
how is it that, without advertising, we
were harassed with inquiries to trade and
sell bully everywhere? Tinned meat can’t
be a passing phase introduced by our
troops there—we were the first “white-
skins” to contact those naked head-
hunters since the Jap war.
* * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: In idle curiosity I watched
a pair of tilers as they searched for the
source of a pronounced leak in a neigh-
bor’s roof. After a large area had been
stripped to the battens without sign of
the trouble the older man declared; “It
must be in the ridging.” Removing the
fourth piece of ridge-capping the youth-
ful tradesman suddenly called to his
mate in astonishment, and being a natural
“sticky” I climbed the ladder to see the
cause of the man’s interest. Huddled on
the roof timbers were 18 green frogs.
“We don’t have to look any farther,” the
Voice of Experience said; “they’ve
climbed up the down-pipe and huddled
against the underside of the ridge • when
a frog does that it has the same effect as
putting your finger on the inside of a
saturated tent.” Fantastic as it seems
the roof never leaked again after the
frogs were removed and the ridging re-
placed. And I’m wondering whether this
attraction (capillary or otherwise) is a
clue that might partly explain the pheno-
menon of frogs being found still alive
after countless years of entombment in
clay, shale or rock: possibly the creature
is able to attract liquid sustenance to
itself.
* * * =l=
“Stern Wheeler”: When I left Mata-
ranka a few months ago rumor was busy
with a story that the bones of The Maluka
and others of Mrs. jEneas Gunn’s
characters (B. 19/12/’45) were to be re-
moved from Elsey National Cemetery,
just along the Stuart Highway from Mata.]
to Alice Springs, reason given being their
attraction for tourists. All questions of
sacrilege aside, this would be foolish. Just
beside the cemetery is the turn-off to
Elsey Falls, where some of the scenes for
the Overlanders were filmed. And those
falls are going to attract droves of
tourists when the Territory gets its share
of folder publicity or I don’t know my
scenery.
* • <r w
“Notaden”: As I write, two boobook
owls are dozing the daylight hours away
side by side on a well-shaded tree-branch
overhanging the nearby cliff edge. Every
now and then one
wakes, stares frown-
ingly around with a
swinging motion of the
head necessitated by the
relative immobility of
its bright hazel eyes,
nudges up against its
companion, and goes to
sleep again. Mother
and child they are, for
the callow marks still
show on the hooked
beak of the smaller one.
A strange folk, the only
true birds of prey
which hunt at night,
their soft feathers mak-
ing no sound to warn
the victim, their strong
feet each provided with
a reversible toe which
gives grasping power
shared only by parrots
and cuckoos, owls have
spread through the
world even, to New
Zealand, Their classi-
fication into species has
caused more rows
among ornithologists
than have ever arisen
over any other kind of
bird. My little friends
dozing below have gained for the voice-
less mopoke a vocal reputation still
strenuously defended in many a bush pub.
The Powerful Owl, largest of all the
tribe, has the most blood-curdling
screech of any bird on earth, ending on a
choking gurgle of shuddering horror.
Otherwise they are an unobtrusive folk,
and good friends to man by reason of the
ceaseless nocturnal war which they wage
on mice, rats and destructive insects.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: I hate to appear to cavil,
but when “Col. Bungstarter” states
(B. 5/12/’45) that Jap samurai swords
were made of soft, elastic, mag-
netic iron, I am obliged to remark that
there ain’t no such thing. Only steel is
magnetic, and hardened steel at that. And
the hardness of the steel invariably de-
pends on the percentage of carbon it con-
tains. A soft elastic iron would contain
practically no carbon and could only be-
come magnetic when influenced by a
multiple electric current such as could be
obtained by surrounding it with a coil of
wire, electrically excited. Actually the
virtue in all these ancient swords, Jap or
others, lay in the charcoal iron from
which they were forged. A very small
percentage of phosphorus makes steel
cold-short: incapable of keeping a sharp
edge, and also liable to snap. Sulphur
in small quantities makes it hot-short:
difficult to forge, almost impossible to
weld. The phosphorus generally comes
from the ore; sulphur from the fuel.
Surface ore, such as the primitives
generally used, is invariably phos-
phorus-free. Charcoal is sulphur-free.
Smelting produced, not pig-iron, but
an iron bloom, practically a mild
steel sponge. The more this was
forged and reheated in a charcoal fire
the harder it became, from the carbon
absorbed from the incandescent charcoal.
The high quality of Sheffield cutlery was
attained by a modification of this ancient
process.
THE RETURN.
Quick, close the door !
There is a stranger coming—
The man you waved goodbye with flags —
Remember, ’4O, ’4l?
“And we at home will keep your memory
green.”
Green as some English churchyard stuffed with
death!
Sombre he comes—-talk and truculence covering
a quiet, ....
Haunting the pubs for others of his kind;
Wounded, discharged, ackwilling from the batt.
His thoughts are ribboned through with restless-
A ghost’ arm jogging in an empty sleeve.
These city streets quarter an alien ground
For one, who, for a little space
Held all of Greece from horror and the dark,
Ranged the bright desert, shared the green-damp
growth
With hidden death and fleetfoot treachery.
Dumbly he knows his sands are running out
Not heaped-up years, but pinchgut, hour-glass
Set rids
Silting the heart with slow rememberings:
A wind-hewn wadi populous with death,
His rifle number and his sick parades,
Delousing squads, and crimings, pay-book fines,
Hearing old drill, re-group, withdraw, retire,
Feeling his scalp contracting under fire,
The rifle steady and the heart too large.
Quickening his pulse-beats to each fresh bar-
rage.
The beer rings knit into a liquid chain
Holding in spell the friends who still remain,
(Death is a friend to all who still remain
Who climbed to peace on bodies of the slain).
Talking in order to make silence rich,
Slumped sullen to defeat the daylong itch
To move, to break all bonds, escape at last
From all the fettering of those tense small
things
A man just can’t remember when he sings
Of home and sweethearts, from a long way off.
They fought fear in the islands, on the beaches,
And through the pitiless streets of foreign
towns;
But fear and doubt come jostling through all
thoughts,
And want’s an ambush on the edge of jobs.
Will there be work for starveling, idle hands,
And house-room for the children to be born?
Open the door —’tis we are stranger folk.
Aloof, divided, safe in their strength unsleeping,
We grew dishonest in the mind, while they
Moved surely forward to their victory—
The men we bade good-bye with cheers and
flags,
In ’4l and ’4O,
Long ago.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Bo”: “I’ve seen Donaldson and the
rest of ’em run,” said Boolaroo Bill,
“but a bloke from up around Kyogle way
could’ve given ’em all ten yards in a
hundred and this cove never run in a
pros.’ race in his life. They still talk
around the fellers’ camps up there about
the performance put up by Danny the
Dill out in the ironbark country, Danny
an’ Joe Bronson an’ me are on a fellin’
contract. Danny hadn’t had too much to
do with big timber, an’ he mostly did
the cookin’ an’ odd jobs around the
“Pickers been at your hook, too. Mister?”
camp, besides havin’ a crack at the
smaller stuff, while Joe an’ me knocked
down the big sticks. Well, one day
Danny’s where he’s not supposed to be
when we hop down from the spring-
boards just before she starts to crack.
She’s left the perpendicular and on the
jyay down before Danny sees the shadder
cornin’—apparently he didn’t hear the
crack. Well, we’re watchin’him. For a
second or two he’s watchin’ the 120 ft.
ironbark swishin’ down on him —then he
takes to his heels. First he rushes in
one direction, then he decides it ain’t
safe, an’ then he turns an’ tears off in
another direction —and, boy, did he gal-
lop ! The bracken was scorched where he
flew by. Joe an’ me
reckoned he did the
hundred in eight sec-
onds flat, and that
was through black
sand and thick under-
growth. The trunk
missed him be about
four feet, and lucky
it rolled away from
him.” “But when
you saw he was in
line with the falling
tree, didn’t you yell
out a warning to
him?” I asked.
“Square up! ” said
Boolaroo Bill, “Joe
an’ me had a bet on
about whether he’d
make expect
a bloke to go an”
muck up a good
bet?”
* *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”:
It was a couple of
hours, before the
birth of Baby No. 7,
and Mrs. Cowbail, just arrived in hos-
pital, was wearily answering the long
questionnaire, the routine of most public
maternity hospitals. The nurse had
written down names and dates of birth
of each earlier Cowbail and was unearth-
ing the whole genealogical table of Mrs.
Cowbail and her husband. At length the
nurse said: “This is the last. What re-
ligion, Mrs. Cowbail?” “Australia First,”
was the reply, and the nurse repeated her
question a little louder. “Australia
First,” reiterated Mrs. C., a nasty glint in
her eye, “I don’t know what it is, but its
all I got time for,” The nurse wisely
left the question for Mr. Cowbail on his
next visit.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Reserved as an asylum for
the Ornithological Society’s collection of
water birds,” says B. 21/11/ ’45 of the
St. James Park lake in London. Last
time I was there I saw a black swan —a
startling sight in England. “Suppose he
has a bad time?” I said ; “when we intro-
duced some white ones on the Torrens
Lake in Adelaide the native black ones,
who had never seen such a sight, pecked
the strangers to death.” “There have
been no fights like that here,” said the
Londoner; “this black chap quickly
showed who was boss of the lake, and
the white ones didn’t dispute it.”
* * * *
“Lub”; The pub rouseabout had taken
a message for me, so I invited him to
have a drink. “It wasn’t always like this,”
he said, indicating the surroundings. “I
had a big farm in the wheat belt once,
with tractors an’ machinery t’ sow a
thousand acres a season. Me old man’d
worked all his life t’ build up that pro-
perty. But the bloke who could’ve made
wheatgrowin’ pay would’ve needed t’ be
a wizard, an’ it was Ma, with her mob
of chooks, who kept the place goin’.
Well, I got t’ figgerin’ chooks must be a
pre'tty fair payin’ game, an’ as things was
goin’ I was on’y spongin’ on Ma by tryin’
t’ make a do of it with wheat; so I sold
up all the bank didn’t own an’ invested
in a chook farm. Y’d hardly believe it,*
but when we settled down t’ chooks in a
serious way there wasn’t a cracker t’ be
made from them. I went broke in six
munce an’ took the job here.” “And I
s’pose most of your wages go over the
counter,” I chipped him. “Well, p’rhaps
they do,” he considered. “But we’ve
“You go hack for the cart — I've got the horse.”
got a place on the outskirts of the town.
Ma keeps things goin’ by runnin’ a mob
of chooks.”
* * * *
“Wonga”: While mustering sheep on
Kosciusko snow leases on an early winter
day we were caught by a premature fall of
snow. To me —it was my first time in
these parts—the'prospect of midday billy
seemed rather bleak, the only timber avail-
able being some wet snow-gum. Then
one of the old hands scraped some snow
off a flat-topped granite rock, took from
his pocket a few lumps of charcoal which
had previously been soaked in kerosene,
placed them on the rock and set a match
to them. Soon the snow-gum branches
were crackling and hot tea was in the
offing.
» * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Despite all the good
points of the primus (B. 5/12/’45) there
are occasional nitwits who contrive to
turn it into a lethal device. Take the
chump who, having mislaid the pricker,
tries to induce a full flame by means of
excessive pumping. As a result, he, or
she, produces an air pressure of possibly
301 b. to the square inch inside a brass
container with a shell not more than
l-64th of an inch thick. Added to this is
the expansion of such air under the re-
flected heat from the burner, with again
the fact that as brass grows hotter it
becames weaker in tensile strength. So,
just occasionally, one hears of an explod-
ing primus. Another humorist is the
joker who starts pumping before the
burner is properly heated —with the re-
sult that the kero, comes out of the nipple
as a liquid instead of as a gas. This can
be remedied instantly by opening the
screw valve, but often the nitwit does his
nut, the kero, flames burning a yard high.
This is particularly thrilling in the galley
of a small-decked boat. Finally comes
the thumb-fingered oaf who, when a
hundred miles from the nearest store,
breaks off a pricker in the nipple and puts
the primus out of action,
* * * *
“Ranradar”: “Bughouse” (8.12/12/’45)
certainly is when he states that radar
would be of no use in locating whales.
I have seen a submarine sunk by
night which was not seen by human eyes
till it blew up; it was located on surface
by radar, and subsequent shooting was
controlled by the same medium. Also
it gives me pleasure to enlighten “B.” that
even the splash from a shell can be picked
up by radar, a shoal can be plotted, and
it is possible to locate a whale blowing
on the surface.
* * * *
“Wonk”: It was Saturday night, and
the camp was out of meat. “Won’t be
able to kill for a coupla nights, neither,”
worried Jake, rubbing a hand over his
head. “Dunno ; ’less we fall back on a
pot o’ them rabbits.” There was a howl
from the mob, “Aw, cut it out,” was
Bob’s protest. “Whatcha think we are?
Even the dogs won’t eat them things.”
Then Ted got a brainwave. “Couldn’t
we ride out to the river t’morrer and get
some fish?” he suggested. “It ain’t
more’n 10 or 12 miles, an’ we might
catch enough t’ see us through a coupla
feeds.” His enthusiasm caught on, and
the evening was spent sorting lines and
recounting tales of outsizes that did or
didn’t get away, interspersed with argu-
ment on the correct method of cooking
the luxury. After a long daybreak
journey and a few unsuccessful casts,
Jake decided to stroll to the house on
the rise and ask Tim Jameson about the
best fishing water. “Fish?” was Tim’s
reply. “Cripes, the branch is crawlin’
with ’em up round the bend. Easy
caught, too, they tell me, not that I ever
worry ’em myself. Don’t know what
people see in them things. But, say
Jake, y’ got any rabbits down your way?
Yair? Well, I’ll be down t’morrer.
We’re right out o’ meat an’, cripes,
bunnies ’d be snifter for a change.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: When “Sarina” started
his par (B. 5/12/’45) with the information
that N.Q. blacks used to make a drink
of green ants I thought he was going to
give us the recipe; with beer and other
brews so short even an abo. stagger-
juice would be welcome. But, frankly,
although green ants are plentiful enough
in the Westralian far north I never came
on any of the abos. there using the insects
as a thirst-quencher, though I have
seen them brewing with “sugarbag” in
which plenty of bees had found an end.
Questioning one lady brewer I learned
that such corpses were held to increase
the strength of the beverage on the
ground, not so much that they gave it
sting, as that the deceased bee contained
a reservoir of nectar. I have also seen
abo, ladies doing things culinary with the
white ant, producing a dainty hors-
d’oeuvre for their lord’s dejeuner. The
recipe for this was simple. First the ter-
mites, invariably extracted from a decay-
ing stump, were separated from wood and
earth by a deft sieving in a pitchi. The
mass was then immersed in boiling fat,
fried to a crisp brownness, and served
on a platter of bark.
* * «
“Horseless Horseman”; Is it only the
domestic goat that can’t swin or is it all
goats? Recently in New Guinea waters
we took a billy and three nannies up the
coast to a civilian planter there, and,
close to the beach at his reef-fringed,
basin-like anchorage, we inadvertently
tipped the four overboard in 2\ fathoms
to swim ashore. They never looked like
swimming even under water, and our
native crew were half-drowned before we
recovered the animals in the ship’s boat.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Fitzie was anxiously search-
ing for rain clouds when Joe arrived,
explained that his wireless set had “gone
bust,” and asked Fitz if he’d sell his camp
set. After a bit of haggling they came
to terms, and Joe departed. It was about
three weeks later that the old bloke rode
out to Timber Ridge and asked Scottie
to put a price on his spare radio. “But,
cripes, Joe,” protested Scottie, “I heard
y’ just got that camp set off Fitzie. What’s
the matter with it?” “It’s gone bust,”
declared Joe, “an’ can’t be fixed. I got
t’ get another.” Scottie wasn’t keen on
selling, but, agreeing that a bloke had to
have a wireless, he passed over his old
set. It had been installed about a week
when Fitzie dropped in. “Keepin’ dry,
Joe,” he greeted. Joe sighed heavily.
“Dinkum, Fitz,” he replied solemnly, “if
it don’t break soon I’ll have t’ walk out.
Most o’ me time I’m pickin’ up starvers.
Lord knows why! They on’y git down
again. It’s got me rattled, I tell y’, clean
rattled. It must rain soon.” He strode
inside, glanced at the clock and turned to
switch on the weather forecast. “Else-
where, warm to hot,” came the voice of
the announcer, “with no prospect of rain.
Strong northerly winds.... ” There was
a bellow from Joe. “That’s right, say it,
say it,” he yelled, raising a boot furiously,
“Cushy job, good wages, whatinell d’ you
care. Y’ ain’t got no dyin’ stock, have
y’!” Joe took a mighty swing, his num-
ber nine silenced the relentless voice, and
another wireless set had “gone bust.”
SUNDAY EVENING.
The hollows of the sandy track are cold
With lilac shadow now and evening’s breath
Under our homeward feet, and to the land’s
last edge
From the wide miles of bush the sunlight dies,
Gathering its gold in the unclouded west,
As the blue draining from the high, pale sky
Sinks to the woodsmoke mist along the creeks.
This is the hour when all things are drawn in
And made more deep, when in my heart it
swells
And floods once more in peace, the old, strong
tide
Too sad for ecstasy, too calm for pain,
Too deep to rise because one day was gold
And now is done. It is the gathered, light
Of many sunsets, ending other days.
Those days like jewels strung far hack through
life
—As far as memory—days of air and sun
In fern-green gullies bird- and water-sweet,
On uplands brown above kingfisher seas;
Days drunk with freedom, more than the escape
From streets and walls —fresh spring of youth
that flows
Bright from the harsh breast of the ancient
bush;
When the blank, loveless face of crowds is
changed
For the dear small world of friends, the bar-
riers down;
Days when the sun, grown kindly in the north,
Slants through the shining leaves, soft yet so
clear
Far hills curve clean from sky all washed with
light,
As though a globe of crystals held our joy
Safe from tomorrow and from yesterday.
They do not know, those envied ones who live
Whole years in beauty, how the splendor breaks
Out of our sabbaths and our holy days
Set in grey weeks. Their treasures come so fast
They have no time to polish and adore
Each stone, as we who turn them in our hands
—The peacock sheen, the fireglow at the heart —
Through dull, tired days, and sweetly tell them
over
To light long nights of sickness and of fear.
So with no outcry, but with quiet hearts,
We watch the sun set on our happiness,
The clear gold chill to primrose green, low-
edged
With smoky orange, and the dark-blue bush
Fold all its secrets in the black of night.
Though that sun rise with a changed and a
worse face
And bring our fears to truth, despair, love’s end,
New ills more evil than the most evil past
These it can add, but cannot take away
This day, safe now with all our perfect days.
And though the crooked worm in the brain will
say,
“Here’s the old tale again, the slave is free,
The dead shall rise—but chain and grave hold
yet,” I
His grinding jaws will try our hoard in vain.
These are no fading flowers, but opals mined
From the blind rockface of man’s misery,
The choking dust of man’s futility,
Not by our will alone, not by our strength,
But by that power which time the moth and
pain
The rust and death the thief shall not defy;
These are the gift of love, for ever ours,
These shall make up our incorruptible crown.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
■ CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
VALUES
cw m erf)
PUL mu
FOR YOUR MONEY •
3r
ft
QUALITY alone justifies price. Ronaldson-
Tippett Engines are well worth the price
you pay, because you get 50% MORE for
your money.
More than forty years of experience, a
tradition of quality and an unblemished
war record give you the background against
which you must judge Ronaldson-Tippiett
Engines. ,
Ask for a list of the PLUS VALUES
which puts Ronaldson-Tippett Engines in a
class by themselves!
RONALDSON BROS., & TIPPETT PTY. LTD
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria,
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty, Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q'land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty, ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
n
S'
X
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
nymberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board ot
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia. .
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
interstate agencies—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
do Gmilburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QU D., Woo -
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SOARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL TIJIS ' COUPON.
f orw ard me FREE illustrated pamphlet
O K n Se HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
name
ADDRESS.
.8N.5.44
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
D.D.T. and Cattle Ticks.
“Molecule”: X did not say (B. 2/1 /’46)
that the arsenic-resistant tick is “of small
moment.” Fully alive to the menace it
constitutes, I repeat that only a relatively
small proportion of ticks are thus far resis-
tant ; that standard arsenical dips will
kill the majority of all existing ticks, and
that therefore the failure of arsenical dip-
ping is far from established. This state-
ment is based on reports from widely-
separated areas and from official sources.
My own particular interests lie in
several properties in the Rockhampton
(Q.) area, much of which is notoriously
ticky, yet we still get good control with
the same arsenical dips we have used for
many years. We are vain enough to
ascribe this, in part at least, to careful
mixing, regular dipping, clean musters,
frequent testing of the solution and syste-
matic rotating of paddocks. If and when
the ticks start to gain on us we do not
intend to throw up our hands in dismay
and exclaim with “Agric”; “The only
hope now is D.D.T.” Instead, we will
look for ways of improving our methods;
we will add one of the special soaps or
wetting agents to give better saturation;
we may try adding nicotine sulphate ot
derris, both of which have shown promise
as supplements to the arsenic, not as sub-
stitutes for it.
Some graziers use high-grade sheepdip
in place of cattledip. It contains arsenic,
derris and cresol, has wonderful wetting
power and increased tickicidal power
probably ascribable in part to the derris.
Though it costs six or seven times as
much as ordinary cattledip, that is a mere
trifle when compared with D.D.T. cost.
Getting travelling mobs absolutely
clean is a problem at present; it is but
one phase of the main problem and one
cannot accept the dictum that D.D.T.
offers the only solution. D.D.T. is in-
soluble in water ; to qse it for dipping it
must first be dissolved in oil or spirits
and an emulsifier incorporated. This in
turn is mixed with water and applied to
the beast as a spray—the cattle are not
immersed in a dipping bath. If the
Queensland stock-owner got his D.D.T.
for nothing it would still cost him nearer
Is. 6d, than \\ cents a head to treat his
stock under local conditions, which is
what we have to look at. Incidentally,
the North American tick is a different
variety from our tick, which reached
Australia via Java.
The U.S., with standard arsenical dip-
ping, eradicated ticks from over half a
million square miles (72 p.c. of its ticky
area) in the first 16 years of its eradica-
tion programme begun in 1906 (U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture figures). Whether
this success' was due to the U.S. ticks
being less tough or the U.S. methods
being more tough than their Australian
counterparts, I do not know. I do
know that eradication has never been
seriously tried here. Yet nothing less will
have to be the objective before the D.D.T.
barrackers have a ghost of a chance of
getting the huge subsidy they seek under
the euphemistic phrase “request the Gov-
ernment to make the drug available at an
economic price.”
Reduced Prices for Tops.
“Graz”: Britain has been lowering the
prices for wool tops to stimulate her
export trade. Export price of 70’s has
been reduced from 58yd. in July, 1942,
to 50yd. in November last. Most merino
and fine crossbred tops are down syd. and
medium crossbred tops 7yd. Lower
marine insurance and shipping charges
would offset the lower prices without
affecting profit margins in any phase of
the industry. Last year Britain exported
three times the weight of tops she shipped
in 1944, France and Belgium being large
buyers of crossbreds.
Prices for Bradford 70’s are now 22d.
higher than in 1939, but in that year wool
prices slumped and the Australian clip
averaged a ruinous in the grease.
In these days, when commodity prices
are inflated almost the world over, wool
is comparatively low-priced at 15.45 d.
For the wool disposed of by B.A.W.R.A.
25 years ago Australian growers received
19.19 d. per pound, which is 3.47 d. more
than they are getting today.
The greatest setback artificial wool pub-
licity has suffered is the discovery that in
the latter stages of the war Germany,
always in the forefront of staple fibre
production, used 35 p.c. wool, 15 p.c. re-
worked wool, 15 p.c. mill waste and only
35 p.c. artificial wool in military uniforms.
The Germans scoured Europe for all the
wool they could lay hands on. Appalling
losses through frostbite among the staple-
fibre-clad Germans during the Russian
winter of 1941-42 was enough to convince
the hardest-boiled Nazi that wool is still
the pre-eminent textile for warmth and
health.
Water Catchments.
“Jocelyn Henderson”: We have many
material advantages to develop, but the
great limiting factor of expansion is our
water supply. There can be no large
permanent population in a country whose
water supply will give out during
drought; therefore, as drought is natural
here, we can increase in population and
develop only so far as we can supply per-
manent and adequate water.
Because of this we are building reser-
voirs to hold the surplus flow of water
down our rivers, so that it can be used
for irrigation, town and farm needs' and
electricity ; but when and how are we go-
ing to care for the catchment areas upon
which all this expanding system of con-
servation depends? Year after year
grazing, with its consequent burning of
the main catchments running through
Victoria to Queensland, continues ; the
natural forest necessary to a healthy
catchment is being progressively de-
stroyed, the high peaty swamps in which
many of our streams formerly had their
sources are drying up; and erosion—
sheet, gullying; stream banks, and in some
places landslips—is becoming progres-
sively worse. Add to this the damage
done by rabbits, and one can understand
why the streams and reservoirs are silt-
ing, and our water supplies failing.
The land on which this is occurring is
mostly Crown Land, over which the State
Governments have full control. Until
the feeble management of these vital
areas is amended,'and the catchments are
used as nature intended, primarily for
the conservation and production of water,
the whole of Eastern Australia will be in
danger of perishing, as many other lands,
managed as thoughtlessly, have perished.
Owing to climatic conditions, Australia
is peculiarly liable to become desert, and
skilled treatment with scientific know-
ledge and commonsense behind it is neces-
sary for the management of such natural
resources as water, if we are to arrest the
tremendous damage we have done in 100-
150 years of “improving and developing”
the country, and save our land and our-
selves from ultimate destruction. •
The main catchments are of major
national importance, and should be under
the control of a national authority, repre-
senting the four States concerned and the
Commonwealth, which will have the
power and the financial backing necessary
for it to carry out the task of preserving
the sources of our water supplies without
fear of political or private interference.
As they are Government-controlled,
surely the Governments concerned could
take speedy action, based on the know-
ledge that many surveys by capable Gov-
ernment officers have given them and on
overseas experience of similar matters to
check the damage and restore the ruin.
Lucerne in the Malice.
“Mr.”: Lucerne will do well in the
Vic. and S.A. mallee if given a good start
and carefully controlled in . subsequent
seasons. L, J, Cook, in S.A. “Journal of
Agriculture” advises sowing in autumn
on clean land with a light cereal cover-
crop. On “drifty,” hilly land he recom-
mends rye for cover in preference to
wheat, barley or oats. A rate of 21b.
of lucerne seed with 201 b. to 301 b. of
cereal sown through the drill with the
lucerne seed, mixed with at least 561 b.
of super, to the acre, is suggested. Sow
on firm, damp soil no deeper than lin. to
Ijin.
The cover crop is best cut for hay early
in the spring ; if left longer it will take up
moisture needed by the lucerne. In the
first summer don’t graze the lucerne until
it has finished growing and in subsequent
seasons graze at intervals rather than
continuously. Cultivate the lucerne field
in the autumn or winter at least every
other season, using a narrow-tyned
spring-toothed cultivator or combine.
Top-dress each year with super, and keep
out the rabbits.
In “drifty” country Cook recommends
in the. first year the sowing of a cereal
rye crop. This is left ungrazed and sown
on the straw with lucerne in the following
autumn, using a disc drill.
Hints for the Farm.
“N”: Faulty installation of cream
separators is a common cause of poor
quality cream. When the machine is
not dead level, there is excessive wear in
the moving parts, which are also adversely
affected by incorrect grades of oil. In-
correct speed and wrong height of the
bowl causes variation of the cream test.
Slipping belts cause excessive wear and
result in quality variation. Milk vats,
other than those supplied with the sep-
arator, call for pressure regulation to give
good results.
“Green Ink”; When using a hacksaw
for thin stuff or tube work use a fine
blade with teeth 24 to 28 to the inch;
for general use 16 to 18. Start with light,
steady pressure on forward stroke, and
release on back ; notch sharp corners with'
file or cold chisel so that at least two teeth
will engage. Place very thin work in a
vice between two pieces of wood, then
saw through wood and metal at the same
time. When finishing cut, raise handle
of saw to avoid the teeth catching on the
sharp edge of the work.
“Nuff”: Peanut hay has been used by
Queensland farmers in the last year or
so, and results of research in the U.S.
should encourage wider use, especially
in the Burnett district, one of Queens-
land’s richest dairying centres. The
American tests showed good-quality pea-
nut hay to be equivalent in feeding value
to lucerne hay of similar quality.
“Bill C.”: The use of nitrogen-fixing
bacteria on lucerne seed is recommended
by leading agricultural authorities in
Queensland. The bacteria go a long way
and cost very little. Lucerne, like many
other crops, requires a great deal of
nitrogen, but it will lose its leguminous
nitrogen-fixing qualities, and become a
drain on the soil if the nitrogen-fixing
bacteria are not present to associate them-
selves with it. The bacteria, with full
directions, are obtainable from any of
the agricultural departments.
“Nuffin”: A record oat crop has just
been harvested at Ellangowan, Clifton
district, one of the richest pockets on the
fertile Darling Downs. Standing 6ft. 6in.
high, it gave four tons of baled hay to
the acre and stripped 28 bags per acre.
The paddock of 45 acres was sown in
June and was not grazed. Variety was
Fulghum, and 25 acres were cut for hay,
the rest for seed.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s Government.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by Norman Angell.)
Serious rifts have appeared in the rela-
tions of the United States and Britain.
Britain, a small, overcrowded island
whose population is dependent for any
good standard of life upon foreign trade,
finds herself utterly exhausted and needs
help to get on her feet. That help can
come only from America. But Britain
had an election which put a Labor Social-
ist Government in power, and great sec-
tions of American public opinion—many
heretofore friendly to Great Britain —are
asking why the United States, wedded to
free enterprise and capitalist organisation,
should in any way help a Socialism hos-
tile, it is alleged, to “the American way
of life.” Mr. Mark Sullivan, who has
been notably friendly to Great Britain
ever since the war began, is typical of
very many when he writes:
In the world as a whole Socialism and
free enterprise are in competition, with
America as the champion of free enter-
prise. Certainly we are not called upon to
extend competing Socialism.
His point has been made in varying
forms repeatedly of late in a majority of
American newspapers; in some of them
(as in the Hearst, Patterson or McCor-
mick organs) with bitterness, violence and
anger.
I suggest that the position so taken is
based on a serious misreading of what
has actually taken place in Britain. There
has been no “revolution” in Britain, in
the sense of an immense turnover of votes
or revolutionary change of attitude on
the part of the British people. The figures
of the election make this abundantly clear.
The Socialism of the new Labor Govern-
ment will not differ in kind but only in
degree and pace from that which we have
known in the past, not alone in Britain
but in such British communities as Aus-
tralia and New Zealand.
These systems need in no way come
into conflict with the free enterprise sys-
tem of the United States, a system itself
already modified by the piecemeal collec-
tivism and social security methods which
have marked the English system.
The methods of the new British Gov-
ernment will quite certainly be evolu-
tionary, not revolutionary ; by consent not
coercion. They will be democratic, pre-
serving the political freedoms, with the
opposition, headed by Churchill, playing
a large part in shaping future policy.
Such a Socialism cannot be for export
except as it works so well in practice
that others may want to adopt it.
In all the comments on the election I
have read or listened to, on only one
occasion have I seen or heard reference
to the obviously important fact that in
the election more votes were cast against
the Labor Government than for it. The
Labor party obtained slightly under 12
million votes; the parties opposed to
Labor slightly over \2\ million. Yet
Labor obtained 388 seats and non-Labor
220. If the three main parties—Labor,
Liberal and Conservative —had obtained
Parliamentary representation in propor-
tion to voting strength. Labor would have
obtained 299 seats and the Conservatives
and Liberals 305.
Not only is the present Government no
dictatorship by the proletariat; it is not
even government by the proletariat.
Attlee himself is the wearer of an “old
school tie” a graduate of Oxford, a
lawyer, one of.the typical professional
men from whom for a hundred years the
Parliaments and Governments of England
have been mainly drawn. The Labor
Government, in other words, is the
outcome of no class war, but of
class amalgamation and co - opera-
tion. The very classes which in the
Russian revolution —and in the changes
brought about by Russian influence in
Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Bul-
garia, Yugoslavia, Rumania, Hungary—
were so largely and so ruthlessly liqui-
dated, are precisely the classes to which
the British Labor party owes its electoral
success.
The truth is that the Socialism of the
British Labor party is a development
along Fabian lines of the socialisation
which began with the social services
initiated by the Liberal but non-Socialist
Lloyd George in 1911 and developed by
the Liberal and non-Labor Beveridge.
Two world wars have had the effect of
immensely accelerating the process of
Socialisation. There are not a hun-
dred people in Britain today who
have an income in excess of £5OOO
when the taxgatherer is through with
them. That phase of English life
which you may still see in films like
“The White Cliffs of Dover,” the life
of the opulent country house, or the town
house of powdered footmen, had come
to an end. The few country-house owners
that maintain their old estates do so on
capital which the next death duty will
bring to an end. An era has passed.
But the point is that it had passed
before the coming of the Labor Govern-
ment, that the, real revolution had been
carried out by a Government with a large
conservative majority behind it who were
supposed to stand for the permanence of
the very things they abolished. The
revolution which we did not hear about
until the publication of the election results
had already taken place, and it was a
revolution by the consent of those against
whom it was directed—brought about by
Parliamentary and Democratic processes.
Treating War Neurosis.
(In this N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article Robert
S. Bird describes “shock” and other apparently
drastic treatments practised at a U.S. military
hospital to cure war-caused mental disorders.)
In one ward at Mason General Hos-
pital are patients who have received from
one to 20 electric shocks. In the
other are untreated patients, most of them
still undergoing exhaustive clinical tests
before taking the drastic shock treatment.
The difference between the two groups is
the difference between darkness and day-
light.
The men in the untreated ward are so
mentally unbalanced that their lives have
been reduced almost to a minimal level.
Many are subject to “episodes” —spells
of suicidal depression, homicidal rage,
hallucinations and delusions that drive
them frantic. In the treated ward are
men well on the road to recovery. Their
episodes are of the past. Already they
are able to participate in a variety of
hospital activities, from athletics to study
courses. Their responsiveness is un-
matched by any other class of patients
in the entire hospital.
The electric-shock treatment that made
this transformation possible is given on
specified mornings to as many as 50
patients, at the rate of about one patient
every three minutes. The patient has no
consciousness of what happens. He lies
on a table, electrodes are placed at the
sides of his head, and a current of 450
milli-amperes at 90 volts is passed
through his brain for three-tenths of a
second.
The patient becomes rigid for 30
seconds, then he passes into the grand
mal seizure. This is a convulsion of 30
seconds’ duration, during which hospital
corpsmen hold the patient expertly to
prevent any injuries. This is followed by
a 20-minute period of sleep, then the
patient is ready to eat.
Nobody knows just what happens when
the electric current passes through the
brain, but it is believed that the cells of
the brain are disarranged then rearranged
in some way so that new thought channels
are blasted through. The patient is a
little groggy for an hour or two after-
wards, and perhaps for a week or more
he may suffer a slight impairment of
memory. But the memory impairment
passes, and most patients say they feel
“good” after a shock treatment.
Another treatment somewhat similar
in effect to electro-therapy is extensively
employed in the cases of patients Whose
physical condition is such that they might
run a risk under electric shock. This is
called prolonged narcosis, and involves
the administering of enormous quantities
of sodium amytal to the patient to in-
duce a sleep rhythm over a period of two
weeks. The patient sleeps in cycles of five
hours, waking only long enough for feed-
ing and necessary nursing care.
Hydro-therapy is used for disturbed
patients who may suffer an episode while
awaiting shock treatment. Some of the
newly-admitted patients arrive in a con-
dition that requires them to be restrained
to prevent injury to themselves or others.
Such a person is taken to the hydro-
therapy room, a quietly-lighted room con-
taining special tubs, cold-pack tables and
a complex system of valve and tempera-
ture controls.
As many as 10 patients may be under-
going a quieting-down treatment at one
time in this room, and the noise often is
of considerable volume. Some will be in
the continuous baths, lying in a hammock
and covered by a restraining sheet of
canvas. Water at a temperature of 96
degrees runs continuously over the
patient and most of them are quickly
soothed by it. The patients’ hands are
free and if he wants to smoke, cigarettes
and a fibre ash-tray are provided for him.
He may remain in the continuous bath
for as long as twenty-four hours, but
usually a much shorter period suffices.
In the cold-pack treatment the patient
is wrapped in sheets which have been
dipped in cold water, then he is covered
with blankets and placed on a table for
about an hour. This is a very effective
method of calming a disturbed patient.
Public and Press.
(Condensed from a “Nineteenth Century ” article
by editor F. A. Voigt, these comments have
in many respects as strong an application in
Australia as in England, particulrly those on
foreign affairs reporting.)
Public opinion errs more readily with
regard to foreign affairs than domestic,
because the consequences of foreign
policy follow at a greater distance. Mr.
Churchill led the nation to a great mili-
tary triumph and a great political defeat.
Half Europe has been lost—to England,
as well as to Europe. England l —despite
appearances, despite her debts and her re-
duced assets —is the greatest Power in the
world today, because of her spirit, her in-
ventiveness, her organisation, her liberties,
her Empire and her national and imperial
strategic situation. But for the first time
she carries little or no weight in the
eastern half of Europe (the precarious
hold she has in Greece alone excepted).
Of the magnitude of the political disaster,
which had no parallel in her modern his-
tory, the public has no conception. There
is a growing malaise, a suspicion that
something is wrong, that countries
officially “liberated” have not been
liberated at all, that certain principles,
which were among the objects of our
foreign policy, indeed of the war itself,
remain unfulfilled, that there is dissidence,
opposition and double-dealing where con-
cord was taken for granted, that Great
Britain is not as secure as she might have
been or at least not as secure as the pub-
lic was led to expect.
The British public is profoundly scepti-
cal. It has fewer illusions than it had in
1918. Indeed, it has hardly any illusions
at all. It does not believe that there will
be a better world. It does not believe in
the Atlantic Charter or the charter drawn
up at San Francisco and takes no interest
in either. It does not believe in any
League of Nations, old or new. It does
not believe that there will be “full em-
ployment.” In so far as it voted for the
Socialists, it did. so, mainly, because it
did not believe in the Conservatives. In
so far as it voted for Conservatives, it did
so because it disbelieved in Socialism.
And it does not believe that the Second
World War will be the last world war.
In immediate matters of domestic
policy the public is open-minded and, on
the whole, enlightened, without being too
credulous. And it is, on the whole, well
informed by the newspapers and the wire-
less—better informed, certainly, than the
public in most other countries. But in
foreign affairs it is unenlightened because
it receives too little enlightenment. Yet
it is upon foreign policy, far more than
on domestic policy, that the future of
Great Britain and the Empire, the liberties
and the well-being of the British people
depend.
There is something badly wrong with
the British press. There is murmuring
among the British troops on the Conti-
nent because the newspapers do not
“speak up.” The troops have seen much
and know much that no newspaper dare
print—and this knowledge is being spread
by the troops, as it ought to be. The
public is losing confidence in the press
and rightly.
There is not one daily, except the
“Times,” which has an individual foreign
policy—and the foreign policy of the
“Times” has been proved completely
wrong by events. The “Times” was for
years consistent in recommending the
division of Europe into two “spheres of
influence,” western and eastern. This
has come about —and no serious observer
who has the interests of England at heart
will deny that it is a catastrophe which
must be amended by a prolonged and
prodigious effort.
The dailies no longer represent different
schools of political thought in foreign
affairs as they used to do. Clear analysis,
devotion to first principles, spirited de-
bate have departed from the leader-
columns and have been replaced by. a
kind of shadow-statesmanship based on
sentimental materialism and presented
with an air of preternatural sagacity. Re-
porters at home still report —if they do
not their readers will find them out. But
the great generation of reporters abroad,
of Foreign Correspondents, has gone.
After the last war they ventured all oyer
Europe reporting the truth. Foreign
correspondents are becoming—and some
have become —what they were not before,
namely, propagandists.
Almost all reports published in the daily
newspapers from eastern Europe are
propaganda, those from Russia entirely
so. This new tendenciousness among
foreign correspondents is not even the
tendenciousness of a conviction, which
would be bad enough if it warped the
truth, but the tendenciousness of accom-
modation. It is true that the task is more
difficult than it was. The European revo-
lutionaries, whether national or social,
after the last war were generous and
wanted the truth (as they conceived it) to
be known by all. The revolutionaries of
today are malignant and want the truth
to be concealed. A reporter who is known
to be experienced, independent and not
easily gulled will hardly be admitted to
eastern Europe, still less to Russia, and,
if he is, he will find his movements cir-
cumscribed, he will be paralysed by fear
lest those who are brave enough to tell
him the truth will suffer (as they will if
they are found out), and, if he reports
the truth, he will not be allowed to stay
and will never be re-admitted.
The reason why the newspapers have
lost character and personality are not all
on the surface. They are part of the crisis
in our civilisation which is, ultimately, a
crisis of belief, a religious crisis.
There is a new conformity in the press,
not so much with official policy, as in des-
potically-governed countries, but rather
with prevalent political trends and
fashions. The press today reveals the
ascendancy of the obscurantist and the
transition from the non-conformist to the
conformist conscience.
It is impossible to understand anything
without believing anything.. The obscur-
antist has no belief but only presumption.
Even the Communists, who once at least
were doctrinaires, no longer believe in
anything, not even in Communism. They
pursue a prescribed policy because it is
the way, not to the fulfilment of an ideal,
but to power—not even to power which
is a means to an end, but to power which
is an end in itself. They are no longer
interested in belief and they no longer
reason —except on matters of policy
divorced from principle —because they
are no longer interested in reason.
Nevertheless, something of the immense
tragedy of central and of eastern
Europe, something of its terrible signifi-
cance has begun to stir the public con-
sciousness. But the picture, as seen by
the public, is vague, fugitive, discon-
nected and unrelated or ill-related to those
principles that have made, and still make,
the greatness of England and once made
the greatness of her great newspapers, un-
related, also, to those vital interests which
must be defended at any cost.
As long as the war lasted silence was
deemed expedient. Occasion may deter-
mine the manner of telling the truth, but
to suppress the truth is never expedient.
The silence of the press during the Ger-
man war, and since that war, about events
in eastern Europe, must have spread the
belief that England is weaker than she is
and that her people do not care about the
things they do indeed care much about.
Appeasement (for it was nothing but
appeasement) will always have this effect.
It also left the public wholly unprepared
for the situation as it is today, and is,
largely, the reason why the popular de-
mand for rapid demobilisation is so little
tempered by regard for the one unchang-
ing necessity—that England must be
strong.
A sound foreign policy may be initiated
without an enlightened public opinion,
because it can be initiated secretly. But
it cannot be sustained without an en-
lightened public opinion, at least, not in
England. The press must tell the truth
for truth’s sake and for England’s sake —
not without regard for the consequences
but with full regard for the consequences.
It is shameful that Liberal newspapers
in particular should have rivalled one
another in supporting some of the most
abominable tyrannies the world has ever
known ; that they, who could not contain
their indignation over the conquest of
Abyssinia, should acquiesce in the con-
quest, accompanied by fearful atrocities,
of civilised Countries that are part of our
own larger country, Europe, and partici-
pate in the common civilised heritage.
Yanks Clash with French.
(From a report by the N.Y. “Times? staff
correspondent in Paris.)
When good American and French
friends get together in post-war Paris to
talk about American soldiers and their
ways the conversation is rarely pleasant.
Violent incidents in Paris, Rheims and
Le Havre in November were symptoms of
a thing that has been quietly getting
worse since very shortly after the libera-
tion. The soldiers of the other war re-
member something like it; but then there
was not so much the question of liberated
peoples, the French and others were not
so sensitive, impoverished and unhappy,


LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
/or loveliness
{licit Lists . . ,
pew clothes are an event
days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find jt advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayona.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yams provide quality and
service 'as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
festricted.
m
N
m
mm
m
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England,
SALES AGENT ;
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
zBl Clarence Street.
2 oz.
Pouch pah
£
m
m
Ready Rubbed
TOBACCO
The long, even-burning strands of
Champion Ruby are Ready Rubbed
for easier rolling.
If sometimes your Champion Ruby is
in short supply—it is because of exist-
ing conditions. Ask for it as usual,
however—your retailer will gladly
supply you when he can.
Also In Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe.
X4t 4D-9.48
expectations were not so high, the con-
trast with the affluent, indifferent Ameri-
cans was not so great.
The American soldiers swept through
Europe and never got acquainted with
any but the seamy side of European life.
Surrounded by their Red Cross clubs,
U.S.O. shows and funny papers they were
self-contained whenever they had time on
their hands. Towns meant only girls and
liquor. The meaning of the countries
through which he passed, even the mean-
ing of the war, rarely touched the aver-
age soldier.
French culture or critical intelligence
meant nothing to them. How could it?
They were fighting a war and they did not
speak the language. They saw only the
tawdry, miserable towns and people and
the outrageous prices and they despised
the lot.
In Germany they found a more highly-
developed material civilisation and a
beer-drinking sentimentalism that was
easier to understand. They liked the
Germans better than the French, as they
did after the other war.
Much of the blame is doubtless with
the French and others; but they were
just emerging from occupation. Their
resurgent nationalism expressed itself in
sniping in the French press that made
Americans justly indignant.
If the French made no systematic, con-
tinuous effort to improve relations,
neither did the American Army. By and
large the Army humored the soldiers’ pre-
judices. The long delays in soldiers’ pay
during the disorganisations of re-deploy-
ment have helped the black market to
reach nightmare proportions.
Now the Americans are on their way
back, and their mood is often ugly. They
are the best fed, the best cared for and
the best entertained army in history. But
they did not want to come in the first
place; they found nothing that they
liked ; they feel that they were “gypped” ;
they resent delays; they are homesick
and worried about jobs.
So when they go out for a last fling,
sometimes they vent their feelings on a
“Frog.” Frenchmen see them swinging
into bars and say; “They act like con-
querors in an occupied country.”
The incidents are too numerous to de-
tail. There are fights in the Pigalle dis-
trict of Paris and elsewhere nightly. The
French police fear to interfere unless ac-
companied by M.Ps. The most serious
incidents, such as holdups, are committed
by a.w.l. soldiers who need money.
Frenchmen and others in American uni-
form are responsible for others ; certainly
the cheapening of the American uniform
by giving it away to virtually everybody,
including prisoners, was a mistake,
All this may make some people angry,
but it is no use fooling ourselves that the
soldiers are America’s best ambassadors
or about the impression that they have
left on the peoples of Europe. The sol-
diers are taking home a nasty “we were
rooked” resentment; they are leaving
behind an equally outraged resentment,
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Six hundred British officials are to watch the
Greek elections, and they will be joined by an
equal number of Americans in February,
according to the Washington correspondent of
the New York “Times.” Some French but no
Russians will also observe the elections. —
London “Times.’'’
Unemployment rise in the U.S. is starting
now to go along with the rise in strikes.
Veterans and women promise to make up the
bulk of the unemployed. Demobilisation is
pouring 1,500,000 veterans a month into civilian
life; is to confront industry with its big
employment problem in the next six months.
Involuntary idleness of veterans at a time of
voluntary idleness of large numbers of men on
strike can lead to political repercussions.—
“United States News.”
* • * * *
Though one of the Big Three of the so-called
Big Five of the United Nations international
organisation, Soviet Russia has participated in
but few international co-operative efforts.
Russia does not permit delegates' of the Inter-
national Red Cross to visit and inspect the con-
centration and compulsory German slave labor
camps in Soviet Russia and Siberia, said to
hold more than 5,000,000 people. Soviet Russia
declined to participate in the International
Civil Aviation Conference in Chicago and is
not a party to its agreements of freedom of air.
Soviet Russia did not participate in the Inter-
national Education and Cultural Conference
held in London. Moscow had no delegates at
the Employers and Labor conference in Paris.
Moscow refused to participate and protested
against Allied supervision and inspection of
free elections in Greece, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria
and other States on the ground that it violated
the independence and sovereignty of those
nations. But when America, together with
Britain and Canada, discovered atomic energy
and invented atomic bombs, Soviet Russia
wanted the atomic energy and bomb inter-
nationalised—N.Y. “Journal-American” staff
correspondent in Europe.
* * * *
All my works for 50 years past have been
written in Isaac Pitman’s phonography. I
have to think out and find words and syntax
for what I write; and as 1250 words of such
work in two hours or so is enough for a day,
my speed, year in and year out, is about 12
words per minute year in and year out. I do
not dictate. — G. B. Shaw; London “Times.”
* * * *
The precise total of foreigners put to work
in what is called the old Reich has never been
known, but, from an official Allied estimate
put in as evidence at Nuremberg it would
appear to be in the region of 4,795,000, be-
longing to 14 nationalities. In addition, nearly
2,000,000 prisoners-of-war were employed, who,
with political prisoners, bring the total to more
than 6,500,000. In one of Sauckel’s reports the
figure of 5,000,000 slave workers is mentioned,
and of these, he stated, only 200,000 were
volunteers.— London “Times.”
* * * *
Its war-time mission accomplished, the Stil-
well-road in Burma is today an almost de-
serted highway. Its peace-time prospects are
negligible. The prohibitive expense of keeping
the road open during the monsoon season,
with its accompanying washouts and landslides,
nullifies hopes of making it a permanent trade
link between India and northern Burma. It
cannot compete with the reopened land-sea
rout'e via Rangoon and Burma’s north-south
system of river roads and railways. Only the
easternmost half of the highway—the old
Burma Road, winding upward from northern
Burma to Kunming, in south-west China —will
be kept open, according to present plans. The
newer westernmost section between Ledo and
Myitkyina, on which American efforts were
concentrated, will probably be abandoned.
It can be saved only if the British decide it is
worth keeping up as a military highway—an
unlikely eventuality. Whether the Stilwell-
road was worth the American money and lives
it cost will be an issue among military historians
for years to come. Estimates of its over-all
cost to the United States Army range from
$125,000,000 to $200,000,000. — N.Y. “Tribune.”
* * * *
Cultural contacts between Russia and the
West are limited but always arouse what seems
to this correspondent to be an almost un-
natural public interest. In recent months no-
thing has excited Moscow so much as a chess
match with America or soccer game with
England. The baseball series does not para-
lyse America so thoroughly as these sporting
events with foreign countries absorb Moscow.
Something more than victory seemed to be at
stake; it was almost as if the honor of the
whole Soviet Union was on trial. The Soviet
Union as a political organisation is almost
psychopathically suspicious of the West. —
Moscow correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Addressing Bristol Trades Council, Professor
Mott, a Bristol University physicist and atomic
research worker, said that there would not
necessarily have to be special factories for the
production of atomic bombs. The local power
stations at Portishead, running on uranium
could in six months accumulate enough plu-
tonium—the main ingredient of the bomb—to
make a bomb. A major industrial country
would be able to make about one bomb a week
in that way; in smaller countries three a year
would be the limit. — London “Times."
* * * *
Some members of Congress believe that the
entire U.N.O. should be scrapped in favor of a
new organisation to be built around control of
atomic weapons. They say that control of
atomic power cannot be effective if any country
can veto inspection of its own territory. This
view is shared by former British Foreign
Minister Anthony Eden, who holds that the
veto power is an anachronism in the modern
world and that the only way to make the
world safe from atomic power is to change
present ideas of the sovereignty of nations.
If it should be reorganised with exclusive rights
to atomic power and full authority to make
universal inspections, the U.N.O. would become
much more important as an instrument to out-
law war than had been considered likely at
the San Francisco Conference.— “ United States
News . v
* * * *
Had America possessed a large and modern
merchant marine, the course of history might
have been different, for, by Axis statements,
the enemy relied in good part for victory on
America’s supposed inability to transport its
armies and their supplies abroad. They nearly
won that gamble, and General Marshall and
Admiral King have both said that the shipping
shortage brought us to the edge of defeat and
delayed our war effort by many months, when
we could otherwise have gone forward. Assum-
ing that more adequate American shipping
would have shortened the war by only three
months, that would have saved $25,000,000,000,
and would also have saved many lives. — D.
Stewart Inglehart, president of the Grace line,
writing in the “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
American farmers harvested over 10,000,000
acres of soy beans annually during four war
years. This compared with 4,000,000 acres har-
vested for beans in 1939. The soy bean has
become one of the 10 leading crops of the
United States, with a value of over $300,000,000.
The Department of Agriculture predicts that the
development of new varieties of soy beans will
encourage its growth in many areas, while evo-
lution of new food and industrial uses for the
product should assure a far greater demand for
this product than before the war. — N.Y.
“Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
Inside report's from Russia indicate that her
post-war economic difficulties are causing in-
ternal political difficulties also. Among the
things she wants most is aid in solving her
post-war economic problems. But it is in con-
nection with these problems that the lack of a
meeting of minds with U.S. and Britain shows
up most glaringly. Russia’s request for a loan
of $6,000,000,000 had a cool reception in the
U.S. — “United States News.”


Caterpillar
Ns
Q
miik*
Given the toughest of pipelining
jobs where roads are non-ex-
istent, where the way lies over rocky
hills and through boggy creeks,
''Caterpillar” will push the line
through. Where hard-hitting, fast-
moving stamina is needed, "Cater-
pillar” will give it, and take it, domi-
nating the job from the first clearing
of the right-of-way to the final back-
filling of the trenches.
It takes a "Caterpillar” Diesel to lift
and carry big pipes well away from
the track’s edge and so reduce cave-in
to a minimum. A side boom-equipped
DB, as shown above, for example,
means over 21 tons of balanced
weight—with 131 H.P. at the opera-
tor’s beck and call. Such machines
are destined to play a leading role in
the vast projects planned for Aus-
tralia’s post-war development.
CATERPILLAR Diesel
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridae Rd. St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Enaineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweed le, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall. 96 Kincaid St.. Wagga. 'Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 47 5.
2.45.33
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjogwneni
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS 0
%
5794-
7 3
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy How to Read a Book, by M. J. Adler.
—3693.
To buy copy of Bulletin’s Farm Accounts
booklet. —3690.
To buy C. J. Dennis’s Book for Kids. —3692.
Gifts of used Christmas cards for children in
hospitals.—36B9.
Will exchange duplicates of “Art in Aus-
tralia” or will buy odd copies.—369l.
Information Sought.
(1) What rates of taxation are levied on
inhabitants of Norfolk Island? (2) Is there
an air service to the mainland? (3) Could one
make a living off a small property there? (4)
Any information about the development of the
passionfruit industry ?
(1) No taxes are levied, but for the purpose
of carrying out public works every male person
between the ages of 21 and 55 years of age who
has been domiciled for at least six months on
Norfolk Island is required (a) to pay when re-
quired so to do by the Administrator an amount
calculated at the rate of 6s. per day for such
number of days, not less than nine nor more
than 15 in each year, as are from time to time
fixed by the Administrator; or (6) in lieu of
such payment, perform such labor as the
Administrator requires him to perform on such
days as are publicly notified by the Admini-
strator, not exceeding 15 days a year. (2) Nor-
folk Island is not at present on any civil air-line
route. An aerodrome was constructed there
during the war, but it is not known at present
to what extent it will be used in the future.
(3) Yes, but it is essential that settlers have
sufficient capital to maintain themselves until
their land is cultivated and productive, as
there are but few opportunities of obtaining
casual employment. (4) Norfolk Island Pro-
ducers’ Co-operative Co., in agreement with
Cottee’s Passiona, of Sydney, has organised
the passionfruit industry of Norfolk Island on
a sound basis, with a pulping factory capable
of treating more than 150 tons of passionfruit
each fruiting season, and a refrigeration plant
with a capacity of not less than 50 tons of
pulp, both situated at Norfolk Island.
What are the conditions under which a young
unmarried American (ex-serviceman) can make
his home in Australia? k
The Customs Department states that he must
prove that he holds an honorable discharge
from the U.S. forces; that he is in sound
health; that he is in a position to support him-
self and dependents, if any, in Australia, and
that' nothing is to his detriment.
(1) What salary attaches to the office of Aus-
tralian High Commissioner in London ? (2)
What salary will Mr. Beasley receive as Resi-
dent Minister?
(1) Remuneration received by the Australian
High Commissioner in London is salary, £3000;
entertainment allowance, £1500; upkeep of
official residence, £2OOO. (2) Mr. Beasley, while
acting as Australian Resident Minister in
London, will continue to receive his Parlia-
mentary salary and Ministerial allowance and,
of course, allowances for entertainment and for
the upkeep of the official residence in London.
Brief biographies of (1) A. L. Gordon, (2)
A. B. Paterson, (3) Kylie Tennant ?
(1) Born Fayal, Azores, 1833 ; educated Chel-
tenham, Woolwich Military Academy and Ox-
ford. Preferred boxing and steeplechasing to
more serious pursuits, and was sent to Aus-
tralia, 1853. Enlisted in mounted police, served
two years and resigned. Became a horse-
breaker, married and “settled down.” First
published verse appeared 1864. Elected to S-.A.
Parliament in 1865, and won Adelaide Grand
National and Ballarat Steeplechase a little later.
His later life was litigious and unhappy, and he
shot himself in 1870. (2) Bom near Molong, N .S.
Wales, 1864. Studied law. Began to contribute
verse to Bulletin in early ’nineties under
pseudonym “Banjo.” Was war correspondent
in S. African War and Boxer Rebellion; acted
as remount officer in World War I. Died 1941.
(3) Born Manly, N. S. Wales, educated Brighton
College and Sydney Uni. Took up journalism.
Won Bulletin’s novel competition (S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize) in 1935 with Tiburon. Mar-
ried Lewis C. Rodd, 1932. A.B.C. executive,
1929-30.
Brief Answers.
H.8.K.: H. H. Halls, 50 York-street
(watches), and Edwards, Dunlop & Co., 123-29
Clarence-street (stationers’ supplies), both Syd-
ney L. 0.; Try the Sydney “Morning
Herald’s” photograph department F.M.".
Know of no classes in technical colleges;
Swains, Ltd., Pitt-street, Sydney, can supply
necessary tools, and may be able to advise
where tuition could be obtained M.N.:
Alteration may be made by a codicil; this must
be executed and witnessed in the same manner
as a will P.J.M.: Cannot' discover any such
club in Sydney. Mick Simmons, Ltd., might
be able to advise G.M.R.; To answer any
one of your questions would involve weeks of
research... .M.H.W.: J. H. Smyth Pty., Ltd.,
114 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will value your
stamps.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.W.: Daisy is a silly cow E.P.M.; And
Wee Georgie’s only a little more intelligent....
M.0.D.: Saccharine J.M.G.: Much too
flimsy.G.C.: Pamela ought to have more
sense Taffy; Humor hasn’t sufficient punch.
G.J.D.: Too much like a Canadian sonnet
on the same theme... .A.C. : Pleasant, but
conventional and pointless... .KJ.T.: Tech-
nique vague; theme remote... .A. 8.: Tiny
poem on a large theme... .P.K.; Spidery.,..
J.D.W.: Pity you didn’t write the poem before
you broke the mirror R.S.A.: Echoes of
C. J. Dennis D.G.: Vultures? J.J.L.:
Heavy and hackneyed... .F.D.S.: What might
be a good short story is lost in something that’s
certainly not verse M.D’O.: But why is it
“decadent” to write about moonlight?
R.N.: “The fearful sea began to froth and
fume, And foamed upon the shore with frightful
boom.” Frightful, indeed 8.J.: “Awake!
Arise, Australia” is not so much a poem as
an alarm-clock, f. .R.P.: “I have dozens of
little pieces like this.” Well, they’d make nice
confetti... .J.F.: “To Tocumwal —my thoughts
are winging there.” The poem is also on the
wing.


d
The Safety and Security
of Your Estate
Are Paramount
What a man wishes to do with
his possessions after death, and
the selection of his executor, are
two vitally important matters.
The faculties of men were never more
strained than at the present, and there
are now fewer competent men willing
to undertake the control of the affairs
of other persons.
In everyday life people usually hesitate
before entrusting their private business
matters to others, until fully satisfied
as to their competency and integrity.
Naturally even more consideration
should be given to the matter when it
is for the sacred and onerous trust of
administering an estate. •
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia Ltd. is a company of sixty
years' standing, with its executives all
specially trained, and with facilities to
undertake the administration of all
classes of estates. Why not obtain the
greatest benefit with the least incon-
venience by appointing the company as
your executor ?
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir GraharmWaddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens,
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., 8.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W Dugbnry; Sydney Sarnpsm
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, " e “® ra L"“ ag g„ dneT
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, hyaney.
BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on .
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Electrical Engineering x-nysics I /^r'\Tn\7
Selected lists supplied free on McGILL S AGtINCY
Kl , «... 183-185 Elizabeth 5f..t, MELBOURNE.
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles,
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
/ — I—Dividends 1 —Dividends , To Re -
June. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,349 4,174 5,099
1936.. 21,591 6 „ 12,645 8,946 14,04i>
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,406;
reserves capitalised, £21,500 • • WiOol
1937.. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938.. 24,871 6 „ 124 „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
1939.. 29,001 6 „ 12£ „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190.. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 . . • • 207,028
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 „ 10 ~ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 23,962 265,623
1945.. 106,483 6 „ 10 ~ 83,372 23,111 288,734
* Excluding outside interests.
This co. and its half-dozen subsidiaries
are the backbone of Australia’s infant
cotton textile industry, which has made
heartening progress under the stimulus
and shelter provided by war conditions.
Production includes cotton drills, cotton
tweeds, industrial cloths, cotton duck,
motor tyre fabrics, web equipment,
i waterproofing and sanforising,
i Issued capital shot up from £202,742
1 in 1938 to £894,993 four years later. It
, has remained steady since, not because of
lack of opportunity for further expansion
i but because of shortage of labor and in-
: ability to get necessary mechanical equip-
-1 ment, etc. The Australian market for
1 cotton goods has been starved for the
- last half-dozen years, and it will be some
1 time before it can be satisfied in full.
The co. has completed plans which will
be brought into operation when circum-
stances are favorable, the chairman says.
Details of these plans have not been dis-
closed, but nominal capital was recently
increased by £1,000,000, raising the figure
to £2,250,000. Those on the register
are to be given first priority in any new
share issue, except when scrip is ex-
changed with another concern for fusion
of interests. Shortage'of labor and diffi-
culties associated with obtaining new
plant and erection of buildings to house
it still stand in the way of expansion, and
so does uncertainty as to Government
policy.
Hopes are that demobilisation will
finally solve the labor and materials prob-
lem. Still, among the younger age groups
'in the services there are many who,
through no fault of their own, have had
little or no opportunity to fit themselves
for a trade or profession. Their training
will take time. The danger, as the after-
math of World War I showed, lies in
the possibility of a heayy addition to the
ranks of unskilled labor. Last term all
the co.’s plants recorded reduced turn-
over, due not to any lack of demand but
entirely to the manpower position. At
the Sydney spinning mills a substantial
saving could have been made by dis-
pensing with the second shift altogether.
The recently-established Maoriland off-
shoot, in which Felt and Textiles is also
interested, made a loss of £1591 in its
first term, due mainly to limited output,
owing to labor shortage.
Uncertainty about what the Govern-
ment will do is hampering production of
new lines, now an urgent necessity, fol-
lowing cancellation of Government con-
tracts. After weeks of preliminary work
and much expense, selling prices for new
lines, supported by cost data, are sub-
mitted ' to the price-fixing authorities,
mostly to be turned down, because the
price asked pierces some ceiling unrelated
to present conditions. The co. has then
to abandon the new line concerned,
though the buyer’s requirements have
been satisfied, or to ask the Government
for a subsidy. What the Government
and its “planners” have not yet realised
is that it is speed in satisfying demand
which creates goodwill, and goodwill
helps to hold the market for a product
in the future. Furthermore, once the im-
mediate post-war hunger is satisfied, price,
design and quality rather than ability to
supply will become the dominating fac-
tors. By its heavy-footed approach to
these important problems, the Govern-
ment will assuredly create more difficul-
ties than it set out to solve.
After setting aside £99,264 (down
£4066) for taxation, allowing £78,928 (up
£457) for depreciation and deducting out-
side interests, combined net earnings of
the parent and subsidiaries was £106,483
(down £851) last term. That covered the
pref. divs. (£9186) and 13.2 p.c. on the
£741,873 of ord. capital, compared with
13.2, 12.7, 12.9, 10.8, 16.1 and 16.2 p.c.
back to 1939. The figures show that no
time was lost in putting new capital to
profitable employment. The div, was
kept at 10 p.c., and, subject to Govern-
ment interference, seems likely to remain
there, for a while, at any rate.
The next table shows what the board
did with the new capital and other moneys
gathered since 1938; —-
Parent, Figures— N
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £202,742 £674,482 £894,976 £894,976
Outside inter-
est . . 153 152 158
Sun. ' creditors 1 f 356,133 377,844 365,315
Tax reserve, }- 26,765 -j
etc. .. J (, 45,940 120,373 113,668
Freehold .. 49,068 - 348,928 395,188 405,543
Plant, etc. .. 117,938 558,565 722,069 696,827
Stock, etc. . . 66,906 400,288 451,740
Sundry debtors 28,672 102,242 161,730 129,057
Cash, etc. .. 16,957 1,903 21,382 21,382
Last term’s growth of £51,452 in stocks
and reduction of £32,673 in debtors’
balances mainly reflect tapering of Gov-
ernment orders. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£123,201) was £38,018.
On the market the pound ords. recently
changed hands at the ceiling price of
465, 9d. The immediate return at this
figure is 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis.
Buyers offer 28s. 6d. for both first and
second 6 p.c. cum. prefs, at which figure
the return would be 4.2 p.c. The net tan-
gible cover (book value) is 275. Bd. ords.,
£l9 14s. 6d. firsts and £l2 Is. 4d. seconds.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves,
£ £ £ £ £
1935. .121,777 9000 18,75'0 10 p.c. = 60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. .. .. 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172,563 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 81,000 819,401
1940. .207.053 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 917,704
1941. .130,667 9000 18,750 10 ,> „ 81,000 939,621
1942. .148,462 9000 18,750 8 „ ~64,800 995,533
1943. .159,020 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,045,803
1944. .159,814 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,096,867
1945. .163,929 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,152,046
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31. 1932.
Net earnings averaged £161,490 for the
half-dozen years to the close of last
accounts, compared with an average of
£148,631 for the six preceding years,
which included the backwash of the
early 1930’s slump. The improvement,
which arose out of the exceptional cir-
cumstances of war and a ifcar-time con-
trolled economy, amounted to 8.6 p.c. It
was the result of expanding turnover;
wholesale prices advanced at a faster rate
than retail selling prices, while taxes,
wages and other costs climbed. The next
table, which shohld be read in conjunc-
tion with the introductory one, shows
percentage changes in aggregate turn-
over of 22 Sydney stores compared with
the corresponding period of the previous
year: ♦
Average Thebe Months Ended
, a ,
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- + 2.6 + 5.6 + 3.2 + 6.3 + 4.5
1940- + 7.5 + 7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 + 9.4 +11.5 2.4 + 8.0
1942- —6. Q —lB.B 6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 1.6 + 1.3 1.8 5.7
1944- + 6.6 + 7.4 + 4.8 + 3.2 + 5.4
Despite the backswing of the pendulum
during the two years to mid-1944, aggre-
gate turnover for the 12 months to June
30 last was 10 p.c. above the 1938-39
level. The supply position eased a little,
but a strong seller’s market prevailed.
D.J.’s turnover last term moved up
approx. 9 p.c., which was better than the
average shown in the table. The co.’s
new workrooms at Katoomba made an
important contribution to the pool. They
were set up during the previous term to
help overcome the labor problem and to
supplement output from the Marjborough-
street, Sydney, factory. After making an
unspecified provision for taxation, allow-
ing £44,532 (down £946) for depreciation
and sending £57,213 (up £7213) to staff
provident fund, the board figured net
earnings £4115 better at £163,929. That
was enough to pay the prefs. their full
contract rates (£27,750) and show 16.8
p.c. on the £BlO,OOO of ord. capital, com-
pared with 16.3, 16.2, 14.9, 12.7, 22.1 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and it is doubtful whether
anything better need be looked for at
present.
With war out of the way a different
set of circumstances is developing. At
the same time demand will become more
capricious and volatile, and competition,
based on service, quality and price, will
get more of an edge on it. After the
regimentation of uniforms and austerity
styles, women are turning to the glamor
of more distinctive clothes and other
frills of civilisation. Prices are still con-
trolled, but what will happen to ceilings
if wages rise and hours are reduced, and
when British and European manufacturers
get into full production again, remains to
be seen. Scarcity of dollar balances
threatens to limit imports of fashion
goods from U.S.A. Locally interruption
of production by industrial hold-ups in
key industries threatens to produce spas-
modic paralysis in business generally.
Organised labor has ridden largely on the
back of management, and continues to
do so.
Financially the co. put on more weight.
Last term the mortgage, etc., was re-
duced by £100,318 to the benefit of out-
goings :
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £1,210,000 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors.. 391,878* 434,948 442,273
Mortgages, etc. . . 652,215 461,5*28 361,204
Tax reserve .. 266,211 262,716
Freeholds .. ~ 1,600,047 1,656,435 1,654,944
Plant, etc 488,262 261,487 223,659
Stocks .. .. 579,998 1,074,347 1,084,344
Book debts .. 433,962 234,318 268,710
Investments, cash, etc. 34,360 324,969 281,384
* Including provision for taxation.
Stocks (up £9997) are reported conserva-
tively valued; they are nearly double the
1939 figure, and much will depend upon
whether they are of the right type and
quality. The growth of £34,392 in
debtors’ balances is the first thing of its
kind since 1941. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£568,264) was £97,293.
At the ceiling price of 43 s. 6d. the
ords. return 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Buyers offer 28# 6d. for the first
prefs. and 30s. for the seconds, at which
figures the return would be 4.2 p.c. and
5 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover is
48s. sd. ords., £l5 14s. lid. firsts and £8
16s. lid. seconds.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
f- Dividends
, Pref. x
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
S. £ £ £ £
1935.. 42,761, 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 86,920
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. •• 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 .. 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. •• 20>61°
Share premiums, £15,000 ~ ••
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. •• 7,28 J
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 I ljo2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. •• 3
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 1
Written off, £lBB5 .. .. •• [ 3. 657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ..J
1939.. 40,094 6975 t 6200 f 6 p.c, = 16,800 7 g m
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ’
Surplus sale property, £4275 .. .. 13,0ul
1940.. 20,336 6975 f 62001 3 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
Expenses charged to goodwill, £7396.. 3,816
1941.. 31,558 6975 t 6200 t 6 p.c. = 18,000 4,199
1942.. 34,035 69751 62001 6 „ „ 18,000 7,059
1943.. 41,426 69751 62001 6 „ ~ 18,000 17,310
1944.. 45,538 69751 62001 6 ~ „ 18,000 31,673
Added capital reserve, £1323 .. .. 32,996
11.025 9.8
p.c. p.c.
1945.. 61,098 11,0251 98001 8 p.c. = 24,000 49,269
* Nine months. 1 Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
The heartening spring of £15,560 in last
term’s net earnings, which were the best
since the co. took over from John Nor-
ton’s trustees in 1925, that
“Truth’s” young sister, the “Daily
Mirror,” is getting somewhere. It is clear
that the “Mirror,” which first appeared in
May, 1941, cost comparatively little to
dress and establish. Exes, charged to
goodwill ran to only £7396, a trifle com-
pared with similar cost of new publications


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
' Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
towners’ and Householders*,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 220), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
fdf
r /U //fete
COtt/tfl'tif/jf’/
Rub in a little McMahon's
daily. See how quickly
dandruff and scurf disap-
pear. Good for men, women
and children. . . . Sold by
Hairdressers, Chemists and
Stores.
TtUTflahnj
FOR HAIR
AND SCALP
cs loiei
FRCING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . , . the absence of
noise and hustle, . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
IDE WENTWORTH
Ut
cS
7
my
Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adyt.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Abvt.
HARD HITTING
AUSTRALIANS
r
iSa
i *
£
ICI
lAMBS
Adrian Quist, prominent member of
Australian Davis Cup teams from 1933-
39. Holder Australian singles champion-
ship, 1940. A classic performer.
Despite restrictions, limited supplies
of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and .22 RIM-
FIRE CARTRIDGES are available
to primary producers for essential
pest destruction subject to police
permits. ALL AUSTRALIAN.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
jr.ir-jfc.Kaa
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
APRONS OFF!
IS
mm
■mi
Any woman fortunate enough to possess an AGA Cooker will tell you
how much more leisure she enjoys. Delicious meals just cook themselves
on AGA's scientific, continuous, economical heat-storage principle.
The economy of AGA is assured by a specific guarantee never to burn
more than an amazingly small fixed quantity of fuel per annum. AGA's
special insulation keeps kitchens cool. Its vitreous enamelled surfaces are
as clean as a china plate. Operation is simple. AGA Cookers are
guaranteed against faulty material and workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. RI.
AGA
RE6D. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc . In N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourlce St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmet
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
I
"
launched by other organisations. News-
print rationing did the “Mirror” no
harm. It helped to keep outgoings down,
made advertising relatively easy to obtain,
and limited competition from Associated
Newspapers, which publishes Sydney’s
other evening sheet, the “Sun.” As for
capital cost, extensions in previous years
enabled the machine- and composing-
rooms to take the extra strain, which was
eased by reduction in size of the co.’s
other publications, owing to newsprint
rationing.
No circulation figures for the co.’s pub-
ications are given. Appearances are that
all its journals, especially the “Mirror,”
shared in the general experience last year,
which was one of expansion. A trifle
more newsprint became available, at in-
creased cost, but no difficulty was experi-
enced in filling still restricted advertising
space. “Truth,” the well-established
weekly on which the business was
founded, continues to be published in
several States, a controlling interest is
held in “Truth” (N.Z.), and besides the
“Mirror” there are the “Sportsman” and
the jobbing section of the business, all of
which Contribute to the pool.
The year’s net result was written after
making an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. and allowing £21,298 (down £573)
for depreciation. The £61,098 of profit
claimed was enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rates (£17,000) and
show 14.6 p.c. on the £300,000 of ord.
capital, as against 9.5 p.c. for the previ-
ous term. The prefs., which since 1939
had suffered a 22\ p.c. cut under the out-
moded N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, were handed 11.025 p.c. first and
9.8 p.c. seconds, thus restoring their full
contract rates (9 p.c. and 8 p.c. respec-
tively) for the two years to June 30 last.
A couple of points was added to the ord.
div., making it 8 p.c.
As the shipping position eases the
supply of newsprint will improve, the
fight for circulation promises to become
more intense, and costs will be difficult
to restrain. There is talk of the co. enter-
ing the daily field in Brisbane, and of
expansion in other directions. Mindful
of all this, and the. fact that successful
establishment of a new paper at one
centre does not necessarily mean that suc-
cess will attend similar efforts elsewhere,
the market offers 265. 6d. (ceiling price)
for the f.-p. pound ords. At this figure
the return would be 6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. seldom appear on
’Change. The net tangible cover is £5
9s. lOd. firsts, £4 9s. lOd. seconds and
235. 3d. ords.
From the investors’ point of view the
position will look more attractive when
the co, is able to reduce the outside debt:
1936. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Pref. capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 230,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Other!fabi 1 it'ies 20,8 U } 317 > 102 482,054 493,028
Freeholds, etc. 174,398 244,524 249,055 256,287
Plant, etc. . . 151,462 256,039 288,298 283,818
Investments .. 90,050 103,022 209,685 217,705
Stocks.. .. 27,628 143,486 166,520 154,432
Debtors . . 50,728 91,268 91,269 143,891
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 8,120 21,195 12,108
Last term £52,622 was added to debtors’
balances, and £10,974 to the amoqnt com-
ing to outsiders. The more or less liquid
surplus (£35,108) was £28,493 stronger
than at the previous balance.
Lake View and Star
With little or no encouragement from
the authorities to compensate for shortage
of labor and difficulty in obtaining plant
and stores, Lake View and Star (W.A.)
did well for the year to June 30 last, but
not so well as for the year before. Aftei
allowing for depreciation (£24,417), taxa-
tion (£134,728) and extra fees for directors
(£7700), the net return from mining was
£109,706 (down £14,508), and from sun-
dry revenue £4172 (down £720). Thus
net return from all sources was £113,879
(down £15,228), equal to 9.6 d. per 4s.
share. The drop in earnings was due to
a contraction of £18,540 in value of bul-
lion realised (£700,719), and increase of
£7564 in outlay on development (£44,987).
A tax refund of £40,114 and transfer of
£36,597 previously overprovided for taxa-
tion raised the amount available for
distribution to £190,590. Two divs.
totalling £105,000 (after deducting 10s. in
the £ English tax) were paid. The
nominal rate was 37| p.c., or 18.7 p.e,
after deducting tax.
The mill, which worked at less than
50 p.c. capacity, treated 310,921 tons
(down 4254 tons) ore, averaging 5.17dwt.,
for 75,3270 z. gold, a recovery of 90.7
p.c. In addition 699,271 tons tailings,
averaging 0.92dwt., were treated. for
13,9990 z. gold. Owing to the lower
tonnage treated, higher price of stores,
etc., and addition of 32 names to the pay-
roll (total 408), operating costs were Is.
1.7 d. heavier at 225. 9.6 d. per ton ore
treated, exclusive of tailings.
Ore reserves were put at 4,021,200 tons
(down 76,300 tons), averaging 4.95dwt.
(down o.o6dwt). Of that lot 3,716,300
tons was positive and broken ore —about
78 p.c, of it is in the western group of
leases, and the other 22 p.c. in the more
easily-worked Lake View and Associated
section. During the year 9985 ft. (up
1284 ft.) of development work was done.
Driving amounted to 6138 ft., of which
231 ft. was “dead work” and 5907 ft. was
on various lodes of which 3128 ft. (53 p.c.)
was in ore averaging s.7dwt. over a width
of 59 inches. Work was confined to the
most promising areas. As men and
materials become available production, •
costs and net earnings should benefit.
When the books closed, cash, bullion,
etc., totalled £611,799, stores £171,113,
debtors’ balances £1035. There was
£104,442 coming to outsiders, and
£106,908 reserved for taxation. Tfie mine
figured at £324,201, and plant at £170,916.
Except where otherwise indicated, ifioney
values are in sterling.
A month or so ago the f.-p. 4s. shares
fetched 20s. 3d. in London. In Mel-
bourne buyers now offer 265. 3d. with-
out attracting sellers. At 265. 3d. the
investor values the undertaking at
£A3,675,000. On the basis of a9O p.c.
recovery, and with costs at 28s. 6d, (Aust.
currency) a ton, the net value of ore
reserves, plus surplus liquids, at June 30
last approximated that figure.


MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in .neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes, Remembec
the name JDOAN’g,
STRONGER- LIGHTER • LONGER-LASTING
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for. a
Globitel
13
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, slb. tin, 18/9; 251 b. tin, 88/8;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
f
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
aupport for everyman’i
everyday wear.
Ml mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Oo. f Drummoyne,
df
df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a courses ■■■«. —i——
of BARKQ Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO„ Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 8/8
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
LIAR
AT HOME
r or.
WEEKLY "
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLIN
O PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
O ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
C have succeeded
Ov/UU why not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part ot
Australia. Freight paid.
Illustrated catalogue and descriptive
FRLJti booklet FREE —Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Plums or Penalties ?
In some respects the recent war in-
creased Australia's productive capacity,
but at the present time there is hardly
any increase in actual production visible
anywhere in Australian industry if a com-
parison be made with conditions existing
before the outbreak. The national steel-
producing potential rose during the war,
but, because ot difficulties in getting iron
ore at one stage, and because, more
recently and more importantly, of a
wilful, wanton strike, outturn of steel has
been nowhere near capacity, and hun-
dreds of dependent industries, many of
them of the utmost importance to a
country changing over from war to
peace, have had to close down, with a
corresponding fall in their varied out-
puts.
Steel is a basic commodity, and it
supports the , building, engineering,
machinery-making and many other
trades. Numerous smaller industries in
turn depend on these. Coal is likewise
a basic material, and of late the produc-
tion of this item has fallen sharply be-
cause of strikes. It is coalminers’ policy
deliberately to keep stocks at a low level
so as to hold industry to ransom any
time, and this policy has got far beyond
the stage where it is applied merely to
“profit-making industry” and “the
bosses” ; it is being used against local-
Government undertakings such as the
Sydney County Council, the State Rail-
ways and against most citizens of the
Commonwealth, particularly in city areas,
where the failure of lighting, power and
transport facilities has a particularly
severe effect.
It is something over four months since
surrender terms were signed by the
Japanese, and demobilisation of Aus-
tralian servicemen is going on at a high
rate. At this stage of things every effort
should be made by anyone who cares a
hoot for his country and his friends and
neighbors, known and unknown, to give
post-war recovery a hearty push in the
right direction, knowing that only by so
doing will anything worth while be
achieved in speedy rehabilitation. Re-
covery is the preliminary to a higher post-
war standard of living, and, goodness
knows, we should be able greatly to in-
crease living standards in this country
with the opportunities that lie to our
hand. But trade-unionism that has gone
astray in many directions is doing much
at the present time to reduce our living
standards to far below those we knew
prior to 1939. In its strikes and its g -
slow policy it is preventing the re-equip-
ment and refreshment of industry and
thus, as well as hitting at immediate
living standards, it hits at future standards.
Industry cannot organise for a bigger
output per head —and only from such a
bigger output can we get a better standard
of living—unless it can put its machinery
into a fit condition to" do so. Many sec-
tions of trade-unionism—not all sections,
but a number of the vital ones —are
obstructing attempts to revitalise industry
and give it the new productive punch that
is the key to what trade-unionists really
in their hearts desire —better living con-
ditions and, where possible, a shorter
working week.
When we look back at the terrors the
world has passed through, and at the
sufferings of the peoples of many parts
of the earth—including our own Aus-
tralian servicemen in the Middle East, in
Europe, in the jungle and as p.o.w, in
the hands of Japanese—it is h;ard to be-
lieve what is going on in Australia to-day.
Possibly it is true that cynics like Thorn-
ton, in the Communist racket that has
become so blatant under the very nose of
the Federal Labor Government, have the
“boys” so effectively by the wool that they
don’t know quite what they are doing or
why they are doing it. The fact remains
that there is a staggering amount of
self-destructive slowing-down of industry
going on in the Commonwealth to-day as
a matter of deliberate policy, and wage-
earners are bound to suffer more than
anyone else in the long run. Until our
production levels are restored, and then
increased, the inflation danger will be a
grave menace.
There is some clamor now for a 40-
hour week. In the circumstances wage-
earners can’t afford a national 40-hour
week, nor can most other sections of the
community. Wage-earners comprise the
greatest section of the Australian popu-
lation, and a restoration of living condi-
tions—including, above all, ample hous-
ing—and, later on, an improvement on
pre-war living conditions, will depend
mostly on their own productive efforts.
If, between them, they can do enough
work in a 40-hour week to reintroduce a
good standard of living for themselves
and others, well and good. But all the
evidence is that their present efforts are
not enough to do this, and that some
energetic preliminary spadework will
have to be done before they have earned
it. A firm foundation of increased pro-
ductive capacity is the only thing that will
guarantee a 40-hour week that is really
worth anything.
If, because of a higher production from
each one of the population, Australia be-
came able to lead the world towards a
40-hour week, more credit to Australia.
But both the United States and Canada
have a higher manufacturing capacity per
head than the Commonwealth, and this is
also true in many competitive industries
in other countries. So long as our unit
production is below that of other nations
it will be economic suicide to toy
with ideas like the 40-hour week as a
general thing, especially as many of the
sections demanding a 40-hour week are
those which are deliberately promoting
those anti-social activities which are ob-
structing reasonable production during the
hours which are worked. In some of
those industries in which 40 hours or
less are already worked —such as in the
Sydney Government abattoirs —there is
abundant evidence that the work per-
formed each hour is less than that carried
out when the working week was longer.
Until Labor is able to rationalise its
attitude and play fair with the nation
it had better be taught to expect penal-
ties rather than plums in shape of a
shorter working week, higher pay or
social security.
The Federal gold excise was imposed
at the beginning of the war with Ger-
many, and was levied at the rate of half
the excess over £9 (Australian) that gold
realised per fine ounce. It applied to
gold produced in Australia, New Guinea
and Papua, but not to gold brought to
the Commonwealth from places outside
its control. It was in addition to the
New Guinea gold tax. Commonwealth
producers would be getting approximately
17s. 6d. an ounce more for their metal if
the tax was now eliminated. That is the
equivalent of a pennyweight, and,
small as it seems, that much extra from
4dwt. gold ore would make a great deal
of difference to large low-grade pro-
ducers, which seem to be Australia’s
most likely source of strength in post-
war gold-production activity. Since 1929
New Guinea mining operators have been
paying a 5 p.c. royalty on the gross value
of all gold won —the gross value at present
is the Commonwealth Bank price, which
is fixed after deduction of the gold excise.
Total tax paid by New Guinea gold-
miners is about 275. 3d. an ounce. The
5 p.c. tax was originally clapped on to
pay for a road from Salamaua to the
Bulolo field, but, like so many other
taxes, its original purpose has been for-
gotten. The excise impost was a purely
war-time measure that coincided with a
sharp depreciation in British currencies
following the outbreak of World War 11.
Fluctuations in the Australian price of
gold during the war have been mainly the
result of changes, in shipping and trans-
port costs. The sterling rate on New
York has been kept stable at $4.03 to the
£, and the Australian rate on London has
not altered during the war.
* * * •
There are two islands in Yampi Sound
(W.A.) in which large deposits of iron
ore exist. One is Cockatoo (B. 9/l/’46),
the other Koolan. The latter is the larger.
The existence of the deposits has been
known since about 1880 ; pearlers used
to get iron ore from the beaches for bal-
last in their vessels. Leases on Koolan
were taken as early as 1907, but little
work was done on them until 1937. The
Japanese were interested in the possi-
bilities of Koolan, off and on, for a long
period. Westralian Minister for Mines
Marshall said some time back that H. A.
Brassert and Co., of London, still held
seven iron-ore leases on Koolan. He
understood that the co. arranged to supply
iron ore to Japan before the war, but
had no knowledge of contracts, if any,
entered into. The Cockatoo Island
leases, now being developed by Australian
Iron and Steel for the manufacture of
steel in Australia, have been held for
this purpose by A. I. and S. and one of
its predecessors, Hoskins Iron and Steel
Co., since 1927, The Queensland Gov-
ernment once held these Cockatoo leases,
but its projected State steelworks never
materialised.
* * * *
Australian coalminers, working some
of the easiest and most economical seams
in the world, have deprived their country
of a valuable export trade by erratic
production and low, costly output. Aus-
tralian wharfies, controlled by Comma-
nists, have deliberately smashed our trade
connections with the Netherlands Indies,
refusing to load ships with food for those
parts because of alleged “sympathies”
with the colored revolutionaries. The
N.E.I. is an obvious field for Australian
trade expansion, being close to us geo-
graphically and, at the same time, being
short of so many of the things which this
country normally produces abundantly.
Australia is urgently in need of a vigor-
ous export trade with countries such as
the Netherlands Indies in order to main-
tain its standard of living. Sumatra used
to supply us with both petroleum and tea,
and Java provided coffee and tea, while
other Dutch islands in the area were pro-
lific sources of oil and rubber. One effect
of Communism and militant unionism in
the Commonwealth is to strangle hopes
of our external trade expansion. The
low loading rate on the wharves, the high
transport and fuel costs because of coal
made wilfully expensive, the uncertainty
of shipments leaving ports because of the
strange humors of wharfies and seamen,
the high freight cost on Australian-
manned vessels caused by seamen who
refuse to give a reasonable amount of
work—all these represent exasperating
obstacles to Australia’s establishment of
an export trade large enough to ensure
that we are able to buy the imports that
we need. Communism and militant union-
ism are steadily crushing our productive
and trading capacity under their heel, the
objective being a population so economic-
ally bewildered and distressed that
it will submit more readily to the
terms of political racketeers and indus-
trial standover men. It was not only
Hitler who got an idea or two out of the
results of the Russian revolution and the
reign of A 1 Capone in Chicago.
♦ ♦ * *
Australia’s population was officially
estimated to be 7,341,715 at Dec. 31,
1944, full-blooded aboriginals excluded.
The increase during each of the war years
has been in the vicinity of 70,000. Worst
war year was 1942, when the net increase
was 59,000. Best year so far re-
corded was 1944, with 75,000. During
the first half of 1945 the excess
of births over deaths was nearly 50,000,
compared with an excess of 43,000
in the same period of the preceding year.
It looks as though 1945 closed with the
Australian population in excess of
7,400,000, allowing for the departure of
Australian girls married to American ser-
vicemen. The present Australian birth-
rate of over 22 per 1000 of the popula-
tion is the highest for many years past.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits in the Common-
wealth reached £6ll million on Novem-
ber 30. Before the war the total was
£244 million. The note issue' at present
is in the vicinity of £2OO 'million, com-
pared with under £5O million in 1939,
All the increase is in the hands of the
public.


Public Notice.
IT is the intention of the AUSTRALIAN METRO-
POLITAN LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
after one month from this date to issue a Special
Policy in lieu of Policy No. G. 301466 on the life
of PATRICK GEORGE NAULTY (late of Rabaul)
which is declared to have been lost.
16th January, 1946. G. LESLIE,
Secretary.
KARTS
Circular Charts tar all inm at
Recording Instruments lor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gat aur quolattoe.
JACKSON & ©’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lO.
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
183S UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone; 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
d
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
fd
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
S 3
m
w
y*
What do
you
care
about
#
A.T the elbow of thousands of decent Australians today stands the
Devil of Careless Spending.
He’s a cunning devil. Knowing that the majority of us cannot keep
pace with the jet-propelled mental flights of economists, he says: "Forget
it! The war’s over, and you have only one life to live. What’s the use
of money unless you spend it? What do YOU care about inflation?”
Inflation means stratospheric prices
for common -or - garden necessities •
Let*s see how it comes about.
Most Australians today have more money
to spend than ever before. But there are
less goods on which to spend our money.
There are enough goods to meet most of
our essential requirements ... but no more.
If we use our "extra” money to buy this
limited supply of goods—all we do is to
bid up prices.
We should decide to save our money now
and put those savings into more Bonds,
more Savings Certificates, more Savings
Stamps. You can buy Certificates and
Stamps at any time, and you can invest now
any amount from £lO upwards in the
£70,000,000 Security Loan opening on
March 12th. Interest begins immediately.
See your Bank or Stockbroker.
5 THINGS TO DO TO
HELP KEEP PRICES DOWN
1. Spend wisely. Get full value.
Buy only what you really need.
Save all you can.
2. Share and share alike the goods
available—don’t "blackmarket.”
3. Keep your own prices down.
Don’t take advantage of shortages
to ask more for your goods or
services.
4. Pay your way—settle your
debts, make no new ones.
5. Invest your savings, at better
than bank interest, in Common-
wealth Bonds, Savings Certificates
and Stamps. When goods are
plentiful again you can make good
use of the money you save now—
for then you will get more for
your money in everything you buy.
Be a Sawn Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
i
Issued by the Commonwealth Loans and National Savings Organisation
NS 10.113.125
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
Some details of the share issue by
Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Aust.), Ltd.,
the projected formation of which was
announced on November 12, are now
before the sharemarket. Permission to
float was given by the Prime Minister
subject to Australian shareholders being
granted the right to take 60 p.c. of the
share issue.
The Australian public is to be offered
750.000 £1 ords., and the California
Texas Oil Co., Ltd., will take ’ 500,000
ords., to be paid for by partly-refined
oil supplies. The California Texas Co.
will provide, for 25 years, 100,000 tons
of crude oil a year at world-parity price.
The oil will be partly refined, pre-
sumably under contract, at Bahrein, in the
Persian Gulf, and brought to Australia in
the American co.’s tankers, apparently
under a freighting arrangement. A ser-
vice charge of sd. a barrel of oil (a
barrel is about 35 Imperial gallons) will
be made by California Texas, the maxi-
mum payable in any one year being
£20,000. But no such charge will be made
until the Australian company has earned
profits in excess of 6 p.c. on capital each
year, and then the service charge will be
either a maximum of £20,000 a year or
half the excess profits over 6 p.c. on
capital, whichever is the less.
It is expected that each 100,000 tons
of partly-refined oil will yield 50,000
tons bitumen, 15,000 tons petrol and
35.000 tons fuel, diesel and lubricating oil.
Bitumen, it is estimated, will be sold by
the co. at £7 10s. a ton, compared with
a pre-war price of £9 10s. and a war-
time cost as high as £22. Pre-war bitu-
men consumption was 140,000 tons a
year. Output of petrol is priced at slightly
more than £8 a ton, and the fuel and
lubricating oils at an average of £7 a
ton. Caltex, Ltd., will take the output at
“ruling market prices” and distribute it.
Of the £750,000 of cash to be raised by
the Australian share issue, it is estimated
that erection and equipment of the
refinery at or near Sydney will cost
£700,000. California Texas will supervise
the erection and supply and/or train
operatives, as well as providing technical
information. In addition to the cost of
the refinery, David Craig is to be handed
£20,000 as compensation for his efforts,
dating back to 1938, in getting the co.
established. He also has an interest in
the service charge of sd. a gallon.
Knight John Butters, Tom Murray,
M.L.C., David Craig and Elton R.
Griffin will be the Australian directors.
C. J. Brogan, John Higgins and N. W.
Padman will represent Caltex. The
sharebroking Smith family, of Sydney and
Melbourne, are the brokers controlling
the issue.
In outline, the picture seems to be that
California Texas will sell the new co.
crude oil at Bahrein at world parity and
that a subsidiary, Caltex, Ltd., will take
the output in Australia at ruling market
prices, while, in between, part-refining
will be carried out by California Texas at
Bahrein, and the parent co. will carry the
product, at a charge, to Australia, where
it will be refined, and where it will be
subject to a service charge of sd. (maxi-
mum) a barrel (as shipped) when profits
exceed 6 p.c. on capital.
California Texas Oil Co., Ltd., regis-
tered June 25, 1936, in Nassau, Bahamas,
is a subsidiary of Bahrein Petroleum
Co., Ltd. The subsidiary, mostly
through offshoots, distributes Caltex
products in many parts of the
world. Bahrein Petroleum Co., Ltd.,
registered in Canada in 1929, is owned
half by the Standard Oil Co. of Cali-
fornia and half by the Texas Company.
It controls all oil leases on Bahrein
Island, where it has a refinery at Man-
ama. Head office of all the overseas
companies is in New York.
The Standard-Gauge Stunt
Canberra Labor Government has de-
cided to go ahead with standardisa-
tion of railway gauges, including in
its activities Tasmania, which obvi-
ously does not connect with mainland
gauges, but which sends five M.H.Rs.
and six Senators to Canberra. Faced
with an election later this year and
startling unemployment already, in spite
of a lavish scattering of “defence” money
still, Federal Labor has apparently aban-
doned all pretence of being able to cope
with the housing problem, the agricul-
tural problem—the world cries out for
our food —the clothing problem, the
problem of general shortage of essential
goods and machinery, and the inflation
problem that persists because of a desper-
ate scarcity of so many of the things
which the people really want to buy.
Instead of making a determined and ener-
getic assault on these problems—such an
assault would do most to restore produc-
tive capacity and living standards and
provide employment—the Government is
going to divert an army of men to a
project that can well await a time in this
country’s ’economic progress when there
is a full production of consumer goods
and when employment is falling off be-
cause of overproduction. Actually there
is now a huge, almost threatening, demand
for everyday requirements that could
employ all our men and resources if
they were properly organised. The present,
economically, is the most obviously
wrong time to go ahead with plans for
gauge-unification. Defence? The defence
motive behind Cabinet’s decision may be
estimated in accord with Labor’s well-
known attitude towards defence.


A CITY WAREHOUSE WANTED
IN MELBOURNE.
THIS INTERESTS
City Property Owners, Estate Admini-
, strators. Investors.
/\ large manufacturing Company, with all-
Australian coverage and extending its Mel-
bourne activities, seeks a suitable building in
the City for use as a Warehouse and for
storage.
The Company will take a long-term rental
of an existing building or will negotiate with
an organisation or person prepared to finance
the erection of a suitable warehouse (when
building regulations permit) and take extended
lease to mutual advantage.
Space up to 20,000 sq. feet.
Site preferably on or near tramline.
Replies in confidence to “Good Return/’
G.P.O. Box 678. MELBOURNE.
Missing Friend.
ERNEST HAROLD W ATKINSON, formerly of Kyne-
ton, Victoria, or anyone knowing his whereabouts, is
requested to communicate at once with PALMER,
STEVENS & RENNICK, Solicitors, Kyneton, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES SEXTON late of 14 Gow Street Hamilton.
—TAKE NOTICE that CHARLES HOPKIN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4566 of 1944 on the
ground of your adultery with MILDRED VICTORIA
HOPKIN the respondent in this suit You may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 11th day of
February 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from J. K, DIXON Esq. Solicitor of
115 Pitt Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN BERNARD O’CONNELL late of 41
Hio-h Street Dawe’s Point Sydney in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
MARY O’CONNELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3108 of 1945 against you on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the Eighteenth
dav of February 1946 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from THOMAS JOSEPH
PURCELL 66 King Street Sydney.—(n.s.) 0. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TJuTtfeuIZeivn,.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£140
6 13 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the force* In tb*
Islands —3 months .. ..£180
THE SERVICE MAN
Giving Away New Guinea.
“Ek Dum”: “The Mandated Terri-
tories of New Guinea and Nauru are
to be brought under international trustee-
ship,” Mr, Chifley stated in Canberra on
Friday. A still-unauthorised gift, offered
by Dr. Evatt at San Francisco, it has
“terrifying possibilities.”
The League of Nations was in
a different category from U.N.O. It
had no great powers with vetos. And
the strength of W. M. Hughes ensured
that the Mandated Territories should be
under Australian control. It was never
likely that they would become the play-
thing of Russian or any other im-
perialism.
At that, Australia paid desperately in
blood, treasure and humiliation for
League rule. Australia had the cost and
responsibility of administering these
areas, but could not frame a native policy
without having Geneva in mind. The
Old Women of Geneva were so deeply
versed in New Guinea affairs that when
one of Australia’s experts told them
humorously that copra was the outside
husk of the cocoanut none of them saw
anything wrong in it, apart from the
British representative. Lord Lugard.
Defences, of course, were taboo. While
Japan was fortifying islands and laying
down strategic bombing and naval bases
within striking distance of New Guinea
and Australia, New Guinea defence was
non est because of the League. Even
after war broke out in Europe, when
every Allied nation was aware that, if it
went badly for the Allies, Japan was
likely to strike —at that time it seemed
that Russia would be on Japan’s side,
since Moscow was working tooth and
nail for German victory—the party in
power in Canberra since October 7,
1941, and particularly Mr. Ward, the
present Territories Minister, was opposed
to sending compulsory trainees to the
Mandated Territories and Papua, on the
ground that they were “foreign.”
In the end, with their usual reversion of
form, Labor politicians left a hand-
ful of unfortunate compulsory service-
men there to be slaughtered by an over-
whelming Japanese invasion force, along
with hundreds of civilians who could and
should have been rescued.
Strategic Importance
New Guinea is strategically the most
important part of the South Pacific. It
provides the one jumping-off place from
which, at the present stage of air develop-
ment, populated Australia could be effec-
tively bombed from the air. Brisbane is
within workable Superfortress range of
Rabaul—within a year of the beginning
of any new war, Sydney and Newcastle
would be within workable range. Not, of
course, that this matters very much if
the atom-bomb romanticists are right
about the potentialities of that weapon—
six atom bombs could destroy half the
Australian population if dropped on the
six Australian capitals which have been
so neatly packed with people for the
benefit of an attacking enemy.
However, granting that the atom bomb
is not the decisive weapon which it is
supposed to be —and there is an increas-
ing bulk of military opinion which be-
lieves that it is not —New Guinea is to
Australia and the South Pacific countries
what Gibraltar and Malta are to the
Mediterranean and what Britain is to
Europe. It is absolutely indispensable,
both for attack from Australia and for
the defence of Australia.
When Japan struck, though the on-
slaughts were made on Pearl Harbor and
Malaya, there was one question on
which the defence authorities were unani-
mous —so unanimous that the Curtin-
Evatt-Forde crowd was not even odd
man out, as usual in the British Common-
wealth councils, but a fervent supporter.
That was that Australia was one of the
two great strategic bases of the war which
must be kept at any cost. The ‘other
was Burma and India. On that the
Canberrans were not agreed. They could
not see Burma, since their vision had been
rendered myopic by fright.
It was also agreed that the vital area
to be held to save Australia was the
screen of islands to the north-east and
east, because these were the stepping-
stones along which naval and air attack
could be pushed to the Australian main-
land, and which would, at the same time,
be used as a wall to divide the British-
American allies from each other and
slice through their converging communi-
cation lines.
The Japanese must deeply mourn the
faulty strategy or the lack of shipping
resources which prevented them from
making conteiriporaneous and over-
whelming invasions of New Guinea and
Australia at the outset.
They would have found here an in-
different union element —Japan was not
at war with Russia and Thornton of the
Ironworkers actually stated in a pamphlet
issued in June, 1942, that the entry of
Russia into the struggle did not alter
the character of the war. The Japanese
Army once here would soon have lived
militarily on Australian resources. But,
as it happened, the Japanese effort in
New Guinea was delayed until the delay
was decisive.
The next time there is a Pacific war
the aggressor may benefit from that
lesson. New Guinea is likely to be
attacked instanter, even if Australia is
not directly involved.
Warnings of Danger
For those who need it, there are plenty
of warnings of danger. One came from
Admiral Nimitz and one —scarcely reported
in the Australian press, which was too
much occupied reporting the Russians to
notice the utterance at any length—from
Mr, Fraser, the Maoriland Prime Mini-
ster, who at the U.N.O. Conference
described the Pacific as “a sizzling poten-
tial danger.”
On the principle of an equitable geo-
graphic distribution, the South and South-
west Pacific should be represented (on the
Security Council). Between nine and ten
million whites and Polynesians are con-
cerned, and vitally strategic bases are
certain to be discussed by the Council.
Any vital bases in New Guinea should
not come within the ambit of the Security
Council. The Security Council’s possible
usefulness begins and ends with its power
to prevent war. And if the moment
comes when it cannot prevent war, the
task of defending New Guinea, which is
ours, bought with the blood of the Aus-
tralians who have fallen there already in
its defence, will not fall on “Brazil,
Egypt, Mexico, Poland, Holland and
Yugoslavia,” but on the Australian people
and the British and American navies and
air-forces.
Russian Example
In this matter the Commonwealth can-
not do better than follow the example
of America and Russia. The Americans
are not yielding any mandated islands,
which affect their security, to any Security
Council. They intend keeping them
firmly in their own hands. The Russians
are not offering to return Saghalien,
grabbed as the prize of an almost
unresisted march through Manchuria
which Moscow was pleased to describe as
“the great patriotic war against Japan.”
They are holding it tight as a stepping-
stone to Manchuria which an enemy
might use. And there is 50 times more
justification for Australia exclusively to
hold not only the New Guinea Man-
dated area but the whole of the British
Solomons than there is for Russia to
take Saghalien. Russia has even estab-
lished the principle that she is justified
in the aggressive seizure of foreign terri-
tory for her own defence,
Papua, of course, is not mandated
territory. It is Australian soil. It has
four boundaries in terms of modern war
—the sea and air, which are the domain
of everybody who can roam there ; the
Mandated Territory, and Indonesia. To
hand the Mandate over to the Security
Council (on which not Australian but only
Dr. Evatt’s opinion will be represented),
will mean that Papua will become a
strategic island surrounded by foreign
elements—an unthinkable proposition
when it is realised that Moresby controls
the passage to the Owen Stanleys, now
traversed by a road, and the vital Torres
Strait, and that the most important
strategic harbor in the north from the
point of view of Australian defence is
Milne Bay.
Mr. Hughes’s Example
When the question of Mandates came
before the Peace Conference after the last
war, Mr. Lloyd George put the case
against the mandatory system for the
German Pacific colonies:
To sum up, he would like the Con-
ference to treat the territories enumerated
as part of the Dominions which had cap-
tured them, rather than as areas to be
administered under the control of an
organisation established in Europe which
might find it difficult to contribute even the
smallest financial assistance to their ad-
ministrations.
Mr. Hughes, speaking at Mr. Lloyd
George’s invitation, made it “quite
obvious that Australia was deter-
mined to retain the colonies she had
captured, and that he was definitely
opposed to any mandatory arrangement.”
A.S for internationalisation (he said) he
did not see why this principle should be
applied in this particular case. Control
by the League would lead to confusion
of authority which would be harmful.
The then P.M. made the potent remark
—borne out in 1940 and 1941, and especi-
ally potent in the present situation —that
“the friends of one war are not always
the friends of the next.” From this point
of view he was prepared to say that in
any mandatory power but Australia estab-
lished in New Guinea, Australia would
see a potential enemy. No State would
suffer if Australia were safe. The security
of Australia would threaten no one.
That is the position today, and there
is not the slightest warrant for removing
the Mandate from Australian control,
more especially since Papua and the
Mandated Territory are so integral the
one with the other that it became an abso-
lute necessity of their defence, so soon as
they were attacked, to liquidate the dif-
ferent Administrations and place them
under one control.
At the original World War I peace con-
ference the other Dominions strongly
supported Australia’s viewpoint. Presi-
dent Wilson was the stumbling-block.
Mr. Lloyd George has described what
happened;—
....Mr. Hughes having stated his case,
President Wilson pulled him up sharply,
and proceeded to address him personally
in what I would describe as a heated allo-
cution rather than an appeal. He dwelt
on the seriousness of defying world
opinion on this subject. Mr. Hughes, who
listened intently, with his hand cupped
around his ear so as not to miss a word,
indicated at the end that he was still of
the same opinion. Whereupon the President
asked him slowly and solemnly: “Mr.
Hughes, am I to understand that if the
whole civilised world asks Australia to
agree to a mandate in respect of these
islands, Australia is prepared still to defy
the appeal of the whole civilised world?”
Mr. Hughes answered: “That’s about the
size of it, President Wilson.” Mr. Massey
grunted his assent of this abrupt defiance.
Those were the days when the world
influence of Australia derived from the
immortal deeds of the A.I.F. and from
the moral strength and character of its
Ministers, particularly the Prime Minister,
If the public of the Commonwealth
agrees to the handing over of New Guinea
to U.N.O. control it will deserve the con-
sequences. Any step of the sort might
well be the subject matter of a referen-
dum.
Garrisons and Politics.
“Ek Dum”: The Cabinet is in its
usual muddle hbout defence policy and
nobody, least of all its “Defence” Mini-
sters, one of whom is permanently in
London, appears to know from day to
day what the “policy” will be next week.
The climatology of the defence region
of Canberra and Melbourne depends on
the fads and fancies of the press. Mini-
sters, with the general election a few
months off and the Service vote a crucial
factor, have no hesitation in trying to
please at any cost.
There are 340,000 Japanese in “Aus-
tralian-held” islands and 26,445 Italians,
Germans and Japs in Australian camps.
Japanese fanatics are apt to do anything
if control loosens'sufficiently, but guards
are continually in process of reduction,
the whole scheme apparently being based
on political exigencies,
Australia is committed to provide about
2300 R.A.A.F. and 10,000 troops, plus
naval units, for the occupation force in
Japan. But this project has become so
unpopular that only half of the desired
number could be found among the for-
mations in the islands. There has needed
to be somewhat intensive recruiting
among mainland units.
In the Indies all Australian troops are
due to be taken out by the end of Febru-
ary. They are being replaced by British
and Indian troops, who personally have
far less interest in the defence of that
strategic region than Australians. But if
Australian troops were left there “Labor”
might lose Communist support.
No adequate provision is being made
for future island garrisons, despite the
fact that it will be a long time before
all the Japanese go home.
As plans change every month, forces
are whittled away. Requirements for
garrison duty inside and outside Aus-
tralia within the next year will run nearer
to 100,000 than 75,000, which is an abso-
lute minimum, when reinforcements are
taken into account.
Nobody knows at the moment where
the 100,000 are coming from. Perhaps
the growing armies of unemployed will
provide them.
The Caldwell Case.
“Elk D.”: The court-martial of Acting-
Group Captain Clive Caldwell finished on
January 18, save for the promulgation
of the sentence. He had pleaded not
guilty to a charge that while in com-
mand of No. 80 Fighter Squadron be-
tween Dec. 22, 1944, and Feb. 15, 1945,
he had, through his batman. Corporal
K. Parker, engaged in the selling of alco-
holic liquor to the Americans,
On the evidence of Parker and others
who were alleged to have worked with
him, Group Captain Caldwell was con-
victed. On a second a charge, he said:
“In view of the adverse finding of the
Court on the first charge, and the simi-
larity of the second charge, to save the
time of the Court I will plead guilty.”
To anybody familiar with the R.A.A.F.
and its ancillary transport forces there
was nothing new in the fact that liquor
was carried in military aircraft from the
mainland to islands —islands where there
were thirsty Americans with large rolls of
money waiting to pay tempting prices for
anything that looked like a drink.
The whole business was basically the
outcome of a Government policy which
kept some of the world’s most noted and
adventurous fighter pilots rotting in what
was virtually a non-combat zone. There
was no trading in liquor in the Mediter-
ranean. There these men had too much
to do to think of such matters.
Some questions, however, arise. Why
does it happen that only veteran fight-
ing officers are involved in such
charges when young transport pilots
can be heard to boast one did in
the hearing of a Federal member —of
shops, restaurants and blocks of prop-
erty bought out of trading? And how
came it that floods of liquor could be
obtained and taken out of the country?
There was never any lack in city messes
whose members never saw a shot fired.


f
Special Old
SHERRY
PERJONAL ITEMS
Lieutenant-General Morgan, chief of
U.N.R.R.A. operations in Germany, got
more publicity—mostly unfavorable,
much of it abusive —from his one state-
ment on the “Second Exodus of Jews”
than he received for the really great job
he did as deputy chief of staff to General
Eisenhower in planning the invasion of
Europe. It was two months after D-Day
before the world heard of Morgan’s part
in it; his criticism of Jewish refugees be-
came world news overnight. Tall, grim
and a tiger for work and efficiency,
Frederick Edgeworth Morgan was an
artilleryman in the first German war —
he collected two “mentions” and a few
wounds—and in 1940 commanded a sup-
port group of the Armored Division in
the Battle of the Bulge. He was already
working on invasion plans when Eisen-
hower became Supreme Commander and
made him his deputy chief of staff ; both
“Ike” and Churchill have gone on record
as to the value of his work in planning
the Normandy landing. After the col-
lapse of Germany, when there was tension
between Allied forces and Tito in Yugo-
slavia, Morgan was sent to straighten
things out. The U.N.R.R.A. appoint-
ment followed.
Although Edward Wheewall Holden,
knighted at the New Year, is associated
with one of the largest and most progres-
sive industrial undertakings in S.A. he
cannot deny that both he and the industry
he helped to found had their origin in
the horse-and-buggy days. It was his
father who first decided harness-making
and coachbuilding were dying trades and
saw the possibilities of motor-body build-
ing. It is nearly 30 years since father
and son, with Charles Irwin, began a
business which expanded till its output
was nearly 50,000 bodies a year. Amal-
gamation with General Motors in 1931
saw E.W. at the head of the new firm,
and he’s still there, looking after the
change-over from war production to nor-
mal peace-time products, plus the de-
velopment of an all-Australian car. A
graduate of Adelaide Uni. in science and
engineering, the new knight is on the
’Varsity Council, an Adelaide alderman
and a M.L.C, During the war he was
Controller-General of Army Canteens.
The George Medal is still a very rare
decoration in this part of the world. Ser-
geant Horace John Brown, one of the
latest to receive it, won his at Hon-
gorai River (Bougainville) last year.
His detachment had a Bailey bridge half-
completed across the river when he
noticed a couple of Japs on the struc-
ture. He put them to flight with an Owen
gun, but. not before they had placed a
demolition charge in position. Brown
picked up the charge with fuse smoul-
dering and carried it to a point where
he could throw it clear of the bridge. He
beat the explosion by a couple of seconds.
In 1903, when John Shiels Duncan
joined the N.S.W. public service, he could
hardly have suspected that the promotion
ladder would in time lead him to South
America, whither he now goes as first
Australian Minister to Chile. After 20
years in State departments he transferred
to Commonwealth Service, and in 1935
became Deputy Director of Posts and
Telegraphs in N.S.W. Three years later
he went to London as official secretary to
Bruce, and has lately been Acting
High Commissioner. When he gets to
Santiago he will be able to remind the
South American Dons that in the year
he entered the public service 191 ships
left his native Newcastle with coal for
Chile ; in the past 10 years nil.
Official war artists won the two big
art prizes this year. William Dargie, who
helped to put the war on canvas in the
Middle East and New Guinea, gets the
Archibald Prize with his portrait of Lieut.-
General Edmund Herring, now Chief
Justice of Victoria. This is Dargie’s third
success; in 1941 his study of James
Elder brought him the prize and the
following year he clicked again—
Jim Gordon, who won the V.C. in the
Middle East, was his subject. Dargie is
the type of artist who paints with both
eyes open, so his success does not meet
with the approval of “modern” art
critics, one of whom considered that the
prize should have gone to a man who
“can reveal at one throw his full con-
ception of a personality, and expose to
the daylight those shadowy precincts
which present an absolute identity.’! 1
Douglas Watson, winner of the Wynne
Prize for landscape, also had a previous
success to his credit. His entry “Old
Grain Stores at Greenough, W.A.” is a
quiet contrast to his more recent work —
he covered the A.I.F. landings at Tara-
kan, Labuan and Balikpapan. Watson
won the N.S.W. Travelling Art Scholar-
ship in 1940 and will go to England later
in the year.
Norman Harry Taylor, who succeeds
J. A. C. Rundle as chairman of the Sav-
ings Bank of S.A., has been a trustee of
the bank for the past 10 years. He’s
also chaired the Adelaide Chamber of
Commerce and the Associated Chambers
of Commerce of Australia, the S.A. Com-
mercial Travellers and many other con-
cerns during the past 46 years, besides
directing the affairs of the wholesale firm
of J. N. Taylor. In World War Ihe
served as Comptroller of Stores and
Assistant Commissioner of Australian
Red Cross in England and France. He’s
75.
Capt. L. W. Webster, O.C. Ist Aust.
Book Depot, depicted here by Dubois, is
in charge of the Australian Army unit re-
sponsible for the distribution to troops of
all Army Education reading matter,
whether instructional or recreational.
During the war years his organisation sent
to Diggers more than half a million books
and established a chain of base and for-
ward libraries superior to that enjoyed
by most Australian townships. Capt.
Webster, who heads a hand-picked staff
of professional librarians, booksellers and
journalists, got his schooling at Stanmore
(N.S.W.), Sydney Grammar and Brisbane
C.E.G.S. A medium-sized, nuggety fellow,
he took his colors in five branches of
sport —football, rowing, cricket, athletics
and swimming. After leaving school he
was a dominie at Newington, Scots and
Sydney Grammar, and followers of G.P.S.
BOOKS AND PAPERS.
sports will recall him as the rowing master
of Scots and one of the men associated
with the introduction of the Fairbairn
style of rowing. Before World War II
he gained his commission in the sth Heavy
Battery (R.A.A.), rising from the ranks,
and was called up for duty at the out-
break of war. After service with the
Intelligence Corps on the mainland he
did valuable work with the 4th and
sth R.A.A.F, Squadrons in New Guinea
as a member of Army-Air Force Co-
operation, In his present job, while no
expert on the finer details of the Dewey
System of library classification, Capt.
Webster has been responsible for a speed-
ing up in the despatch and circulation of
A.A.E.S. reading matter.
Group Captain W. B. Stephens,
R.A.A.F., Principal Medical Officer for
Victoria, S.A. and Tassy, was caught by
Mcßeath halfway through the process of
his recent demobilisation. Commencing
his soldiering in 1924, he was so conver-
sant with service procedure that soon
after the outbreak, of World War II he
was selected to pass on his experience to
Air Force med. rookies. Hence de-
veloped the R.A.A.F. Medical Training
Unit, which eventually found a permanent
home on the grassy slopes of Preston
(Vic.). Apart from the bowler shown,
he carries from the service bushels of
SCALPEL AND PILLS.
good wishes and plenty of scars. He was
one of the six survivors of the Catalina
disaster at Townsville when as P.M.O. of
north-east area he was returning from
New Guinea. Air Commodore Cobby
won the George Medal for the gallant
part he played in rescue work on that
occasion.
Kenneth Hamilton Bailey, nominated
by Australia as one of the 15 Judges of
the International Court to be set up by
U.N.0., is an answer to the two criti-
cisms most commonly levelled against
Australian Rhodes Scholars —that they
don’t come back and that they get no-
where if they do. From Wesley and Mel-
bourne Uni. he went to France with
Second Divvy Artillery in 1918 and after
the Armistice was chosen as Victorian
Rhodes Scholar. At Oxford he took his
M.A. and B.C.L. and came back to Mel-
bourne to collect his LL.M. and become
Professor of Jurisprudence and, later, of
Public Law at Melbourne Uni. Inter-
national gatherings are nothing new to
Professor Bailey, as he represented Aus-
tralia at the League of Nations Assembly
in 1937 and went to ’Frisco with Dr.
Evatt last year. Since 1943 he has been
on loan to the Attorney General’s Depart-
ment ; he helped it prepare the 1944
Powers Referendum. During the next
few years he’ll have plenty to do and
will be able to forget that.
Australian natural science owes much
to Heber A. Longman, who lately re-
linquished charge of the Queensland
Museum after 34 years. Appointed in
1911 as assistant to Dr. Hamlyn Harris,
he succeeded Harris as director in 1918.
His work on the palaeontology of long-
extinct Australian animals has earned
him wide recognition in scientific circles,
abroad as well as in Australia, and many
of the reproductions made under his
direction at the museum are accepted as
standards.
Sydney R.A.S. is to revive its State
fodder competitions this year and the
field wheat competitions are to follow.
But land .men from the coast to Con-
dobolin and the Tweed to the Murray
will see no more the genial face of
Albert Dunnicliffe, doyen of agricultural
journalists, land editor of the old “D.T.,”
founder of the Hawkesbury egg-laying
contests and sundry other things, who
died early this month. What Bert didn’t
know about wheat wasn’t worth knowing
and few of the field wheat judges were
ashamed to consult him. In town and
country his dry wit and obvious interest
in rural affairs made him remembered;
on the humorous side his best effort was
to convince a Greek cafe proprietor at
Lockhart (N.S.W.) that it was an Aus-
tralian custom for an ice-cream vendor
to “put up on the house” whenever some-
body shouted ice-cream for four mates.
He almost persuaded a Myall Creek
sheepman to begin capturing grasshoppers
in the 1934 plague on the ground that
oil from their bodies was highly-prized
for high-altitude aero engines. The sheep-
man was so delighted at being so nearly
had that he rang up an Inverell pub and
ordered “drinks for the mob.” Dunni-
cliffe put in the war years in the censor’s
office. The Bulletin M.O.L. page knew
him as “A.A.D.” and “Yarrunga.”
As well known to Brisbane shipping
men as the Pile Light, Captain B. A.
Scott has passed into dock for retirement.
The skipper’s salt-water associations have
been with the R.A.N.,, the Aberdeen,
White Star and Orient lines, troopships
during the Boer War, the A.U.S.N. Co.,
Cape Morcton pilot service and the Steve-
doring and Wool Dumping Co. He
brought the first ship through the north-
east passage into Moreton Bay.
Few pedestrians and motorists who
respond to or react against the traffic-
directing gestures of a constable at the
Collins-street-Russell-street intersection in
Melbourne know that last year he was
directing another kind of traffic in the
Pacific islands and before tjiat was doing
the same in Crete and the M.E. He is
Lieutenant-Colonel Allen Coombes, M.C.,
who commanded the 47th Battalion at
Bougainville and trained a jungle war-
fare unit in Queensland. He won his
M.C. with the 2/8 Battalion in the M.E.
Rehabilitation sees him back in his pre-
war job as First-class-constable A.
Coombes,
In 66 years } of Bulletin history its
composing room has known only three
foremen. George Skelton, third of the
line, put his last Bully to bed early this
month. George came to the old office
in lower-George-street in 1900 as off-
sider to Bill East and in due course
succeeded him as boss of the room. He
was skilled in his craft and took a pride
in his job; he takes with him into retire-
ment the good wishes of all the. staff.
Ray Ormes, trained under East and
Skelton, carries on.
Another back in his old job, Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs, Dan
McVey may have time now to sort out
his reminiscences of the many posts he
held during the war. Here are a few;
Director of War Organisation of Indus-
try, Secretary to Department of Air-
craft Production, Deputy Chairman Air-
craft Advisory Committee, Chairman
Radiophysics Advisory Board, Member
Radio Research Board, Director-General
of Civil Aviation. In 1943 he led the
Aircraft Production Mission to Britain
and America. Born in Falkirk, Scotland,
53 years ago, he has spent a lifetime in
the Commonwealth’s service—four years
of it abroad with the old A.I.F.
Into the silence:
At Naracoorte (S.A.), at 73, Walter Henry
McFarlane, pastoralist. Spent most of his life
in the Far North of his State, on Glenview,
Warrioota and Angorichna stations; went to
the south-east in 1930 when he bought Fingle
Park, near Kybybolite.
At Plympton (S.A.), aged 85, Thomas Willett.
Served with the P.M.G.’s Department all over
the State; later engaged in the hotel business.
At Sulphur Creek, Tasmania, James Overall,
aged 84, nurseryman with world-wide contacts.
Bom in Cambridgeshire, England, he started
his career in the garden of the Earl of Hare-
wood, and later was at Ascot, residence of
Leopold de Rothschild. Came to Tasmania in
1887 and established a fine nursery property at
Sulphur Creek.
At Cirencester, England, aged 12, Sir Wil-
liam Sinclair Marris, a Maorilander, who had
attained high office in India. Educated at Wan-
ganui and Canterbury Colleges —where he was
a fellow pupil of Lord Rutherford —Marris went
to Oxford and later entered the Indian civil
service. He became Home Secretary, Governor
of Assam, Governor of the United Provinces
and a member of the Council of India. In 1929
he became Principal of the Armstrong College,
Newcastle-on-Tyne. A ripe classical scholar,
his translation of “The Odes of Horace” has
considerable merit, and in recognition of his
contribution to literature the Senate of the Uni-
versity of New Zealand conferred on him the
honorary degree of Doctor of Literature in
1940.


“Benefit has been
_—.remarkable
M ter
“ or< {am
»
Mrs!l^° nt^Ce^ ON
en
3gai n *
. Pbyjf/ r °*
k P f ri °*catiJ° s 9n
N &i»
be
bos
e **r e .
mQr bobl.
r ec
*nt/
for
c °ntm
than
e *ced
tb
Cf
c °urse
Uilh
i^otb
?He
fit
to
” l yse//'
The revitalising effect of a course of ‘Phyllosan’ tablets must be
experienced to be appreciated. Many thousands owe renewed
health and vigour to these wonderful little tablets. If you
take ‘Phyllosan’ tablets regularly, we believe the results will
astonish you.
Start taking
.helps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phyllosan’ it the property ol Natural Chemicals Ltd.. London
/AciftcCun^
FOR TOMORROW
✓
Stocks laid down long ago,
matured and maturing, pro-
vide the While Horse supplies
regulated for today, and pro-
mise amply to fill your re-
quirements for tomorrow.
Whenever possible, see that
your “Scotch” is • • •
WHITE HORSE
WH.1.45
WHISKY
Equal
to a
fine
Liqueur ”
SPORTING NOTIONS
Rain lowered attendance for the S.T.C. meet-
ing at Rosehill on Saturday, but the 22,000
crowd and uncounted service personnel put
£75,861 through the tote; only a couple of
thousand pounds short of the course record.
Chaperone, a two-year-old full sister to
Civic Pride, by Ajax from the Claro mare
Aulone, was prepared for her first race with
a minimum of publicity, but word of outstand-
ing speed leaked out and she was a hot
favorite at from evens to 6 to 4. She had a
severe handicap in the draw —number 23 in a
field of 24 over four and a half furlongs—but
apprentice Robards had her flying to the front
while the others were still finding their legs,
and she had overcome her disadvantage in a
few strides. She was followed into the straight
by Lucky Escape and Leumas, and that order
was maintained to the post, with Chaperone
increasing her lead at every stride. The judge
called it four lengths and three lengths.
A fine big stamp of a filly along similar lines
to her sister, Chaperone retains her sire’s
characteristic coloring, but is a deeper and
richer shade of chestnut than either Magnificent
or Civic Pride. She is the fourth Ajax youngster
to have won, and won in style, at first public
appearance. Her time, 54*sec., equalled the
course record. There was fair money for
Lucky Escape at 9 to 2, and it will be well
to remember that he beat the rest as pointless
as Chaperone beat him.
Carrying only 8.13 —moderate for him—and
with recent good runs under his belt. Hall
Stand seemed to have a made-to-order task in
the six-furlongs Flying; a year ago he would
have eaten a similar field on those terms.
Holding the Rosehill six-furlongs record of
I.IIJ, he likes the track, and was installed
favorite at 11 to 8, having drifted a shade
from even money. When they got going
Bangster displayed his usual short-winded
brilliance, sharing the lead with Cargeonel for
the first half-mile, after which he’d had
enough. Cargeonel, confidently backed from
7 to 2 down to 5 to 2, led from the leger
and lasted out a fraction too long for the
favorite, who produced a mighty effort over
the last half-furlong and appeared to have just
got there. However, the finish at Rosehill is
particularly deceptive both from the
and the public stands, and the judge gave it to
Cargeonel by a head. Whatever flattery Hall
Stand gave his supporters was considerably de-
deflated when Cargeonel’s jockey, W. Cook,
was reprimanded for “not riding his mount
out vigorously to the post.”
A five-year-old chestnut gelding by Piccadilly
from Golden Curio, Cargeonel seems to have
improved 100 per cent, on the form he was
showing six months ago. Last start he spread-
eagled a Welter field at Moorefield, and, win-
ning the Flying on Saturday, he -covered the
six in three-quarters of a second outside Hall
Stand’s record. Star Gold (third) and Puffhara
should do better when a suitable race is chosen
in the near future.
The Lord Mayor’s Cup, at 10 furlongs, was
won by the Manitoba five-year-old War Eagle,
who has always impressed as a first-class gal-
loper who might be suited by more solid
racing preparation. He won like a good ’un, as
he did at his last win, which was on the same
track nine months ago. On that occasion he
set a track record for the mile and a half. R.
Parsons allowed War Eagle to tail the field to
the half-mile, passed a couple between there
and the home turn, and made his run on the
outside over the final furlong and a half, War
Eagle finishing brilliantly to down Columnist
and Lady Marie, and covering the 10 furlongs
in Isec. outside the course record. Columnist
is developing into a very promising three-year-
old. Of the others. Polar Star was doing most
pleasing work at the finish.
With his wrist still heavily bandaged, D.
Munro resumed riding after a long absence
caused by a spill at Randwick. He had two
mounts, King Lear and Babillard; both started
favorite and both ran third. Punters appa-
rently allowed their faith in the Old Master
to outweigh their judgment of the horses,
neither of which appeared to have outstanding
merit. King Lear, who started at even money
in the Three-year-old Maiden first division, was
hopelessly placed at the turn, but put in a
good run down the straight to score his fifth
consecutive minor placing, Flying Bomb (W.
Cook) and Royal Sovereign finishing ahead of
him. A likely-looking gelding by Manitoba
from Passbook, Flying Bomb led all the way
and did well to hold off Royal Sovereign, who
finished determinedly. For the second division
Aginade was again well supported and seemed
unluckily beaten by Bourke (F. Williams);
Gold Caste was third.
Munro’s other mount, Babillard, despite
recent failures, started at 6 to 4 in the nine-
furlongs’ Welter, which was won comfortably
by Man o’ War. The old grey Jymjon sur-
prised by also finishing ahead of the favorite.
More surprisingly, he paid only £2 10s. 9d.
on the place tote.
* * * *
With the speedy Dhori filly Pink Pearl with-
drawn, the Shrewsbury Handicap for two-year-
olds at Mentone on Saturday looked only a
matter of how much the other Dhoti candidate,
the grey colt Westminster Abbey, would win
by. Actually he did so by only a little over a
length, but he dominated the field, and, though
pocketed for a while, ran on very strongly once
he had fairly forced his way clear. The Enfield
and Kinderscout colts Breech and Golden
Buddy showed improving form in the places.
Westminster Abbey is now to have a long spell.
He looks one worth making a note of for when
he comes back.
• •••*!•
The Mentone going was heavy, so West-
minster Abbey is not of the sort that must have
a certain kind of conditions, he having won
just as well on the dry and dusty Moonee
Valley track a week earlier. The very opposite
appeared to be the case with another of the
Mentone winners, the three-year-old Solar Bear
gelding Solray, who, helped a bit by a favor-
able run through in the straight, got up in
time to beat St. Dandy, Private Chat and the
rest in the Ascot Thousand six-furlongs sprint.
At Moonee Valley Solray finished a long, way
back in the sprint won by Delina, but at Men-
tone, on the stated ground that the soft track
would suit him, he was heavily backed from
sevens down to twos. An inquiry into the
considerable improvement was proceeding
when this page went to the printer.
There was also solid backing for the ex-
Westralian Nullabung in the mile Chartwell
Handicap, but his 8.13 was a shade too much
for him in the going, and he went down by half
a length to the Parenthesis mare Knockarlow,
with the outsider Excellent third. Analyst,
who defeated Bijli and Pimpernel in the six-
furlongs Moodcmere Handicap for three-year-
olds, and Balzac, winner of the Winton Trial
Hurdle from Gyrone and Gunnias, were well
supported winners, but the three-year-old Solar
Bear gelding Chatsol represented a general
“skinner” for the books in defeating Hiatus
and Macclesfield over the 13 furlongs of the
Devonshire Handicap. Chatsol returned
£l5 16s. for ss. on the win tote. The other
winner of the day was the Blank four-year-old
gelding Void in the seven-furlongs Ancaster
Handicap; Canny Scot second and Bronx third.
Apart from Westminster Abbey’s win, form on
the day looked unimpressive.
* * ♦ «
An oddity of Australian racing is the “one-
way traffic” in news between East and West.
The “West Australian” of January 2, for in-
stance, published complete details of the New
Year’s Day racing in Victoria, N.S.W. and S.A.,
but not a word appeared in other States’ lead-
jpg papers of that day’s Perth meeting, though
it included the Perth Victory Cup. The aged
Nico gelding Maddingfon cleared right away
to win the Cup in the hollowest fashion from
Gold Patois, with Lord Treat third. Both
first and second are raced by J. H. Gumming,
who collected £2900 for the placings. He
bought the winner for 350 guineas, but the
gelding had been previously sold for £4O. The
second placegetter was bought in S.A. for 35
guineas.
It was left to the Perth Cup meeting’s un-
savory happenings to secure publicity of a kind.
They were certainly sensational doings—two
life disqualifications arising from. two different
races, one of them the Cup. In this case the
trainer of Gay Parade was outed and two race-
course attendants were warned off, all for life.
The explanation of Gay Parade’s owner was
accepted. In the other case Royal Link and
trainer got life outings, and both a son of the
trainer and the husband of Royal Link’s owner
were warned off for life. The horse’s woman
owner was exonerated. Saliva and urine tests
of both horses had been made. Gay Parade won
last year’s Cup. Earl Mond, who was third
that year and fourth this year, is being sent
to do his future racing in Melbourne. Mad-
dington may also be sent east. His Cup time,
3.23|, set a W.A. record for two miles.
• * * *
With the prize-money that’s being offered,
some good horses should be attracted to the
reopening of Ascot, Brisbane, in May. The
total for three days is £20,400, including a
£4OOO Stradbroke Handicap and a £5OOO Vic-
tory Cup, with a cup valued at £2OO. The
St'radbroke is a six-furlongs event; the Cup a
mile and a half. There’s also a 10-furlongs
Moreton Handicap worth £2OOO.
* * * *
Ninety-one horses have been nominated for
this year’s resumed English Grand National, to
be run at Liverpool on April 5. Strongest
contenders are expected to be from Ireland and,
more remarkably, from France. The ruling
favorite is Prince Regent, winner of the Irish
Grand National, and rated by good judges as
the best steeplechaser they have seen. Alto-
gether the entries include 27 trained in Ireland.
The six from France include Kargal, winner
of the French Grand Steeplechase at Auteuil in
1943, and Symbole, who won the same race
the previous year. Prince Regent is an 11-year-
old, Symbole is 10 and most of the prospective
contenders are well up in years. But then the
average age of Grand National winners since
1919 is nine.
* * ♦ »
Many a racing result would have been dif-
ferent if a horse capable of winning had been
able to get through on the rails over the last
bit. That is always possible at Fontwell Park
(Eng.), where the steeplechase course comes
in on the hurdle track near the winning post.
There on January 10 T. Rimell got his mount,
West Fell, home in the last stride only be-
cause he was able to cut around inside the
leaders in the gap thus left in the rails.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Encourage: Manakau, 1; New Idea, 2;
Sancherie, 3. Sledmere Handicap: Chaperone,
I; Gold Taj, 2; Royal Court, 3. Valicare
Handicap: Lakshmi Vallis, 1; Goldage, 2;
Lady Charming, 3. Challenge Stakes: Civic
Pride, 1; Hall Stand, 2; Gay King, 3. January
Handicap: Columnist, 1; Invictus, 2; Flying
Cloud, 3. Paddington Handicap: Gigli, 1;
Sajakeda, 2; Babillard, 3. Anniversary Handi-
cap : War Eagle, 1; Nightbeam, 2; Lady
Marie, 3.
* * ♦ «
The Services XI promised big things v.
Queensland when 285 were on the board
for five wickets, but the last five fell foi
11 runs; all out, 296. Whitington got 84,
Hassett 67 and Sismey 60 ; McCool’s four
wickets cost 104, and Ellis got three for
52. Queensland were also in a bad way
with eight for 241, but Morris (104 not
out) and A, Young (50 not out) improved
things, the innings closing at eight for 334.
Ellis (three for 70) and Miller (two for
74) did most damage.
• * ♦ •
Quite a hefty programme of future
cricket fixtures has been mapped out.
This year M.C.C. tours Australia and
M.L., India goes to England, and West
Indies to India. In 1947 S. Africans visit
England, Indians come to Australia and
M.C.C. will have a team in West Indies.
In 1948 Australians will be in England
and Englishmen in S. Africa. In 1949
M.L. is due to visit England, M.C.C. goes
to India and S. Africa tours Australia. In
1950 it’s West Indies to England and
M. to Australia and M.L.
* * * *
“Slip”; The Marylebone C.C. decision
to limit Test matches to 30 hours each
over six days during the 1946-47 Aus-
tralian tour (with the final match played
out if necessary) should be cheered by
a public grown tired of batsmen stub-
bornly trying to force a win or boost up
averages. In 1924-25 two Tests ran to
seven days at Melbourne and Adelaide,
and the fifth Test at Melbourne in March,
1929, was spread over eight days, during
which 1554 runs (Australia 1091 and five
for 287, England 519 and 257) were scored
for 35 wickets. In England Tests are to
be lengthened from the present four days
to five, which should mean a reduction
in drawn games, hitherto so unsatisfac-
tory to touring Dominion teams. /
* * * *
“Long-on”: Selectors Bradman, Ryder
and Dwyer in sorting out an Australian
XI to tour M.L. next month have
quite good material to work on. A reli-
able team would be Hassett (who on ex-
perience should be the captain), Pepper
and Miller, of the Services; Tallon,
Brown and McCool, of Q.; Barnes,
O’Reilly, Lindwall and Toshack, of
N. ; Hamence and Craig, of S.A.;
and Tamblyn, Freer and Tribe, of Vic,
Of these 14 only Hassett, Brown, O’Reilly
and Barnes have worn an Australian rep.
blazer.
« * * *
It was left to the Scots to put the first
defeat on the slate for the Kiwi XV, so
successfully playing in Britain. The braw
laddies won by 11-6 on Saturday, the
first time a Scottish team has defeated one
from M.L.
* ♦ * *
Tennis writer E. C. Potter, regarded in
America as one of the most authoritativfe
commentators on the game, looked
into the French ruling body’s reinstate-
ment of Cochet as an amateur and de-
clares it acted within its rights. Potter
says of Cochet; “The little man who
maintained a sports shop in Paris, sold
equipment with a Cochet label and wrote
a book on tennis which contained 21
pages of advertising, several of them in-
cluding his picture, while he was winning
10 French, four British and two American
amateur championships, proved long ago
that he could get away with anything.”
According to Potter, other ruling bodies
besides the French have by-laws allow-
ing for reinstatement on satisfactory evi-
dence that -it is merited. Such players,
however, are specifically excluded from
Davis Cup play under the regulation
“Any amateur who has never abandoned
or lost his status as such shall be quali-
fied to represent a nation.”
* * * *
Clem Sands was too full of fight for
an older welterweight, Jimmy Dundee
(10.6), at Leichhardt. Throwing punches
from and in all directions, Sands gradu-
ally weakened his man, and Dundee came
up slowly for the fifth. In that round
short rights floored him three times. The
old ’un boxed cleverly in the sixth, but
in the seventh he was dazed with a flurry
of fists, and was on the floor for the
seventh time when the referee, Pearson,
decided that too much was plenty.
* * * »
Young lightweights Leo Heaney (W.A.)
and Jimmy Hill (Vic.) turned in 12 rounds
of fiery fighting at Sydney Stadium, and
for two-thirds of the bout it was hard to
say which would win. . By dint of
greater aggression Heaney had his nose
in front when the ninth round ended, but
Hill’s faster work in the remaining rounds
won him a popular points decision. It
was in the main a battle of “lefts.” Few
of the customers were prepared for Hill’s
good showing, which made it clear that,
with Patrick taken away, Melbourne light-
weights are superior to the Sydney lot.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
There is nothing very aesthetic about
the hanging of the Archibald prize port-
raits this year. To begin with they are
down in one of the basement courts (in
department store language “lower ground
floor”), and in some cases are hung in
three tiers. This is conducive to a crick
in the neck to the five-feet-three be-
holder. In the next court the 345 entries
for the Wynne suffers even more from
congestion. In spite of the rain last
Saturday crowds of men, women and
children had paddled across the
Domain to gaze on the exhibits.
Their criticism was frank, free and
without bias. “Well,” said a small
woman in a battered red hat, “I’m glad
I don’t see the men and women around
me like some of the artists see them.
I’d be afraid to walk along the street.”
There is a bushel or so of self-portraits
and there are twd Grand Masters (one
of them Aubrey Halloran) side by side.
There is a characteristic portrait of the
Henry Braddon lady by Wolinski —her
short coat is as cleanly blue as a bit of
sky after rain. Next to her is the vivid
Mrs. R. McCaughey, wearing chiffons
that are evidently pre-war—large-size
blooms with pale blue centres splashed
over a very deep blue or black back-
ground. This painting is by Lyall Trindall.
Also admired by women gazers was James
Quinn’s Mrs. Tabrina Bernard, Pianist
Trix Tange has her red-gold hair nicely
contrasted with a frock of olive green by
Hanke. In cap and gown Senator
Dorothy Tangney gazes from the left-
hand wall as one enters.
Two of the loveliest of ballets, “Syl-
phides” and “Carnaval,” were Satur-
day night’s biff at the Royal, and will con-
tinue till this week-end. Both breathe
romance and are fluent with delicate
imagery. The first-nighters welcomed
their old favorites with applause and the
smile of content. Laurel Martyn, Dorothy
Stevenson, Tamara Tchinarova and Edna
Busse were again a delight to the eye.
A memorial to the nurses who died
on active service during the war
years would be a gracious tribute
to the heroic women who have
helped so * many Australian lads back
to health and happiness. The Nurses’
Memorial Fund, with an objective of
£50,000, is being raised for the purpose
of building a Nurses’ Club. This will at
once serve the living and honor the dead.
A “Popular Nurses” contest has been
set in motion, and is expected to bring
big money to the fund. Sister Jess Doyle,
who spent three years and seven months
as a prisoner of the Japanese, is the can-
didate backed by the Returned Army
Nurses’ Association. Matron Shaw, of
Crown-street Women’s Hospital, is that
institution’s nominee. Sydney Hospital
has put up Nurse Betty Mitchell, and
Rachel Forster backs Sister Patricia
Miller. Chairmap of the N.M.F. is Ruby
Board, the president is knight Alfred
Davidson, the patron is State Premier
W. J. McKell.
At the invitation of the chairman and
committee of the Manly Art Gallery, the
Mayor of that seaside town (who is the
chairman), the member for Manly and
a ferryload of its citizens came up to
town for the unveiling and presentation
of Lyall Trindall’s delicately-painted “The
Girl.” This is a nude, symbolic of young
womanhood, painted against a background
of green foliage. Anthony Holdern’s gal-
lery had been decked with flowers and
arranged with chairs, concert-wise. Mrs.
Trindall, who wore a pale-blue suit and
carried a posy of pink flowers, made a
very attractive picture herself as she un-
veiled her husband’s work.
After the gift had been received with
eulogies and thanks there was a pro-
gramme of music. Mrs. Harry Twigden,
cool-looking in white crepes, was the solo
pianist. Edna Bowden sang. Barbara
Kearns played the violin. Jean Anderson
and Elsie Edwards were the accompanists.
The epilogue was a tea-drinking, and in
the groups gathered around the buffet
at the end of the long room were the
Henry Braddon lady in company with
Mrs. Roy McCaughey (a portrait of each
is in the Archibald Prize entries, the
former by Wolinski, the second by Trin-
dall), Mrs. J. Brunton and Miss Lippman.
R.A.S. president Erik Langker and his
wife were there. Mrs. Ben Edye, daughter
Benoni and Leon Kellaway were other
tea-sippers.
Just as this letter is going to press Mrs.
Josephine Spence and Perry Ellis are
being made one in St. Stephen’s, Mac-
quarie-street. Mr. Ellis has been a United
States Consul in Sydney for over two
years. Mrs. Spence is making her vows
in a pale-blue frock with dark-brown
accessories and a flowered hat. Her at-
tendant is sister Mrs. J. C. Best. About
60 guests are offering congratulations
at the Point Piper home of U.S,
Vice Consul Del McKelvey. Honey-
moon at Kosciusko will be a sort
of stepping-stone to the snow-capped peaks
of the Andes, in sight of which Mr. and
Mrs. Ellis will make their first home, for
the two are off to Ecuador. If they live
in Quito they will enjoy its all-the-year-
round spring-like climate. Artist Mar-
garet Preston who, with her husband,
travelled in South America before the
war, reports Quito as having comfortable
hotels, lovely food and attractive homes
in the Spanish style.
Winifred Brennan, who so long and so
ably has held the job of Administrator
of A.C.F. in Queensland, is one of only
two women to hold such a position in
the movement. Winifred is the only
woman to have raised her voice as a
State representative on the Federal execu-
tive of the A.C.F. During her work with
A.C.F. Miss Brennan has travelled all
over the northern State meeting and ad-
dressing members of the 330 branches.
This left her very little time for golf, her
great recreation before the war. How-
ever she has just been elected associate
secretary of Brisbane Golf Club for the
11th year in succession, and for 16 years
she has been a member of the executive
of the Q.L.G.U. Photograph by Cooper.
Mrs. Tom Bateman’s party for sister-
in-law Lois was a great success. Once
inside the Pickwick Club the guests could
forget all about the afternoon’s grilling
heat and could admire in comfort the
great array of gifts for the bride-to-be.
The wonder was in a city whose shops
are almost denuded of pretties such pieces
of glaze and porcelain had been found.
Two sets of hand-stitched and embroid-
ered lingerie were the envy of all. Alsq
envied was the hostess’s hat a large
coolie shape in white straw. This was
worn with a frock of deep-blue eyeletted
French linen. The guest of honor also
wore blue, but in a paler tone. Mrs. Bate-
man’s sister, Mrs. Grevor Molyneux, who
goes off to make her home in Melbourne
at the end of the week, wore a pale iris-
pink outfit.
Captain Brockman, R.N., will take
back to England with him a gift to remind
him of the days when Britain’s Pacific
Fleet was in Australian waters. At a
cocktail party at Petty’s last Wednesday
the Roy McCaugheys, at the hands of
Erik Langker, presented the captain with
a painting by James Jackson of the Mur-
rumbidgee, near Gundagai. This is Jimmy
at his best, and the captain, Admiral
Portal and other Navy notables at the
party admired it very knowledgeably.
The Henry Braddon lady, who was one
of the guests, pointed out with pride that
this is the third gift of a painting by an
Australian artist to sail to England with
the Navy. The Women’s Auxiliary of
the R.A.S., of which she is president,
raised by subscription the money to buy
Howard Ashton’s “King George V in
Sydney Harbor” for presentation to that
warship, where it now hangs in prideful
place in the wardroom. One of the last
acts in office of Mayor Neville Harding
was the handing over of the picture to
Captain Schofield, of the King George V.
Later the Women’s Auxiliary of the
R.A.S. gave Captain Schofield for him-
self a painting of the Burragorang Valley
by Robert Johnstone. It was one of
Mayor R. J, Bartley’s first official jobs
to preside at this second Town Hall
function.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
even a few months ago when a man in a
tram kept on glancing at a girl in fronts
of him she could be certain that it was
the good old pick-up tactics. All she
had to do was to stare haughtily past him
and the insect shrivelled. But today, when
a man in the tram keeps his gaze on a
girl, she’d better reach hastily in her bag
and get her tuppence ready for the con-
ductor, because the travelling sheik is
probably only waiting a chance to nab
her for scaling.
From Melbourne
After long days of heat and dust Mel-
bourne has been washed clean by rains.
Gardens and trees show their gratitude,
and suburban pleasances have taken on a
new beauty. A contingent of girls from
the Mallee whooped with joy as they
arrived in a violent thunderstorm and
really revelled in the rain, but they were
soon ready for sunshine. Sixty-four of
them who arrived in the holiday camp
at Mt. Martha were only the vanguard,
a further batch bringing the total to more
than 200. The camp is very well man-
aged. A “camp mother” looks after
sprains, sunburns and other minor ail-
ments, and the girls travelled from their
homes under the care of voluntary
leaders. Some of the girls had never seen
Melbourne, and were thrilled with the
glimpses they had of the city on arrival
at Spencer-street. They are sleeping six
to a tent, and each girl must make her
own bed and do her share in keeping the
tent tidy.
The curtain fell on the last perform-
ance of “The Maid of the Mountains”
and the house, filled with admirers
of Gladys Moncrieff, said farewell with
flowers and gifts. With the co. she
is moving on to Maoriland for a season.
Joy Beattie, in black crepe dinner frock
highlighted with a spray of gardenias,
was in the audience, accompanied by
Dick Linton. Max Oldaker was also
present. These two popular young per-
formers will make their appearance in
the umpteenth revival of “Rose Marie”
next Saturday. Also there was Sylvia
Offen, secretary to a succession of Lord
Mayors. Her midnight-blue frock was
lavishly embellished with beads in a
lighter shade. At the interval she was
chatting with Betty Stewart, who was
proudly displaying a small white floral
hat she had made all by herself. Occupy-
ing a box were Mr. and Mrs. S. Howells,
the latter in a graceful black frock with
a spray of deep red roses pinned at her
shoulder.
Later many guests were entertained
backstage by the principals. Brightest
party was given by Natalie Raines, who
was assisted by Vaughan Tracey and
Frank Raynor in caring for guests. These
three will appear in “Rose Marie.”
Among the guests were Ann Lincoln, who
plays the name-part in “Dear Ruth,” and
Major Dilip Chaudhri, of the Indian
Army. Gwen Brown was most attractive
in periwinkle-blue crepe, and trimmed her
dusky locks with a halo of frangipanni
nestling in the roll at the back of her
head. Another guest whose original head-
gear created attention was Leslie Potter.
Her short black lace dinner frock was
contrasted with long blue gloves and glit-
tering pieces of jewellery ornamented with
turquoise matrix; Her snood of black
lace matched her frock. Husband Rex,
a very popular young man, was present,
and Freddie Murray, the dancer, was
with his equally gifted wife. Ormonde
Douglas, who will go to Maoriland with
Gladys Moncrieff and co., was in good
form. He had just had a telephone talk
with fiancee Gloria Lynch in Sydney. She
will also go to Maoriland with the co.
Natalie’s party was such a success that
guests had to be almost driven from the
theatre. Margaret Saker was in the midst
of all the fun. She declared it was good
to smell greasepaint again.
Biddy Bullivant has announced her in-
tention of marrying Flight-Lieut.. John
Mellis Napier, second son of the Chief
Justice of S.A., knight Mellis Napier, and
the Napier lady. Biddy has not beeh in
Melbourne for some time, but she is
remembered as an excellent horsewoman.
She took an interest in polo matches,
and at the last polo tournament at
Moonee Valley acted as sideline umpire.
Her love of this game is inherited from
her father, Hugh Bullivant. At the
moment Biddy is at her parents’ station
in Wagga, but is expected to go to Adel-
aide at the end of the month to visit the
Napiers.
Another well-known sportswoman, Les-
ley Bailey, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. E. Bailey, of Sandringham, has a tryst
on January 23 at All Souls’ Church, Sand-
ringham, with Reynolds Rippon, formerly
a squadron-leader in the R.A.A.F. He
is the only son of Mr. and Mrs. H. E.
Rippon, Edrabour, Hamilton (Vic.). Lesley
is an associate member of the Royal Mel-
bourne Golf Club, and before the war
was a member of-the senior pennant team.
,Ia the war years she exchanged this
interest for work in an engineering plant.
After marriage the Rippons will make
their home near Langkoop, on the border.
The marriage of Betty, twin daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. R. Hornabrook, of
Toorak, and Hugh de N. Lucas (ex-
R.A.A.F.), younger son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. C. de N. Lucas, formerly of
Unley Park, SA., was an event of last
week. Betty wore an afternoon frock of
periwinkle-blue crepe, a spray of gar-
denias on her shoulder and a small
matching blue hat adorned with pastel
flowers. Dr. Hornabrook gave his
daughter away and the Rev. A. C. Watson
tied the knot at the Toorak kirk. Twin
sister of the bride, Mrs. John Guthrie, of
Sydney, was matron-of-honor, her frock
of cyclamen crepe relieved with touches
of blue. Her large white straw hat was
matched by a spray of gardenias. Flight-
Lieut. Douglas Howie, of Adelaide, was
best man and the reception was held later
at the home of the bride’s parents.
June Robinson, only daughter of the
Norman Robinsons, of Hopetoun-road,
Toorak, was married to Joshua Pitt (ex-
A.1.F.) at St. John’s, Toorak, by the Rev.
H. M. Arrowsmith. The bride’s frock of
filmy ivory lace had long sleeves of
tulle, and the skirt was trimmed with
lace medallions which graduated towards
the hemline. Her veil was of beautiful
Venetian lace and she carried a bouquet
of white orchids. Norman Robinson
gave his daughter away. Bridesmaid
Betty Heginbotham favored a long frock
of white satin cut on tailored lines. A
hat of stiffened white veiling and bouquet
of white gardenias maintained the bridal
note. The bridegroom, only son of the
George Pitts, of Monara-road, Toorak,
had B. Handbury (ex-A.1.F.) as best man.
At the “Victory” Gloucester ball many
young girls made their debut. Now they
have automatically become members of
the Prince Henry’s Hospital “Younger
Circle” and work for the Girls’ Ward at
this hospital. To raise money their first
effort was a dance, and the pretty lass
pictured here, Norma Schumann, a
member of the “Younger Circle” and
recent debutante, worked very hard as
ticket secretary.
Mrs. Helen Wessells is back in her post
as Director of the U.S.A. Government
Information Library. She has been in
America for the last four months,
spending most of the time in conference
with other librarians. When she was first
posted to Australia Mrs. Wessells was
a little worried at leaving her mother, but
on her return home she was surprised and
delighted to find her mother, now 78,
happy and interested in her job as curator
of a children’s museum. This small
museum was started by the parents of
Mrs. Wessells. many years ago, and in it
are some very fine natural history speci-
mens.
America Mrs. Wessells found to be in
a period of transition from war-time to
peace-time. The housing shortage was
terrific, hotel accommodation hard to get
and even transport in a chaotic state. In
New York Mrs. Wessells met Lillian
Foley, who has gone from the library at
Canberra to open the Australian News
and Information Library. Although her
library was not in working order, as many
as the books from Australia had not yet
arrived. Miss Foley was already receiving
many letters of inquiry regarding Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Wessells gathered that many
American ex-servicemen want to come
back and settle in this country. On the
voyage to the U.S.A. in the Lurline
several Army and Navy lads told Mrs.
Wessells of their intention to return to
Australia.
Other impressions gathered by Mrs.
Wessells concern winter fashions. Sleeves
are huge and shoulders bulky, and even-
ing and cocktail fashions are one big
glitter. At the time of the interview she
was wearing a small black cap sewn with
glittering stones in all colors of the rain-
bow.


PRICE
14 '6
A DOUBLE-ACTION
AUTOMATIC LIGHTER
The Upman Automatic Stormproof Lighter
lights in a split second. . .is operated with one
finger. Its extinguisher cap douses the flame,
protects the wick, prevents evaporation.
Supplies now available, at
JI2 /MARKET ST. SYDNEY
Watchmakers
and
Jewellers.
=B-
-
fc
Big Car
Insurance
Benefits!
Get details early of this splendid new cover for car-owners,
including FREE ROAD SERVICE and complete protection
from any contingency while motoring.
Compulsory Third Party Insurance also capably handled
for you.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St,, and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney
Also at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra! 2nd Alice Springs
Another major contribution
to Better living ->.. the
in-line-bathroom
km
y' FORMING ONE WALL OF YOUR BEDROOM
'* ..... .v*- *
mmm
' '*> o
frrrr?
m
■
SHOWER RECESS . . LAVATORY . . . TOILET . .
Here is a further ingenious and highly practical idea from
overseas to make your home more efficient and comfort-
able. It is called the “In-Line-Bathroom.” It can either
be made part-and-parcel of a new home or it can be added
to any large bedroom in an existing house. As in most
ideas for the modern home. Masonite is the ideal con-
structional material.
Scheme, primarily, is to end bathroom congestion and give
added convenience by providing duplicate facilities at end
of master bedroom. This is accomplished by partitioning
4ft. of one end of bathroom with Masonite and providing
separate compartments for
shower, lavatory, and
toilet. Useful storage
space for bulky
articles is built
in on top of
Masonite “In-
Line-Bathroom.”
PRESDWOOD ... TEMPRTILE
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
Priority demands for Masonite are still so
great that your reseller may at present be
unable to supply your requirements.
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.), LTD.
AUTHORISED N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
R. H. Cork© & Co., Sydney; Australian Window Glass Pty., Ltd., Alexandria;
A. C. Saxton & Sons, Ltd., Pyrmont; John Danks & Son, Ft^v£ Sydn *f ’
Sorby’s Pty., Ltd.. Snwqastlo; Andrew. Cflftk & Sons Pty„ Ltd,, Newcastle.
0:
SMOKE-OH!
“The best mirror is an old friend.”
—‘‘New Idea.”
Though he cast reflections on you.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She smiled at Judy, and it was like pale
sunshine breaking the frost of her stern.”
—Short story.
“Don’t put your daughter on the stage,
Mrs. Winterbottom!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In March I shall have a permanent wave
and in consequence be unfit for human con-
sumption for a fortnight.”— "Woman.”
It will evidently be in bad taste.
“Designed for your shape as well as your size
-—you’ll be lovely.”— Woman’s paper.
Provided you’ve a good foundation to
build on.
4* 4* 4 t 4 1
“Domestic help, doctor’s home, no laundry,
beds or surgery.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Purely a consulting physician.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Noises Off.
“A woman who bought a budgerigar for 2s.
found it was highly trained, and could recite
two nursery rhymes.”— ‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
This performance was totally eclipsed
by our parrot Euthanasia. She was a
nondescript bird, with plumage resem-
bling an elderly sheepskin rug, and had
once been a sound-effects worker in a
broadcasting studio.
Her star turn was a recitation of the
Song of Solomon backwards, with a few,
bars of Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony,
played on a gumleaf, thrown in between
verses. She would end up with a vigorous
round of applause, complete with clap-
ping, cheering and stamping of feet.
She became so expert at rendering a
knock on the door or a ring on the bell
that we had to arrange a system of sema-
phore signals for visitors. These only
came once, anyway, due to Euthanasia’s
habit of yelling “Another free meal-
ticket” as they came in. She would then
recite an unprintable ballad she learned
while owned by a minor poet, and make
a noise that could only be described as
a continuous sneer.
Euthanasia eventually became a war
casualty. When the Japanese submarines
caused various explosions in the harbor
she looked thoughtful for several days
after, and emitted experimental booming
noises at intervals. Finally, after an un-
wonted two-hour silence, there was a
deafening roar as Euthanasia made it.
We scraped her off the walls and buried
her with full military honors.
Plum.
*s•
“It is much easier to tell a man by letter
that you have been fooling him than to tell
him to his face.” — Woman’s paper.
It’s still easier just to say a few words
behind his back.
•b 4*
Then and Now.
The cavegirl got her set of furs
When her young suitor joined the
hunters.
The bookie’s wife, of course, gets hers
After her husband skins the punters.
F. M.
*l* *l* iff tfr
“Found —handbag, day’s, cont. idenf. card,
rat.” — "S. M. Herald.”
Probably recovered from a sinking
ship.
“The first batch of home-brew proved a
failure, so it was poured into the pigs’ trough.”
— “D.T.”
That’s one way to get pickled pork.
4* 4* 4 1 I
Long-distance Diagnosis.
“A country practitioner made a successful
diagnosis by listening over the telephone to a
patient’s heartbeats.” — “World’s News.”
“Hello, hello, yes, this is Dr. Sheer.
Oh, it’s you, Mrs. Mudgudgeon. Well,
what can Ido for y0u?..,. .Oh, yes .. .
yes . . . h’m, well, it really could be
caused by one of several things. I see,
you ‘Come over all funny now and
again’ . . .. well, let’s hear you laugh . . .
ah, we’re beginning to get somewhere
now. Your throat doesn’t seem to be
quite what it should be by the sound
What, you didn’t? I’m sorry, Mrs. Mud-
gudgeon, but how was I to know it was
a fowl cackling just outside the door?
“Now, if you go behind that screen and
take your girdle off we’ll see about test-
ing your lungs . . . Yes, I’ll wait a while
. . . Hello, hello . . . no, we haven’t any
dusty-pink georgette, cisterns or axe-
handles in stock ... all right, all right.
Madam, there’s no need to get your
hair off. You’re on the wrong Hello,
oh, it’s you, Mrs. Mudgudgeon. Now,
you know where your lungs are? . . .No,
no, they’re not at your sides, they’re
round the back. Just place the trans-
mitter under the right shoulderblade
You can’t feel any shoulderblade? Oh,
but you must have one somewhere, just
feel around.... All right, now just breathe
normally... .H’m! There’s a strong
gurgling sound...,Are you sure you’ve
never had pleurisy before? It is! Well,
tell him to take his beer outside and pour
it. How can I be expected to make an
accurate telephone diagnosis if Hello,
he 110... .No, Aggie be going to the
dance to-night—she hanged herself ten
minutes ago. Now will you get off the
line?
“Yes, yes, Mrs, Mudgudgeon. Now
just run around the room about a dozen
times, come back and hold the trans-
mitter, close against your right lung and
breathe normally.... .H’m, well, there
doesn’t seem to be anything very much
wrong there, except perhaps an inclina-
tion to ‘roar’ No, no, I don’t think
it’s hydatids... .What, the mumps?
Well, is your face fatter than usual?
No, no, I didn’t mean to infer that it’s
usually fat!.... All right, all right.
“What? No, it isn’t pneumonia, a
carbuncle, fallen arches, jaundice, muscu-
lar rheumatism or synovitis... .And it’s
not likely to be brain fever. To get that
you’ve first got to have a b Hello,
hello two sponges with passion-
fruit icing? Listen, Madam . .. Oh, there
you are, Mrs. Mudgudgeon Gastritis?
It could be Yes, fried onions could do
it, particularly if they were fried in a
lot of fat....Just hold the transmitter
against your stomach Well, hold your
stomach against the transmitter.... .No,
don’t say ‘ah’ or ‘ninety-nine’ or ‘strike a
light’ or anything. Just go on knitting
or making the bed or whatever you’re
doing, but don’t say anything.”
“Good heavens! It does seem to be
upset, Mrs. Mudgudgeon. You’ve prob-
ably eaten something that has violently
disagreed with you. I’ve never heard a
stomach rumble louder. I’ll prescribe a
bismuth mixture and What? All
right, all right; but how was I to know
it was a low-flying ’plane just passing?
“Now, let’s start again . . . hello, hello.
... .Weil, if your horse has the bots sell
him to someone and buy another, and
good-bye! Yes, yes, Mrs. Mud-
gudgeon. .. .Now, are you in the habit of
eating a lot of fatty foods, or pastry,
tarts, etc.? No, no, I didn’t say I think
you’ve fatty degeneration of the heart.
Yes, yes . . . what, the hives?
Well, do you itch? Mrs. Mudgudgeon,
I didn’t say anything about you being a
... .hello, hello —what?... .Two bob
each way Deadlegs in the Flying all up
. . . listen ... hello, hello It’s you
again, Mrs. Mudgudgeon. Well, the best
thing you can do is go and put a bread
poultice on whatever you select as the
most likely place for it, and take a quart
of bombo ten minutes before you feel
your shinbone twitch. I’ll have to go my-
self, now —I feel just one hell of a liver
attack coming on. Goodbye!”
Bo.
The Wrong Diagnosis.
“According to an American medical scientist,
baldness is a sign of virility and masculinity.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
The thing’s a rank impossibility,
For who could plausibly maintain
By virtue of his flowing mane
Samson was lacking in virility?
So women with no marked affinity
For polished domes will here attest
A sort of doormat on the chest
Is clearer proof of masculinity.
And what of grandpa, huddled there,
Decrepit in the old wheeled chair,
His hands nostalgically fingering
The ghosts of long-departed hair?
No pseudo-scientist would dare
To claim that he was just malingering.
P. M. Lusk.
Inquiry.
Why does a hen lay eggs? I fondly ask.
Is it a conscious effort to maintain
The line of their descent? Or just a
plain
Insensate act, obedient, in a task
Contributory to a cosmic plan.
Beyond the mind of either hen or man?
Or is it merely that they simply must
Or bust?
I cannot answer this, I am afraid;
But I am hoping eggs will still be laid.
T. W. Nathan.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is naid
4 id. per line; all others 2 Jd. per line.
Australians in Java
We who were prisoners of war for 34-
years want to know the name of the
genius who decided to land Middle East
troops, from the Orcades, in Java. We
were on the water, when Singapore fell
and were shipped on barges to be landed
at Ousthaven, Sumatra. After a long
wait off the shore we were taken back
to the ship and told that Sumatra was
hopeless.
The next effort was landing us on Java
about February 20, 1942. On Java there
were about 3000 Australians, about 8000
British and an American artillery battery
of about 1000, in all, roughly 12,000
fully-trained and seasoned troops.
Comparing the dates, it appears that
we were landed there after the Pacific
War Council had agreed with the Dutch
to surrender without a fight. The only
troops to contact the Japanese were one
company of 2/3 M.Gs. and one com-
pany of 2/2 Pioneers. Apart from that
we just beat an inglorious retreat. We
cannot help feeling that the Australian
Government handed us over to the Japa-
nese, thereby condemning us unneces-
sarily to three and a half years of Hell.
The death figures on the Burma rail-
way line have not, to my knowledge,
been published. I know from our p.o.w.
records that in January, 1944, our death
figures were 34 p.c. They increased, of
course, after that date. All those men
died in the Burma jungle camps under
unspeakable conditions from diseases
brought on by starvation.
Had the Australian Government done
the right thing and allowed us to go to
Burma we might have held Rangoon,
thereby saving British prestige and thou-
sands of native lives. The holding of
Burma, as “Ek Bum” points out (B.
2/1 / ’46), might have meant the release of
troops from Malaya in time to save many
lives.
Obviously this war has taught Aus-
tralia (official Australia, that is) nothing.
The attitude to N.E.I. problems at the
moment proves that. If the Greater East
Asia Co-prosperity scheme succeeds in
Java, in about another 25 years’ time
there will be a glorious base for Nippon,
right at our back door. The Australian
policy then, if things do not alter, will
be to again call on Britain and America,
conscript countries, to pull us out of the
mire.—J.H.S. (A.1.F.).
Compulsory Military Service
Agreeing generally with “Pacifist” (B.
2/1/’46) regarding the value of compul-
sory service, my experience with militia
training leads me to plump for 19, not
22, as the most suitable age. Three
months’ continuous service is then not a
serious break in scholastic, professional
or trade activities; the youths have time
to settle down before being old enough
to seriously contemplate marriage. Also,
it’s the age when most young men need
exercise to make them stalwart men and
strong-minded citizens.
I’ve had many to deal with in the latter
part of World War 11, and I can
affirm there were hundreds came through
better citizens in mind and body through
the training who would not have passed
the doctor in the early years of enlist-
ment.
It should be compulsory that all are
called up. There’s no reason for exemp-
tion for the son of a banker or profes-
sional man, whether on business or any
other pretext, in this democratic country
which in the future will need all the de-
fence-elements instruction it is possible to
impart. Now, while there is a surplus of
officers, is the time to put such a scheme
into operation.—A. C. (N.S.W.).
Malaria Treatment
News that Mr. O’Reilly, captain of the
N.S.W. XI, had obtained a supply of
atebrin in case ex-servicemen in his team
should have attacks of malaria during the
match against Queensland will cause
some lifting of eyebrows among returned
soldiers in the northern State.
In Brisbane, the Repatriation Depart-
ment refuses to issue atebrin to returned
men suffering from malaria in any
circumstances, unless they go into Rose-
mount Military Hospital for treatment.
Those, who, for business or other
reasons, do not find it convenient to go
into hospital, and who wish for a supply
of atebrin to give them temporary relief or
immunity, just have to do without. Even
a doctor’s prescription is ignored by the
department, and so far as certain chemists
are concerned atebrin just does not exist.
In N.S.W., apparently, these things are
better managed—or perhaps cricketers get
preferential treatment. — Junius Jr, (Q.),
Pearling for Servicemen
“Alpha’s” suggestion (B. 26/12/’45) that,
many young ex-servicemen are keen to
go north to Australia’s pearling grounds
is a pleasing assurance that the rising
generation is as adventurous and enter-
prising as its predecessors, but full con-
sideration must be given to the economic
side of any reef fishing scheme. Con-
ditions in Torres Strait and other pearling
areas are not what they were ; they are
likely to be different even from what
they were in wartime, when compulsion
was,to some extent in force. The great-
est optimist now has to face the fact that
Torres Strait labor is as money-mad,
surly and lazy as it is elsewhere in
Australia.
Of the several small soldier-enterprises
that I saw started in this field during my
17 years’ post-war residence round the
Straits, none succeeded, nor in fact lasted
any length of time; and this not on account
of lack of ability or hard work on the
part of the principals. It looked then as
if only the big man, the owner of at least
six .luggers, had any chance. The new
conditions are going to knock out even
these, and it is hardly likely that the
small fry will fare any better. Ten years
ago monthly wages to aboriginals and
islanders were £3 and £5 respectively,
now they are £lO and £l5, and the cost
of tucker and expendable gear will be
higher.
More disquieting still is the attitude
of the natives, who, as “Alpha” says, are
the main source of labor. In the early
post-war years Torres Strait Islanders
were a free, manly, reasonable race who
were friendly to ail white men ; there
were no such things as exploitation on
the one side or class-consciousness on the
other. Unfortunately, every new benefit
given to them now is accompanied by
propaganda suggesting that they have
been the prey of brutal white men, with
the result that class and racial hatred is
well developed.
Moreover, what about the price of
seaworthy luggers? Thursday Island
luggers costing £l2OO to £l6OO may be
sold to alien dealers in Moresby at six-
pence the dozen, but the Digger won’t
pick them up at that price.
The most hopeful proposition is that
of beche-de-mer fishing, dependent on
the return of the Chinese market, but
thaf form of the industry calls for con-
tinuous slogging work under bad condi-
tions, and I never met the white man who
was enamored of it.
The real reason for the sudden 300 p.c.
rise in wages to Torres Strait seamen
should be examined before ex-servicemen
rush for the spoils. It has double pur-
pose ; to keep white men out and to sock
the beneficiaries for taxation. He is a
smart young Digger who is going to
succeed in "an industry that Government
wants to keep him out of, and has ample
means of liquidating when it pleases.
The above is written as a warning and
not as an expression of opinion. The
writer is all for the man who elects for
the free sea-borne life of the Barrier and
Torres Strait, but it does look as if
economically this were all but closed to
him.—G.H.V. (N.G.).
Workers for Australia
Seeing that the element which allegedly
“governs” this complaisant country has
decided that anyone who wants to work
is a mug or a scab, it’s time we set
about importing some suckers who will
work hard enough to enable us master-
men to concentrate on horses, dogs, s.-p.
joints and beer-troughs.
Luckily, never in history has there been
a time when so much prospective white im-
migrant material was available, on the
taker s own terms, and in the right mood
to put up with anything. Millions of
peasants—exactly what we want —are dis-
placed and landless in Central Europe.
The Baltic States have hundreds of thou-
sands only too anxious to stay away or
get away from the enlightened overlord-
ship of their new bosses ; Scandinavian
travellers have returned with tales of
eager thousands ready to toil for us;
even French people want to come to
Australia, as well as our own folk in
the British Isles, Moreover, they would
all prefer to go on the land.
Then, we could invite all Europe’s war
orphans out. Each one would bring a
mouth to feed and a body to clothe,
which would help in a couple of years’
time when we have another surplus of
wheat and wool, as we surely will. We
could fit them all in the Queensland
coastal belt and we would not notice that
they were there until the next equivalent
to the Battle of the Coral Sea, when they
and their offspring would get a few V.C.’s
defending democracy ( i.e the right to be
pushed about by minorities and led by
mediocrities). After the bashing they
have had these immigrants would expect
little and live on nothing, which would be
just as well, as they would all have to
live in the bush to provide our comforts
in the cities. — Nay (R.A.A.F.),
Cocky Kicks Back
Again and again some plaintive voice
is raised in the urban wilderness protest-
ing feverishly against the “useless cocky”
who is being paid a subsidy on his pro-
duce out of the taxpayers’ money. In
some other gully of tar
and stone comes a
bitter wail about the
lack of barley for beer
and butter for bread.
The voice of the
cocky (useful and use-
less) complaining that
he desired a straight-
out adequate fixed
price for his product
has been drowned by
the bawling of his
cows in the worst
drought in history.
Cocky is the victim
of a cute little piece
of political chicanery,
inasmuch as the sub-
sidy contains a part of
his own taxation
money, paid back to
him as a soother. In
the meantime the
“worker” pays his part
of the subsidy through
taxation and saves
about 20 p.c. on the
deal by getting farm products cheap.
When £l2 10s. a ton is technically re-
ceived by Cocky for potatoes he is happy
about the satisfactory and just fixed
price; but it is startling to find them on
the market at £6 17s. 6d. a ton. What is
wrong with the consumers when they can
pay only 11s. in the £? Are they bank-
rupt?
In the meantime Cocky is getting
feverish working from daylight till dark
with inadequate, ill-serviced equipment,
baffled by strike delays in delivery of
parts and goods, short-handed gathering
a hard-won harvest for which he will re-
ceive some of his own money back by
way of payment.— Whitfield (Vic.),
Unjust to Country-dwellers
The Federal Government has refused
permission to import D.D.T. because of
the dollar exchange position, but I have
seen no report of limitation of film im-
ports from the U.S.A, The pest-harassed
countryman gets no relief; the pleasure-
pampered city dweller gets a full quota
of Hollywood products.
Because ice sold in towns is subject to
a sales tax of 12} p.c. the bureaucrats say
the tax of 12} p.c. on refrigerators can-
not be abolished. Ice is not altogether
a necessity in suburbia where the corner
store keeps the butter, cold meats and
bottled milk frozen till required for the
table; but refrigerators are essential in
country areas and it is ridiculous to im-
pose a luxury tax on any item so essen-
tial to country residents. The s.-t, on
kerosene refrigerators for country users
should be immediately abolished.
Another injustice to country folk is
the 25 p.c. s.-t. on cartridges used for
pest destruction.— Nuff (Q.).
Why Not Two-storey Houses?
The building of one-storey houses in
Australia is simply a habit which we can-
not grow out of. The two-storey house
offers much more protection from heat
and cold, especially in the lower-living
quarters. Also the kitchen is quite near
to the front door, which makes less hiking
when the housewife has to attend to it.
There is an extra comfort in rising to a
higher atmosphere when we go to bed,
and, naturally, we get healthier breezes
at the higher level.
Two-storey houses require much less
roofing material, and in the case of ter-
races much fewer bricks. People con-
demn terrace houses, yet they are fresh
and airy; each one protects the other
from hot and cold winds, and they require
a minimum of expense in upkeep.
I see nothing wrong with the health of
people who were born and bred in ter-
race houses, but all kinds of diseases and
ailments are rife in bungalows.—M. T. R.
(N.S.W.).
Unions and Re-employment
While up North we not infrequently
heard that our self - styled brothers,
trade-unionists, were self-sacrificially
striking for better conditions for the boys
when they returned home.
Many of those of the services who are
seeking a trade through the rehab-
ilitation scheme will fully realise the
extent of the “mateship” of trade-
unionists when they read in the book
“Return to Civil Life” that the trade
they would take is excluded from the
list of those open to part-subsidised adult
apprentices. Other interests have a prior
claim. — Laryngitis (Vic.).
Programme for the Liberals
As the Labor party is preparing for an
election this year, is it not time we heard
from the Liberal party?
It might begin its year’s work by in-
augurating a “Govern or Get Out” cam-
paign. It should be possible to obtain a
vast number of signatures to a petition to
the Governor-General requesting the
recall of the present regime. If Lang
could be dismissed why not Chifley? No
Government which refuses to discipline
lawless elements and uses its power to
bully law-abiding citizens should be
allowed to continue in office.
The Government is using the taxpayers’
money to pay unemployment relief
during strikes, but if the taxpayers started
a no-tax-payment strike they would be
dealt with swiftly and drastically.
To return to the Liberals, I make them
a gift of some platform planks:
(1) Introduction of profit-sharing in in-
dustry as a counter to the policy of class
hatred which militant union bosses and
Commos deliberately foster.
(2) No outside intervention in industrial
disputes. _ Employers and employees to
settle their own disputes, or appeal to the
Arbitration Court. Secret ballots to be
compulsory prior to strikes.
(3) Power to suspend or call to account a
member of Parliament in whose con-
stituency there is an unreasonable number
of disputes, thus making a member of Par-
liament take an interest' in the industrial
affairs of his electorate.
(4) Legislation to be introduced to give
power to recall guilty and incapable
Cabinet Ministers.
—Saw-dust Sal (Vic.).
Misleading Service Ribbons
Many soldiers have come to the conclu-
sion that service ribbons have been de-
based to the point of worthlessness. The
qualifications prized most highly by old
members of the A.I.F. are (1) early
voluntary enlistment, (2) active service in
a field unit. Service ribbons are indica-
tions of neither of*these.
Thousands of Australians enlisted early
in 1940, served in the Middle East, fought
the bitter Syrian campaign (Seventh
Division), were then diverted to Australia
and subsequently served throughout the
New Guinea and Borneo campaigns.
They are entitled to wear two ribbons
only, the 1939-45 Star (which had been
awarded to them as the 1939-43 Star) and
the Pacific Star. These two ribbons are
worn also by men and women who have
served for a total of six months in the
Pacific —a period soon completed in large
established base camps, and often with
greater comfort than could be found in
many army camps in Australia.
One can qualify for the Pacific Star by
service on one or other of the islands on
the day of the Japanese surrender. To
qualify for the Africa Star it is neces-
sary to have served west of the Suez
Canal. For some it meant fighting in the
desert; for a great many others it meant
living in Cairo or Alexandria in no
greater danger than in Palestine.
The Eighth Army Clasp is the most
valuable distinction worn by servicemen,
apart from personal decorations, but even
that does not signify active service against
the enemy in all cases.
Why is recognition to servicemen so
confused and anomalous? Is it not that
in this, as in many other matters, our
authorities are lacking in moral standards
and make important decisions on grounds
of expediency rather than of honor?—
Sergeant (A.1.F.).


PELMANISM
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality.
".... what the world needs is a training in power.” Matthews’
"Principles of Intellectual Education”
PELMANISM is a training in power. It is a means by which knowledge is more easily
acquired, retained and used, a means through which natural aptitudes find greater expression,
and by which individual faculties are developed. The emphasis is all the time on use, for
with practice and use more knowledge comes, and skill, wisdom and power grow.
In the first lesson of the Pelman Course the six means to the purposeful use of our powers
are defined and clearly explained. It is shown that the mind is a unity of feeling, thought
and will; that feeling, the source of energy, if not directed and controlled by thought may
lead us along strange and devious paths, that action in some form or other is ever present
in our waking hours, and that judgment precedes and watches over all fruitful action. This
lesson also includes the first section on memory training and the first set of exercises for
developing sense power and quickening the perceptions.
The emphasis throughout the Pelman Course is on the harnessing and proper use of energy.
Full and frequent attention is given to our relations with other people and our adjustment to
environment. On completing each lesson the pupil sends in a progress work sheet. As the
reports asked for and the Institute’s comments thereon are concerned with the pupil’s own
life and circumstances his interest is continuous, and he gets pleasure as well as profit from
the training. The exercises give smoothness and a sense of easy accomplishment to the daily
round. The general effect of the training is to induce an attitude of mind and a personal
efficiency favourable to the happy management of life.
QUALIFICATIONS: The qualifications the Pelman Institute looks
for in those seeking its help are:
(a) the ability to read and write intelligently;
{b) a sincere desire for self improvement; and
(c) a willingness in the pupil to co-operate fully with the Institute
in its effort to develop his aptitudes and powers quickly and
The Course consists of 15 lessons, each bound separately . There is a progress wor\ sheet with each lesson . Copies
of (( The Efficient Mind” more fully describing the Pelman Course of Training are posted free on request to THE PELMAN
INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. THE SERVICES. —The fee for the Pelman Course is
substantially reduced to members of the Services, discharged or still serving. The Course is approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Train ng Scheme. Enrolment can be made through Unit Education
Officers or direct with The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (corner Market Street), Melbourne •
permanently
The Pelman Institute, with the approval of
the Reserve Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions and enable resi-
dents of New Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without delay, Write in the
first instance to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Cl.
Please post me a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME ADDRESS
274
