

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3452
Wednesday, April 17, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
MIDDLE TEMPLE HALL.
by Queen Elizabeth twelve years before the Armada,
Middle Temple Hall almost certainly contained some of the
timbers of the Golden Hind, and the long high table on the dais
was cut from a giant oak in Windsor Park and given to the Hall
by Queen Elizabeth. The Hall was considered to be the best piece
of Elizabethan architecture in London, and certainly its wonder-
fully carved Renaissance screen was one of the city’s most
treasured possessions. Many a historically famous revel has been
held within these walls ; Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” was played
here on February 2nd, 1602. The Hall was ornamented with the
arms of Knights Templars and by busts of Lord Eldon and his
brother Lord Stowell. Ancient heraldic glass windows displayed the
arms of famous members of the Temple, and over all was the
magnificent open hammer-beam roof that has been one of the Hall’s
attractions.


U Mil
ill
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146
AGE
The Red Page
TOM COLLINS CANONISED.
It is a curious fact that, of all Aus-
tralian authors, the one who most
fascinates the scholarly critics who write
for “Southerly” is Joseph Furphy (“Tom
Collins”). They can never have enough
of him.
In honor of Furphy’s centenary three
years ago, Angus and Robertson repub-
lished Such Is Life. Then there was
Miles Franklin’s Prior-prizewinning bio-
graphy. Mr. J. K. Ewers wrote about
him. Rigby’s Romance, a sort of off-
shoot from Such Is Life, described by A.
G. Stephens as “a juicy quarter of the
mammoth,” is shortly to be republished.
The Poems were issued by Miss Kate
Baker in 1916.
“We have,” the current “Southerly
(No. 3, 1945) justly observes, “a sub-
stantial body of Furphiana”: to which,
the magazine suggests, should be added
“a collection of Furphy’s short stories,
essays and letters, most of which have
been deposited by Miss Baker in the
National Library, Canberra.”
This issue of “Southerly,” as it claims,
“adds matter of interest and perman-
ence” to the body of Furphiana. Dedi-
cated to Miss Baker and wholly devoted
to “Tom Collins’s” works, it contains
three of Furphy’s stories, a chapter of
Rigby’s Romance, an essay on the struc-
ture of Such Is Life by A. G. Mitchell
and, under the title “Memories and Com-
ments,” “The True Furphy,” by Kate
Baker, “How I Met Tom Collins,” by the
late Gilbert M. Wallace, and “My Grand-
mother’s Nephew,” by Guy Innes.
Furphy, it may be said, has been canon-
ised.
All this activity, of course, is highly
commendable; for, as A. G. Stephens
said many years ago, Such Is Life is
“fitted to become an Australian classic
or near-classic.”
It is worth keeping in mind, however,
since there is some considerable danger
of Furphy’s being not merely canonised
but deified, exactly what sort of a classic
or near-classic Such Is Life is. Pre-
eminently, it is a scholars’ classic. It is
very much like the sort of book described
in John Cowper Powys’s The Art of
Growing Old :
The books that will suit its [old age’s]
purpose best, therefore, are the very books
that it is impossible to read quickly or to
skim. They are the books that are the
most thickly charged with the overtones
and undertones of the whole weight of the
river of life as if flows between the twi-
light of the populous past and the twi-
light of the unpopulated future.
Such books will hardly ever be of the
kinds that bewitch, obsess, absorb and elec-
trify. Away with your spell-binding in-
toxicants, offering no difficulties to be
leisurely overcome, no blank spaces of a
restorative dullness, no pleasant easily-
followed academic plagiarisms, no inartistic
human platitudes, no old-world ramblings,
no monotonous grassy vistas, no bare sand-
dunes between land and sea, no naked
promontories from which to survey the
tedious march of the Constellations! Away
with -your fever-heating, nerve-tickling,
hair-raising books, with no repetitions, no
lapses, no digressions, no long-winded ex-
cursions, no meticulous descriptions, no
horizons of undramatic uniformity.
The books that best suit old age are, to
put' it plainly, those unexciting, untopical,
long-winded books that we have come to
call the Classics. That the Classics are
not easy reading, that the Classics are
sometimes obscure, very often dull, invari-
ably attended by such mechanical labors
as “looking up” words in dictionaries and
lexicons, is, where old age is concerned,
all to the good.
Such Is Life might have been the very
book Powys had in mind ... in fact, when
Tom Collins has his meerschaum alight
and is pondering about this and that in
his most cumbrous sentences, it almost
fulfils Powys’s ideal requirement of “a
difficult work in a foreign tongue.” It
is the difficulty of the work, one feels,
that fascinates the scholars: the madden-
ing ingenuity of its construction, the
abstruse and monstrous digressions.
But Powys, of course, was talking with
his tongue a little in his cheek; or, at
least, he was defining the essentials not
of great art but of the sort of “classic”
especially suited to old age. One would
not describe Shakspeare, Dickens, Conrad
or Powys’s own Glastonbury Romance
as “dull”; nor are any of them as “diffi-
cult” as Tom Collins. It is by the grace
of Furphy’s humor and his eye for char-
acter that Such Is Life —patchy, and a
hotch-potch as it is—is able to be canon-
ised with Tristram Shandy instead of fos-
silised with The Anatomy of Melancholy.
Still, canonised Furphy is, and deserves
to be. He is, for all time, an Australian
classic. And, says “Southerly,” both
Such Is Life and Rigby’s Romance are
to be republished in America: he is on
his way to a wider reputation. If he is
not likely to be popular overseas, a nation
that can read Walt Whitman should be
prepared to give him his place.
In Australia Furphy has been read with
a devotion that is much to the nation’s
credit. Angus and Robertson sold out
two editions of Such Is Life —a total of
8000 copies. No doubt Furphy has
something to offer almost any type of
reader: for the scholars, his “difficulty” ;
for the literary purist the unquestionable
excellence of many of his episodes ; for
the general reader his humor, his powers
of characterisation and his thoroughly
Australian “flavor” ; and, for % many of
his most ardent propagandists,' his poli-
tics —upon which the very belated arrival
of the No. 3, 1945 “Southerly” provides
an unexpected commentary.
Explaining the tardy publication, the
editor, Mr. R. G. Howarth, says;
The Furphy number was in the press
when the late stoppage in printing opera-
tions occurred. After work had been re-
sumed the power for the presses was with-
drawn. Such is life!
Such, at any rate, is the present state
of New South Wales. It was not only
“Southerly” that was held up by the two
strikes —first the printers and then the
Bunnerong powerhouse dispute. All
book production in New South Wales
came practically to a standstill. Books
that were expected to be out for the
Christmas sales have not yet seen the
light of day. Australian writers have
been deprived of big sums of money.
The sister art of painting, which has
been hampered throughout the war by
regulations limiting the number of frames
that might be made, also received a set-
back; as a result of the electricity strike
the furnaces at the glassworks were
forced to go out of operation; and, for
weeks after the strike had been settled,
artists who could get frames were un-
able to obtain glass for them. Exhibi-
tions were held up; artists lost money.
Both artists and picture-framers—and the
cultural life of the community—are still
suffering the consequences of the strike.
The idealistic Socialism which Furphy
saw as the hope of the world has led
to some queer results: which, one might
add, have been greeted by the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers with a discreet
silence.
Gibbings in Deep Water.
Reprinted from the Penguin series in
a format uniform with Coming Down
the Wye and Lovely Is the Lee, Robert
Gibbings’s Blue Angels and Whales deals
mainly with his explorations of the sea-
floor off the Bermudas and in the Red
Sea. An opening chapter records a visit
to Tahiti.
So that he could make underwater
drawings of fish and coral formations,
Mr. Gibbings dressed himself in an ele-
mentary diving-suit and, weighted with
lead, sank from mortal sight equipped
with a xylonite drawing-board and a
thick stick of graphite fitted into rubber
tubing.
From the hard iron rung of the ladder
I stepped on to the soft ooze of the sea-
floor. It was like being in some great
cathedral lit by pale-green glass. I moved
silently, as through a vast nave whose
aisles were lost in mist. Brightly-colored
fish, momentarily glinting, were like the
tinted panes of heraldry that sometimes
decorate a light.
Hiking through this damp world or,
more often, taking a trip through some-
one else’s book, the writer discovers a
number of interesting facts about fish;
how a yellow sea bass which became
dark brown in an aquarium hastily re-
verted to its original splendor of color
when a golden groper—of which obvi-
ously it was jealous—was introduced into
the same tank; how the “four-eye” fish
of the Bermudas, which carries a circular
spot like an eye near its tail, confuses
its enemies by swimming backwards with,
apparently, a head at each end; how a
hermit crab of the Indian Ocean carries
stinging sea-anemones about with it on
its claws, brandishing them when attacked
... all of which makes pleasant and in-
formative light reading.
A bit too light. With his copious quota-
tions and his rambling style Mr. Gibbings
makes his books very easily; and, like-
able as they are, the really astonishing
thing about them is that the author should
wander so wide and so deep for such
.i. 1 , “ ,
tnfling results. The under-water draw-
ings reproduced give a less effective lin-
pression of the world of fishes than does
v j- , ,
an ordinary bowl of goldfisn.
Orchard Blossoms.
Harriat, the heroine of Isabel Dick’s
Wild Orchard (Harrap; Australasian
Publishing Co.), is a very nice person who
exercises a good influence on practically
everyone she meets; neighbors, bush-
rangers, assigned servants and the like.
But this characteristic (which she shares
with Little Lord Fauntleroy and a host
of‘other literary no-hopers) gives the
whole of Wild Orchard a kind of chronic
sweetness which ruins a good deal of
interesting material.
The novel deals with Tasmania in the
1840’s, and the author has drawn freely
on original documents.
Harriat, the daughter of a country
parson, is wooed and won by a young
Tasmanian who is visiting Kent to learn
all about hop-growing. Complete with
wife and agricultural lore, he returns to
his native land and sets about hewing a
home for himself out of the bush.
It is not altogether a stereotyped tale,
for some unusual characters keep crop-
ping up; Angus Brown, the hero’s
brother-in-law ; his two boisterous sisters ;
Maggie, a servant with a dislike for
children and a taste for homicide ; and
many more But, with the possible ex-
ception of Maggie, they are never fully
drawn.
As serious a disadvantage as the senti-
mentality of the heroine is the false senti-
ment surrounding the characters and
motives of the Pioneers; they are repre-
sented as for ever thinking of themselves
like that, with a capital P, as the van-
guard of civilisation and so on. Whereas,
in all probability, they were just ordinary
people anxious to make a living; or
more money, as the case might be. With
courage, doubtless, and steady virtues,
but without any hint of the self-con-
sciousness with which later generations
have credited them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: If Sydney Minerva cap
make a success of Emlyn Williams’s
“The Com Is Green” I really can’t see
why George Landen Dann’s “Fountains
Beyond” has never been given a chance.
The Australian’s is the same species of
play as the Welshman’s —a social drama
—and the problems of the Australian abo-
riginals of today should surely be of more
interest to Australian audiences than the
educational difficulties of a remote Welsh
village at the end of last century. Mr.
Williams’s play is kept alive, certainly,
by its comedy, its drama and, chiefly, its
simple humanity—which always gives
audiences a delightful feeling of noble-
mindedness. The comedy of “Fountains
Beyond” could probably do with a polish,
as could the last act of the version brought
out by Mulga Publications; but Mr.
Dann is the Welshman’s equal in human-
ity ; and in dramatic interest his play is
a great deal stronger, for it is always diffi-
cult really to care whether Morgan Evans
wins his scholarship or not, and extremely
difficult to believe that he will marry the
Cockney wench who seduces him, whereas
Mr, Dann’s triangle-tragedy is genuinely
moving. Largely because of the amusing
portrayal of John Jones given by Walter
Pym, the Minerva show makes a pleasant
enough evening, marred by a general ten-
dency to caricature, most notable in the
cases of Edward Smith as the much-
maligned squire and Joy Nichols as the
Cockney girl. Miss Nichols, like nearly
all Australian actresses who attempt to
portray “tough” girls, seemed to have
modelled herself—and particularly the
motions of her hips on the awful
example of Mae West.
“Cauboy”: Walking along Collins-street the
other morning I found I had a blind stare in
the eyes and was not observing even the tramc
policemen, which I couldn’t account for on the
ground of any of my customary excuses r
then remembered that the previous night I hah
been to Doris FHton’s presentation of O Neill s
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” at the Comedy
Theatre. As a critic of upwards of 20 years
standing, I couldn’t help feeling relieved that
no playwright of the prestige of Shakspeare had
succeeded in endowing the five-hour play with
importance, though the Bard did write some
pretty long ones. The dimensions of works
of art are purely arbitrary conventions, ana
the standards are set by some great man or a
number of great men. Nobody in Russia thinks
a novel is a novel unless it is at least as long
as War and Peace, The Idiot or Anna Karenina,
which is quite all right when the author is a
Dostoievsky or a Tolstoy but quite wr °£B
when he is some dull proletarian scribe who
writes to the dreary thesis that man is the
victim of his conditions. In China and Japan
poems of three lines are the mode; and Euro-
pean landscapes used to be 30 feet
longer until Corot set the fashion of gemlike
pictures not much trigger than *e new Com-
monwealth peace-stamp issue. Statues had to
be two or three times lifesize until Maillol did
his wonderful little figures which in reproduc-
tion look more complete than the big ones but
which actually measure a few inches. I shudder
to think what a dramatic critic’s life would be
like if O’Neill became the fashion and one
had to sit through five or six hours of “Get-
ting Gertie’s Garter.” Whether O’Neill’s play
could start a fashion that interferes with the
dining habits of the theatregoing public is
doubtful. O’Neill doesn’t appear to be dealing
with his American Civil War family in terms
of his own experience so much as in terms of
the experiences of other people—Freud, for in-
stance. A page of Freud describing one of his
own cases lives; O’Neill’s play doesn’t, although
Elaine Foster and Doris Fitton almost make
it in places try the intensity of their acting.
If the holocaust amongst the principal char-
acters had been transferred to some of the lesser
persons in the first act it would have been
an advantage.
A memorial exhibition of Fred Leist’s
work, held at Paling’s Galleries, Sydney,
showed 60-odd paintings, some of which
had never been exhibited before. Their
range gave some opportunity for judging
Leist’s place as an artist, although some
of his most typical work, that which he
did as an official artist in the 1914-18
war, was not represented. For the rest,
there are his portraiture—in which he
was sometimes successful in portraying
both beauty and dignity—and a kind of
Australia Felix motif, with sprightly, but
timid, nudes ; kangaroos, green parrots
and other native fauna. Unfortunately,
in this type of painting both the nudes
and the kangaroos were exceedingly stiff
and self-conscious. Yet his women, in
the portraits, were good. “The Shawl/’
for instance, is a painting of a lively
young woman, with dark, glowing eyes;
the paint is applied rather too heavily,
and the shawl itself is wooden, but it is an
outstanding portrait. And in “Black and
Grey,” another type of beauty is studied,
an older woman, with dignity and a kind
of patrician charm. Leist’s Well-known
Harbor and moonlight landscapes are
poorly represented, the largest on show
being rather synthetic. Altogether one
has the impression that Leist wanted to
paint the carnival of life, but, as Dr.
Johnson said of Thomas Gray’s poetry,
“he never really spoke out.”
At the talkies:
“Love Letters” (Sydney Prince Edward):
Fairy-tale-like story of a man who writes love
letters to a girl he has never met. Jennifer
Jones handles the chief role sensitively and
Joseph Gotten gives his best screen portrayal
to date. The Australian Ann Richards shows
she has acquired a facile poise since her earlier
work in “An American Romance,” and her
compatriot Cecil Kellaway fits into a character
role with his accustomed ease.
“Those Endearing Young Charms” (Sydney
Century); Effervescent comedy with a dash of
seriousness. It deals, in modem terms, with
the Foiling of the Lady-killing Villain.
A nude by Ena Joyce won the N.S.W.
travelling art scholarship, and was the
best of a poor field. Its chief virtues
were pleasant flesh-tints and a certain
subtlety of treatment, particularly of the
hair. There was a painful fidelity about
Roderick Shaw’s reclining nude, which
was awarded third place ; it was interest-
ing, as an exhibit in a dissecting-room
might be, but with as little life, and cer-
tainly no more beauty. David Strachan,
whose . group of women and children
gained him second place, seems to be a
promising artist led woefully astray by
false prophets. Apart from Ena Joyce,
he was the only entrant who saw, much
less portrayed, any beauty in the female
form. Other paintings (with the possible
exception of a few bright and sprightly
strays from magazine covers) might have
been the work of grim and conscientious
misogynists. But whatever promise there
was in Strachan’s figures was blighted, as
it were, by his mad green sky, and the
odd vegetation, and dull brown hills, and
impossible blue water —a scene which
bore a suspicious family resemblance to
the work of some half-dozen Sydney
tenth-raters, with a lowering, sombre
coloring calculated to make the average
spectator stop dead in his tracks, and
either see a social purpose in it or fly to
the critics for illumination.
The most interesting section of the
show of Arthur Lindsay (no connection
with the Lindsays) at Kozminsky s Mel-
bourne, is the watercolors painted during
the artist’s three years of internment m
the Pootung Camp, Shanghai. Pootung
was an insalubrious place of residence
even in peace-time. Vacant allotmen
between factories were filled with the de-
caying coffins, skulls and ribs of beggars
deposited there by a charitable organisa-
tion whose minions didn’t bother to inter
them. Mr. Lindsay has painted Poo-
tung seen through the barbed-wire, an
the sensitiveness of the sketches is pro
ably due to the poor materials he na«
and the difficulties of his position.
oils, painted when he had better material
and conditions, aren’t half as good,
has had time to elaborate them, and, lik
most composers who elaborate on
simple folksong, he hasn’t improved
them.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
YOUR om
wu(S^}l
\
m
mm
s5w?S;
r\
c«
X
\
V
i *
x.
4
JM
r t
ss^
$
Ni
/
rlsj
ANTHONY HOUSEANS
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY
It will take you only , 60 minutes
to make a pair of these cosy
FELT or LAMBSWOOL slip-'
pers. Easy to make too, just
follow the simple printed instruc-
tions, and if you wish decorate
them with braid or embroidery
to suit your own taste. They are
cut out ready for sewing, com-
plete with leather sole and
wooden heel.
FELT. In Ladies' sizes only, from 2to 7. Colours:
Blue, Green and Red. Price 7/9 pair
LAMBSWOOL: Ladies', sizes 2 to 6 ... 13/11 pair
Men's 15/11 pair
Children's, sizes 3to 6 6/6 pair
„ ~ 13 to 1 11/6 pain
Children's Slippers have felt soles, Ladies' and
Men's leather soles. ■
Write for a pair of these cosy cut out slippers; you
will enjoy , making them, but most of all you will
enjoy comfort during the cool winter evenings.
Attractive Fox Fur Necklets,
silk lined and dyed Black or
Platinum Grey. .An ideal ad-
dition to your Autumn or Win-
ter ensemble. A limited num-
ber have been put aside for
Mail Orders. Note the pre-war
price 59/6 each
LEATHER SKINS
Specially selected Skins for making Bags, Belts,
Beanies and all types of Novelties, Fashion articles,
etc., are available in our Fashion Accessories
section. If you are interested in leather work don't
fail to inspect our range of split suedes and grained
calf.
Advise us by letter just what you want to make and
what colour you prefer and we will recommend the
skin and quote a price for you.
ART FELT"^—
Fashion Accessories and Toys are among the count-
less number of useful and decorative articles that
you can make with Art Felt. Obtainable in all
shades and the following three distinct types.
TOY FELT. 11 in. wide, 2/3 yd.; 23 in. wide, 4/6 yd.
(Patterns available: Dolls, 2/9 and 3/6; Animals, 1/9)
MILLINERY FELT, 60 inches wide, Price, 12/6 yard
No coupons.
SLIPPER FELT. 60 inches wide. Price .. 15/11 yard
Fur Collars in a variety of
styles to suit your Autumn coat.
Soft, warm and stylish, they are
of dyed Russian Hare. In dark
Navy Blue • only. Illustrated
style. Price 19/6
• Ladies' Neckwear —Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
Beaver Coney Fur Capes suit-
able for day or evening wear.
These capes are expertly made
from selected deep rich brown
skins and furriered in the new-
est styles. Sizes 34", 36", 38"
busts. Price, £7/19/6 (5 coupons)


Jack Dyer, captain-coach Rich-
mond, well known to football fans
as one of t|je best big men in
the Australian Rules game today.
While production of 1.C.1.
SHOTGUN and .22 RIMFIRE
CARTRIDGES is increasing
steadily, existing conditions
prevent full supplies at the
moment. Police permits are
still necessary, but holders
must not be disappointed if
supplies are not immediately
available,
Wfflß
IMPERIAL
OF AUSTRALIA
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
AND. HEW ZEALAND LIMITED
rr
Ni
NO
K.
HE RIGHT KNIFE
FOR EVERY MAN . .
Whatever the outdoor man—
or boy desires in knife
equipment, he can obtain it in
a Whittingslowe. AH Whit-
tingslowe knives are strongly
built and the blades are care-
fully made, ground and tem-
pered in the best Sheffield
tradition.
7 TOOLS IN ONE. Combining pen-
cil sharpener, blade sharpener, bottle
opener (screw top), bottle opener
(crown seal), tin opener, screwdriver,
three-inch rule.
POCKET KNIFE. Strongly made,
complete with bottle opener. Handy
pocket size, with attractive nickel
finish.
CLASP KNIFE. Heavy blade, can
and bottle opener. Blackened finish.
A similar knife is obtainable with a
marlin spike.
STOCKMAN’S KNIFE. One general
purpose blade, one castration blade.
Very strongly made. Solid brass
handle.
HUNTING KNIFE. 6-Inoh blade,
strong polished wooden handle. Sup-
plied with leather sheath. Also avail-
able without the can opener in handle.
ft
Wr
*
*
I
Keep Them Keen With An
EVERLASTING KNIFE SHARPENER
The Whittlngslowe Everlasting Knife Sharpener
Quickly puts a keen edge on cutlery or any typo
of blade. Long-lasting sharpening discs are self
adjusting and auiokly and inexpensively replaceable.
*^^^^^^^^^ER^TD^HE^ENHAM^OUTI^USTRAU/L
t
If your
dog:’a coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
aim on a course]
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION 2/«
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/«
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BAKRERE acts '.ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and, in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
- BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22U), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
gfi*. 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
TARZAN’S GRIP
Tarzan’s Grip permanently repairs all
kinds of household breakages, croc-
kery, kitchenware, furniture, radios,
toys, leaking tanks, pipes, car parts,
etc. Most powerful adhesive known.
Resists moisture and extreme heat.
Get some NOW something may
break today. I/- tube everywhere.
Look for this Trade fAark
THE
UNIVERSAL
FIXER a
As essential in s*
home as a wheel-
barrow.
It runs
on 801 l
Bearings
l FWODUCT. J
The “Lightning” is designed and priced for
it, nrivate individual, fanner, industrialist.
It Is bum on an all-steel, wheelbarrow type
J:,™. nerfectlv balanced for wheeling or
ifnndnr Primarily designed for mixing better
imping, .5 handles mor i a r,
poultry and pig food with equal efficiency.
factory representatives
WM. HAUGHTON & CO. Ply. ltd.
Melbourne . Sydney . Bfisbane . Perth
Made by Lightourn os Co., htd., in Australia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To borrow Australians Yet and Other
Verses, by Grant Madison Hervey.—37-29.
Old 1942-45. periodicals for an ex-p.-o-w.—
3730.
To buy Ewart’s Flora of Victoria. —3731.
Information Sought.
(1) Is artificial sweetening used in the making
of Australian wines. (2) Does the nature of the
grapejuice determine the flavor of the wine?
(3) What type of grapes are used for muscat,
sherry, sauterne and champagne ? (4) At what
period of maturity are preservatives, etc.,
added ? (5) Will pure grapejuice turn to
vinegar? (6) Are fermentation vats left open?
(7) Does the quantity of • pulp left in during
fermentation affect the finished article?
(1) Excise duties on cane sugar and extract of
dried grapes are so prohibitive that ordinary
grapes must be used for winemaking purposes.
(2) Yes, as do conditions of soil, altitude and
general atmospheric variations. (3) Muscat is a
blending of either Muscatel or Frontignac with
Tokay and Madeira. Riesling, Palomino, Pedro
Ximines, White Hermitage, Sherry and Sercial
are mixed for sherry. Semillion and White
Sauvignon are the best for sauterne, while the
Pinot variety is used almost exclusively for
champagne. (4) No preservatives are used, but
sulphur dioxide is added at fermentation to en-
sure sound processing. (5) No; vinegar is
obtained by the oxidisation of alcohol in wine.
(6) In the case of sweet wines the fermentation
is usually open, but in dry-wine manufacture
the vats are either fully or partially closed.
(7) A certain quantity of this is necessary for
an easy fermentation, but if too much is
present difficulty will later be experienced.
* , * * *
Some facts about Will H. Ogilvie’s life?
Born Kelso, Scotland, on August 21, 1869.
Arrived in N.S.W. in 1889, and while he worked
as drover, horsebreaker, etc., wrote ballads for
The Bulletin. He returned to Scotland in
1901, and married in 1908. Some of his publi-
cations are Fair Girls and Grey Horses (1899),
Hearts of Gold (1901), Rainbows and Witches
(1901), My Life in the Open (1908), The Land
We Love (1910), The Overlander and Other
Verses (1913), The Australian and Other Verses
(1916), A Handful of Leather (1928), Collected
Sporting Verse (1932) and Saddles Again (1937).
* * * *
(1) Formula for modelling clay ? (2)
Addresses of some firms who are manufacturers
of the product?
(1) The mix consists of 67 parts kaolin and
33 part's of finely-ground rubbermakers’ sulphur.
Add (d) No. 2 petrolatum, (b) 50 p.c.
palm oil and 50 p.c. japan wax, (c) 60 p.c.
lanolin and 40 p.c. glycerine, (d) 60 p.c. lanolin,
20 p.c, palm oil and 20 p.c. glycerine, or (e)
80 p.c. palm oil and 20 p.c. lanolin, at the ratio
of one part to three parts of the clay and sul-
phur mix. Colorant is added and mixed until
it is distributed evenly throughout, and the mix
is covered so as to exclude all air and left for
several days. It is then cut into shape. (2)
J. W. Peterson Pty., Ltd., Nelson-street,
Annandale, N.S.W., and Spicers and Detmold,
Ltd., Kent-street, Sydney.
Brief Answers.
S.O.S.: Usual remedy for chapped and
wind-burnt lips is lanoline. If the lips are so
sensitive that trouble is frequent, smear on
white lipstick or almond oil before the hp
rouge. After the warm face-wash at night
apply a little boracic ointment to chafed skin
For blisters about the lips apply spirit ot
camphor during the day B.H.: Kyhe
Tennant has written five novels: Tiburon,
Foveaux, The Battlers, Time Enough Later
and Ride On, Stranger Chang: The position
is the same whether husband or wife dies
intestate. To ensure that her husband receives
the whole of her estate a wife must make her
will to that effect R.H.C.: If glasses were
acquired in Australia sale would be legal, but
if they are brought into the country as a
souvenir it is a breach of the Customs Act to
sell them D.D.B.: Contact (1) British
Medical Association, (2) the Registrar of Trade
Unions and (3) Taxation Department
Brickwork, by McKay, and Brickwork for
Apprentices, by Hodge, are obtainable from
Angus and Robertson D.R.P.: Bulolo
Goldfields Co., Shell House, Camngton-street,
Sydney.... A.T.: (1) The incident, which
proved to be a misunderstanding, concerned
Kilkee, County Clare, Eire. County Clare has
a population of 46,036 males and 40,156
females. (2) England, by the 1931 census, had
a population of 18,061,643 males and
19,732,360 females LB.: (1) Department of
Labor and Industry, 53 Martin-place, Sydney.
(2) Contact the Sydney Technical College,
Harris-street, Ultimo S.G.: I dig myself
into” is the translation G.R.W.; The Lon-
don University has the information... -KL--
1934 Lagonda Rapier; engine 62.5i x W,
1104 c.c., 4-cylinder, 10 h.p. 1939-40 Viz.
engine 75 -x 84 5, 4480 c.c. 41.85 h.p. 1939-40
6-cylinder model: engine 88.5 x 120.6, 44.j
c.c., 29.13 h.p E.W.: The lines arefrom
Aphorisms of Hippocrates, Section L No. L
on the art of healing.... C.T. -. Judges of the
“S. M. Herald” literary competitions are: for
novels, war stories and short stories, Ur. A.
G. Mitchell, T. Inglis Moore and Leon Oel-
lert; for verse, R. G. Howarth and Leon
Gellert... .M.C.: Miss F. Tweedie, 42 Bland-
street, Ashfield (N.S.W.), is hon. sec. of the
Sydney branch of the Dickens [Fellowship.
Annual subscription is 5s..... G.R.E.: I o re-
move the tar brands from the sheepskins, first
scour the wool, then, while the hide is still
damp, rub with a kerosene cloth... .K.w..
Know of no use to which the timber could
be put M.McC.: Mingary, where we
laughed”; Kabymaro, “place where we play .
Oomoondima, “place where we think pkasan
thoughts”; Baanya, “camp; ; Koonekirra, foot
of the rainbow”; Wompime, sheltered
the sun”; Woongarra, “sleeping place ••••
R.C.: (1) Provided the ball first strikes the pitch
more than halfway down the wicket it ma
tint he a wide, but the decision rests with me
Smpiie at £ briefs end (2) Iflbe ball strto
the bat first, an l.b.w. decision is out of the
question L.B.J.: Communicate Angus and
Robertson.


• Short story writers . . .
• Radio script writers ...
• Poets . . . Novelists . . .
We will market your material for
you in Australia or overseas. Regi-
stration fee of 51- per item required.
Special rates for novels. If manu-
script unsuitable it will be returned
with criticisms.
NATIONALi LITERARY RESEARCH
AGENCY,
443 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SCRATCHING
ONLY MAKES
ECZEMA WORSE
If you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, scratching only
makes the condition worse. It increases
the swelling, makes the itching return
more severely and can cause serious skin
disorders. DOAN’S OINTMENT goes
to work in 3 ways by relieving the pain
and itching, protecting inflamed skin and
preventing and combating infection.
For these reasons DOAN’S OINTMENT
is an excellent remedy for relieving
pain and fighting infection in minor
burns, cuts, sores, scalds, sunburn
and chapping. Play safe, keep
DOAN’S OINTMENT
in your medicine chest at all times—
-used successfully for over 40 years.
IRON SCREW
l, FENCING POST
[«■ Just screw into ground. Makes a
k firm post. Also useful for reinforce-
[«• ment bars. Size 5 ft. x fins., weight
p lOlbs. each. Spacings lOins. apart.
I' Price 6d. each or £5/10/- ton.
1 Brisbane, Townsville, Rockhampton,
{'* Sydney or Melbourne.
50,000 IN STOCK FOB
•f IMMEDIATE DEEIVEBY
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES LTD.
Bowen Street, BRISBANE
HARTS
Circular Charts Jo* alt types ot
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. O'lO.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
MR44/or^
Cohere is no finer, smoother
chocolate made thaTi ....
MAC.ROBERTSON’S Extra
Cream . . . the delicious taste
that lingers calls for more
' and more and more ....
\!
S 3
D
imam
MILK CHOCOLATE
IK
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
oni
3 Hi
Miles and miles of motoring % . . if
only you had the tyres. That vital link between your
car and the road is still missing - but not for much
longer. Soon you’ll have Dunlop Silent 44 90’5” on
your car ... a brand new set of the famous tyres that
give you everything you need in a tyre.
DUNLOP
SILENT
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
D 237 ————■
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the Jg *
liability is undertaken re contnbutumsmn j
submitted; and no MS wM U
stamps accompany. MS. snouia ua
the Editor.
ON • Kipling could have written “The
Colonel’s lady and Judy °’9l a^ y been
cutaneous sisters,” but it wouldn t ha
poetry.... W.E.T.: Well, if you have an urge
to write of non-material things why not try
a sonnet on the Housing Commission s homes .
... .0.N.: It may be true, as you say, but
also du11... .R.T.C.: That particular swaggie
must have died about 60 years ag0.... .A.Mcu..
If the jokes won’t go over, no given number
of exclamation marks can make them. .. .J-i • •
Formless... .J.D.F.; Watch your grammar, and
cut out the cliches W.Y.: Yes, was ica .
G.S.B.: Sentimental... .L.R.: You have
reduced irony to the point of obscurity.
N. One passage—the shearing-shed scene
was g00d... .E.C.: “The Swaggie hmps ; ...
A.E.S.: “Autumn” not far off... .D.E.W..
feel sure that, being Australian m outlook ana
sentiment, they will receive public approval.
But what’s that got to do with their merit a,
poetry7....M.F.: “To explain 111 nobly try. _
How about nobly refraining?.. ..N.M.N..
“Boys” won’t rhyme with “toils. You might
have better luck with “boils .• . .W.L.B. .
“Sublimate and Redirect, but avoid all Repres-
sion.” Might be better to avoid all
G.T.B.: Heavy going M.R.R.: tNOt
much use trying to reprove awful painting in
awful verse... .8.H.: At least they’re eminently
legible D.M.: We don’t reprint J.E.:
She comes and goes so quickly that the poem s
neither here nor there... .E.McG.: Cant say
for sure, but probably intended for y0u....
J.O’L.: We’ve too much noise in this ornce
now. Take your “Dogs of Jeopardy” some-
where else... .Trudy: “Daughter of Salome
is being inspected by the Religious Editor....
O. : No, no, no!....James W.; She
climbed the hill in airy strides” should interest
makers of modern lingerie.... W.McB.: Yes,
it’s good, but why did you allow Masefield to
pinch it? T.P.: We defend to the death our
right to suspect sailors who croon of lurv
while sitting on a poop lanyard as the ship
“crashes” through the doldrums.... Hal:
But don’t you feel rather small?... .CJ.:
Pleasant in a half-hearted sort of way.
E.B.S.: It needs a sting at the end
P.D.: Don’t be such a ruthless realist....
J. : Write about your own experiences and
your own country; and never write about dogs.
N.H.O.: Might suit a women’s paper 1
K. Well, then, just to make your heart
leap:
D.E.: Read the Australian Poetry antholo-
gies H.K.: For the first line of a sonnet Is
this our land, this island, which, as such
must be about the flattest on record....
A.J.McN.: “The Artist” is appropriately
obscure J. 8.: “Friendship” may make you
friends, but it won’t influence people 8.M.:
“Relentless in fury, ruthless in wrath, over the
scarred earth rode the Red Horseman.” Roar-
ing like thunder, wholly derivative, back
through the post office returns the fell poem.
B.W.: You are probably familiar with
moreporks in the bush at night. Why, then, go
prowling in “woodlands” and “copses” and
listening to nightingales serenading Luna?....
H.1.P.; Don’t call. Post it L.P.: “And on
her pearly feet she trips.” Pick her up and
take her away... .8.C.J.: “Indubitably this
would have a wide circulation.” Well, keep it
circulating... .N.R.; Put Aggie in a nice little
baggie and dump her in a. river... .D.L.P.:
“This just came to me and I felt I had to send
it you.” And it just came to us and we felt
we had to send it to you. There must be
something mystic about it Bellerive: “Old,
you may be, but undaunted;
C.H.; You’d like to know how to make a
living from writing stories. So would we
W.E.P.: Well, it might rattle Ogden Nash, so
here goes: —
Atom tests aren’t fair to fishes
And shouldn’t be held against their wishes.
...Hal T.: Drunk stories these days make all
Sydney jealous... .B.I.S.: “Tanks of Ru^ 1
has a somewhat dizzy atmosphere.. . .P.P. •
“The Flood” was a washout L.K.: It looks
remarkably like an attempt by somebody to
use a pen and ink... .C.S.: The most promptly
rejected story this year... .T.O.P.: Hes
down! Can’t you see him, men? The noise
of the beats was the only reply. Yes, but
who was beating whom? N.G.: About as
humorous as a wowser widower John J.:
“The New Bridge” is as wobbly as a new-born
colt M K.: No room for sermons, even
when typed on pink paper... .V.G : Oh come,
you shouldn’t write verse at her like that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.W.; The jest is a greybeard and the sketch
the product- of a fumbling hand T.C.T.:
We recall seeing the original in a work called
“You’re Sitting on My Eyelashes” E.N.:'
Bullocky is an eyesore, and so are his team,
but the stockwhip is not so bad H.F.; Re-
ceived your animal drawings. Suggest you pay
an early visit to the zoo J.A.: The day bf
the four-decker question-and-answer gag has
long vanished F.S.: Sorry, but our Religious
Editor didn’t approve W.V.: You could try
elsewhere, but shouldn’t R.W.: That par-
ticular plumber has been calling on us for half
a century F.D.: Before submitting again
evolve a style of your own N.P.; Gent.
with drainpipes for legs and cannon-ball for
head jvas quietly put out of his. misery-
Freely I admit I’m a little man
With my little ambition and little plan,
Eager. for cash like the eager rest.
Vivid souvenirs reviewing,
My heart leaps like a ’roo;
Like boomerangs returning,
My thoughts wing back to you.
My head is half-bald.
And careworn my brow
But it can’t be helped,
I’m an old chap now.
But I still walk about
When the weather’s fine.
Have a chat now and then
With a friend of mine.
Tired of the news of
The wrongs and rights
We talk on the races
And stadium fights.
Before taking our leave
If a pub is near
We both shuffle in
For a glass of beer.


▼
ri
/
jo
7 p
u
/m
Va
oJt
/
V
m
0
Pi — VI 'i
w.
»«
/
1
S
N
\
/
&
m
>
■
K:
r%
msra
WB»t»**>
mi
sS&?S
■
■s
VtEb.
■■'■■-.
HB-
<s*
• •
anrf MOBE BE FOB MS
Forms, forms, forms! Fm fenced
in with permits, licences, returns,
regulations, from every Board and
Division and Department under the
sun. Fm tired of being pushed,
driven and harassed by bureaucrats
«
who can’t tell the difference between
wheat and oats. What I want is to
control my own industry and to
carry on with a sound price stabil-
isation scheme.
I want a Government that will
remove irritating, unnecessary, out-
moded restrictions. I want a Liberal
Government liberal in practice as
well as in name. A Government
that will restore our rights and
freedom; a Government that will
give everyone a chance to get ahead.
The Road Back to Freedom is through
The
LIBERAL PARTY
OF AUSTRALIA


SHE BEGAN WITH THE MILKMAN
By BRIAN JAMES
I T’S the system—it’s all wrong!’
I Mrs. Albert had got into the habit
I of saying this ever so many times
a day.
At first it sounded like a complaint
that her health was going to pieces on
account of what people so often vaguely
refer to as their “system.” But there were
too much vigor and vehemence in the
pronouncement for that. Then she mostly
added “I’ll give them ‘zoning’ and ‘block-
ing.’ As if the housewife hasn’t enough
to put up with as it is!”
Mrs. Albert didn’t look like a woman
of conflict and warlike intention, for her
plump figure was comfortable, and there
was a good-natured tolerance in her
round, nicely-complexioned face, and in
her pleasant, easy laugh. But when she
was dealing with the “system” her voice
grew shrill and hard, her nostrils quivered
and her blue eyes lit up ominously.
Mrs. Albert’s was the last house in the
street before the big gully; and after it
the road dips down steeply to the white
bridge, and then rises just as steeply to
the houses on the other side. A nice
house, all tuckpointed, with a lilli-pilli
hedge and a fair-sized salmon-gum glow-
ing in front. Mrs. Albert took in boarders
and lodgers, and stray groups now and
then of her closer relations. Wonderfully
good she was in that way.
But now that the whole world was in
grim struggle against the powers of dark-
ness and injustice, Mrs. Albert was stirred
to the giving of battle against the local
manifestations of these. Some people
said it was an obsession with her, but it
was something nobler and higher and
deeper than that. The zoning system and
“Manpower” had conferred awful powers
on tradespeople, and against these Mrs.
Albert carried on a daily warfare.
“If we like to lie down under it, then
we deserve all we get. But I’m not.”
When she declared this, whoever heard
her hoped greatly that they might not
be suspected as part of the “system” in
any way.
SHE began with the milkman, who
was a poor specimen of humanity, in-
sofar as he cringed and crawled at closer
quarters, and was insulting and arrogant
at a safe distance.
Mrs. Albert said that the “system”
made people like that. “But I’m going
to check up on him and give him a bit
of my mind, too!” Undoubtedly the
milkman tried to avoid this gift of mind,
and coming as he did at five o’clock gave
him certain advantages. In winter he
could slide past in the darkness, though
in summer the matter wasn’t so easy.
But then he had motor wheels on his low-
slung cart, and he drove along the dirt
track that paralleled the asphalt surface
of the street proper.
Some peculiar instinct rather than any
sound warned Mrs. Albert of the milk-
man’s noiseless approach. When caught
he would reiterate in piteous monotony
“I can’t help it, Mrs. Albert, Really
and truly I can’t. I can only give you
what I’ve got, knd I haven’t got it.”
Mrs, Albert always listened to this
right out. Then, “You’d try to ration
me !”
“I can’t help it, Mrs. Albert. I can’t
give what I haven’t”
• “So! You know my father is staying
with me. And my sister and her two
children.”
“I can’t help”
“You just wait—till the block system’s
over! Just wait! And I’m going to have
your milk analysed, and then we’ll see
where the cream gets to! ”
The milkman half-filled the billy and
said “I’d like to give you all you wanted.
But I can’t give what I haven’t got”-
“You loose-lipped, mealy-faced hum-
bug!” The milkman was back on the
cart by now. He went down the hill in
wild career, abandoning the dirt track,
which pinched out, anyway, with cans
and measures rattling wildly in accom-
paniment to the clatter of fast-moving
hoofs. Mrs. Albert, with her rationed
milk, watched the noisy flight and drew
the satisfaction of partial victory from
it. When the milkman had ascended the
opposite hill and was resuming delivery
there, Mrs. Albert went inside, and if
anyone was about would say “They’re not
having it all their own way! But look
at my arms —all mottled and blotchy.
That’s excitement!” Mrs. Albert seemed
to consider it a good sign.
THERE was now some time of respite
before the next hostilities. These
were planned against the icemen—a pair
of young fellows of almost matchless cun-
ning and strategy. They “should have
been in the Army, of course,” and
weren’t, for some reason or other. “That’s
Manpower for you, if you like.”
There was no noiseless approach pos-
sible for the icemen. They had a huge
yellow truck, with the word ICE painted
upon its sides in great red letters, with
curious white smudges on top of them
to represent icicles. That truck could be
heard quite distinctly at any distance at
all, but against this disadvantage it had
a certain ventriloquial quality that made
its exact whereabouts the merest conjec-
ture. And the driver, with the lowest
of cunning, often “squeaked” his brakes
—they shrieked like a lost soul on its first
introduction to the infernal regions. The
driver did this with full intent to deceive,
giving the impression that he was going
downhill when he wasn’t at all.
Or he would change gears when he
wasn’t going uphill at all. The changing
of gears in that truck was even worse
than the brakes.
These noises filled the morning air,
approaching, receding, coming on again
and then vanishing almost —here, there
and everywhere at once. Then, with a
sort of fiendish foreknowledge due to
occult powers, the iceman would dash
up to the gate at the very moment when
Mrs, Albert would be in such obscurity
and privacy as made quite valueless her
previous watchfulness and preparation.
A block of ice would be dumped at the
front gate, and the young fellow would
yell “Ice !” in the tones of a derisive and
triumphant dingo.
As soon as maybe Mrs. Albert would
dash out —too date. A smallish block of
yery granular ice, with a streak of dirti-
ness in the middle of it, would already
be beginning to weep on the brick path.
And on the opposite hill would be the
truck in repose,
“Come back! You!” Mrs. Albert
would raise her voice to impossible shrill-
ness. She knew they heard all right, but
they ignored her. “Iceman, I want you! ”
“Not on your sweet life,” one of the
fellows would return at that.
“At once! Do you hear?”
“Oh, go to Hell.”
Since this was public announcement,
very loud and quite public, and since
Mrs. Albert was not used to being con-
signed to Hell —at least publicly—she re-
fused to believe her ears. “ ‘Very well’
did you say? It won’t be very well for
you, believe me!”
She took in the inferior ice and
wrapped it in newspaper and an old
blanket to stop it melting too quickly.
On such occasions as Mrs. Albert was
not unavoidably absent elsewhere, and
was waiting at the front gate, the truck
rattled right by, with the pair of icemen
encouraging its speed with “Whacko!”
And then there was no ice at all, and the
butter melted, and the milk went sour.
Mrs. Albert would put her hands on her
broad hips and go into fierce communings
with herself, and hope greatly that the
pair of them would crash into the bridge
and break their necks, and be sent with-
out a moment’s intermission to a place
where ice would be extremely welcome—
but there was no ice there. Not even
inferior ice.
THE postman was more vulnerable.
He could not, in all fairness, be con-
sidered a part of the “system,” but there
were grievances against him on other
scores.
In normal times Mrs. Albert would
most likely have ignored the postman
altogether.- He was a thin, hopeless, age-
less sort of man, with a faint smile on
his face that must have been a real smile
a long time ago, and hadn’t quite faded
right out —something like a faintly defined
fossil formation.
He had gained a small measure of
fame, along with a photograph, in an
evening paper because he had walked half
a million miles delivering letters; or it
may have been a million and a half. Any-
way, it had a million in it. Whatever it
was, it was a record,, and he looked it.
Once his wife also “got into the paper.”
That was on the occasion of her sharing,
with three others, a first prize in the
Lottery. The reporter found her string-
ing beans, and was deeply touched at her
continuing to string beans all through
the interview. He photographed her
stringing beans. The moral ,was that
such women deserved to win lotteries,
and that there was something solid and
worthwhile in human nature after all.
The postman’s wife, still busy with the
beans, had said to the reporter: “Not
us, you bet! We’ll go right on as we
are, and Harry will keep on delivering
letters. We are sensible people.” She
looked sensible . . .
But Mrs. Albert often said “Well, I
do declare, he eats the letters, I do be-
lieve.”
If this was not strictly true, at least
it was evident that the postman did
attempt to live on something that was no
whit more sustaining than the mail. The
Lottery hadn’t improved his appearance.
Mrs. Albert liked to catch him before
he reached the letterbox, and confront
him, as it were, on the deficient quantity
and quality of the mail. “There’s one
for father, two for Tom, one for Ethel,
four for Mr, Rollison —and none for
me!”
The postman, on account of second
nature, gave a faint “toot” on the whistle,
which he carried in his mouth, and it
sounded like a very young cuckoo prac-
tising its cry ;' then he gently spat out
the whistle, and said, “I’m very sorry,
Mrs. Albert.”
“Indeed! And there ought to be a
letter. I know there ought to be a letter.”
“They didn’t give it to me at the office,
Mrs. Albert.”
“I know Joe would have written.”
“Good morning, Mrs. Albert.” The
postman touched his cap, replaced his
whistle, and continued to add to the miles
record for the edification of the even-
ing paper.
“Well, I never!” said Mrs. Albert after
this mild altercation. “Well, I never!”
And she looked at the letters to determine
as far as possible where they came from,
and from whom, and what was in them.
“That’s not like Joe!”
Joe was Mr. Albert, and his wife’s
great sorrow. He must have been a part
of some “system,” too, for he had left
home several years before, and had gone
vaguely "‘up country,” and had not been
heard of very much since ... “Joe’s all
right. I won’t have anyone say a word
about Joe, even if he did have funny
ways. He’ll be back, you’ll see. Any
day now. I’m sure he’s written.”
Joe, as a matter of fact, was not dis-
tinctly remembered by anyone, and
hardly ever referred to by anyone ex-
cept in a conjecturing way—“l wonder
why he left?” or “I wonder where he
is?” This was always done in a mild,
colorless manner to show that it was of
no importance one way or the other. In
reality, Joe had been so sketchy in form
and personality that it was difficult to
visualise him, even while one looked at
him,
THERE was left now only the baker.
He came at ten-thirty, and either
because he didn’t understand the intrica-
cies and subtleties of the block system
and Manpower Regulations or because
he had some motheaten chivalry deep
down within him, he didn’t dump things
{Continued on page 33.)
VARIOUS VERSE.
In the Rain.
Bush. Mist. Rain.
The crimson salmon-gums
Drinking the runnels in
Grow leaves instead of flames;
And all that time when the sun
And the fires had had their will
Something was living on,
Green and grotesque and still;
For look where the raindrops shiver
And splash from the bracken frond
The green frog clasps his lover —
Emeralds broad as your hand;
As if from sandstone rock
And the blackened logs and the ash
The wand of the rain had struck
The inmost core of the bush,
A thing some spirit had made.
Sculptured, stony and cold,
With motionless thighs of jade
And foreheads crowned with gold,
And the whole wild forest’s delight,
The ecstasy of the dragon.
Shown in the eyes’ dark heat
Under the arching bracken —
The very heart of the bush
That, pulsing, living again,
Dares not to break the hush
Of earth and desire and rain.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Conch Shell.
Virgin and clean the house is washed, and
empty
the wave withdrawing leaves it to my
hand.
The spiral passage tarns upon itself;
the sweet enclosing curve of pearl
shuts in the space that was a cell of birth
and is a windless shelter, housing
nothing.
Delicate argument and hieroglyph
of flesh that followed outward from the
germ,
your line resolves the force that set its
strength
against the wave’s weight and the storm —
maps on my hand the puzzle, the perfec-
tion,
the brilliant arch from darkness into
darkness.
And here, half-guess, half-knowledge, I
contract
into a beast’s blind orbit, stare deep down
the cliffs not I have climbed: your
prodigal,
probe with my sense your senseless life.
Life, the mad force that leapt between
your poles,
and still in me leaps out against the night.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
The Hulks at Noumea.
Traveller, pocketed in running whorls,
Fooling at hide-and-seek with dogged
Time,
You may find peace here when the sky
unfurls
And war’s a spread tornado, leaving calm;
Find satiation for those whittling hungers
Plunging you into the dust for curios
When your heart’s Helen, with failing
gums, surrenders
To a tattered photograph as the light
goes.
Perhaps, when desires and bitterness have
subsided.
Stumbling down future gangways, you’ll
give thanks
For the grand Comedy that has provided
Legions of snapped-off masts and bleach-
ing planks
Wanting your Midas-thought, your heart's
full play.
More spiritual than wind that claws and
pulls
Like a wharf-laborer striving to drag
away
The little pillage of seas, these unnamed
hulls.
The sun’s for youth and harshness, a
flung stone
Echoing around the four iron walls of
the brain,
Sharp to expose and batter the fractured
bone.
The dry, yellow throat of dawn is eager
to drain
Draughts of legend and kindness that
night spills.
But now night’s mystery links me as I
stand
To the preposterous little hunchbacked
hills,
With darkness clamping over us, like a
hand.
That listing schooner seems almost to
move
Through the pinched memories of its sea-
going.
Like a dead princess in a glass alcove.
Still lovely when the lamp’s fluttering;
Now, as the drifting moon quietly dips
down
A silver killick turning in still air,
/ hear the chant of the sounder, a curved
knife thrown
Through papery distances over water and
shore.
And this is the hope of ships that arc the
spray.
Take fine lines of tension through storm
—are left to rot.
Ticked off and herded into some blind
bay;
Darkness may fall and bring an errant
thought.
This is our hope who leave dry hulls
behind:
When life that is shrouding, purpose,
navigator.
Quits fused-out bones for the screaming
gull of the wind,
There’ll be moonlight, perhaps a traveller.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.


UMCABLED ADDITIONS
J. BULL’S INDIA MISSION.
(From London “Times” reports.)
Lord Pethick-Lawrence, leader of the
British mission, said at a press confer-
ence that the discussions were pre-
liminary to the setting up of machinery
whereby the forms under which India
could realise her full independent status
could be determined by Indians. The
mission believed that India would find
>great advantages in remaining within the
free association of the British Common-
wealth. “But it is a free association, and
we have no desire to press India to stay
within it against her considered judg-
ment,” he said.
The mission had come with only one
fixed intention, which was to play a
full part, as representing the British Gov-
ernment, in helping Indians .to achieve
their independence. Beyond that they
had open minds and were not committed
to any particular views. “But that does
not mean that we come in a hesitant or
indecisive frame of mind,” he added.
“We come to enable Indians to take their
place in the world and play their full
part among the great nations of the
world ; and with a determination to bring
our discussions to a decisive and friendly
conclusion with, we hope, the goodwill
of the inhabitants of this great country.”
The three members of the mission—
Lord Pethick-Lawrence, Mr. Alexander
and Sir Stafford Cripps—began their task
with threats of violent revolution hang-
ing over their heads. The conditions and
atmosphere favor extremism. Com-
munal peace is precarious. Nationalist
election propaganda has left the country
simmering. The services to a greater or
lesser extent have been confused in their
loyalties, and discipline is undermined,
The authority of the Government is at a
low ebb.
* The strong moral position from which
the mission enters into the negotiations
with the Indian parties was further but-
tressed by the Secretary of State in an
: interview at Karachi. Their one purpose,
■he said, was to speed the fulfilment of
Indian aspirations to take full control
of their own affairs and thus enable
Britain to complete the transfer of re-
sponsibility with “pride and honor.”
Britain desired without reservation to
consummate the pledges made. The pre-
cise road towards the final structure of
India’s independence was not yet clear,
but the vision of it ought to inspire in all
of them renewed efforts to find a path
of co-operation.
The programme of action for the mis-
sion is presumably that outlined in the
Viceroy’s broadcast of September 19. Of
the steps then contemplated, the elections
for provincial legislatures are being com-
pleted and popular Ministries are assum-
ing office. The replacement of the pre-
sent Central Government of independent
politicians and officials by an interim one
representative of the main political
parties is now to be taken up. That is
. wholly a British-Indian affair. The other
main project is to secure a decision on
the composition of the constitution-
making body or on the machinery for
taking a decision.
That brings in the princely States.
From discussions between them and
British-Indian representatives will emerge,
it is hoped, such fair and reasonable pro-
posals for the States’ adherence to an
Indian union or federation as will permit
Britain to withdraw from its responsi-
bilities in their regard. A sweeping re-*"
organisation of Indian India in the way
of the disappearance of small States is,
of course, implied. Out of more than
200 States which are still political and
administrative units no more than 20 or
30 may survive. Should the Hindu-
Muslim problem of British India be de-
cided by partition a different set of prob-
lems would arise. Hyderabad and other
large States cannot well be expected to
accept less independence than the Mus-
lim League’s projected Pakistan.
That is only to say, however, that par-
tition once begun will end nobody knows
where. The Akalis, leaders of the
strongest and most fiercely communal
section of the Punjab Sikhs, have put for-
ward a claim to a separate State for
Sikhs, although in no district of the Pun-
jab are they in a clear majority. And if
that demand gets a hearing we shall pre-
sumably also be faced with a revival of
the non-Brahmin movement in south
India for a Dravidian State.
It need not be supposed that any
Indian political leader wants to take over
his country from the British as a patch-
work of States which, so far from being
able to keep foreign invaders out, might
not be able to live at peace among them-
selves. Nor, on the other hand, can
there be any welcome for a unitary Con-
stitution at the cost of creating disaffected
masses of Muslims on India’s strategic
frontiers. A Constitution has to be
sought which reconciles the demands of
the minority communities, of whom the
Muslims are the most numerous and im-
portant—nearly one-quarter of the whole
population—for freedom to develop ac-
cording to their own way of life with
the unity necessary for the organisation
of India as an entity at least for defence.
The Aga Khan has tried out on Con-
gress, without success, the idea of a con-
-Chicago “Times.”
WHEN IN INDIA...
federation of States —Hindustan, Paki-
stan and a third to be formed out of the
existing princely States. But there are
other possible solutions if the political
leaders are prepared to show a spirit of
conciliation and compromise.
Necessity may this time be the mother
of accommodation. Congress cannot
assert inadequacies in the quantity of
freedom offered by the British as a pre-
text for refusing to meet the Muslims.
Inflexible Mr. Jinnah is not protected as
he was in 1945 by the exigencies of war.
The leaders of both great communities in
British India face the alternative of either
agreeing between themselves and with the
States on the structure of a completely
free India or, probably, precipitating
revolutionary chaos in India in which they
will pay the penalty of failure by being
themselves swept away.
NEW LIGHT ON WAR’S BEGINNINGS.
(/« the war crimes trials at Nuremberg a lot of new light is being cast on incidents
of the war’s beginnings, particularly revealing in regard to the human element involved.
The passage here given from the extensive London “Times” reports has to do with
Sir Nevile Henderson’s final dealings with Ribbentrop and the German reactions to
the British ultimatum.)
What purported to be a first-hand
account of the fateful discussions in
Berlin on th,e eve of the war was given
by Dr. Paul Schmidt, interpreter from
the German Foreign Office, who attended
most international pourparlers since
Stresemann’s time, and who made a more
favorable impression than any witness so
far called for the defence. He spoke of
the meeting between Ribbentrop and Sir
Nevile Henderson at which the British
Ambassador was given the famous note
verbale on Germany’s terms to Poland,
at which his, Dr. Schmidt’s, services were
not necessary because both men spoke in
German.
Sir Nevile Henderson’s knowledge of
German, he said, was fairly good, but in
moments of excitement he possibly might
not completely understand what was said,
and he doubted whether Sir Nevile Hen-
derson had understood the document
read out to him in all its details. The
atmosphere, said Dr. Schmidt, was loaded
with electricity: both men were extremely
nervous. The Ambassador was not at all
at ease, and he, Dr. Schmidt, had only
once since seen the Foreign Minister so
nervous. For instance, after Ribbentrop
had explained Germany’s case against
Poland, he had said: “You can see, there-
fore, Sir Nevile Henderson, the situation
is damned serious.” At these words the
British Ambassador had half raised him-
self from his chair, and shaking a warn-
ing finger at Ribbentrop exclaimed:
“You use the word ‘damned.’ That is
not the language of a statesman in so
serious a situation.”
The witness confirmed that Ribbentrop,
after reading the memorandum, did not
hand it to Sir Nevile Henderson. He
did not know what happened at the pre-
ceding talk between Hitler and the
Foreign Minister, but when the Ambas-
sador asked for a copy of the German
proposals Ribbentrop said; I can-
not give you the document.” Dr,
Schmidt looked up in surprise at the
Foreign Minister, who had an uncomfort-
able smile on his lips as he repeated the
phrase in a quiet voice. Then the witness
gave Sir Nevile Henderson an inviting
glance, fully expecting that he would ask
him to translate the document, which he
would have done at dictation speed to
enable the Ambassador to take its details
down ; but the Ambassador gave no sign,
and events took their course.
It was Dr. Schmidt who first received
the British ultimatum on September 3,
1939, and he now described how in the
small hours of the morning, when he was
with Ribbentrop at the Reich Chancery,
the British Embassy telephoned to say
that at 9 a.m. the Ambassador would have
an important announcement to make on
behalf of his Government, and asked to
be received by the Foreign Minister.
Ribbentrop stated that he would not be
available, but gave Dr. Schmidt authority
to take his place.
The witness therefore received the
Ambassador in Ribbentrop’s office, and
Sir Nevile Henderson, refusing his invi-
tation to be seated, read the British ulti-
matum to him. He took the document
to the Reich Chancery and translated it
to Hitler, who was then in conference
with the Foreign Minister. At first, said
the witness, there was silence. He could
see quite clearly that the ultimatum was
by no means agreeable to them. For
some time Hitler remained in his chair,
deep in thought, and staring in front of
him with a worried look, when, suddenly
turning to Ribbentrop, he said, “What are
we going to do now?” Members of the
Government were waiting in the ante-
room.
When he had entered Dr. Schmidt had
merely told them that there would be no
second Munich, but on leaving he ex-
plained that he had just handed a British
ultimatum to the Fiihrer. Again a de-
pressed silence fell on the room, and he
remembered that Goring had turned to
him saying, “If we lose this war, then
Heaven help us.”
ANGLO-RUSSIAN RELATIONS.
(Condensed from a “Nineteenth Century and After” article by W. L. Burn.)
As lately as two years ago it was con-
sidered a sign of bad taste, if not of abso-
lute disaffection, to make in public any
suggestion that could be interpreted as
critical of Russia ; to say, for example,
that her press was not free or that she
was not, in the Anglo-American under-
standing of that term, a democratic
country.
The Communists and neo-Communists
were reinforced in their clamor for a
“second front” by that element in British
public opinion which habitually regards
foreign affairs as a field for the exercise
of disinterested charity, and was ready to
court the risks of a premature invasion
of north-western Europe in order to help
Russia, Those who could believe in a
“new” world had no difficulty in believ-
ing in a “new” Russia ; and even less
credulous people hoped that a permanent
understanding, on a decent and construc-
tive basis, would emerge from the com-
radeship of war. Russia was more popu-
lar in Britain than she had been at any
time since 1815.
Russian popularity at the end of the
Napoleonic Wars was based on a number
of fairly solid considerations. But within
20 years Russia lost practically the whole
of its capital of popularity with the
British public. This time the process of
disillusion has been much faster. We are
still only at a date when we can reckon
the end of hostilities in Europe as distant
in months, but already the bulk of pub-
lic opinion (which is a thing quite distinct
from the “Times” and the 8.8. C.) re-
gards Russian policy as the main poten-
tial threat to the security of Britain and
the peace of the world.
This time the vital factor has been
Russian impetuosity, to use a neutral
word. It is not clear what advantages the
Russians thought they had to gain by
taking unilateral action at a very early
stage on points of only secondary im-
portance ; on the recognition of the
Italian Government, for example. No
doubt it was a temptation to Russia to
secure such diplomatic triumphs in a
theatre of war where she had no troops
engaged; but they were only cheap
triumphs. They were, however, success-
ful, fatally successful, in that they were
met by formal reprobation, but by no
effective counter-action. The only valid
plea in mitigation that could have been
made by Hitler before a Court for the
trial of war criminals would have been
that his crimes had been made too easy
for him. There was very little that the
Russians could do wrong two or three
years ago, and so there was the less com-
pulsion upon them to do right.
Whatever the reason, they proceeded to
indulge in something like an orgy of uni-
lateral actions and intransigent diplo-
macy. Once the myth of full co-opera-
tion had been exploded there were too
many ugly doings in Europe for all of
them to escape notice. When the Man-
chester “Guardian” made its remarkable
recantation after the failure of the con-
ference of Foreign Ministers it was clear
that disillusionment with Russia had
spread very far and very wide.
The standard excuse for Russian con-
duct may be illustrated from an article
by Alexander Werth, published in the
Sunday “Times.” It can be fairly epito-
mised by saying that Russian excesses
(though Mr. Werth uses no such expres-
sion) are due in part to Russian dismay
at the disappearance of Roosevelt and
Churchill from the international scene
and, chiefly, to the use and the announce-
ment of the atomic bomb. These, ac-
cording to Mr. Werth, have produced in
Russia “a feeling of great distrust of the
‘capitalist world’ and a sudden feeling of
insecurity at a time when it was least
expected, and, secondly, a feeling of in-
jured pride and prestige.”
Mr. Werth has been reinforced by the
declaration of the Moscow Radio that if
the United States allowed the atomic
bomb to influence its foreign policy there
could be no lasting peace. But the fatal
flaw in Mr. Werth’s argument arises from
his neglect of the time-factor. If he
could have shown that, until the an-
nouncement of the atomic bomb, Russia
had pursued a liberal and co-operative
policy and that only thereafter had she
adopted an illiberal and unco-operative
policy he would have gone a long way to
prove his case. In fact, however, the
present Russian policy ik only a some-
what intensified form of the policy she
has been pursuing for a long time.
And that policy has very obvious roots.
One is that of Russification of the various
subject peoples, such as the inhabitants
of the Baltic States. The second is the
perfectly natural assumption on the part
of a totalitarian State that totalitarianism
is the best form of government and that
the methods by which it was established
in Russia are proper methods to be fol-
lowed elsewhere. The third is Russian
imperialism in the modern and infinitely
more dangerous form of Communism.
There is nothing remarkable about all
this, save for two thing! One is our
assumption that the Russian State could
On November 6, 1941, addressing a
celebration meeting of the Moscow Soviet
and party organisations, Stalin, referring
to their war aims, said: “In contradis-
tinction to Hitlerite Germany the Soviet
Union and its allies are waging a war of
liberation, a just war, for the purpose of
liberating the enslaved peoples of Europe
and the U.S.S.R. from Hitler’s tyranny.
That is why all honest people must sup-
port the armies of the U.S.S.R., Great
Britain and the other allies as armies of
liberation. We have not, and cannot
have, such war aims as the seizure of
foreign territories of Europe or the
peoples and territories of Asia, includ-
ing Iran. Our first aim is to liberate our
territories and our peoples from the
German-Fascist yoke. We have not, and
cannot have, any such war aim as that
of imposing our will and our regime
upon the Slavonic or other enslaved
nations of Europe, who are expecting
our help. Our aim is to help these
nations in their struggle for liberation
against Hitler’s tyranny and then leave
it to them quite freely to organise their
life on their lands as they think fit. No
interference in the internal affairs of
other nations —Quoted in a London
“Times” letter.
act, except under extraordinary pressure,
in any other way than that in which it
was formed to act. The other is the
Russian assumption that Britain and
America can be tricked and bluffed and
bullied indefinitely. Each of these be-
trays a perturbing degree of ignorance.
It took, roughly speaking, about 29 years
of gradually, worsening relations between
Britain and Russia, from 1825 to 1854, to
involve the two countries in the Crimean


War. During that period, although
Russia was a police-State, it showed no
desire to export the principles of its
domestic regime very far. It could not
be tempted into rash action by the belief
that there was any party in Britain or
France which wanted to remodel either
of those countries on the lines of Nicho-
las I. And, in international politics,, it
was in several instances more accommo-
dating than it has been given credit for
being. A police-State which knows per-
fectly well that it has a market in every
country in the world for the export of its
principles of government and is, in addi-
tion, obstinately unaccommodating in
international relations is a very different
thing.
If we are to avoid disaster we must
realise this. And the Russians must rea-
lise that we realise it. There was no
more potent cause of the Crimean War
than the belief of Nicholas I in the exist-
ence of two non-existent facts; that he
had somehow achieved an understanding
with Britain and that he had in the
British Prime Minister, Aberdeen, a man
committed to that understanding and able
and willing to implement it.
To conceal our views of Russian policy
from the Russians and to give way to
them on every point except the last is to
invite disaster. To trump up excuses for
them which they themselves must know
are not valid is to encourage them to
adopt a position from which they cannot
retreat and which we cannot admit.
Yalta’s Secret Deals.
(As surveyed by “United States News.”)
The real story of the Yalta meeting
now can be pieced together. Whether
still other secret arrangements were made
is not known. President Truman has
said that the Kuriles deal, secret to him
and to Secretary of State Byrnes until
long after Yalta, is in the President’s
private files. Mr. Truman and Mr.
Byrnes say they know of no other Yalta
secrets yet to be disclosed. But Mr.
Truman was not present at Yalta, and
Mr. Byrnes did not sit in on the most
secret sessions. If there are additional
Yalta secrets not in the President’s private
files, they presumably died with Roose-
velt and Harry L. Hopkins.
Although President Roosevelt’s health
was not good at the time of Yalta, those
who were there say his mind was keen
and that he dominated the conference.
Stalin liked Roosevelt, and was impressed
by him. Roosevelt’s role at Yalta, as at
Tehran, became that of arbiter between
the clashing national interests and person-
alities df Churchill and Stalin.
War with Japan was uppermost in Mr,
Roosevelt’s mind. He had been told it
might cost 1,000,000 American lives to
defeat Japan. Russian help could reduce
that toll. But, at the moment, Russia did
not seem to be co-operating too well in
Europe. The question was what price
Stalin would demand in payment for help-
ing the U.S. in Asia and resuming co-
operation with the Allies in Europe,
Poland was the first price. Stalin in-
sisted on Polish boundaries and a Polish
Government agreeable to Russia. To
Churchill this seemed a high price. He
feared Russia was out to dominate all of
eastern Europe and the Balkans as well.
Roosevelt had to think of the American
reaction to the Stalin proposal. Roose-
velt also knew that any Polish boundary
deals would require final approval in a
peace treaty, which, in turn, would call
for ratification by the U.S, Senate,
Nevertheless, both Churchill and
Roosevelt preferred Stalin’s price to a Big
Three smash-up. The three agreed on a
Polish Government and a Russo-Polish
boundary agreeable to Russia. It also
was agreed, apparently, that this Russo-
Polish border would not be changed at
the peace conference.
The Kuriles and southern Sakhalin
Island were next fn importance to Poland
on Stalin’s list. If Russia could be
assured permanent possession of these
Japanese islands, the Soviet leader told
Roosevelt and Churchill, Russia would go
to war against Japan within three months
of the end of the war in Europe.
This was the Russian help Roosevelt
went to Yalta to get. The U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff agreed that Russian control of
the Kuriles would not cut across U.S.
control of the Pacific. It was hoped that
the U.S. Senate would agree. But, since
Russia still was at peace with Japan, the
deal had to stay top secret.
China, like the Kuriles, was the subject
of a deeply secret deal at Yalta. It was
Roosevelt, however, who did most of the
bargaining. He wanted Russia to ignore
the Chinese Communists and support an
independent China with a strong Central
Government, In return, Roosevelt and
Churchill, would persuade China to give
Russia joint control of Port Arthur and
Dairen and of the Manchurian railways.
Stalin agreed, though many had expected
him to seize control of Manchuria as
well, with or without agreement.
Germany was a major topic at Yalta,
and the occupation-and-control plan was
a published result. The agreement on
Russia’s share of German reparations,
however, did not come out in the open
until the Potsdam Conference. Russia’s
request at Yalta for 50 per cent, of Ger-
man reparations still stands, though
exactly what the 50 per cent, includes is
still unsettled. In addition, there seems
to have been an understanding at Yalta
that Russia might-use German labor in
reconstructing Russia. The number of
workers involved and the terms of em-
ployment have not been revealed.
Balkan questions at Yalta were raised
by Roosevelt and Churchill, rather than
Stalin. Russian military control already
was there. The question was how much
Russian political control 'would remain.
What Roosevelt and Churchill did was to
obtain concessions from Stalin designed
to make the Balkan Governments more
representative and democratic. But none
of the concessions jeopardised Russian in-
fluence in the Balkans.
U.N.O. remained the chief subject of
bargaining at Yalta, once the Big Three
had reached agreement on Poland, Ger-
man reparations and war with Japan.
The sticking point had been Russia’s in-
sistence on the right of major Powers
to veto punitive action. Roosevelt offered
a compromise which left this punitive
veto intact, but allowed for discussion
—Washington “Post.”
TOUGH BEAST TO SNARE!
and investigation. Stalin slept on this
compromise, then accepted it.
Then Stalin revealed his price; three
votes for Russia in the General Assembly
of U.N.O, Reluctantly, Roosevelt and
Churchill went along, though fearing an
uproar from the small nations, with one
vote apiece, when this secret deal be-
came known. The uproar came close to
wrecking the San Francisco Conference.
The Yalta deals, all in all, added up to
the most important conference in World
War 11. These deals, counting the secret
ones along with those made public at the
time, made it possible to finish the war
in Europe and Asia, shaped the destiny
of Germany, put Eastern Europe and
most of the Balkans in the Russian
sphere, set the course for China and
guaranteed a new world organisation
under Big Three auspices. Formal peace
conferences, when they occur, are not
likely to undo Yalta’s basic agreements
on these matters.
It remains to be seen whether the U.S.
Senate, when it comes time to ratify the
peace treaties, will honor the U.S. com-
mitments Roosevelt made at Yalta.
And Yet Another
{This further Yalta secret deal was uncovered
by N.Y. “Times” staff correspondent in
London.)
There is a secret military clause in the 1
Yalta Agreement whereby the United
States and Britain agreed to turn over to
the Russians those nationals of present
Soviet territory who were in the Axis
armies. Under the clause such nationals,
wiiether Ukrainians, Ruthenians or Poles,
were to be considered as Soviet citizens
and as deserters from the Red Army.
This is the repatriation question that
was criticised by the Vatican. The
United States State Department has
denied that any civilians were being forced
back to Ruthenia or the Ukraine, but in
the eyes of the Vatican the Yalta formula
is unjust and unfair in its definition of a
“deserter,” and it is claimed that many
are being forced back who did not fight
in the German Army.
The history of this clause antedates the
Yalta meeting by some months. It will
be recalled that when the Allies first estab-
lished their beachhead in Normandy and
took many German prisoners it was
necessary to ship about 100,000 of them to
the United States for safety’s sak& After
they had been in United States intotiment
camps for some time the State Depart-
ment was astounded to get a strongly-
worded note from the Soviet Embassy
accusing the Americans of maltreating
“Soviet citizens” and demanding that
these “citizens” be returned to the Soviet
Union.
The State Department passed the issue
on to the War Department, then headed
by Henry L, Stimson. In face of that
and other even stronger representations
from Moscow, Mr. Stimson stood firm
and said that he would not give up a
single soldier.
In the first place America did not recog-
nise the Balts, eastern Poles or Ukrainians
as necessarily Russian citizens at the time,
but, most of all, Washington felt that it
would create a serious precedent, for
there were many foreign nationals fight-
ing in the United States Army, and if the
Germans started sending those taken
prisoner back to Italy or to Quisling
Norway or Vichy France it would be bad
business.
Moreover, America asserted that it was
its intention to follow the rules of the
Geneva Convention, even if the Soviet
Union never had signed it, and by that
convention America had the right to keep
prisoners and certainly was not maltreat-
ing them. •
Anyway, this exchange continued, with
the Russians persisting in their demands.
Then the Crimean Conference was held
and the Soviet Union repeated its de-
mand. There the Russians won out to
the extent that Allied military leaders
agreed that the soldiers that Moscow was
demanding, if they really fought against
the Allies, could be considered as de-
serters.
However, then and at all times, the
Allies refused to civilians from
those same territories as being Soviet citi-
zens liable to forced repatriation. That
still stands, although the Russians con-
tinue to maintain pressure to get back
all those they consider to be their
nationals.
v It was the partial yielding to Russian
demands that, among other things, led
Vatican sources to condemn the Yalta
Agreement.
Comedown for a Com.
(From N.Y. “World-Telegram.”)
If anybody still doubts that the United
States is harboring a totalitarian politi-
cal party operating on the Fiihrer prin-
ciple, all he has to do is take a look at
the backbiting, cat-and-dog scrap between
Earl Browder, deposed leader, and the
men who now run the Communist party.
First-hand proof of this turned up in
an amazing printed appeal in which Mr.
Browder is in the process of baring his
soul to the party membership.
Mr. Browder reveals himself to be the
object of a censorship and espionage sys-
tem set up by his own ex-colleagues who
for 15 years followed his leadership in
blind veneration.
In “indecent haste,” says Mr. Browder,
his erstwhile associates made him victim
of “a crude frame-up” and fortified it
with “a vile and slandering gossip cam-'
paign” (a technique ordinarily ascribed
to the Communists by their enemies).
For the present Communist leadership,
beginning with William Z. Foster, his
successor, Mr. Browder uses the term
“irresponsible factionalist chatterboxes.”
The appeal discloses one interesting side-
light on how the party takes care of its
leaders who fall from grace. One ex-
follower, relates Mr, Browder, came up
with the proposal “that I should be given
a job scrubbing floors in the national
office.”
“If there had been evidence that there
existed a real need for my services in
this capacity,” he continues, “I would
gladly have given them. However, since
the proposal was rather one of granting a
pension to a needy but worthless former
employee, I did not see fit to take this
suggestion seriously.”
This document, secretly distributed, is
entitled “Appeal of Earl Browder to the
members of the C.P.U.S.A.!”
Charging that he has been entirely cut
off frbm the contact with the member-
ship for the past seven months and that
his speech in his own defence at the
party’s convention last summer was sup-
pressed, Mr. Browder points out that he
had to borrow money to finance the
printed appeal.
Hence, the one-time unchallenged
ruler of America’s Communists, who got
the job 15 years ago by personal order of
Premier Stalin himself, attaches a coupon
for contributions. “Make all remit-
tances,” it reads, “payable to Earl
Browder, Box No. 145, Yonkers 5, N.Y.”
The appeal gives another sidelight on
Communist party procedure. The party’s
national committee, which promptly
thereafter expelled him, met on February
5 presumably to hear his side of the case.
The question to which it demanded an
answer, s'ays Mr. Browder, was: “Give
us the names of all party members with
whom you have spoken since the conven-
tion and the nature of your conversa-
tions.”
Mr. Browder also tells his troubles in
finding a job:
“After 15 years as party spokesman I
was faced with the necessity, rather sud-
denly and unexpectedly, to find private
employment in order to support my
family. But all normal private employ-
ment is closed to me by the newspaper
notoriety which attaches to my person
and which I find it impossible to escape.
“ All normal employment in the
Labor movement is rendered impossible
for me because the party leadership keeps
my name before the world as a synonym
for everything undesirable.” So he took
a job writing a mimeographed bulletin
of economic analysis for 200 subscribers.
British-French Air Pact.
(From London “Times.”)
The civil aviation agreement signed in
London by the British and French Gov-
ernments provides for a comprehensive
system of air services between Britain and
France and between British and French
territories overseas. It paves the way for
services between the two capitals with a
frequency as high as that on many Lon-
don ’bus routes —half-hourly at first and
later every 15 minutes.
British and French services will also be
extended to serve provincial centres in
both countries, so that people living in
Glasgow, Belfast or the main cities of
England will be able to fly direct to the
French Riviera, Corsica or North Africa
without changing aircraft in London or
Paris. #
An important and unique feature of the
agreement is the setting-up of a stand-
ing joint committee to co-ordinate the
services covered by the agreement, so as
to ensure close co-operation in their
operation. The committee will consist of
eight members, two representing the air-
lines and two the aeronautical authorities
of each country. It will meet alternately in
Paris and London, under the chairmanship
o Continued on page 32.)


Personal Interviews with “Everyday” People
*no*f
(fi
20 miles a day for 10 years
. . . that’s my average!”
“I cover a 20 mile route, day in and day out
and people say they can set their clocks
by me. Most of the time Pm carrying a
50 lb. bag. How do I keep going? By
looking after my feet and taking care
of my health. For my health’s sake
(and because I like it) I drink
regularly. “MILO” puts pep into a man
helps to build up his resistance
and keep him going.
Good stuff, “MILO”!
iiliiii
r
:
»M
m
m
mm s
COPYRIGHT R 12378
Pure country milk and malted cereals
fortified with energising vitamins and served
as a palate-tempting chocolate-flavoured
beverage: that’s MILO. MILO helps to
build stamina , restore energy and induce
sounds restful sleep .
In metropolitan areas a S lb.
tin of MILO costs only 2/3d.
from any chemist or store.
"S&RfiES PEACEFUL s lit?
m
VS
nbstl
OV
strpnql^
MILO
The Fortified
TONIC FOOD
A NESTLES PRODUCT


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3453
Wednesday, April 17, 1946
“IN DUTCH.”
“Is it not cruel, mynheer, to clap this mariner in the stocks?”
“Not a bit of it, Gretchen—he discovered Australia.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street.. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington,
ANZAC DAY—WHOSE?
Next week Australia —the emphasis
seems necessary will commemorate
another Anzac JDay, or what that now
greatest of all national Days stands for.
It is 31 years since the Day was conse-
crated by the splendid heroism of the
Original Anzacs on the beaches, in the
gullies and on the heights of Gallipoli,
and a great deal has happened to the
world, and to the Day itself, since then.
For about quarter of the meantime
practically the whole of the world has
been engaged in war; for nearly all the
time some parts of the world have been
at war with one another. If they may
settle other things, such as boundaries
(temporarily), international trading rights
and the like, as well as the important
right of free, or supposedly free, peoples
to go on living at least as free as their
own chosen Governments permit, it is
quite evident that one thing which wars
do not settle is war.
The great mistake after the earlier
world conflict was the assumption that
that was one thing that had been settled
for good. There was to be peace ever-
lasting, arranged through the assembling
of nations in the great palace they had
built for the purpose at Geneva. Last
week, at that address,* they were winding
up the business. Australian newspapers
which had given it their strongest sup-
port, to the extent of turning a blind eye
to its most glaring defect? and holding it
a heresy for anyone to point those de-
fects out, now could put up such head-
ings as “Few Mourners for League.”
They had found something bigger and
better in the shape of U.N.O. and had
switched their loyalty to it. Not, how-
ever, so enthusiastically and hopefully as
they had been when they trumpeted the
idea of the League of Nations as “the
cornerstone of our foreign policy,” and,
because of that belief, either directly or
by implication, encouraged the whittling
of the country’s defences to nothing, so
that when the war which the League had
been set up to forestall came along
only sheer good luck provided the time
necessary to get ready for fighting it.
Fortunately, perhaps, the doings thus
far of the new organisation for ensuring
world peace have themselves been any-
thing but peaceful. They have consisted
largely of hot air, which at least does no-
body, not even those in the direct blast
of it, any immediate harm. There has
been nothing of the smooth —as it turned
out, far too smooth —early working of
the League, The meetings thus far have
not been altogether fruitless, but it would
call for a remarkable degree of optimism
to interpret them as happy or even
promising.
In the circumstances, if U.N.O. does
make good—and if it does not heaven
help the world! —it will do so in the face
of an absence of faith in it that becomes
more universal after every meeting-date,
since this means every date for more
vituperative and provocative squabbling.
In excuse or apology, a great deal
is made of the value of thus airing
in the face of the world the differences
between the nations, but if public abuse —
persisted in as the Russians, for example*
are persisting in it against Britain —is the
true cement for continued friendly rela-
tions between nations U.N.O. will have
brought out one remarkable discovery.
The truth is that U.N.O. is generally
looked to with the maximum of hope
and the minimum of faith. Hence, no
country in its senses —whether Australia
under Canberra is at present in its senses
may perhaps be doubted—is rushing to
do what was done after the war to end
wars, jettison defences and dream on be-
hind a false facade of supposed interna-
tional defence. Thus it has been given
out in the past week or so that U.N.O.’s
international force is to consist of some
two millions of men with the necessary
armed means of keeping world peace,
wherever there may be the threat to
break it. But at the same time the Presi-
dent of the potentially strongest of the
great nations, and one of the geographi-
cally safest of all, has called on his
country to remain strong, to continue
conscription, and in every other way to
stand mady. Also, a use is being found
for Australia’s own Nullabor in experi-
ments with rockets and other things not
used as ingredients in lipstick.
Altogether, it adds up to a world very
different from that which came after the
war in which Anzac Day became for
Australia a new and splendid heritage.
War, too, has changed since the com-
paratively exclusive business it was in
Gallipoli days—exclusive, that is, to a
small proportion of the nation fighting
the country’s war on a distant field ; as
far as Australia was concerned, all of
them volunteers. It is now certain that
the war which no one any longer thinks
of as impossible will be one involving the
whole of any nation, even more so than
the one lately ended. War has become
all-in and national, involving everybody.
Meantime, Anzac Day itself has
undergone change on the same lines. It
has become established as a national
commemoration. At first it was a direct
commemoration by the surviving Diggers
of their comrades who had fallen in the
First World War. Even before the later
war had added so many to the numbers to
be thus humbly commemorated the Day
had attained its national status. Its actual
name had in the process lost its literal
meaning. Except that it represents the
beginning, any suitable word almost could
be substituted for “Anzac.” Otherwise,
its meaning would narrow down to a
commemoration of those who fell at
Anzac, and the commemorating would be
restricted to those who fought there.
In its present meaning the Day is much
more significant. It has become wholly
Australian ; and, as well, it has become
more even than a Day of commemora-
tion of the war dead, great though this
original element in it does and must for
a long time continue. The Day now is
one also of nationhood. It stands for
what Australia has heroically done as a
nation ; it is the rock of tradition on
which Australia in all its best elements
stood in the latest war and on which it
will stand again in any war of the future.
Because that has obviously become the
nature of it and seems certain to be in-
tensified in the future, the Day now has,
as well as its direct fine associations of
sentiment, the very greatest value as a
national unifying forcd. Counting out
the rotten stock, it has become the Day
on which all the best in Australia is
united. Nobody would think of question-
ing which section of the community has
the right to pride of place in its connec-
tion. That belongs, most definitely, to
those who fojught for the country in either
or both of the wars. It is, however, after
that is admitted that the question posed
as the heading of this article seems to
need submitting.
As the Day is to be commemorated
next week only those returned from fight-
ing—that is, those eligible for member-
ship in the R.S.L. —will be entitled to
take a direct active part in the marching
and the like. That they—while even one
of them remains—should do the leading
is no doubt as it should be. But in view
of the great change that has taken place
in the Day itself, and that which has
taken place in the nature of war also, it
may be doubted if the Day will be kejff
thus exclusive for many more anni-
versaries. Had the invasion that came
close to Australia actually happened all
such exclusiveness would have ended. As
it is, there are many thousands who
volunteered to fight anywhere—in the
A.1.F., the R.A.A.F. and probably
others, too —who this year will be shut
out. In view of the state of the world,
and the vital need for all the unity that
can be mustered in the face of it, it would
seem a reasonable suggestion that hence-
forth any who honorably wore the
nation’s uniform should be allowed in on
the nation’s Day.
Going, Going—Gone!
While the German bombs were falling
on the tight, but dreadfully exposed,
island, as fall they did for five terrible
years, the thoughts of British industrial-
ists roved far afield in search of other
worlds to conquer. Many of them decided
that N. S. Wales offered the fairest pros-
pects, which was only natural.
It is on record that wool was for cen-
turies “the flower and strength and
revenue and blood of England.” In
soberer language, it was the foundation
of the national fortune. Yet “towards
the end of the eighteenth century, when
the wool industries were beyond com-
parison the most important sources of
wealth in the country,” and when Britain
was second to none among the nations,
there were only 10,000,000 or 12,000,000
sheep in the U.K. In 1943 there were
nearly five times as many in N. S. Wales.
There was, in addition, the nascent
economic equipment of a nation poten-
tially in the first class —great coal
measures, almost every known mineral,
iron and steel works of which any coun-
try could be proud, considerable forests
and fisheries, vast areas of arable land
producing everything from wheat and
dairy produce to rice, and capital
ports, one being among the great-
est in the world. Cattle abounded,
and in quality, if not in quantity,
the dairy produce was at least equal
to anything in the; world. And all with an
unexcelled Whiteman’s climate, a geo-
graphical situation eminently favorable to
a vast export trade with Asia, an area
nearly one and a half times the size of
France, and with much less than the
population of Finland, a poor country.
There was a rush to secure factory
sites in N. S. Wales. Nuffields and Cour-
taulds were among the first-comers. Nuf-
fields bought a delicensed Sydney race-
course for, £205,000, expecting that the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” would confirm
them in their tenure. When they dis-
covered that their purchase was subject
to resumption powers granted to a racing
club, set up by the “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment” with Treasury backing, and with
the idea that racing is more important than
industry, Nuffields decided to shift to
South Australia, a State with little coal,
and that of poor quality, but with a con-
viction that industry is more important
than racing.
Courtaulds picked a site on the Hunter
Rivef. The Nuffield affair had a palpable
effect on them, but it was given out that
their doubts had been stilled by “Labor”
assurances, State and Federal. But after
this pleasing interval the head of the
concern announced in London that there
was an unresolved question of double
taxation, and that until it was settled it
would be “impossible to manufacture in
Australia on a competitive basis.” This,
of course, was only part of the story.
Simultaneously the Dutch in the
Netherlands East Indies cancelled orders
for the purchase of Australian goods
reckoned at £6,000,000. They said that
they were already unloading £2,000,000
worth of flour which in ordinary circum-
stances would have been bought in Aus-
tralia, but which, because of the boycott
of Dutch ships in Sydney and Brisbane by
the Communist-controlled Waterside
Workers’ Federation, had been obtained
in the U.S.A. And, since the flour was
being carried in American ships, there
could be no backloading of any N.E.I.
goods, “rubber, pepper, tea and spices,”
for Australian ports.
Through all the ages the Dutch have
been a stubborn people. They have never
been known to take injuries lying down.
Over a century ago a British Foreign
Minister with a talent for versifying made
them the subject of the only rhymed
dispatch in diplomatic history:
In matters of commerce, the fault of the Dutch
Is offering too little and asking too much.
The French are with equal advantage content;
So we clap on Dutch bottoms just twenty per
cent.
Twenty per cent,
Twenty per cent;
Vo us frapperez Falck avec twenty per cent.
But Canning knew how far he could
go with the mynheers. It would never
have occurred to him to retreat from
his dual responsibility as Minister
of the Crown and as negotiator with
a friendly and kindred people, how-
ever hard a bargain they might propose
to drive, and leave the friendly and
kindred people exposed to the outrages
of uncouth mobs. Our “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ments,” in their craven fear of Com-
munists and trade-unionism and water-
front votes, have chosen to surrender to
uncouth mobs.
Mr, Chifley, tackled about the cancel-
lation of the Dutch orders, said he was
sorry, but he thought the amount must
be exaggerated—he couldn’t conceive of
the Dutch having so much money to
spend in Australia. To this the Consul-
General for the Netherlands, while for-
bearing to make the obvious comment
that this was an amazing attitude for the
Prime Minister of a country with pre-
tensions to greatness and with the in-
terests of all the people entrusted to his
“Government,” tartly replied that “all the
goods bought” had been “paid for” and
there was '“finance to buy much more,”
though, for lack of the boycotted ship-
ping, it might be necessary to sell the
purchased commodities in Australia for
what they could fetch.
Mr. Chifley did not recede from the
position he had taken up earlier in the
piece, which was that he would not risk
“a complete holdup on the waterfront”
by trying to get the boycotted ships loaded
and manned. Previously he had said,
apropos of the strike at the Bunnerong
powerhouse, that he “would sot crucify
the workers.” During the iroh-and-steel,
coalmining and shipping strikes which
followed as a matter of course, Com-
munists being intent on sabotaging in-
dustry and the rehabilitation of service-
men as part of the Moscow programme,
he took the same “stand.” In effect, it
is “ ‘Labor’ policy” to “give ‘the Workers’
everything they ask for.” If “the
workers” —that is, the ruling mob in any
union or group of unions, generally,
though not always, a Communist mob —
choose to regard this as an open invita-
tion to them to exercise power without
responsibility, and, when the caprice or
mania seizes them, to take everything
from the community and give nothing in
return, that, on “‘Labor’ principles,” is
their right. And not even when they
impose on the nation their foreign policy,
which is part 6f Moscow’s, and play
ducks and drakes with industrial laws
and National Security regulations must
this “right” be challenged.
The “Government” at Sydney is guided
by the same “ ‘Labor’ principles” as the
one at Canberra, seven of whose Mini-
sters, the Speaker and 14 other “Labor”
Ms.H.R, are from N. S. Wales.
The setting up of the Sydney Turf Club
with the land-grab powers which startled
and disgusted Lord Nuffield was the Syd-
ney “Government’s” chief legislative work
during the war. Beginning with plenary
powers over the coalmines, it used them
to pension off one-tenth of the miners (as
the event showed, almost the only steady-
going element) because they had turned
60 —this when the Japanese were in their
full career of conquest and when General
MacArthur, then aged 62, was arriving in
Australia to take up his South-West
Pacific Command. That done, the Sydney
“Government,” availing itself of the ex-
cuse that Canberra had assumed a nominal
—abjectly nominal —-control, became for
upwards of three years a supine witness
of the crimes committed against the
nation by strikers, absentees and go-slow
artists on the coalfields, while still main-
taining a Minister of Mines and a Mines
Department.
When the example of the coalminers
was followed by its own employees
at the Homebush abattoirs, who
added to repeated holdups a per-
sistent refusal to work under the
terms of their industrial award, this
“Government’s” only method of inter-
vention was to send along another Mini-
ster (“Labor, Industry and Social Ser-
vices”) to crawl and whine. And when,
in consequence of wicked strikes, the
people of Sydney had to go back to
candles for illumination and to backyard
fires for cooking, this “Government”
devised savage punishment for the victims,
letting the lawbreaking authors of their
injuries go scot-free. It even issued an
order for the eviction of patients in
public hospitals deemed capable of crawl-
ing out of the wards and into the streets.
In time to come people will look back
on these inept and guilty “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments” wondering how they ever hap-
pened and could ever have been tolerated.
Historians will point the moral and find
occasion for a decision as to which was
the more dismal example of chattering
duncery and had the greater expanse of
yellow streak.
Philips gone, Nuffields going and Cour-
taulds considering their position! And it
would be silly to suppose that, while
union mobs and mob leaders rage un-
checked, while work-reducing schemes
are in fashion, and while the Sydney
“Government” remains obsessed with
racing and lotteries —giving'in its lottery
quarter a disgusting imitation of the
dingiest part of a tenth-rate Latin-Ameri-
can city and producing the impression
that people intent on starting new indus-
tries will be required to employ punters
and subordinate their operations to the
caprices and convenience of these fellows,
for whom the papers issue special s.-p.
supplements - there will be no more
alterations of plans and no more
removals to parts of Australia where
“Wednesday meetings” will not be added
to the Saturday races.
New South Wales is capable of
carrying a population as big as
that of France. It will never realise
its vast industrial possibilities until it gets
a new breed of politicians, equal to the
requirements of the new age on which we
are entering. High on the list of
these requirements is a square deal
for industry, with union mobs and
mob leaders brought under the re-
straints of law at every point; re-
quired to account for the expenditure of
their funds, immense in the mass (the
Communist-controlled Ironworkers alone
have had an income approaching
£250,000 p.a.), and deprived of their
larrikin authority, exercised in the larri-
kin spirit, over the individual unionist.
The average unionist aspires only
to work for a fair wage under
decent conditions, to enjoy the right
to launch out for himself in a new calling,
if he feels that way inclined, and to bring
up his family, with careers open to
talents, in a civilised British— i.e., non-
Communist —community in which educa-
tion has its right value.
Fortunately there are signs that the
new breed of politicians and the new
order for industry are on the way. Among
the signs are the retreat of Federal
“Labor” and “good-as-‘Labor’” politi-
cians to “prepared positions,” and the
rush of State “Labor” politicians to pro-
vide pensions for themselves out of the
public purse against the wrath to come.
There is already a sturdy group of returned
servicemen in the State Opposition, small
as it is, and, going on all recent by-
elections, there is every indication that
there will be a strong representation of
servicemen in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. By, the accident of circumstances, or
by the irony of fate, or by the working o
retributive justice, “Labor” will be poorly
supplied with that sort of candidate at
Commonwealth and State elections alike.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dead Limit?
Many times during the past five years
N.S.W. “Labor” has promised a Liquor
Reform Bill. Repeatedly reminded of
the promise, it muttered something about
having two committees at work, but it was
never stirred to activity by hideous con-
ditions in the Trade, lawful and unlawful.
Swinish drinking in insanitary bars, dis-
appearance of bottled beer into the black-
market, open peddling of alcohol in the
streets as well as in sly-grog dens and the
sudden enrichment of tough characters
with and without licences —despite fixed
prices, the opening of premises for only
a few hours in the week and an income
lax that soared to 18s. 6d. in the £ —left
“Labor” incurious and torpid, even
though much of the wealth was flaunted
on the racecourse, where “Labor” politi-
cians are to be seen by the dozen.
An alleged reform measure has at
length made its appearance. Most of the
N.S.W. pubs, the general average of which
is dingy beyond expression, are tied
houses, but the bill makes no mention
of tied houses. They are to go on being
tied, and there is nothing to prevent addi-
tions to the number. And in pursuance
of the “ ‘Labor’ policy” of passing the
buck, closing hours are to be determined
by the electors at a referendum. But
there is to be no local option, not even in
the case of residential districts which
don’t want pubs, and which, under the
“reform” measure, are threatened with
the transfer of licences from over-pubbed
parts of Sydney.
During the five years much was said
about community hotels. The right to
establish community hotels is restricted
to municipal councils, which have more
important things to attend to. The excel-
lent Renmark (S.A.) model has been
ignored. Sops are, of course, offered —
“sale of liquor in canteens at any con-
struction camp or works of a public
nature,” and an increase of registered
clubs. Servicemen are to have one-fifth
of the new club licences, and it is asserted
that they are eminently satisfied with this
provision. Possibly they are.
And, possibly as a reward for this pro-
duction, mouselike in scale and effect,
though a behemoth in words, the Legisla-
tive Assembly Pensions Bill, which was
left high and dry in Macquarie-street last
year, public opinion being unexpectedly
hostile, was introduced in the Upper
House, in which “Labor” now claims a
majority, reckoning in former “Labor”
members. The “Labor” Minister of Jus-
tice, with a great parade of magnanimity,
gave notice of a series of “important
amendments.” Some of these were mis-
laid, or withdrawn, but under the bill as
“amended” —and here “S. M. Herald”
comes in—
Members of the Assembly will receive
£6 a week for life upon defeat or retire-
ment after 15 years’ service. If defeated
after serving in any three Parliament’s be-
fore or after the passing of fhe bill they
will receive £5 a week. Widows of
members who die after the commencement
of the pension will receive £3 a week.
Members are to pay £1 10s. each week into
the fund. Mr. J. M. Concannon argued
that 15s. be paid by the Crown and 15s.
by members.
Rushed into the Assembly, despite a
promise by the “Labor” Whip that there
would be no rush, the bill, as “amended,”
was passed in jig-time, the Opposition
vainly protesting.
One of those who objected to this raid
on the public purse when it was first pro-
posed was Lieut.-Colonel Robson, M.L.A.
for Vaucluse, who has had Middle East
and New Guinea service. Said Lieut.-
Colonel Robson:
The widow of a serviceman dead in his
country’s cause receives £2 10s. a week. A
serviceman temporarily or permanently in-
capacitated receives £2 10s. a week, his
wife £1 25., his children (under 16) 9s. a
week. The greatest pension that a living
ex-serviceman can receive, a man totally
blinded on war service, is £4 165.; and his
wife gets £1 2s. At the present time there
are 15,736 widows of servicemen of the last
t'wo wars whose average weekly pensions
are £2 10s. Bd. In the case of 90,358 in-
capacitated members of the forces, the
average weekly pension is £1 3s. 3d.»
If Premier McKell carries out his threat
or promise to retire, he will be the
first to draw £6 a week. He does not
need the money, being in possession of
substantial farm property in Goulburn, a
picked district. Since he became a poli-
tician he has been free to devote himself,
if he chose, to other affairs, and he has
never had the shadow of a promise of
a pension. And, like nearly all the other
“authorised” beneficiaries, he has no
military record.
Strikeless Canada.
Time and again Canada has proved to
the world what can be done by a Govern-
ment which really governs and which
understands that the basis of public
tranquillity is the enforcement of the law
with equality towards all.
While Australia and the United States
were in industrial turmoil last January,
only 900 strikers were to be counted
among Canada’s 2,488,000 registered
workers, and some of these returned to
work after a single day out.
Partly this industrial content is due to
the fact that Canada has kept down living
costs, which are only 19 p.c. higher on a
price-list basis than in 1939, but more
largely the Canadian industrial system is
responsible.
The Dominion’s Labor Relations Regu-
lations enforce collective bargaining
between employers and employees. They
prohibit alike the sacking of men by em-
ployers for union activities and the black-
mailing of workers into joining unions
or taking part in strikes or go-slow
tactics.
Where there is trouble wajgepayers and
wage-earners must argue the matter out
within a month. If there is failure to
agree a conciliator may be requisitioned
from the Government. He has 14 days
to produce a settlement. Thereupon the
matter goes to a three-man conciliation
board if need be.
After nearly two years of operation
of the law the record to Dec. 31, 1945,
was;
Disputes settled by employer-em-
ployee conferences 1722
By conciliators - .... .. 82
By conciliation boards .. .. 64
Only 37 disputes were not settled by
THEIR EASTER EGG.
(And Don’t They Hope It Will Last!)
these methods, and in only eight of these
cases did men strike.
The secret of the Canadian plan is its
repression of the agitator whose aim is
revolutionary and not industrial.
Canada is a hard world for such as
Wells, Thornton and Healy ; and not only
because the Communist party was banned
in 1940. A union or individual agitator
calling an illegal strike is on conviction
fined the equivalent of £7O Australian a
day; a striker, £A6 10s. a day. On the
employer who promotes a lockout the
penalty is £l6O a day.
In Australia such penalties are reserved
for persons who poach ’possum skins out
of season, and in such cases —and such
cases only—they are rigiclly enforced.
The New Graballs.
From an enforced student of the tribe:
The old conception of a stony-hearted land-
lord used to be a miserly old skinflint owning
whole streets of slum property and with a
secret hoard of wealth tucked away under the
floor of his own miserable dwelling. He was
part of the stock-in-trade of the red-nosed
comedian, the comic-paper artist and the soap-
box socialist. He was alleged to drain every
last penny out of his unfortunate tenants,
who starved themselves and popped their miser-
able sticks of furniture in order to satisfy his
rapacious demands —instant eviction being the
penalty for arrears. If he still lives today he
must have a miserable time of it as he surveys
his long lines of tenements, each one with its
rent pegged at pre-war rates and with his
powers of eviction severely curtailed. And
when he looks around him and contemplates
the new race of Graballs he must feel like
giving himself three hearty kicks in the right
place for opportunities missed and rackets un-
thought of.
The 1946 skinflint is a different type alto-
gether. In most cases he or she—for there
are females of the species too, and very often
they are not only more deadly but also much
more conscienceless than the male—is an ordi-
nary suburban householder owning one or two
houses, or often none at all, merely acting as
a kind of middleman-landlord between the
owner of the house and sub-tenants. The racket
is easy, and it has countless variations. House
rents are fixed, but the rent of furniture is not;
nor is there any ruling to say how much furni-
ture is needed to make an unfurnished house
a furnished one. As a result dumps furnished
with junk from second-hand shops are now
rushed at ridiculous rents by ex-seryicernen
who in pre-war days wouldn’t have been found
dead in them at a quarter the price. Examples
are known to everyone.
A Sydney cottage, let unfurnished before the
war at £2 10s., now brings £6 6s. furnished.
The addition of the furniture to the house in-
creases its rent by over 150 p.c. That is some-
thing the old-time Graballs didn’t have the
hide to come at. A block of flats was let before
the war at an average rental of 455. During
the past few years every time a tenant moved
out the owner rushed some cheap furniture into
the vacant flat. The whole block is now let as
furnished flats, average rental £7 75.; in other
words, 455. for the flat and 102 s. for the furni-
ture —an increase of 226 p.c.
It is not uncommon tcr see an advertisement
similar to the following: “Half modern flat,
suitable one or two business ladies, only
five guineas week; advance.” It’s a safe
bet that the rent of the whole flat, unfurnished,
does not exceed £3 35., but the hand stretched
out for the five each week won’t tremble.
And the philanthropist who out of goodness
of heart is prepared to let “Two unfurnished
rooms, conveniences, 30s. each” may be pay-
ing more than 40s. for the whole of his
house, but if he is it must be one of the
biggest houses in the district. Then there
is the trustful soul who is so eager to do some-
thing or someone to ease the housing shortage
that he advertises to the world his willingness
to accept “12 months’ rent in advance.” One
advertiser even offered for sale a house,
tenanted, with the rent paid two years in
advance.
The present-day Graball doesn’t confine his
activities to furnished places; there are plenty
of ways of overcoming fixed rents when you
are dealing with people who desperately need
a home. Graball is only too willing to let you
have his house at the fixed rent, but there’s
the matter Of the key. That’ll cost you £lOO.
Or perhaps you’d like some furniture? Well,
you can have everything in the house for £4OO.
It cost £2OO 20 years ago, and the eyes have
been picked out of it already, but you know
what prices are today.
There have always been Graballs; times
like the present see an increase in their
numbers only because of the greatly multiplied
opportunities of cashing in on the misfortune
of others. Government regulation of the rent
of furnished houses, of half-houses and of
rooms will hamper them a little, but it won’t
stop them so long as there is a shortage of
homes and a surplus of desperate house-seekers
prepared to pay any tribute in order to get a
roof over their heads. And they will flourish
as long as a listless Government, lacking moral
courage and real qualities* of leadership, con-
tinues to' encourage the gospel that the man
who does a good day’s work is a mug, and
that the aim in life of every good Australian
should be to grab all he can and give as little
as possible in return.
Colwell ''Priorities."
Though in respect of family affairs the
“Labor” caucus at Canberra gives as a
rule a perfect imitation of an oyster,
mutterings of discontent with Mr. Cal-
well’s leanings and proceedings have been
heard. It is no doubt remembered in the
domestic circle that he posed as a robust
anti-Communist, a target for the invective
of Comrade Thornton, before he became
a Minister, and has never said a word
against Communists, much less done a
thing to them, since.
In what must have been a bad quarter-
hour for him in the House this Minister
(Information and Immigration) had to
answer awkward questions from his own
side. One came from Mr. Dan Mulcahy
(Lang, N.S.W.), who wanted to know
whether A.B.C. had a vacancy for a news
editor and whether the Minister would
see that it went to a returned serviceman.
No doubt Mr. Mulcahy is aware that
A.B.C. has a weakness for Leftists who
spent the war on the home front. True
to his “Government’s” habit, Mr. Calwell
passed the buck to the P.M.G.
Then Mr. Watkins was heard from on
the subject of Jewish immigration. Mr.
Watkins wanted to know whether or not
“the Jewish Welfare Society of N. S.
Wales” was “granted a quota of 2500
landing permits for members of the Jewish
race” and whether, on exhaustion of the
2500 quota, “a further quota was
granted,” Mr, Watkins also inquired
“whether any other organisation, racial
or religious,” had been “granted a similar
quota,” and, if so, whether it had
“guaranteed the good conduct and main-
tenance of immigrants upon entering into
this country.”
There followed an eruption of words,
in which Mr. Calwell tried to pass the
buck to “the former Minister of the In-
terior, Senator Codings.” Then he said;
I granted permission for the issue of 2000
landing permits to persons in .close degrees
of consanguinity with Australian citizens,
provided the Europeans who were to be
admitted had been in such prison camps
as Be]sen or Buchenwald, in slave labor
gangs, or were now in dispossessed family
camps or were otherwise homeless and des-
titute in Europe None of the holders <pf
these landing permits will be able to obtain
shipping until the 6000 priority passengers
awaiting transport from Australia have been
allotted accommodation... .the wives and
children of Australian servicemen who mar-
ried in the U.K., the fiancees of Australian
servicemen and the Australians who were
stranded or marooned during the war years.
About two years will elapse before any of
the persons who have been granted landing
permits will be able to leave Europe.
That was on March 20. On April 4 the
“Hebrew Standard” came out with an
article headed “The Gates Are Open
Again,” and containing a compliment for
Mr. Calwell on the fact that “for the first
time in seven years a party of Jewish
refugees has arrived in Australia.”
In another article the “Hebrew Stand-
ard” mentioned that the party consisted of
“refugees from Shanghai” who had been
“compelled to flee from Europe, the
first to receive their permits under a
scheme sponsored by the Executive
Council of Australian Jewry.” Figures
were not “given, but it was stated that
“the final destination of new arrivals will
be Victoria and Westralia,” and that “in
view of the impossibility of arranging
railway transport” it would be “necessary
for them to stay in Sydney until arrange-
ments could be made,” specifically on “the
Welfare Society’s farm at Chelsea Park,”
At Chelsea Park they were welcomed to
Australia, and “several of the visitors
expressed their appreciation to the Mini-
ster of Immigration for having been so
ready to provide the landing permits.” An-
other speaker, who had “come from West-
ralia,” stated that “the Welfare Society”
could be termed “the silent service.”
Where Jewish immigrants are con-
cerned, Mr. Calwell himself could be so
described, except when information is
dragged out of him, though on other
subjects he is volubility itself. In
B. 10/4/’46 his denunciation of the
arrival of a radio man and his family of
three, “these English people,” was men-
tioned, the implication being that he
would send them back if he could. Un-
fortunately, Parliament has entered upon
one of its frequent and prolonged
recesses, so months will elapse before Mr.
Calwell can be tackled by Mr. Watkins
or some iconoclast on the Opposition side
on his assertion that “about two years
will elapse before any of the persons
who have been granted landing permits
will be able to leave Europe”—he obvi-
ously took care not to mention Asia.
A Bad Tax.
From a man with a single-seater: '
It’s about time the poor old motorist was
given a fair go in this country. No one class
of the community is more shot at by the tax-
gatherer; no one class, given half a chance,
could contribute more to employment, develop-
ment and general progress. But instead of being
encouraged it is discouraged at every turn.
People who get a living from catering to the
motorist needs take their cue from the Gov-
ernments and shoot at him from all sides.
Anyone who buys a car or truck begins by
paying anything from £75 to £2OO as tariff
on the imported chassis, to which must be
added sales tax. Each year the buyer is up
for registration and registration fee, driving
licence fee and ordinary and compulsory in-
surance. He is directly taxed Is. on every
gallon of petrol and indirectly taxed on lubri-
cating oil, tyres, replacements, etc. He is ex-
pected to know a veritable compendium of
driving, lighting, parking, signalling and other
traffic laws, and can expect to be fined every
time he forgets or infringes one of them. He
must* stand his vehicle in a recognised parking
area, generally at a cost of 25., every time he
drives it into a city; #f he parks it anywhere
else he’s liable to another fine. (In Sydney,
in addition, and despite his heavy petrol tax, he
must pay toll every time he crosses one of
several bridges.)
Petrol tax is his most contmuous and grow-
ing expense, and he is not cheered by the fact
that it’s probably a dishonest tax anyhow.
Originally 3d. a gallon for the upkeep of roads,
it was increased to 7d. during the depression
and to Is. during the late war. The motorist
didn’t mind the sd. war tax; but the war is over
and he is using more petrol and likely to use
much more in the near future, a very good
thing for the Government. “Between 1927 and
1937,” said the vice-president of the Aus-
tralian Automobile Association, “the Govern-
ment got £30,000,000 from motorists for
general revenue. From 1937 to 1947 it will ggt
another £54,000,000.” . ,
At 30/6/’45 there were 853,106 registered
motor vehicles in Australia. By 30/6/47
there will be very many more, the Sydney Turf
Club notwithstanding. Even were the tax re-
duced to 7d. the Government could expect the
increase in registrations to balance what it
would probably call a loss in its Budget figures.
One-third of the present tax goes to the States
for road-making, the rest goes, as one motoring
organisation succinctly puts it, “down the sink.
It is very questionable whether the Common-
wealth is entitled to maintain a war-time tax
of this nature; it is certainly most questionable
(that a class which contributes so heavily to the
employment and economic stability of the
nation should continue to be penalised for so
doing.


Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVE NA
&
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Parliament being out of the way,
Chifley, Evatt and party —as always, a
large party —are travelling by air to Lon-
don. There Chifley is to attend a Prime
Ministers’ conference, returning via the
U.S.A., where he proposes to stay a whole
three days. In between he may, if pos-
sible, put in a day or two at the Peace
Conference, the doctor —and Donald
Grant, as adviser —being booked to stay
on in Paris. But the Paris proceedings
seem certain to be delayed by Russia.
Delay is the new Soviet stunt. As a
result of tardy Anglo-American opposi-
tion it seems to be failing in Persia, ans
possibly in Manchuria. It has been made
to look silly in- Greece and Japan, where
Sections which Moscow tried to prevent
have drawn outbursts of baffled rage
from that quarter, and from its knaves
and fools throughout the world. But it
has become a feature of Moscow “policy”
for many European and Asiatic countries,
and Moscow may claim that, in respect
of Persia and the Japanese elections, it
has received some official support from
these Dominions.
Peter Fraser and Nash flew acioss the
Tasman to see Chifley and Evatt before
the latter pair set out for London. Like
the A.L.P., M.L. Labor lost a by-election
last month —for Raglan, which had been
Labor since 1935. There may be no
Labor Government in either Dominion
at the end of the year.
An unnoticed feature of the Henty by-
election was that Gullett came out strong
for compulsory military training. In the
light of the anti-conscription polls in 1916
and 1917 and the 1943 general election,
this must have cost him votes. It didn’t
prevent his getting a majority of between
6000 and 7000.
There was one just man in Sodom, and
there is a very game one at Canberra —
Archie Cameron. Alone he voted
against the first of the three rushed refer-
endum measures, Social Services, Or-
ganised Marketing and Employment in
Industry, not weakening when Dr. Evatt,
after consultation with Menzies, agreed to
a Menzies amendment designed to pre-
vent “any form of civil conscription” of
doctors or dentists. When the other pro-
posals were put to the vote the member
for Barker had company. There was no
constitutional-reform atmosphere in the
manner in which the patently political
improvisations were presented and de-
bated, and in the Government’s haste to
get the unpleasant job over the constitu-
tional requirement of “an absolute
majority” in the Senate seems to have
been left out of the programme. This
means that there can scarely be the
August election-c Mm-referendum which
optimists are promising.
“Senator Donald Grant (Labor,
N.S.W) will attend the Paris Peace Con-
ference as one of the advisers to the
Australian delegation.” Adviser on what?
No cheers were heard at Communist
headquarters after municipal elections in
Bundaberg and Townsville, the Com-
munist teams being routed in both places.
The Communist candidate for mayor of
Bundaberg lost his, deposit. “Labor”
also fared badly in Bundaberg and
Charters Towers, though not so badly in
other places. The electors were the same
as will vote at the Commonwealth elec-
tions, adult suffrage ruling.
Early in March Ipswich (Q.) r'ail-
waymen struck because the Commis-
sioner wouldn’t let them have five minutes
before lunch and five minutes before
knock-off to wash their hands. Three
minutes in each break was as far as he
would go. Last Wednesday the railway
unions decided on a State-wide strike as
from Sunday midnight. Then the Indus-
trial Court proposed a “new basis for
discussion”: three minutes before lunch
and five minutes before knock-off; and
that gave Queenslanders the feeling that
there might be Easter trains after all.
The Communist “Tribune,” remarkably
in harmony with Chifley (as it is on the
referendum proposals), says the Dutch
“haven’t the cash to pay for trade,”
having exhausted it by “military and
other expenditures,” and insists that;
Australia can only expect a big market
in Indonesia'if the Indonesians gain their
independence. They can then industrialise
and modernise to raise their standard of
living and purchasing power.
And, having helped our “Indemesian
comrades” to “industrialise ahd modern-
ise,” Australia can look forward to the
time when 70,000,000 Orientals, with
the same regard for human life and
the same regard for white captives as the
Japanese, decide that 7,000,000 Aus-
tralians can have what’s coming to them.
Many weeks ago there was a dispute
at the Murarrie co-operative bacon works
in Queensland over a question of
seniority. It led to a State-wide meat
strike. Brisbane Labor Council called
for a one-day stoppage by all unions on
a date to be fixed. But a lot of unions
are sick of stopping work on any and
every excuse, and enough of them had
reacted so violently to the L.C. order that,
by the week-end, the strike was falling
in around the strikers. Meantime the
bacon factory worked on, the farmers
themselves manning the place in relays.
A bill for the appointment of a seventh
High Court Justice was whirled through
Parliament during the late session and
the nomination has gone to Queensland’s
Chief Justice Webb. The haste is curious,
since the C.J. is occupied on the trials of
war criminals in Tokyo, and may be so
engaged for many months, but it has not
been explained. When another Queens-
lander, Charles Powers, was raised to the
High Court Bench in 1913 the Bar
objected that he was without judicial ex-
perience and had been trained as a
solicitor. So was William Flood Webb ;
but he has been on the Queensland
Supreme Court Bench since 1921, and
C.J. since 1940.
At a dinner to Blarney in Melbourne
one John Fogarty suggested that the
Government should “Call the general be-
fore the Bar of the House and thank
him for his services.” No chance; it is
not that sort of Government. If any such
notion had entered its mind, via surgical
operation, it would have been driven out
by what Blarney said to his Melbourne
admirers:
Up to the end of 1943 the Army fought
for a grateful country. After 1943, when
the troops came out for a long rest, in
Parliament and elsewhere there was a
change from the feeling of gratitude, which
was never revived. This was due to the
fact that the Government had to
accept national government and national
control in fighting the war. The Gov-
ernment preferred a party political attitude.
This attitude led to all the troubles ex-
perienced by the Army.
And not by the Army alone: “it was the
trouble with the whole show.” And so it
was —and is. In the case of the crowd
in office —still, though precariously—the
party is first; the country nowhere.
When the Security Loan was lagging,
as nearly all “Labor” loans have done
(the shortage was then £7,250,000), Chif-
ley was goaded into saying that “too
much is due to the splendid efforts of in-
stitutions and companies and too little
has come from private citizens.” In four
Statps (Victoria can so far be reckoned
an exception) “Labor” has encouraged
gambling and Federal “Labor” has winked
at the competition of lotteries and betting
with war and post-war loans. It can t
really expect gamblers to be investors,
too.
American reactions to Lieut-Colonel
Hodgson’s “all-out-of-step-with-Bert” atti-
tude on the Russo-Persia business were
unconsciously humorous. William Ran-
dolph Hearst’s son hailed it as “the first
time anyone talked back to Russia since
the bombshell was set off by Gromyko,”
Someone ought to send the young man
a few copies of the Parliamentary reports
in which it is set down how Dr. Evatt
defended Russian policy and found it
justified by Russia’s desire for “security
against future attacks” from ferocious
neighbors like Persia and Latvia.
A careless “S. M. Herald” headline,
“Uranium Plot Disproved,” has been
availed of by Communists, in this country
as in others, to pretend that the
Soviet conspiracy against Canada has
no foundation in fact. The only thing
that has been disproved is a newspaper
stunt. All the parties charged with con-
spiracy against the Dominion that was
quixotically generous to Russia, M.P.,
Communist professors, clerks and the rest,
have been committed for trial, and one, a
female cipher clerk in the External
Affairs Department who confessed to be-
traying secrets to “Major Sokolov, a
member of the Soviet Embassy,” has re-
ceived a jail sentence —years.
Humorlessness is the badge of all the
Communist tribe. The “capitalist” English
retain their capacity for laughter, and they
broke into nation-wide mirth when a
Moscow report on the visit of a Russian
Soccer team reached their effete country.
One of those dull dogs of Moscow radio
commentators complained that the Soviet
hoofballers were met on arrival “in the
dry English fashion, without flags, music
or flowers” (the omission of flowers was
pointed by the presentation of huge posies
to a tough-looking English team), were
put up in a Guards’ barracks, and, finding
the accommodatioii too primitive, had to
transfer to the Soviet Embassy. But their
opinion of the feather-bed quality of Eng-
lish football was crystallised when, a goal
having been kicked against the Arsenal
team, the Arsenal manager fainted. In
60 years of exposure to English teams, no
Australian has ever seen an English foot-
baller or manager faint.
Labor Day was revived this year in
Melbourne, with the State Labor Premier
marching and “modernist” additions. One
was a float on which two disconsolate
workers sat in front of a dilapidated tin
shed looking mournfully at the primitive
tools of their trade. Another, bearing the
inscription “Unions Demand Decent
Homes,” displayed a housewife sitting in
a kitchen, with every variety of electric
labor-saving equipment. The reasonably-
priced home which “Labor” hasn’t built
and the Communist is delaying by go-
slow was conspicuous by its absence.
The Corns have got among the shearers
again, this time in the Broken Hill district.
Some sheep-barbers refused to work
on Saturday mornings, and their em-
ployers issued summonses against them
for breach of the award, which pro-
vides for a 44-hour week of 5j
days the A.W.U. has a claim be-
fore the Arbitration Court for 40 hours.
Then the Corns called out all the shearers,
and out they came. The graziers, whose
sheep numbers were greatly cut down in
last year’s drought, are shearing with
voluntary teams made up of station-
owners, managers and others. And the
familiar silence has settled on the
“ ‘Labor’ Governments.”
Perhaps as an expression of gratitude
to “Labor” for all it did for war-time
pugilism, a Mr. Henneberry offered
his services as “Labor” nominee for the
Goulbum Assembly seat when Mr.
Tully, the exuberant provider of 65 farms
for 14,000 would-be servicemen-settlers,
chooses to take up his position as Agent-
General in London for five years. Mr.
Henneberry followed the bruising profes-
sion, combining bookmaking with it for
a time, until he took a pub in the Tully
electorate. He had three contests at the
Sydney Stadium in 1940 and a fourth on
November 27, 1941.
The Hoare report on Spain has been
serialised in Australian newspapers.
Though unfavorable to the Franco regime
it strengthens the impression that non-
intervention in Spanish and Spanish-
American affairs is the right policy for
English - speaking peoples, whatever
charms intervention has for Poles and
French who are making a howling
mess of their own countries’ affairs.
Hoare’s good work in Spain would have
been quite impossible had the British
Government charged into the civil war, as
all the Leftist writing boys insisted on its
doing, in many cases with hooligan attacks
on Chamberlain. The French movement
against Franco’s Spain, forced on the
Government by the Communists, has been
a fiasco and worse. The Americans,
through their State Department, inter-
vened politically in Argentina against
Peron while accepting other Latin-Ameri-
can dictatorships, notably that of McKell’s
friend Vargas in Brazil. In the result
Peron has not only been elected Presi-
dent by a tremendous majority, but he
is in almost complete control of the legis-
lature and the provincial governorships.
A Tasmanian farmer, C. Keith, of
Lilydale, has informed the Deputy-Com-
missioner of Taxation there that in war-
time he was willing to put up with any-
thing, but, the wars over, he expects
things to get back to a commonsense
basis.
I do not think there is any law in the
British community which seeks to make one
individual carry out the duties and respon-
sibilities to the State that are, the sole con-
cern of another individual.
In support of which Keith asks to be
relieved, after June 30 this year, of the
employer’s duty of collecting income-tax
instalments from the wages. These
“village Hampdens” can be a pain in the
neck to officialdom run wild.
The Ciapp-Ward plan for unifying
Australian rail gauges got another men-
tion in Queensland when Railway
Commissioner Wills addressed Brisbane’s
Real Estate Institute. He said the
capital cost of railways per head of popu-
lation in Queensland was already far
higher than in any other State, and asked
his hearers to imagine the colossal debt
that would be created by the additional
cost of the standard gauge. His hearers
imagined it for a moment or two and
then went resolutely on with other busi-
ness.
Just how good a thing the motoring
section of the community is for Gov-
ernments is shown by Victorian figures,
which reveal a total of 243,537 vehicles
registered, excluding motor-cycles, and
registration and compulsory - insurance
payments of £1,877,152 in a year. And
all paid before the vehicles begin to run.
Immediately they do there is a Federal
“tax” of Hid. on every gallon of petrol
used, together with indirect “taxes” on all
other parts and service.
Dedman, sounding verra pleased aboot
it, announced that in 1943 40 p.c. more
people were on incomes of £250 than in
1939, and that those in the £250-£6OO group
were double the number in 1939. Well,
if they hadn’t got more they wouldn’t
have been able to pay the Dedman
crowd’s sky-high taxes. And those on
fixed incomes are very much worse off
than in 1939, though publicans, book-
makers and the like have done famously
—if famously is the word.


NOT WANTED ON THE VOYAGE.
“Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt set out for London on Sunday. Senator Donald Grant is to follow as ‘Adviser to the Minister of External
Affairs at the Paris Peace Conference.’ ”
“Mon, wad’ ye like to hae this as a chest-protector?”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Zake”: Few callings, no matter how
safe they may seem, are completely
devoid of risk. The politician, eagerly
following a vital debate in the House,
may attempt an outsize in yawns and dis-
locate his jaw; the dance-band leader,
caught up in the frenzy of the negro-
inspired cacophony he is dispensing, may
jab the baton in his own eyes ; and even
the humble film critic has his hazards,
as one of them recently discovered. En-
sconced in his front-row d.-c. pew at one
of Sydney’s poshest theatres, with L.s
feet up on the rail, the soporific effect of
soft music, a dull film and the darkness
was being rudely offset by feminine
chatter across the aisle. After putting up
with it as long as he could, the critic
ventured a mild “Sh-h!” Instantly a
“lady” moved out to the aisle, leaped
across, and with a shrieked “Don’t you
shush me! ” fetched the shusher a hearty
swipe across the face, returning to her
seat in triumph, to continue a monologue
which lasted to the film’s end. The critic
didn’t sleep a wink through the rest of
the show.
* sfc *
“Cauboy”: I see that Tehudi Menuhin
is to tour Australia this year. Last
time he was here the youthful violin-
ist was accompanied by the whole
of his family, the most devoted prob-
ably since Bach’s and Mozart’s. A
few minutes after they had taken up
their residence at Menzies, Melbourne, a
guest came down to the office and re-
ported that there were some most peculiar
proceedings going on on his floor. A
member of the staff was sent up to in-
quire, and returned to report that the
Menuhins were practising fire drill. “They
say it is a family custom and is no
reflection on the hotel,” he added.
» * * Jfc
“Pas Palum”: One case where the
Prices Commissioner didn’t have the last
word. The civic dads of Ballina
(N.S.W.), to discourage citizens from
agisting their cows on the municipal
streets, increased the annual charge for
town grazing from one shilling to 52 shil-
lings. There were anguished howls from
cow-owners, and some nark reported the
matter to the Prices Commissioner, who
directed the council to reduce the charge
to the old rate. The council blandly
retorted that, as the whole business of
grazing stock on public streets was illegal
anyway, the commissioner had no juris-
diction. A proportion of the fees is used
to insure the council against any claim
submitted by an unlucky traveller who
has suffered damage through contact with
Strawberry.
* * * i *
“Pitt St.”: A Melbourne “Herald”
writer in London informs his paper that
at some big London railway termini
music is relayed through loudspeakers;
and he wants Melbourne to adopt the idea.
I hope Melbourne isn’t so silly. Half the
trouble with working in a modern city is
the noise of the place, and in late years
it’s become much worse through the blar-
ing of loudspeakers. One of the worst
manifestations of this craze for noise is
at open-air gatherings, whether for sport
or anything else, where those running the
show think it necessary to fill in gaps
in the performance with the yowling of
Bing Sinatra or Clinah Shore. It has
ruined such tilings as the Royal Show and
football matches, and is spreading to
school gatherings and church outings.
One day some desperate citizen is going
to run amuck with wirecutters and silence,
every damned loudspeaker in sight, and
if I’m there I’ll be right behind him. My
most cherished memory of the Sydney
power strike last year is of the blessed,
soul-refreshing silence that descended on
the city.
* * * -
“Bo”: When, after a lapse of 12 years,
Mrs. Tapper presented her lord with their
third child. Tapper suggested as the in-
fant’s name Amy, it having arrived After
Many Tears. This Mrs. T, promptly
vetoed, disliking both the name and the
flippancy which inspired its proposal.
Eventually she announced her choice: Ann
Marie. It was not until they were homing
after the christening that Tapper pointed
out to his spouse that the new arrival’s
initials were now A.M.T., which summed up
his original observation on maternal pro-
crastination ; also that when she was old
enough to carry an initialled attache case
to school their daughter would probably
be nicknamed Amy anyhow. For his
delay in so advising her. Tapper is now
as popular as the measles.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Clugchuck, a freelance
journalist of ray acquaintance, was always
in trouble with his creditors. When Mrs.
“How nice of Jim , coming home specially for our anniversary today!”
C. arrived home one night from a five-
to-eight film she found hubby and another
man happily playing cards; prawn shells
and a couple of empties told of a pleasant
evening. Mrs. C. was invited to make the
game a three-hander, so she joined in.
After cards came some music, with the
hostess and the guest singing sentimental
songs of a generation past and Clugchuck
accompanying at the piano. Around
about midnight the wife, who found the
visitor a charming person, suggested to
her husband that in view of the lateness
of the hour he might be asked to stay the
night. “I’m afraid, my dear,” murmured
Clugchuck, “he intends to do so. He’s
our first bailiff.”
# ** * *
“McGlum”: “Simon” (B. 27/3/’46),
who mentions a Jap tattoo artist, might
be interested to know that in Japan jail-
birds only favor that art; the Army
frowns on it. Consequently, in our prison
camp, the guards were amazed to find so
many “old lags” among the Australians.
It delighted us to tell them that our par-
ticular battalion consisted entirely of
criminals released for war service. Those
of us who were free of markings were
described as minor offenders serving
short sentences, and our prize exhibit be-
came Australia’s Public Enemy No. 1.
The pseudo-Dillinger, with an eye to-
wards a possible free feed, was always
willing to pitch a good tale to English-
speaking Japs and proved, to us at any
rate, that the Nip belongs to the most
gullible race on earth.
“Deir Suneid”: Topnotch tattooists do
not keep shops, but practise in chambers
that would not disgrace a fashionable
medico. I remember visiting one of this
kind in Jermyn-street, London, during
World War I. I had for company in the
waiting-room a distinguished - looking
bearded gentleman, who left with an
attractive little lass, after she had emerged
from the operating-room. The tattooist
informed me that the young lady’s escort
was the Duke of Orleans. Although at
the top of his profession, this artist, like
most of his plebeian brethren, used trans-
fers to imprint the outline of the design
on the skin.
* * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: I am one of the
Ambon survivors. Recently, writing in
a daily, I mentioned the Christian name
of a lad who after moving on from Am-
bon to Hainan had been taken prisoner
by Chinese bandits on April 8, 1944. The
same bandits massacred nine Australians
on that day. Relatives of the missing men
tracked me down, pleading for more in-
formation and stating the little they knew.
It was obvious that official sources could
have told them more. The next-of-kin of
the Laha men may find some comfort in
the fact that none of us who fought
across the bay at Ambon know any more
than has been revealed by the authorities.
And, finally, because it has cropped up
so often, the two men who escaped into
the hills from Laha and later joined us
at Tantoey after months of living with
the natives could tell us nothing of the
fate of C Company and its ancillaries.
» * * *
“Roofless”: One of the most depress-
ing experiences in the daily round of the
homeseeker is his call at the newspaper
office for replies to his carefully-worded
advertisement for a house, flat, stable or
other shelter. The girl knows him by
now, but she is polity enough to run
through the appropriate pigeonhole before
telling hipn that his latest advt., like
those before it, has attracted no replies.
He’s used to this, but what does rile him
is to watch the next inquirer collecting
a heap of letters big enough to sink a
battleship. He has obviously been adver-
tising something to let or for sale. I
offer the suggestion to Granny “Herald,”
Auntie “Age” and Cousin “ ’Tiser” that as
a gesture to the homeless they should
offer quarter rates to those using their
“wanted” columns and recoup themselves
by doubling the rates for the lucky
people with houses to let or for sale.
From my experience this latter group
would still be well in pocket from the
proceeds of the postage-stamps enclosed
by the hopeful homeless to cover replies
that never come.
♦ * * #
Hal Missingham on an art auction:
I should like to point out that the question
of the disposal of paintings from the National
Gallery (“Becks,” B. 27/3/’46) was decided on
by the Trustees long before my appointment as
Director, and that I am now acting on instruc-
tions for their sale. I am not a believer in
the infallibility of the contemporary school —
nor of any other school. There are good paint-
ings and bad paintings at any time. “Becks”
is apparently unaware of psychology, as applied
to sales; on reflection he must see that the
very people who will buy these paintings are
precisely those who believe that my taste and
judgment are lacking. “Becks” has been
strengthened in his intention to visit th» sale
simply on my decrying the works. To save
him any dashing of his hopes I can say that
there Will be no lousy Leightons, smelly Land-
seers or humorous Burne-Joneses on sale.
« * * *
“Becks”: Operator trouble in Army
picture shows (“0.W.W.,” B. 10/4/’46)
wasn’t confined to Gyppos in the Middle
East. In the islands every American
camp had its own projector, and if more
than five per cent, of their operators get
a job in civilian theatres back in the
States the movie industry will bp out of
business within six months. In New
Guinea in 1943 it was exceptional to sit
through a show that could be both seen
and heard from start to finish. A picture
might start off as a talkie, then become
a silent for 10 minutes or so while the
mechanic wrestled with his apparatus.
Then, just as the sound track came good
again, the arc would fail and the actors
would be left carrying on their dialogue
in ghostly voices in the darkness. It
wasn’t so bad if the show was a musical,
but was most unsatisfactory for a heavy
drama. I saw “Casablanca” under these
conditions, and its plot was a complete
mystery to me until I saw it again in
Melbourne two years later.
* * * *
“Uco”: “Fitz,” who recalled the move
of the Bulletin office a few hundred
yards up George-street (B. 10/4/’46), will
probably remember the classic remark of
Tommy Reynolds, ah old hand in the
composing-room, when he was told of the
projected move to the present building
towards the end of 1931. “Strewth,”
whinged Tommy, “aren’t they ever going
to stop moving?” The previous change
of address had been a little matter of
35 years before.
* * # *
“Ellery”: How much of our very early
recollections are an exact remembrance
of events and how much a recreation in
the mind of events told in after-years by
parents? When I was two I escaped from
a nurse’s care, clambered down the stairs,
crossed a paddock and was later found
in a stable playing around a horse’s
hooves. The whole incident is etched
clearly in my mind, yet I suspect that I
have built the picture up from my
mother’s description of the happening
rather than from what I can remember.
Other than that happening, which must
have been a dramatic highlight in my
infancy and one often retold in the family
circle, I cannot recall anything before
starting school at the age of five. My
own children, I find, can only recall those
events which, though they may not have
impressed them at the time, were suffi-
ciently unusual for my wife and myself
to remember and recount to them years
after.
* ** * *
“Bethune”: Some time last year George
William Martens, M.H.R. for Herbert
since 1928, in a carpless moment passed
the remark that all Scots should be de-
ported from Australia. Last month he
lost the Labor pre-selection ballot for
Herbert. It is evident that Mr. Martens
was not in his youth a very close student
of the autograph books which were a
necessary part of the cultural life of the
Community 30 years ago. I recall many
rhymes and quips and maxims that were
copied from book to book, but the one
I remember coming across most often —
it was hard to find an autograph book
without it —proclaimed that although you
might do all manner of things to the
rose and the shamrock
He who sits upon a thistle
Will quickly rise and do a mizzle.
Which seems to be what George Wihiam
has tardily discovered.
**’ * *
“Weff”: “I suppose,” said the chemist
as he handed me a hangover mixture,
“you journalists get a lot of stories from
your cobbers in pubs.” Vaguely, I
assented, since I was in no mood to dis-
cuss anything connected with the Demon
Drink. When I next discovered myself
in a drinking school I decided to check
up on the subject. I found that seven
of the stories related by members of the
party were old—most of them had re-
cently appeared as fill-ups in “Digests.”
There was the usual crop of unprintable
yarns which not even the most skilful
hand could turn into marketable copy.
Some were tediofis and without point, and
others were of a commonplace autobio-
graphical nature. ' Of the three I used as
paragraphs, one was printed and netted
me ss. 9d. The drinks that day cost
me Bs.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A friend who has
made a success in running his business
on ultra-democratic lines was given a
write-up which described him as “balding,
grin-faced, genial,” and put under his
caricature “William (‘Call Me Bill’)
BlaAk.” His palship with his employees
was eulogised; but “balding” Bill ad-
mitted to me that he has had a setback,
which shows that his ideas do not appeal
to everyone. The setback was the resig-
nation of one of his most promising
boys. An indignant letter from the lad’s
father said that he understood that his
son had been invited to call his boss
“Bill,” and he wasn’t standing for that.
“I do not want merely a job for my boy,
but training; and I cannot believe that
such training is possible in an office
the employees call their employer
by his Christian name,”, the letter said
cuttingly. Bill thinks now that a couple
of first-class employees who went else-
where directly Manpower allowed them
to do so may have been actuated by a
similar feeling.
ASK MALONEY.
“App’int Maloney to this Moscow job!
Here is a sturdy Laborite, begob.
In whom Joe Stalin and his Kremlin mob'
Should sense a crony.
Here is undoubtedly the very man
To prove persona grata to the clan.”
Thus around Canberra the message ran:
“App’int Maloney.”
“Forthright and frank,” they reasoned, “he’s
the one
To tell us how the Soviet show is run,
What miracles the Bolsheviks have done
To make a stony
And sterile land of indigence and dearth
Into a well-ruled realm of weight and worth,
An object-lesson to the whole wide earth.
App’int Maloney.”
“He’ll find all men contented, equal, free
In that new citadel of liberty,
With no outdated aristocracy,
Haughty and toney,
No old-world flummery, no pampered Court,
A genuine Utopia, in short,
A monument to progress—just the sort
To suit Maloney.”
He went, he saw, he—shuddered, it would
seem,
As one who wakens from an idle dream
To find his fancies but a fraud supreme,
His forecasts phoney.
’Stead of the scenes he fondly thought to
strike,
From all he glimpsed he merely got the spike.
Hence if you’d learn what Russia’s really like,
Just ask Maloney!
N.S.W.
IFORO.


"No, not television, Miś Glamor-you just sing."
“V. Cluse”: A few doors along the
street dwells a refugee family with an
outsize in Alsatians. When the arfimal
took to chasing the Jephson cat, knock-
ing down the Jephson dahlias and mari-
golds in the process, Mrs. Jephson pre-
sented a complaint to her spouse, who
sought out the head of the refugee family
and went for him. When the poor man
tried to explain, Jephson became more
heated, waved his fists about and, doubt-
less encouraged by the other’s evident
alarm, made ferocious threats of physical
attack. The result was that the Alsatian
disappeared and the refugee family kept
well out of the Jephson orbit. Came
a Sunday morning when, his family away
at church, Jephson was alone in the front
room and heard loud shouts outside.
There, glaring at him, stood the refugee
father, gesticulating excitedly and
yelling at the top of his voice. Jephson’s
hackles arose, he hurled threats and
abuse at the other, then leapt the
verandah rails and made for him. The
refugee fled, still yelling, into his own
house and locked the door. Jephson
was ragefully looking for something with
which to batter the door down when an-
other neighbor appeared and informed
him that the garage at the back of his
house was afire and that the beleaguered
had merely been trying to apprise him
of the fact. And yet U.N.O, hopes to
keep the world at peace.
* * * *
“Traintrav”: Australian townplanners
and estate “developers” need education
in the meaning of words they use. With
every new- suburb that is created there
spring into existence avenues that will
never see a tree, terraces that are no more
than streets, and parks that are merely
collections of houses. And the nomen-
clature of these. “avenues” and streets!
Near me are five neighboring streets,
Waratah, Yacca, Myrtle, Acacia and
Pine, yet not one of them has growing in
it one of the trees or shrubs after which
it is named.
* * * *
“Jasby”: I was sorry to read that
British magicians are beginning to take
themselves too seriously—there’s talk
about entrance examinations and other
mundane formalities that seem out of
keeping with the best traditions of pres-
tidigitation. Asa one-trick magician
who has managed to mystify countless
thousands —maximum age, five—with no
otirer apparatus than a pair of wax
matches, I must lodge an indignant pro-
test. I know my trick and I stick to it.
Why should I be compelled to swot up
other means of mystification? The only
time I ever tried to add to my repertoire
resulted in disaster. Urged by a young
friend to “do some more magic”—my
match trick had merely whetted his
appetite for marvels —I produced a couple
of eggs from thin air and handed them
to the lad. Unfortunately, I was too
successful. Reasoning quite logically
that eggs produced by magic must have
magic properties themselves, the young-
ster dashed them on to the drawing-
room carpet, fully expecting them to
bounce. I’m not sure whether it was the
damage to her carpet or the realisation
that the eggs came from her depleted
pantry that annoyed his mother most.
Despite many requests for a repeat per-
formance of my egg trick, I’m sticking to
my matches.
• * * *
“Zake”: Sydney Commos put on a
Town Hall concert to raise funds for a
new trial in a case where a death sen-
tence passed seven years ago was com-
muted to life imprisonment. The con-
cert was a flop, and now the “lifer” —one
Eric Kelly, who had already been granted
two appeals—has been refused anew
one. The hooey put out by the
comrade-organisers stressed that they were
—and are —on hand to see that any
miscarriage of justice is rectified. Their
zeal in this respect was conspicuously
absent in. the shocking cases of the Aus-
tralia Firsters, who, unlike the Corns’
protege, didn’t have the benefit of a trial
by their peers.
* * * *
“Jerboa”: Chloride-tainted water and
tea were the only wet refreshments in
Tobruk—and not enough of either. Beer
was one of the nostalgic visions a man
had while lying in a pool of his own
sweat, his mouth feeling like a gibber
plain. Lack of green vegetables was re-
sponsible for a vitamin B deficiency in
the diet of the Rats, only partly checked
by ascorbic tablets. Result: any trivial
scratch or sore developed into a chronic
ulcer. Then the game little destroyers that
came tearing in through a veil of bombs
and were the garrison’s lifeline began to
bring a few bottles of Aussie beer with
the bullets and bully beef. Each issue
was three men to a bottle. The Digs,
lapped up their few'mouthfuls apiece un-
daunted by the information, given by
M.Os., that the ration was supplied solely
for its medicinal properties. Maybe it
Was a faith cure, but the beer made a
man feel better than the ascorbic tablets
ever did.
“Seven Emus”: Tell “E.C.8.” (B.
6/ 3 / ’46) before he lands himself or some
unfortunate storekeeper behind the bars
that in the rural fire districts of western
Queensland (I am writing from one) it
is definitely illegal for the greater. part
of the year to sell or have in your pos-
session wax matches owing to the very
real danger of waxies being dropped and
igniting later, generally from being
chewed by rats. lam well aware that
the waxie trade still goes on in the west,
just as s.-p. betting and blackmarketing
go on elsewhere.
♦ * * *
“Libra”: Any bookseller worthy of the
name would know that Alexander Wooll-
cott died over a year ago. A Sydney
store to which a book i$ merely an article
of merchandise pulled the boner of adver-
tising that “Alexander Woollcott has
written anew book — Long, Long Ago :
Woollcott addicts will devour it with
relish.” The relish no doubt could be
bought in the same firm’s delicatessen
department.
* * * *
“J.1.A.”: Motorists and hitch-hikers?
My experience doesn’t support “Blank
File’s” (B. 27/3/’46). My cobber and I
set out recently on a tour of N. S.
Wales country districts all by the
rule of thumb. We started thumbing
at Penrith, and in eight days saw
Katoomba, Wallerawang, Capertee,
Bathurst, Orange, Parkes, Forbes, Cowra,
Young, Harden, Yass, Canberra and
Goulburn. We rode in everything from
limousines to wood lorries—at one stage,
even in an ambulance. The only time
we had to wait overlong (three hours) for
a lift was on the Bathurst-Orange road.
When we were eventually picked up bur
benefactor told us that two men had
held up a vehicle with a rifle on that
road not so long ago. We withdrew our
curses of coves who had flashed by with-|
out a second glance.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Just what is the modern atti-
tude towards mustard? I can remember
taking part in a play (of this century)
where a lady claimed that a young man
must be in love and sloppy in the mind
simply because he had taken mustard with
his mutton. I could never understand
why he shouldn’t, though she was only
illustrating the comijioniideasa —as in
Shakspeare’s “Taming of the Shrew” —
mustard only with beef. But today the
ads. are boosting it not only for lamb
but fish. And why not?
« * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; My vote for first place
amongst the earth-heaving jobs of the
world (homo sap. division) goes to a job
done in Syria, There was an edifice to
be erected—a matter of civil and military
importance—between Damascus and the
coast. The surveyors chose a spot and
passed the job over to the engineers.
There was no mechanical transport or
lifting gear avail-
able ; all the work
had to be done by
hand and back.
Rocks were quarried
and shaped—meas-
uring up to 14,000
cubic feet and weigh-
ing up to a thou-
sand tons and
transported, whole,
to the site, where
they were placed
squarely in position,
sometimes on top
of pillars 100 ft. and
more above ground.
Fortunately there
was plenty of man-
power available
mostly prisoners-of-
war. Mountains of
earth were heaped
around the building
and all the way to
the quarry, about
half a mile away,
and the huge build-
ing blocks were
dragged, pushed and
rolled up the slopes.
The toil was heart-
breaking, and the
p.-0.-w. died like
flies, but the job was
completed and
served its purpose. Later, when we
passed the spot in our tanks and trucks,
most of the structure had fallen, but suffi-
cient remained to set us marvelling at the
vigor, tenacity of purpose and disregard
for life which inspired the engineers of
the temples at Baalbek 3000 years ago.
* * * *
“Quvic”: Clothing rackets? “Findy”
(B. 20/3/’46) could add to his experiences
in Brisbane. My ex-serviceman husband
went to a store for a suit and, being
an 0.5., asked for 24in. cuffs on his
trousers. He was told it would cost 2s.
6d. for each inch over a 22in. cuff. Yet it
is impossible to get more than one pair
of trousers out of a trouser length,
whether the cuffs are 22in. or 24in. At
the same shop 58s. 6d, was asked for a
made-to-measure shirt, which takes about
three yards of material.
* * * *
“D.”; Will some history-minded Bul-
letineer give me the latest authentic view
on the reports that Captain Cook’s “dis-
covery” of the eastern coast of Australia
was predated by about two centuries by
Portuguese (?) mariners who, it seems,
left a little-known chart depicting the
eastern coastline with tolerable accuracy?
Delving through the introduction to the
first volume of the Historical Records of
New South Wales , published 1893, I
found quite a lot about this reputed chart,
supposedly made about 1530. The point
of particular interest is a reference to
“Coste des herbaiges” as being perhaps
the precursor of our own name of Botany
Bay, which Cook himself first of all called
“Stingray Bay.” If the a.d. 1530 chart
view is correct, then at best Cook merely
rediscovered the eastern coast. Old-time
historians seem to have raised a bit of
bother about whether Cook knew of the
old chart and did a bit of double-timing
in “discovering” eastern Australia. F.
M. Bladen, who edited the Historical
Records, knocks this theory convincingly ;
but I’d like to know more about these
shadowy figures who passed this way
before Elizabeth ascended the throne,
and coined a phrase so peculiarly applic-
able to the eastern coastlands now so rich
in dairying—“the coast of plants” or “of
pastures.”
* * *' *
“Deir Suneid”: Reminiscing on his
93rd birthday, Andrew Wilkie, first direc-
tor of the Melbourne Zoo, stated that the
first foreign inmates of the gardens were
two lions and a cheetah, acquired from a
bankrupt show in Bourke-street. This
was The Buffet, a forerunner of the
present.-day coffee lounge. It was run by
a Canadian, Stutt, and its attractions in-
cluded a smoking-room, private drawing-
rooms for ladies and families and a tea
garden, which contained an aviary of
British and foreign birds, as well as the
“largest lion and lioness ever caged,”
monkeys and a cheetah or hunting
leopard. When the Zoo acquired the
carnivora, maybe E. W. Cole bought the
monkeys to form the nucleus of the
monkey cage in his book arcade.
* * * *
“T.P.”: An American nipper, found
smoking cigarettes, was ordered to smoke
two black cigars. Mum bolted for a
copper, who arrested the father, while the
offspring brought up everything but his
boots at the back fence. Dad languished
for a night in a cold cell. Next day he
was charged with cruelty. The magistrate
snapped “I agree with your father. Ever
smoke again, boy?” “No, Sir,” quavered
the kiddie. “Case dismissed!” In my
“Now, just divide that by two and We've got it!"
day lads were tougher. My young
brother, caught smoking a cigarette, was
given a pipe charged with black Derby
tobacco and commanded to go ahead.
The family gathered to witness the
tragedy. Charley puffed away con-
tentedly, blowing an occasional whiff
through his nose. He finished the pipe,
knocked out the ashes and asked for
another fill.
SECOND THOUGHTS.
“Premier McKell has let it be known that his
recently-announced decision to retire during the life
of the present Parliament may be reversed. He had
never realised until the last few weeks, he said,
just how difficult it was to retire.”
There’s a familiar ring in such expressions.
In any walk of life you’re apt to find
Persons who’ve got on top of their professions
And to retirement tell you they’re resigned
Experiencing sudden retrogressions
Of attitude and waverings of mind
Before they take the step they know full well
Will be regarded as irrevocable.
Farewell performances, in strict adherence
To literal significance of words,
Should mean the positively last appearance
Of famous actresses and singing birds;
Yet they may be, with tact and perseverance,
Strung out, we know, to seconds and to thirds
And more—and in that class there well may be,
McKell, your recent valedictory.
The seasoned mummer, while no longer rating
As one who rapt attention could engage
By his proficiency in simulating
Uncompromising love or noble rage,
Would find himself professionally hating
The bare idea of shuffling off the stage,
Though frankness might induce him to admit
He’s done his dash and < had his whack of it.
The flannelled fool, no more a skilful chooser
Of ways t'o kill a bowler’s spin and swing,
The muddied oaf, by slow degreees a loser
Of wiles behind the scrum or on the wing,
And, most of all, the once triumphant bruiser
Whose old prestige is fading in the ring—
How hard they struggle to postpone the shock
Of taking what is loosely termed “the knock.”
So, Mac, one gathers the exalted station
Isn’t yet vacant that so long you’ve graced;
At the disposal of the State and nation
Your ready services will still be placed.
After (no doubt) mature consideration
You ask us to believe you spoke in haste
Or petulance—and didn’t really mean
To slide precipitately off the scene. «
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


h
Wmny^s!
a Vf\
And I’ll be worse to-morrow,
We’re out of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Unless we can some borrow.
What’s that —the grocer’s car is here.
Hooray! No need to borrow
A dose or two; goodbye to ’flu,
I’ll milk the cows to-morrow.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
For Coughs and Colds nWer fails
Time out to relax . . .
Have a Coca-Cola
XJ
im ■
n /)
ts
JO
Ml
g/f-
V
ss
1
. # , or refreshment helps in housework
Home chores are easier when
you work refreshed. With ice-
cold Coca-Cola in your ice-
box, you are only a few steps
from the pause that refreshes
at home. When it’s time to
‘Have a Coke’, or to offer it
to guests, it’s a comfort to
know that you have a supply
on hand, ice-cold in your re-
frigerator. The pause that re-
freshes with ice-cold Coca-
Cola has won its way into
homes everywhere as a re-
freshing symbol of American
living.
-the global
hign-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ILS.A;
(.Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
Missing Friend.
Will MISS MABEL WALSH, also known as May
(who may have married since), whose last known
address was Sydney, please communicate with her
sister, Mrs. F. M. Bousfleld, P. 0., Scottburgh, South
Coast, Natal, South Africa? Any information will
be gratefully received.
Legal Notice.
TO MATTHEW - PHILIP POUND brother of DELIA
POUND and to the Issue of the said MATTHEW
PHILIP POUND and to any person claiming through
any of them.—Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme
Court you are required to send to the Public Trustee,
Wellington, New Zealand, before the 30th day of
June, 1946, your claim to share in the estate of
Delia Pound, late of Wellington, Spinster, deceased,
failing which your claim may be disregarded.—
The Solicitor, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO VICTOR EDWARD THORBURN late of Cairns,
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that MERYL GLADYS
THORBURN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1281 of 1940 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of May 1946 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from HAROLD
R. BUSHBY Solicitor of 10 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALAN ATTWILL late of 30 Colman Avenue
Homebush.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN ELLEN
MINNIE ATTWILL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 5370 of 1945 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of May 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
HAROLD R. BUSHBY Solicitor of 10 Martin Place
Sydney—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I KARL KRAWINKEL, of German nationality, bom
at Hanover, Germany, resident 22 years in Australia,
now residing at 20 Yurong Street, Sydney, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
PREECE —INFORMATION
urgently required concerning
PAUL GRAEM PREECE
Last heard of in Sydney April, 1915.
Will anyone who knew him at or since that date please write
No 316. Advt. Dept., The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd-,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney?
THE SERVICE MAN
The New A.I.F. Is Blooded.
“Ek Dum”: Speaking at the monthly
luncheon of the United Service Institu-
tion in Sydney on April 9 Lieut.-General
Berryman, G.O.C. Eastern Command,
who was G.5.0.l to the Sixth Division
in its pioneer days, threw some light on
the Australian preparation for the Libyan
battles, of which little was known to the
outside world, but which, in a sense,
formed the basic training of the A.I.F,
for the whole of World War 11.
During its course there were drilled,
seasoned and hardened those officers
who bore the brunt of moulding the
forces which fought not only in Libya
and Greece but in the Pacific war. It is
little realised how big a part the valuable
experience gained in the Greek Sixth Divi-
sion operations played, for instance, in
the development of the campaign of the
Owen Stanley Range. Sixth Division
provided many senior officers for other
divisions —at one stage the Division Com-
mand and all brigadiers of the Seventh
Division were old Sixth Division officers.
The Sixth in 1940 was,- for all
active-service purposes, the A.I.F. The
only A.I.F, forces other than those in the
M.E. were the men of the 18th Infantry
Brigade, with the 2/3 Field Regiment, the
First A.T. Regiment, half the Sixth Divi-
sion signal engineers, half the A.A.S.C.
and A Field Workshops, which were in
the third convoy and which were routed
to England amid the envious farewells
of their comrades bound for Palestine,
who felt that they were destined to sit in
the backwash while the 18th fought the
European war.
After Italy came in (June, 1940)
the complexion of things changed
considerably, and the prospects of fight-
ing in the Mediterranean became
brighter. But nearly three weeks elapsed
before the Divisional Staff there was
complete in officers. Even then H.Q.
was merely an office and not a unit cap-
able of functioning in the field.
However, tjiis had the advantage at
least that the command could start
from scratch. It began operations with
concentration on training H.Q. with a
series of three exercises for H.Q. only,
which were the basis of future work. Not
that there seemed much future for the
force, since at that time it was about
30th on the priority list for the supply
of equipment. However, amid loud
prayers of thankfulness to Musso., 16th
Brigade Group was promoted to No. 3
on the priority list, so that it could be
fitted out for Egypt.
From then onwards both the efficiency
and morale of the force improved by leaps
and bounds. The movement of the**war
southward and eastward and the conse-
quent organisation of the area for de-
fence soon began to make Palestine look
as if it were occupied by an army.
The Sixth achieved an important
spread as the 2/1 Field Regiment and
the 2/4 Battalion became A.A. regiments
and were scattered through Haifa, Port
Said, Suez and Alexandria. This, of
course, thinned out divisional artillery to
one regiment, but the artillery scored by
getting the transport and equipment of
the 2/1 Field Regiment—and badly in-
*deed the artillery needed it.
Transport was the bottleneck every-
where. The 16th Infantry Brigade was
in a position to carry out battalion
" schemes. But the 17th and 19th Bri-
gades had to pool their transport to get
a battalion up to establishment.
The Move to Egypt
After visits by key officers in August
to the Western Desert and practice based
on experience in attack, defence, night
operations and dispersed movement, the
division, short of the 19th Infantry Bri-
gade, was moved to Helwan in October,
under the command of Major-General
Iven Mackay. There it was rejoined by
the 2/1 Field Regiment < (Lieut.-Colonel
Barker), while the 2/4 Battalion went
back to the 19th Brigade in Palestine.
The weather in Egypt was better than
in Palestine, the monotony less, but the
work harder. The opportunity for varied
training was not so good in some respects.
The operational roles involved were the
defence of Alexandria and flank cover-
ing positions for 70 miles. Divisional
cavalry line of observation was selected
to lie in the region of the Alamein Gap,
which thus for the first time became a
part of active war history.
The force also was responsible for the
protection of the Lines of Communica-
tion, Western Desert, and the internal
security of the Egyptian Delta.
What training was possible was largely
concerned with sand-driving and box
movements for the whole force, a
manoeuvre which would have been
familiar to Cornwallis and Lord Harris,
Abercromby and Wellington, since it re-
vived the old technique of Tippoo’s wars.
The force moved with “non-fighting” units
in the centre of the box of fighting units.
This (in view of air power) had to be de-
fensive in all directions in a way never
necessary to Cornwallis or Abercromby.
During November a move was made
to Amiriya, 15 miles west of Alexandria.
Old comrades of the 19th Brigade pre-
sently were seen on the horizon. There
was a sense of being nearer to the war.
Changes in organisation and the nightly
air raid on Alexandria during moonlit
periods intensified the feeling.
Camps and tents were dispersed. The
cold and bitter winds led the troops to
be glad that there was plenty of room
and time for exercises.
These exercises were comprehensive.
They included, apart from meticulous in-
dividual training and hardening, two
divisional exercises each of two-three
days, which were fairly rough on all
ranks and tested their mettle.
During the first one many troops had
their first sight of General Wavell. Briga-
diers were exercised twice in command
of their brigades and once each as chief
umpires, and it was assured that the
division could move as a whole without
creaking badly. In the exercises, dis-
persed movement, deep advances and
bold patrolling were practised. It was
insisted that all units develop the initia-
tive to continue operations without
orders. Battalions were mixed in the
dark and drilled in extrication.
Grazlani on the Roll
New tasks now were assigned. Graziani
had rolled across the border for 50 miles
and had occupied Sidi Barrani and a
series of adjacent camps. Italian officers
were discussing, amid their luxurious
campaigning equipment, what they would
do in Cairo on their first leave. And the
A.I.F. command was learning that at
some date not too distant it must be pre-
pared to occupy Naghamish Nulla, 10
miles or so east of Mersa Matruh, the
Baguish-Burbeita Box, 25 miles east of
Matruh, and protect L. of C.
The recce groups were hard at work
well forward. Soft Australian swear-
words were to be heard for the first time
at the recce camp at Smugglers’ Cove,
near Matruh. A.I.F. uniforms were seen
in forward British positions, as H.Q. and
other officers watched the British and
Indians practise dispersion on wide fronts
in defensive positions.
It looked like real business in. the offing
when the Division Command, G. 1., A.Q.,
C.R.A. and infantry brigades went to
look on at “Western Desert Force Ex-
ercise No. 1,” which involved attacks on
camps, tanks, artillery and M.T. infantry
moving over the desert with 200 yards
between vehicles, in such a manner as to
raise no dust and travel with minimum
visibleness from distance.
“The Wavell Walk”
Suddenly “W.D.F. Exercise No. 2”
was in being 6n December 8-9. It is
known to history as the Wavell Walk. It
carried the British - Australian - Indian
forces 450 miles forward in just ufider
two months. It was so secret that even
some of the Egyptian force commands
were taken by surprise.
It was arranged that, as part of the
forward movement to replace the Fourth
Indian Division, the 16th Brigade Group,
A.1.F., should move on December 12,
Divisional H.Q. and the 17th Brigade
Group on December 22 and the 19th
Brigade Group on December 29. But this
schedule was speeded up.
On December 18 the Division Com-
mand and the G.5.0.l returned to H.Q.
at Ikingi from watching the 2/1 Field
Regiment at practice 20 miles south of
Burg-el-Arab, to find orders waiting to
move H.Q. to Sidi Barrani. That day
the 19th Brigade was put on eight hours’
call to embark for Bardia should the
enemy withdraw. Divisional Cavalry
(less A Squadron) was well forward at
Siwa.
General Mackay, looking round his
forces that day, must have been a proud
man. It was as fine a division as there
was in any army—finer, probably, in
physique than almost any other. It was
80 per cent, complete in first-line trans-
port and 60 per cent, in second-line
transport. The 2/1 Field Regiment had
more grins to the square inch than any


LIMITED, ENGLAND
m
RAYON
/or loveliness
ihcil lasls
x jew clothes arc an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayon. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds rayon is still avail-
able, although the quantity is
restricted
Iw.
World distributors for
Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd.,
London, England.
SATES AGENT:
SYDNF.Y : Samuel Courtauld Co.
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 181 Clarence Street.
WAR
.__A
vQU*
ihU
S T
m
ms
■ ■■
mn
m
:r*/
' ■ - : .v v -: d
See the ASA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The ASA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every ASA carries a double guarantee .
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an ASA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue.
AG A
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est, J 852 (Inc. In N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmet
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents;
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
other comparable force in the field, for it
had just received and played with its first
25-pounders. The 16th Brigade had all
of nine two-pounder A.T. guns. The
17th Brigade possessed two.
Onward to Capuzzo
And move! The Advanced Divisional
H.Q. did the 250 miles to Sidi Barrani in
a single day, though the last 60 miles
was over what (even in Africa) was called
a “very bad road.”
Next day at midday Advanced Aus-
tralian H.Q. was established at Sidi
Barrani and became responsible for the
front. The G.O.C. and G.5.0.l motored
to Sollum-Capuzzo on recce. They
found the British 16th Brigade in line
between Solium and Bardia, and the 16th
A.I.F. Brigade, which had arrived the
night before, tired but hopeful, moving
into line on the left. The British had the
Queens in the front line, Argyles in
support and Leicesters in reserve.
The first Australian battalion's to
assume front-line positions in the present
war were the 2/2 and 2/1, with ths 2/3
in reserve. Positions were completely
occupied on December 21, when the
A.I.F. established its advanced H.Q. at
Capuzzo.
The forward battalions held very wide
fronts behind the first crest from the
enemy. Infantry brigade H.Q. was be-
tween 10,000 and 12,000 yards from the
perimeter. Somewhere further on round
Bardia, the British 7th Armored Division
(Desert Rats) was nosing about.
Bardia the Prize
General O’Connor, G.O.C. Western
Desert Force, assigned the task of attack-
ing Bardia to the A.I.F. The orders were
that the attempt was to be made with two
brigades, though it was frequently stressed
that in the rugged area of the Bill and its
back country there were 20,000 Ities
to be disposed of. The enemy was
largely set in very strongly concreted
posts with ari A.T. concrete ditch, round
each forwam post.
General Mackay strongly pressed for
the 19th Brigade to be brought up, and the
Brigade duly made its appearance on the
night of January 1, to find that D 1 day
had been put forward from next day to
January 3 because of ammunition short-
age.
The command had set 400 r.p.g. as its
minimum accumulation, and this had en-
tailed much sweat and swearing to bring
the supply to standard. First-line trans-
port had been sent back 160 miles to
help accelerate the delivery of shells.
Solium had been evened and stores and
water poured into it under Itie fire from
Bardia Bill, which caused some casualties
both to troops and barges.
The 19th Brigade, however, was not so
much worried about general deficiencies
as about its own. During its rush move
of 320 miles it had left its few carriers
behind at railhead. It had no A.T.
“ You're a goat, Prendergast —I
TOLD you we'd have been safer down in the magazine!”
guns; and, though it was proud of its
A.T. rifles, it had not yet fired them!
However, it was glad to be on the spot,
and the 16th Brigade, whose frontal line
was thin, gave a warm welcome to the
2/8 Battalion, which took over part of
the front. The 2/4 and 2/11 were en-
sconced not far in the rear with other
reserves, the one above and the other
below the Escarpment.
Thus Second A.I.F. prepared for its
first major operation and with a per-
fectly free hand to carry it out, and with
the experience of Anzac and Fromelles,
Pozieres and Bullecourt behind it to en-
force the lesson of the need for thorough
preparation against confusion.
From the beginning, on the whole, all
went well. Sixteenth Brigade had the
advantage of surprise and got away to
a clean start, from which it was able to
maintain its momentum. Upon this grand
brigade was built the core of the battle.
Many lessons were learnt.
Italian morale received a heavy blow
and Berlin Radio was very sad.
The fact had been leamt tljat pre-
pared fortresses were of little use when
attacked skilfully and resolutely, even
by troops which were not then equipped
to anything like later standards of arma-
ment and transport, and with air support
almost non-existent by Alamein stan-
dards.
A great part of Graziani’s army was
destroyed and 45,000 of his heady myr-
midons taken prisoner, with the aid of
the 7th British Armored Division hover-
ing in wait and in support on the for-
ward flank.
The gate was open to Libya and
Tobruk, where another 27,000 prisoners
fell to Australian enterprise, after troops
had been flung, slapbang and without
needless preliminaries, at the Italian bat-
teries, which, at Bardia, had given a
great deal of trouble.
The Second A.I.F. was gloriously
blooded and the Sixth Division on the
long road to Wewak.
Its -opening throw had been worthy -of
leaders who, for 'a time in the anxious
days of preparation, had the stomach to
drink salt water and cherry wine with
their whisky, since the countryside offered
no normal dilutant.
Civil War in China.
“Ek Dum”: In Manchuria Russian
troops are leaving the country tardily,
in characteristic Soviet performance
of the agreement with the National
Chinese Government, but they are
not travelling very far. Some of
them are moving to the Vladivostok belt,
where they might be useful in certain
emergencies. About 50,000 have gone
to Korea, with the*" result that there is a
positive force there of about 100,000
cheek by jowl with the American zone.
No move was made until the Chinese
Communist troops had ensconced them-
selves in Manchuria at strategic control
points. These troops are armed with
Japanese weapons to a large extent.
It is only two months since the Com-
munists made an agreement for merger
of armies and permanent peace with the
Chinese National Government; hut this
appears to have been merely a Com-
munist trick to lull the National Govern-
ment and the Americans into a false
sense of security. When the right moment
came late in the week the Chinese Com-
munist leader “General” Chou En-lai
made the startling announcement that the
Manchurian situation had “merged into
the general civil war in China.” In other
words, a general' civil war is in progress
in China with the objective of complete
Communist control.
Russia, of course, has an agreement
with the National Government of China,
and could stop the Manchurian business
in ten minutes. But anybody who has
read Manuilsky’s speeches at the 1939
conference of Bolsheviks will have little
doubt that the driving and organising
forces behind the Chinese Communists
are not General Ma and General Chou
but Generalissimo Stalin.
Adjacent to Manchuria, in Japan, the
news is that the Russian delegate is
sponsoring a move to wrest control from
General MacArthur. One of the pretexts .
is supposed to be that the recent elections
were “premature”—so premature that
the Communists had an all-fired licking.
Moscow has hopes that the Australian
delegate, Mr. W. Macmahon Ball, will
back the Russian, Comrade Derevyanko.
Mr. Ball is an innocent radio uncle who,
a day or two before World War II broke
out, was loudly assuring the world that
Hitler would not fight.
In any case, one might ask who Mr.
Macmahon Ball is to express a viewpoint
on these matters. So important an issue
as control of Japan should be the con-
cern of Parliament; though, perhaps, it
doesn’t matter much, since Parliament
now is controlled by the Government’s
secret junta, the junta by the wharf-
laborers in matters of Asiatic policy and
the wharflaborers by Communist secre-
taries, who, in turn, look humbly to
Moscow.


tl» .'i
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
David Victor Mentiplay, who is to lead
the Westralian force in the Allied victory
parade, was the hero of a notable exploit
before his capture by the Japs. Sent out
on an intelligence job, he discovered a
group of wounded Indians being machine-
gunned by the Japanese, He charged the
Nips with his rifle, but was run through
the neck by a Japanese bayonet. Draw-
ing his revolver he shot the Jap who at-
tacked him, and, rolling on to his chest,
killed four others. Pressing his chin down
to stanch the bleeding of his terrible
wound, he pretended to be dead. Later
when the enemy had left he dressed the
wounds of some of the Indians who had
survived, then, disguised as a native, with
his body stained brown and clad only in
a loincloth, he tracked four miles through
the Jap lines back to his regiment. He
arrived in a state of collapse, but would
not be attended to till he had reported
what he had learnt of ehemy dispositions.
Named as first Australian High Com-
missioner to South Africa, George Shaw
Knowles has been Commonwealth
Solicitor-General since 1932. Brisbane-
born, he took his law degrees at Mel-
bourne Uni. and joined the Queensland
Public Service in 1898, transferring to the
Federal Service a few years later. He
has on several occasions gone abroad
as legal adviser to Australian delegations
—he was at Geneva in 1920 and again in
1924; at the Washington Conference in
1921, and in London at the 1927 Imperial
Conference. In 1928 he received the
C.B.E, and he was knighted in 1939.
Doyen of Australian poets, Bernard
O’Dowd was 80 on April 11. Barrister,
librarian. Parliamentary draftsman, and
since his retirement again a barrister, he
has published upwards of a dozen books
of poetry since his first, Dawnward, ap-
peared in 1903. He often remarks with a
dry smile that the sincerest public com-
pliment he ever received was when a
Minister of the Crown announced to the
House that a bill he had drafted was
perfect in style and composition.
“Macneil” salutes an admiral:
“The greatest sea captain since Nelson” is
A. V. Alexander’s tribute to Admiral of
the Fleet Lord Cunningham. A certain able
seaman in the R.A.N. is wholeheartedly in
accord. Just before Matapan the old de-
stroyer Vampire’s motorboat was alongside the
landing-stage in Alexandria, her stoker-driver
fiddling with the engine—like her mothership,
the boat seldom did more than one trip with-
out a breakdown. A slight man dressed quietly
in a grey civilian suit stepped on to the pier
and asked the cox’n to take him out to Queen
Lizzie. Cox’n cocked an eye at the battler,
noted her position and replied: “0.K., cobber.
I’ve gotta pass her. Soon as this blasted
engine’s fixed I’ll shove off. Hop in.” They
cast off and chugged across the har-
bor, the young' sternsheetman in earnest
conversation with the passenger on the
demerits of life in the service, in hard-
worked destroyers in particular. Approaching
the battleship’s gangway, the one reserved for
junior officers and libertymen, the cox’n
cupped his hands and shouted aft above the
roar of the engine: “Hey, there! You’ll have
to jump as I come alongside; this old blankard
won’t go astern.” The one addressed acknow-
ledged with a wave of his hand, and as Vam-
pire’s tattered craft surged alongside the
glittering ladder he leaped to the platform and
ran nimbly up its steps. As he reached the
quarterdeck there was a frantic rush of
marines, quartermasters, midshipmen and the
officer of the watch from the Admiral’s gang-
way on the other side where they’d been
drawn up to receive him. But Vampire’s
cox’n saw it not. Next day the destroyer re-
ceived a signal thanking her for assistance
rendered to the C.-in-C. “Commander-in-
Chief,” gulped the motorboat cox’n. “ ’Struth!
I thought he was their canteen manager.”
The mantle of the Cro-Magnons, the
Stone Age race which mysteriously de-
veloped a capacity to draw unsurpassed
until Rembrandt, seems to have fallen
on the Aruntas of the “Centre.” Or
perhaps it is only the influence of Rex
Battarbee, the Melbourne artist, who
taught his camel boy, Albert Namatjira,
the elements of depiction, which ac-
counts for the Renaissance in the Never
Never. Albert’s first exhibition in Mel-
bourne sold out on the first day; his
second, recently held in Adelaide,
fetched 840 guineas, enough to make
the mouth of even the most success-
ful white artist water. Albert created
another record more catalogues
were sold in a day than at any
previous show in the City of Churches.
Now Battarbee has discovered another
dusky Velasquez in Edwin Pareroultja,
who has a double talent, inas-
much as he is also a wizard of a
runner. With Eli Rubuntja, another
abo. athlete, Battarbee brought his
protege down to Melbourne, and put
them both into training on a Victorian
farm for the Stawell Gift. After the
event Edwin will hold an exhibition in
Melbourne. His mentor says he is an
even better painter than Albert.
Retiring from a long ministry at the
Independent Church in Collins-street,
Melbourne, the Rev. A. Penry Evans saw
hundreds of people who delighted in his
witty and unconventional sermons turned
away when he preached his final essay.
His Tonic Talks always drew a full
house. Born in Wales, he ministered in
various parts of the Old Dart before
coming to Australia to become professor
of Pastoral Theology at the Victorian
Congregational College. In 1939 he was
president of the Congregational Union
of Australia and M.L.
According to the history books, the
main function of a sheriff used to be to
ride through the greenwood acting as a
fleeting target for the arrows of Robin
Hood and his merrie men; any one of
the band could split a sheriff at 200
paces—Robin himself could do it at
four. Sheriffs in American Western films
are fast-riding, straight-shooting hombres
who can usually outsmart and outshoot
the toughest bad man.. In Australia a
sheriff does none of these things: Roland
Oliver Elliott, Sheriff of the Supreme
Court of N.S.W., drawn here by Dubois,
confesses that he has never stopped an
arrow or even dodged one ; nor does he
tote a gat. But if a sheriff’s life is less
risky today than it was in other times and
climes, it is none the less exacting. The
modern sheriff is a principal officer of
the Supreme Court, and his job is to see
that its judgments are enforced. If you
are summoned for jury service, it is be-
cause he put you on the list. If there
is a warrant out for your arrest, he
issued it; if you are arrested you are
his responsibility until convicted or
acquitted; if you entreat your bail he’s
vitally interested ; if you are to be hanged
his presence at the ceremony is almost
SUMMONSES ASUMMONSES AND WRITS.
as important as your own. Sheriff Elliott
joined the department in 1918 and learnt
the job during the shrievalties of Sheriffs
Walsh, Crockford, Murphy and Lester.
He succeeded the lastnamed in 1945.
“M. Turlutu”: The list of celebrities
produced by Creswick (Vic.) is by
no means confined to those quoted
in B. 3/4/’46. In addition to Lieut.-
General Northcott, John Curtin and
the Lindsays its balmy air responded
to the first infantile wailings of the
almost equally artistic and literary Dyson
family and to those of Alexander Pea-
cock, thrice Premier of the State,
a notable figure in the earlier days
of Federation and the possessor of a
laugh which made political history on
more than one occasion. Yet another
native-son genius, though one whose
name is not to be mentioned polite
Creswick circles even now, was “Spud”
Murphy, Melbourne’s most agile and ex-
pert cat-burglar of the 1880’s.
“Becks” on the passing of a soldier:
John Standish Surtees Prendergast Vereker,
Lord Gort, was a man whose big moment came
at the wrong time. In 1937, when he was pro-
moted over the heads of well-nigh three dozen
generals t'o become Chief of the_ Imperial
General Staff, he was hailed as Britain’s White
Hope. Unfortunately, when he was called upon
two years later to lead the B.E.F. to France he
found himself leading a forlorn hope against
the armored might' of Germany, with ineffectual
allies and certain deficiencies of equipment. The
1940 campaign was a catastrophe for British
arms, but if reflected neither on Gort nor the
men under his command. After Dunkirk Gort
became Inspector-General of Training, and in
1941 was sent to Gibraltar as Governor and
Commander-in-Chief of the Rock, from which
fortress he was moved in the next year to Malta
in succession to General Dobbie, now touring
Australia. His three years on the island saw
Malta’s status change from that of lone outpost
on Rommel’s lifeline to that of triumphant wit-
ness and partner in the invasion of Sicily and
Italy. It was while Malta was still at bay, with
air-raids her daily portion, that he received the
severe burns that ultimately caused him to re-
sign the High Commissionership of Palestine
last year and brought about his death at 59.
Courage was an outstanding characteristic of
Lord Gort, who in World War I was awarded
the V.C., a D.S.O. and two bars and a Mili-
tary Cross, in addition to being mentioned in
dispatches nine times. The Gort viscountcy was
created in 1816, but the soldier was probably
less proud of his title than of the fact that
his maternal grandfather was R. S. Surtees, the
creator of Jorrocks.
Wilfred Frank Flexmore Hudson, of
S.A., awarded a fellowship by the Com-
monwealth Literary Board to write a novel
and complete his second book of critical
essays, is founder and editor of the Aus-
tralian quarterly “Poetry.” Queensland-
born, he’s a product of Adelaide Uni., and
was a headteacher with the S.A. Educa-
tion Department for 11 years. His fifth
book of poems. The Iron Hills, was pub-
lished last year. He’s 32.
“Her efforts are almost unsurpassed in
mankind’s history” said the British
Secretary of State for Air when referring
to the courageous actions of a modest,
thinnish 25-year-old girl who recently
received the George Medal. Of Belgian
birth. Mile, de Tough organised the
“Comet Line,” an underground concern
which assisted Allied servicemen cut pff
behind the enemy lines in occupied
Europe. The citation told of how, from
1941 until her arrest in 1943, she cease-
lessly organised the escape of airmen
from Belgium to the Pyrenees. Once,
when assisting non-swimmers, she swam
the Somme river 20 times, and her in-
genuity in repeatedly dodging German
patrols was amazing. She was finally
captured on the Spanish frontier and sent
to a concentration camp. Besides the
G.M., Mile, de Tough received from the
Air Ministry a mounted bomber’s clock
inscribed, “In token of the deep and
lasting gratitude of the R.A.F.”
Before the war The Bulletin was
plagued by an impostor who falsely repre-
sented himself as a staff caricaturist. It
was the habit of this swindler to call upon
some businessman and state that he had
been instructed to do a sketch of him for
“Personal Items.” The sketch completed,
the rogue would then extract a sum of
money from his victim on the spurious
plea that he had run short of cash and
wanted to buy paper and ink before re-
turning to his office. The shabby trick
has already earned the swindler two jail
sentences, but reports received at 252
George-street indicate that he is in circu-
lation again. All genuine invitations to
sit for a Bulletin caricature originate
from this office, and appointments are
made in advance of the artist calling.
Certainly no Bulletin artist, staff or
regular freelance, visits his subjects at-
tired like a dosshouse-dweller, nor does
he “bite” the sitters before leaving.
Should any Sydney reader be visited by
an alcoholic derelict who claims that he
has been sent by this paper for the pur-
pose of obtaining a caricature, he is ad-
vised to throw him out'of the window,
call a policeman or ring 87971 and ask
for the Religious Editor.
Air Vice-Marshal Francis Masson
Bladin, R.A.A.F., Chief-of-Staff of the
British Commonwealth Occupation Force
in Japan, was a Duntroon graduate who
switched over to the Air Force away
back in 1923. Woollcott sketched him
just after he reviewed the occupation
troops prior to their departure for Kure
—his first inspection of army personnel
since he was a two-stripe merchant in the
A.I.F. The faint suspicion of moustache
OCCUPATION FORCE.
shown by the artist doesn’t do justice to
the usual appearance of the Bladiq top
lip, but in an argument with the scissors
a little earlier he had come off second-
best. Bladin was Deputy Chief of Air
Staff in 1942, then Director of Organisa-
tion and Intelligence, R.A.A.F., and was
later on exchange duty in Britain. His
two rows of ribbons include a mention
in dispatches and an American A.F.C.
To forestall sticklers after accuracy in
art: the marshal’s promotion from Air
Commodore came through after Wooll-
cott sketched him.
Aubrey Abbott’s nine years as Admin-
istrator of the Northern Territory in-
cluded six of war, which made it difficult
for him to do much in the way of de-
veloping and civilising the N.T., though
he had plenty of ideas and enough driv-
ing force to get results if he’d had a real
chance. He’s convinced that the North
has plenty of useful future, and in many
ways he helped to lay foundations on
which his successor —Lieut.-Col. A. R.
Driver, a W.A. public servant—can build.
Question is soon going to arise though
whether the Territory needs a wider and
more representative form of government
than the administrative system, which
stems everything back to Canberra.
Abbott was M.H.R. for Gwydir (N.S.W.)
for two terms, one from 1925 to 1929,
when he was for a time Minister for
Home and Territories in the Bruce-Page
outfit, the other from ’3l to ’37, when
he retired to take up his job in the NT.
His biggest job as Administrator was the
civil evacuation from Darwin when the
Pacific war began ; there were some rather
nasty undertones to that affair, but the
records show that Abbott personally
worked well and ably. He afterwards ad-
ministered the Territory from its war-
time capital, Alice Springs. At 60 Abbott
is quite likely to come into political per-
spective as “young blood” —he has a story
to tell about the Territory’s future which
by itself would justify a seat in Parlia-
ment. He belongs, to a political family;
Qncle Joe is C.P. M.H.R. for New Eng-
land, Macartney Abbott was a N.S.W.
Senator 1935-41, and the family has had
other public men.
Into the silence;
At Wellington, M.L., Johnny Summers,
former feather-, light- and welterweight boxing
champion of the Empire and holder ot me
Lonsdale Belt. Johnny gave up boxing 20 years
ago and had lived in Wellington for the pas
ten years. He had troops of friends in Aus-
tralia, where he boxed to great crowds before
the first German war.
In Adelaide, at 77, Matthew Joseph Hogan,
well known to the S.A. Turf, who moved from
Sydney in 1914 to become the first chairman
of stipendiary stewards in S.A. His 30 years
term in that capacity with the S.AJ.C. is an
Australian record.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
There was only one woman among
receivers of decorations at Government
House on Saturday morning. She is
Lieut.-Colonel Nell Williamson, A.A.N.S.,
and she was decorated by our Governor-
General, the Duke of Gloucester, with the
Royal Red Cross for outstanding devo-
tion to duty while serving in the 9th
A.G.H. in New Guinea. There was the
Victoria Cross for Private Frank John
Partridge, and the Distinguished Flying
Cross was presented to 10-year-old Frank
Tropman. It had boen won by his father,
Flight-Lieut. F. K. Tropman, who was
killed in action.
The Dobbies of Malta scored another
hit last week. The Royal .Empire Society
gave a lunch in their honor, and it’s safe
to say the Trocadero midday salad has
never been munched by a more enthusi-
astic array of Fellows and their wives.
The Dobbies are always news, because
Malta is and always has been news. There
was an array of clerical collars at the
top table, whose gloss proved that laun-
dry conditions here were a Phar Lap
ahead of those in the Mediterranean
fortress, where, as Lady Dobbie related,
one of the largest hospitals, 600 or so
beds, was rationed to six cakes of soap
a month, and there was no hot water.
The lunch started with Archbishop
Mowll saying grace, and ended with the
National Anthem. Colonel Spain pre-
sided with smooth efficiency, and the
society’s secretary, Dr. Wheatley, bent
friendly glance on all. Sir William’s tale
of the miracle of Malta’s preservation
was told in direct fashion, and he gave
credit to all, from Admiral Cunningham
to the company of American fliers who
had. heaven knows how, got themselves
attached to Malta long before their coun-
try had come into the war —four anti-
quated aircraft dug out of the dockyard
stores made up the island’s air fleet in
the early days. How the girls of the old
Maltese families —very aristocratic —re-
acted to war’s grimness was one of the
quick sketches given by Lady Dobbie.
At first when told off for kitchen duty the
girls would arrive with the family cook.
At the end they were one hundred per
cent, efficient, capable and courageous
V.As. After the lunch Mrs. Spain held
impromptu levee.
Trumpets and drums of gaiety swelled
through the Great Hall of the University
last week. The Uni. Settlement Ball
stirred the best grey matter of Black-
friars neighborhood into a souffle of
revelry. The Royalties were programmed
to go not only to the ball but to receive
the debutantes. However, the Duchess
developed a throat and was unable to go.
But the Duke carried on, and the 70
debs, made deep and sweeping curtsy to
him on the dais. Now, the Duke was
very upstanding in his Governor-
General’s uniform throughout the presen-
tations (the best part of an hour, one
woman declared), and all the councillors
of the settlement and chancellors and
mental heavyweights of the University
on the dais with him stood, too. Not-
so-importants in the body of the hall
did get a chance to sit down.
Perhaps for the first time in its his-
tory there was dancing in the Great
Hall, for there was a debs’ waltz to
mark the emergence of the young book-
worms (most of them students or the
daughters of professorial homes) into
white and fluttersome sqcial butterflies.
After that there was a trek to the Union,
where the night’s dancing commenced in
earnest. Before the exodus the Duke
met members of the Mothers’ Union of
the settlement who had watched the
doings from the gallery.
A remarkable shepherd of sound is
conductor Walter Susskind. He leads
horns, ’cellos, violins, harps in the
gentlest and most charming way into a
heavenly pasturage where they pluck
celestial music according to their desires
(within the limitations of the score).
Walter’s gestures of arms and hands
would fill an eurhythmic expert with joy ;
also he has a pleasing and matey way of
talking to the audience when explaining,
as he did at last Saturday’s concert, the
structure of Joseph Suk’s “Fairy Tale”
suite. Lucky people in Sydney last week
were those concertgoers who heard Schu-
bert’s Seventh Symphony in C major by
the orchestra under the direction of Mr.
Susskind.
Don’t forget the trained nurses of St.
Vincent’s are holding their annual ball at
the Trocadero on April 23, 1946, in aid
of St. Vincent’s Maternity Hospital Build-
ing Fund.
Newspaperwoman Dorothy Jenner,
whose pen-name is Andrea, was the guest
at the Women Writers’ lunch last week.
This was Mrs. Jenner’s first public ap-
pearance, and she did the occasion proud
in a black frock and a hat that made
women swoon with envy. The hat was a
Melbourne production, and its entry was
certainly a dramatic moment. Mrs. Jenner
held her listeners in stilly silence while
she told many of her experiences in a
prison camp in Hong Kong. Every now
and then across the harrowing scene she
would flash a comic element, and there
would be a burst of laughter—but there
were tears behind that laughter, for every
woman present was deeply stirred by the
talk. The only bit of space in the room
not in use for eating was the top of the
piano. It was a grand muster of the
wanderer’s friends and admirers.
Thousands went to the G.P.S. Regatta
on the Nepean last Saturday. The after-
noon was one furious excitement for
friends and supporters of the various
crews. Dressing was carefree and
streamers were gay, and was it a grand
day for the Scotch! Scots College won
the Head of the River, the first and fourth
fours and various other events, and only
a real skirl on the pipes can do justice to
the triumph, Barrackers for The King’s
Photograph of Lady Dobbie, taken last
week by Norton Trevaire.
and St. Joseph’s had something to shout
about, too, because The King’s came
second and St. Joseph’s third in as spirited
a race as enthusiasts could hope for. The
principal of Scots and Mrs. Anderson
saw the school’s great win; so did
their daughter, just discharged from
the W.R.A.N.S. There was the usual
burst of dances and dinner parties at
night.
Attractive Leontine Sagan is the cele-
brity woman of the week. She came
from London to Sydney by flying-boat,
and arrived in the city with the sweetpess
of her smile undimmed. In the theatre
world Leontine is one of the big person-
alities. She is a producer of renown, who
has worked on the Continent, in London
and many parts .of the Empire. She has
come to Australia to produce Ivor
Novello’s “The Dancing Years.” She did
the London production of this musical
play which with its lyrics of sentiment (a
poet has written them), its lingering music
and bright and vivid scenes ran for years
in theatre-hungry cities. “The Dancing
Years” is the sort of show that makes
youth clasp hands in the darkened theatre,
middle-age glance at each other with ten-
derness and warms old age with
memories.
The original production of “Children
in Uniform” for stage and screen,
accounted a classic, was by this clever
woman. She is looking forward to
working with the fresh Australian
voices and our fluent young dancers, of
whom she has heard. She believes we
should make more scenery films, and was
interested to hear of “The Overlanders”
and the story of the Murray in “From
Yarrawonga to the Sea.” “The Dancing
Years” will have its opening in Mel-
bourne.
Two hundred pounds raised by a gala
afternoon arranged by the guests at
Doone will go to the Food for
Britain Fund. Organisers were Mrs.
Hamish Brash (singer Alice Browse), Mrs.
John Robertson and Mrs. E. Bird. The
bridge-room was arranged by Mrs. E. W.
Fenner.
Mrs. Szymon Goldberg, who arrived in
Sydney at the end of February and had
never till then spoken English, now speaks
our tongue very well, with just the
slightest accent. She studied English
when she was a p.-0.-w. in Bali. She and
her violinist husband were captured in
this former paradise of the concert artist,
and it was dye to his wife's ingenuity in
hiding his instruments that Mr. Goldberg
still has his violins.« Mrs. Goldberg, whose
name is Manessa, is of average height,
vivacious and is known in Europe as a
cohcert singer—lieder is her special art.
Therese Schnabel was her teacher. She
is also pianist and painter. She and her
husband are staying with friends in Turra-
murra. Mr. Goldberg’s concert season
with the A.B.C. commences on April 20
in the Town Hall.
From Melbourne
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell registered evi-
dent delight when she announced that
just on £5OOO was raised at the special
matinee of “Rose Marie” given in aid of
the Children’s Hospital rebuilding appeal.
Of this splendid sum over £lOOO was
raised in front of the house, where busy
workers sold their wares.
The matinee was a huge success in
everyway. Mrs. FrankTaitJand her helpers
sold lovely flowers, most of them donated,
and at the sweet stall Mrs. Cyril Knight
and Betty Randall were equally busy. In
the dress-circle foyer Miss Louise Lovely
was a beguiling auctioneer, and quickly
disposed of goods which ranged from
bottles of champagne to smart cocktail
hats. Among the busiest were Mesdames
Phillips, Green and Baker, who were in
chax-ge of a raffle, the prize being one
Monty Montgomery, a pedigreed wire-
haired puppy. Claude Flemming con-
ducted a Dutch auction from the stage,
and the Limerick lace wedding veil which
had been given to the Latham lady as a
gift for the hospital was displayed by one
of this city’s most recent brides, Mrs.
Roberts Dunstan, formerly Betty Leggo.
She donned her wedding gown for the
occasion, escorted by two members of
the “Rose Marie” ballet. Bidding was
spirited, and the veil finally went at one
hundred guineas. Later Wallace Mitchell
bought it back from the winning bidder.
A book on the life and works of Van
Gogh was also auctioned for ten guineas,
and a painting by William Rowell
brought £3O.
For little Carole Ann Wilson, “pin-up
girl” of the theatrical profession and an
inmate of the Children’s Hospital, the
matinee was the thrill of her short life-
time. It was her fourth birthday, and she
came to the matinee in her bed, which
was placed in a flower-decked box in the
theatre. The whole audience sang “Happy
Birthday” to this little girl, who was badly
injured some weeks ago. In the large
audience were members of the Children s
Hospital Committee; they included the
Murdoch lady, Mrs. Ernest Poolman,
Mrs. G. D, Young and Miss Ethel
Spowers.
The lady presented here by the camera
of Ritter-leppesen is lean Lawson, who
portrayed the title role in Shaw’s “Can-
dida” at the Union Theatre. Jean has
just returned to Civvy Street after three
and a half years in the W.A.A.A.F.
Twelve months of this was spent at the
university when the Officers’ Training
School was located in Queen’s College.
She is a graduate of both Sydney and
Melbourne universities, and holds de-
grees in Science, Arts and Education. She
has now found a new avenue for her
talents, for she is conducting the child-
ren’s session at a commercial broadcast-
ing station.
Among the faithful first-nighters who
represent the university and with whom
the Tin Alley Players are associated were
Vice-Chancellor J. D. G. Medley, his
wife and daughter Diana. Prof. Maurice
Belz and wife Marjorie were also in the
audience, and with them a number of
French residents in this city. In the
party were the Minister for France, M.
Auge, and his newly arrived wife and
daughter Colinette and Colonel Renucci,
Military Attache to the French Legation
in this city. Mrs. David Ely, smart in a
black fur-trimmed coat and small floral
hat, accompanied Margaret Saker, in-
veterate first-nighter and enthusiast in
amateur theatricals.
Christ Church, Skipton, was aglow with
glorious flowers and foliage, grown in
the gardens of Barongil, the country home
of Mr. and Mrs. C. O. Fairbaim, for
the wedding of Joan Beverley, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest W.
Austin, of Yallambee, Beaufort. Bride-
groom was Capt. Francis H. Plaistowe,
Royal Warwickshire Regiment, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. H. Plaistowe, of East-
bourne, Sussex. Not since pre-war days
has there been such a large country wed-
ding. The bride, who was given away by
her father, wore a frock of white mar-
quisette, the long plain skirt featuring
a train of tiny frills and the fitting bodice
a heart-shaped neckline and long, tight-
fitting sleeves. Her tulle veil, worn by
her mother at her wedding, was held in
place with a circlet of orarlge blossom,
and the bouquet was of gardenias and
orange blossoms. The bride’s three sisters
Dawn, Mary and Ruth, with Alethea
Fairbairn, were bridesmaids; they all
wore long full-skirted frocks of pale gold
taffetas, finished at the hemline with
frills, and with flounced capes to match
worn over their off-the-shoulder bodices.
Best man was Flying Officer Chris Malley,
R.A.A.F. Reception was held at Baron-
gil. Noticed among the guests w&re Col.
and Mrs. Alex. Russell, Beaufort; the
Currie lady from Ercildoune; Mr. and
Mrs. Walford E. Manifold, Mortlake;
and Mr. and Mrs. lan Mann, Glen-
thompson. J.
Among those drawn to “Mourning Be-
comes Electra” was a little group with
a festive air. The party included Drs.
Betty Mac Comas, Ella McKnight and
Molly Robinson and their guest of honor,
Dr. Sylvia Young. Sylvia has been away
from her native city for almost/ 12 years
and is now in the Colonial Medical Ser-
vice. Daughter of the Idte W. J. Young,
former Professor of Bio-Chemistry at
Melb. University, Sylvia, after a short
stay with her mother, will return shortly
to Sierra Leone. After graduating at
Melbourne Uni., Dr. Sylvia specialised in
infant and child welfare and gynaecology.
After a post-graduate course in tropical
medicines in London, she joined the
Colonial Medical Service and was sent to
Palestine, where she worked among the
Arabs and learned to speak Arabic
fluently. Two years ago she was posted
to Sierra Leone, her work there being
mostly among Creole women.
. Commencement Day is usually ushered
in by a week’s festivities centred in and
around the “Shop.” Shorn of much of
its pageantry and jollity—for city fathers
take a dim view of ’Varsity students and
their gay carolings and cavortings in busy
streets —youthful spirits found other ways
of expressing them. So they staged “You
Can’t Take It With You” and a vaude-
ville show at the Union Theatre, and held
a Commencement Ball at the St. Kilda
Town Hall. Pretty undergraduates, whose
clothes on the campus are usually care-
free and casual, became exponents of
“what the well-dressed girl undergrad,
wears” at formal affairs. Many lovely
frocks were worn, and proved that there
must be clothes in the shops if only one
knows where to find them. Flowers and
glittering bandeaux were worn in the
hair, and flowers came back again as hair
ornaments and accessories to plain
frocks. The Edwardian hair-do also
found favor with many of the young
dancers. White frocks were favorites,
usually trimmed with beads and any
amount of glitter. The new ankle-length
skirt was also worn.
To mark the closing of Air Force
House a small group gathered for a late-
afternoon party at the invitation of the
president, Mrs. I. V. Fairbairn, and the
committee. It was a bright and cheery
affair. Mrs. Fairbairn, smart in navy
blue with ice-blue lapels, with the collar
of her suit covered in fine black lace and
with a matching hat, thanked those pre-
sent for the help and co-operation given
to her and the committee. In his reply
knight Harold Luxton explained how Air
Force House came into being. It was
at the request of the late J. V. Fairbairn,
then Minister of Air, that he met Mrs.
Fairbairn and the Brookes lady over a
cup of tea and drew up plans for a pub-
lic meeting. This was held at the Town
Hall, and in ten minutes £lO,OOO had
been donated, and the City Council
offered the use of the premises where Air
Force House came into being. It was left
to John J. Woodward, hon. sec. of the
committee, to thank Mrs. Matthews and
her staff for the job they had done. Later
Mrs. Matthews was presented with a
silver salver by her staff.
A reception was given by the president
of the National Theatre, the Knox lady
and members of the committee to Doris
Fitton and the cast of “Mourning Be-
comes Electra.” Knight Robert Knox
and Gertrude Johnson, Director of the
National Theatre, received the guests.


ţ
Why not Draw
on the Experience
of Others ?
To secure the ‘greatest benefit
with the least trouble in the
administration of an estate is an
achievement within the reach of
all, irrespective of the size or
nature of the estate or the
domestic difficulties involved.
With the growing pressure of their own
business affairs, and the added diffi-
culties of war-time conditions, the task
confronting the private executor has
been enormously increased.
Officers of Trustee Companies are
trained and experienced in the adminis-
trative management of all classes of
estates. This specialised knowledge is
reinforced by that of directors who are
all men of mature experience, and who
bring a balanced judgment to bear upon
the problems of estates committed to
their care.
The Trustee Company thus provides
experience, permanency, impartiality
and sound administrative capacity, at
charges that are fixed and reasonable.
The Union Trustee, with sixty years of
service behind it, is the ideal executor
and trustee for appointment under any
Will.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 18S5
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS;
I, C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e,; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larntt,
Manager: J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD;
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.h.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., M.L.C.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman);
J, W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan,
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
M
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a emon b st [ at '™'
„icn mintp for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp catteries,
tables magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
SSTKSS? S otffis! Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
* Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
guthridge pty. limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN.
Bank of Australasia
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serve*. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 273,867 7f p.c.= 270,281* 3,576 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 11,064 4,668,330
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 12,501 4,680,831
1938.. 810,049 8 „ „ 288,000* 22,049 4,702,880
1939.. 292,023 8 „ „ 282,797* 9,226 4,712,106
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 4,737,106
1940.. 266,106 8 p.c.= 261,000* 5,106 4,742,212
1941.. 237,012 8 „ „ 263,625* 4,715,599
Tax written back, £20,000 .. .. 4,735,599
1942.. 168,570 6 p.c—191,812* 4,712,357
1943.. 215,157 6 „ „ 194,250* 20,907 4,733,264
1944.. 195,864 6 „ „ 191,625* 4,239 4,737,503
1945.. 200,666 , 7i „ „ 191,250* 9,416 4,746,919
* After deducting tax.
First war and now the new economics
of “full” employment, social security and
a high and rising standard of living have
shackled banking practice and distorted
the banking structure. Recent banking
legislation is designed to shape and con-
trol the nature and direction of capital
and other expenditure. Among other
things, the class and purpose of trading-
bank advances have been made subject to
direction and control of the Common-
wealth Bank, which has become a Gov-
ernment agency for policing economic
policy on the money side. Doubtless the
Government’s powers will, at the outset,
be used with caution and discretion. How
they will be used in the more distant
future \£ill largely depend upon political
trends and the circumstances of the
moment. All that is certain is that the
initiative to direction rests with the Gov-
ernment through the Commonwealth
Bank. The rate of profit that can be
earned by the trading banks is not speci-
fically limited by legislation, but Govern-
ment control of investment policy and
interest rates means control of earning
capacity.
By control of central bank credit, and
of private investment through the trading
banks, the new high priests of finance —
the heads of the Treasury ancr Common-
wealth Bank —hope to create inducements
and discouragements that will accelerate
or retard expenditure as required. How-
ever, cheap credit'and/or restriction of
advances for particular purposes are no
guarantees that money will be rightly
used, or used at all, unless traders can
see means of profitably employing it.
What is needed is a high level of produc-
tion with wages and prices so co-
ordinated as to ensure maximum employ-
ment.
With official emphasis on expenditure,
instead of production combined with
wage-price co-ordination, the danger is
one of price inflation, and all the troubles
go with it. Wages could be allowed
to rise in proportion to the increase in
production, or they may be kept steady
and prices allowed to fall as production
increases. The second alternative is the
more desirable of the two. It means that,
although money wages remain stable, real
wages rise in proportion to the fall in
prices. Among other things, the first
alternative would tend to produce a rising
price-level, which would rob recipients of
fixed-money incomes of any benefit from
the growth in national income that would
result from increased production. And,
if export prices and the exchange rate
remained steady, exporters would be in
the same category, too.
Unless trade-unions adopt a national
policy under which wage adjustments
reflect changes in production and demand
rather than bargaining opportunities,
there is likely to be continual upward
pressure on the price-level which will
render “full” employment difficult to
secure and sustain. Employers, too,
would need to adopt a policy of broaden-
ing the basis of their market by selling
more at lower prices rather than less at
higher prices, provided costs permit, A
high level of production with maximum
employment is a community effort from
which all would benefit and to which
all must make their appropriate contri-
bution.
Like other banking figures, those of the
’Asia reflect the war-time anomaly of
growing liquidity and a reduction in
advances associated with lively industrial
activity. That was because Government
spending on defence was connected partly
with industrial expansion and with financ-
ing transactions for which in normal times
bank loans would have been used. By
helping to finance the Government, which
became the largest trader in the com-
munity, the banks indirectly extended use
of their funds to industry at very low
rates of interest:
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £4,500,0f10 £4,500,000 £4,500,000
Notes .. . . 2,732 2,6(59 2,630
Bills, etc 5,711,816 5,857,453 5,847,012
Deposits . . . . 40,921,527 64,278,000 69,426,745
Liquid assets .. 16,228,593 47,453,903 53,618,980
Bills, etc 2,460,733 2,814,984 2,718,124
Advances.. .. 36,534,456 28,415,040 27,943,114
Premises . . . . 770,275 804,573 805,590
Last term a contraction of £471,926 in
advances was accompanied by increases
of £5,148,745 in deposits and of
£6,165,077 in low-interest-bearing liquids.
The last-mentioned includes £18,907,000
on special deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank, carrying interest at 15s. p.c.
p.a. The holding of Government securi-
ties, etc., in Australia and Maoriland
totalled £16,050,197, and of Common-
wealth Treasury bills £6,750,000. The
co. was thus extending far greater finan-
cial support to the Government than to
trade and industry.
The year’s declared net earnings were
£4802 stronger at £200,666, equal to 4.4
p.c. on capital, or a mere 2.1 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined). The nominal rate of div.
was lifted one-and-a-half points, making
it 1\ p.c,, subject to English income-tax.
The rate actually received by shareholders
was 4? p.c., equal to 5.3 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency, after allowing for ex-
change.
At £9 14s. the £5-paid shares, covered
by net tangibles with a book value of
£lO ss. 4d. and worth more, return 2.7
p.c. on a 5.3 p.c. div, basis.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. Ti p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 28,925 9,000 15,000 4,925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 95,903
1938.. 32,961 9,000 20,000 3,961 99,864
1939.. 29,111 9,000 • 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
12i p.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
7 i P-c.
1943.. 24,022 9,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,365 9,000 15,000 365 100,777
12i p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25,000 2,689 103,466
1946.. 45,825 9,000 25,000 11,825 115,291
Last term’s net earnings are easily the
best since 1930. Following the surrender
df Japan in August last, defence cloth-
ing contracts tapered, and more goods
became available for distribution in the
civilian market, though range, quality and
style remained moored to the Govern-
ment buoy of standardisation. Rationing
and price-control continued, too. Still,
as demobilisation proceeded the demand
for replenishment of wardrobes in-
creased, discharged personnel being given
a special issue of clothing coupons for
the purpose.
Hence this tailoring, mercery and
sporting-goods business has been able
to report a “very substantial” in-
crease in turnover for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. Although
the percentage of gross profit was lower
and exes, higher, the board was able to
write net earnings £9136 stronger at
£45,825. That was enough to cover the
pref. div. and show an attractive 18.4 p.c.
on the £200,000 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 13.8, 7.6, 7.5, 12.4, 12.5, 10.2
and 10 p.c. back to 1939, So there was
no difficulty in maintaining the p.c.
distribution, of which 5 p.c. is labelled
bonus. The £11,825 that remained lifted
reserves £115,291 in excess of goodwill
(£16,559), not treated as an asset herein.
It has been an interesting development.
The store is at the corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth-streets, opposite the G.P.0.,
and around which a large section of the
shopping public flows. For many years
the co. had nothing invested in bricks
and mortar, and was able to get along
with a handful (£70,000) of capital and
pay handsome divs. —an average of
p.c. for the five years to the close of
accounts in 1925. Then shareholders put
up £lOO,OOO of 9 p.c. pref. money, and
£129,000 was raised on mortgage to buy
the freehold and erect an 11-storeyed
building thereon. Meanwhile, £lOO,OOO
of bonus scrip had been handed to the
ords., raising paid capital to its present
figure. Thereafter satisfactory results
depended largely upon lively turnover,
which meant shrewd buying and a tight
hold upon outgoings. The figures suggest
that the management has been successful
in both directions. For the half-dozen
years to the close of last accounts, de-
clared profits averaged £33,150, compared
with an average of £30,091 for the pre-
ceding quinquennium. Over the last
decade ord. divs. have averaged 10.5 p.c.
Although the immediate outlook favors
maintenance of a high level of turn-
over, sales can be expected to ease a little
when deferred buying has run its course.
What will happen after the National
Security Act and its spate of regulations
expire at the end of 1946 will largely
depend upon the nature and extent of the
new price and other controls the Gov-
ernment proposes to introduce, upon
whether production has been stepped up
sufficiently to bridge the inflationary gap,
and upon what happens in connection
with wage and other costs. Clothes and
other rationing will end, unless continued
under the heading*of “anti-inflationary
measures” or undertaken by the States.
And the war-time seller’s market will
gradually give place to a buyer’s market
again, which means that competition will
get more of an edge on it, and exes, will
become difficult to restrain.
However, the co., which trades largely
on a cash basis, is well equipped to meet
whatever changes occur, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 106,282 112,204 115,987 121,838
Tax provision 5,000 13,000 27,000 37,000
Property, etc. 414,888 415,838 438,518 438,518
Plant, etc. .. 6,360 5,886 4,038 3,811
Shares in other
cos. . . . 5,804 5,804 5,804 5,804
Stocks . . 88,146 93,413 91,346 76,411
Book debts .. 6,127 4,735 1,888 6,201
Cash, etc. . . 10,348 24,918 29,859 68,384
Stocks (down £14,935 last term) are now
below their pre-war level. A mortgage
of £99,000 accounts for most of the lia-
bilities. Leaving tax provision out of the
reckoning, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£34,962) was
£22,052.
The ords. at 355. 9d. (official high) re-
turn 7 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. At
365. 6d. the 9 p.c. prefs. yield 4.9 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £4 3s. prefs.;
31s. 3d. ords.
R, H. Gordon and Co., Ltd, (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 ) o 0 79 179946
Staff fund, £5OO .. ..) 3,379 ‘
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 17i p.c. = 33,886 ) , 379 2 01 325
Staff fund, £5OO .. ’
1938. ■ 34,306 p.c. ~ 31,523 ) o oqq 903 608
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. I 2,283 2 ° 3,6U8
1939.. 30,768 15 p.c. = 29,100
Staff fund, £5OO .. ..1 203,276
Extra tax prov., £l5OO ..
1940.. 31,593 15 p.c. = 29,100
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3OOO ~J
Inner reserve struck off shares, £5444.
1941.. 31,075 15 p.c. = 29,100)
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. [ 200,744
Extra tax prov., £3OOO .. J
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,889
To staff fund, £5OO .. .. 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 13J p.c. = 19,400 ) _ 199 646
To staff fund, £5OO . . j ’
From tax reserve, £1297 .. .. 200,943
1944.. 18,165 13J p.c. = 19,400 ) _ iqo 908
To staff fund, £5OO . . j
From tax reserve, £340 .. .. 199,548
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21,825 ) 198 308
To staff fund, £750 .. )
War-time controls and restrictions cir-
cumvented the trade activity and reduced
the earning power of this prosperous cash-
order, furnishing and furnishing-drapery
business. In the cash-order and hire-
purchase sections, the ones on which the
business grew up, canvassing was pro-
hibited, advertising restricted, advances
limited and “premiums” and discounts on
the orders and agreements fixed. The
cessation of home and other building and
the furnishing that goes with it, together
with rationing and limiting of expendi-
ture on replacements and renewals,
evaporated much of the former demand
for furnishings and household linen.
Net earnings for the half-dozen years
to the close of last accounts averaged
£22,937, compared with an average ot
£32,531 for the preceding quinquennium.
The co. was left with more cash than


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney. <
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
Owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Do you need a t
Jhiui/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans a*w
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
McGllili’S Est. 1860. Subscription Department Ist Floor.
POPULAR OVERSEAS MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Direct from Publishers to Customers
Life, £3/2/6; Saturday Evening Post, £2/9/6; National Geographic, £l/17/6; Coronet, £l/8/-;
Better Homes & Gardens (three years only), £2/8/-; Popular Photography (Just released),
£2/4/-; American Photography, £l/6/-; U.S. Camera, 16/-; Popular Mechanics, £l/3/6;
Popular Science, £l/3/6 ; Popular Homecraft, £1; American Woodworker, £l/4/- ; Veneers & Ply-
wood, 12/-; Model Airplane News, 18/6; Model Railroader, £l/2/-; Model Craftsman, £l/4/-;
Mechanix Illustrated, 18/6; Science & Mechanics, 15/-; Parents Magazine, 15/-; Wee Wisdom
(children 5-13 years), 7/6; The Instructor (Helpful Classroom Material), £l/9/-; Rudder (two
years), £2/12/-; Yachting, £l/16/-; Etude Music Magazine, £l/3/6; American Record Guide,
£1; Theatre Arts Monthly, £l/12/-; Variety Theatre Magazine, £4/4/-; Readers Digest, 12/-
one year, £1 two years. Please add exchange to country and interstate cheques.
New American and English Novels and Technical Books by Every Mail.
Large range of stationery and ofllce requisites stocked.
|| VJO A IT 183 -1 85 Elizabeth St., /The G.P.oA
IViCvJI * ■ * * O 1 MELBOURNE, cshs-i oppositey
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY 1946
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
XZIOO-*-M
it could conveniently employ in the busi-
ness. So, early in 1943, one quarter
(£48,500) of share capital was returned,
reducing the figure to £145,500 in 15s.
shares. When slump reduced capital
requirements in the early 1930’s £174,833
of the then £329,667 of share capital was
returned, which was more than share-
holders had put up in cash.
End of war during the third quarter
of the last term brought a change in out-
look, of course. And there has since been
a slight easing qf restrictions, with all-
round improvement in turnover, which
has been most marked in the furnishing
section. After making an unspecified
provision for taxation and allowing £1062
for depreciation, the board figured net
earnings £3170 better at £21,335. That
was 14.6 p.c. on capital as against 12.4 p.c.
and 11.2 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The board considered both the outlook
and the financial position good enough
to add If p.c. to the div., making it
15 p.c., and £750 was sent to the staff
trust fund. That left reserves at £198,308
—£52,808 more than paid capital—of
which only 7f p.c. is used in the business.
Demand in all sections of the business
can be expected to strengthen as home
and other construction gets under way.
Exactly what effect termination of the
National Security Act, with its flood of
regulations, at the end of 1946 will have
upon the business remains to be seen.
Much will depend upon the nature and
extent of the “anti-inflationary measures”
with which the Government then proposes
to harness business, and this in turn will
partly depend upon whether the people
give the Government the new powers it
is seeking at the coming referendum.
The co. is well equipped, financially and
otherwise, to take advantage of whatever
opportunity offers: — f
1939. 1011. 19-14. 1945.
Paid capital.. £194,000 £194,000 £145,500 £145,500
Sundry cred.* 63,105 87,294 36,579 48,781
Overdraft ~ 10,513 — 1 2,035
Property and
plant, etc. 114,247 109,656 105,539 100,894
Stock.. .. 36,074 52,938 19,479 21,984
Hire agreements 119,372 138,432 15,679 24,484
Book debts . . 74,861 63,806 19,930 37,172
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 50,935 46,515 45,300 45,300
Mortgages .. 7,986 7,777 4,508 4,475
Cover nment
securities .. 76,817 80,817 93,997 96,997
Cash, etc. . . 13,882 7,571 96,270 83,432
* Including taxation.
Last term book debts and hire agreements
advanced by £17,242 and £BBO5 respec-
tively. When the books closed cash and
Government securities together exceeded
paid capital by £34,929, and the remain-
ing more or,less liquids totalled £84,634
more than the outside debt, which in-
cludes something for taxation.
The market expresses its confidence by
pricing the f.-p. 15s. shares, covered by
net tangibles with a book value of 355.
9d., at 50s. 6d. The return at that price
is 4.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Austral Malay Tin
The Malaya-Siam-Burma subsidiaries
of Austral Malay, the Sydney-controlled
holding and prospecting co. which has
had a very prosperous career, are prepar-
ing to start up again. Preliminary reports
indicate that for the most part damage
has been less than was anticipated. A
party of the cos,’ own engineers is now
on the spot making a detailed survey of
rehabilitation requirements. After its
report is received, and each co. sees more
exactly where it stands, salvage and re-
construction work will be put in hand.
Austral Malay acts as g.m. for all its
pups, whose capital accounts and dredg-
ing capacities are as follows:
Capital.
■y- A Dredges.
Paid Held by,— l
up. Parent. Monthly
Kampong £ £ No. Capacity.
Kamuntdng.. 35,000 f 2,000 f 1 140,000 c.y.
Thabawleik .. 160,000 f 41,000 f 1 150,000 c.y.
Pungah . , 430,000 t 74,465 f 2 480,000 c.y.
Austral /
Amalgamated 386,000 t 70,465 t 3 700,000 c.yt
Austral N.Z. .
Mining .. 211,750* B,ooo* 1 300,000 c.y.
* N.Z. currency, t Sterling.
Austral Malay’s holdings stand in its own
books at £8155,169. It paid its last div.,
Is, 6d. per 20s. share, in Oct., 1941.
Kampong Kamunting’s dredge at
Karang (F.M.S.) is floating, with machinery
intact, but in need of extensive repair.
It was worked by the Jap in operations
extending over about 10 acres. Last div.
Is. per ss. share in Sept., 1941.
In Burma Thabawleik’s dredge is also
floating, and the pontoon is in good order,
though a lot of equipment is believed
to be badly damaged. However, some
spares are still on the spot, other parts
can be bought in India, and it is expected
to have the machine running “without
undue delay.” Last div. 3s. per 20s. share
in Oct., 1941.
Pungah’s two dredges in West Siam are
both floating, but one has been largely
stripped to provide parts necessary to
keep the other running. Last div. Is. per
20s. share in Sept., 1941.
Of Austral Amalgamated’s three
machines the one at Asam Kumbang
(220,000 c.y. per month) was operated by
the Jap for a while, and then largely dis-
mantled. Here ore reserves are nearly
exhausted. So, instead of rebuilding the
dredge, the remaining parts are to be used
for rehabilitation of Puchong’s and Ulu
Yam’s machines. Unable to work the
Puchong dredge (340,000 c.y. per month),
which had been left submerged, the Jap
stripped it of motors and other electrical
gear. The enemy worked the Ulu Yam
dredge (140,000 c.y. per month) for some
time, and then sunk it in shallow water,
from which its recovery is expected to be
“easily possible.” Amalgamated s last
div. was 4£d. per ss. share in Oct., 1941.
Austral N.Z. Mining, which is hand-
ling auriferous gravels near Cornwall, on
the Clutha (M.L.), has thus far been a
disappointment. Recoveries have aver-
aged "about one-third expectations, and
the co. has not yet paid a div.
Chief obstacle to speeding up produc-
tion in Malaya will be delay in getting
special heavy parts ; in some cases manu-
facturers talk about delivery in 2\ years’
time. Financially the cos. are ready to
go ahead, independent of any compen-
sation payments to which they might be
entitled.
Alluvial Gold, a Sydney-controlled
holding and prospecting co. (paid capital
£80,000), reports a loss of £596 for year
to June 30 last, raising p. and 1. debit
to £23,586. Nothing has so far come of
the hunt for zircon and rutile in beach
sands near the Queensland-N. S. Wales
border, though one area is still being
tested. Application for an auriferous
lease on Adelong Creek (N.S.W.) was
turned down early in 1945. Assets con-
sist of shares in and advances to Gold
Mines of Papua (Misima Island) £22,512,
Alluvial Gold Oceania (New Guinea)
£4714, and Taramakau Gold Dredging
(M.L.) £4020, and cash, etc., £30,964.
There was £lOB7 coming to outsiders.
Underground workings of Gold Mines of
Papua have collapsed, and most of the
plant was removed by the army; com-
pensation is being claimed. Plans for
Taramakau’s dredge are completed ; con-
struction awaits labor and materials. The
Oceania co.’s only asset is an advance of
£4714 to the parent.
* * * *
Westralia’s coal position has received
a lot of attention lately. Amalgamated
Collieries, Ltd., biggest operator in the
State, is developing a new opencut on the
outskirts of Collie township. Manager of
the State coalmine at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
was invited to Collie to investigate produc-
tion methods, and has furnished a report
which, if adopted, should substantially
increase production. Now the Westralian
Government has appointed a production
committee, consisting of a representative
each of the management and miners, with
police magistrate W. J. Wallwork as chair-
man and production commissioner, to lift
output to the level of the State’s “essen-
tial” requirements. The Government is
not opposed to the Chamber of Mines
working the Wilga deposits. Here open-
cutting and the latest labor-saving devices
are expected to reduce cost of . production
to 6s. a ton. Although coal delivered on
the Kalgoorlie mines would still be dearer
than firewood, it is estimated that as much
heat can be obtained from one ton of
coal as from two tons of firewood.
*** * *
In London the gradual rise in the
market price of Wiluna’s pound shares
from around ss. to .over 12s. stg.
is freely associated with the Mt. Char-
lotte option. Other strengthening factors
are the profit expected from re-treatment
of accumulated residues, and early pur-
chase of Porphyry goldmine at Edjudina
(W.A.), on which Wiluna, Lake View and
Gold Fields Australian Development have
a joint option.
* * * *
Joe Manners, manager of Boulder Per-
severance (W.A.), is off to London shortly
to confer with the board. He will spend
several months in Rhodesia overhauling
development of a goldmining property in
which Perseverance holds a 51 p.c. in-
terest before returning to the West.


m
( y
■ m
/7
BREAK
OF
OUT
0
0
0
THIS
PEA CE
Peace in England today is a grim business.
Restrictions remain, frustrations persist, and
the return to normality seems distant. But
there is hope and there are no flying bombs. Take
shoes, for instance. We make over a million
pairs a year but cannot satisfy even the rationed home
demand. It’s difficult to see how we can export
more than a mere trickle. Soon we hope the trickle
will be a stream and then a river so that people all over
the world can have the type of shoes for which we have been
famous for 150 years and more.
5 SHOES
Made by C. & J. Clark, Ltd. (Wholesale only).
Street, Somerset, England.
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent Street, London, W.l.
ť
REMEMBER . . .
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as nominated in your Will, entails knowledge of legali-
ties experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investment
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of trusteeship
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability and
faithful guardianship of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet.
ŧ
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
P. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT
23-
25
TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Business.Rollery.Ete.
“War” Still Costly
Commonwealth Government expendi-
ture on the “war” effort during the nine
months to March 31 was £341.6 million,
exclusive of £12.5 million incurred by
Britain on our behalf and for which
claims were recently r&ceived, making a
total “war” outlay of £354.1 million for
the nine months, which compares with a
Budget estimate of £360 million net for
the whole year. But from the £354.1
million. is now deducted £27.6 million
credited by Britain to Australia “as the
result of finalisation of many transactions
before the close of the British financial
year on March 31.” Another deduction
(Australian) is the sum of £16.8 million,
representing “large transfers from trust
funds in repayment of advances and pro-
ceeds of sales by the Division of Import
Procurement and sales by the Disposals
Commission.” These two very large
credits reduce the net “war” expenditure
up to March 31 to £309.7 million. It
compares—very debatably—with a net
figure of £348 million at the same period
of the preceding year, when we were still
providing reciprocal lend-lease.
It seems that, in the ordinary way,
defence expenditure during March was
£37.2 million, compared with £30.3 mil-
lion in February, £40.3 million in January
and £43.8 million in December. Dis-
charges from the forces in January
totalled 73,850, in December 56,808, in-
volving large sums of deferred pay. Dis-
charge figures for February and March
are not available, but are believed to be
much lower than for the two preceding
months.
The extent of the profits on trading
made by the Division of Import Procure-
ment has never been properly clarified.
Its original stock-in-trade was refugee
cargoes diverted to Australia when Japan
entered the war. The division also
handled lend-lease goods. The D.I.P.
sometimes broke the prices regu-
lations, as applied to ordinary traders,
and it seems to have made plenty
of money, including transactions away
from diverted cargoes. The money it
made, or part of it, has now been used
to offset portion of the current years
“war” expenditure. Eventually the public
should be made acquainted with the
amount of D.I.P. profits on its various
activities, just as it should be informed of
the real losses on Government shipping
ventures.
The amount received during the nine
months in respect of disposals of muni-
tions, etc., has not been disclosed in de-
tail, either. The Budget estimate for the
full 12 months was £2B million. In view
of the fact that trust funds, D.I.P. and
the Disposals Commission turned in only
£16.8 million between them in nine
months, revenue from disposals seems to
be running far behind schedule. The
Budget estimate could at best have been
pure guesswork. But it helped Mr. Chifley
to reduce his estimate of “war” expendi-
ture to more politically digestible pro-
portions at the time.
Also used to reduce the net Budget
estimate was a net figure of £2O million re-
coverable from “other Administrations.”
Apparently this applied to Britain. But
total outlay on behalf of these Admini-
strations was to be only £8 million, with
recoveries set at £2B million, indicating
that the £2O million net was a recovery
of previous years’ expenses and not
properly deductible from this year’s
outgo. Actually, up to March 31 re-
coveries from Britain have totalled £27.6
million. How much the Government
really spent on Britain’s behalf during the
nine months is not clear, but there is no
suggestion that it was in excess of darly
estimates
In the year to June 30, 1945, the net
credit from “other Administrations” was
£2.9 million, and from the Disposals
Commission £2.6 million, a total of £5.5
million. This year (to March 31) the
joint net credit is, in fact, £31.9 million.
These credits are more in the nature of
revenue recovered from past years than
offsets against current outgo, and, con-
&
sidered in this light, “war” outlay during
the nine months to March 31 was more
like £354 million than £309 million,
compared! with £353 million in the same
period of 1944-45—provided that adjust-
ments with Britain were made before
March 31 in 1944-45. It is probable that
most of them were. In any case, debits
and credits were more evenly balanced
in that year.
Australian “war” outgo is still stagger-
ingly high, even though reciprocal lend-
lease, which cost us £B9 million in 1944-
45, terminated absolutely on December
31 last. Deferred pay and other discharge
"See, Jasper-he's just here after the beer!”
and rehabilitation costs are inevitably
heavy, but the defence accounts are
loaded with a great variety of other ex-
penses, including purely political and ex-
perimental expenditure.
Two things are obviously indicated
from an analysis of the latest public-
expenditure figures: greater economy in
“war” outgo is needed, and the presen-
tation of expenditure items should be
given in more detail, with the nature and
“period” of all credits to the defence ac-
count made quite plain. The majority of
people can hardly escape being misled by
the present method of accounts presen-
tation, which generally understates the
extent of current war expenditure.
It is predicted that, with knight George
Knowles, Solicitor-General, appointed
High Commissioner in South Africa,
Professor K. H. Bailey will become
the new Solicitor-General. When the
Federal Labor Government’s 25
slug, arising out of the “elimination” of
an alleged “lag” year, was under fire early
in 1944, Mr. Chifley declined to enter
into “any disputation” on the question
of whether, legally, there was any lag
year, though it was commonly believed
that Knowles had been consulted in the
matter —as he must have been. What he
advised the Government is still unknown
publicly. But Professor Bailey tendered
the opinion that there was a lag year ;
this was disputed at the time by Professor
Stone, of Sydney University, as well as
by thousands of others possibly less quali-
fied to do so. If Knowles goes to South
Africa he will become one of several
high civil servants to leave Australia since
the war. Professor Copland was another.
He went to Chungking.
* * * *
Mr. Dalton, Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, proposes to abolish British
excess-profits tax by the end of this year,
but has not yet reached a decision on
excess-dividends tax, and is_ ruminating
on the matter of new taxes. The pro-
fessed aim of the new Chancellor in his
first Budget is to give the maximum of
industrial incentive by taxation reductions
compatible with a reasonable deficit and
a policy of restraining inflation. Cost-
of-living subsidies this year will amount
to £335 million. A deficit of £694 million
is budgeted for in the current year, com-
pared with £2200 million last. All esti-
mates anticipate Congress approval of
the U.S. loan.
* * * ♦
S. A. Courtauld, chairman of the big
British rayon concern, has told share-
holders in London that Courtaulds, Ltd.,
will not go ahead with its £5 million fac-
tory on the Hunter River (N.S.W.) until
the double-taxation difficulty that afflicts
British concerns operating in Australia
is overcome. Courtaulds have already
bought a 1700-acre factory site at
Tomago. Negotiations are going on be-
tween the Australian and British Treas-
uries as to methods of overcoming the
double-tax slug, and something is ex-
pected from Mr. Chifley’s visit to Lon*
don. Talks between London and Wash-
ington have also been proceeding for
some time on the question of Anglo-
American double-taxation. Zinc Corpora-
tion is an outstanding case of the effect
of double tax, especially as the price of
metals has risen since the war and
brought the co. into a higher excess-
profits-tax bracket. There are hopes ot
e.-p.-t. relief by the end of 1946, according
to Britain’s latest Budget. But the double-
taxation burden will still be a stupid ob-
struction to new industries coming to
Australia, even if not the only stupid
obstruction. Samuel Courtauld said to
what extent and how soon we shall start
building” depended very largely on the
removal of double taxation.
* * * *
On the statement of Mr. Chifley u
appears that there is little likelihood of
a movement in the Australian exchange
rate on London in existing circumstances.
This is in keeping with the position out-
lined in B. 10/4/’46. He incidentally
puts Australia’s gold holdings at £lB mil-
lion.
* * * *
Reciprocal aid given by Australia to
the United States up to the end of Sep-
tember, 1945, was valued by our authori-
ties at £271 million. U.S. authorities
appraise lend-lease aid to Australia up
to September 2 last at $1154 million, or
£360 million Australian. It has been
Ministerially claimed on the part of Aus-
tralia, and it is generally believed, that
on a basis of comparable values Austra-
lian reciprocal aid to America fully offset
lend-lease aid to us. Canada has supplied
Australia with over £2l million-worth ot
mutual aid.


•s*
*
V
i
The sky's the limit
when yo use stainless steeltubina
There is practically no limit to the uses for
Stainless Steel Tubing in many profitable fields
of post-war production—in the chemical, textile,
food - processing, brewing industries and many
more—in furniture, fittings, domestic and com-
mercial appliances—in plant and products alike.
These tubes are not only corrosion-resistant,
enduring and attractive. They have high mech-
anical strength; they can be bent, coiled, welded,
threaded and fabricated by ordinary engineering
methods to meet the needs of the job.
Available with either descaled (silvery-matt) or
polished finish inside and out, in gauges and
diameters to suit any need. Our nearest Branch
Warehouse will supply you.
COMSTEEE
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—Head Office and Works: Waratah, N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane—Adelaide — Perth.
December 31 and After
Dn. Evatt announced some time back
that the date on which hostilities ceased
in World War 11, so far as Australia is
concerned, was September 2 last year.
This has significance, both from the point
of view of returned-soldier preference and
the date of payment of war gratuities, as
well as other things. Mr. Chifley has
now announced that the National Secu-
rity Act, which was to operate for the
duration of the war and six months after-
wards, will not be terminated until Decem-
ber 31 this year, and thereafter such con-
trols of a war-time nature as the Gov-
ernment chooses to “enforce” will be
continued £y powers to be introduced
under peace-time legislation, in some cases
in co-operation with the State Govern-
ments. It was vaguely suggested by the
Prime Minister that these regulations
would embrace prices, rents and interest
control and “anti-inflationary controls
generally.” It has since been reported
from Canberra that it is intended to con-
trol wages, capital issues, share ceilings
and property dealings in addition to the
other items specifically mentioned. Mr.
Chifley certainly could not be sincere in
his anti-inflationary aspirations if he
omitted wage-pegging from his other
regulations. Not that wage-pegging dur-
ing war-time has been any more effective,
in a practical way, than any other
vaguely-conceived and half-heartedly-
policed “controls.”
One thing of which Australians can be
completely assured is that Ben Chifley
is playing politics in his move to replace
one lot of shackles with a new lot of
fetters- In a studied way he has pointed
out that the National Security Act was
introduced by Menzies in 1939 'and
amended in 1940 by the same Govern-
ment. He did not point out that its effect
was altered many times thereafter by the
Labor Government —that wage-pegging
was a Labor Government move early in
the war with Japan, and that it was ac-
companied by restrictions on share and
property sales, and a proposal to limit
profits to 4 p.c. on “capital employed.”
It was followed by a share-price ceiling
and by a commodity-price ceiling. The
manpower provisions of the National
Security Act were amended and drasti-
cally enforced (against non-unionists)
under Labor management. Clothes-
rationing was introduced by Labor, and
so were liquor-rationing, food-rationing
and “austerity” meals. Mr. Chifley should
not be afraid to accept responsibility for
what was really necessary. But the Act was
widely abused by the Labor Government, •
which sometimes used its vast powers over
the people in an irresponsible fashion.
National Security controls were most
essential during the war, but they should
have been administered expertly and
fairly.
Lead and zinc have had another rise
in Britain, and copper has also taken a
lift. Lead is up £6 (to £45 sterling for
foreign), zinc £8 (to £39 ss. foreign) and
electrolytic copper is raised to £72 (up
£10). The greater part of Australia’s
lead and spelter is exported, and, sub-
ject to forward contracts, there should
be increased revenue for the Barrier
mines, but higher profits wifi bring much
higher taxation, in Zinc Corp.’s case par-
ticularly. (Zinc Corp. is subject to both
Australian and British taxation.) Copper,
fixed in Australia at £lOO (Australian
currency) a ton, is still dearer than in
Britain, and nearly all our production is
consumed in the Commonwealth. Lead
and spelter, on the other hand, are fixed
at £22 Australian a ton, equal to £l7 12s.
sterling; the Australian economy is thus
receiving a substantial subsidy from the
Barrier mines, something for which it is
never thanked by the Government.
* * * m
There is no indication that controls
over share prices are likely to be removed
within a reasonable time. The controls
serve no purpose. The impulse to control
share prices in the first place seems to
have emanated from Paddy’s pig.
♦ ♦ ♦
Sales tax has been reduced on bags
(including handbags) and suitcases from
25 p.c. to 12£ p.c.; the same concession is
allowed on sporting goods, toys, etc.
Tinned foods and cordials are to be ex-
empt from tax. Septic tanks, washing
coppers and some other household equip-
ment are also made exempt. Ships and
other craft not used principally for plea-
sure will be free of tax in future. The
reductions and exemptions are not likely
to affect the cost-of-living index to a great
extent. Tax on rationed clothing has
already been reduced in order to check
the rise in the cost of living. Sales tax
is a directly inflationary method of rais-
ing Government funds. Where levied on
basic living requirements it adds to the
basic wage without improving living
standards. There has been no adequate
relief so far in the case of motor-cars or
building materials, though there have
been suggestions that Customs duty on
imported Oregon will be waived in order
to reduce building costs, which are soar-
ing. In view of the high cost of new
motor-cars and the amount of tax paid
by motor-owners during the war by way
of petrol tax and registration fees, it
would be no more than fair to reduce
sales tax drastically on new vehicles.
Motorists got a very poor return for their
taxes during six years of war.
* * * *
Commonwealth war-pensioners at June
30, 1945, totalled 281,000. There were
179.000 pensioners of World War I, with
an annual liability of £8,298,000, and
102.000 of World War 11, liability
£3,431,000. The total annual liability
of £11,729,000 in respect of both wars
comprised £3,379,000 payable to depen-
dants of deceased servicemen, £2,270,000
to dependants of incapacitated ex-service-
men and £6,080,000 to incapacitated ex-
servicemen themselves.
* * * «
A clock-manufacturing enterprise was
set up in South Australia a couple of
years ago. Now another venture is on
the way. % Westclox (Australia), Ltd., is
being formed with a nominal capital of
£lOO,OOO to make clocks, watches and
precision instruments in Victoria. The
co. is affiliated with the American West-
clox (“Big Ben”) people, Brown and
Dureau (Australian distributors) and
Aviation Manufacturing Co., Melbourne.
A factory at Auburn, Victoria, is expected
to be completed in six months. Clock-
production will be the factory’s first
objective.
* * * #
Information supplied by the Treasurer
after a question asked by Archie
Cameron:
Subscriptions made to Commonwealth
loans by State Governments since January
1, 1942:
New South Wales .. .. £460,000
Victoria 112,600
Queensland 6,510,000
South Australia ~ ..
West Australia .. .. 12,000
Tasmania 926,450
Subscriptions made by State Government
Instrumentalities, including State banks and
savings banks: —
New South Wales £11,870,220
Victoria 52,136,390
Queensland .. .. 3,537,000
South Australia .. ~ 19,749,180
West Australia .. .. 1,141,700
Tasmania 815,160
These figures include subscriptions to the
Fourth Victory Loan, but do not include
subscriptions under £lO,OOO, of which
no separate record is kept.
♦ * * *
The Forestry Pulp and Paper Co. of
Australia, Ltd., which was formed in Vic-
toria in 1928 to take over the afforesta-
tion business of the Forestry Co. of Aus-
tralia Pty., Ltd., has £BO,OOO to distribute
among its bondholders, and many of
these it can’t trace. The Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly recently appointed a
select committee of seven to inquire into
the operations of the co., which seeks to
convert its “bonds” into certificates of
stock, a bill to that effect being now be-
fore Parliament. Early in its career the
co. bought land at Dartmoor and Flin-
ders in Victoria, now holding about
21,000 acres, and it also has some land
in Tasmania, where it originally bought
more than 3000 acres at Pittwater, near
Hobart. It aimed to plant “acre-lots”
with Finns insignis, sold to the public at
£3O a lot, and it seems that 15,000 acres
were so disposed of. The shareholders might
or might not make a profit out of that —in
such cases they usually did —but profits
to the acre-holders depended upon success
of the afforestation enterprise, and then
the company was entitled to 20 p.c. of
the net profits, bondholders 80 p.c. It
was estimated that it would take 20 years
for the trees to reach maturity as timber.
The owners of the 15,000 acre-lots are
spread over Australia and Britain, where
there are 4900 holders; many in both
countries cannot be traced, some having
died, others having changed their ad-
dress, particularly during the recent war.
Money from various sources has accumu-
lated meantime. In the early days Colonel
A. C. S. Holland was chairman of the co.,
which bad its office in Geelong. Another
director was Joe Darling, M.L.C.


HOTEL
METRO POLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
ill
lllli
ill) II
ill
huh
111
ffi
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ' Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
The ‘‘MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
m
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.ITD:
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
.
I
7mm
m
Weight (approx.) 2| tons
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Go ; td ’Branc^r"hrouVl>oat”^6
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Brancnes
Dominion.
SPORTIN NOTIONS
The “sporting” prospect of seeing a reign-
ing champion defeated provided at Rand-
wick on Saturday by the Bernborough-Flight
cla§h in the Chipping Norton Stakes, the
rolled up in large numbers, with the
once-a-year racegoers adding to the throng.
The A.J.C. had the course looking in much
better shape than it has in a long time, with
the worst of the dustbowl areas fairly well re-
grassed.
Giving the mare a great ovation as she went
out, on the track, the crowd showed where
their sympathy lay, but the betting—3 to 1
Flight and take 4 to 1 Bernborough—sug-
gested that the heart was not being allowed to
overrule the head.
Bernborough (A. Mulley) commenced even
more sluggishly than usual and was soon trailing
the field, which Flight led at a smart bat.
Bernborough passed a couple at the mile and
then bowled along in fourth place till he really
began to make up ground with three furlongs
to go. Round the turn it was Flight a couple
of lengths clear of Accession and Bernborough,
who there set after her. He had drawn level
at the furlong pble but could not fly past in
his usual style, and Mulley had to go for the
whip. Flight refused to give in and fought
every yard to the post, but Bernborough’s
enormous strides carried him to a narrow win.
Rarely is a w.f.a. race run so honestly —a
tribute to both horses. Setting her own pace,
Flight ran the first mile in Then, with
Bernborough forcing the pace over the last
quarter-mile, the time for the total fen furlongs
was 1.2\ —only half a second ouside Beau Vite’s
Randwick and Australian record. Over the last
five furlongs Bernborough must have registered
within a shade of All Love’s 58^sec.
The pleasure of an afternoon’s fine racing
was marred by a violent demonstration, one of
the worst seen at Randwick. It greeted the
result of the Liverpool Handicap, in which
Murray Stream, getting a lucky run in the final
stages, recorded a sound win from Immediate
and.Barnsley. At Canterbury a fortnight be-
fore, Murray Stream started a warm favorite
for a similar event and finished last; a week
ago at Rosehill he was again well supported
and finished with only two behind him in a
field of 18. At least, a remarkable reversal of
form.
Usually these “demonstrations” amount to
the letting off of a good deal of steam, accom-
panied by far more noise than heat, but Satur-
day’s outburst, while starting in the usual
spirit, developed some nastiness and was pro-
longed till after the running of the next race,
fortuitously won by the favorite, A few hot-
heads invaded the weighing enclosure, one of
them hoisting the “Protest” flag: others created
a nasty scene at Murray Stream’s stall. Before
one of these affairs reaches the stage where
damage is done and people hurt, it might be
pointed out that one or two recognisable indi-
dividuals repeatedly are the first to start or
attempt to start demonstrations. Since racing
evidently affords these persons more grief and
pain than pleasure, the,A.J.C. .would be doing
them a kindness if it were to warn them off:
certainly such action would be in the interest
of more rational racegoers.
Viewing the race dispassionately as a pointer
to Doncaster prospects, Murray Stream, who
cut out the seven furlongs in must re-
enter considerations, while Immediate’s effort
in finishing a fair second allowed of, and
promised, improvement in the big mile. A
promising glimmer of form, too, was Barnsley’s
third, which showed that he is fit, and when fit
this fellow could worry the Doncaster field no
end. Barnsley will be carrying only 7.11, meet-
ing Immediate on the same terms and Murray
Stream 31b. better. On performances the Mel-
bourne three-year-old Roiyal Gem is quite
capable of winning, but may be under a dis-
advantage in lacking recent racing and experi-
ence of the clockwise running. Of the local
three-year-olds Blue Legend may have the best
prospects.
Some of the Sydney Cup candidates had a
final trial over 12 furlongs in the Warwick
Autumn Cup, and the result emphasised Cor-
dale’s very strong chance of taking the two-
miler. As usual, Cordale started slowly, drop-
ping right out of things for the first mile, but
in the run down the straight unwound a finish
which left the rest standing. Of the others,
Swan River, just beating Waratah for second
money, made the best impression. Cordale has
yet to prove himself at two miles, but the dash
he was able to display at the end of 12 fur-
longs indicated that the extra half-mile should
not be beyond him. Moreover, with 8.9 he
was carrying 161 b. more than he has in the
Cup. His toughest opponent should be Silver
Link, with a good Melbourne Cup second and
recent wins to his credit. Don Pedro and Mag-
nificent, dependent on their St. Leger efforts,
may also enter calculations..
Don Pedro made a good impression at his
first Sydney outing by winning the «Cobbity
Handicap of 10 furlongs from Deliverance,
with another Victorian, the Le Grand Due filly
Rose Bay, third. Showing vastly improved
form in the. light of his recent efforts, Deliver-
ance attempted to lead all the way, and, fight-
ing on strongly at the finish, failed by only a
half-head. Don Pedro appeared to experience
some trouble in making the right-hand turns.
Magnificent ran a disappointing race, as it will
be remembered he also did at shorter distances
prior to winning the two Derbies. If he can
show similar improvement at the Leger distance
he could win, but on present indications Don
Pedro gives greater promise.
Apprentice G. Weate rode a double for his
stable, winning the first division of the Two-year-
old Handicap on Euryalus and the second
division on Tynedale, both Titan colts owned and
bred by F. W. Hughes. Euryalus ran a smart
six in 1.1 li, to account for Smooth Action and
Sweet Chime. Tynedale, because of a differ-
ence of opinion betwixt the A.J.C. handicapper
and the Canterbury official, was meeting Flying
Duke at 31b. better than when he beat him
recently, and duly beat him again. Both times
Flying Duke seemed unlucky. In the first
division the Victorian Bold Beau finished very
fast into fourth place after being so badly
away that an inquiry was held. He will like
the extra furlong of the Sires’ Produce and
may again beat Chaperone.
Having already recorded something of Puff-
ham’s run of successes, suffice to mention here
that he tackled a welter field at a mile in the
Cabramatta Handicap, carrying topweight of
10.1. Once again the task was thought be-
yond him and once again it wasn’t. Thompson
nursed him along, conserving him for a finish-
ing run in which he held off Homeleigh Dick
and Marlume.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Vaucluse Handicap: Sajakeda, 1; Craftsman,
2; Titanic, 3. Sires’ Produce Stakes; Bold
Beau, 1; Chaperone, 2; Smooth Action, 3.
Autumn Stakes (in the absence of Bern-
borough): Flight, 1; Russia, 2; Craigie, 3.
Doncaster Handicap: Royal Gem, 1; Immedi-
ate, 2; Barnsley, 3. A.J.C. St. Leger; Don
Pedro, 1; Magnificent, 2; Gay Lad, 3. City
Handicap: Silver Link, 1; Warafah, 2; Puff-
ham, 3.
Second Day:
Sydney Cup: Cordale, 1; Silver Link, 2;
Swan River, 3.
* * * *
Punters’ memory must be about the very
briefest variety there is. A few weeks back
the Lo Zingaro gelding Krallis, because of
several flat wins in S.A., was rated a good thing
for a hurdle event and would have started a
hot favorite but was taken out. On Saturday
at Flemington he was left in, and neglected.
With their sturdy hardihood, the punters made
Hiatus, at the top of the weights, a 2-to-l
favorite, with Silgaro at 5 to 2. Both that
heavily-backed and heavily-burdened pair were
doing their best at the end, a lot too late.
Krallis led all the way, winning very easily
from Walladale, with Silgaro third.
Altogether the hopeful were treated most
unkindly on the day. The High Title-Gay
Memories filly Gay Queen, despite recent
promising thirds, started at fifteens in the six-
furlongs Stanhope Handicap for two-year-olds,
and, though hanging out in the last furlong,
had four lengths to spare from Rangilla, with
the 6-to-4 favorite Seymour (Breasley’s mount)
next.
Then Tea Cake, at eights, had just as easy
a win from Movara and Royal Scot in the first
division of the 10-furlongs Aberfeldie Handicap,
with the favorite, Punctilia, and other preferred
ones not in it. Another of the Lo Zingaro
jumping breed, Fugleman, carried on the devas-
tating work in the Steeple, starting at fifteens
and downing Balzac and Tente. The last-
named was at 7 to 2; Night Life, who didn’t
finish, favorite at threes. There’s no doubt
about it, Melbourne’s backers of junipers can
take punishment.
Next item in the fierce battering was the
success of the ex-Maorilander Neenah in the
main six-furlongs sprint, the Feltona Handicap.
An aged Foxbridge gelding with good M.L.
credentials, Neenah, bn the strength of con-
sistent failure since coming over, started at
twenties, with (as usual) Breasley’s mount, this
time Three Wheeler, a hot favorite. Bravesia
continued consistent form in third place, and
League (second) should win something soon.
One remarkable feature attached to Neenah’s
win. He was ridden by apprentice C. Morley,
who had had a mount in the Hurdle, and,
legged up again in the Steeple, had crashed in
that event and lain ominously still on the turf
for a long time. There was nothing much
wrong with him in winning the flat race, which
came immediately after the Steeple.
At last a solidly-backed one got home when
Carlton {threes) proved too , good for Neutron
and Drama in the two-miles Brookside Handi-
cap, and then, in the second division of the
Aberfeldie, the 5-to-2 favorite Propontis at
least was able to make a dead-heat of it with
Carey, third place going to Valcurl, the three
of them crossing the line in a bunch.
* * * *
On the Pimlico (U.S.A.) track last Novem-
ber there was a steeplechase event which has
since led to life disqualifications for seven
riders and a trainer. One rider admitted
driving his mount to the front in order to
knock the wind out of her, but she seemed to
thrive on the treatment and eventually he had
to “snap her.” It must have been a lair
bit of strong-arm action; the mare had a
break of 50 lengths at the time. The outed
included William Owen, America s leading
steeplechase rider for the past three seasons.
* * * *
Saturday was a grand day for Cale-
donia, stern and wild. At Murrayfield
(Eng.) Scotland trounced England 27-0 at
Rugby Union, and, to emphasise the
point, played ’em Soccer at, Hampden
Park and again won —a goal to nil! A
few weeks previously the Rugger team
beat Wales 13-11, on which occasion
London “Times” remarked that “the win-
ners were fortunate and rather uncon-
vincing.” Allowing reasonable time fot
the joke to register north of the border,
that remark should be a regular classic in
Scottish journals a century or so hence.
Anticipating Scotland’s successes by a
few hours, Scotch College won the Vic-
torian Head of the River at Henley-on-
Yarra, and at Penrith-
on - Nepean (N.S.W.)
the Scots College did
likewise. At Henley
the school crews row
over a mile and run
off heats earlier in the
week. Winning their
heat on the Wednes-
day the evidently very
good Scotch crew re-
gistered 4min. 41.25ec.,
lopping almost eight
seconds off the exist-
ing record for the
race. In the final on
Saturday they didn’t
quite reproduce that
effort, but, clocking
4min. 47.45ec., were
still a couple of sec-
onds inside the earlier
record. Geelong Col-
lege was a close sec-
ond after crabbing
bad(y at the half-mile,
and Melbourne Gram-
mar third.
On the Nepean the
distance this year was
reduced from the
pre-war 12 furlongs
to a mile and a quarter, which is an
easier task for the lads and more satis-
factory, since it approximates to the
standard Olympic distance of 2000 metres.
Lightest of the eight crews, Scots aver-
aged well under list., and, drawn favor-
ably in the No. 1 station, made the most
of a following breeze to win from a very
even field ; Kings were second and Joeys
third. Incredibly, Scots had never previ-
ously scored in the long history of the
race, but they made a field day of it, also
winning the first and fourth fours and
being next best in the two other events.
* * * *
Oxford upset calculations somewhat in
defeating Cambridge in this year’s boat-
race. Cambridge not only were strong
favorites throughout training, but on the
day won the toss for stations. Also,
Oxford averaged half a stone a man
lighter than the others ; in fact, were re-
ferred to by London “Times” as “a frail
and inexperienced crew.” With a poor
tide, the “frail” chaps cut the 4\ miles
out in 19 mins. 54 secs., and had several
lengths to spare.
* * * *
The English Rugby Union experiment
of not allowing forwards to detach them-
selves from the scrum till the ball is out
(B. 10/4/’46) and two additional inno-
vations, have been adopted by N.S.W.
Rugby Union and must be strictly
adhered to in future matches. A centre-
forward is now allowed to lift his feet
before the ball enters the scrum, but
must not rake before it touches the
ground. Scrum infringements should
now be a rarer occurrence (a lot of these
were never seen by the ref., anyway),
while raking will be a much quicker and
cleaner process. The other rule compels
the teams to have a line-out when the
ball is put out of touch. N.S.W. Rugby
Unionists get into action this coming
weekend.
* * * *
To help sort out the best* players for
the Maoriland tour, N.S.W. Rugby Union
is inviting a “Southern States XV” (from
Vic., S.A., W.A. and Tasmania) to play
in Sydney. Also, Queensland and
country matches are scheduled, while in
Sydney 10 clubs will provide the week-
end turmoil.
“Wife and family Well , I hope?”
Larwood is to play for Blackpool
as an amateur in the Ribblesdale League.
Larwood’s bowling with Jardine’s 1932-33
English team in Australia caused such up-
roar that a new rule (No. 48a) got a
place in the M.C.C. Laws of Cricket—a
distinction which has fallen to no other
cricketer.
* * * *
Displaying greatly improved form,
Tommy Ward outfought Hockey Bennell
in a “return” at Leichhardt. Art Mawson,
substituting for referee Les Pearson, de-
clared Bennell winner on points, and
straightway became the target for a
“demonstration” as wild as was ever
directed at Pearson. Some protest was
warranted, for Bennell was inactive, with-
out bein| masterly, until the ninth round,
whereupon he kept attacking until the end.
But he had failed to make up the leeway
caused by his lackadaisical methods.
• A better boxer than Leo Heaney,
but not nearly aggressive enough, Joe
Grant lost the decision in their light-
weight match at the Sydney Stadium.
Supporters averred that Grant had
changed his style, but he stuck to his
“safety-first” methods, and Heaney beat
him decisively on points.


at
35
i
Ua
an SaM-h-mm
refresher
E
*
CREAM FIZZ (with or without cream!)
For each person take a generous measure of
Vickers Gin, the juice of one lemon, a tea-
spoonful of sugar syrup, and a little cream,'
ice-cream or white of egg. Add broken ice,
shake or stir well, strain, pour into tumblers,
and fill up with water (or soda-water if
you can get it I)
Jamous since I7SO
Dickers
VG46/1A --
/ate
ode h<*>
8
u°
dst
m
ao
M
A
Have you ever had a
chat with chocolate ?
Every time you break off a piece
of Small’s Club Chocolate it
has something to say
to you.
0* Li .
it 60
itBCL
qU
HB fiR
YOU
So always
ask for Small*s Club
Chocolate
«•
r That Snap says
'{ this : “The best
chocolate must
have a clean brittle SNAP
when you break it. That’s
something which chocolate
experts always listen for be-
cause they know that the
louder the snap the better
the chocolate.
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
SMOKE-OH!
“Tallulah Bankhead, commenting on cur-
rent daring fashions, says gowns are either
too brief or women aren’t in them far enough.
— "Sun.”
They are becoming out and out im-
modest.
•I*
“Wanted daily, part or full time, good
wages.”— Suburban paper.
Don’t we all?
.4* 4* 4* 4* , ,
“When some individuals are generously lent
a book they seem to think it immediately be-
comes their private property.” — “New Idea.”
This speaks volumes for their selfish-
ness,
•I* *l* 4* 4*
“American housewives are, paying £300,000,000
a year above ceiling prices for blackmarket
meat.” — “Sun.”
Little wonder if they hit the roof.
“Cooking is not a chore, it is fun.”
— Woman’s mag.
Except for those who have to take the
joke.
4* *K 4*
“Propaganda is vainly trying to convince the
public that prefabricated homes are good
things.”— "Sun.”
Whereas they are only put-up jobs.
“Wanted, handy person for plain children’s
sewing.”— Suburban paper.
Plain Janes and no fancy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A J woman’s appearance should be a sym-
phony.”—“S. M. Herald.”
In which she should always strike the
right note.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost theatre, Thurs. night, young girl need-
ing urgent medical attention.” — “S. M. Herald.”
There couldn’t have been a doctor in
the house.
-I* -I*
The bitter tears 1 shed were all worth
while,
The suffering, my dear, when you were
far;
Now I behold you there with joyous smile
Spear pickled onions from the homely
jar.
Mrs. P.
Priority.
Delight would titillate my soul
If I could pour yon glass of gin
In Aunty Lulu’s goldfish bowl
And watch the fishes reel therein.
This won’t be done, however, for.
Unless I’m grievously misled,
’Twill thrill me deeper if I pour
Yon gin into myself instead.
T. W. NATHAN.
Exclamatory.
Sing hey! for the winding road.
Sing hey! for the children at play.
For the salty breeze and the rolling seas
And the moonlight on the bay !
Sing hey ! for the songs that gaily blend
With the campfire’s cheery glow!
Or, if you will not sing hey, my friend,
Then, by all means, sing ho !
T. W. N.
Shock Tactics.
Beyond a doubt the man’s a cur
Who kids a horse with flattery,
Then up the straight with whip and spur
Turns on assault and battery.
D. H. E.
The Wide Open Spaces.
As he walked with uncertain steps
through the apparently deserted build-
ing he had the air of one who was hope-
lessly lost. Once he paused to listen
intently; then, realising it was only the
reverberating echoes of his own foot-
steps, he pushed on again.
Mounting the stairway to the next floor
he cast himself upon a long, wide lake
of carpet, rich and thick. In the dim
distance he caught sight of a table with
a naked typewriter on it, but hope again
sank as he saw it was unoccupied. At
the end of the vast room a space was
partitioned off. Glancing through orie of
the glass windows he saw a man at a
desk. He was at him in an instant.
“Good morning,” the visitor said. “Em
looking for the agent for this building
or someone who knows where he can be
found. I”
The man at the desk tore off the top
page of his blotting-pad on which he had
been doodling.
“I’m afraid you won’t find him here,
he said, “nor would it be of any use
looking for him. You haven t a hope of
getting an office here, if that’s what you re
after.”
“That’s what lam after. I’m just out
of the services and looking for profes-
sional offices. A man can’t do without”
The official held up his hand and
looked sternly at the visitor. “When
we have taken over another three big city
buildings,” he said, “a subsection of this
department (Post-War Economic Plotting,
Surveying and Recommending) will even-
tually be handling your case and thou-,
sands like yours. But we must have time to
“ You ought to consider yourself lucky, dear—able
to lie in bed all day!"
organise ; to strike a just balance between
landlord and tenant, with each arrange-
ment having the approval of the Treasury,
after it has been okayed, if at all, by the
Departments of Labor and Industry,
Health, Social Services, Repatriation and
the various interested State departments
through our liaison officers. I’m not sure
yet but what we might even have to
approach the Customs, the Maritime Ser-
vices and the Fisheries. But you’ll get
your office, all in good time.”
“But I’ve tramped the city and there’s
no offices to let anywhere. I could use
some of this waste space here.”
A look of pain slowly settled on the
official’s face. At last he found his voice.
“Waste!” he gasped. “How can you
say such a thing?”
“Easily! There’s only one typist’s desk
on this floor. Isn’t that waste?”
“Certainly not!” snapped the other.
“Experience has taught us that our girl
clerks, working as they do at high pres-
sure, have a high absentee rate caused by
claustrophobia unless they enjoy a mini-
mum of 5000 square feet of floor space
each to work in. Would you have us
clutter them up chair to chair?”
“But, dammit, none of the typists
round the place are
working! ”
“How can they
be? Until the exact
interpretation of the
term ‘Post-war’ is
determined by Cabi-
net our department’s
activities cannot offi-
cially begin. Dr.
Evatt has yet to
decide that the war
is over. A disturb-
ance at Saigon, Sak-
halin or Tibet or
somewhere might
conceivably plunge
us into a state of
benevolent belliger-
ency that would
make the term ‘Post-
war’ a hideous
'mockery.”
“That’s all very
well,” retorted the
ex-serviceman, “but
it doesn’t get me an
office. Anyway, you
do yourself pretty proud on. this floor,
just you and a typist, with about an acre
of £2-a-yard carpet.”
The official bridled; then, casting a
glance at a couple of golf sticks in a
corner he said with some asperity:
“Dammit, man, have a heart. What
do you expect me to do —practise my
putting on bare boards?”
BO.


ABORIINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Long Tom Taylor was
drifting into Echuca off the Rochester-
road one warm, lazy afternoon, with his
swag up, pockets empty and his brain
assessing the chances of the 15 Echuca
pubs and the Moama trio across the river.
As he passed into High-street he saw in
a gateway a retired cattledog, obese and
content, sleeping in the sun. Long Tom
knew cattledogs and stopped, looked care-
fully in all directions, then tiptoed to that
gate and jabbed one blucher hard down
on the dozing canine’s tail. The cattle-
dog reacted as Tom expected. It came
awake with a yelp of pain and rage,
grabbed Tom’s trouser leg and worried
it. Tom dropped his swag, fell on that
dog, wrestled with it mightily in the dust
and yelled at the top of his voice. The
disturbance brought forth the dog’s
owner, who managed to separate the pair,
whereupon Tom, who knew his law, too,
displayed his tattered garments and talked
about the menace of savage dogs that
attacked people in the streets in broad
daylight. A half-note appeased him, and
he headed for the fulfilment of his plans,
nobody more .pleased to see him go than
the poor old dog, which had not been so
badly scared and knocked about since it
was a pup.
* * * $
“The 0.D.”: Walking along an ocean
beach “B. A. Ker” sees hare tracks going
into the sea at one place and coming out
further on (B, 10/4/’46), and his mighty
intellect goes to work and informs that
hares and rabbits must, therefore, go
paddling at night. Both of‘’em hate im-
mersion as do cats, their fur not being
oily, and what that observer saw was
tracks that had been made when the tide
was out and partly obliterated when it
came back.
* * * *
“Mat’s, Mate”: “Yair,” said Mat, “I
start work at a cocky’s place down near
Murray Bridge one Wednesday, hay-
diggin’, an’ he keeps me goin’ till dark
every night. When Sundee come I take
me time about gettin’ up, though I hear
’em movin’ around out in the kitchen
pretty early. Then the boss come to me
door an’ asks if I’m all right an’ if I am
why ain’t I up. I sing out that it’s Sundee
an’ I’m layin’ off, an’ he seems a bit sur-
prised an’ mutters somethin’ about not
rememberin’ the day an’ goes off. Well,
I get out presently an’ have a bite an’
go outside. There’s the cocky an’ his
boy sinkin’ postholes, an’ I go an’ watch
’em. They keep lookin’ at me without
sayin’ anythin’ for a bit, then the cocky
says ‘Hey, y’ might as well give us a hand
as stand around doin’ nothin’,’ I get up
off me hunkers an’ says ‘Sorry, I’m busy.’
He thinks that over a bit an’ then he says
‘What’s keepin’ y’ busy?’ ‘Makin’ up
me mind whether t’ head for Murray
Bridge or Tailem Bend,’ I comes back
at him. He looks disappointed an’ says
‘Well, see y’ get back be mornin’.’ ‘Not
me,’ I says; ‘if you ain’t got the guts t’
ask me straight out t’ work on Sundees
’stead o’ hintin’ at it, then I’m takin’ this
way o’ tellin’ y’ I’m snatchin’ it.’ Yair,”
Mat concluded, “that’s how I’m up at
Pinnaroo a week ahead of you.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: “Fourteen ’undred an’
ninety-eight,” chanted the trump as the
last ewe drifted through the gate.
“Ninety-seven,” corrected Sam. “Aw,
blast,” said the boss. “I’ll pay y’ f’r
the ninety-eight an’ let it go at that.”
“No fear,” Sam said, '“Fourteen-nine-
seven’ll do me. At a bob a head that’ll
be ’’ “Hey, wait on,” the boss said.
“I’ll pay y’ the extra shillin’.” “Nothin’
doin’,” replied Sam, starting to do his
block. “Fourteen-nine-seven or we don’t
drove ’em a yard. Hey, you,” he com-
manded me, “how many did you count?”
“Fourteen - nine - seven,” I answered.
“There y’ are,” he said triumphantly to
the boss. “An’ not a penny over.” Me
and Sam have been mates a long time,
and when we got the mob a mile down
the road he turned to me. “I can’t stand
these here cockies tryin’t’ patronise me,”
he said, “Too bloomin’ right,” I agreed,
remembering the 1498 woollies I counted.
* * * *
“Nigel D.”: Reading so much about
the troops finding themselves among
schools of mullet, etc., yet unable to
make a catch, leads me to wonder why
“Seein' you re doin' nothin', Dave, I brought a bit of harness for
you to clean up."
some of them didn’t try jagging. Take
three or four sizeable hooks, nip the
eyes off all except one ; then bind shanks
together with a few turns of thin wire
so that the hooks set out at different
angles, and solder so as to make a firm
job. Use any sort of line, and a short
rod. The idea is to drop the jag gently
into the somnolent non-biting school;
then whip up with a quick stroke. Deftly
done, it is seldom that the barbs fail to
fasten into at least one fish. Apparatus
can be improved by linking in a spiral
of stiff wire about 6in. above the hooks.
Filled with wet bread, boiled potatoes,
boiled mutton or mashed pollard, this
acts as a lure that brings the fish thick
around just where the jag will get them
as it jumps upward. Best when used off
a boat, bridge or jetty.
* * * *
“Zake”: If anyone looking up at a
cloudless sky sees a small, bluish cloud
appear one hundred feet or so up, let
him not cast his mind back on what he
was drinking last. The probability is that
a pine-tree {Finns insignis) is near by and
that it has just cast its pollen. This is
usually shaken out in a doud by a sudden
puff of wind, and invariably occurs in
the afternoon. The blue pollen cloud
will carry for some distance before finally
disintegrating.
* * * *
“Bo”: Someone had mentioned that
there were young cockatoos in the spout
of an old gum down near the river, so
on Sunday morning we all went along
to see Cedric, the new hand, try his fist
at nest-robbing, he having boasted of his
wonderful tree-climbing ability. Harrison
carried a coil of rope, and when Cedric
noted with dismay that the trunk of the
gum was as smooth as glass for about
20ft. up to the fork the old hand came
forward. He made a fixed knot in one
end, threw the other end over a limb near
the spout and invited Cedric to go aloft.
“It’s dead easy,” he said. “Just put your
foot in the loop and pull yourself up
with the other epd. You must go up.”
Cedric confidently put one foot in the
loop, reached as high as he could, and
with both paws heaved mightily on the
other end of the rope. A second later
his feet were wildly threshing the air
somewhere above his head, he lost his
grip on the rope and, describing an un-
graceful parabola, crunched his head into
the sand, the rest of him following with
a wallop. As he struggled up and looked
dazedly around, Harrison came over, ad-
miration in his eye, took his hand and
shook it heartily. “Good on you, Cedric,”
he exclaimed. “I thought at first you were
going to be one of those mugs who loop
an arm over the rope carrying their weight
so that when they pull they go up perpen-
dicular. Yours is the better lurk. But
what did you come down for —forget
something?”
*♦, * *
“Woolooro”; Hearing of fellows piling
lots of nap on top of them like “Chuck’s”
Jock (B. 13/3/ ’46) prompts the thought
that it is too little realised that cold can
strike up from beneath as well as down
on top, and especially when the floor is
of concrete or plain earth. The first night
I dossed in a sanatorium, where all floors
were of concrete, the sister asked if I
would like a doubled blanket underneath
me, in addition to the three on top. I
disdained such weakness. But only that
once; thereafter, I had that blanket
underneath. I agree that fat persons feel
the cold more than thin ones; though the
palm for an equable endurance of both
heat and cold goes to the nuggety bloke
carrying plenty of muscle and a minimum
of fat.
* * * *
“Bump”: Victorians resident along the
Ninety-nine Mile Beach near Port Albert
woke up on a recent morning to find more
than 150 blackfish whales stranded on
the foreshore. This seems to be an aber-
ration which hits the species on occasion
in places as far apart as Norway and the
Apple Island. It can’t be accounted for
by disease or old age or there wouldn’t
be such numbers. Another curiosity is
why the beasts die so quickly, being air-
breathers. One theory is that they die
of suffocation, their lungs not being able
to fill with air against the huge weight of
flesh unsupported by water.
*** ‘ *
“Wippegong” surveys the Nip land-
scape :
Those of us who dabble in gardening have
long been told that the Japanese are the
supreme horticultural artists; that they can
make better pictures with a pool, a few rocks
and twisted trees than we can with all our
advantages. I wish to prick that bubble. Good
cultivators they certainly are; they have to
be, for the struggle to grow enough food is
the dominant note in the whole countryside,
and no inch of level ground can jbe wasted.
Beside our camp is a raw scarp on a hill-
side that was ripped away for building space;
it is gravelly clay with a slope of about 60
degrees, and the Nips are now carting roots,
grass and chunks of granite to bind the ter-
races that have been laboriously chopped out
of the slope. It will carry a crop this year,
for fertiliser is plentiful—the populace attends
to that. And I admit they have a strong garden-
ing sense; nearly everyone grows something to
look at as well as something to eat. But even
comfortable homes rarely have larger garden
plots than those which disgrace our slums, and
to claim that the cramped arrangement of pine,
shrub and bamboo in such pockets is a desir-
able gardening “art” is sheer rot. However
cleverly plants may be adapted to restricted
space—wistaria pruned into clumpy trees,
broom planted against a fence and twined into
it like a creeper, and so on—the fact re-
mains that given space the same plants would
far outdo their present showing. Even the
famed dwarf pines in pots would not' be so
keenly sought if passionate gardeners had
anywhere else but a table on which to arrange
their entire horticultural estate. No! Admire
their twisted, gnarled trees and call them artistic
if you will; but remember that the ground that
can be spared for growing pines is too
wretchedly poor to grow a straight tree if if
tried. Rave if you must about old cherry-trees
a foot high growing and blooming in a spacious
area enclosed only by a frying pan or piedish
or something, then go out and fill your eyes
with our sweeping splashes of poppies and
ranunculi, stocks and roses and gladioli and the
rest of them, and get your thoughts straight.
Nowhere can towns with twice the population
of Ballarat, Orange, Albury or Wagga show
anything that even faintly approaches the parks
of those places; the glories of the Loftys and
the Dandenongs, the quiet rambling beauty of
Tumut, are unknown; and all qur capitals
similarly outclass the larger cities. I have
walked in the Imperial Gardens of the old
palace at Kyoto. You could drop the lot in
Melbourne Botanical and hardly notice the
addition.
* * * *
“Dekko”; The reason why mushrooms
form rings (B. 27 / ’46) is accounted for
by the flat circular form of the full-grown
mushroom, which enables the fine dust-
like spores by which it reproduces itself to
be scattered in a wide circle. The bare
space in the centre of the circle marks
the position of the founder of the colony,
which exhausted the nutritive material of
the locality. The deep bell-shaped forms
of some stalked fungi naturally restrict
the spread of the spores, hence they occur
in clusters. On the other hand bursting
puffballs have their spores distributed in
indeterminate directions.
* He * *
“Simon”; Brian James in his Bulletin
story “Bring Your Fiddle, Joe,” shows
a knowledge of the old days of bush
dances. The only way to carry a fiddle
on horseback is in a bag—preferably a
baize bag. In a case the resin or some-
thing is bound to rattle and frighten the
horse, and the more he got rattled the
louder the accompaniment, often with
a string snapping with a report like a
pistol, Best of bush instruments, the
fiddle was yet the least dependable through
breaking strings.
“Gravelsnatcher”: If “O’Yen,” who
has a fondness for native placenames (B.
13/3/’46), cares to make the trip across
the Nullabor he’ll find a lot of sou’-west
towns ending with “up.” If his thirst
for knowledge prompts the inquiry, he’ll
be told that this is the native suffix
meaning water, and, as our sou’-west
abounds in that commodity, about 90
per cent, of the towns qualify. Then, if
he goes into the wheatbelt, he’ll be lost
in a maze of “ins,” Mukinbudin being a
typical example. It probably means dry-
as-hell in native talk, but I wouldn’t
know. We could go further, but the fact
that our little sou’-west corner could en-
gulf the whole of “O’Yen’s” State
should be sufficient answer to his claim
that “there are in S.A. more placenames
of purely native origin than in any other
State.” O’Yeah!
* * * *
“B 4”: White-ants often commence
building their fortress at the base of a
small dead stump, which, though eventu-
ally surrounded and occasionally sur-
mounted by the nest, is always left intact.
Have never seen them using mud, either
in constructing or effecting repairs, the
material employed being either chewed
wood or grass stem, which is then passed
through the soft bodies of the workers
and deposited where required as they toil
in relays. The large rusty-looking chaps
with the swelled heads on guard are the
soldiers —these can dispense shrewd nips.
During the night these pincer-heads amble,
out and cut the stems of wire and other
grasses into half-inch lengths, which the
workers carry in and deposit in heaps. In
some localities these grass lengths form
the principal diet to provide sustenance
and mound-building material. Like
“H.W.T.” (B. 27/3/’46) I have seen white-
ants working during daytime, but only
early in the morning or on cloudy days,
and never in wet weather, as heat from
old Sol is essential to harden the cementy
substance which becomes the outer armor.
As patches are superimposed, mostly by
night, the old crust is softened and con-
verted into cellular structure, wherein the
economy of the community proceeds. As
the diet consist mainly of dry fodder, the
means by which they obtain sufficient
moisture to conduct operations is intrigu-
ing. Possibly the subterranean tunnels
down which they do the disappearing
trick may lead to concealed aqueous
supplies.
MIST.
The sun on Shaggy Ridge was battle-red,
The wisps of mist like smoke of shells since
sped ...
And through the drifting haze he thought he
saw
The clover-flats, cream-crested waves of green;
And on the hill, so peaceful and serene,
A long, low, whitewashed house with weathered
door,
Wide eaves where swallows nest and hedges
where
The blackbird sings his joyous song; and
there
His valley spreads before him like a frieze;
The fields of stubble where the crops had been;
The gums for ever fragrant, fresh and green.
The hops in burr were swaying with the breeze,
The Derwent willow-fringed was gliding by.
The sea of fog. The chill clear winter sky .. .
10
To sail his seas, salt spray on face>and eyes!
When veils of lace fly high from storm-caught
crest,
And rfiefs are white, and wind is strong north-
west
And swirling waves are heard in seagulls’
cries—
For, as they wheel, their shrieking rends the
air.
He tastes the salt. The wind is in his hair...
The bark of dogs, the dust; the penned-up
sheep;
The grind of comb on cutter in the shed,
The shearer stooping low with .bended head,
And on the floor the fle'eces in a heap.
He leans to pick them up. It’s with him yet,
That smell of sheep; that reek of grease and
sweat!
Trees silver, drooping, drear; an ice-blue sky.
A wavering sea of fog spread deep below
The golden glow of sun on Mount Field’s
snow.
Through piercing chill he hears a lamb’s first
cry.
With frost-hard fallow breaking for the spring,
What sense of peace that winter hearth can
bring!
Thus while he prayed for strength to keep him
sane
The mist-born scenes flowed gently through his
brain.
TAS.
JOAN WISE.


CHILD IN THE ’BUS.
The small girl in the ’bus
Is only four years old,
A lively, forward puss
With big eyes and bold.
Like a dram she stirs
The sombre passengers;
Standing on the seat
She sees, to left, to right,
Behind, before, within, without,
A thousand things to wonder about:
Backs of heads, collars white,
Hats, spectacles, noses, feet;
The busy b’rain still recording
The paddock, the foal, the hill, the hoarding,
Driven sheep in the road straying,
The eager ’bus delaying,
The forest trees, the waste of scrub,
The township, street, store and pub.
While we, the rest of us,
Saint, snob, sneak or liar,
Just her field of fire,
Sit mum, brood and glower,
And curse the lagging hour.
She’s like a gash of red
In a grey sky,
A ball of mercury
Among the pigs of lead.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Burragorang”; Sam Peters was sharp-
ening an axe on the grindstone when I
dropped in. “How’s young Alf, now
that he’s out of the Army?” I asked.
“Chasing the girls and blowing up his
deferred pay, I expect?” “Not at all,” ,
replied Sam sharply. “Alf’s a good lad.
All the same, he’s actin’ a bit strange.”
“What’s the trouble, Sam?” I asked.
“Well,” answered Sam, fingering the edge
of the axe, “Vs different somehow. ’E
gets up bright an’ early without bein’
called; ’e shaves every day and polishes
his boots regular.” “Nothing wrong with
that,” I commented. “The Army has
taught him some good habits.” “Yairs,
I suppose that’s orright in its way,” re-
torted Sam. “But it’s other things as well.
Per instance, ’e wastes a flamin’ lot of
time trying to train the milkers to come
up to the milkin’ yard and to take their
places in the bails. Same with the horses.
Nearly blows ’is front teeth out tryin’ t’
make ’em tell the difference between ‘Gid
up’ and ‘Whoa’ and left turn and right
turn calls. The latest is the dawgs. I
think Vs tryin’ to make ’em march in
step and line up in a row and salute ’im
every mornin’. I wish to blazes Vd
stayed in the cookhouse instead of be-
comin’ a bugler.”
“Sur Cingle”: Two months ago and
400 miles away young Tom got his dis-
charge from the Army. Yesterday he
turned up at the station looking for a
job. “Blasted fool!” snorted old Ned.
“Why the hell’ja, wanta come back up
here, ridin’ pig-rootin’ horses an’ riskin’
yT neck after flamin’ cattle when y’ c’d
’a’ had a decent job down below?” Tom
smiled a bit lopsidedly. “That’s the
trouble,” he drawled. “I took a good
screw at the people in the streets in
Adelaide. An’ I got t’ thinkin’ how they
never got a chance t’ get hurt except be
a fluke. Didn’t seem natural, some-
how. So I came up here.”
* * * *
“Betcha”; Sheep-dogs not working
until they are about two years of age
(B. 20/3/ ’46) are common enough, and
I’ve even struck chaps who prefer them
that way ; but give me a pup that is keen
on sheep right from the jump. By start-
ing his training early he can then grow
into approved habits, for obviously one
can’t break-in a dog until he decides to
adopt sheep work. Best dog I ever owned
was one that tumbled out, waddling de-
terminedly after every jumbuck that
came in sight of the shed, almost before
he was weaned. An ill-bred mong., but
he loved sheep, and had plenty of con-
fidence ; the type that needs little coach-
ing because of a natural sense that
tells him where and how wide to
work. He soon learns to walk over
the backs of the mob and “woof” the
leaders into the corners of the shed; but
to teach a timid dog the same trick one
needs a slice of virtue that would make
Job seem a bundle of jittering impatience.
To show-dog owners a worker that barks
is a liability. In my experience a dog
that won’t force by barking when he is
told is almost as annoying as the un-
broken yapper that won’t shut up.
* * * *
“Sub-Druid”; Visitors to that proposed
Wilpena Pound (S.A.) hostel (B.
13/ 3/ ’46) will get their first real taste of
mountain scenery at Hawker, and they’ll
be lucky if they find anything round the
Pound to beat it. Hawker is a friendly
little township, a last outpost of the
hardier agriculturists and a centre for
merino fanciers for scores of miles. It
has a dusty main street, a couple of pubs,
a railway station and a few acres of bare
flats that the map humorously describes
as “parklands.” But go out of the town
and look to the north. On the left, past
the bulk of Wonoka Hill, is a fore-
shortened view of Elder’s Range, looking
like an immense blue crag. Under it is
a smaller range, a wild and jagged line
“Adopt"Adopt one? What for?"
of summits, but sweeping down in
peculiarly regular concavity. The lower
half of that concavity is, in the evenings,
painted with a wild and unpredictable
range of colors. When, as now, there is
feed about, a certain angle of the late
afternoon sun throws a film of unearthly
silver-green over the slopes of the lower
range, in startling contrast to the sombre
red-browns and purples above. In the
centre of the picture is the fantastically
serrated blueness of the Wilpena Pound
Range, ending in the mass of Rawnsley’s
Bluff. To the right is Chase’s Range,
much nearer and darker and springing
abruptly from what looks like a plain.
It is a sight to make an artist gasp.
* * * *
“Narrin”; When Mad Harry was sent
out as caretaker at the old outstation the
first thing he did was. to repair the netting
fence around the house, fix up the gates
and paint, on a sheet of iron, a sign that
read “You’re welcome. Come in. But
please leave your dog outside the yard.”
Most of the station blokes and the very
occasional travellers humored the old
chap, but one day Texas Jack turned
up and, complete with kelpie, marched up
to the back door. Out popped Harry
with the beginnings of a welcoming grin
starting to seep through his whiskers.
Then he saw the dog. “Hey,” he barked,
“didV y’ see me notice? Or ’re you one o’
them flash blokes that’s gotta be told?
Walkin’ right in past the writin’ with yT
dirty worm-eaten mong. Can’t y’ damn’
well read?” He stopped for wind. “No,”
said Texas quietly. “I can’t.” They
say Harry’s trying to work out a “No
Dogs” sign in picture-writing now.
♦ * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Lower Tops’l” (B.
27 / 3/’46) evidently hasn’t examined a
“Will the gentleman who abused me over the ’phone please step
this way?”
leatherjacket’s dental apparatus or he
wouldn’t accuse those particularly well-
toothed nuisances of “sucking” a bait
off. Their sharp front teeth work on
the principle of a pair of end-nippers with
no lips to get in the way, and can easily
sever a thick line or even a wire trace.
Their technique is to nip the bait off in
small pieces without any pull on it.
When baits begin to disappear myster-
iously, we rig a stout sharp triangle hook
on a wire trace, fit a sinker at the top
end, and tie a bait firmly on about 6in.
or so above the hook. Lower away, jag
sharply every minute or so, and it won’t
be long before the hook gets Leather
Johnnie in his tender underworks. But,
I’m going to try the rabbit-trap idea all
the same. Several of our Australian
leatheries are among the tastiest and most
nutritious of sea-fish when properly pre-
pared. The secret is to skin them as
soon as possible after catching, and cut
them into boneless fillets.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Murmuring of bees in
the dogwood bushes drew my attention,
and I found them busy gathering the sticky
substance of the leaves. Tongues were
used industriously to dredge the stuff
from the surfaces and along the midribs
of the leaves, and it was loaded to the
pollen baskets of the hind legs by a
sleight-of-hand performance with the
front legs. Inside the hives the gluey
material is being used to plug up
the cracks and fasten the frames to the
woodwork, where it sets hard and firm as
joiners’ glue.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Two uprights and a cross-
piece, remnants of an old shed up on the
hill under a couple of big dead box-trees,
were adopted by a couple of crows as a
sort of meetingplace. They’d sit or hop
about the crosspiece, cawing and wiping
their beaks, almost any warm afternoon.
It racked old Bill’s nerves. He couldn’t
get near them for the open ground ail
round, and though he shot at them the
range was too great to worry them. Then
Bill got a large sheet of brown paper and,
one moonlight night, fixed it to the dead
limbs above the crows’ perch. He did
other things with string and fine whiting,
Next day those crows were shy of the
arrangement, but they chanced it on the
second day. Bill waited till they were
close together on the rail, pulled his
string and showered them with five
pounds of whiting. The last seen of
those crows was two pale objects being
chased towards Queensland by every
crow in the district. “But wouldn’t it
have been easier to have pulled down the
roost?” somebody asked. “Might be,”
grunted Bill, “but if blokes like you was
left t’ do everythin’ nobody’d ever have
anythin’ t’ laugh at.”
***:!!
“C.E.”: Dad’s farm is in a sheltered
spot not far from the city. Walking
around one evening, he paused to watch
the wild ducks swimming contentedly on
the marshy waterhole. “Duck season
opens next Monday, Ma,” he remarked,
“If we want a feed o’ these blokes we
better get ’em before the shooters frighten
’em t’ blazes.” “Bit near the road to risk
a shot, don’t you think?” Ma suggested
cautiously. “Yair, I better trap a few,”
decided Dad. “Bill Todd’s gettin’ down
on ’em, I hear, and Davis’s pottin’ a few
this week. Mick’s after a feed, too, while
they’re still around, so I reckon we better
hop in. No good feedin’ the bunch on
the dams all the year an’ then lettin’ other
blokes get ’em. I’ll get the traps.” The
following week the city visitor arrived.
“You know, Ma,” she said during tea,
“I was in our city gardens the other day
and you’d be surprised at the number of
ducks that were there. They come every
year when there’s an open season to
shelter from the shooters, and a gardener
told me they had been arriving for days
past. Isn’t it marvellous how they know?”
* * * *
“Makdee”: Most people would be pre-
pared to award the palm for an original
memorial to Rupert Brooke’s at Gran-
chester: “the crazy old church clock,”
stopped at ten to three. The reference, of
course, is to the last lines of Brooke’s
“Granchester” poem:
Stands the church clcfck still at ten to three,
And is there honey still for tea?
Maoriland has a strong contender
in Tainui’s grave at Greymouth.
Under the terms of the negotiations for
his land the Maori was entitled to be
buried wherever he wished. Naturally it
was assumed that he was merely seeking
to make sure of joining his ancestors in
their cave under Cobden Hill. When he
died it was discovered that he was to be
buried on the opposite side of the Grey
River at the point where the road crosses
the railway and both are jammed against
the river. But a promise is a promise.
So there Tainui lies in his little railed-off
enclosure, where the diverted railway and
road curve around him, and where he
can look into the cave across the river
and keep an eye on his ancestors.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I could see the
gold, plain as a pikestaff, but could gain
no clue as to even the approximate local-
ity. When I first confided my find to Bill
the mate he grunted, but after the dream
repeated itself three times in as many
weeks he conceded that there might be
something in it, and urged greater con-
centration. About a week later we
drifted into Kalgoorlie. It must have been
some time in the afternoon when Bill,
who’d been doing a little quiet pros-
pecting on his own around the town,
drew me out of the bar and warned me.
“Now, don’t say a word about that mine
of yours,” he said. “There’s a bloke
in town buying up everything he can
find. He’s as shrewd as a bottle of beer,
and before you know where y’ are he’ll
have your find f’r a dollar.” I assured
him solemnly, even owlishly, that the,
secret was safe with me. “All right,” he
said, “but watch out. Here he comes.”
Before long this little bloke and I were
drinking like old mates. I could see his
move, of course, and the thought of any-
one trying to drink me under the table
amused me. I decided to let him have his
head, warning him, in a friendly way, that
the mine wasn’t for sale. He liked that,
and we were in the middle of a ding-
dong discussion on the find when I
realised that something was happening to
me? The cow must have doped my beer.
Then Bill drifted in. When I woke we
were back in our tent. The rustling noise
which I had at first associated with the
cyclonic disturbance that was propelling
the tent through the stratosphere was
caused by Bill counting notes. He
looked up when my eyes fell open with
a clatter. “Y’ found that gold yet?” he
asked. I made signs indicating that I
hadn’t, and did he have anything that
would put out a fire. He passed over a
bottle and went on counting. When he’d
finished he handed me a card giving the
little bloke’s name, address, occupation
and telephone number. “Well, if y’ do
find it,” he said, “that bloke owns a third
interest in it. We sold it to him last
night for two hundred quid.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager,
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
v-
m
■y>.
n
ip
Use the rabbits’ natural home —
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Anstralla.
LYSAGHTS
4
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
i % i
'Z '.-4 ’ r v - r . ftf
• .%-
1*
- ?
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable**from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENGDING IT TO GRAZCOS:"
Smaller Wool Clips.
“Graz”: The Australian clip is esti-
mated at 2,840,000 bales, 284,000 fewer
than the small clip of 1944-45. Victoria,
with nearly 200,000 bales fewer, is chiefly
responsible for the drop. S’Africa has a
drought and her clip is lighter. In
Britain and America sheep are being
slaughtered for meat at a faster rate than
they are bred, and wool production is
decreasing—2s p.c. in Britain and 20 p.c.
in America —while mill intake for civilian
use is rising. In pre-war years British
mills used 2,150,000 bales, but war-time
disorganisation caused a fall to 1,492,300
in 1944. Shortage of trained labor and
coal has curbed a rapid return to pre-
war output, but present intake is now
close to 2,000,000 bales a year.
Owing to inflated costs, American
growers find wool production unprofit-
able, and President Truman has refused
their application for a higher tariff duty
on imported wools. Wool is now very
popular in the U.S., whose mills absorb
as much wool as Australia produces.
Nearly 2,000,000 bales will have to be
imported while the present rate of con-
sumption continues. In France and Bel-
gium the industry has made a better re-
vival, but is still a long way behind pre-
war output. In 1938 France imported
1,300,000 bales, last year only 391,000.
There is tremendous scope for expansion
of mill output by the former allies to re-
plenish the depleted stocks of woollen
apparel and goods and to cover the trade
of our former enemies. In 1938 Germany
imported 1,020,000 bales of raw wool
plus 34j million pounds weight in tops,
yarns and fabrics. Japan, too, was a
large importer, -but it is doubtful if
British, French or Australian mills could
turn out products cheap enough for
Asiatic pockets.
The Dairy Herd.
“E. 2”: Developing a high-test herd is
not as simple as it seems, and there’s a
great deal more to it than breeding on
pedigree lines. Good appearance and
conformity of stock are essential to quality,
but a little latitude is allowable with
cows that produce more than their share
of butterfat. Herd-testing is necessary to
weed out the passengers, and individual
tests should be indexed carefully. Buyers
of dairy heifers are always prepared to
pay more when there are records of aver-
age to high production through the herd.
Scrubbers take as much attention and
feeding as really good milkers. Not, all
dairymen starting out are in a position
to make the outlay for a high-class herd,
and the most satisfactory way to add good
stock is to buy tested cows, in calf to
good bulls, from reliable breeders, the
advantage being that a future sire may
be selected from the calves and some
good heifers should be available. This
does away with the expense bf buying a
costly bull, and the cost of the cows
should not be* very much greater When
in calf.
When buying well-bred cows, which
cost plenty, it is essential, that they test
average or better, and, if in calf, should
be mated with a bull proved to get good
stock. Even then culling will be required
to keep a good standard, for all the off-
spring of the best-bred stock are not win-
ners. Eliminate the risks of wasting time
on duds by attention to herd tests and
strive for better than average production
all round. It pays better to milk 30 good
cows than half the number again for the
same output of butterfat.
Lime for Stock.
“Mr.”: A. C. T. Hewitt, in Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture,” points out that
topdressing with super, will correct a
“Put that fire out properly afore y' go-it's the time o' the year
f'r bushfires.”
phosphate deficiency in pasture, but tends
to upset the ratio between calcium and
phosphate content, which will emphasise
any lime deficiency. All grains and con-
centrates except meatmeal and milk by-
products are deficient in calcium and are
best supplemented by at least 1 p.c.
ground limestone in the feed. An alter-
native would be to add the lime to the
drinking water, when it should be in the
form of hydrated lime.
On pastures topdressed with super, a
suitable lick is one containing 50 to 80
p.c. salt and 20 to 50 p.c. ground lime-
stone. Where super, is not used regu-
larly, a suitable lick would be 50 to 80
p.c. salt, 10 to 25 p.c. ground limestone
and 10 to 25 p.c. bohemeal or dicalcic
phosphate.
Queensland Grasses.
Replies to an assertion:
“W.C.Q.”: The assertion of “K.P.” (B.
27/ 3/ ’46) that beef cattle cannot be fattened
on Guinea and molasses grasses on the Queens-
land tropical coast is wide of the mark.
Molasses and Guinea grass pastures are fattening
a beast to the acre in parts of the Innisfail
district, also on Russell and Dainfree River
properties. Cattlemen are confident that fat-
tening is destined to grow into a great industry,
if and when the country can be opened up. At
present manpower is required for scrub-felling
and for the planting of fattening grasses. They
are to be Panicum muticum, molasses grass and
Guinea grass.
The last-named two are highly regarded right
down the coast to Rockhampton. I have seen
dairy cattle pass paspalum and couch in favor
of Guinea grass; have brought horses up to
show 'nick on its chaff with molasses and bran,
and have won prizes with ’em at Mackay show.
Molasses grass makes cattle mud-fat, and it
can survive the driest conditions and grow in
the worst of soils. The main thing always
is to keep enough stock on Guinea-molasses
grass pastures to hold the grass short. Like
all grasses they lose protein as they attain
height.
From Wm, D. Davies, Norman W.
Taylor and R. G. Owen-Jones, “for and
on behalf of the cattle fatteners in the
Innisfail district”:
Under sound practical pasture management,
beef cattle are successfully fattened on Guinea
and molasses grasses in this district. By rota-
tional grazing of the paddocks the grasses do
not become rank in growth. Store cattle
from the Peninsula and elsewhere are brought'
into the district about April and are fat in
eight to nine months’ time (dressing up to 6601 b.),
for which there is a ready demand by local
butchers and others. Even during the wet
season cattle put on condition although not
so readily as during the other months of the
year.
Although at present there are only a few in-
terested in cattle fattening, they are quite satis-
fied. The buffalo fly has caused so much irri-
tation and damage to the skin of the cattle that
the period of fattening has lately been pro-
longed. However, with an economic supply of
D.D.T. this menace should be overcome.
F. Bulcock, when Queensland Minister for
Agriculture, sponsored the cattle-fattening
scheme, which, although only still in its in-
fancy, has been proved to be successful by
those who have planted and managed their
pastures in an efficient and practical manner.
Had it not been for the war suitable tropical
legumes would have been firmly established in
conjunction with other grasses.
Changing Pastures.
“Betcha”: The high plains of East
Gippsland (Vic.) that feed thousands of
Herefords each.season have suffered a
deterioration of pasture. Fifty years ago
these plains were a verdant mat of native
clover, carrot-grass, blue-snow grass and
a few more, and each year cattle and
horses were driven in from the runs
prime fat. A common trouble was to
find horses lean enough to work after a
spell on the tops. In those days there
were no rabbits, and the grazing belts
were new. Rare, too, were fires, with
their aftermath of scrub, which is spoil-
ing many of the lower runs.
Evidently it is not only the richer
grasses that have disappeared, for, accord-
ing to the old-timers, nowadays a good
horse doesn’t exist. Greater civilisation,
perhaps, has weakened the sure-footed,
wiry hack of the pioneering years, and
what we now call stock ponies would, in
those days, haye been almost spurned
even for carrying packs. Cattle, too,
have become milder with the years, but
there is one animal for which the ancients
must hand out laurels. For both sheep
and cattle work we have bred a better
dog.
Unbranded Hides.
“Murranji”: Some years ago the tan-
ners and hide buyers in Brisbane com-
plained that the best parts of hides were
being spoilt by the 2|in. brand on the
rump or thigh, and offered to pay a
higher price for unbranded hides or hides
with a small brand on the shoulder. Bear-
ing this in mind, a Burnett station left a
number of cattle unbranded, and killed
them for station beef. Twenty-eight un-
branded hides were sent to Brisbane for
sale, each hide being marked by label
“unbranded.” The hides brought the
same price as hides branded on rump,
ribs and any other old place.
Recently I managed a large cattle prop-
erty for a company which had a very big
meatworks interest. All stock were
branded with a small brand low down on
the shoulder. We received only the same
price for our fat stock as a neighboring
property that used a Sin. brand on the
ribs. An an experiment I sent four well-
flayed hides from cleanskin scrub cows
and four branded hides to a coastal tan-
nery, and received the same price per
pound for the lot.
When buyers of hides really do pay
more for unbranded and lightly-branded
hides, cattle breeders, will willingly do
their part by reducing the size of brands
and lightly branding on less valuable parts
of the hide. For over 25 years I have
heard buyers of hides moaning about
brands reducing the value of their stock-
in-trade, but never once have I known
of a higher price being paid per pound
for unbranded hides.
Stone for Building.
“Humos”: To utilise irregular stone
make a mould out of boards. Mark off
18in. spaces and make a sawcut jin.
deep. At the ends outside the sawcut
bore holes to take bolts. Cut sufficient
pieces of 24-gauge sheetiron 6|in. wide
and the depth of the mould. These will
slide in the sawcuts arid make divisions.
With a brick axe cut the stone to fit in
the mould or place smaller stones with
•jin. gaps between. Fill up the spaces with
a mortar of 9 sand, 2 high-grade lime,
1 cement or 4to 1 sand-cement. The
mould can be unbolted and slipped away
as soon as the mortar is set.
When the bricks are set hard enough
to handle (with lime-mix it takes about
three days, varying with the weather)
turn the bricks over and, with a wire
brush, clean off surplus mortar. When
building give the mortar joints a rub with a
wire brush, and if you have used a coarse
sand with quartz in it the result is pleas-
ing. The wall will have the appearance
of coursed rubble. A brick 18in. x 6in.
x s£in. is easily handled.


Timber tor Homes
—in record time /
This "Caterpillar" Diesel D 8
outfit Is arch logging five to
six thousand feet of timber,
and the job was never done
cheaperl
m
i
%
h./t
vyy-
W.
W
7&
Ximber-getting . . . for homes
and for a thousand and one uses
in our post-war expansion ... will
need equipment that’s tireless,
sturdy, economical. Wherever tall
timber is being felled, f 'Caterpil-
lar” power will help to sky-rocket
production and send costs
tobogganing. Balance, traction,
mobility of "Caterpillar” Diesels
have brought new methods to
timber-getting. Through the
piled slash of steep slopes, over
muddied flats, or through swollen
creeks, Diesel DB’s will haul logs
better and cheaper than ever it
was done before. Master of heavy
track-type tractor tasks, calling for
hour-after-hour stamina and de-
pendability, the D 8 will provide
the power needed to bring the
biggest logs from stump to yard
with an economy that makes
"Caterpillar” the choice of big
timber-getters and other power
users the world over.
CATE R FIX lAR Diesel
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ' Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J, A. Rathborne, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St„ Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
9.45.33
Jeeps for the Farm.
“Donald Mac.”: The makers of the
jeep announce additions to adapt it to
farm use: A special shaft fitted to the
rear of the chassis and so geared that
30h.p. of the 63h.p. will drive many
farm machines at regulated speeds of
from 1000 to 2600 r.p.m.; transmission
and gearing changed so that working
speeds of from 3 m.p.h. to 7 m.p.h. are
possible, while road speeds up to
60 m.p.h. can be attained (this change
also supplies extra power to the front
wheels). Tests have shown that the jeep
can haul 2\ tons on roads and half a ton
for ploughing—drawing a “double-
bottomed 12in. plough” (whatever that is)
it completed H acres per hour on two
gallons of petrol.
In addition to larger headlights and
more comfortable seats, a winch has been
mounted between the radiator and the
bumpers, and is driven through two uni-
versal joints from the front end of the
crankshaft. Using an inch rope 50001 b.
can be pulled.
Farm Gardens.
“Pat O’Day”: A farm garden is not
complete without eucalypts, but on the
sou’-west slopes and Riverina (N.S.W.)
imported trees such as ficifolia and rosea
supersede the natural gums, farmers
usually believing that there are sufficient
gums in paddocks close to the homestead.
Delightful country gardens, embellished
by trees indigenous to the south-west
slopes, may be seen between Wagga and
Yass. Though Tasmanian bluegums and
“imported” flowering gums, together with
various cupresses and silky oak, plane and
acacia types, are plentiful near Yass, the
local gums hold pride of place for shade
and beauty.
The residue of leaves and bark from
trees around the homestead should never
be burnt but gathered up and placed in
a pit for summer mulch. In autumn, good
country gardeners remove this summer
covering from the bases of trees or dig
it well in. It’s a good idea to see that
trees are not waterlogged by being left
standing in pools after heavy rains.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bennie”:, When fowls begin to moult,
separate them from other stock. Moulters
eat comparatively little and should be
encouraged to eat and keep their con-
dition. Plenty of green feed and occa-
sional morning feeds of bread and milk
are ideal. When feeding mash as the
morning meal, chop up a few onions in it.
If possible, mix mash always with milk
while fowls are moulting.
“M.”: Milking-cows will drink seven
to ten gallons of water for maintenance
and about gallons for every gallon
of milk produced. A cow given un-
restricted access to water will drink up to
ten times a day and take in more water
than cows allowed to drink three or four
times a day. Calves given plenty of water
as well as skim-milk will have a keener
appetite and faster growth.
“Myrrhee”; The stomachs of ruminants
and horses won’t work efficiently on con-
centrated fodder dlone. Bulk in the form
of fibrous foodstuffs (hay, straw, silage,
oat huffs, etc.) is needed to fill the
stomach, satisfy the appetite and aid
digestion by preventing the finer parts of
the- ration from caking together and defy-
ing the action of the digestive juices to
penetrate them. About two-thirds of the
feed of mature idle horses is needed to
maintain body temperature, so that good
quality roughages, which are cheaper than
concentrates and which supply a large
amount of heat in the body, are econo-
mical as maintenance rations. But don’t
overdo the feeding of bulk.
“Bennie”: Most essential thing on a
fowl run is a medicine chest. Make one
18in. long by 12in. wide and 6in. deep.
Divide it into three compartments and
stock such remedies as mercurochrome,
Condy’s crystals, Epsom salts, tincture
of iodine, sulphate of copper, sulphur,
hypodermic syringe, methylated spirits,
sodium fluoride, small nail brush, several
splints, scissors, etc. It’ll be the handiest
thing on the run.
“Rhode Island”; I have proved that
eggs should not be cleaned before setting
(B. 13/3/’46).. I set some brown eggs,
cleaned six and left six uncleaned. The
latter hatched right to time, all perfect;
two of the former came out ten hours
later, one died in shell and two were
useless. The cleaning destroys the natural
substance in the shell, corresponding to
the pores of skin in humans.
“Plane Creek”: Being nitrogen feeders
the largest cabbages are grown on natur-
ally fertile land, built up with stable
manure. Seed should be sown thinly to
ensure robust seedlings. The transplant-
ing should be done during dull, cool
weather, but not when the soil is satu-
rated with rain. Allow 3ft. between seed-
lings and stir a handful of meatworks fer-
tiliser into the soil where each plant is set.
Succession and Allhead are good, large
sorts, Sugarloaf and Improved St. John’s
Day are small and early.
“Humos”: To use sawdust in a com-
post heap spread it out on open ground
to a depth of 3in. for a couple of months.
Spread around a heap of farmyard
manure it will absorb any liquids during
wet weather. When using the weathered
sawdust in a compost heap mix about 5
p.c, by volume with other materials. Saw-
dust is rich in lignified cellulose, and lig-
nin is an important factor in humus for-*
mation.
“Billjim”; An effective antidote to
worms in pigs is addition of minerals
twice daily to the food ration. A jam-
tin full of salt, lime, meatmeal, sulphur
and stock powder plus half a tin of blue-
stone will eliminate any trouble.
“Sundowner”: Couch grass in the gar-
den is best dealt with by digging out,
but on farmland it constitutes a different
proposition. Constant cultivation spread
over 15 months and smothering or spray-
ing with 2cwt. of sodium chlorate per
acre are effective.
“Mr.”: Drench the colicky horse with
a mixture of raw linseed oil, 1-1| pints;
oil of turpentine, 20z.; aromatic spirits
of ammonia, 20z.; tincture of mix
vomica, loz. This may be followed in
two hours’ time and then at two-hourly
intervals by a second drench: aromatic
spirits of ammonia, 20z.; sweet spirits of
nitre, loz.; half a pint of water.
“Big Billy”: If Wimmera rye is to be
sown with a cereal crop lib. of seed an
acre is sufficient. The plants ripen in
the cereal crop and re-establish the grass
in the following year. If sown alone about
31b. of seed an acre is required to secure
a stand in the first season. For best
results sow early in autumn.
“Billjim”: Lucerne does not do well
under wet conditions, and is quickly
drowned out if the land is saturated for
any length of time while the lucerne is
in full growth. Therefore, fertile hill-
sides are to be preferred to flats, though
if the latter are well drained and carry
sufficient lime they are all right. As
lucerne does not like sour land or over-
wet soils, flats placed between hillsides
are not much good.
“Clyde”: The Light Horse and Pony
Council of N.S.W. was formed under
the auspices of Sydney R.A.S. this month,
the committee to comprise the horse sec-
tion committee of the R.A.S. and one
each from the Agricultural Societies’
Council, the Horse Association and the
Pony Stud Book Society, with three more
not associated with any of those bodies.
The L.H. and P.C. aims at fixing dates
for horse events other than those run by
show societies and race clubs, compiling
a register of light-horse shows and gym-
khanas and arranging judges, conditions
and so forth for the various events under
council’s control. All it needs now is
the support of light-horse lovers.
“Billjim”: S.A. has come out with
a sharefarming agreement to be made
with individual farmers to combat drift.
Basically, the plan sets out that the
farmer is to bear the full responsibility
for his normal seeding programme, but
will sow additional acres of drifting land,
with seed, super., hay, chaff and fuel sup-
plied. Costs, both to the individual and
the Government, will be recouped from
proceeds of the crop and the final returns
shared. Operations will be under the
general supervision of the Agricultural
Department.
“Bill C.”: A drought-resisting Queens-
lander—blue panic grass—has been in-
troduced into Texas (U.S.A.) to replace
the natural prairie grasses in localities
where they have deteriorated. Rhodes
grass, which has many friends in Queens-
land’s drier dairying districts, was also
planted in Texas some 20 years ago. For
a good while it was believed that Rhodes
wouldn’t be a success in Texas because
of that State’s severe, winters. However,
latest reports are that the African battler
is making definite headway there.
Land Writers.
Whenever possible state annual
rainfall, climate, altitude and type
of soil. This information helps the
reader to understand the article or
par. by comparing it with his own
conditions .


* f I •
* 6
• *
• • •
• .•
• •
• •
• • • •
• • • •
e ©
id? s
Hr
• •
g^IHONHd
o
o
m •
miaoomo
• •
>3jWH3
• •
(D
> •
• •
I • •
% •
• • •
• «
• •
• ®
• • • •
• •
• • • • • • •••••
• • ® •
A new series of tools
for working MASONITE
Although MASONITE can be worked quite
easily with ordinary carpenters’ tools, the man
who wants to do a really super job will step into
the nearest Masonite dealer and buy the
specially designed tools , illustrated above.
They’re not expensive. Each is constructed to
enable the amateur carpenter, as well as the
tradesman, to put the “professional touch
into his handling of Masonite. The uses or
the chamfering plane, grooving tool and the
punch are obvious. The paint striper enables
you to paint dead in the centre of
It works like a tennis marker: no wobbly
lines.
• • •
*O.
/ ❖
JSAM-U
MASONITE CORPORATION
(Aust.) LTD.
Northern Sales Division:
369 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern Sales Division:
529 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
of a Government representative in the
capital where the meeting takes place.
The agreement covers “fifth freedom”
or non-traffic stops in France or French
territories for British services from Britain
or British territories to India, South
Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Egypt,
Canada, the United States, to many places
in Africa, South America, the Middle
East and Far East and various European
centres. Similar facilities are granted to
the French operator in British territories
in respect of world-wide services.
Luxury to Red Army.
(From a “Harper’s Magazine” article by Peter
F. Drucker, author of “The Future of
Economic Man.”)
The best evidence of the severity of
the regime which Soviet Russia imposed
on itself under the pre-war “plans” is the
impression of luxurious abundance made
—Phoenix “Republic and Gazette.”
“I Wonder if I’ve Left Anything?”
upon the Russian soldiers —the best sup-
plied of all Russians—by the poverty and
squalor of eastern Europe.
In Berlin they have been paying the
most fantastic prices for the shoddiest
merchandise salvaged by the Germans
from the ruins.
In Bucharest, the first foreign city most
Russian soldiers had ever seen, they were
overwhelmed by the “luxury and afflu-
ence” in which the Rumanian worker
lived. Yet the slums of Bucharest were
probably the worst in all Europe.
The Viennese worker impressed the
Russian soldier as a “bourgeois”—so
much so that there has been consider-
able looting of working-class homes.
Yet under the Nazi rule Vienna —a place
of dire unemployment ever since 1918 —
had gone almost entirely without con-
sumer goods.
To own a suit of clothes in addition to
overalls, to own a radio, some china or
a watch, the things for which apparently
the looters were hunting, is “luxury” for
the Russian, who has gone without con-
sumer goods for almost 20 years.
Revolution in the Air.
(From London “Times” report of the speech
by Mr. Strachey, Under-Secretary of State for
Air, introducing Britain’s Air Estimates in the
House of Commons.)
Mr. Strachey said that the end of the
war found Britain at the threshold or over
the threshold of a vast new technical
revolution in aviation. Already there
had been three great revolutions in the
short history of aviation. During the
first world war there emerged the first
breed or species of practical aircraft for
combat and transport, and that breed
lasted until 1930. The second revolution
might be dated from the famous
Schneider Trophy event of 1931. In that
there appeared a recognisably new breed
of aircraft —high-performance, piston-
engined monoplanes.
This new type lasted with only in-
essential modifications for some years.
The Spitfire was one of the first and
last of the species. These high-perform-
ance, piston-engined machines were the
aircraft with which the R.A.F. won the
war. We in Britain, Mr. Strachey said,
were originally in the lead in this second
revolution in aviation, but though we
never lost the technical lead in design
Germany did re-equip her air force with
this new type of aircraft before we did.
In the nick of time in 1940 we caught up
with Germany and took the lead again—
but at what a cost and what a risk!
Now, in 1946, we were at the beginning
of a third revolution affecting alike com-
bat, transport and civil types of aircraft.
It was a profound revolution, because it
was based on new methods of propulsion.
The gas turbine engine was the key to
the situation, whether harnessed to pro-
pellers or issuing direct in a jet. It was
a fundamentally new engine and it would
be superseding the piston engine, first
for the single-seater fighters and before
long for the 100-seater airliners. There
would come a fundamentally new breed
of aircraft, and the appropriate air
frames for these intensely powerful
engines were by no means all designed.
Strange and fascinating new problems
were being encountered. At 760 miles
an hour the speed of sound was attained
at ground level, while at 30,000 ft. the
speed of sound was only some 660 miles
an hour. Those speeds were being rapidly
approached. At the speed of sound a
strange wall or barrier of air resistance
arises which it is difficult to break
through; but once through, said the
technicians, possibilities arose, at great
heights, of course, of quite phenomenal
speeds. In the not very distant future
they might become an actuality.
Moreover this new breed of aircraft
which was emerging on the basis of the
gas turbine was only one of the startling
technical developments which were just
emerging at the end of the war. There
was the possibility of pilotless aircraft.
We were less familiar with the question
of guided missiles of all sorts. But it
might be that in that field there were
many reassuring possibilities for defence.
There was the super-fast submarine which
set many problems for the Coastal Com-
mand of the future; and finally, over-
shadowing in some, although not in all,
respects all other developments, there
was the release of atomic energy, which
must not be thought of as an isolated
scientific event but as part of the whole
series of startling changes.
With regard to the third revolution
which was producing a new breed of air-
craft based on the gas turbine engine, it
was no exaggeration to say that once
again Britain held undoubted leadership.
No nation could, for the present, produce
any propulsion unit such as the British
gas turbine.
He was speaking about aircraft in
general, for the remarkable technical
changes which were going on affected all
types equally. Moreover, this technical
fact had been recognised by the new
arrangements which had been arrived at
for carrying on our aviation research and
development. This would not be under-
taken in the future by the Air Ministry,
but would be centralised under the
Ministry of Supply, so that its fruits
might be applied immediately and equally
to the R.A.F., civil aviation, and the
Fleet Air Arm, They would find an
item of £28,000,000 for this purpose in
the estimates of the Ministry of Supply.
That might be thought to be a fairly sub-
stantial sum, but it might prove to be
only a very small figure compared to the
appropriations which it would pay Britain
over and over again to make in the field
of aviation research and development.
(Cheers.) He begged that in this and
succeeding years an exceptionally high
proportion of available resources would
be devoted to research and de-
velopment. Whatever else they econo-
mised on, let them not economise on that.
(Cheers.) If Britain slackened in de-
velopment and economised on research it
would be swiftly overtaken.
Nelson’s Victory Serves Again
(From N.Y. “Herald Tribune")
It would be hard to discover a nicer
pattern of symbolism than is afforded by
the service of H.M.S, Victory in World
War 11.
Naval traditions may be preserved in
several fashions. A celebrated ship may
be maintained intact, as the U.S.S. Con-
stitution has been, to serve as a vivid
reminder of old battles and old ways, or
her name can be passed oh to newer
vessels, thus to take its part in actual
fighting. For example, the Royal
Sovereign led Nelson’s lee line at Trafal-
gar, under Admiral Collingwood. In
1939 this distinguished name was borne
by a modem battleship, not of latest
design (she was completed in 1916), but
still powerful enough to render valiant
service against the Axis and, in the end,
as the Archangelsk, to become the largest
unit of the Russian Navy.
But the Victory was preserved as a
fabric of wood and hemp, just as on the
day of Trafalgar, cradled in a dock at
Portsmouth. It might seem that her
value would be wholly inspiration in a
war in which steel clashed on tough steel,
in which the skies rained fire and destruc-
tion enough to have consumed Nelson’s
whole fleet in an hour. It might seem
victory enough if the Victory should sur-
vive the hell that was visited on Ports-
mouth by the Luftwaffe.
The Victory not only survived, how-
ever ; she served. In the worst days of
the blitz the shore quarters of the com-
mander-in-chief of the naval base at
Portsmouth were destroyed, and he took
his flag to the Victory, where it waved
from a staff on the old ship’s main lower
mast (her topmasts and topgallants had
been sent down early in the war) to fly
defiantly and, as the issue proved, victori-
ously. The Victory’s oak sides sheltered,
during the worst of the Nazi fury, a good
proportion of the personnel of the great
base. She was not unscathed. A 5001 b.
. bomb smashed a section of her stout keel
and let daylight into her hold. She was
shaken slightly by the blast of near misses,
her deck was scarred somewhat by in-
cendiaries, and a large chunk of stone
dented her planking.
But she is still substantially intact; her
hemp rigging and wooden ■ spars have
been restored, and she deserves more than
ever her proud name the Victory.
Jewish Exodus.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by
William Philip Simms.)
The greatest Jewish exodus since the
children of Israel crossed the Red Sea is
under way in Europe. And now, as then,
Canaan would seem to be a long way
off and the road strewn with difficulties
and danger.
Of Europe’s 11 million Jews only a few
million remain. The rest have been killed
or starved or driven into exile. And those
still in Europe are struggling to leave.
At least they are striving with might and
main to get out of eastern and central
Europe.
Before the war approximately nine mil-
lion Jews lived in eastern Europe. Ger-
many had only about 500,000. Poland
alone had some 3,500,000 —seven times as
many as Germany. They constituted
10 p.c. of the population.
Now and for months past, according
to reports, official and unofficial, Jews
are leaving eastern Europe in a steady
stream. They bring stories of being dis-
possessed, of brutal treatment and “even
of wholesale murder.. It is clear that none
of them—even those from areas where
fair treatment has been officially prom-
ised—any longer has any faith in such
pledges.
Oddly enough—or perhaps it is not so
odd—the direction of this vast new
exodus is westward. Soviet Russia is
nearer than any other promised land, but
Russia is not inviting the Jews to come in.
Moreover, Russia dominates all eastern
Europe from which the Jews are fleeing—
including Poland. And Russia has the
greatest land mass —nine million square
miles—of any country, with only 21 in-
habitants per square mile.
Some 15 years ago the world was told
a good deal about establishment of a
Jewish homeland in Russia. It was at
Birobidjan, in Siberia, about 150 miles
west of Kharbarovsk. Today inquiries
reveal that only 30 to 40 thousand Jews
live there. The climate inclines to ex-
tremes, and the soil is none too fertile.
Nor are the inhabitants being over-
indulged by a paternalistic Government,
for an American committee now special-
ises in sending them money and equip-
ment.
Jews have all but disappeared from
Kremlin leadership. Before the purges


at the gate or sling, them over the
fence.
He came right in with a big cane
basket, covered for cleanliness with a
most doubtful-looking square of tar-
paulin canvas. The baker was quite an
old man of decent instincts, and there
were strong traces of mildness about him.
The horse followed, bellyband tight be-
neath him with the back weight of the
cart, and pulled up in front of Mrs.
Albert’s, drooped his head, dropped his
underlip, and stood on three legs, and
then went on reflecting as aged horses do.
“Good morning, Mrs. Albert. Nice
weather for summer, isn’t it?” This was
said with an enthusiasm that would have
deceived none but the mentally deficient.
But the baker thought he would escape
that way. He never did, however.
“Mr. Spillsbury, I want a loaf of
brown as well.”
“So sorry, Mrs. Albert—only half of
brown left.”
That was a mere preliminary to the
grand accusation of the weevil. “And
your bread has weevils, Mr. Spillsbury.
Weevils! ”
“Weevils?”
“Weevils! ”
Mrs. Albert had with her a half-loaf of
yesterday’s or the day before’s. The small
flies that follow fermentation were upon
it in strength. “See —weevils!”
Mr. Spillsbury was deeply hurt, not so
much over the trumped-up charge of
weevils as at the accusation that the bread
was his bread. It wasn’t his bread —it
belonged to the boss, whom he hated
with all the powers that his drab life had
left him. Only last week he had said to
his wife “It’s crook stuff, I can tell you.
Glad we don’t have to eat it.” But now,
not loyalty to the boss but a commend-
able self-respect made some sort of de-
fence necessary,
“But—but —are they weevils, now?”
“I’m showing you—see for yourself!”
“Must have got in since, you know.
Hardly live with the heat of the baking
and all that.”
“What! You mean to say my house is
dirty and full of weevils!”
This shifting of ground terrified Mr.
Spillsbury, Mrs. Albert stood above him,
towered above him, on the verandah
steps, one hand on hip and the other
holding the weevil exhibit. Her beauti-
ful arms were mottling. Mr. Spillsbury
swallowed his pride and the weevils with
it-and murmured contrition. “Yes, yes,
Mrs. Albert. Very sorry. I’ll speak to
the boss—”
Mrs. Albert took a small pile of
Vienna loaves, and the weevilly loaf with
these, and the half of brown and pressed
them all against her bosom. She
watched the baker’s retreat, and in her
victory she couldn’t help reflecting that
the baker was not at all unlike the post-
man.
Mr. Spillsbury, futile storms raging
within him, went by the brick path to
the side gate. With a great effort he
forewent the luxury of banging the gate
and smashing it.
The horse, still on three legs, was sunk
in gloomy reverie in which the worst
horrors of meat-rationing formed no little
part, and their too personal application
in the way of cats’ meat and dogs’ meat
possibly food for greyhounds ...
though this was far-fetched, since grey-
hounds got only the choicest available
beef. From these reflections he Was
rudely awakened by Mr. Spillsbury’s
voice: “You bastard!”
Nor was there any mistaking the
vehemence and venom of the tones. And
not only was this illegitimacy offensive
but it was highly punishable as well. On
account of it the horse received a savage
kick on the ribs.
Mr. Spillsbury mounted the step, sat
down in firm fashion and then sawed the
horse’s head to and fro with the reins.
This was clearly a matter that only speed
could remedy-horse and cart descended
the gully at twenty miles per hour. It
was only near the top of the opposite
hill that calmer reason • prevailed, and
the horse must have been relieved to hear
Mr. Spillsbury ejaculate “The-fat bitch! ”
He knew at least that that did not refer
to him. Also, that the sins of his parents
were being overlooked if not condoned.
Mrs. Albert watched this flight with
satisfaction and understanding till the
rattle of the cart died away. Then she
took her armful of bread to the crock. It
wasn’t till late that afternoon that the
horse, in the privacy of his yard, and Mr.
Spillsbury, in the congenial atmosphere
of the Duke of Albany, recovered some
measure of the self-esteem so necessary
to horses and men. ’
nr HE baker so disposed of, the daily
1 war against the “system” was nearly
over. Certainly it was continued in the
shops she had to visit, but here the battle-
ground was different, and offered little
advantage.
The butcher would say “Take it or
leave it!” and go on to the next custo-
mer. So she had to take it —and quickly,
too. 0
That butcher was more hateful even
than the icemen, and just as uncommonly
hard to “get at.” His very method of
patting a piece of ancient mutton with a
small cleaver was a positive insult to itself.
Nor was the grocer much satisfaction,
either, and Mrs. Albert longed to “go
him scone-hot”; but he didn’t care
whether she got butter and sugar or not.
And he fussed greatly over coupons, and
was quick to notice any little pardonable
error Mrs. Albert might make about the
particular numbers of the coupons for
specified periods. He never seemed to
have bacon and eggs, which were not
rationed, and was strongly suspected of
keeping these for his favorites —un-
doubtedly a low class of crawlers.
The greengrocer was different,, how-
ever, and was a sort of ally. “Mrs.
Albert, I wish to Gawd, I do, that I had
the potatoes. I can only let you have a
pound. And they’re poor stuff, too.”
Then the greengrocer became grimly
political: “It’s the Guv’mint, Mrs.
Albert, that’s what it is. The Guv’mint.”
“And the system!”
“Both, Mrs. Albert. The Guv’mint ’n’
the system. They says ‘Five pound ’f
potatoes fer sixpence!’ Now, don’t they?
You have the sixpence and I haven’t five
pounds of potatoes to give you; and
where are we? And all the time there
are thousands of tons of potatoes rotting
on the wharves!”
“Rotten! ”
“Lousy!”
“What’s the country coming to?”
“Gawd only knows. Just a pound of
potatoes, Mrs. Albert! It makes me blood
boil,”
Somehow that was the proper and sym-
pathetic note on which to end the morn-
ing. Hostility and desire for it died down
in Mrs. Albert, and she became once
more a plump and comfortable woman—•
quite attractive, really. Only just now
and then during the day would she re-
member. And then her nostrils would
dilate and quiver a little as she said ;
“The system—it’s all wrong. Give us
what they like if we are willing to lie
down under it. But / won’t.”
of 1936-37, out of 28 sections of the
Soviet Foreign Office 23 were headed by
Jews. After the purge only five remained.
Maxim Litvinov and Ivan Maisky, two
of the U.S.S.R.’s most brilliant diplomats
and exponents of collective security, to
all intents have been shelved.
Anti-Semitism, however, is not con-
fined to any one area. In greater or
lesser degree it is on the upsurge through-
out the European continent.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
By giving priority to mechanisation of the
coalmines the British Government shows en-
lightenment. Within five years the Treasury
will lend up to £150,000,000 for equipping the
mines with up-fo-date installations. Upon this
capital for technical improvements depends the
industry’s future. —“Atlantic Monthly.”
♦ * * *
Referring to the statement in Moscow news-
papers that the Greek Catholics in Ruthenia
had seceded to the Orthodox Church, Cardinal
Griffin, at Westminster Cathedral, said the
facts were that for the past year a violent
and bitter persecution had been launched against
them. The entire episcopate, consisting of
seven bishops, had been arrested; of these
three had died and the rest were still in prison.
In addition, a very large number of priest's had
been arrested, imprisoned or deported, and
many had been murdered, while the remaining
clergy were unable to exercise their ministry.
The Catholic Church leaders had been replaced
by apostate priests who had declared their
allegiance to the Russian Orthodox Church and
their withdrawal from the authority of, the
Pope. The Church in Yugoslavia had also
been subjected to persecution, and in many
other regions now within the Russian zone
Catholic schools and Church property had been
confiscated and Catholics had been persecuted.
—London “Times.”
* * * *
The first impression gained that the French
Government has shifted its ground over the
control of western Germany is confirmed by in-
formed opinion in Paris. Up fo now the French
have insisted on territorial separation of the
Ruhr from the rest of Germany as an essential
condition of their security. International eco-
nomic control as suggested by the British, it
was argued, would be inadequate because a re-
nascent Germany might be left with means to
rearm in secret. This argument had been de-
veloped at length in a succession of Notes to
the Allies. Now M. Gouin has said that the
French must insist on the prolonged military
occupation of Germany and of “the establish-
ment of an international consortium which
would direct and control that highly explosive
element which is the territory of the Ruhr.”
The phrasing was equivocal, but suggested that
the French would no longer insist on territorial
separation. It appears that London was hostile
to an international solution of the Ruhr question
and would agree only to international sharing
of the coal. According to the newspaper
“Monde,” “M. Gouin has not narrowed the
ground for negotiation. He has simply pro-
nounced himself in favor of an international
consortium which would control the mining
and metallurgical production of me Ruhr.
This is a broad formula which does not imply
the political separation of this area from the
rest of Germany—a solution to which all the
Allies seem opposed.” The Prim? Minister
had refrained, the “Monde” points out, from
demanding the creation of a separate Rhineland,
garrisoned by a French or international army,
and had asked only for the prolonged occupa-
tion of the whole of Germany. It will be re-
called that the original French plan, put for-
ward when General de Gaulle was head of the
Government, envisaged the creation of an
autonomous Rhineland. It seems that this pro-
posal has now been dropped. —Paris correspon-
dent, London “Times."
* * * *
A Russian reader is trained to the idea
that no argument is advanced with conviction
unless it begins by calling the opponent a liar,
Out of the instinct for self-
preservation the United States twice
entered into war, and it is difficult
to conceive of any circumstances in
which it would not do so in the
future if the British Empire should
again find itself under attack from
the outside. And since this is so it
might perhaps help to clear the air
if that fact were impressed upon
the world beyond the possibility of
a misunderstanding. It has been
said that the Germans embarked on
the first World War because they
doubted British participation, and
on the second because they doubted
American participation. Such
doubts should not tempt aggressors
in the future. — N.Y. “Times.”
thief, diversionist, pro-Hitlerite and grinder
of the face of the poor. The Western reaction,
rather, is to dismiss any argument which starts
out with an imputation of bad faith, on the
ground that it must be a very weak argument
if it has to use such methods. This is a diffi-
culty of language which the most skilful trans-
lation cannot remove; but it is serious enough
to deserve attention. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Bridging the gap from Franco to a securely
established Spanish democracy is chock-a-block
with danger—danger to Spain and to world
peace. After the overthrow of Alfonso in 1931,
Spain had a duly elected constitutional Gov-
ernment. In 1936, however, a Communist-led
Popular Front transformed the republic into
something closely resembling a second Soviet
Union. There followed a little world war, with
Germany and Italy fighting Russia on Spanish
soil, thus ushering in World War 11. Interven-
tion in Spain now, many fear, might set fire to
a similar powder train. Russia is just as inter-
ested in the Iberian Peninsula today as she was
in the ’thirties—perhaps more so. But her idea
of what constitutes a democracy is clearly the
antithesis of the Anglo-American idea. She
agreed at Yalta to free and unfettered elections
in Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and
other areas, but as yet no such elections have
been held. Instead, puppet States have been
set up. An American-British-French effort to
establish an interim Government in Spain with
a view, to holding a free and unfettered elec-
tion in that country at a later date might end
in a similar fashion —or even worse. It might
result in a new civil war, this time with Russia
backing one side and Britain and the United
States the other. The world situation being
what it is, that would invite unthinkable dis-
aster. —William Philip Simms, N.Y. “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
Russia should know that, although there are
many people in Britain who oppose Commun-
ism, there is not one man or woman here who
wants another war anywhere. The same applies
to the people of the United States and —so far
as the desire for peace goes—to the Russian
people also. Yet Russia is playing with fire
when she stretches the nerves of the Middle
Eastern countries. Trust, confidence, goodwill.
These are the gifts which are offered to Russia
if she would only accept them and reciprocate
them. Once she does the prospect of peace
will bound forward; but until she does the
future must remain uncertain. —London “Daily
Maik”
* * * *
It is obvious that if it is possible at all for
a military Government of conquerors to re-
educate a whole nation, the re-education must
There are four major political forces
in today’s sorely troubled post-war
world: (1) The British Empire, now
under severe attack at its every weak
point around the globe. (2) The Soviet
Union, which is doing much of the press-
ing against the British Empire, but which
more broadly is showing itself to be an
aggressive and expanding force. (3) The
Vatican, which, by its distribution of
new non-Italian Cardinalates and by
clerical parties in various countries,
specifically opposes the Soviet Union at
the chief pressure points. (4) The United
States, which to some degree has drawn
back from the imperial struggle between
Soviet and British forces, but which is
in constant danger of being involved by
either British or Vatican connections.
These four forces make a veritable
witches’ brew of conflicting interest. Left
in the realm of pressure politics, they
promise nothing but violence and war.
And the world need, of course, is to
head off this war: to replace it by ad-
justment and balance within the frame-
work of the United Nations. —“Christian
Science Monitor’'' editor Erwin D. Can-
ham.
take at a minimum a whole generation. It is a
long, complicated, expensive business which
only an army of occupation that was itself
highly educated for the task could conceivably
carry out. There was an alternative. That
was to let the Germans re-educate them-
selves and to fix attention upon making it
impossible for them to rearm. If was a
relatively simple thing to do. It did not
require any general deindustrialisation of Ger-
many. It would have been quite enough to
demolish the arsenals, to regulate German ex-
port's and imports and to put firmly under
Allied control the coal of the Ruhr, upon which
all German industry depends. With Silesia lost
to the Poles and with the Ruhr under Allied
control, all the Germans would not be good
Germans, but they would lack the means, to be
very bad Germans. — Walter Lippmann; N.Y.
“Herald Tribune. v
* * ♦ *
If the peoples of the earth today abandon
the United Nations Organisation they will get
chaos without hope. For out of chaos fresh
confidence does not arise.— Former U.S.
Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles;
“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * ♦
Speakitfg in the House of Lords, Lord
Lindsay said it was time we asked ourselves what
we were going to do with 60,000,000 of one of
the most capable and efficient races in the
world. He did not know the answer. But
somehow we had to contrive to give Germany
something to do without making it possible
for her to rule anybody. A situation where
people were allowed to be desperate and starv-
ing produced despair, and despair produced
more Hitlers. — London “Times.”
* * * *
“We are already looking after a number of
Dutch children here [in Britain], and may re-
ceive in all some 10,000 children from the
Netherlands. We have welcomed here a limited
number of children from German concentra-
tion camps, and we are at present bringing
over here some French children.” — British
Home Secretary Chuter Ede, explaining why
Britain could not take 10,000 more children
from Germany and central Europe.
* * * *
Russians in America with official or semi-
official connections number about 1400, accord-
ing to State Department files. Of the total
257 men and women are connected directly
with the Russian diplomatic service from coast
to coast. Most of the others are assigned to
economic missions, purchasing groups and
similar enterprises through which they have
almost unrestricted range of the U.S. Ameri-
cans in Russia, on the other hand, total only
about 150 persons. That includes newspaper
correspondents, businessmen and educators as
well as those in the U.S. diplomatic, and
military service, and in all cases their move-
ments are tightly controlled, their communica-
tions limited, their correspondence with the
U.S. censored either directly or indirectly.—
“United States News."’
* * M *
An American officer fresh back from Ger-
many was sitting with us reading the report of
Mrs. Roosevelt’s address in Berlin to Ameri-
can G.ls. in which she sweetly urged that U.S.
troops try to understand their Russian brothers-
in-arms and get along with them. It seems
that this particular American had been shot at
by some Russians in Berlin, seen Americans in
uniform robbed, witnessed fights when G.ls.
tried to break up some Russian raping parties.
His sole observation was: “The report of Mrs.
Roosevelt’s address is encouraging. All this
shows we still maintain excellent discipline.
Otherwise the G.ls. in Germany would have
shouted her down and filled the air wjth dead
cats —all going in her direction.” John
O’Donnell; N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * ♦ *
The first goal of the Japanese is to rebuild
their country economically. Most of them
seem to realise that as a political Power they
are finished, or at least their resurgence is in
the distant future. To return their country to
some economic and industrial stability the
Japanese are reckoning upon a number of
favorable elements. Foremost of these is that
despite the damages of war their physical plant
remains capable of a reasonably good level of
production once they are permitted to use it.
Second is that they ended the war with a con-
siderable stockpile of raw materials which they
were unable to use. Another is the abundance
of cheap labor available among a people accus-
tomed for centuries to a low standard of living.
~A fourth is their confidence, warranted or not,
that the conquerors will nurse them along—
perhaps even give financial aid —until they are
once more able to stand alone. They think by
that time the Americans will weary of playing
empire and go home. — “Wall-street Journal”
correspondent in Japan.
♦ * * *
In the House of Lords Lord Chatfield said
that it was not sufficient merely for Britain to
provide a force for U.N.O. responsibilities.
They had got to be ready for U.N.O. breaking
down. They had trusted the League of Nations
before and that had failed them. The same
mistake must not be made again. Britain must
have additional strength according to Imperial
responsibility. Much closer co-operation with
the Dominions must be established.— London
“Times.”
* * * *
British youth, which so gaily voted the Labor
Government into power, now seems to be
having second thoughts about the attractions
of the socialist utopia. London immigration
offices of the Dominions report streams of in-
quiries from potential emigrants. New Zealand
has an average of 150 letters a day, South
Africa 100, and Australia and Canada a steady
stream of applicants. —London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.”
» k- * #
Despite all propaganda, the leaders of the
Soviet Union know that they have not
accomplished in Russia the building of an
economy which affords to the Russian people a
standard of living even remotely comparable
with that of the lowliest worker in the Western
world. To be sure, the Russian worker has a
security unequalled by his counterpart in the
Western world, but it is the security of a
miserable standard.— W. H. Lawrence; N.Y.
“Times” supplement.
• * * *
General Eisenhower, speaking of Mr.
Churchill: “One of the great men of the world
—a man whose conception of politics, industry
and military affairs led him to be the inspira-
tion for the North African campaign. Of all the
things that supported me in the years of war
none other was so inspiring as the courage
and indomitable support of the Prime Minister
of Great Britain.” —London “Times” report.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4]£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
An Eqho from Ambon
Thanks for “Merely Australians” (B.
3/4/’46).
Because I happen to have come back
from Ambon I consider that the sug-
gested inquiry should be held without de-
lay, and I speak for many men who,
since their return, have been my fellow-
patients in hospital.
Why should survivors of the 2 / 21st
Battalion want matters so painful to
them made public?
My mind goes back to late January,
1942. The R.A.A.F. had evacuated Laha
’drome ; the Yanks had gone from Paso ;
H.M.A.S. Swan, after gallantly defend-
ing herself against vicious bombing
attacks, had sailed for other glories. We
were left alone. I am wrong ; we had
two Dutch-operated Brewsters. But they
gave battle to 30 Jap ’planes, and did
not last long.
We felt intensely the futility of resist-
ing the enemy with his transports,
cruisers, destroyers and ’planes. When
we could see them confing someone said
that we were political sacrifices, rats in
a trap. He expressed what many of us
felt. It speaks well for Australian courage
that so many Japs perished before the
surrender came.
Our treatment as prisoners, with the
dreadful loss of our comrades through
brutality, disease and starvation, made us
more and more conscious of the neces-
sity for knowing why it had to be. Surely
an explanation was overdue —or were we,
and are we still, not to reason why?
We really expected that while we were
prisoners an inquiry would have taken
place. Didn’t the English have inquiries
while the Turks held prisoners from
Gallipoli and Kut?
Meanwhile, we are presumably at
liberty to suppose that our C.O. was re-
called because he knew and complained ;
that his successor did not know that we
had neither air nor naval support and
were underequipped ; that 14 rookies who
arrived as reinforcements on January 11
were untrained; that Dutch and Aus-
tralian liaison cracked up; that the last
message sent was a call for help.
Next-of-kin of the heroes who perished,
the rather sickly survivors and The
Bulletin —God bless ’em all!—working
hand in hand, might get what they’re
after eventually.
And tell L. C. Legge-Wilkinson that I
saw Indernesian comrades throwing
away their uniforms as they ran from an
enemy that needed a fleet and 20,000 men
to capture, 1092 Australians, not one of
them a Commo.— Sgt. Damocles (Vic.).
Another Paterson Memorial
The birthplace of “Banjo” Paterson is
about two miles from Orange, and a
committee representing the Orange Muni-
cipal Council and the Canobolas Shire
Council is considering ways of giving
effect to a suggestion by Mr. W. R. Glas-
son, of Gamboola, Molong, that a
memorial should be erected near Orange.
Neither the actual site of the memorial
nor the form has been decided. A sug-
gestion which might well find favor with
the committee is that the site should be
on the Mitchell Highway, approaching
Orange from the east, and at or adjacent
to the junction with a road leading to
Narrambla. The nature and form of
the memorial will, of course, be depend-
ent to some extent upon the amount of
money available.
The fact that “Banjo” Paterson was
born at Narrambla, near Orange, may
be verified at the Orange Cdurt House,
where the record of the registration of
his birth is held. The house in which he
was born has been demolished, but the
site is quite discernible. He was also
baptised in Orange, and his widow has
been residing here for some time past.
A subscription list has already been
opened at this office, and any donations
which may be' sent to me will be
acknowledged with the thanks of the
committee, which is working in consulta-
tion with the Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society.— John Williams, Shire Clerk,
Canobolas (N.S.W.).
The New Army
Whatever defence policy we adopt for
the future, it is of the utmost importance
to preserve the traditions of the individual
units that fought in the two world wars.
My suggestion would demand very little
alteration to existing arrangements.
Take the south-east Queensland area,
for example. It is covered at present by
the 25th (militia) battalion. This would
become the 1 / 25th ; the 1st (training)
battalion, 25th infantry regiment. Every
able-bodied youth in the area, on reach-
ing the prescribed age, would enter it
for the required term of training, unless
he went to a specialist unit. In cases
of hardship a man’s training call-up might
be deferred for a year or two, but he
would not be exempted unless it were
humanly impossible for him to perform
his service. At the end of his training
he would go to the reserve.
In case of war or other emergency,
reservists would be called up, with due
regard to essential manpower needs. The
first call-ups would go, not to the parent
unit, but to the 2/25th; the 2nd (active)
battalion, 25th infantry regiment, a
purely war-time formation to be dis-
banded as soon as the need was over.
Later call-ups would go to the l/25th
for a period of refresher training and
then to the fighting partner as reinforce-
ments ; or, if the emergency and the
numbers available warranted, to form a
3/25th, similar to the 2/25th.
These and corresponding units from
other areas would form the A.I.F., while
the training battalions would remain
C.M.F. or militia. The latter would not
normally be sent into action, though they
“Finish Writing your article afterw2rds —your brontosaurus chops are
getting cold!”
would perform garrison duties in their
own areas.
All battle honors won by the 25th and
'2/25th (A.1.F.) and 25th (militia) bat-
talions would be carried by the regiment
and by all battalions belonging to it.
This plan would, among other things,
do away with the jealousy that has been
allowed to grow up between A.I.F. and
militia, for every man would belong, not
to one or the other, but to both. And
every man would feel that he belonged
to a formation that had fought on Galli-
poli and in France; in Syria, in New
Guinea, Bougainville and Borneo ; and
the morale of the unit would benefit
accordingly.—X. Q. X. (Q.).
Leaving a Bit Here
Overseas firms setting up business in
Australia can, in the last analysis, send
money out of the country only for
materials not obtainable here and divi-
dends on shares held overseas.
When opening negotiations they may
take kindly to a suggestion that a portion
— 2\ p.c. or 5 p.c—of their net yearly
profits after a dividend has been paid out
be invested in Australia in such form as
they may choose, such as # extension of
plant or Government securities. No com-
pulsion to be used, and no question of
oversight. Leave it to the good faith
of those behind the new venture, and in
the long run Australia would benefit con-
siderably.—C. H. Regelsen (Vic.).
No Star
In 1944 some of the men from my
wireless air-gunners. course were sent to
Tadji (N.G.) for operations in Beauforts.
At the same time another group, includ-
ing myself, was attached to a civil airline
for transport work on behalf of the
Americans.
The Beaufort lads completed two “tours
of operations” and returned to the main-
land. Our transports covered exactly the
same territory, frequently accompanying
the Beauforts on a strafing run to drop
supplies to front-line A.I.F. The Beau-
forts were armed; the transports were
not. The Beaufort crews carried para-
chutes ; the transport crews had pone.
The Beauforts were grounded in doubt-
ful weather ; the transports flew in all
weathers —they had to as they carried
the E.H.Q. mail. The Beauforts never
flew at night. The transports flew every
night, usually for a five-hour stretch
across the water. For every hour flown
by the Beaufort men the transport crews
flew four hours.
Air Board has awarded the Beaufort
boys both the 1939-45 Star and the
Pacific Star, without granting the trans-
port crews either. All of the hours com-
piled on the Beauforts are classed as
operational; not one of ours is.
My own flying log records 2153 hours,
1420 outside Australia and 565 night-
flying hours. For this, Air Board grants
no recognition whatever.
Is that a fair crack of the whip?—
434328 (Q.).
What of the Half caste?
Derby excepted, all the north Westra-
lian towns have a strict color bar. When
a dance is held halfcastes may sweep
out the hall, arrange the decimations, pre-
pare the supper and do the hundred-and-
one odd jobs which crop up, but no girl
among them may venture on the floor.
If she did whites of both sexes would
stalk out in disgust. The rule is relaxed
on the playing field —if it wasn’t there
would be a pretty sorry display.
Here and there one comes upon a
family of halfcastes who show, not just
more than average ability, but real talent.
There are girls who have had a decent
education, sometimes “down soi*th,” and
who can talk of literature and music with
the best; and there are lads who can
play and work as well as, if not better
than, their white “brothers.” Yet the most
beer-sodden waster, if his skin is white,
considers himself superior to them, and
makes no bones about showing it. As
for some of the white women, their air
of superiority would be funny were it not
so painful.
Surely these people, whose color is the
fault of the white man, deserve better
treatment. — Beecham (W.A.).
Bombs Over Darwin
In my island retreat I had read about
“a stampede for Adelaide River” (B.
5/12 / ’45) with distaste, so I was pleased
to see the article “The Darwin Raid”*
(B. 2/1 / ’46). In my judgment “Darwin
Evacuee” really knows his subject.
Not until the blitz-weary fortress
troops began to return on leave did rela-
tives and friends begin to realise just how
much the Darwin civilians put up with.
During the evacuation civilians were
under strict orders, and in the short time
available a remarkable feat was accomp-
lished—incidentally, it was the first time
that civilian, larmy and navy officials
worked as a combination in Australia.
We in the services soon realised how
essential it was to have Darwin solely a
“fortress area.” Civilians would have
made the food and housing position
almost unbearable.
My own unit saw some wonderfully
! brave things done by civilians in Dar-
win. In several cases I have heard my
men quoting some incident and holding
up the civilian hero as a shining example
of plain Australian “guts.”
In six years of war, which have taken
me into every S.W.P.A. battle zone, I
have yet to find the man who can put
himself up on a pedestal and refer to a
fellow-man as a coward. I have never
met one.
February 19 brought back horrible
memories to most of my little gang,
touching ones when our minds wandered
to those who made the supreme sacrifice
that their homeland might continue to be
untouched by the horrors of war and
destruction. — Tige (N.G.).
The Transport Problem .
Though we boast of improved
speeds, ou;. transport problem is
worse now than it ever was.
We grow apples galore, but many rot
in the orchards because we can’t devise
suitable means of carting them to hungry
people. We haven’t a way of moving
mushrooms fast enough from the places
in which they grow, so they sell in Sydney
at 7s. a pound. We had far worse
troubles during the war, because we were
not able to move things fast enough.
In island war areas lie great quantities
of wrecked aeroplanes and other gear and
parts. If I had a small portion of the
metal in my backyard I could make a
living from it —if I could get a back-
yard.—Metax (Tas.).
Ravages by Erosion
The Thames carries to the sea 1,078,925
tons of solids annually, nearly half of
which is soluble salts, the rest being sus-
pended mineral matter. The Thames is
about 200 miles long and has a catchment
area of 5334 square miles.
The Murray flows sluggishly for the
most part, yet, in spite of the conservation
in the Hume Weir, 20 million tons of
valuable salts and minerals is annually
wasted beyond recovery. Let alone,
Nature would restore the balance by free
growth and consequent vast watersheds.
Where there are thick forest belts rain is
always plentiful
We must denude to a certain extent,
but we can assist Nature vastly by en-
deavoring to replant wherever we fell, re-
store wherever there is wastage and,
most important of all, conserve and re-
conserve every drop of water. Railway-
gauge standardisation is relatively unim-
portant.—Rooster (Vic.).
This Housing Shortage
Our State Government continues to
nibble at the housing problem. Its
latest proposal is to house 200 families
on the Showgrounds, and an additional
thousand families in the sheds, halls and
other buildings. What is to happen to
the Show isn’t mentioned.
excuse for these desperate mea-
sures is that there is a materials short-
age. There can be no labor shortage
when the unions are privileged to hold
stop-work meetings. Nor is there any
shortage of materials. But there is a
shortage of original thinking amongst
the hordes of officials who are gumming
up the business.
After the last war Sir Edward Lutyens
tried to revive pise and mudbrick in Eng-
land. He stated in a book that he was
defeated by trade-unions and master-
builders.
There are inexhaustible quantities of
clay and earth in Australia, Even roofs
can be made of mudbrick with a bitu-
menised surface, and they are cooler
and more durable than tiles or “galvo.”
The roofs can be arched, and a new note
brought into the monotony of our domes-
tic architecture. Needed only are an ex-
cavator and unskilled labor, but it is un-
skilled labor that the unions would
object to.
My own experience may be worth re-
counting. I helped to build a number of
buildings of mudbrick and pise, till the
war stonkered the work. Walls of the
unfinished houses have been exposed to
the weather for six years and they are
absolutely unaffected.
By means of a dragsaw we felled some
of the gum-trees in our paddock, sold
some of the timber for firewood, thus
paying for cost of clearing and showing
a profit, obtained nearly all the building
timber we needed and improved the look
of the paddock. All the material for the
walls came out of the excavations for
the foundation, so we put up our build-
ings without increasing the materials
shortage.
A few unskilled workmen and an ex-
cavator in a couple of weeks could pro-
duce so much building material that it
would astound post-war reconstructionists.
Who would complain and find it unprac-
tical? Big business interests and trade-
unions.
A housing official who inspected our
buildings admired them, but said the
ordinary citizen would feel belittled if he
lived in a house which people called a
mud house. I have been in parts of
Europe where kings palaces were built
of mud and have seen shooting lodges
made of pise—Nakhoda (Vic.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
7/uT&ulZetz//L.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months £l4 0
6 „ 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3 i> •• .. .. 40
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands—B months .. ~ £1 9 0
Tourist Traffic
The remarks of “D.S.M.” are both
timely and correct (B. 13/3/’46). During
I the early part of the war my job as an
Army instructor took me to every part
of Australia except Tasmania and the
Darwin area. Some places fell far be-
low what tourist pamphlets had led me
to expect. Others were far better than
anything I had read or been told about
them.
Nothing had prepared me for the
glorious show of wildflowers in Westralia
between July and October, nor had I
dreamed that the West had a fisherman’s
paradise like Exmouth Gulf; American
naval men assured me that they had seen
no place to equal it in their own country
or abroad.
It is North Queensland, however,
drenched with sunshine while southern
Australia is in the grip of winter, which
holds all the trumps. The Barrier Reef
and its islands have no rivals in the whole
of the Pacific, and Cairns, the Atherton
Tableland, the Valley of Lagoons, Moss-
man and Daintree really have something
to offer.
At many spots the Army has cleared
ground for camps, established roads and
water supplies, built wharves and aero-
dromes. What an opportunity to establish
tourist camps where cheap holidays
could be enjoyed! But all travel to and
from these spots should be by sea, air or
road-motor; none of your dogbox
Queensland railways!
As “D.S.M.” says, it is the Aussie
tourist who in the main should be catered
for, and above all the family which saves
hard to meet the expenses of the annual
holiday and which expects—and deserves
—fair value for every penny spent. The
wants of such people could be met by
the simply-furnished little camp cottage,
with a safe bathing place for the kiddies,
motor-coach trips to places worth seeing,
a launch to take Dad to spots where he
can really catch fish and, above every-
thing else, weather which can be guaran-
teed to stay fine.
North Queensland can offer all these
things. Fast steamers can take you there
in a few days ; modern ’planes in a day.
The whole Queensland coastal belt from
Cairns to Cooktown, the tip of Gape
York and the islands .of the northern
stretch of the Barrier Reef should be
the playground of Australia from April
to September.—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Island Mysteries
Our old Pacific has been behaving
very strangely.
The recent report that a rugged,
rocky island, throwing off rolling clouds
of smoke and vapor, was rising otot
of the ocean 200 miles, from the principal
Japanese island of Honshu is a bit of
additional evidence in favor of Professor
W. MacMillan Brown’s theory as to the
origin of the mysterious monoliths on
Easter Island.
That ML. scientist explained the
70ft. stone faces and the immense plat-
forms with which Easter Island, 2000 miles
from Chile, is covered on the supposition
that the speck was once part of an archi-
pelago which had submerged during some
abnormally active period in the world’s
history. He opined that the busts were
portraits of a master race which had
ruled over tens of thousands of helots,
and had made the island its official
graveyard. The island itself could not
have possibly supported more than a few
hundred people.
There is evidence that many Pacific
islands have been up and down several
times in their geological history. For
example, Nauru, whose enormous
deposits of guano were formed, first
by birds’ droppings, which must have
taken centuries to accumulate, and then
by tlie pressure of the water at a great
depth ; this is believed to have occurred
at least five times.
If human perceptions could be
slowed down so that a man could
make only one every thousand years
the Pacific would appear to be as
agitated as the projected atomic bombs
will shortly make it for a split second.
—Nakhoda (Vic.).
N.S.W. .Trains
The N.S.W. Railways Commissioner
recently voiced elaborate plans for the
improvement of railway services, chiefly
applicable to inter-capital and inter-city
routes. What about the country side
lines? I invite Mr. Hartigan, just by
way of example, to travel by the day train
as an ordinary passenger—no special
coach this time! —on the Harden-Blayney
line. Admittedly he recently speeded up
this service somewhat, but the same
shabby and filthy carriages remain, with
dirty windows, greasy and tom upholstery
and the musty atmosphere of a third-rate
dosshouse.
I further invite him to step off for a
drink at any pub along that line, and I’ll
bet a cattle wagon to the Spirit of Pro-
gress that he will hear some disgruntled
citizen declare “By cripes, once I can get
tyres and petrol I’ll never set foot on a
train again!”
Those carriages are still labelled “First-
class,” “Second-class,” but the first-class
passenger gets no extra cleanliness for
his money.
Why, anyway, do we allow ourselves
to be branded first- or second-class on a
train when we are otherwise intolerant of
class distinction —except in politics? The
only measure of decency in a traveller
lies in his standard of behavior. The
travelling “drunk” is the chief offender,
and he comes in both classes.
Give us, instead, single-class trains with
a general high standard of comfort
throughout.
Give us more conductors to. keep that
travelling “drunk” in his place and to
help the aged, the invalid and the un-
escorted mother with seven ports and six
kids. Give us more porters at country
junctions, where passengers habitually
change from branch to main line, to offer
similar service. Don’t leave it to the kind-
ness and courtesy of the able-bodied tra-
veller, who already has his hands full
toting his own luggage and scrimmaging
for a seat. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Russkis in Manchuria
“Pookie’s” par. (B. 27/3/’46) on poli-
tics and Russians calls to mind an ac-
count of a cobber p.-0.-w.’s liberation.
He was working in a Jap-controlled fac-
"Can you speak a little louder-WE can't hear you!"
tory in Manchuria when the Russians
made their tardy entry. None of the
English-speaking officers of the Red Army
had ever heard of Australia, and they
seemed confused about exactly whom
they were to liberate.
The Reds treated the Chinese abomin-
ably, but seemed to enjoy fraternising
with the Japs. Anything mechanical they
regarded as a toy. Their habits were
dirty; they gave the impression of being
illiterate; but they were “war-eager,”
anxious to fight. They were unanimous
in the belief that they would eventually
be fighting Americans. Australian pris-
oners who contacted them were more
than relieved to head for home after
seeing exhibitions of looting and rape
formerly believed to be the exclusive
privilege of the Jap Army.
How unfortunate that Australia’s
famous Soviet admirers-were not in Muk-
den when the Russians walked in!
McGlum (Vic.).
Mining Revival—When?
Now that the war is over, where are
the signs of the promised revival of
mining in Australia?
Both inside and outside the industry
there has been much talk of the benefits
which would follow its speedy rehabili-
tation, but so far the Government has
been silent on mining since the Minister
for Post-war Reconstruction announced
the loan plan on February 7.
Increasing numbers of men from the
services are available for employment.
Mining offices have many propositions on
hand and assurances of big financial sup-
port to put their plans into operation.
At the present Australian price for fine
gold, over £lO per ounce, there are many
mines, idle during the war on account of
manpower restrictions, which could be
again worked with profit. Old fines of
reef which had become unprofitable some
years before the outbreak of hostilities
could once more come into production.
The value of the industry as a medium
for employment on a large scale and for
providing finance for Australia’s overseas
trade is so obvious that surely the Fed-
eral Government must have plans in train
for its speedy rehabilitation.
When so many mines closed down in
1942 in compliance with Government
policy—diversion of manpower to war-
time industries —the companies received
definite assurances that when the time
came for reopening special grants would
be made them for repairs and dewatering.
So far no reference to these grants has
been made when Governmental rehabili-
tation plans have been announced.
One point is clear, that without a lead
from the Canberra Government there will
be no important revival of mining, A
very positive pronouncement of policy is
the necessary presage before idle mines are
set going, before managements can de-
velop their plans and before men can be
brought back to an industry which will
give them a reasonable promise of con-
tinuous employment. T. C. A. (Can-
berra).
Snowy River Development
What should the Snowy River de-
velopment scheme comprise? Should it
provide water supply, irrigation and/or
electric power, and should Victoria, N. S.
Wales or all Australia benefit?
Most people are aware of the
scheme fathered by Dr. Bradfield
and others to turn the North
Queensland eastern rivers back into
the tropical and mainly dry interior.
That scheme has many supporters
amongst the non-technical class. A
brother engineer has shown that at an
expenditure of £4O million (estimated)
some 2,000,000 acres could be irrigated
mildly at a cost of about £2O an acre.
This is a heavy load to carry in addition
to all other establishment and purchase
costs. The Snowy scheme can provide
something much cheaper and more satis-
factory. There are three alternative pro-
posals :
No. 1: The major part of the power would
go to Sydney. Full development of this scheme
would provide 220,000 k.w. at load centres at
an annual cost of .176 d. and a total annual
cost of £823,000. These figures were later re-
vised to .193 d. and £900,000 respectively.
No. 2: An estimated cost of a storage reser-
°f 473,258 acre-feet with a diversion of
1200 cusecs is £9,010,000, and with a storage
reservoir of 647,098 acre-feet and 1200 cusecs
diversion £9,320,000 (in both these schemes
allowance is made for highway, railway, etc.,
diversions). In addition, this scheme would pro-
vide 50,000 k.w. of electric power. The in-
vestigation committee later increased the esti-
mate to £10,400,000, and later again—because
of uncertain post-war costs—-to £13,000,000.
Under this proposal an enormous increase in
production in the Murrumbidgee Valley would
take place, also extensive irrigation (one acre
in 20) for two million acres of the Darlhay and
Billabidgee schemes, also provision of stock and
domestic supplies for the balance of these areas
—1,900,000 acres. The principal factors affect-
ing success are a thorough study of soils and
sub-soils and securing of markets to ensure
sales of produce.
No. 3: Augmentation of Sydney water
supply. Figures show that the Warragamba
proposal has a marked advantage in capital,
annual and unit costs. There is therefore no
question from a national viewpoint that the
waters of the Snowy should be used for the
purposes of irrigation and water supply and
turned into the Murrumbidgee if the factors re-
garding soil survey and marketing show no
obstacle.
Victoria has no comparative rights to
put forward. Eastern Gippsland and Croa-
jingolong have numerous rivers of varying
dimensions. No works of any kind have re-
ceived any consideration in Victoria, and
as the land in these areas is generally of
inferior class, with a few rich river flats,
there is no present avenue for irrigation.
As regards Victorian electricity demands,
Yallourn figures show reasonable costs,
and two or more extra Yallourns could
be provided to meet all future needs.—
H. V Francis, 8.C.E., M.Aust., I.M.and
M. (Vic.).
“With Deepest Sympathy”
An Adelaide firm (Bryants, 39 Gouger-
street) has plumbed the depths of bad
taste and commercial hypocrisy.
A man recently lost his wife.' Along
with the letters of condolence he received
came a card inscribed “With deepest sym-
pathy, ’ and with a black line to “prove”
it. Opening it, he read “Bryants desire
to express their deepest sympathy in your
recent sad bereavement,” and, on the next
page, “Bryants are buyers of ladies and
gents’ clothing, such as gents’ suits,
leatherware, underwear, etc., also per-
sonal effects of all kinds.” There was
more of the stuff, with a further emphasis:
‘ Bryants are cash buyers of Jewellery,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bangles and
Marcasite Jewellery.”
When an alleged publisher tried to cash
in on the sorrow of dead servicemen’s
families Dr. Evatt took prompt and effec-
tive action. Perhaps his department could
find some way of striking at this other
variety of a detestable business.— Ringer
(S.A.).
The Betrayers
In the History of the Commune of
1871, through the accounts of civil war,
bloody street battles and subsequent
biassed trials over and over comes the
ciy “The extreme Left let us down.”
Lissagaray relates how salt was
rubbed into the gaping Leftist wounds
when leaders of the extreme Left
enjoyed Government favor while their
most pitiful dupes among the workers
and idealist schoolteachers and journal-
ists went to the scaffold or rotted
in New Caledonia.
The Commune provides a chapter in
political history that extreme Leftists
always skip. Yet if Australian workers
ever get dragged into the same sorry mess
as the Parisians of 1871, they’ll find the
extreme Leftists carefully looking after
their own hides, for the extreme Left
always finds its martyrs among its pawns,
not among its loudest spruikers.—J.J.K.
(Q.X
The Clothes Mystery
With demobbed service personnel seek-
ing great quantities of civilian clothing
supplies are not only short but, accord-
ing to the trade, will remain so for up to
two years. Why?
A city canvass revealed inconsistencies
which are here detailed. One of the big-
gest retail stores will not guarantee mak-
ing and delivery of a suit under 12
months. Other stores and most of the
smaller tailors give five to nine months
as the time. Yet two tailors guarantee
almost unlimited quantities of made-to-
measure suits in 30 days. A few others
will promise suits in six to seven weeks,
but some of these are charging 13 guineas
for what could have been got before the
war for half the price. Some of the
smaller tailors assert that wholesalers
have well-stocked shelves.
And quality is hard to get. In two shop
windows you can see yards of excellent
types of cloth, but inquiries inside reveal
that these are sold or are for display
purposes only. The lads to whom they
are “sold” must be very patient, as the
materials have been in one particular
window for six months.
Shirts are another problem. One large
stofe tells you that good shirts will not
again be on the market for 18 months
to two years. Yet good English poplin
is now being imported in bulk; and,
incidentally, February brought the first
sample range of men’s readymade suits
landed from war-scarred England.
And though I am no misogynist, it
seems peculiar to me that each month
hundreds of thousands of yards of art-silk
piecegoods are being imported for women’s
dresses, and even a brief survey of any
city store will show the quantity and
range available. Likewise women’s shoes,
hose, underbeneaths and accessories are
now in almost plentiful supply, whereas
men’s are becoming scarcer every day
with (according to the trade) no prospect
of alleviation for years. And Authority
still seems to imagine that a discharged
serviceman can buy a suit for £6 10s. —
One Suit (N.S.W.).


:V':' ■ : :i-|
mHHhUiB
tmrnrnmsm
V s •" . o%'
' - ,A Y '' ' -
V :
■
]
•:■ -.o'-
IHHHI
mm
SSiS
IP
Pure Australian
Virqin Wool
Pure Australian
Virqin Wool
m
nil
BSHB
mm
mtk
Wmmm
I*
■
wmmm'
i • •• • ::.•
*
m
J <1 :>\
; :
%
'
I
i ■: :*****.*****«■«» •
->««.»»>... . , .. .
&S»|: :
,*£tStSiS*i*2**3!s*£*•h'-
■*'*»**<>* ******* > y ' ' ■’..
m
■m?
- -'
imw -:
.■* ,>*****■<■:* .
4'tt* liti&iir’ . -•.
.v?JS
'' !!?■% * '
S?g*S
Hi
■> >• f«< «<s «* <ff s* <<!
•f « ■¥
■ y ; •
'V.
99
'
■.JiliisiiiiP®
i
Hi
Hi
' :-.
i-:-x;-
v-r v
:«
lp|ipiiliai|i«f«
Pure Australian
Virqin Wool
'
at
r»«*»
I ||p tilt t% ! **|t
: : x,;'V; : : ; :
v e
.
WmM
HHI
A
I
I
A
••:.'■ -I:
Renowned for
THE EXCELLENCE OF ITS WORSTED MANUFACTURES
■
V '
flillliSlili
9 5
m
wi m
Kg
m
■m
I a
* .... ■
x ; •; ; v x-: v <-
1 , 's -X ,
■ ■ as • ■■
