

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
Seppelts
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3483
Wednesday, November 13, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered 3.t tne oencrsi Jrosi \jince 5 v>yuuey 5 xn*o«w» 9 ? iui xi uy xuat a x icwapapci.
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
ST. Thomas’s HOSPITAL.
A FERRY over the Thames near London Bridge produced the
income by which the first St. Thomas’s Hospital was founded,
during the reign of William 11. The pavilioned St. Thomas’s shown
in this, view was opened by the Queen in 1871 and, facing the
Houses of Parliament, was a notable addition to the architecture
of the day. Built in the Palladian style, the buildings covered an
area 250 feet deep and 1700 feet long and housed over a thousand
patients. Many distinguished men have served on the staff of St.
Thomas’s, amongst them being Mark Akenside, who was both poet
and physician, and Sir George Makins, at one time president of the
Royal College of Surgeons. The school of anatomy at St. Thomas’s
is the oldest in London.


'redoitte.loun'SiiJ 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 ...AQE
The Red Page
PLAIN AND FANCY.
Both of them published in America,
W. Somerset ’Maugham’s Then and Now
(Doubleday) and Liam O’Flaherty’s Land
(Random House) come to this page via
Angus and Robertson; stray copies
in advance of the English editions that
will supply the market here later ; about
as odd a pair as could be found keeping
each other’s company; the polished arti-
ficial and the blunt elemental; respec-
tively that in substance as well as craft.
Both authors have been at the game
long enough to know what they are
about; Mr. O’Flaherty has written 19
books; - Mr. Maugham far more than
double that number. Therefore each of
them can be considered as an author who
writes what and as he does from definite
personal conviction that it is right. They
are practising professionals, and to say
that both of them have written better
novels than these is a compliment to.
both of them. For each of these novels
is at least better than the general run of
its kind, however far either may be
thought to fall short of its author’s best.
The Maugham novel comes first for
the same reason that froth is the first
thing noticed on a pint of beer. It is as
light as air, and about as unsubstantial,
unless its political resemblances, as of its
early sixteenth century and today, may
be taken as political comment, a possi-
bility Mr. Maugham appears to refute.
In general, given the Maugham mastery
of the Maugham technique, it might have
been dictated —it seems too slick to have
been written —in between whatever are
Mr. Maugham’s more serious occupa-
tions: bridge, perhaps, or dining. Its
style is a carefree blending of the least-
hackneyed cliches and the most hack-
neyed. “Rang with his exploits,” “keep
his own counsel,” “fair means or foul,”
“of more than common height”—they
would justify Mr. Clune suing for plagia-
rism. Boccaccio would be similarly justi-
fied regarding the plot, the setting and
the people: the leading character is
Machiavelli; on a diplomatic mission
from Florence to Gassar Borgia at Imola
he fills in his spare time elaborately plot-
ting, with priestly, maternal and other
connivance, to cuckold a childless citizen
of that town, and is double-crossed in a
manner that would have delighted the
delicate ears of the charming escapees
of the Decameron, and perhaps sounded
to them original.
Mr. Maugham handles that plot with
the bland ease of Boccaccio himself. A
difference is that Boccaccio would have
told it in eight pages and Mr. Maugham
tells it in 278. The modern Boccaccio
ekes it out with particulars of Machia-
velli’s diplomatic interviews with the
Duke and sundry bits of synthetic vio-
lence in the way of hangings and political
murders, but this has the effect of mere
padding; the centre of interest is the
sex plot; nobody can be imagined as be-
ing interested in Mr, Maugham’s sham
history for its own sake. Having con-
cocted his little plot of sex comedy, he
could have farmed out the filling to any-
one with the right romantic outlook, a
smattering of Borgian biography, the
Decameron and the leading character’s
Prince.
To say that this is better than works
of other authors of potboiler romantic
historical comedies is merely to say that
tylr, Maugham does this sort of thing in-
comparably well. It is froth, but it tastes
all right.
Mr. O’Flaherty is, by comparison, as
blunt as his title. Land. He does not, by
some miles, fall as far short of the
O’Flaherty of The Informer as the other
falls short of the Maugham who wrote
Of Human Bondage, but he does not
advance, either. There is a curious dif-
ference in the retrogression of each, of
them. Mr. Maugham makes the graceful
retrogression of a flirting peacock, Mr.
O’Flaherty goes backwards and sideways
like a muddied crab. Mr. Maugham
gives to airy nothing a token habitation
and his name; Mr. O’Flaherty stumbles
around building a hut of peat. Mr.
Maugham is so polished that it seems
with him polish has become everything;
Mr. O’Flaherty seems so afraid of polish
that he turns deliberately crude and naive.
Mr. Maugham’s characters are their own
shadows; Mr. O’Flaherty has only to
mention a person’s name and by the
miracle of creative force the person lives.
Like Mr. Maugham, Mr. O’Flaherty
knows the value of a good dash of sex,
but, whereas Mr. Maugham toys with it
in ruffles, Mr. O’Flaherty goes for it in
bowyangs. It is, says Mr. Maugham, a
light and pleasant pastime. It is, says
Mr. O’Flaherty, a harsh and savage fury.
Both of them are convinced of the effi-
cacy of a good male singing voice in
bringing it off —the love philtre of the
larynx. But the accomplishing is very
different. In that Mr. Maugham is aerial,
Mr. O’Flaherty is animalistic. The dif-
ference is pointed in Mr. O’Flaherty’s
most strained effort to be somebody else ;
the chapter in which he falls back on the
always picturesque trick of having a
female of the species leap behind' a
rock, to tug hastily at this and that, and
presently to emerge in the altogether and
plunge into a lake, daring the uncouth
male to follow her ; which he does, most
uncouthly. That is as much a pastiche of
romanticised sex as Mr. Maugham’s
padding is a pastiche of history.
Otherwise sex is incidental and
subordinate to Mr, O’Flaherty’s main
purpose, which amounts, briefly, to an
instructive example of how a novel can
be contrived out of one word ; in this
case, the word “boycott.” Setting and
time are Ireland in 1879, when feudalism
was in its last stage and the Irish
peasantry were starting up to take the
land back from the landlords. There is
violence in every page of it; not the arti-
ficial violence Mr. Maugham brings in
for effect but an inherent violence of
mood and action. Its main literary 'con-
flict lies between the direct methods of
attack natural to the peasant outlook and
the boycott method introduced to them
by a theorising aristocrat, a former ex-
patriate who has been living in France
but has returned to such of the family
estate as remains, and who takes an im-
personal, demagogic interest in helping
in the destruction of the main enemy —a
landowner as naturally violent as. is the
leader of the peasants.
With Mr. Maugham the entertainment
is in the passing-through; with Mr.
O’Flaherty it is in the retrospect after
having arrived. Each of them could
borrow from the other with advantage.
Mr. O’Flaherty as a venting storyteller is
in particulars as lacking as Mr. Maug-
ham is only too fluent and accomplished.
It is almost incredible that the author of
11 novels could still be as crude in his
craftsmanship as Mr. O’Flaherty can be.
In one respect this gets to the extreme of
being in itself an entertainment. As if he
had accepted the possibly exaggerated be-
lief that nobody would take the word of
an O’Flaherty for anything, he per-
sistently delegates to his characters all
the hack work of conveying information
to the reader. Accepting this delegated
job with frightful enthusiasm, the charac-
ters break out into long reminiscent
monologues ostensibly for the enlighten-
ment of other characters, by which means
the reader learns their past histories and
adventures, pedigrees and prospects. Mr.
O’Flaherty has been likened to a crab.
That is unfair. No crab would be using
a method as crude as that in his eleventh
novel.
Mr. O’Flaherty’s few literary tricks are
of the same awkward kind. Two charac-
ters get together and proceed to cook up
some scheme or other ; Mr. O’Flaherty,
in the fashion of the old stage melo-
drama, lets the reader hear just enough
to carry forward his suspense. It is so
naive that, like the crudity of the charac-
ter monologues, it might even pass as a
virtue: the primitiveness of the crafts-
manship aiding the primitiveness of the
people in their elemental passions and
actions. In the same sense Mr. Maug-
ham’s mastery of the storytelling craft
goes well with the extreme sophistica-
tion of the sort of story he is interested
in telling.
The sum of them is that Mr.
O’Flaherty’s novel is sincere and muscu-
larly vigorous ; Mr. Maugham’s is lightly
and pleasantly entertaining. Word has
been received from a not usually reliable
source that the Asbestos Publishing
House looks forward to issuing even-
tually, uniform in a Special Brimstone
Edition, Mr. O’Flaherty’s novel as writ-
ten by Mr. Maugham and Mr. Maug-
ham’s novel as written by Mr. O’Flaherty.
That should be good news to many.
Some Radio Plays.
Leslie Rees, in a foreword to his selec-
tion Australian Radio Plays (Angus and
Robertson), writes that “No claim is
made that the plays here presented are
the finest written and produced over a
period. It is necessary to make a read-
able book.” It is also necessary, he adds,
to balance background and type, so that
many good plays may, on the score of
similarity, have been excluded.
The anthology begins with “Spoiled
Darlings” (sub-titled “A Romantic
Comedy of Other Days”), written by Ed-
mund Barclay and dealing with the New
South Wales of Governor Sir Ralph
Darling* William Charles Wentworth and
Doctor Wardell. Also an aristocratic but
democratic young gentleman from Eng- 5
land and a high-spirited young lady with
a kittenish habit of slashing people with
whips. At least, she uses the whip on
the aristocratic-democratic young gent,
(at that time masquerading as a groom),
and, as usually happens in romances of
this kind, awakes a gentle emotion in him.
Humor is ready-made, frothy, but not
bad of its kind ; and the story, despite the
Darlings and Wentworths, smacks more
of Jeffrey Farnol and kindred writers than
of Australia.
“The Remittance Man,” by Richard
Lane, is about radio players and their
struggles to keep the wolf from the door.
There is an old English actor, an up-and-
coming young actor, a cynical, bitter,
disillusioned, etc., script-writer and a
kindly producer: some insight and a
good deal of ready-made characterisation.
“Conglomerate,” by Alexander Turner,
is a study of goldfields life, interesting in
its minor details of bars, nurses, country
trains, but depending too much on acci-
dent, and a crude “wow” type of ending.
“The Path of the Eagle,” by Catherine
Duncan, a play in verse, has a good deal
of thought in it, some subtlety and power
of character projection, which, for all
that, “misses.” It shows a family, James
and Sandra, man and wife ; and Leo and
Connie, their children. They shut them-
selves in a kind of ivory tower, away
from the war, and are brought into con-
tact with it by the visit of Brian, an air-
man, and Lysle, his sister. Leo, a scholar,
falls in love with Lysle, finds he can’t
ignore the war. Sandra reveals herself
as pathologically possessive, Connie’s
husband is killed, and after the drama is
nicely stirred up the play comes to a
weak conclusion. Sandra is overdone,
unnatural, a monster. The other charac-
ters, for the most part, are slight. But
part of the failure of the play—apart
from the end —is due to the handling of
the medium. The language too often is
stilted and precious: or, when it would
be rich, pompous. The best passages are
the briefest.
“Great Inheritance,” by Gwen Mere-
dith, is about soil erosion. As full of
information as a departmental pamphlet,
and as dramatic.
“The Watch on the Headland,” by M.
Barnard Eldershaw. A nicely-constructed
sketch of the near-starvation of Sydney
in 1790, which becomes vivid only
through the skilful use of minor charac-
ters. Essentially slight, but provocative.
“Portrait of a Gentleman,” by George
Farwell. An analysis of Thomas Griffiths
Wainewright, fop, poisoner and convict,
who said he poisoned a girl because she
had thick ankles. That and similar re-
marks revealing the quirks of an abnor-
mal character are the best portions of
the play. The character itself, interest-
ing enough, is static. Background good,
but commonplace.
“Santa Claus of Christmas Creek,” by
Ernestine Hill. Christmas gifts, a mother-
less baby and a bewhiskered old pros-
pector come unexpectedly out of the bush
and mingle to make a trifle as harmless
and pleasant as Father Christmas him-
self.
Leslie Rees, in the foreword again, ex-
presses a conviction that, radio plays in
Australia have reached as high a standard
as in England and America. That may
well be. But the contents of this book
are mediocre intellectual fare.
J. F.
Believe Mr. Harney.
“Believe me,” said Mr. Shean, “I could
go on for hours and hours about this
book.”
“Which book?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“W. E. Harney’s North of 23,” said
Mr. Shean. “I could go on and on about
it.”
“Well, then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “sup-
pose you begin to go on.”
“I could talk and talk,” said Mr. Shean.
“Then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “talk.”
“I beg your pardon,” said Mr. Shean.
“Mr. Harney has a habit of saying T
could write for ever about these people’
and then not writing a word about them.
He says he will never forget his first night
alone in a bush hut in Arnhem Land and
then he doesn’t tell me anything at all
about the night, except that he slept with
the cat in his arms. If I have caught the
infection from him, believe me I didn’t
mean to.”
“I do believe you,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Apart from that minor blemish,” said
Mr. Shean, “I really could go on and on
about North of 23, believe me.”
“Once.” said Mr. Gallagher, ‘ I went
on a fishing trip with a man who kept
saying ‘Believe me.’ He said the fishing
was much better the previous year, believe
him ; and thirty years ago the river had
been teeming with trout, believe him;
and it could be cold there, believe him;
and it could be hot there, believe him;
and this was the life, believe him. And
after about thirteen days of thus being
incessantly invited to believe him I
threw a trout at him.”
• “Believe me,” said Mr. Shean, “I can’t
help it. Mr. Harney does it almost on
every page, and, believe me, it’s as catch-
ing as measles.”
“I observe,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
North of 23 was published by the Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co. Does the firm
not employ an editor?”
“Believe me,” said Mr. Shean, “I don’t
know.”
“I do believe you, confound it,” said
Mr. Gallagher.
“In a rough sort of way,” said Mr.
Shean, “Mr. Harney’s prose style has
genuine literary quality. I think his pub-
lishers err in comparing him with Tom
Collins; who, unpractised as he was in
the craft of the novel, was a sophisti-
cated writer who always knew what he
was doing. Mr. Harney’s are native wood-
notes wild, and that is the special charm
of his writing. Making due allowance
for scale, you could compare him with
the poet Walt Whitman; he writes
utterly without restraint. Or you could
compare him with those early Australian
rhymesters whose verses ‘Banjo’ Paterson
collected in Old Bush Songs. Some of
Mr. Harney’s own ballads, and others by
various hands which he intersperses
among his narrative, have the quality of
folklore, and the same is true of his prose,
which, at its best, is more poetic than his
verses ; humorous yarns of the far North,
rising to a kind of wild music, It would
be unwise to sub-edit this writing too
severely, but his publishers might well
have asked him to tell his yarns instead
of merely stating he knows yarns he
could tell; and the maddening manner-
ism ‘Believe me’ should not have been
regarded as a native woodnote.”
“Still, you seem to have a certain be-
lief in North of 23,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“During forty years,” said Mr. Shean,
“Mr. Harney never spent Christmas twice
in the one place. He has wandered about
places with wonderful names, like Hang-
man’s Creek and Murdering Dam ; and
Borraloola and Groote Eylandt. He has
known men with wonderful names,
Charlie the Rager, Old Pine .Creek and
Singapore Joe. And if he never really
shows us Charlie the Rager in a rage,
there is a beautiful picture of one Lenny
emerging from the dried carcass of a
bullock in which he had spent the night;
and another of a teetotaller of the North
—a very rare specimen—who, when
pressed to drink, would accept a glass of
rum and pour it over his scalp, saying
that it was good for the hair.”
“Hair-raising,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Believe me,” said Mr. Shean, “there
is much to raise the hair in Arnhem Land.
Among Mr. Harney’s stories of thirst in
desert country I like best his account of
suddenly perceiving a star glittering in
the earth —reflected from the narrow
opening of a rock-hole. Of the aboriginal
stories, which are his speciality, I like the
man who could straighten fish-hooks with
his teeth; and the blind woman who
carried the lame woman about on her
shoulders so that, between them, they
had both eyes and legs; and the cere-
monial ‘fighting’ by which the tribes settle
their differences.”
“Believe me,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
have sometimes thought that the sham
fights of the abos are the hope/ of the
civilised world. And, in their harmless
but soul-satisfying roarings and postur-
ings, they are very much like a U.N.O.
conference.”
“Believe me,” said Mr. Shean, “you
just said ‘Believe me’ yourself.”
“Never said it in my life,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Believe me.”
“Very well,” said Mr. Shean. “I be-
lieve you, believe me. I was about to
add that of all the human oddities in
North of 23, and —believe me —there are
hundreds of them, I liked best the bloke
who thought he was a human wireless
and could pick up messages from people
who talked about him. He thought that
falling stars were the sparks from his
electrical eyes, but found it difficult to
get correct messages on account of the
tin-hares. It adds to his charm, at this
safe distance, that he carried a gun to
protect himself and, when pursued by a
particularly large tin-hare, would jump
and mutter and pbint the weapon reck-
lessly in all directions.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
must read North of 23.”
“You must,” said Mr. Shean. “Believe
me.”
“I will,” said Mr. Gallagher. “Believe
me,”


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
■
Built for long life and hard wear, these
saddles are all that is required to give
comfort to the experienced or inex-
perienced rider. Combined with their
sturdy good looks is the superior work-
manship which you will find in all
goods purchased from “The Senior
Store.”
Saddlery Dept.—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
m
20.
High Grade Riding Saddles. Built on Fouright
Steel Plated Tree, selected Kip Leather, best
workmanship. Type, Stock, Kemp or Poley.
Park, with Serpentine or English Knee Pads,
Polo Saddles, with False Knee Pads (illustrated).
All saddles mounted with Girth and Surcingle,
Stirrup Leathers and Stirrup Irons. Price,
each £16/16/-
Bridles. 1 in. Barcoo Bridles 24/6
N.P. Braddon Bits 3/6
First Grade Tennis Nets, 42ft.
x Double Top, steel
wire cord, heavy quality
white duck head line. Price,
each 81/6
The Ace Tennis Court Marker,
for grass or hard court. This
is perfectly reliable, making
a good white line. Price,
each 39/6
Men's Attractive Leather Golf
Bag. Sin. round leather golf
bags with two pockets, one
large jacket pocket and ball
pocket with Triflex quick
fasteners. Price 65/3
Also in Canvas. Price, 44/9
ms
m
13
• Sports Goods—Lower Ground Floor.
Pitt Street.
Saddlery, Sporting Goods and
Fishing Tackle delivered free
within our Delivery Area.
ii
1
A. —Good, Quality Wood Brass
Star Back Reels with optional
check and line guard. 3^in. 37/6
4in 29/-
B. —High quality Wood Center-
Pin Reels, brass star back with
optional check. 3£ in 42/6
4in., 50/- 5in., 60/-
C. —All-Metal Aluminium Reels,
strongly made for heavy fishing.
Size 4in., with optional check,
40/-; without check .. .... 35/-
D. — Contracted Trout Reel.
Metal, light weight, 3£in., with
line guard. Price 39/-
Not illustrated.
TYPHOON GUT LINES
Made of Silk Base
No. 15 only, Breaking Strain 301bs.
Lengths, yards 40 60 80
Prices 9/- 13/6 18/-
Lengths, yards 100 120
Prices 22/6 ,27/-
• Fishing Tackle —Lower Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
• Box 2712C . . . G.P.O., Sydney
• 'Phone M 2401, Day and Night.
I m
i :jr: mm
m


"gas
.7?;. : V;V? '• -I
r
LEA &
PERRINS
% ECONOMY SAI/C£
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globite!
Made by
/ORD SHERINGTON LTD.
mz
ii
m
(tj*
amr
m
<7
“Ti
-i K
»va
if.
u?m
1
4*r.
m,
■ r '•;-
V 4 »\
m
m
i*<asi
«
(: a
£5-sS
■ijs**
*V
■-. M
it
cJloals XV from 1713
ultimate in decoration, furniture
of the Louis XV period truly captured the
grace and gaiety of Versailles. Symmetry,
free-flowing form and line, and superb
balance characterised every piece. Veneers
and marquetry rich in design, ornamen-
tation and colour, struck a harmonious
note that charmed the most aesthetic tastes
of the people during the mid. 18th century.
Modern trends in furniture are towards
smoothness of line and geometrical
design, relieved by a soft simplicity in
the floor covering. Just another way of
saying that modern furnishing plans
demand FELTEX, for, in common with
Louis XV furniture, it strikes a noje that
charms the most critical. That’s why you
should always insist on genuine . ..
As the demand for Felt ex is so great, it is regretted
that intending purchasers may have to wait for de-
livery of orders placed with their furnishing store.
FELTEX
FELT
textiles of Australia ltd.. Manufacturers of Marbled, Plain and Patterned Feltex
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy early Bulletin publications, any
Norman Lindsay items and a complete set or
Bulletin postcards.—3899.
Offers for first issues of Simpleton of the
Unexpected Isles, The Millionairess and Too
True to be Good, all by G. B. Shaw. —3900.
Information Sought.
Why are there holes in the hatchbeanis and
girders of ships/
Holes in fore-and-aft girders along hatchways
are made to provide ventilation. Holes through
beams in refrigerated ships are covered by in-
sulation, if insulation is fitted after the ship is
built. If fitted originally for refrigeration, holes
are not made in beams and girders. Hatch-
beams which lift out must have holes to secure
the hooks, while if the beams are deep ItoIcs
are sometimes put in to lighten the weight ot
the beam. The size of the hole is limited to
prevent weakening of the girder strength. The
pressure across the hatch is resisted mainly by
the hatch-beams, and these beams cannot effi-
ciently resist tension across the ship which takes
place when the vessel is in the trough ot a
wave.
* * * *
(1) What is the best dressing for duck-fly to
prevent mould spots forming ? (2) What is
the dressing used on railway tarpaulins?
(1) Make a solution of soap and loz.
soda ash per gallon water (hot) and rub in
both sides of the fly with a scrubbing brush,
then rub in a solution of £lb. copper sulphate
per gallon water in the same manner. Hang
out in the sun to dry. (2) A copper naphthen-
ate-creosote-wax dressing that is very effective
is used, but it requires considerable equipment
for its satisfactory application.
$ * * *
(1) Any books about Margaret Catchpole?
(2) Has all trace of her grave in the Richmond
churchyard been lost?
(1) G. B. Barton’s True Story of Margaret
Catchpole was published in 1924. There is also
the book by Rev. Richard Cobbold, published
in 1845, which is more fiction than fact and
confuses her story with that of Mary Haydock.
(2) Two sites in the Richmond Cemetery have
been claimed as her resting-place, one being
in the Innes portion of the cemetery, but it
is not possible to locate the spot definitely.
The church records show that she was buried
there on May 14, 1819.
* . * * *
What type of mineral is chiastolite;' what is
its use, and where is it found?
Chiastolites are a curious variety of andalus-
ite, and are specially characteristic of clay-
slates near a contact with granite. The elon-
gated prismatic crystals enclose symmetrically-
arranged wedges of carbonaceous material, and
in cross-section show a black cross on a greyish
ground. Cross-sections of such crystals are
polished and worn as amulets or charms.
Crystals of a size for this purpose are found in
Brittany and the Pyrenees, while still larger
specimens have been found in nor’-eastern S.
Australia.
About 25 years ago a Melbourne college
awarded a prize of £25 for a long poem on
Gallipoli. How did the prize originate, what
were the conditions, who judged it, who won
it, and was the poem published ?
The prize was given by the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Melbourne, in memory of
Rupert Brooke, for a ppem.of not fewer than
150 or more than 300 lines by any Australian
writer. The winner was the late David McKee
Wright, of The Bulletin, whose poem was
published in The Bulletin, September 2, 1920.
The judges were Prof. Wallace, Dr. Archibald
Strong and Mr. Oliphant (president of the
Shakspeare Society).
* * * *
What causes twilight, and why does it in-
crease in duration away from the equator ?
It is caused by the intervention of the
atmosphere between the sun and the earth’s
surface. When the sun is some distance below
the horizon the upper layers of air remain
illuminated and reflect the light to us. Twilight
lasts until the sun is 18 degrees below the
horizon; its duration depends on season and
latitude, being governed by the sun’s altitude
and declination. Near the equator, where the
sun is more directly overhead, twilight must
be much shorter than near the poles, where
the motion towards the horizon is oblique.
* * * *
How can the basking shark be identified and
what are its habits?
It is a very large variety, attaining to a length
of 35ft. Its teeth are small and numerous—
about 200 in each row. The gill openings are
of unusually large size. The fish feeds on
minute floating animals. It derives its ver-
nacular name from a habit of floating almost
motionless near the surface of the sea,
* * * *
How to grow staghorns, elkhorns and bird’s-
nest ferns ?
Staghorns and elkhorns should be tied to
hardwood boards or a stump, using covered
wire. Later, when the plants are established,
some very old manure or decayed moss and
leaves can be packed in. Water once a week.
A sheltered position is most suitable. Bird’s-
nest ferns can be grown in a tub or in open
soil which contains a good proportion of sandy
loam. -Keep the centre of the plant free from
leaves and rubbish so that the fronds may
develop. Allow for considerable growth.
Brief Answers.
S.W.E.: The method would depend upon
the nature of the dirt on the coat, but try
some of the commercial abrasive soap cleaners,
or if these are hot effective solvents such as
kerosene or petrol may be used with caution.
In the latter case, if the rubber is left tacky,
brush over with a little French chalk after
applying the solvent... .V.R.G.: A great deal
of information on photosynthesis and cata-
bolism has been published and good accounts
of these subjects are given in Photosynthesis,
by H. A. Spoehr, and The Physiology of Plants
. Treatise upon the Metabolism and Sources
of Energy in Plants, by W. Pfeffer, which can
be seen at the Botany School Library, Univer-
sity of Melbourne... .W.L.M.: The stamp is
of no value. It is not an ordinary postage-
stamp but a German local stamp and not avail-
able for postal use outside that country....
D.S.H.: Impossible to give such an estimation,
as too many factors would have to be taken
into consideration... .N.W.: Know of no man
of that name who is connected with the wheat
industry J. 8.: If you write to the British
Trade Representative, British Government In-
formation Office, 39 Martin-place, Sydney, you
should be able to obtain the information you
require F.K.: The claim against the Navy
may be lodged with the Secretary, Attorney-
General’s Dept., Canberra, or the Deputy
Crown Solicitor in the State in which the claim
arose E.M.: (1) Death of solicitor does
not affect validity of will. (2) The executor
may employ any solicitor he chooses... • r;, , V
Taylor’s Red Roof, Aluminium Roof or Metal-
lize Grey Roof paints should prove satisfac-
tory .... M.J.H.: Melbourne Cup winners back
to 1930 are Rainbird, Sirius, Dark Felt, Colonus,
Skipton, Old Rowley, Rivette, Catalogue, The
Trump, Wotan, Marabou, Peter Pan, Hall
Mark, Peter Pan, White Nose and Phar Lap.
.. . .T.R.D.; Contact the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission, Sydney... J.M.C.;
(1) Diagnosis through medium °W e
encephalogram is usually accepted. When tne
cerebral cortex is injured, such symptoms
could develop; if present as a brain lesion
the so-called scar tissue cannot be removea
by spinal treatment. (2) and (3) Improvement
is gratifying. The specialist is in touch with
modern treatments. (4) Possible but improbable
in this case. X-ray determines any spinal
misplacement... .J.R.A.: Insufficient details,
but ulcers on the limbs are not necessarily due
to varicose veins, the latter being more or
less definite and localised. Injection treatment
obliterates the feeder vein and repetition is
seldom required. Removal by operation is not
essential, but in either case there is little danger
from subsequent haemorrhage. Consult your
doctor... .C.R.: Contact nearest R.A.A.F. Head-
quarters... .LD.: Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281
George-street, Sydney, may be able to help you.
. ...L.L.R.; The prospects of obtaining such
a job are, at the present time, extremely re-
mote. He would have to keep in touch with
the various shipping cos M.J.O’S.: Try any
of the larger hardware stores E.E.W.: ine
book is obtainable from the Australasian Pub-
lishing Cos. Pty., Ltd., 55 York-street, Sydney.
G.M.K.: Such papers are not now avail-
able... .T.R.: That postage concession is still
in operation.... C.A.W.: The Surf Life-Saving
Association of Australia, 16 Hunter-street,
Sydney, may have these specifications....
F.W.R.: There is a service of that nature in
operation in Sydney... .LJ.A.: Advisory
Board, Commonwealth Literary Fund, Can-
berra A.C.T.... .A.T.W.: The schooner ng
is faster than the ketch rig, but the ketch rig
is more easily handled. The yawl rig, which
is faster than either of these other two, is the
commonest rig of two-masted yachts, while
between schooners and ketches, the former is
commoner among large ocean-going vessels
and the latter is prevalent among smaller
coastal, river and estuary trading vessels....
JJ.D.In rural and pastoral districts where
dogs are kept by graziers, settlers and poultry
farmers solely for the purpose of driving or
managing cattle or sheep, lor destroying
dingoes, rabbits, foxes, etc., or for protection
against these pests, the owners must, provided
that the animals are not a n,^an“f-
only one, but must supply the police with
descriptions of the others,


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY IRIS DERLEY late of Rydalmere in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband ALFRED DERLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3931 of 1946 against you cm the
grounds of your non-compliance with the Decree for
restitution of conjugal rights which was served
on you on the 2nd day of July 1946 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of December 1946 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(n.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD BURGESS late of Mount Keira West
Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA ELIZA-
BETH BURGESS has filed her Petition for Divorce
No. 761 of 1944 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ninth day of December 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from McDONELL & MOFFITT, Petitioner’s Solici-
tors, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Renowned
as a
healthful
stimulant
✓V' A
*
- *. , JS i SS5 , ’J .i*S. ••>. ,y *ri
, -* , „>2> . . »£,: •• s» 5;vs,
<V v. , *''* .v * %'■ _**A Y
Jswari.^
\ ’ *» „ r<*' „ 'O
A.
W.».fT7
'a
1
/ ✓
VOufKMUmKfi
.
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
#&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
C.M.P.: Ponderous farce... .K.O’N.: “Trials
of a Trammie” are a trial to the reader.
. ...Coralie TANARUS.: Try the “slinky-gowned red-
head” on a woman’s paper P.P.: Didn’t
raise a laugh F.W.K.: The friend who ad-
vised you to write stories for the papers has
much to answer f0r....R.F.; Write about
things you know L.R.G.: “The Bushman’s
Song” had little music and a synthetic type
of bush D.C.: Wrong market... .J.G.: It
might make a readable article, but it isn’t a story.
A.O’G.: Anaemic W.D.: Long account
of a Saturday-afternoon pub-crawl merely
made us thirsty J.P.F.: We’ve met some
unconvincing reformed crooks, but none as
unreal as Bingo M.H.: Your cattle-duffers
have galloped out of the pages of a “Wild
West” magazine E.D.: Too close to Rod
Quinn’s “A Stripe for Trooper Casey”
P.K.: You no sooner mentioned the waterhole
than we guessed that the betrayed heroine
would be hauled from its “murky depths”
5.P.8.: Husband who challenges his wife’s
lover to a duel with poisoned arrows is a trifle
too melodramatic for our liking N.S.: Even
our most experienced' punter was unable to
follow your tangled yarn about the double-
crossing s.-p. bookies J.8.A.; Elsa, we
hope, will not accept any more rides from
strange gents in luxurious limousines G.S.:
The snake-charmer failed to charm the man
who handles our snake yarns F.W.: “The
Picnic” seems to have been a very tame outing.
Bellerive: It is an island in a nutshell: —
T.J.: The only thing we liked about your
country copper was his tolerant attitude to
drinking after hours F.P.A.; You are so
keen to describe the etchings that you neglect
the flapper who was invited to inspect them.
V.W.: Cloak-and-dagger yarns are off our
beat... .J.O’C.: P.-0.-w. who disguised him-
self as Hitler and was feted by the camp com-
mandant this week’s most incredible character.
H.R.: Thirteen-year-old lad who fell in
love with middle-aged schoolmistress sent home
for a spanking M.CJ.: Isn’t 5000 words
a little too much to expend on a description
of a dogfight? C.H.D.: Even the copper-
plate handwriting couldn’t secure its acceptance.
W.T.: We reserve the darkest corner of
our dungeon for such hopeless cases E.S.:
Sorry, but “Chick and Mick” didn’t “click.”
...-G.R.W.: Verbose clubman this week’s
prize bore A.A.: Try a woman’s paper....
H.8.T.: Can you make head or tail of it
yourself? :
.. .W.C.: Pretty, but not quite crisp enough.
....M.E.: Cheer up E.W.P.: How rarely
politicians make a beautiful subject for poetry.
A.C.: “Signs of talent?” If you’re very
young J.F.W.: Verses lack melody and
form V.C.: Come in and bring your friend:
Spying my pet begonia, its beauteous tender leaves.
It slowly moved, but surely, till its goal it attained —
But alas it nibbles holes, and my eye which sees
Saw, angered, searched and found and alas that
snail was brained.
,...F.K.: A glimmer there E.R.M.: No
use taking it out on the daffodils B.C.:
There’s a lot of moonshine in “Sometimes
Gazing” J.B.: Both mechanical X.F.:
“A Matrimonial Disturbance Among Emus” is
hardly as exciting as the title would lead one
to expect... .K.B.: Conventional moralisings.
J.L.: “No matter what my lot may be I
still will find a pal in thee.” Well, if you’re
going to keep on writing poetry you’ll need a
pal somewhere C.J.B.: As dull as the aver-
age flapper’s diary... .H.R.: Have you ever
seen the inside of a police-court? E.M.:
Got away to a fair start, but crashed at the
first hurdle... .J.H.M.: Attempt to portray
larrikin, who is a vicious thug, as a chivalrous
gallant was a dismal failure... .D.S.: What
are you frying to do —rewrite Karl Marx in
pidgin-English? RJ.: If all our readers were
under 12 it might have earned you a cheque.
N.S.F.: Too many corpses for one short
story A.L.J.: You began to get into a
tangle about the middle of the third page
V.G.: Pleased to note that John and Jean
finally reached the church J.D.: “Imagine
a camp-fire and around it an expectant circle
of bushmen waiting for an old deadbeat to
tell his life story,” Sorry, we’re too busy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.H.; None of them gets beyond mediocrity.
H.A.: You flop badly when you attempt
wash drawings A.R.: “Do not kill it with
unkindly criticism.” No need to; it was a
corpse when it arrived.... L.T.: Don’t use
mauve notepaper and a faint pencil J.M.:
Why disrobe such ungainly figures? C.B.:
Out of what American magazine did that couple
step? W.J.M.: Not quite good enough
G.P.: Wasn’t worth the trouble of pulling the
cork out of the inkpot K.M.K.: Your libel
on the abo. cost us 5d. in short postage
L.G.: An echo of “Hop’s” “I Thought I Had
a Stamp” C.R.A.: No use for that- brand
of art S.F.: Definitely among the discards.
A.E.M.: Well meant, but you haven’t the
cartoonist’s flair for featuring only the essential.
H.N.: Yes, the lines are vigorous enough,
but few of them*are in their right place
C.T.N.: Drawn in five minutes —and rejected
in as many seconds... .W.D.: We hadn’t time
to sort out the flappers from the blots
G.M.T.: That resurrected wheeze was put back
in a coffin and sent home M.L.S.: You’re
very, very shaky so far P.P.: As humorous
as a photograph of the eclipse of the sun
K.A.: Feel no affection for your deformed
monsters H.E.: If you’re really firing at
a market your aim is poor... .J.S.: Weeks too
late.
RECOLLECTIONS OF TASMANIA.
There’s beauty in Tasmania
When farmers rake the hay
And cattle wending homeward
At the closing of the day.
Yachts upon the Derwent
Are picturesque to view
Tossing boldly outward
O’er the waters blue.
There’s beauty in Tasmania
When clouds doth drifteth low
And mantled are the mountains
With flakes of freezing snow.
So a transport strike has ended
But who would dare admit
That the strikers haven’t endangered
Man’s dubious right—to wit to sit ?
A SNAIL.
A snail, it is so self contained—
And in these days of housing shortage,
In evolution it’s really up to date
For adapting itself to its environment.
Bronzed beauty in the fernery is marred by little
holes.
Where is the grub? Ah-ha, I see a snail.
I take a breath and grasp it, then on the ground it
rolls.
I guess I’ll have to kill it—squash, wail.
I covered it with leafmould on that bright summer
morn
And thought me of this epitaph, written in my
memory.
Let us follow the noble snail’s life back to when it
was born
tip to the sad day when it met me.
Its mother speared its father and claimed him for
her own.
Then came the day of the birth—behold it had
arrived.
And then it started nibbling leaves, and very soon
it had grown
Into a nice large juicy snail, and its way to my
fernery it contrived.


WM.
MmM \
'... : . :
illi
■
■
n
as*
«ss?
1!
myvXv-yffAWf
%mm
maMgSofe.
Ski
*w?
Mi
: : ; : ; : : ; : ; : : ; . : ;; : ;v: ; ;-
■ . '■' ■■" : : ;
X\ jT /
.
ms
m
s %
111*111
:
r:>:.-: : ;: : x-:- :
*W&t«w y**m< *»■'■'"' 'WW' /»w~-yi“qr~
. ... ? : ‘ I S' l.v:----'"'
Dunlop Wins the Melbourne Cup!
“Going gamely on, Dunlop held his own,
was eased in the last few strides, and in
gallant fashion won the Melbourne Cup
in the fastest time yet recorded for the
race. As he passed the post he was a
length clear of Silvermine who was the
same distance ahead of Australian Peer.”
(Extract from the -Melbourne Argus of
Wednesday, November 2, 1887.)
The horses in that memorable 1887 Cup
described above were started by calling
the word, “GO” ... it was not until 1924
that the Johnstone-type barrier illustrated
above was used for the first time to start
a Melbourne Gup field.
Stretching for 110 feet across the width
of the straight ... the barrier consists
of five slender manilla ropes held taut
at either end by seven i n * diameter
Dunlop Rubber Cords. It is on the smooth,
powerful elasticity of these special rubber
cords that the Starter depends when he
operates the trigger that shoots the
barrier forward and upward to start
the impatient field on its way.
Today, special rubber, in almost the
same form as that used for the Mel-
bourne Cup starting barrier is applied
by Dunlop to the manufacture of such
diverse products as golf balls, shock
absorber buffers, vibra*
tion damper mountings
for huge machines, acid-
resisting hose linings, and
even for the rubber bands
round the bundles of Bank
notes that will inevitably
change hands at this 1946
Melbourne Cup Meeting.
This graphic illustration
of the amazing versatility
of rubber and its modern
development and applica-
tion by Dunlop may
suggest to you that rubber in one of its
many forms could be the answer to some
problem you have.
If so, no one is better equipped to
advise you than the Dunlop Technical
Service Department ... all you need do
is drop a line to the Dunlop Branch in
your own State.
DUNLOP
tfli/Lsf mth
DUNLOP RUBBER
AUSTRALIA
C I M
TED
II N C.


FROG SMOKE
By KEN LEVIS
EVERY spring the Good Lord sends
along two or three days that make
you say “Nice work, God! Keep
it going! ” And he might for a day
or two. After that everyone gets so used
to them that they are just fine spring
days ; warm sun and clear skies, green
grass and growth and all the rest of it.
Every season has a couple of these days
everyone notices. When you meet people
they say “Heavenly weather!” and you
can’t help telling yourself that they really
mean it. They sound like people making
discoveries.
This day was one of those God turns
out every now and then. From the
fettlers’ tents by the line the view was
blocked in by the great hill, green to the
top—a big North Coast hill. Below it, in
dark blotchy green, the oaks thick along
the creek —a clear North Coast creek.
The steel bridge, the railway line, the
flats lucerne-covered and fallow where
the Jerseys were grazing. Beyond, the
gravelled road with pools terracotta-
colored from the recent rain, and Old
Angy’s shack with blue smoke dawdling
about in the air.
The one thing
moving, the figure of
young Jimmy Shel-
ton on the outer
curved rail white
shirt above brown
country-boy’s legs,
head forward for
balance and bamboo
rod on shoulder —a
North Coast country
boy.
Fishing? Too
early of course.
Jimmy didn’t expect
to get anything
really. The water
was still too cold for
perch. But there
always had to be a
first time every
season, and you never knew; you might
possibly fluke a nibble. And this was
the last day of the holidays—tomorrow,
back to town for school; At any rate
it was good in the sun amongst the tall
spike reeds by the creek. In his pocket
a tobacco-tin with nail-punched airholes
rubbed his leg. Six worms in dirt.
Near the bridge the bamboo-rod
bucked as the boy lost balance. The
edge of the rail stung his ankle.
“Blast!” he said.
HE stopped to look back. Not bad!
Three-hundred yards? Four-hun-
dred? From here to the gum would be
a hundred-yards’ sprint; to the culvert,
another. More than a hundred to the
fettlers’ camp* —closer to a two-twenty.
Yair, a good quarter-mile stretch he’d
covered on the outside rail without once
touching ground. Any mug could do that
on the inner, but the outer? Not on
your sweet life.
Pleased with himself, he caught up a
hunk of blue-metal in his free hand and
let fly at the close-wired fence. It caught
one of the low wires, pranged loudly and
fell with a soft plop in the putty-like
mud of the drain, disturbing a frothy
mass of frogs’ eggs anchored there. A
magpie on the lowest limb of the gum,
fifty-feet from the ground, put his head
on one side and warbled with drunken
might. Jimmy in answer slapped his
hand over his freckled face and let fly
his war-cry; “Wah . . . Ah . . . Ah . . .
Ah ... ”
He stopped short to hear the last sounds
slapping the side of the hill.
Down amongst the tawny kangaroo-
grass clumps the sun glinted on two
dead-marines. The boy leapt the distant-
signal wire and slithered upright down
the embankment to them. He put the
two bottles inside his shirt, the under-
sides chilling against his skin, and sud-
denly remembered Old Angy’s paper
already there. Lord! He’d nearly for-
gotten about Old Angy’s paper! They d
” given it to him at the post office.
“Old Angy’s crook,” they said. “Drop
his paper in for him as you go by.”
Lord! He’d better not lose it. From
the line he gathered as many chunks of
metal as his shirt would stand. The metal
was warm and uncomfortable pressing
against his flesh.
Now he was on the bridge, stepping
from sleeper to sleeper, with his eyes
steady ahead —just to prove he could walk
without looking at each step and the
space below. Of course, out of the
bottom of your eyes you could see
enough not to step into the spaces. Any
mug could do that.
In the centre he sat straddling a cross-
piece. Below, the creek lay still and un-
ruffled. He looked at the bridge and
himself in the water and spat at his re-
flection. Donged it!
On the next sleeper he piled the gooks
and with satisfaction stood the two
marines upright. Ah! This was the
life: the railway bridge, a pile of gooks,
two bottles yet unbroken.
Attracted by his spit a few freshwater
mullet had steered themselves out from
the weeds. Like little finned torpedoes.
For a while he sat watching them. They
came together in formation and went
nosing up the creek. He suddenly flung
his arms wide with a shout. A flash and
the mullet were gone.
He looked at the pool again. Every
stone and crevice was clear on the bottom,
the rocks orange-furred with water
growth. He dropped a. stone to watch it
sink and sit on the creek bed. He could
see a couple of little perch nosing round
amongst the weeds. Quarter-pounders at
the most. Little blighters! They
wouldn’t be biting yet.
The boy took the K.B. bottle, held it
by the neck with two fingers for balance
and dropped it between the sleepers. It
splashed, went under and stuck its neck
above water. He took the biggest gook,
aimed carefully and let it fall. A dull
crock! as the bottle broke. Damn! he
hadn’t meant to scone the bottle first go-
off.
He flung the yunks of blue-metal hard
about the second. It was a Jap ship
dive-bombed by Lightnings. Near-misses
everywhere; water splashed, the sea
rocked, the Jap ship was having a hell of
a spin. Ammunition running short now:
Jimmy Shelton to the rescue! Crock!
again as the bottle broke and pieces
settled on the flat slab of rock. Little
furred pieces of underwater growth
moved about the pool from the commo-
tion. Slowly they settled. The end of the
Jap survivors.
As he stood up, Old Angy’s paper —the
only thing besides himself left in his shirt
—prodded him in the back to remind him
of earthly matters. Through the struts
of the bridge he could see Old Angy’s
shack beyond the bend of the creek.
Around the bend the acacias were in
bloom, the trees seas of white blossom.
On the flat he could smell -the sweet
perfume. It filled the air all around the
bend. He sniffed in great breaths of it.
The bees were busy.
He crossed the creek by the big fallen
oak that the school kids used. The upper-
most bark of the limbs was worn smooth
by the claws of sun-basking lizards. As
he approached he had heard the “plops,”
but the shadows in the deep pool below
hid from view the little lizards he knew
were swimming daintily underwater to-
wards the banks. He stood there a
moment looking into the depths, then
threw down his rod and swung to the
ground. But instead of going further he
stopped suddenly. There, fifty yards
round the bend of the creek was Old
Angy himself.
OLD Angy was standing on the flat
bank where a tall green reed-bed
thrust out of the boggy ground. He
prodded ahead of him with his staff, a
long quince-stick worn smooth and shiny
with use. He trod carefully in the black
mud, peering amongst the round green
stalks. In his hand he held something
white that looked in the bright sun like
mosquito-netting.
Jimmy Shelton came close to see what
Old Angy was doing there. The old man
trembled so violently that every few
minutes he would clasp his hands round
his staff and lean heavily. Perspiration
was wet on his face and neck and it
seemed he would topple any time. A
spasm of coughing took him. He
clenched his staff with such force that the
knuckles stood white against the brown
of the work-wrinkled hands. His face
above the beard was a strange-yellowish
color.
Jimmy wished he hadn’t come so close ;
that he’d just tossed the paper into the
shack and cleared off. A fear seized
him that Old Angy might be about to
die. He made up his mind to sneak off
before he was seen.
As the coughing ceased. Old Angy
caught sight of, Jimmy standing there a
few yards away! For half a minute the
old man stood watching him dully before
he was strong enough to move. Jimmy
stared without speaking. The picture be-
fore him bit into his mind so that he
never forgot it: the bent back, little dull
eyes of suffering in the wrinkled face,
the thick nose, dirty beard stained ginger
below the mouth from tobacco-juice and
smoke. His beard always made you wish
he’d been more careful when blowing
his nose. Jimmy tried to keep his eyes
from it, but they kept returning in spite
of his loathing. There was Old Angy,
an Iscariot face of suffering, that re-
turned to disquiet the boy in his next
month at school. From where he stood
Jimmy was aware of the heavy stench of
stale tobacco and unwashed clothes.
Old Angy stared stupidly at the boy
until he held out the paper. He mumbled
to himself angrily and turned away into
the reeds, peering closely along the stems,
“Dotty!” was the boy’s thought. Then,
with more alarm, “He’ll throw himself
into the creek! What’ll Ido then?”
Jimmy followed Old Angy’s footmarks
into the reed-bog and hesitated, not know-
ing what he ought to do. At last he said,
as kindly as he could, wijh his heart
thumping beyond control: “What you
looking for, Angy?”
The sick man stopped again to peer at
the boy. His lips were moving as if in
distress. He held up the mosquito-net-
ting.
“Frogs,” he said.
“Eh?”
Angy’s voice was weak and stammer-
ing. “You can help me, boy,” he said.
Jimmy’s voice squeaked at once, high-
pitched, “Why? Y’ going fishing?”
Old Angy spat in his disgust and turned
away.
Well, this was the place for frogs.
This was where you’d come if you were
looking for little green and brown fellers
for bait when dabbling for perch. You’d
find them clinging to the reeds. But Old
Angy—and frogs . . . This would be a
joke for the blokes. Old Angy was mad,
dippy, blotto!
Jimmy shouldered in and out of the
reeds. The frogs today were scarce and
hard to find. Three were all he could
find. He dropped them inside his shirt
where they clung to the cloth perplexed.
Old Angy had two in his piece of mos-
quito-net.
Another fit of
coughing clawed
within the old man’s
body. He clung help-
lessly to his staff,
weak and with eyes
watering. Jimmy
squelched over to
him, sympathy
almost driving out
repulsion. He
grasped the old
man’s elbow to help
him out of the black
mud. Old Angy
shook off his hand.
“This’ll have to do us,” he muttered
not so much at Jimmy as at the bog in
general. “You git on up to the shack,
young shaver,” he said. “Y’ might pick
up a frog in the little tank. You oughter
be able to grab him.”
lIMMY sprinted to the shack. Angy’s
hut had one room, slab walls, a slop-
ing iron roof tied on with fencing-wire.
A scared-looking chimney cringed at one
end and a downpipe and tank at the
other. Stretching himself out on the
warm tank-top he lowered his head
through the hole, breathing in the dank,
stale smell tanks always have inside them.
As his eyes grew accustomed to the
dimness he could see the reddish rust-
splotches around the rims, a few leaves
on top of the water, and, squatting on
the upper surface of the rim above water,
two full, flat, green frogs. Jimmy
snatched at the nearer. It squawked
loudly in the tank and spat a long stream
of fluid against the side. Its mate
plopped into the water, out of sight. The
boy waited to see if he could spot it, and
by the time he withdrew his head again
into the fresh sunlight Old Angy had
hobbled up the rise to meet him.
Old Angy grunted as the boy dropped
his frog into the mosquito-net with the
little fellers. Six altogether.
“I’ll come back later and get this
bloke’s mate,” the boy promised. Old
Angy shuffled off into his shack, hitching
up on the shiny nail the corn-sack cover-
ing the doorway.
The inside of the shack was dim. The
floors were of dirt. The table sprouted
from four saplings long ago stuck in the
earth ; the bed likewise. It was made of
corn-sacks over two saplings. Down at
one end was the tin chimney, smoke-
blackened and draughty. The shack was
always dark and unwholesome. There
were big hairy blowflies crawling about
stupidly. They never seemed to be buzz-
ing, just silently making their way over
the bed, the table, the makeshift cupboard
and the hard floor. They were always
getting themselves crushed. Two of them
now were crawling over a half-eaten tin
of baked beans on the table. A bent
spoon, still dirty, lay beside the tin. *
Old Angy sank down on his bunk ex-
hausted. He still held tight in his" hand
the frogs in the mosquito-netting. Fits
of coughing were seizing him, doubling
up his body with their wracking, but the
fate of the frogs kept Jimmy from hurry-
ing out into the fresh air. Was Old
Angy going to eat them? The boy tried
to breathe as little as possible. He be-
came conscious of the spittle inside his
mouth and kept himself from swallowing
it. He would spit it out outside. At
once his mouth quickly became full.
The old man with great effort pulled
off his wet boots. He wore no socks and
his feet were unclean. He sank back on
the corn-sacks and pulled over himself
a grey blanket. It was discolored with
great grease-spots.
“Ah, I can’t do it!” he whimpered.
Then, “You’ll have to do it for me, boy,”
he said.
“Here. Tie up this netting!”
Jimmy took the piece of string off Old
Angy’s paper and screwed up the top of
the mosquito-net so the frogs were secure.
The old man watched him.
“Sure they can’t git out?” he whispered.
Jimmy lost control for the moment
and swallowed. His throat at once
seemed full of germs.
“Not a dog’s chance!” he gulped.
The old man pointed to a hook hang-
ing from the rafter above his bed.
“Up there!”
Jimmy hung the frogs from the hook.
The netting swung slowly. For a while
the frogs moved about and then sat
still, wondering. A look resembling con-
tent eased Old Angy’s face.
“Now . . .” he said between the
spasms of his cough, “I’ll be jake—in no
time ...”
He closed his eyes, then opened them.
“Listen, boy . . . you say nothin’ about
these ■ ’ere frogs—see? —I don’t want
people spoutin’ all over the district . . .”
“Go on!” he said. “Spit y’r death.”
Jimmy was very glad to spit. A look
something like relief came to the old man.
“Now,” he said, “if y’re peckish, finish
off them beans. 1 can’t stomach no more.
There’s a spoon somewheres.”
OUTSIDE, the sun was bright on the
paddocks. Too late now for fish-
ing, thought Jimmy, spitting with mighty
force after his escape from the beans.
He’d leave the perch alone in their grey
water-weed world. He emptied the tin
o Continued on page 32.)


TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependents carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age. If the answer
is “No” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and
your family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In ’ its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western. Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
plexion ! Use Cuticura
Soap regularly its
oantlseptic and medicinal P ro *
parties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.^
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN’S FOREIGN POLICY.
Mr, Bevin returned to London from the
Paris conference and waited long enough
before setting off for the New York
meeting of the Foreign Ministers to give
the House of Commons a detailed state-
ment of his Government’s views on the
affairs of the world. Not the least of
his critics were found among the sup-
porters of the Government, some of
whom thought that Mr. Bevin’s policy
was “to seek out in every land where
his writ ran that party which would
oppose the Soviet and the Communists
and back it to the hilt.” They found
his statement following “the same vein
of abuse of the Soviet.” The Opposition
in the House was inclined to accept it
as “a calm and massive review.”
Mr. Bevin declared that “World War
II caused such an upset that it means that
the whole world has to find a new settle-
ment on a comprehensive basis. The
problems to solve in Europe are inter-
linked with those of the Middle East and
the Far East, while at the same time we
have to take into account the rising of
nationalism all over the world and guide
it into a world organisation. For the sake
of the security of the future the two main
aggressive nations are being left till last,
on the ground that it is essential to
exercise such control over them as to pre-
vent them ever becoming aggressor
nations again. We are proceeding from
the circumference instead of from the
centre, and even this raises such an-
tagonism and difficulties that the task calls
for patience, toleration and a steady
moving away from the war itself.”
He mentioned “the large amount of
propaganda put out against the British
Empire and the temptation there always
is to reply, which often makes things
worse. Our contribution to these two
world wars, the price we have paid in
blood and money, our moral claim, as
well as the sacrifice which we have al-
ready given, do not call for a justification
of our existence every five minutes.
The Far East
“The Far East is a region of very great
importance to us, and particularly to the
Britfsh Commonwealth and Australia and
New Zealand. Australia had to face the
dangers of invasion. She is, therefore,
quite properly concerned about the future
settlement with Japan and the peace
which will be established in the Pacific,
“Physically, the demilitarisation of
Japan is complete. The task ahead is to
ensure that the Japanese have neither the
resources nor the desire to tread the path
of aggression again. We are anxious to
conclude an enduring peace with Japan,
and this will be helped if the Japanese
people are ready and willing to put into
practice the democratic ideals of their
new constitution,
“China is left with tremendous pro-
blems to solve. She is handicapped by a
dispute between the National Govern-
ment and the Communists. There
have been encouraging signs in Indo-
nesia. The Netherlands and Indo-
nesian delegations have met under the
chairmanship’ of Lord Killeam, and a
truce between the armed forces has been
concluded. This is an auspicious start.
It has been our aim throughout to try to
bring the parties together. Our troops
will be out of Indonesia finally on Nov-
ember 30, and I have every hope by that
date a settlement will have been reached.
Farther north, there has been progress
towards a settlement of the long-standing
territorial disputes between Siam and
French Indo-China.
Egypt
“We are trying to replace our existing
alliance with Egypt—which was forged
under the threat of Axis aggression—by
an alliance founded on identity of in-
terest and principles of partnership and
mutual responsibility. We are handi-
capped in bringing the talks to a con-
clusion owing to political differences in
Egypt itself. These discussions do not only
affect Egypt as an isolated entity, but
have repercussions over the whole Middle
East area. This area is vital to the
peace of the world, and the coun-
tries in it look to us for assistance
in their development. Allegations
have been made that we wish to
oppress and exploit the people of the
Middle East. That is sheer nonsense. It
remains an essential part of our policy
to respect, sustain and develop their in-
dependence.
Persia
“In Moscow I struggled hard to
try to get an understanding in regard to
Persia. Persia is in a dangerous position
where interests of Great Powers meet,
and I am anxious that the smaller Gov-
ernment should never fall a vicirn of
any difference of opinion by larger
Powers. Therefore it is a matter of regret
that the suggestions made during the
Moscow conference were not adopted.
We wish to see Persia united in main-
taining her independence free from
foreign interference. If this is observed
by all countries this area will be kept
clear of any-, possible conflict.
Turkey and the Straits
“The next vexed problem,” said Mr.
Bevin, “is that of Turkey. The Soviet
Government have made it clear that they
are anxious to obtain a base in the Straits
which would ensure, in effect, that the
control of this waterway would rest in
the hands of the Soviet. His Majesty’s
Government have made it clear that in
their view this would involve an unwar-
rantable interference with the sovereignty
of Turkey, and would put her under
foreign domination.
“The Soviet stated that during the war
the convention of the Straits did not
prevent enemy Powers from using the
Straits for hostile purposes against the
Soviet. His Majesty’s Government, al-
though they have in the course of the
war had some difference of opinion with
the Turkish Government about the inter-
pretation of the convention, held that on
the whole its terms had been conscien-
tiously observed. The Soviet suggested
that the establishment of the regime in
the Straits should be reserved to the Black
Sea Powers alone, and that Turkey and
the Soviet should jointly organise the
defence of the Straits. His Majesty’s
Government stated that the proposal was
not acceptable. They felt that Turkey
should continue to be responsible for the
control of the Straits. This view was
also expressed by the U.S. The Soviet
have not been able to accept these views,
and have addressed a further Note to the
Turkish Government. Our view now is
that any further discussions should take
place at an international conference
called for that purpose. Any solution
must respect the sovereignty of Turkey
and the interests of other Powers con-
cerned outside the Black Sea. Matters
have been made much more awkward
by the war of nerves which has been
carried on.
Greece
“Greece has been the subject of an
unprecedented pressure and propaganda
attack. It is a matter of great regret that
all the parties did not join in the election.
This habit of boycotting elections is not
a good one. The suggestion that British
bayonets have forced upon the Greek
v
people a regime they do not want does
not bear a moment’s examination. His
Majesty’s Government have no other ob-
ject than to endeavor to put Greece on
her feet again, allow her to develop in
her own way and without interference.
This has been hindered by constant agi-
tation not so much by people inside
Greece itself but from outside.
“We have done our best to recreate
Greece as a State, for we can never for-
get that in central, southern and eastern
Europe Greece was the only ally of the
Commonwealth at a moment when the
most friendly relations existed between
others and Germany, that she had to take
the brunt of the attack by Italy and later
was invaded by Germany. I should have
thought that gratitude alone would have
left her to return to peaceful development.
That has not been done. Had the origi-
nal plan of elections without civil war
and without one party seeking to put
through its aims by force been followed,
Greece today would have made greater
progress towards recovery. We will not
desert Greece after the great comradeship
that existed between us, and W'e shall
’try to assist her economically.
“Nothwithstanding this policy we were
taken again before the Security Council
while the peace conference was going on
in Paris, this time by the Ukraine Gov-
ernment, and again completely vindicated.
As Sir Alexander Cadogan said then,
‘What Greece chiefly needs is to be left
alone so that she can grapple with her
economic needs.’ We shall get the British
troops out of Greece as soon as we can.
We have certain obligations to fulfil, and
as soon as they are fulfilled the troops will
come away.”
The Paris Conference
Mr. Bevin said the Paris conference
gave the main allies the opportunities to
which they were entitled to state their
views on the peace. “There have been
attempts to use the conference as a forum
for propaganda speeches, and some
States have taken opportunity to level
frivolous charges at others. Sometimes
particularly selfish interests have been
strenuously pursued without regard to the
general good, and sometimes we have
seen States swayed not by the merits of
the case but by ideological sympathies.
There have appeared to be two blocs
when we came to voting, and the world
has got the impression that the confer-
ence has led to the division of East and
West. Such division must, and I am sure
can, be prevented. If it continued it
would delay and threaten the recovery of
Europe.
Trieste
“At first I doubted whether the solu-
tion recommended by the Council of
Foreign Ministers regarding Trieste was
a wise one. I had in mind Danzig, but
there is a difference. The former only
served one country, while Trieste can
serve several countries in central and
south-eastern Europe besides Italy and
Yugoslavia. I therefore came to the con-
clusion that, if we could provide for a
really independent and free territory, and
a free port within it, the proposal was
the best solution, having regard to the
problems of Europe as a whole. The
debate centred on the future regime of
the territory. Our difficulties were in-
creased by the fact that the Soviet dele-
gation, which had voted with us over
the French Line, put forward proposals,
and supported a number of Yugoslav pro-
posals, which would have removed the
stability which Trieste needed if she was
to remain independent. We joined with
the U.S. in declaring that our agreement
to the French Line was contingent upon
agreement being reached on the other
parts of the decisions, including a Statute
for the free territory. We were accused
of wishing to establish an Anglo-Saxon
military base in Trieste. This is just non-
sense. We have not approached the prob-
lem from the point of view of strategy at
all. We are seeking a solution which will
bring peace and stability to the area, and
will stand the immediate strain and stress
and also stand the test of time.
“In view of the racial divisions m the
free territory, andk the consequent risk of
outside interference, special measures
must be taken to ensure the maintenance
of public order and security. If these
things are assured, we hope that both ele-
ments of the population, Slav and Latin,
will develop a consciousness of common
citizenship. Next, we desire that every-
thing should be done to enable the terri-
tory to prosper. For this, we feel that
there are two essential requirements. In
the first place the States concerned must
agree to grant freedom of transit for
goods passing across the territory between
Trieste and the countries which it natur-
ally serves. The second requirement is
peace and stability. Only if there is evi-
that this has been established is
it reasonable to count on the confidence
and the necessary finance for economic
development. We believe that the respon-
sibility of the Security Council for the
territory should begin from the moment
the treaty comes into force. In such cir-
cumstances we are ready to place our
troops at the disposal of the Security
Council during the transitional period
while the fundamental structure of Trieste
is being organised.
“The Yugoslav Government have
said they will not sign the treaty
with Italy, nor withdraw their troops
from the part of the proposed free
territory of Trieste which they now
occupy, if a solution based on the French
Line is upheld. I hope the Yugoslav Gov-
ernment will withdraw from this extreme
position. The essential condition of
success is that both Yugoslavia and Italy
shall show goodwill and willingness to
subordinate to the general good their
irredentist aspirations.
Italy
“On the Italian treaty as a whole we
have had to have regard to the damage
done by Italy in her days of aggression,
but we have made every allowance for the
services she rendered after the armistice.
We have tried to find a just balance. We
have made it clear to Italy that we are
ready to discuss trade and other diffi-
culties at the earliest possible moment
after the treaty is signed.
The Danube
“It was necessary to strike a difficult
balance between the principle that enemy
States should make good part of the
damage done to their victims and the
need not to destroy their capacity to re-
store their own trade and economy, thus
hindering the reconstruction of Europe.
The conference accepted a number of
recommendations, particularly in the
Balkan treaties. Here they came up
against the difficulty that all States did
not accept the principle of equal treat-
ment for all. This difficulty became clear
when we considered the Danube. We do
feel that some international body is neces-
sary to ensure freedom of navigation, and
that the necessary conservancy work is
carried out. We know to cur cost that
ever since the international regime has ex-
isted on the Danube it has been ob
structed by one or other of the riparian
States,
Austria
“I was deeply disappointed that our
work on the peace treaties did not include
a settlement with Austria. Without it
the whole Balkan settlement was incom-
plete. Until a treaty is made and the
occupation forces withdrawn Russia can
claim that she must keep some of her
forces in Rumania and Hungary on the
lines-of-communication between Russia
and Austria. Austria stands at the cross-
roads between East and West, and so
long as those roads are blocked Austria
cannot fulfil her necessary function of
providing a meeting-place and market
for neighboring countries. The delay in
reaching a settlement with Austria is par-


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886. •
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Your WILL ...
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn bv
his Solicitor and appointing a • qualified Executor and
Trustee.
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
K: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
ticularly unjust in that the Austrians have
shown their political maturity both in
holding free and honest elections at an
early date after Austria’s liberation and,
more recently, in their# wise and states-
manlike agreement with Italy about the
Southern Tirol. Moreover the Allies are
bound by the Moscow declaration of
1943 to re-establish a free and indepen-
dent Austria. This agreement will be
nullified if we are continually prevented by
one pretext after another from concluding
a treaty which will leave Austria free to
run her own affairs. We have the greatest
sympathy with the Austrian Government
in the difficulties which they encounter as
a result of claims to a large part of in-
dustrial plant as reparations on the ground
that it is a part of the German external
asset. We do not dispute that Russia is
entitled to take as reparations whatever
can be fairly claimed to be a German
asset in eastern Austria, but no definition
has ever been agreed as to what is a
German asset, and we could not agree
that one of the parties should make a
unilateral decision defining this question
in his own interest.
“We have already taken steps to im-
prove Austria’s economic position by
arranging for the restoration of trade
between this country and Austria. In all
this difficult situation one thing is per-
fectly clear, that Austria must in the
shortest possible time regain her full in-
dependence as a united country. We have
gone a considerable way towards elimi-
nating the effect of the zonal barriers in
Austria, particularly in the west. The
special difficulties in eastern Austria must
be dealt with by opening the area fully
to the authority of the Austrian Govern-
ment, and not by shutting it off as a
plague spot which can only be treated in
isolation from the rest of the country.
Germany
“In Germany we are confronted with a
most difficult and testing problem. Agree-
ment on Germany is at once a touch-
stone of the relations between the four
Powers and our opportunity to build a
system of lasting peace and security for
the world. At one of the July meetings of
the Council of Foreign Ministers I sug-
gested there were three possible ap-
proaches to the peace of Europe: (1) A
balance of power between States of equal
strength ; (2) domination by one Power
or by two blocs of Powers; (3) united
effort by the four Powers with the co-
operation of their smaller allies. I said
that his Majesty’s Government regarded
the last approach as being the most likely
to produce the greatest stability. We re-
main firmly of this opinion. It is our
aim that this system should be applied
above all in Germany, and if it succeeds
that this will lead to a general unity in
Europe. But to bring it about there will
have to be a general improvement in re-
lations and a much greater confidence
between the four great Allies.
His Majesty’s Government find them-
selves in almost complete agreement
with Mr. Byrnes. The continuance of
American interest in Europe is vital to the
peace of Europe and particularly to the
future of Germany. In fact, it is one
of the brightest parts in the post-war
picture and one of the main grounds for
hope that we shall reach a better settle-
ment this time than we did at the end
of the last war. Equally we are
extremely glad of Marshal Stalin’s
categorical denial that Russia might in-
tend to use Germany against the West.
We can only hope that his words
will in practice make easier co-
operation between all the Allies in
Germany and other questions. If we
take Mr. Byrnes’s pledge of American
co-operation and Marshal Stalin’s words
with the declaration which I have made
of Britain’s desire for four-Power co-
operation and the known willingness of
France to collaborate in European
security—if this desire for co-operation
can be applied in practice in the con-
ference room the future of Europe looks
brighter than it has looked for ages.
“The issues in Germany will have to
be faced at the special meeting of the
Council of Foreign Ministers in New
York. One hopes that it will be possible to
agree on general principles to be worked
out at later meetings until we arrive at
a final solution. Our ultimate goal is
the preparation of a peace treaty, but
there is a large amount of preliminary
work to be done before that can be
accomplished. No final decisions can
be taken until all the Powers who took
part in the war against Germany have
had a chance to express their views.
Politics
“We wish to see established, first, poli-
tical conditions which will secure the
world against any German reversion to
dictatorship or any revival of German
aggressive policy ; second, economic con-
ditions which will enable Germans and
the world outside Germany to benefit in
conditions of peace from German in-
dustry and resources; third, constitu-
tional machinery in Germany for these
ends. We are striving to stimulate
habits of orderly self-government among
the Germans. We are decentralising
German administration so far as pos-
sible. Looking further ahead, we con-
template a German constitution which
would avoid the two extremes of a loose
confederation of autonomous States and
a unitary' centralised State.
Industry
“In the short term our guide on
economic conditions should be the Pots-
dam agreement.
There are many
imperfections in
this agreement,
but we are ready
to carry it out in
its entirety. What
we are not pre-
pared to do is to
carry out parts of
it which are un-
favorable to us
while other parts
are not fulfilled.
Neither are we
prepared to oper-
ate the agreement
unless it applies
to all the zones
on equal terms
and covers econo-
mics, finance and
reparations. The
basic provision of
the agreement is
that Germany
shall be treated
as an economic
unit. It follows
that there must
not be reparations
delivery, from cur-
rent production
so long as there
is a deficit in the
balance of pay-
ment account in
any one zone. As
a result eastern Germany and western
Germany are treated as two separate
economic units. We and the Ameri-
cans have had to buy food and
other goods to send into western Ger-
many while the Russians are taking simi-
lar goods from eastern Germany into
Russia. This is a situation which cannot
go on. We must either have Potsdam
observed as a whole or we must have a
new agreement.
“We agreed to the plan on the clear
understanding that Germany would be
treated as an economic unit. As this
has not been done we have a right to
revise the plan. We and America are
having to provide large sums of money
to keep our zones at the minimum sub-
sistence level. This is most unpalatable,
and we are doing our utmost to reduce
the burden. The greatest single improve-
ment would be to increase the coal out-
put of the Ruhr. We can only do this
by retaining in Germany temporarily
more of the coal which is at present ex-
ported, and so rehabilitate the German
coal industry so as to be in a position at
an early date to step up exports all round.
Of course, every importing country is
greatly concerned, but the fact is the
industry there is run down and destroyed,
and stocks are almost exhausted.
“It is our view that German industry
has a most important part to play in the
whole of European economy, and it is
not our intention that it should be per-
manently crippled—except in so far as it
might endanger security. The plan for
the Ruhr must be worked into the plan
for the disarmament control of Germany
as a whole. We have also to consider
the ownership of the basic German in-
dustries. These industries were previ-
ously in the hands of magnates who were
closely allied to the German military
machine, who financed Hitler, and who in
two wars were part and parcel of Ger-
many’s aggressive policy. We have no
desire to see those gentlemen, or their
like, return to a position which they have
abused with such tragic results. As an
interim measure we have taken over the
possession and the control of the coal and
steel industries and vested them in the
Commander-in-Chief. We shall shortly
take similar action in the cases of the
heavy chemical industry and mechanical
engineering industry. Our intention is
that those industries shall be owned and
controlled by the German people, but
New York “Sun.”
MOULTING .
subject to such international control that
they cannot again be a threat to their
neighbors.
Frontiers
“Another most important matter is that
of Germany’s frontiers. At Potsdam we
agreed that a large part of eastern Ger-
many should be provisionally put under
Polish supervision pending final settle-
ment of the frontier. We did not at that
conference deal with Germany’s western
frontiers. The French wish to incor-
porate the Saar in their economic and
administrative system, but without for-
mally annexing it. They also propose that
the Rhineland should be detached from
Germany and formed into a separate
State. They also wish the Ruhr to
be formed into a separate State. In addi-
tion to these major problems, it is poss-
ible that the Netherlands, the Belgian,
Danish and Luxembourg Governments
may put forward claims for territorial
adjustments with Germany.
“His Majesty’s Government are pre-
pared to accept the French proposals
about the Saar, subject to the necessary
adjustments of the French reparations
balance and the delimitation of the exact
areas. While, therefore, we shall support
the French over the Saar, we cannot sup-
port their proposal with regard to the
Rhineland and the Ruhr. An arrange-
ment can, we think, be made which would
satisfy French security by providing for
the maintenance in those territories of an
Allied force, even after the end of the
occupation of the rest of Germany.
“As regards the Polish frontier, I will
not try to conceal the fact that it was
with the greatest reluctance that we agreed
at Potsdam to the vast changes upon
which our Russian allies insisted. It was
inevitable, with such enforced, large-
scale emigration of people, to provide
the deepest reaction in Germany, and I
fear we have not seen the last result of
the Polish affair. Our assent was given
in return for assurances by the provi-
sional Polish Government to the effect
that they would hold free elections as
soon as possible. We see no reason
why we should finally ratify the ces-
sion of this vast territory to Poland
without being satisfied that these assur-
ances have been fully carried out. We
should also wish to be assured that the
Poles were able to develop this territory
so that the economic resources were
properly used and that it did not become
a wilderness from which the Germans
have been excluded but which the Poles
were unable to populate.
The British Zone
“There is a great deal of talk about
the need for putting things right in our
zone of Germany. All this talk is very
right and very natural. However, people,
both here and in Germany, are apt
to see these things out of perspec-
tive. It must not be forgotten that
crimes were committed and millions
of Germans were implicated in those
crimes, and Nuremberg by no means
wipes the slate clear. We must be-
have like decent and sensible human
beings, and not like Nazis, but I appeal
to the country not to indulge in sloppy
sentiments. It will not do the Ger-
mans any good, and it will only
result in misleading them. Having
regard to the fact that we have had
to fight two wars with all their sacri-
fices, we must now secure a just settle-
ment without fear or favor. It is
extremely distasteful to see victorious
nations courting a defeated enemy for
ideological reasons. The sooner we can
get away from this and consider objec-
tively what is demanded by justice and
by the long-term interests of Europe
and the world, the better it will be for
ourselves and for Germany as well. We
have also, of course, a major interest
in seeing that Germany does, not become
a permanent distressed area in the centre
of Europe. If this distressed area is
allowed to develop it can only result in
bringing down with it the standard of
life all over Europe, including our own
and indeed that of the world.
U.N.O.
“It has been said that the role of tbe
U.S. in U.N.O. was to play the part of
an intermediary between Britain and
Russia. Now it is suggested that we
should play the part of intermediary
between the U.S. and Russia. Our role
is not to be intermediary at all. We
have our own contribution to make to
world peace and they have theirs. We
place our proposals on the table and
we ask for a discussion of them on their
merits. We are not ganging up with
anybody—neither with one side nor the
other. When we suggest something it
is neither dignified nor proper to suggest
that we are making attacks either on
one or another of our allies. We can-
not evolve world peace unless we have
made our views clear by discussion and
have seen what emerges. Unless this pro-
cedure is maintained we shall never get
the common understanding which is
essential to build world peace.”


*u*
Ranking in size with similar organisations in other
$ » <
parts of the world, Claude Neon occupies an un-
rivalled position in Australia in the field of luminous-
tube products for outdoor advertising and interior
Fluorescent lighting. Although operating on basic
Claude overseas patents, Claude Neon Limited is an
all-Australian Company entirely owned and
financed by Australian capital. It is the only
manufacturer of its type of products with an Australia-
wide organisation...offering sales and manufacturing
facilities in, all States of the Commonwealth.
Claude Neon Limited
FIRST IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3483
Wednesday, November 13, 1946
IN INJUN TERRITORY.
“The Democratic party’s majority in Congress has not long survived the death of Franklin D.Roosevelt, originator of the New Deal and war-time leader. His successor
faces a Republican majority in both Houses. Already he has conceded ground in connection with price-control.”
“And I gotta get her going again and keep her rolling for two years.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
RIGHT TURN!
Throughout the second Roosevelt’s
Presidency the Democrats had com-
manding majorities in both branches of
the legislature, beginning in 1933 with
191 in the House (435 members) and 22
in the Senate (96 members ; two for each
State). At times Roosevelt measures
were defeated by a combination of Re-
publicans and conservative Democrats
from the South, but six Congressional
elections, wfiich are held every two years,
when all the Representatives and one-
third of the Senators retire, made incon-
siderable party changes.
After the election of November 7,
1944, there were in the Senate 57 Demo-
crats, 38 Republicans and one Progres-
sive, generally voting with the Republi-
cans ; in the House 243 Democrats, 190
Republicans, one Progressive and one
American Labor —the exuberant Mr.
Marcantonio from New York, a hero to
Communists. And, except for minor Re-
publican gains in the filling of casual
vacancies, so the position remained on
April 12, 1945, when Mr. Truman suc-
ceeded his masterful chief.
The people, dissatisfied on many scores,
have altered all that. When the 80th
Congress is installed on January 3 the
Republicans will be in control, with 52
seats in the Senate and 246 in the House.
At the same time there will be a majority
of Republican Governors, headed by Mr.
Dewey, whose margin of votes in New
York over the Democratic ex-Senator
Mead will assuredly bring him back into
the picturl; as a Presidential candidate.
The Republicans gained everywhere and
among all classes except in the tradi-
tionally Democratic Southern States, still
clinging to memories of the Civil War.
The Pacific States were strong for them,
as also were New England, Pennsylvania
and the Middle West. New York elected
a Republican Senator, the first for 20
years, who defeated Mr. Lehman, re-
cently director-general of U.N.R.R.A.
and for nine years of the Roosevelt
period Governor of New York. Mis-
souri itself turned Mr. Truman down. It
put one Republican in the Senate seat
from which he moved to the White House
and “decisively” preferred another to
one of his close friends, for whom he
had made a strong personal appeal.
Mr, Truman’s position in relation to
the new Congress ominously recalls that
of President Wilson 28 years ago. Then
the just-elected Congress was composed
of 49 Republican and 47 Democratic
Senators and of 238 Republican, 193
Democratic and four other members (two
Independents, a Prohibitionist and a
Socialist) of the House. So the state of
parties is much the same, but there is an
immeasurable difference in another im-
portant respect. Even after Mr. Wilson’s
powers failed most of the Democratic
Congressmen elected in November, 1918*
were devoted to his person and policies.
Mr. Truman’s feeble handling of affairs
has cost him nearly all the friends who
were 100 per cent, for him in the first
three months of his term.
From a Democratic Senator and news-
paper has come the humiliating proposal
that Mr. Truman should resign. There
is no constitutional impediment, but no
President has ever resigned, nor could
Mr. Truman do so while he remains
sound in body and mind without brand-
ing himself as a quitter. After the
cruel stroke of fate which palsied Mr.
Wilson on September 19, 1919, it might
have been held in the terms of Article II
of the Constitution that he had fallen
into “inability to discharge the powers
and duties of” his “office,” especially as
there was then a Vice-President —Mr.
Marshall, of Indiana, elected in 1913
but, chivalry triumphing over party spirit,
he was allowed to remain in the
House, a hopeless invalid, until the ex-
piry of his term on March 4, 1921. True,
a President can be removed from office
“on impeachment for, and conviction of,
treason, bribery or other high crimes and
misdemeanors,” The House does the im-
peaching and the Senate attends to the
trial and judgment, with the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court as presid-
ing officer. A two-thirds vote is required
for conviction, and in the case of Andrew
Johnson, the solitary impeached Presi-
dent, it was not obtained ; the voting was
35 for conviction and 19 for acquittal.
It has been held by some Americans,
quoted by Bryce in his American Com-
monwealth, that a President may be im-
peached for “acts done in violation of
official duty and against the interests of
the nation,” construed for the occasion
as high crimes and misdemeanors ; “such
acts, in fact, as were often grounds for
the English impeachments of the seven-
teenth century.” The idea of Mr. Truman
being impeached for anything may, how-
ever, be dismissed as a fantastic impossi-
bility. But it is quite on the cards that
the new Senate will deal with one or
more of the belated peace treaties as the
1919 Senate dealt with the Treaty
of Versailles. For ratification of
any treaty negotiated by the Gov-
ernment a two-thirds Senate majority
is required (the relevant words in
Article II are that the President “shall
have power, by and with the advice of
the Senate, to make treaties, provided
two-thirds of the Senators present con-
cur”). The two-thirds majority was re-
fused to the Versailles instrument (the
voting was 55 for and 39 against), and if
the feeling against Russia and its group of
satellites grows it may be refused to any
of the arrangements from which these
greedy, ungrateful, insolent and purblind
police States would derive a dangerous
increase of territory and power.
It is true that the Democratic and Re-
publican leaders are at present united on
foreign policy, but that was the case also
in 1919. A great body of Republicans,
headed by ex-President Taft, came out
for the Treaty of Versailles, with which
the League covenant was interwoven,
without reservations or amendments.
Rejection was the work of three groups
of Republican Senators, one of which
proposed amendments and reservations,
another wanted reservations which would
have killed both treaty and covenant, and
the third, headed by Senator Borah, was
against both in any shape or form.
A considerable degree of independence
is traditionally asserted by Senators in
both parties. There will be so many un-
compromising anti-Communists on both
sides of the Chamber as not only to
darken the prospect for any peace treaty
involving a surrender to Moscow and its
European stooges inconsistent with
the Atlantic Charter but to make the
American future of practising foreign-
born Communists precarious. Under
United States law these fellows are
already liable to deportation. It is more
than likely that the Republican majority
in the Senate, assisted by Democrats like
Rankin, will press for the tightening of
the law and for rigorous enforcement.
Beyond all doubt the “get-tough-with-
Moscow” sentiment had a great deal to
do with the Republican victory. Most
of the people have had enough of the
queer Oriental combination of flattery,
reproaches, accusations, threats, begging
(with never any thanks for the gifts,
though they are immense), aggrandise-
ment, intrigue and sabotage per strikes
which constitutes Moscow policy, and has
the ragtag and bobtail of Communist
“Governments” and parties as servile
imitators and implemented. They were
baited into fierce resentment by the
murders of American airmen, foul crimes
of the ruffianly Tito Government, and
their humiliating sequel. And they have
had more than enough of ruinous
strikes, which have not only checked re-
habilitation but have endangered the very
existence of great masses of Europeans
dependent on American foodstuffs, and
of the unconscionable arrogance of union
leaders like Curran, Lewis and Bridges.
Evidence of this was given at separate
polls in Nebraska, South Dakota and
Arizona, the people of which States voted
into their constitutions bans on com-
pulsory unionism.
Though there are isolationists among
the Republicans, particularly in the
Middle West, a return to isolationism as
national policy is most improbable.
But the prevailing temper is obviously
one of vigorous and prickly Americanism,
and this is a fact of tremendous signifi-
cance, to be noted in this country as well
as in Communist and non-Communist
Europe and Asia, and in Africa and South
America. It is unfortunate that, with
the Republican triumph, known at Can-
berra, the Government, meeting the new
Parliament, should have put in the mouth
of the King’s brother a declaration that
“no preliminary draft of the treaty for
Japan, should be undertaken without the
full participation of Australia.” This is
one of those things which should be
taken for granted and are better left un-
said. In all mattersr the Americans "have
behaved very generously to Australia, and
—especially where General MacArthur
and his work in Japan are concerned —
nothing is to be gained and something
may be lost by rubbing them the wrong
way, without cause or need.
A Stronger R.S.L.
It is not surprising that there has been
some opposition to the R.S.L. Federal
Congress decision extending eligibility for
membership, with certain qualifications,
to volunteers for active service. The move
represents a considerable change, not only
superficially, in swelling the ranks, nor
in any real altering of the League’s char-
acter, but a quite definite change in out-
look. And there is always a certain
amount of opposition to change, however
inevitable and logical if might seem.
The decision amounts to a recognition
of the change that occurred in Australia’s
fighting part in the recent war compared
with the nature of its part in the war in
which the League was founded. It brings
the organisation up to date ; but no more
than that. Actually the League is an
exact reflection of Australia at war. In
the 1914-18 war a large, though insuffi-
cient, proportion of the country's young
manhood volunteered for active service
and went off to far battlefields. Before
it was over those volunteers were doing
10 times their share ; going into the line
without proper rest; many oKthem up
to half a dozen times wounded. For them,
a war of gradual extermination, because
reinforcements were not forthcoming.
Australia, meanwhile, carried on prac-
tically as usual. There was no close
threat necessitating a strong home-defence
establishment to guard it. During and
after the 1917 strikes the war outlook be-
came, if not hostile, one of indifference.
If anyone cared to volunteer that was his
affair. The need for reinforcements on
the fields where Australia’s war was being
fought by the few was so pressing that
anyone accepted for active service was
certain to be sent overseas, without even
benefit of training.
.All that was reflected in the character
of the R.S.L. as founded at the time.
Australia’s war part had been limited and
exclusive, and so the R.S.L. was formed
as a limited and exclusive organisation,
the first qualification for membership be-
ing the word “Returned.”
Similarly, the extension of League
eligibility for membership to include
those who volunteered to serve anywhere,
were accepted for active service, served
not less than six months and were honor-
ably discharged il a reflection of Aus-
tralia’s enlarged part in the later war.
It is not yet total —-it does not, as in
Britain and other countries, include all
those \Vho have worn the Uniform and
been honorably discharged—but then
Australia’s part was not total either.
Unlike those other countries, there were
here two armies, the volunteer and the
conscript, with limits on where the con-
scripted would serve. Before the latest
extension of membership the R.S.L. was
already admitting conscripts who had
*seen active service. That was only reason-
able ; but it remained anomalous that
many thousands who had volunteered to
fight anywhere should continue to be
denied membership.
So long as that anomaly was perpetu-
ated the R.S.L. was no longer a reflection
of Australia at war. In view of the recent
war’s changes it was fundamentally an
organisation tied to the past in which it
was. founded. For in the later war Aus-
tralia —apart from the singularity of its
two armies—made perforce a total effort
beyond any comparison with its part in
the earlier war ; not only a much more
total but an entirely different kind of
effort. It became a great war base, and
under the threat of invasion it had to
maintain as big a military establishment
as it could muster for protective purposes.
In the circumstances whole divisions of
volunteers were kept in Australia for
years—including* for instance, the splen-
did armored division —and right to the
end there were many thousands of volun-
teers for active service who were denied
opportunity to get away overseas.
In bringing in such as those the R.S.L.
merely keeps in step. If another war
happens along Australia’s part is certain
to be truly total, with the fighting en-
trusted to one army right from the start —
unless, of course, cravens or lunatics are
in charge at Canberra. To then reflect
Australia’s war part —as it did regarding
and is now doing in regard to
the recent conflict —the R.S.L. would have
to admit everybody who wore the uni-
form. In the meantime, by getting into
step as truly representing the part Aus-
tralia actually played in the recent war,
it has shown itself to that extent a live
and progressive organisation, not merely
a survival from a faded past.
Naturally some heat has been worked
up by the change and has had plenty
of publicity. Even that is a healthy sign
in the League ; it would be just another
little job for the undertaker if there was
no such fight left in it. The main line
of objection has been based on the fact
that membership-eligibility has been ex-
tended to men who, though they volun-
teered for it, had nothing farther from
their desires than ever seeing active ser-
vice. Nobody who has ever had any
Army experience would question that
there were many such, but there were a
great many more who failed to see active
service through no fault of their own,
and, anyway, there could be easy safe-
guards against accepting proved dodgers.
The extreme line of opposition was
voiced by one South Australian opponent
to the move: that “the fighting soldier
has nothing in common with the ‘base
Wallah’.” This would seem a more valid
argument if the League was, in fact, re-
stricted to fighting soldiers. Of course it
is not and it never was. As originally
founded it included all who went over-
seas and returned ; a simple recognition
of the fact that armies never do consist
wholly of fighting soldiers; that quite
a large total of the returned eligible might
never have seen a shot fired except on a
rifle-range or by a long-distance gun,
yet were just as necessary in their parti-
cular jobs overseas as were the many
thousands doing identical tasks in Aus-
tralia in the recent war. An army is an
organisation, and the R.S.L. has sensibly
recognised the fact.
Perhaps the opposition to the new
membership move has had more publicity
than its comparative strength has merited.
The decision was taken by a majority
of four States to two, Victoria and S.A.
opposing. It was the decision of the last
two conferences of the N.S.W. State
branch, and this branch’s president, Mr.
Ken Bolton, has expressed himself as
“not afraid of a split in the League.”
It would be a sorry day for Diggers if
a split came. How necessary a solid
organisation—as widely and inclusively
representative as possible—is to them
was indicated at the Federal Congress, at
which 440 proposals for improvements in
repatriating ex-servicemen were down for
consideration. A few of these were ex-
treme, and soon disposed of, but the great
bulk of them served to indicate what the
ex-serviceman’s lot would be without a
strong League there to look after his in-
terests. There have been only too many
such indications. The land-settlement of
Diggers is a general scandal; unless the
League can force those responsible to
move, the youngest land-seeking Digger
will have qualified for the old-age pension
before he gets an acre. Mr. Dedman’s
Re-establishment Act in its preference
clauses has also been shown up as a
cruel hoax, the Crown as an employer
being excluded from its provisions.
For over quarter of a century the
League successfully fought the Old
Diggers’ civilian-existence battles for
them. There was never a day when
there was no need for it to be doing
something somewhere on their behalf,
and the work ahead of it now will cer-
tainly not be less or easier. Because in
this it does peace-time Australia as great
a service as its members did their country
in war-time, it needs all the unity that
Diggers are capable of and all the strength
of numbers they can muster.
Strike Lesson.
Though their duty demanded action,
the “Labor” Premiers of Victoria and
N. S. Wales skulked into a hole, as it.
were, when the Victorian Government
transport employees went on strike and
stopped for more than a week rail traffic
between the main States. Mr. McKell’s
duty became evident when N.S.W. Gov-
ernment railwaymen employed at border
stations refused to unload goods sent
there by rail for dispatch into Victoria
by road—evident, that is, to everyone
save Mr. McKell and his “Government”
and the mobs of which they go in mortal
fear.
But both gentlemen will live to curse
their own inactivity. Forced to dispatch
goods to and from Sydney and Mel-
bourne by road instead of by strike-
bound Government railways, which are
rapidly becoming insolvent once rnore,
consignors discovered (a) an inconsider-
able increase in cost, ( b ) a tremendous
saving in times, (c) a decided advantage
in the lessened handling of goods,
which reduced transit damage to a mini-
mum, and ( d) that gains from (c) and
( b ) more than offset (a).
This is- likely to cause some deep
thinking and, with the inevitable increase
of motor vehicles, a heavy loss of rail-
way revenue. The, present road trans-
port-restriction measures, savage as they
are, have been outdated by road-trans-
port developments. At times they have
had to be suspended because of Govern-
metit railway stoppages. Within the next
decade road transport (provided the
country escapes socialism and private
enterprise isn’t taxed out of existence)
will expand to undreamed-of proportions.
That their gutless acquiescence in the
Victorian rail strike hastened that expan-
sion will be cold comfort to the Cains and
McKells when their railways begin to
languish for want of custom, with aerial
passenger- and freight-carriers accelera-
ting the process.
And the discovery of (a), (b) and (c)
should just about finish the £200,000,000
Ward unemployed-relief scheme the
standardisation of rail gauges.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Idealism at a Discount.
In Mr. Lang’s first speech in the House
at Canberra, the critical passages of which
were so devastating that the “Govern-
ment” and its Whip were startled out of
their design to keep the Address-in-Reply
debate going for at least another week,
the ex-Premier declared that “the ‘Labor’
' party has always been one of high ideals.”
For brevity’s sake this certificate may be
allowed to pass, but it must be held that
idealism is not at all evident in three in-
cidents on which the fierce light of pub-
licity beat last week.
In one case a Mr. Pianta, brother-in-
law of Mr. Foley, the Queensland
“Labor” Minister of Health and Home
Affairs, and a Mr. Goldfinch were each
fined £l5O at Brisbane for having been
found in possession of manufactured
tobacco—“276lb. in a truck and 2691 b.
in a garage”—on which no excise had
been paid. The premises on which the
tobacco was seized are owned and
occupied by the Minister. It was a
lot of tobacco, and tobacco has a
carrying aroma; but Mr. Pianta
acquitted Mr. and Mrs. Foley of
any guilty knowledge of the transaction.
On the same day an Assembly no-confi-
dence motion based on the affair was
ruled out of order by the Speaker.
Then Mr. Harrison, M.H.R., the
Deputy Opposition-leader, asked a series
of questions concerning luggage brought
to Australia from the U.S.A. by a Miss
Kelly, employed in the Australian War
Supplies Procurement office at Washing-
ton. In reply, it was admitted that the
luggage was labelled “Mrs. R. V. Keane,”
presumed to be the widow of the “Labor”
Minister of Customs, who accompanied
him to the U.S.A., and that the luggage
contained “dutiable goods of an esti-
mated value of £1230”: fancy goods,
jewellery, toilet requisites, ladies’ shoes,
handbags and sundry articles of apparel.
To further questions as to (1) who
were interested, “any Ministers or former
Ministers, officers or businessmen,” (2)
whether or not there had been any intent
to smuggle and (3) the comings and goings
of Miss Kelly, the answer was that the
lady was “interrogated,” and that “the
results of the interrogation and other in-
vestigations have been submitted to the
Crown Solicitor for advice.” Mr. Harri-
son thereupon asserted that the name on
the trunks had been changed from “R.
V. Keane” to “Mrs. R. V. Keane” ; that
Miss Kelly had been “used as a stooge
to bring dutiable goods,” and that in-
stead of being held as a witness she had
been “shipped back to America on the
Marine Falcon.” That was all last week,
though there will be other weeks. As
the Dutch philosopher said, “Tomorrow
is also a day.”
In between strange things came out
about the rolls for the Ashfield (Sydney)
by-election. Ashfield is a subdivision of
Parkes, which Federal electorate went to
“Labor,”* for the third time in 45 years,
by a majority of 164 in a poll of over
65,000. The Liberal candidate for Parkes
was Mr. Athol Richardson, previously
M.L.A. for Ashfield, and a candidate for
it again. Examination of the Ashfield
rolls (they were used in the contest for
Parkes) showed an unusual amount of
inflation with the names of non-residents
and persons long dead —striking of the
names of deceased persons off the rolls
is a prescriptive electoral-office duty—
and there was a specific charge of forgery
of a postal-vote form bearing the sig-
nature of an untraceable J.P.
From these three examples it would
seem that “Labor,” high-minded as it
may be, has not given sufficient attention
to the propagation of “high ideals.”
Boloney, Alias Spam.
Punters have been estimated to have
left a cool million in bookies’ bags,
safe deposits and shop “banks” over the
Melbourne Cup. The estimate is much-
more likely to be under the mark than
over it. It would also be interesting to
know just how much of the total was
steered into the, said depositories by
“glamor” scribes of racing journalism,
particularly in the booming of the geld-
ing Spam on the strength of his wonder-
ful Irish form.
To take only the most relevant item of
this. Spam won an. Irish Cesarewitch over
the Melbourne Cup distance carrying Bst.
101 b. and occupying 3min. 51sec. Last
week’s Cup winner carried 9st. and did
the distance in 3min. 2Hsec. It was said
that the Irish time could be disregarded
because the Phoenix Park track is a notori-
ously bad one. It must be the native
peat-bog itself. When Peter Pan, carry-
ing 9st. 101 b., won the Melbourne Cup
in mud over his fetlocks his time was
3min. 40|sec.; and that —over lOsec.
better than the time made by Spam with a
weight advantage of Ist, —was the worst
since 1868! Even on the tracks of
1862 they were going fast enough to
have beaten Spam by lengths, giving him
plenty of weight.
The booming of the “glamor horse” —
as press boys called him, waxing lush on
their “racing romance” theme, with a
gelded hero —assured the gullibles that
in Ireland they “breed stayers.” They
do; but the facts are that the best Irish
horse in many years is the reigning sprint
champion The Bug, and current British
staying quality all round is so poor that
this year everything important in that
line has been easily cleaned up by French
contenders, leading to sad laments in
London “Times” on the decline of
stamina.
But anything goes in booming these
“glamor” advertising pieces. An English
cricketer, given as “the team’s racing
authority,” was thrown in, and his selec-
tion of Spam—arrived at, apparently, by
revelation between overs—was tossed as
manna to the gullibles. The horse’s
advertised owner-trainer was reported as
doing his- training, in a manner of speak-
ing, by correspondence—basing it on “a
set of photographs” from Ireland, by
which aid he was able to “check up on
the general appearance of the horse” at
different stages. It pleased the owner-
trainer, according to report, that the
“glamor” animal was “bigger than when
he raced in Ireland.” That made the .
owner-trainer “very confident,” whatever
it might have made a real trainer think.
The boosting enlarged to tell how,
having won the Cup—all bar winning it
PRECAUTION AGAINST SHOCK.
“There will be a reduction of a penny a gallon in the Hid. petrol tax, of which 4d.
a gallon was created during the war. Petrol-rationing will continue into 1947.” —Canberra
report.
“Only a taste,boys. After what you’ve been through too much at once
wouldn’t do.”
—Spam would next be off to race in Eng-
land. The name would be widely familiar
there. In the war spam was the resort
of the hungry when meat coupons ran
out. It was always possible to get spam,
a tinned variety of boloney made from
meat and pork and put up in Chicago.
England being now off, maybe Chicago
will be on,
Mateship—Canberra Brand.
It would be hard to find anything more
detestable than the spirit in which the
“ ‘Labpr’ Government” .at Canberra is
arranging for a form of immigration
from Britain for which its foreign Jews
are unavailable —a spirit at variance with
all that mateship which “Labor” used to
boast of as the core of its ideals.
With the building-labor force absorbed
entirely in war work for years, with mil-
lions of houses damaged or destroyed,
with the population at the lowest point of
physical resistance to winter cold after
years of struggle and privation, housing is
Britain’s most urgent job. It is, indeed,
literally a matter of life and death,
especially in bleak places like the Clyde,
where a fight is going on against time to
restore British shipping.
Yet it is on record that “scores of
building workers” were lured to down
tools on “housing projects” to meet two
Australian Government representatives
who had come to them with the delights
of Paradise as a bait. One, “on a special
mission to recruit 600 building operatives
in three weeks,” talked to “plumbers and
bricklayers in their working clothes,”
offering them “free and priority passages
over the heads of 150,000 prospective
migrants” and “£7 7s. a week.” It was
later reported that the first consignment
was to leave for Australia on the Largs
Bay and that priority batches of 150
builders a month would follow. And all
young single men from a country in
which there is a vast preponderance of
females.
Had these immigrants been chosen to
relieve the dreadful conditions in which
thousands of Diggers and their wives and
families are living in great industrial
cities there might have been some sym-
pathy for the campaign, however mis-
guided. But the fact is that they are to
go to Canberra in order to house some
of the civil-service army whose salaries
absorb a lot of the £400,000,000 for
which the electors will this year buy
worse and more wanton government
than they used to get less than a decade
ago for £70,000,000.
The position at Canberra is that the
“Government” promised 1000 houses to
its pampered legions. In September its
Mr. Lazzarini, now no longer Housing
Minister, announced that only 59 had been
built since the end of the war, a further
167 being under construction, plus “107
dwellings projected in Turner and Narra-
bundah, which will be commenced in the
near future.” It was “confidently ex-
pected” (by Mr. Lazzarini) “that there
will be 549 houses under construction
from the end of the war to the end of
the present year.”
What a Minister promises does not
necessarily mean that he or his successor
can perform, the present Canberra lot
being the wildest promisers this side of
Moscow. But the fact remains that 549
Canberra houses amount to about one to
22 head of population as it was in 1939.
Yet so far is the excrescence growing
that British labor is required to give the
milling mobs of non-producers shelter.
Whether there is any real shortage of
building labor in Australia it is difficult
to say. In Adelaide, where there is a
Liberal'Government, brick buildings to
let from 14s. 6d. a week are going up in
numbers under the hands of men who
are laying 800 bricks a day. By com-
parison a group of three took six days
to lay 953 bricks on a shed in Mr. Fal-
stein’s electorate. The shed —20ft. by
6ft, with an open front and a flat roof —
was completed in seven weeks. In Syd-
ney 300 bricks a day is reckoned a good
day’s work —by layers.
It is improbable that the British trades-
men will be allowed to work to capacity.
They, like all other men who wish to
work, will be compelled to join a union
managed by a Communist central com-
mitteeman whose main objective, along
with that of all his breed, is to keep
industry in a state of chaos and bring on
a depression.
"Political Outcasts."
Tasmania is to have an Assembly election
on November 23, the first for five years.
In 1936 “Labor” had the Assembly term
increased, by virtue of the necessary con-
stitutional measure, from three years to
five years, and, along with Proportional
Representation, the change worked out
very well for “Labor,” though’not so well
for the people. For many electors, as
the Hobart “Mercury” has pointed out,
it has meant and, if continued, will mean
disfranchisement for long periods plus,
with the P.R. elimination of by-elections
—in other States and countries a useful
check on the audacity of elected persons
—the advent in Parliament of candidates
defeated at the polls:
Because of deaths or resignations, six
new members, one-fifth of the membership
of the House, gained seats on a recount
of votes cast years before. In ’ one case
the votes were 41 years old.
A great many electors are not permitted
the use of their voting privilege until they
are in their 26fh year. A person who
reaches 21 on the day after the election,
assuming that he is not a serviceman, must
delay the exercise of his right until the
end of 1951.
Nevertheless, “Labor,” which has been
i in office since June, 1934, is all set for a
[ continuation of five-year Parliaments and
I P.R.; and Mr. Taylor, the political head
of the Forestry Department, the adminis-
■ tration of which has been under fire for
years, found a novel “argument” for an
extension of “Labor’s” mandate to the
18th year:—
If the Government is defeated, Tas-
manians will be like South Australians —
political outcasts, out of step and sympathy
with all the other Governments in Aus-
tralia.
South Australians refuse to consider
themselves “outcasts.” They elected a
Liberal Government, and have kept it in
office so long that the Premier, Mr. Play-
ford, has entered upon his ninth year in
that position, because of its careful regard
for the expenditure of their money (for
example, there are six Ministers for
620,000 people, whereas in Tasmania
there are nine Ministers for 240,000), and,
more particularly, because of its solid in-
dustrial achievements and its vigorous
housing policy. Though ill-supplied with
building materials compared with Tas-
mania, South Australia has 1200 dwellings
on its programme this year. In Tasmania
there is a shortage of 8000 houses, and
at the present rate of construction it will
take 30 years to meet requirements.
Nor have these “outcasts” had to com-
mission a Judge from another State to
go into the administration of any of their
State departments. This step was forced
on Tasmanian “Labor” by the old South
Australian cricketer Joe Darling, for
many years a Tasmanian M.L.C., and one
of its results was that a former Tas-
manian Minister of Forests, Deputy-
Premier for a time, had to face a charge
that he had accepted a present from a
gentleman in the timber trade. The de-
fence was successful, but features of it
excited remark. The former Minister and
Deputy-Premier testified, as did the other
party, that the transaction amounted to a
sale and the debt had been satisfied in
banknotes in a Hobart street, the notes
having been taken from a dog-punting
“bank” kept in the Ministerial office.
Nor has it been recorded of the “out-
cast” State that another sawmiller and
an associated group were allowed to .take
up 5995 acres of land in timber country,
“very poor” from an agricultural point
of view and capable only of grazing
“about three-eighths of a sheep per acre”
for £2058 4s. Bd., payable in instalments.
Nor has it had to ponder on a Royal
Commission’s report that the transaction
went through marked “urgent” and “no
Forestry objection,” that “surviving mem-
bers of the group swore that their domi-
nant object was to obtain the land for
pastoral and agricultural purposes,” and
that “I am satisfied that the dominant
and immediate object was to obtain
timber for milling purposes.” And it is
to “Labor” Tasmania, not the Liberal
“outcast” State, that the Royal Commis-
sion’s conclusions apply:
It follows from the fact that the timber
on the land was not paid for that the State
has lost from the transaction a sum varying
from £12,500 to £25,000.
Ruin on "Thursday."
“Norther” : Queensland “Courier-Mail,”
scarcely able to credit the wild tales it
was hearing of the condition of Thursday
Island after its “occupation” by Aus-
tralian forces, sent a reporter up to look
the place over. If he’d been there before
he must have found it difficult to recog-
nise the place. Extracts from his report :
Damage to civilian property through
looting, demolition and wanton destruction
estimated at £200,000. Half of 300 homes
and stores torn down. No home, hotel or
store escaped looting and damage. House-
hold tanks riddled by machine-guns. Inner
walls of homes torn out, sometimes to
make more room, sometimes to make crates
in which to pack looted furniture for dis-
patch to the mainland. Practically every
window destroyed. One of five hotels
burned down, others damaged, their fur-
niture looted. Scarcely any private fur-
niture or effects can be traced.
The reporter, moving among the
shocked residents who have returned and
are returning, tried to discover who was
to blame. The Army blamed the Navy,
the Navy blamed the Army, or both
blamed somebody else.
In 1943 the Darwin and Port Moresby
claims officer invited the “Thursday”
victims to put a 1942 valuation on their
property. Their claims were cut as much
as 50 p.c,, though nobody can buy furni-
ture now at 1942 prices. T.I. residents
got no rent or payment of any kind for
use of their premises, though they had to
pay for what they used when evacuated
to the mainland.
The Commonwealth Government col-
lected a very large sum from compul-
sory war-damage insurance, and those
who paid it believed that the amount
would be used to adjust just such cases
as that of T.I. The fund held investments
worth £14,654,000 at June 30, 1945, but
all the T.I. folk have got so far have
been official letters, most of them after
months of waiting.
Atom bombs notwithstanding, T.I. is
a vital northern outpost.


i
c
6557
You can
always rely on
CRAVENA
7
a*
mmanma
mm
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL Points
Communists get the use of the Sydney
Town Hall whenever they want it, and
have bashers ready to “deal with” any
interjector who waves a small Union
Jack or strikes up the Anthem.
In Melbourne a bunch of professors,
clergymen (one a bishop), Judges and
lesser fry, headed by Professor Crawford
or Crawler, objected to ex-Minister
Maloney, M.L.C., having the Town Hall
for a lecture on “The Soviet Myth Ex-
ploded,” because they and friends had
arranged to entertain the Russian Minister
the same night—November 9, three days
after Russia’s National Day. They even
tried to get Dr. Evatt to interfere. A
good Australian who is incapable of al-
lowing freedom of speech to be smothered
by servility to Moscow said the hiring
contract would be honored, and Maloney
made his speech. But the Soviet Minister
didn’t go to the Crawler and co. dinner.
It was Keon, Labor M.L.A. for Rich-
mond, who invited Maloney, M.L.C., to
Melbourne, hired the Town Hall and
took the chair at his meeting. In a
crushing comment on the outrageous
attempt to prevent the meeting, Keon
said he couldn’t recall any protest from
Professor Crawford or any of his associ-
ates when it came out in Canada that
the Soviet Embassy had been converted
into a centre of espionage and corrup-
tion, with tentacles reaching to Parlia-
ment House, where the Communist Jew
“Rose” had sold his adopted country,
conspicuous for its magnificent gifts to
the Spies’ Paradise.
Lang’s speech obviously contributed to
the success of his son Chris in the
Auburn by-election, as it was intended to
do. Although “S.M. Herald” obliged the
Trades Hall by giving circulation to an
unfounded rumor that the Lang organisa-
tion was breaking up, Chris won com-
fortably. So did Athol Richardson in
Ashfield, his ihargin being significantly
greater than it was in Ashfield subdivision
of Parkes on September 28. In the
country by-elections the C.P. men Towns-
end (Albury) and Kendall (Corowa) had
the better of the argument with the Libs.
Atkinson and Lethbridge, very unfor-
tunate for the amalgamation proposal.
On Monday appearances were that Ken-
dall would go in and that Hurley, the
Labor man, would capture Albury on
preferences. It was ex-Premier Mair’s
seat, and he always polled a strong per-
sonal vote.
A sign of the Lang-caused confusion
on the Treasury benches was the de-
livery of a foreign-affairs report by Dr.
Evatt. The rule is for these carefully-
prepared efforts to be reserved till the
end of a session, when they can’t be de-
bated. In the lack of other business the
latest of the latter made its appearance
at the beginning of a session, so it will
have to be debated. Of Manus the doc-
tor said he didn’t know whether the U.S.
Navy was leaving the base, but didn’t
think it was; in any case “Australia”
(i.e., himself) would be “prepared to enter
into any honorable and self-respecting
arrangement for reciprocal bases.” There-
upon R. V. Robson, that outspoken
authority on Pacific affairs, assailed
the “incredible stupidity of Australian
politicians and bureaucrats in speeding
the departure from the south-west Pacific
of a powerful and friendly nation which
could have done so much to provide us
with a barrier against those 1,000,000,000
hhngry people in south-eastern Asia.” ’
The strike-wave washed over Wes-
tralia last week, when the State was prac-
tically thrown idle by a strike of Govern-
ment loco, drivers against working Garrat
engines, claimed to be unsafe. 1 * The Gov-
ernment, a “Labor” one, says the engines
are all right and proclaims its intention
to “govern,” whatever that may -mean.
Neither side showed signs of budging
when this was printed, though by then
about 100,000 were out of work. Govern-
ment transport was paralysed and towns
were without fuel, power and light, dis-
tant settlements being dependent for food
on freight-carrying planes. About the
only Government in Australia which
seems capable of keeping its strikes few
and of short duration is the Adelaide one
—the only non-“ Labor” one of the seven.
Pollard, Scully’s successor, inherited the
wheat-“stabilisation” scheme. It doesn’t
look as though it will bother Pollard for
long. Westralian wheatgrowers don’t
want it, the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers
are fighting it tooth and claw and one of
the four enabling bills was getting a do-
ing in the Vic. Legislative Council at the
week-end. And either House in any
wheat State can dish the whole thing.
In Tasmania there are five Assembly
electoral districts corresponding to the
five Federal electorates, and returning 30
members. The 1941 polls gave Labor 20
seats and the Opposition 10. It won’t be
anything like that this time, and not only
because September voting showed that
Tasmanians were almost equally divided
on Commonwealth issues and preferred
an able young serviceman to Mr. Frost,
then the Repatriation Minister. The State
Opposition Liberals are largely composed
of young servicemen. And it may be that
forestry affairs and the general compla-
cency and inertia of State “Labor” after
nearly 12y years of office will convince a
majority of electors as to the need for a
change of Government and a reversion
to three-year Parliaments.
Compared with. Westralia and Tas-
mania, South Australia fares poorly in
Commonwealth “Labor” Governments,
though it is making a strong bid to equal
both populations. It had only Daly in
the Scullin Administration, and only
Makin in Curtin’s two Ministries and
Chifley’s first; and though Chambers is
in the second Chifley combination it looks
as if he got in by the skin of his teeth.
By contrast Tasmania and Westralia have
each two Chifley Ministers, and Westralia
has never been without two since October
7, 1941.
The Trade in N. S. Wales got a shock
when the bar-hours referendum ballot-
paper was published in one of its leaders’
advertisements. Six - o’clock - closing
figures first, then 9-p.m. closing, then—
third and last—lo-p.m. closing, on which
the Trade has set its heart. First place on
the Senate ballot-paper secured a dread-
fully disquieting number of votes for the
Peter Poliak “party” in 1943 and the Pro-
testant Peoples’ “party” in 1946.
v It was a bright A.B.C. idea to give a
weekly report from Britain, Canada,
Maoriland, South Africa and India, and,
well done as it is, though limited to 15
minutes, the report provides the public
with more news from India and the three
Dominions than appears in a week’s issue
of the racing-mad press. And Adelaide
“Advertiser,” which doesn’t make betting
its principal topic, is publishing an infor-
mative weekly budget from Maoriland.
All to the good in a worthy cause.
Adelaide “Advertiser’s” Maoriland
chronicler, obviously a competent journal-
ist, predicts a Labor victory at the general
election, because of “first, the popularity
of the social-security plan, under which
600,000 benefits are now paid in a popu-
lation of 1,750,000; second, the huge
civil service, now nearly a hundred thou-
sand strong (63 p.c. increase since 1935),”
and third, the Labor complexion of the
four Maori electorates, which are “certain
to be retained.”
One might almost say they have been
bought, for two Maori claims, dating back
to the first acquisition of land by Euro-
peans, have been settled, in one case for
£5OOO a year in perpetuity and in the other
for £lO,OOO annually for 10 years. Further,
the Maoris are benefiting from social
security to an extent quite out of propor-
tion, and possibly demoralising.
The commentator dryly concludes that
“when the numbers go up the Maori
vote may determine how the pakehas are
to be governed.”
Victoria’s housing muddle appears to
be getting worse instead of better.
Builders can get roofing, but they can’t
get ridging; or they can get studs, but
they can’t get flooring. There are half-
built houses everywhere in Melbourne.
The only concern that can get everything
it wants at the right time is the Housing
Commission, so nobody will be able to
have a new house unless he agrees to
live in one of the Commission’s soulless
model suburbs.
Heaps of allegations of “funny busi-
ness” in the Parkes Federal election, par-
ticularly in the subdivision of Ashfield,
preceded the Assembly by-election for
that place. For once in a way the Libs,
took precautions on polling day, and
they hail them as effective. Chifley
promised an inquiry into the Parkes busi-
ness, and Haylen, the member, said he
would “welcome” it. He added gratu-
itously that “thousands of people left
the area after the election and went into
houses built by the State ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment.” Had the man tried to be silly
he wouldn’t have said a sillier thing
than that.
There is one certain way of securing
clean election^—restoration of the old
“elector’s right,” with the modern im-
provement of a fingerprint.
Though figures were made available to
the press last week, Sydney dailies did
not record the return of A. M.’ Blain —
one of the few survivors of Sandakan
prison camp' —for the Northern Territory
by 1690 votes to 1334 on the third count.
Sydney “Herald” at an early stage of
the scoring said he “seemed certain
to be defeated.” Had the issue in Haylen’s
Parkes or Fraser’s Eden-Monaro been
similarly in doubt for as long the sus-
pense in Sydney newsrooms would have
been terrible.
Herbert Morrison has a “bad press,”
but he sees clearly what Australian
“Labor” politicians quite fail to per-
ceive :
Full employment is not enough. We
must secure a greater output of goods and
services to arrive at a decent standard of
life, fair shares for all and adequate incen-
tives to effort.
To Australian “Labor” it is sufficient to
mumble “full employment,” no action
being needed.
There were horseraces at Gosford
(N.S.W.) on Melbourne Cup day, the
privilege having been secured by Finnan,
the local M.L.A., one of those racing-
mad “Labor” politicians. The thing was
alleged by Finnan (no connection with
the haddock) to be a hospital celebration
or something, but it was really in the
nature of an attempt to reintroduce mid-
week racing. All the racing-mad “Labor”
politicians want mid-week racing, but a
section of Caucus fears the effect on the
electors, who will have their say in April
or May, and who already are too prone
to regard “Labor” as committed to the
Betting and' Booze interests.
Calwell should make a note of the fact
that Lehman, Governor of New York for
nine years and U.N.R.R.A. boss for a
time since, failed of election as a Demo-
cratic Senator. Most probably as a re-
sult of the New York Jews overdoing
their crusade against Britain. For many
months New York newspapers have
been carrying Jewish attacks on Britain
couched in terms which! from 1933 to
1939, would have been considered ex-
cessive if applied to the Nazis. It is
significant that Bevin, whom the Zionists
hate so fiercely and who had the courage
to say that they got New York Gentile
support because the Gehtiles didn’t want'
any more Jews in their own city, was
greeted by “cheering crowds” on his way
to the City Hall, La Guardia’s old stamp-
ing ground.
In the diabolical Nazi fashion, Jewish
terrorists have taken to using booby-traps
to kill “oppressors.” If maddened
Tommies and policemen make Palestine
too hot to hold them will they all get
Australian immigration priorities?
A couple of thugs in Adelaide, spotting
a sailor with £4O, waylaid him, kicked
out his front teeth and robbed him. Con-
victed before Judge Mayo, they got six
years’ jail and 10 strokes of the lash each.
They were so foolish as to practise their
art in a city where law and order are still
regarded as worth upholding. Better to
try Sydney next time —business is much
easier for thugs there.
The Communist Clerks’ Union “black”
ban on the wool of two wool firms has
been lifted after a conference in the
Arbitration Court. The ban was put on
allegedly because the companies wouldn’t
force their employees to join the Com-
munist outfit, but, as is usual with these
Communist moves, the reason was
changed from day to day and settlement
was reached when the companies agreed
not to deal with any non-registered union.
They never proposed to do so, anyway,
but any excuse suits the Communist pur-
pose, the cheekier the better.
Some of the pie-constructors at Federal
Parliament House struck just before the
new session opened last week, demanding
higher wages or they’d cook no more
vittles. The “Labor” Government wasn’t
concerned $ it hired cooks from some-
where else. No private employer who
follows that precedent need expect any
sympathy from the “Labor” Government.
Asked whether the national medical
scheme would mean free and improved
hospital care, Health Minister McKenna
said he hoped the need for hospitalisa-
tion would diminish rather than grow
with the population, and his own
“policy” would not be to increase the
number of hospitals so much as to “pro-
vide additional diagnostic facilities to de-
tect pathological conditions.” Nurses in
Melbourne use shorter words to describe
their case. They work 60 to 70 hours a
week and are due for six clear days a
fortnight, but seldom get them; they
pay taxation on their “keep” as well as
on their wages. Overtime is compulsory,
and a nurse can’t refuse duty, unlike the
workers beloved of Mr. McKenna.
When the Johnson-Jeffries fight films
were shown London “Times,” referring
to the challengers and old champions
who were introduced before the com-
batants paced from their corners, com-
mented that the only one of them with
a Presence was John L. Sullivan. The
same might be said of John T. Lang
when he stepped into the legislative halls
at Canberra and came out fighting his
old party. John T. was outstanding alike
in physique and quality of speech, and
when he sat down the Ministerial were
so flabbergasted that they let the Address-
in-Reply debate fizzle out on the second
day. Previously they had refused office
to at least two of Lang’s old followers
out of fear of his fatal attractions.
From a display advertisement inviting
Australians to invest in the Second
Security Loan:
You insure your own future security.
You invest your money at better than bank
interest.
You guard against inflation.
You personally assist rehabilitation.
You help frame public works of national
importance.
And next year, or maybe the year after
that, you may cash the bonds in order
to meet your tax liabilities. “That,” said
a tax official last week, “is what we ex-
pect you to do.”
The Federal Cabinet has had a long
and serious discussion and come to a
decision. It is that restrictions on the
sale of cream will end as from last Mon-
day week. There isn’t, of course, any
cream and, if there were, there aren’t
enough bottles to put it in.


PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW!


Society "AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: The burden of his office makes
the possession of a sense of shumor so
rare an attribute in a sergeant-major
that when it is encountered it is some-
thing to record. I met but one such in a
long list of the breed We had a bloke
in our tent by the name of Rabbitt. The
tent enjoying its full quota of dags, it
naturally followed that from the moment
the fellow with the rodential nomencla
ture joined us referefaces to his monicker
became highly hilarious, and as soon as
the mob found he was touchy about it
they kept it up. When, on the first
Sunday he was in camp, he was visited
by his wife and four kids —he had
previously told someone he’d been
married five years —the many subsequent
references to the fecundity of Rabbitts
led to uproar in the tent, and one cove’s
persistence in referring to Rabbitt’s lone
son as Warren bought a fight. The
climax came when the bab. one day at
dinner-time slammed into his dixie a
handful of grass in place of the usual
greasy stew. The aggrieved one sought
out the sergeant-major and complained
bitterly about the mob “slingin’ off at me
name. It’s Rabbitt,” he wound up, “an’
I’m proud of it.” “And you’ve every
right to be,” soothed the S.M. “It’s a
name to conjure with! ”
* * * *
“Dong”: So it’s all over for another
year, and dreams and nightmares, omens
and portents will be without significance
until the same time in 1947. Spam
was a moral because a Scotch
gardener awoke one morning in his
lonely station-hut with the exultant
cry “Spam has won the Melbourne
Cup the noo! ” Our office-boy had
a stronger hunch. His grandmother
dreamed that her bosom friend Marie
was pelting her with cherry-stones.] The
kid’s faith in dreams was dispelled when
Cherie Marie failed to land the bacon.
Our telephonist, with a passion for
cheese suppers and a complete ignorance
of equine stamina, tossed restlessly and
chewed the blankets as Magnificent swept
past the post an easy winner trailing a
broken leg; her belief in miracles cost
her five bob. The boss, who worked
back late with his red-headed secretary,
hurried to his s.-p. man the next morning
with a slightly contused eye and two
quid to put on Red Fury. The office
wolf, with queer inverted reasoning,
plonked a half-dollar on Miss Prim, and
our aged cleaner, whose husband’s liking
for liquor is notorious, ventured two
bob on Gallant Gentleman with a wistful
look in her faded eyes. The accountant,
a rabid anti-Red, picked Russia, and
then sneered at Stalin because it only
paid 16 to 1. I like to think that there is
a special punters’ heaven for the chappie
in one of Dornford Yates’s books who
dreamed that he was pushing bananas
through a cage to a' monkey, only to
have the simian persistently refuse them.
At the races next day he put
his shirt on a prad named Monkey Nuts.
It ran last; the horse that romped home
was called Peelem.
» • ♦ •
“V. Cluse”: It was just after midnight,
and Jephson was about to retire when he
heard something in the street and peered
through the front window. A large, shiny
car had drawn up and a man appeared
to be dragging something from it. Jeph-
son, with visions of bodies left lying in
the gutter, slipped outside and hurried
to the gate. Then he realised that the
nocturnal chauffeur was depositing a bag
of old tins and other rubbish—a means
taken by some city dwellers for disposing
of garbage—and he rushed forth to pro-
test. The rubbish-dropper flew into a
rage ; so did Jephson. Heads popped from
windows, doors opened. Jephson opened
his mouth wide and told that fellow
what he thought of him, drawing on
a vocabulary acquired in a youthful past
spent in the company of shearers and
bullock-drivers. It overwhelmed the
owner of the rubbish, who threw the stuff
back into his car and vanished. Ever
since that night Jephson has been trying
to clear himself with his dismayed spouse,
to whom the language was a revelation,
and upon whom the other cats have been
bending glances full of amused malice as
they purr, “My dear, what an interesting
life your husband has had.”
* * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”; John, a Dutchman,
and Blue, an Australian, were detailed
for the honorable task of caring for the
commandant’s pigs. Voracious Jap
appetites speedily reduced the comple-
“ Don't mind Henry — he's just down on leave from Japan "
merit of the sty from six to one, and it
appeared certain that the prime porker
remaining would also pass on mourned
only by John and Blue, who had found
most of the pig-food quite suitable for
p.-0.-w. consumption. With relief they
learned that their charge was to be re-
served for the Emp.’s birthday, six weeks,
ahead. In high spirits they scrounged
some lime and whitewashed the cleanest
pig-pen north of the equator. Carried
away by enthusiasm they turned to the
porker and painted his trotters a snowy
white. John even went further, with
bold strokes wrote the familiar Jap char-
acters “Dai J'hpuon” across the porker’s
broad back. At that moment the com-
mandant announced his presence. He
read the inscription, solemnly produced
gaspers, said that he was pleased and
announced the arrival of more pigs. The
rest of us called John and Blue “Red Dot
Artists” (collaborators), but their job
lasted another six months. •
* * * ♦
“Jemac”: The south hasn’t a monopoly
on strikes, and Darwin wharfies’ sit-down
because military provosts had the effron-
tery to watch them unloading from s.s.
James Cook the town’s monthly beer
supply—four bottles from each case of a
previous cargo had been pillaged—re-
minded me of my favorite now-it-can-be-
told story. Not long after the first air-
raid on Darwin an American ship with
stores for fighting men ashore pulled into
the small boom jetty. Those wharfies who
had returned from their inland dash
gathered on the pier. It was the “wet,”
and rain soon finished them for the
day. The Yanks failed to understand
at first, but when they realised these
countrymen of a fighting ally were
serious they commenced unloading them-
selves, assisted by the American troops on
board. A deputation of wharfies waited
on the captain and told him just what
would happen to his crew if another
sling-load hit the pier. The captain heard
them out and saw them over the gangway.
A few minutes later six soldiers stepped
%n to the pier and took up position, three
at each end of the ship. They settled
themselves, tin-hatted and businesslike,
and winches heaved and derricks swung.
The wharfies stood in a cursing, immobile
group up the road —though the nearest
they’d got to one was in a picture theatre,
they knew enough to recognise machine-
guns when they saw them.
* * * *
“Uco”: If Hussein Mahmoud, an
engineer in the Egyptian Public Works
Department, is right, the effects of the
Bikini bomb were more far-reaching
than the experts anticipated. This year the
Nile floods rose to the highest level for
a century, and although Egypt’s pros-
perity has for 5000 years depended on the
rising of the Nile the Egyptians still
take a poor view of it when the old river
tends to overdo things. This year the
floods rose to the highest level for over
a century. Hussein explains it this way:
Heavy rains in south-east Ethiopia were
caused Jby moisture which was carried
across Asia and East Africa from the
Pacific. The abnormal Nile flood is an
effect of the last atom bomb, which was
exploded under water. The increased
moisture resulting from the explosion was
carried along the usual route and caused
the disastrous floods.
I think Hussein’s got it all wrong. I
suspect a nefarious plot on the part of
the hated British, who have doubtless
caused the flood in order to discredit the
Egyptian Government and provoke the
fellaheen into demanding the return of
British troops (and their washing) to
Egypt.
“Tackline S.”; Believing the voice to
be the chief means of knowing the
“dinkum” Australian from the imported
variety, it was a matter of amazement
to hear a dentist claim to discern them
by drilling the teeth. Those from the
U.K. are hard. Australian teeth are soft.
Reason is uncertain, but is probably at
least in part due to the water supply.
However, the native-born fare better than
Maorilanders. They dispense with
natural biting equipment at an average
age of 14!
* * * £
“Macnell”: “Clooter’s” adventurous
youth (B. 9/10/’46) has an opposite
number in openmindedness at Darwin
post office. Before it shifted to present
quarters the mail-house was sited in a
tin hut a mile down the dusty road
from its previous blitzed quarters. One
hot afternoon a wilted youth trudged up
to the Darwin Hotel, where Naval Officer
in Charge held court, and, on inquiring
if N.0.1.C. lived there, was told by his
secretary “Yes; but at the moment he's
ashore.” The telegram was a personal
one and the lad carried it back to base.
An hour later he again attempted de-
livery, to be told once more of the
addressee’s inaccessibility “ashore.” The
third time he’d had enough. “Still
‘ashore’, is he?” the sweating youth
snapped. “Well, when he comes aboard
tell him if he hops into a dinghy and
sculls up Mitchelkroad to the post-office
I’ll give him a telegram!”
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Of . all the clothing issued
to the various services, was there anything
quite as monstrous and uncomfortable as
a new pair of “goons” or “goonskins”?
Long-sleeved, neck-to-toe overalls, but-
toning down the front and made from
stiff, unsympathetic material, they were,
I think, exclusive to the R.A.A.F. and
came from the store either dark navy or
black. You had to take ’em about 6in.
too long at all corners because they
shrank easily that much in the first two
or three washes. In those washings, too,
they gave off enough dye to change the
color of several acres of cloth, and, when
wet, they always contrived to touch or
tangle with some other apparel of another
color —the resulting stain being almost
permanent. With time, wear and
washing, however, a subtle change came
over the “goons” and their owner’s
attitude towards them. The material
softened and the color changed from
dark blue to blue, to light blue and
eventually almost to white. They then
became something to be proud of —the
insignia of long service, more or less —
and woe betide any rookie who tried to
slip a new pair of dye-ridden “goons”
into the community copper with some-
one else’s bleached veterans. The
W.A.A.A.Fs. —bless ’em —were issued
with only a slightly-improved version of
“goons” and, womanlike, they did won-
ders with hours of boiling, starching and
ironing. Their pale, well-ironed and
-starched overalls, hauled in tightly around
the midriff, were often more becoming
than some of the strange garments they
have acquired since they got their bowler-
hats —or whatever kind of tile it is the
popsies get on discharge.
* * * *
“Mullum”: As I approached the bank-
counter I heard one teller say to the
other: “I’ve given you an extra three
hundred today for Mothers’ Day.” That
puzzled me, for I knew Mothers’ Day
was in May. Then, when my cheque
was cashed and I walked away I realised.
Four women were waiting behind me,
each with an endowment-book.
* * * ♦
“Ceg”: “Wandana” (B. 23/10/’46)
mentions the Corrick family of bell-
ringers. I remember their visit to Stawell
(Vic.) about 1908. Moving-pictures were
still in the developmental stage, but the
Corricks were nothing if not enterprising.
They had a Bioscope outfit and took
pictures in the streets of the towns they
visited, showing the film the same even-
ing at their show. This was a great draw,
as the locals used to roll up in the hope
of seeing themselves on the screen. One
member of the family is still in the enter-
tainment business —Leonard Corrick, a
first-class performer on the clarinet, plays
with A.B.C.’s National Military Band.
* * * *
“N.X. Flam” (Rabaul): Last night as I
sat writing a letter I switched on the radio
beside me and found it tuned on short-
wave to a U.S. service hook-up. Several
messages were passed ; then the operator
at the control station in San Francisco
began to chat to a friend in Okinawa.
From their conversation I learned that
the Okinawan Yank’s wife had recently
arrived there and was beside him at the
set. She wanted to tell the San Francisco
man’s wife that she regretted missing her
when passing through. The other
operator phoned his wife at their home,
and soon a four-way conversation was
taking place between the operator and
his wife at Okinawa, the operator at San
Francisco and his wife in her bedroom
at home. While they discussed their
children’s health, the comfortable living
conditions on Okinawa, the excellent
school there for servicemen’s children
and the weather in California I sat in a.
hut at Rabaul and felt myself an intruder.
* * * *
“The Falcon”: In haste to catch his
train, the Sydney jaywalker leapt from the
footpath and in a lone gallop raced across
the street. The inevitable hand shot out
and caught him, and he turned to face a
mammoth police sergeant. With inno-
cence befitting a four-year-old, the victim
pleaded ignorance, claiming he was “just
down from the country for a few days.”
The cop gave a tolerant smile, followed
it up with a long lecture in which the cul-
prit learnt almost everything in the road-
law book, even to the inside workings of
traffic lights. Then the Law fired a sud-
den question; “What’s y’r address?” The
“countryman,” caught unawares, blurted
out “252 George-street” before he got his
tongue under control, then, making a
brilliant recovery, he concluded “Bogga-.
billa.”
♦ * * *
“Old Soak”: My explanation why beer
drunk from a pewter tankard tastes so
good is that a mild electrification is set
up. A very weak current passed through
the tongue sharpens up the buds of taste,
inducing a not unpleasant metallic
flavor. Beer, which consists of mild acids
and hydrocarbons, when placed in a
pewter pot, an alloy of tin and lead, im-
mediately starts electrical action ; this can
be verified by noticing the slow corro-
sion of a pewter if beer be left to stand
in it. So this mildly-electrified beer im-
pinging on the tongue sharpens the taste-
buds and imparts a flavor never to be
obtained from beer in glass.
SPOILS FOR THE VICTIMS.
“It is commonly accepted on both sides of the
House of Keps. that a defeated Parliamentarian who
needs it will be found a job.” —Sydney “Sun."
Which means that if, by some perverse con-
junction
Of hostile fates, you’re beaten at the poll,
Knocked out, you still may lay the flattering
unction
(As Shakspeare’s Hamlet phrased it) to your
soul
That pretty soon you’ll have the chance to
function
In what may prove a more congenial role,
Some steadier and more secure a job
Not resting on the favor of the mob.
Sound comfort you should find in the reflection
Your trusty mates, if still they boss the show,
Knowing your shattered hopes of re-election
Have set you back in self-esteem and dough,
Are purposing to banish your dejection
By a consolatory quid pro quo.
Handing the new-shorn lamb a bountiful
And brand-new coat of Ministerial wool.
Time was when some outstanding Rep., forsaken
By weathercock electors, met defeat,
Calamitously failed to save his bacon
And stood in danger of eclipse complete,
Prompt steps would be by sympathisers taken
To find the luckless cove another seat,
But billets carrying an annual thou.
Are not so easily surrendered now.
Still, if you’re left upon the waysife sprawling.
What time you watch the Parliamentary bus
Go rolling on, it won’t be near as galling
If you can view the situation thus:
To sturdy cobbers, now engaged in hauling
The plunder in, you still are “one of us,”
For whom, we’re told, it’s commonly agreed
Provision must be found in case of need.
Fine jobs there are, of goodly rank and station,
Ascending to ambassadorial heights,
With salaries the bare imagination
Of which a chap’s cupidity excites;
And who so worthy of consideration
For such as losers in election fights,
Provided, obviously, that they supplied
The casualties on the winning side.
N.S.W.
T . THE R.


“Jasby”; No word has been more mis-
used in recent years than democracy—
every ideologist reads into it a different
meaning—but I’d like to know just what
the word conveys to the man with the
Scotch accent who was interviewed in
the street the other day by one of *those
radio roundsmen who lie in wait for un-
suspecting passers-by and fire questions
at them. “Do you think our present
Government is a democratic Cme?” this
bloke was asked, “Certainly not” was
his emphatic answer. To the next ques-
tion, “Why?? he replied: “I think it’s a
very good Government.” The interviewer
sounded a bit baffled. “And yet you
don’t think it’s democratic?” he asked.
“I do not. I tell you I think it’s a very
good Government.” “But not demo-
cratic?” “No, not democratic. A very
good Government indeed.” The rounds-
man gave him up at that and hastened
to ask another random citizen his opinion
of French bathing-suits.
* * * $
“King’s Pawn”; Anything that is for-
bidden immediately becomes desirable ;
an example of that truth was supplied by
the rush of women to enter the City of
Sydney chess tournament this year—four
entrants is a crowd when only 12 places
are available. The event, which carries
the Crane Memorial Shield, and was in-
stituted as a tribute to a great chess-
player and a likeable clubman, mainly on
the subscriptions by members of the Mil-
hous Club, must be played at that club;
and as the licensing law does not allow
the club to have women on the premises
after hours women players had to be
banned. That ban was a feminine griev-
ance for years ; finally the club decided
to put a gate between the chess-room and
the bar portion of the premises ; with
the gate closed the women could be ad-
mitted without fear of complications. So
in the women have rushed to celebrate
their victory. I doubt whether there will
be a single fefhinine entry next year.
“Clooter”: We live in the *McKell
State, which may or may not account for
the recent development in the missus of
a touch of sarcasm hitherto foreign to
her. The other night as we listened to
A.B.C. we were informed that among the
legislation proposed in the current sitting
of the N.S.W. Parliament is an amend-
ment to the Married Women’s Property
Act to provide that whatever a wife saves
from her housekeeping allowance be-
comes her own, inviolate under the law
from the grasping fingers of her partner.
The missus pricked her ears at the an-
nouncement and a far-away look came
into her eyes. “Ah,” I murmured, “plan-
ning what you’ll do with your gains at
the end of the year?” “Yes,” she replied,
in a tone whose sweetness was just that
much overdone as to convey a warning,
“on what I get I might, with a little more
attention to detail, save sufficient to en-
able me to pay the tram-fare into town
and look at the things I could buy if there
was anything I could save.” I leave the
thought With Mr. McKell—and Mr.
Chifley.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Japanese officers
placed great value on their swords, sel-
dom putting them to one side even when
they were an obvious nuisance. Prisoners
in Siam were working on a huge concrete
memorial to those who died during the
construction of the railway —one of those
queer twists of Japanese mentality. A
high-ranking Nip visited the job and
climbed the rickety scaffolding. His long
sword impeding movement, he placed it
on a plank while he climbed higher. A
fresh batch of concrete arrived and a
“I suppose you men HAVE tuned pianos before?"
Tommy W.O. quickly kicked the sword
into the form and a ton of concrete
covered it immediately.. An hour later
the Jap returned, but had forgotten where
he’d left the sword. Guards, staff and
prisoners searched high and low, but it
will be a long time before that memorial
gives up the sword.
♦' * *
“Smouge”; Agreed that beer tastes
better from a pewter pot (B. 30/10/’46),
but why does it also taste better with a
head than without? Beer without a head is
not necessarily flat. Drawn off into the wet
glasses common in pubs these days, it
loses its frothy topping almost straight-
away. The same beer, drawn into a dry
glass, would, unless put in front of an
earbasher and his victim, retain its head
until consumed.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; The military over-
coat —Australian pattern —eulogised by
“Blank File” (B. 16/10/’46) is probably
the best of its kind in the world —pro-
vided you don’t require to wear it, use
is as a rug or to employ it as protection
against rain. It can be used as a pillow,
and as a filler of packs it’s unsurpassed.
In rain it doesn’t shed a drop until it is
saturated, then it cascades a torrent into
both boots and reduces the bottoms of
trouser legs to a sodden mess. It can
absorb more" dust and disperse it more in-
conveniently than any other article
twice the size. It can’t be worn in com-
fort outside the Arctic regions, and there
only indoors ; and as an article of dress,
on leave, it’s the answer to a provost’s
prayer, “Blank File” bemoans the fact
that the monstrosity has never been im-
mortalised in verse. But it has certainly
inspired some picturesque language.
* * * »
“Sgt. A.”: It’s no use anyone telling
me that it is not possible to be moon-
“I know what's wrong with it now — she's saluting with her left hand!"
struck. I’ve seen a case; it happened
on a voyage from Alexandria to Bom-
bay. In the Red Sea one moonlight night
a junior member of the crew decided to
sleep on deck. Next morning the left
side of his face became swollen; he
reported sick, but po cause for the swell-
ing could be found. In the afternoon
his face was normal, but at night the
swelling returned, going away again in
the early hours of the morning. This
continued for two or three days. Treat-
ment had no effect, and no reason could
be found until the third officer noticed
that the swelling coincided with tide
times. He recalled that, in his early days
at sea, a shipmate slept on deck in the
bright moonlight. Awakening one morn-
ing he could not see. He was blind for
the rest of the “life” of that moon. The
next new moon he suffered no ill-effects.
The officer suggested that the same thing
had occurred, and that the boy’s face
would continue to rise and fall —like a
tide, for the rest of the moon’s life. That
is what happened. The following moon
had no effect.
* # * *
“L.H.P.”; The Empire Picture Theatre,
Leicester-square, the scene of London mob
hysteria on the visit of Royalty, reminds
one that it is built on the site of the El
Dorado Music Hall, which in its day saw
a few rows. ' It was burnt down in 1865,
and a building to show Panoramas and
other things was erected. This was pulled
down and the Empire Theatre built in
its place. Opened on April 14, 1884,
with comic opera, varied later with ballet,
it had a chequered career until it was
turned into a music hall in 1887. It
was a very handsome house, and it lasted
as a music hall till 1917 or so, when the
famous Promenade, the haunt of ladies
of easy virtue, was abolished. In 1918 it
reverted to comic opera, and in 1927
M.-G.-M. pulled it down and erected the
present magnificent movie house. In
the early ’eighties, before its change to a
music hall, Bob Brough, Chas Ryley,
Henry Bracy, Alice Barnett, Susie
Vaughan and other pros., destined in later
years to entertain us on the Australian
stage, appeared in comic opera at the
Empire.
» * * #
“Pitt St.”: It was in Sydney’s King-
street, and, the day being one on which a
new heat record for the city was estab-
lished, the middle-aged, well-dressed
gentleman leaned in some distress against
the window of a frock shop, but whether
from the heat alone or a combination of
that and liberal potations was doubtful-
doubtful, at least, until he looked up and
caught the cold, fixed stare of a model in
the window. It wore a fashionable frock
with the usual accessories, and its
waxen face gazed in a kind of immobile
contempt upon him. He wiped his face,
licked his lips and spoke: “Huh, Pretty
uppish, aren’t you, me lady?” He pushed
himself upright and wagged an admoni-
tory finger, adding “You needn’t be. I’ve
seen you when you had no ruddy clothes
on at all! ” Then, triumphant, he wavered
to the kerb and into a Rose Bay tram.
* * * *
“Quizcatcher”: Tell “Q. Yuiop” (B.
9/10/’46) that “spud” as a nickname for
the potato originated in the sixteenth
century. In those days a man called a
spade a spud. Look up Pepys’s Diary:
when Sam, after the plague, rode out to
his father’s country home to retrieve his
buried guineas, he used a spud to dig
with: # thus, since the potato was the
only root vegetable that was dug, all
others being pulled, it naturally became
associated with the spud in the conversa-
tion of the unlearned cultivators and so
became the vegetable, spud'.
* * * *
“Cass”: “Findy” would have found a
sympathiser for his telephone protest (B,
9/10/’46) in the late George D. Meudell,
author of the outspoken autobiography
The Pleasant Career of a Spendthrift. As
his very junior typist I had often to listen
to him on the rudeness of the telephone
which interrupted him without even a
beg-pardon. At that time I thought
maybe he was just plain scared of the
thing as I was; but now I wonder if he
would have been so vehement had he
been able to recline in his swivel chair,
park his feet on the table and relax with a
handset like my later bosses instead of
jumping up from his chair, skirting the
table and holding up a wall while some-
one earbashed him,
jp * * *
“O’Yen”: It was at the height of the
Melbourne transport strike with the
spectre of power-rationing facing house-
wives! A gas-company inspector called
at a house during the prohibited hours
and met the housewife’s anxious look of
inquiry with: “Have you a cup of tea
ready?” The cup of tea was there for
the perspiring official.
jp * * *
“Laetitia”: The haziness of “T.McN.’s”
sporting scribe (B. 23/10/’46) as to the
function of the semicolon recalls a
story of W. E. Gladstone. Running his
eye over the data from which he was to
deliver a Budget speech, the G.O.M. in-
quired testily “What are those damned
dots?” They were decimal points. Yet
the subsequent Budget speech reached a
peak in oratory, which seems to prove
that a politician need not know much
about his subject. Thanks to “T.McN.”
I now know how a colored boxing im-
portation, with not enough English to
demand a pot fluently, discourses
learnedly in the press on anything from
Renaissance art to atomic power.
* *
“Bozo”: '“Macnell” bestows just praise
on the cable-cutting operations of British
ships during the war (B. 30/10/’46), but
our Chinese allies can show us points
when it comes to a swift and silent job of
cable-hacking. The recently-restored
cables between China, and Japan have
suffered a good deal of mutilation, and
repair-ships have been scurrying from
one point to another only to find the
wire-snatchers have been busy somewhere
else! These depredations have been laid,,
at the door of a new species of Chinese
pirate, who make off with chunks of cable
for the sake of the copper and other
metals which can be exchanged for large
quantities of “cash.” A few weeks of this
enterprise no doubt mean years of
luxurious ease, fantan and poppy-dreams
for the promoters.
“Babylon”: Have often been puzzled
to know how in Shakspeare’s day the
theatres managed to get away with boys
in women’s parts. When schoolmasters
have often assured me that the boy who
played Lady Macbeth at the break-up was
splendid, the equal of any professional,
and so on, I have always regarded them
as a trifle prejudiced. But an interesting,
slant is given in W. Robertson Davies’s
book Shakspeare’s Boy Actors. Accord-
ing to this investigator, voices properly
trained for speaking may voluntarily de-
lay the manly “break” (for speaking, not
singing) until as late as 20, at which age a
well-trained actor might very well be able
to handle a part like Cleopatra or Portia.
At 20 a young Elizabethan (especially in
the playhouse) would be old in experience ,;
compared to the modern youth, Davies;
has a theory that Shakspeare’s company
had a couple of gifted youths for whom
the dramatist designed his parts — e.g.,
Viola in “Twelfth Night,” a latish comedy,
avoids singing, which is always done by
Feste. He also simplified the acting
problem by keeping all his female parts
very straightforward, and setting the
“character” for them by other characters’
remarks. In Shakspeare fqr the most part
it is the men who have the complicated
emotions. The females have to be decora-
tive, simple and charming; the type of
acting called for is technically skilled but
emotionally quite elementary.
THE SCHOOLMASTER ABROAD.
“Victorian teachers were forced to suppleme
their inadequate salaries by rabbit-trapping, DIUS “*
room-gathering, harvesting, and even o
the wharves, it was stated last week at newiy-
instituted Teachers’ Tribunal in Melbourne.
“The schoolmaster,” said Brougham, is
abroad.”
A dictum that is quite as true, you know,
An axiom as unlikely to be flawed
As what it was a century ago;
And nowhere does he need to be as slick
At leaving home, they tell us, as in Vic.
Here you may see him —a# the poet Gray
Wrote of another youth—“at peep of dawn
Brushing with hasty steps the dews away,
But not as he serenely mows his lawn.
It’s mushrooms that he seeks, the dominie,
To supplement his meagre salary.
Or you may glimpse the pedagogue perhaps
Laying his snares at eve where bushcraft bids,
And note that he’s as deft at setting traps
For bunnies as in setting sums for kids,
As means whereby to live as he would list
And not contentedly to just exist.
When schools are shut, you’ll find him loading
hay
Or lumping goods into a steamer’s store
To qualify for three good meals a day
And keep the wolf its distance from the door,
Somewhat humiliating gfaft forsooth
For one whose business is instructing youth.
“Delightful task, to rear the tender thought
And teach the young idea how to shoot,”
Another poet sings. And so it ought’
To be, beyond discussion or dispute.
But not when a profession—not a trade,
Observe —is infamously underpaid.
Come, heed this bitter outcry, Cain and Co.!
Loosen the purse-strings for the brotherhood
Of chalk and blackboard. For their votes, you
know,
Are mostly implemented for your good.
“The schoolmaster’s abroad,” said Brougham
{sic).
And we’re assured he’s got to be —in Vic.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


'W'f ~> es "
/ii*W ott-
\ (?mm
\
IOT®
%
o o 0
JJoV
SlO
4n
0 oQ
\
X
MM-
-8
?3lfi
*#%p
CHAMPION
bUBBEP
read l
Also In Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe.
XSSS2D-8.41
You'll notice that fight fans who
know "what's what" usually stick to
Champion Tobacco, with good
reason, too, as you'll find out,
whether you buy Ready Rubbed
in the handy pouch pack or flake
for your pipe. It's really a champion
smoke.
- .
/
Mril
W\
I
Id - if j
: i
Si
m
m
i: '-■■.A
—im
SI
.
ACCURACY IN NON-FERROUS CASTINGS
Wunderlich Limited are equipped to meet ail requirements of accuracy and
strength in the production of castings of Aluminium Alloy, Bronze, Brass or Zinc.
Heat treatment, to specification, of Aluminium Alloy castings is also undertaken.
Your enquiries are also invited for work involving resistance welding (spot and
flush butt}, oxy-welding, light constructional arc welding, and profile machine
cutting.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms.
dee lie A i ted,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY
Telephone: MX 2411. G.P.O. Box 474, Sydney
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence and Compulsory
service.
“Ek Dum”: Several announcements
on the defence of the Pacific were made
during the week. The first was that six
nations are supposed to be participating
in a great race for uranium deposits in
the Antarctic. Chile, Russia, Argentina
and Norway are competing with the
British, the competition following the
blurting out of the facts by Douglas
Mawson. The United States is now join-
ing in with a major operation.
Assuming that the reports are true and
that great deposits are found in the far
south, the Antarctic sub-continent—
which is supposed to be largely under
Australian suzerainty—and Australia and
New Zealand and their policies as they
affect uranium supplies will become ob-
jects of great importance to the world,
Next came the Government’s “Royal”
speech at the opening of Parliament,
This, as is usual whenever the present
Government deals with the defence issue,
gave the onlooker the sense of Watching
a hardy and unenthusiastic troop of
amateurs conjuring with ’a carpet snake.
Future defence policy, said the speech,
“would be governed by the forces to be
placed at the disposal of the United
“ Let's take a cruise to Wilcannia — I’ve just bought a property
up there!”
Nations for the maintenance of inter-
national peace and security, including
regional arrangements in the Pacific ; the
forces to be maintained in the Pacific for
co-operation in Empire defence ; and the
forces to be maintained in Australia to
provide for self-defence.”
“My Government,” the Duke of
Gloucester added, “intends that the or-
ganisation and strength of post-war de-
fence forces will proceed on a basis that
recognises that Australia would make a
larger contribution towards the defence
of the British Commonwealth. It is my
Government’s view that this could best
be done in the Pacific, and that the
approach to a common scheme of defence
for this area should be by agreement be-
tween the United Kingdom, Australia
and New Zealand, British Commonwealth
plans being related to those of the United
States. An arrangement for the joint uses
of bases in the Pacific on a basis of re-
ciprocity would be welcomed by my Gov-
ernment, and discussions have been pro-
ceeding towards that end.”
Equality of Sacrifice
The inference left by this typical piece
of Evattian platitude is that the Chifleys
are the fathers of a scheme of co-opera-
tion and that they are vigorously taking
the lead. The real fact is that since the
days of the Jellicoe mission, after World
War I, the British have been urging united
defence arrangements within the British
Commonwealth of Nations, and that their
bitterest opponents up to a year or
so ago were followers of the present
Government. These are still opposed to
the scheme’s basic essential, which is
equality of sacrifice —equal sacrifice on
all planes. That involves, firstly, the adop-
tion of compulsory service and training
in peace-time, which, as Mr. Attlee
pointedly announced last week, is to
continue in Britain despite all her Short-
a § e of labor—a shortage which the Aus-
tralian Government is seeking to accentu-
ate j(- s recruiting of British tradesmen
?t high wages and under promises which
1 nnot Keep.
Secondly, it involves the creation or
effective munitions and armament m-
dustry. The effort of last war was far
from enough. The three destroyers and
small shi P s built b Y Australians (popu-
abon 7,300,000, with no bombing to
face ) compared very poorly with the five
battleships and 650,000 tons of naval
shipping, apart from a large mercantile
heet, which Britain built, despite propor-
tionally larger forces in the firing-line
and frequent and destructive bombmg.
The plain fact is that Australia
cannot dictate any phase of Pacific de-
fence until it ceases to have to depend
on outside sources for its armament. The
idea of building a major modern cruiser
here at present is fantastic, with labor
costs, strikes, go-slow and Communist
tactics what they are. If Russia objected
the vessel would not be built,
Nevertheless, Lord Alanbrooke, who
was Chief of the Imperial General
Staff, emphasised the need for a greater
Dominion share in defence, and Mr.
Attlee announced grimly the continuance
of universal conscription in the United
Kingdom. Their “statements” fell like a
cold waterfall the day the Canberra shock
was printed in London. It seemed all
the colder in face of the knowledge that
behind the facade of its heroics the Gov-
ernment at Canberra is hard-pressed to
provide men even to work the mouldering
skeleton of the R.A.A.F., which it has
destroyed ; that it is having difficulty, even
accepting second-rate material, in keep-
ing its occupation force in Japan and
the “interim Army,” which is less than
sufficient to provide a fighting division,
at workable strength. Also, that it is
permitting a Communist gang to main-
tain a bullying dominance over workers
at the chief naval base of Garden Island,
where the Communist party is so strong
that it even produces a roneographed
journal impudently called “Corvette.” In
no other Navy save the R.A.N. would
this be possible, but anything seems
possible to the Comrades in this country.
The “Canberra” Plan
It is the Australian “Government’s”
idea that “there should be assigned to
Australia the function of developing the
defence aspect of matters relating to
regional security of the Pacific in which
the United Kingdom, Australia and New
Zealand are concerned, with provision for
overseas representation on the Australian
machinery and parallel Dominion repre-
sentation on the United Kingdom
machinery.”
But this is scarcely attainable while Dr.
Evatt (or “Australia” as he calls himself
when diplomatically engaged) insists on
going his own way in the United Nations
Organisation, without prior consultation
with Britain and the other Dominions.
Scarcely attainable while the chief pro-
ducers of the munitions of war, such as
B.H.P. and Cockatoo Dock and even
Garden Island, are at the mercy of
Communist union bosses whose interest


LIMITED. ENGLAND
RAYON
TVThen you are consid-
** ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yams provide
quality and service as
k
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS :
Melbourne- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office - Ltd., Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane.
Sydney - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., BroughtonHouse, 181 Clarence St.
Brisbane - Erik’ B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
Adelaide K. T. Flint, 178 Bundle Street.
eerth - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street,
R<%L
3590
We feach
time
are
■>:
« :
■
CONTROL AND OPERATION
We teach you without drudgery, without wasting time. We teach
you the essentials, all that you will ever want to know to operate
any type or size of Diesel Engine. Age does not bar you from this
opportunity—we have qualified students up to 60 in well-paid Diesel
jobs. We can qualify you, too, for this modern, congenial, well-paid
occupation if you are prepared to devote a little of your spare time
to assuring yourself a future free from worry. If you are in a
dead-end job, now is the time to hoist yourself out of it, because
any ordinary man can afford both the time and the money to take
up the Diesel Engineering College Course.
TRAINED
OPERATORS
WANTED FOR
gjSi.
EVENING LECTURES AND
PRACTICAL TRAINING
In addition to concise and interesting lessons,
diagrams and drawings, city and suburban
students—and country students, too, when in
town can attend without extra cost our
regular evening lectures and practical train-
ing on a 180 h.p. Diesel Engine. Our students
enjoy every minute of this instructive and
entertaining training course.
OVER 90% PASSES IN
GOVERNMENT EXAMINATIONS
for the Diesel Engiiie Drivers’ Certificate . . . That
is our proud record over the past 10 years . . .
Every day sees the Diesel Engine replacing other
mechanical power for mobile and stationary pur-
poses, opening up a vast field of opportunity for the
ambitious man. Ordinary school education and the
will to do it is all you need to earn £8 to £ 1 Q a week
and more. Post the coupon below to-day—don’t
delay —or call any day or Wednesday or Friday
evenings or Saturday mornings for full information
—or ring B 2902.
• Send for this Booklet • FREE
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
(Estab. 10 years)
Dept. 14, 255 A Geferge Street, Sydney.
NAME AGE
ADDRESS..
B. 18/11/’46.
CONGENIAL WORK* GOOD WAGES-SECURE
£1
it is at present to weaken the country
by creating industrial unrest for the pro-
motion of their plans for revolution and
dictatorship.
Neither will complete working arrange-
ments . between the British Common-
wealth units be possible in the Pacific
while defence is a political issue in Aus-
tralia as it is at present. The existing
Government is “defence-minded” because
it is politically impossible under world
conditions for it to be otherwise. But it
is as certain as night follows day that
even if an enemy were on the doorstep,
as the Japs were in the months before the
Curtin Government took office, the
Wards and their like will be found resist-
ing tooth and claw every measure of any
Government which may chance to succeed
them in office, irrespective of its necessity,
especially if opposition is likely to be
popular with the mob.
Mr. Truman’s Scheme
The final touch to the defence situa-
tion came on the day following the de-
livery of the Government’s policy speech
in President Truman’s announcement that
he would soon place before the United
Nations Security Council a suggested
agreement under which America would
take over trusteeship of all former Jap-
anese mandated islands. The New York
“Times,” usually well informed and
cautious in such matters, adds that if the
Security Council refuses the United
States will take over all mandated islands
and other islands needed “by right. of
conquest.” The trusteeship asked for
will amount to the same thing, since it
involves the acquirement of rights to
maintain, without inspection by U.N.O.
representatives, fortifications and air and
naval bases in islands which it regards as
in a strategic area. It even proposes the
raising of volunteer defence forces in the
affected areas.
The agreement embodying the pro-
posals is “being transmitted to all Pacific
countries, including Australia and New
Zealand.”
Compulsory Service a Main Issue
Before Australia is able to bargain in
this and other vital matters it will have
to raise itself to the same plane as other
nations involved in the bargaining. All
those which matter have one overriding
advantage in bargaining and in arrange-
ments. They all —the United Kingdom, the
United States, Russia, France and China
*-have compulsory military training as
part of their working policies. Australia
is the only country which refuses to con-
form to the otherwise almost universal
rule; the only one which cannot defend
itself from its internal resources.
As matters stand, if the country does
not put its industrial defence facilities in
order and place its citizens on the same
basis as regards training as other friendly
nations, inside and outside the British
Commonwealth, it will soon be in the
humiliating position of being a protec-
torate of Britain and the United States.
Tts present attitude, which all the talk and
promises will not alter, in effect is
strangling not only its own but the British
Commonwealth’s strength in the fight to
achieve a safe and favorable rearrange-
ment of the world. This is much more
so than could have happened after World
War I, having regard to the development
of new weapons.
The Cousens Case.
“Ek Dum” on the Cousens trial;
Fourteen months after the war ended the
unfortunate Major Cousens, a former officer
ot the Sherwood Foresters and of the 2/19th
Battalion, A.1.F., and one of the last men to
be engaged in fighting on Singapore, his final
ettorts being mentioned by his G.0.C., Major-
Oeneral Gordon Bennett, in the Bennett book
on the operations, is to be released from the
tentacles of the law.
Major Cousens was a well-known radio
announcer before the war. After his capture
ne broadcast from Japanese stations —he de-
clared under severe duress. Other Allied officers
were in the same position, and the stuff which
ne broadcast was innocuous enough and very
otten had the air of being delivered under
great strain. More than once it gave the im-
pression that he was trying to send messages
to Australia.
. ma j.°. r had one disability which others
in his position did not have —he had attacked
Communists before the war in his radio
sessions, and they did not forget him. When
it was discovered that he was broadcasting,
f° r the C.P., then under sup-
pression itself as subversive, was affected by a
t upsurge of patriotism and averred savagely
that it had known all along that Major Cousens
as a Fascist agent—“when you scratch a Red-
™l lter u° U f scratch a traitor.” It demanded that,
v hen he fell into Allied hands, its critic should
be tried.
f ■nF°u tr ?°K authorities were willing
e ’- but Army appears to have shown
no enthusiasm for dealing with one whom “boo-
boys s eemed to feel to be as good as
nHtvfo , major was flown from Japan
<v£ c e 5 d - eal °J. Publicity. But although
high treason is adjudged the most serious
crune ® in a British country and the
person suspected of it as dangerous a charac-
tn f rnnt.-nn,P 0 - SSlble -1° conceiv e, he was allowed
thp f uniform and sun himself on
a * of , a , defence area of Sydney
Harbor, a spectacle for press photographers
the - hose cumulative efforts conveyed
in W 1 Vl sl on . of a doomed man indulging
m A h ft l r Pathetic games with his little son.
ter months of trying to find a way of bring-
ing its roaming captive to trial, the Common-
wealth enlisted an accommodating N. S. Wales
State Government to bring him before a police-
court. Nobody can accuse Canberra of not
doing its utmost to secure a conviction.
Japanese witnesses were brought from Japan
and special investigators were sent thither dur-
ing the trial. The major was submitted to a
long, searching and difficult cross-examination,
and in the box was frank, explanatory and
even loquaciously reminiscent.
In British treason trials it is an Old Crown
custom to brief leading counsel for the defence.
It is an axiom that there shall be no vestige
of suspicion that accused was not able to
defend himself to the limit. And the Crown
makes a practice of calling any witnesses of
which it knows who are likely to put the
conduct of the accused in a favorable light.
In the Cousens case this humane tradition
was not followed. At the end of the long
and expensive hearing, and after an American
naval officer who had been in internment with
Cousens had given evidence for the defence,
the magistrate’s remarks made it doubtful
whether an indictment would be filed.
Last week the Attorney-General, Mr. Clame
Martin, said that after consideration of the
record of the police-court proceedings he had
decided not to file a bill. This, he added, was
“in accord with the strong recommendation
of Messrs. C. E. 'Weigall, K.C., Solicitor-
General, and T. S. Crawford, K.C., senior
Crown prosecutor.”
Brigadier Maxwell’s Views
After the decision Brigadier Maxwell, one
of the most gallant of Eighth Division soldiers,
president of the 2/19th Battalion Association,
units of which Major Cousens led in about
the last stand made by British troops against
the Japanese on Singapore Island, said that
he was very pleased that the case had been
dropped and the name of Major Cousens
cleared. He added:
I took Major Cousens away to the war
as my adjutant I always found him
a loyal and efficient officer, enthusiastic
in his work, and liked and respected by his
men.
Brigadier Harold Taylor, Major Cousens’s
brigade commander, said:
I am very pleased It is a great pity
the proceedings ever took place. I have
always felt that there was no difference
between what Cousens did and what 15,000
others did in building railways and roads
and working in other places. They all did
it under compulsion. We all had the same
choice of not doing what we were told
and being shot. Cousens did a very good
job with us right through The dropping
of the charge against him shows that there
was no case against him. The Crown
should pay all expenses.
So it should pay all expenses and ample com-
pensation. Here also there are British pre-
cedents. And it should not be forgotten that
members of the Government which prosecuted
Major Cousens made almost its first adminis-
trative proceeding the release from internment
of two local Communists who had been caught
red-handed in a war-time plot, sponsored by a
suppressed and subversive organisation, to
sabotage war production as a “preliminary to
something bigger in time and space,” a pre-
liminary—in their own words —to the turning
of “every factory, mine and workshop into
a fortress of revolution.”
Stuart v. Rommel.
“Macnell’s” reminiscence:
Alongside the cruiser Adelaide at Garden
Island, mother and child outcasts, rests the
old destroyer Stuart. Stripped clean, she, too,
awaits her fate. But those staunch old sides
remember some fierce and frisky actions, the
most audacious of which was Stuart’s single-
handed stoush with Rommel’s armor.
The Germans had hurled the weight of their
armor against General Wavell’s columns in
1941, and the battle 'raged fierce and bloody
across the desert, a town or base changing hands
as many as three times in a day. Stuart was
dispatched to Solium to contact army liaison
officers and report on the situation. Believing
the port to be ours, the destroyer sailed slowly
into the narrow channel, eased past the big
black-and-white buoy marking its inner end,
and prepared to drop anchor. The captain had
ordered “Half-astern both” to take her way
off when, from the edge of a newly-cut road
running up over a steep escarpment ahead, .a
flash of flame stabbed at the ship. Fifty yards
on the port bow a six-inch shell landed in a
gout of white water.
The destroyer had been built to turn fast,
and she was round and out through that chan-
nel again very smartly. On the way out “Guns”
had his glass on the enemy position. He
saw not only the big gun with its ammunition
limbers and bustling crew around it, but,
coming down into the town, a long line of
armored cars, trucks, tanks and all the impedi-
menta of an advancing army. The possibilities
of a coastal road crammed with enemy armor,
and a fast, heavily-gunned destroyer with plenty
of ammunition, were at once Obvious. He
tapped the captain on the shoulder and pointed.
, There were ready-use direct-action shells at
the guns for submarines, and these were quickly
loaded. Her first fall of shot was so good |that
she went into rapid broadsides at once, and
soon a great burst of flatne and dirty yellow
smoke heralded the end of the Germans’ six-
incher’s ammunition and its crew.
All along the road dust spurted amongst
the vehicles, with here and there the ugly red
of a fire. Then the line turned about and
headed at speed back up the road that had
become a death-trap.
The destroyer sighted a large concentration
of tanks at the top of the escarpment, evidently
waiting their turn to descend. Ammunition
was switched to semi-armor piercing, and
accurate fire opened on the milling herd. It
was a gunnery officer’s picnic. She was much
closer now, opposition silenced, cruising up
and down in a calm sea at a steady 25 knots,
every seven seconds five 4.7 h.-e. shells bursting
with shattering effect amongst that tightly-
packed target. Fires soon started and clouds
of dust rolled into the still air as the Germans
tried frantically to get clear.
Finally, streaming in a disorganised rout
away from the coast, the enemy got clear,
leaving the twisted, burning remains of half-a-
score heavy tanks on the plateau. The R.A.N.
destroyer had halted Rommel’s army for a
time. She had fired with such will that her
magazines were completely cleared; even star
and practice shells had gone
So, with sharp glances skyward and a feeling
of eminent satisfaction in their hearts, Stuart’s
crew set course home for Mother AJex.


'
Royal Reserve Pori
PERSONAL ITEMS
Very little is heard of American Rhodes
Scholars, although U.S. sends 32 to Britain
every year. An exception is James
William Fulbright, who graduated M.A.
at Oxford in 1931, stayed on in Europe
to study U.S. foreign relations, then went
back to the States to join the Department
of Justice. He became a lecturer in law
at Arkansas University and, in 1939,
president of that institution, resigning two
years later to enter Congress as Demo-
cratic Representative for Arkansas. He
hadn’t been long in Washington when he
was elected to the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, and long before UNO. was
mooted he introduced to the House his
“Fulbright Resolution” urging collective
action for world peace. Now a Senator,
he hit the news again last week after the
Republican victory at the polls by an-
nouncing that he intends to bring before
Congress a motion making it possible for
a President to resign. Fulbright is 41, and
in the stocktaking that is likely to follow
the Democratic defeat is likely to become
one of the party’s hopes for the future.
Premier Thomas Playford of South
Australia has completed eight years as
chief Minister of his State—a record that
is all the more remarkable when it is con-
sidered that for most of the period the
political trend throughout the rest of Aus-
tralia has been against the brand of
politics he practises and preaches. A
World War I Digger of the 27th Battalion,
he came into the S.A. Parliament in
1933 as member for Murray—he now
represents Gumeracha —and succeeded
Richard Butler as Premier in 1938.
Butler’s length of service as Premier ex-
ceeds Playford’s by close on two years,
but there was a three-year exile on the
Opposition benches in the middle of it;
Playford’s term has been continuous.
Like three other State Premiers, he faces
the electors shortly, but he seems less
worried at the prospect than some of the
others.
Last month a young airman proposed
to fly from London to Capetown. He
had room for a couple of passengers, so
he advertised for “a man named Stanley”
desirous of flying to South Africa. The
stipulation as to name may seem strange,
but the airman was Squadron-Leader
David Livingstone, great-grandson of the
immortal doctor, and he had conceived
the whimsical notion of shaking hands
with his passenger as they flew over the
spot where the most publicised encounter
in African history took place. A Stanley
accepted, C.J., a Cape Town jeweller, but
the handshake was never exchanged, as
young Livingstone—he was 29 —died sud-
denly the morning the plane was due to
leave. Later the same day his widow
gave birth to a son —another David.
G. W. L. (“Cassa”) Townsend, off to
N’York to take up his duties as area
specialist, s.-w. Pacific, to the Secretariat-
General of U.N.0., was district officer
of the Sepik in N.G. when war broke out
and became lieut.-colonel in charge of
F.E.L.0., which spread propaganda
among the natives and against the Jap,
sending out all those broadcasts, pidgin
pamphlets and native one-talk persuaders
which did so much to keep the boongs
our way. After the war he put in some
time with the reconstruction people,
lectured the Commonwealth’s tropical
trainees at the Pacific school at Mosman,
found nobody had any idea of using him
on a permanent paid basis, and willingly
accepted the U.N. job. Australia gains
in that it has a friend at court inter-
nationally (and, in the circumstances of
its trusteeship for New Guinea, it may
need one), loses in that it needs nearer
home all the Townsends it has. “Cassa”
has a collection of records of native
dances, melodies and dialects and “pid-
gin” speeches, unique in the world, which
have never been heard in Australia pub-
licly (they could have been, as far as he
was concerned) and which he is taking
to the United States, where they will be
lapped up. Lean, forthright, his Welsh
origin shining in his every gesture, he is
one of the most dynamic of the pre-war
generation of New Guineans, so many of
whose members went down in the Monte-
video Maru, leaving Australia poor
enough in people with the knowhow
among the natives.
Memories of some of the heroism that
is the other side of the ugly picture con-
jured up by the word Dachau are re-
vived by the award of the George Cross to
Lieutenant-Commander Patrick Albert
O’Leary. His citation stated that the
award was made “for exceptional work in
organising the escape of Allied officers
and men, refusal under torture to betray
his comrades to the Gestapo and for
great moral and physical encouragement
of fellow-prisoners. ’ In Dachau concen-
tration camp he organised an “under-
ground” which was responsible for more
than 600 escapes, and though frequently
beaten and tortured he refused to give his
jailers any information.
Charles Ruwolt, dead in Melbourne,
was a dreamer. As a lad he dreamt of
building bridges and other enduring
works. Born at Mount Gambler, S.A.,
he was apprenticed to engineering, and
in 1903 he opened a small workshop in
Wangaratta, Victoria, where he built
sluicing and dredging plants for the min-
ing companies working the watercourses
of the Ovens Valley. The efficiency of his
plants became known abroad, and by 1912
he was operating the modest beginnings of
his vast works at Richmond, Melbourne.
His mining machinery went out to
Fiji, Malaya, Siam and other Asiatic
countries. The Ruwolt factory, ofie of
the largest in Australia, now, covers 20
acres and produces industrial machinery
of all sorts for the expanding industries
of the Commonwealth, M.L. and other
countries. During the late war it built
guns. Charles Ruwolt had an alert,
vigorous mind, with an interest in all
manner of subjects. He was a vivacious
talker and loved an argument. He used
to have many of them with the late
Edmund Fisher, the Melbourne Sundry
Showman, when “O.K.” was in his hey-
day.
Career of a general: —
Lieutenant-General Frank Horton Berryman,
recently-elected President of the United Services
Institution of M.S.W., and to whom Prior
has done justice with little mercy, is G.O.C.
Eastern Command, and the youngest-looking
and most active officer of his age in the
A.M.F. A Duntiboner who came back from
World War I mentioned in dispatches and with a
D.S.O., he was G.S.O.l to the Third Division
when World War II broke out, having in the
interval been a pupil of Montgomery at Cam-
berley. He left his peace-time job post-haste to
become G.S.O.l, Sixth Div., leaving with the
second convoy. He was the main planner of
Bardia and first Tobruk and of much else which
went to make the earlier appearances of the A.I.F.
in Libya memorable. He was rewarded with a
C.B.E. and promoted C.R.A. Seventh Div., and
the French in Syria found reason to dread and
admire the fruits of his artillery training—his
25-pounders were a dominating factor of the
campaign. After the first reverse at Merdjayoun,
it was Berryman’s energetic artillery action
combined with a Wellingtonian flair for personal
front-line reconnaissance which restored the
situation. In high spirits he led an infantry
patrol down a thousand-foot cliff face to seize
Jezzine. He Was hastily withdrawn in the midst
of the jubilation at this coup with his Berry
PERMANENT ARMY.
Force to restore the position at Merdjayoun,
where the French had again taken the town
and were threatening to break the line. It was
in the bitter fighting which followed that
Lieut. Cutler won his V.C. A job as B.G.S. of
the Australian Corps led the general to Java on
the outbreak of the Japanese war and the
reconnaissance of Sumatra was among his jobs
there. His next office was M.G.G.S. First Aus-
tralian Army, which was then covering north-
east Australia, but he went to New Guinea as
D.C.G.S., spending a good deal of his time, as
usual, well in the front line during the Buna
and Sanananda battles. The Japs were exter-
minated at Sanananda largely according to his
planning. He left in time to deal with the
sudden Jap influx to Wau, where, as usual, his
artillery made things very hot for the astonished
enemy. The 1943 campaigns from Lae onwards
were planned by Berryman and his specially-
organised staff, under the Commander-in-Chief
in person, after which he took command of the
Second Australian Corps in November, 1943, and,
from a position in the heart of the fighting
round Finschhafen, carried through the battles
of Satelberg, Pabu and Wareo and the advance
to Sio and Saidor. This campaign earned him
a _C.fi., a small enough reward. In January,
1944, he took command of First Australian
Corps as a lieutenant-general, but the planning
side could not spare him when the war began to
open up towards the North and he became Chief -
of-Staff of the A.M.F. in July, 1944, and
Blarney’s deputy with MacArthur. Ha was
largely instrumental in planning the excellently-
organised Borneo victories. He was present
with General Blarney at the Tokyo Bay sur-
render. Since 1939 it can be said of him that
he has never been associated with anything but
victory. Personally he is youthful, likeable and
energetic enough to keep a more than normally
active staff moving at faster than normal pace.
“E.V.S.”; Death of John Lane at
Coolangatta (Q.) removes one of the few
remaining links with Australia’s first great
idealistic movement in 1892. With
brothers Ernie and William, who was the
inspired visionary seeking, prematurely,
to establish a New Order, he left school-
teaching to join the New Australia colony
in Paraguay. When dissension arose the
Lanes and a following left the original
settlement to found Cosme, which survived
over a decade. John returned to Queens-
land and pedagogy, Ernie to the Inky
Way, as did William, who never quite
recovered psychologically from the
failure. Ernie still survives with ideals
only slightly tempered by experience.
John was 80 at the last roll-call.
Walter Charles Crookall, retiring as
manager of the Adelaide “Advertiser,”
has been associated with that 90-year-
old daily for more than two-thirds of its
existence. He joined the staff as printers’
apprentice in 1885, rose to foreman when
he was 20, general overseer at 24 and
managing printer at 30. When the Mur-
doch group took over from Bonython in
1929 he was appointed chief, and be-
came a member of the first printers’
board constituted under the Industrial
Code' In a farewell tribute Keith Mur-
doch said “Crookall has always been a
stalwart leader for good work and solid
production, and is recognised through-
out the Australian industry as one of
its ablest men.”
Colonel J. E. C. Lord, of Hobart, re-
cently presented with the life-member-
ship badge of the 40th Battalion Asso-
ciation, was the commanding officer of
the 40th when it left Tasmania in 1914.
He led the battalion throughout the war,
and when the association was formed
was elected first patron. He has been
re-elected ever since. The association
considers this is a record unequalled in
Australia.
Dudley Saint, of Barmera, on the
Murray in S.A., goes to Suva as Inspec-
tor of Police in the British Colonial Ser-
vice. He is a product of the Training
College, and latterly of the plainclothes
branch in Adelaide. He is only 21.
Retired, after 58 years of service with
the Queensland Government, Richard
Curtis, a Police Magistrate since 1911
and visiting Justice to prisons and other
State institutions for the last 16 years,
A case heard before him whilst P.M.
at Barcaldine still holds a place in
Queensland’s legal history of the lighter
kind. The defendant, charged with hav-
ing _ stolen a cheque, asked that the
exhibit might be handed to him for ex-
amination. When this was done he
swallowed it. Without delaying to look,
up any legal precedent the magistrate
order its prompt recovery, and the C.P.S.
rang up the local hospital for necessary
assistance. A doctor arrived with a
stomach pump, and after a brief but
lively time in the court waiting-room the
missing document was recovered, slightly
digested, but still completely identifiable.
A pallid and subdued defendant gave no
further trouble, and amended his plea to
guilty.
On* of S.A.’s oldest wine-and-spirit
names is to disappear. William Milne,
any time a hundred years back, was a
leading politician. He left his wine busi-
ness for politics in 1857, but members
of the family carried it on till lately.
Gilbey’s have now taken over - the
wineries and distillery, also a Westralian
branch.
Sydney City Librarian is the official
title of the subject of this Dubois sketch,
, i ■ , A ,, , . f mnct
anthropology his hobby, but for most
of the Pacific War Naval Intelligence
was his occupation. Francis Lancelot
p ,, • • , qj MnmVinal library
Bel 1 U J ° me J Syd ” ey Municipal ODrary
in. 1922 and combined book-minding witn
study, gaining in 1931 his M.A. degree in
Social Anthropology. During the 1930’s
he won a Rockefeller Foundation Grant.
spent some time in New Guinea on fieid
work for the Australian National Re-
r'nnnril and at the invitation of
ar P? Cou . nC “ an<3 ’ a . Ine ( v* r
the Carnegie Corporation of New York,
made a World survey of public libraries,
TEMPORARY NAVY.
On the side he served as president of
N.S.W. Anthropological Society and be-
came a Fellow of the Royal Anthro-
pological Institute of Great Britain. In
1939 he became City Librarian in suc-
cession to C. H. Bertie, but when war
came to the Pacific he volunteered for the
R. and was allotted to Naval In-
telligence. Within a few months he found
himself on General MacArthur’s staff,
and from then to VP-Day he had a ring-
side seat at every important event in the
s.-w. Pacific area.
Into the silence:
In Shanghai, at 71, W. H. Donald, for many
years adviser to Chiang Kai-shek. Born at
Lithgow, he was a journalist in Bathurst, Syd-
ney and Melbourne before he went to Hong
Kong to join the “China Mail.” He became the
confidant of Sun Yat-sen and other Chinese
leaders and was probably the most influential
white man in China. During the war he spent
three years in a Japanese internment camp in
the Philippines. Privations there aggravated an
old complaint and hastened his end.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Christina Wykeman, to
theatregoers known as Miss Pressy Preston.
She became equally well known to radio lis-
teners as “Jane” on the A.B.C. stations, where
she was the first to start a women’s session.
She was the wife of actor Reginald Wykeham,
and, after appearing in some of J.C.W.’s
biggest musical successes, starred in straight
comedy with her husband.
At Bendigo, Vic., Gavin Henry McKay,
only remaining brother Of H. V. McKay, of
Sunshine Harvester. A farmer, of Drummartin
district, he was a Digger of the First World
War.
At New Plymouth, M.L., at 89, W. H.
Skinner, who, with the lat'e Percy Smith, was
one of the founders of the N.Z. Polynesian
Society. An authority on early M.L. history.
and the Maori wars, he was a strong supporter
of the preservation of relics and historical
places.
In Adelaide, at 75, Bill Gunson, for quite
half a century, one of its best-known citizens.
As a young man he was a leading player of
tennis, in middle-age of golf. He had a large
practice as solicitor, and was A.D.C. to several
Governors of S.A. As Consul for France he
was chairman of the Free-French and French-
Australian movements. A leader of fashion
always, he was one of the very few bachelors
of prominence in Adelaide.
In Adelaide, at 73, Lt.-Col. Thomas Henry
Darley, a veteran who fought under Lord
Roberts in the S’African War, came to Aus-
tralia as an instructor, then served with the
Ninth Light Horse A.I.F. in Palestine during
World War I, wrote a history of that unit,
and was recalled to Keswick Barracks during
Hitler’s war. A crack shot, he was a member
of the S.A. Rifle Association.
In Adelaide, at 73, George James Plenty,
former councillor of Hindmarsh, chief officer
and active member of the Hindmarsh Volunteer
Fire Brigade since 1898. He was also organiser
and chief officer of the South Australian
Ambulance until 1935, and an enthusiast in
all forms of sport.
In Adelaide, at 64, James Bills, former head
of King’s College, and leading Latin teacher in
S. He was one-time master at Gawler High
School, and later vice-principal of Carey
Grammar, Melbourne.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD WILLIAM FRANCIS (also known as
Edwin William Francis and as Ken Fraser and as
Ken Robertson) late of 40 Herbert Street Rockdale.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALICE MAY FRANCIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3915 of 1046 on
the ground of your adultery If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 16th
December 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from 'ALEXANDER J. F. ROPE,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
ALEX RAE, ALMA RAE, MAUD PHILLIPINE
O’DONNELL, JAMES O’DONNELL. Would the above
or any of them please communicate with us ?
COWLEY & ALLEN, 70-72 King Street, Sydney.
Women]s letters
From Sydney *
On Friday Sydney wore a poppy and
on Sunday said a prayer at church
service or at the Cenotaph for its soldier
dead. The State Government arranged a
Cenotaph service at a quarter to eleven on
Sunday, and here branches of Returned
Servicemen’s League and the Australian
Legion of Ex-Servicemen and Women
were represented. The Governor, Lieu-
tenant-General John Northcott, placed
one of many wreaths on the Martin-
place Memorial on this first Remem-
brance Day, into which the old Armistice
Day has been merged and which com-
memorates the dead warriors of both
World Wars. In churches there were
special prayers and services. On Mon-
day night in the Town Hall great crowds
gathered for the Festival of Remem-
brance. The Governor and Mrs. North-
cott attended.
Social event of the week for young
Sydney society was the ball at Govern-
ment House. The Governor and Mrs.
Northcott gave the party for daughter
Elizabeth, and there were 200 guests.
Even the damp night, though it did in-
terfere with the idea of a softly-lit
garden, couldn’t spoil the fun. Miss
Northcott’s frock was of white broderie
anglaise, very soft and graceful. This was
the first ball at Government House for
eight years. Mrs. Northcott’s frock of
black lace and net had an effective jacket
of bright brocade.
With her turf losses still heavy upon her
(down £1 2s. 9d. over the Cup) the Girl
in the Flat Opposite turned sympathetic
ear to Tschaikowsky’s “Pique-Dame,”
whose hero is an inveterate gambler in
the St. Petersburg of the eighteenth
century. The story of this Herman, a
violent young fellow if ever there was
one, who loses his all through lack of a
bit of luck at the card-table, has cured
the Girl of her ambition to win a
scholarship to a two-up school. Her-
man (Reginald 1 Willoughby), who sings
melodiously and dramatically through-
out, threatens first his own life if Lisa
(Mollie Grouse, whose soaring and ever-
sweet voice made an appealing heroine)
wouldn’t love him; secondly, threatens
the life of Lisa’s aunt, Pique-Dame, if
she won’t give him the secret of her
luck at cards ; and, finally, takes his own
life at the gaming tables.
Rosina Raisbeck’s Pique-Dame proves
that she can act as well as sing. David
Harwell was the prince and Raymond
Nilsson was Tchekalinsky, both adding
good voices to the general effect. The
pastoral which is introduced into the ball-
room scene gives opportunity to Florence
Taylor, who is cast as Daphnis. In
short, directors Florent Hoogstoel, Hilda
Mulligan and Roland Foster have scored
another success. There are four more
chances to hear this Conservatorium
opera.
Air Chief-Marshal Sir Arthur Long-
more could not arrive in time for the
sherry party arranged for last week by
the Overseas League in his honor. How-
ever, he had lunch with some of the
council before flying off to Melbourne.
His visit to Australia is really a visit to
all the branches of the league, and when
he comes back to Sydney the club in
Martin-place will be festive for two days.
On December 3 there will be a buffet
lunch in Sir Arthur’s honor, and on the
following day there will be cocktails to
speed him on his way to Singapore.
The H. J, Evans couple (to concert
audiences she is pianist Beatrice Tange)
celebrated Cup night with a late-afternoon
party that started with cocktails, went on
to a buffet dinner and ended about mid-
night. Trixie’s 40ft.-long, and nearly
as wide, music-room was the setting.
The room, all ivory walls and curtains
nnd wine-colored carpet, has two domi-
nating pieces of furniture ; a Bechstein
grand, full concert-size, and a slightly-
smaller Steinway.
Lauri and Dorothy Kennedy were
guests-of-honor, and among the many
gathered together there were writers,
artists —sculptor Fleischmann one of
them—engineers, and even politicians —
the Clive Evatts among the latter. Pretty
girls were Berenice and Lynette Arm-
strong. Mrs, Evans’s frock of mist-blue,
its skirt long and softly-pleated, was the
right foil for her red-gold hair. During
the evening she played groups of Chopin,
Brahms, Schumann, and the music flowed
out beyond the wide verandahs and across
a garden that only ends at the rim of
Vaucluse Bay. Incidentally, the Evanses
may not have fairies at the bottom of
their garden, but they have corvettes —
two of them.
On Cup day tea and sweep parties
raged everywhere. All the big restaurants
and hotels had their tea-drinkers wait-
ing for the results. Every woman’s club
was packed to the rafters. One of the
most pleasant places on the fateful after-
noon was the Women Pioneers Club.
From just after two o’clock members of
the younger group did the rounds making
up shilling sweeps—and there were no
blanks. Every woman who threw in a
shilling drew a horse to give her some
sort of a run for her money. Acting-
president Mrs. Lingham, her frock of
black-and-white-printed silk set off with
a tiny black hat, soft with black ostrich
plumes, Mrs. Holgate, Miss Higman, Miss
Childs were active in the afternoon’s suc-
cess. So was club steward Sam, whose
sleight of hand in passing cool drinks
ranks as genius.
The Women’s College within the Uni-
versity has always had brilliant women
for its principals. The latest to take over,
Betty Archdale, brings to the job, as well
as the lustre of scholarly achievement, a
great sports record. Miss Archdale is
a graduate of London University, and a
barrister by profession. In addition she
is a cricketer of renown (she captained
the English women’s cricket team which
came to Australia in 1934), and is a keen
hockey player. During the war Miss
Archdale came to Australia as F/0.,
W.R.E.N.S., and her pleasant and un-
affected manner made a wide circle of
friends for her. Dorothy Welding photo-
graph.
Macquarie-street went all gala last
week for the opening of yet another Par-
liament. The day was typically Novem-
ber ; hot sun, burning blue sky. There
was an Australian Governor to make
opening speech this time, and Lieut.-
General John Northcott did it in a neat
and workmanlike manner. All the trim-
mings: guard of honor, the popping of
guns and a lunch given by the president
of the Legislative Council and his wife,
the E. R. Farrars, made festive prologue
to the drama or comedy (which side do
you vote for?) about to be enacted in
the coming months. Mrs. Northcott and
daughter Elizabeth were at the opening,
deeply absorbed. In the group with
them were Mrs. L. A. Robb, Sheila Col-
lett and Mrs. Black. Pat and Betty Me-,
Kell, attractive daughters of the Premier,
were others who might be said to have
had vested interest in the proceedings.
White kid-gloves and smartest hats for
Victoria Leaguers this afternoon when
they gather at the Australia to welcome
Mrs. Northcott, our Governor’s wife.
Mrs. Northcott has consented to become
president of the League, and this after-
noon’s reception is expected to crowd
the hotel ballroom. Daughter Elizabeth
will accompany her mother.
One of the most refreshing spots
during last week’s heat was the Howard
Ashton show in the R.A.S. gallery in
Hunter-street. Here are lovely, mist-
steeped distances, bleak and rugged vistas
that have the crisp coldness of mountain
nights still upon them. If you know your
Blue Mountains, then you will love this
exhibition, and if you don’t know them
then you’ll probably hurry off to buy a
train ticket to plateau and valley. Howard
talks in interesting fashion, too, if you
catch him in the mood, of the flowers
and the little furry beasts, flying possums
and such down-in-the-valley folk.
The Smilin’ Thru Club, now working
as an auxiliary for the Totally and Per-
manently Disabled Soldiers, is trying to
solve the problem of how to spend New
Year’s Eve night. A big revel is being
planned for December 31, and a meet-
ing to discuss arrangements has been
called by president Myra Dempsey for
tomorrow, Thursday, at 11.30 a.m. in the
Australia.
Sydney tenor Ken Neate, now de-
mobbed and in London, has just signed
a contract to sing opera at Covent
Garden, This will be the first season of
opera since before the war. .
From Melbourne
Groupings of hothouse flowers in
shades of pink and purple were massed
at the entrance to Government House
ballroom, and supper tables were a riot
of irises, pink and white watsonias and
lilies for the reception given by Sir Win-
ston and Lady Dugan in honor of the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester. The
Duchess wore a gown of ivory brocade
satin fashioned with a tailored bodice,
two revers of the material falling over the
shoulders on each side. The plain skirt
had all the fullness drawn to the back,
forming a short train. In the centre of
the bodice was a cluster of gilded roses
in which was pinned a diamond brooch.
A diamond necklace, diamond bracelets
worn over long white gloves, diamond
earrings and a diamond tiara completed
a striking ensemble. Lady Dugan’s moire
taffetta gown was in lavender blue with a
slight train and a large bow giving a
bustle effect at the back. The bodice
gleamed with sequins, and she wore
diamond clips and small tiara.
There was glitter everywhere ; whole
frocks were spangled with sequins, while
bands of glittering paillettes outlined
hems and gave a note of elegance to
bodices. Penelope Nettlefold’s white
taffetta had ruchings on the full skirt.
Her long white kid-gloves, of exquisite
workmanship, belonged to her grand-
mother. Mrs. A. L, Walters, who was
with her air-commodore husband, wore
her presentation gown of heavy-white
satin with large pink roses set in front
of the bodice, and an unusual necklace
of moonstones. Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s
beautiful gown was of midnight-blue satin
with a jewel-encrusted yoke and a leaf
design of pearls decorating the bodice.
Many gowns were backless; others were
cut to leave one shoulder bare. Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade struck this new note
with her heavy white crepe frock; the
skirt draped upwards in heavy folds about
the waistline, and the bodice had the
one-shoulder halter neckline. Mrs. Rupert
Downes had heavy pearl embroideries
on the bodice of her white-satin gown,
and she added a pink-feather cape for
color contrast. Mrs. Wilfred Brookes
introduced the new pannier skirt into her
gown, which was of hyacinth-blue moire.
Paddy Wilkinson’s white-pleated georgette
was flower-strewn. Her sister, Mrs. Edric
Henty, wore blue-flowered satin and ivory
satin in picture style. The smooth flat-
topped hair style was chosen by many
of the young guests, and there was a
noticeable absence of flowers in the hair.
Diamond clips were used to keep curls
in place. Many of the older guests
carried gay feather fans. Evening bags
with jewelled clasps, or made of glitter-
ing stones, were noticed,. One small black
evening bag had a mount of large pearls.
Shedding lustre on a camation-pink crepe
dinner frock was the lei of real carnations
to match the frock worn by Mrs. B. J.
Tompkins, wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache.
This, the latest portrait of Madge
Elliott, is by Broothorn. Madge, for her
songs in “Set to Music,” a potpourri of
Coward and other composers, which
opened at the Comedy on Saturday,
wears an English model of white crepe
heavily embroidered in gold. The lovely,
long-flowing cape which matches the
frock has ail unusual yoke treatment.
Highlight of “Set to Music” is the Waltz
Scene from “The Merry Widow,” in
which Madge and Cyril delight the audi-
ence with their dancing.
Among the first-nighters was Mrs.
Fred Dennett, whose three-quarter-length
white wool coat was embellished with
gold trimmings and worn over a black
evening gown. Newly-engaged David
McGregor and Betty Bond came. Betty
Stewart and Ronald Findlay, whose
wedding has been fixed for February, l
were enthusiastic applauderS. Inez
Lillies wore a patterned chiffon evening
gown. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell brought a
party along.
Pageantry was revived for the 1946
Melbourne Cup with the arrival of the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, who,
escorted by mounted police, drove up the
course to the cheers of racegoers. Frock-
ing was generally good, and in some cases
distinctly impressive. Yellow was the
most popular shade, from pale primrose
to deep corn gold. Blue was the next-
best bet. The Duchess of Gloucester
favored it —her simple tailored frock was
of soft aquamarine-blue wool; the collar
was fashioned of petals cut from the
material and finished with two diamond
flower sprays. Her small pancake-shaped
brown hat was of swathed georgette and
finished with a diamond dip at one side ;
her bag and shoes were brown, her long
suede gloves pale beige. Lady Dugan,
wife of the State Governor, wore a frock
of delphinium blue, its pleated folds lend-
ing fullness to the bodice; from its
swathed wide belt the skirt was looped
in central folds in the new Parisian-harem
fashion; her navy-blue felt hat was
trimmed with ostrich feathers.
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas sponsored a
new fashion. Her black-crepe frock had
leg-o’-mutton sleeves in red, lime and
gre?n, which color combination was re-
peated in her shoes. Mrs. L, Coleman’s
blue outfit, with its pleated skirt yoke
trimmed with opalescent sequins, was
worn with a short jacket and flower hat.
Viewing her first Melbourne Cup was
Jeannette Kuhlken, from New York,
whose navy-jacket suit was worn with a
half-hat of gay flowers. Mrs. Norman
Spry’s cartwheel hat of black ninon and
lace was worn with a black ninon frock
which had fine ecru lace appliqued with a
design of seed pearls. Mrs. J. Elliott
Murray, the former Valerie Purves, was
cool and charming in a sky-blue linen
suit trimmed with gilt buttons and worn
with a wide white straw hat. One of the
smartest examples of the pannier skirt was
featured on the black-and-white-patterned
frock worn by Mrs. Arie Maas, set off
with a large natural straw cartwheel hat
trimmed with field flowers.
Melbourne’s uncertain weather ruined
the dressing for the last day of the
V.R.C. carnival. Best-dressed women
were, those who came out in tailored suits
or printed silk frocks under lightweight
wool coats. In many cases a frivolous
note was struck with a gay flower or
ribbon hat. Color combination for the
day was navy and white worn with a
semi-tailored hat embellished with veiling
featuring large chenille dots. Many
young racegoers achieved sartorial
glamor. Shirley Watts contrasted her blue
suit with a burgundy-and-white blouse,
her small hat being •of natural straw.
With her was Pat Tallis, whose grey
frock, with a lace yoke, was worn with a
reseda-green tailored coat and small
matching hat. Julia Mary Rouse chose
an ice-blue linen-tailored suit and white
hat. One of the most delightful color
contrasts seen on the course was the pale
mauve frock and cyclamen wool coat
worn by Anne McDermott, whose small
hat of cyclamen felt had mauve veiling.
One striking hat was fashioned of .bird-
of-paradise plumage. Mrs. Hugh
Murray’s small toque of turquoise-blue
feathers set off her black suit, which was
trimmed with Persian lamb. Her sifter,
Mrs. Walter Rau, in a frock and coat
of petunia-pink, wore a hat in deep cycla-
men tonings and pale mauve feather trim •
ming.
Robs McKay relaxed from university
exams in a frock of lime-wool with lime-
suede gloves, small half-hat of matching
flowers and a pale-cream coat. Mrs.
John Ford wore a white plastic raincoat
over her navy suit and blouse of blue
pin-spotted in white ; the same material
trimmed her blue hat. Hazel Honeyman,
who still trims hats for the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital Fair in her spare time,
W'ore a smartly-cut black-cloth suit with
pockets and collar of silver fox. Her
small black straw had posies of red roses
on each side. Mrs. G. R. Nicholas added
a platinum fox cape and small upturned
black straw hat to her black ensemble.
Wife of the owner of First In, Mrs. S.
Taylor, was in black, which color was
favored also by Mrs. F. Spurway, wife of
Proctor’s owner. With them was Mrs. V.
Cornaga, in a navy suit and small match-
ing hat. More field-flower-trimmed hats
were seen than ever ; black piatform-soied
shoes were studded with silver or gold
metal, and gloves also followed the trend
for glitter. The smartest suits had pleated
skirts.


••All Men Think
All Men Mortal
tint Themselves 99
And that is why so many other-
wise careful and provident heads
of families neglect the most
sacred duty they owe to those
dependent upon them.
That is to ensure by the careful drawing
of a Will that the provision made for
those who follow on passes to them
without loss or inconvenience.
Your wife and family are dependent
on you now; they will be much more
dependent when you are gone. Now
they have your counsel and support;
what they will have when you ai* gone
will depend very largely on what you
do before you go.
So, remember that you, too, are mortal.
Have your Will' properly drawn and
attested, and be sure you leave the
administration of it in good and
experienced hands.
The Trustee Company—such as the
old-established Union Trustee—is the
ideal executor. It possesses experience
and business judgment. It is com-
pletely impartial; it doe£ not grow old
or die; its charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor ; Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt,
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector; H. A, Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, e.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A, Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., h.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.h.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD ;
Maior-Geperal Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager; C. A, Bradfield, A.F.1.A., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst, A.i.cjt. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L, G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners' and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
aus/r/uian ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
MHPEROOWN,
SYDNEY,
MANUFACTURERS
F I LIE R
niter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE WILDCAL COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1936 . . 519,903 62Jp.c.= 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 „ „ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 .. 437,432 80 „ „ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 .. 383,138 40 „ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Shares written up, £201,369 •• 2,335,907
1940 .. 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
1941 . . 326,803 40 „ „ 320,000 2,477,954
1942 .. 313,008 30 „ „ 240,000 2,550,962
1943 .. 269,340 30 „ „ 240,000 2,565,302
1944 ~ 287,244 30 „ „ 240,000 2,612,546
1945 . . 384,861 SO „ „ 240,000 2,757,407
Written off investments, £25,125.. 2,732,282
1946 . . 356,304 35 p.c. = 280,000 2,808,586
The co, earned more last term, but
shareholders were worse off because of
heavy Government bleeding. There was
a spring of £218,640 in return from mine
products (£1,718,975), thanks to a steady
rise *in export prices for metals. The
surplus on working account (£731,377)
was only £37,769 stronger —higher work-
ing and other costs and increased expen-
diture on development gobbled most of
the gain.
But the net return from mining showed a
shrinkage of £52,011, partly offset by a gain
of £28,956 in profit from investments;
Declared profit— 1944. 1945. 1946.
Mining .. .. £157,008 £263,981 £211,970
Investments . . . . 97,124 80,507 109,463
Total .. . . £254,132 £344,488 £321,433
The cause of the contraction of
£23,055 in profit claimed from all sources
was heavier provision for taxes and
royalties:
1945. 1946.
Profit before tax
deductions.. £732,488 £793,433
royalties .. 388,000 = 53 p.c. 472,000 = 59.5 p.c.
Shareholders’
profits .. 344,488 = 47 „ 321,433 - 40.5 „
Tax was as high as 17s. in the £ on a
substantial portion of the profit, the chair-
man says. And, when distributed as divi-
dend, the other 3s. is again taxed in the
bands of shareholders at their full rate
without rebate. Among other things, it
is a clear illustration of how present
highly-geared co. taxation is diminishing
one of the most important sources of risk
capital, and checking new enterprise.
Profit claimed is reconciled with the
figure shown in the table in this way;
Profit claimed (1946) .. .. .. £321,433
Plus —
Allowance for depreciation .. .. 33,000
Unexplained addition store reserves .'. 1,532
„ „ general reserves .. 3,982
£359,947
Less —
Expenditure on new plant .. .. 3,643
Net profit, as shown in table . . .. £356,304
The £356,304 is equal to 2s. s£d. per
ss. share (= 44.5 p.c.). The div. was
lifted from Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. (= 35 p.c.X
A further Is. 3d. per share (same as pre-
vious term) will be sent out on Dec. 18.
Less ore was treated, and the grade was
slightly lower:
Assay.
Crudes ( A —— 1
Treated.! Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1940 .. 367,030 tons 14.9 p.c. 6.60 z. 12.9 p.c.
1941 .. 895,580 „ 14.5 „ 6.6 „ 12.5 „
1942 . . 882,370 „ 14.9 „ 6.7 „ 12.9 „
1943 . . 344,300 „ 14.3 „ 6.4 „ 12.0 „
1944 .. 341,920 „ 13.4 „ 6.3 „ 11.9 „
1945 . . 309,605 „ 13.7 „ 7.1 „ 12.7 „
1946 . . 293,130 „ 12.7 „ 6.6 „ 11.9 „
f Sulphides.
Metal content of the 46,993 tons lead
concentrate produced was 35,729 tons
lead and 1,787,5520 z, silver, and of the
59,624 tons of zinc concentrate 31,181
tons zinc. Recoveries were 96.1 p.c. lead,
91.8 p.c, silver and 89.2 p.c. zinc.
Working costs (extraction, development
and treatment) were 14s. 2d. heavier at
595. 6d., which is about double the
1939 figure. The rise last term was due
to (1) increase in lead bonus paid to
employees, owing to rise in overseas price
of lead, (2) greater outlay on development,
and (3) additional provision for workers’
compensation. During the year 6893 ft.
(2315 ft. previous term) of driving, cross-
cutting and winzing was carried out at a
cost of £141,311 (up £87,597). The lead
bonus added 9s. 3d. a ton to costs, and
£135,715 —nearly £3 a man a week —to
the payroll. At the present price of lead
the weekly addition to wages from this
source alone is £4 17s. 6d. Still, as de-
velopment eases and production increases,
some reduction in costs can be expected.
The rise in overseas metal prices should
give the current term’s earnings a nice
lift. Here are the Government statisti-
cian’s export-parity figures (f.o.b. Port
Pirie) in Australian currency;
Average Prices.
Lead, Zinc, Silver, '
Year to Per Ton. Per Ton. Per Oz.
Dee., 1939. . £l7 12 1 £l9 15 8 2s. 1.42 d.
„ 1945.. 34 10 10 37 6 4 2 10.59
Month:
Jan., 1946 . . 36 17 0 52 2 0 4 2.19
Mar., 1946 .. 42 8 6 51 9 1 4 2.19
June, 1946 . . 53 14 6 50 10 7 4 2.88
More recently the export price for lead
has varied between £A62 and £A72 per
ton, and the price of silver has gone to
ss. 9d. an ounce, following a lift in the
U.S, price from 71 cents to 90 cents an
ounce. However, the average price re-
ceived by the co. for lead and zinc is
substantially below export parity. That is
because the price of each metal is pegged,
and has been since early 1940, at £A22
a ton in the Australian market, which
must be supplied before export is per-
mitted. Domestic consumption of lead is
now put at about 40,000 tons p.a., or oyer
25 p.c. of total production at the Barrier,
the only producing field whose lead-bear-
ing products are smelted and refined in
Australia. The zinc concentrates are sold
mainly to Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.) and
Imperial Smelting Corp. (Eng.). As for
the outlook, lead and zinc prices are
linked with the level of U.S. industrial
activity. While that remains high, pros-
pects for the world’s lead-zinc mines
remain relatively good.
At June 30 the South’s ore re-
serves were conservatively estimated at
1,890,000 tons (down 40,000 tons), or
about six years’ work for the mill. There
is a speculative possibility that the lode
might develop a counterpart associated
with the main line of shearing at greater
depth. Meanwhile, the board is on the
hunt for new mining properties.
When the books closed, invest-
ments (£1,670,351) and current assets
(£1,305,677) together totalled £2,976,028.
There was £647,501 coming to outsiders,
leaving a surplus with a book value of
£2,328,527, equal to 14s. 6d.'per share.
The market prices the scrip at 335.
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
April, Loss Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. .. 251,233
Preliminary exes., £11,006.. .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. .. 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.e.f= 28,500 3,243 315,826
1941.. 132,092 6 „t„ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,160 .. .. 283,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6 ~ ~ 90,300 18,245 234,135
1944.. 125,791 6 „ „ 90,480 35,311 198,824
1945.. 101,634 6 „ 94,620 7,014 191,810
1946.. 106,503 6 „ „ 96,000 10,503 181,307
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc.,” now £558,373. f Ord. shares only, t Includes
4J p.c. on new shares.
This is the first co. to produce pulp and
paper commercially in Australia wholly
from local ’timbers. From its mill at
Buraie (Tas.) it turns out fine printing,
writing and typewriting papers from
eucalyptus pulp. And in strength, color,
bulk and other qualities its products com-
pare favorably with similar imported
lines. A year or so after production be-
gan war provided the co. with fresh
opportunities, of which the enterprising
management made the most, and at no
additional cost to the Australian con-
sumer. Landed cost of comparable
papers from overseas is in excess of the
co.’s selling prices, which are controlled
by official edict.
Shareholders got into the picture with
3 p.c. in 1940, followed by 6 p.c. for
each of the half-dozen years since. Out-
put, stepped up from an initial 15,000
tons p.a. to around 21,000 tons p.a., has
never been able to keep abreast of
demand. Last term production was at
approximately the same level as for the
previous year. Selling prices remained
unaltered, but costs of labor and raw
material advanced. The improvement of
£4569 in net earnings was due to reduc-
tion in allowances for depreciation
(£98,139, down £17,636) and taxation
(£72,000, down £2000). The £106,503 of
profit was 6.6 p.c. on capital as against
6.3, 8.3, 7.2, 8.1, 8.7 and 2.6 p.c. back to
1940. The £10,503 put on the shelf re-
duced the amount of capital unrepre-
sented by tangible assets to £181,307.
That leaves out of the reckoning a de-
preciation reserve of £653,315 (up
£99,942).
Pre-war local market for the co.’s
products was in the neighborhood of
50,000 tons p.a., and has increased since.
And at the moment competition
from overseas lacks strength, and
seems likely to for the next 12 months
or so, owing to shortage of pulp sup-
plies and increased demand for paper,
especially in the U.S.A., Britain and
S. America —and there is a reviving
Europe in the background. Re-
alising that speed in satisfying demand
helps to create goodwill, and that good-
will will help to hold the market in the
future, the co. is now installing a third
paper mill, and a fourth is on order. No.
3 will lift output by 30-40 p.c., and is
expected to be in full production about
a year hence. Owing to delivery and
other difficulties, it is not anticipated that
No. 4 will be running until about 1950.
The building to house these two machines
is now on the way to completion.
Another feature in the co.’s programme
of development is the proposal to erect
a large sawmill on its own forest area.
The bulk of the mill output will be taken
by the co., and the rest sold in the open
market. It is also proposed to manu-
facture hardboard from timber unsuited
for either pulping or ordinary market-
ing.
The chairman is silent as to the cost
of the co.’s programme, but the Speck’s
Premier (Mr. Cosgrove) recently put the
figure at about £2,000,000. Shareholders
will be asked to assist as money is re-
quired.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £1,200,900 £1,598,750 £1,600,000
Liabilities.. .. 341,826 59,823 53,250
Tax provision . . 1,675 247,429 170,530
Freehold land, etc.* 100,884 137,745 142,363
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,247,299 1,467,773
Stores, etc. .. 61,373 318,004 239,166
Finished stocks . . 52,057 80,733 55,295
Debtors . . . . 26,679 151,246 140,188
Cash, etc 16,529 381,501 309,003
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. . 314,062 257,323 257,189
* At cost.
Last term £210,474 was added to build-
ings and plant, liquids being reduced for
the purpose. The contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£519,872) was
£104,360.
At 345. the pound shares return 3.5
p.c. on a 6 p.c, div. basis, or 4.1 p.c.
on a 7 p.c, distribution. Excluding the
depreciation reserve, the cover is 17s. 9d.
in net tangibles.
Pori Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 22,575 8 p.c. = 22,529 46 51,676
1937.. 37,617 8 ~ „ 22,529 15,088 66,764
1938.. 33,071 8 „ „ 23,428 9,643 76,407
1939.. 24,638 8' „ „ 24.000 638 77,045
1940.. 24,710 8 „ „ 24,000 710 77,755
1941.. 24,407 8 „ „ 24,000 407 78,162
3942.. 19,891 7 „ ~21,000 77,053
1943.. 21,007 7 „ „ 21,000 7 77,060
1944.. 29,562 8 „ „ 24,000 5,562 82,622
1945.. 27,391 8 „ „ 24,000 3,391 86,013
1946.. 24,035 8 „ „ 24,000 35 86,048
The co., whose ferries carry passengers
from Circular Quay across the heads to
Manly, provides the public with the
cheapest and one of the most’ efficient
transport services in the metropolis ; and,
unlike, the Government, it does so at a
profit. Also, it has erected an attractive
and popular bathing enclosure, not
directly revenue-producing, adjacent to
its Manly wharf. The fleet numbers
seven vessels:
Gross Year
Vessel. Tonnage. Built.
South Steyne .. .. 1200 1938
Curl Curl .. . . 800 1928
Dee Why .. .. 800 1928
Baragoola .. .. 500 1922
Eellubera .. .. 500 1910
Barrenjoey . . .. 500 1913
Balgowlah .. .. 500 1912
With an eye to costs and efficiency, the
alert management set out before the war
to free the co. of complete dependence
on coal. Only the two last-mentioned
vessels are entirely coal-burners, the
. Bellubera is Diesel-electric propelled, and
the other four burn oil or coal.
1 Excepting 1942 and 1943, when the Jap
submarine scare was at its peak and the
i div. dropped a point to 7 p.c., share-
: holders have had a run of 8 p.c. distribu-
. tions since 1934. Meanwhile, there has
i been no lift in passenger fares, though
[ operating costs and taxation have both
; climbed steeply. The effect upon earn-
• ings was substantially offset by a heavy
, temporary influx of war-time population,
I This temporary population has been now'
’ partly replaced by our own demobilised
- service personnel and by growth of
I Manly’s population. Still, the figures
■ provide evidence of very careful handling
; of the co.’s affairs,
I After providing a liberal £26,565 (up
. £2709) for depreciation and allowing
> something for the taxgatherer, the board
t wrote last term’s profit only £268 short
I of the previous year’s at £24,034. That
t leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
. plained addition of £3500 to specific re-
-5 serves (£28,760) in 1945, which the “Wild
Cat” has treated as profit. The £24,035
j was a wink over 8 p.c. on capital as


GOLD MINING.
OWNERS wishing dispose genuine gold proposition
North Queensland. Invite enquiries interested Com-
panies view grant working option to purchase. For
full particulars apply BARRY & BARRY, Solicitors,
Proserpine, N.Q.
LET
i ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
W
":3.
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIER.S, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH. HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS —EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St. Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. 8W4931
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-NINTH ORDINARY GENERAL MEET-
ING of Shareholders will be held at the Company’s
Office, 23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, on Tuesday,
19th November, 1946, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance Sheet
to 30th September, 1946.
To elect two Directors. Messrs. Cecil Howe Doyle
and Francis Harmsworth Way retire in. accordance
with the Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
Messrs. R. W. Nelson, Wheeler and Barton, Char-
tered Accountants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer themselves
accordingly.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
E. WHITTLE,
6th November, 1946. Manager.
1 1
DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes of British, American and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
stfVOJC DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian Enterprise — Australian Skill — Australian Achievement
COMPANY MEETING
BROKEN HILL SOUTH
MEETING
/ Chairman's Address
At the 28th ordinary general meeting of Broken Hill South
Ltd., held in Melbourne, Friday, October 25, Sir Alexander
Stewart, chairman, said:
Gentlemen:
It is my privilege to submit on behalf of the
board and management the report and accounts for
the year ended June 30, 1946. These have been cir-
culated to shareholders, and with your concurrence I
propose-to take them as read.
Net profit for the year was £321,433, compared
with £344,488 earned in the preceding period. The
profit for the year comprises £211,970 from the
mining section, and £109,463 , from investments.
Mining section profits, after providing £33,000 for
depreciation but before debiting taxes and royalty,
was £672,370. The taxes and royalty on this profit
total £460,400, equal to 68 p.c. of the profit. The
provision for New South Wales mining royalty at
£61,000 is considerably higher on this occasion, due
to the fact that the increased rates which became
effective as from January 1, 1945, were for the
first time levied on a full year’s profit. This debit
also includes provision for a retrospective royalty
adjustment.
Enhanced metal prices were responsible for a sub-
stantial additional gross revenue, but contrary factors
were lower tonnage and grade of ore produced and
increased mine and smelter costs, so that the surplus
on working account is only £37,769 better than for
the preceding period.
The average price for lead realised was £37/16/8
a toh, compared with £2B/8/1 for the previous
year. Average silver price was also higher at 4/1
an ounce against 2/7 for the preceding year.
Net profit from investment section at £109,463
shows an advance of £28,956 over last year’s profit
of £80,507.
Incidence of Taxation
The following figures are set out with the object of
showing the proportion of profits taken by taxes and
mining royalty over the last three years, as compared
with dividends paid to shareholders from profits of
the same period:—
r —Year Ended June 30 —
1944. 1945. 1946.
Profits before taxing .. £494,132 £732,488 £793,433
Taxes and royalty .. 240,000 388,000 472,000
Paid to shareholders .. 240,000 280,000 280,000
The severity of present taxation will be more
clearly realised when I say that on a substantial por-
tion of our profit the rate of tax is as high as 85 p.c.,
or 17/- in the £l. When the remaining 3/- in the
£1 is distributed as dividends it is again taxed in
the hands of shareholders at their full rates without
rebate. We feel it is high time that the Govern-
ment recognised the seriousness of the effect on in-
dustry of such excessive taxation, and took steps to
afford some considerable amelioration.
Dividends totalling £280,000 were paid during the
year. Of this sum £200,000 was referable to the
profits of the year ended June SO, 1945, and £BO,OOO
to the profits of the year ended June 30, 1946. I
now have pleasure in announcing that the board has
declared a further dividend of 1/3 a share out of the
profits of the last year, payable on December 18.
The total dividends paid and payable from the year’s
profits is therefore £280,000, which is equal to the
total dividends paid from profits of the previous year.
You will be interested to know that the total
number of shareholders in the company now stands
at approximately 7400. This represents an average
holding of 432 shares. There are 6100 shareholders
on the Australian register and 1300 on the London
register.
Working Costs Higher
Working costs (which include ore extraction, mine
development and ore treatment) for the year under
review totalled 59/5 a ton of crude 6re. This is 14/2
a ton higher than the comparable figure for last year.
The rise in costs is due to three main factors: (a)
increase in lead bonus paid to employees consequent
upon higher lead prices; (b) a greatly expanded pro-
gramme of mine development; and (c) contribution
under the Workmen’s Compensation (Broken Hill)
Act of £40,000, to which reference is made in the
directors’ report.
With regard to lead bonus, which cost 9/3 a ton
of ore mined, the total amount paid to employees
this year, over and above their ordinary earnings,
was £135,715, the equivalent of nearly £3 a man
a week, and this has now risen to £4/17/6 a week.
Wages, lead bonus, and war loading allowance, etc.,
amounted in all to £575,375, which is equal to an
average yearly payment of £645 a man for full-time
employment.
Mine development expenditure during the year was
£141,311, as against £53,714 for the previous year.
This increased expenditure is consistent with tine
board’s policy that development work should 6e
pushed ahead to the greatest possible extent.
Following upon reports received from Canada in
regard to the use of aluminium dust for the preven-
tion of silicosis, the Broken Hill Mining Companies
urged the New South Wales Premier to sanction a
visit to Canada and U.S.A. by Dr. W. E. George,
medical officer in charge of the Broken Hill Bureau
of Medical Inspection, in order that he might have
opportunity to become fully conversant with all
phases of this practice, and to form an opinion as to
its possible application to the Broken Hill industry.
The Premier having signified his approvial of the
proposal, Dr. George left Australia in April, and
was away for three months. During his absence he
visited the principal centres in America where alu-
minium therapy is practised in relation to silicosis.
Dr. George’s report has now been made available,
and his recommendations are receiving consideration.
Search for Properties
• The important search for mining properties is re-
ceiving the careful attention of the board. At the
moment there is nothing of a definite nature to add
to what is stated in the directors' report, but share-
holders may rest assured that they will receive early
advice of developments of any consequence. Over
the past 35 years very few new Australian base-
metal mines have been brought into production,
although advances have been made in every branch
of exploration, mining, concentration and smelting.
These developments may bring some ore bodies —
which were formerly abandoned through technical
difficulty or lack of sufficient working margin—into
the category of payable mineral deposits. It is
reasonable to assume that such deposits exist and will'
be found. Our efforts will be directed to the selection
and the securing of the best of these, in order that
a profitable continuity of our mining activities might
be ensured.
Although I am unable to report the development
during the year of any new large ore bodies, share-
holders will have noted with satisfaction from the
directors’ report that after the extraction of approxi-
mately 293,000 tons of ore, the ore reserve is esti-
mated at 1,890,000 tons, which is only 10,000 tons
less than that of 12 months ago. #
With regard to disposal of our output, the optimis-
tic view expressed at the last annual meeting has, I
am pleased to say, proved fully justified up to the
present. The British Government, which still controls
all importations of lead into the United Kingdom,
has been taking the bulk of our exportable surplus of
that metal, but we have been free to sell in other
territories as well, and Australian lead has been
going, though in comparatively small quantities, to'
the Continent of Europe, India, China, South Africa
and New Zealand.
Metal Price Position
Prices outside of Australia have been rising Steeply
since the cessation of hostilities, and there is promise
of a very firm metal market continuing for a
period, for the supply does not appear to be likely
to meet the universal demand for some time
ahead. The price receivable under the contract
with the British Government is fixed periodically, and
this has been advancing under the influence of the
world market for metals, already referred to. The
current Australian export price for lead has recently
varied between £62 and £72 Australian currency,
f.o.b. Port Pirie. The Australian fixed price, how-
ever, still remains at £A22 per ton, the ceiling figure
which was fixed early in 1940.
The Australian output of silver continues to be
absorbed within the country, the Commonwealth
Government still being by far the largest consumer.
The price of this metal rose from 4/7 (A.C.) to 5/9
per fine ounce early in August last, following an
advance of the U.S.A. price from 71 cents to 90
cents. The company’s income from silver in the
current year should, therefore, be substantially above
that of the year under review.
The world demand for zinc is also far greater than
Current production. Our output of zinc concentrate
continues to find a ready market with the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd., and the Imperial
Smelting Corporation, Ltd. Zinc price has risen
sharply during the current year, and is now in the
vicinity of £A6O per ton delivered in the United
Kingdom. The Australian fixed price, however, re-
mains at £22, the ceiling figure fixed early in the
war.
The board desire to place on record their grateful
appreciation of the whole-hearted co-operation and
loyalty of staff throughout the company, not only
during the strenuous years of war, but also at this
critical transition period.
against 9.1, 9.8, 7, 6.6, 8.1, 8.2, 8.2 and
11 p.c. back to 1938.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the back-
ground of things to come:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 64,198 48,659 71,999 89,838
Ship property ‘285,637 238,407 176,000 153,000
Freeholds, plant,
etc 71,985 83,569 94,907 110,156
Investments .. 84,270 92,679 169,624 183,555
Stopks .. 9,248 17,030 18,841 25,237
Cash, debtors,
etc 2,103 6,028 13,641 18,938
Since 1942 activities have been extended
to Pittwater —the direction in which the
metropolis is expected to expand. Here
a ferry service has been established,
Goddards, Palm Beach (now “P.J.”
Stores), bought and branches opened at
Newport and Newport Beach, the Narra-
been Ice Works taken over, and Curra-
wong estate, Little Mackerel Beach, ac-
quired. Over the last four years £26,587
net was added to the book value of free-
holds, etc., of which £15,249 was in
respect of last term. During the same
period £85,407 more was written off than
was spent on ship property. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£139,892) was £9785, despite the
outlay on freehold, etc.
The market expresses its confidence in
the future of the undertaking by pricing
the f.-p. 10s. shares at 21s. 6d. —they
could be had at 14s. 9d. three years back.
At 21s. 6d. the return is 3.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover is 12s.
lOd. in net tangibles.
Placer Development, Ltd.
This big holding co., with headquarters
at Vancouver (Canada), has a capital of
$779,545 to feed, and the scrip is scat-
tered throughout the Dominion, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and London. Its
shareholders are as follows:
Shares Held.
Company and Place of Operation. , - A
Face
No. Value.
New Guinea —
Bulolo (Mandated Territory) . . 150,000 $5
S. America —
Pato Consolidated (Colombia) 1,150,000 $1
Asnazu (Colombia) . . . . 615,000 81
Nechi Consolidated (Colombia) 2,580,000 $1
United States—
American Placer Inc. (U.S.A.) 643,995 $1
Universal Placer Mining Corp.
(U.S.A.) ' 1,500 N.P.V.
Placer Management, Ltd.
(U.S.A.) 19,995 $1
Australia—
Rutherglen Gold Dumps (Vic.) 32,000 £AI
Gold Dumps Pty. (Vic.) . . 60,000 £AI
The large South American gold-dredging
interests, recently strengthened by for-
mation of Nechi Consolidated, are the
chief source of income at the moment,
and look like remaining so for some
time, at any rate.
Cable advice is that profit for the year
to end April last was $477,710 (up
$113,475), equal to 61.2 p.c. on capital.
Div. was 25 cents, same rate as for pre-
vious term. Revaluation of the Canadian
dollar makes 25 cents worth 1.68 d. more
than previously in Australian currency.
Pato was again principal contributor
to the pool. After allowing $443,872
for exchange adjustment on account of
revaluation of the Canadian dollar, but
before providing for depreciation, profit
was $1,290,968. This was derived from
handling of 13,037,000 c.y. of gravel,
worth $4,036,850. Gravel reserves are
put at 304,958,000 c.y., averaging 22
cents a yard. And there is 237,117,000
c.y. of marginal ground expected to
average 9.7 cents a yard, profitable
treatment of which depends upon the
future of operating costs and the world
price of gold. Also,' there is a large
area of potential dredging ground yet
to be tested.
Asnazu treated 5,666,000 c.y., worth
$914,300, for a profit of $198,350. That
was after deducting $31,000 for exchange
adjustment, but before allowing for
depreciation. Here gravel reserves are
56,600,000 c.y., averaging 16.67 cents a
yard.
Bulolo, once a handsome contributor,
is now well along the road to rehabili-
tation ; some 1200 short tons of equip-
ment and supplies had been delivered
at end Sept. last. Reconditioning of the
dredges, reported in good structural con-
dition, awaits the switching on of current
from the 2800-h.p. Upper Baiune hydro-
electric plant, reconstruction of which
is now well advanced. The balance of
equipment needed to complete the Lower
Baiune plant is scheduled to leave U.S.
by the end of this month. Still, no date
for resumption of dredging can yet be
given, owing to the uncertain supply
position in U.S.
American Placer, a wholly - owned
subsidiary, has taken up oil leases in
U.S. totalling 26,000 acres, favorably
situated in relation to recent develop-
ments in Wyoming, Texas, Montana,
California and New Mexico. It is also
substantially interested in Canadian Ex-
ploration, Ltd., another prospecting
concern.
Nechi Consolidated, in which Oroville
Dredging is also interested, was formed
in Canada to take over and work
a large dredging area next door to Pato
on the Nechi River, Colombia (S.
America). Issued capital is $4,000,000
in dollar shares, of which Placer holds
2,580,000 —1,780,000 were taken for cash
and 800,000 f.-ps. for transfer of leases,
etc. To help meet the cash payment
Placer sold 50,000 of its Bulolo shares
and its 7000 shares in Kern County Land
Co., and received $580,000 from Nechi
in payment for property and drilling
exes. Nechi’s developed and indicated
gravel reserves total 216,000,000 c.y., ex-
pected to average 16.5 cents a yard—
about half this total is fully developed.
The property is to be equipped with two
big dredges, yet to be built, which to-
gether will handle 12,000,000 c.y. annu-
ally. Estimated profit, before allowing
for depreciation, is $BOO,OOO p.a., or 16
p.c. on capital. . A royalty of about 5i
p.c. gross value of gold recovered is pay-
able to the owners of the mines.
In Australia buyers offer 975. 3d.
(official high) for Placer’s dollar shares.
In Maoriland, where the sharemarket is
not officially controlled, recent sales were
at £6 16s. 6d., an indication of how far
Australian officialdom is out of step with
reality.
Western Queen, one of several Perth
goldmining cos. which have never given
much of an account of themselves from
the shareholders’ point of view, proposes
to sample an auriferous deposit at
Mulline, North Coolgardie field. To meet
the outlay on this and some development,
if required, shareholders were recently
asked for a final penny a share (= £2411),
making the scrip fully-paid to Is. At end
of May investments with a book value of
£4870 were said to be worth £5130, and
there was £438 in the bank. Paid capital
was £27,323.


Inserted on Behaif
of the Brands of
The United
Distillers Pty. Ltd.
The Distillers Cor-
poration Pty. Ltd.
Federal Distilleries
Pty. Ltd.
AFTER & DAY Of HARD PRESSURE
m
m
mm
m
i-y
■it:
mmmmm
m
%
mm
t/ie ttrin#
Successful men in all walks of life know the value of those
pleasant moments at the close of the day when a small quantity
of whisky helps taut nerves relax.
There are reasons for preferring whisky. First, it aids instead
of taxing the digestion, because its composition is particularly
pure.
Second, the quantity needed for healthful stimulation is small.
Moderate use is wise use . . . and also, it is wise to insist on
an acknowledged quality brand.
The best Australian brands are never less than five years old,
ensuring the wholesomeness of really mellow whisky.
Wll/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
"TWELFTH NIGHT."
Kevin Brennan played Sir Toby
Belch in the Sydney Metropolitan
Theatre’s preview of “Twelfth Night,”
and made a fine job of it —large enough
to fill the part and never missing an
opportunity to extract full flavor from
<jL jest, observation or exclamation. With
a lifelike make-up and thafe indefinable
thing, a stage “presence,” he was just
the kind of Sir Toby Shakspeare him-
self would probably have ordered. He
proved, incidentally, that he is a very
versatile actor —after touching tragic
heights in Othello recently he is now the
essence of robust comedy ; but —and this
is important—not without a certain
rough and bedraggled dignity, an aspect
of Sir Toby’s character brought out in
the clash with Sebastian when, in a
twinkling, all the horseplay vanished
and the alcoholic knight is serious. It’s
a point generally ignored or missed in
productions of “Twelfth Night.”
If Kevin Brennan is a fine actor May
Hollinworth is an equally fine producer,
and the play is up to her usual standards
—well cast, well played and intelligently
presented. Backdrops are plain and effec-
tive against the bright costumes. Miss
Hollinworth might be criticised on her
tendency to pitch everything to a low
key—the costumes are colorful, but the
color does not blaze—and since “Twelfth
Night” is a light and airy play, depend-
ing on its poetry and humor rather than
on any dramatic intensity, the total
effect is somewhat too sombre.
Orsino, being lovelorn, is melancholy,
but his affliction is not serious enough
to necessitate a sombre background. The
melancholy note is partly lessened by his
costume, and David Cahill, with admir-
able diction, gives the character impres-
sive vehemence and manliness. Robin
Lovejoy as Sebastian, and Dinah Shear-
ing as Viola, look sufficiently alike on
the stage to justify the extraordinary mis-
understandings of the play, and both are
competent without being outstanding.
Jean Edward is impressive as the
beautiful and confused Olivia; David
Saxby, as Sir Andrew Aguecheek, accents
that character with a squeaky voice
which must have been a strain to sus-
tain ; Knox Godfrey, the clown, is
capable, but more thoughtful than gay;
and Richard Meikle, as Fabian, shows
possibilities above the demands of that
minor character. Lola Sweeney is good
as Maria.
# * * * *
“The Emperor”
A favorite sneering point of “smart”
critics is that a pianist should have the
unmitigated gall to tackle Beethoven’s
“hackneyed” Fifth Concerto (“The Em-
peror”). Paul Schramm, serenely indiffer-
ent to the effect it might have on his
future, plunged into that work at the
Town Hall in alliance with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra conducted by
Queenslander Clive Douglas. The com-
bination produced a vigorous reading
which kept a nice balance between the
soloist and orchestra; Mr. Schramm’s
technical skill and his mastery of Beet-
hoven were never better exemplified.
In addition, the orchestra played
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony, with its
alternating storms and calms and the
haunting loveliness of its second move-
ment, and Mozart’s “Titus” Overture
and Delius’s “Walk to the Paradise
Garden.”
* * * »
Brahms’s Requiem
This monumental work, which Brahms
commenced as a last funeral rite for his
friend Schumann, arid into which, on the
death of his own mother, he expressly
incorporated the moving fifth part, needs
a thoroughly disciplined choir. It says
much for the patience and musical in-
sight of its conductor, Vivian Peterson,
that the Hurlstone Choral Society which
sang it at Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night gave it its due eloquence.
Soprano Ruth Pearce-Jones, who had
earlier sung a group of Brahms lieder
very capably, and baritone John Probyn
handled the solo parts well. Werner Baer
presided at the organ.
The concert, which was given by
Singers of Australia, also included two
other Brahms works; the Variations on
a theme by Haydn for two pianos, nicely
played by Frank Hutchens and Lindley
Evans, and the Clarinet Sonata in E Flat
Major, played by Clive Amadio.
* * * *
“The Seasons”
The pre-war Mosman Musical Society
had a reputation for first-class amateur
shows, and, if, future productions
can be judged on its first post-war offer-
ing, “The Seasons,” the newly-organised
society intends to maintain that reputation.
Youth, color, song and dance pre-
dominated. Thirty-three lissom ballet
girls, 56 other youthful things who
sang some of the time and looked lovely
all the time, 24 lucky males who kept
them company, a children’s ballet of
14, a crazy male ballet of nine and
several specialty acts provided tiptop
entertainment at the Mosman Town Hall.
The specialty acts included three new
singers in a very novel and pleasing
number, and a gymnastic display, stress-
ing grace rather thart muscle.
Attention to detail in production, ob-
vious enthusiasm on the part of all con-
cerned and the precision, youth and grace
of the ballet made the revue a winner.
Howard Ashton's Paintings.
Howard Ashton, most commonly
known as a painter of Blue Mountains
country, has a representative selection of
his pictures at the Royal Art Society’s
gallery, Sydney, Thirty paintings in
all, among them several which de-
monstrate that the artist can vary
his mood —painting warm tree-patterns
and soft grass more than might
be suspected. But the major style, the
prevailing mood, is of the Blue
Mountains hills, rocks, bold out-
lines, fine detail, skilled attention to
the blendings of tree leaves and earth
pigmentation. Everything well painted
—and hard.
This harshness in the typical—and most
impressive—Ashton paintings is, perhaps,
due in part to the subject-matter. No
matter how faithfully the Three Sisters,
at Katoomba, may be rendered, it is
doubtful whether the unique blue haze,
the vital backdrop to a Blue Mountain
scene, can be painted at all. What can
be done —what Howard Ashton does
very well —is to concentrate on
the detail, the tracery of trees and stone,
and ignore or, at best, hint at the blue ;
or else paint a scene of a time of day
when this vital light is missing.
A large painting of the scene mentioned,
now on show, was previously exhibited at
the Royal Art Society’s exhibition at the
Education Department Galleries. There
it looked altogether too stark and dark,
but the better-lighted Hunter-street
gallery shows it to much greater advan-
tage, bringing out the softer touches of
blue and the beginnings of a rainbow.
But even with the advantages of better
lighting, a fair number of the paintings
are too dark —an accidental kind of dark-
ness, like that of a faulty plate.
At the Talkies.
“The Stranger”
Unless some other major political
disease infects the world Hollywood will
probably continue to find international
villains by uncovering the seeds of
Nazism in all the odd corners of the
globe for the next 20 years. It has not,
incidentally, seemed overanxious to rush
the Canadian spy trials as film material,
although the subject should make an ex-
cellent foundation for a first-rate melo-
drama.
The central character of this current
film at Sydney Plaza is the ex-comman-
dant of a German concentration camp
who went into smoke just before the
arrival of the Allies, set up as a school-
teacher in a small American town,
married the daughter of U.S. Supreme
Court Judge (Loretta Young), and, when
the film opens, is apparently awaiting the
opportunity to propagate his creed again.
The trail that leads to him is laid by an-
other war criminal, permitted to escape
by the Allied tribunal, but with a “kind
of detective” in the person of Edward G.
Robinson on his heels. The escapee is
promptly murdered by his fellow-Nazi
for encroaching on the other’s hideout,
and the bulk of the film is built around
Mr. Robinson’s methodical and relentless
unmasking of the archvillain, and on Miss
Young’s reactions to the various explana-
tions her husband gives her for his in-
creasingly strange behavior.
Orson Welles as the Nazi is his usual
dramatic self —the heavy features, the
loose, quivering underlip, the bulging eyes
and quick, soft rush of reflective speech
are all there and all used with good
effect. Welles also directed the film, and
its brooding atmosphere, its heavy
shadows and the oblique photography
seem to' be part of his work. Miss Young
is direct and capable, particularly in the
closing scenes when her husband’s
identity is slowly forcing itself into her
incredulous mind. Edward G. is as sub-
stantial as ever and does his sleuthing as
obviously and as inevitably as a railway
engine, and leaving almost as much
smoke from his battered pipe.
*** ’ «
“The Little Giant”
These further adventures of Abbott and
Costello (at Sydney Capitol) are milder
than most of their earlier escapades, one
possible reason being Costello’s obvious
attempts to follow in Chaplin’s foot-
steps and make himself as much a
pathetic or sentimental figure as he is
a funny one. In this current show —
Costello’s a country lad who takes a
correspondence course in salesmanship
and hies himself to the city to sell vacuum
cleaners —there is a lingering on shots of
his comical but mainly pathetic figure
trudging home after a rough handling in
the big cities, and on purely sentimental
scenes of him being taken down by his
fellow-salesmen, and of the bursting of
his own self-inflated ego.
Chaplin did well enough, and there
may be something in the idea —films are
mainly directed at sentimental audiences
—but it certainly slows down the usual
boisterous and comical capers of
Costello.
* * *
“Tars and Spars”
The main reflections evoked by this
stretch of songandance at Sydney Victory
are on the degree to which negro rhythms
and dancing have infected American en-
tertainment and those who copy it. Ihe
stage numbers in the film are accompanied
by music as cacophonous as anything
that ever came out of the jungle, and the
dancing is as wild and hysterical as the
prancings of any mob of savages.
The best five minutes of the film are
provided by comedian Sid Caesar, who
displays an amazingly elastic and freakish
vocal equipment in an amusing satire of
Hollywooden melodramas of war in the
air.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds -
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
.must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘‘up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. *
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of -which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BKYBN HOABE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
2TO Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
THAT*
%
W
ii
CHE.
BELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
£ven the most expert and Conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your. sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy * Eewis Armstrong » Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.IA.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
[S
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP i tt.
THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL—SPRINGWOOD.
THE TRUSTEES announce that the above
Hospital for Women only has now been re-
opened for the admission of convalescent'
patients and mothers with' young babies, for
which a separate wing has been provided.
Applications for admission to be made in
the first place on the prescribed form, obtain-
able from the Matron (or Secretary to the
Trustees, Box 1646JJ, G.P.0., Sydney). A
doctor’s certificate stating that the applicant is
free from T.B. or infectious disease is required
with the completed application form.
Fees, £4/4/- per week.
HARINGTON B. COWPER, Secretary.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions *
This latest invention by Dr, L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23H) 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
ANO IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney horses had a royal time of it at
the Melbourne Cup meeting, concluded at
Fiemington on. Saturday. They won the Cup
(Russia), the Derby (Prince Standard), the Oaks
and Wakeful Stakes (Sweet Chime), the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes (Flight), the Yan Yean
Stakes (Immediate) and the Hotham Handicap
(Chaytor), and were still winning right to the
end, Victory Lad landing the Final Handicap.
Cordale was this page’s Cup fancy because
he was a proved two-miler who looked faiily
well in it with 8.12. Weight must bother him
considerably; he finished ninth, and with 9.3
on Saturday could do no better than run fourth
to Oatcake, On Target and Knockarlow in the
14-furlongs V.R.C. Handicap.
The haridicapper—-a gentleman always to be
especially respected when conditions are ideal —
had them right in the Cup, Russia being top-
weight with 9st. and winning it very easily.
A six-year-old horse by Excitement-Lady
March, and the very type of a good hard
stayer, Russia was always in the leading three
or four, drawing right away after they headed
for home, to defeat On Target by five lengths,
with Carey half a head away third. Leonard
was next, then Prince Standard, evidently every
bit as good as his Victoria Derby win sug-
gested, and a shade better than his three-year-
old stablemates Concerto (A.J.C. Derby win-
ner) and Proctor.
Leonard may have been the unlucky Cup
horse. A run on the Saturday beforehand
would probably have turned him out a much
fitter contender, but he was then prevented
from starting by a temporary scalding. There
was some compensation in the Cup run fitting
him for last Saturday’s C. B. Fisher Plate,
in which he led all the way to defeat Attley
and First In, with Flight, not quite the mare
she was, among the also-rans.
It was subsequently reported that Flight,
after another run or two, will later be mated
with Dhoti, and the product should be a prize.
Leonard completed what has become almost
a weekly Dhoti double, Dhotrium having earlier
won the five furlongs Fiemington Stakes for
two-yea'r-olds, with the Valiant Chief filly
Seleria a good second and the Ajax colt Heroic
Lad third. Heroic Lad, a heavily-backed
favorite, races for the owner hither known
as “Lucky” Porter.
Sweet Chime won the Oaks like a topnotch
filly. By Le Grand Due from Korimako, she
took charge about a furlong and a half from
home and stoutly held off a solid challenge by
the Manitoba filly Amelia, the Young Idea
filly Queen of the Fairies taking third money.
Seymour, a Windbag colt, had too fresh a
finish for the evidently-tired Proctor (who’s
had some hard racing) and Tribunal in the
Batman Stakes, and The Feline comfortably
defeated Colebrook and General Cunningham
in the Spring Hurdle.
If they could be thought capable of profiting
by it, those who fell for the Cup boosting of
the Irish gelding Spam should have learnt a
lasting lesson. Owing apparently to nothing else
but that extraordinary boosting, Spam at one
stage even became temporary second favorite
to Cordale. However, that is evidently one
sort of lesson that is never taken, and the
regular profit to the books must be enormous.
Just as remarkable an instance of the effect
of press boost in the face of performances —
Spam’s Irish times were almost unbelievably
slow and his Australian form appalling—has
been the persistent backing of the Le Grand
Due colt Flying Duke, not a bad animal, but
still, with press aid, very good to the books.
Favorite in a race at Randwick, Flying Duke
was beaten five lengths by Prince Standard.
When they met again a couple of weeks later
at Rosehill Flying Duke was again favorite,
and Prince Standard again comfortably
accounted for him. Came the A.J.C. Derby,
with Flying Duke once more favorite, this
time to be beaten by Prince Standard’s stable-
mate Concerto. Then the Victoria Derby,
and, incredible as it may seem, Flying Duke
yet once again favorite, and Prince Standard
the winner of it at 15 to 1!
* * * *
The photo-finish gear has proved worth
while if only because racegoers accept its
verdict without a murmur, but there was an
unsatisfactory incident at Canterbury on Satur-
day. In the Three-year-old Handicap Tact
(B. Robards) was signalled as the winner and
the camera called on to decide the minor
placings. The usual delay with the camera
is a couple of minutes, but some 10 minutes
elapsed before the numbers were run up award-
ing Chanson Gai second place ahead of Catch
On, and the photograph was not publicly
displayed as is the custom. Nor was there
any official explanation over the loudspeakers.
Another, though minor, curiosity of photo-
finishes is the frequent discrepancy between
the official winning margin and the margin
as shown in the photograph. For instance, in
the second division of the Encourage at Can-
terbury, Lithesome (A. Ward) was declared
the winner and the camera was called on to
affirm that Carenot had pipped Penrod for
second place. In the photograph the line
representing the * finishing line and just touch-
ing the tip of Carenot’s nose passed through
the number on Lithesome’s saddle-cloth. It
looked a generous half-length, but the official
margin was a neck.
Apart from excitingly close finishes, the
main features of Saturday’s racing were the
success at long last of Hall Stand, and the
predominance on the day of the Heroic blood.
Including Hall Stand, five of the eight winners
were sired by sons of Heroic—Ajax (2), Hua
(2) and Hall Mark^
Overlooking shattered punters, there would
be enough past owners, trainers and jockeys
“How's that, Doris?”
of Hall Stand to form a fair-sized club. At
present he’s owned by G. J. Turner and trained
by R. L Ferris, and to score his first win
since March, 1945, he was ridden in the Flying
by A. Mulley. Others have tried riding him
from behind, but Mulley bustled him along
all the way. In front at the half-mile, he
increased his lead rounding the turn and cleared
right away at the Leger. Air Flare finished
stoutly, relegating Earl Pentheus to the minor
placing.
Of Heroic’s other descendants, Tact is by
Ajax, as is Sonning, who, with H. Hughes in
the saddle, downed Hi Silva and The Doctor
in the Encourage third division. In a photo-
finish in the first division J. Thompson’s, mount,
Kuvera Hope, who should win better races,
accounted for Rose Glory and the favorite
Bowturn.
Hua was successfully represented by Lithe-
some, and, in the Two-year-old Stakes, by
The Groom, Willie’s Choice and Lone Duke
were placed behind The Groom, who, having
his first start in a race, was ridden by Mulley.
A last-start winner at Newcastle, Piccadilly
Lad was equal favorite for the 11-furlongs
Canterbury Handicap, which he won well. After
beginning slowly, Ward moved him up gradu-
ally till he had the leader, Turn Again, well
covered half a mile from home. Turn Again
tossed it in when they entered the straight,
leaving Piccadilly Ead an open go. The
Emborough gelding Homeleigh Dick finished
on well into second place, but found his 9st.
burden too much against the winner’s Bst.
Deep Sky was third in the field of six. Picca-
dilly Lad is by the imported Piccadilly, who
won several mile-and-a-half races in England.
Another Newcastle winner in Roatom (N.
McGrowdie) was a better result for the books.
Starting at 15 to 1, he beat High Flight and
Deed, who were both well fancied in the Welter.
Though he had filled a host of minor places
and actually had been first past the post only
to lose on a protest on one occasion, Guiding
Light was still a maiden when he went' out
favorite and won the Brisbane Cup on Satur-
day. Maddock had the mount and rode a
fine race to get there by a short neck from
Embrolita, with Wellesley third. Wild Buck,
to whom Guiding Light lost the Queensland
St. Leger on protest, was an also-ran in the
Cup. By Genetout from Providence, both
imported from France, Guiding Light has stay-
ing blood. Genetout won at up to 11-furlongs
in France, and, brought to Australia, w(?n
the Warwick Farm Autumn Cup of a mile
and a half carrying topweight of 9.5.
* * * »
If the Jockey Club stewards’ plans all
materialise, 1947 will be one of England’s nupsf
spectacular racing years. One thing they aim
to take advantage of is the transport of horses
by air; through this they hope to make Eng-
land the centre of international racing. Inter-
national events expected to bring some of the
best from other countries include Ascot’s King
George VI Stakes.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Kindergarten Stakes: Hytest, 1; Nechi, 2;
Nizam’s Ring, 3. Novice: Abokina, 1;
Nigeria, 2; Sun King, 3. Junior Stakes: Deep
Sea, 1; The Groom, 2; Chance Shot, 3.
Horsley Handicap: Gay King, 1; Hall Stand,
2; Earl Pentheus, 3. Three-year-old: Beau
Pebble, 1; Count Cosmo, 2; Dutchman, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Questing, 1; Codicil, 2;
Invictus, 3. Leumeah“Handicap: Kuvera Hope,
1; Fligh Flight, 2; Ophir, 3.
England v. Australian XI:
Not a Test, but between good sides never-
theless, Hammond leading the one and Brad-
man the other, the Melbourne match was
washed out by rain on the first day and on
Saturday was similarly delayed. When they
did get going, Hammond’s openers, Hutton
and Washbrook, had 122 On the board and
another good score looked certain when Queens-
land slow spin bowler McCool started a sud-
den rot, and three wickets were quickly down
for 139. McCool increased his bag to 7 for 106
on Monday; Hammond and Co. all out, 314.
* * * *
To the beginning of this match the M.C.C.
players have a better record than the 1929,
1932 and 1936 teams. In the seven matches
played Hammond’s men have not been de-
feated, having won two by an innings and
one by 244 runs, with the other four drawn.
In these matches the M.C.C. selectors have
tried out all the players, and the only mediocre
performers have been bowlers Bedser and Pol-
lard. Both have played in three games;
Bedser’s figures, 4 for 179; Pollard’s, 5 for 167.
Still, both Larwood in 1932 and Verity in
1936 were no great disturbers in the early
games. All the present batting stars have been
consistent.
Colin McCool played with Paddington in
Sydney grade cricket, then, shifting to Bris-
bane, got into the Queensland XI. Last season,
he scored 520 runs, av. 43.3, and took 29
wicket's, av. 23.5., in inter-state matches. With
the Australian XI in Maoriland his figures were
148 runs, av. 37, and 7 wickets, av. 26.28.
Much in McCool’s favor is that he’s a sure
slip field.
“Long Leg”: The last. Test matches in Aus-
tralia in 1936-37 were the most remarkable in
cricket history. In the second innings of the
first Test at Brisbane Australia fell for 58
runs in 71 min., and England won by 322
runs. In the first innings of the second Test
at Sydney Australia was out for 80 runs in
107 mins., and England won by an innings
and 22 runs. In these innings Bradman,
Fingleton, Badcock and O’Reilly got “ducks”
in ithe first, and Bradman, McCabe and Ward
failed to score in the second. In the other
three Tests Australia won comfortably, Brad-
man scoring 270 in the third Test, 212 in
the fourth, and 169 in the fifth.
* * * ♦
Davis Cup pointers:
Play in the N.S.W. lawn tennis champion-
ships at White City confirmed impressions
formed at the inter-State matches a week earlier.
Bromwich is playing a shade above Pails, and
the pair of them have the singles field to them-
selve§. No remarkably good doubles team
was sighted, but Pails and Bromwich, poten-
tially the best pair, did not play together.
Quist showed some improvement, particularly
in doubles play, but is very patchy—he may
be trying too hard. Brodie is the most im-
proved member of the Cup training squad,
and is certainly a trier. Another improved
player, Colin Long, has been added to the
squad.
Bromwich and Pails met in the singles final
after respectively eliminating Brodie and Quist.
Bromwich dropped the first set 3-6, but then
proceeded to throw everything but his racquet
at Pails. With solid drives of ever-varying
length and accurate lobs and drop-shots, he
took the next three set's 6-3, 6-4, 6-4, to regain
the title. The doubles semi-final Bromwich-
Quist v. Brodie-Long was an unsatisfactory
match, as play was abandoned because of rain
with the score two sets each and one game
played in the final set. Resuming next day
Brodie and Long won the odd set, and on
Monday lost to Pails and Brown in the final.
Among the ladies Mrs. Bolton, who won
the singles, and Mrs. Long, whom she beat,
still predominate; but Joyce Fitch looks the
rising player.
* * * *
In the Victorian professional golf
championship Norman Von Nida and
Eric Cremin tied for first place with
aggregates of 289. Martin Smith finished
third with .295.
* * * *
“Eastlake”: A ripe old custom was
revived at Royal and Ancient St.
Andrews, after being in the discard for
seven war years, when the club’s new
captain, R. H. Wethered, teed up to
“drive himself into office.” A new captain
is expected to drive the first ball, where-
upon the caddies race for it and the one
to retrieve it collects a sovereign—or
used to ;-this year the prize had to be a
quid note.
* * * *
A few weeks back England, for the
first time, met Eire at Dublin in an inter-
national soccer match, the invaders win-
ning by one goal to none. Making the
“international” point clear, the flags of
the Free State and the Union Jack flut-
tered at each end of the ground.
* * * *
Other things being equal, straight-
punching boxers will beat swingers. This
was demonstrated once more when the
Sydney flyweight Jimmy Hogg outpointed
a Chinese, Mok Kai Khoon. Hogg piled
up points with straight lefts that soon
had Khoon’s eyes puffed and his nose
bleeding. Realising that he had no
chance of winning on points, Khoon
threw discretion to the winds and tried
hard for a knockout, but Hogg was
always too fast for him,
Jimmy Fraser (lOst. 3ilb.) outpointed
Wally Burns (lOst. lOilb.) at Sydney
Stadium, but Bums would probably
have won if his left eyebrow hadn’t en-
countered the opposition skull before the
fight was a minute on the way. Fraser
was twice cautioned for again employing
his head as a weapon of attack in round
three. Practically blinded, Burns kept
going to the final bell, but many of his
leads missed, while Fraser’s connected,
and he was well beaten on points.
Tommy Jones (lOst. 4|lb.) beat Joe
Webster (lOst. 2|lb.) to the decision in
the other 12-rpunder.


PARTNERSHIP
ASSURANCE
if you could take into your business
an associate who would not ask for a
voice in the management who would
guarantee to protect you financially
against the death of any member of the
firm who would stand ready to lend
you money in time of need who
would hold a constantly growing fund to
your credit as a reserve would you
embrace the offer?
A.M.P. PARTNERSHIP ASSURANCE
will do this and more
Ask the nearest A.M.P.- office or
representative to work out a plan to suit
your particular needs.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREE TS, SYDNEY.
E R KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, P. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
E. K. BJNUA iwwwma. j, HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
* r rr wtt t.t A Hcmpra! ManafifGV.
Business, Rollery, Ete.
Financial “Control” Not Enough
In the early days of Federal Labor’s
war-time occupation of the Treasury
benches there was a general proclivity in
the Ministry to disregard reaction result-
ing from financial policy in the conduct
of the war. Credit was created without re-
straint, the Federal Budget swelled to
huge dimensions, and money was
scattered wastefully in a great variety of
projects, many of which were to prove
of no value whatsoever to the war effort
or to the nation. There was a notice-
able disregard, in many instances, of the
waste that occurred in wage-earners’
payrolls ; it seemed to be accepted by
“the party” that so long as the money was
flowing to good trade-unionists the finan-
cial strain caused didn’t matter.
With the passing of time the volumin-
ous credit-creation, the excessive pay to
sections of wage-earners, the inadequate
production of goods in relation to the
flow of wages,'the tendency of prices and
living costs to soar, the rise of a rampant
blackmarket and the spread of industrial
indiscipline caused at least Mr. Chifley to
ponder over the credit-expansion policy
which the Government was, pursuing.
The majority of the Ministry gradually
came round to the view that in-
flation was a real danger, in spite
of the nonsensical opinions expressed
by Mr. Lazzarini; in speech and
by advertisement the Federal Labor
Government has been warning, the popu-
lation about the inflation menace for
some - time, more especially when Com-
monwealth loans are being offered for
subscription.
The Government is now determined to
continue what it believes to be its anti-
inflationary controls even to the extent
of passing peace-time legislation to take
over where the National Security Act
leaves off on December 31. It is strongly
opposed to worth-while cuts in taxation,
especially so far as the proprietary side
of industry is concerned; apparently it
feels that as much spending-power as
possible should be siphoned-off from the
people and industry during this period of
excessive money-circulation and inade-
quate industrial production.
But if the main reason behind the
Government’s controls and confiscatory
taxation is anti-inflation and not merely
socialisation, then its inflated budgeting
is a contradiction of its alleged aims.
Certainly the good effects of the bleed-
in § of an economy the money-pressure
of which is far too high are being largely
offset by a central Treasury that con-
tmues to pump into the system a large
annual expenditure that is .having little
or no productive effect. The bleeding is
merely being short-circuited back to the
system ; it does little to reduce unhealthy
pressure. .
Though taxation collections are still
huge, there will be no balanced Federal
Budget in 1946-47. A balanced Budget
“One of my employees sacked me. Do you think I have an inferiority
complex ?”
would indicate that the national economy
was beginning to stand on its own feet —
that employment was being maintained
without giving jobs for the sake of creat-
ing work, that wages were being paid
only for needed production, and that
the national debt was being kept in check,
and possibly reduced. As things stand,
the unbalanced Federal Budget is indica-
tive of very bad management of national
affairs, especially when " the opportuni-
ties that exist for full productive employ-
ment of the nation’s manpower are con-
sidered.
It is becoming clearer every day that
the Government has fallen back on
financial “technique” alone to try to
save it from its obvious difficulties. It
is relying on a deflationary taxation policy
to beat inflation, but its Budget pro-
gramme still adds to inflation; and
its weak industrial attitude continues to
thwart the production of adequate sup-
plies of goods and services, while this
failure also builds up the inflationary
menace. It boils down to this: whilst
the Government carries on with the com-
paratively easy task of collecting heavy
taxes, it shies off the more difficult job
of reducing its Budget expenditure and
getting down to realities on the industrial
front.
Labor and Left-wing financial theorists
for many years have put the cart before
the horse in their beliefs that financial
manipulation is capable by itself of creat-
ing or reducing the national output of
goods and services. Mr, Chifley now
appears to believe that, by financial con-
trol alone, he can reverse the inflationary
policy which Labor at one time believed
would produce goods, in abundance almost
without hard work. In this latter-day
belief he is as mistaken as those people
who think that credit-expansion is the
key to unlimited production.
Finance represents a vital nerve of
present-day living, but it is only, one of
several nerves that need to be pro-
perly co-ordinated in order to make
tire economic body function successfully,
in'addition to financial facilities there are
other factors of the highest importance
in a well-run economy. Among these are
the observance of social and economic
laws, the allowance of adequate produc-
tion incentive (monetary and otherwise),
the conducting of social services in a way
that assets in cases of hardship or old-
age but does not encourage laziness, the
enforcement of industrial discipline, and
the encouragement and assistance of pri-
vniP pntprnHsp
t A/r A/r P -u■ v , iu
I Mr Menz.es, m his policy speech be-
fore the recent elections, promised reduc-
tons of taxation in order to increase pro-
duction incentive, and also indicated tha
he would survey the whole industrial
front in order to further the same objec-
live. He gave the impression that he
was aware that mere reductions m taxa-
tion would be of little value in restoring
production unless they were accompanied
by an attempt to overcome the more diffi-
cult obstacles of industrial indiscipline,
political obstruction and loss of indus-
trial enthusiasm and efficiency. He
seemed to realise that the whole indus-
trial -machine would have to be restored
to harmony, and that this would require
a great deal more administrative skill and
economic leadership than just reducing
tax rates and sitting back and waiting
for benefits to happen. Risks had to be
taken, skill and energy displayed.
In that outlook he was far ahead of
the present Labor Ministry. The facts
are that Australia, in order to extricate
itself from its prevailing serious diffi-
culties, must survey its resources of man-
power and materials, study the most
urgent needs for production and the op-
portunities for such production, go into
the question of giving wage-earners a fair
deal in a way that will not cut their own
throats and those of everyone else, and
then shape financial and industrial
arrangements accordingly. We must first
of all realise that, for the moment any-
way, we are living in no Golden Age,
however attractive prospects may be if the
people pull confidently together. So
long as the shaping of Budgets and
central-bank policy has a political and
responsibility-shirking basis so long will
the country continue to drift towards
social confusion and industrial chaos.
National Oil Pty., Glen Davis (N.S.W.)
incurred a loss of £342,055 in the year to
December 31, 1945, making total operat-
ing losses over four years £1,205,947. At
the end of 1945 the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment had £2,905,817 in the concern,
the N. S. Wales Government £166,000,
and private shareholders (including
George Davis) £325,000. Petrol was first
produced in 1940, but no substantial
sales were made until 1941. Original
aim was to turn out 10,000,000 gallons
a year, but last year only 1,887,391 gallons
was produced, compared with 997,304
in 1944 and 1,748,114 in 1943. In 1945
the yield of crude oil per ton of shale
was 45 gallons, against assays of 70
gallons. Plant to improve extraction has
been brought into operation during 1946,
and a permanent water-supply from the
Fish River is now assured. The retorts
are now handling the shale much more
efficiently—the rate of mining may fall
behind the rate of treatment —but it
looks as though the enterprise will re-
main a subsidy baby.
♦
In the N. S. Wales Land Valuation
Court a fortnight ago Judge Roper gave a
decision which has caused official circles
to reconsider their attitude, towards
“pegged” land prices. The land involved
in the case was appraised by the Valuer-
General at £5OO, and by the Real Estate
Institute at £l6BO. The Housing Com-
mission offered £750. Roper, J., fixed
valuation and compensation at £l6OO,
pointing out that the National Security
Regulations do not peg land values at
those prevailing on February 10, 1942,
the value at that date merely being one
of the factors to be considered in arriving
at present prices. Opening the Federal
Parliament last week, the Duke of
Gloucester said that one control which
the Government would continue to exer-
cise was that over land sales. The High
Court, by a majority decision, has re-
cently held the pegging of land values
to be valid within the terms of the
National Security Act. When this legis-
lation expires on Dec 31 it will be re-
placed by peace-time enactments continu-
ing many of the existing controls for a
period, some by agreement with the State
Governments.
* * * *
Dealings take .place in Bank of N. S.
Wales shares fairly frequently at the ceil-
ing price of £34 15s. At this figure the
buyer pays nothing for goodwill, and gets
the benefit of the bank’s inner reserves
for nothing; disclosed net tangible assets
per share equal the market price, and the
value of the bank’s premises should be
far above book values. Whatever hap-
pens to the banks as banks under a
Labor Government, the High Court has
made it clear that any confiscation of
property by the Federal Government must
be made at a just price. At present, on
a p.c. div. basis, the investor in ’Wales
shares obtains a yield of £3 15s. per cent.
* * * *
Amoyg the controls to be continued by
new legislation, taking the place of the
National Security Act will be those over
prices, interest rates and land values.
“Other economic factors” are to be regu-
lated also “so far as is necessary to pre-
serve the economic balance and an equit-
able sharing of scarce commodities.” An
item on the Federal legislative pro-
gramme early next year is to be a bill to
reciprocate with Great Britain in the eli-
mination of double-taxation in many
types of business transactions in which
there is at present overlapping tax
authority.


&hhHI
\ rnr t^st
. . . and now you can invest
your savings securely!
The discharged Servicemen and Servicewomen seeking sound invest-
ment for their deferred pay or their savings can, advantageously,
find a safe, secure investment in
Even if you invest as little as £2O, you secure an interest in 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, and receive the income twice yearly.
“Spreading” your savings in an investment of this type ensures
security—while you earn from your chosen occupation!
Moreover, Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., are the Custodian
Trustees of the Securities backing your investment.
Write for free explanatory booklet No. 2BL now to . .
- uvviviwi W IU • . ,
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
AND SELECTED SECURITIES UNIT TRUST,
Tel.: B 5294. 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY G.P.O. BOX 4028.
CTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
Managers for
gdf
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
las all the finest features of high-priced
mported machines at only a traction of
iheir cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
DETAILS AND PRICES cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
ON APPLICATION. Plans, Music, etc.
Butlt entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
' ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE --
MANSEASB
the perfect comfort mala
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
:ah men’s-wear shop a
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.9.W.
POST-WAR
MODELS
NOW
AVAILABLE
to
m
/
&
/
1
y
Wi
r>4
&
c
To appreciate fully the value of a refrigerator, range, washing machine or
any similar piece of kitchen equipment, you must know what is in the hidden
places. For it is there, below the surface, that basic quality lies.
Where Comrol Sheet Steel is used there is no better assurance of high
quality. Comrol Enamelling Sheets give a perfect porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances. That is why the most reliable and trustworthy
appliances are constructed of Comrol Steel Sheets.
STEEL SHEETS
R Y
9
9
FOR
I N
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
Head Office and Works Port Kembla, N.S.W.
dus r
PTY. LTD.
4PMCO MUST.) PTY. LTD. GFNPRM SALES AGENTS •
Opinion on Depression
The Bank of International Settlements,
in its latest annual report, offers the
opinion that fears of a post-war depres-
sion based on “what happened last time”
may not be substantially founded. It
points out a number of factors which
lead it to hope that good world business
Conditions will operate until 1950 at least,
subject to international political develop-
ments and to Governments not accept-
ing too lightly “plans” (which may not
be practical or well-administered) for the
maintenance of employment. Favorable
features pointed out by the bank include
the restraint in price-rises achieved by
most major countries during the past
war, and the comparatively small
amount of private-business indebtedness
—farmers’ debts at present are generally
low, and the position of land products
at the moment is suggestive of short-
age rather than overproduction. The
bank thinks that the depression of the
1930’s was partly due to a downward
trend of the business cycle being coupled
with an agricultural depression, aggrava-
tion of the position coming from a
general inability to make cash payment
domestically or internationally. The re-
port mentions the smaller amount of
speculation that has been a feature of
the past few years (especially in com-
modity and land values).
In The Bulletin’s opinion the
greatest danger confronting individual
communities now is their reluctance
to work industriously when faced
with the prospect of full employ-
ment for several years. There is too
much preoccupation with paper-money
“prosperity.” It is true that, in the
light of what excessive speculation
and debt-creation in the 1914-18 period
did to most economies, much has been
achieved among Allied countries in the
way of curbing price-inflation and inter-
national indebtedness (with the exception
of the U.S. loan to Britain after lend-
lease terminated); but credit-inflation
has been by no means avoided, and the
“controls” which have prevented credit-
inflation from turning into out-and-out
price-inflation are also restraints upon
production—and it is upon production
that we live. There is a great demand
for production and investment all over
the world, and that suggests prosperity as
we knew it prior to the latest war. But
unless we avoid the production depres-
sion that seems to be confronting us —
a new type of problem—then we seem to
be falling backwards into trouble not
previously allowed for. In such a case
price-inflation would come upon us re-
gardless of preventive measures.
The wage-earner has been given an
opportunity, through price- and similar
controls, to do his part in saving de-
mocracy from another post-war depres-
sion. Unless he realises his responsibility
to produce adequately, all official efforts
to prevent economic disintegration will
have failed. There are factions opposed
to democracy which want to see such a
failure.
Bradford Cotton is a concern of strong
earning-capacity at present cramped by
coal- and labor-shortage. The co.’s Vic-
torian factories have been affected par-
ticularly by lack of coal, and steam plants
there are being redesigned to burn brown
coal. Scarcity of hands is a condition
from which nearly all urban textile fac-
tories suffer at the present time; but
the recent falling-off in additions to sav-
ings-bank deposits may be a sign of re-
turning dependence on wages for many
people. Costs of production have risen
in Bradford Cotton’s case, but price-
control has not allowed the co, much
room to manoeuvre in combating this
difficulty. The co.’s shares, in demand at
the ceiling of 51s. 9d., have carried a
10 p.c. div. right through the war. There
are good prospects ahead of this concern
as soon as equilibrium returns to our
economy. It is the foremost cotton co.
in the Commonwealth.
• * • *
First U.S. objection to British overseas
trading activity since the granting of the
dollar loan has been reported from Wash-
ington. The United Kingdom’s agreement
with the Argentine is said to restrict the
Republic’s discretion in spending blocked
sterling balances, and this has been taken
in the U.S. to amount to a breach of
promises given. Incidentally, the agree-
ment with the Argentine provides for
meat prices 50 p.c. higher than those paid
by Britain in 1939.
* * * $
Maoriland’s three officially-licensed
tyre-manufacturing companies have a
long uphill climb ahead before they reach
the production stage ; but already there’s
keen rivalry to be first in the field as
factory construction gets under way.
Reid New Zealand Rubber Mills, the
Auckland concern, in October announced
an issue of 300,000 £1 shares at a
premium of 3s. 4d. each. Of these
100,000 go to the B. F. Goodrich
Co. of U.S.A., planners of the factory,
and 20,000 to the proposed distributors
of the tyres. Dunlop New Zealand, Ltd.,
the Wellington enterprise, in August
issued 800,000 £1 shares, 300,000 of them
ordinaries and 500,000 4\ p.c. preferences,
and had a colossal task in dealing with
applications Tor 3,846,176 shares, ration-
ing the issue and returning over three-
quarters of the application money to
13,402 applicants. The third concern.
Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co. of N.Z.,
which will operate in Christchurch, so
far has been the quietest. As investors
put up hundreds of thousands of pounds
they’re still left guessing whether any
conditions attach to the manufacturing
licences issued by the Government. Are
the companies to be zoned, restricted to
the making of certain sizes, or free to
compete straightout, subject to any
arrangement they are able to make among
themselves?
* 4= * *
The National City Bank of New York,
pointing out the vast change that has
taken place in U.S. Government econo-
mics since the beginning of World War
11, quotes the following figures:
Expenditures of the Federal Government.
(Fiscal years ending June 30.)
Million,
Three years of U.S. participation in
First World War, 1917-19 .. .. $33,190
Ten years of general prosperity, 1921-30 33,810
Five years of large spending, 1935-39 .. 39,799
Projected total for the single peace-time ,
year, 1947 41,500
The U.S. national debt grew from $40,440
million at June 30, 1939, to approximately
$275,000 million at the close of the
financial year on June 30 last. Interest on
the public debt has risen from $941 mil-
lion to around $5OOO million in the same
period. It might be mentioned that in
1944-45 alone the U.S. spent $90,000
million on defence, and added nearly
$54,000 million to the national debt.


ABORIGINALITIES
"THE BULLETIN" STAIRS.
“Blime”: Ted, from the turn-off, rode
into the camp of Pete and Dogger Charlie,
waving a letter. “Know anybody up this
way name o 5 Humphries?” he asked as
Pete appeared—“C. J. Humphries?”
Pete thought for a minute. “No,” he an-
swered presently. “There’s only the
Wallers, over on Scrubby, an’ ol’ Skitch,
prospectin’ up Starvation, that’s all.”
“Well, the mail bloke said ’e ain’t on the
other side, so he’d prob’ly be out here,”
persisted the letter-bearer. “He ain’t,
then,” declared Pete stoutly. “Me’n
Dogger’s been doin’ this gully for more
’n two years now, so *we oughter know.
Eh, Dogger?” he queried, as a grey-
whiskered cove came from the hut.
“Ain’t seen no gent with a C. J. Hum-
phries tag knockin’ round, have y’?”
The old bloke shook his head lazily.
“Ain’t seen no one,” he drawled, “though
it seems like I’ve ’card the name some
time. Did y’ try round town?” “Tried
everywhere,” grunted Ted, shoving the
letter back into a pocket, “but nobody
knows ’im.” “C. J. Humphries,” repeated
Dogger thoughtfully, “Seems like . . .
hey, wait on, Ted . . . yair, Charlie Hum-
phries . . . cripes, that’s right, it . . . it’ll
be me!"
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were circulating
around Pakenham (Vic.) one Saturday
afternoon when a hefty apple-packer from
up in the hills began picking on the Big
Fellow. Mat stood it for a while, then he
stood back and said, “Hey, if you wanta
piece o’ me hop over here in the paddock”
(a vacant allotment). The trouble-seeker
and most of the unoccupied population
moved across, and I walked with
Mat, observing that he was taking
his time. A rough ring was formed, and
Mat’s opponent made to remove his coat.
“Hey,” said Mat, “don’t y’ know nothin’
about first-aid?” “First-aid? What”-- —
“Yair, first-aid. For shock y’ gotter keep
the patient warm.” The antagonist
looked blank. “You’ll need your coat,”
Mat said gently, “ ’cos y’re gqin’t’ get a
shock.” There was some laughter, which
riled the apple-packer. He tore off coat
and shirt and rushed wildly .at Mat, arms
flailing. Mat side-stepped inside the rush
and cut the angry cove down with a right
hook. “Cripes,” remarked one of the
crowd, admiringly, as others bent over
the fallen, “you never even undone your
own coat.” “No,” answered Mat,
frankly surprised. “Why, I wasn’t goin’t’
get any shock.”
**. * ♦
“Zake” : The battler said he wouldn’t
mind taking on a bit of fencing. “Jordan’s
got some he wants doing,” said the cocky
whom the battler approached. “And it’s
in good ground, too —not too hard.”
The battler drifted off, saying he’d “pros-
pect it.” A week later the cocky hap-
pened to be oyer at Wilson’s to borrow
a set of harrows when he saw the battler
on the boundary line sweating as he
socked in to the post-holing, which was ;
in iron-hard ground. “Why didn’t y’
take the job on at Jordan’s? The going’s
much easier over there,” the cocky said.
The battler looked up and pointed to
some trees near by. “Wild bees,” he
said. “I’d have either had to buy cocky’s
joy for me damper or had to walk oyer
here for honey if I’d ’a’ took on the job
at Jordan’s. There’s not a bees’ nest
anywhere near his joint.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Car-sickness is not uncom-
mon on the winding, 70-mile drive from
the railhead to Vic.’s “City of the Alps,”
and when the passenger in the back-seat
stopped gushing at the scenery and grew
ominously silent, the bus-driver recog-
nised the signs. At each stop she became
more reluctant to re-enter the vehicle,
and before the trip was half-over was
reduced to a moaning heap in the corner.
Interest was. gone, and she answered no
one. Their destination reached, the
other passengers alighted, and with his
deliveries finished the driver turned to
the lone figure. “Now, lady, where will
I take you?” he inquired. “O-oh, t-to the
hospital,” came the desperate wail. The
driver grinned. “Come on, it’s not as
bad as that,” he cheered her. “Got any
friends round here?” “N-no. Take
“Sorry I cant buy you another horse , but I can give you a packet of fags."
me to the hospital.” A one-sided argu-
ment ensued for several minutes, then
the driver stubbornly pulled out the
makings. His smoke finished, he looked
perplexedly up and down the road, and,
with a sigh, returned to the attack. “Now,
see here,” he pointed out, “we can’t park
in the street all night. You’ll be all right
after a sleep. S’pose I drop you at the
pub? Our hospital’s full up, anyway.”
There was a weak movement from the
passenger. “Full up?” came the voice.
“Yes, I know ; but they’re expecting me.
I’m the new matron.”
* * * *.
“Betcha”: Though a bad nag. is a
tougher proposition to sit than a bad
steer or bullock, I’ve seen reputedly first-
class horsebreakers skittled at the second
buck by a bullock that most local cow-
hands could ride out without much
trouble. The catch in steer-riding is the
looseness of the animal’s hide, for as
one rider put it, “the damn’ thing don’t
fit him!” The buck itself is not so bad,
but as the animal twists sideways, and
wriggles frenziedly, the unskilled rider
finds himself a bit nearer the tail with
every buck. Practice does it. From the
chap who pins himself on with a strong
pair of rowels twisted between the ribs
to the one who “rides honest,” a beast will
teach him more in a couple of minutes
than an old hand could explain in an
hour of instruction. As with a nag, There
is the odd bad beast that turns on his
rider after he has shed him, and recently
I witnessed a rage-maddened animal,
after failing to dislodge his tormentor,
fling himself down in a desperate attempt
to roll the bloke Off. A quick sidestep
averted broken bones.
« * » *
“Colonial Cove”: Apparently the job
of acclimatising the bee in this country
was almost as difficult as that of accli-
matising the rabbit. Bees were brought
to W.A. (now a paradise for Apis) as
early as 1830, the first hive arriving on
the brig Tranby, included among the
effects of George F. Johnston, surveyor.
But apparently these all perished, as did
others that followed, so that in 1839 we
find Governor John Hutt offering a bonus
of £5 for the successful introduction of
a hive, success to be proved by the hive
producing at least one swarm. Eventu-
ally this bonus was collected by the
Governor himself through his successful
tending of a hive shipped to him as a gift
by the then Governor of Tasmania, where
the bee apparently had been acclimatised
and was-flourishing. But who first intro-
duced Apis into Australia?
* * *
“Frank Mauri”: Camped in a village
near Finschhafen before the war I was
entertained by a conch-shell band staged
by the. local mission-teacher. The players
used shells of various sizes and pitch, a
shell to each member. Hymns and sacred
songs were rendered as by bellringers, the
teacher conducting. I was told that
hundreds of shells were tested before a
two-octave scale was secured. The native
boys, all very young, played to written
music that I could not read: it was a
system invented for them by a Lutheran
missionary.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Was toiling on a cattle-run out
from Banana (Q.) when there arrived for
a visit a young male relative of the boss’s
from Ireland. The youth was all eyes
and ears when we talked about kangaroo-
hunting, and we gave him the usual
warning about not getting too close to a
bailed-up ’roo if he wanted to keep his
stomach intact. He appeared to be
slightly scornful of the idea that a grass-
eating animal would put up a serious
fight. Well, we went looking for ’roos,
and the boss put a bullet into one and
wounded it sufficiently to slow it down.
Irish took after that ’roo like a human
staghound and brought it down with a
fine tackle, Whereupon the ’roo turned
upon him and, had we not arrived and
outed it, would have torn its captor about.
“What was y’ tryin’ t’ do?” snorted the
boss. “Sure, I was after ketchin’ the
beggar alive and tellin’ them about it at
home an’ all,” replied the bedraggled
hunter. The boss snorted again. “Well,”
he said, “you can tell ’em how the thing
ketched you alive.” Then he took his
relative away for repairs.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A handsome pair of visitors
have returned once more from their far-
northern winter haunts to spend the
summer in this particular part of coastal
S.Q. They are Koels, Cooee-birds in
local parlance, Eudynamys orientalis in
scientific slang. The male bird’s swift and
graceful body is attired in a long-tailed
coat of glossy blue-black hue, and alert
bright-red eyes light up his face. Except
for a small black toque she chooses
brighter colors, and with admirable taste,
the scheme centring round a fine stom-
acher of cross-barred patterned buff. An
affectionate and attentive husband, he
nudges her lovingly as they sit together
on a branch and she sidles closer to him.
Would that their voices matched their
attractive garb and pretty courting. His
sharply reiterated coo-ees are bad enough;
but when she replies with her harsh whirr-
ings resembling a badly-adjusted self-
starter the very air shudders to it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: On the third night after
shearing began Bailey, one of the pressers,
made a close search of his garments, the
hut, the woolshed and the spaces between
and came to the shocked conclusion that
£2 in notes had somehow fallen from his
pocket and got sewn up in a bale. He
went to the boss to suggest that the 20-
odd bales be opened and searched. The
boss nearly hit the roof. “What! Open
up and scatter 20 bales to look for a
couplet quid? Why, man alive, it’d cost
a tenner to do it an’ even then you
mightn’t find it. Don’t be. silly.” Bailey
pulled a Jong face and rebelliously mur-
mured something about having intended
to send the money to his missus. “Oh,
well,” sighed the boss, and handed Bailey
a couple of notes. Five weeks later, on the
night of the cut-out, with the shearers
departed and us cleaning up the last of
the pickings, the boss came in. “Any-
body seen me hat?” We knew that hat.
It had long since lost both its inside and
outside bands, its shape, its original color
and its ability to shed rain. Nevertheless,
when all search proved vain, we station-
hands were ordered to begin opening that
day’s bales. We found the thing in the
fourth one, and the boss bore it off as
pleased as a kid who finds a long-lost and
cherished toy. “If it had been a gold-
watch an’ chain,” he said, shyly, “I could
ha’ got the woolstore t’ watch for it. But
a man could hardly ask ’em t’ look for his
old hat.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Fishing-boafl
mail services to offshore islands (B.
16/10/’46) may seem a daring novelty in
effete and chilly Victoria, but in the
heartening tropics my fine old friend
Wotta Woppa discarded such archaic
methods more than half a century ago.
His paramount chieftainship of the Da-
mnl-iah country included several islands,
each of which enjoyed a daily two-way
airmail service carried by pelicans in the
capacious bags with which Nature has
endowed those intelligent birds. After
thrusting a fish down the appropriate
gullet, the dispatching officer would place
the mail in the pouch, tie up the beak
with a bit of sinnet to prevent any tempta-
tion to fish on the way, give the order to
depart, “Ge terbla zesy ercow” in the Da-
mnl-iah dialect, and off the message would
go. At the receiving end the process
would be repeated with the return freight.
Experimental trial of pack-dugongs for
parcels had proved unsuccessful on
account of their gastronomic attractive-
ness in times of meat shortage, human or
other. Not even a Da-mnl-iah would eat
a pelican.
* $ * *
“8.A.”: The quickly- and easily-made
twisted greenhide rope is not as strong as
the plaited article, nor is it more pliable
(B. 30/10/’46). The plaited rope, due to
its construction, is of uniform strength
throughout, while that of the twisted
strand varies to a considerable degree.
Regularly greased or oiled plaited green-
hide is quite as pliable as the twisted
article. The greenhide lazo has been
used by the Argentine gaucho and the
Chilian guaso since the Conquest, and he
would laugh as loudly at a twisted rope as
“Atlanta’s” friends do at the Hollywood
contraptions. In addition to his lazo, the
outback South American makes his bridle,
headstall, cinchas, knee-hobbles, pack-
ropes, traces, plough-lines and everything
he needs in the way of ropes from plaited
greenhide.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Recent press attempts
to explain that lawyer-cane, most vicious
and bloodthirsty of all scrub entangle-
ments, should really be termed “Loya”
from an alleged abo name for the curse
rouse dark suspicions that it is an or-
ganised scheme of self-exoneration by the
profession concerned. Compare the ex-
periences of any innocent stranger
wandering through cane-scrub with those
of one entering the subtle toils of a good
cross-examining barrister. Those graceful
threads are indistinguishable against the
shadowy background. So are his mild
opening questions. Gently as feathers
they make insinuating contact with the
victim’s skin, yielding as he presses on
toward his objective, quietly but surely
making good their grip. Just as he de-
cides to brush them aside the threads be-
come living strands of hook-armed steel
anchored in his flesh, ripping and tearing
until the blood wells out and making him
smart with pain. Then does the legal
torturer glance significantly at the jury
as the victim writhes. No, they can’t
bluff me that the cove who first gave the
diabolical stuff its proper present name
hadn’t been in the box himself and re-
tained acute memories of the experience.
* * * *
“Kasl”; “One o’ the kids at a farm
I was workin’ on,” remarked Ernie,
“chucked a gibber at a champeen White
Leghorn pullet that had taken several
champeenships, and one of her legs was
broke in two places. The cocky was
goin’ to whip her head off, but I told him
to hold his horses for a bit. Y’ see Id
bin readin’ a book on First Aid, so I
makes a pair o’ splints out of an old
cigar-box an’ sets the leg. Do y’ know,
inside of a fortnight she was running
around lively as ever, without even a
limp to show the . leg had ever been
broken? But a few days later the bird
seemed to be growing thinner, and al-
though she had the run of an acre pad-
dock to herself she just pined away and
died. I found out in the post-mortem
what’d happened: I’d set the bird’s leg
back to front, and every bit o’ tucker she
scratched up with her sound foot she
was covering up again with the other.
Yair, she’d starved herself to death,”
“THE BULLETIN” STAIRS.
The Mecca of Bohemian men
Was Archibald’s untidy den.
Firm-footed near the portals there
Uprose, as now, a spacious stair
That carried nearer to the sky
Their inky hopes in days forebye.
This ladder to Parnassus, they
Expectant climbed —as still one may.
Oft-times upon its steps appeared
The wiry brush of Daley’s beard,
Or Henry Lawson’s drooped moustache
Would upward glide and downward dash.
Betimes —a gem his pocket in—
Meandered upward Roderic Quinn,
Or Bayldon bore a sonnet new.
Or Broomfield occupied the view
Insistent, in a manner vain,
On making.passes with his cane.
These might encounter on the way
The “Banjo” glum, or Hugh McCrae
Or Souter with a leering cat
Or Bedford in a Queensland hat;
And other penmen debonair
Familiar with that famous stair.
The Red Tressed Maiden, all aglow,
And Clancy of the Overflow
And Dad and Dave, in company
With Ginger Mick and Jock Mac Fee,
From time to time, in singles, pairs,
By band or post went up those stairs!
Awaiting by McMahon’s door
For silver, little, less, or more,
Met jesting genius to abuse
The landlords and the lending Jews.
Anon with cash in hand such drear
Considerations —drowned in beer —
Would pass as pass the clouds of morn;
And from their ready wits, reborn
As from a fount in Arcady,
Would flow fair dreams of Dtjys-to-Be
When, in this Southland, shore to shore,
Art was enthroned for evermore.
That noble vision yet I hold
More precious is than all the gold
That men have dug from southern earth.
In loyal hearts it had its birth;
In loyal minds it will become
A trumpet-note, a calling drum
To lead this nation onward, and
To glorify and grace the land.
And though that Fellowship may ne’er,
As then it was, re-climb the Stair
Its voices echo down the years—
The voices of the pioneers!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Bo”: As an example of the cussed-
ness of mankind I instance Sofala Sam,
a short, slight, scrubby man who lived in
a one-roomed galvanised-iron humpy,
and, when he felt the urge, would scratch
in the earth for the elusive yellow metal.
But this toil was merely incidental to his
chief aim in life, which was creating
things in miniature. When not dollying
down at the creek or sleeping he would be
working intricate patterns of small native
flowers on a beef-bone with a tiny file,
or seeing how many infinitesimal insects
he could carve with the small blade of
his penknife on a piece of wood. After
18 months of patient, concentrated effort
that sent him half-blind, he had
succeeded in writing the Lord’s Prayer
on the flat edge of a penny. Perhaps it
seemed fitting that such a pocket-edition
of a man should have as an obsession
the working of things in Lilliputian
design. Then, coming along the
creek one day, I struck him for the
first time in his role of prospector. He
was dollying with an enormous pan
under the weight of which, full from
the contents of his outsize in buckets, he
was staggering on the creek’s edge, I
asked him then didn’t he think the pan
was a bit big for him to handle. Sam
dropped the pan and gradually resumed
the vertical with an agonised effort.
“Wot’d be the good o’ muckin’ round
with a small thing?” he demanded in
.reply, “it’d never git a man anywhere!”
♦ * *
“Screwball”: “Gravelsnatcher s” con-
clusion (B. 16/10/’46) that Nature is
working to flatten the earth completely
and so put evolution into reverse—with
such dreary consequences—is unsound.
“His mum wants him to go a message !”
Only once in geological history did such
a depressing end seem possible—that was
in the Cretaceous period, long before
man’s forefathers fled from Neptune’s
kingdom. Since then the antics of Homo
sapiens have so delighted Mother Nature
that she has developed a foolproof
arrangement whereby he cannot lose his
foothold on terra firma through denuda-
tion. The earth has but a thin solid crust
floating on molten rock; the transfer of
the weight of the mountains to the sea-
bottom upsets the delicate equilibrium—
crumbling starts and up pops more land.
Even Australia, a most stable land mass
subjected to erosion for enormous periods,
has warped and jumped from time to
time. It was once suggested that our
own early ancestors, when chipping their
flints in Europe, might have watched the
Alps growing. However, lest “G.” should
now feel too optimistic in his eroding
green valley, he might like to consider a
much shorter-range but equally depres-
sing possibility. His own ashes may one
day nourish a succulent herb which
could be eventually swallowed by a bul-
lock, the rich steaks from which might
so stimulate some scientist’s brain that
he might set to and devise a super-atomic
bomb, guaranteed to thwart all Mother
Nature’s schemes to obtain continuous
entertainment from man.
* * * *
“Atlanta”: A fisherman walking along
the banks above a deep hole in the
Balonne below St. George (s.-w. Q.)
happened to glance at a big river-gum
log which had fallen at right-angles into
the water and lay part-submerged, with
the butt-end still buried in the bank.
Apparently his passing disturbed an old-
man cod, for the green-speckled monster
shot from the log through clear water and
disappeared into the weed-darkened
depths. Investigation revealed that where
it lay shallowly in the water the log was
hollow, and had provided shelter for the
fish. Next day, advancing cautiously and
silently along the log through knee-deep
water, the fisherman lowered a wire-net-
ting drum-net with funnel-shaped open-
ing until it fitted over the submerged end
of the log. Then, as he thumped with
bare feet on the log, the 40-pounder shot
forth —straight into the net.
♦ * - * *
“Lub”: Jud was preparing for a trip
to the town 30 miles away, and gave in-
structions for Alec to load a couple of
bags of maize in the back of the car.
“But y’ told me y’ wasn’t sellin’ any of it,”
complained Alec. “Never said I wanted
it t’ sell” Jud retorted. “Gripes, y’ know
the bus broke down a couple o’ times on
the last trip. An’ me not knowin’ the
workin’s of it, I jist had t’ sit there till
some joker came along an’ fixed it. Well,
I ain’t goin’t’ be caught wastin’, time at
the side o’ the road t’day; if I git hung
up I c’n go on shellin’ the cobs till some-
one comes along.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An ardent collector
of curiosities, I have often been at some
pains and considerable expense to acquire
the oddities so convincingly portrayed by
the excellent Mr. Ripley ; and so success-
ful have I been in my quests that I am in
a position to offer to exchange two
feathered frogs or a share in an honest
politician for some of “Goldie’s” “fairly
stable” nitro-glycerine (B. 16/10/’46), I’ve
never encountered the stuff in its raw
state, a cautious Government having
ordained that before sale it must be
rendered comparatively safe by being in-
corporated in a porous earth—hence
gelignite. I could obtain some by steep-
ing a few sticks of “jelly” in warm water
and scooping the oily substance off the
top—with a wooden spoon for safety—
but my curiosity has never impelled me
to go to all that trouble to acquire some-
thing which would be of no earthly use
to me and the disposal of which might
embarrass me—a sharp glance might
detonate it. Some idea of its touchiness
may be gauged from the fact that in cold
conditions gelignite must be handled care-
fully, the frozen particles of nitro-
glycerine, rubbing together, constituting a
very real danger of detonation. Yet,
ordinarily, gelignite—not to be confused
with nitro-glycerine, its chief constituent
—is fairly stable. I’ve seen a case of it
“It says ‘Save this coupon .’”
shattered by a bullet with no other effect.
Yet if a few sticks are placed firmly
against a solid background impact from a
bullet will detonate them every time.
* V - * *
“Frank Mauri”: A district officer in
pre-war New Guinea persisted in reading
the laws letter for letter. A boss-boy,
renewing his contract for the umpteenth
time, requested a leather suitcase of his
employer as a change from the prescribed
wooden trade-box issue. At signing-on
the d.o. demurred. “The ordinance dis-
tinctly states that a native shall be issued
with a trade-box not less than 22 inches
long, 12 inches wide and nine inches
deep.” He refused to sign the boy on.
Back at the plantation the employer
handed a diagram to his carpenter.
“Make a trade-box to those measure-
ments,” he ordered. A week later a team
of boys staggered to the district office
with what would have made a good
garage. The grinning boss-boy took up
his position in front. “What the hell?”
gasped the d.o. “That’s a trade-box,”
said the planter. “And it’s according to
the ordinance: not less than 2£ inches
long, 12 inches wide and nine inches deep.
Is it? Well, sign the boy on.” And
the d.o. did.
* * * *
“Fancar”; “Hanko’s”par (B. 16/10/’46)
shows true appreciation of the Australian
bindweed and its exquisite little shell-pink
flowers that make beautiful many a drab
patch of roadside and farm head-
land throughout hot summers. Like its
associate, the bluebell, it has never been
a pest, and both are about the only lovely
low-growing wildlings to have stood out
against overstocking, close-settlement and
rampant imported weeds. In English
counties and some American States bind-
weed is often synonymous with wood-
bine and weedbmd, though the former
term generally means honeysuckle and
the latter smilax. The term wood-
bine has, however, been stretched at
times to mean many kinds of convolvulus
as well as Virginia creeper. Probably
the bindweed of America that is a nuis-
ance is a purple or white giant convol-
vulus, kin, no doubt, to the kind that gets
a stranglehold on maize in coastland Aus-
tralia or the blue bindweed of Ben lon-
son’s “Vision of Delight” which
doth itself unfold
With honeysuckle.
“G’roper”: Tell '‘Screwball” (B.
9/10/’46) that Guinea-fowl were intro-
duced into W.A. about the beginning of
this century, being released to the im-
mediate east of Perth. However, they
have not displayed any passion for the
dry areas, of which there are ample even
in the vicinity, but have stuck close to
the Swan. By now they may have ceased
to exist, being easy shots for the pot-
hunter.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“F.L.”; That hound of “Blime’s” (B.
16/10/’46) is an unsophisticated pup
compared to my old Brownie, Had a
similar experience with him drafting the
neighbor’s and my woollies into separate
mobs, and the inevitable unbranded stray
ewe turned up. Brownie screwed her off
for a while and then streaked for home.
Before I could work out a reason for this
sudden departure he was back —with a
tin of branding-fluid and the iron. I
simply had to take the hint rather than
offend the old sheepdog.
* * * *
“Solitude”; We’d been having trouble
with the ants, and were a bit fed-up
spreading the things on bread and spoon-
ing them in and out of our tea, so, hear-
ing they objected to crossing an oil patch,
I smeared a line of harness-dressing round
the edge of the table-top. Presently,
Seventyfiver came in. He dropped his
saddle in the corner, shed his sugar-bag
pack and was turning towards the tucker
when he spotted the ants. They were
stringing in an eager line round the
table edge, or banking up in bunches as
one after another stopped to stick his
mitts in the oil and back off again.
Thoughtfully, Seventyfiver’s grey thatch
turned left and right, then a slow, de-
lighted grin seeped over his dial. He
crept closer. Presently he made a few
adjustments to the collection on the table,
and trotting out some more old tins he
shoved them on. As I strolled outside 1
could hear his delighted chuckles as an-
other half-dozen dingo traps were added,
and the camp-oven squeezed in. Then he
came to the door. “Wa-al, I’ve tricked
’em, Sol,” he grinned proudly. “Knew
I’d get a idea in time. Got so many
things on the flamin’ table now the little
cows can’t git on!”
* * He *
“Barty”: “B. A. Ker’s” raw-spud cure
for “the screws” (B, 18/9/’46) recalls
that Lord Strathspey, a native of Oamaru,
Maoriland, but now, as chief of the clan
Grant, residing in Britain, informed an
interviewer that he followed the same
remedy—a trick he had learned from
his grandfather, which brought from
“Punch” the following;
Lord Strathspey, noble “Chief of Grant,”
Extols the national Irish plant
And .always keeps, what’ever his job,
A small potato in his fob.
» * * •
“B. A. Ker”: Perhaps the illusion of
greater size in the rising moon (B.
23/10/’46) can be attributed to the same
cause as the redness of its light. Sir
James Jeans, the recently-deceased Eng-
lish scientist, explains the reason for the
latter in his book The Stars in Their
Courses. Light, he contends, is composed
of two rays: red and blue. As a simile
he likens the blue ray to a small wave
and the red to a breaker. A small wave
would, on striking the pile of a pier,
break up and become a spent force ; the
breaker would be broken, but would join
up again and go sweeping on towards the
beach. The rays of the rising moon must
pass through the earth’s atmosphere at
an oblique angle, therefore travelling a
greater distance through the atmospheric
belt than at any other time. Myriads of
dust particles are encountered, and they
have the same effect as the pile standing
in the water; the blue rays are checked,
but the red are strong enough to force
their way through. Might I suggest that
the red rays are more magnifying, thus
giving the rising moon an appearance of
excessive size?
* * * *
“Calos”: The parallel sticks covering
the cylindrical cocoon described by
“Shamuseen” (B. 23/10/’46) were cut by
the bony jaws of the casemoth. The case
is fastened to a twig in two places, and
the little beastie inside bites through the
wood. It then holds the loose stick with
its legs and, turning it round near its
mouth, it covers it with silk and fastens
it to the case. The grub then disappears
inside the cocoon and cuts a hole in it
midway down. Through this aperture
more silk is wound around a lower por-
tion of the stick, and it is fastened again
to the cocoon. Other sticks are added in
the same manner until the case is covered
neatly. The female casemoth spends her
whole life in the case, though the male
develops wings and flies dbout for a short
time. The female’s case is her home
from the larval stage onwards. She
pupates in it, uses it for an incubator
and remains buried in it when she dies.
The young escape by lowering themselves
to the branches of the tree or shrub in
which the case hangs. They begin at
once to spin their cocoons, which they
carry in an upright manner until they are
covered with leaf particles, etc., when
they are too cumbersome for vertical
wear.
“DUKE WILLIAM.”
The forest is silent with summer,
Steeped in an opiate sea; -
No skirl of keen piper or drummer —
No cricket, cicada or bee.
No air in the eucalypt rustles,
And only, defiantly gay,
“Duke William,’’ the butcher-bird whistles,
“William-Duke-William” all day.
Robber of nest and of nestling,
Pinning his prey to a thorn,
What does he mean by thus whistling
Matins devoutly at morn?
Shrilly he boasts to a clever
Fellow-rogue over the way:
“William-Duke-William for ever!”
The butcher birds say.
Though on the earth an enchanted
Spell of green lassitude lies,
Over the gullies, undaunted.
He oalls and another replies.
Shadows creep eastward and nor’ward, «
The long afternoon goes its round,
But still they toss backward and forward
Gay snatches of sound.
The sunset is ash and red ember,
The colors mist over and melt
On the sky-high Tasmanian timber
On the edge of the stringybark belt.
And, tired of his plays and pretences,
Briefly his summer-day song
He ends, where the mopoke commences:
“William-Duke-William —so long.”
VICTORIA.
K. DA;ZIEL.


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course'
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
Jng is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BABKO lodine Dog Soap.
D A DVA CONDITION powders 1/6
oAKlvU skin MOTION 8/»
lODINE dog SOAP .. -/«>
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
EVERY FRACTION OF A PENNY m lb. COUNTS
Whether you get that extra fraction of a penny per lb.
for your wool depends ultimately upon the standard of
appraisal and the auctioneering technique. Unchallenged
in both respects is the staff of Australian, Mercantile, Land
& Finance Coy. Ltd., whose' outstanding ability is one of
the main characteristics of the company. To be sure
of that extra fraction of a penny per lb., write now to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A 2.22.74
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
The Only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
• Excellent climate.
• Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
• Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
• Matrons are trained Sisters.
• Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
Entrance Scholarships.
Four Entrance Scholarships, valued at
£5O per annum (to become £6O when the
boy reaches the age of 14), are available
for 1947. These are tenable for five years.
Entry forms and scholarship conditions
may be obtained from the Headmaster.
Candidates may sit at approved centres.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc., Headmaster.
e.l \
1
;
■:
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
gdf
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY. BRISBANE
Distributing Agents : N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence St„. Sydney, Victoria: Servian
Machine Tools (Aust.), 843 a Sydney Road, Brunswick. Queensland: Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd., 450 Ann
St., Brisbane. W.A.: Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac
Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
Do you need a
ersonol
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance. THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
• LOAN • Weekly • Fortnightly • Four-weekly
inch disc. instalment instalment instalment
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
JLomi?
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Stocks and' Prices.
“Delaine”: U.K. and Dominions Wool
Disposals, Ltd., which controls the
marketing of carry-over wool, is increas-
ing the offering of stockpile wool in
England in pre-Christmas sales from
300.000 to 460,000 bales. This is either
to slow down what might be an unhealthy
boom in wool prices or to get rid of
some of the surplus on a good market.
Up to the end of October the rise in
values continued at each Australian sale
—at Brisbane greasy wool made up to
50d. and scoured 7ld. per lb., remarkable
prices considering the fact that buying
has been in so few hands. The Con-
tinent and America have scooped the
pool, and Yorkshire, always our biggest
customer, handicapped by ceiling prices
for the home trade and not allowed to
neglect that for the more profitable
foreign trade, has been unable to
compete.
The remarkable strength of the mar-
ket, which is still absorbing all offerings
at increased prices after taking 4,000,000
bales from stock in addition to the
current clips, proves that consuming
countries Were literally down to “bare
boards.” They’ve now stocked up again,
but with consumption going at full blast
they must keep on buying. Germany and
Japan will eventually require wool and
will be as wool-hungry as other countries,
though finance may possibly be a restrain-
ing influence there as it is in Italy, where
combing establishments are working the
clock round, mostly on commission for
English and French topmakers, who
make payment with raw wool.
The carryover at the beginning of
the present season included only 750,000
bales of free or light burry combing
merino wool, including fleece, bulky
pieces, necks and backs, so interest
in new-clip merino should not flag. An
analysis of the last wool clip from the
records of the Central Wool Committee
gives these figures for wools suitable for
noble combing (Yorkshire types: super,
good and average fleece, good pieces,
etc.):
Bales.
Fine (70’s and finer) 111,006
Fine-medium (64/70’s to 60’s)
to strong .. 1,257,550
Comeback (58/60’s) 454,113
Fine to medium xbd (56/50’s) 176,145
Strong xbd (below 50’s) .. .. 25,982
2,024,796
French combing and carding wools
account for about 500,000 bales each.
Out of a total clip of 3,000,000 bales
768.000 came within the category of
good- and super-combing fleece. Two-
thirds of the clip carried light burr, 10
p.c. heavy burr and 12£ p.c. was car-
bonising. The figures show how little
really fine-quality wool is produced
nowadays. The bulkier broader wools
scored all along the line. At present,
however, demand is centred on quality,
and the margin is much greater than for
many years past, an encouragement for
those who have maintained breed and
quality.
Owing to drought the clip was consider-
ably smaller than that of two years
yearlier, the figures for the sheep popu-
lation of Australia being illuminating:
March, 1944, 123,000,000; March, 1946,
96,000,000.
Fluorided Waters.
“Agric”: The report of the Queensland
Agriculture Department for the year
1945-46 contains the disquieting statement
by the agricultural chemist (Dr. Mont-
gomery White). “It is felt that the
more or less stationary level in
Queensland’s sheep numbers is in
no small measure due to the very
wide distribution of fluorided under-
ground waters.” Peaks and troughs
“It Was hard work training them, but it Was worth it.'
above and below the mean would be
accounted for by seasonal variations).
The departmental laboratory now tests
for fluorides all waters submitted for
test regarding suitability for livestock,
and the quick cover of the State thereby
made has shown, says the report, that
the seriousness of the position has not
previously been overstated.
In many cases Dr. White has found it
possible to suggest management adjust-
ment whereby animals in the most sus-
ceptible age-groups were watered at the
least-affected bores, but obviously he
would need a lot of local knowledge be-
fore he could offer such advice on the
scale now demanded. So far as present
knowledge goes, alternate sources of
water are the only certain answer to the
problem, but this involves the question of
water-trapping and storage, a costly pro-
cedure in many cases.
This is one of those scientific problems
confronting the sheep industry which will
never be solved until the Government
opens its purse.
Dr. White" and his fellow-scientists
would devote their lives to the tackling of
any one of these problems if given the
necessary encouragement and laboratory
equipment. But politicians are interested
only in votes.
Bit and Bridoon.
“Haute Ecole”: Best results in show
riding come from use of the bit and
bridoon (snaffle). For a start change
the ordinary snaffle for a pelham and ride
with this, gradually accustoming the
horse to the curb (if he has not known it
before), leaving the chain loose and tak-
ing it up by degrees. If the horse shows
signs of nastiness revert to the loose
chain and start again. Use this bit for
at least a couple of months.
Having changed to bit and bridoon,
make sure that it is correctly adjusted.
The bridoon should lie above the bit
about half an inch, with the bit attached
to the swinging side-strap, slightly in
front. Test by operating the bit rein.
when the free movement of bit shank
and strap is obvious. Some fasten the
bit to the strap attached to the head-
stall and the bridoon to the loose strap,
Naturally they don’t obtain the desired
result. -
The curb-chain' should lie snugly in
the groove just above the chin, not any
higher where any action by the curb-rein
tightens the chain on to the bone, causing
pain to the animal. To prevent this a
special little strap is fastened on to tiny
rings on the bit shank* provided for the
purpose, the centre of this strap passing
through the loose ring in the middle of
the chain. The use of two bits, inter-
changeable, transfers pressure from bars
of mouth to corners and vice versa, thus
ringing the changes from time to time ;
giving the overkeen horse temporary
relief, whilst the combination of effects
obtained by the bridoon raising the
horse’s head carriage and the bit lower-
ing it enables the experienced rider to
play upon that most delicate instrument,
a horse’s mouth, with delightful results.
When the animal begins to play with the
bits, bridling gently and responsively, he
is demonstrating his acceptance of the
bit and bridoon.
Fodder and Pasture.
“Ager”; A N.S.W. North-Coast farmet
put 3001 b. a month on to his butter pro-
duction by using conserved fodder and
careful pasture management on k l6O acres.
Two underground concrete silo pits, 20ft.
deep, with a 70-ton capacity, are handily
placed in the feeding-stalls. An electri-
cally-driven hoist lifts the chaff silage.
The block is sown with introduced
grasses and. clovers. The rotation scheme
is perennial and Italian rye, cocksfoot
and red clover, after crops of oats, maize
or potatoes. Paspalum is in evidence
everywhere, and the farmer says it’s the
mainstay for summer feed. The other
grasses provide the winter ration.
Crops like maize or sorghum are
grown for not more than two years in a
paddock. Then the land is sown with
rye grasses and red and white clovers.
This is grazed for a few years. Then the
land is cropped again. Super, is sown
with the crops.
Experiments over several years prove
that Italian rye-grass gives more grazing
than oats; what’s more, it’s a better
butter-producer.
“Sundowner”: Dairy-cows should be
kept on good pasture as much of the year
as possible. Order of feeding roughage,
succulents and concentrates has no effect
on milk production, but concentrates
should be fed as often as the cow is
milked. Roughage and succulents twice
a day are ample. When grain is fed it
should be ground or rolled. Cows eat
more stemmy and coarse hay if it is
run through a cutter ; digestibility of the
food is not affected. Most highly-flavored
foods should be fed just after milking, at
which period as much of the feeding as
possible should be done. Before being
given to cows turnips, carrots, etc., should
be run through a chopper.
Pasture Improvement.
“E. 2”: In Victorian dairying districts
improved pastures have shown greatly in-
creased and more profitable stocking,
the clovers, rye-grass and cocksfoot pro-
viding the bulk of fodder. There was
simply no chance of high production from
the native grasses. In high-rainfall dis-
tricts the clovers do well on almost any
class of soil, but hardly make a show
without liberal supplies of phosphorus.
Costs of establishment, including top-
dressing with super., are fairly high, but
a good pasture will last for years if well
maintained.
A lot of good clover pastures I’ve seen
are on hillsides and in rugged patches
where cultivation is out of the question.
A good job of clearing was done, fol-
lowed by seeding and topdressing by
hand, and the results have been well
worth the effort. Well-grown pastures, if


CVknogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“ It’s the Gas
That Kills Them’
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas “A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
FACING H PORK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
BB
■
m
m
m
■
THE OWL IS PROVERBIALLY A WISE BIRD, SO BE SURE
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE! TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
not eaten bare by overstocking, give pro-
tection to the soil, and clover has de-
finitely enriched a large acreage of
poorer-class land. .
Fm satisfied that the carrying capacity
of unimproved grazing land can be more
than doubled by making
imported grasses, though the districts best
served in this respect at present are those
of high rainfall. Further research and
experiments are needed to find and grow
the most suitable drought-resistant grasses
in the dry inland and, provided wise
stocking is practised, there seems no
reason why periodic fodder shortage can-
not be overcome.
Cementing Tanks.
“Kasl”: Have satisfactorily renewed
scores of round and square iron tanks
by this method:
Make two holes an inch apart with a
sharp nail-punch close to top of tank,
then continue these pairs of holes at 6m.
intervals around the tank, each suc-
ceeding row 12in. below the top ones,
until bottom is reached. Wire netting,
sufficient to meet around the tank, is
then affixed to the inside with tie-wire
“hairpins” pushed through the holes
from the inside and twisted together on
the outside. A few short pieces of netting
to bind the bottom are wired on to the
main section, and then a three-parts fine
sharp sand and one-part cement mixture,
made very stiff, is trowelled on to the
netting, filling corrugations and cover-
ing the netting to a thickness of about
one inch.
Plaster from the bottom upwards, left-
hand side to the right, commencing with
a strip about 2ft, wide and then bring-
ing the next strip to meet the first. Work
around the bottom lastly, gradually
working into the centre. Leave the final
foot or so of the bottom and climb out
of tank, drop a shovelful of mixture in
and smooth it over with a board nailed
to the end of a stick.
Next morning gently lower yourself
into tank, and with a wide brush give the
whole of the interior a coat of paint
made of cement only, mixed with water
and half of a lib. tin of waterglass added.
One bag of cement, three bags of clean,
sharp sand, a half-tin of waterglass will
do a lOOOgal. tank; 6ft. netting will
reach top to bottom, and need not be
new, but the sipaller the mesh the better.
Acres and Sheep.
“Crooked Mick”: I can vouch for the
truth of “Ngaire’s” statement (B.
16/10/’46) about the carrying-capacity of
land in Maoriland. I have been going
there shearing for some years, and one
place I shear at, Gladbrook, in the
Central Otago district. South Island, is
a 4000-acre property which shears 8000
Corriedales. It is farmed to provide
turnips for winter feed for the sheep, and
there is a small Aberdeen Angus stud.
In 1942 the shed paddock of 12 acres
had 30-head of cattle, one draught-horse
and 15 wethers. They were there for
eight weeks, to my knowledge. But the
gorse is running wild there; something
like lantana in Queensland.
Hints for the Farm.
“Girrawheen”: The amount of fodder
ijeeded to ensure a reasonable margin of
safety will depend on local conditions,
but it is a good plan to try to secure
about two tons of hay and six tons of
ensilage for each dairy cow. Beef animals
would only require half this amount, and
for sheep 2cwt. hay with scwt. ensilage
per animal, would be sufficient.
“Sari”: Cattle-lice usually are a nuis-
ance in Queensland herds during the
spring. The parts most attractive to the
parasites are the neck, shoulders and butt
of tail, from which large patches of hair
may be rubbed off. Dipping gets rid of
them, but where only a few house cows
are in need of treatment a spray made
by dissolving loz. of nicotine sulphate
(40 p.c.) in 6gal. of water will suffice.
Spray once, then again after 14 days.
“Big Billy”; When weeds and grass
are invading the lucerne stand, cultivation
should be done several times during hot
weather after the crop has been cut or
fed off short. Weeds can be killed by
summer treatment where they often sur-
vive winter working.
“Bill C.”: M. S. Lindeman, a C.Q.
grazier, gets dingoes by poisoning the
marrow and meat of freshly-broken
bones and dropping the baits near a
waterhole in late afternoon. He rides a
quiet nag which drags a small bone be-
hind it, making a trail to the spot where
the baits are laid. Baits that have not
been taken when he rides round first-
thing next morning, he collects for re-
setting in the evening. Baits left lying
during the day are taken by crows.
“Billjim”: C.S.I.R. experiments have
established the efficacy of penicillin in
treatment of mastitis. Officers of Vic.
Department of Agriculture believe the
drug to be the most effective yet used
against this disease,'
“Gip”: In this N.Q. district, where
large anthills are in great numbers and
impede clearing operations, we blow ’em
apart with gelignite. Drive the crowbar
in at the base for about a foot and place
charge in cavity thus made. If placed
correctly, four plugs are sufficient to
blast a termite hill sft. in diameter and
of the same height to smithereens.
“F.L.”: The pup, if he’s to become a
good worker, shouldn’t be left to wander
of his own free will among stock or
develop the habit of playing or hunting
with other tykes. It’s best for the trainee
to come to regard work as his main out-
let for energy, and too-easy familiarity
with other things finds him indifferent to
learning. Don’t neglect chaining him
between lessons, providing regular breaks
under the observation and increasing con-
trol of his boss.
“Lub”: It’s a good idea'to devote a
small patch of the vegetable garden to
useful herbs and plants for garnishes
and salad flavoring. Thyme, sage and
marjoram are favorites and grow hardily
from root divisions or seed. Parsley
grows quickly from seed with frequent
watering. Mint favors a damp place and
will choke out other plants if its spreading
habit can’t be checked. Chives, the tops
of which are used, belong to the onion
family and have a mild flavor. They are
grown from root divisions, as also are
the handy shallots. Cress, watercress and
mustard, grown readily from seeds, pro-
vide that tangy flavor so favored for
salads and garniture.
“Myrrhee”: Keep the weeds down
but don’t hoe too closely to the stems of
tomatoes or too deeply, and draw the
soil towards the plants as they grow.
Start to prune the tall types as soon as
the laterals appear by pinching them out.
When the first flowers appear, apply
superphosphate, sulphate of ammonia and
sulphate of potash (4-1-1) in bands on
each side of the plant—a teaspoonful
per plant every third week during the
fruiting season. In Victoria dust every
three weeks with a combined tobacco-
dust from time of planting until Febru-
ary.


New
Cream Deodorant
safely
£fops Perspiration
i
IMS
Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
8 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
8 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
8 Laboratory tests prove
ARKID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Anrid it the largest sailing
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
2/« a jar At all chemists & stores
Afeota9id.Jars ,ellin 3 “»«•* goods
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
a S'-
Positive resells assured
by success ol 10,000
students^ol our Instant*
Success Lessons for
STEEL GUITAR
MONET
w MOT
UTISNID
★ Hill-billy Guitar
* Banjo Mandolin
A- Piano Accordion
* Saxophone
A- Clarinet
* Ukulele
* Mouth Orqan
* Piano
* Violin
dr Accordion
INSTRUMENTS; EXCLUSIVE MODELS FOR
SMALL PAYMENTS ANTWHERE IN
AUSTRALIA.
WHITE TODAY for free Illus-
trated catalogue and descr-
iptive booklet staling
instrument favoured.
POST COUPON
SAMPSONS^)
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney/*^
Without obligation, please send me free
catalogue and descriptive booklet. I am
interested in
(mention instrument).
NAME
ADDRESS
B/ll
Good mornings
begin with
Gillette
THE WORLD'S
BEST SHAVE
,
iiiiiiiiiiii
. ,
'A
m
PRECISION BUILT Gillette
blade and razor fit per-
fectly to give a natural
shaving angle and absolute
rigidity. They are "made
for each other".
SHOULDERED EDGE
behind the cutting edge
means greater strength,
therefore the cutting-edge
lasts longer; you get more
shaves per blade.
TWO TEMPERS. Blue
Gillette blades are flexible
in centre, diamond-hard on
the cutting edge. The
sharpest edges ever honed!
!
c>^
&
JOB
IiSSIiU
pSS
How long since you had a new razor? How
long since you really enjoyed a swift,
smooth, luxurious shave? Gillette Razors
and Blades together form the finest
shaving system the world has known;
they are precision-built and made for
each other. Economically priced too!
GILLETTE
RAZORS and BLADES
A .... .
MADE FOR EACH OTHER
13/a
Missing Friends.
TO COLIN HUBERT MATHER formerly of the
State of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JESSIE ANN
MATHER has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
9th day of December 1946 and also file an answer
on or before the 19th day of December 1946 the case
may proceed in your absence. —J. & °. SHAUN,
Solicitors, 408 Collins Street, Melbourne.'
TO HAROLD LEONARD BYRNE formerly of 12
Manallack Street West Brunswick in the State of
-Victoria and the Cumberland Hotel Torne in the said
State but now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife VERONICA GEORGINA BYRNE has
instituted proceedings for a divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Melbourne on or before the twelfth day
of. December One thousand nine hundred and tony-
six the case may proceed in your absence it you
intend to defend the suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the: Twentimh
day of December One thousand niM hundhed
and forty-six AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the sealed copy petition and c°py__ J"
suit may be inspected at the office of the Tetit
Sol icitor. —JOAN ROSANOVE, 416 Bourke Street.
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
of worms into the creek. A little cloud
of dirt billowed out in the water. The
worms turned over slowly till they went
out of sight; all except one that twisted
and bucked with surprising vigor all the
way down.
Jimmy forgot to look for the frog in
the tank that afternoon. Tomorrow was
school. He would leave early and there
was a port to be packed. That means a
lot when you go back to a hostel full of
boys, each with a port full of eats.
You’ve got to consider your reputation.
Jimmy wouldn’t get back to Wirrawalla
till the six-hour-day long week-end. A
month off yet.
The desire to tell his mother of Old
Angy was nearly too much. He found
himself about to blurt out the whole
mystery as his mother was cooking. Just
in time he stopped himself and went out
to the gpassless backyard where the fowls
stood about. He had fun catching them
with wheat grains and a noose that he
pulled tight around their legs. Each
squawking hen he tried to mesmerise,
leaving it stretched out stiff and gaunt on
the bare ground, gazing along the line
he drew from its beak. He watched his
mesmerised hens stupidly lying there.
They would slowly regain their senses,
scramble to their feet, give a questioning
cluck or two and run off with quick
steps. Great sport, mesmerising fowls;
and by the time Jimmy had experimented
with half a dozen Old Angy had slipped
from his mind and did not return until
the boy was in bed at the hostel the next
night; and then, from time to time in the
weeks that followed, the fate of the frogs
would‘puzzle his mind.
A month of ordinary spring days
sauntered along to the buzzing of the
North Coast blowflies, and Jimmy again
went walking—in sandshoes—along the
rail with much less skill. The sun was
hotter, the acacias by the creek now cast
a broad green shade, there were no dead-
marines handy to the bridge—the local
kids had handled them all right—and in
the hole below the perch among the
lazily-waving greenery of the weeds
looked much more plump. Well, it was
time they were taking an interest in twist-
ing worms and crickets that struggled
gamely on the hooks.
OLD ANGY, pottering about once
more with his old staff—too tough to
be killed they said at the post office —
saw the boy crossing the flat. He rapped
his quince-stick against the slab-wall.
“Hey!” came the thin voice.
Jimmy left his bamboo against the wall
and followed the old man into the dim
light of the shack.
“I’ll be jiggered!” he said. The frogs
still hung there. Old Angy with difficulty
dragged down from the hook the dis-
colored net. He held it aloft in his
grotesque triumph.
“Look at ’em, sonny! Jest take a
peep at these beauties,” he piped.
Jimmy peered.
All he could see were the brownish-
yellow skin-covered skeletons of the
starved frogs. The skin was shrivelled
tight.
“Wot did I tell y’?” croaked the old
man. “It’s a remedy me father used
long afore me. An’ it works! It works!
Whatsomever anyone says!”
Jimmy looked in disgust at the way
the dried skin was sunken between the
thin bones of the big frog. About the
frogs the netting was blotched a yellow-
ish color.
“Them there frogs above my bed,” Old
Angy said, “they been eatin’ up all the
germs ... as soon as they was there I
started t’ git better. Y’ could see ’em
gradually gettin’ yeller with the germs
they was eatin’, till I got all right. By
then they’d eat up all the germs there
was, see? I been leavin’ them there till
I seed you. Yellerer and yellerer they
got—yellerer and yellerer ... '
“An’ y’ can tell anyone y* see about
it, too,” he bragged. The smile on his
face was the smile that comes upon
proof of a life-long faith.
With his little chuckles of triumph the
old man shuffled to the tin fireplace at
the far end. He stooped and turned to
the boy at the door, holding the frogs
aloft.
“Y* could see ’em gettin’ yellerer every
day with the germs they was eatin’—”
But the boy was no longer listening to
the old rasped voice. His eyes were on
the piece of netting the old man threw
on the smouldering fire. Smoke puffed
forth, and with a flame that crackled a
little, the frogs—and germs —vanished
into the bright sunlight outside.
From the bridge Jimmy stopped to
look back at Old Angy. He was sitting
in the sun on the block outside his shack.
The mystery was solved. Angy’s secret
was his.
But already Old Angy was becoming
a figure unreal in the past. Jimmy said
nothing to his mother, nor to the fellers
at school, nor to any soul on Wirrawalla.
When he did speak of the frogs years
later he was married and Old Angy had
long disappeared from the shack beyond
the bend where the acacias go on filling
the air with fragrance every new spring.


★ Published in the Interests of Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of.: “ C.O.R Plus" Motor Spirit • ‘‘C.O.R" Power Kerosene • "CQRALITE" Lamp
Kerosene • “C.O.R Light Diesoleum" « ‘‘C.O.R" Diesel Oils • ‘‘C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils
HIHIS IKE SiCRII!
AIL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
MvmmMc
Insulation with
slacwmi
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
will be freely giVen.
insulation
HEAD OFFICE: !?0 Sussex Street, Sydney. bF3&3B.
Melbourne;
PTY.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street Melbourne; Sftell Houle,
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives; P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM^.SheII House,
. North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 254 Murray St.. Perth,
Agents; BARKER & CO. LTD., B 7 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland. Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
gdf
SMPKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MATEIN BRANDY
“Points were changed to allow a trar to
swing into Bourke-road.
“Unaware that the points had not been
altered, driver of a following trac moved off,
and the trail swung into Bourke-road.
“Another tral, coming from the city, crashed
into it.” — “Sun.”
Apparently officials are unused to
working these Speed Gordon types of
vehicles.
4* 4* 4* 4* „
“It was stated yesterday that the factional
forces on the Miners’ Central Council
Communits and ariti-Communists are about
evenly divided.” — S. M. “Herald.”
Communitwits, rather.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mannequins make history at Canberra.
—News item.
It’s to be hoped that they didn’t leave
as much undone as the politicians.
“The Prime Minister addressed a deputation
urging taxation relief for three-quarters of an
hour.”
We crave no Golden Age, nor grace —
Full petals of the lotus flower;
We ask but this: tax breathing space
For just three-quarters of an hour!
A. H. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted to buy, boy’s clothes, 4 years old.”
— “Daily,” Mosman ( N.S.W .)
None of your flimsy present-day articles
for this child.
“The idea that Communist's are working for
Australia’s downfall is fantastic,” declares
union leader.
Whoever heard of a Communist work-
ing?
“When you see a motion-picture the screen
is actually blank for about half the time.”
— “World’s News. '
And for the rest of the time the blank
thing is not worth seeing.
Decline and Fall.
“ ‘lf men don’t stop whistling at women,
America will slip into the degeneracy that
ruined ancient Rome,’ says Chaplain Albums
Lesch.’ ” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
From tales of classical amours
The Sabine incident discloses
The blokes who sported Roman noses
Dispensed with subtle overtures; ♦
And since the average: teacher puts
His trust in Cicero and Plautus,
No one, as I remember, taught us
The Latin phrase for “Hiya, Toots!”
But if in Rome’s declining years
Her citizens were pioneers
In fields of social misdemeanor,
At least {historians concede )
The local lads would scarcely need
To whistle twice at Messalina.
P. M. Lusk.
Epitaph for an Ancestor.
Father couldn’t help but blink
When little Willie mixed the drink.
“Who’s to know,” he wondered, “when
Your mother will wake up again ?”
“She won’t,” said William, “ ’cos I stirred
Some D.D.T. in with her third.”
Poor father — he’s quite angry yet.
Good liquor is so hard to get.
WEEPING WILLOW.
Conversation Piece.
“Eight people tried in vain to make a white
cockatoo talk in Perth Police Court.”
—“Sunday Telegraph."
I am reminded of the trouble we had
trying to sell as a talking parrot a macaw
named Eustace which was boarded-out
with us. Having spent the formative
years of his life in a Trappist monastery,
Eustace was as dumb as a Federal Minis-
ter during a transport strike.
We first experimented with sign langu-
age, but Eustace, though a willing pupil,
was handicapped by falling off his perch
every time he tried to use both feet for
a word of more than one syllable. He
eventually 'Sprained an ankle, which re-
sulted in a distressing stutter.
After the whole family had lost its
voice through bellowing simple phrases
at Eustace for ten hours a day, we tried
him with recordings of A.B.C. talks.
Eustace listened obligingly, with a
critical expression, deepening at times to
one of pained disgust, but he made no
sign. .
My brother, who dabbled in ventrilo-
quism, did his best to produce a credit-
able imitation of a talking parrot for one
intending purchaser, but the effect was
marred by Eustace’s reaction. He would
start in .surprise, look around furtively
and then conduct a brisk search through
his feathers for the vocal intruder. After
an expensive lawsuit for misrepresenta-
“Me chefs gone on strike—see if y' can pick us up one from Canberra
tion, we got in a stock of throat pastilles
and renewed the attack.
My Uncle Claudius, a seafaring man,
finally worked the trick. With a cheerful
“Pretty Cocky,” my uncle -chucked
Eustace familiarly under the chin and
ruffled his crest. Eustace looked at him
with acute distaste and neatly amputated
the top joint of his forefinger.
Eustace’s vocabulary is now, to say
the least of it, adequate, though unsuit-
able for a Trappist monastery.
PLUM.
Case for the R.S.P.C.A.
P. L.
“An English dairyfarmer claims that his cows
give more milk when they work to swing
mifsic.” — “Daily Telegraph."
/ fear my passionate objection
Will come too late to liberate
<The helpless cattle from a fate
More barbarous than vivisection;
Why, any sensitive collection
Of cows would hasten to placate
Their cruel tormentor, and donate
A flood of milk in self-protection.
And though experiments disclose
That milk in ampler measure flows
From martyred beasts, confined and
girdled
By endless rows of radios
Exuding swing, I don’t suppose
You’d be surprised to find it curdled.
A Special Dispensation.
“New orders to departmental heads at Aus-
tralia House, London, emphasise the need to
apply the pruning-knife to departmental expen-
diture, with particular instructions to cut down
travelling expenses.”
The Deputy Assistant Director of
Form-Filling and Affidavit-Verifying had
just put down at the same time his morn-
ing cup of tea and the circular he had
been reading. He looked up as the Act-
ing Deputy Superintendent of Immigrant
Catechising strode in holding a similar
circular.
“Another of their confounded economy
drives on, Featherstonehaugh,” said the
D.A.D. of F.-F. and A.-V. wearily. “The
ghastly pruning-saw and all that sort of
thing. Who do these people in Aus-
tralia think they are, anyway?
“Take my own department, for in-
stance,” he went on. “Here have I been
slaving away for six months in an
effort to devise a form that will make it
harder for applicant immigrants to under-
stand. I have found it imperative, if I
am to keep abreast of the latest develop-
ments in official forms, to take a run up
to Edinburgh or across to Paris for a
few days. Why, only the last time I went
to Brussels I picked up a valuable hint
which now renders it almost impossible
to tell what a migrant intends doing if
and when he ever gets to Australia. Now
my good work threatens to be vitiated
by this cheeseparing attitude.”
“It’s certainly a bit thick,” agreed the
A.D.S. of I.C. “As you know, I couldn’t
do my job efficiently if I were pinned
here to my chair. Take that young
artisan from Llandudno who wished to
emigrate, for instance. I found after he’d
gone back home that, though he’d an-
swered more or less satisfactorily the other
hundred and nine questions, he hadn’t
answered the most important one of all:
Was he prepared to join a union im-
mediately on landing in Australia?
“It would be unthinkable, naturally, to
have merely posted his application back
asking him to complete the questionnaire.
In these matters, as you know, the per-
sonal approach is the only satisfactory
procedure. I sacrifice three days of my
time and come back to be hit with this!
This cutting-down of travelling exes, will
undoubtedly undermine our smooth-
running organisation, mark my words.”
“It isn’t as if they weren’t getting good
results from our respective departments,”
complained the D.A.D. of F.-F. and A.-V.
“Look what we’ve already teed-up over
the past eight months: as many as five
suitable British migrants. Three of
them have been promised passages for
early 1948, when the last of the first
batch of ten thousand Calwell non-British
‘specials’ have been settled in Sydney
and Melbourne. Oh, well, just coast
along, Featherstonehaugh. This economy
drive will peter out in a month—they
always do.”
Next morning the D.A.D., etc., was
doodling on his pad and bitterly reflecting
on the economy drive when his Chief
Clerk’s Personal Clerk came in.
“We’ve just received advice, sir,” the
newcomer said, “that there is waiting to
be collected at Tilbury Docks twenty
cases of butter, thirty-six bags of sugar,
two hundred dozen tins of jam, thirty
cases of canned fruits arid twelve chests
of tea—a consignment from Australia to
Mr. Beasley.”
“H’m. Food must be getting a bit
tight in Australia. Well, you’d better go
down by taxi to Tilbury and” — r
“But we’ve just had instructions,
sir, to cut down travelling expenses I
thought”
The D.A.D., etc., looked at the under-
ling sternly. “This is a special case. Go
and get fifteen taxis —no, you’d better
make it twenty, to be on the safe side —
have the stuff stacked into them and de-
livered immediately to the High Com-
missioner’s official residence. And don’t
spare the horsepower!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Unionism and Communism
The successes gained by a mere hand-
ful of Communist trade-union leaders in-
dicate an almost complete apathy among
the mass of good Australian unionists in
matters vitally affecting the control and
welfare of their unions. The average
Australian .worker is an easygoing, hail-
fellow-well-met, sport-loving individual;
but those very characteristics have made
him easy game for the apostles of
international Communism.
A recent coal strike was launched on
the vote of less than 30 per cent, of
union members. The A.R.U. strike in
Victoria was declared on a Communist
conception of a secret ballot in which at
least 40 per cent of the members had
not voted. Of the number voting 3748
were opposed. That meant that of the
18,000 members of the A.R.U. only about
7000 declared in favor of direct action.
Why didn’t some sense of responsibility
move this silent majority to ensure that
a minority decision was not thrust upon
them, particularly when so many other
fellow-unionists were to be unfairly in-
volved? Probably because of the designa-
tion of “scab” which is so readily handed
out to a fellow-worker who dares to
oppose the will of any small but well-
organised group of militants.
The real answer to recent unwarranted
direct-action strikes is found in the care-
fully-prepared but highly-misleading
propaganda of the Communist doctrin-
aires : propaganda based upon unreason-
ing class-suspicion and hatred. There is
surely no country on earth where there
is less room or cause for class-differences,
much less hatreds, than in Australia.
Upon what substantial premise could a
case for class-hatred be based? Yet a
base has been found for it, even if it
had to be imported from the backward
country of the Tsars, or the Europe of
Karl Marx. And it is as un-Australian
as the doctrines built upon it.
The policy of the Communist party is
to ensure that all strikes have a political
character, L. L. Sharkey, chairman of
the Central Committee of the C.P., in
The Trade Unions (p. 35) explains the
vital importance of the general strike as
the final phase of the Communist revo-
lutionary programme, as follows:
The general run of strikes in Australia
have been of an economic character, or
confined to economic demands, by the re-
formists. Political- strikes have, been few
in number (Port Kembla, against scrap-
iron for Japan,' for the release of Ratliff
and Thomas, against the execution of Sacco
and Vanzetti in the U.S.A. and possibly a
few more). Political, strikes , are a higher
form of struggle than economic strikes.
Such, strikes challenge the Government, the
State, the rule of the capitalist class. One
of our chief trade-union tasks is the politi-
calisation of strikes.
The Communist revolutionary plan is
clearly defined in the following: —-
(a) Control of individual - trade-unions.
(b) Use of trade-union funds and propa-
ganda agencies for the revolutionary cause.
(c) Use of the economic and social
pressure of trade-unionism to coerce the
religious, social and political beliefs of
members.
(d) Amalgamation or federation of trade-
unions, so that control by a central junta
will be facilitated.
(e) General strike.
(f) Violent revolution.
At least three of these items are accom-
plished facts.
It was evident in the Victorian trans-
port strike that the Commo leaders were
ajl set to engineer a general strike. Had
their efforts been successful the Govern-
ment would have been compelled to take
strong measures to protect the nation.
Communist bosses would then have re-
presented any Government action not as
an attack on Communism but as an
attack on unionism. That would have
created a revolutionary situation. In such
a situation “the shop committees would
be one of the chief instruments for draw-
ing the whole of the working-class into
the fight, into the streets, and the general
revolutionary struggle.”
What a foreign and un-Australian out-
look is pictured in this Communist plan
to destroy all that has been patiently
built up by our forebears in this land of
ours! We have played our part as a
nation in two world wars to defeat threats
of foreign dictatorship. Are we now to
surrender meekly to another foreign
dictator? —N, M. A. (Vic.).
Motor Transport
For 20 years and more before the war
the motor vehicle was the most useful of
all amenities in promoting and extending
the development of Australia. It helped
notably towards a healthier growth of
cities by extending suburban develop-
ment. To country areas it brought en-
tirely new conditions of access, supply,
and inter-communication which improved
rural conditions of living and of com-
fort fo undreamed-of standards. It en-
abled settlement to be extended and the
country to be developed to extents which
had never before been possible. With
reasonable thrift almost any Australian
worker could afford to buy and run some
sort of motor vehicle if he wanted one.
In 1927 the Federal-aid Roads
Agreement imposed a special duty of 3d.
a gallon on petrol to aid the States in
arterial road-building. Three years later
another 4d. was added to assist employ-
ment during the depression years. In
1939 still another tax of was imposed
to meet defence expenditure. Of the
total extra paid by all petrol-users
the States still receive only the original
3d. for roads —approximately £4} mil-
lions. The depression passed; the wars
ended in victory. But the motor-users
of 1947 will pay £l7} millions to a rapa-
cious Federal Government for their
petrol.
In addition, other heavy imposts have
been placed on motorists. Prices of
vehicles and accessories have been skied
by Customs duties and sales tax, as have
costs for spare parts and repairs. State
registration fees for transport vehicles
have reached fantastic heights, and
even more fantastic restrictions and
limitations have been imposed irrespec-
tive of regional development, industrial
needs and public convenience.
The fact is that we are nearing a stage
when motor transport will be rendered
so costly and so restricted that it will no
longer be able to furnish the invaluable
national service it formerly provided.—
Colbun (Q.).
Licensing Radio-servicemen
What conditions would “Gen. Type”
(B. 30/10/ ’46) stipulate, and to what
authority would he entrust the task of
licensing radio-servicemen?
Since “G.T.” is apparently uncertain
of the authority of the P.M.G. in certify-
ing a radio-technician and of also the
Institution of Radio Engineers of Aus-
tralia in classifying a radio-engineer, what
would he suggest? Does he know the
distinction between a radio - engineer,
-technician and a -mechanic or -crafts-
man? If so, in what category can he
honestly classify himself and his fellows?
Surely “G.T.” does not think that four
or five years spent in handling service
equipment would warrant anything more
than very ordinary consideration.
Radio-servicing is not the concern of
a professional radio-engineer. Normally
it’s the job of a radio-mechanic or -crafts-
man. Reasonable mechanical ability and
a fundamental knowledge of radio cir-
cuits and electrical theory are enough for
these people satisfactorily to undertake
the majority of repairs in ordinary
domestic radio-receivers. “G.T.” neglects
the excellent training provided in this
class of work by the Sydney Technical
College and by several private institu-
tions.
The average radio-listener should have
no difficulty in obtaining the services of
reputable dealers, who invariably have
fixed and equitable charges. He has only
himself to blame if, for the sake of a
few shillings, he entrusts his radio to the
people mentioned by “G.T.” — Broad-
cast Engineer (N.S.W.).
Japs and P.-0.-w.
“R.C.S.’s” condemnation (B. 16/10/’46)
of the attitude of “Sgt. Damocles” to-
wards the defeated Japanese may be
founded on sound psychological reason-
ing, but no fairminded thinker can arbi-
trarily dismiss the almost-unanimous deci-
sion of ex-servicemen as “typical and
dangerous.” “Sgt. Damocles’s” judgment
of the Jap has been tempered by an ex-
perience no sane man can ever wish to
share. It is the outcome of years of
contemplation under appalling prison
conditions, and to an impartial observer
the most incredible feature must surely
be the total lack of vindictivehess.
Without exception returned p.-0.-w.
with whom I have talked have themselves
expressed amazement that the burning
desire for revenge should have dissolved
immediately freedom was restored. Only
one man recalled an occasion when a
released p.-0.-w. cut loose on his ex-guards
with a tommy-gun. These men still think
the Jap war-criminals should be tried
and punished, but their reasoning is not
overruled by personal vindictiveness and
malice.
No civilised community could condemn
a jury whose verdict sent a murderer to
the gallows, yet in the list of Japanese
crimes of the Pacific war swift death
must rank among the least. The Jap can
never really accept our democratic way
of life. Outwardly he may smilingly
assent, but underneath there is the latent
barbarism which has sprung from cen-
turies of tradition and superstition, and
which must inevitably seek an aggressive
outlet.. .
Kid-glove methods failed with the
Germans after the 1914-18 war. The
effectiveness of the alternative has yet to
be tested and proved, but if the interna-
tional tribunals repudiate their respon-
sibility they may be faced with a third
upheaval. ’ ‘ ' •
Is it strange that men,. like “Sgt.
Damocles,” who have communed with
death should feel frustration and despair?
Is it unreasonable that their voices should
be raised reminding us that we have
neglected our obligations to the fighting
man? For vindictiveness there can be
no place, but justice should be impartially
dispensed, with punishment where it is
due. — Atlanta (Q.).
Latin
“Kennis” (B. 16/10/’46) concedes that
Latin is a great help in the study of
foreign languages. Agreed ; but a much
more cogent reason for the study of Latin
is the assistance it gives in grasping our
own tongue—and a first need for success
in all professions and many occupations
is a mastery of English. It’s hardly pos-
sible to read or write a sentence that
does not contain a word with a Latin
root. For fluency in speech and writing,
for clear and simple expression and com-
position, and for a well-developed
vocabulary a knowledge of Latin is a
tremendous help. Johnson and Milton
had as great a command of Latin as they
had of the language they wrote in.
Study of Latin has been proved a
sound training for the mental faculties.
In the R.A.A.F. it was found that air-
crew trainees who had learnt Latin were
more successful in their studies.
What was called the “utilitarian trend”
in education recently came under the fire
of some Sydney headmasters, and it was
stated very truly that, in an education
system where English is the only com-
pulsory subject of any cultural value,
“pupils are being trained for living, not
for life.”
By all means give some instruction to
schoolchildren in commercial, technical
and political subjects—l regret I received
no such instruction at school. But I
wouldn’t willingly surrender my know-
ledge of Latin, French, history and geo-
graphy.—Kros (N.S.W.).
The Birth-rate
“C.L.” (B. 23/10/’46) compares Aus-
tralian figures with Chinese. He might
as well compare a modern nursery with
a barnyard.
Millions of Chinese accept crowded,
insanitary conditions as standard equip-
ment. The mother has an easy birth,
breast-feeds the baby, wraps it in rags,
and lets it scratch around for itself at an
early age. Medical care, hospital, layette,
pram, cot, school and hundreds of other
“necessities” are undreamed of. The
births are purely biological phenomena
“ Hey , Mum, who brought me —the stork or a fairy ?”
and have nothing to do with “national
culture.” Certainly “veneration of
parents” can no more increase fertility
than a cart can pull a horse.
Regarding our own recent increases:
War romances were strongly reinforced
by “wives’ allowances.” Young brides
remained with their parents and for the
time the housing problem did not exist.
The children of these marriages were the
result of natural causes which have no-
thing to do with “national culture” of
any kind. Present conditions, with the
absence of both “allowances” and
houses, will slow down the marriage-rate
and consequently the birth-rate. The
higher the standard of living demanded,
the lower both rates will be.
Why look for abstract reasons when
concrete causes are obvious? Primitive
people don’t plan for the future. That’s
why they are primitive and prolific.
Civilised people look before they leap.
That’s why they are civilised, remain
longer single, and have fewer children.
We have our choice, but we can’t have
the best of both worlds.— Savvy (S.A.).
Droughts
There is too much loose thinking on
Jhe subject of droughts too much
thought of saving stock for immediate
profit and too little thought of saving
our soils.
The basis of drought relief must be
“reserve stocking”—stocking within the
capacity of the soil to produce over a
very extended period. We are all too
prone to stock up to capacity for the
time being.
U.S.A. yearbook Soils and Men puts
it thus:
Marbut points out that, because they
have been subjected to a minimum of
leaching, dry-land soils are exceptionally
rich in plant nutrients, and the thickness
of the fertility layer may often be measured
in feet where in humid forest soils it is
measured in inches. This is both the value
and the danger of the semi-arid soils. Crop
returns are so heavy in years of ample
rainfall that production is . expanded. A
succession of years of low rainfall then
leads to ruin. The primary lesson that
must be learned in dry-farming is that only
the long-time average bias any meaning in
measuring returns.
It is questionable as to whether it pays
a grazier to feed in extremely dry areas —
the cost of the feed eats up too much
of. the value of the stock. Hand-feeding
sheep on badly-depleted pasture causes
them to trample the soil to dust and
encourages erosion ; the roots of plants
are eaten out and regeneration is sadly
retarded. A successful company in
southern Queensland always reduces
stock as the season fails, and so always,
keeps stocking within the bounds of
feed available. Its country is never
damaged.—H. F. W. (Q.).
Japs in N.G.
A few thousand Japs still remain in and
around Rabaul. They are war criminals,
witnesses to war crimes and those who
were suspect but against whom no proof
has been forthcoming. These few are
being put to productive work, as the
original 130,000 should have been.
The Civil Administration can - now
obtain Jap labor fpr works projects, and,
though the numbers supplied are not
great, some progress at least is being
made. The Production Control Board
has Jap labor to work cargo coming into
Rabaul from plantations and to load
ships carrying supplies to planters in out-
lying districts. The Commonwealth Dis-
posals Commission is also making use of
the sons of heaven to sort out surplus
army materials and gather them in
central areas ready for auction to Terri-
torians.
But the stable door has been locked
long after the horse has bolted. One plan-
tation only was partially cleared by Jap
labor —one out of nearly a hundred plan-
tations in the Gazelle Peninsula area of
New Britain! The average returning
planter finds his estate desolated, his home
destroyed, roads impassable and planta-
tions in most cases badly damaged.
Native labor is difficult to obtain, and
'Jap labor does not exist for the indi-
vidual.
Surely enough Japs should have been
retained in New Britain to clear planta-
tions, make roads, clean up and, if neces-
sary, reconstruct Rabaul. D. L. D.
(N.G.).


Leprosy in Australia
A recent decision by the Queensland
Government to appoint a research officer
for special work on leprosy is wise and
humane. Queensland has by far
the greatest number of white sufferers
from the disease among all States. In-
troduced originally by Chinese coming
to the north in early mining days it
spread widely among aboriginals. They
probably infected white families through
association with their children, and
centres still exist in scattered coastal areas
as far south as Brisbane.
That leprosy is not increasing among
whites is shown by figures over the last
half-century for cases in isolation. Nor
is it decreasing to any marked extent.
Except for a small area in northern N. S.
Wales it is not endemic among whites in
any other States, but its continued re-
appearance among Queensland children
in certain areas and families proves its
endemicity there, and the vital necessity
for measures of control. Some 49 white
persons are under treatment at the Peel
Island station in Moreton Bay, or on
parole from it.
Although the great majority of cases
appear first among children, leprosy is
not hereditary. Children removed at
birth from leprous parents and persons do
not develop the disease. But contact dur-
ing childhood carries much greater risk
of infection than at later ages, anc\,
generally the disease first appears at from
five to 15 years. Close and continued
contact is necessary even for that. Some
families appear to show a definite lack of
resistance, distributed apparently on Men-
delian lines. First occurrences after 30
are rare, however close the contact. The
grossly disfiguring nodular form of the
disease is considered to be 20 times more
infective than the nerve form in which
the specific bacteria are often difficult to
find.
No cure has yet been discovered, but
the disease may become arrested with or
without treatment. In white communities
segregation of all active cases is an essen-
tial measure for public safety. In sheerest
humanity the conditions of such control
must be made as congenial and comfort-
able as possible for the unfortunates who
have to endure it in the common interest.
Release on parole is safe after no leprosy
bacteria have been found for 15 months
and when periodical examination can be
ensured for at least five years. Of parole
cases in Queensland about one third die
and another third relapse within a few
years.
Among whites the Australian leprosy
problem is a relatively simple one.
Such is not the case among abos. In
north Queensland a leprosarium for
colored victims has been established at
Palm Island, north of Townsville. Wes-
tralia also has an offshore station for
abos. In the N.T. the disease is spread-
ing so alarmingly among abos. that the
Commonwealth Health Service is organis-
ing a system of medical patrols for the
detection and isolation of cases. A
modern leprosarium is to be built at Mel-
ville Island for their detention and treat-
ment as soon as conditions permit. In the
interests of future white settlement these
dre measures of vital national importance,
particularly with regard to children of
settlers who will come in close contact
with aboriginal domestics and workers
and their children. — Galenus (Q.).
Tipping
The practice of tipping increased enor-
mously in Australia during the war, and
it’s about time it was cut out. It’s only
right that those rolling in wealth should
disperse a little to the less fortunate, but
there are thousands of cases more de-
serving than the steward who draws a
fair weekly wage.
Australians are justifiably proud of the
fact that all employers are forced by law
to pay at least the basic wage to any
adult for any job. If a porter carries a
client’s luggage to a hotel room what has
the client to be grateful about? Hotel
charges are quite high enough for the
employers to take care of their em-
ployees, and they usually do.
The more rampant tipping becomes the
more difficult will it be for the traveller
of moderate means. At present we are
well ahead of countries like the U.S.A.
and Europe, where people are legally per-
mitted to take positions without fair pay.
The ultimate development of tipping is
seen in those great cities of the U.S.A.
where organised rings control the tips re-
ceived and prey on customers and
workers alike. — Traveller (Vic.).
Pearling
When, a few months ago, The Bulle-
tin published a contribution on the pos-
sibilities for ex-servicemen in the pearl-
ing industry, I grinned. The writer did
not have a very good knowledge of his
subject. All remaining traces of the grin
vanished when I read in “S. M. Herald”
of October 25 that, partly at my expense
as a taxpayer, Canberra had sent a
“mission” to seek “Japanese Pearl
Secrets.”
There is nothing secret about pearling.
The only requirements are (1) a reliable,
well-found lugger fitted with engine and
compressor; (2) three diving suits; (3)
provisions and fuel for, say, four weeks
and (4) the necessary skill, courage and
foolhardiness to risk one’s life on the
seabed entirely dependent on the relia-
bility of the line-tenders in the lugger
above.
The, last lugger built at Thursday
Island cost approximately £sboo. She was
the “H. 8.,” built by Bowdens. Plenty of
Torres Straits Islanders know the pearl-
beds well, as they formed 50 per cent,
of the crews of the T.I. luggers. The
Protector of Islanders’ luggers were com-
pletely Islander-manned.
That leaves only the fourth requirement.
The headstones in the T.I. cemetery bear
mute witness to the hazards of the in-
dustry. Unless the Canberra “mission”
can isolate, define, bring back to Aus-
tralia and implant in some Australian
minds the quality which makes the Jap-
enese perfect fatalists, its results will be
nil.
Cadzow of Bums Philp, Dunwoodie of
Bowdens, Hockings of Wanetta, and a
crowd of other T.I. inhabitants could tell
Canberra as much as the Japanese know
about the pearling industry. It would be
most interesting to know whether the
members of the “mission” are pearling
men.— Wavy N. (N.S.W.).
The Referendum
In a Bulletin leading article
(23/10/’46) it was stated that before the
referendum counting had proceeded very
far nearly 800,000 informal ballot papers
had to be discarded. I doubt, however,
whether that does add up to an “appalling
reflection” on the intelligence of a great
part of the population.
From my own observation I’d say that
considerably more than 800,000 were
simply not interested in the referendum
part of the election and consequently did
not care how they marked their
papers. Add to that number all those
who fluked marking the paper correctly,
while still not understanding what it was
all about, and you have a pretty picture
of democracy as it works in Australia.
If, however, The Bulletin is correct in
its statement that this huge proportion of
the electors is ignorant, careless and
oafish it might be worth while trying
what used to be the practice in India and
have the ballot papers printed in the
form of pictures. The Country-party
candidates could be depicted as, say, a
bull, the Labor candidates by a hammer
and sickle and the Liberals by the tra-
ditional glossy top-hat of the capitalist.
As for the referendum papers, an at-
tractive comic-strip could easily be de-
signed—these, of course, being thoroughly
understood by the Australian public.
—Ceg (Vic.).
Australian Writers
A glance through the Australian
Writers’ Market is a good pointer-to why
local scribes leave home. The book is
crammed with editors’ comments offer-
ing every enpouragement —except decent
monetary reward. Fewer than six Aus-
tralian journals pay anything like fair
rates; the “get-it-cheap” policy of the
remainder is neatly summed up by the
optimistic editress of a women’s maga-
zine: “As a guide to what we want see
the better-class American and British
magazines.” For this “better - class”
material she offers £1 per 1000 words.
The old excuse that comparatively
small circulations prohibit better pay-
ment is a thin one. No journal depends
on circulation for its income, and there
are at least six Canadian magazines with
small circulations paying £6 per 1000
words —unheard of here. High produc-
tion costs are no excuse, either. Surely
the author, on whom the very existence
of a magazine depends, should come first
among costs instead of being paid from
petty cash.
The Australian writer has the choice
of sweating out his work for a news-
boy’s pay or trying his luck abroad,
where, if markets are difficult to crash,
they at least offer payment which makes
the effort worth while. Another tempta-
tion to go is the status enjoyed by writers
abroad. In Australia the writer is almost
universally regarded as a character trying
to live without working. It all adds up
to the fact that capable writers leave the
country just as soon as they save enough
to travel steerage —and it takes years. But
it’s Australia’s loss. — Bondi Beachcomber
(N.S.W.).
In New Guinea
High prices are having widespread
effects in New Guinea among Europeans,
Asiatics and natives alike. Lack of ade-
quate supplies is exaggerating the posi-
tion. The native was fobbed off for a
while with the explanation that the price
of trade goods had risen because of the
disruption of war. That was true, but it
was used by a few traders as an excuse
to skyrocket prices beyond all reason-
able levels.
Now the native has come to accept the
inevitable aftermath of war, but he, too,
is capitalising on it. Six months ago
around Rabaul eggs could be bought in
native markets at three, or even four, for
a stick of trade tobacco. Tobacco was
then Bs. Bd. a pound. Now, with duty
added, it is 10s. lOd. a pound—and eggs
“Get a move on, Mary —you're expected to be useful as Well as
ornamental !”
are two for one stick. A basket of
tomatoes previously one stick of
tobacco or 4d. in cash —is now Is. Fowls
were bought for two tins of “bully” ;
now a full-grown cockerel will bring
from 10s. to £l.
During the August-Sepfember short-
age of fresh rations for civilians Asiatics
were willingly paying these prices. Army
messes, too, fell in line with the natives’
demands.
With trade goods some traders have
adopted an attitude towards the native
of “that’s the price, take it or leave it.”
Now the natives are following suit. One
trader drove 15 miles to buy a pig. He
was told that tha price was £25. The deal
did not come off, but this is typical of
present-day Rabaul.
More shipping is in sight for the New
Guinea run, and as supplies become more
regular conditions will gradually settle
down. Meantime, the cost of living and
of labor is at an all-time high. Black-
marketing is rife, as is traffic in stolen
goods. Perhaps some are being forced
into sharp practices by the muddle which
has arisen over the disposal of surplus
Army goods in Rabaul. As one old
Territorian remarked: “An honest man
could starve in Rabaul today.”— Nogat
(N.G.).
A Carrot and the Stick
Ever since Adam man has worked like
a donkey, either because a carrot has
been dangled in front of his nose or be-
cause a big stick was used to help him
on his way. The best results have usually
been obtained with a combination of
both.
It is painfully evident that no such con-
ditions prevail today. Government legis-
lation has eliminated the stick threat.
A worker need have no fear of unemploy-
ment because the Government ii.e., the
taxpayer) provides. The unions prevent
the employers rewarding tradesmen if
production is increased, and the Govern-
ment has pegged wages. Thus, with the
absence of both stick and carrot, is it
any wonder that the average worker re-
verts to his natural inclinations and works
only when it suits him?
Most experts agree that production is
the key that will unlock the shackles that
bind us to the present rationing, black-
marketing and similar evils. Under
present arrangements such a key will
never be found.
Incidentally, as evidence that the carrot
principle works, take the case of a brick-
layer I know. His wages are pegged,, so
during the week he averages about 350
to 400 bricks a day. On Saturday and
Sunday for a carrot of £6 he lays 1600
bricks.— Carrot (N.S.W.).
Principles
Dick and Harry, carpenter and brickie
respectively, are good fellows, good
unionists and good debaters. Sitting in
their single apartment lodging, they con-
vinced me that a working man could do
as much in six hours as in eightthat a
five-day week was necessary for health
and “culture” and that overtime was a
curse. Thev clearly proved that the hous-
ing shortage was not due to short hours
of labor.
Recently they secured possession of a
cottage needing extensive repairs to make
it habitable by themselves and their pros-
pective wives. For a fortnight they have
been on the job 10 hours a day, seven
days a week, flat-out.
Today I couldn’t help chipping them
about the change in their ideas. They
were quite sporting about it. They argued
cheerfully that it was an emergency, a
sprint against time, with two weddings
at the winning-post. They also agreed,
still cheerfully, that after the double cere-
mony they would revert to their old jobs
and their old union “principles,”
As I said, they are good debaters, but
I’m beginning to wonder if there isn’t
something wonky with their logic.— Pro
and Con (S.A.).
Gratuity Payments
Unlike many other ex-servicemen and
their families, we have a home, thanks to
nobody but ourselves. We bought it,
against the advice of all our friends and
relations, when Japan attacked Pearl
Harbor. I stayed alone in it with a young
baby when my husband went overseas
and when all my friends were selling-up
and going home to mother and suggesting
I should do likewise.
As no society would finance the pur-
chase of a house 13 miles from the city
we raised a mortgage at 6 per cent, for
•a five-year period. My husband, being
the considerate type, purchased in my
name with a view to saving unnecessary
worry should he fail to return.
He did return, however, and, the mort-
gage falling due this year, he applied to
have his gratuity credited against it. This
amount would have just cleared -the debt
and saved us the expense of having to re-
mortgage. However, despite the mort-
gagee’s application to be made an
approved lending body and the Gratuity
Office’s acceptance of the application we
are now informed that the money cannot
be paid against a mortgage on property
held in the sole name of the wife.
Neither my husband nor I own or have
any interest in any other property, and
yet his thoughtfulness in trying to pro-
tect me means he is debarred from par-
ticipating in an ex-serviceman’s “privi-
lege,” and must face the legal cost of re-
mortgaging. We cannot even find conso-
lation in the fact that the interest rate
will be lower, as it will still be higher
than what the Government intends to pay
on the gratuity.— Cass (Vic.).
Our Future Scientists
“Pilate” (B. 9 /10/’46) has not made
a proper appreciation of the risks in-
volved in bringing ex-enemy scientists to
Australia. The risks created by allowing
them to become Australian citizens in
leading scientific positions would be far
greater than that —which already exists —
of allowing their knowledge to become
available to a possible enemy.
Since the scientific achievements of our
own men have always proved superior in
the long run, would it not be wiser at
this stage to attract and train more of our
own countrymen for pure science
careers?
There is another aspect. If we employ
German scientists on comparatively low
salaries because they are now readily
available, are we not doing to a most
useful section of our citizens what we
would hardly dare to do to others? Were
it suggested that 5000 Germans of proved
physical ability should be brought to
Australia to work as wharfies on low
wages there would probably be a revo-
lution. —Screwball (W.A.).


BENEFITS EVERY DAY FROM THE
PRODUCTS OF THE STEEL INDUSTRY
i
B Jl
k
a '
:x
ucyt
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITE
m
Wa
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBQURNi
Offices also at Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane. London and Singapore*
Industrial drama is graphically por-
trayed in the above picture showing
molten iron being poured into an open
hearth furnace at The Broken Hill
Proprietary's Newcastle Steel Works.
The manufacture of steel provides em?
ployment opportunities for thousands
of workers, and its subsequent shaping,
transport and fashioning into the count-
less steel articles used in our daily life
helps fill the nation's pay envelopes.
