

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3446
Wednesday, February 27, 1946
Pries 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
ST. JOSEPH'S RETREAT, FROM WATERLOW PARK, HIGHGATE.
A NOTABLE London landmark in the days of Queen Victoria
was this monastery near Waterlow Park, Highgate. Known as
St. Joseph’s Retreat, this was, at that time, the chief English
monastery of the Passionist Fathers, a congregation founded in
1737 by Paul of the Cross and formally approved by the Pope in
1741. The special work of the order is to conduct missions and
retreats and to perform parochial work when required by the
bishop. The Passionist Fathers came to Britain in 1841, and the
order has nine houses there, of which St. Joseph’s Retreat is still
headquarters. This edifice was opened in 1876 by Cardinal
Manning, who, by the way, founded the London congregation of
the Oblates of St. Charles at Bayswater, and who was buried under
the high altar in Westminster Cathedral. The handsome chapel
at St. Joseph’s was opened in 1891, and the grouped buil(|ings
together form a familiar sight in a position both convenient and
commanding.


Writing
at HOmF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit •*
advertised tn the Sydney '‘Bulletin.**
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246 AGE
The Red Page
SALT WATER MEN.
The jangling of an automatic fire-
alarm, just at the moment when one has
opened Monsieur Marin-Marie’s Wind
Aloft, Wind Alow (Peter Davies, Ltd.) at
a chapter entitled “Heavy Weather,”
reminds one a little too forcibly that
Sydney in February is an outer suburb
of the sun. Perhaps The Bulletin build-
ing is not on fire —the machine has
merely, like a cicada, burst spontaneously
into its abominable song—but the city
is quite hot enough to bring to
mind that ominous story of Marjorie
Barnard’s in the first Coast to Coast in
which she imagined the whole continent
drying and withering and the last surviv-
ing inhabitants stumbling to the sea for
comfort. *
M. Marin-Marie serves a noble pur-
pose on a day so intolerable. You can
climb into the little boat in which, single-
handed, he crossed the Atlantic, and cool
yourself in great waters;
From the crests you see an ocean of
foam; from time to time the top of a huge
wave topples over and bursts into an un-
forgettable cloud of spray, shot with pink
in the early light. Facing the wind it is
difficult to open your eyes.
Still more striking are the extraordinary
patches of indescribable green, “electric
green” as I always call it, which appear
on the slopes of the larger waves, those
which break or at least try to break, before
they are decapitated by the fury of the
wind. This is an “effect” which marine
painters find it almost impossible to repro-
duce, as it is essentially luminous; not that
there are many who have really seen it.
Some of Marin-Marie’s own water-
colors are reproduced in black-and-white
in this autobiography, and it is amusing to
learn that, after all the excitement about
“modernism” in French art, this official
painter to the French Ministry of Marine
is almost “academic” in his accuracy—
the sea looks like the sea in thenij and
ships look like ships. Marin-Marie is one
painter, at any rate, who has really seen
his subject-matter. In fact, in his little
boat, he has ski-ed on it:
Normally in this sort of weather a small
boat can make no headway. She usually
lies with the wind on the beam, and when
I speak of “slide” I mean she first climbs
sideways towards the crest, where more
often than not she gets nearly knocked
down; then comes a dizzy drop down the
far slope, still sideways. I have seen slides
of this kind which literally resembled a
downward rush on skis, powdered snow,
tracks and all; only instead of a man’s
weight what is slithering down is a displace-
ment of ten or twenty tons, and I can assure
you the effect is impressive.
When there is so much pleasure to be
drawn merely from the contemplation of
such large quantities of salt water, it is
good to discover in “Standby’s” Little
Known of These Waters (Dymock’s) that
Australian writing can be quite as satis-
fyingly damp as French. Most of the
short stories in Little Known of These
Waters were first published in The Bul-
letin, and “Standby” improved with
every contribution he sent in. Like
Marin-Marie, he has “really seen” what
he is writing about:
It was a day to gladden the heart of any
sailor. The vivid blue sea, its surface
scarcely ruffled by the light easterly breeze,
sparkled merrily in the warm morning sun-
light. At the Sung Tong’s foremast the
signal flags, flapping lazily round their hal-
yards, stood out in bright contrast to the
cloudless sky. Higher up a flock of snowy-
breasted gulls dived and wheeled in a
noisy effort to dislodge one of their party
from his position of vantage on the mast
truck. The noise of their quarrelling
seemed only to emphasise the peace of the
morning. On the fo’castle head the old
bosun swung the lead and lifted up his
voice to the bridge in a monotonous “Six
’n’ a ’arf. Still six ’n’ a ’arf.” Standing
close by him the mate was sipping a large
mug of tea and keeping one eye on the
lead line and one on the approaching pilot
launch.
One is aboard the Sung Tong with
“Standby,” just as one is aboard the
Winnibelle with Marin-Marie. There
are other occasions in Little Known of
These Waters when one is, as it were,
partly on board ship, and partly left
behind in Sydney:
By midnight all hands knew that the
Wydea was doomed. The chief engineer
and the mate had finished their inspection
and made their reports to the Master. The
vessel had struck the rocky ledge and
ridden right up on it to just for’ard of the
bridge, ripping her bottom plates out as
she went. The soundings under the stern
showed seven fathoms. Even in the light
swell that was running, her after part was
working and groaning loudly with each
small lift of die sea. There was no doubt
that, should any sort of sea get up, she
would break her back and possibly break
in halves.
How grateful one is for that phrase
“working and groaning”! For that is
the only moment of life in the
whole paragraph. What a chance for
description “Standby” has missed here,
with the wrecked ship on the ledge below
the cliff and the engineer and the mate
“inspecting” the whole scene at mid-
night ! One might contrast the para-
graph with a little “inspection” by Conrad
—when Jukes in Typhoon has gone be-
low to see how the mad Chinese coolies
are weathering the crisis:
Jukes convulsively opened the door. The
short boatswain peered under his arm.
One of the lamps had gone out, broken
perhaps. Rancorous, guttural cries burst*
out loudly dn. their ears, and a strange
panting sound, the working of all these
straining breasts. A hard blow hit the
side of the ship: water fell with a stunning
shock, and in the forefront of the gloom,
where the air was reddish and thick, Jukes
saw a head bang on the deck violently, two
thick calves waving on high, muscular
arms twined round a naked body, a yellow
face, open-mouthed and with a set, wild
stare, look up and slide- away. An empty
chest clattered turning oyer ; a man fell
head first with a jump, as if lifted by a
kick; and farther off, indistinct, others
streamed like a mass of rolling stones down
a bank, thumping the deck with their feet
and flourishing their arms wildly. The
hatchway ladder was loaded with coolies
swarming on it like bees on a branch.
They hung on the steps in a crawling,
stirring cluster, beating madly with their
fists the underside of the battened hatch,
and the headlong rush of the water above
was heard in the intervals of their yelling.
The ship heeled over more, and they began
to drop off; first one, then two, then all
the rest went away together, falling straight
off with a great cry.
Jukes was confounded. The boatswain,
with gruff anxiety, begged him, “Don’t you
go in there, sir.”
Allowing for the greater drama that,
in this instance —the Wydea carried no
demented pack of coolies—was not avail-
able to the Australian writer, and admit-
ting that “Standby” can describe the sea
when he remembers to, the passage from
Conrad is obviously far the more vivid
of the two. It is even possible, one fears,
that “Standby” would merely have re-
corded “Jukes and the boatswain in-
spected the Chinese coolies.”
The difference, essentially, is that Con-
rad has “taken pains” over his prose. In
a volume recently added to Everyman’s
Library, containing those three master-
pieces The Nigger of the Narcissus,
Typhoon and The Shadow Line, there is
reprinted one of the finest statements ever
made on the methods and purposes of
great art —Conrad’s analysis of his own
superb contribution to English prose;
which says, in part:
Fiction —if it aspires to be art—appeals to
temperament. And in truth it must be, like
painting, like music, like all art, the appeal
of one temperament to all the innumerable
other temperaments, whose subtle and re-
sistless power endows passing events with
their true meaning, and creates the moral,
the emotional atmosphere of the place and
time. Such an appeal to be effective must
be an impression conveyed through the
senses; and, in fact, it cannot be made
in any other way, because temperament’,
whether individual or collective, is not
amenable to persuasion.
All art, therefore, appeals primarily to the
senses, and the artistic aim when expressing
itself in written words must also make its
appeal through the senses, if its high desire
is to reach the secret spring of responsive
emotions. It must strenuously aspire to
the plasticity of sculpture, to the color of
painting and to the magic suggestiveness
of music—which is the art of arts. And it
is only through complete, unswerving devo-
tion to the perfect blending of form and
substance; it is only through an unremit-
ting, never-discouraged care for the shape
and ring of sentences that an approach can
be made to plasticity, to color, and that
the light of magic suggestiveness may be
brought to play for an evanescent instant
over the commonplace surface of words:
of the old, old words, worn thin, defaced
by ages of careless usage.
The sincere endeavor to accomplish that
creative task, to go as far on that road as
his strength will carry him, to go undeterred
by faltering, weariness or reproach, is the
only valid justification for the worker in
prose. And if his conscience is clear, his
answer to those who in the fullness of a
wisdom which looks for immediate profit,
demand specifically to be edified, consoled,
amused; who demand to be promptly im-
proved, or encouraged, or frightened, or
shocked, or charmed, must run thus: My
task which I am trying to achieve is, by
the power of the written word, to make you
hear, to make you feel —it is, before all,
to make you see. That —and no more,
and it is everything. If I succeed, you shall
find there according to your deserts: en-
couragement, consolation, fear, charm —all
you demand —and, perhaps, also 1 that
glimpse of truth for which you have for-
gotten to ask.
Well, it is in this way that sea-water is
made wet. It is not asked —though the
great achievement must remain as the
criterion —that every writer should be a
Conrad, but only that he should “go as
far on that road as his strength will
carry him.”
Most of the faults of “Standby’s”
writing are, as he demonstrates when at
his best, easily remediable. For instance
(it is astonishing how slight a carelessness
can damage a whole story), one of his
major failings is a reluctance, when
attempting to describe both ships and
the sea, to use adjectives of color.
There are occasional faults of grammar.
And whether it is his or his publishers’
lapse, the spelling throughout the book
of “whose” as “who’s” and “its” (the
possessive pronoun) as “it’s” gives an un-
fortunate impression of inefficiency.
Again, there is the use of cliches:
usually, the cliches of his profession.
Three times in his introduction, for in-
stance, “Standby” remarks that the Aus-
tralians who sailed the small ships up to
New Guinea “did a splendid job.” In-
stead of a description of the weather, we
are offered the information that “visi-
bility was nil.” “The father of all
waves” is submitted as an adequate de-
scription of a gigantic wave. A ship’s
boy is “bursting with pride” . . . small
boys, “Standby” should have reminded
himself, burst all too rarely.
As there is hackneyed language, so
there is, sometimes, what might be de-
scribed as a hackneyed point of view.
In “Here Comes the Bride,” for instance,
told from a long distance with a sort of
hearty jocularity, the bride is never de-
scribed, nor does “Standby” appear to
have given the slightest consideration to
the problem of why a charming barmaid
—being newly married to someone not
of a ship’s company —should arouse a
crew to raucous mirth and rage. If one
imagines what a carnival of amorous
frivolity De Maupassant would have
made of this incident, it immediately be-
comes apparent that the extraordinary
timidity of sailors where women are con-
cerned —from which even Conrad suffered
—has made the author view the scene as
guilelessly as do the men he is writing
about.
Nevertheless, this is by no means alto-
gether a disadvantage to “Standby’s”
stories, that he should write as a seaman.
“It is not so much the great talent
as the great soul that makes the
great writer,” said Macneile Dixon, pon-
dering on the little faults and the great
virtues of Scott:
With us, pity for ourselves, pity for our
neighbors, has drowned all other virtues.
But the sorrows of the world are not new
sorrows, and men before our time have en-
dured them. More even than his talents, I
admire in Scott the iron in his soul, the
“No surrender” resolution. He is of the
noble army in whose company we experi-
ence a lifting, not a sinking, of the heart.
Making due allowances for scale —a
book of short stories against the vast out-
put of Scott —the same tribute must be
paid to Little Known of These Waters.
“Standby” writes about men, and writes
like a man. And one does not read sea-
stories only to sink into cool waters, but
to experience “a lifting of the heart.”
Once in the Winnibelle and once in a
motor-boat, Marin-Marie crossed the
Atlantic single-handed: one’s heart cer-
tainly does not sink on reading the record
of these magnificent adventures. “Stand-
by” describes Australian seamen facing,
in craft barely seaworthy, all the dangers
of storm and warfare in the (then) prac-
tically uncharted waters of the North,
and he makes one very glad that such
men have found a chronicler,
Marin-Marie; a good deal of whose
book amounts to a manual for yachts-
men, hardly “aspires to art,” so that it
would be inappropriate to discuss his
faults of style and construction —not all
due to the translation from the French.
The book will delight yachtsmen, and
is a pleasant bit of general reading. But
Little Known of These Waters does
aspire to art. If “Standby” can do as
well as this, he will have to sail under
Conrad’s orders, for, of course, a writer
should have both the “great soul” and
the great talent. And, in spite of his
faults, he has already done so well that
“Jellicoe,” “The Voice of a Ship,” “A
Matter of Loyalty” and “Too Late”
would please Conrad himself.
Quite apart from their interest as
“documentary” writing on the war, these
stories should make a place for
“Standby” among Australian short-story
writers of the day. Here as overseas the
average experimental effort is too much
concerned with the sickness of little souls
—there is something hysterical and un-
manly about the whole “modernist”
movement in art and letters; and the
better sort of Australian work is almost
exclusively concerned with the bush.
Both categories could do with a dash of
salt water, just as assuredly as Sydney,
at the moment of writing, could do with
a southerly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It mightn’t be altogether fair
to Alfred Hill to say so, but I really
liked best at his concert at Sydney Town
Hall the “War Song of Tu-Whare-Toa,”
excellently sung by Harold Williams. It’s
a splendidly colorful and dashing thing,
unmistakably both Maori and a war song.
I’ye heard Alfred Hill’s Maori music
criticised on two grounds—that the
original tunes weren’t Polynesian but
Maori versions of European melodies;
and that, if they were Maori, Mr, Hill has
“doctored” them too much. Which seems
to me rather like complaining that Shak-
speare borrowed some of his plots from
Plutarch, and immensely improved the
telling of them ; a charge not worth mak-
ing. The truth is, Mr. Hill did go direct
to the old Maoris for most of his tunes;
and if he has improved on them that’s
all to his credit. He will be the source
for a distinctively New Zealand music in
the future, just as James Cowan will be
the mine for Maoriland novelists and
playwrights to quarry, or as Paterson and
the balladists will be the great supply-
centres of Australian poetry. And Mr.
Hill is, of course, more than a historian
or a pioneer; he is an accomplished
musician in his own right. Precisely
where he ranks as such is not easy to say,
after one concert. “The Lost Hunter,” a
symphonic poem, was charming, romantic
and slight. The concerto for viola and
orchestra had some fine lyrical passages
and was distinguished by the third move-
ment and by the playing of the soloist,
Blodwen Hill. The E-flat symphony
“Life,” using orchestra, choir, organ,
soloist and piano, was probably over-
ambitious ; even Beethoven would have
done better to have left the voices out
of the “Ninth.” One would like to hear
Mr. Hill full-out on a theme deriving
from the Maoris.
Sub-titled “Aboriginal Cartoon Fun”
Eric Jolliffe’s Corroboree (a booklet of
joke-blocks published by the artist) gives
a more effective impression of outback
flora and fauna than does an exhibition
of watercolors by Rupert Kathner at
Murdoch’s Gallery, Sydney, labelled
“The Heart of Australia.” True, Mr.
Jolliffe intends only to amuse, but he can
indicate a sweep of plain or ragged hills
with a few carefree strokes, and, though
he may be suspected of glamorising the
ladies, his abos. look a lot more like the
indigenous inhabitants of this continent
than does the gin, for instance, in Mr.
Kathner’s “Swimming Hole, Arriconga”
who stands pointing with astonishment—
as well she might—at a native sitting in
mid-air. Mr. Kathner can paint a nice
soft sky, and the house of “Bolt’s Home-
stead” has an appropriately sombre and
ramshackle charm ; but generally one
aware only of crude washes of red and
blue and unsatisfactory drawing. The ghost
gums have a peculiar, pneumatic look, as
if they were made of cork; the animals of
Glen Helen Gorge might be anything
from swine to reindeer. Lacking the
subtlety of Heysen or Namatjira, the
pictures at their best are interesting
souvenirs of a difficult country.
At the talkies:
“The Woman in the Window” (Hoyts’, Mel-
bourne): Another film exploiting Freudian
theories. Edward G. Robinson, excellent as a
professor who lectures on homicide from a
Freudian viewpoint, is tempted—his wife being
on holidays— to an evening’s bachelor naughti-
ness. Instead, he goes to sleep at his club and
has a dream —presented in the film as reality-
in which his wished-for escapade involves him in
blackmail and two murders. When he wakes up
and goes home he is accosted by a streetgirl
and, naturally, runs for his life. Thus what
was on the surface no more than a well-told
thriller becomes an intelligent essay on dream
symbols.
“Janie” (Sydney Mayfair): The ’teen-age
problem, hilariously treated.
“Pillow to Post” (Sydney Empire): A snappy
comedy based on the housing shortage, with a
pair of alleged honeymooners.
“The Naughty ’Nineties” (Sydney Capitol):
An Abbott-Costello burlesque on the Show
Boat type of melodrama. Bright slapstick situ-
ations and backchat.
“This Happy Breed” (Sydney Esquire): Noel
Coward has turned out his best screen work-
street's ahead of “Cavalcade” —with this study
of a Cockney family between the close of the
first World War and the opening of the second.
The family scenes are captivatingly true, the
humor has a distinct edge to it and tragedy,
when it intervenes, is treated as it should be
treated. There is no “star” but —what is
better—a first-class team of actors.
The National Theatre in Melbourne is
a pleasantly • proportioned playhouse
which would be all the better for the re-
moval of the feeble frescoes by young
artists of scenes from Shakspeare. It
celebrated its tenth year of existence with
an excellent production of Shaw’s
domestic comedy, “You Never Can Tell,”
for an extended season. The play was
lively and most of the humor was far
from dated, while the acting of Les Mat-
thews, Eric Young, Claude Thomas, Peter
French, Albert Beynon, Moira Carleton,
June Jago and Robin Mackay was out-
standing.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
:
ft
•s.
il\\\
t £
Isaak 3
m
There’s, a Little Gadget invented by an Australian that will roil away
troubles
It’s called the “SKIN-CLOW ’ ROLLER.
It rolls away Headaches, Facial Wrinkles, even Bruises and Sprains.
Its application is ice-cold, refreshingly exhilarating!
DO TRY IT!
The “Skin-Clow” Roller is exclusive to Anthony Horderns’ and is f
sold in our Perfumery Department, Pitt Street Ground Floor, at 27/6 |
: ........ TVY'---:
AM*
mi \
And
dacbo
m' sS
hca
can
ropW
cb
su
He
has
HubbV
mo'
daV
Mon
rh
w o
■i
it
M i
K
m
wmi
i
/
war
9,
7%i I
%
w
'
iM
Zf \ 5 I
Hi
..•••• ••
• ■
'
di ' 3
m $
mm
/
i
u
I
m
r O/l
2s
*V
'ffl
th
n ut
Oly
Sk
7*
Os
•m
■ ■
: ■
O//
*
r
e/-
7
i
■*:
\
52t
■flHI
=2
7
A
O
I H
%
■V V
> >;
m
V7
m
She’s off to a Dance. Naturally
she wants to look her very best.
So she carefully creams her deli-
cate skin with a good massage
cream. Then out comes the
“ Skin - Clew ” Roller. Result;
Radiant Loveliness!
X
V : ...
■I
Ifc-i
\
V
W /
/ j
—- the headache. I
Home again! How with your
::„ss=ss. ; y__J
m w r
w
* ,
.
iiiii
. n , A .
4 h
i t'J €|K i u ** v i
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £46,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £51,000,000


The Bulletin
Vol. 67 —No. 3446
Wednesday, February 27, 1946
THE MOUNTIE GETS HIS—RAT.
“The Royal Canadian Mounted Police are rounding up a Communist spy ring, and, with blustering admissions of complicity, Moscow is venomously attacking the
Mackenzie King Government.”
“Say, stranger, the shortest way with vermin is the best way.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man
D . ~
H. K. Prior" °" ! J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam.
.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria:. Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Queensland : %?'aMc,T tree,. Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street , Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London: 1 H £™ nd F J aC g’ c % 7 Fleet Street ’
U.N.O.'s FIRST FLING.
Throwing superstition to the winds, the
General Assembly of the United Nations
Organisation—sl delegations in all —
gathered for the inaugural meeting in the
Central Hall, Westminster, on January
10, 26 years to the day from the formal
launching of the League of Nations.
Not all delegation members were yet
present, Mr. Makin, Australia’s belated
choice, was yet to get there breathlessly
by ’plane. Mr. Vishinsky had still to leave
Moscow, for a more leisurely and rather
obscure journey across Europe, via
Berlin. But enough were there to make
a most representative and appropriate
audience for the words in which the King
at a State banquet sought to set up a
guiding ideal;
The outstanding feature of membership
of U.N.O. is service—not selfish defence
of mere national interests, but service to
the whole community of nations. Here is
the prime motive power which must in-
spire all the actions of U.N.0., enabling
the approach to every difficulty to be made
in a spirit of co-operation, understand-
ing and goodwill... .All these tasks cannot
be accomplished unless we exercise
comprehension, patience and tolerance,
one with another. I pray that these quali-
ties may be granted us.
Words could hardly have struck a
higher note, but, as it was to turn out,
none could have been less prophetic. The
correspondent Paul McGuire reported that
delegates were “noticeably on edge at the
prospects.” He could find none of the
“dewy-eyed optimism that distinguished
the first days of the League.”
That ill-fated forerunner —or prototype
—of what was about to be set up attended
like a ghost at the feast. It came there
from the empty halls of the vast palace
at Geneva, from the thousand battlefields,
from the hearths of millions fighting their
losing war against famine and pestilence
in many countries. It hovered about Mr.
Attlee, making his opening address to the
Assembly, and he tried valiantly to shrug
it off. In the days of rosy expectation
in the League that body was upheld as
“the cornerstone of our foreign policy.”
“U.N.O. must become the overriding
factor in foreign policy,” Mr. Attlee de-
clared.
The Assembly settled down to business,
its members affirming a determination “to
save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war” and to establish condi-
tions under which respect for treaties and
for international law could be maintained.
There were various minor procedural
matters to be first dealt with. Even be-
fore they had been disposed of Mr. Noel-
Baker, of the British delegation, was on
his feet: “I appeal to delegates not to
allow their worst passions to take charge
while urgent business is awaiting con-
sideration.”
Also on that ominous first day the
Russian delegation received the fore-
runner of its succession of rebuffs. The
issue was, like the others similarly
brought up, mere fustian: whether the
election of president should be by secret
ballot or by acclamation. After Mr.
Manuilsky and Mr. Gromyko had argued
for acclamation, the acting-president, Dr.
Zuleta Angel, declared that he was going
to stick to the rules, or words to that
effect; and the secret ballot had it. Soviet
setback No. 2 followed immediately. At
the last minute Moscow had nominated
M. Trygve Lie, of Norway (subsequently
appointed secretary-general), but when
the vote was counted Belgium’s Foreign
Minister, M. Paul-Henri Spaak, had the
presidency by 28 to 23.
On January 12 Australia entered the
limelight—but only just, being elected to
one of the non-permanent seats on the
Security Council, after Brazil, Egypt,
Mexico, Poland and the Netherlands had
been elected, and after Canada, sub-
'• sequent to two indecisive ballots in
which the two Dominions were the can-
didates, had kindly withdrawn, “Evidence
of worldwide appreciation of Australia's
war effort,” commented Dr, Evatt. World-
wide appreciation of the war efforts of
Mexico and Egypt must have been greater
still.
Back at the Assembly, N.Z. Prime
Minister Fraser, already showing out as
the strongest delegate from these parts,
was emphasising the necessity of such
representation of the South and South-
west Pacific (so very narrowly secured)
and expressing hopes for a continuation
of it. The Australian term on the
Security Council, with the terms of Brazil
and Poland, is for two years (the other
non-permanents being there for one year),
so it gives time to see how the whole
concern is going to work out.
In due course Mr. Makin, having got
there in boneshaking time, became first
Security Council chairman ; but even Dr.
Evatt could not get excited about this, it
being wholly by benefit of the alphabet.
Mr. Fraser was heard again when,
on January 15, the Soviet delegation
sponsored a request that the World
Federation of Trade-Unions, a body
of dubious antecedents and authority,
should be represented on the Assembly
in a consultative capacity. Said Mr.
Fraser caustically “The basis of U.N.O.
is representation of countries, not organi-
sations, national or international.”
Eventually, after many days of dust and
heat about other matters, admission of the
W.F.T.U. was permitted, though on terms
which must have made the sponsors wish
they hadn’t tried to be so clever, the
strongly anti-Soviet American Federation
of Labor being allowed in on the same
terms, after Senator Connally, who put
forward the A.F.L. in counter to the
Soviet scheme, had said (or shouted):
am not deaf and blind If the com-
mittee thinks it can run roughshod over
everybody except a little group that seems
to be controlling things here, it is going
to have another think.”
Meanwhile (on January 16) the Persian
delegation let off what all present in-
stantly recognised as the first real hunger
of the meeting. Persia was tired of hav-
ing foreign troops on its soil, particu-
larly the Russian troops helping the
northern province of Azerbaijan to cut
loose and. become yet another territorial
addition to the U.S.S.R. Persia pro-
posed asking for the withdrawal of all
foreign troops before the date that had
been set down, March 2.
As if instinctively aware that something
concerning territorial claims might be
cooking just then, Mr. Truman in distant
Washington on the same day announced
his country’s intention of being sole
trustee of all Jap.-owned Pacific islands
conquered by American forces and con-
sidered vital to American security. Mr.
Bevin next day announced that Britain
intended to enter into negotiations for
placing Tanganyika, the Cameroons and
Togoland under the trusteeship system,
and would establish Transjordan as a
sovereign independent State, Palestine,
he said, would have to await the outcome
of the Anglo-American committee’s in-
quiry. Both Mr. Truman and Mr. Bevin
spoke with the air of serving “stand off”
notices to some one or other.
Apart from a statement by Mr.
Gromyko that “U.N.O. was designed to
protect the interests of big and small
States against aggression,” which fell
singularly flat for such a good joke,
nothing of note happened till January 20,
when the Persian delegation carried out
its threat to lay its troubles before the
Security Council. This led to much
quavering at the thought that Russia
might consequently “walk out”; a mis-
placed fear, since Russia was to experi-
ence further defeat after defeat and
accept much severe earbashing without
once looking like reaching for its atom-
less hat. Moreover, the next day the
Persian Premier and Cabinet were to re-
sign.
That was not the end of the matter, but
it was clearly a beginning. Then, a day
later, Russia brought forward its alleged
apprehensions regarding the presence of
British troops in Greece and Indonesia,
and the smell of red herrings smote the
nostrils of all present. In Athens the
Greek P.M. testified that the British forces
were in Greece with the full consent
of the Greek Government and were
“earnestly collaborating in maintaining
order.” In Batavia Sutan Sjahrir de-
clared that, “if the Russians did not
mind,” the Indonesians would prefer the
British to stay on till the Japs were all
booted out. After a few days he tried to
water down the declaration, without
effect.
Thereupon, till January 30, when the
Persian business was passed out, with a
resolution leaving it to Persia to make
what it could for itself of two-party nego-
tiations, most of the Assembly’s time was
taken up with Russian attempts to side-
track it from taking action of any sort
regarding Persia ; hence even the shelv-
ing resolution was another Russian rebuff.
An Atomic Energy Commission (Security
Council, plus Canada) had also mean-
while been set up.
Mr. Bevin, now rapidly emerging as the
dominant member of the Assembly, had
already declared himself “tired of the
charges made by Russia both in the
Assembly and in private,” and had in-
sisted on a “clean bill” for Britain on the
Greek and Indonesian charges. Instead
of the “clean bill” he was given a pass-
able substitute, U.N.O. being all for
compromise on any awkward issue. But
the clumsy Soviet manoeuvring enabled
the Foreign Secretary to lash out memor-
ably at Communist fifth-columnists in all
lands, first reminding the Soviet dele-
gates that there was a treaty of friend-
ship between Britain and Russia. Before
he had finished mauling them the Soviet
delegates were struggling to get out with
what face they could, ending up by being
forced back on invoking the veto power
to avoid a crushing defeat. As it was,
eight of the 11 members of the Council
had, in the course of hours of heated de-
bate, vindicated Mn Bevin’s argument
that the presence of British troops in
Greece was not endangering world
security but ensuring it.
There was more vindication for Britain
by the time the Soviet request for a
commission of inquiry in Indonesia came
up on February 13 (the Assembly having
meanwhile elected the World Court, on
which Australia missed a place). As
with the Greek fiasco, the Soviet manipu-
lators were scratching for a way out
long before the end of the Indonesian
discussions, it being quite evident that
they hadn’t a bolter’s chance of success.
Forced to the vote, they had to stand
alone with only their puppet State of
Poland in support.
So ended a brace of the clumsiest
manoeuvres ever attempted by supposedly
clever diplomats, their only possible satis-
faction being in the truism long appreci-
ated in legalistic dealings that if enough
mud can be thrown sbme of it is sure to
stick.
More of it was thrown by the same
poor marksmen at the same chosen target
when, nearing the end of the proceedings
or hostilities, the last of the mottled
“complaints” came up for airing. The
delegation from Syria and Lebanon ob-
jected to the presence of French and
British troops in the Levant. They were
supported by Russia, which is trying to
make the best of the two hostile Middle
East worlds, Arab and Jew ; but it was
noted that Mr. VTshinsky “seemed less
interested in arraigning France than the
British”—naturally; that appears to be
what he was there for. A settlement was
reached and was about to be announced
by Mr. Makin when Mr. Vishinsky once
more had resort to the veto. On a virtual
motion of confidence sponsored by
America, with Britain and France abstain-
ing, there had been seven votes for the
resolution against the one solitary Soviet
vote.
Though the muckslinging at Britain
was not yet quite finished —a trumped-
up Yugoslav complaint about an alleged
menace of Polish troops in Italy having
still to come up, and to be as easily dis-
posed of as the other vicious charges—
the first meeting of U.N.O. was over.
“Through frank discussion of national
viewpoints,” Mr. Attlee then said of it,
“we have created a feeling of comrade-
ship in a great adventure.” The new
secretary-general took a more sober
view.: “The peace and wellbeing of
mankind will depend on our will to co-
operate in solving the formidable political
and economic problems facing the
world.”
At any rate, it all ended without any-
one asking anyone else outside, though
it may be doubted if a solitary member
of all the delegations went home feeling
that it was time to scrap his country’s
defences and leave all that sort of thing
to U.N.O.
Universal Service.
Both the Liberal and Country party
platforms include as their main defence
plank the restoration of universal mili-
tary training. If the community is as
conscienceless as its present Government,
the decision will cost the Opposition
parties votes, but that is a risk that
must be taken by any party that
puts the ultimate good of the country
before catchpenny electioneering stunts.
Had the U.A.P. had the courage to bring
back compulsory training after it had
been Scullinated, the outbreak of war
would have found Australia infinitely
better prepared. Next time there may
be no protective screen of time and
distance behind which to train our forces.
The Government has so far produced
no definite long-range plan for Australia’s
defence. A call has been made for short-
term volunteers for service in Japan and
the Islands, and there seems to be every
indication of an intention to follow the
instruction of the A.L.P. conference and
rely on a permanent army recruited on a
volunteer basis. It is.inconsistent that a
party which believes in compulsory edu-
cation, compulsory voting and compulsory
unionism should consider national defence
a matter for volunteers. It is ludicrous
that the same opinion should be held by a
Cabinet not one of whose Australian-born
members saw service in World War I.
Has the Government sought the advice
of its Service chiefs on the volunteer
permanent army? It cannot be con-
tended that a permanent force adequate
for the country’s complete defence in the
event of war can be raised and main-
tained, and it is very doubtful whether
the volunteer system could build up even
a small force of a couple of divisions
to be sacrificed in emergency to buy time
for their tardy brothers to prepare.
In prewar days the volunteer militia
was always below strength. And it had not
then to compete with an expanded Navy
and an Air Force which can offer
adventurous youth a glamor and excite-
ment no peace-time army can hope to
equal.
During the war many soldiers felt that
the attitude of the Government towards
them was that they were a necessary evil,
needed to fire the ammunition made by
repeatedly extolled munition workers at
war-time rates of wages, loaded by
wharfies at “dangerous cargo” rates
and brought to them by seamen
receiving 25 p.c. to 50 p.c. “war-
time loading” (and still receiving it six
months after the Jap surrender). Is it
from among these ex-soldiers that the
Government expects to get its volunteers?
Or from the munition workers or
wharfies or seamen? Mr. Calwell once
referred to many of the men of the
2nd A.I.F. —the raising of which he
opposed—as “industrial conscripts.”
Perhaps his Government hope's that from
the ranks of the unemployed will come
sufficient industrial conscripts to fill its
volunteer army and thus save it from
having to use that horrible word com-
pulsion.
Half the discontent the Government is
now having to cope with among garrison
troops in the Islands would have been
avoided had it not been in such an un-
seemly haste to celebrate V.-P. day by
abandoning (“suspending” was only a
euphemism) the call-up of 18-year-olders.
By now a batch of these lads would have
been sufficiently trained to take their
part in garrison duty, and would be fresh
and keen enough to make light of a job
that has become a grudging burden to
others, disillusioned by broken promises
and a points system which makes no dis-
tinction between a draft-dodger and a
young veteran of two campaigns.
The call-up should be reintroduced
forthwith as the backbone of the
Defence system, and all parties should
agree to regard it as such —it was so
regarded by all parties until the anti-
Conscription “victories” of 1916-17—and
not to make its retention or rejection a
vote-catching bribe for the don’t-send-
my-little-Alfie school of thoughtlessness.
And the call-up should be universal;
no reserved occupations or professions.
A medical student can spend most of his
Army term in a- R.A.P., clearing station
or hospital and be ultimately a better
doctor for the humanising experience;
an engineering student can similarly get
down to first principles in a construction
company or a field park ; all trades can be
provided for in an army that becomes
more technical every year. While doing
their training and forming part of the
country’s defensive forces young men
could be fitting themselves for their civil
career, and an Army Education Service
would be doing a first-rate job for Aus-
tralia if it could reawaken in 18-year-
old youths the desire to learn, which in
most cases died before they left school.
No system of national defence could
be more inequitable than the voluntary
system; none more calculated to place
a premium on selfishness. And no system
could be more democratic than universal
service. It might be thought then that a
party which professes to believe in
equality of sacrifice and equality of op-
portunity would be eager to espouse a
system that accords so well with its ideals.
But Australian Labor, though it has
forgotten Pozieres, Passchendaele, Mont
St. Quentin, the Hindenburg Line and the
Esdraelon Plain, can’t forget the Conscrip-
tion campaigns and the “No” votes.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bulldog at Bay.
And a game dog, too;
Among the peoples of the Dominions, except
in quarters where ancient animosities, racial
and sectional, still lurk, inspiring or giving a
mean twist to policy, the. bearing of the British
people, beset by trials, difficulties and dangers,
engenders pride touched with pity.
They are war-worn after their tremendous
struggle with the Axis, during a whole dreadful
year of which, when the “ Angel of Death
hovered over every home, from palace to cot-
tage, they stood alone against Germany and
Italy. They are hungry for the food they had
before the war, yet are sharing their poor
rations with peoples in a worse plight, even the
enemies who destroyed the flower of their
ndtion and desolated their country. They are
ill-housed because millions of their decent
homes were wrecked or damaged by bombs and
rockets, which ruined also many of their
churches, warehouses and factories. They have
lost most of their overseas investments, and
their other principal means of existence, the
export and shipping trades, have to be restored
from wreckage. Their lend-lease imports are
gone, and the prospect of an American loan at
interest is doubtful. And, with the resurgence
of American isolationism, their “allies,” the
Russians, have turned dog on them, and in
contempt of the letter and spirit of the “alliance”
are stirring up trouble for them everywhere in
the world.
Though Germans, Italians, Japanese, Bul-
garians and the rest have been defeated and
disarmed, new enemies, all egged on by the
“ally,” have arisen in many countries, which
have become graves for British servicemen—
Greek Communists, Malayan Communists,
Palestine Jews, Egyptians, Indian and Burmese
nationalists and Javanese. The return of
Indians who served in the Japanese Army, and
some of whom were punished very mildly, led
to extraordinary scenes,' among them the giving
up of a great city to demonstrations of sym-
pathy with the Japanese levies, and in the end
to a mutiny in the Royal Indian Navy. Three
British Cabinet Ministers are on their way to
India to do what they can in a situation which
has become desperate, especially as the
nationalist outbreaks have been sharpened by
famine. To relieve the famine the British
secured the concession of great supplies of rice
from Siam as part of the peace settlement with
that country. For this they were flayed by the
American Leftist press, and in the absence of
a foreign policy the American attitude ( to put
it mildly, has been unhelpful.
But though perils and calamities accumulate
there has been no flagging of the national
spirit. Mr. Bevin showed a bold front at the
U.N.O. conference, and neither he nor, appa-
rently, his chief will be content to preside “over
the liquidation of the British Empire.” Moral
support for Britain has come from Western
Europe; moral and material support from the
Dominions. In a bitter winter the Canadians
have cut their weekly butter ration from 6oz. to
4oz. as earnest of their promise to send to the
British (accepting their directions as to the desti-
nation of cargoes) all the foodstuffs for which
ships can be found.
New Zealand, already committed to shipping
a hundred thousand tons of meat in two months
in addition to increased quantities of dairy
produce and other commodities, has under-
taken to supply a million pounds’ worth of pro-
duce (16,165 tons of milk powder, malted milk,
cocoa, biscuits, tinned meat, canned and de-
hydrated vegetables, all withdrawn from sale)
as a free gift. Australia will no doubt try
to fulfil its contracts with the British at the
prices agreed upon—for, among other things,
“surplus dairy produce to-June 30, 1948, surplus
meat to September 31, 1948, and surplus eggs
to mid-1947, perhaps to 1948” —and the “Govern-
ment” has undertaken to find 5,000,000 bushels
of wheat for Britain out of stock feed and
20,000 tons of dressed rice “from the 1946-47
crop.” But thus far it hasn’t made a gift or even
an offer of a side of bacon or a dozen eggs;
it has been barren of helpful suggestions,
and its attitude to the Food for Britain appeals
has amounted to a liberal helping of cold
shoulder.
Whether the “Government’s” “foreign policy”
—peevish where Britain is concerned, craven in
its surrender to the Communists, whose boy-
cott of Dutch ships, loaded with Australian
produce for the distressed and endangered
Dutch and Eurasians in the East Indies is now
approaching it’s sixth month—has had any effect
on the truculence of Egyptians, Palestine Jews,
Indian, Burmese and Malayan Communists and
“our Indernesian comrades” is matter for specu-
lation. If, along with the Leftist rubbish which
newspapers have not scrupled to publish, it
produced the impression that the British Com-
monwealth is divided on foreign affairs it has
certainly done a great deal of mischief. Mr.
Menzies seems to have no doubt:
We are going round the world interfer-
ing in the affairs of other nations, some-
times in open variance with Great Britain,
sometimes in agreement with nations we
never knew existed a few years ago. I have
the greatest respect for and confidence in ■
Ecuador, San Salvador and Liberia, but—
Mr. Calwell has chosen to attack the
British for not placing the Queen 1 Elizabeth
or the Queen Mary at the service of Mr.
Beasley—who was in a great state of mind
a few months ago when it was alleged, falsely,
that the British Labor Government was trying
to elbow Australia out of the Japanese-sur-
render ceremony—for the shipment of 2500
wives and children of Australian servicemen to
Australia. That is no Responsibility of the
harried British Government but the responsi-
bility of his own buck-passing crowd, which
has so many ships at its disposal that it could
ask the Royal Navy not to bring back any
more Diggers from the islands, and could allow
the Katoomba and the Barwon and all the
Dutch ships to be laid up by Communists. Mr.
Calwell is one of “Labor’s” leftovers from the
Wrongs of Ireland period of politics, which
ceased to have any application to Australian
affairs quarter of a century ago. '
New States—and Recruit.
It has been pointed out (B. 30/l/’46)
that in the course of 23 years (1889-1912)
Congress admitted 10 States, formed
out of other States and Federal territories,
to the American Union, raising the
number of States from 38 to 48, and that
President Truman had recommended the
admission of two more—Alaska, with
much less than the population of Tas-
mania, and Hawaii, with much less than
that of Westralia, and with Japanese pre-
ponderating.
In respect of our Australian Union
the point has been stressed that the
number of States remains the same as in
1901, and that the predominant partner,
whose Big City has become the head-
quarters of the Communist conspiracy
and the centre of all the strikes that
plague and dishonor the nation, has
upwards of two-fifths of the Common-
wealth population, with its proportion
constantly increasing. New York, the
leading American State, has little more
than one-tenth of the continental popu-
lation of the Union.
For years the Country party was keen
on new States, especially for New Eng-
land and the Riverina, but its enthusiasm
waned. No doubt as the result of Com-
munist* efforts to sabotage rehabilitation,
there has been a revival of Country-
party feeling for subdivision of unwieldy
States, especially the largest, Australia’s
problem child. In the C.P.’s platform
there is a proposal for amendment of the
Constitution to “facilitate... .the creation
of new States, provided the consent of the
people concerned is first obtained.”
Thus far details are lacking, but pre-
sumably it is proposed to alter or abolish
Constitutional sections 123 and 124 with-
out radically amending section 121:
The [Commonwealth] Parliament may
admit to the Commonwealth or establish
new States, and may upon such admission
or establishment make or impose such
terms and conditions, including the extent
of representation in either House of Par-
liament, as if thinks fit.
The other sections, which are ripe for
amendment or abolition, read:
123. The Parliament of the Common-
wealth may, with the consent of the Par-
liament of a State, and the approval of the
majority of the electors of the State voting
upon the question, increase, diminish or
otherwise alter the limits of the State, upon
THE MARVELLOUS TWO-HEADED PUSHMI-PULLYU.
“The Sydney A.L.P. executive ‘requested’ Premier McKell to ‘reconsider his decision to
resign,’ and Mr. Mcßell thereupon announced that his ‘decision’ was ‘not irrevocable.’ ”
such terms and conditions as may be agreed
on, and may, with the like consent, make
provision respecting the effect and opera-
tion of any increase or diminution or
alteration of territory in relation to any
State affected.
124. A new State may be formed by
separation of territory from a State, but
only with the consent of the Parliament
thereof, and a new State may be formed
by the union of two or more or parts of
States, but only with the consent of the
Parliaments of the States affected.
Recent events have exhibited veto power
in a very ugly light. The natural and
healthy formation of new States should
not be subject to prohibition by the
caprice of a majority in a State which has
become excessive, as N. S. Wales is now,
whether the majority is composed of elec-
tors or members. The consent of the people
concerned, subject to the power of the
Commonwealth Parliament to “admit
or establish new States” on conditions
just to all parties, should be sufficient.
For its New States policy the Country
party has received backing from an un-
expected quarter. In the past the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” looked down on the
“hillbillies,” but the C.P. proposal to
“subdivide the States” is endorsed by
that publication, which avers that “the
only effective way to break up the over-
swollen populations is to establish new
States which will balance the enormous
power of Melbourne and Sydney.” A
useful, if strange, recruit; and if the
“Daily Telegraph” presently discovers
that in this very important matter it has
“given Australia leadership” The Bul-
letin won’t mind a bit.
Captain Murphy and Others.
Cheers went up from those who know
him when Captain John Joseph Murphy,
A.M.F., who was landed in New Britain
from a submarine on September 28, 1943,
and captured, having been “led into an
ambush by natives,” was acquitted on
charges of having treacherously given in-
formation to the enemy.
The arrest of Captain Murphy, a
Queenslander with a fine record as a
New Guinea patrol leader before the war,
was given far more prominence in daily
newspapers, Melbourne “Herald” ex-
cepted, than his clearance, which took
place after long delays, as usual un-
explained.
The accused officer was arrested in
October, 1945, and had been held in
custody ever since, with no scintilla of
evidence against him save that of the
enemy. Brother-officers in the Allied In-
telligence Brigade testified that he was a
man of great, even reckless, courage,
devoted to duty and thorough in his
work. And it was made plain that in
the service of his country he had with-
stood ferocious punishment and fiendish
threats. This was true also of fellow-
prisoners in Rabaul.
One, Squadron-Leader Quinn, D.F.C., of
Melbourne, was taken out, told he was to
be executed, blindfolded, forced to kneel
and struck on the back of the neck with
the flat of a sword. ' “Captain Murphy,”
the squadron-leader said, “had a good
reputation among his fellow-prisoners.
The Japs told me he must be a spy and
they would shoot him.”
Captain Murphy’s account of a terrible
experience of his own;
After my refusal to give information an
interpreter and two officers came to my cell
and told me to put a shirt on, as I was to
be beheaded. I told them not to be silly—
spoiling a shirt when prisoners were so
short of them! The interpreter said I was
to be executed in 25 hours. Taken to a
clearing, I refused to dig my own grave,
and I asked for a cigarette and then for
another; and when it was finished the
shovel was handed to me again, but I re-
fused to dig. A native [name and place
given] witnessed the whole scene.
When captured the game Queenslander
was handcuffed and blindfolded. Ordered
to kneel, and refusing, he was hurled to
the floor, beaten and bayoneted in the
chest. Bleeding from several stabs —
torture, not assassination, being the design
—he was contemptuously informed that
he could stanch them with‘a few sheets
of toilet paper, there being no other treat-
ment for him. All this time he was hand-
cuffed and —still in pursuit of informa-
tion —the enemy refused him food, ex-
cept for “two meals in 10 days,” threw
him into a barbed-wire enclosure, 6ft. by
Bft., tied him to a tree and hung him by
the wrists for a whole day, with his heels
off the ground. He showed the court-
martial his scars.
All this, to any Australian worthy of
the name, is a poor preparation for
reception of the fact that at the week-
end, though the Americans had had
Yamashita hanged, no Japanese criminal
convicted of atrocities committed on the
bodies of Australian servicemen—some of
the fiends in Borneo were found respon-
sible for the murder of hundreds in cir-
cumstances of animal cruelty—had been
executed. Punishment in these cases to
be salutary must be prompt and solemn,
but the “Government” has decided to
leave it to the Acting C.-in-C., and when
this was written all that the Acting
C.-in-C. had said was that several sen-
tences had been confirmed and would be
carried out.
It would have been better to make it a
matter for the constitutional C.-in-C., the
Governor-General-in-Council. But to
remit these cases to that tribunal would
presumably be in conflict with ‘“‘Labor’
principles.” One of the “ ‘Labor’ prin-
ciples” is abolition of capital punishment.
Another is passing the buck —in this case
to a soldier, one of those “blanky
generals,” who, being “blanky generals,”
are not now eligible for appointment to
posts like that of the Norfolk Island
Administration, reserved for a played-out
politician.
A Serviceman Commissioner?
A walk through the bhsiest part of Mr.
Ward’s electorate any night of the week
is sufficient to give the average person
food for thought. When the place was
flowing with Americans, money and
alcohol, it was hard to pass certain por-
tions of King’s Cross for the knots of
bootleggers, pimps and what-have-yous
who congregated in chosen and well-
recognised places. Living in the vicinity
it was fairly easy to recognise the “regu-
lars” just by passing them casually in the
streets. These things were merely the
symbols of larger, hidden evils. But they
were so obvious that no police admini-
stration could have been unaware of them.
Now with most of the Americans and
their money gone, Sydney’s criminal
classes are turning to other avenues for
supplying them with the means of living
and of patronising the racecourses and
other gambling joints. Crimes of violence
are increasing. If Sydney doesn’t get a
large, well-equipped and thoroughly effi-
cient police force, and that soon, it is
likely to have gang warfare, for crime is
becoming better organised, and at the
same time competition is getting fiercer.
Of all the qualifications essential to a
law-enforcement body, morale is the
most important. Human frailty being
what it is, there will be bad eggs in any
police force, but in a well-administered
organisation they can be reduced to a
minimum. And in the final analysis the
state of a police force, as the state of an
army, is the responsibility of those who
administer it,
At a birthday dinner in his favorite
food joint, where, after 10 years, he
solved the Pyjama Girl mystery —tracing
the crime to a hat waiter who must have
attended to him hundreds of times —Police
Commissioner Mac Kay said something
about retiring ; but he had said it before.
When he does retire there- will be an
excellent opportunity of overhauling the
whole system, reviewing not only wages,
conditions and promotions, but the post
of Commissioner.
The English precedent of placing at the
head of the police a man who has dis-
tinguished himself in an executive
capacity in some other walk of life is
worth considering. Australia has military
leaders who answer all these require-
ments. If the choice fell on one of them
it might be a very good thing, not only
for the city, but for some of the newly-
inducted youngsters, many of them ex-
servicemen, who may be seen in the city
and suburbs very courteous, but
patently uncomfortable in the anachro-
nistic stiff collar and heavy uniform of the
constabulary.
Plan for Youth.
“C.H.S” supports it:
Youth, I read on the authority of a 20-year-
old union delegate, is the “most exploited sec-
tion of the Australian working class.” I’ll say
it is. From the moment it is born it has little
or no freedom. It is not allowed to eat green
plums, play in drains or rubbish heaps, poke
its baby brother’s eye out or heave rocks
through the kitchen window, all of which and
more it would do with enthusiasm. At six it
has to go to school and be taught, thus being
exploited for the benefit of paid schoolteachers,
and the capitalistic purveyors of chalks, slates,
books, ice-cream and other things.
Somewhere about the age of 12 the male
youth finds himself being enslaved by the
females of his family. He is expected to shine
his sister’s shoes, become a message slave for
his mother, clean the windows and so forth,
again all in direct opposition to his own
wishes. The female youth of the same age is
forced to do menial tasks for her male relatives
and to work without pay in the kitchen and
laundry.
From 12 to the school-leaving age this exploi-
tation continues and increases. Seductively-
baited traps are laid to separate youth from its
pocket-money. It is seized upon by reformers of
all kinds and preached at, written at and made
examples of. It is forced to clean its teeth and
its ears, when it would far rather do nothing
about either: it is compelled to be quiet in
church, to speak civilly to its elders, to refrain
from smashing shop windows or shooting the
neighbor’s dog, cat or cow.
After school exploitation really gets going.
Youth is not only obliged to go to work, but
expected to fork out part of its wages for its
upkeep. Laws are passed to stop it from
working too hard, from accepting other than
a fixed amount per week, from kicking up a
row in the street, from attacking its enemies
in mobs. Highly-paid meddlers fall upon it,
examine its impulses, test its reactions, order its
habits and analyse its emotions.
Youth should be rescued from this exploita-
tion. It should be given ten pounds a week for
20 hours’ work and allowed to rampage to its
heart’s content —ignore and insult its elders,
exercise its natural cruelty and intolerance and
refuse to do anything for anybody. It should
be allowed to stay out till dawn, to fie sick on
the front lawn if it wishes, to bash those whom
it dislikes and generally play old Harrjf. Only
then will youth have regained complete freedom
and shaken off the shackles of the exploiter.
When that happy day comes, it’ll be tough for
people like me, but what does that matter?
The world, in the view of these .bright spokes-
men, was made for youth, and anybody over
25 is senile.


STOP
DISTURBED
NIGHTS
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes or filters which help to purify the blood and
keep you healthy. When they get tired and don’t
work right in the daytime, many people have dis-
turbed nights. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder. Don’t neglect this condition and
lose valuable, restful sleep.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may also cause
nagging backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss
of pep and energy, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches, and dizziness.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE. KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer 1
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that'performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
r
Do you need a
PfiUi/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including mcdical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
An unexpected though in no way
astonishing result of Tiilly’s appointment
as Agent-General and McKell’s farewell to
State, party and constituency is that
N. S. Wales now has 16 Ministers instead
of 15. The new man is a Mr. George
Weir, aged 42, described as a public ser-
vant from 1920, a barrister since 1926
(“he began practising in 1939”) and an
M.L.A. since 1941. He had five oppo-
nents in the Caucus ballot, two of whom
apparently didn’t get a vote ; the others
were Sheahan and Enticknap, both
soldiers of the last war. The McKell
influence decided the issue in Weir’s
favor; preference to servicemen never
operates in these matters.
Learning that the A.C.T.U. bosses
couldn’t or wouldn’t go to Canberra last
week to present their 40-hour-week and
basic-wage-increase ultimatum, Chifley
visited them in Melbourne. They
accepted his explanation that the 40-hour
week would have to be attempted by the
industrial-arbitration route, there being
an insuperable constitutional barrier to
legislation, but ordered him to add £1 a
week to the basic wage, making it £6 Bs.
As usual, “capitalistic” newspapers which
place their political columns in the hands
of brisk young Labor scribes congratu-
lated the P.M. on being “firm.”
the last count in the Wimmera by-
election closed the political chapter
crushingly for A. C. Everett, de-
scribed as “one of the leaders of
the radical faction in the C.P.,
with general policy always close to that
of Mr, Wilson, the previous member.”
Everett jibbed when bracketed with the
Eighth Division soldier Turnbull, who is
still under treatment in a military hos-
pital. Snarling and squealing, Everett
asked his supporters to give their prefer-
ences to Stoddart, an Independent, and
even when expelled from the party and
running a bad second he boasted that
he would win on Stoddart’s seconds.
When four no-hopers had been excluded
Turnbull had 17,111 votes, Everett 9881
and Stoddart 8330. So .many Stoddart
voters rejected Everett’s advice that at
the end the p.-0.-w. had 20,854 and
Everett 14,468. No party will ever want
to run Everett again.
Allowing for the invariable by-election
reduction the voting in Wimmera was
—ominously for “Labor” —a repetition
of the voting at the Evatt referendum
(Aug. 19, 1944)—17,692 for the “Labor”
side and 25,214 against. In Henty, the
electorate from which Coles is skedadd-
ling, it was 35,459 for and 40,164 against.
Wilson and Coles were, of course, Aye-
men,
Moscow’s brazen admission that it
sanctioned and financed spies and traitors
in Canada (“individual collaborators of
-the Soviet military attache obtained from
Canadian citizens information of a con-
fidential character which presented no in-
terest to Soviet organs”) recalls remarks
made by Queensland Transport Minister
Walsh last year—remarks on the financ-
ing of the Communist conspiracy in Aus-
tralia. It seems an appropriate time for
Walsh to return to the subject, preferably
;with amplifications and local instances.
During the war Russia, in common with
all the other Allies, received great gifts
from Canada, and, as a massive contri-
butor to U.N.R.R.A. on the basis of 1 p.c.
p.a. of its national income, Canada is
furnishing a considerable part of the sup-
plies demanded by the Ukraine and White
Russia. While cadging for these “re-
publics” on a huge scale, Moscow has
obliged North America and Britain to
divert vast cargoes to countries on which
the Red Army is living, among them Ger-
many, Austria, Hungary, Yugoslavia,
Rumania and Finland. In its own terri-
tories Moscow has abolished food ration-
ing. This being pointed out to the P.M.
in the Commons last week, Attlee “ex-
pressed the hope that all possible help
would be given by the Soviet” to famine-
stricken India and “neighboring coun-
tries in Europe.” Attlee must be an
optimist.
McKell, balancing between retirement
and continuance in office, gave the Oppo-
sition a good laugh last week. It was
mentioned that his “Government” had
decreed the abolition of zoning of milk,
bread and ice, and that unions were ignor-
ing the decree, saying in one case that
zoning was part of the union policy of
“nationalisation.” There broke from Mc-
Kell the words “While this Government
remains in office it will govern.” The
unions concerned joined in the laughter
when the stuff was reported.
It seems ridiculous that McKell should
announce his retirement at 54 and talk
as if he were weary of welldoing. W. M.
Hughes entered upon nearly 52 years of
continuous public service when McKell
was two. And whereas McKell has never
had to shift from his electorate of Red-
fern, even though for seven years it was
part of a P.R. division, Billy has done a
heap of travelling—M.L.A. for Lang
(1894-1901), M.H.R. for West Sydney
(1901-17), Bendigo (1917-22) and
North Sydney (1922-??). And now, with
two wars behind him, the first of which
entailed public speaking in every State,
Britain and other countries, Billy, rising
82, is looking forward to his 21st general
election with the undiminished ardor of
the old warhorse. With unconscious
irony the Melbourne “Herald” has found
a nickname for the weaker William —
“Battling Bill.” •
Barry, the Victorian Minister for
“Housing,” who is at least energetic in
the language department, made an
earnest appeal to municipal authorities
to be up and doing to end the shortage of
houses. He estimated it as 70,000 in the
State, and “explosive possibilities exist
in the situation.” A mild explosion
occurred in another column of the paper
which printed Barry’s appeal. A cor-
respondent pointed out that people
had to “live in stables”; but why,
he asked, should they be robbed for the
privilege of doing so, since there were
hordes of officials to prevent it? The
correspondent says he pays 255. a week
for a room 6ft. by 6ft., plus one
egg and half a slice of toast for break-
fast. Old stables adjoining have been
given a coat of kalso,, “subdivided,”
furnished with a few sticks and let for
£4 10s. a week with no meals. And 30s.
is charged for two rooms in an old horse-
box —mealless and unfurnished.
In a U.N.O. “trusteeship” map, pub-
lished in the “Christian Science Monitor”
on January 17, Manus figures among
“Areas Where the U.S. Wants Full Con-
trol.” But surely Uncle will first get per-
mission from Dr. Evatt and E. J, Ward?
“C.Q.” is horrified:
Propaganda put out by the organisers of the
new Children’s Hospital appeal in Melbourne
amounts to a frightful indictment of past State
Governments. According to published state-
ments the institution to which Victorian parents
have been innocently entrusting their children
has been so overcrowded that t.b. patients have
had to be put alongside medical and surgical
cases; cross-infection has been high and a
modern building would reduce it by half; in
the absence of waiting-rooms there is no escap-
ing the wailing of frightened children, and the
cries of sufferers who have undergone opera-
tions sometimes cause other children to jump in
terror from their cots and try to rush away.
Another published statement is that when a
mother whose baby had been admitted said
that both the baby’s father and her uncle had
the same complaint when they were children,
and had been treated in the institution, a
search was made through the records and it was
found that they had been chewed by rats.
After somebody in Canberra had
stated that Britain was maintaining
“rigid standards” on the quality of Aus-
tralian meat exports, Scully breezed up
to Queensland and explained that Britain
had declined to accept certain tinned
meats and practically ceased to take dried
mutton. He later hinted that canned meat
might be rationed, whereupon there was
a mild rush in Brisbane to buy it. The
Grocers’ Association said it couldn’t
understand Scully, since “Queensland
meat canneries are working at restricted
capacity under Government control, and
are not allowed to manufacture (pr ex-
port or cater for a market in urgent
need.” But, then, nobody has ever been
able to understand Scully.
In its Federal policy the Country party
has come out for new States “provided
the consent of the people concerned is first
obtained.” Obtaining it won’t be hard
in at least five parts of the continent —
North and West Queensland, North,
South-west and Southern N.S.W., where
they’ve had more than enough of Gov-
ernment from Brisbane and Sydney,
though the causes of dissatisfaction differ.
Preceded by a blast of invective from
the exploded Thornton, whose iron-
workers are leaving his Communist show
in droves, Maloney, the Minister to
Moscow, returned from that city at the
week-end —for good. It is expected that
he will do some blasting on his own
account when he has reported to the
“Government.” Slater, his predecessor at
Moscow, prudently retained his Vic-
torian Assembly seat, and Maloney took
the precaution to remain a Sydney M.L.C.
J. F. Dulles, a legal member of the
U.S. delegation to U.N.0., returned say-
ing he had found the proceedings and the
international situation disturbing. Our
Mr. Makin returned with the report that
everything was lovely: “I saw no evidence
of strained relations between the British
and Russian delegations: there was at all
times the utmost expression of good-
will.” Should this innocent be allowed
to go abroad again as “Resident” Minister
at Washington?
N. S, Wales has a new master, a Mr.
J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C. As member of
the A.L.P. executive Mr. Ferguson
moved a resolution ordering McKell to
carry on and the Parliamentary Caucus to
pipe down. Both complied, McKell say-
ing “my decision is not irrevocable and
will be reconsidered after the Budget”
and Caucus expressing its poltroonery in
abject compliments to its “leader” and
an equally ignominious fling at “the
lying press propaganda seeking to dis-
rupt the solidarity of Labor administra-
tion.” Simultaneously, as secretary of
the Railwaymen’s Union, Mr, Ferguson
commanded Commissioner Hartigan to
withdraw regulations concerted with
“union representatives” and alleged to be
the cause of a shunters’ strike which “held
up 50,000 tons of perishables,” Protesting
that the regulations had been forced on
him by the prevalence of absentees (“1000
a day”) and sick-leave cases (“1500 a
day; payments have reached £250,000 a
year, and there are many malingerers”),
Mr. Hartigan withdrew the regulations.
Mr. Ferguson celebrated that victory by
warning Mr. Hartigan that worse things
would happen if Mr. Hartigan didn’t
behave.
The reappearance of the New States
plank in the C.P. platform calls attention
to the relevant part of the , U.S. Con-
stitution, Section 3 of Article* IV:
New States may be admitted by Congress
into this Union; but no new State shall
be formed or erected within the jurisdic-
tion of any other State, nor any State be
formed by the junction of two or more
States or parts of States, without the con-
sent of the legislatures of the States con-
cerned as well as of the Congress.
In practice, the consent of State legisla-
tures has rarely been difficult to obtain.
There is no provision for a veto of mem-
bers and electors as there is in our Con-
stitution.
Objectors to the Bretton Woods agree-
ment are a mixed lot. Stalin (or
Molotov) and Beaverbrook may not
be such queer associates, since they
combined to shout for a Second Front in
Europe early in 1942. But what about
Ward and the editor of the “Wall Street
Journal”?
With so much competition for shipping
space, the English Rugby League won’t be
able to send a team to Australia this year.
“Labor” is afraid to stand up against the
anger of brideless servicemen. Yet Dr.
Evatt gave his blessing to the tour —sole
achievement of his own tour, which be-
gan by his gate-crashing the Foreign
Ministers’ conference and ended, except
for transport, on the washout Far East
Advisory Commission.
One of Chamberlain’s discoveries.
Lord Woolton, proved himself as Food
Controller Churchill’s greatest admini-
strator. It seems ridiculous that the
“Labor” Government did not bespeak his
advice or co-operation when taking over,
but “Labor” is like that everywhere —too
self-sufficient to ask advice from any
opponent however gifted. In Lord Wool-
ton’s place the Attlees appointed a novice,
“Sir Ben” Smith, and actually left him
out of the Cabinet. Lord Woolton’s re-
proach to them is just: “While you have
been planning a new world the country
has been allowed to slip into a position
in which there might be insufficient food
to maintain life and health.”
“Labor” is trying to justify its Resident
Minister appointments by “the Bruce pre-
cedent.” In the latter part of 1932 Bruce
was sent to Canada by Lyons to lead for
Australia at the Ottawa Conference.
Ottawa Conference over, he went on to
London and was in the High Commis-
sioner’s office from September 26, 1932,
to October 6, 1943, on which day he re-
signed his seat —Flinders. Throughout
the period he was Minister without port-
folio. Beasley, called Resident Minister,
remains Minister of Defence, and Makin
is still Minister of the Navy, Munitions
and Aircraft Production.
A great deal of U.S. political stuff pub-
lished in this country is taken from
Leftist publications, notably the New
York “P.M.” and “Post,” being written
by persons like Max Lerner, Mjax
Werner, Frederick Kuh and Constantine
Poulos. For the “Post,” which is owned
by a Jewish lady, Constantine Poulos is
travelling in the Middle East, and at the
end of December he communicated from
Jerusalem a report of a conversation with
“Friedman Yellin, leader of the Fighters
for the Freedom of Israel, known as ‘the
Stern gang.’ ” Yellin referred with gusto
to the assassination of Lord Moyne, that
being part of the “war” his “organisa-
tion” is “waging”—“war on the British
Empire in Palestine and wherever the
Union Jack flies.” This should interest
Calwell, who, without reference to Par-
liament, has promised to “facilitate”
Jewish immigration from Europe, where
Yellin and his killers came from in the
first place.
People who dabble in socialist and
Communist ideas should look around
them. This country has had six years of
rationing, and nearly everybody dreams
of the day when it will cease. Under
socialism and Communism rationing
would be a permanent institution —it
would be impossible to socialise “the
means of production, distribution and ex-
change” without it. This country has
also had six years of bureaucracy and
hates the thing. But its experiences since
1939 have been mild compared to what
it would suffer under either variety of
compulsory collectivism, for compulsory
collectivism is the earthly paradise of the
bureaucrat, i
[For any by-election matter requiring a signa-
ture, J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann and David
Adams, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, take
the responsibility.]


ART A LA MODE.


CHEMIST
■/a
'/
cS
,
4&
<Z%?
&
■4M
A
on CIVVV *
After six years’ total mobilisation in the fighting
services, it's yours again . . . that creamy COOLNESS,
that lingering, tingling freshness, and the same wilting
action on tough, wiry customers. There's a "spring
morning" in every Ingram shave!
/"■'N
_ . (
r- o _>>
v/s
INGRAM’S
SHAVING CREAM
At all Chemists
INJ
IF YOUR ESTATE IS TO
YIELD THE MAXIMUM
BENEFIT TO YOUR
FAMILY
OW often has a man,
1 1 usually most consider-
ate of his family’s welfare,
failed them in the important
matter of guaranteeing them
protection after death?
More often than not,
and particularly so in
country Estates, this failure,
when it occurs, is due to the
unwise choice of an Exe-
cutor.
This problem is solved
by appointing Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited
with its accumulated wis-
dom and experience, gained
over sixty years of service
in handling Estates of every
kind. Its standing is your
guarantee of absolute safety
for your family.
If you would know about
the service that the Com-
pany renders, and what it
costs, ask that its booklet,
“Your Executor and Trus-
tee” be sent to you. You
will find it interesting, in-
formative and helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS *
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN 0. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64 000 000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange,
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Inflation and Housing Costs
A question often asked is whether
the present is a good time to buy or build
a home, allowed the opportunity to do
• f . „ V. „ „„„
e the . The question of buying or con-
stiuctmg applies to othei things besi
homes, but house property is the most
common example. Several problems aie
involved in arriving at the answer, m-
eluding (in anew building) the matter of
styles, materials and fittings available,
cost of land, building materials and labor,
and the quality of labor.
On the crucial item of expense, it is im-
portant to look into past economic his-
tory and to see what inflation, of which
we now have an overdose, has done to
costs of various kinds, and to decide
whether costs in the future will be higher
or lower than noW. The. 1914-18 war
rmrked tb . e one ow ' cost epoch.
Cost-of-livmg figures are the most general
indication of what is happening to costs.
Between 1914 and 1921 three years
after the end of that war the cost of
living in Australia rose 47£ p.c. By 1932,
in the depth of depression, the cost-of-
living index, though reacting, was still
21 p.c. above that for 1914. By 1944
the index was up to 64 p.c. above the 1914
figure and was 22\ p.c. above the level
of 1939. The cost of living is claimed by
the Federal Government to have been
held at or near the 1944 figure up to the
present tune.
The rise in living costs measures, to
an extent, the inflation that has occurred
in our economy from time to time. War
and inflation are always associated with
each other, whereas it can be seen, even
from the few foregoing figures, that
peace-time has its periods of inflation and
deflation.
A significant fact, from the home-
builder’s point of view, in the figures
quoted is that between 1914 and 1921
(and 1920 was really the “boom” year)
there was a rise of 47£ p.c. in living costs,
whereas between 1939 and 1946 there has
been a lift (according to statistics) of only
p.c. Yet during the recent war the
monetary inflation in the Commonwealth
wa * far greater than in World War I.
Gn statistics, at any rate, the fact is
that greater inflation has been temper-
- Bcompressed into a snlaller ris £ in
Jiving costs this time. As compression
canno (- continue always, however great
efforts of the Prices Branch may be,
f ur fher costs inflation is indicated, and
tb e present would seem to be a good time
to buy land and build a house at “con-
trolled” prices if such a course is at all
physically possible. In particular, land
bought at 1942 valuations under the
Treasury ruling would seem to be especi-
ally good buying in the Australian
currency of today,
j t undoubtedly be found in prac-
tjce> however, that building costs are
higher than the statistician’s figures sug-
t Not t h ose 0 f materials so much
_ the index he re admits a rise of
70 p c between 1939 and 1944. Labor
costs j n particular are much higher than
indicated in indexes because of the go-
s j ow methods in force in some unions,
In New South Wales there are bricklayers
reputed to be laying fewer than half the
number of bricks that was customary
before the war. As in most things, labor
costs in building a home frequently add
U p t 0 a g rea ter sum than the cost of raw
materials.
Acknowledging the flaws in statistics,
if a fair day’s work could be got out of all
classes of home-building labor the pre-
sent would seem to be quite a good time
to build a home, all the other essentials
being available. There is no doubt
that at the moment great inflation
i s being only just kept in check, thdt,
later on, heavier general costs are certain,
and that building land seems bound to
go higher than official valuations of the
present period. Financing real-estate
purchase is easy ; borrowing is at present
exceptionally cheap, and long-term mort-
gage accommodation can be got at lower
than 4\ p.c.- The catch in all this is
difficulty of getting conscientious labor
and obtaining land, timber, bricks
and other building essentials. But
where the proposition before a home-
buyer boils down simply to a house
costing 20 p.c. more than the pre-
war equivalent, and that 20' p.c. in-
crease is the only problem, he won’t go
far wrong in buying. Inflation’s full
effect hasn’t really hit us yet. Controls
on prices and spending are still having
an influence, even if defeating other
economic efforts at the same time
During the recent war the accumulated
spending power in the Commonwealth
considerably more than doubled. An
official estimate of the increase was over
£BOO million. It is probable that the in-
creased spending potential of the people,
including businesses, has grown by about
£IOOO million between June 30, 1939,
and now. In view of the fact that our
facilities for producing the goods which
people desire are, on the whole, very
much behind the standard of those in
1939, the inflationary possibilities behind
this disproportionate war-time accumula-
tion of spending power are manifest. There
is too much money around still in propor-
tion to the available quantity of things
on which people really want to spend
their money. Housing is one of the items
in respect of which people are anxious
to spend, but the price - controller's
efforts will be required in respect of many
other items. At the best, price-control
will only smooth out the upward trend
in prices ; it won’t prevent it for all time.
One of those very closely associated with
the job expects a further rise of at least
20 p.c. in living costs and wages before
war-time monetary inflation has spent
its force.
It will be necessary to allow supply
and demand to make their own price-
level before we are likely to get full pro-
duction in this country. Under Govern-
ment controls supply and demand cannot
be free. A “free” price for most things
would be higher than present pegged
prices, but increasing production is the
only real answer to an inflation potential
already created.
The United States has experienced great
credit inflation during and after the war,
having used taxation to a smaller ex-
tent, proportionately, than Britain,
Canada, Australia or New Zealand ; and
it is having bad trouble in controlling
prices and wage-increase demands. The
fullness of pockets and bank accounts
is reflected in big luxury and entertain-
ment spending and in gambling on race-
horses and on the Stock Exchange. The
pressure on the price- and wage-level is
such that the Economic Stabilisation
Administration is urging the continuance
of price and similar controls after June
30, on which date they will, under present
legislation, expire. The pressure on the
wage-level is indicated by the amount of
industrial strife present in the country
and by the wage increases granted to the
steel and automobile industries- The
demand for most manufactured goods
is so great that the sharemarket, fortified
with greenbacks and by tax reductions,
was prepared to overlook present indus-
trial difficulties in favor of the long-term
prospects of industry, and in consequence
sent prices of industrial shares soaring.
“Suckers” from outside the normal run
of Stock Exchange investors came into
Wall-street, and they bought listed shares
as well as parcels of Canadian scrip from
Toronto share sharks. A few weeks back
it was made obligatory to pay for the
greater part of scrip purchases in cash,
and more recently the rule has been that
no dealings on margin will be allowed on
Wall-street —this to curb opportunities to
gamble. The .New York Stock Exchange
itself has instituted a ? half-million-dollar
advertising campaign’ advising the un-
initiated to stick to Government bonds
and to keep out of the scrip gamble. On
February 19 came the sharpest setback
in the stockmarket for six years. About
2,500,000 shares were sold that day at
average losses of from two to three
points. Other bad days have followed.
Influences in this setback from buoyancy
were those already indicated (prospects
of price-control particularly) and the con-
tinuance of strikes in the General Motors
and General Electric plants. Prospects
of the loan to Britain are not too clear at
present either; if there is no loan there
will be few United States motorcars sold
to the Empire during the next few years.
The cotton market weakened at the same
time as shares slumped in last week’s
Wall-street shakeout, and tobacco-leaf
prices are also likely to be affected if
U.S. trade with Britain shrinks to dehyd-
rated size.
* * * *
Australian National Airways (not to
be in any way confused with the
National Airlines Commission, the
socialistic enigma produced by the Can-
berra Labor Government) established a
world record at the week-end with a
Douglas DC4 —“Skymaster”—when it cut
the flying time between Perth and Mel-
bourne to six hours 16 minutes. The
journey, non-stop, was completed at an
average speed of 285 miles an hour. The
Skymaster carries 44 passengers, and this
first one will be reserved for the Mel-
bourne-Perth route. A second Skymaster
is expected in Australia in a few days,
and it will most likely be operating on
a run northwards to Queensland. Aus-
tralian National Airways’ Skymasters
promise to give astonishing service to
those desiring to be 'whisked —in the
greatest of cpmfort—from the farthest
end of this continent to the other. The
Skymasters are designed to cope with
big chunks of distance.
* * * *
The Bank of England formally passes
to Government ownership on March 1,
and other provisions of the Bank of Eng-
land Act, 1946, will operate from the
same day. Lord Catto remains governor
of the bank.


J Solas*,
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
>
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globite!
LMade by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
ms*
m.
mm
can
eat'n big mo hie r!
★ IN YOUR SPARE TIME
To-day, one of the most lucrative fields to express your per-
sonality and earn money is short story writing. Editors of dailies
and magazines are on the look-out for new ideas . . . fresh view-
points ... so why not turn your spare time to cash? Others have
done it. If you can compose an interesting letter, there’s NO
reason why you can’t be trained in the technique of story writing.
Australia’s Best Selling Author WILLIAM LYNCH
who has published over 500 stories in all
parts of the world, will personally guide
your studies.. .. His knowledge and experi-
ence are at your disposal.
YOU'LL LEARN AT HOME
... in 24 simple lessons, the essentials of
successful story writing.
This course is planned to turn you out a
finished writer . . . and there’s no reason
why, like many other Mayne students, you
can’t be earning while you are learning.
When your course is completed, you
\ , can make use of the Mayne Literary
Agency’s world-wide marketing system
for publication of your stories overseas.
■x- William Lynch’s latest book, a collection of short stories, “Of
Fire and Fury,” is now on sale at all bookstalls. Price, 8/6.
STUDENT WINS £2OO PRIZE. National Short Story Contest.
Without previous experience, Miss Joyce Skinner, a Mayne
student, won first prize in“ Women’s Weekly” Short Story Contest.
If you have the urge to write, send away now. The Course costs
only £B/8/-, and is payable in easy instalments.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
' ** •
The Mayne School of Authorship, Suite 301, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Please send me details
of how to learn short
story writing. I en-
close 2Jd. in stamps.
Name.
B. 2. IS
V
Address
WAYS TO FIGHT
m
m
m
m
OR
SHEDS
BH\tD
ETC
t*
FEHCES
00
mo*
qUAUTi
W W ' w ' p R - 00 Wk
gAlM* ,2 fL
DON'T wait for fire to start. Build fireproof
fences, walls, barns and sheds NOW with
LySaght's 26q. Red Orb Galvanised Iron. Steel*
strong and permanent this famous building sheet
is the farmer's cheapest and best insurant
against costly fire Josses.
John Lysaghl (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
I.U0A- 4“)>l
Heavy Federal Spending
One reason for the still-very-high
“war” expenditure going on in Australia
is that no provision was made in
previous public accounts for deferred pay
in the Army, even if some allowance has
been made in the Air Force ; and, with
discharges very heavy during the past
seven months, defence expenditure remains
an extremely weighty item. That much
is explainable and understandable.
But, even allowing for all that, a “de-
fence” expenditure of £274 million for the
seven months to January 31, compared
with a Budget estimate of £360 million
for the whole year (The Bulletin in-
sisted that a truer interpretation of the
Budget figures raised the total to £408
million), calls for a great deal of paring-
down in the final five months of the period.
It is possible that the £274 million outgo
up to January 31 has already had de-
ducted from it some of the credits that
the Treasurer allowed in arriving at his
misleading £360 million figure, in which
case the position is that, in order to keep
within Budget estimates, there remained
only £86 million to be spent on January
31, which calls for a reduction of 56 p.c.
in the rate of monthly outgo until June
30 is reached. That is, if the Budget esti-
mates were not altogether useless.
There is still a great deal of poli-
tical expenditure going on under the
heading of “defence and war,” the
Chifley Administration being demon-
strably deficient in ability to make Gov-
ernment expenditure reproductive, or,
where it knows that Government expendi-
ture is not reproductive, in eliminating
it and making conditions easier for
private enterprise by reducing taxation
and providing additional opportunities.
Inflation is “on” again in the Com-
monwealth public accounts. Support by
the people to Government loans has been
very poor, with the result that open and
concealed use of bank credit is being
made on an increasing scale. On July 1
the total of Treasury bills outstanding on
Commonwealth account in Australia was
£343 million. On January 31 the figure
was £390 million —the growth during
the month of January was £5 million,
in spite of the flotation of a “public” loan
before Christmas. The truth about these
“public” loans is that they are being
mainly financed by subscriptions from the
savings banks —not directly by depositors
in savings banks but by the managements
of these institutions, leaving the right with
the depositors still to withdraw and spend
their money whenever the opportunity
arises. This possible double spending of
the one lot of money has obvious infla-
tionary implications ; and the amount in-
volved runs into some hundreds of millions.
Up to January 31 the Government had
spent more on “defence” (£159 million)
out of the loan fund than it had budgeted
for (£152 million) in respect of the whole
year. It was not that revenue was notice-
ably light, either ; for the seven months
collections were £198 million, compared
with an estimate of £374 million for the
full 12 months. The Commonwealth is
proportionately behind, too, with its re-
imbursement of State income tax; in
seven months £10 million has been
handed over, leaving £23 million to be
found during the next five months.
It may be that sales of army equip-
ment to the Dutch and other “credits”
will help to save the financial face of the
Government before June 30 arrives. If
the Dutch succeed in helping the Govern-
ment out of political difficulties in any
way it will be ironical. But if no unusual
credits are brought into the accounts by
June 30, and if “defence” expenditure
continues at the present rate, the total
for the 12 months will be £470 million,
compared with a Budget estimate of £360
million and a Bulletin calculation of
£408 million. Deferred-pay charges may
taper off during the next few months. But
in January there was no suggestion of
such relief.
The Commonwealth financial position
is so far off Budget estimates that the
Prime Minister, who is also the
Treasurer, should make a public ex-
planation about it. Possibly he feels that
whatever he might say would only add to
his political and loan-raising difficulties.
He is floundering in deep water ; whether
he knew it or not, his Budget speech was
misrepresentation of the true war-
expenditure position. Australians, for
their own sake, will want to help Mr.
Chifley put his public finances on to a
sounder footing and to check the growth
of inflationary conditions. But Mr.
Chifley has to show the people a lead
himself. Wasteful expenditure by the
Government and “war” expenditure that
has a political basis have done more
damage to the Australian economy than
any sins of omission or commission on
the part of the people themselves.
N. S. Wales Premier McKell says he
intends to resume the Homebush Bay
brickworks from Brickworks, Ltd., to
which they were sold by the Stevens Gov-
ernment for £163,000 in 1936. The Navy
has been in possession of the yard since
1942, and may not vacate it until July.
Up to the time of the depression the
Homebush Bay brickworks were run by
the State Government at a reasonable
profit, though under favored conditions.
They were one of the few N. S. Wales
Government business undertakings that
haven’t turned out a financial disaster,
and it was probably bad policy to have
sold them. A Government is entitled to
compete with private enterprise provided
(a) it competes fairly and without impos-
ing restrictions on competitors, and (b)
it doesn’t waste taxpayers’ money. Gov-
ernment competition is better than out-
right nationalisation, and a Government
business undertaking provides its own
practical example of what can or cannot
be expected from State control of all
industry.
* * * *
From W. J. F. Collens (Melbourne):
I maintain that a depreciated exchange is a
discount to overseas buyers who purchase
our money before they buy our goods.
This holds whether the depreciation is due to
normal financial phenomena or whether it takes
place by arbitrary Government action, as is
now the case in Australia.
The exceptions will be the monopolistic
cartels, which control their own exports.
If I am wrong, as a paragraph in B. 13/2/’46
implies, I would like to be told where my
error lies.
It may be that where Australia greatly
influences the price level for a commodity,
such as wool, the Australian exchange
rate may partly represent a discount to
overseas purchasers. It would not be the
full 25‘p.c., however, or anything like it.
Where a commodity such as lead, zinc
or silver is bid for in the open market
on the London Metal Exchange there
would be no “exchange discount” what-
soever to the buyer of Australian lead
by comparison with lead sold by other
countries. In the case of manufactured
goods of varied designs and qualities, it
is a fact that a depreciated seller’s ex-
change rate often represents a discount
to the buying country, and Continental
manufacturing countries have sometimes
deliberately arranged things that way. But
raw materials tend to have a common
world parity, and the discount theory does
not operate noticeably in the case of
metals, wheat or wool. Australian gold
(to take an extreme view) is no cheaper
for any country to buy than South
African gold, and much the same applies
to any other standard commodity.
* * # m
Canadian (and United States) specula-
tors have had their ears and eyes opened
by a goldmining development at Yellow-
knife, on the Great Slave Lake, in the
Mackenzie country, at about the latitude
of the Yukon. It is an isolated spot in
terms of road haulage, but aerial trans-
port may help oiit. A few hundred miles
to the north, near the Arctic Circle, the
Norman oilwells have been supplying the
territory with badly-needed fuel, and
plans are also on the way to provide
Yellowknife with hydro-electric power.
A road branching off the Alaska Highway
near Fort Nelson may be built out to
Yellowknife, or, alternatively, one from
near Grimshaw, in Alberta. There are'
indications of something really big com-
ing from Yellowknife, but already'Toronto
stock racketeers are in on it —or in on the
unproved country surrounding drilled
areas. Some of the most persuasive but
irresponsibly share-selling ballyhoo heard
since 1939 is now centred on the Yellow,-
knife area, and a section of the United
States which has gone gambling-mad
since the war is falling wholesale for this
sort of thing.
* * * *
There are suggestions that Baron
Keynes was not accepted by the British
financial delegates in Washington as being
the final authority on what represented the
best for Britain in its international finan-
cial commitments. It has been inferred
that he is too ready to accept measures
of expediency. There is an ironical touch
in all this. A section of U.S. financial
opinion believes that Keynes sold Roose-
velt the “pump-priming” idea behind the
New Deal.
* * * *
At Wynyard, Sydney’s most-used
underground railway station (planners
of the railway misjudged the position
badly, making Town Hall bigger), there
is nightly a scene of unpardonable con-
gestion. Frequently not all the entrances
are opened in spite of the sweating,
pushing multitude banked up sometimes
right back to the bookstall. In order to
forestall a riot some hot night at the
Wynyard barrier Railways Commissioner
Hartigan would be wise to issue an order
providing that all entrances at which (a)
there is no attendant or (b) the attendant
has a five-o’clock conversational session
with girl- or boy-friend be left open, as
the “ticket inspection” is hardly worth a
hoot, anyway.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Clooter”: Since 19391, in common with
my fellow-Australians, have (1) registered
for military service, (2) completed an
occupational survey form, (3) filled in
a national register, (4) filled in a man-
power form, (5) filled in an application
for an identity bard and received it,
(6) given N.E.S. all family particulars.
In addition to all that I annually record
the number of my family for endowment
purposes, give the same information on
my taxation return together with occu-
pation, repeat it for motor-owning and
-driving purposes and for third-party-risk
compulsory insurance. Poor blind fool
that I am, I had foolishly supposed that
with all this and more information in
its pigeonholes and files, the Govern-
ment knew more about me than I knew
about myself (I’m certain I’ve filled in
one or two forms I’ve forgotten). But,
no. Presumably all the foregoing is
merely “information for essential pur-
poses” or something, and I’m not to
escape the cost of a census after all.
* * * * I
“P.R.A.N.”: I disagree emphatically
with “Wodgil’s” contention (B. 6/2/’46)
that Rickards had an influence on the
speech of his generation. In the early
’nineties I listened with pleasure to many
of his coster songs. Apart from the mis-
use of the aspirate so distinctly Cockney,
his most noticeable departure from nor-
mal pronunciation was in the long “a,”
which was invariably pronounced “eye.”
Rickards sang “Dye-sy, Dye-sy gimme
your ahnser do ; I’m ’alf cry-zee hall for
the love of you.” Giving the “oi” sound
to the vowel-“i” is not Cockney but as
Oirish as Paddy’s pig. The only words
in Rickards’s coster songs that came into
use for a few years after his renditions
were, I should say, “donah,” “geezer” and
“splosh.” The term “cove” for a male
person was in vogue in the early ’eighties
when I was at school, though we were
more accustomed to the use of “chap” or
“fellow.”
“Scribe”; I’d put down Lindley Evans,
Sydney Conservatorium pianist, now in
M.L. with Frank Hutchens, as an Aussie
any day. He’s got that nice, slow speech,
he looks the part, and he has the Sydney-
sider’s liking for the word “cove.” Yet
he is a product of South Africa, born
and schooled at Capetown. Talking of
slang, is the linguistic gap between Maori-
land and the Commonwealth becoming
wider? Met a bloke on the Katoomba
when she at last reached Wellington. He
said he didn’t believe in tips. When a
woman once offered him a zac that was
the fair limit. I quoted him accordingly,
but my sub-editor had never heard of a
zac nor had the cartoonist, a world-
travelled woman freelance writer, and a
fellow lately back from the front- -so out
it went. I’ve known the word for a long
time now, but I’d like someone to delve
into its origin. Decently explained, it
might get past the sub. next time.
* * * *
“Bump”: It is gratifying to note that
there is a possibility of at least a few
windjammers being among the vessels
which will lift Australia’s next grain har-
vest. Captain Gustaf Erikson, the
Finnish master mariner who owned the
biggest sailing-ship fleet in 1939, still has
a few surviving old-timers, including the
stately Pommern and the Passat, In-
directly he has been able to maintain them
by French help. The French Govern-
ment for a long time preserved its large
fleet of square-riggers by paying a sub-
sidy that enabled them to encircle the
globe without a ton of cargo and still
show a profit. When the subsidy was
withdrawn scores of ships were scrapped,
and Erikson bought up their canvas. In
the old days I have seen 20 to 30 sailing-
ships lying off Semaphore anchorage in
South Australia waiting for the shift of
wind that would start them on their
voyage to Europe. One morning I would
"Hullo, Dogsbody r
look out of my bedroom window to find
the whole fleet had vanished.
« * * *
“Junius Jr,”: The lady who cleans out
our office told me she was going away
for a short holiday. “I feel I’ve earned
it,” she said. “You know, I did a lot of
war work the last few years.” “Did
you?” I asked. , “What did you do?
Work at a hostel or something?” “No,”
she explained. “I did washing and iron-
ing for half a dozen Yanks.”
* * * - *
“Deir Suneid”: A room in Moody’s
Hotel at Seymour (Vic.) is adorned
with goldrush murals (B. 30/1/ ’46).
One wall depicts the miner, cheer-
ful and prosperous-looking, on the
way to the diggings; another shows
him returning, destitute and dejected.
One can imagine the artist doing
the job and drawing upon the depths
of his own experiences for the sake of
a few pots and a bit of tucker to see him
on the road to Melbourne. The Cos-
mopolitan Artists’ Club in Rupert-street,
London, at one time had a rather unique
collection of mural decorations in its bar.
It consisted of boomerangs—not abo.
weapons but members’ cheques.
* * * *
“F.S.”Heat has been raised in artistic
circles by a British announcement
that any Australian pictures sent to
the Royal Academy this year will
have to be accompanied by an under-
taking that they will be removed out
of the country after the exhibition.
This; has been taken to imply that
Englishmen don’t want competition
from Antipodean artists. That is one
thing English artists can’t be accused
of. After Paris, London is the most
catholic, accommodating and cosmopoli-
tan capital for art and artists. The real
reason is that the Academy has had so
many pictures left on its hands in recent
years, because of shipping difficulties or
because overseas painters weren’t suffi-
ciently interested in their products to
want to see them again, that it is merely
taking reasonable precautions.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: That ironic humorist
Mencken, who invented the legend that
the U.S, was totally unacquainted with
baths until 1842, has published a 700-
odd-page Supplement I to his equally
massive ten-year-old volume on the
American language. Among newer pro-
ducts of that remarkable he
quotes “fizzician” and “fountaineer as
synonyms for soft-drink manufacturers,
“cosmetologist” for hairdresser and
“mixologist” for barman. To do him jus-
tice, he expresses deep admiration for
Australia’s very own “wowser,” and ex-
presses sincere regret for his failure to
introduce it into colloquial American
speech. In that he has sound English sup-
port. In, 1937 the London “Daily Tele-
graph” expressed the view that “If Aus-
tralia had given nothing more to civilisa-
tion than that magnificent label for one
of its most melancholy products, it would
nof have been discovered in vain.”
* * * *
“Norther”: Let me hasten to assure
you southrons that the halting of the
Brisbane-Townsville mail train while a
baby was born aboard for no sneers
to the effect that the mother was not in
that condition when she joined the train.
There is indisputable evidence that she
was not more than a couple of months
on it. Queensland trains do get to their
destinations —eventually.
* * * *
“Jasby”: One of Oppenheim’s jewel
thieves, foreign agents or beautiful woman
spies (B. 13/2/’46) —-or perhaps one or
more of each of them —has strayed into
Sydney’s night life. On Granny
“Herald’s” authority “a high-ranking
Army officer in Sydney on a secret mis-
sion,” taking his ease at a dinner-dance
joint run by one of Sydney’s biggest war-
time purchasers of racehorses, lost a valu-
able ring “of white gold, set with a corn-
flower-blue sapphire stone, which he pur-
chased from a mine while in India, and
with five diamonds across each shoulder.”
The officer appears to have been just the
type of man one would choose for send-
ing on secret missions to night clubs and
so forth —a friendly, obliging sort of
chap; “when many at the restaurant
admired the ring he took it off
for them to examine.” It was “when
he returned to where he as staying”
[a cautious note this], “he found that
the ring was missing.” Something should
be done about this immediately. The
strange Russian countess who left Rose
Bay by flying-boat next day should be
overtaken at all costs; every mysterious
one-eyed Chinaman in Sydney should be
rounded up ; a careful check should be
made of all nightclub waiters wearing
wigs or false feet; Mr. Calwell must
call for a report on all passports
issued since the robbery, and all en-
gagement rings sold during the past
week must be called in. That ring must
be found. Obviously, beneath the
sapphire are concealed the Government’s
plans for raising its volunteer army to
defend Australia. Unless they can be
recovered we are lost! .
“Cynoscephalae”: In a newspaper
article .describing how Britain’s spy system
helped to beat the Htms, the author ex-
pressed amazement that the Gestapo
could not put two and two together when
they found a London bus ticket on the
body of a woman laboratory assistant
after a secret research centre had been,
wrecked by R.A.F. bombs. The answer
is, of course, that the Nazis remembered
reading of an exactly similar incident in
World War I and came to the conclusion
that the corpse and the bus ticket must
have unaccountably been left lying
round the factory since 1918. And
they must have deliberately allowed
a garbled version of the story to
get around with the sole' object of be-
musing a poor newspaper correspondent
whom no one would dream of accusing
of having taken a very old tale and
dressed it up with suitable V-bombs and
r“«epk pr "' i " g * the P“Mc
* * * *
“Nathaniel the Nark”: That was
a nice story of “D.’s” (B. 13/2/vS
about the pigeon’s wings being so
we l it couldn’t fly until dusted
with baby powder—if you like ’em
that way. But I’ve heard a varia-
tion. Along the Murray years ago
there arrived a youth from the south to
shoot ducks. But the rain came down
heavily and everybody expected him to
roost under shelter. Not he. Unarmed
and cloaked, he went forth into the wet-
ness and returned in an hour with six
brace of black duck and one of teal. How
did he do it? Why, he guessed that their
wings would be so saturated that they
couldn’t fly, so he simply went and gath-
ered what he wanted off the lagoon. None
of us yokels had ever thought of it.
* * * *
“Bo”: When our suburb was canvassed
for air-raid wardens, Bilsen refused to act
unless he was paid for his services. In
a hundred other ways he made himself
thoroughly objectionable to his neighbors,
so it was with great relief that his street
recently heard he was moving to the
country. About a week before he was
due to leave a young man who lived a
few doors away, wakened early one morn-
ing by an intruder, had a crack at the
rapidly retreating miscreant with the first
weapon that came to Jiis hand, which
happened to be his ukulele. The effect
on the burglar was negligible, on the uke
disastrous; on the long-suffering neigh-
bors when they heard of the pestiferous
instrument’s fate, it was stimulating. The
street settled down to anticipated bliss
with the simultaneous elimination of their
two chief neckpains. Then on the day he
left Bilsen displayed an’unheard-of gener-
osity by making the youth a present of
a new ukulele “to replace the one ruined
by his brave act,” as he told the boy’s
fond mother. The rest of the street know
that the only thing stopping Bilsen from
laughing at them from his distant home
is that he has long forgotten how to laugh.
* * *
“Findy”: Sydney papers, ever ready to
copy American journalism, have broken
out into a crop of “columnists.” One
of the fraternity “disclosed” that a
divorced Sydney “socialite” would be
“leaving for England soon in the wake of
the Marquis of Milford Haven.” Mr.
Calwell’s views on the subject of the
young lady’s passport were not quoted,
but in the course of conjecture the gos-
siper suggested that “if sufficient disasters
befell the Royal family the young mar-
quis would be in the line of succession
to the throne.” If all the sprigs of royalty
between “the young marquis” and the
throne were gathered together it would
take several atomic bombs to wipe them
out. Anyway, there really is no such title
as marquis in the British peerage. The
rank that came to David Michael Mount-
batten at the death .of his father in 1938
is marquess. Lord Louis Mountbatten is
heir-presumptive to his nephew’s title.
* * , * ♦
“V. Cluse”: When the Jephsons arose
on a recent morning Mrs. Jephson re-
marked “You know, dear, I had a strange
dream last night. I dreamt that I heard
a noise and got up and there were some
horses going past the front. Most
peculiar. There seemed to be eight or
nine of them, just walking along, and
there was a man behind them and he said
‘Hurry up there, Magsman’—or it might
have been Bagsman, or Tagsman, or
something like that. I don’t usually
dream, you know. Do you suppose it’s
this humid weather?” Jephson grunted
something and went for his shaving
water. Later a chord vibrated in his
memory and he made a search through
the racing information. “Cragsman,” he
murmured wonderingly. “By golly, it
could be Cragsman! ” So he risked a quid
each way and the nag rolled home
at tens. When he told Mrs. Jephson she
wept and called him several sorts of a
fool for (,a) not letting her in on it and
( b ) not making a bigger bet. On the
Monday morning the milkman saw
Jephson on the tram and said “Hey, I
hope your missus wasn’t upset the other
night. Saw her on the verandah when I
was roundin’ up me horses that had got
out.” Jephson has lost his faith in dream
tips.
* * * *
“L.L.”: The search for a spring on the
site- of Melbourne’s Shrine of Remem-
brance to save the lawns threatened with
extinction by the water shortage got a
step further when Z. A. Merfield, son of a
former Government astronomer, an-
nounced that he could remember develop-
ing photos in a stream that emerged in
the wine cellar of the old Observatory
cottage which once stood where the
Shrine stands. Dr. Ellery, the original
Government astronomer, used the spring
to keep his wine in cool condition. How-
ever, the spring only provided four
bucketfuls of water per hour.
A MODERN CINCINNATUS.
“There is a familiar precedent in ancient history
for Mr. McKell’s impending retirement to his farm
from the heat and dust of the political arena.”
—“S. M. Herald
Here’s fame, McKell! Observe, you’re given
the status,
Or entered for the mantle, anyhow.
Of good old Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus,
Saviour of Rome, historians allow,
Who found a more congenial apparatus,
After the job was finished, in the plough,
Relinquishing the storm and stress and noise
Of politics for rural tasks and joys.
The parallel, it’s true, has certain “spoilers”:
Back on the soil, he only had to switch
To his old job. But yours was making boilers
Before you struck a better-paying pitch
In battling for the rights of sturdy toilers
Against the idle or industrious rich.
To you the plough would hardly represent,
One guesses, a familiar implement.
Withal, each saved his land. The storied
Roman
Went forth, you may remember, wars to win,
A stubborn warrior excelled by no man;
While you have proved yourself a thick-and-
thin
Opponent of a diff’rent sort of foeman.
You kept your blows for enemies within,
Making each post a winner till you rang
The knell and stepped into the shoes of Lang.
As both of you were in some sort dictators
Resemblances inevitably would
Occur, just as between two gladiators,
Traders of punches, types of hardihood.
And each, unlike so many legislators,
Knew how to chuck it while the going was
good,
Rather than risk continuance in a job
That rests upon the favor of the mob.
Still, there’s one point on which it’s safe to
gamble.
That is when Cincinnatus packed his grip
And hit the breeze for scenes where cattle
ramble,
And there are fields of waving wheat to strip,
We find no mention of a frantic scramble
For his particular dictatorship.
Per contra, Mac, experience assures
There’ll be a devil of a rush for yours.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“W.E.F.”: My friend Slim, who col-
lects for a Sydney cash-order concern,
has reduced the business of getting a
drink during these days of alcoholic
drought to a fine art. Normal routine
for those in his line of work is to devote
a day to a certain district; Slim arranges
his schedule to the times beer comes on
in various widely-scattered suburbs. He
may be at Balmain, where he can get a
schooner at eleven o’clock; then he
dashes out to Ryde, collects a payment
or two and a drink about half-past
twelve. He picks up a few more bob
for his firm at Concord, and also a nog-
gin or two ; then moves on to Newtown,
where he manages to slake his thirst
again. His itinerary is a complicated
affair of wild crosscountry jaunts and
split-second connections with trains,
trams and buses. It took some time be-
fore he broke his clients into complying
with his erratic programme, and his
journeyings must be a strain on his nerves
and pocket, but he does get a generous
issue of sherbet during the course of a
week,
* * ❖ $
“En B.”: Featherbrain is not a read-
ing type, so I was astonished to find her
absorbed in an old home-bound volume of
The Bulletin. Wrapped in war history?
Well, of a kind. “Gee, fancy seeing
marquisette curtains advertised!” she
breathed.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Our rude forefathers may
not have produced anything in domestic
architecture that calls for preservation,
but they knew how to keep their homes
cooler than those of this modern genera-
tion even with its ice deliveries and its
electric fans. Broad verandahs and bal-
conies and detached kitchens so that the
cooking heat was kept out of the house
“Pardon me, lady—is that fellow molesting you? ”
were included in the rules. True, the ser-
vants’ bedrooms were often in the annex
that contained the cookhouse, but ser-
vants in those old days didn’t have much
time to sleep, and when they did sleep
they were too tired to be fretful. The
outflung awnings over the verandahs, or
the canvas ones that were equally com-
mon, extending outward before windows,
provided a cooling system of their own
and teased the air into pleasing perco-
lations. Modern homes, perhaps, lack
the spaciousness necessary for the old
layout, but even in the outer suburbs
most homes are verandahless. Sweltering
in some of them when calling on friends,
I have sighed for the wisdom of the
former generations, apparently forgotten
now.
* * * *
“Hist”: The last postage stamps issued
by the Nazi regime in Germany may well
become some of the world’s rarities. Sup-
plies arrived in Berlin from Vienna one
day before the Russians encircled the
city, and they are said to have been on
sale at p.os. for no more than an hour.
All stocks were burnt when the Berlin
G.P.O. went up in flames. There were
two varieties, both scarlet in color. One
depicted the head and shoulders of a
stormtrooper carrying a flaming torch ;
the other the head of a machine-gunner
with a man bearing a swastika flag in the
background.
“C. 8.”: P.M.G. Cameron announced
proudly the other day that overseas orders
to the value of £20,000 had already been
received for Australia’s deplorable peace
stamps. The orderers must have been
“modernist” art collectors.
* * * *
“Macnell”: With directors, guns, and,
on some American ships, even turrets
stabilised against the ship’s roll by gyros
controlling powerful oil-recentring motors,
one accepts the fact that the effects
of wind and wave have at last been
nullified—though not so conclusively that
billiards are played in a warship.
They have been, though, and by Walter
Lindrum himself. The fact that the
carrier Indefatigable was alongside the
wharf during the exhibition detracted not
at all from the incongruity of the play.
The table was set up on one of the big
’plane lifts and lowered about 20 feet be-
low deck-level, allowing half the ship’s
company to look down on the wizard
doing as he pleased with the balls.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The Victorian Railway
Department has a station bell with a
unique history. Early in the .war Diggers
returning to camp from their pre-embar-
kation leave “borrowed” the bell from
the station at Seymour. It was smuggled
aboard a transport and reached the M.E.,
passed from desert camp to desert camp
and returned to Australia in 1942, when
it vanished. It turned up the other day
in Brisbane when a Digger who knew its
history deposited it in a weekly newspaper
office. The paper invited the Victorian
Railways to apply for the bell, and it now
reposes in a storeroom at Spencer-street
awaiting its return to service.
* * * *
“Scribe”: In the booming days before
the latest war light-opera companies used
to fly across the Tasman for a season in
Maoriland. Now, if they arrive at all, it’s
rather on the instalment system. Gladys
Moncrieff, back for the first time since
1937 with a show (in 1940 she made radio
appearances only), must have longed for
old times. She, with some of her princi-
pal players, turned up on the Durban
Castle with a bunch of troops, followed
by another party in the Waipori, a cargo
vessel. Final instalment arrived on the
Katoomba a few days before the curtain
went up in Auckland after a postpone-
ment. First fruits of the peace, Gladys’s
crowd has broken a theatrical drought
that persisted practically since thirty-
seven,
* * * (t * „
“Clooter”: My guess is that ‘ guy” got
into the American language from the
English, and that it got into the English
from Guy Fawkes per medium of the
small boy. It wasn’t long after Fawkes’s
demise that England had an annual
juvenile celebration on its hands every
November 5, when bonfires were built
and dummies to represent the late Mr.
Fawkes were burnt on them to the ac-
companiment of fireworks and general
hilarity. Since the dummies were always
made to look comical, it came to pass
that anyone who, "inadvertently or other-
wise, presented an unusual appearance
was said to “look a guy” or “make a guy
of himself,” and it was only a step to
“How do you like the vanilla flavor ?”
“guying” anyone and to asking “who is
that guy?” The elevation or deteriora-
tion or whatever you like to call it into
American would be simple, the Ameri-
cans being, in some things, such impres-
sionable guys.
* ♦ * *
“Exdig”: The last Digger to return
from the 1914-18 war was hailed in 1935 ;
he was a chap who was looking after the
A.I.F. graves on Gallipoli, and merely
came back on furlough. Some others
who remained very lively indeed did not
come back at all. Quite a number who
took their discharge in Britain drifted to
the Australian homeland in time; but
others stayed in curiously scattered locali-
ties. There were the couple of Digs,
who established the motor service be-
tween Jerusalem and Bagdad; two
brothers who squatted in Morocco at the
invitation of the French Government;
the chap who settled down to running a
guide service to the battlefields at Amiens,
and when last reported had a huge family
by his French wife —I wonder what has
become of him and them. One Digger
joined the Canadian Mounted Police, and
later took up a farm in Winnipeg ; an-
other had a saloon in Alaska ; a third got
a job as elephant-controller in Uganda.
A few scattered themselves about South
America. There will be stragglers from
this war, of course; but in a world in
which famine stalks few places are likely
to offer more attractions than Australia,
and the non-returners are likely to be
fewer.
* * $ *
“Jasby”: In most suburban homes the
bi-weekly ritual of carrying the refuse-
bin to the front gate is accepted as part
of the householder’s burden. Residents of
one of Sydney’s north-shore suburbs ap-
parently don’t subscribe to this practice ;
the rubbish man has to come round the
back. In the course of a rent-determina-
tion case in that locality a houseagent
pleaded that consideration be given to
the tone of the suburb —in some obscure
way the backdoor dustbin was apparently
considered to contribute to toniness. The
magistrate was unsympathetic to this
claim for suburban superiority. So, in
similar circumstances, was my friend
Bert, who visited friends in that particu-
lar suburb and left his car in front of the
house opposite. His bus is more like a
museum piece than a limousine, and be-
fore long the lady of the house came
across to ask him to move it. Asked her
reason, she explained that she was ex-
pecting visitors who would want to park
their car there. My friend pointed out
that there was enough room in the street
to park 50 cars, so they would hardly
need the tiny space his old crock was
occupying. Then the lady made it clear
that she felt his dilapidated old bus de-
tracted from the tone of her mansion.
That was enough for Bert. He was just
as car-proud as she was house-proud.
Lizzy stayed where she was till kindly
darkness hid the poor woman’s shame.
“Mora”: I was standing outside a
suburban post office waiting patiently for
a ’phone call. A venerable old gentle-
man asked “Can you work this stamp
gadget?” He produced two pennies and
a halfpenny and I started on the two-
penny side with explanations to him on
its mechanism. Result, a twopenny
stamp. Then on to the halfpenny side.
After inserting the coin he lifted the lid
and tugged. Result, two halfpenny
stamps. “Mugs for luck,” I observed.
Some remarks about high taxes and it
being time he got something for noih-
ing from the seemed to
satisfy his conscience Curious to see
what would happen to the next CUS J°™ ’
I g ave a halfpenny of my own ago and
got no stamp. By this time the old party
was well in on the fun ’ and he , gave a ?'
mine. Just then , he ’phone bell
ca *J |ed me to the boXi and when i returned
he was gone Now? who was the mug ?
* * * *
“Findy” - : Spring water may have ac-
counted for the limpidity of Melba’s top
note, though there is nothing on record
to suggest that she took a bottled supply
with her on world tours. Stiff, stranger
claims have been made. There s a radio
“session” of famous tenoi recordings,
used to be sponsored by a cigarette nrm,
and although the claim was not actually
made there was always the implication
that the singers owed their success o e
soothing effect of the firm s gaspers. ,
through effluxion of time, tobacco ration-
ing or natural causes the session nas
changed sponsors ; Tauber, ur ok ,
Gigli and the rest sing with undiminished
vigor and enthusiasm in the interests ot
the makers of a refrigerator. 1 should
think that the quality of a s mg^ r 8
depends not so much on the brand o
refrigerator he uses as on the brand
the stuff he keeps
* * ~, „ mnla ; nt nn .
Bethune : f ßeg s complaint of un
collected tram fares (B. 13/2/46) migftt
be partly met if other cities adopted a
nlan they have in Brisbane. Books of
P . of dozen tickets can be bought;
,** sn ; n the
s y Bl c P pm afraid that
extende ?' t too m a„v
season tickethold y s woii g ~9 .
rides for their mo' y» worrv t he rail-
question doesnt see ™ Jho ol ld
wayp or iarnes . » h »
think of riding oh a tram p^
* UmKimr Tommis-
. “Sqtmz
sion showed a scrawling
decided to take o P P
Camp Pell J US L r ° p U^ with wha
was a mild future compared with what
was done at the time oi the Cabbage
Patch’s lust big housing s^ a f^ th 18
when the town was ja^’P ac i ed ld g elds
migrants
and disgnmtled diggers r t S p .^
handed Emergency of the
eluded the hiring and s Ratmar f s
old abattoirs at the foot of Batman s
Hill; renting out two sailing-ships
Melbourne ; the importation from g
pore of over 200
wood houses, the establishment
canvas town at South
sheltered over 2°,,000, and^ th® e
barracks, complete with what were men
all mod. cons.
FIGHT MANAGERS.
Boxers, I readily concede,
May be chockfull of grit and go,
Brisk samples of the bulldog breed
Who battle coram publico,
Punch and get punched for wads of dough,
Deal and are downed by vicious slugs.
But no such bouquets I’ll bestow
Upon the blokes who manage pugs.
From day to day in print we read
Their blatant bray and brazen blow
About some champ, whose strength and speed
Are tipped to' make a holy show
Of any too-aspiring foe
And devastate unguarded mugs.
Like chanticleers they flap and crow,
The leary coves who shepherd pugs.
Of propaganda, ’tis agreed,
There’s little that they do not know.
Loud-bellowed challenges succeed
The verbal punches that they throw.
They bandy braggadocio
Enough to deafen list’ning lugs,
The birds who get the quid pro quo
That comes from management of pugs.
Prince, save me from embroglio
With various types of bores and tugs,
And please preserve me from the woe
Of heark’ning to the ebb and flow
Of yap from blokes who shepherd pugs.
N.S.W.
IFORD,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: We had pulled up in a
car, doubtfully eyeing a swirling yellow
torrent pouring across the road, when a
six-horse team pulling a wagon hauled
up beside us. The driver, tanned of skin
and in shorts and shirt, got down from
the load, eyed the torrent and remarked
“Wouldn’t it!” Then he looked at us,
sized us up briefly, pushed his hat back
on his head and said “Well, better give
it a go, I reckon.” Then he climbed
back on the load, picked up the leaders’
reins and spoke: “Prince, Nugget, get into
it. y’ loafers,” The team stood into the
collars, the leaders took the water, the
wagon followed and began to sink. The
driver stood up. “Hup there! ” he roared.
“Prince, Nugget, Tessa. G’wan, git airp.
Hup there, hup there!” The wagon
lurched, sank some more, appeared to
stop; the team made a last effort and
dragged it out on to solid going on the
far side. There the driver stopped it,
got down and looked at the mud and
water running off the wheels, went along
soothing the horses* then came back and
looked at the flood. “I’ll be bloody glad
when Bob gets out of the Army an’ I
can get back t’ school,” he said. He was
10 or 11.
* * * *
“8.A.”: Although I’ve been a lot in
badly-infested whiteant country I’ve
never been able to ascertain how that
devastating insect builds its mound or
why it finds it necessary to build at all.
I’ve seen hundreds of mounds opened ; in
the majority of cases in perfect condi-
tion, they contained nothing but a quantity
of material resembling old honeycomb.
I have never seen a mound in course of
construction, nor have I ever met a man
who was prepared to affirm that he had
done so. As the insect works only under
cover of darkness, it does not seem possible
that the job could be finished in a night.
Seeing that his alimentary and reproduc-
tive necessities are amply provided for in
the drjr tree and fallen timber, I ask:
Why does the termite dissipate so much
energy in constructing a dwelling which
in many cases is soon abandoned to
home-seeking ringed snakes or goannas?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: One of the hardest
things for modern Australians to under-
stand is the old pioneers’ predilection
for relentless, unremitting toil. In the
days when the nation was literally being
carved out of the continent, any easy
way out of a job was apparently frowned
upon. Often they appear to have gone
out of their way to find work, but what
they built lasted. One of the best ex-
amples in W.A. is the old Wanneroo-
road. Constructed of rounds about 9in.
thick sawn off felled trees and laid side
by side —at what cost in labor can be
guessed—portions of it still exist along-
side the new road. And it carried heavy
traffic —12- and 14-horse teams hauled
much of Perth’s firewood supply over it.
Yet there was good roadbuilding material
—limestone —available 100yds. off the
route. And some of the old log build-
ings, particularly those constructed of
blackgin, a relative of the famed black-
boy or grasstree, but tough where the
blackboy is brittle, must have averaged a
ton of sweat to the square yard. Some
of them are still standing—they’ll stand
for years yet —but their usefulness passed
long ago.
* * ♦ ♦
“Bull-ant Bill”: After all these recent
press yarns about idiotic mongs it is a
pleasure to read of a really sensible
hound. During a bushfire alarm in
French’s Forest, northward of Sydney, a
woman went to release her cow and poul-
try, housed in the track of the fire, and
was overcome by the smoke and heat.
Her Alsatian dog tried to drag her to
safety by her clothes, then to push her
with his head. Finding both beyond his
powers he barked so effectively that he
attracted the notice of three firefighters,
who rescued both his mistress and the
livestock and saved the house as well.
He * * *
“Munja”: Tree-burial and semi-mum-
mification (B. 16/1/’46) are but two
methods of corpse-disposal practised by
Binghi. Although various races have
practised modes peculiar to themselves —•
the Egyptians embalmed bodies; Greeks
cremated them ; Scythians ate them —our
abo. has tried all, not excluding the grim
Scythian method. After-treatment of
deceased depends upon his importance or
tribe. The Dieri made a great show of
placing food on the grave for days after
“You ought to feel flattered — he's a connoisseur of bananas
the burial, and would even keep fires alight
during the winter so that the spirit might
warm itself. The tribes of the Barcoo-
Diamantina deltas went to the opposite
extreme; the great toes of the defunct were
tied together to prevent the ghost walking,
and when the grave had been filled in a
large heap of wood was dumped on it
to hold the spirit down. Best example
of reverent treatment occurred in N.S.W.
when Sturt discovered off the Macquarie
River an “oblong mound with three semi-
circular seats. A path encircled the grave,
and the cypresses overhanging it were
carved in fanciful designs on the inner
side.”
* * * *
“Scam”: “Ants,” says old Tom —“I
know all about ’em. There’s day ants and
night ants. Once out on the east side
of the Flinders Range, on Wirrealpa, we
were timbering a well, and the mate got
so jumpy about ants that he wanted my
place on the floor of the cart. We
argued, and then I gave in and all the
day he talked of the good sleep he was
going to have that night. After he had
wrapped himself up in the blankets I
got a small dry sapling, dipped the end
in treacle and gently leaned it against
the cart; then I turned in, listening. In
about an hour, just as I* was dozing, Jim
yells like hell, jumps down from the
cart, and says the ants were worse up
there than on the ground, I kicked the
stick away, dusted the floor with a bag
and turned in. Some folk don’t like
ants!”
* * ♦ *
“Blime”: Slip had taken a job with
Pattison, and his new quarters turned out
to be a very old and decrepit hut, built
well up off the ground. For a few
minutes he eyed the place in dismay, then
silently dumped his belongings. Calling
round early the next morning, the boss
was greeted by a scraping noise, and
presently the new hand emerged from
under the building. He offered no ex-
planation. A couple of days later Pat-
tison again discovered his employee
scrambling from under the hut. Next
thing he noticed was an excavation, where
the earth had been shovelled away from
the outside wall, and a track leading from
underneath the floor. He was about to
call Slip when there was a dull thud
and a few seconds later the hand once
more came from underneath. “Time t’
milk, eh?” he remarked, noting the
bucket in the other’s fist. “Righto. And
I say,” he paused on his way through
the door, “I ain’t one t’ complain, but
I s’pose y’ ain’t got nowhere else I c’d
doss, ’ave y’? It’d save me a lot o’ time
cornin’ back in again if y’ ’ad some place
where the floor-cracks ain’t so flamin
wide.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: That par. of “Blime’s”
about the man who shifted his. furniture
at the approach of a bushfire (B.
16 /1 / ’46), only to find it burned and the
anticipatedly doomed house spared, had
a tragic parallel in the Victorian bush-
fires of 1939. A woman alone with a
small child in the bush left her home on
the approach of the conflagration in order
to seek refuge with a neighbor. But on
the way there she was overtaken and, with
her child, perished. The home that she
had left remained untouched.
* * * *
“G’Roper”: Says VS.T.S.” “I saw a
black swan —a startling sight in England”
(B. 23/1 1 ’46). By present mortality rates
it won’t be long before the same bird will
be a startling sight in Australia. The
Swan River was so named because of the
multiple presence of these birds, but you
don’t see swans on the Swan these days.
Nor on the other s.-w. W.A. rivers. Pot-
hunters never pass a swan, even though
the bird is heavily “protected”; there
are never any prosecutions for the
offence. Along with the pot-hunter is the
natural species of rat. River edges and
swamps everywhere become more and
more infested with the rodent. At night
he worms his way under the setting
mother to eat the developing eggs. Later
he pulls down the fluffy swanlets. Once
it was a common sight on W.A. waters
to see a mother swan with a brood of
a dozen.
* * * *
“Koros Tumas”: After 25 years spent
among the New Guinea natives I would
be the first to give credit to those who
helped us during the recent stoush. But
“Munja” (B. 30/1/’46) and the public
generally don’t seem to realise that the
“angel” myth has its foundation upon
a mere 600 natives. That many, if not
more, worked cheerfully for the enemy.
When the Japs got near Port Moresby
Angau had only 1500 natives. Of these
900 “went through” so fast that they
nearly set the kunai on fire. The remain-
ing 600 were loyal, mostly because they
were with their old masters, and they did
a magnificent job. Later on, of course,
Angau employed over 40,000, with grand
results.
“Horseless Horseman”: New Guinea
natives, you discover, have, like the abos.,
their own indigenous forms of amuse-
ments. One that took my fancy on the
Madang coast is called “fightem water.”
It is staged in the sea, where, by violent
stirring with one hand, a vacuum is
created on the surface ; then somehow
with perfect timing the open palm of
the other hand is brought down to smack
the top of this swirling airhole with
such force that it sounds like a 15-
pounder going off. But it is one of those
simple tricks that have far more in them
than meets the eye. A couple of naval
ratings tried all one afternoon to learn
it and scarcely raised a noise.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Another species of
Australian fauna wiped out by those law-
less but colorful ruffians the early sealers
was the great sea-elephant. At the close
of the eighteenth century this huge seal-
like animal, which attains a length of
up to 20ft_ and is so called because of
its huge snout, abounded in Tasmanian
waters. Because each specimen yielded
half a ton of oil and a much-prized skin,
they were in great demand. In 1802 the
sealing gang landed from the brig Har-
rington on the shores of King Island
alone killed 600, besides 4300 seals, in a
month. By the end of 1803 the sea-
elephant had departed from our shores.
Nowadays the nearest refuge of these
strange amphibians to Australia is wind-
swept, stormlashed Macquarie Island,
that little-known and now little-visited
dependency of Tasmania, some 900 miles
south-east of Hobart.
* * « •
“Colonial Cove”: I suppose there are
few rivers more written about or talked
about in the Australian story than the
Condamine. I often wondered how the
stream came by so alien yet so resonant
a name. But now I have it: a Lieut.
T. de la Condamine was A.D.C. to
Governor Ralph Darling in 1827.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: In this S.A. district there
are two parallel ranges, part of the
Flinders system, running from a bit
south of west to a bit north of
east, and on both ranges the vege-
tatioh is almost as nicely distributed
as if it had been purposefully planted.
On the southern slopes of each chain
there are scrubs of native pine and black
oak, dark-looking stuff with the oaks so
dwarfed on some of the screes that they’re
really only bushes, whilst the pines are in
some places so stunted as to form an
almost impenetrable barrier of thickset
shrubs about six to eight
feet high. Higher up you
strike mallee, and along
the summits, where the
terrain is far enough from
the perpendicular to allow
it to grow, spinifex. On
the northern slopes, how-
ever, the pine and oak are
practically non - existent.
There, where the rocks
soak up the blaze of the
midday sun and radiate
the heat fiercely through
the evening and part of the
Sight, only the mallee
seems tough enough to sur-
vive—there is no mulga on
these particular ranges.
The euros are well aware
of the distribution ; in the
summer they favor the
southern slopes, from
which the sun departs
early and where there is
plenty of shade. In colder
weather they make camps
on the warmer northern
slopes, where, protected
from the cold south and west winds, they
flatten the porcupine clumps and stretch
out comfortably in the sun.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Why,” demands “Spoke-
shave” (B. 20/2/’46), “are cows always
milked on the off-side?” For the same
reason that horses are always mounted
from and handled from the near-side:
natural convenience. For right-handed
persons the left hand is the naturally de-
fensive one; hence the milker keeps it
nearer the cow’s legs and tail. Just as the
rider uses his right hand to pull himself
into the saddle, keeping the left free to
work the reins if the need arises.
* * * *
“Zake”: The two horsemen drew up
at the little pub in the one-horse town
and wearily dismounted. It was around
midday, and the day was a scorcher.
Hitching their nags to the rail after giving
them a good drink at the trough, the pair
mooched slowly into the bar. It was
empty. The short, thickset man ham-
mered with his fists on the bar. No
response. The tall man took an empty
pot and played a tattoo on the counter
with it. The pub droused on, unattended.
Then the short man put his boot into the
panelled counter for half a minute with-
out result. The pair roared in unison for
the pump-puller, but no lifesaver showed
himself. At last, after about ten minutes
of bedlam, a large, rotund figure lethargi-
cally drifted in from a back room, and
there were pie-crumbs on his whiskers.
“What’ll it be, gents?” he asked sleepily.
The lengthy one spoke. “Got a sheet of
paper and a pencil?” be asked. Bung
slothfully, but with no surprise, brought
them. Then the long man placed the
paper on the table, the while he glanced
critically at the short man, who leaned
back against the wall, and began sketch-
ing. “Wot’s the big idea?” quoth Bung.
“Don’t youse blokes want anything
to” The long one held up a reprov-
ing finger. “Sh!” he said. “Can’t you
see I’m busy?” “What are y* drorin’?"
asked the comatose dispenser of cheer.
“Picture of a man that’s darn’ near dead
o’ thirst while waitin’ for a lazy fat swine
to pull a pot for him,” snarled the long
one. “Make it two, quick!”
THE KNACKER’S NAGS
At dusk around the knacker’s gate
The train-scarred horses rest;
Unconscious of their shameful fate,
They look back to the West.
And oft one lifts a patient head
As though an errant breeze
Wafts through that stockyard of the dead
A breath of bushland frees.
This great grey gelding never saw
A town till yesterday;
He’ll see no more the white frost thaw
Out Narraburra way.
Blue hills may sparkle in the sun
Or shadows span the plain,
He will not see the plover run
Or hear the chink of chain.
The big roan with the crooked blaze
Was in a carter’s team,
And he remembers dusty days,
A scrub road like a stream
Where flowed the gold from stubble stripped,
Past fallow paddocks brown,
By pastures sere and seedy-tipped
Towards the sleepy town.
And this old mare of Clydesdale blood
Was once a station’s pride;
Her sire was from a famous stud
Whose breed she ne’er belied.
For when the gilgai holes were full
And Carts bogged after rains,
So staunchly she’d been known to pull
She choked down in the chains.
They stand and doze around the yard
In uncomplaining trust,
Too weak to hit the collar hard
But ready if they must;
The noblest friend of toiling Man,
Grown old in his employ—
Sold to the knacker’s soulless clan
To feed a gamester’s toy.
N.S.W.
Rob Webster.


“Bo”: The argument was about old
Sam Brophy, who had lived in his bough-
and-hessian hut at the foot of the big
bald hill for as long as the district could
remember, “No, he might have a few
queer ideas. I’ll grant y’,” said Joe, “but,
then, so have all of us. I’ll say he’s
no hatter.” “But,” maintained Bert, the
rouseabout, “he’s always yappin’ to that
frilled lizard of his, he sleeps with his
boots on his hands so that if he happens
to sleepwalk on his mitts he won’t get
bindi-eyes in ’em, he believes in turf-
tipsters and Chinese herbalists, is sure a
beerbottle-top tied to a horse’s fetlock’ll
stop him gettin’ the strangles, he won’t
eat a fish that’s caught on a hot daty be-
cause he reckons it might be sunstruck
and he’d be sunstruck by eatin’ it,
and y’ know at the last show he put
burnt cork on his dial, stuck a few
feathers around him and entered himself
in the Black Orpington section and
wanted to fight the judge when he didn’t
get the blue riband.” “Just the same,”
persisted Joe doggedly, “I still don’t think
he’s a real hatter.” Three days later Joe
came up to Bert. “Well, I got to admit
you were right, Bert,” he said. “I’m
certain Sam’s a hatter.” “What, did he
try to tell y’ about that bloke who comes
an’ stares straight at him every time he
goes to have a shave?” asked Bert. “No,”
said Joe. “I passed his place today and
we got talkin’ about things, an’ Sam was
emphatic that if anyone could solve the
housin’ problem it’d be the Guvvern-
ment. That settled it!”
* * ♦ •
“Brian Bureau”: A poultry-farmer with
imagination, Flourbag Fletcher con-
ceived the idea of allotting to each of
his hens a separate nest fitted with a
feeding contrivance from which the bird,
on laying an egg, automatically released
just enough food for a meal. As no
other scran was provided, irregular layers
were soon eliminated by starvation, but
the rest, realising that at least one egg a
day was necessary for their survival, be-
came regular enough, and soon reim-
bursed Flourbag for his initial loss.
Some of the progeny of these survivors
proved to be two-a-day layers, so their
proud breeder now contends that a
natural desire to emulate humans and go
for three feeds a day will ultimately evolve
hens that can be called layers.
* * * *
“Jonnel”; Scorfield’s picture of the
elephant on the tightrope (B. 13/2/’46)
leads me to comment on “J.F.H.’s” adja-
cent advice on the catching of crocodiles.
He snares but a single crocodile with
much more complicated gear than the
method used in the Burma jungle to col-
lect elephants. The huntsman is armed
merely with a blackboard, a piece of
chalk, an empty lemonade bottle, a pair
of tweezers—and the necessary telescope.
The technique of the trap consists of
writing on the board the addition sum
2 + 2 = 5, and placing the board against
a tree. The trappist then climbs the tree
and waits. An elephant comes along,
sees the arithmetical mistake, ponders a
while, then goes off to collect the rest of
his tribe, who gather round to solve the
equation. Then the telescope is brought
into play, wrong end up, the tweezers are
manipulated and the elephants, one by
one, are placed in the lemonade bottle.
The whisky trap may appear to be rather
a waste of good liquor —but, as the effect
on both “J.F.H.” and the croc, points
to the suggestion that the label denoted
“I said loquats, not locusts !”
a source nearer home than the land of
the kilts and tartan, perhaps it was not a
waste but a good riddance.
» * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “D.RJL’s” kan-
garoo, which licked its wrists as it lay in
agony (B. 30/1/’46), was following the
practice of all Toos when cooling them-
selves. In Toos, as in humans, the main
bloodstreams of the body pass through
wrists and ankles, and the cooling of
those parts has a similar effect on the
whole body. On a hot day Toos lick
the wrists and hold them in the breeze;
and this animal was pathetically trying to
cool its fevered body, prolonged pain
being a very sure temperature-raising
agency.
* * * *
“B 4”: While “Sur Cingle” (B. 6/2/’46)
has presented an admirable disquisition
on shooting-irons, he omitted mention
of one highly important factor, viz., the
propellent. Many of the rifles he quotes
use a cordite which is difficult of com-
pression for reloading purposes. Most
Too-shooters are satisfied with the good
old Diamond Grain No. 5. But surely
“S.C.” must have fired the 32-40 or 38-55
Winchesters, which, to my way of think-
ing, embody the requirements cited. These
powerful rifles are extremely accurate up
to 300 yards, and deliver a tremendous
shock to animal tissue. Their destruc-
tive power is further enhanced by using
a hollow point or split-nosed bullet, both
of which missiles mushroom and stop in
“Phew! Onions!”
the victim’s body. Additional accuracy
can be secured by using a Lyman rear-
sight bead front and a paired-fork rest
on windy plains. One factor resulting in
poor grouping with these rifles is the care-
less casting of bullets. Owing to their
high muzzle velocity, pure lead bullets strip
in the barrel, so an addition of 1 in 40 of
tin to lead is imperative. Again, the
mould must be kept at a constant tem-
perature, else oversized bullets will upset
the ballistics. Many ’roo-shooters im-
prove the all-round performances of their
32-40’s by removing the standard barrel
and substituting therefor a used .303 mili-
tary barrel bored to take the 32-40 taper-
ing shell, and firing a 1 in 30 alloy bullet.
Even the 32-20 takes a lot of beating
when fitted with a used ,303 barrel. Have
known many a run to be cleared of ’roos,
bulls and brumbies with the 32-40 set
on a military barrel,
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Why do so many out-
back Australians shy off Too meat even
to the extent of looking rather shocked
when its use on the menu is mentioned?
If properly cooked it makes excellent
gravy beef, stuff to fill out your ribs,
not to starve on like rabbit. My guess
is that it’s still labelled in the older hands’
memories as the food of the scratching
selector who could afford nothing else.
Remember how ashamed they were on
Steele Rudd’s “Selection” when the
parson called and there was Too meat
hanging up?
* # * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were knocking
down trees out of Underbool (Vic.) when
the nicely-dressed cove appeared in the
sulky, got down, helped himself to our
waterbag and began to sell us' insurance.
“Think what it means,” he said earnestly
to Mat. “In a few years you could build
a house and settle down.” “What would
I want a house for?” Mat demanded.
“Well,” says his Nibs, “I suppose you’ll
get married some day and” —but he
caught a glare in Mat’s eyes and changed
to something else. Every way he could
he came at the big fellow, but Mat had
an answer for him every time. At last
he said “Look, wouldn’t it be nice to
draw a thousand quid when) you’re sixty-
five?” Mat thought that over and said
“Whatinell would I want a thousand then
for?” He paused and added “Look,
Mister, y’ say that be payin’ a few bob a
week I can have a thousand when I’m
sixty-five. Well, I could do a lot more
with it now. How about you payin’ me
the thou, now and I’ll pay y’ the few bob
a week till I’m sixty-five?” “Aw, that’s
no good,” said the insurance man after
some dutiful laughter; “y’ see, we’d have
no way of holding you. You might go
anywhere. You might stop paying. No,
we couldn’t do business that way. We
couldn’t trust anyone like that.” Then
Mat got wild. “By cripes, y’ got a hide,”
he roared. “Y’ want me t’ pay me good
money an’ trust you t’ pay me a thousand
about forty years from now, but y’ won’t
flamin’ well trust me t’ do the same thing.
Get t’ hell —we got work t’ do.” And he
grabbed his axe in such a way that that
insurance man broke evens to his sulky.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: The nipper had brought in
his latest treasure, a galah’s breast-feather,
green with slime, that he’d dipped out of
the sheep-trough. After the commotion
consequent on his separation from the
find had subsided, I got hold of the
feather and put it under the microscope,
whereupon the rather repulsive slimy
thing turned into a very beautiful minia-
ture world. Between the parted barbs
were colonies of what looked like little
crystal bells, each on its individual glass
stalk and each alive and feeding. In
front of the opening of each bell was a
miniature whirlpool in which small proto-
zoans, alga cells and tiny bits of debris
whirled madly in the current induced by
the beating of the cilia about the mouth
of the bell. Every now and then, in
response to some danger signal, a bell
would recoil, its stalk coiling like a spiral
spring, its beautiful shape becoming a
mere blob of jelly. The next second the
stalk would shoot out, the bell would
open and the whirlpool reform as the
animal recommenced feeding, drawing a
stream of bacteria and other food par-
ticles into a tiny gullet in the bell mouth,
rolling the tucker up neatly and then,
without bothering about anything so com-
plicated as a stomach, passing it into the
clear protoplasm of the bell to be
digested. A whole population of beauti-
ful forms, each one busy about its own
affairs, some feeding, an occasional one
getting itchy feet, breaking away from its
stem to whirl about madly until it finds
a better possie, an occasional one looking
lopsided as it begins to divide into two —
all between two barbs of a half-rotten
feather.
* * * ♦
“Shamuseen”: A species of hornet
in N.Q. in the construction of its
dried-mud house adds the skill of
the engineer to that of the archi-
tect. From the structure protrude a series
of mud tubes shaped similarly to ships’
ventilators. Since they are too small to
permit ingress or egress of the hornet
himself, the logical assumption is that the
tubes act as air conduits for the larvae
which hatch inside the nest. This
belief is strengthened by the fact that the
openings of the bell-shaped mouths of
the tubes always face the prevailing
wind.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Buff’s dog Spot shared his
fondness for whisky, and they had many
a spree. Finally turned out of the pub,
the pair would meander uncertainly
campward, stepping one behind the other
with exaggerated care. Only once were
they separated on the trip, and that was
when a rabbit crossed Buff’s bleary line
of vision, and through force of habit he
sooled. How many rabbits the little tyke
saw is doubtful, but by his antics he ap-
peared to drive a considerable mob.
Shepherding them discreetly to their des-
tination took some time, and he returned
to find Buff gone. For once his nose
failed. He turned dejectedly for home,
where, after receiving no response to his
door-scratching, he mourned deep and
sincerely before starting the return trip.
The pub was his first visit, followed by
a stop at the blacksmith’s shop, the store
and old Murphy’s claim before he ran
Buff to earth under the willows below
the crossing. Then, with a deep sigh, the
little tyke dropped alongside, and for
some hours the pair slept it off.
* * * *
“Narrin”: “Cats,” snorted old Com-
bine, “are useless things. Look at that
blanker” —pointing to the big yellow Tom
asleep on top of the seed wheat. “Place’s
lousy with mice an’ will he catch ’em?
No flamin’ fear. Pulled up a sheet of
iron this mornin’. There was three mice
under it. He caught one, played with
it for ten minutes an’ let the thing go
again. Wouldn’t look at the others.”
Just then Combine Junior came in. “OP
Tom caught two rabbits again las’ night,
Dad,” he volunteered. Dad grunted
something about it being a pity the use-
less soanso wouldn’t catch mice, and the
subject dropped like a brick down a
well. I couldn’t help thinking then that
old Tom, like most cats, was a feline
realist: he preferred rabbit because he
knew he could get a feed from a carcass.
Mice were just titbits, not big enough to
warrant expending energy over. All
right, of course, to tickle up one’s appetite
or to fill in an idle minute or two. But
definitely not to be taken seriously by
a bush cat.
THE BLOKE THAT’S “GOING
BACK.”
No matter where or what you’ve been, from
Cairns to Mona Vale,
You- cannot have escaped him or his
melancholy tale.
You “codded” on the Clarence or you jacke-
rooed round Hay;
You’ve scratched for gold in Mudgee; you
have “picked” down Leeton way.
You did a bit of droving or you “hoofed it on
the track”?
Then you’ve met —and cursed —the fellow who
is always “Going back.”
You’ll find him in Kiandra when the snow-
flakes start to fly;
He’ll be pining for Rockhampton as it was in
days gone by—
The winters there were summers, and the beer
was better brew,
And he’s never known such cobbers as the
“Rocky” blokes he knew.
The past blooms ever brighter and the future
grows more black
While he dreams again of ’Eaven and he
talks of going back.
And then again you’ll meet him somewhere
west of Mungindi:
A chap with accents wistful and a sad, re-
flective eye.
He yearns for Gippsland valleys where the
trees form domes of green;
And he’ll draw a bitter contrast to “this flat
depressing scene.”
But he’ll settle down for ever where the arid
paddocks crack —
The cove who quitted ’Eaven, but is pining
to go back.
He’ll be gazing in the bucket when the milk
begins to foam;
Then he’ll moon of surf and breakers and “the
happy days back home.”
He’ll be leaning on his shovel on a road in
Erskineville
Romancing of the ’appy times he ’ad at Broken
Hill.
But none there is less mobile, and no one fears
the sack
Like the bloke who came from ’Eaven and is
yearning to go back.
N.S.W.
B. A. Ker.


&S-
-*rsy
-
**•-
-V
_!!?i^’‘*tfni»iwp.
ME
IN THE WAKE OF MAGELLAN
427 years ago Ferdinand Magellan, Portuguese adven-
turer and explorer, commanded the first fleet to sail out
of l the storm-swept South Atlantic into the blue waters
of the Pacific. Magellan pioneered a new route to the
East . . . discovered many islands and proved that the
globe could be circumnavigated by sea. Due to the
pioneering spirt of this great explorer, access was gained
to the riches of the Pacific, the bounteous products of
the islands found their way to European markets and
Western goods flowed into the market places of
Oceania. * * * But the growth of European-Pacific
trade was tardy because the route was long and shipping
services slow. * * * Australian National Airways, in-
spired with the spirit displayed by past pioneers, has
built up a fleet of famous aircraft which could provide
speedy inter-island services to divert trade and pros-
perity to our shores. * * * The new A.N.A. luxury
skyliners and giant freight planes
can assure for Australia trade
, dominance in this vast domain.
Wing Your Way Wifh
dfs
AAI6.IG
chocolate that
speaks up for
itself ...
Chocolate experts will tell you
that they judge the quality of chocolate
by listening for its snap. The louder the snap,
the better the chocolate. You’ll hear Small’s
Club Chocolate break with the loudest of
snaps every time. Because it breaks with
the proper, clean brittle snap, Small’s Club
Chocolate is on its own for summer eating.
c°'-
c*° r
m
&
S?f
M0
K
It’s a fact! We pro-
duced our Small’s
Club Chocolate es-
pecially for men. It’s
NOT so sweet. That’s
why we called it “Club”
Chocolate. But the girls
took one taste. Loved it.
Now the men have to
share it with the girls.
Askfor
Small's Club Chocolate in
black and white wrappers
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Liquidating the Luftwaffe.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times”
aeronautical correspondent.)
The British Air Forces of Occupation
in Germany now stand at about 50,000
officers and men and 25 operational
squadrons, and it is expected that this
will be their permanent size. It is a purely
tactical air force, with the long-range
bombers based in Britain, as they were
during the war. The pilots are doing
more flying now than they did during the
war. The average works out at some
260 hours a year, made up of routine
patrols which serve the double purpose
of “showing the flag” and providing
training, and combined exercises with
heavy bomber squadrons based in Eng-
land.
At regular intervals Bomber Command
squadrons fly out from England to make
mock attacks on German centres, and
Mosquitoes go up to intercept them. The
German ground control system has been
tried out, but the radar devices were so
inferior that British equipment is now
used. Night fighter units serve for a
fortnight under 8.A.F.0. and then give
place to others sent from England. In
this way all the squadrons are acquiring
varied experience.
The two main tasks of the R.A.F. in
Germany are the disbandment of the
Luftwaffe and the destruction or disposal
of its equipment and factories. Both
tasks are expected to be completed within
six months. All former German pilots,
air-c>ew members and skilled technicians
are required to report to the police every
week.
The disarming of the Luftwaffe in the
British sector is being carried out
thoroughly and systematically. Each of
the R.A.F.’s three operational groups is
responsible for “cleaning up” its own
separate area. Each group’s area is sub-
divided into wing areas, which are further
subdivided into squadron and flight
areas. The districts are then small
enough to be combed thoroughly by what
is virtually a house-to-house search. The
burgomaster of each town, village or
hamlet is made personally responsible for
reporting all arms, ammunition and war
plant in his locality. Much information
has been received from displaced persons.
Allied prisoners-of-war and the Germans
themselves; and the Allied intelligence
services have been responsible for the dis-
covery of many hidden dumps and stores.
In addition, rach unit of the R.A.F. em-
ploys reconnaissance parties which con-
duct searches and investigate reports of
hidden equipment and munitions.
During the last stages of the war the
Germans widely dispersed production
units, stores and dumps ; in some areas
there was hardly a barn, dance hall, or
beer house which did not house some
war material or plant. There has been
some deliberate concealment, some of it
so ingenious that mine detectors have had
to be used. But this has been largely
offset by the remarkable willingness of
the Germans to act as informers.
All factories which were engaged in
making aircraft components, aero-
engines and instruments are being stripped
and the plant removed. Warplanes are
collected into dumps, valuable instru-
ments and materials removed, and the
’planes are then destroyed, often by run-
ning steamrollers over them. Any novel
type of machine or equipment is specially
reported to the Royal Aircraft Establish-
ment at Farnborough, the R.A.F.’s ex-
perimental department, and it is not
destroyed until Farnborough has given
authority. If the R.A.E. wishes to inspect
the equipment it is shipped back to
England. About 150 Junkers 52 trans-
port aircraft have been discovered in the
British sector. Some of these will be
used on British air services until better
British machines are available. The re-
mainder are being broken up to create a
reserve of spare parts.
One interesting feature of the disarm-
ing of the Luftwaffe is the great quantity
of poison-gas bombs and shells found.
It is estimated at about 400,000 tons in
the British sector alone.
Thousands of rockets and flying bombs
have been discovered, a great many of
the latter adapted to be flown by a
“suicide” pilot. The armament disposal
section has destroyed or made harmless
over 93,000 tons of explosives, ranging
from V-weapons to anti-personnel bombs,
84.000 tons of small arms and machine-
guns, tens of thousands of rounds of
ammunition, and 1200 tons of miscel-
laneous equipment. From this total some
32.000 items of equipment have been sent
to England for intelligence and experi-
mental purposes.
Some of the disarmament work is being
carried out by former members of the
Luftwaffe. The Germans are fed, paid,
and clothed from German sources. They
wear uniform from which all insignia
have been removed, and the display of
medals or ribbons is forbidden. A care-
ful survey of airfields has been carried
out, and those not required by 8.A.F.0.
or for air transport purposes are being
ploughed up and returned to agriculture.
Food Shortage Facts.
(From London “Times.”)
Over 130,000,000 Europeans have to
subsist on two-thirds of the British ration
and something like half that number on
a half or less of the British ration.
vary between State and
State and between town and countryside.
There are local famines already. The
worst areas are Warsaw, Budapest, the
urban districts of Austria, Yugoslavia,
Slovakia and Finland, Greece, northern
Italy, parts of Rumania and Bulgaria and
the German towns.
Tuberculosis, , dysentery, typhoid,
typhus, rickets and high maternal and
infant deaths are spreading.
The likelihood of a repetition of mass
famine in India and the Far East, be-
cause of the failure of rice supplies, has
been officially recognised.
Harvests in Australia, Argentina and
Africa have been cut down by drought
and other causes ; natives in South Africa
are flocking from the reserves in search
of food.
Between now and July Europe requires
17.000. tons of wheat; and only
12.000. tons, half from the United
States, will be available.
U.S. Laborites Hit Soviet.
(George Meany, secretary-treasurer of the
American Federation of Labor, in that big
U.S. Labor organisation’s official organ ‘‘Ameri-
can Federationalist.”)
By force, or unilateral action, Soviet
Russia is exercising the prerogatives of
a dictator in Poland, eastern Germany,
Czechoslovakia and the Balkan nations
and assuming a dominant anti-democratic
position in eastern Asia.
While screaming loudly against an
imaginary “West bloc” this same nation
has set up a chain of dominated States
from the North Sea to the Pacific Ocean.
Square this sort of thing, if you can,
with the principles of freedom and self-
determination for all peoples expressed
by Roosevelt.
Reconcile, if you can, the present situa-
tion in Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and Rumania
•—where millions of people are suffering
and starving under Soviet-imposed dic-
tatorships—with America’s promise that
the right of self-government would be ac-
corded to all nations liberated from Hit-
ler’s domination.
The American Federation of Labor has
raised its voice in protest against these
oppressions for the same fundamental
ideals of liberty and justice on which it
protested against the aggressions of Hitler
and Mussolini for years prior to the start
of World War 11. We shall continue to
raise our voices in protest. We shall con-
tinue to fight for a world system of justice
in which right, not might, will govern
relations between the peoples of the
world. '
No one need try to tell us, as certain
people are telling American leaders of
political life and thought, that we must
not speak out frankly against the evils we
see in the actions of Soviet Russia, lest
such utterances “worsen relations” be-
tween our two countries. That is ridi-
culous nonsense. To pretend that we do
not know that millions of people in
eastern Europe are today victims of a
dictatorial tyranny with all the old fami-
liar trappings used by Hitler and his mob
would be an act of national hypocrisy.
We have nothing to gain by refusing to


lll#*
Jobless—
WHEN WA YGOOD-OTIS
TAKES OVER YOUR
LIFT MAINTENANCE
M • ,
Time and his accomplices, Wear and Tear, out of work? Wishful
thinking? It need not be . . . and the way to keep these rascals
jobless so far as your lift installation is concerned is to embark upon
an intelligently planned programme of lift maintenance—Waygood-
Otis maintenance.
Waygood-Otis lift maintenance is engineered to anticipate faults
, . . to locate them and correct them before they can develop . . .
to replace parts before they can cause a breakdown and dislocate
your lift service.
If your lift is a Waygood-Otis, then isn’t it logical and sound to
expecf better servicing and maintenance from the designer and
manufacturer?
Call your nearest Waygood-Otis office and learn for yourself how
preventive engineering in the shape of Waygood-Otis Maintenance
—either Limited or Comprehensive Policy—can pay you dividends.
No obligation.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE , ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS
i/LC.
0
BOOKS’'
,/ J etn
3 &)t M***.
. s jg each!
w<yt
%
(Lt
TO
BE
BOOKS
RELEASED
ORLD
BOOKS"
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book in a special
De-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
books cost only
June MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER _F. Spencer Chapman
July CLOUDLESS MAY _____ Storm Jamieson
Aug. BEING MET TOGETHER— _ _ _ Vaughn Wilkins
Sept. CRICKET COUNTRY _ _ _ _ Edmund Blunden
Oct. THE SMALL BACK ROOM— _ _ Nigel Balchin
Nov. CLUNY BROWN ______ Margery Sharp
Dec. SO MANY LOVES _____ Leo Walmsley
Jan. THE RAZOR’S EDGE _ _ _ Somerset Maughan
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS £l-17-6 12 MTHS—£3;IS-0 (inc.)
5/9 e<ac h, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, and are
members’ own
property.
MORGAN'S BOOITsHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of "World Books, I enclose £ / /
My Name is...
Address..
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
80 the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
.'■■v - <■' • • -
acknowledge the facts in regard to the
lone-wolf foreign policy of Soviet Russia.
Communists do not indulge in the
luxury of differences among themselves.
They have their orders to carry out, and
they organise their forces with firm dis-
cipline to vote yes or no and sometimes
even yes and no. They spawn “front”
organisations in great profusion.
It is time that our Government talked
matters over plainly with the Russians
and made it clear we do not want to push
them around or let them push us around.
We want peace, but we don’t want peace
at the price of having Commissars giving
orders. If the Russians are sincere in their
asserted desire for peace and world co-
operation, they ought to welcome frank
and sincere talk along those lines.
Churchmen as Plotters.
(Condensed from a London “Contemporary
Review” article by the Bishop of Chichester,
England, pointing out that the war-time plotting
to kill Hitler was a lot earlier than is generally
supposed, and describing the leading part played
by churchmen in the plotting, including his own
part as an intermediary .)
It is the purpose of this article to report from
personal knowledge an early stage in the plot
of July 20, 1944, to destroy Hitler. I place the
facts on record to call attention to a strong
anti-Nazi movement which lay behind the con-
spiracy.
I went on a visit to Sweden in May, 1942, at
the request of the Ministry of Information to
renew contacts between Swedish and British
churchmen. I had no sort of reason to expect
that I should meet any Germans. My surprise
was great when, on May 26, at the end of a
conference in Stockholm, a Swedish friend told
me that Dr. Hans Schonfeld had arrived from
Berlin and wished to see me. Dr. Schonfeld
had been well known to me'’for many years,"
first as an officer of the Universal Christian
Council for Life and Work, of which I had
been president, then as Director of the Re-
search Department of the World Council of
Churches in Geneva. As a German pastor
working for the World Council out of Ger-
many, he was required to be in touch with
the office of the German Evangelical Church
in Berlin, which dealt with foreign affairs. The
head of this office was Bishop Heckel, who
had Dr. Gerstenmaier as one of his assistants.
I saw Dr. Schonfeld with one or two Swedish
friends. He was in a state of considerable
strain. He came, he said, to inform me of a
strong opposition in Germany against Hitler,
which had been developing for some time.
Its main groups had sufficient power to
overthrow the Nazi rdgirhe, if opportunity
arose. Extensive preparations had been made.
The purpose of the opposition, he said,
was the destruction of the whole Hitler regime,
including Himmler, Goring, Goebbels and the
central leaders of the Gestapo, S.S. and S.A.,
*nd in its place to establish a Government
composed of strong representatives of the main
groups.
But—here lay the root of the matter —before
anything else could be done, Hitler must be
eliminated; and the Army was the only force
which could bring this about. There might be
two stages in the elimination: (1) a revolt in-
side the Nazi party, in which Himmler and the
S.S. could be encouraged to destroy Hitler;
(2) the mobilisation by the opposition of all
the other forces in the Army and the nation
against Himmler and the S.S. leaders, who were
more bitterly hated than anyone else.
What Dr. Schonfeld wished to learn, on be-
half of the opposition movement, was whether
the British Government would encourage such
a rising against Hitler, and whether, in the
event of its success, that Government would
be willing to negotiate with a new German —
anti-Nazi—Government. To attempt the de-
struction of Hitler, Himmler and the whole
regime involved immense danger; it was there-
fore extremely important to know whether the
Allies’ attitude to a Germany purged of Hitler
would be different from their attitude to a
Germany under Hitler. The alternative seemed
further destruction and chaos and increasing
nihilism as the war went on.
I saw Dr. Schonfeld again on May 29. Once
more he emphasised the reality of the Churches’
opposition to Hitler.
On May 31 I went to Sigtuna, a little town
with a famous educational settlement, many
miles from Stockholm. There an extraordinary
thing happened. A second German pastor
arrived, fresh from Berlin, in order to see me.
He was Pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer. Neither
Dr. Schonfeld nor Pastor Bonhoeffer knew that
the other was coming, though each had a
similar errand. To me Bonhoeffer’s coming
was deeply significant. About Bonhoeffer there
could be no two opinions. I had known him
intimately all the nine years since 1933. He was
an uncompromising anti-Nazi, one of the
mainsprings of the Church opposition. When
he came, and, quite independently, confirmed
what Schonfeld had told me (for I saw him
alone a long while, before Schonfeld arrived,
later on, at Sigtuna), it was quite impossible to
have any doubt of the reality of the plan.
Later in the afternoon Schonfeld joined us.
He added a few details to what he had already
said, but all to the same end. The coup should
be carried through in two or three days. Not
only the Ministries, but the public services,
including the gas supply and the radio, cbn-
tained key men on the opposition side, and
there were close links with the State police.
If the leaders of the Allies felt themselves re-
sponsible for the fate of millions in the occu-
pied countries, he hoped that they would con-
sider means of preventing great crimes against
those peoples. In the course of our talk I
explained to Schonfeld and Bonhoeffer that I
felt bound to inform the British Minister in
Stockholm, Mr. Victor Mallet, of what they
had told me. Indeed, I had already told him
of the earlier talk; and I warned them, by his
advice, that they must not be very hopeful of
a favorable reception from the Government —
and that the Americans and the Russians would
both have to be brought in. This they under-
stood. But I said that I would do my very
best to put' everything they had told me clearly
before the British Government.
To sum up, questions to which the opposi-
tion wished to know the answers were:
(1) Would the Allied Governments, once
the whole Hitler regime were overthrown,
be willing to treat with a bona fide Ger-
man Government, for such a peace settle-
ment as that described herein, including the
withdrawal of all German forces from
occupied countries, and reparation for
damage, and to say so privately to an
authorised representative of the opposition?
Or—
(2) Could the Allies make a public an-
nouncement, in the clearest terms, to a
similar effect?
Before our talk ended I discussed ways and
means of letting Schonfeld and Bonhoeffer know
the attitude of the British Government to these
questions.
On reaching London I saw Mr. Eden on
June 30, and gave him verbally a full account
of the conversations. I also placed a detailed
written memorandum in his hands (including
Schonfeld’s statement) setting out the chief
points, together with the names of the leaders
in the plot. He listened attentively. He told
me that some of the names given by Bonhoeffer
were known at the Foreign Office. Other com-
munications, or peace feelers, had also reached
him from other neutral countries. But he said
he must be scrupulously careful not to enter
into even an appearance of negotiations apart
from the Russians and the Americans. He
promised, however, to consider the memoran-
dum and to write later. He wrote on July 17
informing me that after consideration it had
been decided that no action could be taken.
I would add a word of comment in con-
clusion. In due course the pastors learned
through Geneva that the British Government
was not prepared to take any action. I have
heard since of the grave disappointment with
which this news was received. But it is not
my purpose in this article to make any com-
ment on the Government’s decision. My sole
object is to call attention to two facts.
First, the common view, that the plot of
July 20, 1944, was a conspiracy of the militar-
ists, or (as Mr. Churchill put it in the House
of Commons on August 2, 1944) simply a
case of “the highest personalities in the Ger-
man Reich murdering one another,” cannot be
maintained.
Secondly, the equally common view that the
plgt was the work of men who were already
realising in 1942 that they were losing the war
is not consistent‘with the established facts. I
have shown that thfc Hitler plot was prepared
at the latest in the winter of 1941-42, when the
Germans held 1000 miles of Russian territory,
and when nearly all Europe was occupied.
Actually, the foundations of the plot were laid,
in 1940. For example, Bonhoeffer started his
political activities with his friends (especially
Dr. V. Dohnanyi) at the outbreak of war.
We know of the despair which seized all those
who were engaged in subversive activities in
July and August, 1940. We know of a meet-
ing held at that time where it was proposed
that further action should be postponed, so as
to avoid giving Hitler the character of a
martyr If he should be killed. Bonhoeffer’s
rejoinder was decisive: “If we claim to be
Christians, there is no room for expediency.
Hitler is the Anti-Christ. ' Therefore we must
go on with our work and eliminate him
whether he be successful or not.”
Whether the plot would have succeeded if
the Allies had encouraged it in 1942 it is im-
possible to tell. If it had been successful it
would certainly have shortened the war and
reduced the volume of suffering. But it is worth
noting that those whose names were given as
leaders in 1942, Beck, Goerdeler and others,
were the leaders in 1944. It may also be
recalled that this was not the first time that
Beck and Goerdeler had made their opposition
to Hitler known to the British Government.
Goerdeler came over to London in the summer
of 1938, and again in 1939, informed the
Foreign Office of Hitler’s determination to go
to war, and warned it that the only way to
prevent war was by a very strong line against
Hitler, and by being well prepared. As if was,
Beck, Goerdeler, Leuschner, Witzleben and
Adam von Trott all paid the penalty with their
lives on the failure of the plot. It is estimated
(in the “Annual Register” for 1944) that alto-
gether 20,000 persons, including women, were
executed. One of the victims was Dietrich Bop-
hoeffer, murdered in the concentration camp at
Flossenberg by the S.S. on April 9, 1945, after
two years’ martyrdom in prison. In the same
month his brother, Klaus, and his brother-in-
law, Dr. R. Schleicher, were murdered in
Berlin; and his brother-in-law. Dr. H. Von
Dohnanyi, was murdered in Sachsenhausen; all
for their share in the plqt.
They are all gone. But their witness remains.
It is on the survivors of that opposition, of
which that witness is evidence, in all parts of
Germany, and on all others, both inside and
and outside the Church, who are inspired by
liberal and humanitarian ideals and by a true
love of their country, together with like-minded
men in other countries, that the spiritual re-
birth of Germany and the recovery of Europe
depend.
Trouble for Truman.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times” article by
leading Washington correspondent Arthur
Krock.)
It is important to note the new Demo-
cratic division, marked by utterances of
influential Democratic Senators against a
Democratic President and former col-
league which have rarely been heard- in
American history within a party.
Ever since the administration under
President Roosevelt became pro-Labor,
and in closer partnership with the C. 1.0.
than with any other Labor group, the rift
between the Southern Democrats and the
party leadership has existed. There have
been previous explosions, many of them
violent, and their adverse effects on the
party’s morale throughout the nation
were reflected in the Republican Con-
gressional gains in 1938. But the shadow
of war in 1940 and then its substance in
1942 and 1944 kept the Southern Demo-
crats from effective revolt, and the out-
standing personality of President Roose-
velt enabled Democratic conciliators in
the South to labor effectively to head off
a third-party movement.
But now the war is over, and the re-
sourceful leader whom dissatisfied
Democrats assailed but still voted for
is dead. And in his place is a former
Senator who can bring neither a dra-
matic personality nor the fact of war to


df
ONLY
£l7/10/-
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cf
agents theh cost * The "National" Rotary DupH*
wanted color will reproduce Typing, Writing.
all STATES Plans. Music, etc.
fiuWt entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE - ■■■-■
| You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MABfSEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
NP4S/35
“ Definitely undernourished . A
T333UN -0
r>
sd
PIGISTIRIO TftAOl MAM
jjiiinn
st leather
rvdtive >
Pres
For 50 years a GOOD polish
m
Hsnod aoHS
r*
Ni
1 VJ
HE RIGHT KNIFE
FOR EVERY MAN . .
Whatever the outdoor man—
or boy desires in knife
equipment, he can obtain it in
a Whittingslowe. All Whit-
tingslowe knives are strongly
built and the blades are care-
fully made, ground and tem-
pered in the best Sheffield
tradition.
•o
m %
7 TOOLS IN ONE. Combining pen-
cil sharpener, blade sharpener, bottle
opener (screw top), bottle opener
(crown seal), tin opener, screwdriver,
three-inch rule.
POCKET KNIFE. Strongly made,
complete with bottle opener. Handy
pocket size, with attractive nickel
finish.
CLASP KNIFE. Heavy blade, can
and bottle opener. Blackened finish.
A similar knife is obtainable with a
marlin spike.
STOCKMAN’S KNIFE. One general
purpose blade, one castration blade.
Very strongly made. Solid brass
handle.
HUNTING KNIFE. 6-inch blade,
strong polished wooden handle. Sup-
plied with leather sheath. Also avail-
able without the can opener in handle.
7
■
*
X
%\m
Keep Them Keen With An
EVERLASTING KNIFE SHARPENER
The Whittingslowe Everlasting Knife Sharpener
Quickly puts a keen edge on cutlery or any type
of blade. Long-lasting sharpening discs are self
adjusting and nuickly and inexpensively replaceable.
; t ’ »'«
whittingslowe engineers ltd., Cheltenham, south Australia.
his assistance in the party battle. Also,
he is not forceful, and Democratic dis-
senters among party workers in the
South who thought it treason to revolt
against the war-time Chief Executive and
party leader will not have the same feel-
ing with respect to President Truman.
At any rate, this is the firm belief of
the Southern Senators who have raised
the flag of insurrection.
From the time President Roosevelt
made his political alliance with Labor,
cementing it with the partisan Wagner
Act, and won the support at the polls
of the Negro citizens, who had previ-
ously been overwhelmingly Republican,
the Democratic party in the South has
been most unhappily married to the rest
of it. Other New Deal measures
deepened the family quarrel. And,
though the Southern Democrats were
able to defeat the C.l.O’s attempt to
have Henry Wallace renominated as
Vice-President in 1944, they had to join
with their old enemies, the big city
machines elsewhere, to accomplish it.
And, while Mr. Truman was popular
among them, they smarted over the fact
that he was not acceptable to Mr.
Roosevelt until he had been cleared with
Sidney Hillman and the C.l.O’s Politi-
cal Action Committee.
But, because of the war and the be-
lief that their unpleasant experience
would end when Mr. Roosevelt ceased
to be President, the Southern Democrats
endured their unhappy political
marriage. Now they have found that
Mr. Truman’s sponsorship of C. 1.0.
programmes, distasteful to y them, is as
strong as that of his predecessor. And
they go so far as to express the opinion
that it is in some respects stronger.
Will the South continue to submit to
.its hateful political marriage, whether it
wins in an occasional Legislature quarrel
or is defeated in every one? And, if it
will not submit, how will the divorce be
accomplished and what will come of it?
The answers to these questions bear im-
portantly on the future of the U.S. and
the world, and may decide how much
more or less of the structure of the U.S.
form of government there will be after
the lapse of a few more years.
German Resistance Growing.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. ‘‘Times’''
staff correspondent in Berlin.)
Thus far in the occupation of Germany
resistance to the occupying forces has
taken the form of sporadic outbursts of
resentment, savage but disconnected. It
is a mistake to say there is no under-
ground activity in Germany. That it is
not yet national and organised is due in
some measure to the work of the Counter-
Intelligence forces of the occupation
armies. But credit also should be given
to the bleak German winter, the unceasing
struggle for food and fuel and the ex-
haustion of the people as factors which
have thus far hindered the development
of a national movement.
In the opinion of this correspondent
this development will not long be delayed.
Conditions are right. Dissatisfaction
with the occupation and with the state
of Germany under the occupation is
growing. The German people have never
had any great respect for Americans as
soldiers, and recent demonstrations by
homesick men in uniform have not in-
creased their prestige.
But above all, as this nightmare winter
draws to its close, the German people are
realising just how grim is the future that
lies ahead and how little they can expect
of the good things of life. The next 10
years present a picture so sombre to the
average German that it will not be sur-
prising if young men and women turn
from the exhausting sober tasks of re-
construction to the dramatic and danger-
ous life of the Underground.
In the United States zone the Army, or
rather most of its officers, persists in view-
ing everything connected with the occu-
pation through rose-colored glasses. In-
cidents foreshadowing the growth of
national resistance are not given their
proper weight.
There have been attacks on anti-Nazi
German editors now in charge of news-
papers in the United States zone.
Students of resistance movements
will be struck by the similarity between
these attacks and those launched by the
French Underground against collabora-
tionist editors in France during the occu-
pation. Editors have been beaten up or
threatened, municipal officials told to stop
helping the Americans in notes found on
their doorsteps.
These are much more significant than
other incidents directed against members
of the occupation forces, which have no
political or national background. When
an Allied soldier is shot for making free
with the wife of a German officer we
are encountering what can only be de-
scribed as normal hazards of occupa-
tion.
Those who expect the situation to
worsen this year believe that it will b®
at its worst toward the end of the sum-
mer. They point out that by summer the
German people will have made further
recovery from the rigors of war and that
prisoners of war will have been assimi-
lated into the population in increasing
numbers. It is then, they feel, that the
Germans will begin to organise an under-
ground on a national basis and will aug-
ment attacks against Germans serving
Americans, with sabotage of military
communications and transport.
Halting the development of such a
movement is as much a matter for the
education and information branches of
the Military Government as for the
Counter-Intelligence. If the Germans
can be convinced that life for future
generations is going to be better—and
they will take a lot of convincing—and
if they can be induced to accept demo-
cracy as a way of life which will ensure
future betterment, then continued trouble
may be averted by the force of public
opinion.
The Germans tried, to sell their “new
order” in France and failed. French
sales resistance was too high. * But the
product we have to sell is in every way
better. It should be sold and sold as
enthusiastically as possible.
The Germans made the mistake in
France of turning to force when argu-
ments failed. It would be a mistake if
we were to try force when arguments
failed. It would be a mistake if Ameri-
cans were to assume that the rifle is
mightier than the pamphlet.
France Today.
(Condensed from an article by f ‘Wall-street
Journal’s” Paris correspondent Charles R.
Hargrove .)
In this first winter of peace, or so-
called peace, there is discontent in France.
The citizen is no better fed and but little
better heated than he was in the last
winter of war. He may have more fats
in his ration, but he has less bread and
meat. He has a minute supply of coal
and his lighting is subject to periodic sus-
pensions of electric power by order of a
Government bent on economising fuel.
Food and fuel problems lead all
France’s one-sheet dailies, filling four or
more of the eight columns of their first
pages. They are the main item on the
agenda of Cabinet meetings. They are
the chief topic of conversation between
the men and women in the street. The
first winter of peace is a big disappoint-
ment to them. -v..
The inability to maintain an adequate
system of rationing of essentials of file
cannot be attributed solely to bad crops
at home or deficient shipments from
abroad. They indicate a lack of authority
and efficiency in high and low places.
The time since the liberation has been a
time of administrative muddling.
It may well be that the State was
bound to continue to control almost
everything in a country which, emerging
from four years of slavery (and controls),
found its reserves exhausted and its power
of production crippled. But the seats left
vacant by German officials or represen-
tatives of powerful groups of enterprises
have been given to bureaucrats or others
without technical knowledge of the activi •
ties they control. It is a commonplace
that French economy under German con-
trol worked better than it works today
under French control.
For months and months business has
been protesting against its asphyxiation.
Chambers of Commerce, semi-official
bodies, have resigned to a man, declaring
that business is hopeless in present con-
ditions. Paris’s most serious, influential
and respected morning journal, “Figaro,”
wrote that whereas production is the
only road to recovery the actual
regime under which France lives op-
presses, exhausts or discourages all who
would or could produce. Apart from a
group of high civil and military admini-
strators and another grqup of profiteer-
ing intermediaries, the mass of citizens
is discontented with the conditions of
living and working under a mismanaged
economy.
There are also those who are discon-
tented for other causes. The nationalisa-
tion of coalmines and big deposit banks
has raised the thorny question of com-
pensation for d there are
hundreds of thousands of them, for small
investments are the rule in France. With
the nationalisation of insurance and elec-
tricity companies in the near future and
that of steel, chemical and other key
industries at a later date, the army of the
discontented will grow fast. The de-
preciation of stocks on the Bourse since
the Left success in the October elections
extends the feeling of grievance still more
widely. The confidence of the investing
public is shaken still further by a 140 p.c.
reduction of the franc’s value abroad and
the publication of 1946 budget estimates,
with expenditure at near Frs. 500 billion


THT?*
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor is subject to
accident. Illness and Incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
BIBECXOBS —James Burns - E. J. Nosworthy - lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchcl
P. X. W. Black. Manager I*. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE BTMITj SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydnty.
BP 4 44.
THE BEST FROM YOUR -CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
MANAGEMENT/* 3.. 6d.. POST FREE. “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
"J
nma
IU
'1
y
I
LLUb
BLI
i
:
■■■ 11 iifi i n ru 1 •
111
ill
in
%
%
%
AFTER nearly six years of intense concentration
on war production, General Motors-Holden s is in process of
demobilisation.
In the fulfilment of 500 war projects, many never
previously manufactured in Australia, much has been learned.
The “ know-how ” of volume production to high standards
of precision has been acquired.
Factory buildings enlarged to cope with the
demands of war now aggregate nearly 100 acres of floor space.
They are equipped with the most modern machine tools and
with testing and measuring equipment of almost fantastic
precision. And —perhaps most important of all there has
been created an organisation of Australian Engineers and
Production men with the skill and enthusiasm to play an
important part in Australia’s industrial future. :
For the immediate future, the task ahead of us
is to maintain employment at the highest possible level and
to hasten the production of the motor vehicles so urgently
needed for the full rehabilitation of Australia’s civilian
economy.
Already the Company is producing a limited
number of new Trucks and expects reasonable quantities
of Trucks, Utilities and Buses to become progressively
available over the next few months. Once a start is made
with passenger cars, volume will rapidly expand until a full
range of all types of vehicles becomes available.
Meanwhile, a special group of Engineers is
concentrating on the design and production of the completely
Australian manufactured car. A project of this magnitude
takes a lot of time but the undertaking is being pushed
ahead w'ith all possible speed. With the full backing of
General Motors and with all the resources and technical
skill of the G.M. organisation to draw upon, there is ample
justification for the Company’s confidence that this new car
will be in every way a credit to Australian industry.
>•
Wit-.
%
GENERAL IHOTORS-HOLDENS LTD.
BEDFORD BUICK CADILLAC CHEVROLET G-M-C OLDSMOBILE PONTIAC VAUXHALL
C 825 .
against revenue of little more than Frs.
300 billion, apart from the heavy draft
on the nation’s gold reserves for the
financing of imports. The expenditure
includes Frs. 125 billion for national
defence. It is some Frs. 50 billion in
excess of the proposed capital outlays on
post-war reconstruction and re-equip-
ment, and it has yet to be shown why
France, free from external menace,
should give preference to military over
economic recovery and how indeed the
former is possible before the latter is
achieved.
France resembles a house in ruins
which its former inhabitants wish to re-
build with the least possible delay. But
what she seems to be doing is first to re-
cruit a force of police to guard the ruins
and then to concentrate time and effort
on determining who shall own and oper-
ate the new structure after it is built, as
also whether the Tricolor or Hammer-
and-Sickle shall float over the prospective
doorstep. For it is not to be forgotten
that the political machinery is going
through the same process as the eco-
nomic.
In face of this growing discontent some
good observers begin to ask what will
happen when France goes to the polls (in
May next) for the second time since the
liberation, and to predict something of a
swing away from the extreme Left to-
wards the Centre, though not probably to
the Right. In October the cry was all for
the new and the reasonable, but what the
voter seems to have got is neither new
nor reasonable. Therefore, say some ob-
servers, the country may decide in favor
of the old and the unreasonable in the
hope they may bring him food and
warmth and a chance for him to do busi-
ness. A reversal of the political trend in
public opinion is not inconceivable,
especially if the national credit begins to
look like sharing the ruin of the national
economy. The pendulum has always
swung widely and fast in this country.
But he who ventures upon political pre-
dictions about France dares greatly. It
is best to rest content with the reflection
that the French barometer has always
been more often at “stormy” than at “set
fair” and still more often than either at
“changeable.” Which means, at least,
that France does not persist long in any
one error.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
It was and still is commonly believed that
during the trouble in Azerbaijan some 2000
Russian officers and men, supported by another
1000 importees from the north, remained in
Tehran in plain clothes ready for any action
that their commanders might contemplate.
Russian arms were reported to have been dis-
tributed to certain elements in the population.
The Red garrisons of Semnan to the east, esti-
mated by the Persians at 20,000 men, and be-
tween Kazvin and Kerej to the west, stated to
be another 10,000, were watched with appre-
hension. — London “Times” correspondent in
Persia.
* , * * *
Signs are multiplying that in the event of
another world war the United States will be
caught relatively as unprepared as at the outset
of World Wars I and 11. Some well-meaning,
some not-so-well-meaning groups, both in U.S.
and abroad, are campaigning against the policy
of a strong America. The general idea is for
the United States to pull out of Europe, Asia,
the Pacific and elsewhere, leaving everything to
Russia, Britain and others —especially Russia.
—Washington correspondent N.Y. “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
“For us British surely the fundamental lesson
of these six years is that the prosperity and,
indeed, the very existence of the United King-
dom and the Empire still depend on the posses-
sion of a great merchant fleet which is free to
move over the sea routes of the world upon its
lawful occasions in peace and war.” — Rear-
Admiral R. K. Dickson, British Chief of Naval
Information.
* * * *
Eire can make the most profitable trade
arrangements with England. But how can a .
man 63 years old who came to power by
arousing his country to a fire of hatred against
the English now persuade them that their
economic salvation rests in a business alliance
with the- British? Were De Valera to pro-
claim the necessity of the closest business ties
with England, he would be accused of having
sold out to the English. That is the offence
beyond forgiveness in Eire; De Valera must
remember what he has said during the past 30
years. His own words tend to silence him.
It is a hard nut for a politician to crack.
But it must be cracked, else Eire will lose its
best young men. That is happening to Southern
Ireland today. The girls are there. But the
boys, the Irish boys, are not so conspicuous.—
From a “Collier’s” article by William L.
Chenery.
* * * ♦
In London Secretary of State Byrnes, chief
U.S. delegate to U.N.0., told a cheering audi-
ence that this time the United States would
give its wholehearted co-operation to the new
League of Nations. Yet 24 hours later in
Washington Gen. of Array Eisenhower was
compelled by circumstances at home and within
America’s armed forces to imply doubt that
U.S. would be able to make good on its
promises. “The War Department,” the general
said grimly, “has no intention of abandoning
the mission assigned to it by the Government,
the Congress and the people of the United
States.” But he had to qualify the assertion
by adding “So long as we have the troops
to accomplish it.”— Washington correspondent,
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”-
The^ap, Mweeu
T^e Assembly convened amid lire doubts and
cynicism in which t h e League of Nations col-
lapsed voices out of the desolation of Europe
—new voices, which seldom make the head-
lines—cry .for a new spirit and argue passion-
that the idea of nationality and the idea
humanity must be reconciled if the old
conceptions of a nation’s rights are to survive.
But they cry vainly against the twin barriers
of political reality and public indifference. It
of cou too ear i y to expect too much,
a^d jt - s true t)iat t h e machine is beginning
to mes h in accordance with the San Francisco-
Dumbarton Oaks blueprint. But at the same
time it is only simple honesty to report that
t h e majority of the nations do not like the
blueprint and are not starting the journey with
great confidence. — N.Y. “Times” staff corre-
spondent at the U.N.O. conference.
«■> * T '
Judge Simon H. Rifkind, adviser to General
Joseph T. McNarney, commander of American
£> , E O ”S SS2.’VmS? Vhd »
att j tude Q f intense hostility on the part of the
nat i V e population, emphasised by occasional
violence and frequent threats of violence which
create a climate of fear and insecurity. I have
Qf such vjolence . l
j iave seen some of the notices that have been
posted on the doors of Jewish homes, ordering
the occupants to leave Poland within a period
MUme
| olish Government is hostile to these actions
and j s attempting in good faith to eliminate
them, but to date it has been powerless in the
face of the anti-Semitism of the population,
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” correspondent.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
. SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
-5»
s
I
&
W/
u-Z
14 *«••""»
9 ti m.m« m* W" rw ' ?
. -,i**t»Mrw
-~> m •»•■"••
Cl,*
pr"^**
wf
b><l
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS,
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
WARNING !
Before making a purchase of any, other chemical closet the Pubjic
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not be misled by specious statements. Buy only that which has
an unsullied reputation. , L Ilas
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE FOR ILEUS T RATED
PAMPHLET
HTGEM
SANITARY CO. PTY,
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
pv, 1927
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Dissoivenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings,’ Adelaide
Viet.; Victorian Producers Co-op. Co.-Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne
S. Aust,; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia; R. p. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
m
' ■ -:■
m
m
m
M c Cormick-Deering
TRACTOR PLOUGHS
; McCormick-Deering GL- 70 4- :
furrow tractor disc plough. ■
Lower illustration shows the i
GL- 70 at work.
c
m
BUILT for tough work in hard
soils, the McCormick - Deering
GL-70 tractor disc plough sets
a new " high" in disc plough
performance. Features include: Tim-
ken roller bearing discs; quick-acting
power lift; overhead beam construc-
tion gives ample clearance for
ploughing-in trash and heavy cover
crops; adjustable breast cut and
undercut; especially designed hitch
takes pull from rear of plough
eliminates " crabbing," and assists
plough to slick to its furrows . . .
2. 3 and 4-furrow sizes available.
ww
m
mr-
. . . SEE YOUR NEAREST
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER AGENT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES FACTORY. GEELONG
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Wool Appraisement Centres.
“Archap”: An important move made
by the Wool Realisation Commission was
its decision to go ahead with the estab-
lishraent of additional wool appraise-
ment centres at Townsville and Rock-
hampton. A glance at the map of
Queensland conveys the impression that
such centres are desirable in the interests
of decentralisation, but the appraisement
and subsequent sale of wool by auction
cannot be considered as normal business
deals. The most important aspect from
the woolgrowers’ point of view is whether
there would be a sufficient buying
strength at additional auction sales of
woo l
Queensland, with its 650,000 bales of
wool annually, now has a monthly ap-
praisement, and, with all the necessary
facilities and expert staffs concentrated in
Brisbane, woolgrowers are paid promptly,
It is estimated that if appraisements were
also held at Townsville not more than
110,000 bales would be available
annually, and, as Brisbane wool-traders
would not consider putting on an ap-
praisement for fewer than 30,000 bales,
Townsville would not have more than
four, possibly only three, appraisements
annually. The same position would arise
were appraisements also established at
Rockhampton, which happens to be in
the electorate of the Minister for the
Army (F. M. Forde). The Federal Gov-
ernment is supposed to have conducted
an inquiry into proposed additional wool
appraisement centres at Rockhampton
and Townsville, but apparently the only
people from whom evidence was taken
were * ro « ers and Chambers of Com-
™f™- No one Wl ‘ h “P® 1 knowledge
o£ appraisement and marketing of
wool in Queensland appears to have been
£ onsulted ,; The growers have a right to
kn ° w whether additiona appraisement
centres will add more to their marketing
“ sts , than . , wl >! b 5 sav . ed “ fre |B bt
[I' 10 /' 1 not having to send their wool o
** nsbane -
If ‘ be buyers are unable to attend in
*0“ strength at all appraisement centres
fbey will probably arrange for one or
two of their number to attend and buy
for all the members of the Woolbuyers’
Association, thereby eliminating competi-
tion - Joint Organisation is certainly em-
powered under the agreement to buy-m
wools which do not reach the reserve
price at auction, but finance and storage
space will not be unlimited, and undei
Section 4 ( b ) of the Wool (Contribute) y
Charge) Act the Treasurer has power to
determine the rate of interest to be paid
9 n the amount spent by J.O. in purchas-
in § wool. Once again the growers will
be in the hands of the Government.
Woolbuyers’ Associations in all main-
land States unanimously decided recently
that “the commercial woolbuying trade
could not support two small auction
centres, as costs would prevent direct
representation of most firms, thereby
leading to irregular values.” If the com-
mittee which is reported to have inquired
into additional appraisement centres re-
commended Rockhampton and Townsville
woolgrowers have a right to know on
what evidence such recommendations
were based.
The Land Problem.
“R.McL.”: About seven years ago a
report issued by Messrs. Fletcher and
Payne in Queensland pointed out that the
debt on Queensland sheep amounted to
over £1 per sheep owing to finance com-
panics and banks alone. Many wheat-
growers are so heavily mortgaged that
they have little prospect of clearing off
their debt and owning their properties.
xi,. K . ,
hanU compan ' es and
banks are blamed tor this state of affairs.
1 do not see that they are to blame except
that they perhaps should have adopted a
more conservative loan policy; on the
other hand, had the banks not extended
accommodation and increased overdrafts,
the clients would have been forced to turn
“We must be in fr floods , Ma, with the sheep makin fr high ground .”
to less reputable and more costly methods
of finance.
Can “C.S” (B. 12/12/’45) put up a
practical plan by which the position of
hopelessly-involved landowners may be
alleviated and some prospect be given
them of ultimately becoming owners of
their land and of leaving a fair equity to
their children?
Organic Farming.
“E. 2”: The cardinal rule of continuous
farming is to return what is taken from
the soil; neglect to do so results in
degeneration of the soil. Erosion has
stripped much of our land of enormous
quantities of topsoil, and humus poverty
is a high contributing factor to the losses.
A great deal of re-enrichment is needed,
and soil maintenance must receive the
attention it deserves.
, General practice has been to clear the
land of trees and scrub and grow crops
in fertile soil enriched by the forests.
Good crops were grown with little or no
manure, but as the humus was used up it
became necessary to make more plant
food available by increasing the applica-
tlQn of artificial manures. Immediate re-
f . were “SW satisfactory, but de-
teriPr^tlon became so marked after a
£ en ° cl “I 1 i™ lllollB of acres must now
e logged almost to death by continued
us< L of these methods,
How are we to recover our farming
: with a workable depth of soil rich
m or ganic matter? The writer is con-
vmced that recovery is dependent on re-
afforestation and that at least ten acres
under trees in every hundred are re-
quired. The trees should be planted
systematically to protect the land and dis-
tribute their soil-making litter as evenly
as practicable.
■ Soil maintenance should go on con-
tinuously. By composting, the ploughing-
in of green crops, stubbles and rubbish
growth and the spreading of stock
droppings it is possible to keep abreast
of the drain on the soil from cropping
and grazing. The land should be given
every chance by rotational cropping, with
careful study of soil requirements when
selecting the kind of crop. Super and
other artificial manures should be used
as a gentle stimulant rather than to flog
the last of the humus from the soil.
Organic farming will eventually have its
way, and those interested in the future
prosperity of farming would do well to
appreciate the principles of it.
Poisoning Rabbits.
“Bugaldie”; Black thistle roots make
the best baits. Dig them while the leaves
are still flat on the ground; they are
then very sappy and, cut into cubes the
size of a marble, make an appetising
morsel. Wash the cubes well by putting
them in a fine sieve and rolling the baits


Public Notices.
I, WALTER LUDWIG SEEGER-BRANDT, of
German nationality, born at Ludwigsburg, Germany,
•resident forty-seven years in Australia, now residing
at 254 Liverpool Street, Sydney, intend t» apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, LEONE CAFIERO, of Italian nationality, born at
Venezia and resident eight and one half years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 73 Stanley Street, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the National-
ity Act 1920-1936.
m
A
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem. . .the rabbits are buried.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CvanogaS
(Regd.)
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
EGELABRA MERINOS
FOUR TIMES WINNERS OF THE STONEHAVEN CUP.
WINNERS OF Ist AND 2nd PRIZES ON TWO OCCASIONS.
ALSO WINNERS OF GRAND CHAMPION RAM AND EWE,
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW, 1940.
RAMS FOR SA^E.
Orders are now being booked for Rams dropped November,
1944, which will be classed before the end of February.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 15 GNS. PER HEAD.
H. E. KATER & SON, EGELABRA. WARREN. N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10,
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
■ All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
sags?
■mm
iiii
mm
n
.. v % s. •
A NEW AND .fc.'rt/l
BETTER
for home, office and factory
A floor that defies time and the trampling of
careless feet . . . that keeps its gleaming beauty
. • . a Masonite floor! So tough that it can stand
up to heavy factory traffic, yet so versatile that it
whispers the word “distinction” wherever it
graces a home.
Masonite can be laid in countless designs, either
for new construction, or in modernisation, over
an old wooden or concrete floor. Masonite Floor-
ing is something you should know about. Let’s
send you details.
t’
PRESDWOOD ...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD*
NORTHERN SALES DIVISION? 369 PITT ST., S/DNEX
SOUTHERN SALES DIVISION; 529 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Priority demands for Masonite are still so great that your,
reseller may at present be unable to supply your requirements•
MA T-49
round, letting the water flow on them.
Dry all traces of water off, but not too
dry.
Put the baits in a tin and sprinkle them
with an ounce of vanilla essence to 1000
baits and shake with a rolling motion
to distribute the essence. Then add fine
ground strychnine at the rate of loz. to
1000 baits. If too dry in appearance add
a little water.
Begin laying the baits so that you will
be finished just before sundown. If the
rabbits are thick and you have a poison-
cart run the trail over their feeding
grounds —don’t worry about the burrows
—dropping the baits with an old spoon or
a pair of tongs made from a piece of
hoop-iron. Don’t use the fingers. If
the baits are laid with the use of a mat-
tock follow the bare patches and the
“buck heaps,” putting the cut at right-
angles to the sun and the bait in the
shadow thus formed. See that it doesn’t
roll and collect dirt. Rabbits will take
baits well for the next few months and
particularly following a fall of rain, when
there’s a green shoot. A 50 p.c. kill is
good going.
Sydney Beef Show.
“R. Ney”: Sydney R.A.S. will hold a
show and sales from May 3 to May 8 in
the Commonwealth Wool and Produce
Co.’s wool stores, Pyrmont. Exhibitors
are invited to enter up to five bulls in
each class in the respective breeds, but in
females the entries have been restricted
to two per class from any one exhibitor.
Lack of space has compelled this, and for
the same reason it is not possible to in-
clude a section for fat cattle. For 1947
the full schedule will be restored for the
first post-war Royal Easter Show. For
this and all future shows it will be a
condition of entry that all cattle exhibits
are T.B. and C.Ab. certified free. Entries
close on April 1.
Salt and' Irrigation.
“E.H.S.”: Although no practicable
method of preventing accumulation of
saline deposits in irrigated soils has yet
been discovered, land which has become
too highly impregnated with salt to pro-
duce fruit or cereals should not be
written off as unproductive. Experience
has convinced me that excellent crops of
lucerne can be grown on land containing
a high percentage of salt.
On the oasis of Calama, in the desert
of Atacama (South America) lucerne
which yields four and sometimes five cuts
per annum is grown on land containing a
very high percentage of salt, irrigated
with virulently brackish water. Salt-grass
and lucerne are the only vegetable pro-
ducts of the oasis, but similar land out-
side the saliferous areas grows fine crops
of fruit and vegetables.
The first attempt to grow lucerne on the
oasis was a failure, but it was found that
planting seed on land containing a low
percentage of salt and using seed from
the resulting crop on a plot with increased
salt content gave such satisfactory results
that the process was continued until it
resulted in the production of as fine
stands of fodder as those on the non-
saliferous land. Experiments' conducted
on similar lines should be of value to
owners of land which has become unpro-
ductive or nearly so through concentra-
tion of salt in the surface soil.
Fowls and Vegetables.
“BogadUck”; A man decided to make
the two work .together. The old yard was
pulled down, and in front of the modern
200-bird poultry-house three new yards
were built, each 50ft. wide and 150 ft.
long. A race was built along the back
of the yards, so that by opening one gate
and closing another the hens could be
run in any particular yard.
.After they had run in one yard for a
year its gate was shut and the hens
allowed to run in the next one. Yard
No. 1 was then ploughed and planted to
potatoes, onions, cabbage, lettuce, cucum-
bers, marrows, pumpkins and melons, the
four last-named being given the extra
manure from the henhouse, and the whole
area a dressing of super. Next year the
hens were turned into yard 3, the same
crops went into yard 2, while yard No. 1
grew turnips, tomatoes, carrots and par-
snips. That rotation has been followed
since—each yard is one year under fowls
and two under vegetables.
It has paid handsomely. The owner
said that before he adopted it his vege-
tables were always plagued with weeds—
soursob, barley grass and Patterson's
curse in the winter, bindweed, stagger
weed and couch in the summer. But no
weeds can stand up to the massed attack
of a couple of hundred hens, and now an
hour’s hoeing once a week is all that the
plots need. The ground is always well
manured, and he grows the best vege-
tables he ever had. The hens are never
short of green feed, and they don’t have
to run year after year on the same sour
patch of ground.
Hints for the Farm.
•‘Jumbuck”: Small graziers should
never forget that the further ewes
are removed from purity the lower
will be the returns per head from them
and their progeny for both mutton and
wool. Mongrel-bred ewes can never beget
good lambs, no matter how good the
rams may be. These inferior types of
sheep are slow fatteners, and they eat
good grass that might be used more pro-
fitably for fattening better breeds of dual-
purpose sheep. About the only time
mongrel-bred crossbreds become an asset
is when they’re dead.
“Marsh”: Crossbred sheep can be
profitable, but there must be uniformity
in the flock. To obtain any degree of
essential uniformity a start must be made
with an even line of ewes whose' pedi-
gree does not contain more than two
strains and to use purfbred rams from
a reliable stud.
“W. Court”: Some Queensland dairy-
men are turning from paspalum to Kikuyu
grass. The latter is more satisfactory on
poor land and more drought-resistant,
but its food value is lower. The deteriora-
tion of paspalum on sloping ground is
commonly caused by grass grubs attack-
ing its roots. Nothing can be done to
beat this pest; it pays to get rid of the
paspalum and grow forage crops on the
land. But another pest, the paspalum
mealy bug, which is recognised by the
powdery secretion it spreads over affected
grass, can usually be thinned out by burn-
ing off the dying grass and breaking up
the matted stools with cultivator or
plough.
“Sarina”: Trees on a watercourse pre-
vent erosion of the banks if carefully
watched. Every year an examination
should be made, and branches or tree-
trunks that have fallen should be hauled
out or burned. Roots that tend to ob-
struct the water’s flow should also be
cleared out. When rubbish is allowed to
accumulate in a stream-bed for years the
water becomes dammed in flood-time and
breaks over the banks, scouring the top-
soil from adjacent cultivations.
“P.R.A.N.”: The low return received
by some Australian tobacco-growers is
mostly due to harvesting of unripe leaf.
Signs of ripeness are the shedding of most
of the hairs, numerous on immature leaf,
which gives a somewhat glazed appear-
ance to the leaf surface. Tpfeis, accom-
panied by a change in color, suggests
to the experienced picker the leaves to
be taken from the plant. The change
of color denoting ripeness is in relation
to that of the rest of the leaves on the
particular plant. Some plants are dark
green, others pale green. A ripe leaf
from a dark-green plant placed against
light-green leaves would suggest, except
for the glazed appearance, that all on the
latter were ready for picking Also a ripe
light-green leaf against dark-green leaves
might make» them look unripe. Usually
three leaves ripen at a time, occasionally
two, but very rarely more than four.
“Bill C.”: For beautifying the sur-
roundings of country homes on the wet
C.Q. coast choose the red, pink and
lavender flowering varieties of hibiscus,
mixed acalyphas and crotons, red, pink
and purple crepe-myrtles (sometimes
called Christmas trees), gardenias and
tecomas. Royal blue or orange poincianas
and jacarandas are handsome-flowering
trees; when carefully pruned the purple,
magenta and red bougainvilleas don’t
climb, but grow rather like trees. All the
shrubs and trees mentioned can be grown
from cuttings or seeds, or well-rooted
plants can be obtained from the nurseries,
“Billjim”: To beat red mite in fowls,
liberally spray pens and perches with a
50-50 mixture of waste motor oil and
kerosene. Three to four applications at
fortnightly intervals should clean up the
mite.


<fg
VICKERS
GIN
Famous Since 1750
** l *6 ,
""W.:
‘Good Mornings* begin
with Gillette
Yes, you feel like the man
On the flying trapeze
After shaving with blades
So good-tempered as these!
1/126
Blue Gillettes s' for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents :
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 CtofW* St.,
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted to buy, genuine Shirley Shirley
Doll.” — “S. M. Herald:’
But a twin screw will be needed to drive
this bargain,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In a way I admire the nudists.”
—“Daily Telegraph” correspondent.
Such cults for keen discernment call
And toleration kindly —
For admiration soon would pall
If it were given blindly.
Ed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘lt’s hard to say what sort of work Mabel
is fitted for,’ declared her mother. ‘Really, she
has the nfiost ridiculous ideas.’ ”
, —Excerpt from novel.
Well, how about millinery-designing!
* * * * S>
“The walls were so thin one could hear how
many slices of bread* were being cut in the next
flat.” — “Sunday Sun/'’
And even how many teeth the baby
cut.
4* 4* -4* 4*
Spooky.
“One room in the castle was said to be
haunted by two bickering ghosts, which on one
occasion indulged in a terrific fight.”
—Travel book.
Before the dark, eventful night
When they indulged in bitter fight,
I wonder did these apparitions
Give shadow-sparring exhibitions ?
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Imported stream lined cabin trunk.”
—Suburban paper For Sale ad.
Apparently it has a creek in the lid.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women worshipped in bare legs before
Noah built the Ark.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
This explains why men worshipped the
calf.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Fuel Research.
“A British Army driver in Schleswig-Holstein
had to pour his last bottle of vodka into the
carburettor of his lorry to make it go.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
When on his expedition to the M’bongo
country my uncle Hengist found that
the secondhand ferry he had bought
was out of Diesel oil. He was puzzled
at first, until he discovered that three
passengers had been inadvertently left
aboard, engrossed in a game of cut-
throat cribbage. A long-distance whiff of
their breaths solved the mystery of where
his fuel reserve had gone, and uncle,
after vain attempts to distil one of them,
went ashore in search of substitute fuel.
A M’bongo chief introduced him to a
liquid brewed from the fermented juice
of the wild cassowary. This was drunk
at celebrations and used for cleaning
spearheads and for lighting fires in wet
weather. Uncle poured a few pints of it
into the fuel tank and went to start the
engine; he was thrown roughly into the
w,ater as the engine beat him to it.
After watching his ferry disappear,
hiccupping uproariously,*round a bend in
“Toss you to see who goes down for it!”
the river. Uncle spent the next two hours
making a mental selection of a M’bongo
wife, in preparation for a long stay. He
was delighted when the ferry returned at
last, with its fuel tank empty, panting
avidly for more.
Uncle returned to civilisation with
several hundred gallons of the stuff as his
sole cargo. He planned to market it
either as an aviation fuel or a hair re-
storer, but found a better use for it.
Diluted with 100 times its volume of
water, and labelled “Scotch,” it sold on
the blackmarket for £5 a bottle.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I’m all for women’s equality. I think that
in everything but physical strength we are
men’s equal.”— “New Idea.”
And “our” tongue muscles are superior.
“He hit the next ball to lug, where Nicholls
held a catch.” — “Sun.”
Then he went out on his pink ear.
* * * c
“Beer flowed and miners played leapfrog in
the streets.”— “Sunday Sun.”
They enjoyed their hops.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Equestrian Carpentry.
“Imported Door Bolts.” — “D.T.” heading.
I remember it was a Saturday after-
noon. I had just got into my second-best
suit and was giving my plane a
preparatory touch-up with a 16-inch rasp
—as a handyman I have ever taken a
pride in the fine edge I keep to my car-
pentry tools—when my neighbor, Alber-
marle Glubb, poked his head, in the
garage door.
“It’s on !” he stage-whispered. “Better
grab your lid and come along before it
all goes. As it is, there’s a fair mob
there. Better duck through the fence into
my joint and nick out the back way —
if you go out the front the strife’ll see you
and put the mocker on it.”
It was with no little reluctance that I
put down the plane. But, after all, I
supposed the door could wait a few
minutes longer for the alterations I was
to make to it. It was an imported one
the wife had picked up at a sale some-
where —made of oak or Baltic pine or
pussy willow or something. It was a bit
small for the lounge-room, and she wanted
me to screw a strip on the edge of it to
make it fit.
About two hours later, as we were
coming back, I couldn’t help noticing
that Alby had started to float around
me. Apparently he is one of those coarse
creatures who indulge in stupid horse-
play when he gets full. I always say that
a man who can’t keep a firm grip of him-
self when he’s had a few is little, if any,
higher than the beasts of the field.
After we had got back into the garage
—through the back way again, of course
•—Alby insisted on giving me a hand
with the door. Now, it is only because
I hate to see a generous impulse frustrated
that I agreed, for Alby, I instinctively
knew, hadn’t the light touch so necessary
in handling doors, especially high-spirited
imported ones ; and this particular door,
I had earlier discovered, was distinctly
fractious. For while I was knocking off
the old lock with a sledgehammer and
cold-chisel I noticed the thing give a kind
of pigroot.
Getting Alby to hold the door lightly,
yet firmly, I brought the plane down
heavily, in a strong arc-like sweep, right
on to the end grain. Obviously the door
had been restive under my assistant’s
amateurish grip, for it jerked nervously
and emitted a distinct squeal as the plane
gapped a big piece out of the corner.
Now, I am not one to let a thing like
a door, no matter how highly-strung and
temperamental, best me. Instructing Alby
to get a firmer grip on its withers, I
again brought the plane sharply down.
This time the door gave an unmistakable
whinny and bucked, so violently that
Alby flew across the garage while I fell
flat on my face. When we both got up
the door was nowhere to be seen. It must
have bolted!
We instantly gave chase, and would
have caught that door had it not been for
Alby insisting that he could never climb
the front hedge to get into the street with-
out first changing his socks around. For
myself I knew 1 could easily negotiate
the hedge merely by quickly putting four
knots in my tie and looping it around
my hat.
When we appeared before the Beak on
Monday morning a constable coldly de-
poned—why must these Johns insist on
“deponing” and not just stating?—that
Alby and I had staggered up to the police
station, opened the door, slipped a bridle
over it and said “Whoa back there! ” Also
that Alby had tried to give me a leg-up on
it after shearing that a padlocked stall
would stop it doing a bolt on us in future.
The Beak made it ten bob and costs.
I refuse now to have anything further
to do with imported doors. I am sticking
to the more docile Australian ones.
Bo.
Mistake.
“Ho: Catch me and cook me a pheas-
ant !”
I cried at the manor one day.
My serfs with obedience pleasant
All hurried away
To obey.
But later I learned with a shiver
How ghastly an error can be,
For, instead of a pheasant.
They thought I said peasant.
And , coldly ignoring his plea,
They had caught one —and cooked him
for tea!
T. W. NATHAN.
Sad Reverse.
“Husband offered wife home of 22 rooms to
return.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
Now there’s a kind husband! One
strives
To forget that there isn’t a boom
In houses-to-let. But one thrives
On this rumor which brightens our lives;
“A man offered twenty-two wives
In exchange for a single room.”
EVE.


Divorce Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
—ln Divorce.
TO CYRIL MERVYN WILSON formerly of 153
New Town Road Hobart in Tasmania last heard of
is a member of the A.I.F.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the charges in
the petition of ELLA MAY WILSON of Mayden'a in
Tasmania praying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of desertion In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
poses aforesaid within thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be entered at
the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —(L.s.) R. G.
BINGHAM Principal Registrar. <
N.B. Friends of the abovementioned CYRIL
MERYYN WILSON who may see this advertisement
are requested to bring it under his notice..
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply, Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
mmm
wmmm
m \
mmm
ni
sms
mmm
Hi
PS
ii
. 1
3Bi
flllii®
m
■zm
Mill ml &' '>
...
> •>• ;;•
N
Lock the stable while
the horse is still there!
Take a sensible precaution with your money lock it up before it is frittered
away on high-priced non-essentials!
Spending on things that can be done without, scrambling for goods in short
supply, reduce the value of your savings and your income, and delay
recovery.
But when you save, you do two
important things you help keep
prices down now ... you speed
recovery and National reconstruc-
tion. You will be able to buy
whatever you want, and get your
full money’s worth later.
Take the opportunity offered to
you now and make an advance sub-
scription to the Security Loan
(opening March 12). Interest is
paid from the date of your sub-
scription and every penny you in-
vest will be used to carry out
National tasks, including the re-
habilitation of our service men and
women.
HeaSavenNota Spender-Help Keep Prices
You can Invest now in the
£70,000,000 SECURITY LOAN
Opening March 12.
The £70,000,000 Security Loan opens on
March 12. The money raised will be used
exclusively in meeting commitments arising
directly out of the war, particularly the re-
habilitation of Australian service men and
women.
If you have £lO or more saved already you
can make an advance subscription to the
Security Loan at once, and interest will be
paid thereon from the day you make your
investment through any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stockbroker.
Interest is at the rate of 3}% for the new 12
year term, or at 3% for the new 3 year term.
Buy Security Bonds now for cash from your
savings, and buy more by instalments out oj
income when the Loan is officially open.
Security Bonds are available in denominations
of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
fs
limed by the Commonwealth Loans & National Savings Organisation.
PSL 27.113.1 S
ma
m
: f i
m
m
CRAVEN "A'
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality:
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5 789
mmE m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Barkers and Biters, by R. Kaleski.
— 37 °5.
Copies or cuttings of any of the late Nellie
A. Evans’s works. —3706.
To buy Saltbush Bill and Other Verses and
Old Bush Days, by A. B. Paterson, and The
Australian and Other Verses, by Will H.
Ogilvie.—37o7.
Information Sought.
(1) Freight charges on wheat from Melbourne
to England? (2) Weight of wheat carried by
a fully-laden 10,000-tftn freighter? (3) Dues
paid by a 10,000-/o« cargo ship for passage
through the Suez Canal?
(1) Nominal freight rates per ton for both
Suez and Cape routes are £stg.s for bulk wheat
and £stg.s 15s. for bagged wheat. (2) Depends
on the type of ship, but would be from 8000
to 9000 tons. (3) Approximately £lOOO.
The average summer and winter tempera-
tures of Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne
and Adelaide ?
Sydney, 71.0, 54.3; Brisbane, 76.6, 59.7;
Canberra, 68.0, 43.0; Melbourne, 66.6, 50.1;
Adelaide, 73.0; 53.1.
A formula for waterproof whitewash?
Dissolve Hlb. rock salt in one gallon of cold
water, then pour on to 7ifb. unslaked lime.
Add to lime 1£ gals, water, slowly allowing it
to slake. Apply ilb. cement by sprinkling on
a little at a time when the lime is almost slaked
and stir thoroughly. Ideal mixture should have
the consistency of thick distemper, so a little
water may have to be added to the last gallon
of mixture. One person should stir and prepare
batches of wash and another should apply it as
soon as the lime has slaked. The surface to re-
ceive the wash should be free of old flaking
lime or other washes. Use it preferably during
dull weather, but it may be used, without ad-
verse effects, on a hot, dry day. If is advisable
to use a trough-like receptacle for the prepara-
tion, because heat is generated during the
slaking of the lime. Use of a narrow-mouthed
mixing vessel can easily result in a mild ex-
plosion.
Brief Answers.
J.A.: (1) Merely critical. (2) We know of
no agency. In Australia, work can best be
carried out by the author. (3) N 0... J.G.L.:
Wood Finishing, 2s. 9d., obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney D.H.: Subscription
rate to “Nature” is £7 os. 9d. p.a. (2) Can find
no record of any such occurrence... .T.O’K.:
According to Whitaker’s Almanac, L. Vander-
styft cycled 16 miles 504 yards in one hour
W.P.: Some neutral countries have not yet
been admitted to the U.N.0., but Spain is the
only country, outside of the belligerent nations,
that is barred from being a member... .J.A.:
■ (1) Jacka did not receive a bar to his V.C.
(2) Not so far as we can trace... .A.C.M.:
Readers’ Union: subscription 335. for six
months, one book per month, mostly bio-
graphical and trade J.A.C.: Scale charges
of the Institute of Patent Attorneys of Aus-
tralia, for an average case, are £6 6s. for pro-
visional protection (nine months), and £23 for
full (16 years) patent M. 8.: Steep the
casings in brine to remove impurities, chang-
ing them from one brine bath to another until
all discoloration is gone. The casings are then
heavily salted and drained for several days;
they are then pure white in color KJ.W.:
(1) Editors of the Coast to Coast anthologies
have been: 1941, Cecil Mann; 1942, Beatrice
Davis; 1943, Frank Dalby Davison; 1944,
Vance Palmer. Douglas Stewart will edit the
1945 edition. (2) Editors of Australian Poetry
have been: 1941, Douglas Stewart; 1942, R. D.
Fitz Gerald; 1943, H. M. Green; 1944, R. G.
Howarth. Ken Slessor will edit the 1945
edition.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany . MS, should be addressed to
the Editor .
V.D.: Is that old bush cottage, with roses
round the door, to let, by any chance?..
G W.R.: “ ’Ow It’s Done” is ’orrible doggerel,
W.L.: When you submit, as the opening
line of a poem, the words “He sat,” the
poem also sits; and never gets up again....
A.H.: Poem attacking beauty parlors needs a
face-lift and a perm T.S.B. : Too vague, too
wordy; doesn’t make a picture... .H.L.K..
“Handh” nearly gripped A. 8.: The title’s
the best part of it... .L.C.: Smothered in poly-
syllables... .J.0’8.: A harmless, ditty....
K.M.L.: Thin... .R.L.S.; Who she is and
what she does are mysteries 8.C.; Promis-
ing lyrical note; but too many conventional
poeiicisms about “youth’s blossoms and
“passion’s sea” and “love’s mag l . o •••* ’ ’ ‘ et »
received the idea from watching sunset
Alas, so many others have watched sunset,
and received the same idea... .J.D.P. . Gan you
really imagine the U.N.O. delegates singing
anthem? N.S.. After Rupert Brooke. ..
N B • Imagine “The Rape of the Lock in tree
verse, and you’ll see why those poems need
rhyme and metre.... .H.H.: “Indifference,” un-
fortunately, is indifferent.


w
A
x
w
Bahrein Native turning
big valve on pipe-line . . .
THIS
HAH
■morksior
you!
This man is one of the 2,400 workmen on
the world’s newest and richest oil-held in
the Persian Gulf. He opens a valve and
“black gold” 1,000,000 galls, a day
flows into the huge, modern refining plant.
He is but another of the vast CALTEX
army who bring you the world’s finest
petroleum products, through your nearby
CALTEX dealer to give unequalled per-
formance in your car.
dfs
5/166
mm
QUPLITV RETRO LEU m PRODUCT’S
ISTEN IN TO
“YOUTH SPEAKS”
EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE TRACK HOME
By ADAM FRANCIS
CLIMBING out of the gorge, the
sodden track twisted over a heavily-
timbered ridge, the full throat of
the river mellowing and muted.
Rain fell in a fine mist. Wet, yellow-
dappled boles of blue-gums gleamed like
living flesh amid cool, green bracken and
tree-fern. The three horses, walking briskly,
made no impression upon the silence,
though now and again one might stumble
or snap a fallen branch, or a swaying
pack on the big gelding Luke was leading
might brush against the butt of a tree.
In the rear young Bluey kept flicking at
leaves with his switch, an irritating slap-
slap that worked like a splinter into the
brooding stillness. He would break every
so often into a reckless canter, almost
bringing his mare to grief on the greasy
track, and sometimes he jvould be a hun-
dred yards ahead, plunging out of sight
amongst grass trees and heavy bracken,
only to be overtaken as he jogged sul-
lenly along, big shoulders hunched around
close-cropped head under his groundsheet.
“Time you took a turn,” Duke said,
drawing level again, and Bluey tugged the
packhorse lead out of his hand and set
his nuggety little mare stumbling and
slithering down a gully.
“Watch out; you’ll bust the packs.”
“No fear!”
Luke followed cautiously into the
scrub-dark gully where big timber, laced
with lawyer vine, shut out the light of
day. It was as if he were riding into a
tunnel that had no end, and the still air
was hot and oppressive. If Bluey out-
distanced him, so much the better, for
the younger man’s exuberance unsettled
him. He still felt that Bluey’s behavior
had not been the best; going on the turps
while news of the tragedy was still spread-
ing around the township, and Matt’s old
woman in need of comfort. Afterwards,
when they had paid their last respects,
that was another matter. They had all
let themselves go then.
Through all the thirty miles back to the
camp Luke had not varied his pace, edging
down gorges, across flooded creeks, along
the familiar ridges. A stiff, upright figure,
sweat beading his white moustache like
frost, he rode with the sober dignity of
an old-timer, a shrewd eye for the timber
and quartz outcrops which broke the
carpeting fern.
The giant trees fifed slowly past, rein-
forcing the depthless silence, pines and
cedar and tallow-wood, whose massive
trunks rose two hundred feet before put-
ting out foliage to roof the track. It
was an aloof world, a still world that
humbled the spirit.
As Luke drew level again, Bluey turned
in his saddle and called “Another four
mile. The old gut’s empty as hell.”
“Yes.”
“Made that cow of a butcher come
good this trip. Wait till you see this
steak.”
'T'HEY jogged past the turn-off down to
1 Chinaman’s Creek, where he and <
Matt hcfd once pegged a dummy claim.
Matt. .. seemed a man just couldn’t shift
him from his mind. Everywhere were
things to touch the memory, landmarks,
camps shared, plans woven about fires
whose ashes still pitted the spare grass.
Topping a rise the skeleton of a shat-
tered red-box recalled the storm they had
once ridden through together. Thunder
had rolled and rumbled over this iron-
stone ridge all night. To follow this ob-
scure track through the silent ranges was
to retrace the pattern of their lives to-
gether.
The rain was easing now, and the
sky, seldom visible through the green
roof, no longer overcast. When the track
split in two Luke turned unquestioningly
to the left, bracing himself against the
steep descent. Further down he could
hear Bluey cursing the packhorse as it
stumbled and slipped. \
Already Luke began to search over the
tops of the blackbutts for that great
puckering scar in the gully below. It
drew his mind relentlessly. The memory
burned like a branding-iron ; its writhing
ugliness, like an open wound, the rumble
and fall of mullock, still white clay glint-
ing in the sun. Across the thinning trees
two hundred feet below he saw the clear-
ing, a circle of black stumps, ringbarks,
fallen trunks, the sodden roof of their
humpy under the mist, and beyond the
battery’s corrugated iron the opencut like
a wound, bloodless and gaunt. The grin-
ning, ugly mouth of the drive was still
obscured, folded under a timbered spur,
but already he could sense its still stare.
D LUEY was dumping packsaddles and
' mining gear in the lean-to when Luke
rode in. Returning to hobble the horses,
ho said “Get a hurry on, for Pete’s sake!
That’s if you want any tucker,”
Luke dismounted stiffly. “Pot of tea
wouldn’t come amiss. That ride’ll do me
for a month or two.”
.“Yes?” Bluey’s eyes glinted. He smelt
of horse sweat and raw wine. “But for
you I’d’ve made love to that sheilah this
evening. Gets on your quince, this joint.”
A last touch of sunlight glowed on the
topmost trees, red tips afire. Luke
glanced up at the drive, lurking there
above the shadowy pucker of the open-
cut. It seemed to grin down on the camp,
a devilish grin almost human in its malice.
The scrub, too, seemed watchful, as
though waiting its time tp reclaim the flat
which he and Matt had so laboriously
cleared.
Matt! After tea, in the old times, they
had sat yarning around the fire till all
hours. Not much Matt didn’t know.
He’d been more places than Luke him-
self. And before the gold had drawn
them down into this gully, they had fol-
lowed many a track together, droving
and kangarooing, sinking dams in the
back country. They’d had their share
of barneys, come to that, but it took more
than a touch of liver to get shook of a
mate. Squatting there on a log, with the
dark gathering, Luke half-expected any
moment to hear Matt’s slow, high-pitched
laugh, hear him clump out of the humpy
or roar hell out of Bluey for his blazing
newchum ignorance,
“Luke! ”
For a moment or two Bluey’s voice
stirred no response.
“Shake it up, Luke. How’d you want
’em—boiled or fried?”
“What?”
“What the hell d’you reckon? Spuds!”
Luke rose up testily. There were times
when a man wanted to evade the need of
words. “Boil the bloody things.”
I T was a silent meal. All scraps of talk
* seemed to lead back to that single image
out there in the still clearing—the rumble
both had thought to be thunder, boots
sticking oddly out of rubble, half-crushed
quartz in a dollypot over which Matt had
been stooping.
Afterwards, over the fire, the tension
ebbed. The fire warmed them, distilling
their shared loneliness to a feeling not
far short of being mates.
“Reckon we’ll have to start by pump-
ing tomorrow,” Luke said, after a lengthy
pause. “Winze’ll be flooded, sure as you
like, after this rain.”
“Pull a bit o’ quartz first.” Bluey,
driven by that besetting restlessness which
made every idle moment unbearable, was
hammering a new sole on his boot.
“Time we went after another nugget or
the storekeepers’ll be yelling ’’emselves
blue. Be two months before we’re crush-
ing, way we’re going.”
“Plenty of time.”
Bluey stared at the old man pulling at
his pipe. “All right for you. If I don’t
get some sugar soon. I’ll be in the tin.
Don’t matter to you, but —hell, a man
wants his whack of life while he’s still
young.”
“What more d’ you want? Stick to the
mining, you’ll be right. Life’s a matter
of battling, whichever way you look at it.
Out here you’re living like a proper man
should.”
“Suppose he wants to settle, have kids
and that, a woman to look after him?”
Luke smoked reflectively, “Way I look
at it, women’re like wild cattle. Best
leave fem be. Somehow they sap a man’s
strength, even the best of ’em. That’s
what I always run up, against with Matt.”
THE talk died. Always they cut the
same track, Matt the unforgotten, the
hidden personality which somehow still
dominated the slow rhythms of their life.
But whereas, living, his spare humor had
united these two men, the one slow and
drifting into reverie, the other turbulent
and derisive, inwardly restive with the
passions of youth, now in his absence
Matt could only divide them, stressing
the unbridgeable differences in their out-
look.
Yet in that desperate trip five days ago,
they had been welded as never before.
Somehow Matt’s crushed body had to be


AN ENTIRE
SCIENTIFIC
LIBRARY
IN A
SINGLE BOOK!
'
■
.
«SBw
mm
,\,y*
>**■'
%,m
■
B*SS
r***
'
fr*"
*****
716
PAGES
HERE is a book’ crammed with ex-
citement, oddity, wonder, even
humour —a wide-ranging, fascinat-
ing treasury of the great scientific writ-
ings of all time.
It' is a book imbued with the personali-
ties of the scientific explorers themselves,
fired with the excitement of their search,
lit by the body of knowledge that has
resulted. For here you see the scientist
at work in his laboratory, over his test-
tubes, on the mountains and in the
deserts, on the bottom of the ocean and
inside the earth —Madame Curie, Galileo,
Ditmars, Pasteur, Haldane ... Here you
can read what they themselves have had
to say about the subjects they know best,
about men and stars and plants and
animals—about the weather, earth-
quakes, X-rays, relativity, space, insects,
radium, vampire bats, the insides of,
atoms and the composition of planets.
For over a year the editors searched
scientific literature, assembling, selecting,
rejecting; for months they surveyed the
subject, arranging its parts into a con-
nected basic pattern. The result is a
book of really extraordinary scope and
importance, a unified and completely up-
to-date picture of the entire universe,
from the tiniest bit of living matter to
the star galaxy so immense it beggars the
imagination.
ANSWERS THOUSANDS
OF OUESTIONS LIKE
THESE
What does Einstein consider the
scientist’s most important duty?
Is there life on other worlds?
Exactly what is the Milky Way?
(You’re probably wrong.)
What is an earthquake?
How did ignorance of scientific method
probably destroy Aztec civilization?
What makes the weather?
How does mathematics influence the
advance of civilization?
Exactly how is an atom smashed?
How did Madame Curie discover that
radium existed, long before she
actually saw it?
How has Einstein’s theory been proved
correct?
Just how does radar —the new weapon
of warfare —utilize the principle of
the echo?
How does science make possible naval
guns that can hit a moving target at
twenty miles?
Can scientists actually create life in the
laboratory at this time?
How does a tiny parasitic animal cause
malaria?
Why are leaves green?
What was the Age of Seaweeds?
How did a single-celled animal build up
the chalk cliffs of Dover?
What resemblances are there between the
wars of ants and men?
Can chimpanzees be taught to converse?
What are the “laws of heredity”?
How did Darwin prove that man had
descended from some lower form?
What changes take place in each of the
nine months of human gestation?
ORDER NOW!
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Send me a copy of A Treasuryof
Science. Price, 25/- (postage, 9d.).
NAME..:
ADDRESS
B.l
taken up. Bluey was for lashing it across
the packhorse, but Luke, out of reverence
for his mate, insisted that they make a
stretcher of saplings and flour bags and
struggle up the ridge, cutting across to
the timber fallers’ camp some twenty
miles in, where a tramway ran through
the scrub to Warragool. The creeks were
high, old tracks obliterated ; to have held,
bushman fashion, to the ridges would
have doubled their journey. Rain swept
down the gorges; they sweated and
shivered; boots rubbed their heels red
raw, but discarding them only exposed
the flesh to leeches and thorns. Close
on nightfall they stumbled into the timber
camp.
“Never reckoned we’d make it,” Bluey
whispered when they gave him rum and
tea. Luke sprawling on a bunk, had set
his mind to telling nothing of the anguish
of that day, the flagging will which, half
a dozen times, had brought him to sur-
render point. It would have been so easy,
after a smoke-oh, to lie there on the track,
let Bluey ride on for help. But it could
not be done with honor. It was the final
obligation of their mateship that he must
go along with Matt to the end.
In Warragool next night it had not
always been clear if men plied them
with drink as a tribute to the dead or to
the astonishing endurance of the living.
But honor was satisfied, and if Luke,
dossing with the spud in Mick
Hennessy’s wine saloon, set them in an
uproar by trying to light his pipe from
the electric lamp, well, men would, over-
look worse excesses. The Irishman
knows a wake is not for the glory of
the dead alone.
Across the firelight, Luke could no
longer see the watchful opencut, but it
was enough to feel the strange hostility
of the outer dark, to look up at the cold
scattering of stars in a wide indifferent
sky. They turned in early. Bluey’s
snoring was untroubled, but the clearing
had paled into morning before Luke
closed his eyes.
THE mist had hardly lifted when he
led the way across to the rakish shaft
above the creek, but Luke noticed the
sudden transformation. Within five days
new shoots of bracken had sprouted
under the logs, tipped with springtime
flame. Blossom was on the blackbutts.
Uphill, where bellbirds quickened the
pulse of the scrub, the tops of the cork-
woods were red. “Hell,” he said, “it’s
spring.” Bluey, stumbling over a root,
only swore.
At the bottom of the shaft, groping in
candlelight, Luke breathed the dank air
with misgiving. Matt, he recalled, had
always abused these mornings. “She’s a
hard master,” he had once said. “Gives
a man no rest, this blazing mine. Sun-
up to dark, and then you’re but working
for the stores and old Mick Hennessy.
No boss ever worked his men like this,
because no man would stand for it, not
from a boss. But this bitch of a thing,
we’ll take anything it gives.”
At the time Luke had laughed. This
morning, trying to flog himself into
activity, he found that the promise of
the reef meant nothing.
“Looks mighty hungry,” he said,
raising his candle so that its light fell
across the narrow seam of quartz. “Pinch-
ing out, I reckon. Six months ago you’d
see color everywhere. Now if she goes
half an ounce to th’ ton . . .”
Bluey spat contemptuously. “Make it
a hundred ton, why don’t you? Let’s
hoe into it, for Pete’s sake. She’s too
hard for picks. LooksJike another slug
or two of gelly.”
They picked a likely spot for blasting,
and Bluey swung his ten-pound hammer
with unerring force, thwacking Luke’s
drill stroke after measured stroke. Flick-
ering candles in their spiders picked out
his copper muscles, his arms, chest,
swelling neck as they moved to a flawless
rhythm, while the old man crouched
over his drill, left knee braced against
the wall, leaning back on his right,
doubled and cramped, but holding
doggedly to a grip which had only to
relax a fraction for Bluey’s hammer to
shatter his scarred fingers. Slowly the
drill bit deeper into reluctant rock till
the air was sour with the hot smell of
bodies and a smoking arsenical tang
from the quartz.
“Keep your hand steady!”
Luke’s concentration was breaking
down,‘the impact of each blow jarring his
fingers' Dust stung eyes and throat with
its gritty dryness, lay heavy on the lungs.
“Whoa!” he said with desperate casual-
ness.
“Too old, that’s your trouble.”
Luke’s thin lips tightened under the
beaded moustache. “Give us the ham-
mer, we’ll see.”
“No road.”
“Well, get going, can’t you?”
With a derisive grin, Bluey raised the
hammer once more, driving the old man
without mercy, the ring of iron upon dull
steel beating a monotonous tattoo on
Luke’s brain. It was Bluey, this time,
who broke first. He flung down the ham-
mer, leant against the wall, barrel chest
swelling as though his ribs must burst.
Luke said complacently, “Give it a rest,
eh, Bluey?” When he stood up his legs
were trembling.
They bullocked all afternoon with
shovels and picks, lugging bucket after
bucket of mullock and broken quartz,
hauling them aloft, tipping the truck at
the end of its runaway, a routine that
continued day after day, till days merged
into weeks, exhausting Luke’s meagre re-
serves as work had never done in the past.
< i IVE us a break and forget the
vJ mine for once,” Bluey said one
night. “Never out of your mind. Hell,
life’s more’n slaving your guts out.”
But Luke could not leave it be. Gold,
gold, it plagued him day and night, even
when he swore he was through with it.
It was not desire for money, not avarice,
but an inner compulsion that drove him.
Always there was something needing his
attention, a solution to be impro-
vised, yet one day, as both well knew,
they would dolly a specimen or two to
find the gold had cut out. Until that
happened they could do nothing but go
blindly on, blind as moles under the
earth, shifting a mass of mullock that
rose steadily to a sun-baked mountain
beside the shaft.
At last a shattering din one misty
morning sent birds fluttering over the
ridge, the leaden stamps of the battery
champing into the silence, voracious
jaws crushing an interminable meal of
quartz. In moments snatched from feed-
ing quartz into the machine Luke kept
a wary eye on the tables, but it was hard
to estimate the yield.
“Looks all sand and water to me,”
Bluey said, and returned to the boiler,
whose pressure needle rose steadily as he
slung fresh logs into the flames.
By the third day Luke had grown
yet more silent. After tea that evening,
ears still ringing with the clamor of the
stamps, Luke said “Know that new
quack up at Warragool?”
“Bloke what put the stomach pump
on Long ’Un Dawes after Mick
Hennessy’s birthday turnout?”
“They reckon he’s got a bit of ready;
might put it into a show like this.”
“Hey! Not turning it in, are you?”
*‘Maybe ...”
“But, look,” Bluey said as the full im-
plication struck him, “you can’t do it.
Hell, it’s your show. You discovered
the bastard, you and Matt. Anyhow,
she’s not worth a cracker.”
Luke, picking his teeth with a splinter
from the bench, ignored him. It was
not easy to say what was in his mind.
His decision had been reached only at
considerable cost, dwelt oyer on nights
when sleep would not come. “I’ve
had my full of it, son. She’s a young
man’s job. Country’s too hard. We’ve
no hope in the wide of making more’n
tucker. If I can get an offer up at
Warragool . . .”
“And what’ll you do after?” Contemp-
tuous of the old man’s flagging strength,
Bluey found new grounds for derision.
“I’m more’n due for the pension.”
Bluey laughed. “You! That’s rich.
You bludging on the Government! It’s
because of Matt, am I right?”
Luke said “It’s because of what I
said,” and walked into the dark.
NOT until the crushing was complete
did Bluey broach the matter again.
In the shade of the now silent battery
he stood over Luke, who had heaped
the amalgam from tables and battery
box into his prospector’s dish. It was
the crucial moment, the climax of three
bullocking months, and the fruits 6f
their labor lay in a heap of blackish dirt
in the dish.
“If she comes good,” Bluey said,
“you’ll have another think coming. If
she’s rich as she ought to be . .
Without looking up from the dirt he
was panning, Luke said “When a man’s
settled things to his own mind wild
brumbies won’t shift him.”
The patient sifting and washing
absorbed all his attention; draining off
water, kneading the dirt, again washing.
At last it was done. The old man stood
up stiffly, tipped his dish this way and
that, the blackish, silver dumpling
rolling from side to side. When he began
to knead it to a hard black pellet they
could see it was little larger than a
pigeon’s egg.
“There she is,” Luke said. He spoke
with a craftsman’s pride.
“What d’you reckon she’ll go?”
“Hard to say. Twenty-five maybe ..
“And the rest! Last nugget went
thirty-two ounces, and she weren’t half
this size.”
“Fair lump of quicksilver in her yet.
No proper means of telling till we’ve
baked her.”
They soon had a great fire blazing be-
fore the lean-to, and Luke, conscious of
the importance of this moment, screwed
the lid on the retort pot, playing it
ceremoniously in the flames. “Half an
hour she’ll be done ..
Bluey squatted beside the lean-to
watching the stearti rising from the re-
tort tube and the pellets of mercury
falling with a hissing plop into the wait-
ing basin. It went on and on, with mad-
dening regularity until it seemed to him
that the whole nugget was being distilled
into empty air. He jumped up, walked
up and down the clearing, returned to
shoot a suspicious glance at the white-
hot retort, bursting out at last “You’d
better come good this trip. Stone it,
we want something back. Three months’
hard graft; tucker a man wouldn’t spit
on back home, and waiting and wet
and loneliness enough to give you the
screws. Three months living on the end
of a pick! You want to be rich, you
bastard ; want to be that rich we’ll make
the bank clerk’s eyes stick out like
berries. Luke, we’ll lop into Hardacre’s
store and we’ll slap down a roll thick
as your arm, and we’ll say: Take your
blasted sugar. Take it! We’ve plenty more
where it comes from. That’s what we
ought to say, Luke. Only we won’t.
We’ll shout ’em instead. We’ll go on
the scoot and knock smoke out of
some poor coot before the night’s out,
and we’ll wake up sick as a blackfellow’s
dog, and then before we saddle up again
we’11...”
Luke, watching the steaming retort,
said soberly “She’ll want to be a good
nugget.”
To lift the retort from the fire was no
easy job, but Luke seemed impervious to
blisters as he smothered it with rag,
dragged it on to the .clear ground and
unscrewed the top. He spread out a piece
of canvas, tilted the pot. A glistening
and sugary nugget rolled on to the can-
vas, pale gold. In the sun it seemed to
gather to itself all the glittering light.
“No,” Luke said, “she can’t beat last
time.”
“Hell!”
“If we’d a pair of scales...”
BUT there was nothing to be done
until the bank weighed it, and ten-
sion had to be released in chasing the
hobbled horses which had roamed the
grassy ridge for weeks. Luke’s roan set
a brisk pace along the track, as if the
animal was glad to be headed back to
town again. The sun had withdrawn
from an ochre sky when they cantered
at last over Wilkinson’s paddock towards
the start of the Warragool-road.
Replacing the sliprails, Bluey jogged
beside the silent old man along the hard,
red earth feeling his excitement rise at
the unfamiliar sound of shod hooves
upon, a man-made road. “Holy Christ-
mas! I’m on for a few pots this arvo,
Man feels he could knock over a bul-
lock soon as he hits the track home.
We’ll turn it on properly, bloke, seeing
you’re not coming back no more.”
No answer from Luke. The track
home; it filled him with foreboding, with
a sense of loss he could not understand.
The long winding ribbon of red road ran
between cool lucerne paddocks. It was
peaceful and fresh in this early summer’s
evening. But the fencing seemed to hem
him in, isolate him from the free line
of the scrubby hills. Away in the dist-
ance he could see a glint of tin
roofs. They straggled along the Warra-
gool-road in the stifling heat of day, and
by night were as drab as a fowlrun.
He reined in, turned for a last look at
the country they had left. At the foot of
Wilkinson’s steep paddock willows and
sheoak followed the flow of the creek.
Beyond, massed against a paling sky, the
range was dark with scrub, dark and
gloomy except for a russet patch or two
picked out by the dying sun. He knew
every ridge, every timbered spur and cool,
green gully, knew every worked-out claim,
every change almost in the rock’s forma-
tion, knew reefs that no one had yet
assayed with satisfaction,
“Shake it up,” Bluey called. “Have I
got a thirst on!”
Luke swung his horse round, clop-
clopping leisurely after Bluey, knowing
that three days at most in Warra-
gool were all a man could stand, that
afterwards he would be cantering back
over this hard earth road towards the
range that alone held for him reality, be-
cause the roots of his life were there, be-
cause a man’s spirit grew tall as the cedar
and tallow-wood along the track, and be-
cause Matt would be remembered in the
gorges and up the ironstone ridges long
after Warragool had forgotten. Besides,
Matt would never have forgiven him had
he pulled out before discovering if that
reef really dipped under the hill or ran
straight through to the second claim they
had cautiously pegged beyond.


%
-*>
&
Over fi>7 years oj
service, iS
On the 14thi of June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the first Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the im-
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor-
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of over 67 years*
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) | D. Stuart Murray) Sir Ctauda
Reading, K.CM.G.t Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Cotman, C.8.8.i
Sic Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S.. Eng.
General Manager! W. Sydney Jones.
Managers K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS!
Sic Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) | W. D. Stewart!
R. T. Hilderj John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager! J. W. Russell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Incorporated In Victoria fat 1878.
.
:
;• *'■'I
'
E ; :
' '; , .
The “MARS”
Plain MILLILR
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
dsf
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert ft Co Pty.. Ltd
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches rnrougnout
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Fell and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
r — Divs.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, servesf
£££ , £ *
1939. . 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 1 23,321 3,505
Share-issue exes., £6981 .. 3
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. .. 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 .. .. 9,444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2157 .. 7,28/
1940. .140,153 14,400 10 p.c.= 61,058 64,695 71,982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 .. .. ..51,845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 ~ .. 59,515
1941. 14,400 10 p.c.= 74,723 67,551 87,066
Share premiums, £117,984 . . .. 205,050
Unexplained additions, £13,524 .. 218,574
Share-issue eies., £5899' .. .. 212,675
Goodwill added, £39,879 . . .. 172,796
Debits new subsidiaries, £10,025 . . 162,771
1942. .193,861 14,400 10 p.c.=109,743 69,718 232,489
Goodwill added, £3302 .. ..229,187
Unexplained reduction, ,£10,751 . . 218,436
1943. .186,208 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 53,824 272,260
Goodwill added, £903 .. ..* .. 271,357
Unexplained addition, £372 .. ..271,729
1944. . 208,663 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 76,279 348,008
Added intangibles, £53,482 . . . . 294,526
Unexplained reduction, £2382 . . . . 292,144
1945. .214,454 14,400 10 p.c.=121,508 78,546 370,690
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
f After deducting intangibles, now £320,736.-
This is the co. which came on to the
market with £1,000,000 of 4 p.c. 20-year
debentures in September last. The issue,
underwritten by J. B. Were and Son, was
quickly oversubscribed. The money was
s wanted to finance further expansion of
existing undertakings and to provide for
development of new ones. Finance by
debenture, that is, by debt, rather than
by equity, is one of the symptoms of a
period of cheap money combined with
very high co. taxation. Interest on de-
bentures is a charge against gross earnings
and not subject to the tax levied on co.
profits, from which shareholders’ divi-
dends are paid. And, when the said in-
terest is less than the rate at which share-
holders’ funds earn, the debentures help
to swell the rate of earnings for share-
holders, and are therefore very helpful
to the ords. The £214,454 of profit
claimed last term was 11.5 p.c. on share-
holders’ net tangible funds (capital and
reserves combined, less intangibles).
Furthermore, as the debentures are re-
deemed, the sinking fund created for the
purpose becomes a reserve to support and
assist share capital.
The co. and its associated and subsi-
diary interests are a self-supporting com-
plementary group which tOrns out felt
piece-goods, carpets, footwear, dress
cloths, men’s suits and wool tops and
yarns. Of the 38 subsidiaries six are in
N. S. Wales, 21 Victoria, one Westralia,
seven Maoriland and three S. Africa,
It has been a remarkable development,
reflecting energy, enterprise and imagi-
nation on the part of the management.
Paid capital shot up from £119,930 at
end of 1936—just after the public be-
came interested —to £1,490,312 at the
close of last accounts. Of the £1,370,382
increase the public put up £1,039,517,
bonus scrip accounted for £135,500, and
the balance was issued mainly in pay-
ment for subsidiary interests, which ac-
counts for the growth (£70,473) last term,
when Century Woollen Mills (Vic.) was
added to the list.
After deducting outside interests, allow-
ing £351,722 (down £5011) for taxation
and £113,502 (up £12,909) for deprecia-
tion, last year’s aggregate net earnings of
the group were £5791 stronger at
£214,454, That covered pref. divs. and
16.4 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 16.4, 14.4, 16.3, 13.6, 20.6 and
15.2 p.c. back to 1939. The div, was
kept at 10 p.c. The £78,546 that remained
lifted reserves £370,690 in excess of in-
tangibles (£320,736), not treated as an
asset herein.
During the year some of the subsidi-
aries in Maoriland and S. Africa were
converted into public cos., which raised
further capital in the open market in
those countries.- In the Union Felt and
Textiles of S. Africa, Ltd,, became the
parent organisation there. Its £550,000
of issued capital is held by the Australian
parent £310,000, Industrial Development
Corp. £55,000, the public £185,000. The
Development Corp. sold 110,000 of its
former holding of 165,000 £1 ords. to
the public at par. These ords. fetched
275, each in Johannesburg at end of Oct.
last. The Corp. is a Government-spon-
sored concern which underwrites new
issues of which it approves ; it retains a
small portion of the capital and has repre-
sentation on the board. The parent co.
in Maoriland, Felt and Textiles N.Z.,
Ltd., recently offered the public 100,000
new £1 ords., for which there was a rush.
In Victoria British Australian Carpet
Manufacturers, Ltd., was recently regis-
tered with a nominal capital of £750,000,
of which £125,000 has been issued —
£92,500 to a Felt and Textile subsidiary
and £32,500 to the Carpet Manufacturing
Co., a 55-year-old English concern. The
new co. will operate both Axminster and
Wilton looms and cater for a substantial
part of Australia’s carpet requirements.
Another new venture to be undertaken,
this time in conjunction with Scapa Dyers,
Ltd. (Eng.), is production of industrial
woven felt, including papermaker’s felt.
A start is to be made as soon as plant
and labor become available.
A ready market awaits many products
of the group. The test will come after the
immediate post-war hunger has been satis-
fied, and competition begins to make itself
felt. Here are combined balance-sheet
figures:—•
1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital . . £1,183,786 £1,419,839 £1,490,312
Outside interests. . 47,217 259,791
Overdraft .. .. 970,609 1,332,952 1,318,174
Sundry creditors, etc. 343,484 453,014 510,170
Tax provision . . 146,650 366,943 435,997
Inter-co. balance.. 4,127 • 1 —
Freeholds.. .. 351,136 438,643 702,519
Plant . . . . 573,219 767,797 875,633
Shares other cos... 25,882 26,832 36,280
Stock . . .. 1,313,211 1,962,204 1,881,815
Debtors . . .. 534,123 799,526 940,511
Cash, etc... .. 25,445 29,962 23,665
Inter-co. balance.. 8,002 •
The year’s growth of £212,574 in outside
interests reflects sales of shares to the
public already referred to. The addition
of £263,876 to freeholds was mainly on
account of the S. African subsidiaries and
Century Woollen Mills, and partly be-
cause of a change in the method of
bookkeeping. The increase of £140,985
in book debts suggests that no time is
being lost in getting goods on to the
civilian market. The more or less liquid
_§urplus (£638,783) was £57,133 less than
at the previous balance.
The market prices the Sydney parent
co.’s f.-p. pound ords. at 445. 9d., at
which figure the return is 4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 255. lid.
in net tangibles. The well-protected prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 80,286 10 p.c. = 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,160.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 12* p.c. = 95,054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 12* „ „ 95,054 3,699 312,162
1940.. 97,359 12* „ „ 95,054 2,305 314,467
1941.. 96,076 12* „ ~95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 Hi „ „ 85,549 ‘ 9,882 325,371
1943.. 66,378 8 „ „ 60,835 5,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ „ 60,835 5,153 336,067
1945.. 65,513 8 „ „ 60,835 4,678 340,745
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
(paid capital £2,000,000) The big operat-
ing co.’s two plants have a combined
annual capacity of some 500,000 tons
cement. The one at Fyansford (Vic.) has
a rated capacity of 300,000 tons p.a., and
high-grade potash is turned out as well;
the other at Kandos can make up to
200,000 tons p.a.
Demand for cement on defence
account, which strengthened turnover and
kept earnings on a fairly even keel for
a while, passed its peak about three years
back. But, with taxation at a high level
and wage, oil, paper-bag and other costs
ascending apd selling prices controlled
by the Government, profits dropped by
nearly one-third, and the div. fell from
12i p.c. for the four years to end Nov.,
1941, to 8 p.c, two years later, and has
remained steady since. The operating co.
sent along 6 p.c. for each of the last
three years as against 9 p.c. previously.
To other troubles was added shortage of
coal last term, with the inevitable effect
upon production and costs. For the
last three months of the term output of
the Victorian plant fell to less than one-
half of the already reduced demand.
The surprising feature is that the drop
(£475) in net earnings was not more pro-
nounced.
One immediate effect of the termination
of hostilities has been to weaken the
demand for cement, partly because the
acute building problem has become a
shuttlecock between Federal and State
authorities, and partly because of pro-
duction holdups in some essential in-
dustries by the strike tactics of Com-
munist-led labor monopolies and shortage
of manpower. However, as the transition
period merges into the post-war era and
private construction and public works
programmes gather momentum, cement
production can be expected to keep in
step. The problem will be to prevent
contraction of the margin between costs,
which are not controlled, arid, selling
prices, which are controlled.
Here are this holding co.’s balance-
sheet figures, which don’t tell much;
1940. 1042. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 76 328 130 128
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts .. 110 110 110 110
Consols & cash 122,886 126,945 127,371 131,810
The co. is obviously well-ribbed on the
financial side. Everything, however,
depends upon the position in the operat-
ing co., over whose figures the curtain is
kept drawn. Plant, which is up to date,
is reported in first-class condition, and
the management is ready to step-up out-
put as soon as manpower, materials, thi
Government and the unions enable it
to do so. The co.’s only serious com-
petitor on the Victorian market is
Goliath (capacity 100,000 tons p.a.), a
low-cost producer at Railston (Tas.).
Noting all this, and that the public
policy is one of cheap money, investors
price the f.-p. pound ords. at 48s. 6d. as
against 445. a year ago. At the higher
price the return is 3.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The investor at 48s. 6d. who
looks for 4.1 p.c. on his money counts
on a 10 p.c. distribution.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov . Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 11,057 24 p.c. = 12,281 *“ 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19.649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938 21 291 4 ~ ~ 19,649 1,642 52,893
1939.‘. 34,685 7 ” ” 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ „ 34,386
1941 33 261 7 „ ~ 34,386 51,003
1942. : 35*,033 7 „ ~ 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 34,821 7 „ ~34,385 435 53,635
1944.. 35,215 7 „ „ 34,386 829 54,464
1945.. 23,471 5 „ „ 24,562 53,3.3
For the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1944 net earnings were steady
around 7 p.c. on capital. The stiffening
was a strong war-time demand at satis-
factory contract prices, as well as good
seasonal conditions. The sharp contrac-
tion of £11,744 in last year’s figure was
mainly the result of a dry spell in North
Queensland’s cattle country at the turn
of 1944-45. Prices remained on a fairly
even keel, thanks to the Federal Govern-
ment’s beef purchase plan, which has con-
tinued to operate since 1942. But the
quantity, quality and weight of sheep
and cattle treated at the co.’s Ross River
works, Townsville, declined. Indeed, the
slip in earnings would have been more
pronounced but for £6OOO received in
interest on advances made years ago to
Australian Stock Breeders the co.
which took over the pastoral interest of
the old Q.M.E. when it was split in twain
in 1915. The £23,471 of profit was 4.7
p.c. on capital. Still, only a couple of
points were chipped off the distribution
to shareholders, reducing it to 5 p.c., to
meet which reserves were tapped for
£lO9l. _ , ,
Exactly what the future holds for the
business nobody can say at present. A
Royal Commission recently inquired into


STOP™,, Rupture
Worries/
Mark © LoeaHen.
or YQUR RUPTURE
Try the new Boussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. .Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOCSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANDAtERA
av*
m
tm
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager,
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. , . . The
Wentworth faces a parlc . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D, Maclurcan, Managing Director
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * »
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks,— Advt.
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY me
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Bituminous Products
marketed by
SHE!
" “ "PermPfae!
The Shell Company has pleasure in announcing
that, consequent on the ending of bitumen control,
it is now in a position to supply, without permit,
the well-known bituminous products :
COLAS and TEROLAS
BITUMINOUS EMULSIONS
for cold application paving of all kinds.
Please address enquiries to
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Gt. Britain) A 46 I
2S
cc
Our stern alarums
changed to merry meetings
Now are our brows bound by victorious wreaths.
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments.
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
Richard 111.
55
Throughout the War, the Great White Yacht*
of the K.P.M. Line gallantly served the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas all over the World.
One day, not too far distant, they will be
sailing from Australian ports again on their
peace time schedules to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated In
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
the question whether the Government
should set up additional abattoirs and
meatworks and /or acquire existing
plants in Queensland. It recommended
purchase of the Ross River works if,
upon expert examination, they are found
suitable for conversion into a public
abattoir, and a purchase price could be
arranged on reasonable and equitable
terms. There the matter stands at the
moment.
At end November last the Townsville
works, plus an unspecified holding in
Singapore Cold Storage, stood in the
books at £425,248. The shares appeared
at a figure placed upon them by the
board, and the plant at cost, less sales
and depreciation;
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
FiYed* 01 assets 819,459 233,358 300,049 308,074
etc. asse . s : 329,155 422,178 429,-888 425,248
stock .. 283,079 85,752 35,’092 is,’72o
Stores .. 18,992 39,039 86,752 34,910
Debtors .. 65,143 50,801 97 088 129 522
cash, etc. .. 201,900 220,000 197,500 216,000
Shares subsid. 40,000 50,000 50,000
Advances subsul. 2.101 33 460 1 834
* including provision for contingencies.
Although a lot of money has been spent
on plant bver the last six years, some of
the equipment is getting old, and a sub-
stantial programme of works reconstruc-
tion has been planned. The estimated cost
is not mentioned, but permission to go
ahead with building has been received.
Following defeat of Japan, the Singapore
Co. has regained possession of its works.
They are operating on a limited scale,
but a lot of repair and reconditioning
work needs to be done before they can
get into full swing and pay a div. again.
The shares-in-subsidiary item is the co.’s
holding in Northern Manufacturers Pty.,
which took over the can-making section
of the business in 1941. Excluding
shares in the Singapore Co., more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities (including
the final div, and an unspecified provi-
sion for contingencies), by £115,356 (up
£499) when the books last closed.
The outlook for the industry has been
strengthened by the British contract for
purchase of Australian surplus meat. This
agreement runs until September, 1948, at
prices around present levels, subject to
review at the request of either Govern-
ment on grounds of substantial alteration
in conditions. Another feature of the
agreement is provision for progressive
export of chilled beef as suitable shipping
becomes available. Export of canned
meat is subject to annual regulation.
Owing to the acute food shortage in
Britain, Europe and parts of Asia, there
will be no lack of export demand for
meat during the current term. Though
selling prices are still controlled under
the Government purchase plan, improved
seasonal conditions should mean better
throughput.
The market prices the f.-p. 15s. shares,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 16s. Bd., at 16s. 6d. The return
at 16s. 6d. is 4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
Wiluna (W.A.)
Wiluna Gold Corp. (London) reports
a loss of £7920 for year to end March,
1945. This was written off against share-
premium account, reducing it to £128,078.
No divs. were received from either
Wiluna Gold Mines or Gold Fields
Australian Development. The Corp.
owns all the £1,773,000 of paid capital in
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) and 220,000
of the 2,000,000 issued ss. shares in the
other co.
For the same period Wiluna Gold
Mines treated 377,819 tons ore, averaging
2.62dwt, for 37,252 fine ounces gold,
worth £393,377, or 20s. 9.8 d. a ton.
Working costs were £448,007, or 235. 8.5 d.
a ton. The working loss was thus
£54,630, equal 2s. 10.7 d. a ton. Opera-
tions were conducted on a “protected
status,” with a view to securing maximum
output of arsenic, antimony, etc., for war
purposes under subsidy. The Federal
and Westralian Governments jointly
guaranteed the co. subsidies totalling
£123(000, of which £48,000 had been re-
ceived when the books closed. This and
£21,934 of profit from non-mining
sources, less depreciation (£37,882) and
other charges, reduced the year’s net loss
to £25,816.
Losses from the close of accounts to
end October last consumed the balance
of the subsidy. From this point produc-
tion has been gradually curtailed to 10,000
tons a month of higher-grade ore, which
is expected to yield a small profit, as well
as provide the sulphur necessary for re-
treatment of 400,000 tons of refractory
calcined residues, averaging 6dwt. The
treatment process is a chlorodising roast
under strictly controlled temperatures
rendering the gold amenable to cyanida-
tion. First unit of the plant, capacity
40-50 tons a day, started up at end
September last. No major mechanical
difficulties have been encountered; re-
coveries range from 66 p.c. to over 80 p.c.
The aim is to husband financial resources
and maintain intact plant and staff for
development and, if warranted, produc-
tion at Mt. Charlotte and the co.’s other
outside options.
When the books closed ore reserves
were put at 209,000 tons, averaging
3.ldwt., with a further 110,000 tons prob-
able, averaging 4.5dwt., in the Happy
Jack section. Salvage of the higher grade
ore in the main mine is now completed,
or thereabouts, and the workings are
about to close down. Cash, bullion, etc.,
totalled £963,602, debtors’ balances
£146,612, stores £114,021. There was
£26,303 coming to sundry creditors and
£8734 reserved for the taxgatherer.
The co. has a 75 p.c. interest in the
Mt. Charlotte option, which has three
years to run. Gold Fields Australian
Development holds the other 25 p.c. in-
terest. A start is to be made to test
this property as soon as men and
materials are available.
A one-third interest is also held in a
300-acre block, including the* Porphyry
(1939) Gold Mine, on the North Cool-
gardie field. Here some 6000 ft. of drill-
ing has disclosed a flat ore-body expected
to contain at least 350,000 tons, averag-
ing 4.sdwt. Two prospecting shafts have
been sunk, and further work is expected
to disclose more pay-ore.
Two other properties are also being
tested under option in joint partnership
with Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment. Results have not yet been broad-
cast. In Australia buyers offer 15s. 9d.
for Wiluna’s f.-p. £1 shares, which recently
sold in London at 11s. 6d. stg.
Kuala Lumpur Tin, whose share
register is at Melbourne, has a property
equipped with two dredges at Kalum-
pang on the Singapore-Penang railway
(F.M.S.). No. 1 has a capacity of 60,000
c.y. a month; No. 2, a Werf Conrad
machine, can dig 140,000 c.y. a month.
A recent visit by the Tin Inspection Com-
mittee disclosed that the Jap. operated
both dredges intermittently; No. 1 from
Sept., 1942, to May, 1945, and No. 2
from April, 1943, to March, 1945. In
each case supervision was lax, and bot-
tom was seldom reached. This means
that the area treated still contains a
quantity of tin ore, the exact amount of
which can only be ascertained by bdring.
The small machine, sunk about July last,
is lying on a nearly even keel. To re-
float and recondition it will take from
six to eight months after arrival of spares
and replacements. No. 2 is moored in
the dredge paddock, and the bucket band
and top and bottom tumblers and a
lot of other gear appear to be in good
order. It is expected that this machine
could begin digging again within eight
weeks of arrival of running stores, coal
and European supervision. Pre-war the
co. was a regular div. payer ; last distribu-
tion Is. a share in October, 1941. Paid
capital is £130,800. At end Sept, last
cash and Government securities in Aus-
tralia totalled £70,571. There was only
£773 coming to outsiders. The market
prices the f.-p. pound shares at 20s. 6d.
* * * *
Hill 50 South (W.A.) is changing its
name to Evanston Gold Co. It recently
took an option on the Evanston mine,
North Yilgarn, .and has since appointed
one of the vendors, M. H. Ridge, a
director.


OPPORTUNITY
IS KNOCKING AT
YOUR DOOR IN
* _«r-
The great industrial revival which is taking place in Australia is opening
up interesting well-paid positions everywhere for men*who are trained in
Diesel engineering. Plans for the new industrial undertakings, power
plants, etc., all indicate that Diesel will play a still bigger part in the
great new world of the future. The big car and truck manufacturers are
turning more and more to Diesel ... Railways are going Diesel . . .
Diesel engines are powering ships and transport of every kind ... to say
nothing of tractors . . . earth-excavating machinery and the rest. All of
these mean more and more permanent jobs for trained Diesel operators.
Diesel operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant conditions
and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the man who
has specialised knowledge.
»
£*»
N
/
'
5
m
*7
<5
•»»
4*
*>»
a i
m
y*
4
iiiifiaii
iaaiiiirtiiiii
NOW IS THE TIME TO START YOUR
SPARE TIME DIESEL TRAINING
The Diesel Engineering College can train you in your spare time
by the same efficient methods which, during the' past 1 0 years, have
earned the College’s graduates such a fine reputation in the Diesel
world. You don’t need any high educational standard, or any
previous engineering knowledge. The Diesel Engineering College
teaches you thoroughly and completely. It is easy to grasp • • *
quick . . . and thorough. The Diesel Engineering College Course
is complete and right up to date ... it covers both transport Diesel
(tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (constructional power
plants, etc.).
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering, College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate and service Diesel engines
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
Sk
%
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
To
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney,
W*
i
m
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don’t ACT! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin'*
just drop us a note!
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
*>
Many students of the Diesel Engineering College have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others , have the satisfaction of knowing that their
qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in good stead
when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-residents
of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day, or
any Wednesday or Friday nights, for full particulars.
Government Diesel Engine Driver's Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate . . . over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examinations.
DIESEL ENGINEER! N G CO L LEG E
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME AG E
ADDRESS
B. 27/2/’46.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
"«N
ITS
BBfi
'as*--
Our Navy and Merchant fleets depend on Exide
Batteries. Exides are serving the public daily in
over a hundred ways. In your choice of a
battery for your car, be guided by those
who have learned to depend on Exide.
<1
>1
PERSONAL ITEMS
J. Hickson Adams, of Brisbane, who
has been visiting Sydney collecting artists
to exhibit in his Centennial Galleries—
the first of its kind in Brisbane —has been
collecting all his life. It began in Ade-
laide, where, as a small boy, he collected
from overseas ships a dazzling array of
matchbox covers. Then stamps, opals
and pictures. His big private collection
of paintings ranges from Conder to John
Eldershaw and includes practically all the
great names —Gruner, Streeton, Norman
Lindsay, Heysen, Longsta'ff, Mclnnes,
Penleigh Boyd, Minns, Blamire Young, a
panel of Hilders; it amounts to a
cavalcade of Australian art. The idea
of the Centennial Galleries is to introduce
to a city that seems to be having a cul-
tural renaissance the best practising
painters from all over Australia, opening
wjth a show by South Australian Max
Ragless. Adams also collected some
experiences with the A.I.F. in France in
the Great War.
Resumed duty with the R.A.A.F. after
spending some time as a p.-o-w. in Ger-
many, Group-Capt. D. E. L. Wilson was
one of the first batch of Duntroon gradu-
ates to join the R.A.A.F. and be selected
for a permanent commission. When war
broke out he was senior administrative
officer at Richmond, graduating from
there to be senior administrative staff
officer at Central Area when formed by
“King” Cole. Command of Richmond
followed, then A.O.C. Five Maintenance
Group. Transferred to England Wilson
was in charge of a bomber group when
his ’plane was shot down over Germany
on his first flight. He was not captured at
once and succeeded in reaching the
Spanish border with the aid of the French
underground before being picked up.
Wilson’s hobby is mining, and before the
war most of his holidays were spent
camping with a dolly dish and a pros-
pector’s hammer in the wilder parts of
the Australian bush.
Two years ago, when Lord Knollys,
chairman of British Overseas Airway
Corporation, was in Australia, he com-
plained that people in Britain were not
airminded. If they’re still that way it
isn’t the fault of British aircraft de-
signers. The Hythe flying-boat in which
Lord Knollys touched down at Sydney
last week on his way to the Pacific Air
Conference at Wellington (M.L.) towered
over the older types at Rose Bay; it cut
the pre-war schedule for the Britain to
Sydney trip to five days, with an actual
flying time of 69 hours. On the same
day Federal Minister Makin reached
Sydney in a Lancastrian, another British-
designed ’plane, in tarmac-to-tarmac
time of 64 hours. Later in the year, Lord
Knollys revealed, an even larger flying-
boat, the Solent, will be available for
Empire service; it will carry 36 pas-
sengers, with bunks for 24.
Ernest Connibere, who presented a
cheque of £lO,OOO to the Lud Mayor’s
Food for Britain Appeal in Melbourne, is
one of the family of three brothers who
got the nickname of the “three Santa
Clauses” for their many benefactions.
One of them, Charles Connibere, who
died in 1941, left his money to his sur-
viving brothers in the belief that they
would expend most of it on charitable
donations. Their memorial to him was
the nurses’ home at the new Royal Mel-
bourne, providing 400 bedrooms for
nurses. The present cheque is a
memorial to George Connibere, who died
last year, leaving most of his estate to the
remaining member of the trio. During
the war the Conniberes maintained a rest-
room which provided free refreshments,
literature and stationery for an attendance
of upwards of 2,000,000 servicemen.
Almost unnoticed, a senior medical
officer of the R.A.N. has been de-
mobbed, Surgeon-Captain Len Darby,
C.8.E., joined the R.A.N. in 1911,
and was M.O. of the first Sydney
when she sank the Emden; he
received special promotion for his
work on that occasion. He has since
served with distinction as Director of
Naval Medical Services and as Medical
Officer Medical Establishments N.S.W.,
and was named hon. surgeon to George
VI. A battler for all ranks and ratings, he
was noted throughout the service for his
great skill and his friendly sympathy—
which was not at all times welcome higher
up. Darby was good at most sports, won
many service “championships at tennis,
and was a sound all-round cricketer.
“Becks” on the president ot U.N.0.:
With politics and the stage in his blood Paul-
Henri Spaak, who from the position of Bel-
gium’s Foreign Minister was elected first presi-
dent of U.N.O. Assembly, should be well-
equipped to deal with the diplomatic shifts and
manoeuvres and histrionic outbursts ,that must
be expected when 51 varieties of delegates are
jammed into one jar. A grandfather was a
Belgian Liberal leader, whose daughter—mother
of Paul-Henri —was the first Belgian woman to
be elected to the Senate; his uncle Paul Janson
was Premier for a short period in 1937.
Spaak’s father was director of an opera house
and addicted to writing verse. The president is
a barrister, and has been a Socialist deputy
in Parliament for 14 years. He became Foreign
Minister in 1937, was Premier the following
year, and has been Foreign Minister most of
the time since. As a boy of 16 he tried to
escape from Belgium during World War I, was
caught by the Germans and spent two years in
a prison camp. In Hitler’s war he was more
fortunate; he got away through France and
Spain to join the Government in exile in Lon-
don. Spaak can make one claim that no other
U.N.O. delegate can dispute; he the only
Assembly member who has represented his
country at tennis. He played for Belgium in
1922 when “Big Bill” Tilden won his third
Wimbledon championship and Patterson and
Anderson were Australia’s giants.
Thomas Francis Rice, now g.m. of
the Government Produce Department in
S.A., has been chief Government store-
keeper since 1940, and is chairman of
the Emergency Supplies Coal Commit-
tee. From 1926-30 he was senior auditor
in the Auditor-General’s Department,
investigating officer in the Railways
Commission 1930-31 and chief investi-
gating officer of the Taxation Depart-
ment 1936-40, then became controller
of A.R.P. stores and equipment during
the war years. He’s 53.
Former Lieutenant-Colonel C. J. A.
Coombes, M.C., is here pictured by Mc-
Beath setting a splendid example of dis-
cipline and service, back in his pre-war
job in Melbourne as First-Constable No.
8888. Enlisting in 1939, his number being
VXSS, he moved the advance guard into
Pucka before the camp’s completion,
and sailed with the 2/8 Battalion in 1940.
After service in Libya he went to Greece
and was one of 500 rescued from the
Costa Rica when that vessel was sunk
by dive bombers. Taken on to Crete
instead of Egypt, he won the M.C. for
P.C., M.C.
outstanding bravery in defence of that
island. On returning to Australia he was
appointed to the command of the 4th
Training Battalion at Glen Innes,
N.S.W., moved up to Queensland, had
12 months in Darwin and then took com-
mand of the 47th Battalion at Bougain-
ville. Medically boarded, he again re-
turned to Australia in command of the
2nd Jungle Warfare Battalion," Canungra
(Q.). Discharged November, 1945, and a
John Hop again shortly after. Married,
with three sons,
A Melburnian, Dr. Arnold Hughes
Ennor, gets one of the first fellowships
awarded by the Wellcome Foundation in
London, which has already taken some
eminent Australian scientists, including
Dr. Kellaway, who became Director-in-
Chief of Wellcome Research Labora-
tories two years ago. Ennors is a Mel-
bourne University product who was en-
gaged in bio-chemistry research at the
Baker Institute until 1942 and later was
sent by the National Health and Medical
Research Council to Innisfail, Queens-
land. He goes to Oxford.
There is some reciprocity in brains
between M.L. and Australia, though the
balance of trade tips in
favor of M.L. The
recent appointment of
Dr. Keith Edward
Bullen, a Maorilander,
to the chair of applied
science at Sydney Uni-
versity is offset by an
Australian, Dr. J. P.
Walsh, collecting the
Chair of Dentistry at
Otago University.
Thirty-four years old,
the doc. is a native of
Melbourne; he estab-
lished a record at Mel-
bourne Dental School
by graduating with
first-class honors in
eight subjects, A consulting dental sur-
geon with the R.A.A.F., he was chosen
by Otago from 20 applicants from
Britain, Canada, U.S.A., Eire, Australia
and N.Z.
Harold Ickes, self-described as “the old
curmudgeon” and the “resigningest man
in Roosevelt’s Cabinet,” has had a resig-
nation accepted at last —by Roosevelt’s
successor. Ickes, a Republican turned
Democrat, learnt his politics in a
hard school —he was a Chicago re-
porter, a Chicago lawyer and a
Chicago politician before stepping on
to the national stage in 1933 as
Secretary for the Interior. This job
carried with it the administration of
public works under the New Deal, which
brought down on Ickes’s head a storm
of criticism which he seemed to relish —
when it came to brickbats he could fling
with the best. His arguments with the
“columnist” Westbrook Pegler were
full of adjectives and contempt for the
libel laws'
“Lao-dah” on “an Indernesian com-
rade” :
The name of Tan Malacca has lately beep
heard in the din of Indonesian “republican”
conflict. He was an international Communist
who was exiled from Java to New Guinea on
various occasions, spending, like Sun Yat-sen,
a good half of his life in exile. In 1927 he
was expelled from the Philippines by the Ameri-
can authorities and subsequently turned up in
Amoy, where there was a poltical upheaval. He
also spent two months in a British prison in
Hong Kong. He has had his ups and downs
in the Communist movement; when Russia
came into the war he was branded as a follower
of Trotsky. During the Japanese occupation
he got back to Java, where he worked as a
tailor and a farm laborer. He is reputed to be
a thorn in the side of Sjahrir, to have
a large following and to have formed a
“United Front” of all the elements in Indo-
nesia who want immediate socialisation. Village
communities are no new thing in Java. Every
dessa has its common lands on which the
natives can grow crops or graze their cattle,
and everybody contributes in kind to the festi-
vals which accompany the birth of a child or a
calf, the circumcisions, the weddings and the
burials, which are much more like festivals than
funerals, and at which the essence of the food
and drink is offered to the spirits—the cele-
brants fall on the material remainder.
Off to Siam as leader of an Aus-
tralian tinmine inspection team is John
Atkinson, Burma-Malay’s engineer. The
party will be the first of its kind from
the Commonwealth to enter Thailand
since the war, though a similar party has
been dispatched from Britain. Prime
objective is to assess damage to Austra-
lian-owned mines and to claim against
Siam. Atkinson has followed Burma-
Malaiy’s fortunes from north of the
Equator to as far south as Briseis, in
Tasmania. Both his sons,* as airmen,
gave their lives in the recent war, one in
Europe, the other in the Pacific after
surviving extraordinary adventures at the
time of Singapore’s fall.
Edward Hirst, whose picture, with one
of his shorter pipes, Dubois presents
here, was the organiser of the greatness
of the British General Electric Company
in Australasia. He was sent to Australia
as a very young man, and, while he has
HIRST. OF B.G.E.
identified himself with many Australian
movements and has plunged into Aus-
tralian life with zest, he has maintained
himself throughout as a sort of separate
British isle, living in his native English
manner and carrying on his particular
personal British interest in his own way.
He lives out at Ingleburn, 28 miles
from Sydney, on a property which
he has literally carved out of the
tall timber and moulded into a sort
of English county estate. And there,
for nearly a generation, he has bred
fine Jerseys and Welsh ponies, known for
their excellence throughout the Com-
monwealth, amid a legion of dogs, rein-
forced by an occasional bit o’ blood in
the way of horseflesh. Despite a per-
petual mountain of electrical affairs on his
shoulders, “General” Hirst, as his staff
calls him behind his back, is always avail-
able to any movement aimed at uplifting
livestock standards —he has for long been
a foremost champion of the improvement
of horseflesh and its extended use. And
he has done great work for old soldiers
in the organising of the Corps of Com-
missaires, which has placed over 300 men
in permanent and responsible employ-
ment.
David John Gordon, dead in Adelaide
at Bp, whose prowess as a Commonwealth
politician was blighted by the electors of
Boothby (B. 20/2/’46), was over 30 years
in S.A.’s Legislative Council with a con-
siderable term as president. Born at
Riverton, in the mid-north of his
State, he launched himself on a
mercantile career, but long
joined the old “Register,” becoming com-
mercial editor. Later he was chief of
“Hansard” staff. D.J. was always a
strong supporter of State rights, and
wrote several books publicising his home
State. In 1927 he led the Australian dele-
gation to the World Economic Confer-
ence at Geneva.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 70, Ethel Newman, once
a noted actress. She ran her own com-
pany in London for many years and made a
successful tour on the Tivoli circuit in Aus-
tralia. During her last years she appeared
mainly on the radio, but she made a surprising
comeback as the English mistress in an out-
standing production of “Children in Uniform”
at the Garrick, Melbourne.
At Coonamble, at 82, Dean John Patrick
O’Farrell, native of Warrnambool (Vic.).
He served all but three months of his priestly
career of nearly 58 years in Coonamble. His
parish at one time included the present
parishes of Coonamble, Coonabarabran, Gil-
gandra, Brewarrina and Walgett.


The best girl
deserves the best
chocolates
xK-s-
-2
r *
This famous '<
chocolate
assortment
will again
be available
when conditions
permit.
MB 45/lS
“GOLDEN
GLORY"
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
A
A multitude of war duties proved the'
ability of Ronaldson -Tippett Engines to
operate at the highest point cf efficiency
under conditions of extreme hardship.
RONALDSONTIPPETT
ENGINES
RONALD SON -TIPPETT Engines have provided power to pump petrol
and pump water, to lay cables and to light aerodromes, to run
refrigerators and concrete mixers, tugboats and air compressors • • •
now they return to the field of primary production where they so
brilliantly performed in pre-war days. Moral : For every P ower , n f,
thereis a Caldson-Tippett Engine which will do the job dep*ndab£
and economically. Production is swinging back to normal. Lodge your
order without delay. ,
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 638 Bourlc© Street. MELBOURNE.
N S.W. Distributors: Konaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Etd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’iand Distributors: Eonaldson Tippett (Qi«M Etd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
THE SERVICE MAN
Fifth Column in Canada.
“Ek Dum”: At the moment when the
U.N.O. conference was closing it was
announced that the Canadian Govern-
ment had discovered the existence of “a
sprawling Russian Fifth Column permeat-
ing almost every stratum of Canadian
life,” and designed “to seek information
that would be useful in the event
of another war.” The organisation
came to light when a junior mem-
ber of the Russian Legation found him-
self in danger of his life and appealed for
Canadian Government protection after a
seeming attempt had been made to
murder him. Similar operations appear
to have been in progress in the United
States, but there the ringleaders were
allowed to leave.
The Soviet Minister to Canada and
other Soviet representatives were absent
in Moscow when the trap was sprung.
They obviously had had some warning
of what was coming.
According to A.P.A. the organisation
discovered was on three levels : (1) an
inner circle of Russian agents, taking
orders direct from Moscow; (2)
a middle circle of detached and
paid professional spies—all, it is
believed, Canadian citizens; (3) Com-
munist civil servant red-ants or subjects
of blackmail, who willingly or unwillingly
made available Government secrets. The
Canadian Communist party was “deeply
involved,” and one of its members had
been arrested.
While inquiries were proceeding Mos-
cow countered brazenly. Admitting that
it had obtained information from certain
Canadian citizens, it blustered that the
information was valueless in view of the
superior technical development of the
U.S.S.R.
The Kremlin professes to regard spying
as an ordinary activity when carried on
against a friendly Ally. It is unlikely
that what has been going on has been
limited to spying.
The Foreign Office Commissar who
acted as Moscow’s spokesman is Solo-
mon Losovsky (i.e., Solly Lewis), formerly
secretary of the Red International of
Labor Unions, from whom the Sydney
Labor Council and the Northern Miners’
Federation admittedly received their
orders for many years.
It was Losovsky who headed the Pan-
Pacific Conference at Vladivostok in
1929, at which Australian union bosses
were ordered to act as promoters of
revolution in India, in Indonesia and the
Philippines as well as in Australia, be-
sides jettisoning the White Australia
policy and arbitration.
Losovsky had been the Comintern’s
director of infiltration for 20 years before
World War II; he, like the rest of the
Comintern officials in Moscow, suddenly
became a Foreign Office Commissar,
though still apparently carrying on his
old tasks.
At the 1929 conference he was par-
ticular about “arbitration, industrial
peace, White Australia and reformism,”
and “Australian” Communists have been
mouthing his phrases ever since. Losov-
sky or Lewis told the “Australians” that
the Right Wing must be cleared out of
the Australian Labor movement, adding
that “only the grave will reform these
people.”
On September 3, 1929, the final meeting
of the Secretariat took place, this time to
“consider a resolution on the tasks of the
trade-unions in Australia.” The draft of
the resolution was presented by Comrades
Browder (since expelled) and Johnson.
After it had been advocated by
Losovsky it was meekly adopted by
the “Australian” delegates.
The Secretariat which dictated Aus-
tralian Communist policy, obsequiously
followed since, consisted of Browder
(Secretary C.P., U.S.A.) and two other
Americans; Ting Yu-lin and the general
secretary, Tsz Won - Pin (China);
Avdeeva, Selikov, Losiev, Losovsky
(U.S.S.R.); one French, one Philippine,
one British, one Japanese and three Aus-
tralians — F. Reels and P. G. Hannett
(N.S.W.) and F. Walsh (S.A.). Thus the
policy for Australia was dictated by a
majority of Russians and Asiatics, in-
cluding a Japanese.*
The position illustrates how Russian
Fifth Columns are built up. It should be
emphasised that they are not planned for
spying. They are organised for conquest
from within.
Stalin’s Injunctions
Plans for the disruption of British and
other countries do not stem from the
Communist International. Their organ-
iser is Stalin. In March, 1939, Stalin told
the Communist party conference in Mos-
cow that pure Communism could never
be achieved while adjoining capitalist
countries exist as such.
On November 7, 1939, in his speech
on the anniversary of the Revolution, he
deliberately counselled revolt on Russian
lines in Allied countries (but not, of
course, in that of his then partner in the
division of Poland and the Baltic, Adolf
Hitler). He said —as reported in the Aus-
tralian “Communist Review” —the italics
are in the original:
Beyond question the results of the
[Russian] October Revolution could not
and cannot remain without serious effect
on the revolutionary movement in colonial
and dependent countries. Facts like the
growth of the revolutionary movement of
the oppressed nations in China, Indonesia,
in India, etc., and the growth of sympathy
with the U.S.S.R. among those nations un-
doubtedly bear this out By sowing the
seeds of revolution, both in centres of
imperialism and in its rear, by weakening
the power of imperialism in the “mother
countries” and undermining its domination
in the colonies, the October Revolution has
jeopardised the very existqpce of world
capitalism as a whole [lt has] established
a powerful and open base for the world
revolutionary movement, represented by the
first proletarian dictatorship, a base which
it never had before and on which it can
now rely. It created that powerful and
open centre of world revolutionary move-
ment. .. .around which it now can rally and
organise a united revolutionary front of the
proletarians and of the oppressed nations
of all countries against imperialism.
Australia, Canada and India, in
Stalinist jargon, are “oppressed nations.”
The- servile Sharkey, president of the
“Australian” Communist party and its
representative on the Comintern World
Executive at that time, applied these senti-
ments to the British Empire. He spoke
of the possibility of “defeat or crippling
of the British imperialist strength in the
present war, a European revolution that
would hamstring it, or a successful
national revolution in India and other
colonies that would cause the whole
structure of the Empire to come toppling
down.” *This consummation Sharkey
desired as heartily as Quisling desired the
victory of Germany. He declared that
“in 'answer to the demand of the profit-
eers, plunderers and freebooters for the
continuation of the war, the working-
class must raise the demand for immedi-
ate peace”—of course on the terms of
Hitler and Stalin. His journal made a
special feature of the Indian position,
publishing a Communist Indian mani-
festo demanding that if India were asked
to join in the war her people should in-
stead “settle accounts with British im-
perialism once and for all” —a pro-
ceeding which would have meant the
massacre of thousands of British women
and children.
All this happened in the period when
Russia and Germany were allied.
“Australian” Communist organisations
and publications were suppressed, but,
as it is brazenly proclaimed, con-
tinued illegally to do their best to sabo-
tage the war effort. But when Germany
attacked Russia all policies were tempo-
rarily shelved, though the C.P. “at all
times vigorously supported the great
revolutionary movements of India and
China.” Everything that the capitalist
countries had to offer to save Russia —
food, arms, radar, instruction in the use
of modern weapons—was accepted with-
out return.
The new friendliness towards Russia
was capitalised to widen and intensify
Communist infiltration in every British
country with a view to the future. All war
propaganda by the party was linked with
publicity aiming to embarrass Britain,
which had rushed to the aid of Moscow
the moment it was attacked. As a report
by Sharkey put it: “The second front is
not only a military demand but a political
struggle.” A struggle, in fact, to dis-
credit Britain in the eyes of her
Dominions and Allies and to leave the
world with the impression that while
Russia was bearing the whole brunt of
the war 4,000,000 fat Tommies were
loafing in their own country.
Australia and India
All the policies which Stalin advocated
in 1939, leading to world revolution and
the assumption of control by dictatorships
of the proletariat centred in Moscow,
are once again in being. The Moscow
literature of 1939 is being circulated
everywhere. The attempts to stir up the
Indians to bloodshed are manifest in the
demonstrations in favor of the Indian
politicians and soldiers who went over to
the Japanese and in the Indian naval
mutiny.
One of the first moves of “Australian”
Communists in 1939 was to take up the
case of “our comrades the Indian sea-
men,” with assistance from the Sydney
Labor Council. Strikes were promoted
on ships in Australian harbors and Com-
munist “literature” was distributed among
Lascars, urging them to hold up war sup-
plies and to do everything to forward
peace with Hitler and to break the British
blockade of Germany as part of the pro-
gramme to weaken Britain and force her
out of India,
Indians were openly urged from Sydney
to take advantage of war conditions to
promote insurrection. Several ships of
the Indian Navy were built here, and at
the waiting crews of these a dead set also
was made.
Outbreaks in India and Egypt
The revolt which suddenly broke out in
the Indian Navy last week, following
riots at Calcutta, was preceded by a mani-
festo issued by the Communist party
based on the slogan “For the final battle
for Indian freedom.” The objective was
stated as “immediate "freedom from
British imperialist domination.”
The “open revolt” went through the
whole fabric of the lower decks of the
R.I.N. from H.Q. (H.M.I.S. India) at
New Delhi to 20 ships at Karachi and
Bombay and elsewhere.
At Bolmbay the affair was linked with
an insurrectionary strike, with street bar-
ricades and other features typical of Com-
munist organisation.
At Karachi it was found necessary to
fire on H.M.I.S. Hindustan, after its guns
had been turned on the shore, killing a
policeman and wounding a civilian.
Ratings were killed and wounded ; the
rest surrendered and were put under
arrest. At Bombay the mutineers, holding
their officers, threatened to fire into the
teeming island if bombarded by shore
batteries. They surrendered when the
Karachi mutiny collapsed and it became
clear that they would be overwhelmed.
The total recorded casualties in five
days of riot, looting and burning were 187


MAKE AERATED CORDIALS.
Gingerale, Lemonade, Kola, Hop Beer, etc., also
legal refreshing 2 p.c. proof spirit beer. _ In-
gredients to make a season’s supply. Simply
make a bottle as you want it. Costs about one
penny per bottle. Free patent pressure regulator
ensures the correct amount of gas in every
bottle. Obtainable from A. Holmes, Chemist,
Portarlington, Victoria, or £1 post free from
Beerx Registered, Box 14 Portarlington, Vic.
AT HOMEIB
FOR.
i !i!
WEEKLY
\ .
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLIN
O PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
© SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
5000
have succeeded —■
why not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
rnrp Illustrated
r KLL booklet FREE —Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
sd
It runs
on 801 l
Bearings
r-
CO9
*
As essential in a
home as a wheel-
barrow.
The “Lightning” is designed and priced for
the private individual, farmer, industrialist.
It is built on an all-steel, wheelbarrow type
frame, perfectlv balanced for wheeling or
tipping. Primarily designed for mixing better
concrete, the “Lightning” handles mortar,
poultry and pig food with equal efficiency.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES •
WM. HAUGHTON & CO. Ply. Ltd.
Melbourne . Sydney , Brisbane . Perth
Made by Lightnurn Co., Ltd., in Australia.
—
Missing Friend.
JOSEPH FRANCIS ELLIS—Any person knowing
the present whereabouts of JOSEPH FRANCIS
ELLIS who was a member of The Ist. A.I.F. and
resided at Martin Street St. Hilda and Noble
Park during the year 1919 and at one time resided
in Benalla in the said State is requested to
communicate with the undersigned. Dated this 18th
day of February 1946. JOHN P. RHODEN,
Solicitor, 870 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
I, GIOIOINTO PICCININ, of Italian nationality,
hern at Pa Ziano di Portenone, Province of Utinl,
Italy, and resident 18 years in Australia, now re-
siding at Bentley, near Casino, N.S.W., Intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARNE TARNBERG.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALFRED JOHN BULMER, has filed a Petition in
Divorce No. 5018 of 1945 against his wife
MARJORIE BULMER alleging that you the said
Ame Tamberg committed adultery with the said
Marjorie Bulmer If you desire to defend the suit
you must enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court Sydney by the 22nd of March 1946
and may obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from E. F. MILVERTON of 11c Castlereagh Street
Sydney Solicitor for the Petitioner. — (1.5.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
WONDERFUL BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES . . .
Take advantage of these splen-
did offers in Surplus War-time
Military Equipment.
fs
Strong Quality
12ft. by 14ft. TENTS . . • . £7-0-0 Plus
ditto, (with small tear or tears) ~ £5-0-0 Freight
Ideal for emergency accommodation or camping.
Waterproof Combination Military Ground Sheets & Capes . . 7/6
Mosquito Nets . . 10/-, R.A.A.F. Kit Bags . . 5/6, 8/6, 10/6
R.A.A.F. Blue Combination Overalls (Send Measurements) .. 12/6
Add 1/ 6 Postage for each above 4-items
Canvas Buckets for campers, fishermen, etc. — Heavyweight. (Post Free) 2/6
Military Water Bottles for hikers. (Post Free) 3/6
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
15 McKillop Street Melbourne
How about a breather . . .
. ■ , ' ■ ■ ■ . , ■ ' 1 ‘ '' : ■ < ■' ■' 'H
Have a Coca-Cola
m
iC t
... or refreshment joins the game
There’s one deal in the game
when everybody wins. That’s
when the host says ‘Have a
Coke*. Everybody welcomes
the moment when refresh-
ment joins the party. Ice-cold
Coca-Cola is one of the good
things of life that belongs in
your family refrigerator. Next
time you shop, don’t forget
Coca-Cola . . . the drink that
has made the pause that re-
freshes a national custom . ..
a friendly little moment on
the sunny side of things.
mm
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
killed and 1002 wounded in Bombay
alone ; for all India over 2000.
It was obvious from the beginning, as in
Cairo, where British troops were forced
to protect themselves against rioting
mobs, that the revolt would fail. But this
suits Communists. The more death and
looting the more of the chaos on which'
they feed. In Cairo attacks were made by
the mobs on British barracks, army
clubs (that of the N.Z.E.F. among them)
and R.A.F., R.C.A.F. and South African
A.F. administrative buildings. When
Communist mobs go rioting they make
no distinction between Britain and the
Dominions.
The Cases of Britain and Canada
There are two parts of the British
Empire which the Muscovites have
learned that they cannot communise by
infiltration —Britain itself and Canada.
The Canadian population contains two
elements implacably opposed to Russian
policies —the French Canadians and the
immigrant Ukrainians and other Euro-
peans who have seen Communism at
work in the raw.
From a military point of view, Canada
had seemed inaccessible from Russia,
but recent developments put a dif-
ferent complexion on the matter.
The Russians during the war had a
base on the American mainland through
which supplies were routed to the
U.S.S.R. from Canada and the United
States. Canada had shown a most gener-
ous spirit to Russia. It was foremost in
supplying it with food and weapons, and
included Russia magnanimously in its
great gifts to Allied nations. This was
the more striking since the Communist
party had been illegal in Canada,
But something seems long ago to have
cropped up to raise Canadian suspicions.
For some time past Canada and the
United States have paid attention to the
defence of the North. Even before the
war finished exercises were carried out by
Canadian skeleton brigade groups—
Operation “Eskimo” to gain experience
on the northern prairies; Operation
“Lemming,” a vehicular test in Arctic
conditions; and Operation “Polar Bear”
in the west mountain regions of northern
British Columbia.
These were obviously not attributable
to the Japanese threat, which virtually
was over bdfore they took place. And
certainly Operation “Musk-Ox,” now
going on, which involves the transfer of
a detachment overland 3000 miles
through country scarcely crossed in
history, from Churchill on Hudson’s Bay
—where there already is a first-class air-
port —through the Mackenzie country
down to Edmonton, Alberta, can have no
reference to any problems save those
which might arise out of Russian action.
The “Musk-Ox” expedition is small and
is primarily concerned with transport
and with navigation in regions where the
magnetic compass is useless ; with details
of supply and clothing, aerial photography
and army service corps technique in the
cold north. Within 10 days from now
the party is due to cross to Cambridge
Bay on Victoria Island to make magnetic
and other observations.
Air transport groups are co-operating
from Churchill and Yellowknife, on the
northern arm of the Great Slave Lake;
Norman Wells, on the Mackenzie River,
and Fort Nelson, which provide a defence
chain of aerodromes from the Arctic
Ocean to Fort Nelson in British
Columbia. The R.A.F., United States
and Chilean and Peruvian air attaches are
taking part as observers.
As has been here pointed out more
than once, Russia is virtually at war with
the democracies, which she proposes to
defeat by means of internal red-anting.
It is not only Canada which has “a
sprawling Fifth Column.” Australia has
one which reaches into the innermost
recesses of every important Government
activity, and which permeates industry
and journalism to such an extent that the
Government so far has submitted to its
dictation.
For the safety of the Commonwealth,
the Communist party should be declared
illegal, with freezing of its funds and
those of unions and individuals con-
nected with it pending a searching in-
quiry into its activities. A Royal Com-
mission of High Court Judges would not
be too high a tribunal to make the
inquiries.
One kind of “news”:
Moscow Radio goes in for it at frequent inter-
vals. It consists of spiteful yarns calculated to
damage British relations and inspire fear of
Britain in small nations. One of these which
had great prominence in the Asian press a few
weeks ago was that British and Danish forces
had been engaged in “a number of clashes
on the Danish frontier.” The yam allegedly
came to Moscow in a Tass (Russian official
agency) message which declared that the trouble
arose when a German Nazi lieutenant, “attached
to British troops as communications officer,”
refused to open his cases for Danish guards.
The British were supposed to have laid it down
that the Danes must not search the luggage of
members of the German Army en route to Ger-
many, and “it appeared that the Germans con-
sidered themselves under a regime of special
protection.” The Danish Minister for Defence
said that the malicious lie was “absolutely with-
out foundation.” But it is the kind of lie
which is hard to overtake, since Moscow
usually broadcasts such furphies in any language
in which it thinks it will do most good to the
Communist cause abroad —Arabic, Chinese,
Malay, German; rarely, and then only unob-
trusively, in English.
* * * »
In brief:
Koei Mara (Luxury Ship!), filthy and evil-
smelling, came into Melbourne port last week
under the guns of H.M.A.S. Latrobe and took
over the berth of the spick-and-span H.M.A.C.
Pioneer, bound for Portsmouth. The ship re-
ceived on board 3000 Jap internees, men,
women and children, for their homeland. The
vessel does not live up to her name; those
passengers who could not find room to lay mats
in the cold hold were allowed to sleep on deck.
Other Jap ships, including a small naval ship,
are expected shortly.
* * * *
The Government has not decided what the
total strength of the “interim” R.A.A.F. will
be, but if the response so far to its call for
volunteers is a criterion, it will scarcely man
a wing. Of 25,000 men eligible for discharge
out of the existing force only 2000 have offered;
ratio, six officers to nine n.c.os. and other ranks.
The closing date for volunteering was set down
as February 28, but on present showing there
is likely to be a 60 p.c. to 70 p.c. gap be- ;
tween men offering and wanted.
$ * * $
Canberra has set new age-limits for the re-
tirement of officers. The reductions are: lieut.-
general, 62 to 60; major-general, 62 to 57;
colonel, 60 to 50; major, captain and lieu-
tenant, 55 to 47. General MacArthur. who was
62 when he reached Australia in 1942, will smile.
Merit or value counts for nothing under the
new scheme, but if it is to be operated it is
hoped that a real pension scheme will go
with it.
The latest war criminal to be arrested is
Lieut.-General Shimpei, who is to be charged
with ill-treating 17,000 British p.-0.-w. by
squeezing them into Changi barracks.


in
f
i
' » 3S88&
-Xv
m
p
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also <( TOP DOG” Products
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
AND
SATURDAY EVENING
POST
AGAIN AVAILABLE
BY SUBSCRIPTION.
National Geographic .. .. £l/11/3 p.a.
Saturday Evening Post .. .. £2/10/-^p.a.
READERS DIGEST —Commence Now with
November Issue, 12/- p.a.
Quotes given for all Literary and Technical
Publications.
MORGAN-HINTON
MAGAZINE AGENCIES.
TeL, 8W5170
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
or
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP.
9 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
MH.3.A
SPORTING NOTIONS
Bernborough duly won the Futurity at Caul-
field on Saturday, and won it like a champion.
Chaperone did likewise in the Merson Cooper
Stakes —two really brilliant performances, going
a fair way to rehabilitate the standing of Syd-
ney form, which had been further rocked earlier
in the day after having been sadly shaken by
unrelieved defeats at the previous week-end.
Even now Sydney form would seem patchy
and below standard. Bernborough is, of course,
by any rating a Queenslander, having had only
three runs in his brief Sydney career, and in
those he beat the best of Sydney’s summer per-
formers with ease. Still, he did that also to
the evidently pretty strong Futurity field, so
taking a line through Bernborough could be mis-
leading. More to the point, as far as general
form goes, could be the complete failure of
other Sydney representatives sent south to har-
vest some of the current crop of racing plums,
the latest of them Sajakeda, who on Saturday
was backed to favoritism and finished nearly
last in the mile Stanley Plgte, won by the
Valiant Chief colt Invasion Chief from Maro-
cain and Reveille. Incidentally, Marocain seems
just about ready to show something of her
best.
If general Sydney form might seem weak
in comparison with that of Melbourne, the two-
year-old form could be another matter. Chape-
rone need not be taken as a final guide. She
is an exceptional filly, and had well proved it
before last Saturday. A late-season beginner,
she missed the Gimcrack —apparently destined
this season, as usual, to be a highly deceptive
event —but at her first start she; equalled the
course record in winning at Rosehill, and in
her other start, at Randwick, she ran the
5 fur. 11 yds. of the false-rail course in up to
a second and more faster time than the best
Melbourne two-year-olds had been running their
neat five furlongs!
Hence it did, not need Chaperone’s runaway
win over the Merson Cooper Stakes six fur-
longs on Saturday to stamp this Ajax-Aulone
filly as one right out of.the ordinary. As for
the other present Sydney two-year-old form,
Prince Standard, who failed in this event as he
had done, with no Chaperone in the way, on
the previous Saturday, is hardly representative.
Havoc —reported to be improving, though he
had been a bit off in Melbourne —Vigaro and
Superfort would each be a better testing
medium, and a pretty good one, too.
The Merson Cooper Stakes was literally a
procession, A. Mulley taking Chaperone to the
front inside the first furlong, to bowl along,
hard held, a length or so out till the turn was
rounded. When the rein was loosened the filly
cleared away to win, actually being pulled up,
by three and a half lengths in 1.12, only half
a second outside the course record for two-
year-olds. It was two seconds faster than the
two-year-olds travelled in the Alma Stakes, first
division, and half a second better than the all-
aged sprinters moved in the Hawksburn Handi-
cap, and Chaperone could easily have clipped
off one second, if not more. More surprising
was Crown Gem’s last; but form behind run-
away winners is probably the most misleading
of any. Tribunal and Composer followed the
winner home.
Though it ended in just as hollow a victory
for Bernborough, the Futurity was much more
interesting as a spectacle. In this Welter of all
Welters, 13 of them started, most carrying
a couple of stone or so of lead to meet the
heavy poundage conditions; Bernborough had
about 3st. of the gross metal as part of Mulley’s
perch. One who escaped under the penalty
weighting conditions of the race was the former
Sydney galloper Versailles. His distant second,
after getting away well and having a good
passage, was the strongest possible pointer to
the superb quality of Bernborough, Ver-
sallies having a weight advantage of more than
a stone, and being himself a sterling galloper at
his best.
Breasley had Versailles about the first out
from the barrier, with old Tranquil Star near
him, but soon the speedy La Patrice took
charge, to be shortly challenged in turn by
Sleepy Fox and the lightly-weighted maiden
performer True Law. In Bernborough’s Syd-
ney races Mulley had been content to let his
mount lob along at leisure well back, but on
Saturday he had the big bay moving on the out-
side with four furlongs to go. Bernborough
was shaping so well that even there it seemed
only a matter of what he would win by. He
had to come a bit wide at the turn, but was
apparently passing them with ease. In the
straight he drew up to Versailles, who had shot
through, and for a few strides they raced
together. Then, as if his 10.2 was a feather-
weight, Bernborough fairly streaked away, beat-
ing Versailles by five lengths, with St. Fairy
another three lengths further back. Bern-
borough’s 1.24| was just that fraction slower
than Ajax’s Futurity record, but it was faster
than any other horse had ever run the race.
Going by the annals, Bernborough has either
struck a superlative patch of form since coming
south and changing hands or else has improved
enormously in his sikth year. Last March he
ran unplaced to Silverdale in a £lOO Welter
at Toowoomba, and before that month was out
again ran unplaced at the same address in a
sprint in which two others, Abruzzi and Yeo-
man, were weighted above him. In April
Abruzzi (9.9) won the Toowoomba Cup from
Bron (7.7) and Yeoman (9.6), with Bern-
borough (9.6) once more unplaced. Bern-
borough did better at the June 30 meeting at
Toowoomba, winning the chief sprint and han-
dicap double that day, but the end of the
season saw him once more beaten, this time
by Southpaw. He was certainly giving South-
paw plenty of weight, but not as much as he
gave a couple of them in the Futurity. No
one seeing him win on Saturday could have
believed that that had been his 1945 career at
Toowoomba.
As well as A. Mulley, both A. Breasley and
R. Heather rode doubles at Caulfield, the odd
event going to H. Badger, whose mount, Dam-
pier, a Lawmaker-Trinity colt, beat Bruin and
Duette in the second division of the Alma
Stakes for two-year-olds, Breasley’s mount,
Flying Fury (Hellespont-Comedy Wind), having
accounted for Durbar and Savant in the first
division. Breasley’s other winner was the im-
proved staying three-year-old Star Knight, a
brown colt by St. Fairy’s sire, St. Magnus. Star
Knight defeated Logical by- half a length in
the 12-furlongs Woodclifi Handicap, with the
topweight, Don Pedro, third. Heather’s brace
of winners were Invasion Chief in the Stanley
Plate and Kindergold, the latter accounting for
Kinderson and the very heavily-weighted David’s
Last in the six-furlongs Hawksburn Handicap,
which wound up proceedings.
All going well with him, Bernborough should
add the Newmarket to his remarkable list next
Saturday. Those most likely to trouble him
might be Delina, who went within quarter of
a second of a record at her last start over the
Newmarjcet distance, and who has a good pull
in the weights, and David’s Last', as honest
as they come, and extra good up the straight
six at Flemington.
*** * *
Only one outright favorite came home at
last Saturday’s S.T.C. meeting at Rosehill, but
most winners were solidly backed, poor-class
fields allowing for shrewd placing of some
mediocre performers. The one winning favorite
was Cargeonel, who led nearly all the way in
the Flying. Without benefit of a pacemaker,
he cut out the six furlongs in three-quarters of
a second outside Hall Stand’s track record of
I.IH, beating John Halifax and Silverelda.
It was a good effort, though not to be over-
rated ; opponents were few and undistinguished,
and Faggotter was applying the whip freely over
the last stretch.
Evidently patiently kept for such an oppor-
tunity, Zambesi (E. Fordyce), a chestnut colt
by Midstream from Hall Mark’s sister, had his
first run in the Maiden Handicap for two-year-
old colts and geldings, and he won well. Those
who pick ’em with one ear on the betting
wouldn’t have missed this winner; he started
at fours after as much as 10 to 1 had been
laid. Grand Flight and Brilen filled the minor
places four lengths away. A similar event for
fillies went, to the Merry Matthew filly Lady
Matthew (G. Moore). Murmur finished strongly
into second place, and the early pacemaker,
Confetti, lasted it out for third money.
At 10 furlongs the S.T.C. Handicap seemed
made to order for the warm favorite Britannic,
but Loyal March (W. Hogg) had a runaway
five-lengths win from that disappointing four-
year-old and Boomanulla. For the Novice,
over a furlong less, there were 25 starters, and
the three-year-old Hua colt Avalanche was one
of the last' to get going, but W. Cook nursed
him along through the big field and he finished
gamely to land it by a neck frdm Courier and
the favorite, Rose Glory. Two divisions of a
seven-furlongs Welter completed the card.
Steadfast (A. Ward) led all the way to take
the first from Gigli and Gay Monarch, and
the four-year-old Talking horse Town Gossip
finished well to down Constable and Puffham
with only a head and a neck separating the
placegetters.
* * # *
An American sporting scribe at the opening
of Hialeah Park’s latest 40-day meeting men-
tioned that the record crowd “consisted of
equal parts of Palm Beach’s highest society and
Hester-street’s magnificent mugs.” No doubt
he’d have put Mr. Churchill into a class by
himself if the holidaying ex-P.M. had turned
up, as expected, “to bet a few bob.” But
Mr. Churchill later had a look at the track.
Asked what he thought of it, he gazed on its
parade of strutting flamingoes and suchlike
adornments to the sport of kings and got out
of it with “I’ve never seen anything quite like
it before! ”
* * * *
The Hobart Victory Cup, run last week, was
won by Paramente (7 to 1) from the equal
favorites Cadesia and Balia Lady. Paramente
is an aged brown horse by Parenthesis-Tour-
mente.
* * * »
For Moorefield (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Handicap: Persian Prince, 1;
Anastacia, 2; Mumtazi, 3. Maiden Stakes:
Courier, 1; San Demetrio, 2; Hijacker, 3.
Flying: Tahmoor, 1; Cargeonel, 2; Zain, 3.
S.T.C. Handicap; Loyal March, 1; Cordale, 2;
Chaytor, 3. Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Lunar, 1; Fortune’s Folly, 2; The Gaek-
war, 3.
* * * , «
When the crowd yelled “Fisho!” after
a race at the White City greyhound track
in London it was literally right. A
miscreant had planted himself under the
straw among the dogboxes, waited in
that warm if unhygienic possie for 12
hours, and then fed haddocks, herrings
or some such fishes containing a quantity
of chloretone to four of the five hounds
in the last race. The fifth (unfed) hound,
backed down from eights to fives on the
track and heavily elsewhere, streaked


If your
dog’s coat
is dullj
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, •won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
Him on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
dfs
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/fi
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/S
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THREE OUTSTANDING THOROUGHBREDS
for Auction at Toowoomba, Queensland.
Direct on account of the Breeder, Mr. E. E. D. White, Woodlands, Greenmount.
ON TUESDAY, 26th MARCH, 1946.
1 Chesthut Colt, foaled 20th Oct., 1944, by THE BUZZABJ) (imp.) from HEEIX,
bv Wvvern (imp.) from Heloise (imp.)—See A.S.B. Vol. XIX, page 299.
1 Chestnut Colt, foaled 7th Oct., 1944, by MONASH VALLEY from HEEWIBE, by
Wvvern (imp.) from Heloise (imp.)—See above reference A.S.B.
1 Brown Gelding, foaled 29th Oct., 1942, by SPEABFELT from BALLET See
A.S.B. Vol. XX, page 46.
In addition to above, 100 Thoroughbred Yearlings, Brood Mares, and untried Two
and Three-year-olds will be offered on this day.
Catalogues, which cover a most attractive offering, are available on application.
Inquiries Invited.
McPHIE & CO., BLOODSTOCK SALESMEN, TOOWOOMBA, QLD.
ATOMIC ENERGY IN THE COMING ERA
by David Dietz.
This new book is an extraordinarily informative and timely work well designed to give the
public the knowledge that is essential to wise decisions concerning the most important question
of our time, with many pictures and diagrams. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
SOME OTHER BOOKS IN DEMAND.
THE COLLECTED STORIES OE BEN
HECHT. 22/6 (post. 6d.).
A GALLERY OE GREAT PAINTERS. 100
* Masterpieces in full colour. Size of volume,
13J by 10i inches. 40/- (post. 1/6.).
THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF FURNITURE, by
Joseph Aronson, with 1,115 photographs and
hundreds of drawings. The complete book
of Furniture, Style, Design, Antiques, and
full details covered accurately and interest-
ingly. Large handsome volume. 21/- (post.
,l/3d.).
ROYAL NEWMARKET, by R. C. Lyle. Illus-
trated in colour and drawings by Lionel
Edwards, R.I. The racy pen of the late
Captain Lyle, famous racing correspon-
dent of the “Times,” brings to life the
famous and notorious of every age. Large
handsome volume. 54/3 (post. 9d.).
TWO STEPS TO TOKYO. A story of the
R.A.A.P. over the Trobriand and Admiralty
Islands by Gordon Powell, Chaplain E.A.A.F.,
with 81 illustrations. An outstanding book,
published in Australia by the Oxford Uni-
versity Press. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
ILLUSTRATED MODERN LIBRARY, illus-
trated by famous artists. Attractive binding
and boxed. New titles. 12/6 each (post. 6d.).
Jane Eyre, Divine Comedy, Green Mansions,
Benjamin Franklin’s Autobiography and
other writings.
MADEMOISELLE DE MAUPIN. A Romance
by Theophile Gautier, translated by R. and
E. Powys Mathers. Engravings by John
Buckland Wright. Golden Cockerel Press
Limited Edition. £5/10/3.
LEONARDO DA VINCI, with about 200 illus-
trations, including 18 in colour. Phaidon
Press. 40/- (post. 2/3d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD., 89 Castlereagh St..
pr
% DRINKS 1H
< /
Serve
Si
*
' - A ;/
$
Qr'3 . ,
:-*: -to
] ■■■
V>«
'<9
e
JVJ
A C>P
and
WATER
SQUASH
GINGER BEER
PEPPERMINT
LEMONADE
BITTERS
LIME
ORANGE
GINGER ALE
FRUIT JUICES
VERMOUTH
TONIC
SODA
gTART your parties off in the right spirit with
Gilbey’s the purest of all gins. Served with
water or your favourite cordials or fruit juices
Gilbey’s provides a drink to delight every palate.
jr Sdf Gt/p
GL.J30
home by 12 lengths—one for every hour
the joker in the straw had to wait before
doing his foul deed. Chloretone is part
made up of the stuff the ladies use for
removing the other stuff they put on
their fingernails. Maybe a lot of them did
the removing that night with their teeth,
along with bits of their nails.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The Australian Rules foot-
ball conference in Adelaide, the first there
since 1921, showed an odd tendency to
jealousy of the “major States” (Vic., S.A.
and WA.) on the part of the others,
especially N.S.W. and Queensland, which
do not make this their main code. Also
Canberra put in a claim to be considered
as an equal partner, but was kindly told
to rank with Kalgoorlie and Broken Hill.
In fact, nearly every suggestion for change
from present conditions was thrown out.
However, Victoria’s motion for art extra
reserve man went through, and now there
will be two men instead of one waiting
to replace any injuries among the main
18. A motion that the central umpire
may order off the field any man he thinks
guilty of foul play was negatived as “un-
Australian.” Stooke, of Perth, was elected
president of the National Football
Council, on the retirement of Rush, of
Melbourne, who had held the post for
10 years, and whom the meeting called
“the greatest administrator the Austra-
lion code has ever known.”
Tasmania is to have the first “carnival ’
(when all six States meet) of Australian
Rules when the fixture is revived, which
is to be in 1947. This year is reckoned
too soon.
* * * •
Maoriland cricketers’ last big fixtures were
the visit of the M.C.C. in 1937 and the tour
of England, on which the M.L. team lost one
Test and made each of the other two a draw.
The revival of the Plunkef Shield—suspended
for the “duration”—-has put sparkle into the
games this season. In the final match Canter-
bury (335 and 118) defeated Otago (183 and
255). W. Anderson’s 137 for Canterbury and
T. Fraser’s 90 not out for Otago were the high-
lights. Canterbury won the Shield by six
points from Auckland (holders), with Otago
and Wellington next. Oddly enough, Canter-
bury won the Shield on the revival of big
cricket after the 1914-18 war, also from
Auckland.
Having got away to a flying start, Victoria
easily defeated Queensland at Brisbane, though
the Queenslanders made a bid with 306 in their
second knock (they had scored only 109 in the
first), and all but two got double figures. Left-
hander Rogers’s return to form with 138 v. S.A.
and 90 v. Victoria brings him again into the
limelight as a possible rep. candidate; a most
interesting batsman. Tribe’s 11 for 156 was
the best match effort of the year. McCool (Q.)
9 for 106 v. N.S.W., Lindwall (N.S.W.) 9 for
77 v. S.A., and Dooland (S.A.) 9 for 172 v.
Vic. were the next-best match performances.
Victorians have wiped the opposition in inter-
state matches this season. N.S.W. was downed
by 97 runs and 36 runs (both on the first
innings); Queensland by 10 wickets and an
innings and 54 runs; and S.A. by 110 on the
first innings. Vic. v. S.A. at Adelaide will
complete the first-class matches. In Sheffield
Shield so far N.S.W. has; won 22 times,
Victoria 16 and S.A. six, with Queensland
working hard but yet to score.
It’s many years since there has been such a
crush of efficient wicketkeeper-batsmen in Aus-
tralia. Queenslander Don Tallon (who got the
Australian selection for the M.L. trip), Ron
Saggers of N.S.W., Ben Barnett of Victoria
and Stan Sismey of the Services are all top-
notchers. Barnett is the only one with Test
experience; he went to England in 1938, played
in the four Tests, and topscored with 46 in
the second innings of the fifth at Kennington
Oval. Tallon, however, has the edge on the
others with the bat this season, having scored
319 runs averaging 39.87; and his work behind
the sticks has been first-rate.
* * * •
On a swathe cut east-west on S.C.G.
to get a level strip conforming with Olym-
pic standards, sprinter Brian Dunn made
two attempts at records on Saturday.
Pitted against 18-year-old schoolboy John
Treloar and a few others, Dunn was timed
to run 100yds. in 9.65ec., but officials
ruled the effort out because of an assist-
ing wind. The figures equalled Jimmy
Carlton’s (27/12/’3O) and Dunn’s own
(4/2/’39). Later, over 75yds., and con-
ceding starts to others, Dunn was clocked
7.65ec., equalling the Australian record.
Treloar, who ran Dunn to 2ft. in the
100yds., won the 220yds. junior cham-
pionship in the record time of 21.8 sec.
Dunn had a leg bandaged to guard against
trouble from the muscle he strained in
Brisbane when beaten by Graham Me-
Lachlan, who that day (28/l/’46) ran the
100 metres in KHsec., clipping 1 /10th
sec. off the Australian record.
* * * *
Next Olympic Games will be in London
in the summer of 1948. Since the first
at Athens in 1896 the Games have been
held at Paris (1900), St. Louis (1904),
Athens (1906), London (1908), Stock-
holm (1912), Antwerp (1920), Paris (1924),
Amsterdam (1928), Los Angeles (1932)
and Berlin (1936). The revival promises
to attract the biggest representative fields
in history. Germany and Japan are on
the black list, and Italy remains doubtful.
At the 1936 meeting nearly 50 athletic
contests for men and women were de-
cided, besides football, rowing, swim-
ming, horse events, etc.
v * ♦ *
Ritchie Sands, the most experienced
member of a fighting family, outpunched
and outstayed A 1 Walker in a light-
heavyweight tussle at Leichhardt. Him-
self no mean thumper, Walker won the
first five rounds, but he weakened in
the sixth, and Sands handed out heavy
punishment in the 11th. He continued the
treatment in the 12th (and last), but
Walker was on his feet when the decision
was given to the man from Newcastle.
Moase v. Peters and Cameron v. Con-
way at Sydney Stadium resulted in deci-
sions for the pugs named first. The
Moase-Peters exhibition was rather thril-
ling, but the crowd was bored by the
other pair, whose punching was all of
the feather-puff variety. All four are
middleweights, or say they are. Moase
looks the only one with a future.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
How British designers are making a
bid to capture the Empire’s fashion trade
is demonstrated in. one of this city’s lead-
ing stores. Not only are the styles elegant
and decorative, but they are useful for
women still handicapped by coupons and
a paucity of choice in materials. In this col-
lection there are tweeds that have come
from the hands of craftsmen and from
the looms of English factories, and home-
spuns from the heather-clad hills of Scot-
land. The suits and topcoats have been
cut by some of the world’s best tailors.
There is one in pale beige wool with a
border of browns and rust. The border
has been used to make the corselet belt of
the skirt and',the yoke of the strictly-
tailored jacket. Often there is a topcoat
with the suit. It is cut on full-flowing
lines, and in many cases the coat is lined
with the tweed which makes the skirt.
The jackets are in plain contrasting
shades.
Wool frocks, soft and pliant, are on
simple lines, and there is the new trend
towards the padded hipline. Good for
the slim ; riot so good for the full figure.
A smart afternoon frock was fashioned
of black wool with a reversible side of
satin. From yoke to hem the frock was
of graded tiers with an edging of the
reversible side of the material. This also
had a tailored appearance. Dinner gowns
emphasise slim elegance. One in Chinese
red crepe has a long scarf attached to
the oblique shoulderline. This wraps
around the bustline, crosses at the back
and meets again in front of the waist,
where it ties in long sash ends. The long,
tight-fitting sleeves have been treated in
an original fashion. On each sleeve, from
wrist almost to the elbow, there is a brace-
let, formed of glittering silver beads and
gold sequins ; there are five such baubles
on each sleeve. Another gown of black
crepe features a broad belt of gold studs,
each centred with diamente. And to add
still further to Milady’s glamor there is
a filmy black lace sari to throw over her
hair.
The formal evening gowns show bustle
bows or slight, slender trains. A moss-
green crepe has the whole of the front
bodice sewn with loops of gold beads.
One magnificent floral brocade sheds
lustre on the collection. These garments
have been sent out to Australia on tour.
Not one of them must be sold, nor must
anyone copy the designs. When the Mel-
bourne exhibition has closed the lovely
suits and gowns will be packed up and
sent to the next port of call, Sydney.
The Hungarian pianist Lili Kraus is
still continuing to draw large and appre-
ciative audiences to her concerts. At a
recent performance Lady Dugan, wear-
ing a bright pink dinner jacket over* her
long jjlack skirt, was present, accom-
panied by Mary Lisle Johnson and Lieut.
Ramsay. Mme. Kraus wore another of
the charming gowns which suit her so well.
It was of white chiffon, cut on flowing
lines, the skirt featuring appliqued black
lace. She covered the low neck-
line of her frock with a short lace bolero
sewn with pearls. A.B.C. people present
included Bonnie McCallum, in black
with a snappy red hat for contrast, and
Dorothy O’Neill, now acting concert
manager, whose aqua-green crepe frock
was matched with a hat of the same
material highlighted by pastel-pink roses.
Mrs. Eve Beecher’s smart black tailored
coat was worn with a small black sat n-
trimmed hat.
There is always a definite flavor, so r ic-
thing different, about parties held on
board a Navy ship. The party given by
Commodore Collins and his officers
aboard H.M.A.S. Shropshire was no ex-
ception, and there was not a dull moment
for guests who accepted invitations. Party
was held on the top deck, made gay with
colorful flags, and a band on the station
pier added to the enjoyment. General
Blarney was there with his wife, who
wore a short black crepe frock which
featured the new cap sleeves, her small
hat of black straw. With Admiral Sir
Louis Hamilton was his sister, the Hon.
Mrs. Douglas, whose smart and gaily-
patterned frock was worn under a black
coat and with black accessories. Mrs.
Jill Burnett was with the Hyde lady, and
she favored a grey suit worn with a small
brown hat decorated with green ostrich
feathers. Joan Denyer chose ice-blue
crepe for her frock and contrasted it with
a gay blue and cyclamen flower hat. With
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell was Mrs. Ned
Holland in a green patterned frock and
small black hat. Hilda Corbett wore a
lime-green marquisette blouse with her
black suit and matched it with a straw
in the same tonings and with pale mauve
flower trim for contrast. Newly-appointed
Chaplain to the Shropshire, Rev, J. O.
Weir, was with Mrs. Weir, whose beige
lace frock was worn with a small hat of
the same lace trimmed with rust-colored
flowers. The ceremony of the lowering
of the White Ensign, while bands of
Flinders Naval Depot and Shropshire
played “Waltzing Matilda” and “Road to
Gundagai” as they marched in perfect
rhythm along the pier, was watched with
great interest by the guests. The party
finished with the playing of the special
Sunset Hymn and the National Anthem.
Pictured here is Robin Mackay, a
pretty and clever girl who has just com-
pleted her second year at the University/
where she is doing, an Arts course. As
soon as she obtains her degree Robin
wants to go abroad for more study of
dramatic work, for she plans to become
an actress. The lass has had plenty of
experience, and has been appearing in
Ihe National Theatre presentation of the
Shaw comedy “You Never Can Tell.”
A large audience attended the first night.
Robin was a dignified Gloria Clan-
don and looked delightful in the
period clothes. Moira Carleton, who is
well known on the professional stage and
in radio, was Mrs. Clandon. Gertrude
Johnson, director of the National
Theatre, was present and wore a graceful
gown of black crepe.” Jean Alexander
covered her brown patterned frock with
a short fur coat, and Mrs. James Mc-
Dougall wore a grey squirrel coat over
her black frock. Robin’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Colin Mackay, came along to see
their daughter.
James Hadjison was married to
Dorothy Woolley at Holy Trinity Church
y ot England, East Melbourne, recently.
Almost 200 friends of the bride and
’groom attended the reception at the
Gloucester Room of the Hotel Aus-
tralia. The bride, who was simply
arrayed in a hyacinth-blue crepe frock,
with a shoulder posy 'of gardenias
and white accessories, received the guests
with her husband. With Mrs. Wesley
Ince were her two daughters, Mrs. John
Baragwanath, a recent bride herself, and
Betty, who will shortly marry Dr. John
Shelton at St. Peter’s, Toorak. John
Baragwanath and Dr. John Shelton were
also present at the reception. Also
noticed were the Eric Cottrells, Oliver
Neilson, Kathleen Pappadakas, smart in
a navy-blue ensemble, Geoffrey Atkins,
Mrs. N. Saunders, who was with her
brother-in-law, Wing Commander Saun-
ders. Another guest who enjoyed the
party as well as greeting old friends was
the former Elsa Stenning, looking glam-
orous in a snappy black frock and hat.
She is paying a short visit to this city
with her husband, lan Jacoby, and was
full of news concerning the new addition
to the family, who has been left behind
in Sydney with her nurse.
The Little Theatre, which has done so
much for youth with acting ability, has
made great plans for this year. It started
the year with “Love In the Mist,” a play
by Kenneth Horne. The Little Theatre
is set in' unusual surroundings. At one
time it was a church, St. Chad’s, but as
the suburb of South Yarra grew the
building was found to be too small for
the congregation. It now is filled to capa-
city each night of a show. The list of
subscribers is steadily growing, and,
although a piece of land has been pur-
chased, it will be a long time before per-
mission is given to build a new theatre.
The Little Theatre has flourished under
the direction of Brett Randall, and now
son” Peter, out of the Army, is assisting
his father carry on the fine tradition.
Helping also in the direction is Irene
Mitchell as producer and actress, and
another in the organisation is Jean Camp-
bell, who adds acting ability to her talents
as an author.
From Sydney
Lord Knollys (the English way of say-
ing that is Knowles) and with hinr Lady
Knollys stepped off the Hythe flying-
boat at Rose Bay exactly five days after
leaving England—actual flying time was
69 hours. Well, it will soon be possible
—money and Mr. Calwell permitting—to
spend the annual holidays in London.
Distance is gradually meaning less and
less—Alaska will soon be closer at hand
than Adelaide is now. The world will
become parochial. All those haunting old
songs, tinged with the mystery of un-
known places, songs about Araby and
trade winds and Westward Ho! to Trini-
dad will have to be scrapped, beca«se the
mystery and the veils of distance will be
torn away. Anyway, to get back to Lord
and Lady Knollys, he is attending the
6 Pacific Air Conference in Wellington,
Maoriland. He will act as adviser to the
British Minister for Civil Aviation, Lord
Winster, who was due in Sydney yester-
day.
On Saturday afternoon the visitors went
to Rosehill, and Lady Knollys wore cool
blue and white and, sensibly like other
lovely Englishwomen who have been in
Sydney in hot weather, she wore a hat
that was graceful and built for shade.
Oliver King, who started the Music
Clubs movement in this State, and
through that movement has done good
work in fostering a love of music and
bringing forward young musicians, is the
convenor of a meeting on March 5 in the
Sydney Town Hall which will found a
new organisation : “Singers of Australia.”
The objects of the new society are to
hold public performances of vocal music,
to discover and develop talented singers.
Choirs and madrigal groups, grand opera
and a Bach choral society are among
things envisaged. The names on the pro-
visional committee are those of steadfast
workers in the cause of vocal art.
Kathleen (Pat) Clayton and Cecil F.
Cranfield, till recently a sergeant in the
R.A.A.F., are among the city’s newly
engaged. Pat’s parents are the E. S.
Claytons of Cremorne, and she is a great-
great-granddaughter of John Oxley,
explorer and this State’s first Surveyor-
General, and a great-great-great-grand-
daughter of the Reverend Samuel Mars-
den. Norton Trevaire photograph.
More men than women at the lunch-
launching Legacy House appeal, though
the hard-working sex was very well rep-
resented. Lord Mayor Bartley gave
official blessing to what looks like being
a very quickly-filled fund. The thousands
just rolled in. Oscar O’Brien’s pen wrote
out its cheque for the usual £lOOO.
Tattersall’s Club popped another thou-
sand into the plate, Rosehill Race Club
gave the same amount, and sporting
organisations have promised to combine
to the tune of £20,000. Colman Pty. gave
£5OO and Cull and Co., another £5OO.
Municipalities dropped in their thou-
sands. Nor were the British Navy, Army
and Air Force Institute and the R.N. Port
Canteen committee left behind. Two
cheques for £750 came from them.
Knight Leslie Morshead at the top
table; so were Mrs. Sam Jones and
Miss Leo Wray. Legacy House will
be built in Elizabeth-street on a site dedi-
cated by the Governor-General, the Duke
of Gloucester, last December, and the
building and the work within its walls
will be a lasting memorial to our soldier
dead.
Prologue to the lunch was Legacy’s in-
spiring “Lest We Forget.” It sounded a
resonant promise to the Digger who has
died for us that his widow and children
are a sacred trust. When the male voice
stating hard facts had died away director
of appeals Saide Parker spoke words
tinged with the right emotional zip.
Cockades and rosettes have marked
many a French historical occasion. They
marked another in Sydney last week, his-
torical in its own way. It was the open-
ing of the exhibition of pictures in aid of
distressed French artists. Tricolor rosettes
were sported by all the importants on the
dais, to whom they had been presented
by Mrs. Phillips-Fox, who organised the
show. This is in David Jones’s Gallery,
and it is unique because there are only
100 pictures, none of which is for sale.
But tickets of five guineas each are being
bought by French men and women and
lovers of France, and at half-past one
next Thursday every ticket-holder will be
entitled to a choice by ballot of one of
the pictures on exhibition.
Robert Chaulet, first secretary of the
French Legation, made the opening
speech—first in English and then in
French. Other speakers were French
Consul Eliacheff and Charles Lloyd Jones.
Many of the artists who had given pictures
were there. Dora Jarrett, whose “Day in
French’s Forest” was among things ad-
mired, wore a cool-looking pale-lilac
frock, Joe Wolinski’s painting of New
Rochelle, where he once saved two chil-
dren when the ice gave way beneath them,
was as refreshing a& a long iced drink.
Daysi Brookes’s miniature on glass “Lace
Veil” caught, the admiring glance. Mrs.
Mary Irvine was there sporting a beret
that was a cross between Montgomery
and Montparnasse. Staunch worker for
France Mrs, Ivy Moore did the rounds
with the French Consular Martin couple.
A letter from London to Lute Drum-
mond tells her that her pupils Joan Ham-
mond and Kenneth Neate have made a
great hit in the Carl Rosa company. This
opened in Hull, where Kenneth sang with
Joan in “Madame Butterfly.” Joan,
who also owed early training to Spencer
Thomas, is already an accepted prima
donna throughout Great Britain. Recently
she had an outstanding success in that
most critical city Dublin. Ken has
understudied at the Metropolitan, and,
as a member of the Canadian Air
Force, he toured Canada giving con-
certs to the troops. Robert Wilson,
from Maoriland, another of Lute’s
students, is now in London study-
ing with Borgioli and already receiv-
ing engagements. Incidentally, going into
the Wigmore Hall one night to hear Joan
sing, Robert Wilson, Ken Neate, Gwen
Taylor (now married after doing a good
job with the Ministry of Information) and
the Hugh Poynters all met by chance. It
was their first meeting in England.
A rather deaf art-lover this Letter
knows shook her head when asked if she
were buying a ticket for the choice-by-
ballot art exhibition. “You know, I could
never hear the music, dear, and then the
idea of middle-aged people dancing in
competition for a picture doesn’t appeal
to mb at all!”
Australia is really looking forward to
the visit of Lord and Lady Louis Mount-
batten. He is adored by all soldiers, even
the tough Digger, 1940-46 model. Like
her husband, Lady Louis has proved her
mettle throughout the war. She has now
a title in her own right apart from her
husband’s. She was created Dame
Edwina —Dame Commander of the Royal
Victorian Order —in this year’s New Year
honors, and she has earned her title. She
is Superintendent-in-Chief of the nursing
division of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade and executive member of the Red
Cross and the St. John War Organisa-
tion,
As holder of these offices, at the invi-
tation of the authorities she has visited
India, China and, in company with her
husband, the p.-0.-w. camps in Malaya.
During the in-between war years Lady
Louis was worldfamed for her beauty and
her smartness. This will be the second
visit to Australia for husband and wife.
Members of the Chelsea Arts Society
in England are to become the proteges of
the N.S.W. Royal Arts Society while
Food for Britain is needed. A sustained
service of food parcels will relieve the
austere rationing. The idea is to have a
personal touch, the R.A.S. obtaining the
names of Chelsea Arts members and
addressing individual parcels.
There’s quite a link between R.A.S.
and English artists. Charlie Bryant, who
was a constant exhibitor with the R.A.S.,
was a valued member of the Chelsea, and
also (the only Australian to hold that
office) president of the London Sketch
Club.
Captain Bill Inglis and Major Booth,
who flew up from Perth a couple of weeks
ago, will be in Kure by the time this is
being read. Both were doctors in the
110th General Hospital in Perth, and both
volunteered for service in Japan. Dr.
Inglis’s mother, the Henry Braddon lady,
is now waiting for news from Kure,
which, apart from being a naval base, is
said to be rather uninteresting.
Death.
PORTER—At 42 St. Clair Street, Glasgow, JST.W.,'
on the 2nd February, 1940, Margaret Fitzpatrick
(late of IS Grove Street), beloved wife of Robert
Porter, sadly missed.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2%d. per line.
Russia’s Appetite
If anyone doubts Russia’s capacity to
pull wool over the eyes of visiting en-
thusiasts, let him listen to Mr. Frost, now
Minister for Repatriation:
I had the privilege of making a trip
through Russia six years ago, and I can
assure the honorable member for Barker
(Mr. Cameron) that nothing is farther
from the minds of Russian people than the
acquisition of more territory.
That statement was made in the House
in August, 1941, nearly two years after
Russia had acquired by armed assault a
good slice of Finland. Since Mr. Frost’s
idolatrous prediction the never-in-the-
wrong nation has swallowed the whole of
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the best
part of East Prussia (including the capital
Konigsberg), three-sevenths of Poland
(one of our bravest allies), Ruthenia
(from Czechoslovakia), Bessarabia and
Bukowina from Rumania, and a naval
base from Bulgaria, garnishing these with
a say in the control of Tangier.
All that would take a normal imperial-
ist lion half a century to digest, but
Russian appetite is insatiable. At the
risk of smashing U.N.O. the Soviet is
attempting to sever the province of
Azerbaijan from Persia and an adjoining
province from the Turks, and seeking
control of the Dardanelles. From Italy
Russia is demanding the former colonies
Tripolitania and Eritrea, control of
which would give the Soviet control of
British trade lines. In adjoining coun-
tries Red agents have set up governments
subservient to the Moscow voice.
Also Russia has “annexed” part of
Mongolia, the Kuriles and south Saghalien
and is to get back Port Arthur and Dalny,
together (no doubt) with as much of
Manchuria and Korea as may be held.
But enough has been said to show that
Mr. Frost must be about the worst pro-
phet at Canberra. —K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Russians at First Hand
Early last year I spent over a month
as a liberated p.-0.-w. in Russian-occupied
Saxony (Cossacks had liberated our
stalag), and I can say that most of the
looting and raping in that area was done
by liberated slaveworkers and p.-0.-w.
from everywhere in Europe except Ger-
many and the Soviet Union.
Certainly some looting was done by
Russian soldiers, but as they were front-
line troops, and the front line was moving
as fast west as the Wehrmacht could
travel, they were concerned not with
cameras or paintings but with bread to
eat and meat to cook. As for the inevit-
able partner to looting, the Russians
adopted the sensible alternative of en-
listing liberated Russian girls and allow-
ing them to participate in the life of the
advancing Red Army. As for frater-
nisation, it seemed to be in the conven-
tional manner semi-officially tolerated in
British- and American-occupied Ger-
many.
Shortly before I left the Russian zone
for the then American H.Q. in Leipzig
some of my own compatriots had dis-
covered quite positively that the Russians
did not approve of the looting of food-
stocks in warehouses. Nothing is quite
so positive as a rifle bullet hissing over
one’s head. — Squizz (Vic.).
Air Priorities
An Army captain with an A.I.F. num-
ber under 2000 left Melbourne, after five
days there, for Japan. His wife, just dis-
charged after almost five years as nursing
sister, booked through to Sydney to join
him for the last night in their home.
The ’plane called at Canberra. The
ex-sister was told she’d have to be put
off there to allow a Government official
to travel. This ’plane was three hours
late because of bad weather, so it was
just luck if the sister caught the train to
Sydney.
After all these years since the outbreak
of war, it seems ridiculous that the pre-
cious moments that two veterans hoped
for should be spoiled by a petty official
wanting to be in Sydney for the week-
end. — Brother (S.A.).
The New Army
Twenty years ago I was one of 300
unwilling youngsters who were paraded
at infrequent intervals by an unhappy
warrant-officer. We learned to slope
arms, march in step, and fire a rifle, but
I did not acquire enough of a soldier’s
outlook to keep my rifle in proper con-
dition. My only pleasant recollection is
that an operation for appendicitis excused
me from one of the annual camps.
The country will be wasting the money
it is prepared to spend on compulsory
training if it accepts a niggardly scheme
with an insufficiency of instructors and
equipment, with one evening parade a
fortnight, an occasional week-end
bivouac and two or three weeks'
manoeuvres annually. Such a scheme
would kill the enthusiasm of instructors,
trainees and the general public.
If the Government is prepared to rely
on the judgment of the Military Board a
sound and comprehensive defence system
should be evolved. In that happy event I
hope that full provision will be made for
the legion of battle-experienced officers
and n.c.os. who would be anxious to
devote some of their leisure time to keep-
ing themselves fit and ready for duty.
They should be given drill halls, rifle-
ranges, training camps and a generous
quantity of stores and equipment. It
should be possible for them, if they wish
it, to have leave from their civil occu-
pations to spend a few months with the
compulsory trainees inside and outside
Australia, with the Permanent Forces, or
at training schools and military colleges.
They have much in the way of experience
and tradition to pass on ; if we keep them
“ But if we take ALL this , Ben , it'll put us in the 'igher taxation bracket
keen and up to date in their ideas they
will prove of incalculable value in the
event of another national crisis.— Peter
Mike (W.A.).
T.B. Cases and Tax
In a position exactly similar to that of
“T. 8.” (B. 13/2/ ’46) my experience was
different. After interviewing the Q. Tax-
ation Department and submitting my
medical certificate, my father, a semi-
retired professional man, was granted a
tax reduction in respect of me; and
12s. 6d. has been taken off his weekly
tax for two years.
But, having saved more than £400,1 am
not eligible for the invalid pension. Thus
is thrift penalised.
Assistance from the Pensions Depart-
ment in eking out the slender resources
of T.B. patients would help greatly in
assuring them an adequate diet of essen-
tial protective foods. To many victims
of T.B. payment of even a modest pen-
sion would be preferable to a long
sojourn in a Government sanatorium.—
P.A.B. (Q.).
Food for Britain
From a stack of proposals:
Couldn’t we help by providing vegetable
seeds of hardy varieties which might be dis-
tributed free, together with instructions for
their growing? Certain varieties of cabbage,
silver beet and other similar vegetables stand
out as possibilities. Almost certainly there are
other vegetable seeds which could be flown
to Britain, if necessary, for the spring plant-
ing.—A. S. B. (Vic.).
Wherever the Japanese have been there will
be found soya bean and sweet potatoes, for
these two plants supply the main diet of the
Nipponese peasantry. Soya bean can be used
in many ways, as a vegetable in pod or the
dried bean made into cheese. This is very sus-
taining, and takes the place of meat. Taro,
sago and coconut should be part of the relief
food sent, and with this vegetable aid fisheries
on a big scale could supply the whole of
Europe. Great shoals breed round the farther
islands. Many fine edible fish are so plentiful
that the natives catch them in hundreds m
coarsely-woven basketlike traps beside their
canoes. Dried fish, too, could be a most
useful addition to a low-meat supply. —A. H.
(N.S.W.).
I write on February 10. Three 20,000-ton
vessels have within the past three months left
Australia for England with empty holds. These
ships all have considerable refrigerator cargo
space. There are many thousands of Army and
other services food stores in Australia which
are no longer required for the purposes for
which they were obtained. These stores com-
prise canned and dehydrated meat, vegetables
and fruit, fruit juices, biscuits, flour, tea, sugar,
etc., and should be of material assistance to the
British. Finance is a minor consideration, as
the stores are deteriorating and more than
likely will remain in their present dumps until
condemned. Many stopwork meetings and
strikes on the waterfront have been called at
times when refrigerated meat has left the main
cool stores and is on the way to vessels loading
for England. If meat is out of cool stores
for up to 36 hours it spoils. Because of the
timing of these labor troubles 100,000 carcasses
of meat have been spoiled and were therefore
not available either to England or Australia. —
Ex-VF (Vic.).
The most serious shortage in Britain is of
fat’, and in this Commonwealth an abundance
of good fat is thrown away. In country dis-
tricts where people do their own killing there
is more fat than can possibly be used. At
the commencement of the Food for Britain
appeal I began to save the fat surplus to station
requirements; in five weeks I had saved between
401 b. and 501 b., which was rendered (by heat-
ing in the oven) and poured into a large tin,
then soldered to make it airtight. In my ex-
perience this fat travels well to Britain and
arrives in good condition. —O. M. (Q.).
Overgrown Sydney
Down on Circular Quay men are busy
on the next instalment of the City Rail-
way ; when completed it will make some
contribution to the problem of transport-
ing the city’s denizens to and fro. The
long-talked-about underground channel
through King’s Cross may become
another of the “post-war works.” Another
bridge across Darling Harbor may help,
too ; there might even be a second bridge
some day over the Harbor northwards.
But none of these utilities, or all to-
gether, is likely to solve the basic prob-
lems of Sydney. The selector of the site
for the city wasn’t visualising the Sydney
of the' latter twentieth century. Hemmed
in to the north by the harbor proper, to
the east by Farm Cove, to the west by
Darling Harbor, Sydney has become a
herring-gutted metropolis which has be-
come over-peopled. Even walking down
the streets is a perilous adventure or an
exhausting pilgrimage. Office space is at'
an impossible premium; cafes are over-
crowded to suffocation; getting into
theatres is a hit-and-miss gamble.
By going upwards in excess of present
building limits the office-space problem
might be met, but only at the cost of
making the population ever - larger,
putting added strain on every public
utility. The only answers seem to be
either (1) radical steps to force growth
west of the Central Railway in the one
city-area which can really expand—
though at a terrific cost —or (2) the ex-
port of a considerable portion of Syd-
ney’s offices, factories, shops and people
to the country.
Latest population figures I can get
show New South Wales with 2,870,956
people; of these metropolitan Sydney
houses, feeds and transports 1,398,000 ;
just a shade less than half.
Maybe the City Railway has to be
finished ; but any further big construc-
tional works ought to be transferred to
Bathurst or Goulbum or Orange or
Dubbo, the places where new cities of
real substance could grow. Populations
of towns like these have in some cases
not even doubled in 50 years.—D.
(A.C.T.),
Caucus and Constitution
One of the constitutional limitations by
which the executive of a democracy can
control its financial structure against the
inroads of popularity-seeking members of
Parliament is the circumstance that no
appropriation of money can be made
without a previous recommendation from
the Governor-General (really the Treas-
urer at the time), on whose advice a mes-
sage to the House is sent.
This safeguard has been a part of the
British constitutional system almost since
the institution of Parliamentary govern-
ment, and was so settled a practice at
the beginning of the century that it was
written into the Commonwealth Consti-
tution.
But the great men and lawyers who
in successive conventions framed that
great instrument of government reckoned
without the Labor Caucus. The Socialist
Ministry dare not send to Parliament a
financial message without first receiving
the approval of Caucus, the members of
which, being temporarily a majority of
both. Houses, can write their own terms,
and thus destroy the security of executive
responsibility.
For example, Treasurer Chifley, in view
of the increased cost of living, asked Cabi-
net to sanction a proposal to increase the
old-age pension by 3s. to 30s. a week.
After a long discussion this was agreed
to. When the decision was announced
to Caucus there was great jubilation, as
this seemed a way of re-establishing the
popularity of many Labor members
whose hold on their seats had been
severely shaken, for one thing by the
adverse referendum vote in their consti-
tuencies.
But even then Ministers received a
great surprise. It was agreed that if an
increase of 3s. would help members and
make their re-election sure a larger in-
crease would still further assist them to
secure their return, and it was proposed
to make the increase ss. 6d. Mr. Chifley
pointed out that this was more than the
Commonwealth could fairly pay with its
present burden of taxation. The increase
was carried over his strong protests.
With a Labor Caucus whose members
have highly-paid billets and a determina-
tion to keep them if possible, one can
be only surprised at such moderation.
Why not double the pension advance?
Perhaps that increase is kept in hand for
a time when the next election is nearer,
and the voters will have fresher memories
of their real friends, who can secure them
more generous hand-outs from othei
people’s money.
But whether a pension increase is justi-
fied or not, it is clear that what was in-
tended to be a constitutional safeguard
to the people’s rights and property can
be easily abandoned by a Labor Caucus
to the fears and electoral necessities of
politicians.— Constitutionalist (Vic.).
Overseas A.I.F. Mail
I consider it unlikely that any Austra-
lian Government department will remem-
ber the A.I.F. very long. We who are
still away have been forgotten already oy
the postal people. We get letters —some-
times months late, perhaps, but we do get
most of them. That jnakes us wonder
why our papers and parcels never arrive.
I have paid for The Bulletin to be sent
to me regularly, and I haven’t received
one copy since I landed here last Sep-
tember.
I need a textbook for a correspond-
ence course I am taking. Two copies
of the book have been posted to me—one
in Sydney, last November —but neither
has arrived. I have received two
of five parcels posted in time to reach
me before Christmas. Four letters to
me are now three weeks’ overdue ; and
30 or 40 other Australian troops in this
area are being treated just as badly.
One letter, correctly addressed to me,
was returned to the sender from D.L.0.,
rubber-stamped “Undeliverable.” It was
placed in another envelope bearing
exactly the same address, and reached me
10 days after it .was posted.
The incompetence and maddening
stupidity of Government departments!—
Sarge (Singapore).
War Memorials
Now that the war is over it is natural
that we should begin thinking of
memorials to the men who will not re-
turn. I hope that these will not take the
form of statues and marble effigies—we
are already well supplied with these from
the last war. ,
Memorials should take the form which
those whose memory they perpetuate
would have chosen. I think we would
find that in nine cases out of ten this
would be something not only of artistic
but also of practical value. Youth
centres, nurseries, hospitals and all things
conducive to the better living for which
they died would have been the choice
of these men. —I. Darling (S.A.).


Employee Welfare
at Whyalla
Home Comforts Provided for Workers
at Whyalla, South Australia
HOUSING is a world headache, and it threatens to
remain so for a considerable time.
Whyalla, a seaport on the western shore of Spencer
Gulf, S.A., experienced this trouble in its most acute
form during the latter stages of the war, when the
township was the scene of an industrial transformation.
B.H.P. had built a modern blast furnace plant, and esta-
blished an extensive shipbuilding yard there, as well as
munition production annexes.
Thousands of workers were attracted to the town by
the prospect of the remunerative jobs created by the
industrial development. Whyalla’s population (1,400
in 1938) increased to 6,200 by April, 1941, and was
approaching its present figure of 8,000 in 1942. This
extraordinary influx of people presented a serious housing
problem.
To alleviate the position, The Broken Hill Proprietary
Co., Ltd., began an intensive homebuilding programme,
and the South Australian Housing Trust also erected a
number of residences at Whyalla.
To cater for the accommodation needs of unattached
male employees, B.H.P. planned a unique housing
scheme, features of which are illustrated on this page.
This self-contained hostel centre was designed to give
maximum comfort and convenience for some 210
employees, and it incorporates features rarely found in
other than the better class houses and hotels.
Such details as brick construction, hot and cold running
water, sewerage, refrigeration, built-in steel wardrobes,
tubular steel furniture, inlaid linoleum, indirect electric
lighting, power points, flush panelled doors and fly-wired
windows, indicate the completeness of the planning for
the tenant’s comfort.
The illustrations on this page give some idea of the
comfort standard attained which is available to occupants
at 30/- per week. This entitles them to full use of all
facilities, meals, room cleaning and personal laundry.
The erection of the men’s quarters at Whyalla marked
a new era in hostel construction. No similar undertaking
of a permanent nature has previously been attempted
on such a scale in Australia, and every effort is being
made by the Company to provide its workmen with
conditions as close as possible to home life.
Aerial view of the hostel arrangement provided for B.H.P.
workers at Whyalla. The various units are: (A) bedroom
blocks, (B) mess building, (C) recreation building, (D) caterer’s
residence, (E) female staff quarters, (F) laundry, (G) bakehouse,
(H) car shed, (I) bicycle shed.
At left is a section of the Whyalla shipbuilding yard showing
slipways in background and (in foreground) a 9,000-ton freighter
nearing completion at the fitting-out wharf.
Miles of smiles as a group of Whyalla
shipyard workers get a thrill at the
launching of a ship built by their labour.
Provision for recreation is made by the
splendidly-equipped building shown in
plan at right.
One of the seven brick bedroom blocks providing accommodation for 30 men in single
rooms. Note wide verandahs to give maximum shade.
Bedrooms have steel furniture, power points, curtains, light switch over
bed and linoleum floor coverings.
Individual tiled shower recesses are provided, and hot and cold water
is always available. Right: The island electric stove in the hostel s kitchen is
typical of the all-electric equipment. Meals are served cafeteria style.
