

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 67~N0. 3439
Wednesday, January 9, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE REREDOS: WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
r T I HE beautiful alabaster altar screen erected in Westminster
Abbey in 1867 was designed by Sir George Gilbert Scott. Taken
during the reign of Queen Victoria, this photograph shows the
four figures by Armstead representative of Moses, David, St. Peter
and St. Paul. Within the rails is a mosaic pavement, which was
brought from Italy in 1268. To the left are the tombs of Edmund
Crouchback, Earl of Lancaster, of AyelihS. bis wife, and of Aymer
de Valence, cousin of Edward I. In the time of Queen Victoria
there was kept to right of the altar a restored portrait of Richar
11, the earliest portrait of an English ruler, hung against tapestry
which once decorated Westminster School. Here, before this altar
in the Empire’s coronation church, many of England’s sovereigns
have been crowned. First to be so honored was William the
Conqueror on Christmas Day in 1066.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Uy Name ....
My Address
S.B. 146 AQE
The Red Page
FICTION THROUGH A FILTER
Both A. J. Cronin’s The Green Years
(Angus and Robertson) and Victor
White’s Peter Domanig (Dymock’s) have
for their central character a small boy
who, as the novel progresses, grows to
manhood. All the action, consequently,
is seen through the boy’s eyes.
The effect in both cases —more pro-
nounced in A. J. Cronin’s novel —is a cer-
tain remoteness. This is not life at
second-hand as in direct narrative (that
pure projection of character which, when
successful, almost persuades the reader
that he is not reading a book but seeing
real life, at first-hand), but life at third-
hand; filtered, as it were, first through
the novelist’s mind and then through the
small boy’s.
Short-story writers who choose to look
at life through the eyes of children
usually make their heroes or heroines
sad and suffering and sensitive; for they
wish to make a sad and suffering and sen-
sitive comment on life and the average
small boy, who is closer to a bandicoot
than a saint, would not serve their pur-
pose at all satisfactorily. The novelist
usually does likewise, though with some
modification, because no reader in his
senses, whatever he will endure within
the more merciful limits of the shorl
story, is going to follow the adventures
of some miserable, saintly little swipe,
continually in tears, through the long
journey of a novel.
Dr. Cronin’s youth, therefore, though
much oppressed, is given some compen-
satory amusements in the company of a
rabelaisian grandfather with a beautiful
nose like a strawberry.
And this is not only better fun for the
reader; it is better art. For the sensitive,
suffering child of fiction is on the whole
no more than a literary device, at the
best unreal, at the worst sentimental. As
Dickens did in the portraits of Little
Nell and the young David Copperfield, the
writer sets out not to portray character
accurately, but to wring the reader’s
heart. One is expected to feel something
like Mother Love for the weeping inno-
cent ; not, as one might in real life, to
give him sixpence and, if that doesn’t shut
him up, take him away and drown him
in a pond.
Dr. Cronin does a good deal more
wringing of the heartstrings in this way
than does Victor White. His hero, to
begin with, is a Norphan. There are dis-
tressing moments when the boy is sent
off to school by his grandmother in a
ridiculous green suit, and when his best
friend (a polished youth very much like
the Steerforth of David Copperfield) is
harrowingly bumped off by a railway
train. At another stage of the novel one
is almost invited to have one’s heart
wrung by an organ-grinder’s monkey: a
sad, suffering and extremely sensitive little
beast.
The Green Years again falls short of
Peter Domanig in that, written in the first
person, the action is seen through the
mind of a boy not only suffering but dull.
Since his first success with Hatter’s Castle
Cronin seems to have lost his indi-
viduality. The sufferings of the hero
come from Dickens; his dullness from
the narrator of Stevenson’s The
Master of Ballantrae (surely a mad de-
vice to filter action through a dull men-
tality).
Though it has these faults, and though
it lacks dramatic movement to such an
extent that Dr. Cronin is forced to resort
to the outworn device of intervening to
promise interesting events a few chapters
further on (“Our friendship is restored,
we will never again be separated ... At
last, not until . . .”) the novel gives a
clear, faithful picture of the life of its
Scottish town, and the characters—the
villainous grandfather, the puritan grand-
mother, a miserly foster-father and others
—ar # e all well and amusingly drawn. Had
the author only left the small boy out
of it, it might have been a very good
novel indeed,
Victor White’s hero—Peter—if not ex-
actly an orphan, is illegitimate, and is
reared by an aunt whose “obstinate
humility” infuriates him. The preface to
the novel quotes Dostoevsky (with appro-
val) on the fascination of “brooding”
children, and it seems that Mr. White is
going to fall into the trap of sentimen-
tality.
But Peter Domanig escapes. It is an
absorbing novel, and the reason for this,
apart from the “naturalness” of the
characters, and the picture of Vienna,
is the unsentimental way Peter is handled.’
Here is a character who seems hand-
picked for sentimentality. But he is
treated as Dickens, at his best, treated
Pip in Great Expectations ; with sym-
pathy, and an unerring eye, and detach-
ment. In a limited, tea-party sense,
Trollope had the game gift, but it is rare.
So rare that, when by all the usual rules
Peter Domanig should be a silly story
about a morbid individual’s trials and
hardships, it becomes a sound novel in-
stead, by virtue of the gift. There are
many phases in Peter Domanig’s develop-
ment, as in the normal person’s, but the
conclusion is not a weak one. Like the
bastard in Lear, Peter early decided that
the “fault lies not in the stars, but in our-
selves, that we are underlings.”
Peter Domanig is worth reading, if only
because it is different from most of the
current stuff written about other countries.
Roughly speaking, when a writer writes
about foreigners he can do one of two
things. He can make them exotic or he
can make them real. The first may well
make a book colorfiß(i^ ( a Tr#V?f
book it is understandable, but a novel
should be a study of character, and
character is best Studied in its native
state, without the false emphasis of what
is merely picturesque. Not that a novel
should be shorn of picturesque details, 4 of
course; but often it is impossible to see
the solid wood of character for the gaudy
foliage. And not infrequently there is no
wood to see. v * '*
In actual experience, the unusual very
quickly becomes commonplace, for man’s
capacity for surprise is strictly limited,
and varies geographically. For a man to
own four wives in a Moslem country is
no more astonishing there than the pos-
session of four cows would be here. Yet
in many essential traits of character the
Moslem may resemble a plumber in
Sydney, and both of them are fair game
for the novelist.
Since speech is largely the idiom of
character, it follows that a writer must
sometimes report his characters idiomati-
cally. Hemingway and James Aldridge
imitate the native construction and get an
effect which is striking, but false. Victor
White translates the colloquialisms of his
characters into their nearest English
equivalent, and his Viennese are people,
rather than specimens.
Here a difficulty arises. It would sound
odd for a Rumanian nobleman, for in-
stance, to express his appreciation of an
opera, or a wine, or whatever Rumanian
aristocrats do appreciate, by exclaiming
“You beaut,” or “She’s a humdinger,”
But it would be equally futile to trans-
late his remarks literally, and if they were
put into literary English they would
probably be stilted.
On the whole, though he has a fond-
ness for the affirmative “sure,” Mr. White
acquits himself very well. His characters
are interesting, and are recognisable
human beings* and his picture of Vienna
before, and during, the war of 1914-18
is delightful. “It takes a thousand years
to make a city like Vienna. A thousand
years of prosperity and security” ...
There is something of the fascination
of decay in the picture, a feeling of the
imminence of death, and the fleeting
nature of beauty, which haunted the
Greeks. It is a theme difficult to handle,
but, of course, a legitimate one. The
writer’s problem is to deal in decay with-
out becoming depressing.
A recent Bulletin short story, “The
Casey Country,” was purely a study of
decay, and it was one of Brian James’s
best. Like Peter Domanig it had dignity,
and depth and acuteness of observation.
It was superior to Peter Domanig in its
humor, and in Brian James’s peculiar
vividness of phrase, which can illuminate
a person or a place in a single felicitous
sentence.
But the fact that there are better writers
than White is relatively unimportant. He
has created a city and peopled it, and
he presents a clear and balanced picture.
His Vienna has slums as well as palaces,
and bread queues as well as Biergartens.
Mr. White writes about them with gusto,
and sentimentalises neither.
Penguins and Battleships.
One of the most interesting sections of
The Price of Admiralty (Oxford Uni-
versity Press; Angus and Robertson) by
Paul and Frances McGuire describes the
lives of Australian naval cadets at Jervis
Bay:
At mid-term you sometimes went to
Bowen Island. Bowen Island has Fairy
Penguins. They retire in their leisure and
on their private occasions to tunnels in the
sand amongst the sea-grass tussocks above
the landing beach. You tickle a Fairy
Penguin by squirming on your stomach as
far as you can get into the tunnel. You
push out your hand. The bird pecks it,
mistaking your fingers possibly for worms.
You withdraw your fingers, wriggling them
worm-fashion as you slide backwards.
The penguin follows, pecking steadily:
until you grab it.
Penguins gathered are lined up. You set
them on the mark and then gamble -what
you have (toast, usually) on their progress
to the water. Progress is usually slow.
Barracking is discouraged. If you shoo your
champion on, he may waddle back to in-
vestigate the noise.
This, of course, is fascinating stuff.
The McGuires have filled in a gap in our
knowledge of Australia. Everybody
knows that lads join the Navy ; and that,
after mysteriously vanishing from the
face of the earth for a few years, they
reappear as defenders of the Empire;
but there can’t be many people who
know that, during that mysterious disap-
pearance, they race penguins at Jervis
Bay. Thus The Price of Admiralty does
for the Australian Navy what John Mase-
field did for the R.N. in his latest volume
of autobiography ; and with the differ-
ence that the telling is much more
humorous and lively—Masefield’s writing
havmg the point of dullness.
The Price of Admiralty is three books
in one: a biography- of Commander J.
H. Walker, from his training
days to his death iff the waters off Bardia;
a history of H.M.A.S. Parramatta ; and
an essay on the history, tradition and sig-
nificance $f the Australian Navy, And
feach of "'the three books is excellent. The
style (possibly modelled on Bacon) is
Torthrrght- and‘d*rect, terse without falling
into Hemingwayese ; the humor attractive
without forced “brightness”; the story
always interesting and often exciting ; the
spirit admirable.
The strongest impression left by the
book as a whole (arising chiefly from the
chapters describing the work of the R.N.
and R.A.N. after the last war when, all
over the world, and particularly in the
Middle East, everybody on an earth
nominally at peace was busy with
massacre and revolution) is that there is
no such thing as peace. There are big
wars occasionally, little wars always.
And always, therefore, the need for a
navy and an obligation on the commu-
nity to see that the men of the Navy
{The Price of Admiralty discusses the
pensions of admiralty) are properly pro-
vided for.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
rhe most pleasing item of the second
Borovansky programme in Sydney was
the gay ballet “Carnaval” ; and the most
pleasing moments in “Carnaval” those
when Laurel, Martyn, dressed like Botti-
celli’s “Spring,” was playing Columbine
to Martin Rubenstein’s Harlequin. Per-
haps because Borovansky himself played
the lugubrious Pierrot —and he excels in
miming—the whole company seemed to
dance with more spirit and more charac-
ter than at other times. Dancers can’t
let their legs go, but they can let their
heads or their hearts go in the interpreta-
tion of the drama of ballet, light or
serious: which Edna Busse hardly seems
to do ip “Swan Lake.” Serge Bousloff
appears to be whole-heartedly in love
with the queen of the swans, but the lady
smiles briefly and’ acidly upon him ; not,
one feels, because she thinks that is how
swans smile but because the correct
mechanics of “Swan Lake” require a
smile at that point.
Juvenile unemployment was substan-
tially reduced in Melbourne by the out-
break of panto, in two places at the
Christmas season. The Greatest Show
on Earth put on the Only Circus Panto,
in the World at Olympia, mainly with a
cast of clever children. “Puss in Boots”
was the opus chosen, and the fact that
the dramatic action was continually in-
terrupted by tons of elephant, the Briellos,
the brilliant Zacchrin troupe of conti-
nental clowns, Digger Hill’s performing
dogs and other fauna didn’t seem to
bother in the slightest the hordes of kids
attendant. “Mother Goose,” the Tivoli’s
selection, was an ornate production on
which the management lavished a great
deal of consideration. Clem Dawe as
Mother Goose, Eric Edgley as Squire
Skinflint and Ernest Shand as the bird
which provides at demand supplies of the
precious metal keep the pot of humor boil-
ing, and Edna Luscombe filled the bill
and the tights of the principal boy to the
general satisfaction.
At the talkies:
“Wonder Man”. (Sydney Regent): Musical
comedy in color. Danny Kaye keeps it bub-
bling.
“The House on 92nd Street” (Sydney Plaza):
Thriller about an attempt by Nazi agents to
get the atomic bomb secret. The film is given
a semi-documentary flavor by unusual under-
statement —coming from Hollywood—and the
frank insight into F. 8.1. methods.
“That Night With You” (Sydney Lyceum):
Painless featherweight about a wench with a
voice (Susanna Foster) who dreams of herself
as a Great Singer, and of- course duly attains
her ambition with the aid of a famous stai
(Franchot Tone).
“Cauboy”: When Backhaus was in Australia
he received a cable from Hollywood offering
him a handsome sum to take the part of Beet-
hoven in a film. He refused on two grounds—
that he wasn’t worthy to represent the im-
mortal Ludwig; that depicting genius was
beyond the capacity of any film producer. He
is thoroughly confirmed in “A Song to Remem-
ber,” seen at the Savoy, Melbourne. The dis-
crepancy between the glorious music of Chopin
and the attenuated young man who ostensibly
plays it he doesn’t even do that, being
ghosted by a competent musician—is terrific,
and the endeavor to review the Polish composer
who revolutionised piano music in terms of
modern political notions is pathetic. If Chopin
had been a lovelorn loon like Cornel Wilde he
couldn’t have written his music, and if George
Sand had been like Merle Oberon she couldn’t
have written novels, even bad ones. Madame
Sand was a very distinguished woman; Miss
Oberon is a suburban housewife. If George
Sand had been like that the level of her artistic
appreciation would haVe been “I’m Gonna See
My Baby.” Much money maketh for arrogance
and Hollywood’s arrogance extends even to
the picture’s architectural background. Time
was when producers were content to photo-
graph the actual buildings and even the worst
historical film was worth seeing. In “A Song
to Remember” the island of Majorca, where
George Sand and Chopin spent four months
together, is a paint and papier-mache affair
which recalls Luna Park, St. Kilda.
“The Wind of Heaven,” by Emlyn Wil-
liams, put on by Melbourne Little
Theatre, concerns a farmboy in a Welsh
village who, when he walks about the
fields, is accompanied by mysterious
music, so that the villagers conclude that
he is the Messiah. A Birmingham circus
proprietor hearing of it and concluding
he is a clever trickster hustles along to
make a contract with him. When he
miraculously cures 20 veterans of the
Crimea who are dying of cholera in the
local hospital and brings to life a dead
man, the entrepreneur is converted. His
fancy lady follows him to the village with
the information that he has been offered
the directorship of an important com-
bine, and a cock crows thrice. The boy
dies of cholera, and the showman be-
comes the new St. Peter. It is a pity Mr.
Williams chose to deal with his exalted
subject purely and simply as a thauma-
turgist. It doesn’t seem to have occurred
to him that Christ came with a certain
very definite criticism of the society He
lived in and in these distracted times of
atomic bombs the same criticism is ex-
traordinarily valid. In its absence the
play remains a graceful rehashing of a
hackneyed motive. As such it was well
played by Irene Mitchell, Jean Campbell,
Pauline Cartmell, M. Jackson, Collins
Hilton, Lance Nicholls, Benjamin Bens-
ley and others.
Sydney Independents are trying their
hand with Eugene O’Neill’s trilogy
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” which has
a reputation as an endurance test for
players, since the 13 acts take five hours.
It’s an even greater ordeal for an audi-
ence, for it amounts to five hours of a
Freudian textbook, “dated,” morbid and
mechanical. Though O’Neill borrowed
them from the Greeks and merely trans-
lated them under other names to the
United States of Civil War days, the
characters are never more than puppets.
The tragedy is melodrama; the murders
and suicides little more than odd spots
in a dull record that give rise to gentle
laughter. Elaine Foster played Lavinia
(the Electra of the Greeks) so well that
the piece did come alive at times.
“F.S.”; The Grace Joel scholarship at
Melbourne National Gallery this year
was won by Judith Perry with a rather
depressing study of an old man in an old
pair of trousers and stripped to the waist.
Most of the other contestants submitted
similar subjects, equally depressing. Visi-
tors from overseas would certainly be
puzzled at the choice of subject matter, for
a man with his pants half off and no visible
means of support is an incongruous-look-
ing object. The scholarship stipulates a
half-nude, which half not being stated.
One of these days some bright young
modernist will send in the other half and
claim, quite logically, that it fulfils the
conditions.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’—“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’
122 YEARS OF SERVICE —“THE SENIOR STORE
IS
r
UR
■I
&
i
X
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
| ew people, these days, can afford to be uninterested in value.
A Ithough incomes may he higher than before the war, production is lower.
M ore buyers, less to sell, is the order of the day.
o bviously, the emphasis must he on quality,
nlesi
lasting satisfaction, you are throwing away your hard-earned money
king for rep
and energy.
Unless your purchase whether of household or personal necessities gives you
lasting satisfaction, you are throwing away your hard-earned money.
earching for replacements will likewise consume far too much of your precious time
et this great Store prove to you the wisdom of studying the quality-factoi in youi
shopping.
On every counter you will see how thoroughly we put into practice our Famous Low
Prices” principle.
hatever your requirements, you will find that every article supplied by us has no
superior at the same figure elsewhere.
L
W
robably you who read this are already satisfied customers of ouis.
Rest assured that we shall continue to adhere to our policy of providing you with
merchandise at the minimum cost.
J tis not only what you pay that matters, but what you get for what you pay.
hiefly for this reason we believe there is no need to sacrifice quality,
conomy, in the long run, is never possible with shoddy goods,
hoddiness at any price we abhor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Out of the Past:-
THE LADY OF LANE COVE
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
VOUNG Michael Morris went into
the Market House on a summer
evening in 1830 weary of the sights
and sounds of Sydney.
'"’here was no vehicular traffic at
this hour, and the streets had been full
of a strange assortment of people. As he
had passed the main gates of the mili-
tary barracks the drums and fifes rattling
and squealing “tattoo” had made the
‘ place seem a little like some English pro-
vincial garrison town, but here, in the
crowded tavern, the illusion was lost.
The Market House was a licenced inn
of somewhat better class than most of
the frowsy and disreputable drinking dens
abounding in Sydney at the time. The
large taproom contained a strangely
varied assemblage of town and country
people. There were a good many Eng-
lishmen and Irish, a few Scots, an occa-
sional foreigner from one of the ships
in the Cove, a proportion of young
colonial-bom natives, a few women of
respectable condition settlers’ wives
down from the Hawkesbury or the Cow-
pastures with their husbands —and a
sprinkling of women of the town, mostly
ex-convicts.
The company sat about the big room
at liquor-stained wooden tables drinking
rum in groups of three or four and
noisily shouting and boasting of the bar-
gains they had driven in the market-place.
They were clothed in a variety of styles
—the blue jacket and trousers of those
who were still prisoners on ticket-of-
leave, short, cotton smock-frocks, rough,
home-spun, woollen jackets or fustian
jackets and knee-breeches. There were
dilapidated beaver top-hats, cabbage-
trees and grey fur caps of untanned
kangaroo skin.
For a few moments young Morris stood
in the wide doorway, taking in the aspect
of the queer place. The room was thick
with tobacco smoke, so that it was diffi-
cult t© make out its further side in the dim
illumination of not more than half a
dozen candles stuck about the greasy
tables in empty bottles. There was a
ceaseless babel of chattering talk, varied by
occasional half-drunken singing and the
sound of vacuous laughter. Suddenly he
received a thump between the shoulders,
and, turning angrily in protest, had his
right hand seized in a vicelike grip by a
big man who grinned good-humoredly
and invited him to have a*drink.
“Laddie,” bellowed the giant above the
din. “I can see ye’re a Johnny-come-
lately. Come and sit down and try a
drop of rum. Mebbe I can put ye up to
the ropes a bit.”
Sitting on a bench beside his new
friend Michael found himself before
long completely taken in charge by that
flamboyant but apparently well-inten-
tioned gentleman.
“I’m Tarban Jimmy,” he boomed, “of
i the Lane Cove River. Some says I’m
some account, some says I ain’t. Matter
of opinion. But I’m cock of the walk up
there, young fellie, and no man dares to
tell me I ain’t. You’re a noo chum, an’
y’r lookin’ for work? Right an’ good.
You’ve found it. You come with me an’
ye’ll get all the work ye need. Jackass to
jackass, that’s my motter ; sunrise to sun-
down. Good pay and good tucker and
bein’ put in the way to make a forchin.
You meet me in the markets at four
o’clock tomorry arternoon an’ y’r for-
chin’s as good as made. I’ll lam ye to
work —and that’s all ye wants to know
in this country for to make a forchin.”
“And the work, Mr.?”
“Driscoll’s the name, but Tarban
Jimmy, that’s me.”
“Well, about the work, Mr. Driscoll.
Mebbe I’d not be any good at it?” ’
The huge man rose to his feet, thump-
ing his new acquaintance on the back
once more in an access of enthusiasm.
“The timber-gettin,’ boy—and ’tis better
nor a gooldmine. Four o’clock tomorry
an’ I’ll take ye with me for to larn ye
how to become a,rich man.”
AS nobody else seemed to be particu-
larly interested in finding work for
youthful free immigrants, and as the wel-
come given him by Tarban Jimmy was
the only manifestation of outside interest
in his welfare that had been in evidence
during fiis twenty-four hours’ experience
of Sydney, young Michael decided to
keep the appointment. On the following
afternoon he wandered through the rows
of drays and carts in the market-place
looking for his new friend, a few neces-
sary articles of clothing rolled up in a
bundle which he carried in his hand. Dris-
coll’s broad, red face, with its fringe of
ginger whiskers below the jutting chin,
was high above the heads of those who
came and went among the produce
stalls, and he was able to recognise him
nearly fifty yards off. With undiminished
heartiness the big man made him wel-
come.
It was almost evening when they went
down to the Market Wharf in Cockle
Bay and embarked in a roomy sailing
boa-t of between two and three tons
burthen, which carried as cargo some
three hundredweight of beef and four
hundredweight of flour in bags. The tide
and wind were with them when they got
out into the stream beyond Goat Island,
and a whole fleet of sailing craft bound
for ports along the Parramatta and Lane
Cove Rivers bore them company. The
great forests along the north-western
shores of Port Jackson were densely
populated at that time by sawyers,
splitters, adze-men, shinglers, firewood-
hewers and all sorts of people who had
to do with the timber trade, and the
water-borne traffic to and from the
Market Wharf was of very large propor-
tions and of more than slight importance.
Sydney was growing from a village into
a town, and it was from the Lane Cove
district that builders procured all the pit-
sawn timber, both beams and planking,
required in the trade.
Dark had fallen over water and
wooded hills when they landed beside an
immense Port Jackson fig hanging over a
wide, flat sandstone rock that served as a
wharf. Tarban Jimmy, after making the
boat fast, burdened himself with an in-
credible weight of beef and bade his re-
tainer pick up what he could carry and
follow him. They stumbled in the dark-
ness along a narrow and stony path that
led through a towering forest of eucalypts
up the hillside. On the edge of a
broad plateau they came in sight of the
fire-lit windows of a house, standing back
among the trees, and were immediately
greeted by a chorus of barking dogs.
Almost as soon as the dogs had set up
their discordant din the silhouetted figure
of a diminutive female appeared in the
doorway of the house, darkly outlined
against the shining firelight within doors,
and as they approached the entrance they
were challenged in a fashion that caused
Michael to shiver with apprehension.
Never had he heard anything so sugges-
tive of concentrated savagery in the
human voice.
“You ugly big devil —is that you, James
Driscoll?” There was a harshness and
fury in the strong voice emanating from
the diminutive figure that was unnatural
and daunting. And it obviously had its
effect upon the big man. When he replied
it was in a gentle and abject fashion that
Michael would never have supposed to be
within the capacity of the great, bluster-
ing lout. “Yes, me dear—’tis me all right.
And I’ve brung a friend who’s
agoin’ ”
Whatever he was about to promise on
Michael’s behalf never got uttered. With
an imperious rasp in her voice that sent
a shiver down that young man’s spine,
the doll-like woman in the glowing oblong
of the open doorway issued a proclama-
tion. It was the ukase of an autocrat and
left no room for argument.
“Be off you —whoever you are. You’re
not wanted here. I don’t want you, and
I’m the one who counts in this place.
Clear out!"
“My Gawd!” whispered Tarban
Jimmy. “Y’d better go, mister. Round
the point to the right. Tom Small’s
pub’s there —half a mile away. For th’
Lord’s sake, get! I can’t purtect ye.”
“James, you come inside!”
Michael Morris stared at the doorway
as the bulk of the big man blocked it.
Then it was closed, and he stumbled down
the track again to the landing-place. He
had no other feeling than one of the
intensest pity for Tarban Jimmy. He knew
that he would rather listen to ten thou-
sand screaming devils than endure the
sound of that terrible voice again.
'T OM SMALL’S pub, when at length he
* found it, was a singular place, all rum
and noise and riot. It was a not very
large oblong structure of yellow sand-
stone, with a stone-flagged wide verandah
stretching the length of its bleak frontal
elevation, from which a flight of half a
dozen stone steps led down to a trampled,
grassless area of refuse-littered bare clay.
A signpost like a gibbet carried a faded
painted board with lettering on each side
informing the passerby that this was THE
SAWYERS’ ARMS. “By Thomas Small”
appeared in lesser lettering below the
tavern’s title,
Michael came out of a clump of trees
into the disreputable environment of this
obviously disorderly house, and, as he
paused to take in the aspect, a couple
of brawny men, snarling and wrestling
in close “holts,” lurched and tumbled out
of the front door, swayed precariously
above the top of the steps for a few
moments, and then came crashing down
to the bottom. They lay still a moment.
Then one of the pair disengaged himself
from the other’s clasp, scrambled to his
feet, looked down at his rival’s white,
unconscious countenance for a moment
or two, solemnly and deliberately kicked
him twice in the side of the head, and
staggered up the steps again. Sounds of
battle, interspersed with bellowing song,
floated out of the bar into the night.
The young man stood staring at the
lighted tavern in complete bewilderment,
What was going to happen if he entered
the inn to inquire directions as to getting
back to Sydney? He shuddered at the
very thought of doing so. Ten minutes
or more he stood in the dark, then, with-
out warning, his elbow was gripped by
a strong hand, and he heard a single im-
perative command “Come with me!”
With a shiver, he recognised the voice
of the woman from Tarban Jimmy’s who
had ordered him off. She gave him no
time, but led him away by the sleeve,
back along the way he had come.
In the forest by the waterside it was
as black as the bottom of a coalpit, but
the woman did not hesitate for a moment
and, still gripping his sleeve, led him along
a rough track until they arrived again at
the lonely house. She led him up to the
door, thrust him into the firelit room and
entered after him, closing the door be-
hind her.
“Sit down!” she commanded tersely,
and he subsided on to a three-legged stool
near the door. The woman thrust a
splinter of wood into the fire and lit a
lamp that stood upon a rough table in
the middle of the room. Then, to his
amazement, Michael saw that she was no
witch-like hag, as he had expected, but
a good-looking woman of an age some-
where about the early thirties. Over in
the corner opposite sat Tarban Jimmy,
now dejected and abased.
She was very small, hardly five feet
high, but perfectly proportioned. Her
jet-black, shining hair, parted in the
middle, was pulled into a great bun at
the back of her head, and the oval of
her face was one of the prettiest that
Michael Morris had ever looked at. Nose
and chin might have been a little over-
emphasised, perhaps, and the well-shaped
red lips sometimes became too hard a
line, but the brightness of the dark eyes
discounted criticism. She was unmis-
takably a little beauty,
“Tell him, Jimmy,” she said to the big
fellow, “what I’ve decided on.”
. Tarban Jimmy stood up, and he spoke
in a manner almost suggesting that he
had recently been whipped.
“Well, Mister,” he said hesitantly, “ Tis
like this ’ere. This lady’s Mrs. Larraday,
a widder, and she owns this ’ere Gov’-
mint grant of two thousand acres, given
to her late husbind by Gov-nor Mac-
quarie, and makes plenty money by sellin’
permits to fellers to cut timber on it. But
she’s lonely-like. So she got me to stay
with her. That’s how ’tis. And now,
quite sudden-like, she’s decided to have
a change of men. So I’ve to go and
you’re to stop. No ill-feelin’, there ain’t,
on my part. It’s just wot she says. And
wot Mrs. Larraday says happens. Ye’ll
larn that. So I’ll be off to Tom Small’s,
And I wish ye luck. Mister.”
The little beauty was smiling at young
Michael Morris—but Michael was a shy
lad. As the big man began to move
across the room he turned swiftly and
reached the door first. He lifted the latch
and ran out into the night. The dogs
barked, but he took no heed, and scram-
bled blindly up the hill behind the house,
Only once did he pause before he reached
the top. Sharp and clear he heard the
little woman’s voice. Against the distant
sounds of revelry and riot over at Tom
Small’s, but ringing clear above it all
through the silence of the night, he heard
that lovely little woman call out “Ye
damned fool!”
With a shiver, Michael Morris sank
down on the hilltop, marvelling over his
introduction to Australia.
SMOKE-OH!
“The lifting powers of insects are colossal.”
— “World’s News.”
True. Bar flies have been known to
lift six schooners in as many minutes.
“It is the task of the artist to awaken new
sources of energy in the people.”
—“Australian New Writing.”
And it can’t be denied that most people,
confronted with a surrealist painting,
long to get to work with an axe.
4* + +
“The early Romans used butter only as a
medicine —never as a food.”
— N.S.W. country paper.
When told by his astute physician
That butter for his ills was “tops"
Beyond a doubt the proud patrician
Rubbed in a pound—and licked his
chops.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4*
“On one occasion he* told Rose that he
would never be happy until she was dead.”
She must have been a thorn in his side.
❖ ❖ ❖
An Orphean Oddity.
“Brian stood, tense and white, his flute
poised, awaiting the conductor’s signal. After
what seemed to him an age the maestro raised,
almost imperceptibly, two crooked fingers of
his left hand. A second later Brian’s bow
began to flash with all his old-time skill.”
—From a serial.
I was once in an orchestra like that.
We had an engagement to play at a
Scots’ New Year celebration. Things
went along quite well until they started
a succession of flings, strathspeys, jigs,
reels, rolls, haughs, hoots and other peculi-
arly Caledonian measures. When these had
finished our trombone player had to
delve into the convoluted bowels of his
instrument for the five front teeth he’d
blown into it, and when the saxophonist
had upended his musical abortion enough
saliva poured out to have floated a model
yacht regatta.
A dipperful of whisky from the social
committee quickly circulated among the
orchestra, after which the orchestra
started circulating round the dipper and
each other. There followed more wild
Hielan’ music, then someone brought in
a haggis. The dipper was refilled, and
this time I gathered it was the blood of
the murdered haggis we drank.
By the time the conductor had picked
up, or tried to pick up, his baton —it hap-
pened to be the caber they’d been tossing
around at the sports that afternoon —we
were ready to turn on for the revellers
the real musical works. For pure fervor
our rendition of “Cock o’ the North”
can have rarely been excelled. The
flautist’s claim later to have pro-
duced perfect liquid notes was based ex-
clusively on the fact that he had one
end of his flute deep in the dipper, but
instead of blowing it he was sucking.
The fellow on the French horn was spirit-
edly playing the list of, members with
overdue subscriptions that was stuck up
on the wall alongside him. The trombone
player had got inside the grand piano,
and with half his trombone screwed on
to a set of bagpipes was trying to play
“Don’t Fence Me In.”
The muscular double-bass player had
sawed with his bow through every string
of the harp and was starting on the frame-
work when his bow burst into flames, and
the saxophonist was alternating snatches
of a Bach fugue with “Three Blind Mice”
as he tried to execute a sword dance.
Three first violins were inextricably miked
on the floor as they played their own or
each other’s violins. For myself, I essayed
to play the quartet from . “Rigoletto,”
using four violin bows at once on the
piano keyboard.
It says much for the keenness of my
musical ear that from the din around me
and through my mental fog I was able
to isolate what I might describe as a
foreign body of sound. It seemed to be
coming from the floor.
Groping around, I crawled across the
bassoon player, who was trying to play
“Annie Laurie” on a cuspidor, and came
across a gigantic Highland pipe-major
boring holes with a brace and bit in the
’cello. Politely—in view of his size—l
asked him the reason for his carpentry
work, adding with a snarl what the hell
he meant by mucking up our musicianly
rendering of a great Scottish classic.
Jock looked at me owlishly. “Weel,”
he said, holding up the ’cello, “Ah blawed
ma bluidy head off for quarter o’ an ’oor
tryin’ to get a tune oot o’ this de’il o’ a
thang befuir Ah foond oot the thing
hadna’ a hool in it!”
80.
Refutation.
Do Sydneyites lack courtesy and tact ?
To answer that Til versify this fact:
A cop picked up a drunk upon his beat
Just as the rain came pelting down “a
treat."
The drunk, who had a brolly in his hand,
Swung it aloft, with sudden vigor, and
{Who says the age of chivalry is dead?)
Politely poised it o’er his captor’s head.
F. M.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67 —No. 3439
Wednesday, January 9, 1946
“WHO CAME BACK WITH HIS CARPET BAG?”
“Well, Chif., I’ve settled everything everywhere!”
“Did you say ‘everywhere,' Bert?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Bn X 252IBB; Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.F.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ATOMIC-ERA DEFENCE.
Announcing the intended appointment of
“younger men who have distinguished
themselves in new methods” of warfare
to have “an effective voice” in Australia’s
post-war defence—an excellent idea in
itself —Mr, Chifiey stated:
The experience of this war in the de-
velopment of armored and amphibious
forces, the association of air power with
naval and land forces, and its own inde-
pendent role, and the invention of new
weapons, such as the flying bomb and
the rocket, have demonstrated that the art
of war has undergone great changes.
So true as to be redundant; yet, com-
ing from the head of a Government whose
personnel is strikingly lacking in any
active experience of modern warfare,
except the variety waged from the para-
pets of platforms and soapboxes and the
foxholes of radio, no doubt significant —*
of the worst. Its probable meaning is that
Mr. Chifiey and Government, if they
have not themselves fallen for the popu-
lar notion that the atomic bomb has made
armies and the like a waste of time and
money, will be willing enough to pander
to that belief if the requisite amount of
pressure is applied from the familiar
quarters.
The belief itself is nothing new. It is
merely the current form of the age-old
reaction against war that has followed all
wars. This time the reaction does not
take the line of inordinate faith in a
League of Nations that well-meaning
zealots, assisted by politicians—many with
their tongues in their cheeks —were able
to foster after 1918. There is evidently
little such faith ; though, with America so
far committed and apparently eager to be
this time, alongside Britain, a leading
member of a world peace organisation,
there is better ground now for faith and
hope than after the other war.
Despite such faith being very shaky,
there is strong evidence of a recurrence
of the old desire to lapse back into un-
preparedness. The League previously pro-
vided the excuse ; and now the atomic
bomb looks just as likely to serve the
same end. The public pocket is affected,
and that in Australia —especially regard-
ing defence —has hitherto always influ-
enced the thinking and acts of politicians.
Oh past experience, that influence could
quite easily become strong enough to
override the fear, shared by almost every-
body, that not only is more war even now
in the making but that it will be moi;e
totally waged and destructive than any-
thing in the past.
If that did happen, the widely prevail-
ing present attitude would probably be
looked back on as a craven surrender to
despair. Belief in the League of Nations
at least had the merit of being, based on
a genuine desire to substitute a rule of
law for the rule of force in international
affairs; to have done with the madness
of v/ars for ever. The apparent present
attitude is very different. It amounts to
a shrinking fear of war —for which there
is reason enough—coupled with abject
surrender to the mere thought of the
form it is expected to take. It accepts
that the next war will be waged largely,
if not wholly, with atomic bombs, pos-
sibly not even needing aeroplanes to drop
them, but sent over oceans to blot out
whole cities thousands of miles away
merely by pressing a button; hence that
armies, navies and air forces armies
especially —will no longer have any use
or value.
That atomic bombs, rockets and the
like of terrible destructive strength could
be leading weapons of World War 111
nobody would question. They are as
serviceable as guns or any other weapons;
and World War II ended with only the
fringe of their possibilities touched on.
But this war began with the expectation
that gas, incomparably more deadly
than any discharged in the earlier war,
would be one of the principal weapons.
Britain, America and other countries
spent so-far undisclosed but certainly
astronomical sums on gas manufacture
and similarly vast sums on protective
measures.
The expectation was not realised. There
were unproved accusations that the
Japanese had used gas, and in their first
amazement that Hitler should have been
so ungrateful for assistance and supplies
rendered under the Pact of Friendship,
which more than any other single instru-
ment made the launching of World War
II possible, the Russians made similar
charges against the Germans. Gas, how-
ever, was not resorted to ; not even when
the enemy might have employed it with
perhaps paralysing effect, nor even when
the war had begun to go badly for the
desperate crew that started it. Nor did
the scattering of germs or any other of
the fearful possibilities envisaged take
place.
In view of some of the things that did
happen, that cannot be put down to
humane considerations. Gas was not used
simply because it was insistently made
known by Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roose-
velt that both America and Britain had
huge quantities of the deadliest forms of
it, and would not hesitate to employ it
in retaliation.
In his last report as U.S. Chief of Staff,
General Marshall revealed that America
is going on with the manufacture
of atomic bombs. It has since been
cabled that their manufacture is at the
(probably exaggerated) rate of 500 a year.
Whatever the rate, the fact that America
is making the things—“for a stockpile’’—
together with the recent war demonstra-
tion of what that country’s free-enterprise
industrial might is capable of doing,
stands as a warning to any country with
aggressive notions. Even if the hope
expressed by Mr. Truman, by the Cana-
dian Prime Minister, by Mr. Bevin and
other British and American leaders that
there should be a renunciation by all
countries of the use and development of
atomic bombs fails to be realised, the
same consideration that stopped the use
of gas could easily rule such weapons
out. As it is, Americans regard their
recent use of the bombs as a distinct blot
on the national conscience. It is certain
that in future they would take the same
stand regarding them as was taken on
the use of gas—that they would be ready
to throw bigger and better ones if others
started throwing them first.
The Foreign Ministers in Moscow
reached an agreement for the setting up
of an atomic-research commission which
was wildly hailed as meaning that atomic
secrets are henceforth to be shared — e.g.,
with Russia. It meant, of course, nothing
of the kind. No American in a respon-
sible job from which he can be dissevered
promptly would hold it for five minutes
after committing his country to such a
course. The proposed commission is to
be purely an ‘exploratory and advisory
body, and a most vital clause in the agree-
ment is that the commission must have
the right and the facilities for. making
regular inspections in various countries
-—which again specially means Russia.
Judging by its recent war and post-war
record of secrecy regarding all its mili-
tary and other doings, that Russia would
now be prepared to throw itself open for
such inspections looks highly unlikely.
And on nothing short of that will America
ever agree to “sharing atom secrets.”
America; however, has the industrial
capacity to outbid any other country, or
combination of countries, in manufactur-
ing these weapons ; has a good start in
the making of them, and evidently means
to hold its lead. That should be enough
to keep atomic bombs for a considerable
time in the same category as gas dropped
into. '
Another flaw in the counsel of despair,
as an excuse for doing nothing about de-
fence, is that, with rockets loaded with
atomic energy and capable of going up
100 miles into the air and coming down
on cities on the other side of oceans, there
can be no protection against them. No
defence was found for the German V 2
rocket, the most advanced form of carry-
ing total war to the civilian front —but
there was little time for finding one be-
fore the war ended. Against the earlier
VI flying bomb a fairly effective defence
was set up; and there has never in the
history of warfare been an offensive
weapon for which a counter was not
found in time. Atomic bombs more
powerful than the one dropped on Hiro-
shima—a comparative midget, by all
accounts —have probably already been
made; bombs capable of blotting out
whole cities. But atomic rockets used as
air “depth charges” might soon be de-
veloped to wipe out everything other
rockets, flying bombs and ’planes—ov<*r
vast areas of space.
Whatever the developments—pending
final settlement of the peace, and a real
world organisation to secure it —a sound
measure of preparedness would seem a
first essential in any country with the will
to survive. The recent war left all but
the aggressors little enough time to pre-
pare ; the next would almost certainly
leave less. Holland, Belgium, France and
the rest of Europe, and the countries the
Japs overran in their first headlong rush
south, all fell easily because they were
unready. Russia went within an ace of
joining them, and would certainly have
done so but for Britain’s fighting and
America’s supply assistance; and America
—another of the unready—would not
have been able to get its vast production
flowing to all parts if Britain had not
stood like a rock. And a great deal of
what Britain itself suffered was a result
of its own unreadiness.
It is not likely that either Britain or
America will be caught in that position
again. They work for a world peace
organisation, but this time with them-
selves ready to do a major part of its
policing. On Britain’s side it will have
to be a co-ordinated Empire effort, with
Australia’s preparedness so well ad-
advanced that, whatever the form any
war may take, this country will not again
be caught as it was in 1939, unready to
defend itself even within its own map
boundaries, which so many of the present
Government thought at the time the right
thing for it to do.
Mr. Chifley has stated that “a separate
statement will be made shortly on the
relation of co-operation in Empire de-
fence.” It may be hoped that Australia’s
commitment under it will be on wiser
and more generous lines than much of
its war-time Government’s narrow out-
look, and based on something more cour-
ageous than despair at the mere thought
of atomic bombings, which, in any case,
may never happen.
To the Attorney-General.
Home again, doctor, and this time it
should be for good. Your latest “mis-
sion” was unnecessary, and it brought no
benefit to Australia. It brought you
another issue of newspaper applause, this
time in a restricted quarter, but news-
paper applause—as any experienced
journalist could tell you—is vain and
fleeting. If you hunger for more you
should strive to get it by positive achieve-
ments in your own country, where a great
deal of work presses for your attention.
Should it be thought expedient to send
another Australian abroad with a roving
commission to attend U.N.O. meetings
and the like, the job should be entrusted
to Mr. Bruce. He, at least, will do noth-
ing to produce the impression, which your
manoeuvres have repeatedly done, that
the British Commonwealth of Nations,
with its supreme need for unity in dark
and doubtful, times, is a house divided
against itself.
As Mr. Chifley put it, “Australia”
(meaning you) “claimed the right to par-
ticipate in the proceedings of the Council
of Foreign Ministers” in London. The
“claim” was conceded to the extent that
you, together with gentlemen from a lot
of other countries not on the original in-
vitation list, were permitted to attend and
hold forth for an hour or so. Your
presence-'and representations had not the
slightest influence on the course of events.
If you had any notion that you could
restrain or moderate the impertinences of
Molotov you must have been thoroughly
disillusioned. The whole thing was a
washout. Across the Atlantic you went
to take part in another washout, called
the Far Eastern Advisory Commission,
along with representatives of the Philip-
pines and nine other States, Russia sul-
lenly standing aloof. But it looks as if
that washout will lead to something
worse.
You have been proved wrong about the
Emperor of Japan, and General Mac-
Arthur has been proved right. Your idea
was that the Emperor should be treated
as a war criminal. The general elected
to use him, and events have nobly justi-
fied the general, from the unresisted occu-
pation of Japan with small forces and the
simultaneous release of the surviving
prisoners-of-war and bloodless surrender
of the huge Japanese forces from Man-
churia to New Guinea (101,000 Japs at
Rabaul!) to the public renunciation of
the imperial pretensions to divinity. It is
an extraordinarily ungrateful and foolish
return for MacArthur’s splendid work,
so immeasurably superior to the results
of four-Power control of Germany, to
shackle him with a Four-Power Council
in Tokyo and an Eleven-Power Commis-
sion in Washington, and it is bitter to read
that “Australia” urged these arrange-
ments. If the general decides that he
cannot carry on because he has lost
“face” Australia may have cause to wish
that it never heard of Dr. Evatt.
While you were away the Judge in
Bankruptcy commissioned by you to in-
quire into the Australia First cases pre-
sented his report. Though it left certain
things unexplained, notably the bois-
terous elation of Communists, who
claimed that they had brought about the
arrests and named the victims in their
publications (though Mr. Curtin in his
reference to the affair expressly forebore
to mention names), it was explicit on one
point: eight of the interned men, all
Australian by birth, and two of them
wounded Australian soldiers of the last
war, had been unwarrantably deprived of
their liberty and unjustly kept in deten-
tion, and seven and the widow of one of
the wounded Diggers, who had been
hounded into his grave, were entitled to
compensation from the public purse. You
were not in Australia when these men
entered upon their martyrdom, but you
chose to assert very late in the day that the
organisation to which they belonged was
a Quisling show, “subversive, anti-British
and anti-Australian.” You will be expected
to give an account of your part in the
proceedings and to justify it, if you can.
And while you were away the “Gov-
ernment” which depends upon you for
advice on constitutional law was worsted
in one High Court action after another.
It is talking of another referendum, and
the Communists have already promised
their support. You had their support in
1944, and another referendum will be
another headache ; but in these matters,
being the obedient servant of Caucus,
you have to do as you are told.*
In your absence, moreover, “the Com-
munist party and its press” from which
you “lifted the general prohibition im-
posed” by the Menzies Government “in
June, 1940,” have taken control of our'
(or your) foreign policy, as it concerns
the Dutch. With the connivance of your
“Government” they strangled the move-
ment of Dutch shipping to the East
Indies, mercy ships as well as other ships,
in the process of siding with the murder-
ing and mutilating savages whom they
call “our Indernesian comrades,” and who
have engaged in murder and mutilation
to prevent the British cleaning up the
Japanese in Java and restoring order at
the instance of General MacArthur. This
must have been, and must still be, very
disconcerting to you, an avowed believer
in the White Australia doctrine, especially
as there is accumulating evidence of a
plot to set up a litter of Red Fascist
republics north-west of Australia.
Two of the newspapers whose special
favor you enjoy are the Chicago “Sun”
and the New York “Times.” In the
“Times” of November 11 you must have
read this:
The Philippine Communists are nurtured
by a special committee in Australia. To-
day [Nov. 11] this correspondent [Robert
Trumbull] saw a pamphlet for Indonesian
independence that bore the address of a
Sydney printer... .The Communist party
of Pampanga Province argued at length
about the possibility of war between the .
United States and Russia, and finally
voted to notify its Australian affiliate that
in such a case the Pampanga Communists
would be “unable to take a stand.”
And in the Chicago “Sun” of November
12, this, by David Boguslav:
The Philippine Communists are not sleep-
ing on the job. Mainly they take their cue
from the Australian group which has been
their mentor since before the war.
What a “mentor,” and what proteges!
In internal as well as external affairs
—each your 'province—these Com-
munists have come out as enemibs of
Australia. You were not here to share
in the worst of the privations imposed
upon your fellow-citizens, and above all,
the people of your own city, by their
criminal strikes —the closing of public
hospitals against patients who were not
too ill, the worse-than-war-time black-
out, the enforced suspension of many
useful publications, the restriction of
wireless broadcasting to an hour a
day, the embargo on hot baths and (ex-
cept for periods so limited that they
added to the war-worn housewife’s bur-
dens) on cooking and ironing, the
hysterical Government transport cuts —a
crazy train schedule and no week-end
trams after 2 p.m. on Saturdays—the wip-
ing out of hundreds of one-man and one-
woman businesses and the restoration of
dole queues because hundreds of thou-
sands of decent Australians were thrown
out of work before Christmas. You will
still see dole queues and realise that the
re-employment and housing of service-
men have been sabotaged by the criminal
strikes, for God knows how long.
And you will agree with your Labor
and National Service colleague that, in
the terms of the latest High Court
judgment, for once favorable to your
“Government,” Australia is still in a state
of war and the defence power, under
which all the National Security regula-
tions have been issued (though suspended
again and again to appease the N.S.W.
coalminers) remains effective. Said your
Labor and National Service colleague:
The decision upholding the validity of
recent amendments to National Security
Regulations makes it clear that the prose-
cution of the war did not end with the
capitulation of Japan. It is now evident
that the prosecution of the war compre- '
hends the disarming of Japanese troops,
the occupation of enemy country and the
demobilisation of Australian forces.
This should take you back to the an-
nouncement you made and the pledge you
gave on December 18, 1942, when remov-
ing the Menzies ban. Here it is, taken
from the Commonwealth Government
publication “Digest of Decisions and An-
nouncements” No. 49, in a necessarily
abbreviated form:
Having received satisfactory undertakings
guaranteeing assistance in war production
and in preventing stoppages and absentee-
ism, the Government has lifted the general
prohibition imposed in June, 1940, upon
the Communist party and its press
The undertakings which have been entered
into by a committee of certain individuals
representing themselves and the Communist
party bind all concerned
(1) To do all in their power to assist
in the effectual prosecution of the war;
(2) To do all in their power to increase
the production of war materials and the


provision of services for war or industrial
purposes; and
(3) To do their utmost to promote har-
mony in industry, to minimise absenteeism,
stoppages, strikes or other hold-ups.
If the undertakings given are not
observed the Government will reimpose the
ban.
You could get a million witnesses to
testify that the “satisfactory under-
takings” have not been “observed,” but
there is no need to go beyond your own
“firm” P.M. Having seen him, it will be
your duty, as the responsible Minister, to
“reimpose the ban,” or write yourself
down as the weakest Attorney-General
in Commonwealth history, just “a suit
of clothes and a name,”
PLAIN ENGLISH
Respite From Crime.
Finance having become an insoluble
problem, the N.S.W. steel strikers, coal
strikers and shipping strikers returned to
work on Monday—or some of them did
—and simultaneously the restrictions on
lighting, cooking, ironing, hygiene, wire-
less sets, trains, trams, power for industry,
reception of in-patients, publication of
newspapers (save those specially favored ;
e.g. t starting-price dailies and the
“Women’s Weekly”) and all the rest were
withdrawn or suspended. Great numbers
of people, servicemen among them, re-
main unemployed, and the Federal
“Labor” crowd has been driven to “ex-
plaining” to the most necessitous cases
that “holidays” delayed the payment of
unemployed-relief money. “But things
like these, you know, must be at every
famous victory.”
For the Communists, after an eleventh-
hour act of larrikinism, the burning of
Industrial Judge Cantor in effigy, the
reaction to which brought signs of scare,
such as the gathering of Phillips,
Wells and Elliott at an ironworkers’
meeting (evidently for mutual comfort and
protection in case the serfs turned sour),
are already claiming the victory and are
threatening others. And they have this
much to go on, that their criminal pro-
ceedings were unresisted by “ ‘Labor’
Governments” which make the hollow
claim that they stand for the rule of
law, and drew not one public meeting
of protest from the injured public.
The leaders remain at large, their skins
as safe as they were during the Japanese
war, when those of military age were ex-
empted from the service imposed on older
and infinitely better men. They have
been encouraged to believe that if they
proceed to even greater lengths of Red
Fascist larrikinism, if they try to “take
and hold” everything by “revolutionary
industrial and political action” (a pro-
gramme to which more than one*of the
present Commonwealth Labor Ministers
subscribed), they have nothing to fear
from the “ ‘Labor’ Governments” at Syd-
ney and Canberra or from the Sydney
public either so long as there are races
and lotteries as usual.
Public opinion is so torpid in Sydney
that it remained unmoved by a hospital
delivery of poor patients. Threatened
during the Bunnerong strike, this came
to pass in the second week of the coal
strike, being announced by the “Labor”
Minister of Health, whose Government
was then concentrating on life pensions
for Assemblymen and their widows, in
these terms;
The Government desires that all hospitals
under the control of the State Hospitals
Commission which are dependent on coal,
coke and electricity for light, heat and
power should discharge all patients who
can be discharged with safety. It also de-
sires that all hospitals should keep admit-
tances to a minimum by restricting them to
maternity cases and urgent cases.
To this Dr. H. H. Schlink, chairman
of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital
board, replied that “the Government’s
direction” would “undoubtedly cause
hardship to patients,” but, since it
amounted to a command, measures had
already been entered upon at Royal
Prince Alfred, in which there are 1450
beds:—
We decided at R.P.A. that from mid-
night last night [Dec. 11] we would admit
only surgical emergencies, labor cases which
had been booked, cases of serious sickness
and casualties. Today the superintendent
will tour the hospital to see how many
patients can be discharged. There is no
doubt that the working of the hospital will
b'e upset, and it will take weeks for con-
ditions to get back to normal.
On January 4, the day on which the
steel strikers “voted to resume,” and the
20th day of the coalminers’ “holidays,”
10 ‘of which, all “working” days, were
taken by way of strike, Dr. Schlink made
another statement, which was published
in the third person:
The opinion that, indirectly, the restric-
tions resulting from the coal shortage had
killed a number of people because hospital
admissions had been practically “frozen”
was expressed by the chairman of the
board of Royal Prince Alfred.
Dr. Schlink said it would be impossible
to estimate how many people had been
aifected, but because many were unable to
be admitted to hospitals their general con-
dition would deteriorate, making later cures,
particularly in cancer cases, impossible.
[There is no blacker chapter in the his-
tory of “Labor”-unionism and “Labor”
politics anywhere in the English-speaking
world.
Victorian Bushfires.
Since 1938 1800 fires have contributed to
the destruction of Victoria’s forest cover.
Of these, it is reckoned, 98 were man-
made, one in every five was a burning-
off fire and two were caused by lightning.
Bushfires killed 71 people in 1939 and
51 in 1944.
This season opened like the last season.
Under the bounty of King Weather there
have been no major outbreaks. The
Christmas Day issue was got under
prompt control by the Forestry Commis-
sion, which, with ’planes, two-way wire-
less and “most modern equipment,” 210
and 1300 temporary .officers, a chain of
watchtowers and a network of communi-
cations, finds itself in a better position
than ever before.
Nevertheless, the Commission has
16,000,000 acres of Crown lands to look
after, and careless lighters of burning-
off fires, inane trippers, rabbits and other
pests still to deal with. And, notwith-
standing the 1939 and 1944 disasters, there
remain timber townships in funnel-like
gullies in the mountains, with dense
undergrowth growing up to their door-
steps, which, with a temperature of 115
degrees and a 60-mile northerly blowing
—conditions which produced the 1939
and 1944 visitations —are potential death-
traps. A forest officer recently reported
that inhabitants are so indifferent to the
danger that they don’t even bother to
AFTER THE PERSIAN CAT, THE TURKEY GOBBLER.
“Taking its stand on the Atlantic Charter and the Yalta Agreement, Persia is appealing to
the United Nations Organisation. Turkey is threatening armed resistance.”
clear their backyards. And there is no
authority to compel them to do so.
In fact, there is no single authority to
compel anybody to do anything. There
is only a number of departments, collec-
tively better organised than they used to
be, but each with different ideas about
how the business should be managed. It
remains to be seen whether the Labor
Government responsible for the safety of
the State in 1946 will have the same luck
that the Dunstan Government had last
year. Given the conditions that brought
about the former tragic blazes it is
morally certain another would occur,
despite “the most modern equipment.”
And that goes for other States ; Tasmania
had serious grass and forest fires in its
sweltering Christmas week.
Still Another Competition.
With “El Verdugo’s” compliments;
If the Fairfaxes, proprietors of the “S. M.
Herald,” were moved to make the usual counter
to the current burst of competitive beneficence
by their friendly rivals of the Theodore-Packer
press, they could not do better than offer, a
prize for the greatest joke of the year.
It is unthinkable that the Fairfaxes will not
fail to do this, since the “Herald’s” policy
during the past few years has been based on a
servile but inflated imitation of its rival in
the Theodore-Packer stable. When the “D.T.”
produced Joe Palooka Granny discovered
Skooner the Champ. If the “D.T.” publishes
eight pages of form-at-a-glance, Granny prints
eight larger pages. If the “D.T.” prints one
serial, Granny prints two; and in the matter
of literary competitions the Fairfax stronghold
is able to talk money to a tune which makes the
Consolidated Culturists look like a Doodlakine
picnic raceprad-owner beside the incomparable
Romano.
The suggested competition would have the
added advantage that Granny would be able to
pay testimony to her slavish admiration of her
Theodorian rival’s bright ideas, because the
biggest joke of this or any year is the “Cour-
tesy Campaign” which the Sydney “D.T.” has
been operating. The judge was a reporter,
complete with photographer,, who has un-
earthed such shining examples as citizens who
say please and do not snarl at anybody who
speaks to them; conductors and conductresses
who behave in a manner in which in any city
but Sydney they would be compelled to behave
if they wished to keep their jobs 10 minutes,
and a paragon of a barmaid:
There was no beer, and she actually
offered Scotch whisky as a substitute —
and poured the water in to the customer’s
requirements.
What Sydney reporter would not hand her a
pound?
The joke lies in the fact' that of all the papers
in Australia Sydney papers have done most
to develop public discourtesy. They fill their
pages with pictures of nearly naked females,
the more brazen the better. They romanticise
the King’s Cross hoodlum who delights in start-
ing fires in the street, trying to push over other
people’s cars and interfering with other people’s
comfort. While the “courtesy” campaign was
on, what looked like a straggling line of tipsy
yahoos, male and female, headed by a girl pull-
ing up her skirt to show her scanties, was pic-
tured by the “D.T.” as a “crocodile of
revellers.”
Lastly it is the “D.T.” which of all papers
can be depended on to forget civilised stan-
dards of politeness in calling attention to the
physical deformities of those from whom it
differs, in a bad taste scarcely even surpassed
by Berlin and Moscow, where abuse is mediaeval
and Asiatic.
Thus it was the “D.T.” which described a
Canadian High Commissioner, one of the
bravest officers in any Allied Army, as a “wasp-
waisted Hollywood type of soldier” because
it had been told he did not believe in some
of the great Russian “victories” of 1941.
It is the “D.T.” which refers to a former
Deputy-P.M. as “snipe-nosed Archie Cameron,”
and whose reporters would have been declared
black by the Maoriland Government if it had
not made hurried amends for a sneer at the
physical deformity of a Labor Minister.
Perhaps, however, Mr. Warwick Fairfax may
not think it funny that his pace-setter, in
view of its record, should enter upon a Court-
tesy Campaign. In that case he might be
inclined to offer a prize to the Good Fairy
who enabled Consolidated Press, without an
auxiliary plant on the premises, to print its
“Women’s Weekly” throughout the black-out
period, when many‘another publication, in-
cluding the free dailies, was compelled to shut
down.
Joe and Charlie.
Tasmania’s Legislative Council has 18
members. In the space of 13 days it lost
its two most interesting veterans, in young
manhood both international cricketers;
Charlie Eady and Joe Darling. They
were in the Australian team that went to
England in 1896 and became associated
as Ms.L.C. in 1925, the year in which
Eady entered the House, of which he was
to become Chairman of Committees and
Deputy President in 1939 and President
in 1944. Darling was of the 1921 vintage.
For the last 20 years of their lives Joe
and Charlie were never divided and
they were united in death.
Eady, a native of Hobart, was an all-
round cricketer, though picked in 1896
chiefly for his fast bowling. He was no
great success on English wickets, but in
point of physique and good fellowship
he stood out in any company. He was
as grand a specimen of Australian man-
hood as George Bonnor, whom Ruskin
extolled as his ideal of physical perfec-
tion.
Darling played for South Australia,
where he was born, member of a family
which has been as notable in industry as in
field sports. He was one of the outstand-
ing cricketers of his generation, most
dashing of all left-hand opening batsmen
and superb in the outfield. There have
probably been better captains, but he
skippered the very successful Australian
elevens of 1899, 1902 (perhaps the greatest
of all) and 1905, and headed the Austra-
lian batting averages in four successive
seasons, 1896, 1897, 1898 and 1899.
Who that saw him will ever forget his
dauntless bearing and his powerful driv-
ing? Bowling, which has declined of late
years—these young fellows won’t prac-
tise their art as their fathers did —reached
its highest standard in Darling’s day, and
he held the fort against a wonderful
band of trundlers: Richardson, Lock-
wood, Peel, Briggs, Attewell, Trumble,
the McLeods and C. T. B. Turner.
While Eady was always the social
character. Darling carried his dour quali-
ties into public life. When Tasmania
had a Country party he joined it, and
long after it passed out he said defiantly
that he still considered himself a Country-
party man. Old as he was and ill, he
startled his fellow-politicians by launch-
ing a series of grave charges concerning
the administration of the Forestry De-
partment and demanding an inquiry by
a Judge with a royal commission. The
commission was handed to a Judge of the
N.S.W. District Court. Terms of refer-
ence were drawn up, and the ailing old
man briefed counsel to represent him.
Taken to hospital to undergo an opera-
tion, he died 13 days before the evidence
was to have been entered upon ; and that
no doubt will be the end of the inquiry.
Moscow Holds on Election.
“Tovarisch Needlenose” remembers:
Russia will hold a “general election” on Feb-
ruary 10, the first since 1937.
There is no law against betting on elections
in Russia because there is nothing to bet on,
the results being a dead certainty. The elec-
tions, of course, are “democratic,” as anybody
who reads Australian newspapers knows, but
the only thing that affects the result is a purge.
As Marshal Stalin explained to the Annual
Communist Conference in March, 1939, only
97 per cent, voted for the reigning party be-
fore the vipers of 1936 were shot, but the' poll
at the next election showed that 98.8 per cent,
supported the regime—a striking evidence, he
seemed to believe, of the popularity of his
methods.
Each electorate in Russia —656 in the Lower
House and 631 in the Upper—holds about
300,000 electors. The minimum voting age
is 18.
At the last election Comrade Stalin made
a memorable speech: —•
Elections in other countries are con-
ducted as clashes of class, against' class.
There is pressure of the sharks of Capital-
ism! We have no pressure here by haves
or have-nots None can put pressure on
the people to manipulate the elections.
That is why our elections are the only
pre-democratic elections in the world
Comrades, I assure you, you can depend
on Comrade Stalin.
As the Young Communist surmised, no can-
didate could square it with his eonscience to
stand against the Government candidate, and
this condition ruled in almost every other elec-
torate. Almost every candidate was unopposed,
but nevertheless all electors rolled (or were
rolled) up to vote.
Excitement grew when the Hero Voroshilov
proclaimed that it was the policy of the Gov-
ernment never to rest in its objectives till “all
the enemies of Socialism are destroyed com-
pletely... .They will be destroyed like worms.”
Nobody realised that within four years appeals
would be going out to the “sharks of Capital-
ism” and the enemies of Socialism to save
the U.S.S.R.
Molotov made his contribution: “We have
enemies among the people. However, we have
learned to dispose of them! The Trotskyists
and others are living their last days!”
It was after this that two of the three
opposition candidates disappeared. One was
found to be a Trotskyite and another de-
parted from life leaving a note telling of his
remorse at having had the temerity even to con-
sider standing against Stalin’s nominee. The
remaining opposition withdrew “fpr reasons
of health.”
From Uzbekistan came the news that Moham-
medan' husbands were murdering their wives
to save them from the contamination of the
new rite of suffrage. And the results were
magnificent.
If Comrade Stalin romped home against an
empty ballot paper with 128,000 votes more
than there were in his electorate, no injustice
was done to anybody. Moscow held it up as
an evidence of the electors’ overwhelming en-
thusiasm.
Missing Men.
Another aspect of the Australian agri-
cultural scene:
One of the worst features is that we cannot
afford the farm worker Adequate permanent
and skilled farm labor is vital to a sound
rural economy The rest of the world can
afford the luxury of the skilled ploughman,
but to us there is neither luxury nor skill in
ploughing. The rest of the world can afford
to have skilled cattlemen, men who have dedi-
cated their lives to the breeding and rearing
and care of cattle; but our cattle are left to
chance and the dispensation of providence.
The rest of the world can afford the excess
of shepherds, but we, who have perhaps the
greatest pastoral country in the world, leave our
sheep neglected to the untender mercy of
the elements in the sheltered seclusion of a
wire fence!
Agricultural operations call for skill, experi-
ence and natural aptitude. To the rest of the
world the farm worker is an indispensable
craftsman... .Within his employment he has an
opportunity for a full and rich life. He has his
home, his family, his social independence and
his professional pride. No country has ever
survived without the skilled land operative
and no country ever will
In the spoliation of the land no one has
suffered more than the farm worker. By his
labors we developed this country—and we know
him not. The farm workers have died on
every battlefield for a democracy that has
despised and rejected them To expect the
survivors to return from the glory of war to
the horrors of the old peace—the lonely road,
the swagman’s camp, the feast and famine of
casual labor —is to expect the impossible.
Taken, without permission or remorse,
but with thanks, from Now Blame the
Farmer, by Hugh S. Roberton, a farmer
of Old Junee (N.S.W.), whose misfortune
is that compositors will spell his surname
with an “s.” He hopes to get it into
“Hansard” without the sibilant.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of. Agricultural Insurance
~ 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Your WILL ...
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by haying
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
his Solicitor and appointing a qualified Executor and
Trustee.
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expeit
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
s
i
N
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
p. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY -
Do you need a S
Jhan/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
throueh the Personal Loans Depart-
ment B of the Rural Bank. Old debts
mav be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms*
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal L6ans Depart-
ment.
/HuhalEmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The Communist strikes are off—at
least, for a few weeks. Re-registration
of the Ironworkers was refused, then
granted when the Communists promised to
be good. And the N.S.W. coalminers re-
turned to the job after having been idle
from December 5 to December 19 dnd
from December 22 to January 6. January
is always a languid month for them, 10
per cent, off the “working” week being
the usual thing ; but optimists cherish the
hope that this time they will toil like
beavers.
Titles is one of the many subjects on
which Maoriland Labor differs from Aus-
tralian Labor. It recommended eight per-
sons, four of them servicemen, for New
Year knighthoods. Canberra ignored all
claims save those of Beasley, who was
made a P.C. It is not even consistent m
its churlishness. It got a K.C.M.G. two
years ago for Shedden, the Secretary or
Defence.
Along with their eight-page starting-
price gazettes, the Sydney morning
papers recorded on Friday that a Jewish
lady, who combined s.-p. bookmaking
with the vending of cigarettes, had been
done to death in her York-street kiosk.
The “Daily Mirror” came out with the
juiciest account: “After battering Mrs.
Wicks on the head and knocking her un-
conscious to the floor, the slayer, his
clothes splashed with blood, looped the
rope round the woman’s neck and twisted
it ruthlessly till she was dead. In a
really civilised community this would
sicken responsible newspapers and decent
people of the s.-p. business.
To some Unknown Soldier at Lae The
Bulletin is indebted for a copy of Scor-
field’s cartoon . “Melody for the
Marooned” (B. 21/11/’45), with the gag
“This is Bing Forde crooning one of the
songs all you soldiers love —‘You’ll be
Home for Christmas, But Only in Your
Dreams.’ ” There was a typed comment
—“Please forward to Fordie from the
boys at Lae, requesting that he sing it
again for Christmas, 1946.”
To do Chifley justice, «he is never back-
ward in expressing Australia’s admiration
for and gratitude to General Mac Arthur.
It is a wonder he never objects to
A,B.C.’s attacks on MacArthur as served
up in the “ ‘Australian’ news summary”
for which Professor Julius Stone is re-
sponsible, presumably under engagement
to Mr. Moses. The attacks are in the
Moscow vein. The attacker was glad
enough to come to Australia when
General MacArthur was here and take a
Sydney Law School appointment for
which Australian servicemen had disre-
garded claims. When settled in his com-
parative sinecure he proclaimed himself
an impassioned Zionist and attacked
Isaac Isaacs, the greatest living Australian
of the Jewish faith—but that is another
story.
Early in the German war a Mr. Azzo-
lino Orlando Romano, who runs a dinner-
dance joint in Sydney, was fined £5OO for
income-tax cheating. Azzolino has now
become a hero to the daily and Sunday
papers, being the owner of a string of
racehorses, one of which, bought for 2600
guineas, has won him a king s ransom
in stake-money and wagers ; “and 10,000
guineas wouldn’t buy him.” Azzolino s
glory has eclipsed, at least temporarily,
that of a Mr. Bendrodt, who runs a
rival dinner-dance joint and racing
stable, and whose horse War Eagle, sent
to Melbourne for the Cup by special float,
with Mr. Bendrodt superintending the
passage —in a private car—has failed ex-
pansively and often. As some consolation
for these disappointments, two English
horses consigned to Mr. Bendrodt have
arrived in Sydney. What a wonderful
war it must have been for Romanos and
Bendrodts and Bung and the Bookie!
In Zionist propaganda, as shouted on
American platforms and in American
newspapers, Britain figures as The Enemy
just as Nazi Germany did before Britain
offered armed resistance to Nazi Germany
and stood against the European Axis
alone. About the mildest sentence in a
page advertisement in the New York
“Post,” which is owned by a Jewish lady,
affirms that “further postponement of the
settlement of the issue will result in bitter
and determined Jewish resistance to
Britain not only in Palestine but through-
out the world.” If Australia had a real
Government Australia, continually
pestered to hand over a great part of the
Kimberleys for a Jewish settlement and
to accept Jewish immigrants in other
parts —it would take a hand in this game.
What passes for a Government has made
some mysterious move in the latter direc-
tion, but seems afraid to say what is really
afoot.
Chifley has some abject admirers in the
Sydney “Sun” office. The Sunday issue
hailed him as “the Man of the Year,” and
the trifling reduction in the exorbitant in-
come tax —it works out at a shilling to two
bob a week in most cases —was described
in the daily issue as “Mr. Chifley’s New
Year gift to the people.” Britain, Canada
and the U.S.A. have had much more
gerferous income-tax reductions (with
one-third off the British excess-profits tax
as well) without any newspaper being
moved to give all the credit to Attlee,
Truman or Mackenzie King.
“S. M. Herald” “looks” at Communists,
and counsels its readers to “look”—pre-
sumably if they are not too exhausted
after poring over the “Herald’s” eight-
page starting-price supplement: — 1
How is it that they, a minority in every
union, have managed to grasp control of
some of the biggest unions in Australia
and are spreading their influence far and
wide?
Well (though the “Herald” doesn’t say
so), it goes back to the “reporting” of the
Russian war by newspapermen who never
saw a battle or even a skirmish; “report-
ing” in which the Russians were repre-
sented as ever-victorious supermen, trans-
formed from Czarist cannon fodder by
their system. The Communists cashed-in
on this serial story, which ran for four
years, and the mugs,* educated and un-
educated, believed, and still believe, it.
The charm which Australian journals—
Sydney above all —placed in the hands
of Communists could be snapped by regu-
lar and unvarnished accounts of Red
Army behavior not only in Germany but
in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria,
Hungary, Bulgaria and Rumania. Ample
materials are available, even in Leftist
papers like the Chicago “Sun.” A War-
saw correspondent of that journal, an-
nouncing the formation of a new party
by Mikolajczyk, the former Premier in
exile, reluctantly admits that his party
rakes in the peasants, who blame the
Government for the conduct of the Rus-
sian soldiers,” and that “the departure of
Russian troops” is a prime necessity if
the Communist-controlled Administration
is not to fall. And for pointing of the
moral there are the Communist electoral
routs in coerced Hungary and stricken
Austria, which was Russophile till baited
into hatred by organised Red Army loot-
ing and wholesale rape and private rob-
bery. But the necessary debunking job
is not done. Papers like “S. M. Herald”
prefer to let boy-reporters gird at the
British in Java and write romantic rub-
bish about the set of Malay savages,
largely “little boys” that “shoot and stab,”
who pass for “Indonesian nationalists”
and who received their arms and their
coaching in murder and mutilation from
the Japs.
Just before somebody discovered Hit-
ler’s last will and testament (if anybody
did) Dorothy Thompson, who used to
have Leftist leanings, was provoked into
writing that “the Soviets have resumed
their never-abandoned world revolution,
now extended without their borders with
immense armed force.”
On strategy, Sovietism exactly follows
Hitler, except that it is addresssed to
different classes. For “New Order” read
“New Democracies”; for “Quisling” read
“Friendly Government”; for “Pan-German-
ism” read “Pan-Slavism”; for “The Master
Race” read “The 'Master Idea”; and for
“Communist,” indiscriminately applied to
every opponent, read “Fascist.”
The lady reserved most of the blame for
“our leaders,” who, she said, “accepted
the partition of Poland without a stric-
ture on how it should be carried out;
agreed to ‘free elections’ without estab-
lishing conditions to prevent false plebi-
scites ; admitted Soviet ‘spheres’ without
providing for their military neutralisation,
and accepted armed guerrillas as libera-
tors without assuring against their use
of our arms to establish themselves in
unchallengable power.” What she wrote
when Byrnes surrendered to Molotov at
Moscow is not on record. Perhaps she
had a fit.
As it appeared in the Leftist “Nation,”
introduced by a reference to “the
slaughter of hapless Indonesians at Soura-
baya”:—
Australian Labor, with Government sup-
port, has blacklisted all Dutch military
supplies for Indonesia, and has denounced
the British Labor Government for its
“strikebreaking action against its brother
Labor movement in Australia.”
The stuff was published in New York on
Saturday, November 17. It must have
been exciting reading for Dr. Evatt.
Justice Ligertwood’s fifty-fifty conclu-
sions in the case of General Bennett
look eminently fair. No one ever
doubted Bennett’s courage or devotion
to Australia, but he made an inquiry in-
evitable by throwing in his lot with that
foolish paper the Sydney “Sun” and palp-
ably with advice —and apparently assist-
ance —from that quarter, publishing his
wounding book. Associating itself with
a blackguardly Communist attack on the
unhappy British commander when, being,
in a Jap prison camp, he could not de-
fend himself, the “Sun” in its “Fact”
supplement had “G.O.C. Malaya Lieut.-
General A. E. Percival marching towards
the conquering General Yamashita be-
hind the white flag and the Union Jack.”
On the evidence of a “Sun” photograph
(origin undisclosed) the “behind” was a
putrid lie, and, while availing himself
of his rights under military law, General
Percival, to save a useless effusion of
blood, had to conform to the requirements
of the enemy commander, “the Japanese
declining to negotiate with anyone but
General Percival” (Justice Ligertwood).
But the “Sun” has never had the common
decency to withdraw and apologise.
Though the “Daily Telegraph” was
issued from “Smith’s Weekly” office
during Sydney’s power-rationing period
(“Smith’s” has a diesel) and power from
the mains was denied to weekly news-
paners (except half-rations for one issue),
“Women’s Weekly,” the other Theodore-
Packer sheet, was on Sydney streets every
week. Ted and Frank must have invoked
the aid of Mandrake the Magician.
During the powers referendum cam-
paign Dr. Evatt revealed that abolition
of “hire and ‘fire’ ” was one of the
things aimed at (“the right to ‘fire’ is
characteristic of the social system against
which the Labor movement must* fight
and win”). Christchurch (M.L.) guards
and shunters having decided that if any
member of their branch of the railway-
men’s union should be “suspended or dis-
missed for any reason other than being
under the influence of alcohol, a stop-
work meeting of the Canterbury branch
should be called,” Bob Semple, the Labor
Minister of Railways, said that it would
mean “surrender of the control of
the department and running of the
service on go-as-ypu-please lines, Rafferty
rules; and no Government could tolerate
that kind of conduct for one moment.”
Though Australian by birth, Semple
doesn’t realise the kind of Labor Govern-
ment that has arrived in Australia. Maori-
land Labor is very different.
Woodrow Wilson and Dr. Evatt had
their Fourteen Points, and Queensland
has Fourteen Boards with much more
enduring qualities: Arrowroot, Banana,
Barley, Brown Millet, Butter, Cheese,
Cotton, Dairy Products Stabilisation,
Egg, Ginger, Honey, Meat Industry, Ply-
wood and Veneer and Sugar. They all
did pretty well during the war, but not
so well as the Government railways,
which, “due to war traffic,” as the
Auditor - General baldly puts it,
socked away £3,350,000 in three years
“for railway purposes.” But the halcyon
days are over, and railway finance is
giving the Commissioner a return of the
old headache. Even in 1940-41, with
£28,000,000 written oft capital in 1931
it meant transferring over £1,000,000 of
the annual interest bill to the taxpayers
—there was a failure to make ends meet.
Obviously, what the Labor Govern-
ments of Sydney and Canberra should do
is set up Commonwealth and State
Ministries for Rationing. There is no
question but that the Red Fascists, hav-
ing got away with the strikes, without
punishment or fear of it from “ ‘Labor
Governments,” will have another crack
soon, and another one after that. And
there is no question but that the Labor
Governments” will promptly clap ration-
ing” on the public, for that is all they re
capable of doing.
Queensland Labor Government s ex-
pected opposition to continuance of uni-
form taxation could be inspired by (D a
desire to get back into the tax field so
that it can bust up its war-time surpluses
without worrying about Commonwealth
hand-outs ; (2) a fear that the movements
in north and west for creation of new
States have a better chance under uni-
form taxation than if Brisbane is allowed
to handle the cash.
Foward, Mr. Forde!
On January 3 a British naval public relations
statement quoted a signal received from land
forces, H.Q., Melbourne, ]ust as H.M.S. Im-
placable and Vindex were preparing to bring
back A.I.F. units from Borneo;
We have sufficient military shipping avail-
able to meet immediate transport commit-
*ments. Ships available are sufficient to
make the transport of troops ready to come
faster than if R.N. vessels could collect
them.
Mr. Chifley the same day said he had told
Wewak troops that one of the difficulties m
getting them away was the lack of shipping to
remove Jap prisoners whom they must guard,
though “we hope to get all the Japs out by
the end of January”— at least he hoped the
Americans would do it for him. lhat same
day Mr Forde said that with the assistance of
the Navy War Office and the Shipping Control
Board ships were available to bring home all
surplus troops in January, so that further use
of naval ships “could not be profitably made
in time”; anyway, they were “unsuitable for
carrying the stores and heavy equipment which
accompany Australian armed forces. T. s
effort being drowned in a gale of derisive
laughter, the Minister, whose electorate is appro-
priately named after a goat, spent the week
thinking up something new. On Sunday he
babbled that the statement that R.N- ships had
been refused had “given a false impression.
Actually “an attempt by the South-East Asia
Command to divert shipping allotted for the re-
patriation of A.I.F. men” had been “success-
fully resisted.” Had the offer been accepted
“the troops would have been home some weeks
later ” Exactly how this could be, seeing that
thei fast carriers were leaving at once and that
the R N proposed to bring the men home in
January, it is difficult to understand; but there
was something more from Capncornia, via
Sydney: “It is not suggested that the S.E.
Asia Command was not justified in its attempt
to obtain additional shipping, but charity be-
gins at home.” If that yarn doesn’t do the
trick no doubt Mr. Forde will fry another.


(VllcU^
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Killed in an air crash at Labuan at the
age of 31, Group-Captain Lyle Charles
Holdswich was a member of the perma-
nent Air Force and one of the youngest
officers to hold that rank. He joined the
service in 1933, and at the outbreak of
war was a flight-lieut. He was a member
of a special instructional flight at Rich-
mond early in 1940 on Wirraways, which
included such men as Sam Balmer
Peter Jefferey, Bunny Hammond, Tony
Primrose and Jack Wright. In 1942 he
was given command of 13 Squadron
which, equipped with Hudson Lockheeds,
put up a great show against the Japs in
the north. Holdswich was mentioned in
dispatches, and at* the time of his death
he commanded 86 Wing.
New secretary to Melbourne Conserva-
torium of Music in succession to Sutton
Crowe, Pauli Fidian is a barrister, but it
is a long time since he bothered about a
brief. As a law student he wanted to be
an opera singer, and when the Tails
organised grand opera in 1931, he got into
the chorus, and before long was manag-
ing it: The day he was admitted to the
Bar Professor Heinze asked him to be-
come assistant secretary at the Conserva-
torium, and while he was practising as a
solicitor A.B.C. used him to manage their
concerts. Then he became secretary of
the Philharmonics. His possession of a
voice and a flair for comedy gained him
the distinction of being the only Lord
High Executioner in Melbourne for many
years who wasn’t Ivan Menzies. That
famous Gilsullivanite having refused to
appear in “The Mikado” in war-time,
Fiddian stepped into a role that had more
Menzies in it than Gilbert.
An unobtrusive official visitor to his
native Australia, Major-General W. J.
Cawthorn, C.1.E., C.8.E., Director of
Military Intelligence, G.H.Q., Indian
Command, since 1941. Hailing from
Rokeby (Vic.), he had his first taste of
action with the 22nd Battalion, A.1.F., on
Gallipoli. In World War II he was oij
Wavell’s staff in Egypt before he went to
his present post. His wife was a daughter
of Padre Gillison (old 14th), who played
a grand part in the rescue of wounded
in the scrub fire which caught the A.I.F.
and Hampshires on August 21, 1915,
during the Hill 60 operatons at Anzac.
Gillison died next day of wounds re-
ceived from a Turkish sniper while he
and the Rev. C. R. Pittendrigh, who was
serving as a corporal stretcherbearer, were
rescuing a wounded man. Pittendrigh,
who hailed from Lithgow (N.S.W.), was
also wounded and died a few days later.
The man behind the bombers;
In honoring Air Commodore Patrick Huskin-
son with the Army Legion of Merit America
has shown recognition to a blind man who re-
fused to be defeated by darkness.
As President of Britain’s Air Armament
Board Huskinson’s job was to co-ordinate the
work of the scientists and experts who de-
signed bombs and other weapons for air war-
fare. In April, 1941, a Heinkel raid on London
left him completely blind. But his mind
and his inner vision were as keen as ever, and
he was back on the job almost right away with
a very personal interest in producing bigger
and better bombs.
Lord Beaverbrook once spoke of him as “the
man who designs bombs. Big bombs, fat
bombs, thin bombs, beautiful bombs. And he
puts his heart into it,” “Beaver” added.
How much Huskinson put his heart into it
became apparent as 1000-pounders gave way
to 2000- and 4000-pounders m attacks on Ger-
man industrial targets. Then came the 8000-
pound “block-busters,” and finally “Ten-ton
Tess”
Air Commodore Huskinson joined the old
Royal Flying Corps at 18, shot down 14 Hun
aircraft in the last war and won his M.C. for
taking his rickety biplane in the teeth of Ger-
man guns to destroy a train—an early example
to the train-buster squadrons of the late war.
The citation to his Legion of Merit refers to his
contribution to the efficiency of the American
Air Force. A C.B.E. and a bar to his M!C.
are Britain’s recognition of his service in two
wars. As an inspiration to the sightless his
work is above reward.
The Soviet’s representative in Maori-
land, Ivan Kemilovich Ziabkin, is 43, and
graduated from the Electro-mechanics’
Institute of Leningrad. He did a spot of
lecturing in that city, and from 1939 to
1944 was attached to the People’s Com-
missariat of Foreign Affairs, Before com-
ing to the Pacific he represented Uncle
Joe in South Africa.
“Bar Din” on the Deputy Chief of
Staff;
Late in 1943 a batch of us, repatriated p.-0.-w.
fresh ‘from Germany, . ran into Lieut-General
Rowell in a N.A.A.F.I. hall at Sidi Bishr, not
far from Alex. The purpose of the meeting was
twofold; to give us the lowdown on our
immediate future (he gave us the welcome news
that we would be home for Christmas) and
to tell us something of the war, particularly
the part played in it by the A.I.F. There was
a formidable gap in our knowledge at that
time, incompletely filled with wild legends and
distorted facts. From Rowell we learnt exactly
what the A.I.F. had done since our capture,
with vivid little sketches of campaigns, stiffened
by facts which we would have sought in vain
in newspaper articles or non-official publi-
cations. The kind of stuff which comes out in
history books. Some of his answers to questions
stuck in my mind. Asked a ticklish question
about a certain unit, he said something which
was provocative of thought. He said one of
the lessons of modern warfare was that there
were no such things as good units and bad
units. What was important was whether the
units had good or poor officers. Apropos Jap
atrocities, he mentioned a woman missionary
who declined to evacuate from a N.G. danger
belt, saying if was the will of God that she
remain. Rowell, at that time G.0.C., sent back
a message stating that it was the will of the
G.O.C, that she be evacuated, by force if
necessary. The lady came.
When we met him at Sidi Bishr Rowell was
a major-general, G.O.C. A.I.F. Middle East and
Australian liaison officer in those parts. As
such he was responsible for our welfare, and
we had reason to be grateful that he was in
that position. Still, most of us were amazed
that he was occupying such a relatively minor
post. From June, 1940, to August, 1941, he had
been Brigadier General Staff of the First Aust.
Corps. He served in Libya, Greece and Syria
in 1941 and collected the C.B.E. and Greek
Military Cross. Recalled to Australia, he be-
came Major-General and Deputy Chief of
General Staff, and in April, 1942, a lieut.-
general and corps commander; by August he
was G.O.C.’ New Guinea Force. Apparently
the British Army must have thought as we
did, for not long after he addressed us he
was made Director of Tactical Investigation
at the War Office. The C.B. he received in the
New Year’s honors list is a recognition of his
work there.
Members of the U.S. Consular Service
have many things to consider when
offered a new post, but the only question
Knowlton V. Hicks asks is whether the
joint has a camera club. Adelaide quali-
fies by this standard, so when Hicks was
NEW CONSUL.
asked to take on the job as U.S, Vice
Consul in South Australia he had no hesi-
tation in packing up his photos of Vesu-
vius and bomb-shattered Naples and leav-
ing Italy for Adelaide. Twenty-three
years in the service, Hicks has looked
after the interests of Americans in Ham-
burg, Brussels, Stockholm and Budapest,
and in the process has used every means
of transport except a camel. South Aus-
tralians being hospitable people, he will
probably get the opportunity of making
good this deficiency.
The unexpected retirement of Tom
Brodie, of M.L., after nearly half a cen-
tury on the teaching staff of Wellington
College, was not because he “licked”
Bernard Freyberg in his youth. The Gov.-
Gen. designate of M.L. was not the only
big man Brodie taught as a small boy.
Arthur Coningham, Justice Northcroft,
H. G. R. Mason and Prof. P. W. Bur-
bidge were a few of the others. His
long term at the college was broken only
by three years’ overseas service in World
War I.
Cardinal-elect, Dr. Norman Thomas
Gilroy, Archbishop of Sydney, has man-
aged to crowd a somewhat wider, and
certainly more varied, experience into his
first 50 years than most of his colleagues
in the College of Cardinals, Many of
them have seen war, but few can have
taken other than a cleric’s part in it.
Gilroy, the first Australian-born Cardi-
nal, had an Australian’s part in the events
which marked the birth of Australia as
NEW CARDINAL.
a nation. He was a wireless telegraphist
on one of the transports which carried
Australian troops to their landing on
Gallipoli, His ship was the Hessen, the
first German merchant ship taken in Aus-
tralia, She was fitted with wireless by
the Australian Government, and Gilroy
was one of two telegraphists taken from
the Post Office to learn the new job. He
went back to the Post Office, and it
wasn’t till 1919 that he decided for the
Church. Even now> he says, if he walks
into a post office, he can read the tele-
graphist’s key; it’s a thing never for-
gotten once learnt. When Dr. Gilroy
goes to Rome for the Consistory at which
the Pope will confer the Hat which sym-
bolises his new dignity, he’ll find two old
acquaintances among the new Cardinals.
The Patriarch of Cilicia of the Armenians,
Gregory Aggianian, and the Archbishop
of Palermo, Ernest Ruffini, were among
his teachers at Propaganda College when
the Australian was doing his early train-
ing. Both will receive their Hats at the
same time as their pupil. Dubois has
pictured Dr. Gilroy’s Hat in the position
on the shelf it will mostly occupy no
matter how long a time he owns it. It
is worn once only, on the day the Pope
places it on the new Cardinal. It isn’t
brought out again until it is placed on
the Cardinal’s coffin after his death.
George Frederick Jenkins, M.H.A., of
S.A., who became a knight' in the New
Year honors, has held portfolios under
three Ministries since 1922. At present
Playford’s Minister of Agriculture and
Afforestation, he filled the same office
and was known as “Public Works” under
Barwell; later he was Crown Lands
and Local Government under Butler.
His administration brought forth the
Pastoral Act of the late ’twenties,
and during last session the import-
ant Soil Conservation Act. A prac-
tical grazier and farmer, he was first
elected M.H.A. for Burra Burra in 1918,
and was president of the Liberal Federa-
tion 1924-27. A former president of the
Graziers’ Federal Council of Australia,
and the Stockowners’ Association of S.A.,
he’s now chairman of the S.A. Parliamen-
tary Liberal and Country party.
Maurice Baring, dead in London at
70, crowded a lot of writing and a
lot of travel into his allotted span. Join-
ing the Diplomatic Service in 1898, he
served in Paris, Copenhagen and Rome
before resigning in 1904 to cover the
Russo-Japanese War for the “Morning
Post.” Followed jobs as special corre-
spondent in Russia and Turkey and
“Times” correspondent in the Balkan
War, and at the outbreak of the first world
war he joined Intelligence Staff, Royal
Flying Corps, and rose to the rank of
wing-commander. Baring’s literary output
was prodigious. verse, essays,
plays, books of travel, translations, bio-
graphies and war histories are included
in a total of over 70 volumes bearing his
name.
“Slip” extols a great cricketer:
Joe Darling, dead at 75, was of the old-time
school who played the game for the thrill of
it. Stockily-built, he knew no fear, was devoid
of mannerisms, and was at his best when backs
were to the wall. Darling began Test' cricket
with a “duck” (Trumper and Harry Trott also
did that), bowled by Tom Richardson at the
S.C.G., Dec., 1894; but he wiped that smudge
off the score-book later on with interest. His
greatest season was in 1897-98 against Stod-
dart’s team in Australia, when he rattled up 537
runs at an average of 67 (the first time the half-
thousand runs were made by any player in a
Test series). His centuries were 101, 178 (out
of 573) and 160 (out of 276), and in the last
match with Jack Worrall 193 runs were scored
for the third wicket, to give Australia a wonder-
ful win by six wickets. In Test cricket Darling
amassed 1632 runs, averaging 30; and in Shef-
field Shield matches (for South Aus.) 1958 runs,
averaging 30. Maybe there have been greater
cricketers, but there have been few more like
able fellows.
Returning to England after a six
months’ stay in Melbourne, Captain
James Montgomerie Caulfeild, C.8.E., at
91 files a fair claim to being the oldest
sailor in the British Empire. That fact
was recognised by the Admiralty making
him its guest while in Australia. Captain
Caulfeild joined the Navy when he was
13, and saw his first action in Egypt two
years later. He was in the Sudan War
and West African campaigns, and came
out of retirement in World War I to train
sea scouts. He even volunteered for
service in this war and was given the job
of teaching sea scouts to tie knots. Many
admirals of the R.N. received their early
training at his hands.
Retiring after 25 years’ service. Very
Rev. Francis William Rolland, M.C.,
headmaster of Geelong College (Vic.).
Born at Sleepy Hollow in 1878, he was
educated at Toorak College and the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, and entered the
Presbyterian ministry. For his services
as an A.I.F. chaplain in the 1914-18 war
he was awarded the M.C. and was men-
tioned in dispatches. He took over Gee-
long College in 1920 after doing a post-
graduate course at Oxford and saw its
roll-call doubled before he retired. He
will be long remembered by old boys
for his friendliness and his trick of utter-
ing humorous absurdities with a poker
face. He once had a brush with The
Bulletin, but it left no hard feelings on
either side.
Into the silence:
At Ballarat, at 60, Frank Brendon Gavan
Duffy, barrister and solicitor and youngest of
the three surviving sons of Frank Gavan Duffy,
former C.J. He served in World War I, was
associate to Justice Higgins and then started
practice at Deniliquin.
At Heidelberg Military Hospital, from an
illness contracted during war service in the
Pacific, Rev. Thomas Craike Rentoul, one of
Victoria’s most vigorous Methodist clerics.
Born at Metcalfe, Vic., in 1882, he was edu-
cated at Queen’s College, Melbourne. He was
a chaplain in the 1914 war and Chaplain-
General in the last one. In between he covered
more ground as a missionary than any of his
colleagues. On -one occasion the Inland Mission
at Tennant Creek urgently called for an ambul-
ance. Rentoul personally- drove it from Mel-
bourne and returned through Darwin and W.A.
He was president of the Methodist Conference
in 1940.
In Brisbane, at 66, Herbert Yeates, M.L.A.
for East Toowoomba, and director of Yeates
Bros., stock and station agents. Yeates was
an earnest and well-informed student of poli-
tical affairs. His five sons all served in the
war, four of them reaching commissioned rank.
In. Brisbane, at 66, Albert J. Brennan, one of
Queensland’s best-known shipping men. A
cousin of Brennan, J., he served with the
A.U.S.N. company for almost 50 years.
At 73, as the result of a gan accident whilst
stalking a dingo, Robert Geoffrey Barton, of
Toweran station in the Port Curtis (Q.) dis-
trict. A leading pastoralist and breeder of
blood horses and Hereford cattle, he had for
many years taken an active part in the de-
velopment of the district.
At Malvern (Vic.), at 74, Frdnk Markland
Garson, first president of the Australian Funeral
Directors’ Association, past president Malvern
Tramways’ Bank, past president St. Kilda Foot-
ball Club, member Melbourne Bowling Club,
the V.R.C. and the Moonee Valley Racing Club.


Society
“Ike Hollar”: A broadcast speaker,
talking about women in politics, declared
that the greatest weakness of feminine
would-be politicians is their inability to
deal with interjectors and interrupters
without “losing their hats.” All right as
a generalisation, I suppose, but one of
the neatest verbal k.os. in my memory
was administered by a woman —Mrs.
Crawford Vaughan, in the days when she
was Miss Preston Stanley, M.L.A.
One of the most constant interjec-
tors at a particularly rowdy meeting
hurled at the speaker “How would you
like to be a man?” It raised a guffaw,
but the gale of laughter which followed
Miss Preston Stanley’s retort blew the in-
terjector right out of the meeting, “How
would you?” she asked sweetly.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Tarlton Rayment, Melbourne
novelist and bee expert, has had the ex-
perience, of having a manuscript trans-
lated, printed and published by the Japs
while they were in occupation of Java.
This was not a case of collaboration. Ray-
ment completed an extensive research into
biology of hymenoptera as occurring in
Australia, India, Japan and the Dutch
East Indies, and posted a copy to Buiten-
zorg a few weeks before the Jap got there.
He received a warm tribute from the
Director of the Dutch Museum and heard
nothing more about it. The Japanese
found the MS. and, recognising its value,
translated and printed it.
♦ * * *
“Co-re” enters the confessional:
As a professional breaker of marriages I
must take exception to the Queensland Gov-
ernment Statistician’s claim that the greatest
danger of divorce is from the sixth to the four-
teenth year of marriage. That authority is obvi-
ously mixing statistics with an old superstition
current when I first started out in my anti-
social profession, namely that the first seven
years of marriage are the worst. My uncle,
under whom I served my apprenticeship in home-
wrecking, was a great believer in the theory
and had a very successful run with it for many
years, but it landed him at last in the Bank-
ruptcy instead of the Divorce Court. Freed
from his influence I soon disproved his theory
and I have found that nuptial knots of any
number of years’ duration from one to 70 can
be untied with equal facility, given the inclina-
tion and the opportunity. The Statist quotes
a case where divorce ended a marriage after 49
years. I doubt this. In my experience the
couple would have held off for the Golden
Wedding. On the other hand, I have always
found the fifty-first year of presumed bliss a
very fruitful source of income to followers of
my calling. After listening to all the guff at
the Golden Wedding-breakfast one of the
parties decides to risk a final fling and finds
that is just what the other party is waiting for.
Bingo! Another happy marriage blighted.
“Bill Hilly”; “Dutigalla’s” complaint
(B. 19/12/’45) about the high cost of
bringing land under the Transfer of Land
Act will leave South Australians cold.
Attorney-General Abbott has put through
their Parliament an amending Act to
bring all “Old System” land under the
R.P.A., free of cost to its owners. Some-
how the Croweaters get things done while
the rest of Australia talks about ’em.
* * * *
“Sylvester”: Whatever may be said
about humanity, Mother Nature did hex
best to make Australia’s first peaceful
Christmas since 1938 a cheerful and a
pleasant One. Illawarra flame-trees
haven’t put on such a brave show for a
decade, and they were associated (and
contrasted) for the earlier part of the
Christmas month with the exotic jaca-
randa, exceptionally late-blooming. All
the flowering shrubs and trees, indigen-
ous and imported, did splendidly. Christ-
mas bush, oleanders, hibiscus, hydran-
geas and Westralian flowering gums ex-
celled themselves. In New South Wales
these have been garnished, as ever, by
roses of all breeds, and to give an extra-
characteristic flavor two or three varieties
of wattle, in creekbeds and sheltered val-
leys, prolonged their blooming period
over Christmas.
» * ♦ *
“A Major”: A suggestion by Benno
Moiseiwitsch that Australian composers
should make use of aboriginal musical
motifs has been arousing some contro-
versy, and proponents of the idea have,
very naturally, adduced the example of
Alfred Hill, whose work reminiscent of
Maori themes has been very appealing
and successful —the seldom-heard “Home,
Little Maori, Home,” seems to embody
the traditions of a thousand years. On
the other hand, it has been pointed out
that Beethoven, who by way of bread-
and-butter commissions “rearranged”
and edited collections of Irish, Scottish
and Welsh songs, succeeded merely in
drenching them with a Beethovenish
flavor that heavily disguised their national
characteristics. Anyway, the Australian
aboriginal psalmody doesn’t promise a
very fertile field in which to dig. The
traditional chants and dances of Papua,
some of which have been transcribed and
published, seem much more promising.
Moreover, the few notes that a composei
uses as his foundation stones when con-
structing a song or a symphony don’t
seem to matter much. Schumann got a
tune out of the letters of a sweetheart’s
surname, and Beethoven reared one of his
most magnificent tone cathedrals, the
“Thirty-three Variations,” on a small slab
of musical tripe by Diabelli. Give us
composers assisted by authentic inspira-
tion, and it won’t matter much to what
source they attribute their ideas.
* * * *
“Wewak”: A Moscow report tells how
when the three Foreign Ministers visited
the opera the audience rose and acclaimed
them in this strain: “Long live the repre-
sentatives of the three great friendly
nations, Britain, America and Russia.” I’m
always rather suspicious of these spon-
taneous outbursts. If, for instance, I
heard a Leichhardt Stadium audience rise
and declaim “Long live Eddie Ward, the
Workers’ friend and patron of the
Noble Art,” I would immediately sus-
pect in my sinister way that some friend
or enemy of Eddie was responsible for
the demonstration. The only genuine
example of spontaneous acclamation in
my experience occurred when Mr. Forde
visited pur unit in the Islands. Eight
hundred Diggers stood and shouted as
one man “Hurrah for the Honorable
Francis Michael Forde, M.H.R., Minister
for the Army and Architect of yictory.”
Or did I dream it?
*e He H 5 ♦
“Bobadoz” with some observations on
“rehabilitation”;
Ear-bashing sessions in the army got round
sooner or later to “what I want to do aftei
the war,” and, after giving cherished personal
hopes an airing, usually wound up on a note
of “suppose the ’ole lot of us ’ll be singin’
outside pubs or ’awking stuff round the streets,”
those being considered apparently the lowest
straits to which one could be reduced. The
suggestion always recalled to me a legless bloke
who for years had his stand outside the
largest suburban terminal in Sydney before Our
Bridge was built. An object for pity, in a
wheel chair, he passed the day plunking out a
few notes on a mandolin tunefully accom-
panied by the tinkling of small coin shower-
ing into his upturned lid. A friend of mine
had a standing arrangement with the “musician”
to change small coin into folding money, and
reckoned it was a poor week that failed to net
him 40 quid; 20 or 30 was a fair average foi
a Saturday alone. Myself, not caring to sit
in one spot all day and a very poor musician
to boot, my post-discharge plan is going to
call for a barrow, a small stock-in-trade, and
if business is not satisfactory in these parts, a
passage to England. Giving evidence recently
in a London police court, a 27-year-old coster-
monger who, in partnership with two of his
kin, sold roasted chestnuts and toffee apples
on the London streets, admitted that five weeks’
trading had netted them £1240; dissolving the
partnership, they had over £4OO each to show
for the month’s work.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: Twas a sweltering Sydney
summer day, so casting aside my daily
newspaper, filled with reports of crime
and photographs of minxes in attitudes
meant to be alluring, I made for Maroubra
Beach. Just as I was about to enter the
sandy foreshores a sinister black police
car pulled up and out hopped limbs
of the law with stern purpose written on
their faces. Aha, thought I, they have
word of some dangerous gunman revel-
ling on the sands or possibly have tracked
down the haunt of some mastermind
blackmarketeer! But no. Solemnly pro-
ducing tape measures, they strode purpose-
fully over to the long line of parked cars
and measured the distance every car was
parked from the kerb, booking those
which exceeded sft. 3yin. or whatever the
gauge is.
He * # *
“Listinsect”: A Victorian commercial
station has been putting over a serial life
of Melba. Various singers represent vari-
ous stages of the diva’s voice, the final
development of that glorious instrument
being entrusted to Toti dal Monte. A
touch of local color is provided by
choruses %ung by a choir of girls from
the school Melba attended when she was
plain Nellie Mitchell. Rather incongru-
ous, considering that the future queen of
the lyric stage, as spirited as a girl as she
was as a mature woman, was a thorn in
the side of the management of the school,
which nearly expelled her on more than
one occasion, and was more than a little
relieved when she left the institution.
sf: * H= *
“Si Anu”: One of the extraordinary
features of Changi, that strange world
within a world, was a ski club.
Members sat about in the stifling heat of
the tropics after their dinner of rice and
water and discussed the sport and its
Alpine environment, and even listened to
lectures by experts.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Cyanide of potassium
seems to be the whodunit writer’s favorite
standby nowadays. I’ll say it’s a mighty
powerful poison. The final act in the
cyanide process for gold extraction used
to be the drenching of the zinc slimes
residues with strong sulphuric acid, to
dissolve away small fragments of metallic
zinc which in avoid ably got mixed with
the slimes. This was done in a big porce-
lain vat, fitted with a movable hood,
which connected with a chimney-stalk to
carry off the fumes. These fumes were
deadly, for there was always a residue
of potassium cyanide in the slimes, which
when acted upon by the sulphuric pro-
duced hydrocyanic acid gas. The job of
operating this vat was usually entrusted to
one man. I recall a case where the opera-
tor had just poured in the acid when he
received a call from outside that he was
wanted on the ’phone. Hurrying out, he
had got part of the way when he remem-
bered that he had forgotten to pull the
hood down —at least, that is how they de-
duced it at the inquest. He was found
lying dead alongside the vat, the hood of
which was still half up.
* * * ♦
“King’s Pawn”: The British Chess
Association, which will hold its first
National Championship since the war next
July, has invited Australia to send a repre-
sentative. The condition requiring con-
testants to be of British birth excludes
Lajos Steiner, Koshnitsky (though Kosh
has been Australian since he was
18), Dr. May Gellis and Slazare,
Cecil Purdy, who would be the
national choice, is unable to make the
trip, being busy getting his chess maga-
zine back into pre-war shape; M. E.
Goldstein, likewise, is unavailable, and
there is doubt about Frank Crowl. The
likely Aussie rep. is Dr. W. J. Cornforth,
at present at Oxford, where he has been
engaged on war work. Maoriland may
be represented by Bob Wade, the 24-year-
old player who, in Sydney last September,
was bracketed second, with Purdy, to
Lajos Steiner. C. G. Watson, the Vic-
torian veteran, was sent to a long-ago
British chess congress and finished
seventh.
* sfc ♦
“Looby”: On the sixth floor of a de-
partment store in strike-cursed Sydney
three elevators were not working. A card
on one said “Please use next elevator.”
A card on the second said “Please use
next elevator.” A card on the third said
“Working,” but some poor cow had evi-
dently waited in vain at it, for he had
turned it over and pencilled on it the
laconic message: “Walk and save time.”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Recent glider flights of 165
and 205 miles, reaching heights up to
5000 feet, making gliding seem as safe as
yachting. It wasn’t always so. In the
’nineties Lilienthal, Pilcher and other
pioneers were killed in machines which
flew only a few hundred feet and which
were airborne for two or three minutes
at the most. One of the most amazing
flights in history was made over a century
ago by a Frenchman, Le Bris. Modelling
his glider on the albatross, he anticipated
the towed take-off by hiring a farmer’s
cart to launch his ’plane. The farmer
whipped .up his horses and up soared the
’plane with Le Bris triumphantly aboard.
Next moment the farmer was flying, too,
as the towrope whisked him up into the
air struggling and shrieking fierce Gallic
curses. Le Bris and his unwilling pas-
senger landed safely, but subsequent
flights without the farmer as pendulum
were not so successful.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The revival of the
Rhodes scholarships sets me wondering
whether that magnificent benefaction has
been justified by results. Under the terms
of Rhodes’s will candidates must be un-
married males between 19 and 25 (an
exception has been made in the case of a
married Digger), college and university
students who have achieved distinc-
tion on two sides scholarship and
athletics. Rhodes didn’t want the
mediocre, he wanted the first-class;
but no Rhodes scholar has achieved
greatness. Some may have become rela-
tively distinguished as lawyers, adminis-
trators and politicians, but none have at-
tained the higher reaches. . Possibly
Rhodes’s insistence on combining brains
and brawn was the snag.
He * * *
“Adelaide”: Selbome Chambers in
Pirie-street, named by Josiah Symon,
K.C., after an English Judge, and itself
a former home of Judge Piper and of
Judge Cleland, has been sold for £28,700.
A “ceiling price” was fixed or more could
readily have been got. Albion Chambers,
another nest of lawyers’ offices, has
fetched nearly as much.
* * * *
“Earpunisher”: If Melbourne’s Mayor
Connelly wants an argument to counter
the specious and reckless charges levelled
at him by wowsers who object to his
efforts to reform the city’s drinking habits
he couldn’t do better than cite the case
of the aborigines of a Pacific island under
Australian mandate. These aborigines
used to brew a delicious alcoholic bever-
age made with yeast, but the authorities
disapproved of the natives indulgence
in this liquor, and imposed prohibitory
legislation. /The results were unexpected.
It is true that every adult aborigine went
to bed stone sober and passed the day in
the same sad state, but beri-beri in an
acute fulminating form broke out among
breast-fed infants. Investigation revealed
that the population had been getting its
main supply of vitamin B from its intoxi-
cating liquor. The authorities hastily
removed the prohibition, beri-beri van-
ished and infant mortality fell from 50
p.c. to seven. The story is given in the
“Lancet.”
EUPHEMISMS.
“Mr. Chifley, in his New Year message to the
people, referred to the hold-up of uie nation uy
Communist-dominated unions as ‘industrial disloca-
tion.’ ”
An echo, here, of words let fall
Long since in one of Shakspeare’s plays,
Pistol’s “Convey, the wise it call.
Steal? Foh! a fico for the phrase!”
A planned and wanton onslaught on
Order and law and Arbitration
Becomes in Chifley’s lexicon
Merely “industrial dislocation.”
A euphemism is defined —
So any diction’ry affirms —
As putting something that’s unkind
And harsh in milder, gentler terms.
And in this edifying game
It surely seems as clear as crystal
That Ben brings very much the same
Attainments to the job as Pistol.
Allusions to a vicious strike,
Envisaging a lawless act,
He views with evident dislike
And sets aside with guileful tact.
What need to deal in words that grate
Upon fastidious constitutions
When there are always delicate
And politic circumlocutions?
Why should one call a spade a spade
Should it be more expedient
To have the same utensil made
An agricultural implement?
When Chifley wants a synonym
For miners holding up a nation
By downing tools, observe —to him —
It’s just “industrial dislocation.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”; Learned conclusions of a
sub-committee of sociologists who studied
the way of the Yanks with Out Girls:
The Australian girl found her knowledge
of her country appreciated, her information
listened to with attention, her opinion con-
sidered. She was expected to know the
geography of the country, the political
relation of Federal territory and the States,
the physical geography .of the continent with
descriptive passages on soil erosion with
reference to the Australian interior, b'illa-
bongs, runaway-holes, mulga, willy-willies,
southerly busters, platypus, bandicoots,
sharks and sharks’ reactions to swimmers,
with special reference to the sharks referred
to by Mr. Beebe, Director of Tropical Re-
search of the New York Zoological Society.
She brushed up her knowledge of public
libraries. She became expert in discussing
which plan of architecture was best if a
library was regarded as pure display ot
was to be a home for the student. She
found it necessary to describe the difference
between a Labor College and a Workers’
Educational Association. She learned
whether a chair of music was attached fo
each university and how a musical degree
contrasted with a diploma. On all of these
and many other matters her information
was required by the American soldier and
was there for the emergency.
Hence presumably (among “many other
matters”), the “shiploads of Australian
brides.” This unique contribution to
social science is vouched for by a Miss
Christian Jollie Smith, and appears in a
periodical issued by the Australian Insti-
tute of Sociology. Rio Janeiro, please
copy!
* * * *
“Jib”: The Sydney-to-Hobart yacht
race, organised and raced as a sporting
event for sporting competitors, was
swooped upon by the Sydney dailies, who
made of it a poster-and-headline bean-
“ That's hardly fair!”
feast. The “Sun” lost Rani and Horizon
the first Saturday and found them on
Sunday • on Mnndav however it nm-
, • V«XT c? ° nda y> nowever, it pio
claimed No Sign of Lost Yachts ; Cata-
lina Is Combing Area,” and detailed a
method of combing by which the sea
could be “closelv observer! ” On Mon-
couiu oe Closely observed. Un Mon
day morning the missing yachts
hit the front page of the “Daily Tele-
graph”—“Air Search for Yachts. Two
Missing in Race to Tasmania.” Next
, - r » were tnld “Search
day D. 1. Elders were IOIU OedTCIl
for Yachts Fails, 5 and tildC SCOITied a
nQte y earn i n g i n the Sub-heading
ats May Have Been Dismasted.” On
a(terno ' n of New Year's Day “Sun”
headlines, announced “Yacht Rani Turns
Up. ... Running Second in Race,” but
' ' aide tn arlH plnnmilv “No Sign of
<Ve“D.T°™ound Ranf next
morning: “Missing Yacht Turns Up.
Will Win Race.” “S. M. Herald’s”
Special Reporter farewelled the yachts
off Sydney Heads on Boxing Day and
waxed lyrical about them: “each was
sure Q f her proper place in the hierarchy
of , sal j’ < f ach WaS manned by those
who delight to joust with blue water ,
but by the week-end the Special seemed to
think that Rani and Horizon at least had
lost t h e j r proper place and to doubt the
ability Of their crews to joust success-
fully with blue water. The “Daily
Mirror” joined in the headline holi-
i J n nanpr c wpre able
clay, and all me papers weie ao
to share in the dramatic victory
of the “missing” Rani, whose crew
were unaware till they crossed the finish-
“B line that the y had b ' een lost - If tbe
Sydney dailies were reporting a contest be-
tween a snail and a tortoise they would
make of it a breathtaking struggle with
, „ , , ... , , ,
a crawl-to-crawl description and a photo-
finish.
* * * *
“Hist”: Australia has been promised a
Peace issue of commemorative postage
stamps, but the P.M.G.’s Department re-
mains mum as to date of issue and de
si thus discouragjng dea | e rs from plac-
in B ’ ubstantial adv 6 an J e orders , The y do
thj differently in M I where revenue
tnmgs d rreicntiy in M.L., wneie revenu
from collector sales of stamps IS appreci-
ated. A set of 11 Peace stamps is an-
nounced, and a descriptive booklet is
~ ’ . , . , w .
available to anyone intei ested. Designs
are to be: |d., deep green and purple,
view of. Lake Matheson and Southern
A j ps . i d bright green, Parliament
„ £ ~ T .■
Buildings, With inset portrait of the King ;
lid., scarlet. Dome of St. Paul’s, in V-
shaped frame, with laurel leaves and
Union Jack in background ; 2d. purple,
the Royal Family ; 3d., blue and grey-
green, R.N.Z.A.F. badge and aeroplanes ;
4d., bronze-green and orange, army
,
badge, with desert and farm scenes , 5d.,
green and ultramarine, navy badge, with
warship and merchant vessel ; 6d., choco-
late and vermilion, N.Z. coat of arms,
... , , ’, . o ,
Wlth workshop and rural scenes ; Bd.,
black and crimson, stained-glass window
of Wellington College Memorial Hall ;
9d^., ultramarine and black, Southern Alps
anc j p ranz Josef Glacier as seen through
chapel window at Waiho Gorge ; Is., biue-
grey. National Memorial Campanile,
Wellington. Yes; they have other—and
better—notions beyond the Tasman,
* * * *
“Avon” on an early friend of Austra-
lasia:
Movements to enshrine the memory of Sir
Joseph Banks by publication of his Papers and
erection of a memorial at Kurnell, Botany Bay,
bring back to my mind a very extensive and
palpable memorial to that great man already
j n ex j s t e nce—the 300 miles-square Banks Penm-
sula, M.L. In the Museum in Christchurch,
whose flat streets lie almost under the shadow
of the Peninsula’s hills, there is a fine portrait
of Sir lose P h ’ Panted in his youth—a hand-
some young gentleman) with an air> l don - t
suppose he ever set foot on the promontory that
bears his name—it was coasted by the En-
deavour, in February 1769, when Cook was
P uttin g up a record for speedy, accurate chart-
jng of unknown waters . Banks was 25 then,
b ut a j re ady a mighty big figure in scientific
circles — his botanical studies had won him an
F.R.S. two years previously. In October, 1768,
he had put in “the most disagreeable day my
life has yet seen” at Poverty Bay, where it was
necessary to shoot four Maoris. Banks never
voyaged south again, but his influence on the
early history of Australia was enormous. It
was on his advice that the Botany Bay penal
colony was established. Governor King was
under his patronage; Bligh was his nominee,
and he continued, quite unofficially, to receive
reports on Australian affairs and to serve Aus-
tralian interest's until well after Macquarie’s
arrival in Sydney. In 1778, when he was 35,
Banks became President of the Royal Society
“Would you mind cawing the meat for
me, dear ?”
(he had long been its youngest Fellow on
record) and he continued in that office until he
died, childless, in 1820. For the last 14 years
his legs were paralysed.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Queensland’s remarkable
Department of Railways, in an interval
snatched from strangling road transport,
has told the Mareeba (N.Q.) Hospitals
Board that it can give no assistance
towards improving the rail ambulance
system used in that district for bringing
patients to hospital from anything up to
150 miles away. The present vehicle, a
home-made article, is powered with an
air-cooled motor-cycle engine of 1910
model, which overheats in summer and
has to be stopped for cooling every few
miles. It was described by the board’s
acting-chairman as too light for the
grades, and hazardous to patients and
crew. Among cases quoted as evidence
for replacing it by something better, was
one of a lad with a broken back who
spent 10 agonised hours in the antique
when a modern ambulance would have
got him to relief in five. A child with
infantile paralysis had to endure 11 hours
of it. As the board’s acting-chairman
tersely put it: “Apparently anything is
good enough for the people of the out-
back.”
* * * *.
“Loose Grid” on the march of radio:
Quoth the president of the Radio Corpora-
tion of U.S.A. at the year’s end: “First there
was wireless telegraphy; then there was the
broadcasting of the human voice; now we are
entering the era of radio sight.” What’s the
next step? Let’s wade 50 years into the future
and see. Scene, offices of Wireless Travel, Inc.
Prospective traveller approaches inquiry counter.
“You want transport, self and luggage, to
Kalamazoo, Wis.? Sorry, can’t do direct.
You’ll have to book to Chicago, 111., and
arrange there for branch transport. Single,
and 4001 b. luggage? That will be £44 7s. 3d.
including sales lax, insurance and international
fees. Sign here, please—and here, giving us
indemnity. Just a formality, I assure you.
Thank you. Take the lift to the fifth floor.”
On arrival at fifth floor, attendant takes over.
“Sit in there, please. Your luggage will be
taken care of separately. You have fasted for
24 hours? Good. Drink this. Just a mild
anassthetic; atomic disintegration and re-inte-
gration is sometimes a little unpleasant. Now
are you comfortable? Good-bye and bon
voyage.” Attendant watches through a little
grating. Humming and vibration. Passenger
and luggage grow hazy and dim, flicker and
vanish. In a similar cell in Chicago passenger
and luggage are reassembling. Inside a minute
and a half the transaction is completed. Ain’t
science wonderful?
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Publishers have found
worth while the publication of The Letters
of Annie S. Swan whose books in a
former day were foisted upon children
and juniors as doses of moral medicine.
Annie was daughter of a religious-minded
Brisbane journalist, and wrote some of
her early novels in Australia. For years
it was almost impossible to open a reli-
gious or semi-religious journal without
seeing attached to one of the serials ‘By
Annie S. Swan, author of (about a dozen
titles).”
“Tenterden”: The Worcestershire sauce
habit which “City Lights” (B. 19/12/’45)
attributes to pipe-smokers is really the
final stage of deterioration of the salt-
eater. From early infancy Australians
learn by imitation the constant use of salt.
No food is eaten until it has been liber-
ally sprinkled, and a final heap deposited
on the edge of the plate. Nowhere else
in the world is the cook’s best effort con-
demned before it’s tasted. It is only aftei
years of deprivation of any other flavor
that the taste-buds fail; and “if the salt
have lost its savour, wherewith shall it
be salted,” if there’s no Worcestershire
sauce on the table?
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: I see that Gandhi, at 76,
is writing a book, The Way to Health,
in which he sets out to
prove that man’s privileged
span is 125 years, which is
the age he expects to live
to. Why not? There is
the same divergency be-
tween vitality and age as
there is in personal ap-
pearance between human
beings. There have been
plenty of infant prodigies,
nine out of ten of whom
have never been heard of
after their first juvenile
performance, so why not
elderly prodigies for a
change? It is their inter-
ests that keep people alive,
and if they lose them they
can become old men at 20;
if they retain them, they
may, like Titian, paint
masterpieces at 90. If
Titian hadn’t died of the
plague at 99 he might have
lasted out the 125 years
expected by Gandhi.
Gandhi, if I know any-
thing about him, will attri-
bute his long and active
existence to abstention
from beer and beefsteak or
something of that sort.
whereas it is obvious that what keeps
him going is the intensity of his interests,
queer as they may seem to some people.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: The official viewpoint on
the problem of relief for starving Britain
seldom coincides with individual opinion.
It is proposed to send great quantities of
Australian wine to the stricken country,
but who asked for exactly that form of
“relief” is a mystery. A Digger, speaking
from Codger’s Inn, was asked to describe
the situation. “It’s very cold,” he said,
“but we have plenty of beer. What we
want is rabbits.” Why occupy space by
sending wipe if that’s the case?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: R.A.A.F. personnel at
Essendon airport, Melbourne, got a sur-
prise on Boxing Day when an unidenti-
fied flier came in at 2 p.m. on the wings
of a blistering northerly at 70 m.p.h. and,
with one wingtip almost touching the
ground, turned and made a landing after
a run of 10 yards. He was Harry Ryan,
a Sydney glider pilot, who had left Jeril-
dene (N.S.W.) at 10 that morning, and,
after rising 9000 feet, glided 165 miles to
Footscray, and then, as he nonchalantly
expressed it, landed because he “had run
out of country.” He and other members
of the Sydney Soaring Club set out on
Christmas Eve for a fortnight of record-
breaking, and the machine he was in had
already broken the Australian record with
a flight of 205 miles, with Martin Warner
as pilot.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The Victorian Institute for the
Blind has two blind Bachelors of Arts,
one in the realm of education, and the
only two blind Bachelors of Music in
the Southern Hemisphere. A blind girl
pupil is studying for the degree.
* * * *
“Labri”; Americans as a race seem
to place a lot of store on tradition, and
when it doesn’t spring up spontaneously
they believe in helping it along a bit. It
was a neat idea that the battleship Mis-
souri, on board which the Japanese
surrender documents were signed, should
fly two versions of “Old Glory”—the flag
that was flying over Pearl Harbor when
war struck the base, and the older, less-
bestarred banner that Admiral Perry
earned into Tokyo Bay the first time
Japan surrendered to U.S. In the “manu-
factured tradition” class is the U.S. flag
now touring the Pacific. It was flying
over the capital in Washington on V.P.-
day, and since then has been flown over
American Embassies at Tokyo, Chung-
king and American H.Q. in Korea,
Manila, Pearl Harbor, Saipan, Okinawa,
Kwajalein, Tinian, Guam, Iwo Jima and
Sydney. Other places are to be honored
before the flag is presented to the City of
Los Angeles.
LUCKY DOGS.
“Breeding and exporting greyhounds has become a
major industry in Eire, where the dogs are fed daily
on steak, eggs and beef soup, three times the weekly
ration of people in England.”— “S. M. Herald” cable.
Though Britain’s still in urgent need of succour
On the food front, from breakfast-time to
tea,
There’s always a sufficiency of tucker
For greyhounds t’otherside the Irish Sea.
Treasures in embryo, potential winners
Of stakes, when bred from old-established
stocks,
They feed like aldermen at old-time dinners
And live like fighting-cocks.
Time was when beef and products of the dairy,
Whisky and porter, too, one understands,
Were the most prized commodities that Eire
Sold from her ample store to neighboring
lands.
They were her staple goods as money-minters;
But now, it seems, there’s fatter profit in
These poor men’s racehorses, these canine
sprinters
After the hares of tin.
Across the seas they go, engrossing creatures,
For sport-adoring Sassenachs to plank
Their boodle on, and patently with features
Appealing just as surely to the Yank.
And when in hard-fought finishes they figure
Or quit to sire new champions at the stud,
What proofs they furnish of Hibernian vigor,
What ads. for Celtic blood!
It’s “O, to be in England” in his rippling
Verse Browning tells us. But one must allow
Our “live-meal, meat-fed men” (as viewed by
Kipling)
Would doubtfully appreciate it now.
Perhaps it’s all a matter of opinion;
But, adding all considerations up,
I’m sure I’d sooner be in Dev’s dominion—
Were I a greyhound pup.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: For the outbacker still waiting for
Governments to do more than talk about
their gigantic hydro-electric schemes,
and for the city dweller who is periodi-
cally held to ransom by the N.S.W.
coalies, I offer a house-lighting system
cheaper and more efficient than the
“karasene” lamp or the candle. Simply
get a mutton bird —sorry if you live in
the Dead Heart, but our southern coasts
and islands teem with countless millions
of them—and through the defunct fowl
thread a rush or a bootlace so that this
“wick” thrusts out between its mandibles.
The mutton bird is composed of about 90
p.c. of oil, and this impregnates the wick,
assuring a strong and steady light. As
the wick burns down it can be pulled up
with a pair of pliers. Anyone Who has
ever tried to eat mutton bird will agree
that this is the best possible use to which
the bird could be put.
¥*’ * *
“Dickie Beach”: With the coming of
summer the frigate birds, most graceful
of all flying creatures, are floating on long
motionless wings high above the beaches.
Occasionally they will glide swiftly and
smoothly down to pick up some small
sea creature from the ocean swells, but
these are merely snacks to whet their
appetites for the feast that is to come
when the gulls and terns return from
their fishing, gorged to repletion. Then
the black corsairs go into swift action.
Singling out a victim, preferably one on
the flank of the flock to give clear room
for attack, the fork-tailed pirate swoops
at terrific speed upon it. The unwilling
providore knows well that if it does not
disgorge hurriedly the fierce robber will
dislocate a wing-joint, or slash off a strip
of feathered skin with a sharp-hooked
beak. It jettisons its hard-won cargo, the
forceful guest swerves under it, collects
the glittering prize in mid-air, and seeks
another victim. Their aggressiveness and
appetites are in most active evidence just
before a spell of heavy weather. Know-
ing that their victims will not be able to
collect meals for them, they stoke up in
advance and make off to some calmer
latitude. To those streamlined bodies
with their 7ft. wingspread a few hundred
miles matter little.
* * ♦ ♦
“Gill Guy”: Through many years
among cattle covering three States I
have only once seen a cow with but
two teats. The freak was in the saleyards
at Goulburn (N.S.W.), and was disposed
of to a local butcher. The mammary
gland was not quartered in the usual
fashion and there were no signs of rudi-
mentary teats. The cow had a perfect
representation of a goat’s udder.
* * * *
“Stern Wheeler” : Paddle steameys of
the Darling and Murray left their names
scattered along the rivers, but largely
as reminders of disasters. Eighty-two
years ago the Bunyip was burned in
mid-stream at what is still known as
Bunyip Reach. Settler’s Bend, Queen’s
Reach; Fairy Rocks, Gundagai Bend, War-
adgery Reef and Princess Royal Rock all
commemorate the troubles of the boats
that gave them their names. Hell’s Gates,
Bitch and Pups, Funnel Bend and Devil’s
Elbow gained their names from the diffi-
culties of navigating them. However, a
few of the paddle-boats endowed names
pleasant associations. Davey
Bower’s Tree commemorates a popular
one-time skipper of the Riverina, and at
Kelpie’s Leap Johnny Innes, faced with
a shallow sandbar across which the
Kelpie could not float, gave his boat all
the steam he could and steeplechased
her across. But the most pleasant name
of all on the river connected with the
boats is Goodnight. This settlement is
said to have taken its name from the
loud and cheery hail given through the
darkness by the skipper of one steam-
boat to another as they passed. A nice
thought, his voice still echoing down
from the ’sixties.
* * * *
“Wonk”; Bob looked up from mend-
ing his truck to watch the newchum drive
half a dozen head towards the river cross-
ing. Ten minutes later four cows straggled
to the Toad on the further side, while vol-
leys of whip-cracking sounded from up
the river. After a while the noise ceased,
only to break out later from down-stream,
and eventually Bob saw the bloke urging
his sweating nag up the bank on the tail
of a bally. The truck patched for the
town trip, Bob overtook two of the new-
chum’s cows on the road, while disgusted
yells from a side gully located their owner
still on the job. Bob drove on. Return-
ing a couple of hours later, just out of
“Cripes, what have I said now?”
town he met the cove flogging along with
one lone beast that looked as knocked-
up as its drover. “W-what’sa time,
mate?” panted the newchum. “Ha’past
twelve,” replied Bob. The other picked
up his reins, “Gripes, I’ll do it yet,” he
called. “Left home at daylight with eight
of ’em to sell, but —well, I got one, any-
way.” He rubbed a wet sleeve over his
forehead. “They said t’ be at the yards
no later’n one, but ain’t these things rotten
to drive?” Bob’s dial was a masterpiece
of repression. “Yair,” he agreed ; “but
I wouldn’t worry about being late if I
were you. That sale isn’t till next Satur-
day.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Eureka”: Snooping country postmis-
tresses (B. 19/12/’45)? At a little store-
cwm-post-office, a hatbox from a city
store addressed to a farmer’s wife
proved too great a temptation to the
young postmistress. She unwrapped it to
examine the creation but somehow hap-
pened to drop in half a dozen letters
addressed to neighboring farmers. It was
a lively storm that broke when the hatbox
was eventually collected and these letters
found inside. It rained a new post-
mistress.
* * ♦ i ♦
“Blime”: Took in a country auction of
furniture and sundries recently, and
within a few minutes was pop-eyed at
the animated competition, “Look here,”
I whispered to old Bob, “I’m not saying
a Kinnear saddle isn’t good, but that one
passed beyond its value some minutes
ago.” “Yair,” he replied indifferently,
nodding again to the auctioneer. “Well,
Sandy an’ Dan Mac’s still on it, ain’t
they? Whatcha expect me t’ do —back
down?” He nodded again to the hammer-
wielder. “Gripes, no,” he concluded,
“I’ve never let them coots beat me yet
an’ I’m not startin’ now.” Later I found
myself alongside old “Sweat-rag.” A pro-
longed and decisive chant of “Yes” from
Sweatie was a prelude to his collecting
an ancient pair of hedge clippers. “Gosh,”
I gasped. “Thirty bob for a rusty pair
an’ y’ haven’t even got a garden! What’d
you buy ’em for?” Sweatie grinned.
“Search me,” he answered. “But tnat
old Wilson was after ’em. Always grabs
everything useful at these affairs an’ then
won’t lend nothin’. Hanged if I wus
goin’t’ let that cow beat me.” I mooched
off, wonderin’ how I could get into this
country auction business.
it: * * •
“Traintrav”: Dunno about sealers’
hogs damaging the mutton-bird rookeries
(B, 19/12/’45), but the sealers them-
selves seem to have wiped out at least
one species of Australian fauna —the
Kangaroo Island emu. Smaller than the
mainland species, it was seen, described
and sketched by the scientists of Baudin’s
expedition in 1803. With the official set-
tlement of South Australia 33 years later
the bird was found to be extinct; sealers,
and the few escaped Vandemonian con-
victs who lived on the island with stolen
native women, had exterminated them.
Only existing remains of them are one
skin and two skeletons, preserved in
museums at Florence and Paris.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: While not, in the main,
contesting “Fang’s” views on snakes and
the limits of their striking power (B.
12/12/’45) I did once see a Joe Blake
•strike considerably higher than “the
height of a man’s knee.” A brown, it
came from under the tank-stand and was
leisurely proceeding towards the scrub
until he saw yours truly advancing with
enthusiasm and a couple of house bricks.
The first missile scored a near miss, and
in my eagerness to make a bird (or a
dead snake) of the second shot I
overstepped the mark. Joe saw his
danger arid acted—with a contortion that
could only be described as a backward
loop. Allowing for surprise, excitement
and wind-up I won’t insist (that the
wriggler’s head did reach to within half-
an-inch of my nose, but it reached close
enough to teach me not to attack four-
foot brown snakes from behind —with
bricks for the lethal weapon.
* * * »
“Sister”: In the native village of
Motu-Motu I saw a Papuan boy of 14
who looked strikingly like an Egyp-
tian prince as depicted on the walls
of ruined Theban temples. He had
the same kingly stance and car-
riage, the proud long stride, the honey-
gold skin, the insolent elongated eyes,
the broad shoulders, slender waist and
thighs, the long lone curl over the right
ear with the rest of the head shaven that
denoted a prince of the royal blood. The
other boys of the village ran to his bid-
ding. Old Aei-he-ho, the village con-
stable, told me his father’s father had
spoken of such-like men who came
across the sea in strange ships many, many
moons ago, and went long journeys
inland with their great bows and arrows
and took ship again with gold and shiny
stones of red and blue and green to make
bracelets for their queen, whilst those
that stayed on the beach to guard the
ships took pearl and tortoise-shell to
make breastplates for their dead kings.
Perhaps the Gyppos had been there cen-
turies before.
* * * *
“B, C. Ack”: The biggest paper wasps’
nest I’ve seen was at Wide Bay (N. 8.).
Roughly oval in shape and 3ft. long by
18in. high, it rested on the ground
attached to low branches. In the outer
covering there were a score or so en-
trances leading to the usual horizontal
combs. The fin. dark-colored wasps, with
an abdominal band of deep tan, worked
in sunshine and rain. Apparently they
fed insects direct to the larvae, as there
were none stored. An unusual feature
was the laying of three or more eggs in
each cell, but only one larva survived,
the mass in the bottom of each cell appar-
ently being the remains of weaker grubs.
The wasps’ truculence finally finished
them—firing 25-pounders and fighting
wasps at the same time doesn’t tend to
make gunners tolerant of the live-and-
let-live theory.
* * * *
“Te Cannibal”: I read an English
murder thriller in which the victim was
stabbed with a “Maori dagger.” Which
sounds very thrilling for the reader, but
the cold fact is that the Maori fought
only with fire-hardened wooden spears
and various kinds of clubs. His only
cutting instruments were sharpened sea
shells and flakes of osmium. Even
since the coming of the white man the
nearest approach to a dagger Henare has
sported has been the domestic table-
knife.
* * * *
“Zake”: Jim Ferguson had brought
his wife into the township to see the
doctor about her persistently swollen
ankles. When, the medico removed
bandages from each ankle and saw
the yellow-stained skin he asked
what had b,een the nature of the
home treatment. Mrs. Ferguson replied
that her husband had mixed kerosene-
and-sulphur paste. “But,” protested the
astounded doctor, “that stuff is absolutely
useless.” “Gripes, y’ can’t call karersene-
an’-sulphur useless, doc.,” Jim broke in
warmly. “Why, on’y a few weeks back
I cured my light draught of a fistula
with it!”
“Horseless Horseman”: Getting a ship
under way from a Sepik River port is
a chaotic experience until you learn to
do it Sepik style. A few months
ago the little naval vessel Potrero, with
73 A. 1.8. special police boys aboard for
repatriation to river villages,
pulled in to the two-weeks-
old Angau establishment at
Angoram, 60 miles up-
stream. The idea was to
off-load seven boys along
with their worldly belong-
ings, which included the big-
gest dog in New Guinea, tin
trunks, fowls, two cats on
dog chains and coconuts.
Hundred's of natives were on
the bank to meet us, and
while the lone Angau
master, Lieut. Jerry Monks,
of Melbourne, was aboard
for a yarn, more natives
came down. When the time
came to slip, the skipper
sent two natives to see if
the remaining A. 1.8. passen-
gers were on board ; then he
“woke up big fella engine.”
Instantly everyone began
yelling, and it became ap-
parent —you couldn’t see for
coons —that the lines on
shore had been let go,
causing the vessel to drift away from
the bank. The crew couldn’t hear
orders to pull in lines, the helms-
man couldn’t “savee talk belong cap-
tain.” Worse still, the gangplank, on
which stood two disembarking boys with
their personal gear, was slowly parting
from its resting places, the bank and the
ship. Yet the two continaed to scream
final directions to their mates, though no-
body could hear a thing. Then they tell
into the river. As the vessel steamed
away somebody threw the dog overboard,
and 12 visiting natives jumped into the
water and swam ashore. Alter that
episode the skipper, when leaving up-
river villages, always took the wheel him-
self, and on the starting of the engine
he steamed off regardless of coons, canoes
a °d naval etiquette,
* * * *
“Lew W.”: Old Harry, returning late
from work one night, trod on something
which sprang up and coiled around his
neck. With a mighty effort he dis-
entangled himself, made for the hut and
s i amme d the door. Badly rattled, he
reacbed the kitchen, in darkness except
for a f ragme ntary beam of moonlight
shini on the stove< There w ith its neck
arched and open mout h ready to strike
was
sas^orthfL^.r fic --z p s!” an ht
sa i d 0 n arriving, “gimme a shakedown
—that old hut is full of snakes. Rub-
bish.” said the boss, “there are no mates
about the place ; you ve been on the tank
again.” “It’s dmkum,” averred Harry
“I’ve killed one of em , come and
have a look.
the boss and the old un ent d y .
“There’s your snake, said the boss,
WtW » • come into the
P!p e u near^ e the one i oute d ” per-
cast-iron stove bad lost its
spout.
GOING NORTH.
We’re going north to distant fields, for sum-
mer’s here again,
And farmers need our eager strength to gathet
in the grain. .
We’ll take the road the diggers took, in times
far off and strange,
When first they beat a winding track across
the mountain range.
We speed along where swaggies toiled; the
plains behind are flung;
We’re climbing upward mile on mile and soon
we’ll be among
Unchanging hills at Aitken’s Gap that thought
the coaches fast —
And watch in grey astonishment as we go flying
past.
And on we’ll go through wayside towns that
knew the diggers well,
And heard them tell the kind of yarns that only
diggers tell.
O’er singing streams by arches spanned, built
in the roaring-days,
By wheel-worn tracks and crossings made by
loaded bullock drays.
And there are spots where shanties stood, with
queer old names and signs;
They came in with the diggers and they went
out with the mines;
And lonely is the weathercock on empty stable
set,
Though teams and coaches come no more it
gazes northward yet.
And we are going where the wheat is standing
tall and strong;
On northern farms the headers start to sing
their summer song;
And when we’ve crossed yon dim, blue range
to parts where hills are few,
It’s on, and ever on, we’ll go to find a harvest
new.
victoria.
DOUBLEGEE.


LIFTING MIST.
The hills come marching forth out of the murk
Where they have hidden in thick veils of grey,
Strutting, and blowing their shrill fifes arrogantly.
In their deep bosoms now no longer lurk
The sly thoughts, shrouded from the glare of day,
Secret and still; no, but lustily chanting,
Challengingly and haughtily advancing,
With forests bristling and rich pennons flaunting,
They break upon the townsman’s prim romanc-
ing,
Startle his soul into a new dimension
And sting his beery wits into attention.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When Little Curl, Pocket-
knife, “Bluey” Leslie and the rest of us
rode into the town that New Year’s eve
with a thirst heavy upon us and our
hearts bright with anticipation we received
a rude shock. The mob from Culpra and
some of the Pretty Pine boys were droop-
ing glumly around the pub, their faces
long as a wet week.' We dropped from
our horses and learned that, the carrier
being unable to get through the sand
drifts between us and the railhead with a
load, the publican had had the stuff
loaded on a boat. That boat was bring-
ing 50 tons of chaff for the drought-
stricken stations which employed us, and
she was hard aground on the sandbar at
Bob’s Reach, 30 miles down the river,
and looked like staying there till the snow
melted on Kosciusko. Men and youths
sat about, dashed, till “Bluey” roared
“Well, if we can’t have the beer at the
New Year, we’ll have the New Year at
the beer,” An hour later a wagonette,
loaded with glasses and tucker from the
pub, led a procession of horsemen,
buggies, sulkies, cyclists, one or two cars
and a motor-lorry to Bob’s Reach. There
on the bank a rude table was set up, the
doings were got out of the boat and cap-
tain and crew joined the rest in a celebra-
tion that lasted nearly all night.
* * * *
• “Mat’s Mate”: We were running out
pegs for a new fence line along a flat bit
of country and I’m standing at the corner
waiting while Mat takes a sighter peg
and starts for the other comer, over half
a mile away. He drives that peg in and
I pick up a peg and go towards him
about four chain to put in the first sighter.
I stand it up on what I reckon is the line.
Mat waves his right arm and I move it.
Then he waves his left, so I move it back.
Then he jerks both arms out and jumps
up and down. Wondering what he means,
I look along the line and he slaps his
chest with one hand and leg with the other.
“Gripes,” I think, “the big goat must think
he’s umpirin’ a cricket match.” I wait,
and presently he gets behind the peg
again, so I move in with the sighter, but
no sooner do I stand it up than he starts
jumpin’ and wavin’ his arms about again.
That gets me wild, so I chuck the peg
down and wave my own arms and throw
my hat up and catch it. He stands still,
then he starts walkin’ towards me. Yair,
what had happened was that the sun was
glintin’ on a window of the homestead
behind me and dazzlin’ him every time
he looked along the line. He’d been
tryin’ to signal me to hold my hat behind
the peg. Gripes, I’d thought, he’d struck
a meat-ants’ nest or somethin’. “We’d
save a lot o’ time if you’d use your head,”
he growled, startin’ back to the sighter.
“We’d save a lot more if you didn’t use
your arms,” I snapped back. That was
one time he didn’t have an answer.
* * ' * *
“Alpine Willie”; I’ve got a pup the
color, shape and size of a half-grown
dingo, and he mdt his prototype vis-a-vis
on the steep, rocky wall of a gully.
Oblivious to my presence a couple of
chains away, they advanced, hackles erect,
to within 10 yards of each other and
glared menacingly; then the dingo broke
away in a scrambling run with my hound
in pursuit. They disappeared into deep
scrub, reappeared close together for a
second and came out finally with my pup
maintaining an earnest lead of half a
chain. The wild mong saw me then and
took to its heels and the domesticated
mong came to heel with —purely an after-
thought—the pleased look of having done
a good job of protecting me.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Wandering around a few
miles north-west of Wyndham we came
on a creek, fordable at about chest deep.
But I wasn’t any too courageous, since a
couple of submerged logs on the bottom
had a fair resemblance to crocodiles.
“Soon fixum that fella,” remarked Darby
when I acquainted him with my tremors.
“You get back from the water.” He then
strolled up the creek a couple of hundred
yards and heaved a big stone in with a
resounding splash. Returned to my side,
he led the way across. The “logs” were
gone upstream to investigate the mean-
ing of the splash ; though Darby reckoned
they wouldn’t have moved had anyone
remained visible at the water edge. So
whether it was the abo. first used that
trick or the dingo (B. 5/12/’45) I leave
for wiser men to decide.
“Nason”: Chief difficulty about catfish
for the menu is divesting it of its hide.
One realist I know uses a horizontal plank
and Bin. nails. Nailing the head to the
plank, he slits the skin close around be-
low the fins and their deadly spines. A
firm grip with a pair of strong pincers and
the hide peels off like a sock. Another,
who makes catfish a regular article of
“Give us a bit more teamwork , cant y , missus?
merchandise, employs a plank with a row
of big snapper hooks screwed on, the
hooks stripped of their barhs. Thus
he is able to hook up the slippery fish, do
the slitting act, etc., with consider-
able speed. But most catfish sent to city
markets are already divested of their
heads and armament; so skinning for
them must begin from the tail. Take a
pair of scissors and clip off both the back
and ventral fins. Then, holding the
slippery tail with a scrap of rag, lift the
skin on both sides with a sharp knife.
Then with another scrap of rag take a
grip and pull. By this method the skin
comes off in two sheets. Many prefer it,
since so long as the spines and head are
attached even the most skilful operator is
likely to get a prick; and even the
smallest prick is liable to make the victim
wonder whether it wouldn’t be pleasanter
to be struck by lightning.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Driving along a track be-
side a gum creek on one of the first hot
days of this summer I was suddenly aware
of a new element in the steady noise of
the engine. Stopped, listened and was
glad there was nobody in miles to see
me look silly: the noise was the song of
thousands of cicadas in the gums, a con-
stant sheet of sound, maddening in its
monotony. They say the old Greeks kept
cicadas in cages round the house and the
Chinese still do, for love of their song. I
“There s a P.D. comm— give 'em yer dust!"
don’t admire the Greek and Chinese ear
for music, but I do admire the speciali-
sation which has made the male cicada
into a perfect device for making a noise.
Under the plates below the thorax the
insect has a cavity which acts as a sound
box. The actual sound-producing mechan-
ism takes up all the forward section of
the abdomen: there are two “drums,”
corrugated membranes which buckle to
and fro under the pull of powerful
muscles and make a row just as Sonny
does when he pushes the bottom of
Mum’s washing-up dish in and out. The
sound from the drums is magnified by
striking two “mirrors,” tightly stretched
membranes, transparent and often rather
beautiful because of their bluish color.
The problem is, how did Nature happen
to go to all the trouble of converting an
insect’s insides into such an elaborate
orchestra?
« * * *
“Gill Guy”: “What’s the idea of hav-
ing milk in your tea?” I asked Wally the
fencer. “You always used to say it
mucked up a cup of tea.” “I still reckon
it does, too,” replied Wally. “But I got
to have it now. Y’ see, my lamps are get-
tin’ pretty crook these days, an’ I can t
see the flies in black tea no more.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Knowing that I was head-
ing Alluvial Creek way Charlie gave me
a small parcel for George. “Some medi-
cine he sent in for f’r his cold,” he said.
I found the old chap looking pretty seedy,
but he brightened when he saw the parcel
and unwrapped three bottles, each of a
different mixture. “Going to try the lot
in the chance cf one doing you good?
I asked. “No,” said George. “There s
different kinds of colds. I caught a
couple t’gether this time, in the head an
chest. This here tonic will fix the one
in me head, an’ the cough reliever oughter
straighten out mie chest cold in a couple
of days.” “Well, that’s all right, George,”
I said, “but what’s the third bottle for?”
“Aw, don’t y’ see?” he said. When the
head’cold starts workin’ down t’ me chest
an’ the chest cold moyin t me head this
prescription’ll tear ’em both t’ bits. When
I saw George a week later he was plur-
ally recovered.
“Homo”: The perfect instrument for
cupping a boil was owned by one Bill
Smith in the days of my youth; a cow’s
horn, with the wide end nicely squared
off and smoothed, the pointed end re-
moved so as to leave a small opening
that could be closed with a cork or the
finger. It wasn’t possible, of course, to
watch how the operation was proceeding,
but Bill, being an experienced prac-
titioner, knew. By removing the cork or
his finger the cup detached itself. Bill’s
greatest triumph was in treating a snake
bite that had nearly got the victim over the
border. Lancing had been resorted to
but the blood, showing blue-black in the
cuts, refused to flow. Filling his horn-
cup full of bubbling boiling water Bill
emptied it and instantly clapped the horn
over the bite. Removed after a couple of
minutes it was found that considerable
blood had been drawn out. After three
applications, the latter ones not quite so
drastic, blood flowed freely and the patient
was saved. Cupping was a standard prac-
tice in the days of the apothecaries, and
the instrument invariably was a horn.
The boding water, essential for the t pro-
duction of a vacuum, was also a sterilizer,
although those ancient quacks probably
didn’t know it.
Jf: * sfc *
“Anthropo”: The primitive aboriginal
had definite ideas on Law and Order and
the machinery for maintaining the same.
Crimes of violence were usually left to
the victim’s family to avenge, though if
the killer proved too strong for a family
to handle and continued his career as
a bravo he would be dealt with in the
end by the community. Sex offences, par-
ticularly such as infringed the forbidden
degrees of consanguinity, were the ones
that most excited the communal ire.
Usually the culprit was given a first
chance to mend his ways, but a repeti-
tion of the offence brought the council
of elders into action. A solemn conclave
of greyheads would be held, evidence
taken and weighed and sentence finally
pronounced. The offender, however, was
never heard in defence ; his crimes always
were too well known. Nor was he in-
formed of his impending fate. On the
executioners being appointed, they set
about their work by stealth, usually luring
the doomed one to some quiet ambush,
where he might be dispatched with the
least loss of life to the avengers. Such
methods of carrying out the Law often
led whites to the belief that the aboriginal
was a veritable monster of treachery.
And it was seldom that the council of
elders would condescend to explain. It
was their law, operating in their country,
and no business at all of the white inter-
loper’s.
* * * *
“Betcha”: That animals are sticklers
for routine is evidenced by Bob’s nag.
Bob’s nag feeds contentedly all day, and
at knock-off time strikes out for home
with or without the boss. Still, as Bob
says, one forgives a nag for it, but when
a bloke’s dog starts telling him his job
it’s time to take notice. Bob had been
renovating a fence, and, wanting to finish
that day, worked later than usual. About
five the old dog began to whinge and get
uneasy, starting home a few yards, then
returning to remind Bob about it, till at
length, unable to stand the strain any
longer, he disappeared over the ridge.
Nearing home some time later, Bob
noted the milkers in the yard, and was
in time to see old Blue busily drive the
first one from the bail and put the other
in. Then, his work finished for the day,
he dashed eagerly to the house to see if
the scraps from the old bloke’s meal
were now forthcoming.
❖ * sji
“Bo”: Around Clayroads any mention
of the name of Ted Fussell within hear-
ing of the residents invariably brought an
immediate and heavy crop of scowls. For
Ted had the reputation —and gloried in it
—of being a hard man. It was Joe Salter
who said that Ted’s hardness made goats’
knees seem like blancmange in compari-
son —and Joe should have known, for he
was Ted’s neighbor. If ever any of Joe’s
cows broke a fence and got into the
Fussell property, the largest in Clayroads,
Ted would promptly impound the animal.
And he spent much time snooping around
armed with a saltpetre gun which he used
to discourage the Salter brood from
gathering mushrooms in his paddocks. It
was, therefore, surprising that when late
on a scorching summer day one of
Fussell’s haystacks caught alight among
the first to rush to his assistance was Joe
Salter. Perhaps it was that in time of
disaster all pet|;y enmities are forgotten.
Other residents arrived, too, but it was
Joe who lashed in hardest and led the
others in a charge to save the con-
tents of the house. Salter was doubtful _
if it was endangered, but his neighbor
persisted that they couldn’t risk it. He
personally smashed the windows of the
dining-room so they coiuld heave the
furniture out quicker. And heaved it
was, so well that Salter danced with rage
as he viewed, after the fire was put out
long before reaching the house, the
splintered junk that had once been his
furniture. Then it was that Joe went up
to him and shook his limp hand warmly.
“Well, we managed to save the place, Mr.
Fussell,” he said. “Just as well a few of
us were on hand, eh, or y’ mighta suffered
a bit o’ damage!”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager,
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
, , . Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 61b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
d
jpm*®
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
a -
mm*
m
•we
With
Gap
Bed
ď
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MARS” loathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MARS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand; Motor Specialists, Ltd.,
Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
ha
■
x
■iitsf
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
*The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DUST. CO., N.S.W.,
- 82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SOARFE, LTD.. ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY , & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindlv forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
name.
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Sheep Droving.
“Horseless Horseman”: In hottish
weather get off camp at first light. If
you wait until an hour or so later the
mob will never travel or forage with any-
thing like the same eagerness. Droving
down the Darling in two hot summers
impressed that point on me. Besides, I’ve
found that an early start enables one in
a jam to sometimes get the mob fed off
the stock route before the station folk
arrive.
Plan watering stages according to the
track. Decide at the outset whether you
can water the mob every day or every
other day, and stick to one or the other.
Spasmodic waterings are to be avoided,
as stock on the roads adjust themselves
to regularities. If sheep, accustomed to
drinking daily, are occasionally asked to
do a two-days hot dry stage they “go
off” appreciably. On the other hand, a
mob watered regularly every second day
“do well” even in the hottest of weather.
If you are confronted with an unusually
long dry stage, camp on the water for
half a day before leaving ; for preference
leave in the afternoon, and don’t be afraid
to do a bit of “moonlighting” to shorten
the time between waters.
Know, or get to know, the day’s stage
ahead, what the feed is like and so forth.
If you can’t ride over the route before-
hand there’ll be somebody who can tell
you what’s ahead. Carry a good county
or parish map (obtainable from the
Lands Department), then people won’t be
able to bluff you out of going into a
watering reserve, etc. Moreover, though
reliable in other ways, many locals have
little idea of distance —“about a mile”
means anything between half and three
miles.
A boss drover should wear clean
clothes, keep his boots polished, shave
daily. There’s reason in this, appearance
has a lot to do with the spin you get from
landholders. Look after your plant, too.
Watch particularly horses’ hooves and
backs, also saddlery and harness,
wagonette tyres, axles, etc.; don’t leave
tools and utensils behind on camps. If
your wagonette horses get scalded
shoulders cure the sore and work them
at the same time by treating it with an
ointment made of equal parts of white-
lead and castor oil. An old West Darling
teamsters’ remedy, it’s the best known.
On dinner-camps, for the first couple
of weeks, keep a strict watch and teach
the mob the camping habit., It’s a neces-
sity during long summer dinner-camps
if you want to save your men. When
erecting the night-brake place it on high,
solid ground, devoid of grass, if you can.
Allow an area of square chains to
“Be sure t ’ ,set them traps near some landmark so y ’ can find 'em easy."
1000 sheep. If compelled to put the night
camp on good feed where sheep are likely
to feed out through the ropes, erect the
brake area, to begin with, a little larger
than usual. Then, a little later, when the
grass has been eaten and trampled down,
shift the pegs and lines in a few feet. It’s
extra work, but better that than getting up
all through the night.
Increasing Your-Bees.
“Bumble”: The simplest method is by
taking swarms off artificially at appro-
priate times, thus eliminating th? need
to watch for swarming and the resultant
loss of bees if adequate steps are not
taken. Increase in the number of colonies
is made at the expense of honey produc-
tion, and doubling up in a season is fair
going. The writer has studied a number
of ways of increasing with nucleus stocks,
but these are slow to get going and are
not generally as profitable as may appear.
When a colony is strong enough to
cover the combs in a two-storied hive it
may be divided, provided it is early
enough in the season for a follow-on
of nectar and pollen. Smoke the hive
and replace the cover with a bag ; then
lift the super, and carry over to the hive
to receive the swarm. Put all combs but
one inside, keeping a lookout for the
queen, as her place is with the swarm.
Brush the bees off the spare comb and
return it to the original stand.
The bees from all but two of the brood
frames are brushed off into a box, and
a frame of brood, preferably unsealed, is
put with them in the new hive. The
cluster of bees should be dumped on a
bag at the entrance, from which they may
be run in. The old bees will return to
the original hive, where in 24 hours queen-
cells will be under way.
At 12 days it is advisable to select one
of the best queen cells for the colony and
destroy the others, or selected ones may
be used to eliminate the delay of queen-
raising when dividing other colonies. Ad-
mittedly, these queens are raised during a
state of queenlessness, not generally re-
commended, but the large number of
young bees hatching are generous in feed-
ing the larvas, partly offsetting the un-
desirable urge to rush things, and several
good queens may usually be obtained.
Those cells hung perpendicularly from
the bottoms or struts of comb are prefer-
able to any raised on the comb faces.
By this method two divisions of a
colony are in condition rapidly to regain
full strength and store surplus honey, and
should be fit for further division some
time in the following spring. Working
for strong hives is quickest and most
economical for gain, and the chances of
loss through a lean period are greatly
lessened.
Beets and Mangels.
“Te Rapa”: “Green Ink” (B. 27/6/’45)
is off the target in presuming that “sugar-
mangels are sugar-beet.” There are (1)
mangels or mangolds, (2) sugar-mangels
(forage) and (3) sugar-beet proper. The
forage type of sugar-beet-mangel cross is
fairly extensively grown in Denmark; it
stands well out of the ground, whereas
beet grown solely for sugar develops
deeper in the soil.
The average weight yield per acre of
the forage sugar-mangeLis less than that
of the ordinary mangel grown here in
Southland and Otago (Maoriland), where
120 tons per acre of clean roots has been
officially recorded. In any case, swedes
and mangels are much more extensively
cultivated in Denmark than are the forage
types of sugar-mangels, of which Roskilde
VII is a selected example.
It is doubtful if the eastern States of
Australia will ever raise the sort of heavy
root-crops common enough in M.L., but
perhaps the s.-w. of W.A., and particu-
larly the Manjimup area, might do so.
Culling.
“Kippe”: There should be very little
culling of pullets—birds up to a year old.
All pullets, if properly reared, will show
a reasonable profit. Any obviously
coarse or weedy birds should, of course,
be culled, but this percentage will be
small. Further culling could be done
when the birds are coming into full pro-
duction, but allowance must be made for
those recovering from partial moult. At
both these stages of culling width between
pelvic bones or between pelvic bones and
end of breast bone, or softness of skin of
abdomen, should not be taken into con-
sideration.
Culling for stock 26 to 30 months old,
according to when hatched, under normal
conditions would start about December
and continue through the autumn. The
most profitable life of the hen is then
drawing to an end, but it will pay to keep
that portion of the flock which has laid
late into the autumn until the following
summer.
Late moulters come through the moult
more quickly than early moulters. Many
late moulters change feathers gradually,
feather by feather, and continue to lay.
They are mostly bald-headed with worn
wings and tail feathers; such birds, be-
cause they are heavy producers, are not
good breeders as they do not spell from
laying to recuperate.
The width of pelvic bones indicates if
a bird is laying, not necessarily that it is
a good layer. When in lay, the width
between the pelvic bones and from pelvic
bones to breast bone is increased and the
skin of the abdomen is soft. When not
in lay the bones close in and the skin of
the abdomen contracts.
A hen that has ceased to lay will be
indicated by a shrivelling or dying comb,
dullness or paleness of face. The eyes
are sunken, pelvic bones are closed in
and the abdomen contracted, the skin
being tight and hard. With heavy breeds
allowance must be made for broody hens
replaced in the pen.
The average flock will lay about 14
dozen eggs per bird per year, first-year
birds ; and 10 dozen eggs per bird per
year, second-year birds.
Hints for the Farm.
“Lub”; Rich soil and plenty of water
are needed for lettuces, and the main thing
is to kedp them growing. Sow the seed
in rows to avoid the check of transplant-
ing, thinning the plants when a few days
old. Fowl manure is hard to beat, and a
fairly liberal application may be spread
in a mulch with compost, in which the
seeds are ' sown. Overhead watering is
the evenings is preferable. I get best re-
sults with Iceberg in a moderate Vic-
torian climate.
“Bogan Joe”: Due to the relatively
high fibre content (about five times that of
wheat) oats are not satisfactory alone for
pigs, but half the wheat ration may be
replaced with oats without retarding
growth. The grain should be finely
ground; soaking or boiling is not nearly
as satisfactory, and may interfere with
digestion. Boars and sows can be fed a
larger portion of oats than growers, even
as high as 65 p.c.
“8.L.”: When transporting young
plants for replanting it is often inconveni-
ent to carry earth with them. Use the
following method: Wet a sheet of news-
paper and wrap it tightly around the plant,
covering as much of the stem as possible.
Finally, cover the damp paper with
waxed paper or any other material which
is moisture-proof. Flowers or plants can
be treated in this way and will remain
fresh for several weeks.


sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courser , . . .
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
Rinirn Tnrime Doe Soan.
d
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
a
<•<
y.
m
T*
m<mr
*
\V V’
:y V- . N
lilt
i
i
'4
v?
\1
y «ktv<vWi
\S
Mi
CATERPILLAR
Keeps ’em rolling !
Fair weather methods won’t build profits in the timber-
getting industry. Bringing the logs out of the “ big
timber ” is a constant battle against the toughest
conditions. But “ Caterpillar ” diesel power can lick
’em! and with its great fuel economy cut costs to
the bone. The “ Caterpillar ” Diesel D 6 Tractor,
pictured above, is equipped with a Hyster winch. It averages 800 feet of hardwood
l3gs a load, hauling through slash-littered swamp country. It is the ability of
“ Caterpillar ” track-type Tractors to cope with conditions like these, that makes them
the first choice of timber-getters, big or small, for stepping up production and profits.
CATERPILLAR Dtesec
REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVIMG EQUIPWEMT
◄s^
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LAS32l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone, S 7 Cambridge Sf„ South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone-2839. 102 Melbourne St..
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
1.45.33
CRAVEN
IjguU oppiecuiU tfat
etditoauimy q/mli&f
Obtainable in 10’s & 80’s
5788
PREVENT
99
ft a
rra
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Australian Steamships, Past and
Present, by Dixon Gregory. —3686.
Wanted to buy or borrow Dyer Ball’s Hakka
Made Easy and other works by Ball on Chinese
dialects (except Cantonese). —3685.
Information Sought.
How can liquid glue be made from joiner s
glue ?
Make a solution of glue in its own weight of
water by soaking and then dissolving, with heat.
To this add an equal volume of -28 p.c. acetic
acid and heat for nine or 10 hours. When
properly made this product is a very effective
glue for light woodwork, as well as for mend-
ing chinaware, ornaments, etc. An alternative
method is to stir 3ilb. sodium chlorate info a
hot solution of 101b. glue, 131b. water.
Brief Answers.
J.A.Y.; A. Yates & Co., 184-86 Sussex-street,
Sydney, may be able to obtain the seed for you.
R.P.B.: (1) Try Grahame Book Co., Pruden-
tial Building, Martin-place, Sydney. (2) Leaflet
posted. (3) “Producers’ Review,” P.O. Box
129, Toowoomba. 10s. p.a. (monthly), and
“Queensland Agricultural Journal,” Dept, of
Agriculture and Stock, William-street, Brisbane
10s. p.a. (monthly). (4) “Wonder grass giant
couch” is probably identical with Para grass
(Brachiaria muticd). You may be able to
secure seed or. roots from J. Teese, Buthara,
North Coast line, Q’land. Root or runner
planting is generally adopted in district's where
planting material is readily obtainable.
Like Sydney (B. 12/12/’45),
Melbourne has doffed most of its battle-,
dress, but there are still traces remaining.
At the height of the Jap scare A.R.P.
officials came along and dumped a heap
of sand up an old lane outside an art
school. The cats played on it, the rains
washed a lot of it away, and after a
couple of years Nature reasserted itself
and a weed or two blushed hesitatingly
on its surface. Then the atomic bomb
was dropped at Hiroshima, peace came,
and now two poplars rear themselves
out of two green-painted tubs filled with
the remains of the A.R.P. sand.
* * * *
“Vaucy”: The little boy making sand-
heaps by inverting a filled beach bucket
was about six and enjoying himself with
that unsmiling grimness of the very young
when deeply concentrating. Came a trio
of kids of about his own age, who
amused themselves by waiting until he
had erected his towers and then jumping
' upon them. The builder endured this for
a while, looked about him vainly for help,
pondered, then departed with his bucket.
Presently he returned, his bucket full of
sand, and sat on the beach until the mis-
chievous trio discovered him and hung
about. His face immobile, the dear little
fellow upended his bucket and deposited
a perfect pylon on the sand. With a
whoop the trio leapt, then the one whose
foot came down first leapt some more
and fell on the sand, howling and scream-
ing, while his companions stared stricken
at the broken glass, nails, bits of tin and
other menaces which had been mixed
with the sand in that bucket. And, as
unsmiling as before, the builder went on
building.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.J.S.: “Quay-sea,” “sea-three,” “me-
harmonee”; such elementary rhymes S.V.:
Just like every other poem about a bushfire
J G.: Those “vendors” are returned soldiers.
. .C.V.G.: Not here will you coo to fairies in
.U . 1 WPM . TTackneved lan-
the foxgloves. ...WM.. Hackneyed
guage in mechanical metre... .G.l • • us
less knuckles” tapped too timidly on the door
... .S.E.MacD.: "Threw the damthmg .n the
wastepaper basket if its no good. J[ ' e ;
G.B.: “Ana Keng” nearest. ..D.H.R..
?i r o d u^“ afSpSLtn ftWlane in-
ssi
J.B.: Praiseworthy attempt; but no moie.
It should be clearly understood by
Australian ver sifiers that gumtrees do not
■ th ■ hands in pray er and are not sentinels,
rmse me r nanus m i > . F .V. ; Remo te.
history....
,j ‘ „ ile j| , : We have to confess to
fT. it, the Honorable'Bobby,
Sal^°" t ft
but there wosn '‘ enoUBhof
them (or it).


BOOKS TECHNICAL.
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
They have made
a new man of me”
< i Att
il . «o°‘ -
“S>,
P hS . l iof I
***? \
{or
Co ;VF//iA UT
Air.
s 1 s
* **ezo „ lQ
°i”f u,
4 ,l but fce
li #e jo,**
In these strenuous times the revitalising effect of these wonderful
little tablets is more than ever valuable. Just two tablets three
times a day before meals. But if you take the tablets regularly
the results will astonish you.
Start taking
PHYUOSAN
helps to keep you fit after forty
' Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phyllosan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The T. and G. ,
, Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,703,996
’4l 3,251,974 466,286 1,170,241 1,615,447 19,319,443
Written off premises, £18,871.. .. 19,300,572
To contingency fund, £50,000.. .. 19,250,572
’42 3,436,998 477,616 1,210,526 1,748,856 20,999,428
Written off premises, £13,796.. .. 20,985,632
To contingency fund, £70,000.. .. 20,915,632
’43 3.667,847 449,645 1,286,651 1,931,551 22,847,183
Written off premises, £18,167.. .. 22,829,016
To contingency fund, £50,000 .. . . 22,779,016
’44 3,955,413 476,771 1,336,058 2,142,584 24,921,600
Written off premises, £19,080.. .. 24,902,520
To contingency fund, £50,000 .. .. 24,852,520
'45 4,317,267 522,790 1,531,656 2,262,821 27,115,341
Written off premises, £20,505.. •• 27,094,836
To investment reserve, £52,000 .. 27,042,836
Industrial Life Department.
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,656 661,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. . 15,792,636
’4l 3,379,107 981,163 1,740,427 657,517 16,450,153
Written off premises, £17,056.. .. 16,433,097
To contingency fund, £10,000.. .. 16,423,097
’42 3,516,115 997,072 1,825,052 693,991 17,117,088
Written off premises, £11,974.. .. 17,105,114
To contingency fund, £25,000.. .. 17,080,114
’43 3,613,549 926,421 1,836,692 850,436 17,930,550
Written off premises, £14,534., .. 17,916,016
To contingency fund, £40,000.. .. 17,876,016
’44 3,724,518 929,672 1,901,429 893,417 18,769,433
Written of premises, £15,264.. .. 18,754,169
To contingency fund, £40,000 .. .. 18,714,169
’45 3,845,155 971,915 1,949,460 923,780 19,637,949
Written off premises, £15,109.. .. 19,622,840
To investment reserve, £38,000 .. 19,584,840
Of the crop of actuarial, investment and
other problems that arose out of war and
a economy, the on© which
affected, and will continue to affect, life
offices most has been reduction of inter-
est rates. Of the three chief sources
of surplus in these offices the
margin between actual and assumed rates
of interest, savings in the budgeted cost
of handling the business, and lower-than-
allowed-for mortality experience—inter-
est is the one from which the cos. scored
heaviest in the past.
Since 1939 the life offices have in-
vested the whole of the increase in their
funds, .and more besides, in war loans on
terms increasingly favorable to the Trea-
sury. Together with heavier taxation,
this has reduced both the net return from
current investments and bonuses to
policy-holders. Though the worst of the
trouble in this respect has passed, these
war loans are medium- and long-term in-
vestments. And since public policy post-
war is one of cheap money, which means
that as old securities mature the money
will have to be put into new invest-
ments at lower net rates of interest, the
effect upon the average yield from an
office’s over-all investments is likely to
be felt for some time yet.
Here is the T. and G.’s investment port-
folio as the published accounts show it:
Public 1944. p.c. 1945. p.c.
securities ..£30,926,739 68.1 £35,280,951 72.3
Loans .. .. 10,766,244 23.7 9,833,761 20.2
Freeholds . . 3,019,536 6.6 2,990,259 6.1
Cash, book debts,
etc 717,828 1.6 698,588 1.4
At end September, 1945, public securi-
ties (up £4,354,212 during the year) rep-
resented 72.3 p.c. of the balance-sheet
total, compared with 55.5 p.c. in 1939,
Over the same period the gross interest
return on mean funds (including reserve
for contingencies, f,etc.) stepped down
from £4 10s. lid. p.c. to £3 19s. 6d. p.c.,
and the net effective return (after deduct-
ing taxation) from £4 7s. Bd. p.c, to
£3 12s. 2d. p.c. —the slip last term was
2s. 3d. p.c. Although some amelioration
of both these trends can be expected
when relaxation of financial controls per-
mits more profitable investment of funds
and as the burden of taxation is lightened
a little, a return to pre-war rate of
bonuses to policy-holders need not be
looked for.
To help soften the blow and preserve
the long-range bonus-paying capacity of
the business, the T. and G. reduced the
rate of actuarial valuation of policy lia-
bilities from 3 p.c. to an all-round 2\
p.c. (except for a small amount of pure
endowments) in 1941. Surpluses avail-
able for distribution (excess of assurance
funds over liabilities under policies) com-
pare as follows:
Net surplus:— 1940. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Ordinary .. £586,776 £450,982 £526,830 £591,086
Industrial . . 352,951 240,017 256,494 305,796
Total . . £939,727 £690,999 £783,324 £896,882
Last term the improvement in total
surplus was £113,558. Of the amounts
available, £539,893 in the O.D. and
£276,021 in the I.D. were distributed as
reversionary bonuses to participating
policy-holders. The balance in each case
was used mainly as a special reserve
against actuarial contingencies. On ordi-
nary contracts the increase over the pre-
vious year’s bonus rates ranged from 30s.
to 50s. per £lOOO sum assured. In the in-
dustrial section the rate of increase was
approximately 25 p.c.
The amount of new business put on
the books during the year was
£15,241,045 (up £1,755,720), of which
£10,127,517 (up £1,505,343) was ordinary
and £5,113,528 (up £250,377) industrial.
Group assurance, now a prominent fea-
ture of staff superannuation schemes of
commercial undertakings, accounted for
a large slice of the new O.D. contracts.
Including accident business, the co.
gathered £6,474,817 (up £426,980) in
premium income. Interest and rents
turned in £1,849,113 (up £68,260), making
total income £8,323,930, After paying
all legitimate claims and exes., striking
off £35,973 for depreciation of buildings,
and adding £lOO,OOO to investment re-
serve, £3,095,553 was sent to the assur-
ance funds, raising them to £46,921,392.
These funds have the support and assist-
ance of other reserves totalling £1,206,666,
which also belong to policy-holders
(there are no shareholders), together with
the returns therefrom.
Despite the increased death strain due
to war casualties, mortality experience
has been within the limits allowed for
under tables used.
Leaving taxds (£203,439, up £7045, all
departments combined) and amounts
written off out of the reckoning, exes,
took 12.9 p.c. of last term’s net premiums
in the 0.D., as against 12.8 p.c. for the
previous term and 15.8 p.c. in 1940.
On a similar basis, the I.D. expense ratio
was 28.9 p.c., 28.8 p.c. and 33.8 p.c.
respectively over the same period, And,
with the lowering of the basis of valu-
ation, that is as it should be.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 75,000 ), n R , B „ Qr
Staff bonus, £5OOO ( 50,648 695,453
1937.. 126.284 8) p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 9J „ „ 71,250 79,256 837.243
1939.. 143.764 10 „ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 „ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
1941.. 185,928 10 „ ~ 75,000 110,928 1,079,224
1942.. 157,376 10 ~ „ 75,000 82,376 1,161,600
1943.. 164,637 10 „ „ 75,000 89,637 1,251,237
1944.. 178,976 10 „ ~ 75,000 103,976 1,355,213
1945.. 207,432 10 „ „ 75,000 132,432 1,487,645
* Subject to unexpired risks.
In these days of dollar and other
exchange difficulties this 59-year-old Syd-
ney-controlled fire, marine and accident
office, with world-wide connections, is a
handy contributor to Australia’s invisible
exports. The improvement in last year’s
net earnings came mainly from overseas
business —Canada, India, Egypt, Pales-
tine, S. Africa and Cuba; the London
branch contributed its quota, too.
There,was no major catastrophe in the
insurance field during the year—in the
previous term bushfifes in Australia and
the calamity at Bombay were costly to
underwriters involved. Still, toward the
close of accounts, and since, fire wastage
in Australia has been on the increase.
The return from marine business showed
improvement, despite a heavy reduction
in rates, following the diminution, and
then final disappearance, of war risks.
The Federal Government’s monopoly of
war risks on the Australian coast ceased
on October 25 last, since when private
underwriters have been permitted to
compete for the business. The Govern-
ment underwrote its risks, or most of
them, at 15s, p.c., the fate being reduced
from time to time as the war position
improved. The rate is now 6d. p.c.
Accident business, in which workers’
compensation and motor vehicle insur-
ance predominate, showed a heavier
claims ratio. Here the loss rate is likely
to increase further as more petrol be-
comes available and the number of
vehicles on the road increase.
Arrangements are in hand for early
resumption of business in Malaya,
Burma and Siam, and, as soon as con-
ditions permit, the co. has everything
ready to set up in Java and Indo-China
again. Re-establishment in Holland, Bel-
gium and France has been delayed longer
than expected, but the London office is
in contact with the co.’s pre-war con-
nections in these countries.
Here is a comparison of the co.’s
underwriting performances over a long
period:
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses, t Rate. Rate.
1895. . 4.40,681 £28,703 £ 13,05 S 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 „
1940.. 743.309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9' „
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39.1 „
1942.. 872,711 418,965 376,163* 48.0 „ 43.1 „
1943.. 900,871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 „ 44.9 „
1944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 „
1945.. 932,777 896,495 420,671* 42.5 „ 45.1 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£10,938, 1938 ; £20,895, 1940 ; £26,639,
1941; £27,180, 1942; £39,095, 1943; £40,168,
1944 ; £45,802, 1945. t Including contributions
to staff funds.
Last term an additional £25,218 of net
premiums was gathered at an extra cost
of 10s. p.c. The claims experience was
among the best since the beginning of
this century. The underwriting surplus
(£115,611, up £26,541) was equal to 15.4
p.c. on capital. That includes £15,000
(£5OOO in the previous term) added to
reserve for unexpired risks, making it
£560,000, or 20 p.c. more than is usually
considered adequate. Interest and rents
brought in £91,821 (up £1915), or 12.2
p.c. on capital. Thus the net return from
all sources was £207,432 (up £28,456), or
27.6 p.c. on capital. It all gives the 10
p.c. div. a very comfortable appearance.
The £750,000 of capital, however, has the
support and assistance of £1,487,645 of
reserves (including the amount set aside
for unexpired risks), which means that
on the two combined the net result is
only about one-third the rate on capital
alone.
During the year the co. bought Bryant
House, a few doors further up Pitt-street,
Sydney, which is to provide a new head-
quarters for the business, with plenty of
letting space. Together with the purchase
of premises in Surrey (Eng.), the deal
added £402,612 to the book value of
premises:
, -1944 1945
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities .. £2,130,700 55.0 £1,861,433 46.8
Municipal sec’ties 51,429 1.3 51,429 1.3
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc. .’. .. 1,357,967 35.0 1,824,970 33.3
Premises.. .. 337,110 8.7 739,722 18.6
Total assets ..£3,877,206 100.0 3,977,555 100.0
Liabilities* .. 1,734,494 1,702,411
Net assetsf ..£2,142,712. £2,275,144
* Including' contingencies. f Subject to final div.
To meet the outlay the holding of Gov-
ernment securities was reduced by
£269,267, and cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £32,997. The book value of net tan-
gible assets was £132,432 stronger than at
the previous balance.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref.—,, Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1935.. 25,963 10% 8% 8% 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 -9 „ 7 „ 7 18,052 2,727 43,787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18,052 1,663 45.449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18.052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7„ 7„ 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,359 10 „ 8 „ 8., 20,502 2,857 57,381
1942.. 27,580 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 7,078 64,459
1943.. 33,268 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 12,766 77,225
1944.. 19,458 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,406 78,631
1945.. 19,541 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,489 80,120
* Excluding depreciation reserves, £329,387
This co., the only cement manufacturer
in the northern State, is well equipped to
earn whatever profits are to be had from
the industry. The policy has been to keep
plant capacity a little ahead of advancing
demand and at the same time to make
an assault upon costs by technical and
other improvements, thus permitting re-
duction of selling prices and strengthen-
ing of competitive power. Indeed, the
co.’s costs have now been established on
a basis that will make it difficult for
southern competitors—Goliath (Tas.) was
chief before transport strictures —to again
re-establish extensive connections in
northern markets.
Although war brought public works and
private building practically to a standstill
it created new strategic needs for cement
which more than offset the old demands.
Plant, modernised just before the war by
installation of a new rotary kiln and
other equipment, was further strengthened
by addition of another cement mill (No.
3), which went into production about
the end of 1941. Turnover reached its
peak in 1943. It fell in the following
year, and, with costs creeping up and


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletelv successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22N), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
GUTHRIO6E
GEORGE ST
CAfIPEROOWN
FI
To
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
cyyiote titan
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
m
7 7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting 1
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * ♦ ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
u
jitST msHi nrlsG
1 7 GH TW I fGMT iUGGAGI
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airway!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD
Mdwfaciwm*ol CLOBfT£ TfdveKbse^j
All that is best and latest in the world’s
dance music is being continuously preserved on
records. The pleasure of having famous dance
bands play at your own home functions is neces-
sarily restricted at present, but will be no longer
deferred when conditions permit of increased
production.
SOME OF THE FAMOUS DANCE BAND
LEADERS WHOSE ART IS PRESERVED ON RECORDS:
Geraldo
Harry James
Woody Herman
Victor Silvester
Carroll Gibbons
Benny Goodman
Tommy Dorsey
Harry Roy
Foe Loss
Glenn Miller
Charlie Spivak
Louis Armstrong
Duke Ellington
George Trevare
Jimmy Dorsey
Artie Shaw
COLUMBIA
• "HIS MASTER'S VOICE” • PARLOPHONE
DECCA • REGAL ZONOPHONE
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. in England) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty.Ltd.
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. in England) . HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. A 3/45
McComuck-Deering Model W-6
(Standard)
M c CORMICK
DEEBING
Tractors
(Available with
steel wheels or on
rubber tyres for
approved purposes).
McCormick-Deering Farmall-MD
# . Also available. Models A,
H and M -
BACKED by more than 30 years
of building- and using tractors
... You can depend on
McCormick-Deering tractor power to
give the greatest satisfaction on your
farm. There's a size and type for
every farming heed, including row-
crop and standard kerosene and
diesel-fuel models. Full information
can be obtained from your nearest
International Harvester Agent
See Your Nearest
imtfbM&TIONAL HARVESTER AGENT
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES .
prices controlled, there was a sharp con-
traction in net earnings, though they still
showed a satisfactory return on capital.
Last term a slight increase in sales
helped to offset a further rise in costs,
especially raw materials. After provid-
ing for taxation and allowing £21,854
(down £2146) for depreciation, there was
little change in the net result (£19,541),
which was the second lowest for over a
decade. It was enough to pay the pref.
their minimum requirements, plus 6 p.c.
to the ords., and then show 1.6 p.c. on
the whole capital (prefs. and ords. com-
bined) as against 1.5, 7.2, 4.8 and 3.2 p.c,
for the four preceding years. The div.
was kept at 9 p.c. firsts and 7 p.c. seconds
and ords. The £245,061 of capital is in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second 6
p.c. cum. prefs. and 18,000 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital, and advance with the ords.
beyond 6 p.c.
One immediate effect of termination of
the war will be a sharp contraction in the
demand for cement. But as the transition
period develops into the post-war era
and public works and private construc-
tion programmes gather momentum-
strikes and Government bungling are the
impediments at the moment—the co. s
product should be in full demand again.
The problem will be to prevent a con-
traction of the margin between costs,
which are not controlled, and selling
prices, which are controlled.
In addition to the lay-by shown m the
table, there is depreciation reserve oi
£329,387 (up £21,854). But in this class
of business efficiency of plant means
most. Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,001
Creditors* .. 46,520 71,286 51.372 43.955
Freehold etc 20,976 20,975 21,115 21,115
Plant etc. .. 401,309 446:965 471,048 477,189
Stocks 68 167 87,257 115,931 79,911
Book debts . . 40,111 54,030 30,027 31,572
Cash etc. .. 49,346 47,613 66,5-8 111, ibJ
’ * Including provision for taxation.
Last term’s reduction of £36,020 in stocks
reflects the tapering of defence orders.
It was accompanied by a growth of
£45,261 in the cash holding, etc., £1545 in
debtors’ balances, £6141 in plant and a
contraction of £7417 in the amount com-
ing to outsiders. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£179,317) was £18,203.
Keen interest is being taken throughout
the mining industry in Australia in the
application of aluminum therapy as a
major step in combating development of
silicosis, Mclntyre Research, Ltd., a
non-profit organisation which holds world
patent rights of the new process, has es-
tablished that under Canadian conditions
regular inhalation of controlled amounts
of finely powered and dispersed alu-
minium dust will inhibit development of
silicosis among men exposed to its
dangers. Dr. Robson, medical director
of this organisation, says that aluminium
dust therapy is not a substitute for the
suppression of dust in mines. Mclntyre
Research will, therefore, only permit use
of its process in mines which have a good
record of dust control and ventilation,
and, to guard against misuse, requires
that the process be installed under super-
vision of its officers. Arrangements have
been made for Dr. George of the Medi-
cal Bureau at Brpken Hill (N.S.W. De-
partment of Labor and Industry), an,
authority on silicosis, to visit Canada and
investigate the application of the treat-
ment there. The intention is that Dr.
Robson, will then accompany Dr. George
back to Australia with a view to intro-
ducing the aluminium therapy treatment
here. Meanwhile, the Australian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy will co-ordi-
nate activities of various State Mining
Departments, Public Health Departments,
Commonwealth Mining Industry Ad-
visory Panel and mining cos. interested,
and arrange Dr. Robson’s tour.
**, ♦ *
Rising costs have taken an increasingly
deeper bite out of the earnings of pro-
ducers on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.), and elsewhere, over the last seven
years. The price of firewood, the fuel
used by Kalgoorlie Electric Light and
Power Corp. and for winding plants on
a number of electrified mines, rose from
17s. 6d. a ton February, 1938, to 255. Bd.
October, 1944, and to 325. April, 1945.
Also, in addition to the increased price
of stores and materials (when obtain-
able) and lifts in taxation, the efficiency
of the labor force declined, owing to ser-
vice call-ups, and the basic wage rose
from £4 7s. a week in 1938 to £5 Is. in
1944, and has continued to advance since.
Furthermore, the effects of the increased
cost of labor and materials, etc., has been
accentuated by decreased output. West-
ralia’s gold production fell from 1,154,843
fine oz. for 1940 to 472,588 fine oz. for
1944. There was a slight improvement
in last year’s figure. Substantial increase
is expected in 1946, when a number of
experienced miners is expected to return
to the industry; some requisitioned plant
should also be reinstated, new equipment
installed, many mines, which closed owing
to lack of manpower, will come into pro-
duction again, and new ones will be
opened up. Producers are anxiously
waiting for the Federal Government to
follow the example of Maoriland and
reduce the gold tax. It now takes
17s. 3d. of the official price of £lO 15s. 3d.
per fine oz., leaving £9 17s, for the
producer, as against an average of £9 2s.
9d. in 1938-39, when there was no special
tax. The improvement in the net price
over this period amounts to only a shade
over 8 p.c.
T * * *
Geologist R. S. Matheson, after inspec-
tion of Yellowdine goldmine (W.A.), re-
ports that the co. has not made the most
of knowledge obtained in the early stages
of prospecting. He says drilling, which
has been at a steep angle, could best be
done by vertical bores, or by bores
parallel with the dip of the hanging wall
of the reefs. Bores parall 1 with the dip,
he adds, would locate any further gold
carriers in the downward continuation of
the reefs, while vertical bores would have
the extra advantage of prospecting for
parallel ore-bodies.
Radio, six miles north of Bullfinch
(W.A.), which has been yielding gold
since 1915, just had a clean up of 105 oz
from 20 tons. Owners, Barr and
Clements, seem to have no regular crush-
ing periods. They just treat parcels or
ore when the golden spirit moves_ them.
An Adelaide co. once had an option on
the mine, but let it go on account of in-
ability to finance purchase.


WOLFE’S
n
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
BOOLPHO WOLFE'S ORI6INAI FORMULA'
THIS
aromatic alcoholic beverage
it warranted not only pure from every injur-
ious property and ingredient, but it is also of
the best possible quality.
■•“ the attention of Agents and Purchaser*
is invited to the Signature on this label, and
to the Title of this Aromatic Alcoholic
Cordial, embossed on the sides of the Bottle
as protection against inferior and pernicious
imitations.
* Attorney
MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.. SYDNEY
Bottled in Bond under the supervision
of the Commonwealth Custom*
NET: 1 PINT 6 FL. OZS.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
The Qordian Knot
According to legend, Gordius, King of Phrygia,
fastened his wagon to a beam with a rope of
bark so ingeniously that no one could untie it.
ALEXANDER the GREAT, being told that who-
ever undid the knot would reign over the whole
East, took his sword and severed it with one
bold, decisive stroke.
Who knows? Perhaps Alexander would have
failed, and the course of History been changed
if he had had to contend with the tough,
durable yet resilient knot that is a feature of
Gerrard steel wire strapping systems.
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines and Strapping - Flat Band Strapping Systems -
Corrugated Fasteners - Fountain Stencil Brushes - Fount-Pencil Markers
Stencil Inks - Label lackers and Tacks - Bag Ties -
Packing Room Supplies. *
y
Melbpiirne, Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
Business, Rollery, Etc
Yampi Iron and B.H.P.
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., is now
in the process of spending a million
pounds in the development and equipment
of Cockatoo Island hematite leases in
Yampi Sound, W.A. Yampi is 85 miles
north of Derby and 200 miles n.-e. of
Broome. The quantity of iron ore
on the island, which will blend well
with Iron Knob ore (the latter has
a higher manganese content), will ensure
a long life for the project. After produc-
tion and shipment of ore is commenced
(towards the end of this year) it is ex-
pected that the working population of
the island will be about 100, and provi
sion for accommodating 250 people, in-
cludpig wives and families, is being
arranged. Adequate refrigeration and
cool-storage facilities are being installed
now. A.I. and S. had been working on
the leases just before the war with Japan
in order to augment ore supplies from
other parts of the Commonwealth, but,
owing to the Japanese menace, work was
suspended in January, 1942, and was not
resumed until December, 1944,
The iron ore is of high quality and
can be mined by opencut, but a long sea
haulage to Australia’s east-coast steel-
works is necessary. A fleet of 12,500-ton
steamers is being built by B.H.P. to carry
the ore to the furnaces, and the cost of
these will be in addition to the million-
pound mining project.
The Cockatoo Island ore-body has been
described by F. Canavan and A. B.
Edwards as a single body of hard,
high-grade hematite outcropping for
a length of 7000 ft. and varying in
width from about 15ft. to 100 ft. It forms
a sea cliff, the slope of the cliff and the
dip of the bed coinciding. The height of
the cliff reaches a maximum of 400 ft. and
averages about 260 ft. above high-water
mark. The bed dies out to the east and
west and appears to be lenticular. Under-
lying the hematite bed is a band of red
ferruginous schist, which for about
1000 ft. of its length gives place to a soft,
powdery high-grade iron ore. The hema-
tite averages about 69 p.c. iron, and is
low in phosphorous and sulphur as well
as manganese. The big tidal variation
(35ft. at spring tides) is being looked after
by a hinged boom. A deep-water berth
exists close to the shoreline, and a reliable
ore-loading port can be established.
The sinking of some of B.H.P.’s ore-
carrying vessels by the Japanese during
the war reduced the supply of ore avail-
able from Iron Knob, and inferior and
costly ore was drawn from other parts
of the Commonwealth, mostly N. S.
Wales. The big undertaking now en-
visaged off the Westralian coast illustrates
the determination of the B.H.P. organisa-
tion to go ahead with the development of
Australia’s steel-producirfg resources re-
gardless of present political and industrial
conditions. B.H.P. has always had great
faith in this country, and because it is
progressive, efficient and possesses that
faith it is picked out by vicious elements
in trade-unionism for a barrage of vile,
lying slander and as the butt of persistent
irritation tactics. In spite of the higher
war-time cost of obtaining iron ore
B.H.P. was allowed only one increase
(Oct., 1942) in the price of steel, which it
still sells at the world’s lowest level. The
munitions industry during the war was
supplied at cost price—“a patriotic ges-
ture,” said Munitions Minister Makin,
“that has been withheld from the public
too long.”
In the six years between June 1, 1939
and May 31, 1945, B.H.P. and its subsi-
diaries, including some outside share-
holders, earned profits totalling slightly
more than £7 million on capital and re-
serves aggregating about £24 million. The
average profit per year on funds em-
ployed has thus been less than 5 p.c.
Dividends to B.H.P. shareholders over the
past five years have been at the rate of
5 p.c, a year. The company and its share-
holders have done a splendid war job
for a very low return. And the staff has
been well treated.
The younger generation of Australians,
if they are to progress, will admire and
support enterprises like 8.H.P., and will
endeavor to match the vision and energy
of that organisation in other fields. The
whole economic future of the Common-
wealth depends on the courage, energy,
enterprise, efficiency and scientific de-
velopment shown in its industries. Politi-
cal and trade-union rackets standing in
the way of such progress will have to be
dealt with by the people themselves.
Steel prices had risen 36 p.c. in
Britain during the war and up to the end
of 1945, after which an increase of 5 p.c.
in ingot-steel prices was expected. The
cost of coke and iron ore (much of the
latter imported) has doubled in Britain
during the war, and the price of pigiron
has risen 50 p.c. A kind of equalisation
fund has operated in the industry during
the war, and this may now come to an
end. An increase in the price of a basic
product like steel is a disturbing thing,
especially in respect of exports. Mr.
Shinwell, too, has lately’announced that
“cheap coal is a thing of the past.”
Remarks by the chairman of Malayan
Tin Dredging, Ltd., made recently in
London:—
It should not be necessary to recall the
circumstances attending the collapse of
Malaya, but it may well be that a reminder
to the Government on the subject would
not be out of place. The whole trouble
arose from the failure of the British Gov-
ernment to protect the country in accord-
ance with its obJgations under the treaties
with the native rulers. There is no am-
biguity regarding the claim which your
directors have made through the Malayan
Chamber of Mines. Apart altogether from
such claims as we have for the tin ore
that may have been extracted from our
property by the Japanese, we state that our
plant' and machinery were either destroyed
or damaged by or on the specific orders of
both the F.M.S. Government and the mili-
tary authorities, and we submit that the
shareholders, who are the owners of the
property, have a rightful claim to compen-
sation for the damage and losses sustained.
In lieu of the Government itself rehabili-
tating the property we ask for present pay-
ments on account of such compensation as
may ultimately be assessed in our favor, in
order that we may proceed with our own
reconstruction without loss of time. As the
Imperial Governemnt is sponsoring a Colo-
nial Welfare Development Scheme, involv-
ing an expenditure of £120,000,000 during
the next 10 years or so, it seems to me that
Malaya has a prior claim on the British
Government, particularly when one bears in
mind that Malaya is a Protectorate, the
subject of a trust assumed by Great Britain
many years ago.
Only one of the co.’s dredges is expected
to be fit for operation by August 1 this
year. The three others may be working
again in 18 months. All four were sunk
by the British authorities and were re-
floated by the Japs. Two were sunk
again and refloated. The Japs appear to
have run all the dredges to a standstill,
neglecting maintenance and taking parts
from one dredge to another.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging, which in its
1941 term produced 167,4620 z. fine gold,
is going ahead with re-equipment of its
property in Mandated New Guinea,
which was damaged by the Australian
military authorities in their precautions
against Japanese occupation. Up to May,
1941, Bulolo had produced 1,194,7250 z.
fine gold and 529,4420 z. silver. Though
only 40 million c.y. of ground was talked
of ,at Bulolo’s flotation in June, 1930,
over 107 million c.y. has been treated
since operations commenced in 1932. The
increase in yardage beyond prospectus
estimates is the result of additions to the
area and the working of deeper ground
and yardages previously regarded as un-
payable. Dredging reserves in 1941 were
estimated at 140 million c.y., exclusive of
21 million c.y. reserved for hydraulicking.
Recoveries in 1941 averaged the equivalent
of only 4.1 grains of gold, including the
gold value of the silver, compared with
from 4.9 gr. to 7gr. in all the previous
years. Bulolo has a claim in against the
Australian War Damage Commission
amounting to over £500,000, The co.’s
field staff is being built up, and most of
the necessary hydro-electric equipment
has already been dispatched.. Other
equipment is on the way, but shipping
difficulties are against any accurate esti-
mate being made as to when dredging will
recommence. The eight dredges are re-
ported to be in good structural condi-
tion. Placer Development owns 300,000
of the million one-dollar shares issued
by Bulolo.
* * * *
Another year has begun with the Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges still under the
direct control of the Treasury. Many
people believe that it cannot be long
before the Commonwealth Government’s
right to continue to restrict security prices
will expire, and that, in the circumstances,
a more frequent revision of controlled
prices should be practised now in order
to avoid a violently fluctuating, specu-
lative market when “the lid is lifted.” The
majority of high-class investments are
jammed against the prices ceiling, and,
with a large amount of idle money in
the hands of the people, it would be far
better to free the markets by degrees than
to remove all price controls suddenly and
to leave the pricing of the whole list to
the judgment of the market in a period
of a few days. Many good shares- have
been inactive for so long that a fair ap-
praisement of their values will take weeks
—probably months or more in some
cases, especially as post-war trading con-
ditions, within Australia and outside of
it, may reveal themselves as something
considerably different from what was
experienced in 1939. Interest rates, too,
have been set at a fictitious level by Gov-
ernment decree, and it will take time for
a free money market to develop, especi-
ally as the Commonwealth Bank will
now have far-reaching though mostly
legal—powers over banking and similar
matters. The sharemarket in making a
fair appraisement of stock values will
also need to take into consideration the
trend of taxation rates and the likely
attitude of the trade-unions in future. In
present circumstances it is most difficult
to assess the real value of shares in, say,
B.H.P. so long as Communism dominates
the Ironworkers’ Federation. The present
strike must affect current earnings
severely; apart from loss of profits from
production during the stoppage, there are
additional costs incurred in closing and
reopening the works. The same thing
applies to many other factories closed
down over Christmas owing to the coal-
miners’ strike. The country as a whole,
including the strikers themselves, could
not stand a general strike for more than
a week or two. But strikes in individual
industries might persist for a long time
and affect the prospects of investors in
those industries considerably. A good
deal depends upon the outcome of the
ironworkers’ strike. The flagrant law-
lessness shown will have to be utterly de-
feated if we are to have reasonable pros-
pects of industrial peace in 1946. The
Sydney printing unions were beaten and
other unions contemptuous of industrial
law must also be beaten.


“ Whether it’s for
hatbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice i
about the best tackle i
available. Good value
is guaranteed and jel
your inspection
invited.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony: Horderns)
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1944, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1945.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1946,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns 'of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect «f risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1945, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1944, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1946;
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort maid
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne,
HART*
Circular Charts lot oil typo* ol
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Go* out quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET HTV. LTD. BRISBANE. QTO.
HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
✓
Jack Carroll, undefeated Welterweight
champion of Australia, popular idol of
boxing fans. Defeated Fred Henneberry
In the greatest fight of his career at the
Melbourne stadium in 1932. A tribute
to a hard hitting Australian.
Despite restrictions, limited supplies
of I.C.L SHOTGUN and .22 RIM-
FIRE CARTRIDGES are available
to primary producers for essential
pest destruction subject to police
permits, ALL AUSTRALIAN•
iW&WSm
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
Vrt £i%Ui
of Jkadcukifi'
dď
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass firoduced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox "Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE. .
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
amouMouced
iprrnil
HP
THE HI O L A V I.M EC AR C ;
b or' 1 !
SHAk
mnpEimi
SAUCE
lEa
& p
(TOMATO
| SAUCE
*3S£‘
By
lEA AND PERRINS
Industrial and Housing Loans
Summary of new activities being intro-
duced by the Commonwealth Bank:
Parts X and XI of the Commonwealth Bank
Act, 1945, have operated from January 2, 1946.
Part X establishes an industrial finance depart-
ment of the bank, supplementary to its exist-
ing activities. , ,
The department will have no fixed plan for
the granting of loans, and will handle each
proposal “on its merits.” Consideration, it is
stated, will be given to industrial proposals
which are economically desirable and commer-
cially justifiable, provided the applicant, as i
general rule, has a reasonable equity in the
undertaking to ensure he can carry it to a
successful conclusion.
It is intended that accommodation granted
will be in one or more of the following forms:
(i) Overdraft.
(ii) Fixed loan (mortgage or debentures).
(iii) Advances under hire-purchase agree-
ment to finance the acquisition of
industrial equipment (other than
motor trucks) and machine tools.
(iv) Subscription of capital to a company.
(v) Underwriting an issue of shares by a
company or sharing in an under-
writing ;
or by such other means as might be appropri-
ate to the particular case.
The rate of interest in respect of overdrafts
granted in the Industrial Finance Department
would be the bank’s general overdraft rate, at
present 4f p.c. p.a. The rate for fixed loans
would be according to the circumstances of the
particular case, but the maximum would be
4\ p.c.
As a general rule, the maximum terms under
hire-purchase agreement is 80 p.c. of the net
cash price of industrial plant (i.e., cost price,
less usual discounts) at a flat rate of 3| p.c.
p.a., repayable in equal monthly instalments
(principal and interest) over a period of 24
months. Proposals which involve a hiring
period in excess ol two years, but not more
than five years, will be considered on their
merits, provided it can be shown that full re-
payment would be effected well within the
efficient life of the plant to be acquired. Should
approval b'e given in such cases the finance
charge would be increased to 4 p.c. p.a. flat.
The question of financing the purchase of
motor trucks and other purely industrial
vehicles is being examined.
Part XI of the Act is concerned with hous-
ing loans. Housing loans will be made to
individuals on credit fonder terms and to build-
ing societies which are proclaimed as eligible
for accommodation under the Act.
Housing loans to individuals will be repayable
by equal regular periodical instalments cover-
ing principal and interest during the currency
of the loan. The Act provides that such loans
shall be made only for the erection or pur-
chase of homes or the discharge of mortgages
on homes in which the borrower is residing or
will reside within a reasonable time, and it
further lays down that the bank shall give
preference to loans for the erection of homes
and for the purchase of newly-erected Homes.
To stimulate home-building, for the time being
housing loans to individuals will be made only
for the purpose of erecting new houses or for
the purchase of newly-erected houses — i.e.,
houses not previously occupied.
The rate of interest charged for credit fonder
loans will be £3 17s. 6d. p.c. p.a. The rate
fixed at the commencement of the loan wifi
remain unchanged for at least 10 years,. Inter-
est will be payable and principal repayable
by monthly instalments, the minimum accept-
able monthly instalment being 9s. for each
£lOO in the case of brick houses and 11s. for
each £lOO in the case of wooden and fibro
houses. These instalments will remain un-
changed during the curerncy of the loan, and,
with interest at £3 17s. 6d. p.c. p.a., will effect
repayment in approximately 33 years in the
case of brick houses, and ‘ approximately 23
years in the case of wooden and fibro houses.
The maximum permissible loan under the
Act is 85 p.c. of the bank’s value of the
security, or £1250, whichever is the less.
As to the Industrial Finance Depart-
ment, there is no denying the value of
such a financial aid to young industrial
ventures provided the assistance is sup-
plied under prudent and enlighteried
conditions and without political bias or
socialistic intent. It will be noted that
one of the five specific alternative
methods of providing assistance is the
right to subscribe share capital. There is
no knowing at the present stage whether
this will constitute a major or a minor
method, or whether Caucus (during the
reign of a Labor Government) will use
this avenue to carry out part of its well-
known industrial policy.
It is certain, however, that officers of
the trading banks possess greater busi-
ness nous than the majority of Common-
wealth Bank employees, and it is to be
hoped that the socialistic banking legis-
lation passed in 1945 does not prevent
■ the trading banks from offering a freely
competitive alternative to that which the
central bank offers. In other words, even
if the credit for starting something must
be given to one party, there should be
no bar to other parties improving on it
and, by competition, tending to remedy
any of its defects.
Personal incomes in Australia, from
January 1, are subject to taxation ap-
proximately p.c. lighter than last
year. There is no relief from double com-
pany taxation. In Canada there was a
16 p.c. cut in personal income tax from
Oct. 1. The reduction was described as
an interim measure that will continue
“until it is possible to combine abate-
ment with a thorough overhaul of the
whole personal-tax structure.” The
Dominion is reducing excess-profits tax
from 100 p.c. to 60 p.c., with additional
concessions in many cases. In the United
States all excess-profits tax was elimi-
nated after January 1, and there were
personal-tax reductions as well. Britain
made a number of taxation concessions
in 1945.
* * * *
Emperor Mines, Ltd., owner of the Fiji
gold show of which E. G. Theodore,
John Wren, P. F. Cody and Frank Packer
were the chief vendors in 1935, is to re-
turn £237,500 of capital. There are
1.950.000 Bs. 6d.-paid shares, and on these
2s. 6d. is to be handed back on February
6. A previous return of capital was made
approximately two years ago, and up to
that point shareholders had received
£712,500 out of the mine. The vendors
also got £300,000 in cash at the flotation.
The attraction of the capital-return idea
is that the proceeds do not bear Common-
wealth income tax, very heavy on big in-
comes just now. Tire vendors, in addition
to the cash, got 600,000 fully-paids in
1935 and exercised their option over
350.000 shares later on.
* * * *
The rise in the note issue was
phenomenal over the Christmas holidays.
On November 26 the total was £l9O mil-
lion. On Christmas Eve the issue had
swollen to nearly £203 million, £6,250,000
of the increase having taken place in the
preceding week. The festive season was
the occasion of great public spending, and
the strike that accompanied it helped the
black-marketeer in charging exorbitant
prices for goods in short supply. Had
there been no strike the liquor and food
position would have been much easier.


Public Notice.
I, WERNER OTTO REED of STATELESS former
German nationality, born at Stettin, Germany and
resident 8 years 4 months in Australia, now residing
at 256 Bondi Road, Bondi, Sydney, Intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, HERMAN GUSTAV PIESKER of German Nation-
ality, born at Beeskow Brandenborj, Germany and
resident 19 years' in Australia, now residing at
18 Undercliffe -Road, UnderclifFe, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
PARKING POLICE—VACANCIES.
Iric , p PHi ations are I ' r L v,t pd from returned servicemen, and particularly those who have
rmni rlrr or , suff ? nn g from war disabilities but which would not prevent them
R®!?* the simple duties of Parking Police. They will be appointed Special
i pay at the rate of £5/13/- per week. Uniform provided. Recreation
_c . c ' f air ooucatiqnal standard, with capacity to keep record of cars, make notes
ot breaches and furnish minor returns.
Apply at the
Recruiting Office, Police Depot, Bourke Street, Redfern,
or in writing to
The Commissioner of Police, Box 45, G.P.0., Sydney.
VACANCIES.
NEW SOUTH WALES POLICE FORCE
Recruits between the ages of 21 and 30 years are urgently
required in the New South Wales Police Force.
Special, consideration given to discharged men of the Services. Good pay and
conditions, 44-hour week, continuity of employment, with superannuation, annual and
sick leave benefits. Commencing pay, 18s. Id. per,day for seven days per week; pay
increases with service and promotion. , , .
Fair educational standard required; good character and physique. Minimum
height, sft. lOin.; weight, list. 101 b.
Apply at THE POLICE DEPOT, BOURKE STREET, REDFERN
or by letter to
THE COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, BOX 45, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence and Australia.
“Ek Dum”: Close observers of the
present civil and military policy of the
Government in Canberra become more
and more uneasy about overseas rela-
tions. The policy, in fact, is running neck
and neck with a campaign couched in
Communist jargon—it began in 1942 and
has been maintained ever since—to pro-
mote the idea that this country has been
“let down” by the British, and with
another more recent campaign, the germs
of which were loosed in Moscow in an
unobtrusive way to divide Britain and the
United States and to break up the British
Commonwealth in aid of the strengthen-
ing of Russia and world Communism.
The statement of Mr. Beasley, himself
a former admirer of Communism and an
advocate of its institution in Australia, on
the A.1.F., inaccurate in every main de-
tail, uncomplimentary to Britain, con-
firmatory of nearly everything the Commu-
nists have been alleging, might have been
written at Communist headquarters.
Combined with the desertion of the
British Commonwealth at San Francisco
for gringo republics, and the desertion
of it again in Indonesia —where short-
service Australian troops are moved out
while long-service British conscripts are
moved in, to prevent the establishment of
a Japanese-sponsored, -organised and
-armed Indonesian “republic” on the Aus-
tralian north—leaves a nasty taste in the
mouth. This is more especially so when
it is realised how closely “Labor” follows
the twists of world Communist policy.
These things raise grave misgivings
if for one reason only. Australia’s safety
lies primarily in her membership of the
British Commonwealth and of her co-
operation with the British Commonwealth
to maintain the British Empire. The
maintenance of the Empire is just as vital
as that of the British Commonwealth. The
Empire is not an aggregation of slave
peoples—“kept in a bloody subjection by
the murderous tyranny of the treacherous
London plutocracy,” according to one
instrument of “friendly” Moscow. It is a
strategic conception based on sea-power
(and lately) air-power. Contrary to the
rubbish that is printed and talked, little
profit is made by the British out of India,
Ceylon and Malaya save that which they
have developed with their own resources
built up from extraneous sources —from
their own shipping and from the rubber
industry. That industry did not exist until
the British imported the trees from South
America and introduced to Malaya the
art of growing and tapping the trees be-
fore applying the basic principles (all
British, incidentally) necessary to turn the
produce to commercial account.
What the Empire Is
What the Empire does represent is a
series of communication staging bases and
defence bases. There is a sort of fictional
belief that the day of these is done, but
actually they have become more import-
ant than ever. Take away Singapore, Ran-
goon, India, Iraq, Egyptian and Persian
Gulf footholds, Palestine, Malta, Gib-
raltar and Capetown, and the defence
links between Britain and Australia are
gone.
If Ceylon had been lost in 1942, Aus-
tralia would have been invaded from the
west and cut off from European help. If
India had been captured Persia would
have gone. Russia either would have
made peace with Germany or been
attacked from the rear and smashed —
this was a year before Allied doses of
supplies, largely administered through
the Persian supply channel, made the
U.S.S.R. strong enough to fight the
Stalingrad campaign when Montgomery
fired the starting gun in the German re-
treats. In any case, the Royal Navy and
the R.A.F., which guarded those regions
and the whole of the Indian Ocean, would
have been driven off.
Reasons for Liberation
The reason why Communist agencies
wish to “liberate” the peoples of India,
Ceylon, Malaya and the Indies is not
based on pity for the poor “slaves”
(whose lot is far superior to that of the
millions of beaten starvelings in Russian
political concentration camps) but to de-
stroy the defence bases of the British
Commonwealth—the same bases which
Mr. Beasley was so proud of having re-
fused to help defend during World War
11, while demanding that the rest of the
British Commonwealth should sacrifice
everything to prevent this continent being
polluted by even one invader. In a sense
Russia and its Communist offshoots are
already at war with us.
Meanwhile, Russia is pursuing a policy
of conquest of neighbors from within and
of the creation of an empire, which,
though strategic, differs in nature from
the British in one important particular—•
the shape of Russian strategy is aggres-
sive, not defensive, as is the British.
Where British colonies form links in a
communication chain and hold the parts
of the Commonwealth which could not
exist without a sharing of resources, Rus-
sia’s seizures are external and aggressive,
and in many cases resemble parachute
landings behind an enemy’s lines.
The seizure the Kuriles bases gained
no material advantage save to fling Russia
athwart the route from U.S. to Asia.
Communist encouragement of rebellion
in the Indies, which has had Moscow’s
blessing since 1924, is designed to put
India,, Ceylon and Malaya in a sandwich
and make a break in British communica-
tions across friendly territory to Aus-
tralia. The policy of going into Africa is
again to plant bases on British communi-
cation lines.
The Case of Spain
Does Moscow care whether Spain is
Fascist or not? The Moscow interest in
Spain was purely a design to have a base
behind Britain, and particularly France.
The usual type of commentator on the
Spanish war appears to have missed the
point that when. Germans and Italians
began to fight in Spain, the Russians vir-
tually dropped out; also, that while Mos-
cow trumpeted the cause of the Spanish
“Republicans” and issued reams of stuff
describing Mr. Chamberlain as “a mur-
derer” because, in keeping with historic
British policy, he did not intervene in
Spain, Moscow was all the time laughing
up its sleeve. Italy was building naval
ships for Russia and providing nearly all
the machinery for everything naval built
in Russia.
In the crucial years of the Spanish
crisis, 1937-39, Russia’s most powerful
light cruiser (Tashkent) was built in Leg-
horn, and the Italians were busy as bees
supplying the people they were supposedly
fighting in Spain, supplying them with
machinery and plans for the 7000-ton class
of Kirov cruisers and most of the new
Soviet destroyers.
And there is another small matter
which all the ardent advocates of putting
Franco out miss that it is Spanish
Communist policy to destroy any non-
Communist Government in Portugal and
to “assure the unity of the Iberian Penin-
sula,” an aspiration which, of course, also
is inimical to the continued maintenance
of Gibraltar, whose possession those same
Communists already have deprecated,
Russia already has demanded a share
in Tangier—of yore a British station and
virtually the starting-point of the career
of Marlborough. And can anybody see
a Communist Government in office in
Spain—that being the alternative to
Franco —and not attempting to cut British
control of the Europa Straits?
The Arab Question
Persia is already under Russian pres-
sure, and Turkey is in danger. No-
body seems to notice in all the melee that
Moscow propaganda is supporting the
Jews everywhere in British countries and
doing its best to assure them a status as
a persecuted race. At the same time,
there is bitter Communist propaganda
among the Arab races in favor of Arab
unity and Arab control of Arab terri-
tories in which, it is made plain, Syria,
Palestine and Egypt are included. There
is a particularly acrimonious Communist
campaign against “British domination” of
Egypt. Now Russia is alleged to be
making moves against the Anglo-French
agreement in the Levant.
Unity and Strength
All this points a moral. Russia’s
“empire” abroad at the moment consists
largely of aggressive Communist units
which are bent on the destruction of the
systems which they have Red-anted, and
particularly of the British system. Their
strength and dangerousness lie in their
exact unity of purpose and policy,
whether in Bulgaria, where the two lead-
ing politicians are fresh from the Mos-
cow Foreign Office, in Yugoslavia and
Italy, some dominating figures in
politics are also fresh from Moscow, and
in Australia, where policy is dictated to
servile unions by permanent Moscow
delegates—Sharkey was appointed head
of the Communist party 15 years ago
after a visit to Moscow, and, upon elec-
tion to the executive of the Comintern,
he became the dictator of the movement,
and, at times, of the Labor party.
The British Commonwealth suffers at
present from a lack of cohesion. It has
so suffered for many years. There is a
tendency in Australia to preach that the
Commonwealth must come close to the
United States because Britain cannot give
us defence. And that is true under present
conditions but need not be true.
To see this one merely has to look at
the might-have-beens of World War 11.
As it was, Britain, while sacrificing tem-
porarily such outposts as Hong Kong
and Malaya, had sufficient strength by the
time the Japanese reached Ceylon and the
Indian border to stop them dead. And
that was at a time when Britain was at
her lowest ebb and hardest pressed.
But consider what the position would
have been if the British Commonwealth,
instead of selling itself into the silly Wash-
ington agreement and scrapping its de-
fences, had united to adopt the Jellicoe
scheme for the areas east of Suez.
Under that scheme Australia would have
had two capital ships, eight light cruisers,
12 destroyers, eight submarines and some
subsidiary craft, plus —this was 1919 —a
carrier. Canada was to have provided
five or six 10,000-ton cruisers and six to
nine submarines ; S. Africa, two 10,000-
ton cruisers; India, two 10,000-ton
cruisers; N.Z., two light cruisers. Apart
from the British contribution in ships,
there would have been a powerful
Dominion navy which could have taken
care of Japan in all its long-distance
ventures, Australia’s share of the cost
at that time was based on an estimate of
17s. per head. If there had been compul-
sory service for land defence on the basis
adopted before World War I, and if this
had been transferred to a war footing,
plus an air force based on the experience
of the first year of World War 11, its com-
position framed in proportion to naval de-
fence, there would have been little to fear.
Dr. Evatt’s Gift
One might have expected that the lesson
of cohesion would have been learned.
But there is plenty of evidence that it has
not been. For example, Dr. Evatt was
reported as telling the New York
“Times” that, while “Australia” would not
cede territory to a foreign nation, “Aus-
tralia” would grant bases to a country
prepared to defend the area.
Apart frond the fact that Dr. Evatt and
his party are without constitutional power
to grant permanent bases to an armed
foreign force, this is an abject and
dangerous policy, for which that pursued
in the Atlantic with British colonial pos-
sessions (which are not under the same
sort of sovereignty) is not a precedent.
Establishment of foreign bases in Aus-
tralia to defend the area would be tanta-
mount to foreign occupation. No base
would be worth while to an extraneous
country for the purpose of defending the
area which could not of its own force
dominate that area at any time and con-
trol its destiny. And reciprocal con-
cessions to Australia would mean nothing,
since Australia has no use for U.S. bases.
For the British Commonwealth the one
real hope of safety and survival in the
future is a very closely interlocked
policy in which all commitments in re-
gard to external countries and all defence
plans are made in unity, and in which
every nation within the Commonwealth
does it share both in peace and war.
The Bennett Inquiry.
When this issue went to press a full
copy of the report of the Royal Com-
missioner, Justice Ligertwood, on Lieu-
tenant-General Bennett’s escape from
Malaya was not available. The basic
findings were that “in relinquishing his
command on leaving Singapore General
Bennett did not have the permission of
any competent authority,
“There was, in fact, no competent
authority who could give him such per-
mission.” General Percival could not do
so because he had signed the capitu-
lation under which he agreed that
General Bennett, as one of the troops
under his command, would be sur-
rendered. Even the Australian Govern-
ment could not have given permission
good in military law.
When General Bennett (the Commis-
sioner found) left Singapore he was not
a prisoner-of-war in the sense of being a
soldier who was under duty to escape.
He was in the position of a soldier whose
commanding officer had agreed to sur-
render him and submit him to directions
which would make him a prisoner-of-war.
, Having rSgard to the terms of the capita-:
lation I think that it was General Bennett’s
duty to have remained in command of the
A.1.F., until the surrender was complete.
Having regard to the terms of the capitula-
tion, I find that General Bennett was not
justified in relinquishing command and leav-
ing Singapore. I am unable to agree that
General Bennett’s command of the A.I.F.
was brought to an end by the unconditional
surrender.
At the same time the Commissiolier
considered that General Bennett genuinely
believed that Australia was in peril and
that it was of vital importance for the
safety of the country that he should re-
turn to take a leading part in the defence.
The general ‘‘genuinely, but, in my
opinion, mistakenly,” believed that the
text of the “cease-fire” order requiring
the troops to remain in their positions
was a Japanese order directed to
prisoners-of-war, and one which he was
in duty bound to disregard if he saw the
opportunity of escaping. And he
genuinely believed also that he had done
all he could for his men and could give
them no further assistance; that if he
were taken he would be segregated from
his men.
Lastly, the Commissioner believed that
the decision to escape was inspired by
patriotism and that the escape was “a
hazardous enterprise and involved no re-
flection on General Bennett’s personal
courage.”
This last finding was scarcely neces-
sary ; it went without saying on the
General’s record.
It is impossible to comment without
close perusal of the report, but it seems
clear that the general officer in com-
mand of the Australian troops in Malaya
agreed to their surrender without being
clear what the terms of the surrender
involved, and that he apparently was not
deeply enough versed in international
military law to know the difference be-
tween absolute surrender without terms
and surrender on capitulations. Also,
that he did not understand his responsi-
bilities to his troops. The Australian
Government immediately accepted his
version and, without further inquiry, gave
him its full public support, an action
which might have had very serious reper-
cussions against our troops and particu-
larly senior officers, since it involved
breach of agreement with the Japanese.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s Stake in Persia.
{ln Moscow Bevin, Byrnes and Molotov
“failed to reach agreement on Persia.” What
has been going on there • is highly important to
Britain, as indicated in the London “Times”
contribution here condensed .)
Events of the highest importance
have been taking place in northern Persia.
The political implications of these
events may be understood by consider-
ing the composition of the so-called
“Democratic party.” This body is the
successor, renamed last August, of the
former “Tudeh party,” which was de-
scribed in the “Times” on October 6 by
a “Special Correspondent lately in Persia”
as “built up” by the Russians. The
“Tudeh party,” the correspondent said,
included many “self-seekers,” “tough and
adventurous Caucasians, Armenians,
Turks and near-Turks,” all of them “sub-
servient to Russia.” In the Soviet-occu-
pied northern provinces this Russian-
supported party soon won almost abso-
lute local power.
It is childish to suppose that such a
body of men could engage for a single
day in the activities which have been tak-
ing place in Soviet-occupied Azerbaijan
without the full knowledge and assent
(to say no more) of the Russian authori-
ties. The 1943 Tehran Declaration on
Persia, issued by Generalissimo Stalin,
President Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill,
and the Russo - Persian Treaty of
February 26, 1931, would seem to have
explicitly excluded any activities of this
character.
What is important for Britain and those
responsible for British policy is the geo-
graphic position and strategic significance
of Azerbaijan. Some 35,000 square miles
in area, well-watered and fertile, and in-
habited by a population—principally
peasants of Turkish stock and Kurds and
numbering 1,500,000 to 2,000,000 —Azer-
baijan occupies a strategic position of
great importance. To the north are the
Soviet Republics of Azerbaijan and
Armenia ; to the west is Turkey; to the
south-west Iraq. Main roads which,
though not always very well surfaced,
have for centuries provided major com-
munications, run across Persian Azer-
baijan in all directions. A Great Power
installed in Azerbaijan would certainly
have no difficulty in preparing its roads
for the movement of modern armies, par-
ticularly if not too highly mechanised.
Quite apart from these possibilities, how-
ever, “autonomy” for Persian Azerbai-
jan— to be followed, perhaps at no very
distant date, by “spontaneous” demands
for union with Soviet Azerbaijan to the
north—would cut Turkey off completely
from Persia ; open the Turkish back door
by exposing the vitally important road
running south of Ararat to Erzerum;
and install Russia (whether directly or at
one remove is of little account) on the
north-eastern frontier of Iraq.
Nor is this all. There is also the ques-
tion of Persian and Iraqi oil, which dur-
ing the war just ended was vital to the
whole of British and Allied strategy in
the Middle East, the Mediterranean and
the Far East. There is also Iraq, which
Britain is bound by treaty to defend until
1957.
One of the greatest displacements and
readjustments of power known to his-
tory is now in progress. Upon its course
the whole future of Britain and the
Empire will depend. Events in Persia
are an integral part of these major hap-
penings.
Experts Report on Germany.
(From a “Wall-street Journal" article by Ray-
mond Moley.)
The people in America and Britain who
have been saying that the Potsdam plan
for Germany’s economic recovery would
not work have strong support in the re-
port of the U.S. experts advising the
Office of Military Government. The ex-
perts, headed by the able Professor Cal-
vin Hoover, included well-known practi-
cal industrialists.
In the main, this report makes the point
that, with the loss of her eastern terri-
tories, Germany will have to be more,
rather than less, of an industrial nation
than before. In the face of this, the posi-
tion taken by Henry Morgenthau
becomes fairly fantastic. The Morgen-
thau-Vansittart ideas, which no doubt
were a factor in prolonging the war, now
appear to be useless in the making of the
peace.
The Potsdam plan was to allow Ger-
mans ho higher living standard than that
enjoyed by their European neighbors.
The experts accept this standard, but
point out that in order to achieve it, in
many industrial lines, Germany must be
allowed more, rather than less, produc-
tion than before the war. This is because
exports are essential to secure the food
supply for what remains of Germany
after the rich eastern provinces have been
removed. It is also essential because the
employment of those Germans formerly
in war work must be provided for in
peaceful industry.
The American committee points out
that half the exports from Germany
should be in iron and steel, chemicals,
optical and other fine instruments.
The difficulty of producing the exports
necessary to the standard of living
allowed by the Potsdam plan is accentu-
ated by several other provisions of that
plan. For example, the machinery left,
after deductions in reparations, must be
increased by the production of new
machinery. Also, compensating employ-
ment must be provided not only for that
part of the population formerly in war
work, but for those formerly in shipping,
which is now forbidden.
There is also the necessity of produc-
ing enough to enable Germany to make
payments on foreign investments in Ger-
many and on the large debit clearing
balances which Germany had accumu-
lated at the end of the war.
Once more the inexorable facts of
economics break in upon political and
military judgments. In order to permit
Germany to be even an inoffensive mem-
ber of the family of nations, her economic
life must have some recovery.
The truth of it all is that no plan by
which a nation is to be held down by
economic sanctions will work. If Ger-
many is to be kept harmless it must be
by military and political, not economic,
force.
Flying Bombs and Rockets.
(What they have been this time and may be
next time; condensed from an American
“Foreign Affairs” article by Wing Commander
Nigel Tangye, R.A.F.)
If there is another world war, will the
transocean flight of bomb and rockets
become a commonplace? There is every
reason to believe so. The technical prob-
lems are not so great as those which had
to be overcome by the men who invented
and perfected the airplane. And the
nature of the bombs so carried may be
terrible beyond previous imagining.
The flying bomb, or VI, was at first
greeted in Britain as a great joke.
“Flight,” one of the leading British aero-
nautical journals, commented 16 days
after the attack had begun: “One would
have to search diligently through the
records of warfare to find a more telling
case of substituting futility and propa-
ganda for true military measures than
the recent employment of the air tor-
pedo.”
The fact is that VI gave the Nazis real
and substantial military gains. At a time
when the Allies were engaged in the
mightiest military undertaking the world
had ever known —the invasion of the
Continent —large forces had to be de-
ployed for the direct and indirect pro-
tection of London. Several squadrons of
fighters had to be drawn away from the
operations on the Continent in order to
cope with VI. In the period of greatest
activity, at least 30 fighters were con-
stantly in the air, around the clock,
belt of heavy and light anti-aircraft guns
20 miles deep was set up ; and, as a final
obstacle, as many as 2000 balloons were
put to use. To provide communications
for this force, 5000 miles of telephone
cables had to be laid dnd a fleet of 3000
vehicles was employed continuously.
This tremendous defensive expenditure
was made at a time when our full force
should have been concentrated on the
offensive.
Moreover, for nine months before the
VI attack began, and during all the time
it lasted, the Allied Air Forces were en-
gaged in reconnoitering and bombing
German experimental stations and launch-
ing sites. More than 100,000 tons of
bombs were dropped in the effort to
knock out these sites, and in these opera-
tions 450 British and American aircraft
were lost.
In 80 days and nights the VI damaged
nearly a million houses and caused
thousands of casualties. In the last 12
months of the war 3,000,000 Londoners
had their homes destroyed or damaged
(an estimate which presupposes only
three people to each home).
The VI travelled at 350 miles an hour
and generally flew at a height of 2000 to
3000 feet. This was far below the rated
altitude of fighters, and the flying bomb
was difficult to see from above. With its
1870-pound warhead, moreover, it was an
extremely dangerous target for a pilot to
shoot at. In addition, since it flew so low
and fast, it presented great problems to
the A.-A. predictors as developed at the
time.
The Germans increased the difficulties
of the defence by sending the bombs over
when weather conditions were favorable,
i.e, when there were low clouds, but 33
per cent, of the missiles were destroyed in
the first week, and the defenders in-
creased this figure until on August 28
they brought down no fewer than 97 out
of 101 flying bombs. In the first week
that the A.-A. batteries were deployed
they shot down 17 per cent, of the
bombs; in the last week this figure had
risen to 74 per cent.
The VI carried 18701 b, of explosive a
distance of 150 miles at a speed of 350
miles an hour. The overall length of the
flying bomb is slightly more than 24ft.
and the wing span 17ft. 6in.' Its loaded
weight (with 130 gallons of gasoline) is
47001 b.
By destroying a hundred or more
launching sites, the Allied bombing opera-
tions delayed for many months the begin-
ning of the VI offensive against London.
These sites were being built on fairly
solid lines. The Germans then evolved
a launching ramp that could be erected
in a little more than a week and which
lent itself to camouflage. It was from
these modified sites that the flying bombs
were finally launched against England and
also against our lines of communication
behind the western front. The ramp is
nothing more than a catapult driven by
compressed air. The bomb is assembled
in nearby sheds, and is hoisted onto the
catapult by a derrick. The controls are
then pre-set and the propulsion unit
started up. The catapult carrier, on which
the bomb rests, is then carried up the
ramp at a fierce rate of acceleration. The
minimum powered flying speed of a mis-
sile is 170 miles an hour, so that the
launching speed is extremely high. At
the end of the ramp the flying bomb in-
stantly detaches itself and climbs at a
gentle rate to its operating height of from
2000 ft. to 3000 ft.
V 2 was something new, something
with added devilment. It betrayed no
sign of its approach, but simply arrived
from nowhere and exploded with even
worse results than VI. The outcome of
at least 20 years of extensive German
experimentation with all forms of rocket
propulsion, the V 2 rocket is a stream-
lined projectile 46ft. long, sft. 6in. in
diameter, with a sharply pointed nose. It
carries at the rear four large external
stabilising fins at right angles to each
other. It has an explosive warhead of
20001 b. in the nose; and when it is filled
with fuel the whole rocket weighs about
12 tons. The fuel is carried in two large
aluminium tanks, one holding 75001 b. of
alcohol, the other 11,0001 b. of liquid
oxygen. Since, therefore, the rocket does
not depend upon external air for com-
bustion, it can operate equally well at low
or extremely high altitudes. In actual
fact, its flight carries it to a height of 60
miles above the earth’s surface.
V 2 is considerably more complicated
in design and manufacture than the
flying bomb. Its radius of destruction is
comparable, but it is apt to cause more
casualties, since it gives not even a half
second warning before the actual explos-
ion. This is because it falls at a speed
greater than sound travels; one hears the
tremendous rumbling roar of its head-
long rush through the air only after the
explosion has occurred.
The launching and operation of V 2 are
simple. The rocket is placed in a vertical
position on a concrete platform or hard
surface. A flat road is suitable. Within
the rocket is a turbine, driven by super-
heated steam produced by mixing very
concentrated hydrogen peroxide with cal-
cium permanganate solution. This mix-
ture is ignited electrically from a distance,
whereupon the rocket takes off. The
rocket starts climbing vertically, but a
gyroscope control within the projectile
comes into play to operate the control
vanes, and this causes the rocket to curve
away from the vertical toward the target.
When the fuel is exhausted, V 2 is point-
ing upward at about 45 degrees and is
travelling at a speed of about 3000 miles
an hour. It continues upward, following
the same path that would be taken by a
shell fired at this angle. The maximum
range at present is 220 miles. If the tar-
get is within that range, the fuel is auto-
matically cut off at the appropriate
moment. Descending through the atmo-
sphere from a height of 60 miles, the
projectile is slowed down by the resis-
tance of the air to about 1600 miles an
hour; and at the same time it becomes
heated by friction to such an extent that
it has been observed glowing a dull red.
Sometimes the overheating results in a
premature explosion in the air.
A half-dozen lorries can hold all the
equipment necessary for launching V 2.
The only possible form of defensive
action against the rockets was for fighter
bombers to attack their bases, storage
depots and lines of supply. AV2 base is
such a mobile affair that it was extreme y
difficult to spot.
The flying bomb and rocket have come
into military plans and strategy to stay,
Londoners had only a grim preview of
what the future can hold for the popula-
tion of every city in the world—unless,
that is, the destructive possibilities ol
these weapons are brought under control
by the agreement of all the nations,
Bombardment by rocket is generally
agreed to be not so trying to the nerves
as bombardment by flying bomb. The
rocket arrives unheralded ; there is a vast
explosion; and there is a wide area of
devastation. If one is still alive, one
knows that another rocket is hardly likely
to land in exactly the same spot, at any
rate for some time. But though the
rocket does not have the psychological
impact of the flying bomb—which one
listens for and gauges the course of, and
which comes over in sufficient quantities
to make second and third explosions at
nearly the same spot possible and indeed
likely—it is potentially more accurate,
From a strictly military point of view it
is a more important weapon,
As a flying bomb approaches a great
c ffy it brings a warning of death to the
ears of millions. When all was quiet in
London at night you could hear a flying
bomb approaching for three minutes
before it came overhead—three minutes
of mounting anxiety. You heard it for
probably two minutes before you - could
sa y safely that it was not going to pass
within three miles of you. No one can
ii sten to it without alarm,
After some experience, you could de-
cide with some certainty whether an
approaching bomb necessitated taking
shelter . Normally there were a few final
seconds of warning of imminent danger
between the time you hea rd the engine
cut off over head, which happened when
the fl • bomb was thrown into its verti-
cal di and the moment of i mpact .
This cutting out of the engine must have
saved hundreds of lives by giving people
a split . se cond opportunity to get clear of
j a g g
Un(ortunately the German missiles
tricks. Enough of them did
/ t u„; r
mana 8 e to stnke the g round Wlth the ! r
• stiff runn i ng f or i t to be unsafe
f s
awa * ‘ he d S* aw^ f J?*
before taking shelter. Furthermore, you
«* **» jtx^LuXTas
a te ‘ a wave . 7
the bomb approached, reading a peak as
11 came overhead, and normally dimmish-
“>B as “ P as ? ed „
553
If the fi y in § bomb fell m a built ‘ u P area >
and several hundred more were damaged
Human life vanished m a flash which
shook the ground and ren the heavens,
The range of the rocLet can be m-
creased up to some 2500 miles without
employing any new principles beyond
those introduced by the Ihis
range would be obtained by a two-stage
rocket, i.e. two rockets in one. Ine first
would drive the second a certain distance
and then disintegrate, leaving the second
to start up automatically at that point,
Some years will elapse before such pro-
jectiles are perfected, but there is nothing
Wellsian in the prediction that they will
he perfected. Existing scientific know-
ledge makes them practicable We should
remember, moreover, that the power ot
explosives is likewise increasing enor-
mously and will perhaps reach a point
where destruction from a single charge
spreads over such a vast area that it cou
not be dropped from aircraft operated
directly by men if ° bv
Robot-bombs Wlll b ® n tbe Td be
which a charge of that natu
poured upon an enemy. .
The idea of discharging desffucti
rockets to a distant portion of the won
by merely pressing a button may s
sound in some ears fantastic, out
in the realm of fact. Is it too muc
hope that there can be one law and one
controlling authority in a pa
of which can be laid waste by the pressur
of a single finger?
Other Costs of Strikes.
(From a N.Y. “Journal of Commerce ” article
as applicable to Australia as to the U.S.A.)
The cost of strikes is not measured
merely by adding up the number who
leave their jobs and those who cannot


MITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
for loveliness
ill a I lasts . . .
few clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find it advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
restricted, . ||
N
i
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT :
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co, (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
181 Clarence Street,
m
j'
Time for my
CAPSTAN
*Jlie nuts’ (3i(f&siette
X4S4D-I 1.49
work, even if they want to, because other
workers are striking.
The clouded labor outlook upsets busi-
ness plans in many industries, discourag-
ing new job-creating investments. Why
expand existing plants or construct new
factories if existing facilities are closed
down by strikes? How can a business
undertake expansion when price ceilings
prevent a manufacturer from passing
along higher costs to his customers, and
labor presses for wage increases of 30
per cent, and other costly concessions?
Even where corporations or individuals
want to go ahead with new construction,
labor uncertainties often stand in the way.
There have been instances where no con-
tractor has submitted bids on a new pro-
ject because he could not foretell wages
and working conditions.
Delay in reconversion spells not only
the loss of jobs, but also continued short-
ages of many consumer goods. This in-
tensifies the inflation threat, for purchas-
ing power continues to accumulate in the
hands of buyers while the factory pro-
ducts they urgently require fail to make
their appearance as expected in the hands
of dealers.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“I was talking recently to a distinguished
United States journalist who said that what
had struck him most about Britain was
that despite all the difficulties there remained
a great spirit of unity and determination. 1
believe this is true and that with this spirit we
will build up our trade and industry as we are
going to build up the old City of London.
Great as has been the contribution of this
country to the past, we have something
precious yet to give to the world—our concept
tion of freedom and of democracy, the rule of
law, and our moral standards. These are things
of permanent value in the world, and could
constitute our contribution to the great future
that is ahead.” — Mr. Attlee.
* * * *
It seems essential, if Germany is to be purged
of the errors of the past, that Germans should,
within the framework both of renunciation
and detestation of Nazism and of the obliga-
tions imposed on them by the victors, be given
wide latitude of opinion about the means of
reconstructing their country. It is equally
essential that this latitude should be nation-
wide and that political parties and political
activities should not be bounded, as they are
at present, by the frontiers of the zones of occu-
pation. The removal of barriers to the traffic in
ideas is perhaps not less urgent at the present
time than that of the barriers which impede
the exchange of scarce supplies between zone
and zone.— London “Times.”
* * * *
Dr. George Stuart, head of the Medical In-
formation Branch of U.N.R.R.A., states that
there is a high incidence in several western Euro-
pean countries, especially in Germany, of diph-
theria, typhoid fever and dysentery, largely
owing to malnutrition in overcrowded and
ruined areas. Typhoid fever was the most dan-
gerous disease in Europe, and had reached 30
times its normal incidence in Germany in Sep-
tember. Tuberculosis had also an increased in-
cidence, especially so in Italy, Yugoslavia and
Greece, where it was as much as ten times as
frequent as in Britain. Twenty years of venereal
disease control had been wiped out during the
war, for there was a three- to nine-fold in-
crease of syphilis in most countries and up to
a 20-fold increase in Germany. Malaria was of
epidemic proportions only in Greece, but it was
hoped that modern methods of control could
almost eradicate it there within two or three
seasons. Medical supplies were now flowing
info all the countries with which U.N.R.R.A
was concerned, although transport difficulties
often delayed subsequent distribution. Nearly
60,000 hospital beds, with all the necessary
equipment, had been sent from Great Britain
alone. — London “Times.”
* * * *
Dr. Harold C. Urey, Columbia University
scientist, who helped produce the atomic bomb,
has said that an armament race in atomic weapons
will force a dictatorship form of government on
the U.S. to enable it to act quickly against an
atomic war threat. “If everyone has them,” he
said recently, “it will be necessary for the United
States to move quickly in a manner not now
possible under its form of government. This
means that Americans would have to concen-
trate power in one or a few individuals, and
that would mean dictatorship.”— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
As a consequence of the surrender by the
Allies of the trade concessions and extra-terri-
torial rights which they held before this war at
various important commercial centres in China,
Hong Kong is now, with the sole exception
of Portuguese Macao, the only remaining terri-
tory in China not subject to the legal and
commercial jurisdiction of the Chinese Gov-
ernment. For this reason its importance in the
south China trade can scarcely be overesti-
mated; particularly to the British Empire,
since America appears to have established a
virtual de facto political and commercial hege-
mony in Shanghai, Tientsin, Peiping and most
of the other important trade centres in the
north. Difficulties have had to be faced, among
which the chief, presumably, are the chronic
shortage of shipping, lack of stocks of readily-
exportable goods throughout the Empire and,
above all, the unexpectedly early end of the
war. On the other hand, it is indisputable that
American commercial interests have already re-
established themselves effectively in the colony,
whereas ours have not, and that, while there is
no hint as yet of imports on any scale from the
Empire, American firms have undertaken to
“deliver the goods.”— Capt. J. E. G. Howarth,
R.M., writing from Hong Kong to London
“Times.”
* * * *
It is a mistake for an outsider to misjudge
the British bulldog. It has often been done
before. The Germans did it in the 1930’5.
They were sure Britain was decadent and
wouldn’t fight. Misjudgment and underesti-
mation of Britain has in fact caused the world
a lot of trouble in the past. Continental
Europe thinks of England as Perfidious Albion,
but this is partly the fault of Europeans de-
ceiving themselves. Britain was persistently
The grand total of war materials
produced by the U.S. from July,
1940, through July, 1945, was
valued at $186,000,000,000. This
included: A fleet of 297,000 mili-
tary airplanes, of which 97,000 were
bombers; 76,485 ships—including
64,500 landing craft, 6500 other
Navy ships and 5425 cargo vessels ;
17.400.000 rifles, carbines and side-
arms; 315,000 pieces of field artil-
lery and mortars; 165,525 naval
guns; 41,400,000,000 rounds of
small arms ammunition; 4,200,000
tons of artillery shells; 86,338 tanks,
and 2,434,553 trucks. Navy fire
power increased ten-fold in five
years. The merchant fleet was
quadrupled. The total output of
goods (war and civilian) and ser-
vices rose by more than 50 per cent.
The volume of manufacturing
nearly tripled. Output of raw
materials increased 60 per cent.
Total civilian production remained
above the levels of 1937 and 1939,
despite the fact that manufacture of
automobiles, refrigerators and wash-
ing machines and many other pro-
ducts 'Was halted. Employment in
manufacturing alone increased by
6.407.000 persons from 1939 to
1944. Aircraft employment grew
from 100,000 to 2,000*000. — N.Y.
“Sun.”
underestimated before World War 11. It may
therefore be better for visitors seeking the bull-
dog to think of it as chained up or on a recon-
ditioning course rather than as gone to seed.—
London _ correspondent, "Christian Science
Monitor!”
* * * *
The British Labor Government flatly opposes
anyone’s annexation of German territory in the
west. At Potsdam, Prime Minister Attlee and
Foreign Secretary Bevin acquiesced most reluc-
tantly in Poland’s “provisional” acquisition of
a big segment of eastern Germany. Britain
simply was unable to block this Soviet-sponsored
plan. But British influence swings more weight
in Western Europe. Besides resisting French
dominance over the Rhineland, Ruhr or Saar,
Britain’s Labor Government has been discourag-
ing Holland’s tentative claims to a slice of
German territory as compensation for flood
damage which the retreating Germans inflicted
on the Netherlands. Such temporary damage,
which in the opinion of the British Cabinet can
be repaired in a few years, fails to justify
Dutch annexation of German land. The Dutch
Socialists, who are likely to play an increas-
ingly important part in Netherlands affairs,
are cold towards suggestions of annexation.
Holland is likely to drop the plan.— “ Atlantic
Monthly.”
* * * *
Germans are going to die like flies this
winter—so say the United States public .health
officers here in Berlin. The Germans are under-
nourished and flea-bitten. A typhus epidemic
is inevitable. They predict that German children
under 10 will virtually be eliminated by diph-
theria. Tuberculosis will kill thousands under
10. Diarrhoea now afflicts almost all new-born
German children. The infant mortality rate in
Berlin is 16 times as high today as it was in
1943. A German Red Cross official predicted
an infant mortality rate of 80 to 90 per cent,
during this winter. There is going to be a
definite age-group elimination of the German
population.. Most children under 10 and most
people over 60 cannot be expected to survive.
—Chicago “Sun” Berlin -.correspondent.
* * * *
High military and civilian officials of the
U.S. Government are increasingly concerned
lest the almost breath-taking demobilisation ot
the nation’s armed forces endanger the power
and prestige of the United States to shape
and enforce the peace. What greatly worries
official Washington is the effect on other
countries of the rapid dismantling of the means
by which the United States played its part in
winning the war. At least one high official be-
lieves that the indecision of the United States
as to the strength of its post-war armed forces
played a part in the inability of the London
Council of Foreign Ministers to reach any de-
cision on the European side of the peace.—
Washington correspondent, “Christian Science
Monitor^
* * * *
A Russia blacked out from the close obser-
vation of other nations of the world will begin
before very long to generate suspicion on the
part of others. This is regarded as particularly
true in the age of atomic power. The official
feeling is that the world in the future will scar-
cely dare to trust any major industrial nation
that shuts itself off from others, while proceed-
ing with development of a weapon that can be
used against the outside world in a sudden,
devastating attack. The greater the danger from
an atomic-bomb attack, the greater the fear
and suspicion aimed at the nation that is blacked
out. — “United States News.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
Those Friendly British
A report that thousands of British
sailors forewent their own Christmas
leave to get A.I.F. men home for theirs
is typical of the traditional generosity of
the R.N.
The gun captain of a British destroyer
with the Eastern Fleet bombarding
Sabang was killed by a shell splinter. In
two days’ steaming back to base £350 was
subscribed to support his wife and kid-
dies. The ship’s company numbered 150.
Fuelling alongside a battleship at sea
my destroyer was bridged from stem to
stem with heaving lines, hauling over
everything the big ship could think of,
from bundles of magazines to a can of
ice-cream—even to a signal from her
admiral commending our cleanliness!
Aboard KGV I experienced the height
of hospitality. Invited to lunch in the
petty officers’ mess, I was led by the
president to a side table, where he poured
out a half-tumbler of rich red rum,
brimmed his tot measure with it and
handed me the result. It was his own
ration. Greater love hath no man. —•
J. E. (R.A.N.).
Adult Education
Bishop Halford, of Brisbane, who has
devoted most of his long life to the ad-
vancement of education, is a keen advo-
cate of the Danish system as described
by Sir Richard Livingstone in The Future
of Education. In the nineteenth century
Denmark was poverty-stricken and lack-
ing in energy and enterprise, but largely
through the education given in the Danish
“people’s high schools” it was trans-
formed into one of the most progressive
and prosperous democracies in Europe.
These “people’s high schools” were
founded to combat German propaganda
in Schleswig Holstein. The war of 1864
caused the Danes to realise their great
value. In 1872' there were 54 adult
schools in the country, nearly all resi-
dential for a summer term of three
months for women and a winter term of
five months for men.
These schools were and are private ven-
tures, but the Government gives grants in
aid. Pupils are mostly farmers —small-
holders and laborers —over 18, and the
Government offers scholarships for com-
petition.
The main subjects are literature, his-
tory, composition, mathematics, elemen-
tary science, gymnastics, sewing and
painting. Work that takes a half-grown
youth dozing over school forms three to
five years to learn, can be acquired by
adults who have done practical work in
three to five months.
There is nothing vocational in the curri-
culum, but the subjects taught have pro-
duced better farming, and the country
has become a pioneer of better agricul-
tural methods. Adult education based
on or largely infused with history and
literature rightly taught might help, sug-
gests Livingstone, to bring some order
into the spiritual chaos of today and
create a democracy in which “life is more
than meat and the body more than
raiment.”— Archap (Q.l.
Future of Fuzzy-Wuzzy
New Guinea natives are likely to revert
to type when the troops leave. They are
employed in jobs that do not differ funda-
mentally from their old pastimes. They
build huts and hospitals on the same
constructional principles they always
used. They form the pack lines for our
troops, but they have always been the
laborers on the plantations.
Civilisation as we have shown it to
them has given them full bellies, but has
destroyed their gardens, forcing them
back to the unfertile mountain ranges
till, starving and afflicted with malaria,
they came to us so they would not die. It
has been argued that the New Guinea
Infantry Battalion has taught the brighter
lads a better way of living. I agree, but
they are only a small percentage of the
population.
Even so, in the jungle these native
warriors shed the barrack-square disci-
pline for which they are renowned and
kill with atavistic barbarity. I have seen
them demented in a skirmish, and know
of officers who have had to drag them
out of the fight. They fire all their am-
munition in one burst, then go in for the
kill with their machetes —their original
tribal method. The very same men, those
handpicked warriors. Jive in fear of “Tam-
barins,” or ghosts, and tread lightly
through taboo groves.
I find it hard to reconcile these facts
with the hope of a new life for them.
The Kukakukas, nomads with an un-
stable disposition, have remained that
way even though many of them were
fighting for us. They have no loyalties.
The Mackalkals (sounds Scottish, doesn’t
it?) are still raiding villages and camps.
The natives have always led a simple,
unregulated life. They are naturally lazy.
The advent of our armies has wiped out
their independence and substituted mass
rule as distinct from community life.
They do not like being led like sheep.
They are opportunists, but give them
betel-nut and a “sing-sing!’ and they are
back in the days when they hung heads
over their doorways.—H. R. H. (A.1.F.).
German Immigrants
Ten years ago I read in The Bulletin
a eulogy of German settlers. They were
described as capable farmers, their land
thoroughly worked; they were industri-
ous and thrifty, and when you visited the
farm a competent housewife served a
substantial and well-cooked meal. Their
overdrafts were steadily reduced, and
even in lean years they somehow man-
aged to pay the interest.
I have seen a good deal since of Ger-
man-owned farms and vineyards in S.A.,
the Victorian Wimmera and in Queens-
land, and I’ve often thought how well
justified that tribute was. These German
settlers are good community people,
ready to sacrifice to provide their children
with the best schooling. They establish
their Lutheran churches and set an
example of faith and good living to their
children.
It was a couple of Scots who left their
mark for good on this country, Fife
Angus in S.A. and the first Scottish min-
“Cant you two let the kids fight their own battles?'
ister in Australia, Dr. John Dunmore
Lang, who first persuaded German
people to come to Australia. Dr. Lang
was very angry when a shipment of Ger-
man Moravians whom he had encouraged
and arranged to settle in Australia were
dissuaded by their countrymen in Rio
Janeiro from continuing the journey on
the ground that they were going to a
settlement of thieves and murderers, a
convict colony unfit to take their children
to.
Surely this experience, embedded m our
early history, should have some weight
when Australia’s post-war immigration
policy is being considered. — Alpha
(A.1.F.). _
The Railway Gauges
Nobody who witnessed the bottlenecks
at inter-State railheads during the black
days of the Pacific war can doubt the
necessity of getting on with the unifica-
tion of Australian railway gauges.
Our railways have played a major part
in national development, and they stood
us in good stead during the years of
warfare, at a time when all the liquid
fuel available to the Commonwealth
would not have been sufficient to move
a fraction of the huge tonnage of war
materials. As a matter of sober fact the
railways must continue to be the back-
bone of our transport for many years to
come.
We have £600,000,000 invested in
these railways, and if we scrap them
today in favor, of road or air transport,
interest will still have to be paid to the
bondholders —in perpetuity. Practically all
fuel for motorised transport has to be
imported, and the turnover would very
adversely affect our balance of trade.
There has been talk of the many mil-
lions that unification will cost the tax-
payers. What about the cost of heavy-
duty roads to replace the railways ; not
to mention the huge amount of rolling
stock that would have to be scrapped
and replaced with imported motor
vehicles? —A. Mon Avis (R.A.A.F.).
Communists and Trade Unions
“Wigwog” says (B. 28/11/’45) “strikes
may be the saving of Australia, They
will surely be the downfall of the
unions.” That, of course, is the reasoning
followed by the Communist instigators
of strikes, whose avowed policy is to
wean Australian from trade-unionism and
from democracy. These apparently
senseless strikes on petty, unreasonable
pretexts are part of a well-directed cam-
paign. Suppose that campaign succeeds?
Once unionism is so weakened that its
first principles are forgotten in a welter
of mistrust and selfishness what check is
there on the Communists? No organisa-
tion has so strenuously and successfully
fought Communism as have the com-
bined trade-unions.
My experience of unionism has been
confined to W.A., where our union
meetings are the acme of democratic de-
bate. We each say what we have to say
without fear or favor. We have very
few strikes, and for those that we have
there’s usually a definite reason. We
don’t have “union bosses.” Union
officials are the servants of the union,
-and they are members of the union.
They have their say as such. Our
methods of procedure are clearly and
closely defined in our rules, and our
rules are adhered to jealously.
Possibly for reasons such as these the
Westralian branch has decided to secede
from the Miners’ Federation, with its
Communist leaders —and they voted
almost to a man. Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Punishing the Vanquished
Lippmann’s article on the Nuremberg
trials (B. 5/12/’45) seeks to allay the fear
of some legal authorities that the trials
are a violation of the ex post facto rule in
law. I think there is good ground for a
fear that we may be establishing a dan-
gerous precedent—the assertion of a right
to exterminate the vanquished. In total
war the mantle of complicity can be ex-
tended to cover the entire population.
Humanisation of war is a contradiction
in terms. International law is what the
strongest nation likes to make it. Further,
in States in which capital punishment has
long been abolished, can the ex post facto
rule be ignored by infliction of the death
penalty for murder outside its boun-
daries?
Can a Jap be legally hanged for the
murder of a Queenslander in Papua, but
not in Queensland? No doubt he deserves
to be, but our post-war problems will be
difficult enough without the complica-
tions of international legalism.—E. V. S.
(Q-).
Cheaper Motoring
There is bound to be a steep rise in
the price of motor vehicles and in run-
ning costs in the early post-war era, and
manufacturers, garagemen, salesmen and
tax-grabbing Governments must be rub-
bing their hands in anticipation of a rich
harvest.
But the use of cars has advanced be-
yond the stajge of luxury, and the need
for a.low-priced utilitarian vehicle must
not be overlooked. A simply-designed
engine and a sturdy chassis and body,
devoid of unnecessary and costly refine-
ments, should not be very expensive if
fantastic import duties and extravagant
selling costs could be avoided.
A few years ago I owned a 1932 model
four-cylinder, 15-h.p. car that had the
virtues of dependability and economical
running. Such a car could be manufac-
tured nowadays at a cost very much lower
than that of up-to-date, streamlined
luxury models, especially as it need not
be re-designed every year—F. W. L.
(Vic.)
Commos. and Nationalism
Reds of all grades, but especially the
dinkum Red Fascists, have tub-thundered
against “nationalism” for years. Every
evil, whether real or seen through Mos-
cow-tinted glasses, from Hitler to the
Bank of England and Jack Lang, was
said to result from “nationalism.” The
term, in fact, was one of the favorite
Commo, swear words, to be flung at
everything and everyone to whom they
objected.
But now all is changed. A few kris-
waving Javanese become “Indonesian
nationalists” and Russia’s latest territorial
grab, that from the Persian Government
whose territory the Soviet is assisting to
“protect,” is championed under the cry
that “Azerbaijan nationalist aspirations
must be respected.” Surely even the most
weak-minded. Thornton-mesmerised mug
must begin to awaken to the somersault-
ing tactics of the champions of Russian
blood-red imperialism.— Freedom (S.A.).
Education Reform
“Plain Australian” (B. 12/12/’45)
bases his criticism of the educational
system on the fact that many individuals
seem to lack the faculty of logical
thought, but if the system is to blame, as
he implies, then all who are products of
the system should lack that faculty. Some
certainly possess it; therefore, the con-
tention breaks down.
In any case, education involves more
than the ability to think intelligently.
Some criminals are highly intelligent, but
their mode of livelihood belies any sug-
gestion that they are educated, for edu-
cation involves cultivation of moral
character and social conscience, together
with habits of industry, quite apart from
the development of the intellect. An
educated man, moreover, must possess
the faculty of sober self-estimation; be
able to recognise his limitations as well as
his abilities or suffer the penalty of frus-
tration in striving after the unattainable.
It is readily granted that changes could,
with advantage, be made in the curricula
of our schools, but the sole advantage
would be that the intelligent student
would be able to devote more time to the
study of essential subjects. Other
students would not be benefited in any
degree.— Blue (Q.).
Dealers and Disposals
Some people still seem to think that
army equipment and vehicles should be
kept out of the hands of dealers at any
price and that they should be sold direct
to the public. I suppose it is very wicked
for a dealer to make a profit out of any
thing, and we should scorn him for doing
it. But it seems that the dealer can do
most things with expedition and with a
minimum of waste, if any.
There is little consolation in seeing
army ambulances and other valuable
vehicles reposing in vehicle parks for
months and months while the sun and the
rain play the very devil with them. If we
were not so pig-headed we would choose
the line of least resistance and let the
dealers get hold of all army equipment so
that they can get their cut and we can
get ours without a lot of red tape and
blundering.—M. T. V. R. (N.S.W.).
Grass-seed for Graziers
Why can’t sheep-farmers buy legumes
and grass-seeds in commercial quantities?
A North Queensland grazier whose hold-
ings are in the coastal belt says the cattle-
carrying capacity of his areas is only
half what it was less "than 25 years ago,
despite the fact that he has spent a con-
siderable sum in improving the water-
supply. This grazier realises that his
holdings need re-grassing, but though he
has tried many avenues he has failed to
obtain seed in the required quantities.—
Bennie (Q.). _____
Peace in Palestine
An international zone across Palestine
from east to west, to include Jerusalem
and its seaport of Jaffa, would effectively
divide the country so that Jews could
occupy the north and Arabs the south.
, Nowhere would there be direct contact
between these nations, and—since the
division of land would be a fair one,
with historical and Biblical features
accessible to all—there should be general
satisfaction. Surely this very simple pro-
posal ought to be investigated.
The zone could contain the head-
quarters of an international police force
which, from bases throughout the worlu,
could preserve peace by supervising all
territories. Such an organisation, aiming
at the abolition of wars, and having its
centre of action in the Holy Land, would
probably gain almost universal support.
If Palestine’s projected canal (from the
Mediterranean via Jordan to the Red Sea)
were to pass, for some of its length,
through the international zone Britain
would again set a good example to other
countries by her policy of frankness and
avoidance of secrecy. —R. S. (Vic.).


will
have
it
oon
'PAcde
Peace
IN
A
THOUSAND
WINDOWS
t
X
*
I
X
m
it
V*
; m
■
PHILIPS
gOON, in window displays in city,
suburban and country stores
throughout Australia, you will see
the Philips 3052 A. Inside these
stores you will be welcomed to hear
a demonstration of this brilliant
5-valve Radioplayer—a receiver
which will give you the thrill of
“international eavesdropping” as
well as ultra-realistic local recep-
tion. The 3052 A is designed and
built for a new and highly critical
generation of listeners.
Exercise a little patience if you
find it hard to buy a Radioplayer.
It won’t be long before general
distribution is possible.
Watch your local Philips
dealer’s window for the new
Radioplayers.
d đ
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OP AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
Sydney . . . Melbourne . . . Adelaide . . , Perth . . . Brisbane
Incandescant and Fluorescent Lamps, Lighting Equipment and Fittings,
Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves, Radioplayers, Radio Transmitters
Sound Systems, Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electo-Medical Equip-
ment, Industrial and Medical Infra Red Apparatus, Electronic Devices
Radio Accessories, Electrical Measuring Instruments, Metal Pressings and
Stampings,
