

R O Y A C
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3477
Wednesday, October 2, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE. HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE
THE OLD COUNCIL-ROOM AT TREASURY.
the old Treasury Office in London was bucnt down two
centuries ago the Council of the day, being unable to find a
suitable place for their deliberations, had to resort to a house on
the west side of Whitehall known as Henry VIII’s Cockpit, an
address to be found on many of the Treasury letters of that period.
It was on the this building styled the Cockpit that the
Treasury was erected in 1733. Th£ room shown in our picture,
occupied in the time of the Queen by/the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, had always been used for the sittings of the Treasury
Board. The Sovereign was often present on these occasions; and
at the end of the table may be seen the royal chair.


«il HomF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My A ddress
S.B. 146 AQE
The Red Page
BOVRILISED HISTORY.
If a whole bull —“Alas, my poor
brothers! ” —can be epitomised in a squat
bottle a couple of inches high and meas-
ured out in teaspoons in shin lots, it is
surely all right (some might think most
appropriate) that the Dean of Durham
should compact the vastness of European
history, from the earliest Greeks to 1900,
into the 370-odd pages of his Europe : A
Personal and Political Survey (Hollis and
Carter). As with the bottled Hereford,
it saves everybody the trouble of gnaw-
ing and digesting the huge heap of bones
and gristle ; a service not to be sneezed at
in these busy times.
The Dean former headmaster of
Eton, Dr. C. A. Alington—admits that
“To describe a century in a sentence is a
difficult and dangerous task”; but a
paragraph is, after all, an expansive area,
and what can be put into a page will be
familiar enough to those countless thou-
sands who delight to relax their minds
over Genesis.
That last, and the bottled bull, would
seem to be sufficient precedent for all
writing done with a woolpress; and Dr.
Aington has one almost equally good:
“I can only plead with Goldsmith that
I write ‘not to add to historical know-
ledge but to contract it.’ ” Like Gold-
smith’s, his work might be considered the
very antithesis of Belloc’s counsel of
perfection: that the right way to indulge
in history is to read the first-hand
authorities; go personally to those orig-
inal sources which the historians so vari-
ously interpret. Without falling into
monstrous debauch, it may still be
thought that Dr. Alington hardly meas-
ures up to another dictum of Belloc’s
timeless and tireless mind: that history
“should be written with all the physical
details in evidence, the weather, the dress,
colors, everything.”
The captious might think, too, that Dr.
Alington, even for an avowed epitomiser,
falls somewhat short of Macaulay’s per-
fect historian: “He shows us the court,
the camp and the senate. But he shows
us also the nation.” Dr. Aington shows
the court, the camp and the senate; most
prominent of all, for much of the way,
the church; but the nations, the peoples
themselves, not surprisingly elude his
woolpress. Still, Macaulay had another
shot at a definition which fits Dr. Aling-
ton at least, as well as the gown that
goes with a mortarboard: “The perfect
historian is he in whose work the char-
acter and spirit of an age is exhibited in
miniature.” And it is restful, if nothing
else, to think that any hundred years
might pass to their oblivion in a chapter
of 18i pages beginning: “This period of
more than a century is singularly lacking
in striking events or in personalities of
European importance ” It gives per-
spective to Eternity.
Yet, though Dr. Alington performs
such invaluable service for this age of
hustle, anthologies, cramped ideologies,
literary digests and adjectival journalese,
there is another equally, if not even more,
prominent aspect of his work which does
not seem to accord with these times at
all. His absorption in and emphasis upon
the influence on events of arc-common
men is so pronounced that it cannot be
read as anything but a heartfelt reaction
against the whole process of the levelling
down of human values to a flat uni-
formity which is the main standby of
much politics and a large slice of what
passes as literature in this “century of the
common man.”
The key in Dr. Alington’s interpreting
of history is not What, but Who. Had
he used that key instead of throwing it
away at the threshold of this century
he might not have been noticed the
Housepainters’ Union, But he would cer-
tainly have given Hitler a paragraph ;
other wearers of the old school tie might
all go and strangle themselves with it,
but Churchill would be there; all his
fellow-countrymen might do likewise
with their spaghetti, but Musso would
have a sentence or two: indeed, Musso
gets one as it is; in a footnote*which
bears quoting at a time when the rabble
following of Clio flaunts the partisan
flag as its holy banner:
The defence of Rome, which he had
captured, was the greatest military exploit
of Belisarius: in the course of the siege
the Goths cut the aqueducts and all the
water which had once filled the Roman
baths poured into the land round Rome.
The result was that the Campagna became
an unhealthy desert till Mussolini, much
to his credit, took the matter in hand.
Dr. Alington, it should be said, is a
sparing user of the footnote: he won’t
-be accused, as Andrew Lang accused
Anatole France, of getting his footnotes
done by contract (a wisecrack which so
appealed to Belloc that he first paraded
it as his own, though he made full
restitution some years later). Also, Dr.
Aington merits some credit for using the
footnote almost wholly as a means of
giving additional information ; not merely
to elucidate a clumsy text: apart from
a recklessness with personal pronouns
that can be confounded confusing, his
text is clear and easy, and not so arid
as might be expected of such a phenome-
non of compression.
What, more than anything else, holds
off aridity—and makes the Dean a de-
light in himself—is a pleasure in oddities,
particularly oddities of human nature,
which he relishes with an Elia-like enjoy-
ment and records with a sometimes quite
un-deanlike gusto (if we forget that there
have been other than gloomy deans).
Any oddness of act or character and—
thank heaven in the name of brighter
history! —Dean Alington is tickled pink.
A few from the gallery: “Ferdinand of
Naples, whose talent for pious perjury
amounted to genius” ; “a King of Spain
who founded a professorship of bull-
fighting” ; “a Pope who abolished street-
lighting as a republican innovation”;
“Caligula, frankly mad (he made his
horse a consul)”; “the wary Norman
[Guiscard] was ‘honest and straightfor-
ward,’ but it was the honest straight-
forwardness of a pirate” ; “Wenzel, who
roasted his cook oh the spit as a punish-
ment for an ill-prepared dinner” ; “Pet-
rarch, the first person, it is said, to have
climbed a mountain for pleasure” ; “One
of these weaknesses [Luther’s] was a
coarseness of language remarkable even
among the sixteenth-century controver-
sialists” ; “Rudolph II taking his
pleasure in the possession of a vast stud
of beautiful horses which he never rode,
and the platonic attentions of beautiful
ladies, none of whom he ever married,
having been told by an astrologer that he
would be killed by a son of his own” ;
“Peter [the Great] was of Scottish ances-
try on his mother’s side”; “Augustus
the Strong, so called from the abnormal
number of his illegitimate offspring” ;
and, to give another typical example
from the Dean’s footnote department,
It should not be forgotten that the Duke
[of Wellington] had a real command of
the. English language. When he was asked
by the Government in 1840 whether he
had any objection to Napoleon’s body being
brought from St. Helena to Paris, he re-
plied: “Field Marshal the Duke of Wel-
lington presents his compliments to Her
Majesty’s Ministers. If they wish to know
Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington’s
opinion as on a matter of public policy,
he must decline to give one. If, however*
they wish only to consult him as a private
individual, Field Marshal the Duke of
Wellington has no hesitation in saying that
he does not care one twopenny damn what
becomes of the ashes of Napoleon Bona-
parte.”
Others not to be resisted (for their own
sake and for the Dean’s joy in them)
can include the Austrian diplomat who,
when asked how he proposed to repay
Russia for her help, replied: “I propose
to astonish the world by my ingratitude,”
an example which does not appear to
have been wasted. Also, the Kaiser
making a call on the Sultan: “It is said
that he entered Jerusalem through a
breach specially made in the wall, clad
in shining armor and attended by
Lutheran pastors in evening dress, pre-
cariously mounted on donkeys.”
If all this sounds like a girlish, giggling
Clio, heaven knows the lass should be in
a mood for a bit of relaxation, with only
one Dean of t)urham to every thousand
unsmiling Walter Lippmanns among her
suitors. It should be said, too, that the
difference in the Dean is not that be-
tween levity and seriousness but between
seriousness and solemnity. His theme
may be taken as “History, properly inter-
preted, is the best cure for the pessimism
which its particular incidents encourage” ;
therefore he will not be solemn. And if
on the last page he is seen bowed in
prayer, that, perhaps, is not necessarily a
spectacle for alarm, especially as the
burden of his prayer doesn’t sound at all
like “Alas, my poor brothers!”
Angular.Roundels.
In a preface to Gaily the Troubadour
(Anvil Press, Melbourne), Frederick T.
Macartney says truly that satire needs
rhyme; it is the point of the arrow. But
the shaft of the arrow is just as import-
ant as the head—the line, the whole
poem must be clearcut for flight.
Gaily the Troubadour contains lines,
and whole poems such as the ballade
“Spring in the Air,” admirably shaped for
the writer’s satirical purpose;
O poets everywhere,
Your vernal verses pall:
Let’s just join hands and all
Spring in the air. .
But the book also offers, as the singularly
angular conclusion to a “Roundel of Par-
liamentary Institutions,” the jolting lines:
Would names in a hat be much worse than
Preference voting? Who is master,
Voter or Parliamentarian? —
Nothing vaster?
Judging by the preface Mr. Macart-
ney sees the problem of the contempor-
ary poet as the choice between fixed
forms and free verse. But that'is hardly
the case. Since the days of the Imagists
very little free verse has been written even
by the leading “modernists.” There has
not been much experimenting with the
fixed forms—though Pound, Eliot and
Auden have all attempted the sestina, and
Auden also the sonnet —but “measurable
rhythm” there certainly has been: usually
quite a strict scansion by “strong” feet,
a technique as old as “Piers Plowman.”
Mr. Macartney isn’t likely to be criti-
cised for attempting pantoums and trio-
lets ; only for not making them quite as
neat as they should be.
The essence of satire is wit. And wit,
swift and polished even in prose, natur-
ally and inevitably in a writer of verse
expresses itself in swift and polished
rhyme. Mr, Macartney, hitting chiefly
at politicians and bureaucrats, has humor
and sarcasm, but —
Each one, however abslracted the pose,
Has a bag-snatcher’s eye for portfolios:
The gist of this lottery is the prize
Society has to organise—
hardly the sparkle, the precision and the
polish of wit. What on earth is the gist
of a lottery?
Alan Marshall's Stories.
In a short story entitled “Bulls” in
Alan Marshall’s Tell Us About the
Turkey, Jo (Angus and Robertson) a
farmer opens the proceedings by shout-
ing at his small daughter “Bring up those
cows, blast you!”
Because, afraid of the bull, the child is
hesitating, she is encouraged on the next
page in the same uncouth tones: “Blast
you! Get a move on.” The bull comes
into the shed with the cows and the
daughter is asked to chase it out again:
“Open that blasted door, I say! ” When,
after some discussion, during which the
father “snarls” and “mouths,” the child
turns to obey, he “strikes her heavily be-
tween the shoulders, precipitating her
violently forward for a few steps.” And
then, later in the story, when the child
has been ordered to drive the bull up
from the paddock, there is this scene:
He slammed the gate savagely behind
him and walked towards her. The little
girl watched him approach, plucking at
her skirt with her fingers. When he was
so near that she could see his face she sank
•upon her knees in the grass.
“Get up,” he said through his teeth.
She made no effort to obey him but
crouched closer to the ground ... He
kicked her.
It is this sort of thing that makes it
difficult fully to accept Alan Marshall’s
stories when he attempts—as distinct
from the yarn or the magazine story—a
work of art. For the farmer, of course,
is a fantasy. Though farmers have been
known to swear, even at their children,
it is difficult to believe in the existence
of a man who goes around continually
blasting and snarling and mouthing and
talking through his teeth and striking
and kicking his daughter in this fashion.
And, except in fantasy, the characters in
a short story must be convincing if it is
to be accepted as a work of art.
“Bulls,” certainly, is acceptable as a
fantasy, quite an interesting and power-
ful one about the sort of man who ought
to exist so that he can kick small girls
about and be gored to death by a bull.
One may say in its favor, too, that reality
underlies the fantasy: it is an exaggera-
tion of the normal. But, as fantasy—a
category in which prose seeks to climb
the heights of poetry —it is weakened by
sentimentality and its tone is lowered by
dinginess.
These are the characteristic defects of
Alan Marshall’s writing. Except in “The
Baby,” a typical “magazine” story in
which, by a truly monstrous coincidence
an old gentleman in a private hospital
discovers that the father of a baby he
has been gooing over is his own long-lost
son, the sentimentality is rarely so pro-
nounced as to destroy the work; but it
is, nevertheless, a fairly general blemish.
There are facilely harrowing stories
about shooting, told always from the
viewpoint of the kangaroo. There is a
dog which, in order to overcome an old
man’s dislike of it, deliberately takes a
bath to rid itself of its fleas. There is a
picture of life in a big city store, ending
with the suicide of an employee who has
been sacked after 40 years’ service; and
a picture of life in a boot factory all in
agonised italics. In a story in which.the
trees and the weather are declared to re-
joice at the birth of a child Mr. Marshall
descends to the “pathetic fallacy.” And,
as the almost inevitable converse to this
sort of naivety, there are passages of an
equally unconvincing “toughness”: “I
leapt at him and flung him back to the
ground. I jammed my knee on his chest
and wrapped my fingers round his throat.
‘Feel this,’ I said, and I crushed his wind-
pipe.”
Like the sentimentality, the dinginess
is by no means overwhelming—not a
cloud over the book, but wisps of fog
drifting through it. But there are enough
of such wisps to matter. There is a
story about a hospital in which the
people, instead of being painted “in the
round” as individuals, are referred to
only by labels —“The consumptive,” “The
man with hydatids” and so on —so that,
in the final effect, one is not allowed to
see them as human beings but as walk-
ing diseases. Then, in a war story, when
the writer wishes to describe troops rush-
ing ashore from barges, he says the craft
are “vomiting.” When a newsboy comes
into a comedy about a barbershop the
writer holds up for inspection the “de-
cayed stumps” of his teeth.
All this, of course, might pass for
“realism.” But is it? In the “Bulls” story,
in an extremely repellent portrait of the
father, we are told that his boots look
like “the enormous, misshapen hooves of
some grotesque animal” and “there
breathed from his clothes, and ac-
companied him continuously, an odor re-
pulsively animal —the smell of the cow-
yard”: and unless Mr. Marshall really
can’t bear the sight of a pair of boots
and the smell of a cowyard there is false
sentiment here—not detachment but dis-
tortion, not realism but a fake sordid-
ness.
Carried to excess these tendencies
would do grave damage to Alan Mar-
shall’s writing. Curiously enough, con-
sidering the opportunities for sentimen-
tality, it is his stories of children that do
most to redeem the artistic merit of the
collection. Although at the beginning
and end of “Bulls” the little girl is por-
trayed sentimentally, as a kind of suffer-
ing doll, there is a passage of realistic
portraiture in the middle of the story
where she comes to life in quite a fiendish
way, sooling a dog on to the bull to goad
it to frenzy: and had the unconscious
artist in Mr. Marshall defeated the senti-
mentalist this would have been a fantasy
not about a monstrous parent who kicks
his daughter but about a monstrous child
who murders her father.
In the other stories about children Mr,
Marshall never goes astray. Even “Santa
Claus in Bowyangs” may be accepted as
a harmless, indeed charming piece of
Christmas sentiment —not sentimentality.
And the title story, “Tell Us About the
Turkey, Jo,” a picture of a small boy’s
wonder and delight at all the accidents
that have happened to him, is altogether
delightful. Mr. Marshall’s kangaroos
and workmen are suffering victims of
circumstances, but his children are ad-
venturers in a World of magnificent ex-
citement. Why the workmen in a boot
factory should be less manly than a
small girl crossing the road is a question
that Mr. Marshall might well ask him-
self ; but it is a fact, and a pleasant one,
that he needs no hysterical italics for that
terrifying adventure among the traffic;
“ ‘We crossed the road, we did,’ she said,
her eyes shining.”
Both as a work of art and as enter-
tainment, the outstanding story is “Little
Girl” —a striking narrative, both amus-
ing and macabre, and more complex in
construction than Mr. Marshall usually
attempts. Dealing with a child who
“plays” with an old Irishman on the
spree and terrifies him to death —after, it
appears (the point is not quite clear), he
has confessed that he stabbed a friend at
the war —the story is a shade too grim
for probability, but it makes a dramatic
fantasy.
Apart from these stories of childhood,
the book reads most satisfactorily in
those stories in which art, in the highest
sense, is not called into question—not the
few “magazine” stories, slick and senti-
mental, which are altogether to be re-
gretted, but the fairly large group of
straightforward “yarns,” somewhat in
the manner of O. Henry. In “You’re a
Character,” “Prelude to Foreclosure,”
“Beware of the Man in the Blue Suit”
and “No Murderin’ From Now On”
Mr. Marshall is not trying self-con-
sciously to be the artist and thus, if the
virtues of “Little Girl” are absent, so,
too, are the defects of “Bulls.” The
writer sets out simply to be entertaining
about young fellows “pirating” girls,
about showmen and about a couple of
loons in the bush and, within his chosen
limits, he is wholly successful.


JwUfyt' (rt
ms
m&.
sW#£?
mm.
m*m
■XWv;.;.;.;
M
: :• ■
Tv.
.
CARPENTERS' BENCHES
Sturdily constructed from selected hardwood, 6 feet
long x 2 feet 3 inches wide, legs 3F inches x 3 inches,
top 5i inches x H inches, tool rack at back, all
sections bolted together, wood vyce fitted. £13/15/6
BURNALL INCINERATOR
Built of heavy plate steel, hinged top, heavy grate
with adjustable door to control draught .... £4/10/-
GALVANISED GARDEN BARROWS
Capacity 3 cubic feet, tubular steel frame, wrought
iron wheel, heavy galvanised tray. Price .... 55/6
Fitted with Pneumatic Tyre. Price £7
GRINDSTONES
These are cut from specially selected sandstone.
3" Face x 12” 14” ' 16” 18” 20” 22” 24”
Prices ... 6/3 8/3 10/3 12/3 14/6 17/- 19/6
HEAVY STEEL IACKS
All steel 6-ton Rack and Pinion Jacks.
GEARS are of steel, teeth are machine cut and
rack teeth are’milled.
BRAKE. Automatic screw and nut type.
HOUSING. All steel electrically welded joints.
Toe side perfect flush.
HEIGHT, 32 ins. LIFT, 15 ins. WEIGHT, 70 lbs.
PRICE £16/17/6
WORM GEAR CHAIN BLOCKS
A useful, general purpose chain block, driving worm
is made of steel, highest grade material used
throughout to ensure long life and efficiency.
i ton size Price £10/5/-
1 ton size. Price ... \ £12/11/-
li ton size. Price £13/15/-
2 ton size. Price £17/-/-
• Agricultural Department, 4th Floor, Pitt Street.
DELIVERED FREE WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA.
m
Here you will find listed lots of items useful
for handymen everywhere. If your trade or
hobby is carpentry we've a sturdy carpenter's
bench for you; for the man whose interest is
gardening, here's a very serviceable galvan-
ised barrow for you, and to handymen in town
or country, whatever your needs, you can be
sure to find what you want
at “The Senior Store"
m
m
■ : : ' : '-
TELEPHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
POSTAL ADDRESS; BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


HUMS
Circular Charts lo> all type. oi
Recording instruments tor any class
oi Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our guotatioa.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN it ft EE t
PTV. ITU.
BRISBANE. O EO.
MANSE ASE
the perfect couifort male
support for everyman’t
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Uansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
A 'V , W
£
A
/>9
&
v
OLE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and feonscientious Individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
Importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will bo forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. X. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP < «.
I
A
r
OfH
<
*
mm
99
wm
acT*
99
a*
si*!*:
ti
X
TM.
P'
PRO??
RUST
cM"
COMP?
®
*
2iir**
CALTEX
747
HARVESTER
OIL
fcALTB)TI
IBS**-/
m
the premium
MOTOR O'i-
*
m
yc.
F will pay you to check your
supplies of CALTEX lubricants
now. Make sure your equipment
sees you through without costly,
time-wasting breakdowns. There’s
a quality CALTEX lubricant for
every purpose —each one designed
to prevent wear and keep your
machinery running at its best for
a longer period. See your local
CALTEX dealer right away and
for better farming make sure all
your lubricants bear the famous
name . . .
CALTEX
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD JOSEPH GASS of “TionP Kissing
Point Road Dundas. —TAKE NOTICE that EILE -
MARY GASS has filed a Petition for Restitution o
Conjugal Rights No. 3641 of 1946 If you
defend you may enter an appearance wi the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney X t ; on
14th October 1946 and obtain a copy of the petit
without charge from MESSRS. LAMARO
GRATH, Solicitors, of 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.
(P s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND-
TO JOHN MERRILL HAMILTON formerly _ of 56
Commercial Road Teneriffe Brisbane in the Stateo
Queensland Butcher but whose present whCTeabouU
are unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that an action bar
been commenced against you in the Supreme Cou
Queensland at Brisbane aforesaid by Writ of Sum
mons Numbered 1270 of 1945 by EDNA MARO
RETHA ELIZABETH HAMILTON yourwUe in vvbich
she claims a dissolution of her marriage with
Ind by her petition filed herein she alleges that
in or about the month of January
ton in the State of Queensland and on diyere otwr
occasions between the month of August
Twenty-third day of November 19 4 5, a t R Rri«-
aforesaid and at Commercial Road Teneriffe Br
bane aforesaid and at other places at present
known to her you committed adultery with AG-
DORIS HOWARD of Commercial Road Tener-
Brisbane aforesaid AND it has been ordered that
service of the said writ and petition on . e
effected by publishing this notice once xn .
Bulletin” (published at Sydney ‘and
vinuth Wales') and once in the Daily ieiegrapu
once in the ‘‘Sydney Herald” both beinguewspag
nuhlished at Sydney aforesaid at intervals of at i
seven days between the first and the second and at tog
seven toys between the second and ) third
publications If you desire to defend this acuon
must within Thirty days for the last day on ■
any such publication is made enter an PP . j (
the Registry of the said Court and in deiauu
of wur so dofng the Plaintiff may by leave pr*
ceed in the action and d!y S
you in your absence. GATED this■ renui - nd
L. *B. MOYNIHAN, of Justice Chambers, A
aide Street, Brisbane.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Kilvert’s Diary, vol. 2, and 1903
Chums. —3886.
To buy Life of a Bohemian, by Harry Pin-
cott, and early directories of Geelong.—3887.
To buy set of old N.S.W. school reading
books as used prior to about 1896. —3888.
To buy L. S. Stebbing’s Modern Introduc-
tion to Logic. —3889.
Information Sought.
(I) If an aneroid barometer was set at one
point, then taken to a point further above
sea level, would the new reading be inaccurate ?
(2) What is the formula for finding an unknown
height above sea level when using this
barometer ?
The Meteorological Bureau advises that (1)
A barometer set to read pressure correctly to
mean sea level in one place (Sydney), if moved
to a place at a height of (say) 220ft. would
not read correctly but would be incorrect by
an amount depending on the difference in level
between the point at which it was set and the
new level. For example, if the place at which
it was set to read mean sea level pressure cor-
rectly was 150ft. above m.s.l., then when the
barometer was moved to a place 220ft. above
m.s.l. it would read 0.07in. below m.s.l. pres-
sure. On the other hand, if set to read the
pressure at 150ft. in Sydney then it would read
the correct pressure at 220ft. at the new
location. (2) The difference in pressure at
m.s.l. and any elevated place in inches multi-
plied by 1000 gives the height of the place
approx, in feet.
* * * *
Method of removing peeling and blistering
fibro plaster from ceiling ?
If the existing paint is a kalsomine or water
paint wash off with a solution of warm water
and washing soda. The best sealer is a 50-50
mixture of prepared paint and raw oil
a little terebene added; cement sealer shomd
not be used, as it is made specifically for the
pre-treatment for cement walls and fibre
sheeting. x
* * * *
Result of the first Rugby Union rep. match
between N .S*W • cind Miaoriland . r* S.W.
team ?
Played Sept. 15, 1894, at Christchurch, M.L.;
N.S.W. won 8 points to 6; scorers: Hanna
and Eyre (tries) and Cobb (goal) for N.S.W.,
Humphreys and Alf Bayley (tries) for M.L.
N.S.W. team: Cobb (full-back), Lusk, Surman
(capt.). Parish (three-quarters), Riley (five-
eignth), Galloway (half), Lane, Hanna, Carson,
Alcock. Lohan, Wiburd, Scott, Edwards and
Eyre (forwards).
* * * *
Did Howell ( England} bowl Park in a Test
match at Melbourne Cricket Ground, and was
it the first ball? Did Duleepsinhji visit Aus-
tralia with an English Test team ?
Park was bowled by Howell for nil at the
M.C.C. Ground on Jan. 1, 1921; have no
record of what ball bowled him. Duleepsinhji
never played Test cricket in Australia, but
played in four Tests v. Australia m England
in 1930, scoring 173 and 48 at Lord s, 35 and
10 at Leeds, 54 at Manchester, and 50 and
46 at Kennington Oval.
* * * *
Is there any cricket law to penalise a player
who kicks away a ball bowled wide off the
wicket and which , after hitting an obstruction ,
is deflected towards the stumps ?
It is purely a matter for the umpire to
decide whether the batsman is out. M.C.C.
Law 24 states: “If with any part of his per-
son (except his hand) which is between wmke
and wicket he intercept the ball, which in th
opinion of the umpire at the bowler s wicket
shall have been pitched in a,.straight line from
the bowler’s wicket to the striker s wicket or
shall have been pitched on the off-side of the
striker’s wicket and would hit it, tne
batsman is out leg before wicket.
‘ "" *
Brief Answers.
WAD.: Contract price for the Cataract
dam'was £147,000, but “as extensive preliminary
work was carried out by the Dept, ot Public
Works before the contract was let and also
the completion of the contract,” the final cost
was £347,000. The capacity of'the dam is
20,743 million gallons R - L - B v,. Ct l appe i c" and
Cos., 250 Pitt-street, Sydney, J. Albert and Son,
King-street, Sydney, and D.' Davis and Cos.,
250 Pitt-street, Sydney, are all publishers....
PNW ■ (1) He stands and will stand, he
remains and will remain-observer of the world.
(2) I see the better and approve it: I follow
the w0r5e....5.R.0.: Doubt whether the
article is procurable; contact larger Melbourne
hardware stores... .H.McR. and J.L.: Ke Q
Page article on A. H. Chisholm’s recent book
on C. J. Dennis appeared in B. 18/9/ 46, and
dealt with the theme of The Glugs of Gosh.
C.B.McE.: Suggest you contact the Gover-
nor’s secretary.... 1.A.M.,: The most simple
method of scouring wool is to steep it in a
soapy solution (about 120 deg. F.) for not more
than five minutes, taking care that the wool
is paddled and . not scrubbed. Then give it
two more similar washings—with less soap each
time—and finally rinse the wool in clean warm
water. Care should be taken to select wool
that is free from burr, and also avoid stained
wool, as scouring will not remove stain....
A.P.: (1) It is not correct to remove tne
front boards of a piano when playing. (2) it
is largely a matter of opinion, but the violin
and the piano are the two most important
solo instruments,. and, with the trumpet, are
recognised instruments in classical and orches-
tral music, while the others are ™°re usual y
associated with dance bands.. ..W.G.H.: (U
Oversea cos. trading to Australia have then
own staff on board, while those cos. wim
headquarters in Australia select their staff from
personal interviews. (2) Aust. United Steam
Navigation Cos., 1 Day-street, Sydney; Hud-
dart Parker, Ltd., 10 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd., 19 Bridge-street,
Sydney; Adelaide Steamship Cos., Ltd., u-
Bridge-street, Sydney; Union Steamship to.,
Ltd., 247 George-street, Sydney H.M. ana
L T B.: Apply to the Director, Museum ot
Technology and Applied Science, Harns-street,
Sydney. Bulletins are issued by this institution
which describe the species from which com-
mercial eucalyptus oils are obtained, mid also
furnish details -of the construction of distil-
lation plant.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT “OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LEO MANN of unknown address.—TAKE NOTICE
that RUBY ELLEN MANN (commonly known as
RUBY ELLEN MATHEWS) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3201 of 1946 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South Wales by 4th
November 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from P. W. GRAHAM STARLING,
Solicitor, Hardy’s Chambers, rear of 5 Hunter Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL FREDERICK HAYWOOD late of
Ipswich.—TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE BEAT-
RICE HAYWOOD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3552 of 1942 on the ground of without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards and
habitual drunkenness for three years and upwards and
cruelty If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by 21st October 1946 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Buildings, 109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales. DATED
this 18th day of September, 1946.— (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN McFADDEN late of Roseville in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that DAISY
EDITH McFADDEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1608 of 1946 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st day of October 1946 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from R. W
FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globite!
Made by
ford sherington ltd.
feZl
rTTN Do you need a
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN
® LOAN
incl. disc.
• Weekly
instalment
• Fortnightly
instalment
• Four-weekly
instalment
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Boer War Veteran Greets
Welcome back to Civvy Street! Mr. F.
Allery greets his ex-P.O.W. son, Ronald, at
the entrance to the S.T.C. works, where
Rehabilitation has found Ron a job.
* ' J '
i IIH I. VI>» 2 I I
If ?
■M n > ■ .
%
Rehabilitation Is Priority Task
Trade Unionists Urged to
Support Second Security Loan
“In associating myself with the Second Security
Loan,” said Mr. Len Austin, President of the
N.S.W. Trades and Labour Council, “I do so with
knowledge that it is absolutely necessary for a
continued total effort on the part of Australia to
ensure the successful conduct of the affairs of the
nation.”
Mr. L. Austin
“It is recognised by all that the
transitional period' from war-time
to peace-time conditions is a period
that calls for complete unanimity
among our people.
“Australians do not wish to re-
turn to old pre-war standards; we
desire to achieve a standard higher
than that of any other country.
“The tasks confronting our
parliamentary leaders are diffi-
cult ones,” Mr. Austin pointed
out, “and the complete rehabi-
litation of our ex-servicemen
commands a priority in these
tasks second to none.
“In order that the financial struc-
ture, upon which the plans of the
Government of to-day are based,
can effectively handle the business
of the nation, it is imperative that
the Second Security Loan be re-
ceived favourably by all sections of
the community,” he concluded.
“I send this, message to the
hundreds of thousands of trade
unionists of Australia confident
that they will respond to the
call and ensure the success of
the Second Security Loan.”
Listen to FINAL,
Australian National
Quiz Championship,
8 p.m. Monday,
October 14—
All Stations.
You Can Invest Now
in the £90,000,000
Second Security Loan
Opening October 15
With its better than bank in-
terest; repayment backed by the
whole assets of Australia; and
ready availability of money in
emergency — the Second Security
Loan is the logical place for your
savings.
The money raised will be used to
meet continuing war commitments,
to finance important national pub-
lic works, and to provide funds
necessary for the rehabilitation of
ex-servicemen and women.
In addition, investment in Secur-
ity Bonds helps keep prices down;
speeds reconversion of industry.
If you have £10 or more saved
already, you can make an
advance subscription to the
Second Security Loan at once,
and interest will be paid there-
on from the day you make your
investment through any bank,
savings bank, or stockbroker.
Interest is at the rate of 3J% for
12 years, or 2% for three years.
Buy Security Bonds now for cash
from your savings—and buy more
by instalments out of income when
the loan is officially open.
Security Bonds are available in
denominations of £10, £50, £100.,
£500 and £1,000. Make an invest-
Veteran Son
Fred Allery gets thrill of lifetime when
Rehabilitation places son, Ronald, at the
S.T.C. Factory, where Fred is gatekeeper.
“I’ve seen a lot of rehabilitated
fellows come through this gate, but
never before has it given me such
a thrill,” said Fred Allery, as he
welcomed his son, Ronald, to Stan-
dard Telephones and Cables Pty.
Ltd., Alexandria.
The sixty-year-old veteran fought
in the Boer War and World War I,
and in World War II was repre-
sented by three sons.
“They wouldn’t have me last
time, so I served on the home front
by buying Bonds and Certificates
and helping the Loans Organisa-
tion obtain subscriptions.” he said.
“Ron was a prisoner-of-war
In Changi and Tokio, and now
Rehabilitation has found him
a job here in this factory.”
The General Manager of S.T.C.,
Mr. McPhee, said that Fred Allery
was one of the factory’s most
ardent loan workers.
Loan Helps Rehabilitation
Mr. Allery said people must
realise that our obligations to the
servicemen and women did not end
when they were brought home.
“Hundreds of thousands of men
could not be immediately placed
in the civilian field until it was
thoroughly prepared to absorb
them, and until those who required
training had received it.
“So we need loans just as much
now as we did during the war years,
perhaps even more so,” he said.
“The Second Security Loan will
help provide the money needed for
the Commonwealth rehabilitation
programme,” concluded Mr. Allery.
Whole Family Buys Bonds
Mr. Allery, who resides at 78
Gipps Street, Drummoyne, has
three sons, five daughters and
twelve grandchildren.
“Everyone in my family has
bought Bonds and Savings Certi-
ficates since the first loan,” said
Mr. Allery. “None of us is too old
or too young.
“We’re saving now so that
later on, when goods are plenti-
ful and better values can be
obtained, we’ll have a fund of
money built up which will buy
the things we want, and give
us security.”
Bonds Best Place for Savings
Security Bonds earn better than
bank interest, repayment is guar-
anteed by the whole assets of the
Commonwealth, and if you need
money in emergency, you can easily
negotiate them for ready cash.
Investment now in the Second
Security Loan helps keep prices
down, speeds the reconversion of
industry, assists the rehabilitation
of servicemen and women, safe-
guards the future prosperity of
Australia.
Save for Security
Make an ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION
Now to the
SECOND
SECURITY
l mom
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
Miss K.: “Ted Bailey, who was a sturdy young
coalminer, loved his work and gloried in hew-
ing the black diamonds from the earth, a
leader among his comrades and setting them
an example they were proud to follow.”
Heavens, do you want us to bring the whole
Maitland field out on strike with a libel like
that? L.M.:—
....R.8.: Slight.. . .W.Q.: Come again
K.0.L.: Drunk stories as rambling and boring as
the originals L.C.S.: Precious... .C.N.: Next
time you feel that “fiery, irresistible urge to
write ’ take it out on the garden 8.V.; Very
l “ in -• ■- F-O’C.: Write about what you know.
... -D.D.: Du 11... .8.M.: You’ve been strongly
influenced by something—probably the comic
strips J.McD.: Tearful... .W.U.: Do some
solid reading T.H.R.: Frothy 0.G.:
Watch the unruly adjectives 1.F.C.; A good
story spoilt by sentimentality... .G.G.; “A
Roamer” comes roaming back P.A.: “The
Red Farm” caused a sensation all right;
illegible writing always excites the staff
P.S.C.: You’re so far off our beat you’d need
a compass to find it L.D.; “The fiflack
Cat” is still wandering the rooftops in search
of a h0me....T.5.: Your “style” is almost
alarming... .C.J.D.; Surely that old prospector
isn’t still being murdered by his mate
C.D.T.: The promise of one story a week in
that vein amounts to a threat J.D.: Now,
now... .P.T.A.: Call again when you’ve cooled
off T.S.N.: The girl might be impressed.
N.D.: It’s been said before —many times.
J.S.: Too wordy 8.A.0’N.: Spring
apparently does strange things to you L.D.:
The Religious Editor said “No!” C.8.L.:
You might see print some day G.D.M.;
Away W.M.: You’re lonely, that’s what’s
the matter with you N.J.C.: What you don’t
know about police methods would fill volumes.
R.K.B.; Found it hard to wade through.
W.H.: Try to write something that comes
to grips with realities C.S.: A little less
about the flora and fauna and more about
Jack and June, please T.H.W.; Our eyes
are still smarting from the effort to read your
handwriting V.M.; Long-winded, and it
wasn’t much of a mystery after a!1..,.5.H.:
So weak that if had to bo carried to the
w.p.b. on a stretcher... .8.A.: Not in the
market for ghost yarns GJ.: Racecourse
urger is merely a peddler of old tricks
A.T.R.: It seems an urgent matter, so here you
go:—
M.S.C.: Simplify and use your own natural
words—.G.M.: All right, then, he’s racing:—■
G.M.: Your Muse is somewhat explosive.
H. 1.: All one can say is—not bad for 13;
possibly the immensity of the manuscript is a
good omen Notrom: Heavy weather
W.A.H.: Come in and chant of doom:
We sing “Advance Australia Fair,” we boast “Aus-
tralia will be there ! ”
But when we look around and see this state of semi-
anarchy
We have to pause and wonder where the “there”
shall be!
—C.M.: All the poets seem dolorous this
week:—
L.E.: You’ve got ideas but you’re very raw
at expressing them TJ.S.: Have met that
confidence man before P.W.: Be sure of
what you want to say before you start
A.C.N.: There are busy days when we toss
half a dozen such yarns into the basket.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.B.: Caricatures need to be of well-
known persons... .L.D.: Not a laugh in the
seven of them... .K.M.: Can’t you put more
life into your characters?... .A.R.H.:
must be original. Yours are not M.A.: “What
will you do with the drunken sailor?” Put him
into the w.p.b. till he’s sober... .S.F.: From what
U.S. magazine did that gag come? ... .K.L.J.:
Try designing labels for jamtins R.M.: A
wild array of scratchy lines and the week’s most
feeble jest J.C.H.: Since it is a first offence
no conviction has been recorded A.P.: The
catacombs under 252 George-street are cluttered
with corpses of that description M.G.: Gag
appeared in a recent issue of The Bulletin.
R.H.L.: It’s easily seen that you’ve never
been on the quarterdeck of a battleship ....
W.T.: Drawing is stiff and joke as funny as
a cookery recipe... .W.D.: That’s the tenth
“Ship of State” headed for the rocks we have
received during the past month J.H.W.:
Nothing to laugh about in Bridge-Yarra draw-
ing T.A.: We presume the gent is Mary’s
suitor, but why did you make him look like a
ventriloquist’s doll? P.L.: Spare us anymore
of that sort E.D.: As much as we admire
your motive we couldn’t use the sketch
C.K.: We yawned and yawned and yawned.
L.A.: Ack-willy merchant sentenced to 14
days in the w.p.b M.W.W.: Atomic-bomb
joke lacks punch G.S.A.: Cross-eyed maiden
with withered hands and deformed legs was
hurried home... .B.B.: Yes, you can draw a
draughts board.
Oh, I came down from the Snow Countree
Flush and merry and fancy-free
With a cowboy hat and like gay- attire
And a car tied together with fencing-wire.
I parked in the sun at the end of the street
With my rabbit skins piled on the broken
back seat
And winked an eye
At the girls strolling by.
All the girls seemed fair and neat
But the rabbit skins were far from sweet
So I sat and sat with a bottle of wine
Softly humming the “Trail of the Lonesome
Pine.”
Rewarded are they who will patiently Hek
The best rabbit skins all admittedly reek
But despite that
I sat and sat
And did fine.
What’s wrong with the woolgrower?
Is he so long o’ tooth,
So broken-mouth aged has-been
He has no voice forsooth ?
Thou who seemest to outstrip the speed of light.
How earnest thou ? . . .
Great victories and triumphs will be thine in days to
come.
And with Caulfield’s richest prize before thee laid
Men will see at last and understand
The Master Breeder’s plan—the super horse,
Thee, Bernborough!
How view the future with aplomb
In this age of the atom bomb?
Things are come to a nice impasse.
No beer, no cigarettes, no gas.


With 10 o’clock closing
hotel bars and lounges will be
CLOSED BETWEEN
hj
AND
pm
j
It has been proved beyond all doubt by the experience ot other
countries and States of the Commonwealth that later closing
hours reduce after-work drinking. However, in N.S.W. there
is an added safeguard: with the introduction of 10 o’clock
closing the Liquor Act will prohibit the serving of liquor in bars
and lounges between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m.
This means that the new trading hours will be from 10 a.m.
to 6.30 p.m. and from 7.30 p.m. to 10 p.m. —a total of 1 I hours,
compared with 12 hours under the pre-war 6 a.m. - 6 p.m.
system. Thus your vote for 10 o’clock closing will be a vote
for more CONVENIENT hours, not longer hours.
And that is not the only advantage to be gained from 10
o’clock closing; it will also make possible the provision of better
service and amenities for both men and women, together with
the conditions conducive to moderate and leisurely drinking; and
it will mean the abolition of the 6 o’clock rush which for so long
has been a social 4 disgrace to our State.
FOR COMFORT. CONVENIENCE AND COMMONSENSE IN DRINKING, MAKE 10 O'CLOCK YOUR VOTE
LT. 12.44
Inserted by Liquor Trade Council of N.S.W., 23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.


PICK-HANDLE
IN THE
CELLAR
BY BRIAN JAMES
No. 6 of "The Cookabundy Chronicles ”
lESLING” had once been the
jX most pretentious home along
\ the Cookabundy and stood on
a beautifully rounded knoll
above the Willow Ponds. Beyond the
knoll was a wide plateau covered in vine-
yard and orchard, while the steep knoll
itself was all vine-clad. Even now,
neglected as it was, the home was very
attractive, cool, spacious, wide veran-
dahed, and set among tall dark pines and
acacias.
The Grubers had owed their fortunes
to the days of gold—old Johann (he al-
ways stuck to the Johann) had got what
he liked to ask for fruit and grapes and
wine. There was little or no competition
and always a big demand. Hard as rock
was Johann, and shrewd as they make
them. He got far more of the gold of the
Grey Box than most of the lucky diggers.
He was proud, too —not the flimsy pride
of vain conceit, but the hard and solid
pride that has a tradition behind it. He
looked down upon the Rosens and
Schnieders and Refiners and the rest. He
knew what they were worth. For the
mere English he had a half-concealed
contempt; and for the mere Irish a con-
tempt that wasn’t concealed at all.
When Johann died—his pride and im-
portance didn’t spare him there —the
family carried on, but it hadn’t the keen
business head of old Johann to guide it.
It knew plenty about spending money,
but it didn’t know so much about making
it. The Banks tightened up at last, and
then came the realisation that the Big
Place was practically gone.
The boys gave it up and hit out for
themselves elsewhere—all except one,
Joseph, and he stayed on with his mother,
a thin little wisp of a woman who al-
ways seemed afraid that Johann might
come back again in some way. By some
provision of the will she could live on
the place to the end. Joseph was very
loyal to her, though she rather took
Joseph for granted.
She died at last, and the very next day
the Bank took possession. It installed
Dick Armstrong as Bailiff’s officer, and
allowed Joseph time to make arrange-
ments for himself. Of course, apart from
his clothes and very personal effects,
nothing on the place was his any more,
nor could he remove or sell anything. It
was a sad fall for the House of Gruber
—especially the humiliation of having a
fellow like Dick Armstrong under the
same roof as Joseph.
Efick had had an unusually hard sort
of life —a morose, whining fellow to start
with, he had been kicked from pillar to
post. Everyone was superior to Dick,
and the feeling of superiority was height-
ened not a little by the knowledge that
Dick had been born “out of wedlock”
(that was the politest way of putting it).
It was generally held that Dick was to
blame for the unfortunate circumstance.
It can’t be said that Dick gained any-
thing in popular esteem by his appearance
at the Big Place. It was his first taste of
authority, and it went to his head. He
became in his very little world a tyrant,
and he made poor Joseph feel the weight
of his power. Of course, Joseph should
have gone, but he Ifung on —it was his
home, he didn’t know where to go, and
he had lost the will to do anything. Grey,
stooped, prematurely aged—he was only
forty—his good years were all behind
him. He was as much a derelict as the
old hatters of the Grey Box, living on the
memories of the golden days.
There was a big quantity of wine in the
cellars, and if Joseph could not sell it the
Bank didn’t forbid his drinking of it.
Joseph’s heart was not gladdened by the
wine he drank. It just made him gloom-
ier and gloomier. In the first place, he
drank because he liked the “full-bodied”
stuff, then he drank a lot more to make
him forget the downfall of the family, and
when Dick arrived he drank a great deal
more still to assist in putting up with Dick.
AT the outset Joseph had thought to
make the best of Dick, if only for the
sake of company. He swallowed hard,
and said, “Have a drink, Armstrong!”
“Gruber, did you say ‘Armstrong’?”
“What is your name, then?”
“Mr. Armstrong to you, Gruber.”
“Well, have a drink, Mr. Armstrong.”.
Dick viewed the offer with the utmost
suspicion. He raised a long bony hand
to signify that it couldn’t be done. “I’m
the official here to watch you. I can’t and
won’t drink with you.”
It was coarse and brutal, but then Dick
had been coarsely and brutally used all
his life, and this was the first chance he
ever had of getting even with someone
about it.
Joseph didn’t dispute Dick’s authority,
as much as he hated it; he had a big
respect for authority—old Johann had
seen, to that.*
When Joseph had drunk himself into
a state of immobility, more or less, Dick
saddled his horse and rode round the
estate —about five hundred acres. Dick
enjoyed this. It was a. kingdom, and he
was king. He didn’t look much like a
king—extremely long, bony, angular, with
neck, arms, and legs very attenuated. His
trousers always left a gap of bare leg
between them and the bluchers, for Dick
did not wear socks. Coat sleeves, in the
same way, left all the forearm bare. He
always wore a coat, no matter what the
weather was like. His seat in the saddle
was peculiar:—his long legs were thrust
forward till the boots were beyond the
horse’s shoulders: the horse must have
felt he was in the shafts.
Then it was Dick’s delight to proceed
at a smart cahter round the paddocks,
and when he saw anyone to liven the
pace to a gallop. On arrival at the tres-
passing party, Dick pulled up in a mar-
vellously short space, the horse sliding
and the bluchers looking like some sort
of battering ram.
“What are you doing here?”
“Nothing.”
“You’re trespassing—get out.”
Most people got out. It was no use
arguing with Dick.
In the midst of these strained and
delicate relations. Jack Ryan went over
one evening for the purpose of “cheering
Joe up.” He thought Joseph needed a
good deal of cheering. Incidentally,
quite incidentally, Jack could cheer up
himself at the Big Place.
Dick met him at the verandah,
“You can’t come here!” -
“Strictly business, Dick. Orders from
the Bank.”
“The Bank!”
“Yes, didn’t you know?” Jack was
very pleasant, and looked very wise.
Dick was properly scared and wondered
if the Bank was up to something. He let
Jack go in.
Joseph was slumped in a chair in the
sitting-room. There was a nearly-full
bottle of the famous sherry on the table.
Jack assisted in making it nearly empty.
Dick hovered about, in and out, filled
with foreboding and suspicion.
“Anozzer borrell, Jack!” said Joseph,
when the one on the table had been
drained out.
“I’ll slip down and get- one, Joe.”
“No, gerrer meself. You don’t know
Misser Armstrong.”
Joseph staggered off to the cellar door.
Thd cellar was under a big shed, and
down a flight of steps. The door was
locked. That —Dick’s doing, of course —
was a kind of last straw • even if Joseph
did have another key. Dick stayed in the
sitting-room, where he could watch Jack.
Joseph fumbled with his key, and
opened the cellar door. It creaked and
Dick recognised the sound. He raced
to the cellar. Jack followed. There were
sounds of snarling and muttering in the
gloom of the cellar. And then something
like an axe on a dead tree. The snarling
stopped. Jack called out; “What is it,
Joe?”
“Gorr-im! Gorr-im that time! He’s
finished! ”
Jack descended the steps. He could
make out Joseph leaning against a big
cask, and what looked like a pick-handle
in his hand.
“I gorr-im, all ri’! S’finish!”
DICK was lying on the flag floor, very
still. Jack struck a match, and was
shocked to find a wound on the side of
Dick’s head—a gaping ugly wound that
bled freely, a glancing blow that opened
the cheek and nearly severed the ear.
Dick was not a pretty sight. And it
looked bad for Joseph, who kept saying
“S’fihish all ri’! S’finish!”
Jack had a busy time. Dick, he dis-
covered, was not dead, but apparently in
a bad way, though he seemed to be bleed-
ing less. In some way he got Joseph up
the steps and into the house. Joseph
seemed out of his head somewhat—and
kept on with his “S’finish all ri’!”
followed now by an inane sort of laugh,
Someone was rattling along the lane
about a hundred yards from the house.
T „, ~ , i«
Jack yelled Come here-were m
trouble—bad accident.
It was Dave Schnieder, on his way to
a little courtship he was indulging in
down bv the river
ao ™, V £ , XT , ,
Oh, it s you, Dave! Nasty accident
-Dick Armstrong fell down the cellar
steps. Race in and get the doctor I No,
Dave, you can’t do a thing-no use see-
• „ f
® m ’ I jT*
Dave turned hack, and raced into town.
Jack went down the cellar to look at Dick.
Dick was lying where he fell. There
was nothing Jack could think of doing
for him but covering him wep with
blankets, and rolling him gently on to a
rug, and placing a soft pillow under his
head. There was no danger from the
touch the wou n d I cave"
tor. The telltale pick-handle was near the
to k bustoesTlfoM^fdt a ™ih\Tr. was
the business looked bad enough as it_was.
Joseph m.ght be domg a stretch for
«, Juck reflected—if he didn t keep his
wits about him He did not want Joseph
to get into trouble over Dick. The Grubers
had enough misfortune without that.
Dr. Winton arrived at length.
, tr> . T , , , 4 t „
Byjove Jmglad toseeyou.Dpcton
Dr. Winton looked at Jack closely. He
was a brisk lutle mam quite old, but very
active still. His short, bristly moustache
t 0 na u e 9 » ir u moacdve *
W here ls ke asked -
This way Doctor. Poor chap-hes
had a nasty fall down the cellar steps.
jack had a bright lamp standing on a
cask - “Mmd your step. Doctor. That’s
whut Dick should have done. ’
Jack held the lamp, while Dr. Winton
made an examination. “Huh!” he said,
& nd looked around.
Is he badly hurt? Jacks tones were
fufl of anxious sympathy.
■ kan (, exa ctly. Pretty bad, I
imagme.
There was a shuffling step on the
gravel, and framed in the doorway above
them, in the moonlight, was the swaying
forni of Joseph. Dr Winton peered al
the form, and then looked inquiringly
at Jack.
“Poor old Joseph—yes, he’s very upset
over the accident,”
“Very upset, I should say.”
Joseph could make out more or less
two live forms in the cellar in the lamp-
light
“Jack, ole boy, whersh the pick-
“All"right, Joseph; coming up now!”
Then, turning to the Doctor, “You see,
he’s wandering. Quite unnerved by the
accident.”
“I’ll come down, Jack—and finish ’im
off.” Joseph nearly fell down the steps
at that.
“Get him to bed,” ordered Dr. Winton.
After all he wasn’t a policeman. Jack
coaxed Joseph inside again, and by dint
of much soothing talk got him to bed.
He implored Joseph not to talk, *But
Joseph was very intent on “finishing ’im.”
Dr. Winton was very serious. “I’ll
have to have that Armstrong moved to
hospital. We’ll leave him where he is for
the moment. It looks bad -he might die.
The police will have to be informed.”
tl^ ou sure^y . don } th mk > Doctor?
1 m n ? t sa Y in g what I think, but there
are certa ‘ n formalities.”
P) ICK didffit die. As soon as he recov-
f red sufficiently he laid a charge of
assau t a § ai nst Joseph,
Joseph was arrested, brought before
the P.M. and committed for trial at the
Quarter Sessions. He was let out on bail,
went to stay with his sister. Pending
the a * e Riesling,” the Bank put in
another officer—but that didn t matter at
S’ f i Shlfted - r ° m ** Blg
„ e trla ‘
, Generally, sympathy was with Joseph,
though there was no doubt as to his hav-
Jn ® struck Dick. Opinion was, it was a
B reat phy that he hadnt killed Dick-
good enough for him But it didnt
* ook to ° good either for Joseph. Then it
as speculated how much Joseph would
Sf*’ tkey I° und him guilty, and
whether it was just criminal assault or
attempted murder,
* . . , .
™ er p e was oldy one material witness-
J ack Rysm ’ Everythl ? B , de P en 4 ed on
Jack ’ who was very wlsely kee P m S his
own counsel.
~ , . , ,
. trlal cama on “ d “ e co “ rse - and
Jaak was , s P™ ced U P , for . “ “ flne st S' l 'r
T7 h J s “d* halr Shstenmg In a most
distinguished way. Someone said he
looked like an Irish barrister, which may
or may not kave been relevant. However,
tk ere was a barrister—lrish or otherwise
— to de f end Joseph. He was elderly, tired,
and kad a certain unwashed look about
h im
Th ± Grown Prosecutor, of
•
a . “ g . **S
se . emed to view Jack with considerable
alleeS one without
pamllei in hf
£ ttacks and and he didn .,
able , 0 allude ’ to it without a
shudder and a Har movemeilt o£ the
ends of his m S ustac that of a
rnt . w h,cWprc
T , ‘ , , , . .
1 seemed to have shrunk in recent
weeks—perhaps being weaned from the
wine to s do ftat; his sisfer
was a p Ur itan of the tartaric acid kind,
j osep h had, too, a vacuous look in his
f ace
He pleaded “not guilty,” and then stuck
with childlike simplicity to one clear
memory—that he, Jack and Dick had
been having a drink or two in the sitting-
room, and Dick had gone to the cellar
to get a fresh bottle. He heard the fall,
and was muc h shocked when he heard
G f Dick’s injury. There was little else
he could remember. As a matter of fact,
Jack had told him this story so often that
Joseph probably believed it.
His wits seemed somewhat affected.
-phe Crown Prosecutor could not budge
him from this simple tale.
T * a-a I i . a , ~
R dl< ? n 1 uare to ° evenly with Dick s
acc 9 unt > which amply established pure
? iahc f as a motlve * had follow t d
Jo^ eph ’ , was v^ry dr “ nk ’ to
cellar, and had gone down the steps be-
f au eared tkat J° se .ph might set fire
to the place: he was striking matches in
a care Jes s. manner. Then Joseph had at-
f^f d c h ™ ™ thout Provocation-with
a s V ck ’ k lm - He re-
membered no more till he came to in
hos P ital - It was a likely enough story-
m fact everyone had believed it all along.
® ut Dick I ?° ked r ? ore unprepossessing
4 ian ever ffi e w^al 9 n . the , Sld 9. of hls
face somehow made hlm look shlfty -
Dr. Winton deposed as to the nature
of the wound - He was quite technical in
a matter-of-fact and exasperating way
(i Continued on page 32.)


REMEMBER . . .
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as nominated in your Will, entails knowledge of legali-
ties, experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investment
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of trusteeship
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability and
faithful guardianship of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet.
ĵ
j
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
nil
ill
in
II !J
Mi
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine —Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- P er night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless.
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 fines)
86363 (4 fines)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
GERMANY’S MANY SUITORS.
Writing in the “Wall-street Journal”
William Henry Chamberlin avers that
“the competition for German favor, the
struggle for Germany, has just begun.
The idea that the four victors would sit
harmoniously on Germany’s neck for ever
has been proved an illusion.” He finds
“signs that the tension between the
Soviet and the Western Powers may
work out, in some respects, to Germany’s
advantage.”
Russian Proposal
Molotov began it, and the “Christian
Science Monitor’s” Joseph C. Harsch was
quick to point out that “Russia’s pro-
posals for the future treatment of Ger-
many amount to nothing more nor less
than a bid for German affections.” He
described the Molotov advances as re-
presenting “the opening gambit in a
Russian power play which has for its
end purpose a Russo-German power
alliance.” And Harsch thinks it “ele-
mental that such a combination ultimately
means war.”
Molotov opened his play with a state-
ment on Russian policy:
“It would be incorrect to adopt a
course of Germany’s annihilation as a
State or that of its agrarianisation, in-
cluding the annihilation of its main in-
dustrial centres. Such a course would
result in undermining the economy of
Europe, in the dislocation of world
economy and in a chronic political crisis
in Germany which would spell a threat
10 peace and tranquillity.
“Qur purpose is not to destroy Ger-
many, but to transform Germany into
a democratic and peace-loving State
which, next to its agriculture, will have
its own industry and foreign trade.
“It has become fashionable to talk
about dismemberment of Germany into
several ‘autonomous’ States?” about
federalisation of Germany and about the
separation of the Ruhr. All such pro-
posals originate in the same policy of
destruction of Germany, for without the
Ruhr Germany cannot exist as an inde-
pendent and stable State.”
Walter Lippmann, writing in the N.Y.
“Herald Tribune,” regarded that as put-
ting “Russia forward as the champion
and protector of German nationalism
against the Western Powers,
“The grand purpose of M. Molotov’s
statement was to shape the future of
Europe. In what it said and in what it
left unsaid, it was carefully designed to
bring about the exclusion of the British,
French and Americans from effective in-
fluence in the eventual German settle-
ment, and to prepare the way for another
Russo-German alliance,
“How can Russia, and why does
Russia, denounce the Western Powers as
wishing to ‘dismember’ Germany when
it is Russia which has annexed for
herself and for Poland the large
German territory east of the Oder
and the Neisse Rivers? M. Molotov
is against what he calls ‘dismember-
ment,’ though Russia and Poland
have already dismembered eastern Ger-
many, and he is favorable to a unified
and centralised Reich. What can be the
meaning of this extraordinary paradox?
. “The answer is not that M. Molotov is
hypocritically trying to deceive the Ger-
mans. The German nationalist elements
will understand him. This statement
marks a tacit understanding about the
future: That at an appropriate time, if
the Germans play their part properly,
Russia will abandon Poland, and will
once again join with Germany in a par-
tition of Poland. That is the tacit under-
standing, foreshadowed for some con-
siderable time in German Communist
tactics, which has enabled the German
Communists to proclaim themselves the
true party of German unity.
“That the Germans are listening and
that they will understand, there can be
no doubt. The Western Allies, who have
talked more than they have thought
about German unity, can never give the
Germans the unity the Germans really
want. For the Western Allies can never
restore the lost provinces of eastern Ger-
many. But Russia can restore them, and
that is why M. Molotov is able to out-
talk Mr. Bevin and Mr. Byrnes on the
subject of (jerman unity. Russia can
restore German unity by the simple ex-
pedient of doing once more what has
been done four times before; By joining
with Germany to partition Poland. This
is the prospect which M. Molotov holds
out to the Germans as the reason why
they should reject the Western plan of
a German federation.”
American Intention
Others came into the picture as suitors,
as was only to be expected. There has
been a good deal of
window-dressing, for
the benefit of the
German people, in
the statements by
spokesmen for the
other Powers, and
much discussion of
whether the peace,
when it comes,
should be “hard” or
“soft,” with the pro-
ponents of severity a
steadily - diminishing
band.
America’s Mr.
Byrnes took time off
from the Paris
“Peace” parley to
make a speech to
German officials at
Stuttgart, and jumped
into the discussion
from the beginning.
“We have long
since ceased to talk
of a hard or soft
peace,” he said.
“What we want is a
lasting peace. We
shall oppose harsh
and vengeful mea-
sures which invite
the breaking o f
peace. It is not in the
interest of the Ger-
—“France Amerique."
INVISIBLE BUT PRESENT.
man people or world
peace that Germany should become a
pawn or partner in a military struggle
for power between East and West.”
He reiterated the American plan for
economic unification. “The U.S. firmly
believes that Germany should be adminis-
tered as an economic unit and that zonal
barriers should be completely obliterated
so far as the economic life and activity
of Germany are concerned. The condi-
tions which now exist in Germany make
it impossible for industrial production to
reach the levels which the occupying
Powers agreed were essential for a mini-
mum German peace-time economy. If
the agreed levels are to be reached we
cannot continue to restrict the free ex-
change of commodities, persons and ideas
throughout Germany. The barriers be-
tween the four zones of Germany are
far more difficult to surmount than
those between normal independent
States. Zonal boundaries should be
regarded as defining only the areas
to be occupied for security pur-
poses by the armed forces of the occupy-
ing Powers and not as self-contained
economic political units.
“The American Government has an-
nounced its intention to unify the
economy of its own zone with any or
all of the other zones willing to partici-
pate in unification. So far only the
British Government has agreed to let its
zone participate. If unification cannot
be secured we shall do everything in dlir
power to secure the maximum possible
unification.
“The principal purposes of the occupa-
tion were to demilitarise and denazify
Germany, but not to raise artificial
barriers to the efforts of the German
people to resume their peace-time life.”
British Suggestion
“The British reaction” to this statement
was “one of warm welcome,” said London
“Times,” hailing it as “the most signi-
ficant single pronouncement on Allied
policy towards Germany since Potsdam.”
Britain, too, had already made some
tentative advances on her own behalf;
nothing really official, but Lord Beveridge
made a “friendly visit” to Germany which
W. H. Chamberlin saw as part of the
“competitive effort to win Germany
either for the totalitarian East or for the
democratic West.”
In a “report” published in London
“Times” Lord Beveridge pointed to the
“desperate material want” in the British
occupation zone —“its still stagnant in-
dustry, its wrecked shipyards and fac-
tories, its lack of hope, and its ngw
hatred born of simple misery.”
He, too, spoke of the “fundamentally
wrong approach to the problem of Ger-
many to which, in a disastrous moment,
we committed ourselves at Potsdam.”
he tackled the vexed subject of
economic unity:
“In vital respects the Potsdam agree-
ment is not being carried out by the
Soviet. That agreement provided for
treating Germany as an economic unit.
Economic unity is blocked by the Soviet.
So also is any possibility of ensuring by
free mutual inspection that the policies
agreed on are being applied in all zones.
“The Potsdam decisions in respect of
the level of industry are in flat defiance
of the Atlantic Charter, to which we and
the Soviet Union set our hands; we
planned then for all nations improved
labor standards, economic advance,
and social security; we planned for
all nations, victor and vanquished,
access on equal terms to the trade
and to the raw materials needed for
their economic prosperity. The Potsdam
decisions do not merely make the Atlantic
Charter a hypocrisy. They are also
impracticable, if the territorial aggrandise-
ment of Russia and her satellite Poland
on which she appears to have set her
heart is carried out. It may be possible
for 70,000,000 Germans to live in a much
smaller Germany than in the past, but
only if they are more industrial, not less
industrial, than before.”
Lord Beveridge found it “a vital
British interest to make a success of the
British zone, to make it a zone of con-
tented, prosperous friendly people, be-
lieving in our democracy because they
have found it just and humane. We can
do so, while preserving complete security
against war from Germany.”
French Chariness
But not all the interested parties were
acknowledged suitors for Germany’s
favor. For France Georges Bidault
stated his views in an article in the
American “Foreign Affairs” review. He
thought “a ‘soft’ peace for Germany a
surprising or at all events novel idea.
“The security of Europe and the world
requires that Germany be deprived of the
war potential represented by the resources
of the Rhine-Westphalian region. The
mines of the Saar must again become
French property. As for the Ruhr the
French Government considers that it
must be treated as a political entity
independent of Germany, and placed
under a regime of internationalisa-
tion both political and economic. Suffi-
cient military forces must be stationed
permanently in the German territories on
the left bank of the Rhine, besides, per-
haps, in some bridgeheads on the right
bank. Politically, the Rhineland ought
to be a part neither of Germany nor of
France, It should be free to manage its
own affairs, with the reservation that it
be permanently demilitarised and under
inter-Allied military control.
“There is the question should a ‘hard’
peace be imposed on Germany. Just
what is meant by hard or soft? Is it
harsh to deprive an inveterate transgressor
of the means of repeating his offence?
Is there softness in the mass transfers of
population which have resulted from the
truncation of eastern Germany, and
which would in no way be necessitated
in the west by the political detachment
of the Ruhr.
“It is not proper to apply the lex talioms
—‘an eye for an eye’—to the Germans,
On the other hand, is it really necessary
that we should treat them tenderly? Let
us not forget that there were very few
people in Hitler’s Reich who would risk
their lives for the simple honor of pro-
testing against the perversities of the
rdgime ; that there was hardly one Ger-
man soldier who refused, at peril of his
life, to execute those atrocity orders to
which so many martyrs bear huge and
bloody witness.
“Today what spirit broods over the
ruins of Germany? What do we see in
that sullen occupied country? Among
the survivors of the Wehrmacht are many
who wait the proclamation of a new
great adventure, expecting a miracle. Al-
most everywhere there persists what a
German calls the ‘pattern of obedience
in order not to call it the Fuhrerprinzip-
“Christer Jaderlund, a Swedish
specialist on Germany, regarding the
present frame of mind of the German
youth, reports:
How do the Hitler Youth behave when
they return home? First, they stare des-
perately at the ruins. Then, hands in
pockets and a quite unmistakable expres-
sion on their lips, they watch the passing
vehicles of the occupation troops. What
interests them? They like to recall inci-
dents in their war campaigns and in the
occupied countries, and they make the
strangest jokes about their new democracy.
In Berlin to-day there are many more Nazis
than there were before. Simple folk in
their despair draw a parallel between to-
day and the past, and say: “Under Hitler
we had work and bread. To-day we have
only democracy. What we need is not
democracy but a better Hitler.”
“What does all this prove? Is it not


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
n* ltc 7l
■
m
like all worth-while products, is in very short
supply to-day; but so far as Quality goes,
nothing has been lost of its original charac-
teristics; indeed, the present unavoidable
restrictions on the release of stocks mean
increased maturity with unsurpassed mellow-
ness.
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.
Head Office : Edinburgh.
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
Head
Office;
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
one more reason to help Germany emerge
from her misfortunes, which are the
worst possible teacher of democracy?
Well and good. But it is also a reason
for not lulling ourselves with illusions.
“The problem is not how to keep Ger-
many in misery, but how to pull her out
of it without producing a new catastrophe
for the world. The French plan has been
criticised for not favoring the re-establish-
ment of German central administration as
quickly as possible. Two arguments have
been adduced in support of centralisa-
tion : a disorganised Germany is a focal
point of danger; and the administration
and occupation of Germany constitute
an insupportable burden for the Allies.
“The French thesis has never favored
the maintenance of an inorganic Ger-
many. This huge black hole cannot be
allowed to remain in the middle of
Europe for ever. But we must decide
how to fill it —that is to say, agree upon
some plan for political reconstruction. It
is impossible for France to concede that
a, central power should come
into being, and should function at her
gates, when in the east a substantial addi-
tional margin of safety was arranged by
pushing back Germany’s borders a pru-
dent distance. The western frontiers of
Germany must be determined at the time
that a central German administration is
re-established. Otherwise, the paradoxical
consequence would ensue that the am-
putation of Germany’s eastern provinces
would have pushed her centre of gravity
westward, thus increasing German pres-
sure on France.
“France proposes to deprive Germany
of the arsenal of the Ruhr and
to establish there an economic regime
which will permit the free exchange of
goods with both the west and the east,
including, naturally, the rest of Germany.
Eventually the Ruhr and Germany to-
gether will achieve economic equilibrium
with the outside world.
“One can argue for ever about abstract
economic questions. If nothing mattered
but the welfare of the German economy
the proper conclusion would undoubtedly
be that we should restore Hitler’s
Greater Reich. Today we have to decide
how to hold on to a result won by such
immense efforts and at the cost of such
enormous sacrifices. We can do it only
by means that take into account political
imperatives.
“In the present condition of the Reich
some are inclined to doubt that the Ger-
man danger still persists. Why, they ask,
do we maintain such a stubborn attitude
toward what is now only a phantom?
We French are not haunted by were-
wolves. The realities we have suffered
are so bitter that we distinguish them
quite easily from shadows. However,
we are aware that if the phantom is given
the opportunity it will once again put on
flesh.”
What Would Be Justice?
Five Japanese members of the former
Singapore Civilian Internment Camp
staff have been tried on charges of ill-
treating men and women internees, and
sentenced—three of them to death by
hanging, one to life imprisonment, the
fifth to seven years’ jail. An allegation
contained in the charges, that a brutal
assault by one or more of the accused
had “resulted in the death” of one of the
internees, was found not proven.
The sentences were accepted in Singa-
pore with mixed feelings. The “Straits
Times” in an - editorial, written by an
ex-internee, questioned their severity. The
article must rank as one of the supreme
examples of the fairness of the British
mind, whether one agrees with the views
of the writer or not. It must be remem-
bered that the Changi and Sime Road
jails referred to were those housing in-
ternees, not prisoners-of-war.
Tominaga, Kobayashi and Kawasue
sentenced to death by hanging Suzuki
to imprisonment for life Myamoto to
seven years’ imprisonment,” says the
writer. “These were names .that had
a fearsome import if an internee was
summoned to the Main Gate in Changi
jail or the Green House in Sime Road.
Today the boot is on the other foot.
Looking back at Changi and Sime Road,
and putting that retrospect in the worst
possible light, it still comes as a surprise
and shock to learn that Tominaga,
Kobayashi and Kawasue are to suffer
the same punishment as the beasts of
Belsen.”
Admitting that “all the evidence given
by ex-internees was strictly and factually
true,” he still thinks that “an objec-
tive historian of the Singapore in-
ternment would have to give a picture
rather different from that which emerged
from the trial.
“The history of that internment falls
into three phases. During the first 19
months the inhabitants of Changi jail
had more food than they could eat (huge
quantities of rice being thrown into swill-
pits every day), and although the living
conditions were abominable, those who
were capable of taking advantage of
Changi University, as it was dubbed,
found compensation in intellectual and
artistic stimulation such as they had never
known in peace-time. Then, after the
Double Tenth, came a veritable reign of
terror for about six months, in which the
Japanese subordinate staff seemed to be
free to practise any brutality they pleased
and rations abruptly fell to semi-starva-
tion level. After General Saito’s arrival
the atmosphere of constant fear and
tension relaxed.
“Then we moved to Sime Road —one
hundred and fifty blessed acres of space
and greenness and clean earth, after the
dark concrete tunnels and grey walls of
—Paris “Ici.”
"WHO’S THAT?."
Changi. But at Sime Road food
got worse and worse and medical sup-
plies gave out almost entirely. But even
in the worst days many people read
books and listened to music and man-
aged to raise themselves for a little while
in the evening above the animal and
coolie level on which they had to live
during the day.
“Let there be no misunderstanding. It
is impossible to exaggerate the sordid-
' ness, the ugliness, the wretchedness of
that life. Existence in those huts
was refined mental torture. There
is no question that many things happened
which merit the death penalty if the true
criminal can be found. The unbearably
tragic diabetes patients dying slowly for
want of insulin, the ulcer cases
lingering in utter wretchedness on
a: diet of rice and coarse vege-
tables, the internees who died from sheer
weakness.... those deaths clamor for
vengeance. But we felt all through the
internment that at the back of the Japan-
ese subordinate staff in the camp was the
rigid, hard, hostile attitude of the Japan-
ese High Command • towards European
prisoners.
“On the other hand, so far as physical
brutality went, it is probably true
that out of some four thousand people
who spent three and a half years in
Changi and Sime Road, ninety per
cent, came through the ordeal with-
out ever receiving so much as
a slap in the face. Let us also remember
that up to the later phases of the intern-
ment the ideathrate was not abnormal for
a community containing so high a per-
centage of elderly and middle-aged
people.
“It is impossible to generalise about
ex-internee opinion of the sentences.
Certainly all will agree that severe punish-
ment is justified, particularly for the
brutal beatings and racketeering in food.
But those who now look back on their
internment with a vision no longer dis-
torted by the mass psychopathology of a
prison camp will not want anybody to
hang for what they endured, unless it
can be proved that the death of any
fellow-intemee can be specifically pinned
upon any one of these three condemned
men.
“As for the notorious Tominaga, this
man was a brute and a bully, inspired
by a fanatical hatred of the white man.
There were times in Changi jail when
Tominaga would undoubtedly have been
lynched had release come then. But he
was very subdued and very much in the
background during the last 15 months
of the internment. In any case,
a British civil court does not sen-
tence the most brutal of hooligans
to unless he actually kills some-
one. Should a British military court do
so? There is many an ex-internee who,
having lived behind the walls and in the
cells of Changi prison, now realises, as
he never did before, what penal servi-
tude really means, and some of us at
least feel that the terrible sentence of
imprisonment for life is sufficient punish-
ment for Tominaga, and much too severe
for Suzuki.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Four hours before Mr. Wallace spoke, the
President not only approved all Mr. Wallace
intended to say but described it as following
the same line as Mr. Byrnes has laid down.
What remains for most people is the belief
that the President amiably accepted some-
thing he thought appropriate for the occasion
—a mass meeting of left-wingers whose
support at the polls in November will be needed
in New York if the Democrats are to win.
But these left-wingers were inclined to hiss
Mr. Wallace when his references to Russia
were impliedly or directly critical, and several
times he was forced to depart from his text
to reply to those who would have none of it.
Mr. Wallace omitted several sentences from
his prepared text towards the end of his
speech. Among these were: “The Russians
should stop conniving against us in certain
areas of the world,” and “they should stop
teaching that their form of Communism must,
by force if necessary, ultimately triumph over
democratic capitalism.”— London “Times” re-
port of the controversial speech by the ex-*
Secretary of Commerce for the U.S.
* * * *
The British are striving to give complete
independence to India —even though they had
found it necessary to stuff independence down
Indian throats. Is this imperialism? They
are making plans for progress towards self-
government and eventual independence in
Burma. They are reducing power in Malaya
and simplifying the Malayan Government —
which seems certain to lead toward democracy.
They are negotiating for the removal of their
troops from Egypt. Is this imperialism? How
do British actions compare with those of the
saintly Russians, of whom Mr. Wallace is so
fond? Who demanded military bases in Tur-
key? Who tried to take over northern Iran —
and apparently is succeeding? Who controls
theoretically independent Outer Mongolia? Who
is dominant in Poland? In Hungary? In
Bulgaria? In Rumania? It is not the British,
is it, Mr. Wallace?— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
It would be whistling in the dark not to
realise that one cause of world unrest is un-
certainty as to the future policy of the U.S.
In these iron times it is not enough to wish
well; it is necessary to wish hard. And the
world has its doubts' about the firmness of
American will. That will, it is clear, is not
yet decided; the American people have not
yet made up their minds to accept all the
implications of their world position, or to
refuse to accept them. Two souls dwell in
every American breast. The thought of another
World War is appalling. Yet the ghost will not
be laid. In their bewilderment some sections
of the American people cling to a belief that
they can stay out, that this js a clash between
British and Russian imperialism. But all indi-
cations seem to show that the harsh realities
of world politics have made the American con-
scious of the emptiness of isolation, as a
doctrine for the world of the jet ’plane and
the atomic bomb. There is a growing realisa-
tion that American homilies are more effective
if accompanied with less self-satisfaction and
supported by a resolution not to let words be
the beginning and end of policy. The American
temper is deeply pacific, ready to endure formal
rebuffs and diplomatic defeats. But it is not
pacifist without limits, its pride is not dead,
its confidence in its own power is not really
shaken. It is bewildered, but not terrified or
fatally disunited. And the peace and concord
of the world may well depend on how far
these truths are appreciated behind that stone
wall where open controversy and self-searching
doubt are muffled, and where the truth may
find it hard to make an entrance. —D. W.
Brogan in London “Observer:”
The job of filling the gaps in world markets
caused by the elimination of Germany and
Japan as export nations is one of the most
perplexing problems of the peace. Britain, the
U.S., Canada, Sweden and Switzerland are
supplying some of the needs of former Axis
customers. East European markets, once sup-
plied by Germany, now are completely domi-
nated by Russia. Nevertheless exporters find
it impossible to take over entirely the role in
world trade once held by the defeated nations.
As a result, the economic revival of some
buyer nations is seriously delayed. Before the
war Germany ranked third among exporting
nations, Japan fourth. Nearly 70 p.c. of
Germany’s exports went to other countries
in Europe. Of Japan’s exports, 63 p.c. went
to Asia. Chemical fertilisers totalling two
million tons were shipped by Germany each
year. Now she is unable to meet her own
requirements, and large quantities are being
shipped from the U.S. Industrial chemicals
was one of Germany’s most important exports.
Russia expects to become a leading competitor
for this lucrative trade. Machinery was, in
value, Germany’s most important export. In
the case of electrical machinery she enjoyed
a virtual monopoly throughout Europe. Now
Sweden and the U.S. are making the most
effective efforts toward meeting requirements.
Japan’s exports, like those of Germany, were
largely finished products. Textiles were most
important. India and China both have long-
range plans for supplying domestic require-
ments for cotton goods, but they largely
depend upon imports of textile machinery,
normally supplied by Japan and not available
from other sources. Britain is making plans
for capturing a large part of the market
formerly supplied by Japan. —" World Report”
* * * *
Spies are enjoying a field day in the U.S.
Spying has reached an unprecedented level
one year after victory was supposed to have
eliminated the need. It is carried on, in large
part, by American Communists. The Com-
munist party requires its members to work
secretly, even on legitimate projects, in most
cases, and they are often sucked into spying
activities before they realise what they are doing.
How Russia’s spy system works in the U.S.,
in brief, is this: Newsmen connected with the
Russian Tass newsagency provide Moscow with
current information. Their dispatches, weighted
to emphasise industrial output and foreign
policy, are cabled to Russia in great volume,
though few ever appear in Soviet newspapers.
Economic missions, composed of Russian in-
dustrial experts, still remain a year after their
job of advising Lend-Lease officials ended. They
now are sending back reports on American
industry. Purchasing groups still have trained
personnel in the U.S., though they have long
ceased to buy American equipment. Com-
munist party members provide many of the
details. Information is turned in by Americans
who, in most cases, admittedly owe their first
political allegiance to Russia. Soviet diplomats
and consular staffs get reports from all these
groups and send it in a constant flow to
Moscow in uncensored diplomatic pouches.—
"United States News.”


i *“'
/
*
-
a
********
ii
. v .^ N; : : >;i:;*:^- : - >xv - of '
■
■
-C’}:
' •-••••--
"•-•■■■••— :-:v.
m
m
mm
sm
,|#»
*>m
r*
til
w
<m* pm-
c
. ***- **» ■**■ •****"'’*»■ ***'
•••:• «■»
-'
A bright name
in Australian INDUSTRY
*’ V \
As pioneers of the luminous-tube industry in Australia, Claude Neon
Lid., has earned a secure and prominent place in the industrial and
commercial life of the nation. Claude Neon first revolutionised outdoor
advertising in Australia and is now revolutionising working conditions
in factpries, offices and shops with Claude Fluorescent Interior Lighting.
Claude Neon Ltd. is the only Company of Its kind with a nation-
wide organisation . . . able to offer manufacturing, sales and service
facilities in all States. It is an all-Australian company entirely operated
by Australian capital. Our long years of specialised experience and
our extensive resources are our customers 7 guarantee of continuous and
conscientious service.
Claude Neon Limited
FIRST IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3477
Wednesday, October 2, 1946
OTHERWISE ENGAGED.
"I hope nothing will happen to Uncle Joe."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOMEWHAT BATTERED.
Hitherto it has been a commonplace of
Commonwealth political history that
when “Labor” falls it falls hard, and
doesn’t get up again for many years.
In 1910, the party’s first great year'(it
was a very different party in that year), it
won 42 of the seats in the House (75
then) and 18 seats in the Senate —half
the number. It suffered a minor reverse
in 1913, possibly as a result of its first
stab at Constitutional alteration, which
was sharply refused; but 1914, the
year of the double dissolution, saw it
with 41 seats in the House and 31 in the
Senaite. And it would have had 32 but
for the death of Senator McGregor be-
tween nomination-day and polling-day, a
misfortune which obliged it to throw the
vote which would have gone to McGregor
to a South Australian named Shannon,
who wouldn’t have had a Chinaman’s
chance without it.
In 1916 there came the split on the
conscription issue, which wrecked
“Labor’s” hopes for many years. At the
ensuing (1917) election it failed to win one
of the 18 contested Senate seats and
was reduced to 22 seats in the House. In
1919 it gained four seats in the House,
but elected only one Senator, and he,
Albert Gardiner, had to carry on alone
for upwards of a year until reinforced by
a nominee Senator from Queensland.
The party picked up a bit in 1922, but
in 1925, a strike period, it was routed
again, the Bruce-Pages making a clean
sweep of Senate seats (22 were contested
that year) and winning 52 seats in the
House. For three years Mr. Forde was
the sole representative of Queensland
“Labor,” and his party lost again in 1928,
Then came the election of 1929, forced
by a Ministerial cave. In the circum-
stances there could be no election of
Senators, but the constituencies gave
“Labor” 46 seats in the House. After a
year or so, the victorious party went to
pieces, and from the election forced in
1931, this time by a “Labor” cave, it re-
turned in two snarling factions: 14 in
the one; four in the other.
Once more the process of recovery was
slow. Defeat was the party’s portion in
1934 and 1937. Even in 1940, when an
election-eve ’plane crash cost the Menzies
Government the lives of three good
Ministers and one of their seats, Henty,
for which Mr. Coles would not have
stood as an undependable Independent
had Mr. Gullett been spared, “Labor”
won only 36 seats in the House and three
of the 18 vacancies in the Senate. Yet
anti-Menzies feeling was already strong,
and the two Sydney morning papers,
going back on all their traditions, had
indulged in the luxury of running anti-
Menzies tickets. Though their “outstand-
ing candidates” nearly all crashed, the
mischief had been done, and after trying
to carry on without a House majority,
and with mutinous followers, at least one
of whom looked to the Sydney morning
press for guidance, Mr. Menzies stood
down for Mr. Fadden. Within 39 days
that gentleman’s Administration, in which
Mr, Menzies was No. 2, had fallen. The
Curtin Government came in by favor of
Mr. Coles and the other Independent,
Mr. Wilson, who knew very well .that if
they stuck to “Labor” “Labor” would
stick to them.
No longer Independents except in
name, these politicians received part of
their reward for docile service in 1943,
when they were returned with “Labor”
votes, without which their prospects
would have been hopeless. At the same
time Mr. Curtin’s party made a clean
sweep of the 19 contested Senate seats
and won 49 seats in the House. This
came as a surprise to him, and to Mr.
Chifley as well, for neither had ever for-
gotten 1917 or 1931, in which year both
were among the election casualties, which
included also Mr. Ward, Mr. Lazzarini,
Mr. Theodore, Mr. Moloney and Mr.
Frank Brennan. They remembered, also,
and were sobered by the recollection,
that none of the previous five “Labor”’
Administrations—though not all had gone
to the country as such—had survived a
general election.
As Mr. Curtin was soon to realise, the
situation had changed. In all previous
years his party had had to contend with
an able and influential press, which was a
thorn in the side of Mr. Watson, Mr.
Fisher, Mr. Hughes and Mr. Scullin.
Over this press a great change had come.
It had in the main grown irresponsible
and sentimental and developed King-
making characteristics. The oldest
Sydney morning paper hailed Mr. Curtin
as “Our Leader,” and the other was won
over by the appointment of one of its
proprietors, as chairman of the Allied
Works Council. Both presented Mr.
Curtin to their public as a Strong Man,
which he never was and never could have
been, likeable as he was in all other
respects.
Thus supported, and with a substantial
majority in each Chamber, Mr. Curtin
had an easy passage in the 17th Parlia-
ment until an illness laid him aside and
eventually struck him down. Mr. Chifley
succeeded him and for a time received
the same measure of press favor. Mean-
while Mr. Wilson had been appointed to
succeed Major-General Rosenthal as
Administrator of Norfolk island (“No
bloody generals” was then the cry), and
Mr. Coles had been complimented into
the chairmanship of the Government air-
lines project, decided upon in repudia-
tion of Mr. Curtin’s pledge that nothing
in the shape of “nationalisation” or
“socialisation” would be attempted in the
lifetime of the 17th Parliament. Both
their seats were lost to Young Digger
Opposition supporters, one a Country-
party man, the other a Liberal. Labor
also fared badly at State by-elections.
At this juncture, the presiding geniuses
in newspaper offices apparently decided
that the time had come for a change.
They turned, with no evident enthusiasm,
to the injured Mr. Menzies, and Mr.
Chifley sharply taunted them with being
twisters. He was not alone in this opinion,
and the event has proved that these news-
papers have lost all the influence they
had when Heney edited the “Herald” and
Courtney wrote leaders for the “Daily
Telegraph.” In those days there were
no immense starting-price supplements,
with turgid glorification of bookmakers
and other “sports” who spent the whole
period of the wars on the home front.
Politics was the main subject, and it was
politics without stunting. In the days
of such men and such newspapers it was
inconceivable that electorates like Parkes,
Martin and Robertson would go to a
party so indictable on many counts as
Mr. Chifley’s party; a party with Minis-
ters who are not even intelligent, with-
out a policy for the future and without
the capacity to realise that the reduction
of war-time taxes has become a pressing
obligation and need, though Mr. Chifley
was baited into a promise—which must
have horrified the taxation authorities,
who are years behind with many of their
assessments —that he would “review”
taxation every month or so.
A party with such a leader, such Minis-
ters, such a record and such a pro-
gramme, if programme it can be called,
would in other days have been easy meat.
It would have been beaten with the
greatest severity in N. S. Wales, the key
State.. In point of fact, it has carried
’N, S. Wales for the third time, and is
Thus assured of another three years of
office, together with almost complete
control of the Senate, unless it goes to
pieces again, as it did in the first German
war and during the depression. And it
has chiefly the New Journalism to thank.
With circulation as its god, the New
Journalism has pandered to the craze
for betting until great numbers of people,
of both sexes and all ages, from the
schoolboy age, think of little else. So
ministered to and cultivated by “Labor,”
the betting interest, like the booze
interest, with which it has palpable
connections, has become big busi-
ness. Indeed, though “Labor” draws its
main support from decent working
people, whose steady, loyalty to their
party is a lesson to a great many people
on the other side who never stop snarling
at Mr, Menzies, every bookmakers’
club, every starting-price joint, every
dingy pub and wine bar has become a
“Labor” agency.
In other countries it* is an accepted fact
that it takes at least two elections to pull
down a Ministry with two-thirds of the
seats in the Chamber in which Ministries
are made and unmade. So it is nothing
to the discredit of Mr. Menzies that he
failed to encompass the defeat of a
Ministry thus circumstanced at one
effort. He fought the good fight and can
carry his head high. He faced up to
Communist larrikinism when all the
Ministers and all the Catholic Labor
members “squibbed” the issue. It is largely
because of his unfaltering courage that
the Communist vote has been reduced to
contemptible proportions. He has made
it possible for Mr. Chifley to reduce the
Communists to insignificance, in indus-
trial as well as political matters, if Mr.
Chifley is game.
The Big Job Ahead.
The election and the referendum have
come and gone, but one great task re-
mains. It is the determining of Aus-
tralia’s future; the shaping and develop-
ing of an established, united and pro-
gressive nation, sufficiently populated and
as strong as it can be made. On the
quality of the statesmanship applied to
this task —a provision which implies the
courageous support of all that is best in
the national character—wholly depends
whether there is a “Golden Age” ahead
or merely an epitaph to what could have
been.
In facing the supreme issue squarely
Australian foreign policy would be
brought down from the Evattican cloud-
land and placed on a practical footing.
Windy talk about Australia having be-
come “a major Power in the Pacific” is
no substitute for an enlightened and
farseeing policy. The truth accepted
would be that, though the issue itself is
changeless, the task is vitally affected
by tremendous changes which have, in
fact, occurred and others that are in-
evitably in the making.
Australia’s position is no longer that
of a favored Lotus Land secure in its
isolation and the protective might of the
British Empire which emerged from the
nineteenth century. The isolation has
vanished, except in the one important
particular that the lost predominance of
Britain as a sea Power,, great as it still
is, and changes going on in the structure
of the Empire itself make this country,
in those respects, more isolated from the
Empire’s heart. The White Australia
doctrine was challenged at Versailles in
1919. It will be increasingly subject to
challenge in the years to come.
Mr, Bevin, adopting and paraphrasing
Mr. Churchill, can assert: “I am not
prepared to sacrifice the Empire, because
I know that if it fell a great collection
of free nations would go into the limbo
of the past and it would create disaster.”
Whether “sacrifice” is the right word
or not, the fact is that, with the with-
drawal of British control from Egypt and
—of unknown and unpredictable conse-
quence to Australia—the granting of
independence to India, together with the
renewed advance of Russian imperialism,
at Port Arthur again and once more
threatening the British position in Persia,
the Empire’s structure and links are
undergoing drastic alteration. And the
change is momentous economically as
well as politically.
India has already been considerably
industrialised, and it has vast reservoirs
of labor. Unless its 400 millions turn f. o
fighting over the bone that has been left
to them, that industrialising process could
conceivably make the country in time a
colossal Power. The same goes for the
other Asiatic country of 400 millions,
China (counting Japan out for perhaps
a sufficiently long time ahead, though it
would be shortsighted to count it out
for ever, which would be to accept the
total success of the American experiment
and supreme American influence for all
time). Eventually the Chinese must grow
tired of their civil warring, if they are
not tired of it already, and it has
been avowed American policy to unite
and industrialise that potential great
Power. Closer at hand are the enormous
populations right on Australia’s door-
step in the Near North, all with untold
possibilities under industrialisation.
When the claims of petty politicians to
winning the war and saving Australia are
forgotten, it may well become established
history that had Japan been a little more
industrially and militarily advanced the
epitaph on a Fools’ Paradise would
already have been written. And it was
a “Labor” M.H.R., Dr. Gaha, who
pointed out —though party spirit pre-
vented him from pointing the moral—that
another Japan seemed to be in the making
in Java.
Two conclusions are clear: this coun-
try must secure its limit of population as
rapidly as possible, and must also make
sure of the close friendship of countries
of its own people’s kind. Those condi-
tions are vital to the bare business of
survival. They cannot be fulfilled without
great changes in the conduct of Aus-
tralian affairs, internal as well as ex-
ternal ; changes which, externally, will
recognise the difference to this country’s
position brought about by the changing
world and Empire, and which, internally,
will guide the natural Australian capacity
for friendship, allowing no vicious Com-
munist or other sectional interference to
jeopardise it. Without friendly trade
with friendly countries there will be no-
thing remotely resembling a “Golden
Age.” It will not be brought about by
craven Governmental submission to the
sort of un-Australian elements that in-
volved this country in a stupid quarrel
with its old friends the Dutch; a
“ ‘Labor’ Government” submission to the
total disregard of Australian interests,
the trade and other effects of which are
very liable to boomerang when plenty
fills the world again and this country
and others are fighting for markets.
Even without the handicap of any
Government’s abdication of its national
functions, there are signs in plenty that
the struggle for trade, with success vital
to the “Golden Age,” is going to put
demands on Australian political and
business capacities much more exacting
than in the past. There are signs, also,
that the challenge is not being met. It
is a practical challenge, far removed
from the apparent fury and hollow table-
thumping by which the grinning repre-
sentatives of nations have lately known
Australia; as well they might grin at
such pretensions to greatness based on
such weakness in support. It could hap-
pen that this country, when the world
straightens out a bit more, and the trade
struggle begins in earnest, may be out-
stripped even in its natural markets to
the North. A dour people, the Dutch
are not likely to repay the Chifley “Gov-
ernment’s” churlishness with extrava-
gant forgiveness; but even in the markets
not thus wrecked reports are anything
but complimentary to Australia or
promising for the future.
A good observer, Peter V. Russo —now
representing Melbourne “Argus” on the
Asian mainland has presented a
sobering picture of this country’s casual
neglect of Asian trade possibilities. Mr.
Russo has reported from first-hand obser-
vation that in China it is held that the
Australian exporter is “earning such a
reputation for indifference and neglect
that he will have little hope of measuring
up to the competitive standards of the
future.” The failure of Australia to have
a trade commissioner in Hongkong “dur-
ing these vital days of manoeuvring for
future trade” is “accepted generally as a
reflection of Australia’s official indiffer-
ence.” An American businessman’s
summing-up:
Australia seems to think if can get away
with this “take it or leave it” slogan for
ever. Just because abnormal demand
makes selling a pushover today that
doesn’t mean the position isn’t going to
change when competition becomes normal.
You’ll be back to mutton and cheese be-
fore you know where you are.
Mr. Russo’s own conclusions:
The foreign buyer is undoubtedly happy
and grateful to get anything at present. But
this will not prevent him from patronising
the older and more experienced firms as
soon as they get started again. By that
time the undiscerning creature will have
forgotten all but the rather condescending
and impolite way Australia treated him
when it was the only shop in the street.
This is true not only of China but of
India, Ceylon, Malaya and Siam. It is
tragically true of the Dutch East Indies.
Most decidedly there must be a great
all-round improvement if the funda-
mental issue facing Australian statesman-
ship is to be translated into a great future
for this country. The prize is there for
the winning, but it will never be won by
that combination of limelighting abroad
and complacent inertia at home that has
been the sum total of Australian policy
and achievement. Nor can “social security”
help unless it is based on steady and well-
directed work. “Social security” without
production enough to sustain it, though
in theory blithely extended to everyone
from the cradle to the grave, is an empty
phrase and “full employment” is as
empty.
This Playford.
The Politicians’ Union will have to con-
sider the case of Premier Playford, of
South Australia. For years the only re-
turned-soldier Premier (Queensland now
has another), Tom Playford has frequently
exhibited an insurgent spirit in refusing
to be bluffed either by truculent union
bosses or their pawns at Canberra. He
has exerted himself, with disconcerting
success, to get capital and industry for
his State and has been coldly unsympa-
thetic to mighty fellows like Messrs. Ded-
man, Ward and Calwell.
Further, he runs his State with only
five other Ministers. This means that six
men manage 16 portfolios and two com-
missionerships, whereas even Westralia
and Tasmania have nine Ministers each,
Queensland 10, Victoria 12 and N.S.W.
16 —at present. How can anyone talk
about “onerous duties” and “life pen-
sions” and “tax-deductions from Par-
liamentary salaries” while this Playford
is about? And that isn’t all.
One of his Ministers, Abbott, K.C., re-
signed. Did Playford do the right thing
and take an old and trusted politician or
a dog judge or a union secretary or a
beaten candidate in? He did not. He
called upon a Mr. Hincks, a returned-
soldier farmer who left a leg in
France in 1914-18, and who’d only been
in Parliament five years, and made him
Minister of Lands, Repatriation and Irri-
gation. The man is actually setting prece-
dents for preference to fighting men
when, in other quarters, fighting men seem
in danger of being forgotten.
And this Playford fellow doesn’t seem
a bit alarmed at Federal “Labor’s” suc-
cess in South Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Too Hard a Strain.
By last week it was only too evident that
both Mr. Menzies and Mr, Chifley were
feeling the strain of the over-strenuous
electioneering forced on them. In differ-
ent ways each showed that he had “had”
it.
In more than one of his Tasmanian
speeches Mr. Menzies committed
breaches of good taste altogether foreign
to his mind. He said things which after-
wards he must have been sorry he had
said. They were biting remarks pro-
voked by nasty interjections, but it is
certain that he would not have made
them earlier in the campaign.
Mr. Chifley is anything but the vola-
tile, impulsive type. Even in the last days
he showed no sign of resenting the
burden of monotonous repetition. As in
his policy speech, he delivered what he
had to offer in flat, emotionless tones.
Nevertheless, the overstrain showed in
him, too. His voice had gone. He re-
fused to answer questions. He sounded
a tired man who would be lucky if he
did not pick up some throat infection.
Both leaders, and Mr. Fadden as well,
were victims of a grimly heartless
tyranny which insists that trains, cars
and ’planes are there specially to
rush them about from State to State and
constituency to constituency during elec-
tion campaigns. The whole thing is a
savage strain that would affect the fittest
man. Mr. Chifley is 61 ; Mr. Menzies has
a good drop on him in years ; but any
competent physician hearing both of them
towards the end would have ordered both
to quit and take a rest. Had Mr. Curtin,
for long a sick man, survived to lead his
party in August-September, 1946, he
would have been as mercilessly dragged
round the map as his successor was, and
it would have killed him.
Before another Commonwealth elec-
tion comes up some sort of arrangement
should be made to spare the party leaders
at least two-thirds of the hard, and often
fruitless, strain of travel and haranguing
to which they are now subjected. It is
not without its personal risks; Australian
political history was changed through
three Commonwealth Ministers being
killed in a ’plane crash 39 days be-
fore the 1940 poll. When Mr. Lyons was
Prime Minister he told The Bulletin
that he shuddered at the amount and
kind of travel his post involved him in
during election campaigns.
By arrangement newsreels might be
made and, through friendly agreement
with the picture people, shown in places
not on reasonable visiting lists. If
they had any mercy the party controllers
could themselves get together and agree
to some definite limitation in the num-
ber of speeches to be made by their
leaders—some limit that would lessen the
killing strain. As it is, far too much is [
being asked of men who, according to
their lights, are doing their best for
Australia. !
]
Senate Elections. *
Although there has been a substantial '
increase in the number of electors, there
were fewer candidates for the Senate on
Saturday than on August 21, 1943, and
that ought to lead to a less disgraceful
proportion of informal votes. There are
indications that it did, though the full
facts will not be known for a fortnight
or more.
The 1943 figures were a dreadful reflec-
tion on the intelligence of a great many
electors. In N. S. Wales there were
201,052 informal votes out of 1,680,329 ;
in Victoria, 105,152 out of 1,229,535; in
Queensland, 43,489 out of 598,254; in
South Australia, 28,564 out of 386,160;
m Westralia, 21,397 out of 268,261 ; in
Tasmania, 18,831 out of 139,116. “In-
formals” were also ghastly in 1940:
183,015 out of 1,575,959 in N. S. Wales ;
101,107 out of 1,138,426 in Victoria;
29,883 out of 565,914 in Queensland;
29,443 out of 359,000 in South Australia
fin these two States there were compara-
tively few candidates in both years),
23,471 out of 246,728 in Westralia and
17,067 out of 130,786 in Tasmania. In
most cases “informals” exceeded the suc-
cessful group’s margin over the next-best.
Compulsory voting, with compulsory
marking of preferences, has its good and
bad points. It brings 95 per cent, to 98
per cent, of electors to the polls, but the
value of this is greatly diminished when
10 p.c. or 12 p.c. of their ballot-papers
have to be discarded. And to do away
with compulsory marking of preferences,
as a concession to carelessness or ignor-
ance, would knock the bottom out of
the preferential system and bring back
the first-past-the-post business, with re-
striction of candidates to members of
major groups.
After every Senate election there is a
cry for proportional representation, and
the argument for it looks valid when one
party or the other wins all or nearly all
the contested seats. True, P.R., with
compulsory marking of preferences, has
obtained at Tasmanian State elections for
many years, and experience of the method
has not prevented a dismal percentage of
Tasmanians from spoiling their Senate
ballot-papers.
But it is impossible to imagine a
“Labor”-controlled Senate consenting to
the sacrifice of at least one “Labor”
Senator in each State, and of two in
some States, such as the introduction of
P.R. would necessitate. In the 18th Par-
liament, as in the 17th, “Labor” will
have an overwhelming majority of the
Senate. It looks like having 33 seats
after June 30, 1947, possibly the whole
36. That would bring about an extra-
ordinary situation: a Chamber with all
the members of one party complexion and
nobody but one another to argue with.
No “capitalist” offering his unbowed
head for denunciation!
Universal suffrage is an inestimable
right and privilege. It speaks badly for
Australia that so many of its people
should set so little store on it or should
have left school and passed into adult
life so ill-equipped for one of the prime
duties of citizenship.
Service Contributions.
A late parcel of servicemen’s votes, plus
an unexpected gain of preferences from
careless people who had voted No. 1
for an opponent, saved Mr. Curtin
from defeat in Fremantle six years
ago, when the head of the Federal
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
A.L.P. organisation and other gentlemen
of importance had been summoned to
Canberra to choose a successor.
In 1943 the votes of servicemen and
servicewomen went heavily “Labor.” Sub-
joined are the figures for the 49 “Labor”
electorates, taken from the official Com-
monwealth publication, informal votes
being excluded in every case:
Effective “Labor’s”
Service Votes. Share.
Barton .. .. 6,571 5,436
Calare .. .. 5,094 3,156
Cook 5,267 4,234
Dailey .. .. 5,344 4,345
Darling .. .. 4,773 3,585
East Sydney .. 4,778 3,408
Eden-Monaro .. 4,815 2,329
Gwydir .. .. 5,412 3,723
Hume .. .. 5,913 3,161
Hunter .. .. 2,825 1,916
Lang .. .. 5,505 3,719
Macquarie .. 3,794 2,879
Martin .. .. 4,826 2,341
Newcastle .. .. 4,921 3,944
Parkes .. .. 5,099 2,549
Reid 5,648 2,308
Riverina .. .. 5,362 3,345
Robertson .. .. 4,358 2,398
Watson .. .. 6,319 3,767
Werriwa .. .. 5,007 3,778
West Sydney .. 3,826 3,117
Ballaarat .. .. 3,657 2,468
Batman .. .. 5,928 4,438
Bourke .. .. 5,823 2,228
Corio 5,099 2,771
Maribyrnong .. 5,614 4,243
Melbourne .. 4,828 3,202
Melbourne Ports 4,879 3,873
Wannon .. .. 5,261 3,319
Yarra .. .. 5,139 3,459
Brisbane .. .. 7,593 4,082
Capricornia .. 5,832 3,838
Griffith .. .. 6,865 4,293
Herbert .. .. 7,133 3,163
Kennedy .. .. 5,764 - 4,146
Lilley .. .. 8,039 3,945
Adelaide .. .. 6,335 3,587
Boothby .. .. 7,039 3,273
Grey 4,286 2,258
Hindmarsh .. 6,151 4,850
Wakefield .. .. 4,295 2,307
Forrest .. .. 5,888 3,048
Fremantle .. .. 10,216 7,893
Kalgoorlie .. 7,504 5,583
Perth 9,108 4,157
Swan 6,842 3,614
Bass .. .. .. 2,516 1,607
Denison .. .. 2,944 1,602
Franklin .. .. 2,282 1,575
In almost every case where the winners
failed of a service majority it was be-
cause they had to share the “Labor” vote
with Independent “Labor” men and
Communists. Thus Mr. Lang scored 2197
primaries in Reid, the late Mr. Maurice
Blackburn 2643 in Bourke, and the
Communist Paterson 2357 in Herbert.
Communists got a few hundred service
votes in other electorates, and in one,
Boothby, Communist preferences put the
“Labor” man in.
With most of the servicemen back in
“civvies” there were obvious changes in
the marking of ballot papers last week.
Particularly in the electorates of Mr.
Forde, the Organiser of Victory, and Mr.
Frost, to whom was assigned the task of
making Australia a country fit for heroes
to live in, both of whom were travelling
badly when the returning officers had to
rest from their labors.
Don't Be Selfish!
Towards the end of the Commonwealth
election campaign a touch of unconscious
humor was introduced by the N.S.W.
“Labor” Premier. Mr. McKell “deplored
the tendency to decide election issues on
the basis of their impact on the personal
comfort of the elector rather than on the
national welfare,” adding that “the
‘Labor’ party seeks, not selfish or
materialistic ends, but the preservation
and development of the nation.”
And this from Mr. McKell! From
Mr. McKell, whose principal legislative
measure during the Japanese war was
devoted to the setting-up of a racing club,
with Treasury backing, which, in the
exercise of the vast powers assigned to
it, was to drive a Nuffield factory from
the Victoria Park racecourse and to be-
come involved in costly litigation, the
first round of which it has lost.
This from Mr. McKell! When tens of
thousands of N.S.W. servicemen returned
from the tropical islands, a very large
proportion with malaria, dermatitis, tinea
and the like, to enter on a vain search
for the houses and farms promised by
the McKells in profusion, they learned
that Mr. McKell and his Mr. Tully, as
well as being comfortably housed, had
desirable farm properties in the Goulburn
district and that Mr. McKell was ex-
changing two for a third even more
desirable
This from Mr. McKell! Mr. McKell’s
first post-war measure of any importance
provided for pensions of £6 a week for
defeated or retired members of the
Assembly, after 15 years’ “service,” and
of £5 a week for defeated or retired
Assemblymen after “service” in three
Parliaments, with, in each case, a £3-a-
week reversion to widows.
Mr. McKell and Mr. Tully were among
the expectant beneficiaries in the first
category. In the second was Minister C.
Evatt, a Duntroon graduate who was
elected to the Assembly in 1939 and who
spent the whole period of the wars on
the Sydney front. As servicemen bitterly
reflect, the pension for the widow of
one of theif comrade!' is £2 10s. per
week. The pension for % permanently in-
capacitated serviceman, is the same
£2 10s. a week, and 90,358 incapacitated
members of the forces receive on an
average only £1 3s. 3d. a week.
Any further McKell remarks recom-
mending unselfishness to, among others,
maimed servicemen, servicemen periodi-
cally incapacitated by malaria (with no
pension) and servicemen’s widows will
receive due attention.
Funeral—and Three Heroes.
Written by a man from New Guinea:
A jockey lost his life in a race at Rand-
wick. Three Sunday papers splashed their
front pages with harrowing accounts of the
incident. Reporters vied with each other in
getting “human-interest stories” of the grief
of the dead man’s nearest and dearest. One
paper published a photograph of his grief-
stricken wife being comforted by her father.
The father’s attempt to shield his daughter
from the ghoul with the camera was unavail-
ing, as was a similar attempt to protect the
weeping mother from another cameraman at
her son’s graveside.
The funeral was marked by hysterical scenes.
Crowds estimated at 70,000 lined the route,
and thousands milled in an unseemly struggle
at the cemetery for a sight of the grave.
According to one of the papers which helped
to work up this exhibition of bad taste and
morbid curiosity, “onlookers trampled over-
graves and climbed tombstones; grave-tops
cracked under the weight of onlookers, and
grass plots on other graves were torn up.”
After the ghouls had gone there were foot-
marks on practically every grave near the
scene and the ground surrounding the jockey’s
grave “was littered with cigarette packets, food
wrappings and refuse.”
How many of the thousands who desecrated
Waverley cemetery or pored avidly over the
treacly reports in the daily papers would be
able to tell how Rawdon Mrddleton died?
Or Walter Brown? Or John Sachs?
In January, 1943, the award of a V.C. to
Flight-sergeant Middleton was announced, at
the same time as he was reported “missing.”
Pilot of a bomber engaged in a raid on Turin,
he struck bad weather, came down • low in
making three runs over the city to identify
his target, ran into heavy flak and was wounded
in the head by a shell splinter whych destroyed
his right eye, exposing the bone. Despite what
must have been agonising pain he brought his
’plane back over the Alps to within sight of
home; then, with fuel exhausted, he kept
control long enough for his crew, on his
orders, to bail out. Apparently too weak to
follow them, he disappeared into the Channel
with his craft.
Middleton was born in Waverley.
Sergeant Walter Brown, V.C., D.C.M., was
not a young man; his decorations were earned
in the earlier war. At 55 he answered the call
again in 1940 and fought in Malaya with the
Eighth Division. When surrender was imminent
the old soldier made up his mind that he
would not be among the prisoners. “No sur-
render for me!” he told a comrade —and with
a bag full of hand-grenades he made towards
the Jap lines. He was not seen again, and
the jungle holds his nameless grave.
John Sachs was another Australian hero who
lived within coo-ee of Waverley. Joining an
artillery regiment early in the war he fought
in the first Libyan campaign and through the
nightmare weeks in Greece. Captured there,
he escaped, lived with Greeks for some time,
collecting military information, and made his
way out of the conquered land to Alexandria.
Finding the information he brought was appre-
ciated, he volunteered to go back for more.
He was smuggled into Greece a second time
and again brought out invaluable intelligence.
This gallant spirit’s next campaign was at
Wau, in New Guinea; he was with the guns
that were flown from Moresby in the nick of
time to repel the Japs from the Wau airstrip.
After artillery activity in that area ceased,
Sachs volunteered for work with the infantry,
then engaged in the interminable jungle
skirmishes which culminated in clearing the
enemy from the ridges between Wau and the
coast and made possible the capture of Lae
and Salamaua. A natural guerrilla fighter, in
patrol work he became almost a legend.
Returning to Australia with a commission,
he volunteered for a hush-hush unit whose job
was to land singly or in small groups in enemy-
occupied islands seeking information that could
be got by no other means. It was his Greek
adventures all over again, but under even more
hazardous conditions. Sachs went north on
one of these missions, but the good fortune
that had attended his earlier exploits deserted
him. He did not come back.
Just before going north he called at The
Bulletin office. This was in late 1943. The
tide of war in the Pacific had turned and
“sports,” blackmarketeers and wharf rats were
already making Australian cities revolting to
sensitive men who had seen front-line service.
Sachs was disgusted with the home-front
atmosphere and remarked that he would be
glad to get away from it again. He got away,
and did not live to see the blackmarket reach
full flower and the glorification of the “sport”
rise to apotheosis. Like those of Middleton
and Brown, his final resting place is unknown.
The three are at one in that, and their families
in their great sorrow can take some consolation
from the fact that at least their remains are
safe from desecration by the sport-crazed,
sensation-seeking crowd whipped up to a false
hysteria by gambling- and girl-mad papers.
Houses and Pipe-dreams.
“Ek Dum” goes visiting:
They have a housing commission in Adel-
aide run by the Liberal Government. It func-
tions side by side with the Commonwealth
housing scheme —literally.
The Lazzarini houses at one centre stand
across the street from a State housing centre.
They are drab-looking fibro-cement erections.
The Playford houses are in groups on large
allotments, which teem with youngsters. They
are of good brick and have tiled roofs as far
as tiles can be got.
The standard house for renting under the Play-
ford scheme is a five-roomed family home which
costs £B5O to £9OO to build, including land,
fencing, road-making and administrative costs.
Homes built in future, because of appreciable
wage increases, will cost more. Homes are
also built for sale in small numbers —prices
range from £llOO to £1250 for dwellings which
in Sydney would cost £lBOO to £2OOO. They
are fitted with gas or electric stoves, with bath
and sink heaters and modern kitchen units.
The bathrooms are tiled, have built-in baths
and terrazzo floors, and are fitted with shaving
cabinets. All doors and windows are wire-
screened and, as a final touch, the purchaser
is supplied with tons of gravel for his
paths.
Rents range from 14s. 6d. to 19s. 6d. per
week for four rooms, 15s. 6d. to 21s. for five
rooms, 255. for six rooms. At present 1067
houses, four rooms and a sleepout, are let at
14s. 6d. a week.
The commission allots its houses without
holding a lottery. No Minister has a hand
in the control of the scheme, and no Minister
is advertised by it. The commission has
already provided 2700 houses. It began with
£25,000, has asked for no more, and has an
investment of £1,750,000 and a rent-roll of
£115,000 a year. The amount of rent it had
written off to June 30 was £1 Is. 6d. It has a
programme of 1200 dwellings this financial year
(1946-47), for 750 of which contracts are let.
It looks as if Mr. Lazzarini, who polled
rather badly in Werriwa (N.S.W.), will have
leisure to study the fine performance of the
sole remaining Liberal Government from the
obscurity of a Canberra back-bench.


[For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams, Cecil Mann and Malcolm
Ellis (“Ek Dum”), all of 252 George-street,
Sydney, are responsible.]
:W:¥:
m
m
CRAVENA
lor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in IQ’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LTD. ■ OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m*
ft/
f/
POINTSCAL POINTS
Federal “Labor” goes back with
diminished numbers in the House, a
substantial increase in the Senate and
apparent majorities on the constitutional
questions, though Tasmania may reject
all three. Followers it regards as doomed
are Morgan (Reid), “Stand Up” Bryson
(Bourke), Breen (Calare), Hadley (Lilley)
and Smith (Wakefield), and with Minis-
ters Forde and Frost behind in Capri-
cornia and Franklin respectively it can
only hope that they will survive. Others
whose fate is in doubt are McLeod
(Wannon), Langtry (Riverina), Mountjoy
(Swan) and Lemmon (Forrest), and on
Monday Minister Scully (Gwydir), Haylen
(Parkes), Fuller (Hume), Fraser (Eden-
Monaro) and Williams (Robertson) were
not as comfortable as they would have
liked to feel, though indications favored
all five. In these electorates and the other
“doubtfuls” 10,000 or 12,000 votes differ-
ently cast would have put the Govern-
ment out.
Forde has been M.H.R. for Capri-
cornia since 1922, and has grown accus-
tomed to 10,000 majorities, though there
was a significant fall to 6799 three years
ago. Even then he had a lead of nearly
5000 after the second day’s count. On
Monday he was 1300 behind the totals of
his two Digger opponents, Davidson
>(C.P.-Lib.) and Taylor (Service). For the
first time in his history he was too far
gone to be accessible to newspapermen
and to call for a report.
“Labor” seems to have paralleled the
other side’s 1940 achievement of winning
all but three of the contested Senate seats.
One point of difference is that there were
19 vacant this time; another, more im-
portant, is that “Labor” had 17 of the
1943 vintage in hand. In Queensland,
where there was a real swing, Senator
Cooper may go in again, with Miss
Rankin and Neil O’Sullivan instead of
Crawford and Foil, In Tasmania there
may be a chance for Burford Sampson,
that veteran of three wars, if he can get
into the final count; a strong Ministerial
element had well-grounded objections to
Morrow, who was placed third on the
ticket of four.
In a booklet on the work of the
churches in war-time, published by the
Department of Information (not, of
course, Calwell’s), one Hugh Martin has
written that “relations between Roman
Catholics and Protestants in Britain are
better today than they have been at any
time since the Reformation....” Pity
it wasn’t read by the organisers of the
so-called Protestant People’s party. Their
effort to bring sectarianism into Com-
monwealth politics, the crowning folly
of which was a manifesto headed
“Protestantism Before Party,” and giving
lists of Protestant candidates, got the re-
ception it deserved, but not without doing
at least three N.S.W. Lib.-C.P. candidates
a power of harm. Every P.P.P. candi-
date lost his deposit. So did every Com-
munist, whose party had worked in the
sectarian issue on its own account.
Only one Prime Minister, Barton,
never had an opponent (Hunter gave
him a walkover in 1901), and only one,
Bruce, has had to second a vote of thanks
to the returning officer —“poor old Hollo-
way” beat Bruce in Flinders just on 17
years ago. But four men who ultimately
reached the highest office had to taste
defeat in the constituencies—Scullin in
Ballaarat (1906) and in Corangamite
(1913 and 1918); Curtin in Balaclava
(1914), in Perth (1919) and in Fremantle
(1925 and 1931); Lyons in Darwin (1919)
and Chifley in Macquarie (1925, 1931 and
1934). Hughes’s record is unsurpassed
and perhaps unsurpassable: 18 contests in
46 years and never in danger in any of
them.
In point of length of service in the
House, Scullin comes nearest to Hughes.
After his early vicissitudes he got in for
Yarra at a by-election on February 18,
1922, and Yarra has had no other member
since. Just before he became Prime
Minister in 1929 Scullin was returned un-
opposed for the first and only time.
Hughes has never been without an oppo-
nent. At 82 Billy is not the oldest Prime
Minister; that distinction belongs to
Cook (86), still an interested spectator of
events. The oldest surviving Minister is
Isaac Isaacs, who was Attorney-General
in the second Deakin Ministry from
July 5, 1905, to October 12, 1906, when
he was 51.
Nearly all the 49 “Labor” Ms.H.R. got
a massive majority of servicemen’s votes
in 1943 ; even Forde, though he didn’t
fare nearly so well as Curtin, Evatt or
Chifley, could boast nearly two to one in
Capricornia: 3838 to 1994. It couldn’t
have been the case this time.
The Opposition hoped—in vain—
that 1944 referendum voting would
be a more trustworthy guide than
1943 election voting to Saturday’s
results in the constituencies. In
1944 the 10 divisions in Queensland,
the five in Tasmania, 21 of the 28 in
N. S. Wales (even Chifley’s Macquarie),
14 of the 20 in Victoria, four of the six
in South Australia and two of the five
in W.A. turned the Evatt proposals down.
“A renewed offensive against Com-
munists” is expected to be launched by
the Labor organisation in S.A. after' its
convention next month. Anyone would
think a State election was coming on —
and so it is! Hitherto the Adelaide
A.L.P. has been as bold in words and as
weak in action as the Sydney A.L.P.,
which imposed a ban on all Communist
organisations and subsidiaries and then
forgot all about it. The Adelaide concern
pronounced the Communists “anti -
British, anti-Australian and anti-Labor,”
and let it go at that.
A pre-election remark attributed to
Scullin by a Hobart “Mercury” writer
who thinks no end of his Senator Mc-
Kenna and refers to his Premier as
“Cossie”:
History may repeat itself in reverse, with
the Liberals in charge in the House and
Labor in the Senate.
The P.M. that was got a bullseye with
one barrel.
Of the 18 Commonwealth elections five
have been held in December (1903, 1906,
1919, 1922 and 1931), and Labor lost the
lot. Its December, 1931, defeat was the
worst it has ever suffered. It lost also
the two elections held in May (1913 and
1917) and the two held in November
(1925 and 1928). There have been four
September elections, and the first (1914)
was very favorable to the party. At the
second (1934) it failed in both Chambers.
The third (1940) gave it 36 seats in the
House, but only three of the 18 contested
seats in the Senate.
As has been said more than once in
this paper, it is much too easy for persons
to change their names by deed poll. So
long as the privilege was availed of by
“sports” like “Romano” and refugee
Jews, “Labor” paid no attention, but the
matter became serious when one Davies,
with aspirations to succeed Frank Bren-
nan as “Labor” M.H.R. for Batman
(Vic.), had his appellation altered to
Allan Geoffrey Brennan so as to get his
name ahead of Frank’s on the ballot
paper. He improved the shining hour
by copying Frank’s warning to electors
apt to be confused; and Frank, though
a lawyer, could do nothing about it,
though he had the satisfaction of seeing
Allan Geoffrey lose his deposit. In
1925 Roland Green, then M.H.R.
for Richmond, N.S.W., had as opponents
a Harry Green and a Joseph Greene.
An Old Digger, he surmounted the diffi-
culty by asking the electors to remember
that he was the Green with the crutch
and without the “e”; and in Roland
rolled.
According to “Common Cause”
(“official organ of the Miners’ Federa-
tion”) the “murder” of “one Indonesian
prisoner and the wounding of two others
by Dutch guards at Casino, N.S.W., has
brought widespread protests from all
sections of the Labor movement.” The
Labor Councils at Brisbane and Lismore
ordered Chifley to do something about it,
and “a conference of Newcastle Labor
Council trade unions, miners’ lodges and
shop committees, held in Newcastle,”
passed a series of angry resolutions.
When Indonesians murdered three young
Australian officers searching for our own
missing p.-0.-w.; when a woman Red
Cross worker was brutally done to death
and the harmless complement of an air-
craft, all British, were carved up by an.
Indonesian butcher with a chopper,
nothing was heard from the Brisbane,
Newcastle or Lismore Labor Councils.
Local Commos, if not completely
shock-proof, must have received a nasty
jar when they saw in the last-arrived issue
of the almost sacred Moscow “News” a
big black heading: “His Highness
Generalissimo Stalin.” The election of
Comrade Sharkey as Prince Regent of
East Sydney may be just round the
comer.
Right up to polling day “Labor” per-
sistently reported itself as hopeful that
its Mrs. Jessie Street would toss Harrison
out of Wentworth. Since all the evidence
was to the contrary, it can only be
assumed that “Labor’s” hopes were based
on the refugee vote in Bellevue Hill and
Bondi coming to “Labor” in gratitude
for Cal well’s efforts on behalf of Jewish
immigration.
The Lang group’s Parthian shot:
Official Labor’s advertising campaign is
the most expensive on record. At a con-
servative estimate £150,000 is being spent
on the campaign. Where is the money
coming from?
The rest was silence.
By two to one, the Full Court in Mel-
bourne refused to grant a warrant for
the extradition to Tasmania of Alstergren
and Nosworthy on charges of corruption
in which ex-Minister D’Alton was named.
Justice Lowe and Justice Martin gave
separate judgments. Justice Fullagar
dissenting.’ Justice Lowe said that
Justice Fullagar did not want his
reasons published at the present stage,
as they might prejudice proceedings that
might be taken by the Tasmanian Govern-
ment. The Court made absolute orders
nisi calling on Detective-sergeant Lewis
and M. G. Gibson, Solicitor-General of
Tasmania, to show cause why the order
made by Mohr, P.M., for Nosworthy and
Alstergren to appear at Hobart should
be set aside. The magistrate had directed
the appearance of the two men at Hobart
on August 26. Bail was renewed condi-
tionally on the men giving an undertaking
to appear at Hobart on October 7, if
required.
Redistribution of population from the
city to the country, the alleged aspiration
of “Labor” politicians, had made no per-
ceptible progress when the Federal rolls
were made up. Almost everywhere on
the mainland the increase of electors in
metropolitan divisions dwarfed the in-
crease in country divisions. In N. S.
Wales, compared with 1943 figures, there
were gains of 8807 in Reid, 7828 in
Warringah, 7216 in Wentworth, 6695 in
East Sydney and 5828 in Barton, whereas
provincial electorates showed gains of
merely 171 in Darling, 203 in Calare, 393
in Macquarie, 742 in Riverina and 924 in
Gwydir. In Victoria during the three
years one outer-suburban constituency,
Deakin, had a greater increase of elec-
toral population (6072) than Ballaarat
(1281), Bendigo (1217), Wimmera (1137)
and Corangamite (2389) combined.
The housing shortage is no new thing
to Victorian schoolteachers. A deputa-
tion from their union told Education
Minister Field that only 33 houses had
been built for teachers by the Dunstan
Government in its 10 years of office. A
hardship case cited was that of a
family of three, living in a room
12ft. by lift. Another teacher
had bought a poultry farm to live
in; another lived with his family in a
caravan; another had spent four years
of married life in boarding houses; a
married couple with two children pigged
it in a verminous cottage put up in a day
by local effort. And there was a married
teacher who had occupied 15 houses in
19 years, had been evicted five times, had
bought two houses and sold both at a
loss.
Barry, the Victorian Minister for No-
Housing, is faced with an accumulated
demand for cement (50,000 tons) from
housing authorities. State Departments
engaged on grandiose schemes of de-
velopment” and other institutions. The
only relief he can offer is the installation
of a second kiln in a cement-manufac-
turing concern which will step up produc-
tion by 4500 tons. However, he has
called a second round-table conference
of complete prefabricated-home builders
to hurry things up. As steel is as short as
cement and timber is in almost as bad
a position, it is difficult to know what
the prefabricators are going to build their
houses of.
When this issue was printed, Blain, the
game p.-o-w. member, seemed to be well
in the ascendant in the Northern Terri-
tory contest. With about half the ex-
pected votes counted he had a sufficient
lead over each of his two “Labor”
opponents, who had a private quarrel on
their hands, to need only one third of
the first count of preferences to put him
in. And the postal vote should improve
his position.
Tasmanian lottery taxation brought in
£584,500 in 1945-46, more than twice the
1942-43 total (£287,800). Cosgrove com-
placently noted that “only a small frac-
tion” of the £584,500 was “paid by Tas-
manians.” If lotteries are allowed at all
they should be taxed by the Common-
wealth. It is monstrous that the Com-
monwealth should let prizes of £5OOO,
£lO,OOO and £20,000 go tax free when it
takes most of the corresponding amounts
of earned income.
A Queensland magistrate had before
him a man charged with running a cock-
fight. He imposed the maximum fine,
£25, and issued a warning that anybody
caught organising cockfighting would in
future get jail without the option. This
may lead to an exodus of the cock-
fighting fraternity to N. S. Wales, to an
outbreak of propaganda to the effect that
cockfighting is “a good and useful sport,”
and to a demand for resumption of pub-
lic land for cockpits.
Obviously there will have to be altera-
tions of electoral boundaries before the
next election for the House. Only Tas-
mania, in which the most populous elec-
torate is Franklin (34,000) and the least
populous Wilmot (27,458), really con-
forms to the requirements of the Act,
which allows margins of one-fifth more
and one-fifth less than the quota. In
Westralia Kalgoorlie (37,833) has less
than half the electoral population of Fre-
mantle (77,301), which has put on 7624
since 1943, whereas Kalgoorlie’s increase
is a beggarly 415. At the turn of the
century it was a standing grievance
among Westralian goldfielders that they
were under-represented. In Federal and
State politics they have been over-repre-
sented, greatly to “Labor’s” advantage,
for many years.
In 1935, when there was an Onion
Board in existence, a Victorian farmer
planted onions at Bellarine, The other
day he received a cheque for £5 9s. 3d.,
balance owing, and a letter informing
him that the board was “finalising”
crop accounts for 1935. An immediate
reply was requested.


HAPPY LANDING, BUT NOT EXACTLY FOR EVERYBODY.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: Election-time is the season
for telling people how. In newspaper
articles, party advertisements, pamphlets
and dodgers; at street corners, in public
halls and over the radio; in pubs, trams
and street conveniences I’ve been told
how to vote, how not to vote, how to
save the country and how to ruin it, how
to make my future secure and how to
bring upon myself, and the nation, a
terrific depression. I thought I’d been
told everything until I read a newspaper
billboard; “The Elections. How to
Listen.”
“Uco”: Election broadcasts brought to
light some strange examples of mangled
English, but a curious case of double
mispronunciation intrigued me one night
towards the end of the campaign.
Chifley was speaking from Burwood
Town Hall in the Parkes electorate
(N.S.W.), and the chairman in introduc-
ing him said that that was the first time
for 38 years that a Prime Minister had
spoken in that part of the electorate.
“His presence here is a trybute to us,”
he concluded. That rocked me a little,
but a few minutes later Chif. capped it
with the comment that the success of his
meetings all over the Commonwealth was
a tri -bute to his party’s policy. Possibly
Lincoln pronounced it that way; and
Ben has been likened to Lincoln by
adoring colleagues.
“Yair”: I wonder what went wrong
with the mental mechanism of a King’s
Cross woman on Election Day. Any-
way, she walked up to the table
apparently deep in thought and then,
instead of giving her name to the official,
she said calmly, “Ten bob each way
Bragger!”
* * * *
“Bo”: A Sydney chemist’s window
has had on display real English badger
shaving brushes, and the eyes of passing
males stood out like hatpegs, not so much
at the appearance of this phenomenon
as the price—£3 each. No, there was
no queue waiting to snap ’em up. In
any case, men buy new shaving brushes
as they do collar studs—only when the
old one either gets lost or falls to bits.
In the case of shaving brushes there seems
to be a spot of sentiment towards a col-
lection of bristles, no matter in what
state of decrepitude it happens to be,
which has travelled a considerable mile-
age intimately over the old dial over
many years—and for men whose fairness
of skin breeds fluff rather than scrub
even the warbiest brush will last half a
lifetime. Sponges at 265. each were also
on sale—again no takers. Perhaps men
have awakened at last to the obvious
truth that the sponge is about the least
useful accessory to a bath—a facecloth
at one-fiftieth the price of the over-
boomed sea-animal is much more
efficient.
“Curate’s Egg”; Brisbane can’t rival
the Homeric struggles of Melbourne
pushdom (“Jeff,” B. 21/8/’46), but it has
its moments. One citizen was astounded
to see a perfect stranger hurdle his subur-
ban fence, doff his coat, seize a handy
pitchfork and commence to delve indus-
triously in a petunia bed. Reason for his
charitable industry soon hove into view
in the form of a pursuing band of toughs
armed with palings. Overlooking their
quarry toiling at the petunia bed, they
sped past. Another suburbanite had his
Saturday evening meal interrupted by a
stranger who burst in, seized a knife and
fork and attacked the meal ravenously.
Before the householder could object the
push tore through the house and jumped
the back fence on an apparently hot but
false trail. The uninvited one then left by
the front fence, not a word having been
spoken during his brief informal call.
* * * He
“Donald Mac”; R.A.A.F. air-crews
are not the only possessors of an ambition
to appear, sartorially, veterans (B.
25/9/’46). Senior-servicemen considered
no effort too great in order to appear
well “salted.” Collars—the narrower the
better —were not wearable until a faded,
battered and much travelled appearance
replaced the dark-blue of the new' issue.
A ritual was religiously observed with
new caps. The sides were bent down until
they almost met and kept in that position
for several hours, after which a “salted”
H.M.A.S. tally-band was added. When
"Squatting on me, eh?”
dressing the sailor puts a young flapper
to shame. His jacket must be so tight
that help is required to remove it; his
trousers the right length, with every crease
easily discernible; his dicky front not
too high (depending on how much hair
the wearer has on his chest); and the
numerous buttons, tapes and zips must
be shipshape. The reason behind it all
is a reluctance to appear a rookie among
the old hands —or perhaps it’s a way of
letting the powers-that-be know that it’s
time a demob, note came through.
* * * *
“Eve”; I asked a 10-year-old boy how
his exams were going. He said, “Oh, I
don’t worry about them. I came second
one year so after that I stopped trying.”
“Why?” I asked. He kicked his school-
port along the path a little further and
said, “Well, I wouldn’t mind being top.
But, when you come second, there’s a
iow at home because they think you
could have come first if you’d tried
harder. But if you only come about sixth
nobody says anything.”
* * * *
“Jerindar”: Many lonely bush homes
receive regular letters of thanks for food
“parcels sent to people in Britain whom
they have never seen. Grateful British
families have started a reverse scheme by
which books are sent to Food-for-Britain
organisations ; they go to outback districts
where there is a lack of amenities, or no
library. Westralia’s first consignment is
coming from Lancashire and Yorkshire
Women’s Institutes —the British equiva-
lent of our C.W.A» Each book will have
a bookplate giving the name and address
of the donor and a space for the recipient
to add her name. Food gifts and books
will be a personal link between families
half a world apart.
* * * *
“Bozo”: I thought Esperanto had pain-
lessly passed away till recent pars showed
it was still alive and kicking. There is
no doubt that advts. in Esperanto papers
bring results—l put one in a Swiss journal
25 years ago and a few months later was
deiuged with replies from all over the
gl°be. Exchange of stamps and postcards
seemed the popular idea and I was kept
busy haunting stamp dealers and making
a nuisance of myself to friends and rela-
tives. I could not keep np this colossal
correspondence for long, but managed
to accumulate a vast array of stamps,
postcards, coins and paper money, in-
cluding a few thousand billion marks of
the German inflation period. Germans
proved most Esperanto-conscious, closely
followed by Poles and Russians—post-
cards from the Workers’ Fatherland were
heavily weighted with propaganda even
in those early days.
* * * *
“General Backup”: Substitute cigar-
ette papers? In Changi the value of cut-
up Bible pages was early realised. Two
of my fellow hospital patients were an
Australian and a Dutchman who were
both heavy smokers. They had the usual
conscientious reluctance to destroy their
copies of Holy Writ, and went very short
of papers until Blue got a brainwave.
“Look here, Dutchie,” he said, “you can’t
read English and I can’t read Dutch,
what about a changy-changy?” After
that they were set.
v * * *
“Jasby”: Mention of John Barr in con-
nection with the script of “Australia
Calls” (B. 25/9/’46) took me back a few
years. I saw the film as a child at the
Port Adelaide Town Hall just before
World War I. Although the invaders
were described merely as Asiatics, there
was no doubt in anyone’s mind that they
were intended to be Japs. At this dis-
tance I cannot recall the details of the
story very clearly, but one scene was
melodramatic enough to impress my
youthful imagination. The Aussie villain
of the piece, to avenge himself on the
hero for pinching his girl, betrays the
plans of the Australian Army to the in-
vaders. As he leaves the Jap general’s
tent he offers the Nip his hand. After
some hesitation the Jap shakes it and
immediately sends for a basin of water
and ostentatiously washes his hands. I
don’t know whether Barr or Jeffries was
responsible for that bit, but my audience
accepted it as a highlight of dramatic
realism.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Restaurant feeding can be a
hazardous procedure, as “Bo” (B.
18/9/’46) points out. A friend of mine
had undergone an operation on the roof
of his mouth. He dined one day on what
has been described as the perfect meal;
duck, green peas and apricot tart with
cream. The following day he lunched
with me. A man sitting opposite was en-
joying his vegetable soup, when my friend
sneezed and on to the snowy iablecloth
shot a green pea, which bounced neatly
into the stranger’s soup. What is the
correct thing to do in a case like that?
Books of etiquette are silent on the point.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne National Gallery,
through the Felton Bequest, has acquired
three pictures which look like good buys.
A 7ft. by 4ft. canvas, /‘The Rewards of
Philosophy,” by Paolo Veronese, cost
£15,000, which doesn’t seem a high price
for a work by a contemporary of Titian
and one of the great men of the Renais-
sance. It contains a mass of classical
architectures as only Veronese could paint
it, a horse, a dog, a Venus, three naked
children, two of the Muses and a philo-
sopher, which may be a self-portrait;
even in reproduction it looks a good ex-
ample of the Italian master. A Turner
\vatercolor of the Lake of Geneva cost
Ruskin £661 in 1877, was sold in the
boom of the twenties for £8295, fell to
£1155 during the war years and was
acquired by the Felton advisers for
£2500. A Utrillo cost £1250.
* * * *
“Melbn”: If “Nairda” (B. 18/9/’46)
stayed away from the Show in Mel-
bourne because sideshows were to be
banned, he disappointed himself. Space
was limited but licences were given to
Übangi, the tree woman, the waxworks,
the Globe of Death, boxers prepared to
take on anybody bar Joe Louis, and
the world’s fattest couple, who turn the
scale at 70 stone. The only sideshow
banned was the line-ups of scantily-clad
damsels outside the sideshows. That was
in deference to “unco’ guid” opinion, fre-
quently expressed on previous occasions.
“C. 8.”; Best slogan of Show week in
Melbourne was a tongue-twister above a
Bourke-street boot shop which would tax
a professor of elocution: “See our Showy
Shoe Show of Showy Show Shoes.”
“C.Q.”: There was only one entry in
the talking-parrot section at Melbourne’s
Royal Show, and he wouldn’t talk,
despite all the blandishments of the
judges. Probably a mute protest against
the candidates in the Federal elections.
* * * *
“Blank File”: Just as the Sydney-
bound troop train was about to pull out
of South Brisbane the tallest matelot I
have ever seen, full of fight and Bulimba
beer, was hurtled aboard. During the
tea break at Casino (N.S.W.) the sailor,
who obviously had had access to further
grog during the afternoon, staggered on
to the platform and made for the
“O.C. train,” a lieut.-colonel, and
offered to fight him or any officer, n.c.o.
or private he cared to nominate. The
O.C. sent hurriedly for the senior naval
man on the train —a chief petty-officer
—and ordered him to restrain the
matelot. The C.P.0., a little bloke and
slightly under the weather himself, took
one look at the two yards of belligerent
sailor. “Handle him yourself. He’s
too blanky big for me,” he said, and
walked away. Eventually two of the
matelot’s cobbers coaxed him back to
the carriage. When the trooper steamed
into Sydney next day I witnessed an
impressive burying-of-the-hatchet scene.
There was a bevy of high-ranking naval
officers bowed down with gold braid
and two or three red-capped army officers
heel-clicking and saluting each other. In
the midst of them were the C.P.O. and
the lanky sailor, both sober and crest-
fallen. As each made his apology to
the “O.C. train” the latter shook his
hand. There’s no doubt about the senior
service. It does do things nicely.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne City Council’s first
attempt at “psychological” traffic direc-
tion hasn’t been remarkably successful.
The notion was that a yellow line drawn
diagonally across the Eliza beth-Collins-
streets intersection would cause pedes-
trians to sheer off to the left rather than
cross it. No perceptible improvement in
the normal citizen’s catch-as-catch-can
methods of crossing a street were observed
by this witness. One old lady who spotted
the mark walked carefully along it like
a hypnotised chook following a chalk-
line. I crossed the intersection several
times a day for a week before learning of
the line’s existence from a daily paper.
# * * *
“W.O. Two”; It could happen only
in the Australian Army. Early in the
war when I was a raw private at Vic-
toria Barracks, Sydney, it was common
for some senior officers to turn up on
Saturdays in civilian clothes. One Satur-
day morning I was ordered to take a
file to Major Soandso. Walking along
a balcony I saw through an open window
a middle-aged chap in civvies seated at
a desk. Mistaking him for a cobber, a
Commonwealth public servant, I poked
my head through the window and
shouted: “Hullo, you old blankard. Still
bludging on the taxpayer?” Realising
my mistake I made a quick retreat with-
out making an explanation, went to an
office a little further along and asked
for the major. I was ushered into the
presence of the cove I had sq rudely
addressed. “H’m, you’re the soldier who
spoke to me through the window a
minute ago,” said the major, giving me
a nasty look, I hastened to explain that
I had mistaken him for a friend. “And
do you always address your friends like
that? Off you go. You’re lucky you
didn’t pick on the G.O.C. next door.”
* * * *
“M. 8.”: My great-uncle, Joseph Haw-
don (B. 18/9/’46), was the first overlander
(with Gardiner and Hepburn) from
Sydney to Melbourne in 1836. Then he
was the first overlander from Melbourne
to Adelaide, 1838. He named Lakes Vic-
toria and Bonney. As to the postal con-
tract, my grandfather, John Hawdon,
owner of Bodalla, Kyla Park and Kiora
stations, was offered this contract with
his brother Joseph, and the latter took
one of his stockmen, John Conway
Bourke, over the route from Melbourne
to Yass on the first trip, then handed the
matter over to him as his mailman —
Weatherill was manager of my grand-
father’s and uncle’s station Oolong.
The story of Bourke’s being attacked by
dogs and climbing a tree is all fudge.
My uncle swam the river himself and
had the boat sent over for Bourke. The
“Victorian Historical Magazine” for
June, 1925, contains a lengthy reference
to Hawdon’s pioneering work.
A POINTER FROM BRAZIL.
“Not only has freedom of the press been restored
in Brazil, but the new Constitution makes journalism
a privileged profession. Journalists in future will
pay no income tax.” — Cable.
So-called republics in these distant climes
Are mostly reckoned far behind the times,
States where reforms are seldom introduced
And arrogant dictators rule the roost.
Benighted realms which never feel the breeze
That blows through genuine democracies.
But here’s an item, brothers, you’ll agree,
That shows these old ideas a fallacy.
Here is one place that knows at any rate
The proper way to treat the Fourth Estate.
From far-off Rio comes a lead that all
Powers might follow, whether great or small.
To London and to Washington it goes.
And Canberra to boot, one may suppose;
To France (of late assigned by Winston C.
Top. place in culture and morality),
Even to Moscow, though it’s pretty certain
To meet a stopper in that iron curtain,
This plea for more appreciativeness
Of the essential merit of the press.
It seems upon Brazilian shores alone
Newspaperdom has come into its own.
There to the pen admiring crowds accord
A fitting reverence denied the sword.
A fence surrounds its votaries, a hedge
Of quite impenetrable privilege.
Of all vocations highest on the perch
They sit, excepting possibly the church.
A swathe they cut, an honored place they fill
Not yet vouchsafed them elsewhere, in Brazil.
Pleasant, no doubt, but does there go with if,
You ask, some more material benefit,
Some solider reward for those who play
Their part on this partic’lar Inky Way?
Clearly there does. From those who hurl the
bolts
Forged in their editorial haunts and holts
To those who sit in galleries and courts
Catch words of wisdom and compile reports
Or ply their calling upon racecourse tracks,
They’re one and all exempt from income tax.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Q. Clerk”; Every army quartermaster
I met was an accomplished scrounger
and coached his staff in the art of adding
to the assets of the unit. Our R.Q.M.S.
learned the game during World War I,
and the Q store carried an amazing
variety of articles that were never on
charge in the unit’s ledgers. “Pick up
everything you see that doesn’t seem to
have an owner,” he told us, “and put it
in the old oak chest.” The old oak chest,
or “glory box,” as he sometimes called
it, contained an assortment of material
discarded by the troops around the camp
—a rusty pannikin, a pair of tattered
gaiters, worn-out boots, a felt hat. All
this junk had value. It could be returned
to Ordnance as unserviceable and re-
placed by new issues. When we moved
out of the Sydney Showground to Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) camp our three-ton lorries
were packed with a lot of gear that be-
longed either to neighboring units or to
the Royal Agricultural Society. Eastern
Command apparently got wind of the
scrounging, and a couple of staff officers
and half a dozen o.rs. descended upon
us to do a stocktake and take-away every-
thing that was not ours. Our C. 0., who
had a sneaking regard for the R.Q.M.S.,
cornered him after the blitz. “I’m afraid
there’s going to be a ‘blue’ over this,” he
said. “You might land a court-martial,”
“Bless us all, sir,” responded the
R.Q.M.S. “What’s biting Eastern Com-
mand? After all, I left ’em the Hordern
Pavilion and the Coronation Stand.”
* * * *
“Atrax”; One curious outcome of this
long drought over so much of Australia
has been the startling of many people by
static electricity gradually collected in
their bodies by friction of clothing and
otherwise and discharged suddenly when
contact is made with some earth-con-
nected object. In one case it nearly
wrecked a marriage, the young husband
"I've hired them for the day—my motto's 'Safety First.'"
thinking that his newlywed wife was put-
ting a practical joke across when a smart
shock and a visible spark accompanied
her kiss of welcome on his return home
from work, A scientific friend advised the
lass to touch the iron water-tank just be-
fore running out to meet him, or better
still to hold her head for a second or
two in the steam of a boiling kettle.
Light shocks may be felt when making a
bed, or even when taking off woollen gar-
ments, and pulling a rug off a sofa may
result in a miniature firework display.
Recently the confounded thing made me
give quite unintentional offence to an old
and valued friend. My cat jumped up
on the garden table where I was reading
and arched his back to be rubbed. As I
obliged, there was a sudden crackle of
sparks in the fur and Tom fled spitting,
to regard me from a distance with re-
proachful eyes. I had earthed his static
charge, insulated by the table-top, and
he hasn’t forgiven me yet.
* * * *
“Camsa”: In a radio quiz youngsters
.were asked to name the author of a book.
Said one: “I think a woman wrote it.”
“That’s not quite right,” said the quiz-
master. It was disclosed that the author
was a parson ; and I’m still wondering
what the quizman meant when he said
the kid’s answer was “not quite right.”
* * * ■ •
“Morehead”: Dropping into a George-
street tavern for my customary five
o’clock shandygaff I encountered Dauber,
a Bohemian acquaintance with a dubious
reputation as a sinker of pints. He was
surveying with a look of deep gloom
the last inch or so in a schooner. “Polish
it off and have another,” I invited. “Not
on your life,” replied Dauber. “This is
my last. As a matter of fact I’m on the
tail-end of a bender that started on the
night of the Artists’ Ball. That was a
fortnight ago.” A couple of nights later
I ran into Dauber again in the same
grog-shop Iboking very much under the
weather. “Hullo,” I said. “I thought
you’d got over the Artists’ Ball.” “So I
have,” he answered. “I’m in training
now for the Authors’ Ball. It comes off
in a fortnight.”
* $ * *
“V. Cluse”; “To Hades with politicians
and all their ruddy supporters,” blazed
Jephson, clearing his crammed letter-box
for the umpteenth time of pamphlets,
dodgers, cards and other party literature
and stamping furiously to the back of his
house to pile the unread mass into the
waste-paper bag. Mrs. Jephson, a careful
soul, had hitherto cleared the letter-
box and placed its contents on a table
for Jephson’s attention, but with the
approach of election day he issued orders
that the “stuff” was to be shoved straight
into the waste bag. “And,” he added,
“get one of the kids to dump it into the
collection crate for the hospitals’ salvage
scheme.” Two nights later a friend
’phoned Jephson and asked, “Did you
get the smokes?” “What smokes?” “I
called around the other night with an
ounce of fine-cut and some papers. Your
place was locked up, so I wrapped ’em in
one of those election dodgers and stuck
’em in your letter-box. Hullo, hullo,
are you there?” But by then Jephson
was furiously rooting through a moun-
tain of waste in the hospital street col-
lection crate.
* * * *
“Lumen”: “Philp’s” blue lights on
Sydney Harbor Bridge (B. 25/9/’46) are
navigation lights. In pre-war days they
helped captains moving their ships by
night. Blackout restrictions caused their
removal to a position at each end of the
bridge, under the footpath on what is
called the under-deck traverse. They
are placed well back and so positioned
that they can only be seen directly when
a specific course is followed by a ship
moving up the harbor. They are neon
lights, with highly directive reflectors,
which means that the main beam of light
is extremely narrow, but a certain amount
of refraction or diffusion occurs where
the light emerges from under the foot-
path. This causes the tantalising blue
glow to which “Philp” refers. When not
gazed at directly this diffused light
obtrudes on the vision because it arrives
at the retina of the eye along a number
of light paths. When “Philp” stared
directly towards it and focussed his eye
on the source his field of vision became
narrowed and the amount of reflection
was not sufficient to cause a sensation
of light, so the light seemed to disappear,
• * * *
“Bob Punter”: It possibly has nothing
to do with the fate of nations, but as a
"Now, then, you mustn't feed the spectators."
close follower of the Sport of Kings I
note with interest that all this year’s foals
at the Royal Stud are fillies.
* * * *
“Weff”: A minor literary mystery that
needs clearing up is the date of the
birth of Ernest Favenc, the explorer,
poet and storyteller. According to the
Australian Encyclopedia, Morris Miller’s
Australian Literature and Green’s Out-
line of Australian Literature he was born
in 1845. On the other hand Stevens’s
Australian Birthday Book, Johns’*
Notable Australians, Fred Johns’s Annual
(1908) and other sources, including a
Bulletin obituary notice, give the date
as 1846. If the former authorities are
correct the centenary of his birth passed
unnoticed by local literary periodicals
and societies last year. If the latter
group are correct the writer of “The
Madman’s Dream of the Golden Moun-
tain” should be due for some attention
this month—he was born on October 21 ;
all authorities are in agreement on that.
The Bulletin published his first fiction.
The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics (1893) is a rarity nowadays, and
contains that gem “The Parson’s Black-
boy,” which has appeared in a number
of anthologies.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is celebrating its cen-
tenary of an early exploring tragedy.
John Horrocks was a young Englishman
who settled at Penwortham, near Clare,
over 100 years ago. Planning a stock-
route to Westralia, he led a small party
north-west of Spencer’s Gulf; but a
camel blundered into a loaded gun, the
charge lodging in Horrocks’s head, and
he was carried home to die. The Geo-
graphical Society of S.A. has put up
obelisks at the grave and at each end
of Horrocks Pass, now the main route
down to Port Augusta, with promise of
others to come.
* * * *
“Bump”: A link with William Ewart
Gladstone came under the hammer re-
cently at Broadmeadows, near Melbourne.
It is Gladstone Park, a farm of 777
acres granted to the British P.M. by
Queen Victoria. Relatives of the family
lived in the old homestead.
♦ * * *
“X.S.”: ■ Sporting gentry who wager
more or less large sums on their ability
to throw a penny from Prince’s Bridge
and make it lodge on a buttress.were the
cause of one boy down from the country
for the Show proving the truth of the
adage that the city’s pavements, meta-
phorically speaking, are paved with gold.
Leaning over the parapet to look for
fishes he observed a pale metallic glint in
the depth of the Yarra. Being a smart
lad, he went away and got a cylinder,
greased its bottom, attached a string to
it and salvaged coppers to the value of
3s. sd.
• * * *
“Ex-Mister”: With the return to Aus-
tralia of the Finnish barques Moshulu,
Passat, Pommern and Viking, many an
old windjammer man’s heart will be
gladdened once again by the sight of
real figureheads. Many of them were
beautiful examples of the wood-carver’s
art, often tinted artistically in dress and
features. The old training ship Conway
had an elaborate bust of Nelson—empty
sleeve, blind eye, telescope, decorations
and all. Most merchant vessels preferred
shapely ladies in flowing robes, and
handsome lasses most of them were,
But there were some sad exceptions. The
Samuel Plimsoll bore a dreadful figure
of that great sea-benefactor, complete
with bell-topper and frock coat. Only
the artistic scruples of Donald McKay,
the Boston builder of Black Ball
clippers, prevented the most beautiful
of them all, the James Baines, from being
disfigured by an effigy of her namesake,
a truculent, flatnosed midget with red
hair and a squint.
* * * •
“Ziff”; In my young days the most
notable photos on the walls of barbers’
shops were Jem Mace and Tom Sayers,
and sketches titled “Swill v. Swell,”
which depicted a phaeton racing
a garbage cart with swill from casks
spilling over the landscape. The cus-
tomers’ own shaving-mug idea, popular
in those days, is still used ; in a Sydney
saloon last week I counted 20 in a case,
each with the owner’s name and a stick
of soap near by. With all their faults,
old-time saloons were cleaner than many
of the present-day—thanks to spittoons
and boxes of sand for butts and matches
—and you risked stern censure if butts
were thrown or pipe ashes knocked on
the floor.
* * * *
“S.G.L.”; Borrowing from the mess a
shilling thriller, published by the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. in 1914,1 was interested to
read inside the covers that, in those days,
Norman Lindsay’s Book could also be
bought for a “bob.” “The cleverest book
ever published in Australia,” it contained
stories and verse, humor and lively letter-
press and, for good measure, 70 Lindsay
drawings.
* * * *
“Macnell”; Sailors’ tales of rolling
ships rarely list towards truth, but I
doubt if any warship has keeled over as
far as thumping seas threw our destroyer
Nizam in the Bight last year. The little
ship was running before waves that rolled
down upon her like moving mountains
of green, when a tremendous wave roared
against her stern, and, brushing aside the
puny counter-effect of her rudder, swept
her bodily at right-angles to her course.
The next one heeled her over till the lee
scuppers were awash; and before she
could stagger upright a third reared up
and thundered upon her in a crushing
avalanche of liquid green. The sea-boat
slammed against the funnel in a splin-
tered mass. A two-ton reel of 4yin. steel
wire rope tore from its welded fasten-
ings and hurled itself through the super-
structure. In his cabin the first lieu-
tenant shot from his bunk and finished
up standing on the almost horizontal
side of the ward-room refrigerator out-
side. Another officer censoring mail fol-
lowed his letters through the door and
hung there, each hand gripping a door-
jamb and his feet dangling through the
cabin door opposite. Luckily the
engineer officer and engine-room arti-
ficer were standing by their throttles, and
as she heeled they grabbed grimly, shut-
ting off steam to the spinning screw as
soon as their feet touched bottom. One
rating on the upper-deck, fully clothed,
was crushed against the vegetable locker.
The sea left him half his ribs whole and
one sock. Ten of his shipmates were
swept clean over the side, with no hope
of rescue. When it was over someone
remembered the roll-pendulum registering
70 degrees ; but an undeniable testimony
to the . roll was the vertical side of the
stoker petty officers’ mess. One bloke
had just come off watch from the boiler-
room, and, stark against the white paint
of the wall, there was a Man Friday
trail of black boot marks.
THE NEXT REFERENDUM.
“In February next N.S.W. electors will be asked
to decide by referendum the momentous question of
whether pubs shall shut at 6, 9 or 10 p.m.’’
You’ve had your fill of faction fights, I note,
And listening to turbid platform prate.
You need a spell from being asked to vote
For this or that watchword or candidate.
But, here in New South Wales at any rate,
The time is steadily approaching when
You will be called upon your views to state
If pubs should close at six or nine or 10.
You feel, like me, you want an antidote
For irksome, acrimonious debate.
You reckoned propaganda more remote
Now that you’ve helped to fix Australia’s fate
At Canberra for three long years. But wait!
You’ll soon be herded to the polls again
And forced your preference to indicate
If pubs should shut at six or nine or 10.
These frequent Referenda get one’s goat,
Refuge of Governments that relegate
Such potty problems as the one I quote
To you and me to solve, and hesitate,
For fear of odium, to legislate
When they can pass the buck to common men.
But there it is! Prepare to answer straight
Should pubs be closed at six or nine or 10?
Two hours appear non-starters, seven and eight;
And bear in mind your vote’s compulsory.
Then
Make up your mind. You can’t equivocate.
But ’ware a choice that you may rue too late.
Should pubs knock off at six or nine or 10?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


rv
UNITED. ENGLAND
RAYON
m
S'-
A
m
.
yV7hen you are consid-
W ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yarns provide
quality and service as
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS s
MELBOURNE- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office _ Ltd., Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane.
stdnet - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Broughton House, 181 Clarence St.
Brisbane - Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
Adelaide K. T. Flint, 178 Rundle Street.
Perth - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
Rtgd,
'iVuoMi- >
'N 11 ' i
■
: 'v :■•
\m
IHL
m
m
•0
S
p*
SB w
9m:
m
m
M,
8
m
WM
& *
V
>f
.:»•' , .• ';:
-Mv:.
\.*y t.
j
T ET’S be “ common - sensible ” about
saving. We don’t save money for the
mere pleasure of stacking coins one upon
another, for after all, money is only valu-
able for what it will buy. Usually we save
money because that is the only way we
can get what we want.
What you want is your business: —helping
you to get it is our business.
After all it is up to you whether to spend
the easy way or save the—comparatively—
hard way. Our part is to provide that
simple, efficient vehicle for your savings,
the Savings Bank Account. Whether yours
is a special objective or just the sound
practice of thrift, the Savings Account will
provide every facility you need.
And the Commonwealth Savings Bank
service is as wide-spread as Australia itself.
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
O F ATI STRALI /V
THERE’S A BRANCH OR AGENCY IN YOUR DISTRICT
CSB 16-82
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence and the North.
“Ek Dum”: Developed under a Gov-
ernment which pretended to be shocked
by the supposed Brisbane Line complex
of its opponents, the state of defence in
the North is a monument to the hypocrisy
of the Chifleys and Wards.
The primary reason in the past for
northern defence was that a landing by
an enemy would provide a foothold from
which to attack the populated south. The
secondary reason was that a modicum
of the food supply and a comparatively
minor output of metals valuable to in-
dustry came from the tropic regions.
With recent changes these reasons have
been intensified. It is doubly necessary
that there should be a proper guard
against landings. The North appears to
be on the verge of a great expansion.
Geologists and prospectors are busy
everywhere. Mt. Isa has ceased to be an
experiment, and its lodes have been
traced almost to the Gulf. The copper
of the Kilgour promises to become acces-
sible and valuable. With 1500 miles of
bitumen and 8000 miles of regularly-
graded road in the Northern Territory,
and with water supply being improved
with every season, a new era is on the
doorstep.
The Granites are being taken over by
thp Mt. Isa concern —apparently there is
more than hope that the much-boomed
surface deposits cover a large, low-grade
but workable orebody. Sizable gold-
finds round Hall’s Creek are attracting
truck-prospectors, some of whom are
making more than a living. The growing
industrial population of the South and
the growing demand for beef overseas
.make the North more valuable than ever
as a mCat reservoir. The disappearance
of the aborigines seems likely very
shortly to lead to new settlement of
about 40,000 square miles of remote areas
which have been made approachable.
Development of Cockatoo Island under
B.H.P. auspices puts an entirely new com-
plexion on the Yampi Sound region.
Discoveries of tantalite and other rare
metals which are the very lifeblood of
modern electrical and radar techniques
open up vistas towards entirely new fields
which affect the safety of the country and
double its desirability to covetous neigh-
bors. And Communist activities in all the
adjacent Asiatic countries and islands
(not to mention their extensive and offen-
sive infiltration of the Northern Terri-
tory itself) point to the urgency of a
thorough and permanent defensive system
for the whole North.
Defence Moribund
Defence in the North, however, has
become moribund. Already between 15
and 16 months after the war, it can almost
be stated that there is no defence.
When war ended there were facilities
for approximately three divisions andi
air and naval support in the area
between Darwin and the southern
end of the Darwin-Birdum railway,
together with airstrips, storage and all
other necessaries for transfer of troops
and aircraft and supplies to vital points
of the north coast. ,
On the first anniversary of the out-
break of war what remained was roughly
as follows:
The roads. They were bordered with
mile upon mile of black iron huts, rusted
barbed-wire, air stations and fighter and
bomber strips. The roads had already
deteriorated through the effects of one
wet season and the fact that while it was
in progress the Army moved 40-ton loads
over the highway. In places the loads
fell through the surface, tangled themselves
in yards of bent Arcmesh (which takes
some bending) and left the consequences
to the care of the harassed civil authority.
Darwin. But it is like a deserted city
through which the Pied Piper had made
a thorough progress. . ,
The population is crowded m the wrecked
corner of the commercial town, which the
Government intends to appropriate to its
own strange uses, doubtless when the
Socialist Sixth programme is put into force.
The military force —reduced to less than
full battalion strength. This though the
7th Military District is still a brigadier s
command—more properly a major-general’s.
These troops are not line troops. They
are virtually all administrative. Not a
fighting platoon is left, though hundreds
of those present are fighting men with
sterling battle records.
The R.A.N. —with sufficient men to carry
on the work of mine-sweeping and clearing
up buoys and dismantling what used to
be the greatest harbor boom in the world.
The guns—the harbor defences mount
up to 9.25. More or less moribund append-
ages of non-existent protection.
All the vast paraphernalia and barracks
of war —mostly empty as a drum. The
R.A.A.F., commanded by a very com-
petent group-captain, reminds the stranger
of a small boy parading in a giant’s
clothes.
It is a very sorry state of affairs which
can scarcely be mended with the aid of
an “interim” army of 39,000 for the whole
continent, and with a Prime Minister who
seems to be under the pleasant delusion
that the next war will be fought by a few
scientists.
The fact is that the more scientific war
becomes, the greater its mechanical mag-
nitude, the greater its wastage, the greater
its demands upon manpower. In the
next war every citizen of whatever
age or sex can count him- or herself in
the frontline. As U.S. and British Gov-
ernments have realised, every develop-
ment becomes a fresh argument for com-
pulsory training, especially since the kind
of training needed today is largely tech-
nical and increases the value of the
trainee to himself and the community in
civil life.
The Implications of Invention
Every advance, too, in military method
is a strong argument for a powerful
nucleus defence of the North, ready for
instant action in case of surprise to ward
off attack on the thinly populated areas
along the Timor Sea and the Indian
Ocean. For, whereas in the early stages
of the last war an enemy landing would
merely have gained a third-line operating
base, rocket improvement and other in-
ventions mean that the enemy who lands
on the north coast will have a very large
section of Australia under his direct fire.
When the Gloster Meteor (tested in
Darwin recently) is all out, even in its pre-
sent initial stages of development, it can
make the coast of Timor in well under the
hour. - An enemy landing on the Gulf of
Carpentaria could reach the northern rail-
way line feeding to the mineral areas of
the north-west in not much more than
half an hour. By Meteor, the Dutch
Tanimbar Islands, the nearest foreign soil,
are 25 minutes from Australia.
A Training Division Needed
At Darwin or somewhere else there
should be established the headquarters
of a training and emergency formation
which should be kept at divisional
strength, fed regularly with new blood
from the pick of trainees and exercised
all. along the North, which is the only
part of Australia in which divisional exer-
cises are possible without dislocating in-
dustrial areas or civilised communications.
The North is ideal for experiments in the
improvement in speeds of air transfer for
large bodies of troops and their equip-
ment. And it provides an ideal life for
young men under proper conditions.
What seems to be wanted is the crea-
tion of a number of territorial regiments
or battalions with fixed northern bases
like those of the Indian battalions of the
Scottish regiments, in which the comforts
of home are combined with the facilities
of work. And these should be linked
to a sort of Northern Quetta.
In view of the fact that defence of the
southern Asiatic fringe will in future be
indissolubly linked with that of Australia,
N.Z. and British Pacific possessions, it
seems desirable, too, that the forces used
in Asia by the Royal Navy, the British
Army and the R.A.F. should be inte-
grated with Australia’s northern pro-
tective force.
If there were an exchange system for
units which would bring British and
Indian regiments to North Australia and
give Australian units the experience of
serving in Asia, it would add both to the
efficiency of British Commonwealth
defence and to the attractions of the ser-
vice.
The U.S.S.R. and Peace.
“Ek Dum”: Marshal Stalin’s an-
nouncement that there will be no war
cheered up all those people whom he in-
tended that it should cheer up, such as
sentimental Leftists of the Wallace breed
and young men of the peahen press.
The Marshal’s interview was given to
Alexander Werth, a Russian-born cor-
respondent of the London Sunday
Times.” What he said exactly was that
he did not believe there was a real danger
of war, and that all such talk came from
“certain interested political and military
circles” ; also that “you must differen-
tiate between the noise about a new war
which is spread today and the real
danger of war, which does not at present
exist.”
The rest was more purposeful. The
Soviet dictator accused the “interested
politicians and militarists” of using the


e
■
mm'
N*
m
m
Every time you
break a block of *
Small’s Club Chocolate
* you’ll hear it SNAP. Anyone
who knows anything at all about Chocolate
will tell you that’s the way to tell the very
best chocolate. If it’s always brittle , , *
if it’s always snappy . . .
then you know you’ve
got the best.
Ask for
Small’s Club
Chocolate
in the famous black
and white wrapper
A
J
'
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
IN ENGLAND
TO-DAY
(6*rm
I
Ml
If you could see the queues that daily
line up to buy shoes in this country
we know you wouldn’t complain because
we can send so few overseas. We have been making
ladies’ and children’s shoes for over 120 years,
we turn out over a million pairs a year and yet
there is still a scarcity. But conditions will
improve and we hope our shipments abroad
will grow considerably larger.
5
SHOES
MADE BY C. & J, CLARK LTD., STREET, SOMERSET
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent Street ,
London , W.l
.. Wa
m
: ,
threat of war to ffighten opponents into
making concessions to ptevent budgets
being cut down apd to slow up demobili-
sation and therefore prevent the growth
of unemployment. And he said that
Russian policy was not intended to turn
Germany against Western Europe and
the United States, because such a policy
would not be in Russian interests.
Asked whether he thought that it was
possible for Communism to maintain
itself in one country alone, he said it was
perfectly possible, especially in such a
country as Russia.
But this is the antithesis of his own
and his disciples’ teaching, which has
always been that a condition of
Communism in which the State —in
theory—withers away cannot be attained
by a country which is subject to “capi-
talist encirclement.” In fact this was M.
Stalin’s own argument in November,
1939, when he urged the peoples of those
countries which afterwards rushed to his
rescue in the name of democracy to turn
on their Governments while war gave
them the opportunity, to stab them in the
back and raise the flag of the Bolshevik
revolution, using Moscow as a “firm” base.
Often Wrong
Two or three facts are calculated to
shake a reader’s faith in M. Stalin as a
prophet. One is that he is so often
wrong.
When, in 1939, he fostered a world-
wide propaganda in the interests of peace
by negotiation with his, friendly ally,
Adolf Hitler, he obviously believed that
there was a chance that the state of
Allied public opinion was such that the
Allies could be forced by their peoples
to make peace, or, in other words, to sur-
render. But he was wrong about that.
No responsible Briton—and the campaign
was aimed almost wholly at the British
Commonwealth—showed the slightest in-
clination to surrender. The only white
livers were in Communist carcasses.
Next, M. Stalin believed that at that
time Hitler was in a mood to make
peace with his enemies and to keep the
peace with Russia. But again M. Stalin
was badly wrong. Adolf completely
betrayed Moscow’s trust in him and was,
in fact, at the time M. Stalin and his
agents w'ere holding him up before the
world as a sort of human dove beginning
to gather forces to invade Russia and
send M. Stalin shouting for help in the
name of democracy to the very countries
which he had just before been denounc-
ing as imperialist, and whose destruction
he had been plotting through internal
revolutions.
Before that M. Stalin had been badly
wrong about the political situation in
Britain and France. In his annual report
to the Russian Communist party in 1939
he had taunted them with being involved
in a policy of cowardly appeasement, be-
cause “the bourgeois politicians are afraid
that a second imperialist war may lead to
the victory of revolution in one or several
countries.”
Again, persons with long memories
will remember that M. Stalin set out his
foreign policy in 1939 in terms which in
the light of future events should have
damned him for ever either as a stater of
political facts or as an analyst of the
international future.
He said at that time that “Russia
stands for peace and the strengthening of
business relations with all countries.”
But the only nation with whom he
attempted to strengthen business relations
was Germany; he betrayed the rest at a
time when he was pretending to negoti-
ate with them. Next he said: “We stand
for peaceful, close and friendly rela-
tions with all neighboring countries which
have common frontiers with the U.S.S.R.”
But at once a pretext was framed to make
war on little Finland ; and nobody in his
sane senses believed the yarn about
Finnish aggression.
Then he announced a plank in the
Stalin foreign-policy platform: “We
stand for the support of nations which
are the victims of aggression and are
fighting for the independence of their
country.” And within two months he
was in process of making an agreement
with Germany to seize half Poland, and he
sided with Germany, an aggressor nation,
until Germany turned round and
marched on Moscow. He was also in
friendly relations with Japan, another
aggressor nation, until a few days before
the Pacific war was won. Then he en-
tered the fray on the Allied side, so as
to have an excuse for marauding into
Manchuria, looting everything in sight,
including vast quantities of material
which legally belonged to his allies, and
sent into a mysterious captivity the
whole of the Japanese armies in the
Manchurian zone, in ( flat contradiction of
all agreements and the laws of war.
There seem good practical reasons for
the Marshal’s remarks. One is his desire
to weaken the military sense and security
measures of the people of the United
States, which he is attempting to bully
out of control of Japan and out of
China altogether, so that his teeming
agents in both countries and the Com-
munist Chinese armies in particular can
have a free hand.
Soviet Activities
His statement to Werth is curiously
out of line with his known activities and
those of his agents in Europe, Canada and
S. Africa —the Government of which
Dominion is determined not to permit
another attempt at rebellion similar to
that organised directly from Moscow in
1922. And it also fits in very curiously
with the militarisation in progress in the
U.S.S.R., where all schools down to the
most junior grades have, within the past
two years, become military schools, and
where there has not been one-fifth of
the demobilisation which has taken place
in other countries, or one-twentieth of
the goodwill shown toward neighbors
that has been exhibited by other great
Powers. Russian contact with the coun-
tries which rushed most readily to the aid
of the U.S.S.R. in 1941 and which have
shown the greatest wish to be friendly is
represented by a long-drawn-out and
savage snarl. In actual fact, while M.
Stalin speaks of peace, he is conducting,
with a servile international Communist
party, the preliminary manoeuvres of a
civil war against every democratic Gov-
ernment in the world. The first flare-up has
occurred in China, the second in Greece.
Starvation and Dissension
Much of what is happening might be
dictated by internal conditions in the
U.S.S.R., where the Ukraine and White
Russia are plunged in famine, and where
there has been a wholesale purge in all
the agricultural agencies of the Govern-
ment. The bleeding of eastern Europe and
the breaches of agreement regarding re-
parations may, of course, both be due to
the perilous economic and political con-
ditions of the “Workers’ Only Father-
land,” where it is preached that there is
no Fifth Column. Squadron-Leader
Gould, of Kiama (N.S.W.), told the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” once a prey to
sentimental Leftism, after returning the
other day from attachment to a Russian
unit, that he believed that Russian
soldiers homing from Germany, where
they found the ruined Germans living in
greater luxury than they themselves had
known before the war, were forming an
underground movement to overthrow the
Kremlin Government.
But Russian weakness does not neces-
sarily make for world security. Many a
weak and harassed Government has
sought refuge from its internal worries
in foreign war.
The realistic approach to security and
to the Stalinist expressed viewpoint is that
of Australia’s old friend General George
Kenney, formerly in command of the
Allied airforces in the Pacific (1942-1945).
General Kenney said on Sept. 26 that
Canada would become an immediate
battlefront at the outbreak of World War
111, and that if Canada’s defences were
inadequate there was a possibility that the
United States would be knocked out of
action in 24 hours.
This statement, to which was given an
official flavor by U.S. military manoeuvres
in Alaska, where the Russians actually
had a ferrying base during World War 11,
leaves nothing to the imagination as to
who the aggressor in World War 111 is
likely to be. Especially • when the Can-
adian judicial report on Soviet activities
in the Dominion is considered.
Cross-examination of Major Cousens,
charged with treason, continued last week
at Central Police Court, Sydney. Accused
was questioned on his presence in a
photograph of a group of Tokyo Radio
employees, “enemy nationals” a
“unique” photograph, counsel suggested.
“It is not unique at all,” accused replied.
“Thousands of similar pictures were
taken in the prison camps.” As to the
conditions under which he lived in Tokyo:
Mr. Dovey: You don’t say your prisoner-
of-war life was comparable with that of
the boys in Burma?—My word I do!
You say your condition was parlous?—
If you mean by parlous, dangerous, I
emphatically do.
The night you went to Huga’s party you
thought the Kempei might strike your head
off? —Not inside the house, but outside.
When you were dining like lords? —We
were not.
You have agreed with mb it was a good
party?—Rather than argue with you, I
will.
Do you think the boys in Burma had
parties like that? —They had parties among
themselves among English - speaking
people. Your suggestion that my life as
a prisoner-of-war was easygoing and devoid
of danger is outrageous.
So far the hearing has occupied 19
days, for 11 of which Major Cousens has
been in the box. Costs are estimated to
have passed the £7OOO mark, and the
deposition clerk has taken down nearly
200,000 words. At the end of last week
Colonel W. R. Blackett and Detective-
Sergeant Wilks returned from Japan with
further documents and commentaries
which, Mr. Dovey said, “will be placed
before the proper authorities at the con-
clusion of these proceedings.”


(VUxut^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Robert Butler, first U.S. Ambassador
to Australia, is not a career diplomat, but
has had administrative experience in
the Philippines. As a youngster he left
the States to join the Philippines constabu-
lary and later became a provincial deputy-
governor and tribal war justice. In the
First World War he served with the
American forces. After his return to
America he turned his attention to the
shipbuilding industry and during the last
war built ships at Duluth and Superior
on the Great Lakes. Former U.S.
Minister Nelson T. Johnson has become
secretary-general of the Far Eastern
Commission in Tokyo. If the new Am-
bassador is as popular in Australia as
Johnson was he’ll do.
Probably the most travelled medico in
Australia, not excepting the flying doc-
tors, is Major-General S. R. Burston,
Director-General of Medical Services,
who is adding a few thousand more miles
to his enormous tally with a “secret”
mission as external co-ordinating officer
to 8.C.0.F. in Japan. In the First World
War, while his father, the late Major-
General James Burston, was command-
ing an infantry brigade on Gallipoli he
was serving in the same campaign with
the A.A.M.C. In the last war he served in
the M.E. and in Egypt, and the hygiene
precautions he learnt there were later
put into practice in the Pacific. On one
occasion he hitch-hiked by air from San
Diego, California, to Manila to confer
with General Blarney, doing the trip in
40 hours. A son„ Captain Robert Burs-
ton, is carrying on the family tradition
with the Field Ambulance in Nippon.
G. H. Bennett-Wood, chairman of the
newly-formed British Welfare Service
Advisory Committee, has been an untiring
worker in the cause of amenities for
servicemen for nearly seven years—first
with the A.C.F. and then with the British
Centre in Hyde Park, Sydney. The Wel-
fare Committee is mainly concerned with
the treatment of British ex-servicemen
who have chosen to make their homes in
Australia. It tries to place them in jobs,
and assists them in lime of misfortune.
Bennett-Wood has two main worries. The
committee neeus funds—it considers that
portion of the balance to the credit of the
defunct British Centre might well be de-
voted to the purpose —and it seeks for
the British serviceman the same degree
of preference that is extended to men who
served in the Australian forces.
When Norman Corwin heard that he
had won the Wendell Willkie Founda-
tion’s Award —a world tour —it must have
seemed to him just one more feather in
a cap that already looked like a Cherokee
chief’s headdress. Since 1938 he has won
just about every radio award offering in
U.S. PLAYWRIGHT.
the States —“best dramatic programme of
1939,” “best experimental drama of
1939,” “best fantasy of 1940,” “best
satire of 1941,” are only a few that have
come his way. The American Academy
of Art and Letters made him a grant in
1942 —the first ever given to a radio
playwright—and he won the American
Newspaper Guild’s Award in 1944. Last
March the Metropolitan Opera Associa-
tion of New York chose his libretto “The
Warrior” as the outstanding entry in its
competition for a new American opera,
and in the same week the Willkie Foun-
dation announced his winning of the
One World Award. Corwin, now 35,
started in journalism at 17, broke into
radio at 21 with a news commentary and
a poetry session—his own idea —and
developed into America’s foremost radio
dramatist. Since 1942 25 of his plays
have been broadcast over Australian
national stations. Prior sketched Corwin
at a Press reception, just after his arrival
in Sydney on the last leg of his world
tour, and was impressed with the facility
with which he answered probing ques-
tions on all manner of subjects.
War caused a postponement of the
jubilee celebrations of Scots College,
Sydney, whose destinies have since 1935
been in the hands of a Maoriland
dominie, Alexander Knox Anderson. The
College was founded in 1893, with a roll-
call of 35 pupils under the tutelage of
Rev. A. A. Aspinall. Today it
can muster 800. A memorial chapel is
to be raised* in memory of the “old boys”
—over 100 of them—who were killed in
the wars, in which 1100 of them served
and 70 decorations were won. The pre-
sent Head was born at Charlton, M.L.,
a few months before the founding of the
college, taught at Otago and Waitaki
High Schools, lectured and examined at
Otago Uni., his alma mater, and was
rector of St. Andrews, Christchurch, be-
fore crossing the Tasman. The delayed
celebrations took place in mid-September
Britain’s high-speed flight is headed by
Group-Capt. Edward Mortlock Donald-
son, D. 5.0., A.F.C., who entered the
R.A.F, with a short-service commission
in 1931 and was grantee? a permanent
commission in 1936, He served with No.
3 Squadron at home and in the Middle
East, winning for two successive years
Fighter Command air firing trophy. He
took part in the 1935 Hendon Display
and two years later led a flight of four
Furies in aerobatics at the international
display at Zurich. In command of 15
Squadron in 1938, he was promoted Wing
Commander in 1940 and posted as chief
flying instructor to 5 E.F.T.S. He visited
America in 1941 to help establish gunnery
schools, becoming a member of the
U.S.A.A.F. Board at Army Tactical
School, Orlando, On return to Britain
he commanded Colerne, the first per-
manent home of jet fighters. Last May
he went to Fighter Command for Staff
duties. Donaldson’s D.S.O. was collected
in May, 1940, his A.F.C. and a “mention”
in 1941.
“Lao-dah” presents a puppet:
I see that Australia’s Webb, J., Chief Judge
of the War Crimes Tribunal in Tokio, had to
give up as useless the cross-examination of
Henry Pu Yi, puppet Emperor of Manchuria,
because the bespectacled young man took the
stand that he was not the real Emperor, as
he was under complete Japanese domination.
The last Emperor of the Flowery Kingdom has
been a puppet since his cradle. He was lifted
out of that haven at the age of three and
planked down on the Peacock Throne in Peking
charged with the job of saving the Manchus
from dissolution. He had scarcely given up
sucking a dummy when Sun Yat Sen’s repub-
licans ttfrfed him out and sent him back to the
Summer Palace with his wives, concubines and
eunuchs, though the bewildered infant was
allowed to retain his title. They even gave him
an English tutor, the brilliant R. F. Johnstone,
one-time district officer at Wei-hai-wei, to teach
him pothooks, typewriting and tennis and pre-
pare him to be a democratic monarch, as
General MacArthur is preparing Hirohito.
Henry Pu Yi was still learning spelling when
Chang Hsun, an old ruffian of the Manchu
regime, plucked him out of his seclusion and
put him back on the throne. This palace
revolution didn’t last long, and he was hustled
off to the British pale at Tientsin ; then, the
Revolution having reached the usual stage of
seeking victims, to Korea, where the Japs
found him a convenient figurehead for their
new dependency of Manchukuo. You might
as well hang a carthorse for being a war
criminal as poor Henry Pu Yi.
Colonel Albert Coates, leader of the
splendid band of Eighth Divvy M.Os.,
will have at least one, good story to tell
at B.M.A. dinners. During his captivity a
Japanese Army doctor attempted an
operation for appendicitis on one of the
Korean guards. Unable to finish it, he
sent for Colonel Coates, then a ragged
p.-0.-w. behind bamboo. Skilful surgery
by the Collins-street man saved the
Korean’s life. The fee was handed to
him by the Jap—a tin of condensed milk.
Born in Ballarat, Coates was lecturer in
anatomy at Melbourne Uni. before the
war and an honorary surgeon of Royal
Melbourne Hospital.
Fifty years ago a small group of
farmers at Eudunda (S.A.) formed a
modest co-op. concern. Today, with 44
branches and an annual turnover of
£1,000,000, it is the largest concern of
its kind south of the equator. For 20
years its g.-m; has been J. E. Milde, who
gave up farming to join the Sutherland
branch in 1907. His retirement, at 73,
coincides with the jubilee of the
' “Farmers” and the occasion was marked
recently by a farewell dinner. T. P. Rich-
ardson, another who has been with the
show since its struggling days, succeeds
him as g.m.
The medical service of Tasmania gets
a first-class doctor in R. W. L. Crosby,
of Adelaide, who moves across to New
Norfolk with his wife; she is holder of
a Social Science diploma.
Keith A. Morrison, successor to
A. V. Kewney as secretary of the
V.R.C., is an ex-serviceman and a bar-
rister who gave up a solid practice to
take on the job. Joining as a private,
he was a captain at the finish. . In the
59th Battalion, he was moved to the
A.I.F. Docks Operating Company, formed
to manage the docks in Singapore, but
the fall of that base landed him in Dar-
win. Morrison then served at L.H.Q. He
comes of a racing family. His father
helped to found racing in Gippsland, was
president of the Baimsdale Club, and one
of his horses won the Williamstown Cup.
V.R.C. SEC.
The new secretary in his youth—he is
43 —was an amateur rider, and was the
youngest member of the V.R.C. when he
joined it in 1928.
Earlier this year a paragraphist had it
that Will Ogilvie and Rod Quinn had
been writing Bulletin verse longer than
any other present-day bards. E. J. Brady,
depicted here by Scorfield, beats both.
Ted made his bow on May 23, 1891, with
a piece called “The Wage Lord” —three
years before either Ogilvie or Quinn.
After a long silence Ted has made a
comeback; about half a dozen verses
from his pen have appeared since publi-
cation of the par. which relegated him to
the ranks of retired poets. At 77 his
handshake is as strong as ever, and on a
recent visit to The Bulletin he man-
aged the stairs from George-street like
a young ’un. It is 47 years since The
Bulletin published his first book of sea
songs and chanties, The Ways of Many
Waters, of which a “Red Page” reviewer
said: “Brady spells vigor, and his meat
is of the strongest—aye, salt junk from
the harness-cask,” and which moved
John Masefield to say that Brady was
“the only poet who has seen the sailor in
the dingy intimacy of his fo’c’sle and
sung him in verse which is more clarion
than doggerel.” Attracted to Mallacoota
(Vic.) (still a sportsman’s paradise) 33
years ago, Btady spends most of his time
in the open air and is happiest when
AUSTRALIAN BALLADIST.
landing a trout or bagging a quail. He
confessed .while in Sydney that he is on
the look-out for a copy of The King’s
Caravan, in which he described a journey
made by wagon from Parramatta
(N.S.W.) to Townsville (Q.) in 1899. The
last copy he had vanished from his
shelves a long time ago.
Frank McCallum, Federal Director-
general of Health, dead in Sydney at 56,
had but a short tenure of the Common-
wealth’s top medical job—he succeeded
J. H. Cumpston in May last year—and
was in ill-health for the greater part of
the time. A Melbourne Uni. graduate,
he joined the Quarantine Service when he
came back from World War I, in which
he served on Gallipoli and in France.
After studies in Britain and America on
a Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship, he
was appointed Commonwealth Medical
Officer at Australia House, London, and
later became senior medical man at the
School of Tropical Medicine in Sydney.
In 1934 he became chief Quarantine
Officer for Queensland and N.T. and
while holding that position he repre-
sented Australia at a League of Nations
Health Conference at Singapore.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 85, Percy Joseph Russell,
one of its oldest solicitors. Born at Serpentine
on his father’s station, he started practice in
1887. He was 15 years president of the Muni-
cipal Association.
In Sydney, T. Guthrie Bowie, well-known
figure in the frozen-meat export trade. Bom
at Christchurch, M.L., he was with Swifts in
Sydney and Melbourne for many years, later
ran his own business and retired in 1938.
During the war he got back into harness with
Swift and Co.
In Melbourne Fergus Voss Smith, mining
director and mineralogist. He was the
mineralogist in Professor Gregory’s Central
Australia exploration. For 27 years he was
g.m. of Block 14, Broken Hill.
In Melbourne, at 66, Joseph C. Blair, until
recently deputy chairman of Vacuum Oil and
41 years in its service. Himself a player of
renown —tennis and then bowls—he became
treasurer of Melbourne Cricket Club, president
of Melbourne Football Club and vice-president
of the Victorian Football League.
At Port Lincoln (S.A.), at 77, F. B. Puck-
ridge, one of the best-known businessmen of
his district, and a former councillor. Bom
at Lake Wangary where his grandfather settled
in 1862, he established a bicycle business, and
in 1904 built the first motor-car to be used
on the Eyre Peninsula.
At Bendigo, at 93, Thomas Watson, a
Bendigo pioneer. He landed on the diggings
from Glasgow when six months old and joined
the Victorian Railways in 1874.
In Sydney, at 56, Paymaster-captain Robert
Charles Negus, 0.8. E., senior accountant officer
on the active list of R.A.N., which he joined
in 1911.
At 61, in Melbourne, Newsom Garrett Wise-
man, who, as senior country representative of
the Commonwealth loans and national savings
organisation, sold an incredible quantity of war
bonds. A R.N. man in his youth, he served
with the British mercantile marine before com-
ing to Australia.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Five hundred white carnations, mostly
from the gardens of Elwatan, the Robert
Dixsons’ Castle Hill home, will be sold
to men guests at the White Ball next
week. Tickets are selling at a great rate
—last week over 800 sales had been
knocked up on the register. Anyone who
sighs for one of those great, luminous
greeny orchids will be able to satisfy her
desires at the Trocadero on October
Man of law Mervyn Finlay is presenting
the committee with a cargo of them from
his Drummoyne treasure houses. The
scene will be just one drift of snow
maidens (and matrons). White frocks
that the dry cleaner has never even
sighted, all fresh from the dressmaker’s,
will be almost the only wear. For the
one considered the most regal, and the
one that is most attractive, a French
model hat valued at 12gns. is the prize.
The judges will be three of the city’s
best-dressed women—. Mrs. C. L. Jones,
Mrs. Frank Packer and pretty Mrs. Noel
Vincent, who is as noted for her evening
frocks as for her smartly-tailored tweeds.
There is joy among the Soroptimists.
Mrs. John Northcott, wife of the Gover-
nor of N.S.W., has consented to become
an honorary member of the Soroptimist
Club. This is affiliated to the British
Federation and also to the American and
European Federations.
Norman Corwin, the Wendell Willkie
One World missionary, reached Sydney
last week, and proved to be just as nice
a person as you had expected the author
of Runyon Jones and Curley to be. His
head is even more leonine than the photo-
graphs make it, and he has the heavy-
lidded eyes of the dreamer. He has also,
judging by his replies to a barrage of
questions by pressmen and -women, the
mind that can transmute a dream into
action. His manner is easy, his voice
American without being aggressively so,
and generally speaking his summing-up of
the 20 countries he has been in is that
nobody wants another war.
Mr. Corwin was not allowed to forget
his alphabet last week —A.B.C. was
with him all the time. And some of those
boys manage to be glossily tailored even
at ten-thirty of a cold morning. The
Commission gave a late-afternoon party
in honor of this radio playwright, the
originality and poetry of whose work have
captured the radio listening world. At
this were University Chancellor Charles
Blackburn and Vice-Chancellor Wallace.
Kathleen Robinson of the Minerva was a
guest, Doris Fitton of the Independents
and Jean Blue of the New Theatre. In
fact, the Little Theatres were well repre-
sented, and radio writers and film poten-
tates were among the 200 at the Australia.
Mr. Corwin also suffered university
lunches and civic receptions.
Probably the happiest of his pro-
gramme functions was the Journalists’
Club lunch. Here was a great roll-up,
for the tall young man had started out
as a journalist. The club had turned the
tables into a daffodil show for the occa-
sion: the golden beauties ran riot. The
soup was hot, the beer was cold, the
speeches gripped. Nicest touch of all was
when Mr. Corwin at the end of his
odyssey suddenly said; “You know I
should be at home writing fantasies about
small boys and dogs and radio. That’s
my work, and I like doing it.”
An impressive reception committee
waited at Kingsford Smith airport last
week to greet Robert L. Butler, first U.S.
Ambassador to Australia, his wife, son
and daughter. The family arrived by
Skymaster, the journey from their home
town, St. Paul, Minnesota, taking six days
Minister for External Affairs Dr. Evatt
extended the Commonwealth’s welcoming
hand, and America’s Consular service was
well to the fore. The Butlers saw only
the airfield. They have still to learn what
Sydney looks like. They left again on
their flight to Canberra in less than an
hour.
Lois Green and Bebe de Roland, the
two tiny starlets of “Follow the Girls” —
they are about five foot one in height,
and as dainty as dolls —sparkled at the
morning cocktail party given in honor
of them and producer Freddie Carpenter
by the J.C.W. firm.
The two have had many experiences
since they went overseas. Lois left Aus-
tralia seven years ago, has appeared in
West-End shows, has toured South
Africa, and toured the Middle East with
E.N.S.A. for a year. Bebe de Roland, a
Maorilander, went to London to study
ballet. She also was in a company that
toured England entertaining the troops.
She has appeared in Jack Hilton produc-
tions. Freddie Carpenter, who will pro-
duce “Follow the Ghls,” is another Aus-
tralian, and it was 17 years from the time
he left Sydney till his return. He promises
that the show will he bright, swiftly mov-
ing and crisply frocked —the frocks that
Lois will wear are Norman Hartnell
models.
Midway through June the four winners
in the Schools’ Public Speaking Competi-
tion, which is a Royal Empire Society’s
yearly contest, addressed a crowded house
in the Assembly Hall. Of the four bud-
ding orators, two were under 16, two
over. Each spoke for 10 minutes on the
subject: “Humanity’s debt to Britain,”
and each received the R.E.S. gold medal
and a £lO Government Bond. On Friday
night in the R.E.S. lecture hall the finale
will be enacted when the Hon. G. Weir,
Minister for Conservation, will present
the perpetual shield to the Canterbury
Boys’ High School, winner of most points
in the 1946 contest. Helen McHugh,
Peter Wishart, Keith Pearson and
Virginia Farley, the gold medallists,'
will make speeches of thanks and
appreciation. Coffee and conversa-
tion in the drawing-room will follow.
LOIS GREEN, who will be Bubbles
in "Follow the Girls,"opening at the
Royal on Saturday, October 12.
The chapel of St, John’s within the
University was chosen by Olga Jean
Perry, of Concord, and Colin A. Staple-
ton, of Parramatta, for their wedding
recently. Both bride and ’groom are
graduates of Sydney University. Olga
Jean is a 8.A., and Colin holds degrees
in science and in engineering. The bride’s
frock of white and silver cloque was
modelled on Victorian lines and featured
a bustle effect. Her veil was tulle, her
flowers a Victorian posy. Esme Swann
’maided in bouffant white marquisette.
The bride was given away by her brother,
F. J. Perry. Best man was Lieut. Greg
Scahill, A.I.F. Reception was at Amory.
This city’s writers and book buyers
are going to miss one of the most know-
ledgeable and likeable of Angus and
Robertson’s staff. Last week director
William T. Jones died. In the book trade
he was considered a wizard for sensing
the book that would not only appeal but
would sell. He had been in Bendigo and
Melbourne before he came to Sydney,
had been with Cole’s Book Arcade and
Dymock’s before A. and R. netted him.
For the last year or so he had been mostly
in his little room at the head of the stairs
near the accounts offices, and it was
worth while calling in to say hello just to
receive his friendly greeting.
All the treasure in the world is not
in the banks or the diamond merchant’s
shop. Up in Anthony Hordern’s Art
Gallery last week there was gathered
together a company of orchids valued
at nearly £13,000, Two hundred of these
plants, all richly blooming, were ex-
hibited by Carrington H. Deane, who
arranged the show. Mrs. Tant, who
was exhibiting for the time, carried
off eight prizes. This display was defi-
nitely in the aristocratic class. But the
orchids had better be careful. If they
continue looking magnificent the tax-
gatherer will be after them.
Miss Fidler, if her duties at the Cale-
donian stall at Sydney Uni. last Saturday
left her time for reflection, must have
been pleased to think that the work she
started, the University Settlement, has
grown and flourished with the years.
The “Open Day” at the University was to
raise funds for the settlement, and there
was a steady flow of patrons throughout
the afternoon. Lecture halls were visited
and the newly-opened Geography School
was an attraction. Tea was served in the
Great Hall—an innovation. Girl students
were the attendants at the large-size tea-
party which had been arranged by Mrs.
F. Bland, wife of the settlement president,
and Mrs. Macdonald Holmes. There was
folk-dancing on one of the lawns, and a
stirring pipe band.
From Melbourne
At the civic reception accorded him by
Lord Mayor Ray Connelly and Lady
Mayoress Valerie Heinze (you’d have
noticed her nut-brown frock worn under
a matching ermine coat, with an almond-
green felt hat for contrast), new British
High Commissioner E. J. Williams said
that the hallmark of Britain was right
across the Royal Show, the streets and
the buildings. Mrs. Williams pinned her
presentation posy of orchids in silver fox
furs which she wore with a black suit and
small veiling-swathed black hat. Daughter
Ivy favored an oatmeal tweed suit with
patch pockets and facings of hyacinth
blue, her matching felt hat being slightly
upturned and finished with a bow. Air
Vice-Marshal George Jones was there
with his wife. So was Information Minis-
ter CalwelJ, who welcomed the High
Commissioner to Melbourne on behalf
of the Federal Government. Mrs. Calwell
was also there, her dark grey suit worn
with a green hat banded in henna-toned
ribbon. Making one of her rare public
appearances was the Angliss lady, who
since the death of her daughter, Mrs.
David Knox, has been devoting most of
her time to baby granddaughter Dian
Knox. Lady Fraser’s rose-trimmed hat
topped a black Persian lamb coat. Chat-
ting to Brigadier Prior was Stella Lane,
her black suit relieved by a pancake hat
of pastel blue trimmed with cyclamen
veiling. For her navy-blue ensemble
Mrs. P. L. Coleman favored a pastel-pink
floral hat.
Dismal weather failed to keep music-
lovers away from the second concert
given by Hephzibah Menuhin and the
Queensland State Quartet in the Town
Hall. The pianiste held the big audi-
ence spellbound by her playing in the
Dohnanyi Quintet for Pianoforte and
Strings No. 2 in E Flat Minor. In the
audience were Barbara Baillieu and fiance
Des Deasey and Pat Garrard, who
sported the wide satin headband now
popular among Melbourne’s younger set.
Her black frock carried a brace of antique
cameo clips, spoils of a recent birthday.
Merrice Wunderly was with her mother,
Mrs. J. Wunderly, we)l-known for her
work with the Opportunity Club.
Pictured here by Ritter-Jeppesen is Betty
Stewart, only daughter of Mrs. L. M.
Dunne, of St. Kilda-road, and the late
John P. Stewart, who has announced her
engagement to Ronald Keith, only son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. John Riddell
Finlay, of Northcote. Betty is well known
as J. C. Williamson’s publicity officer,
and in her job has brought all her charm
to bear on temperamental “stars.” She
has also proved a fairy godmother to
those journalists who have sought to in-
terview visiting celebrities. An old girl
of St. Michael’s Girls’ Grammar School,
Betty worked hard for the success of the
ball sponsored by the Old Girls’ Associa-
tion, which was held in the St. Kilda
Town Hall recently. Betty shares with
her fiance a love of the theatre, music
and tennis.
Confessing that he knew little of art
and had almost caused Alan Moore to
pass out when he described one of his
pictures as “pretty,” Cyril Ritchard
opened the exhibition of Alan’s work at
George’s Gallery. Madge Elliott was
there too, looking more than ever like a
piece of Dresden in her pale green frock
and mink coat with a small hat of the
same lovely fur on her golden hair.
Major Seymour Church, with daughter
Anne, was an interested spectator. Max
Oldaker, Roger Barry and John Halloran
gave the theatre solid representation.
Matt McDougall, plus a well-grown
Vandyke beard, and Mrs. D. Stewart,
soignee in black and silver fox cape, were
others who enjoyed the freshness and
charm of the pictures. Wife of the artist,
Maria, entertained later at afternoon tea,
and wore a smart suit of brown and white
checks with London tan accessories.
If public-spirited women can solve the
hospital problem the group of women
headed by Lady Brookes will do it. At
a press party Lady Brookes, who has
been chairman of the Queen Victoria for
25 years, outlined some of the plans
being prepared to make it one of the
most up-to-date hospitals in the Com-
monwealth. At one time the Queen Vic-
toria was the largest women’s hospital
in the British Empire, and its chairman
said she felt it could be called the epitome
of women’s work for women. Now she
and her committee are appealing for
£250,000 for general amenities and
the rebuilding of the old hospital.
Among innovations planned are a milk
bar for the nursing staff and a cafeteria
for dietitians, almoners, Red Cross
personnel, etc. The appeal opens
officially on January 1, and for three
months, says the organiser, J. D. Porter,
Melbourne will have gaiety in a big way.
He proposes a big drive throughout all
guest-houses in Victoria on New Year’s
Eye. A block of flats and a racehorse
will be raffled. St. Kilda is to have a
Mardi Gras carnival with all the trim-
mings, including a bathing-beauty con-
test. Antiques will be on view at the
Melbourne Town Hall, and at the end of
the exhibition will be auctioned. Norman
Brookes and his lady will give an outsize
in dinner parties at their home, Kurneh,
in Domain-road, to which world-famed
sporting champions will be invited to eat,
drink and promise to raise lots of money
for the good cause.
The weather gods again frowned on
racegoers, this time at Moonee Valley.
Tweeds and fur coats were the order of
the day, with hats carrying the sartorial
burden. Mrs. A. Dethridge added a
pastel-blue felt bonnet trimmed with tiny
ostrich feathers in royal and pastel blue
to her black ensemble. Mrs. Ken Luke,
down from Romsey, had brilliant feathers
in yellow, gold and red decorating her
small hat, which was finished with a black
veil spotted in chrome yellow. Her
tailored coat was in navy blue cloth. Just
out of hospital after an appendix was
Mrs. J. McGrath, of Albury. Her
amethyst velvet jacket was worn with a
grey skirt and ermine coat. Mrs. Henry
Rosenthal wore an aqua-blue suit and
matching hat, with the head on her cross
fox fur embellished with a gold muzzle.
Mrs. Burns Campbell contrasted her
black broadtail coat with a hat laden with
colorful flowers. Young racegoers still
prefer to go hatless. Mauve tweed suits
had a number of wearers and next in
popularity was black worn with furs.
Rita Miller’s recital in the Assembly
Hall included numerous French songs,
many of which had not been heard here
before. The singer wore a graceful
trained gown of brilliant red crepe with
bands of diamente set diagonally on the
skirt below the long waistline. A small
gleaming tiara of star-pointed diamente
crowned her hair. Members of the
French colony in the audience included
M. and Madame Modesti, the latter wear-
ing tailored black and silver fox furs.
Lady Fraser, her black frock covered by
a full-length Persian lamb coat, was ac-
companied by daughter Dorothy. Happy
trio was Mrs. J. J. Daleym, her sister from
Sydney, Dr. Dora McMahon, and Mrs.
A. A. Lord, private secretary to Lady
Dugan. Latest news of Victoria’s popu-
lar Governor and his wife is that they
have left England en route to Melbourne.
Joan Cain, Mrs. Neil Lawrence and Mrs.
Roger Fairbairn were also applauders.
Members of the Ex-Servicemen and
-Women’s Revue Company have every
right to be proud of their first show. In-
genious sets, costumes and ballet routine,
as well as lyrics and music were all the
work of ex-service personnel. The audi-
ence, which obviously enjoyed the many
topical sallies, included Lady Clapp, who
has produced many amateur shows for
charitable purposes; she was with her
daughter Mrs. Geoffrey Smith. Betty
Stephens, now out of uniform and work-
ing as publicity officer at the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital, relaxed at the show.
Helen Lane’s crimson velvet jacket, plenti-
fully sprinkled with pearls, was worn over
a flowing white skirt; Joan Finn, whose
black frock was worn under a blue fox
cape, was with Lady Linton, whose red
jacket, trimmed with royal blue sequins,
was worn with a formal black skirt and
silver fox cape. Perhaps there to seek
inspiration from the amateurs was
Tivoli’s big chief David Martin, with his
wife and party. ,
Novelist Jean Campbell is back again
in this city after a long holiday in Queens-
land. But it did not take her long to get
back into her stride as secretary of the
Little Theatre, South Yarra, and she is
busy on publicity for the next production,
“Acacia Avenue.” Surfers’ 1 Paradise proved
so attractive that Jean found little time
for work on her new book, but she is
now making up for lost time. Every
week-end, plus typewriter, she goes-to
the hills and works hard. Jean is witty,
a good conversationalist and a very smart
dresser.


A
A
&
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD,
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Hill!IHI SECRETi
OF
AIL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
mymmm
insulation with
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
vill be freely g<>en.
illation
, M «gg*s
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
- j D p F MANN LTD.. 146 Lichfield Street,
focfory Repre js- ealand. J. K. PILGRIM; .Shell House,
Te/race, Adelaide!. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St.. Perth.
B s A o R S ER Itd & % IfcW SSSSA
j?p HN Auckland Wdlingyon.Valmerston N- Christchurch. Dunedm.
»
I
PTY.
LTD.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 165,277 6 p.c. = 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO . . .. .. j- 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.c. = 167,809 J „ AO
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. • • 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938.. 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738.
, To provident and guarantee fund,
I £lO,OOO 1>178 738
1939.. 185,500 ‘ 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
Prom tax reserve, £25,000 • • • • 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,207,738
1940. . 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 190,276 64 p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. 1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 64 p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943.. 185,739 6| ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,225,060
1944.. 185,595 64 p.c.= 175,500 10,095 1,235,155
1945.. 168,180 6 „ „ 162,000 6,180 1,241,335
1946.. 163,438 6 „ ~162,000 1,488 1,242,773
This more-than-century-old woolbrok-
ing, pastoral-finance, agency and mer-
chandising organisation is strongest in its
home State (S. Aus.); it also has wide
and growing connections in Westralia and
Victoria, and the business keeps on ex-
panding. Last term stock-and-station
agency branches were opened at Geelong,
Hamilton, Horsham and Casterton (Vic.),
and all are reported to be doing well.
And new branches were added to the list
in S. Aus. and W.A., too. Also shipping—
pre-war the co. did a.large chartering busi-
ness —has once more taken its place as an
important part of the co.’s activities.
There has been a marked revival of acti-
vity in the merchandising section.
Furthermore, the enterprising manage-
ment has turned attention to India and
Malaya, and difficulty is already being ex-
perienced in fulfilling orders from these
countries. The difficulty is senseless in-
dustrial hold-ups by seamen, waterside
workers, miners and others, which are
thus impairing a handy contribution to
our national income, from abroad as well
as locally, and all the benefits that go with
it, including social security and a high
level of employment. It is unfortunate
but true that organised labor has yet to
realise that the national income is a com-
munity effort, to which all must make an
appropriate contribution, and that speed
in satisfying demand creates goodwill,
and goodwill helps to hold the market
(especially a foreign market) for a pro-
duct in the future.
Lack of buoyancy in profits over the
last two years has been due mainly to
drought, followed by heavy loss of live-
stock. In 1944 10,359,600 sheep were
pastured in S. Aus., the figure had fallen
to 8,473,900 in the following year, and
to 6,786,500 in March last. The co.’s own
wool receipts totalled 310,028 bales in
1944, 261,500 bales in 1945 and 227,797
bales last term, when the drop in earn-
ings from this source was more than offset
by expanding turnover in other sections
of the business. Gross earnings from all
sources (£901,651) stepped up £73,700.
Exes. (£738,213) took all the gain and
£4742 besides. Here the growth was due
partly to reinstatement of service per-
sonnel. The £163,438 of profit was 6 p.c.
on the £2,700,000 of capital as against
6.2, 6.8, 6.8, 6.9, 7, 7.4 and 7.8 p.c. back
to 1939. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
Prospects of shareholders receiving a bit
more are encouraging.
Most of S. Aus., Vic. and Westralia
are now in good pastoral condition,
thanks to satisfactory summer rains, fol-
lowed by more than average winter falls.
Last week the parched northern pastoral
areas of S. Aus. and the West Darling
received light falls. Lambing is expected
to result in an average marking of 75 p.c.,
and that means much so far as re-stocking
and meeting export and butchers’ require-
ments are concerned. Still, the number
of sheep shorn this season isn’t likely to
be much greater than last season, though
the clip per head should be heavier and
the staple more robust. The wool sales
have opened well, with bids in advance of
the Wool Realisation Commission’s re-
serve limits for most lots. Appearances
are that demand for the staple will re-
main strong for some time. The testing
time for wool as for other products will
be the end of sellers’ market conditions.
Aware of this the growing and using sides
of the industry are spending a lot of
money on research. Meanwhile, growers
are assured of orderly marketing with
minimum prices, thus relieving the pres-
sure of accumulated war-time stocks on
price levels. The chief fight will be against
seasons and costs.
Owing to seasonal conditions clients
leant on the co. for an extra £775,824
last term. To meet this and other outlay
liquids were drawn upon for £817,767 and
£142,265 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc.:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Deposits, etc. . . £935,509 £655,859 £627,454
Sundry creditors,'etc. 936,501 1,518,662 1,660,927
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 215,031 140,112
Freehold, plant, etc. 750,340 754,667 798,469
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 2,575,991 1,758,224
Advances, etc. . . 3,854,959 2,654,556 3,430,379
Stock .. .. 245,326 193,405 231,182
Shares other cos... 155,103 246,768 247,511
When the books closed Government
securities and cash alone amounted to
14s. 6d. in the £ of all outside liabilities.
So the co. is well equipped to further
assist clients.
For the pound shares paid to 12s. each
buyers offer 20s. 3d, (ceiling price), at
which figure the return is 3.5 p.c, on a
6 p.c, div. basis. The investor at 20s. 3d.
who looks for 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 7 p.c. div. The cover is 17s. 6d. in
net tangibles.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinarv Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£,£,£, £, £>
1938.. 149.312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940. .152,653 73,520 22,533 7 55 600 i ,097,482
To tax reserve, £lOOO J
1941.. 155,876 79,197 22,442 54,237 1,151,719
1942.. 156,221 84,427 22,777 49,017 1,200,736
1943.. 164,760 71,560 22,727 70,473 1,271,209
1944.. 174,547 74,673 26,425 73,449 1,344,658
Profit, sale assets, £3061 .. .. 1,347,719
1945.. 194,605 00,750 29,960 73,895 1,421,614
To staff fund, £3OOO . . .. 1,418,614
♦lncludes divs. to shareholders, 1937, £5OOO ;
1938- £2708 ; 1940-41, £2917; 1942,
£2000; 1943, £1827 ; 1944, £2066; 1945,
£2llB.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds, Funds.t
£ £ £ £ £
1938.. 227,462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888,675
1939.. 238,067 76,590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940.. 253,750 88,130 86,631 \ tq Ago 1 042.293
To tax reserve, £2500 1 1 ’ ’ ’ .
1941.. 262,563 94,016 86,161 82,386 1,124,684
1942.. 277,821 98,883 87,953 90,985 1,215,669
1943.. 297,725 113,582 92,211 91,932 1,307,601
1944.. 319,551 111,241 95,715 112,595 1,420,19(5
1945.. 347,484 124,708 97,987 124,789 1,544,985
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 1,537,485
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1937-38, £7500 ;
1939- £5000; 1942, £3OOO ; 1943, £3229 ;
1944, £3125; 1945, £2917.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Latest accounts of the 51-year-old
Metropolitan, which writes industrial and
ordinary contracts throughout N. S.
Wales, Queensland, Victoria and S. Aus.,
reflect steady progress and a healthy posi-
tion. A pleasing feature is the increas-
ing attention now being given to business
in the ordinary department. A record
amount of new business was written last
term (£1,016,598, up £144,532), of which
£623,423 (up £30,692) was industrial and
£393,175 (up £98,840) ordinary. The
latter amounted to 38.6 p.c. of the total
as against 28.2 p.c. two years earlier.
Assuming that new business is ten times
more expensive than old, last year’s new
contracts in the O.D. were written at a
cost of 86.9 p.c,, a very satisfactory figure.
That leaves taxation out of the reckon-
ing and allows only 3 p.c, for the cost of
single premiums and annuities. In the
O.D. the co. has to earn £9 for policy-
holders before shareholders become en-
titled to £l.
The forcing down of interest rates has
brought an all-round lowering of the
scale of bonuses to policyholders. This
is a.common experience, and it has re-
sulted mainly in placing more emphasis
on the security aspect of life assurance.
There is no substitute for the protection
afforded to the individual by a contract
with a sound life office. If benefits pay-
able at maturity under a with-profits con-
tract are to exceed the amount paid by
way of premiums, then the interest
earned pn the premiums must cover the
death risk and all other expenses associ-
ated with the contract, as well as pro-
vide a margin for bonuses. The Aus-
tralian type of bonus requires a rapid
release of surplus as the duration of the
policy increases. This need is met by a
low rate of valuation, which locks up in
the early years sums which would be
otherwise available as surplus and re-
leases them with interest at a later stage.
The Metropolitan lowered the basis of
valuation of its policy liabilities in the
O.D. from 3 p.c. to 2i p.c. in 1940 and
to p.c. (the most stringent rate now
used in Australia) in 1943. In the I.D.
the basis was lowered from 2>\ p.c. to
3 p.c. Last year’s net return (after de-
ducting taxation) on mean assurance
funds was £3 15s. 6d. p.c. compared
with £3 16s. Bd. for the previous term.
The actuary will make his next triennial
valuation at end 1946.
Combining the figures of both depart-
ments last year’s total income was
£542,089 (up £47,991), of which £431,781
(up £42,162) was from premiums and
£110,308 (up £5829) interest, rents, etc.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., sending £10,500 to the staff fund
and handing shareholders 10 p.c. (same
as for four preceding years), £192,684
was added to the assurance funds, rais-
ing them to £2,866,308. They have the
support and assistance of £96,072 of
other reserves as well as £50,000 of share
capital. Again excluding taxes, exes,
took 17.7 p.c. of,the O.D. premiums as
against 17.6 p.c. in the previous term.
Analogous I.D. figures were 32 p.c. and
34.3 p.c. respectively.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio in
tabloid form:
1944. P.c. 1945. P.c.
Freehold, etc. . . £247,960 8.7 £248,312 8.2
Govt, securities .. 2,124,917 74.2 2,320,148 75.8
Shares other cos... 55,356 1.9 79,766 2.6
Mortgages.. .. 247,716 8.6 241,358 7.9
Loans on policies 114,223 4.0 110,287 3.6
Book debts .. 57,113 2.0 51,797 1.7
Cash .. . . 16,149 0.6 6,819 0.2
Since war began available funds have
been channelled mostly into Government
securities (up £195,231 last term), which
accounted for. 75.8 p.c. of total assets
when the books last closed as against
59,7 p.c. six years earlier.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
, Dividends ■, To He- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936 .. 28,054 7J p.c. 7 p.c. 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. .. 184,254
1937 .. 19,070 74 p.c. 7J p.c. 14,906 4,164.188,448
1938' .. 18,848 74 „ 7\ „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 74 „ 7£ „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 .. 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 .. 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .v .. 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO 215,454
1943 .. 29,122 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,497 223,951
To staff fund, £7OOO 216,951
1944 .. 33,250 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 12,625 229,576
1945 .. 28,243 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 7,618 237,194
1946 .. 21,076 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 451 237,645
Like most other manufacturers, this
producer of knitted goods and hosiery has
the overflowing order books that go with
a sellers’ market, and it has the plant to
meet the demand, too. Yet it is unable
to deliver the goods. Lack of skilled
operatives, -mainly female, is the chief
bottleneck which is limiting both the
supply of yarn and output of finished pro-
ducts. Other factors responsible for the
continued recession in last term’s earn-
ings were a rise in the price of yarn and
a lift in female wage rates, neither of
which the co. was permitted to pass on,
its selling prices being fixed by official
edict. And, of course, there was the
übiquitous coal problem, which meant
the use of substitute fuel at greatly in-
creased cost.
The drop in earnings was more pro-
nounced than the figures in the table
suggest. The allowance for taxation
(£16,0*00) was reduced by £lO,OOO, and
that for depreciation (£16,571) by £3791.
The £21,076 netted was a moderate 4.7
p.c. on shareholders’ net tangible funds,
or 10.2 p.c. on capital alone compared
with 13.6, 16.1, 14.1, 13.7, 14, 13.9 and
8.5 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at an all-round 10 p.c. —the prefs. (there
are 10,000 of them f.-p. to 7s. 6d. each)
advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond p.c., and share in surplus
assets, which adds to their attraction as
an investment.
To help overcome the labor problem a
branch factory was set up at Hamilton
(Vic.) last term, and male is being sub-
stituted for female and adult for junior
labor. Exactly what effect this substitu-
tion will have upon costs remains to be
seen. In some cases output of male
operatives, after a period of training, has
exceeded that of female workers in jobs
traditionally regarded as the preserve of
women, thus helping to offset the higher
wage that the male worker commands.
And the difference between the two rates
is much narrower than it was pre-war.
Also, other factors enter into a compari-
son of costs besides crude wage rates.
These include the higher absentee rate
of women through illness and other
cause, and the rate of labor turnover,
owing to the comparatively short working
life of women after training on account
of marriage.
Finances are comfortable:
1941. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £206,250 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities .. 36,114 40,505 36,118 22,353
Tax reserve .. 15,919 27,259 32,145 23,909
Freeholds .. 108,008 137,939 130,983 130,068
Plant, etc. . . 74,530 84,448 105,441 98,807
Stocks .. 191,449 144,774 136,357 145,5*7
Book debts . . 62,102 65,739 76,451 53,855
Cash, etc. .. 47,572 72,299 76,209 75,584
The year’s hampered output again shows
up in a reduction of £22,596 in book
debts, which was accompanied by a
growth of £9220 in stocks and contrac-
tion of £13,765 in the amount coming to
trade creditors. The more or less liquid
surplus (£229,754) was £9OOO stronger
than at the previous balance.
At 18s. the f.-p. 7s. 6d. ords. return
4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change. Net tangible
cover is 16s. Id. all shares.


Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt
PATENTS, trade marks,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1595
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
8W4931 |
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SmiiVAN
trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business Opportunity.
Accredited, experienced and successful pros-
pector, exceptional knowledge of Western Aus-
tralian goldfields, desires to meet businessmen
interested in goldmining rehabilitation in
Western Australia, with view to forming a
prospecting syndicate. Assistance by Mines
Department, Perth, assured in any expedition
organised by me. Replies “Prospector,”
Bulletin office, Sydney,
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The ’'Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ĵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Cal! for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Credit
the Expansion
of Industry
THIS BANK is the bank for
some of the nation’s largest
businesses and for thousands of
small ones.
The Bank is engaged in help-
ing private business enterprise
to expand production and em-
ployment. It is supplying the
funds to many businesses for
plant construction, new mach-
ines, materials and the in-
creased pay-rolls that expan-
sion entails.
The Bank’s officers in Head
office, and in 308 Branches, will
be glad to discuss the question
of Credit with those desiring it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Ngahere Gold Dredging (M.L.)
Operating alluvial flats on the Grey
River, 18 miles from Greymouth (M.L.),
this co. has been a disappointment to
shareholders, who have so far gone
hungry. The property was bored to
average 3gr. gold per c.y., while recoveries
have varied from 30 p.c. to 65 p.c. of bore
values. Exhaustive tests have shown that
the 350,000-c.y.-per-month dredge is re-
covering an exceptionally high percen-
tage of the gold in ground treated. The
fact must be faced, therefore, that the
full estimated value of 3gr. per yard is
not there. Here are operating results over
the last half-dozen years:
Ground Bore , Recovery
Dredged, Value, Fine Profit.
O.y. C.y. C.y. Oz. £
1940.. 2,661,888 S.QOgr. 1.07 gr. 5916 9,182
1941.. 2,606,959 4.31 gr. 1.32 gr. 7397 16,388
1942.. 2,935,345 2.69 gr. 1.30 gr. 7981 18,721
1943.-2,555,479 2.43 gr. 1.58 gr. 8409 22,637
1944.. 2,137,365 -2.94 gr. 1.43 gr. 6397 3,872
1945.. 1,854,733 3.89 gr. 1.84 gr. 7134 13,403
Shrinkage in the 1944 figures was due
primarily to decreasing efficiency of the
old bucket band. Halfway through last
term operations ceased for nearly eight
weeks, owing to replacement of the band
and overhaul of the dredge, to the bene-
fit of operating costs and recoveries. The
latter are now a shade over 2gr. per c.y.,
and weekly bullion production is averag-
ing about 200 oz. This and recent aboli-
tion of the war-time gold tax in Maori-
land —it rose from 18s. 3d. to 225, 2d. and
then fell to 11s. lOd. an ounce in 1945 —
have enhanced shareholders’ prospects of
a moderate return. There is about
17,930,000 c.y., or a little over seven years’
work ahead of the dredge. On the basis
of a 45 p.c. recovery of bore values, the
lot is expected to average I.2gr. Paid
capital is £205,000 in 200,000 £1 ords.
and 100,000 Is. deferreds, which rank
equally with the ords., except for return
of capital. When the books closed cash,
bullion, etc., totalled £3571 ; outside debt
£15,445. The market prices the ords. at
10s. 9d. (ss. six months ago), and the de-
ferreds at ss. 3d.
A couple of 1914-18 Digger brothers,
R. and P. Morris, have run into a tin
lode near the old Boundary and Great
Western leases at Watsonville, out from
Herberton (Q.), described by Mines In-
spector Jolly as “phenomenal.” Develop-
ment is rudimentary at present, but signs
indicate a lode 10ft. wide, 13ft. high and
running 40 p.c. tin oxide. The brothers
called their show the Elaine Mary, and
its discovery has stirred things up in the
district. There’s a fair bit of prospecting
and. surveying going on in the north just
now for tin, lead, gold and gem stones —
the 29dwt. sapphire recently found at
Willows Field (C.Q.) brought an offer
of £lOOO, which was refused.
* * * *
Gold Prospecting and Development,
formed in Melbourne in 1935 to hunt for
the yellow metal in New Britain and else-
where, has decided to exercise its option
over E. G. Banks’s Mount Todd gold-
mine, Pine Creek (N.T.), where prospect-
ing ceased in 1942, owing to war develop-
ments. Sampling over a length of 1400 ft.
is said to have disclosed values averaging
13.5dwt. over a width of There is
reckoned to be 80,000 tons of “proved
and probable” ore to a depth of 250 ft. A
co. is to be formed to work the show.
The sophisticated investor will need a lot
more information to make the proposi-
tion attractive.
* * * *
Latest annual statement of Freney Oil
Co. (W.A.) shows that money is still
going out, and nothing coming in. In-
cluding £1057 written off, accounts for
year to June last show a loss of £3446,
increasing the debit on operating account
to £91,427. At balance date cash and
bonds totalled £6618. Co. then owed
£46,875 to the Government. More Gov-
ernment assistance has since been sought,
but conditions under which it was offered
were not acceptable to the Board. Share-
holders meet soon to discuss the matter.
It is now 25 years since the hunt for oil
began on Freney areas. “Traces” and
“favorable formations” have been re-
ported from time to time, but so far no
pools have been struck.
* * * *
Tindals Gold Mines, Ltd. (London),
proposes to issue 3,586,666 new Is. ster-
ling shares to both noteholders and share-
holders. Present issued capital is to be
cut in half, reducing it to £224,000, by
writing Is. off each old 2s. share. Subject
to Court sanction, holders of £25,000 of
10 p.c. five-year convertible notes, which
were due for repayment on June 30,1945,
will be offered 600,000 of the new shares
at the rate of £l2O face value for each
£lOO note in full satisfaction of prin-
cipal, premium of 12 p.c. and accrued
interest. Holders not accepting will be
paid in cash. Shareholders are to be
offered 2,986,666 of* the new shares, two
for three, at par The new
money is wanted to enable the subsidiary
(Consolidated Gold Mines of Coolgardie)
to resume operations at Tindals mine,
Coolgardie (W.A.). U.K. Treasury has
consented to the issue, and application
has been made to the London Stock Ex-
change for permission to deal in the
shares.
* * * *
Imperial Gold Mines (W.A.) is look-
ing for a “promising goldmining pro-
perty.” At the end of June last it had
£6OBO cash and £1350 of Commonwealth
stock. In 1935 the co. did some diamond-
drilling and development on the Aberdare
and Idaho blocks, near the Lake View
group, at the southern end of the Golden
Mile. Results were not up to expecta-
tions, and operations ceased in 1937.
Some Broken Hill (N.S.W.) leases
acquired in 1936 were also discarded.
* * * *
Westralian gold output of 87,563 fine
ounces for August was the best monthly
return since October, 1942, when the
figure was 88,8320 z. With four months
to go, this year’s yield is now only some
80,000 oz. short of the total for the 12
months of 1945. The total ,for 1946
looks like being at least 150,0000 z. ahead
of 1945. On the other hand there is a
growing need for new mines, to take the
place of those closed down since 1939
and others about to do so.
* * * *
Hill 50, the only locally-owned West-
ralian goldmining co. at present on the
distributing list, announces another six-
penny div., payable October 18. Direc-
tors are hopeful of continuing to give
shareholders something every now and
then, but the district (Mt. Magnet) is
one where it is a gamble to count golden
chickens before they are hatched.
* * * *
Burbidge (W.A.) announces that its mill
is running again, and that a monthly
throughput of 2000 tons, “the profitable
minimum for average grade ore,” is
aimed at. This statement has pleased
the market.


Good hotels serve
r ;«Uc liki l thlS •
T>
->■
\ I
COLD
The invigorating effect of cold tem-
perature on the palate brings out
the spirit's keen, pleasant flavour.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
SPARKLING
Glasses that are clean and sparkling
have a refreshing effect on the eye,
and are hygienic too.
j
ĵ
j
IN SIZEABLE GLASSES
Sizeable glasses leave ample room
for the customer to add plenty of
water or minerals if he wants to.
Inserted on Behalf of the Brands of
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., The Distillers Corporation Pty. Ltd., and Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd.
WB/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
AUSTRALIAN FILMS.
“The Overlanders,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is a vigorous and interesting out*
door piece, the best yet made in these
parts and considerably better than much
of the imported stuff of the same kind.
It is pleasant to note that most of
the improbabilities and melodrama re-
corded in the Red Page review of
The Overlanders, the book based on
the film, have either been excised from
or do not occur in the latter.
It was also recorded at the time that the
book indicated a “documentary” film, but
it’s as difficult to determine what claims
the film has to that quality as it is to de-
cide what latitude fiction fairly allows
with historical and geographical facts.
The present commentator, admittedly al-
ways disturbed by any mass movement
of the landscape, was slightly concerned
to find that the film had rearranged the
Northern Territory rather like a jig-saw
puzzle that doesn’t fit. The cattle in the
film are presumably following the stock
route through the Victoria River district
and across the Barkly Tableland, so, al-
though it is most impressive, it is also a
little startling to see parts of the Mac-
Donnell Ranges, or something very like
them, towering out of the Barkly, where,
according to geography, there is only
mile after flat mile of Mitchell and
Flinders grasses.
Those and other minor discrepancies —
such as pandanus palms and a crocodile-
infested river on the stock route east of
the north-south road, and the appearance
of a white-washed pub at Anthony
Lagoon—will probably matter most to
Territorians, less to Australians generally,
and not at all to overseas audiences. But
they do make suspect any other docu-
mentary qualities to which the film may
aspire, or on which it may be accepted—
not being a drover the writer is unable
to comment on the advisability, practica-
bility or probability of drovers dismount-
ing and standing Horatius-like in front of
a 1000 head of thirsty, charging cattle to
turn them from crashing on to a boggy
lagoon.
One further inaccuracy likely to be
accepted without question by overseas
audiences and one which should be cor-
rected is the inference that settlers in the
north reacted to the threat of Jap invasion
by puncturing their water tanks, burning
their homesteads and lighting out with
their families per horse and buggy for
the south. The movement of cattle across
the Territory to the eastern coast was not
a mass evacuation, or the alternative
to shooting them where they stood;
it was simply the delivery of beef
to parts where it was urgently needed.
There may have been a disordered
exodus from a few panic-stricken
towns, but the main reaction of cattlemen
in the north was to send the missus and
the kids south —if they would go—and go
on with the business of raising cattle.
Some northerners who were forcibly
moved from areas considered dangerous
or taken over by the services were as hard
to dislodge as a bullock from a bog.
Such documentary qualities aside, the
film is a good stretch of fiction —a loose,
sprawling narrative about the shifting of
a 1000 head of cattle more than halfway
across Australia. It doesn’t call for any
great human drama and there’s not much
in it, but the magnificent sweeping scenes
of central Australia, of cattle stampedes,
of horse-breaking and of working a mob
over the river are dramatic on their own
account and as Australian as some of
Chips Rafferty’s remarks.
The characters are traditional film types
with a dash of authentic Australian and
the acting, if not completely natural, is
acceptable. Chips Rafferty, good in ap-
pearance, is a little too blatant in manner
for the taciturn, laconic boss drover to
which he aspires—John Nugent Hayward
as his offsider is closer to the truth
but near enough for the purposes of
fiction, as are the performances of Jean
Blue and John Fernside in mildly exag-
gerated portrayals of Hayward’s wife
and a comic ne’er-do-well. A sailor
freshly turned drover is a difficult speci-
men to categorise and would probably be
uncomfortable in any circumstances;
Peter Pagan makes him a pleasantly
spoken, natural young fellow. Equally
natural are Daphne Campbell, as the
girl in the piece, and Helen Grieve, as the
juvenile ditto. Clyde Combo and Henry
Murdoch, two aborigines, are pretty close
to the authentic articles.
Since the best qualities of the film are
mainly in its scenes of action and land-
scape it goes without saying that the
photography is almost as important as the
story. Osmond Borradaile, Karl Kayser,'
Bill Trerise and Axel Poignant were the
men on the job, and their renderings of
the broad sweep of country and its
strange, old hills, of the seething struggle
and, almost, the sound of the river cross-
ing and the stampede are as expressive as
any line or actor in the film. A long-
distance shot of horse-breaking beside
a lagoon is a classic in lighting and com-
position.
"A Son Is Born."
When, oh, when, will aspiring Aus-
tralian film producers realise that good
film drama is based on sound literary
values of story and character? In the
current Australian film, “A Son Is Born”
(Victory), produced and directed by Eric
Porter, Mr. Porter has wasted a con-
siderable amount of ability on a domestic
melodrama as full of bathos as it is of
improbability.
Muriel Steinbeck, as the wife who
leaves an unbearable home and husband
(Peter Finch), Ron Randell, as her son
turned against her and eventually brought
to the light after being wounded in
Guinea, and John McCallum, as her
second husband, are all good within the
limits of the narrative. Some scenes taken
in New Guinea by the late Damien
Parer are excellent in themselves, but
their authenticity exposes the falseness
of the battle scenes obviously taken
within crow’s flight of Sydney.
Yet, despite the fact that it is not as
entertaining, “A Son Is Born” shows
more promise for Australian films than
other recent productions, Mr. Porter has
been accused of poor cutting or sub-edit-
ing, but in that field he romps home ahead
of any recent Australian film. Bad cut-
ting manifests itself in superfluous scenes,
poor continuity and unnecessary linger-
ing on scenes that appeal more to the
filmsmith than the audience. The three
faults were obvious in “Smithy and prop
up occasionally in “The Overlanders, but
Mr. Porter unfolds his story with very
capable directing and with admirable
economy of scene and dialogue ; three
scenes only are superfluous to the story
such as it is.
If only Mr. Porter had selected some
story or play of real literary merit, some-
thing with credible characters and situa-
tions, he would almost certainly have
produced the best Australian film to date.
He may yet do it if he gets on to the right
material —apart from his choice of story,
he shows the most independent and
promising approach to the business of
making films that this commentator has
seen in Australian productions.
Hephzibah Menuhin.
In two fine Melbourne concerts by
pianist Hephzibah Menuhin and the
Queensland State String Quartet —Ernest
Llewellyn, Harold Taberner, David
Powell and Don Howley—there were
six quintets, the most exciting of
which was the burning cry of Bloch, the
son of the Jewish clockmaker of Geneva,
and the most melodious and haunting
that of the Englishman Elgar. The Queens-
land players showed themselves as a sensi-
tive combination. Miss Menuhin, who as
a soloist is probably as distinguished as
her brother, displayed that rarest of
qualities amongst virtuosi an ability to
lose herself in the music and form part
of a whole that was greater than herself
and her colleagues.
* * * *
Having disappointed his Melbourne
admirers once by singing when he appar-
ently had an attack of laryngitis or some-
thing, Georges Thill, the French tenor,
made handsome amends by giving a final
concert at the Town Hall, at which he
was in such fine voice that doubts about
his qualifications as a singer were dis-
pelled as if by magic. His French songs
were all in the national tradition, but they
have seldom been given in such accom-
plished fashion, and if he didn’t sing his
Italian songs in the Italian fashion, he
sang them in his own attentive way,
which was possibly even more effective.
Artbursts.
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, has a
Spring Exhibition, consisting of a. remark-
able array of painters: Alfred Cook,
Carrington Smith, Garrick Fox, Margaret
Preston, Robert Johnson, Gordon Esling,
S. Woodward-Smith, Paul Jones, Frank
McNamara, Charles Conder, E. J.
Poynter, George W. Lambert, Daryl
Lindsay, Leopard Long, Adrian Feint,
Lance Solomon, Elioth Gruner, Penleigh
Boyd, Walter Withers, Tom Roberts,
Frederick McCubbin, Douglas Dundas,
Will Ashton, Arthur Murch, Maud Mc-
Kenzie, Laurence Carr, William Dobell,
Streeton and A. E. Newbury. A nice
mingling of old and new, but despite the
names the exhibition is a poor one.
There is a pleasant flowerpiece by Tom
Roberts, an unassuming study in red and
yellow against a dark background; an
academic but competent portrait by
Dobell; a nice piece of red road by Lance
Solomon, and a commonplace painting,
“Fresh Day” ; a pleasant “Bush Idyll” by
Walter Withers. The Gruners are mere
bits and pieces.
* * * *
Alan Moore, who was commissioned by
Canberra to paint the horrors of Belsen
and other pestilential detritus of the Nazi
regime in Europe, doesn’t show those pic-
tures in his exhibition at George’s, Mel-
bourne. He shows some fine, cold Italian
landscapes in which you can feel the
freezing weather; the can-can in Paris;
and bits of Victoria and Sydney. In most
of his pictures he exhibits a more than
ordinary versatility and control of his
medium.
» * * *
Judged by his exhibition at Sedon’s,
Melbourne, Tasmanian Max Angus likes
old buildings, fishing-boats., morning fogs
and quiet autumnal evenings. He
paints them very nicely, though a bit too
much in terms of the watercolor conven-
tion which leaves spots of bare paper
about in an irritating manner. “Mists on
Mount Wellington” and “May Evening
show more feeling than most of the others.
* * * ♦
At a distance the pastels of Will
Eager, at the Myer Gallery, Mel-
bourne, might be mistaken for oil
paintings. He gets a depth into them
which could only come from the quality
of his observation, which is superior to
that of many who use oil pigments. A
view of a bush track with the shadows
of trees falling across it has the richness
of a good impression.


The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING PARTS
ARE DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
ALL GEAR TEETH ARE GENERATED.
ĵ
j
Illustrated literature from
ĵ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., IS9 Clarence St., Sydney.
Victoria: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 a Sydney Road, Brunswick. Queensland:
Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann St., Brisbane. New Zealand: Motor Specialities,
Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
• • • eliminate
the main cause...
excess URIC ACID
with
SM MIS
Rheumatism is often caused through Weak
Kidneys permitting excess uric acid to
escape and collect in the system.
Correct this condition—help your Kidneys
back to proper functioning by taking
GIN PILLS.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly on the
Kidneys, stimulating their actidn, reliev-
ing inflammation. They quickly help your
Kidneys to work normally again, filtering
out accumulated poisons from your body,
and so bring relief from Rheumatic pains.
27 pills, 1/9 —60 pills, 2/9.
DR. SHELDON'S
j
j
j
Don’t put up with Rheuma-
tism any longer—get quick
relief by taking a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
j
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Racing at Rosehill on Saturday was right
up to spring standard. It was a choice day
for it, and there were some grand finishes,
the judge having to call on the camera in four
of the eight events, including the main Quality-
Hawkesbury Handicap double.
Fields in both chief events gave the starter
trouble, favorite Dowborough being the worst
offender in the Quality. Sent to the outside,
Dowborough’s liveliness proved an asset; he
was on the move as the barrier rose and soon
clear. Once again he gave them something to
catch, but once again was caught. Showing
great improvement, Victory Lad produced a
rare burst over the final furlong and, though
dying in his run at the finish, was in front
when the camera caught them. Murray Stream
was third, and Puffham a game fourth.
The Epsom appears to be a question of what
can beat Shannon, and the one most likely
to do so may be Puffham. The Lackham six-
year-old appeals because of his handy weight
(8.4), his proven class and, most particularly,
his ability to secure and maintain a good
position throughout. Shannon, on the other
hand, is almost certain to be a long way from
the front in the early stages, and may be set
too great a task under 9.9. He achieved the
near-impossible last year, but if he is as badly
placed half a furlong from home this time
it would be hard for him to win with almost
a stone extra to carry. Puffham is not essen-
tially a helter-skelter front runner. He has won
over the Randwick mile carrying 10.1, and on
that occasion was ridden behind a pacemaker.
Of the others, the most likely are Blue
Legend and Cold Shower. At Randwick, which
he favors, Cold Shower may prove more than
31b. better than Blue Legend. So for the
Epsom: Puffham, 1; Shannon, 2; Cold
Shower, 3.
The Metropolitan looks a much more open
race. Some of the host of “possibles” had a
run in the 11-furlongs Hawkesbury Handicap,
in which Craigie, with 9st. aboard, had a
rattling good win. It was an exceptionally big
field for the type of race, with Peter, Bon
Terre and other cranky customers trying the
starter’s patience. Craigie settled down well
back in the field and did not ■'begin to move
up till the half-mile was passed. In the straight
he made a game showing under the big weight,
just overhauling the lightly-weighted Invictus
and Air Flare as they reached the post. With
a change of jockeys, Air Flare was ridden a
back-to-front race, which didn’t suit him.
Craigie looks to have struck his best form,
and hence must be one of the hardest to beat
in the Metrop.; but Air Flare has been brought
along nicely and should be seen at. his best on
Monday; moreover, he’ll be meeting Craigie
on 81b. better terms than the pair met on
Saturday. The favorite, Good Idea, is un-
doubtedly a good horse at a distance, but his
recent runs have been in sprint events, which
doesn’t encourage one to accept short odds
about him for the 13 furlongs. Also strongly
fancied, Silver Link will no doubt run a good
race, but his record in important handicaps
in the past suggests that he’s either very un-
lucky or not good enough. Of the lightweights,
Open Air and Invictus would seem the most
likely. If in a better mood, Peter will test any
of them. So, for the Metropolitan: Air Flare,
1; Craigie, 2; Peter, 3.
Brisbane’s leading jockey of last season, W.
Briscoe, had a great day at Rosehill. Victory
Lad and Craigie were two of his mounts, and
earlier he won the Three-year-old Handicap
on Proctor, downing Tamasha and Sweet
Chime. None of the more fancied Derby can-
didates contested this nine-furlongs event.
Euryalus was top-weight with 9.5, but neither
his appearance nor showing suggested any
chance in, the Derby, which appears to be
between Prince Standard, Prince Consort, Fly-
ing Duke and possibly Two Grand, whom
we’ll have in that order.
Doughnut (H. McCloud) had to survive a
photo, finish before receiving the verdict over
Regal Step and Buonarroti Boy in the first
division of the Novice, but Regal Light (E.
Fordyce) had a clear margin over Lord Ivan
and Busiris in the second. Similarly, in the
Trial Handicap, the camera was necessary to
separate Star Vite (F. Williams), Count Cosmo
and Bowturn from the half dozen who went
over the line together in the first division, but
in the second division Happy Ways clearly
accounted for Winfate and Pennicuik. Wind-
mg up the day on a happy note for the books,
Chatlock (G. Podmore), at 20 to 1, downed
Gay Monarch and Hall Stand. The last-named
seemed to take a bad bump, and may not
yet be a spent force.
* * * *
For other Randwick races (before accep-
tances): —,
Trial Stakes: Quadrant, 1; Torment, 2; Man
at Arms, 3. Breeders’ Plate : Temeraire, 1; Deep
Sea, 2; Bikini, .3. Colin Stephen Stakes:
Craigie, 1; Flight, 2; Good Idea, 3. Squatters’
Handicap; Air Flare, 1; Open Air, 2; Invictus,
3. Kensington Handicap : Homeleigh Dick, 1;
Gay Monarch, 2; Action, 3.
* * * *
Tried in Sydney in the autumn as a two-
year-old, the Kinderscout colt Bold Beau failed
in the Sires’ Produce and Champagne Stakes,
but Sydney invaders might find him a tougher
opponent in the Victoria Derby. On Saturday,
having his first run since those Sydney failures,
Bold Beau won the Moonee Valley Stakes
(1 mile) with a fine finishing run. He had only
a neck to spare over Assam, with Tribunal a
couple of lengths back, but it was a most
convincing win. It showed once more the mis-
leading nature of always-boomed winter form,
such winners as Sea Monarch and Stormy Sea
being among the also-rans. When Melbourne
Cup possibilities have sorted themselves out a
bit more Bold Beau is likely to be prominent
in what are left. He looks safe for the Caulfield
Guineas.
The 10-furlongs Quality Handicap might be
best forgotten as a guide to anything. It was
won by Contact, who probably voted before
going to the course, and who at the Mentone
meeting a couple of days earlier was an
utter no-hoper in the Ascot Thousand. Noble
Prince and Night Guardian filled the places in
the Quality, with such performers as Don
Pedro, Valcurl and Four Freedoms following
in that order and the early Melbourne Cup
fancy, Knockarlow, still further back. Both
An if that doesn't get rid of your slice, Peter, nothing will!"
Don Pedro and Valcurl are pretty certain to
do a lot better before the month’s out. It was
furlongs too short for Knockarlow.
The Dhoti colt Gotham at last ran up to
earlier promise by downing Royal Tan, Amelia
and other three-year-olds in the 10-furlongs
Pascoe Handicap. It was a close finish, with
necks between the place-getters, and Royal
Tan, a gelding by Royal Chief, shaped very
promisingly.
The Sydney sprinter Oriental was backed
like a certainty for the six-furlongs Nulla Nulla
Highweight, but another ex-Sydney performer,
Enthuse, upset the plunge. Badger getting her
through on the rails in time to down 50-to-l
chance Guraki by half a head, with Oriental
a very close third. Now that she has struck
winning form it may pay to remember that
Enthuse is a capable miler.
Though all winners except Contact were well
backed, the only actual favorite to land the
money was Garofil in the Steeple. The distance
event, the Corroboree Handicap (13 furlongs),
was comfortably won by Pledget from Sir
Actor and Sir Marfield.
• * * *
Most striking performance at the Thursday
meeting at Mentone was the ex-Queensland
four-year-old Black Law’s win in the mile
Kaliiwatta Handicap. Black Law defeated
Invasion Chief by three lengths, and looks
sure to go on winning. A disappointment was
Melbourne Cup favorite On Target’s failure
to get a place in the Ascot Thousand, but the
form looked too bad to be taken seriously.
* * * *
Highest price paid at the Newmarket (Eng.)
September yearling sales was 16,000 guineas,
handed over by the Maharaja of Baroda for
a chestnut colt by Nearco from Eleanor Cross,
by Hyperion. A. bay filly by Hyperion from
Cinnamon, by Obliterate, went to Lord Rose-
bery for 8500 guineas, and 7000 guineas
changed hands for a Blue Peter colt from
Gold Apple, an unraced mare. Aggregate re-
turns for the two days were slightly below
last year’s.
Imported from Ireland, Spam ran last in
Bemborough’s Chelmsford Stakes at Randwick
and again last in Victory Lad’s Quality Handi-
cap at Rosehill, and what value an imported
gelding can have to Australian racing looks very
small. A mare that was imported with Spam
could be a different proposition. Some Irish
breeding at the moment looks pretty good, its
products including The Bug, rated, on the
strength of a great win in the Nunthorpe Stakes
at York in August, the champion sprinter of
the year on the English turf. London “Times”
chronicled the win as “one of the finest sprint-
ing performances ever put up by a three-year-
old.” By Signal Light from Flying Meteor,
a mare just about as fast as her name, The
Bug is a massive-quartered chestnut colt with
three white socks, one extra high: Spam runs
to the suspect four, high ones at that. Last
week The Bug won the Diadem Stakes at Ascot.
* * * *
In the second R.U. Test the Aus-
tralians, though playing a vastly improved
game, were still not quite good enough,
M.L. winning 14-10. It was the Maori-
land fullback’s goal-kicking that decided
it: he scored 11 points. Australia’s best
were C. Windon, Terry Macßride and
Cyril Burke, the last-named the most im-
proved player in the team. Earlier in the
week a Maori team trounced Australia 20
to nil. They certainly know their football
across the Tasman, and Australian R.U.
should be all the better for the tuition.
* * * *
Election day and a prospect of rain
reduced the crowd that watched the pre-
liminary V.F.L. final to barely 60,000,
but they saw a great game in which the
tired Collingwood team —it had played
two strenuous semi-finals —led Melbourne
for three quarters and then went down by
13 points in a slashing finish. ’Wood’s
pace and neat handball beat Melbourne
in the early stages, but when players like
Murphy and Kyne tired the big Mel-
bourne men were too strong and went on
to win by 16.17 to 14.16. Melbourne
has improved remarkably over the past
few weeks after just managing to make
the “four,” and on present form should
make the “grand final” against Essen-
don next Saturday a fitting end to a
good season.
About 25,000 watched the semi-final
between Sandringham and Williamstown
in the V.F.A. competition and most of
them had laryngitis and palpitations at
the finish when Sandringham won by a
point—l6.l9 to 16.18. The winners play
Camberwell for the premiership,
* * ♦ ♦
Walter Hammond, in good fettle when
he stepped off the Stirling Castle at
Fremantle, said of his team that “every
man was a serviceman” and the team
comprised “17 batsmen, 17 bowlers and
17 wicketkeepers.” Quite rightly from
the players’ point of view, a ban was
placed on pressmen entering the team’s
dressing-room. This led to some news-
paper whining, but cricket will be none
the worse.
Hammond’s continued top form is
something to marvel at. Adding this
year’s figures to the tally at the end of
the 1939 season (first-class matches were
put aside during the war), he has scored
48,928 runs in 970 innings, 103 not outs,
at the excellent average of 56.43. Only
Hobbs (61,221), Woolley (58,969), Hen-
dren (57,610), Mead (55,060), W. G.
Grace (54,896) and Sutcliffe (50,127) were
above him prior to this season.
* * •* *
Alec Marks, now handling the secre-
taryship of N.S.W. Rugby Union, so well
done for many years by Jeff Noseda,
plays cricket for Randwick, and at foot-
ball has coached Parramatta. Marks had
his first Sheffield Shield game v. Victoria
in January, 1929, when he scored 56 ; in
1936 v. Queensland he rattled up 201 out
of 376, and altogether he has piled up
1428 runs, av. 35.70, in shield games. He
will be 36 on December 10.
♦ * * *
Jim Puckett, winner of the “best and
fairest” Capp medal in S.A. baseball, is
brother to Charles P., who has the re-
markable record of winning the corre-
sponding award in Victoria and Westralia
and the S.A. one also. N
* * * *
There is one thing about these Malay
pugs —they fight. Kid Pancho, a feather-
weight, never stopped throwing punches
at Ted Sprouster in their Leichhardt
headliner, and sometimes scored with
swings till Sprouster found an answer to
them. The paleface began to do some
fighting on his own account in the sixth
round, and just before the eighth ended
two right uppercuts rattled Pancho per-
ceptibly. Floored for “three” by another
right in the ninth, Pancho missed with a
left swing and fell into the press seats.
Assisted back inside the ropes, he swung
more furiously than ever, but Sprouster
kept outboxing him, and the North Syd-
ney featherweight won a well-received
decision.
Les Fuller did almost as much butting
as punching in his argument with Mel-
bourne lightweight Alby McCarthy at the
Sydney Stadium, and after repeated
cautions he was disqualified in the fourth
round. He had had rather the better of
the punching.


A SIGN..TO
REMEMBER
Marketers of: “C.O.R Plus” Motor Spirit • “CORALITE” Lamp
Kerosene • “C.O.R” Power Kerosene • “C.O.R Light Diesoleum”
• “C.O.R” Diesel Oils • “C.O.R” Fuel and Bunker Oils
CI2-12
j
PUBLIC 7 TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
IT'S YOUR J 0
I
fomcrke
iheir/uture
secure
row
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//eac/off/ce:37/-373Queen ft, Srisfiane
WINCELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
CQLLINS HOUSE. COLUNS_ST I _J^E^BDUBNE^
R. V. PERKINS, Genera! Manager
Business,Rollouy,Etc.
The Cost of the War
Up to August 31 this year the 1939-45
war had cost Australia £340 a head, of
which £132 was paid out of taxation and
£2OB from borrowed money. Figures are
based on the present population of about
7,400,000 people. Total cost to the. date
mentioned was £2518 million, financed,
as to million, by taxation, and, as
to £1,541 million, by loans.
By August 31 this year actual hostilities
had been over by more than a year, but
the of expenses to the 1939-45
war account still goes on. These expenses
include pay of the forces still mobilised,
their maintenance, transport costs, de-
ferred pay to servicemen discharged,
pensions, interest on the relevant war
debt, losses on the Government’s coastal
shipping operations, subsidies granted to
keep prices down and a multitude of mis-
cellaneous items that are hardly distin-
guishable as “war” costs.
At June, 1945, total cost of war stood
at £2lll million. A year later it had
risen to £2489 million. The increase
would have been greater but for the fact
that during the year to June 30 last there
were large recoveries in cash from pre-
vious years’ expenditures. During the first
two months of 1946-47 recoveries con-
tinued to offset current “war” outgo to
a large extent.
Total taxation, including State, borne
by the population, rose from £l7 19s. 6d.
a head in 1938-39 to £49 Is. a head in
1944-45. Commonwealth enactions, in
total, have increased as follows, allowing
for reimbursement of income tax and
entertainments tax to the States:
1938-39. 1945-46.
£ £
Customs and excise 47,632,000 77,961,000
Sales tax 9,308,000 33,600,000
Flour tax 1,809,000 1,780,000
Land tax 1,489,000 3,782,000
Income tax .. .. 11,882,000 181,900,000
Payroll tax .... 11,499,000
Estate duty .. .. 1,915,000 3,880,000
Gift duty 393,000
Gold excise .... 384,000
Entertainments tax .. 4,304,000
Miscellaneous .. .. 2,780,000 7,209,000
76,815,000 326,692,000
The growth in income tax (up to 1945-
46) has been of the order of 15 times the
pre-war levy. The national debt on
March 31 this year stood at £2BlB million.
At June 30, the total was £1295
million. Nearly all the growth during the
war has been on Commonwealth account.
Growth in the interest bill on the debt
has not been so marked, owing to a de-
cline in the average rate of interest from
£3 16s. per cent, at June 30, 1939, to
£2 17s. 4d. per cent, at March 31, 1946.
The annual bill in the same time rose
from £46 million to £7Bi million. It will
be seen that, because of lower interest
rates, the interest bill has increased by
only 70 p.c., whereas the debt has gfown
by 120 p.c. At the same time, over £3OO
million of the increased debt is in the
form of Treasury bills carrying only 1 p.c.
interest, and if this debt is eventually
funded it will have to be converted at a
higher rate.
By reason of the extensive use of bank
credit in financing war spending, and be-
cause of high wages paid to workers en-
gaged in the manufacture of munitions
instead of consumer goods, the spending
power of the public grew from £613
million at June 30, 1939, to £1516 million
in June, 1946. This excessive banking-up
of spending-power has introduced infla-
tionary effects into our economy, and al-
ready citizens are paying an additional
"Woo), sir, wouldn't you like me to invest your money for you?"
war-time tax in the nature of an increased
cost of living.
As a result of the progressive inflation
in living expenses, what would have cost
£1 to buy in 1914 cost 275. in 1939 and
335. (according to the Statistician’s index)
in the first quarter of this year. But most
people will agree that living costs during
the recent war rose considerably more
than statistics indicate, and that war-time
savings to be spent in the post-war period
will buy little more than half what they
would in 1914. The same inflation in
living costs also affects the value of life-
assurance policies upon maturity.
Australia and Empire Policy
Addressing the Rotary Club in Bris-
bane, L. J. McConnan, chief manager
of the National Bank of Australasia,
recalled the chaotic conditions that
accompanied various aspects of world
trade before the war, and the tariff and
currency wars that were a feature of
the period. Britain and America had
determined, well before the end of the
recent war, to devise methods whereby
post-war trade could be made to flow
freely. To achieve this end three major
proposals had been put forward in the
shape of the U.S. loan to Britain, the
Bretton Woods Agreement, and the
U.S. proposal, accepted by Britain, for
the holding of an early international
trade conference. As to the dollar loan
to Britain, Mr. McConnan expressed the
view that it could be regarded as (1) an
understanding and generous gesture by
one great nation to another, and (2) as
evidence of determination by both these
countries to do something practical in
the way of restoring international trade.
Both were prepared to take risks towards
achieving a great end. Mr. McConnan
went on to say:
What is Australia’s part in all this? I have
an uncomfortable feeling that she is not sure
of herself, not' sure of the path she should
follow. I can readily understand a certain
amount of caution, but I think we have been
cautious enough, and are in danger of going
too far in our aloofness. It is a losing game
to go on hunting on the outskirts of the pack.
Certainly we should be delating ourselves
by now. I have no hesitation in saying that
Australia should be forthright, in word and
in deed, in declaring that her economic destiny
lies in playing her part as an important unit
of the British Empire. One gets the reply,
of course: “We are a member of the Empire.”
But are we really acting as such? We readily
accept the benefits, economic and otherwise,
of Empire membership, but I am by no means
so sure we give in return as much-as we should.
I have no recollection, for instance, of any
specific national effort by us to contribute to
the food and other urgent post-war problems
of the Empire’s Mother. Nor do I • see any
active desire to join with Great Britain in her
mighty efforts to settle the machinery for the
flow of international trade. We are one of the
nine countries out of the original 44 who still
have not joined in the Bretton Woods Agreement.
Of course Bretton Woods has its objections.
Of course membership of the Monetary Fund
involves risk and imposes responsibility, but
we can’t hope for something for nothing. I
calculate the pros to exceed the contras. I
should say, on balance, quite irrespective of
our Empire obligations, that Australia would
be well advised to sign the Bretton Woods
Agreement. .And having regard to our,Empire
obligations, I have not the slightest doubt we
should sign. Politically, socially and econo-
mically, we are inextricably bound to Great
Britain and the Empire. If one wishes to be
purely material, let him remember that Great
Britain always has • been, still is, and shows
every sign of continuing to be, our best
customer. Whichever way one looks at it, I
aver that our greatest prospect of future
economic strength rests in our ability to con-
tribute to the economic strength <jf the British
Empire. And we can help to a material extent
by signing the Bretton Woods Agreement.
And I believe we should approach the pre-
liminary Empire Conference and later the Inter-
national Trade Conference in the same spirit.
We should not falter in our course. It is not
a question of backing Great Britain against
America or vice versa not a question of
waiting to see which has the best chance.
And any attempt to play a lone hand per-
manently would seem the height of folly.
Our self-interest and, I suggest, our duty lies
in fulfilling our job as a member of the British
Empire, and helping Great Britain all we can
to collaborate with her great friend in finding
ways and means of causing international trade
to flow freely. ’ I am as certain as that I stand
here we can make our best contribution —if
you like, the contribution which will pay us
best —by remembering our advantages and
accepting our responsibilities as a member of
the great British Commonwealth of Nations.
With no* change in the Government
following the Federal election, we may
expect to see a continuance of Treasury
control of the Commonwealth Bank,
legislation taking the place of many regu-
lations when the National Security Act
expires on December 31, coastal shipping
still subject to Government interference,
and few concessions to companies and in-
vestors when taxation scales are revised.
These expectations are based on past
experience (Mr. Chifley says he will
carry on as of yore), and on a similar
basis we may look for continued attacks
on our productive system by strikers, with
no Government attempt to force a show-
down or to insist on the rule of industrial
law. Thus, unless there is a radical
change in the Ministry’s behavior over
the next three years, reputable industry
will continue to live on its nerves, while
the less reputable section will continue to
live on its wits.
* * * V
Total of persons employed in civil occu-
pations in June this year is estimated at
3,034,000, which is 296,000 above the
1939 level. In June there were about
136,000 more persons in the forces than
in 1939. Excluding domestics and farm
labor, employment in 1939 was 1,730,000
persons, compared with 2,066,000 in May
this year. By any comparison it is easy
to see that there is a big increase in the
number of wage-earners on Australian
payrolls, and all, on the average, are re-
ceiving much higher pay than before the
war, in many instances for working fewer
hours each week. In spite of all this em-
ployment and payroll increase, produc-
tion of goods and services for consump-
tion by the people is everywhere lagging.
Coal output, in which fewer than 20,000
persons are engaged in N. S. Wales, is
falling, and lack of this essential fuel is
holding up the production of steel and
many other manufactures. The collieries
of Australia are adequately supplied with
labor ; at the same time it is a challenge
to any democratic country where wage-
earners so few in number are allowed,
wantonly in many cases, to frustrate pro-
ductive activity among an entire nation.
There were times, before the war, when
production lagged and jobs were pre-
carious because of lack of demand for
manufactures and land products. But at
the present time there is a huge unsatis-
fied demand for nearly all essentials —
coal, steel, clothing, food, housing—and
to see the working population, or vital
sections of it, doing so little to meet the
demand is a shock to those who have the
best interests of wage-earners at heart.
If our overall rato of production is not
speeded up considerably judgment on
wage-earners as a body will be that they
do not deserve full employment and only
behave themselves industrially when faced
with economic hardship or rigid dis-
cipline.
* * * *
In 1938 Commonwealth Rolling Mills
Pty. was formed by Armco (Aust.) Pty.,
Armco (U.S.A.) and John Lysaght Pty.
to manufacture steel sheets (such as used
in car bodies, steel furniture, etc.) at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.). Now the Lysaght co.
has agreed to buy the Armco interest in
Commonwealth Rolling Mills. Until the
sale and other arrangements are com-
pleted Armco (Aust.) will continue to dis-
tribute the co.’s products.


5s
For
Fine
Food
well served
RESTAURANTS
OF DISTINCTION
CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEA «• PERRINS
tAsk youi (frowb
The Sauce with a Secret
y
*\H°
m
■>j
ill
a
4
*
S'.
M
mm
I ' Is
mmt
BRISBANE —ADELAIDE
,** '
TOWNSVILLE —CAIRNS
■■■■
... for everi|
re inforcement need
—FROM TINY PARCELS
TO 2-TON PACKAGES
Gerrard representatives
are freely available in all
States to render expert
advice on your package
reinforcement problems.
Also Corrugated 1 Fas-
teners, Bag Ties and
Packing Room Supplies,
GERRARD
WIRE TYING MACHINES CO.
PTY. LTD.
Head Office:
18-24 Ireland St., Melbourne West
A new steamship co. is to be listed on
’Change. Half of the capital of Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd., is being offered to the
public at 225. 6d. a share. Present capi-
tal is a round million, split into 500,000
ords. and an equal number of 7 p.c.
cumulative prefs. The prefs., before be-
ing handed to the public, however, are
to be converted to 5 p.c. cumulative par-
ticipating. Shares will be allotted in
equal numbers of ords. and prefs. On an
annual distribution of £50,000, which has
been customary, it should be possible
to pay an all-round 5 p.c. on the total
issue. (Last year’s profit was £70,137,
after providing £55,000 for depreciation.)
The new pref. div. rate has been
covered three times by average profits
earned during the past six years. The
prefs. participate fully with the ords. in
divs. in excess of 5 p.c., and share equally
in surplus assets. Mcllwraith, McEacharn
owns the Kanimbla and over 16,000 tons
of cargo tonnage. It has coal interests
as well, and holds 4000 shares in A.W.A.
* * * *
People with idle cash looking for a
longish-term investment will be wise to
watch B.H.P. shares, buying them on
occasions when the sharemarket is weak.
At under 455. they offer an immediate
yield of not much more than 2.2 p.c., but
future prospects are extremely promising
provided production momentum can be
regained. The great problem before
B.H.P. at the moment is coal and labor ;
its finances and production equipment are
in exceptionally good condition, deprecia-
tion having been written off in a very
thorough manner all through the co.’s
history, but more particularly in recent
years. The unsatisfied demand for the
co.’s products is enormous. Labor prob-
lems will have to be overcome in the case
of 8.H.P., as well as all other industries,
if this nation is not to be economically
strangled, and for that reason B.H.P.
shares should be bought on a basis of
what can be expected with adequate coal
production and rational labor conditions.
A couple of million tons more coal a year
would satisfy all immediate requirements,
and we have ample facilities for such
production if only N.S.W. miners can be
persuaded to 4 show willingness.
**, * *
If one can look beyond the present in-
dustrial fog and visualise a country again
willing to produce coal on a large scale,
with a people generally agreeable to do-
ing a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay,
then there must come into view pictures
of large water-supply schemes, electri-
fication projects, engineering plans and
housing programmes. It all suggests big
activity for cement companies, the steel
and engineering industries and for the
base-metal mines. There may be new
company flotations later on to share in
the production opportunities available,
but established enterprises should be in
the best position to see where demand lies
and where production facilities exist.
Present capital-issue regulations favor the
established business rather than the new
venture, and pqssibly, under existing con-
ditions, that is the most helpful attitude
for officialdom to take in getting in-
creased output quickly. But under a less-
controlled economy there should be freer
competition.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton fully-paid shares have
firmed again on ’Change, but are still
sometimes available at under the ceiling
price of 51s. 9d. This is an attractive
stock, in spite of labor difficulties in the
textile trade, and the yield of £3 17s. per
cent, offering from the present 10 p.c.
div. is not bad to those who are really
buying for later benefits. The manage-
ment is keen and competent, while a wide
field still lies before the Australian cotton-
textile industry as a whole. Bradford
controls the Sanforising process, and has
other valuable trade links.
♦ * * *
In 1939 the Barnet Glass Rubber Co.,
a subsidiary of Dunlop Rubber, sold its
Footscray factory to Bradford Cotton
Mills, which installed a new spinning
and weaving plant. Bradford handed
the vendor in payment 54,258 £1 ords.
At the annual meeting of Dunlop
Rubber the chairman commented:
We thus have an investment in a cotton-
manufacturing company capable of under-
taking the responsibilities of providing us
with a substantial portion of our require-
ments of tyre cord and other cotton goods
peculiar to our industry. The transaction
overcame the necessity to engage ourselves
in the cotton-manufacturing industry.
The association with Bradford has been
invaluable and continues as a happy con-
nection. The original Barnet Glass share-
holding in Bradford Cotton Mills of 54,258
shares, by virtue of new issues, has in-
creased to 118,021 shares. A further 59,010
shares recently allotted but as yet not paid
up will when fully subscribed increase the
holding to 177,031 shares, or about 13.3
per cent, of the capital.
Bradford is paying steady 10 p.c. divi-
dends, and its market is at present limited
only by its capacity to produce.
* * * v
Seventy-two large United States in-
dustrial companies, including General
Motors, U.S. Steel, Chrysler Corporation,
E. I. du Pont and Goodyear Tyre, have
2,925,449 employees against no fewer than
4,082,805 shareholders. This contradicts
a common belief that ownership of “big
business” is in the hands of a few who
draw large dividends from a multitude
of wage-earners. In the case of the com-
panies quoted, wage- and salary-earners
drew an average of $2BBO a year (it would
have been higher but for strikes), while
shareholders were handed less than 12 p.c.
of the wages total. Taxes paid were more
than twice the dividends.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Sawny, the only name by
which the district had ever known him,
lived in a kerosene-tin-and-hessian kipsy
among the old diggings along Battlers’
Ridge. A few days after a terrific wind-
storm had swept the diggings the mail-
man, glancing casually off the road,
noticed that the humpy had gone. He
got out of his utility to investigate. Look-
ing down from the site of the
dwelling he observed it leaning drunkenly
against a stump halfway down the gully.
He could hear sounds of a pick cracking
against rock coming from the direction
of the hut. Stumbling down to it, he
asked Sawny what he was doing. “Diggin’
out a noo fireplace,” said the old hatter,
poking his head up from under the floor-
ing. “Y’ see, I got blown down into this
here hole a coupla nights ago by the big
wind an’ me humpy got blown after me
an’ lobbed right over the hole I was in.
It’s cornin’ on summer an’ it’ll be cooler
livin’ down here. An’ it can’t blow away
again, neither —I’ve anchored it to the
stump with fencin’ wire. What’ve y’
called in for —to git me change of
address?”
* * * •
“Bray Rock”: A certain very worthy
and useful little Australian is not getting
his—and her —fair share of attention in
these days of talk about mosquito control
during the coming summer and thereafter.
Whenever larvae-destroying fish are men-
tioned it is always the West Indian immi-
grant, Gambusia affinis, who is given
credit for the world’s best work in that
line. As a matter of experimentally-tested
fact, this foreign interloper is much in-
ferior to our own fellow-Australian, the
blue eye, scientific monicker Pseudo-
mugil signifer. Gallant little people
averaging 2in. or so long, they catch more
larvas in a given time, dodge predatory
birds and animals more dexterously, are
less given to jumping out of tanks, and
can survive much longer in shallow,
weedy or muddy water. They will do an
effective job in saltwater, which the im-
ported article cannot. TJiey are much
better looking too, Mr, Blue Eye far more
ornamental than his Creole counterpart
and bearing gracefully elongated fin rays.
* * * *
“Lub”: “The young feller workin’ f’r
Burdon is a bit of a crank f’r shootin’,”
related Raff. “One afternoon he strikes
a lone galah sittin’ on a limb high up
on a tall, dry tree. He lets drive a
dozen times with his old, worn-out rifle
an’ the bird doesn’t even bat an eye-
lash. The next shot the galah performs
with beak an’ feet at the same time.
‘Hey, go easy, y’ bloomin’ Alec,’ it
screeches; T felt the wind orf that last
one!”’
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We dropped our blueys
on the pub verandah at Elmore (Vic,),
irrigated and made inquiries as to the
local demand for labor. “There’s a cocky
out on the Corop road wants some
fencin’ done,” said the publican. “That’s
his son in the parlor—in the pants.” We
found a young man in tan riding boots,
leggings and tailored jodhpurs, and Mat
put the acid on him. “Yaas,” he replied,
eyeing us loftily, “the pater needs some
working fellows. I suggest you present
yourselves to him personally. I reallay
don’t concern myself with the em-
ployees.” Humbly we withdrew, hoisted
the curses and hit the Corop road, Mat
in a black silence. When we found the
farmer Mat bleated, “I say, if you are
the primary producer who seeks some
working fellows for the erection of a
fence, I suggest we discuss the matter.”
The farmer stared, then his ejfes twinkled,
he looked around quickly and replied,
“Reckon you blokes musta met me
son in town. That’s what I get for lettin’
the missus run me into sehdin’ the silly
young cow to college. You blokes’d want
contract, I reckon.” “Too blanky right,”
Mat said enthusiastically. “J’d like y’ t’
eat at the house,” offered our new boss.
“Why?” Again that quick look around,
then, rather shyly, “Well, it’d be somer
thin’ t’ have a couple o’ blokes I could
talk me own lingo with at meals. I’m
sick o’ listenin’ t’ the missus an’ kid
highfalutin each other.” It was one of
the most interesting jobs we ever had.
* * * *
“Zake”: The explanation for the origin
of the name of Nullarbor Plains (from
the Latin Nullus arbor; lit, no tree) may
or may not be specious, as some have
claimed, but at least it does sound not
unlike abo. language. It wouldn’t be the
only placename to trick the unwary.
Willaura (Vic.) has a boong ring about
it; the early surveyor who was planning
that district, finding it hard to think of
a new name, hit upon his own and his
wife’s Christian names and put them to-
gether. And who would say that Degilbo
(Q.) was not good abo. nomenclature?
That hamlet got its name when the sur-
veyor, finding that his instructions
"Go easy , sister. I Was only whistling for a taxi"
“obliged” him to rustle up monickers for
the places he was carving out, simply
reversed that word and saved himself a
headache.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: “Max’s” blue wren (B.
18/9/’46) does seem to have struck prob-
lems horribly like those besetting human
homemakers; my Willie Wagtail, on the
other hand, is prepared to make do with
inferior materials for the sake of the
sights he sees. He has just reared a
clutch of three right amongst the madding
crowd —on the esplanade of Bondi Beach
to wit —and the components of his nest
testify to his resourcefulness. A few
scraps of newsprint form the base of the
cup, then cotton, grassroots, a few genuine
horsehairs and numerous ersatz ones from
the mokes on the merry-go-round across
the way form the main structure. All are
held together by the conventional cob-
webs, but a frowsier collection of cob-
webs I have never seen ; unlike the ivory-
sheened ones which the inland fowl dig
from beneath the bark, these seem to be
smirched with all the sins of the city.
I’ve often watched William plucking lin-
ing from the cow whose color attracts
him most, and that is why I so regret not
having discovered this pair before the
eggs were laid; for, wound round the
inner rim of the neat little cup, is their
prize trophy—a long, soft, wavy thread
of lustrous gold,
**- # *
“Byramire”; “Colonial Cove’s” claim
(B. 28/8/’46) that-the word “navvy” is
an abbreviation of navigator is confirmed
in David Copperfield, chapter 37. “I
believe Dora concluded that I was a
navigator, and went balancing myself
up and down a plank all day with a
wheelbarrow.”
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: New Guinea
coastal natives have some queer beliefs
about what to do when tackled by a
python. Those along the north-east coast
believe that if an outsize in snakes wraps
himself around you, everything will be
all right so long as you “gammon” dead.
Then the reptile doesn’t bother constrict-
ing ; he simply unwraps himself and,
leaving you for dead, goes away to have
a drink, as is his custom, before eating —
or rather digesting—you. Extensive in-
quiry along the coastline, however, dis-
closed no record of a grown boong having
had even an altercation with a python,
though I heard of several cases of children
being constricted. The boongs said they
were “fright-fright too much” to “gam-
mon die finish.”
* ♦ * ♦
“B. A. Ker”; If quail are not capable
of migratory flights (B. 28 /8 / ’46), I’m
afraid I was once a victim of the most
plausible legpuller in Australia. He was
training pointer dogs for competition
and, following my belief that a well-
trained pointer makes the prettiest sight
I know (also taking into consideration
that there were no guns in the party), I
led the way to a paddock which had
abounded with quail the week before.
Not a bird was flushed, although the
dogs systematically combed acre after
acre, from boundary to boundary. Feel-
ing that my veracity was at stake I
began to protest. The owner of the dogs
cut me short. “It’s nothing unusual,” he
declared ; “quail migrate. One year our
society imported two hundred Japanese
quail and freed them in” (I believe he
said the Bathurst district). “Next season
we brought the dogs up and worked the
paddocks. Not a quail! Later we heard
that a birdwatcher on an island somewhere
between Australia and Japan had reported
to his ornithological society that a flock
of Japanese quail had landed there,
stayed one night,, then headed out to sea
again—presumably towards Japan.” If
somebody can give any further confirma-
tion of his statement two men may be
restored to their former status in my
estimation—the dogman and myself.
* * * *
“Exkewex”: Ploughing the red vol-
canic soil of our s.-Q. farm, we were
turning over scores of cockchafer grubs
and also a lot of the big earthworms
that go up to 4ft. in length. The plough
was being followed by several magpies
and a couple of kookas, and everyone
was having a great feast of grubs varied
with a bit of worm as the disk sliced off
short lengths. All hands were ignoring
the full-length worms till one of the
kookaburras decided to sample one.
After a terrific effort he got into the air
with his prize and headed for the nearest
stump. At once his mate took off after
him and, catching up, grabbed the trail-
ing end and went off at a tangent. The
pair pulled up with a jerk, collided, and
crashed in a tangled heap on the
ploughed ground; and there they stayed,
each stubbornly refusing to release his
hold on the wretched worm. They cursed
one another, played tug-of-war, swal-
lowed opposite ends, gurgled, choked,
beat one another with their wings and
endeavored to fly off; they rolled and
fought over about an acre of ground.
I knocked off four hours later; although
too tired to fly, they were both still hang-
ing grimly to that worm. Yet I had
turned over at least 100 exact counter-
parts.
♦ * * *
“Nagheer”: A curious feature in Aus-
tralian zoology is the length of time
during which the taipan ( Oxyuranus
scutellatus) remained unidentified. Lucas
and Le Souef’s “Animals of Australia,”
published in 1909, makes no reference to
it. As far back as the 1890’s I had heard
occasional tales in N.Q. of a big brown
snake reputed to be venomous, but never
of anyone having been bitten by it. Nor,
during numerous subsequent visits to the
coastal country from Ingham up to Cape
York, its own special territory, could I
trace a specimen dead or alive. The
first time 1 heard it called “taipan’ was
in 1925, and the first authenticated
fatality from it that I have seen recorded
was in 1927. Several cases of bites by
it have been recorded since them, with
only one survivor amongst them. Scien-
tific investigation of the dried poison
indicates that when fresh it is probably
the most deadly of all snake venoms, and
the long, curved, hypodermic-needle-pat-
tern teeth ensure deep injection.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Much as I have fished
Westralian rivers I have never seen
“heaps of squirming catfish” (B.
21/8/ ’46), so I cannot say whether the
congregation had assembled for spawning
purposes. But I have seen eels and even
snakes in similar gatherings, and they
were certainly not spawning. My state-
ment re the small circle of stones was
based on observations made on fresh-
water catfish confined in an aquarium.
Estuarine catfish, living in a habitat
destitute of stones, as is the bed of the
Swan, may have acquired a different
method. At all times there is a funda-
mental difference between the spawning
habits of a freshwater fish and its oppo-
site number in saltwater. The freshwater
fish deposits and endeavors to anchor its
spawn to the bottom, to avoid its being
carried downstream by the current; the
saltwater one deposits its spawn so that
it floats on or close to the surface.
♦ * * *
“Macsniff”: The office cat was stranded
on a drainpipe outside the fifth floor, I
tried, along with others, to entice it on to
planks and into buckets. Crisis came
when the cat attempted to jump through
a window that wasn’t and crashed five
floors to the lane below. All present
admitted a sickly feeling in the stomach.
The cat bounced three times and walked
away.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Yair, she knows how t’
blow up there on Baldy,” sighed Seventy-
fiver, pulling on his pipe, “but a man
gets used to it. Even that little cove
out there on the dingoes c’n take it now,
though at first he spent a lot o’ time
buildin’ fancy sort o’ camps tl\at got blew
down fast as he put ’em up.” “Still out
there, ain’t he?” asked Dan. “Well, he
were a coupla mornin’s back,” replied the
old ’un. “Cornin’ past his hangout I
thought I seen someone wavin’, so went
over. It wus the little cove wavin’
awright, but not t’ me. He wus tethered
to a tough ol’ snowgum with a trace-
chain, an’ blowed out straight a coupla
feet orf the ground. He sort o’ rippled
like a wheat crop an’ his feet end rose
an’ fell in the wind.” “I bet he was glad
to see you,” interposed Dan. “Well, no,
he didn’t know I was there,” drawled
Seventyfiver. “Y’ see, up there a man
don’t git much comfort, an’, knowin’ the
poor little cuss’d prob’ly spent a ’ard
week chasin’ after them dogs, I decided
not to wake him.”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Lonely graves? Far be-
yond Laverton (W.A.) we came across
one. His mates, with some of the pro-
ceeds of the reef in which he would
have shared, had carted out a marble
headstone, with which the grave was
still marked. But Binghi had been
not unappreciative of the cleavage
properties of marble. The casual
glass bottle has often proved a valuable
asset in his munition factories; in others
it has been the porcelain insulators from
the telegraph lines. Here, without
realising that he was guilty of irreverence,
he had chipped the marble slab until a
good portion of it had vanished. Possibly
more than one tribal battle had been de-
cided by the superior quality of the
marble.spear heads.
» * ♦ *
“Nigel D.”: I agree with “Frank
Mauri” (B. 28/8/’46) that artificial in-
cubation of eggs has been carried on
throughout the East for centuries, but
the method he suggests is new to me.
Meandering along the Nile during the
1914 bickerings we came across numbers
of incubators erected probably about
the time Antony was wooing Cleopatra.
A low mud hut of many small rooms into
which it was possible to enter only by
stooping, heat was supplied by the burn-
ing of camel-dung, and eggs lay in thou-
sands on low earth platforms. All the
Gyppos did was to turn them daily and
spray them occasionally with tepid water.
There was no “heat of germination doing
the rest.” Nor were the chickens carried
away the moment they broke shell. Like
the practical Australian henman, the
Gyppo had long realised that incubating
was a mere trifle —brooding was the real
job. So there were warm brooder-rooms
with rounded comers, so that the chicks
shouldn’t huddle up and smother each
other. Most of these incubators had been
handed from father to son down through
the centuries. “Customs” incubating was
the general financial basis, the incubator
taking every second chicken.
THE TRAFFIC COP.
Miles off Cape Howe, where soundings stop,
White-capped, tall Gabo stands —
Like Cyclops eyed, a traffic cop
Who never lifts his hands.
What though her mighty engines leap
And darkness looms ahead,
Off Gabo, where the seas are deep,
What use to heave the lead?
There rests the steamer Cumberland,
Mined where the soundings drop—
But Gabo could not raise a hand
To give the signal “Stop!”
To southward, by Cape Everard,
Two Riverinas lie;
They missed old Gabo there on guard
When winter’s winds were high.
And north by Green Cape, battle-scarred,
There rests the Ly-ee-moon —
Lost in the murk and driven hard.
She took the turn too soon.
And still off-shore tall Gabo stands
To guide the ships that steam;
Yet is he guardian, too, of lands
Of which men’s souls might dream.
Where dark Genoa river runs
From banks of swaying trees
Into the yellow summer suns
Whose’ magic warms the breeze —
Where round warm sands the river’s arms
Are circled, lover-wise,
Swooning in green and golden charms
Sweet Mallacoota lies;
So light, she might float out to sea
And so be lost for aye,
But chat old Gabo chanced to be
The cop who bars her way.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old-timer”; Cures for rheumatism in
the bush (B. 18/9/’46) are almost as
numerous as those for warts, political
ills and snakebite. Which reminds me
of Jim, who had tremendous faith in a
large brass ring worn on the third finger
of his right hand. The ring had a couple
of thin copper bands inserted in it, and
it had come down to Jim from his grand-
father. Just before a big mustering or
drafting job, Jim somehow took his ring
off the night before, mislaid it, suffered
the screws so badly as to prevent him
taking part in the work and couldn’t
get right until he found the thing, usually
a day or so after the job was done. If
we’d planned a Sunday jaunt and didn’t
want Jim, we removed his ring the night
before and hid it and, in the face of his
performances when heavy work was
about, he hadn’t the gall to deny that the
screws were on him. Presently this
scheme didn’t work, because Jim bought
a second ring somewhere and kept it by
for emergencies. It took us a month
to discover this, whereupon we conspired
deeply against him A couple of weeks
later the dipping season arrived, and sure
enough on the morning we were to start
Jim came with twisted face and bent body
to breakfast, weakly announcing that he
couldn’t find his ring and was too crook
to move. There were eight men and a
cook in the galley and all formed a line
and solemnly marched past Jim, each
silently laying a ring on the table before
him. Two hours later, having declared
us to be the greatest lot of illegitimate
crawlers he had ever known, Jim
snatched his time.
* * * *
“Betcha”; The man who used a
sledgehammer to crack nuts has nothing
on the modern method of digging out
rabbits. Game on a fellow working a
warren with a bulldozer. Over and over
he went, the machine biting deeper, while
a tribe of eager mongs with heads set
on one side kept track of his progress.
Presently, up came the harvest. There
were half bunnies, partly skinned bunnies,
legs and fur, mingled with the very sur-
prised unharmed that were quickly picked
up by the waiting pack. I turned away,
to find the owner of the paddock con-
templating the result with a grin that
extended beyond his ears. “For years,”
he remarked to me, “I’ve tried to send
bunny to glory per trap, dog, and shovel,
but the prolific little bloke could always
hold his own. Now, through modern
science, I reckon we’re gonna see the
last of him, per ” “...haps,” I
finished for him.
* » * *
“D.R.H.”; My job requires my resi-
dence at two separate camps on alternate
weeks. One of the camps is in the midst
of a bare flat, some three miles by five.
When I go out out to fill the billy of a
"You just cut this prefabricated paint to size and glue it on."
morning I look across treeless distance,
purple-brown on the gibbers, blue-grey
with bindi-eye and saltbush, the blue-grey
cross-hatched with yellow speargrass, near
the watercourse. At the hut a dapper
nankeen kestrel camps every night in the
wind-twisted pepper tree and an old
magpie lives on the dead tree behind
the horse yard; the only permanent
avian residents. When the speargrass
is seeding, the chats and a few cockatiel
move in, but they are only transients. At
the other place there’s a different story.
Each morning there’s a thumping and
scrabbling on top of the rainwater tank
where half-a-dozen of those most glori-
ous parrots the ringnecks are sipping the
pool of dew that collects on the sagging
iron. From the mallees by the gate comes
a regular chorus from the spiny-cheeked
honey-eaters, who think they own the
place, Down at the trough is a restless
and vocal congregation of galahs, white
cockies and topknot pigeons, with, at
this time of the year, the first of the
budgerigars and the woodswallows. And
always there are the smaller birds: the
little grey chaps locally known as tom-
tits, the twittering waxbills and, some-
times in pairs, sometimes in whole flocks,
the “saltbush canaries” and crimson
chats. The two camps ane only thirty-
odd miles apart, but at the second there
are winding pine creeks, flats of prickly
acacia, stands of black oak with the usual
bullock bush, “sandal wood,” broom-
and hop-bushes. There is no question
which is the more pleasant place to
live in.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Mum Briggs was a fine
cook with no leanings to fancy trim-
mings, but the new schoolteacher board-
ing at the farm turned up her nose with
a salad-conscious air. She prevailed on
Mum to let her try her skill one Sunday
and the family sat up to her idea of a
meal. The cold roast was daintily carved
and garnished and Dad was persuaded
to shovel a fair dose of orange salad oh
to his plate. Dad bit on the first mouth-
ful as on a sore tooth, spluttered and
swallowed hastily. “Orange and onion! ”
he chanted.- Mum gave him a strange
glance, whereupon Dad winked solemnly
at Andy and went on eating as though he
enjoyed the stuff. On the light and airy
dessert he scored heavily with the pepper,
salt and mustard, added a liberal splash
of Worcestershire sauce and tore into it
smacking his lips. Andy did likewise.
The volcano erupted when Mum caught
Andy daubing one of her prize cream-
puffs with tomato pickles and the schoolie
broke off suddenly to entertain a lively
bilious attack. Dad sneaked off to the
woodheap and split a pile of wood in
anticipation of the morrow.
# * * ♦
“Sub-Druid”; A year or two ago a
wandering cove called at a homestead
out from Marree (S.A.). Later he wrote
a magazine article and mentioned that he
received the usual “bush smoke-oh” —
a slab of cake and a pannikin of tea.
They’re hoping that bloke may return
to the homestead, particularly the hostess,
who had her best afternoon tea things
libelled as “a pannikin.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad was proud of his new
wireless set, and always turned it on for
the benefit of visitors, who listened
stoically to a nightmare of whir and static
before remembering a promise to be
home early. Then Uncle Charlie came to
stay —and endure a barrage of atmospheric
disturbances that almost swamped the
low accompaniment of music or unin-
telligible voice. Came the night Dad was
late with the milking, and Charlie, ex-
perimenting with the knobs; was re-
warded with a loud clear programme.
Barely had he subsided into his armchair
again when Dad arrived, fiddled
with the dials for a few seconds, and
once more the whir was on. “Y’d get
better reception if y’ tuned in to local
or State stations, Dad,” the visitor pointed
out, “instead o’ them long-range pro-
grammes you always patronise.” “Yair,
but you f’get y’ don’t get these things f’r
nothin’, Chari,” came the reply. “It ain’t
just the cost o’ the set, an’ the new parts,
an’ the battery-chargin’, mind y’, but them
A.B.C. blokes sting y’ a licence fee in
case y’ might listen t’ their programmes.
Well, I got t’ pay it,” he growled resent-
fully, “but, by cripes, I’m gonna get all
the furthest orf stations I can, an’ make
the blankers earn their quid.”
* * * »
“Narrin”: As the ruler lies on the map,
it’s three miles from here to Ben’s humpy
back in the hills. If you want to visit
him you travel west for three miles along
the stony fiats under the range, and turn
"I take great pleasure in declaring this exhibition open."
sharply to the north-east along a gum
creek where, hedged in by red cliffs and
rocky bluffs, you wind about, crossing
and recrossing the boulder-strewn
channel, for nearly four miles. Then you
come to a gorge that leads you back a
mile, heading a bit east of south, until
you hit the pad across the ridges and,
after a mile-and-a-half of slipping and
stumbling and swearing, reach Ben’s
camp. Then you wish that “B. A. Ker”
(B. 28/8/’46) had been with you so that
he mightn’t in the future be so ready to
sling off about the ant’s inability to
swallow that old joke about the straight
line breeding fewer blisters between given
points.
“D.W.K.”: “Bull-ant Bill’s” milkman
(B. 28/8/’46) reminds me of one who
mesmerised me as a kid. Before he could
spit on his hands to work the buttermilk
out of the butter he had to remove the
quid out of his mouth. To give that
nice golden color to the butter he in-
variably wrung the juice from a carrot
through his handkerchief.
* # * *
“Esk D.”: Shortly after the morning
milking Alec, on his own initiative, is
slogging vigorously at a large clump of
blackberries along the creek bank.
Skinner appears and gives querulous in-
structions to fix the fence along the
boundary of the top paddock. Alec
hurries off, rushes through the job and
returns to the ’berries. Skinner bobs up
again and tells him rather sourly to get
a move on shifting the cows off the
clover. Alec is swinging the slasher a
third time when Skinner docs his block.
“Wot’s y’r ruddy idea?” he bawls. “I
told y’ the other day I wanted y’ to put
y’r time in splittin’ posts this week.”
“Yairs,” Alec says slowly. “How long’ve
I bin workin’ ’ere?” “Aw, about seven
years,” says Skinner. “But what?”
“Well, that’s bin time enough t’ git a
gutful of you an’ y’r hobby o’ givin’
orders,” cuts in the long cove. “I don’t
need bossin’ round any more, see? The
sight o’ these ’berries has annoyed me
since I came. Now, out of the flamin’
road an’ let me git on with me work.”
* .* * *
“Neil”: Roderick Finlayson’s yarn “In
the Swamp Paddock” (B. 11/9/’46) was
up to standard and Uncle Ted’s physio-
logy sound enough until he found that
dead sheep. To call a sheepskin a hide
is unforgivable; plucking the wool was
orthodox for anyone with a strong
stomach, but then to cut off the “hide”
from a sheep ripe enough to pluck would
be utterly impossible—the plucked skin
would be worthless in any case. Uncle
then proceeded to cut lumps of fat off
the body. The only fat available from
a sheep, without boiling the carcass
down, is around the kidneys and on the
intestines. It was a relief to more than
Jake when Uncle got back into the ti-
tree grubbing.
* * * *
“Bufo”: The name and memory of
Robert Bakewell, that ingenious Leicester-
shire farmer and animal breeder who
really invented most present-day types
of cattle, deserve to be more honored in
this land of bfeef and butter. But for him
and his pupils and followers we would
probably have had no frozen meat and
butter export trade today. Two cen-
turies ago the great bulk of English cattle
were lean, tough, long-horned runts
which would be refused entry to any
modern agricultural show-ring. The first
cattle in Australia, two bulls and six
cows, brought by the First Fleet from
the Cape, were even worse, and it was
lucky that they cleared out to the bush
before they had time to breed up. By the
time they were found in the Nepean
valley seven years later enough English
stock of the improved Bakewell types
had been imported to submerge their
inferior strain for good. The Bakewell
school of breeders also did notable work
in improving sheep and horses.
* * * *
“Chook”: Will someone kindly tell me
how a fowl tastes its food? I refuse to
believe that a grain of wheat or corn
reveals any flavor when swallowed whole
in an instant.. Wooden nutmegs have
fooled many a man in the past; yet I
don’t know any fowl silly enough to
take an imitation of wheat or corn. I’ve
handled dry sawdust and bran, and
couldn’t tell one from the other. Placed
in separate tins the fowls make no mis-
take, even though they lack a sense of
smell. Yet strangely enough a hen can
be fooled with a fake egg which even a
child could detect.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: The sova yanggona
is probably the most feared of all forms
of draunikau in Fijian demonology. As
in other methods, the kava- pouring
ritual is used. Long ago an islander of
note fell seriously ill. Education and the
Christian faith went by the board; he
declared he was the victim of draunikau,
and blamed a cousin. The cousin con-
vinced the dying man that he was inno-
cent but agreed that it was draunikau .
Friends of the patient accused another
relative and the terrible counter magic,
sova yanggona, was carried out. The
relative became ill and resigned himself
to death, but his friends secured the ser-
vices of a wizard, whose wizardry pre-
vailed, and it was the first patient who
died. The doctors declared that diabetes
and cirrhosis of the liver killed him, but
no Fijian believed it.
m * * •
“Notaden”: A mysterious happening
in central Queensland has been the dis-
appearance of a five-mile-wide lake,
northward of the Carnarvon Range.
Nooga Nooga by name, it had been
originally formed by silting up of the
Brown River, as evidenced by large num-
bers of long-drowned forest trees in its
bed. The queer business began after a
muffled explosion had been heard from
the direction of the lake on Christmas
Eve, 1944. Subsequent search showed
that all of the numerous fish in the lake
had been killed and were lying all round
the shores. Thereafter the water fell
steadily, sometimes at the rate of six feet
daily, until only a 100-yard strip of
damp mud now remains. No fissure or
opening has been found to account for
it or to indicate where or how the explo-
sion occurred. One suggestion has been
that the disturbance opened a leak into an
underground layer of shale which tra-
verses the country in a north-westerly
direction. The theory of the late Dr.
Bradfield that the Queensland artesian
system extends beneath the Carnarvon
country affords another possible solution.
But the mysterious explosion still remains
unexplained.
AFTER THE STORM.
The storm has crushed the fairylands,
The fern trees’ emerald tent;
The root above the trunk now stands
Where the black tempest sent
Great kings to their green resting place
With splintered bole and stem.
What centuries of growth and grace
Crashed down the creek with them?
Though day has broken into bloom,
The night of fear gone by,
The trees still shake the water from
Their branches with a sigh.
And stand all day as in a trance,
A dream of some dim wrong,
Their dancing leaves too tired to dance,
Their birds too spent for song.
VICTORIA.
K.DALZIEL.


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will'at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2SF), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
“JtMLMNDFCO Y”
is the condensation of a distinguished long name. It is
the telegraphic address of Australian, Mercantile, Land &
Finance Coy. Ltd. Whether it's the sale of Wool; Produce;
Fat, Store or Stud Stock; or Property the purchase of
Station and other requirements —or personal services, etc.,
telegraph-"AMLANDFCOY" Sydney, or write-to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay A 1.22.74.
11 your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out ot
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
tiim on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LiOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
j
ĵ
BARKO
LYSACMTS
M
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
lifcrif n'|J|
ppg;., ■ ■ r^j^i
*' irfd HI
'"' 'll ||j| &**'* .^*cc*TW&&Kr
'•*‘ v ;-. >
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
" LYS AGHT ? S" WIRE, WIRE HE TYING,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DONT WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding.
“Atlanta”: In co-operation with O.
McL. Falkiner, at Boonoke, Conargo
(N.S.W.), Dr. M. C. Franklin, of the Mc-
Master Animal Health Laboratory, con-
ducted experiments in artificial feeding
for sheep to seek the most economical
and effective method of making weak
sheep fit for trucking.
Three hundred full-mouth stud merino
ewes were split into two lots, one kept in
paddocks, the other in pens. Each lot
was divided further into groups, which
were given different rations containing
two or more of the following: lucerne
chaff, wheaten chaff, maize, wheat, lin-
seed-meal, ground limestone. As rapid
improvement was desired, the ration was
greater than that usually distributed dur-
ing drought feeding. Greatest improve-
ment was shown by three groups of penned
sheep which, three weeks after feeding
began, were fit for trucking. Each ewe
of these groups received one of the fol-
lowing rations daily: Ration A: 16oz.
lucerne chaff, 240 z. wheaten chaff, 4oz,
maize, equal to 1.19 food units. Ration
B: 16oz. lucerne chaff, 16oz. maize, equal
to 1.17 food units. Ration C: 240 z,
wheaten chaff, 16oz. maize, }oz. ground
limestone, equal to 1.37 food units.
Similar results came from a paddock
group which received ration D: Boz.
wheaten chaff, 12oz. maize, 12oz. wheat,
|oz. ground limestone, equal to 1.32 food
units.
Five food units per sheep per week is
sufficient to maintain body weight at 60-
701 b. At fodder prices then ruling
ration D for paddock sheep was cheapest
at Ud. per ewe per day or £l9O per 1000
for a month. Costs of pen experiments
per 1000 ewes per month were: Ration
A, £277 ; ration B, £245 ; ration C, £251.
Where roughage and concentrates have
to be bought the use of maximum quan-
tities of low-priced grain and minimum
quantities of low-priced roughage will re-
duce costs. Conservation of home-grown
fodder either as hay or silage remains
the most economical method of drought
feeding. Its production cost of |d. per
food unit contrasts significantly with the
1945 prices of 3id.-3yd. per unit for
roughage and l|d.-Hd. for concentrates.
Ryecorn for Pigs.
“Camber”: In a report on a test feed
at’ the Rutherglen Experiment Farm, N.
C. Killeen, of the Vic. Department of
Agriculture, said that although the pigs
fed on ryecorn did not fatten as rapidly
as those fed on wheat, the ryecorn
appeared to be satisfactory for pig fatten-
ing and could be used as a partial or
total substitute for wheat.
In the test, three even lots each of 14
pigs with an average liveweight of 971 b.
were given one-third gallon of separated
milk each daily and allowed free access
to self-feeders of crushed grain. Lot 1
received crushed ryecorn, Lot 2 crushed
wheat. Lot 3 equal parts of crushed
wheat and crushed ryecorn. After 99
days on these foods, the average live-
weight of the pigs fed on ryecorn was
1781 b.; those on wheat, 2121 b.; and
those on wheat and ryecorn, 2061 b.
Killeen estimates that ryecorn is worth
about three-quarters the price of wheat
when mixed with wheat and about two-
thirds the price of wheat when fed on
its own.
The Cattle Tick.
“Molecule”; Despite many to
Commonwealth and State Governments,
"You might have to SPRING the last foot or two , Bill."
D.D.T. is still out of the reach of the
average stockowner for regular dipping,
though substantial price reductions have
been made. At reduced prices it still costs
over £lOO to charge an ordinary-sized
dip, compared with about £4 for the
arsenical mixture. Put another way,
D.D.T. dipping cost is between sd. and
6d. per head for the 0.5 p.c. strength,
which cannot be expected to give pro-
tection for more than a month in really
ticky areas. Even with good prices for
beef, few graziers could stand that strain
for long.
The case can’t be met in the usual Gov-
ernment way. D.D.T. dipping would have
to be subsidised to the extent of some-
where about 90 p.c. to make its cost com-
parable with arsenical dipping. Though
a strong case for such a heavy subsidy
may exist from the grazier’s viewpoint,
it cannot be justified from the taxpayer’s
viewpoint because it would involve a
huge sum of money with no guarantee
that the figure would not go higher still.
It may be argued that D.D.T. dipping
has proved so effective that it must gradu-
ally reduce, and finally exterminate, the
tick. Well, study the history of the
N.S.W. tick - eradication programme,
which has not yet succeeded despite the
fact that, judged on Queensland stand-
ards, N.S.W. has no ticks worth bother-
ing about, whilst the arsenic-resistant
variety is as yet unknown there.
Complete eradication is the only worth-
while objective, and that needs a com-
prehensive scheme as early as possible.
It will cost a lot of money, but it would
be a mere bagatelle compared with, say,
railway standardisation. There are men
in the C.S.I.R. and State Departments of
Agriculture who, if allowed to get down
to work reasonably free from political
interference, would show results. The
buffalo fly, whose capacity for mischief
when properly acclimatised to the dairy-
ing districts is still a matter for conjecture.
would be automatically included in such
a programme.
Blacksmithing.
“E. 2”; Steel works best at a soft white
heat, and should not be allowed to burn
in the fire or get too cold at the anvil.
Iron crumbles or cracks under the
hammer at white heat and is inclined to
split or break when cherry red; a straw
color is the best working heat.
Iron heats and cools quickly, steel
retains heat longer. That is generally in
relation to porosity, for soft iron has
open pores and in steel the pores are very
fine and close. The pores expand during
heating; become more compressed with
hammering. Quick cooling will fix the
temper accordingly. Off the hammer
tempering is hard and 1 durable; when
reheated in the fire for temper the steel
may become merely brittle.
Wherever possible work the iron or
steel on the square until the finishing
touches are required, thus kneading it
to a desirable toughness. Don’t allow
the metal to be squeezed out when taper-
ing or flattening, but keep turning it over,
working it continuously. Plenty of
hammer at the right heat is best.
A clean fire with good charcoal is
necessary for welding, and clean sand to
form a skin over, the iron to prevent burn-
ing ; at a sign of burning the iron is
withdrawn from the fire and rubbed over
the sand. Use suitable tongs for the job.
Avoid overheating, and bump off the
scale before bringing the pieces together.
The weld should be completed in one
heat if possible and, the inside retaining
its heat longest, it doesn’t do to work
the join overmuch till the next heating.
Fertilisers v. Compost.
‘Bill C.”: Cost of production will
always work against large-scale use of
compost in this country (B. 4/ 9/ ’46).
Where is the Australian farmer who
could afford to have all the refuse on his
farm gathered in heaps and then carted
out on to the fields as compost? Only
those running a five- or six-acre vegetable
ranch could manage it. Anyone with
a large area would be constantly em-
ployed making compost to keep it fertile.
My objections to compost are (a) it
costs too much to produce, ( b ) I believe
green manuring and periodic rests of the
land with stock grazing on it and manur-
ing it do quite as much good as all the
compost that a busy farmer could make,
(c) from the point of view of plant
growth (vegetables) I’ve found an ounce
of fertiliser at least as effective as a pound
of compost.
~ I’ve never used compost on my sugar
fields, since I’ve had no time to produce
the enormous quantities that would be
required to duplicate the effects of a few
tons of fertiliser. If “H.F.W.” really
gets the same results with compost as
with fertiliser, he must (a) be cultivating
darned small patches, ( b) have a large,
very industrious family, or (c) be in a
position to employ plenty of willing
labor.
Evergreen Shrubs.
“Pat O’Day”: There are 12 varieties
of oleanders which will thrive in any in-
land district. The tablelands of eastern
Riverina, like the flat country further
west and the south-east slopes about
Gundagai where the rainfall and


FIGHT ECZEMA
THREE WAYS
DOAN'S OINTMENT goes to work In 3 ways
by relieving the pain and Itching, protecting
Inflamed skin and preventing and combating
Infection. For these reasons DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is an excellent remedy for relieving
pain and fighting infection In minor burns,
cuts, sores, scalds, sunburn and chapping. If
you suffer from Eczema or other itching skin
complaints, scratching only makes the condi-
tion worse It Increases the swelling, makes
the Itching return more severely and can cause
serious skin disorders. Play safe, keep DOAN 3
OINTMENT In your medicine chest at all
times —used successfully for over 40 years.
Ask your Chemfs# or Store for
Doants
OINTMENT
<9.
W.
id
XL
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
' Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
the hygeia guarantee includes
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not he misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1937.
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,.
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
Missinsr Friend.
O’SHEA, CORSEE & WAUJIEY, solicitors, man ox
New South Wales Chambers, 33 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, desire to communicate something to her advan-
tage to MRS. LINDA SMITH, who was the licensee
of the St. George Hotel, St, George, from October,
1941, to April, 1942. Will Mrs. Linda Smith, or
anyone knowing her present whereabouts, please
communicate with them?
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAKG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Antfiony Horderns)
CYanogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“It’s the Gas
That Kills Them .”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas “A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
mmmmT
i//K\ \ I /
m
PORTABLE —FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES
ON STANDS
The patented "MAXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each in-
stallation is individually designed
and built to fit your particular
needs; Cost per acre is
very attractive, and some
purchasers have reported
recovering their full out-
lay in one season.
THE "MAXIMUM" PATENTED OUTLET
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe.
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented MAXIMIJ.
Coupling is the only one on the market possessing its all-round nexiniii y
and ease of connection. It can be coupled by a simple movement to
any inclination up to 15 degrees in any direction and remain watertight.
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd.. 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
7
1
sssb
M
S*:®
* e **oZ-° r
INCLUDE FLYWIREO
FRAMES AND DOORS {
Eventually, for your health’s sake, you must fit
fiywire to your doors, windows and fireplaces so
do it while you are building, and save the need
for makeshift additions later on.
Specify fiywire screens and frames your builder
will be glad to include them in your plans, Fiywire
is the only adequate
protection against
flies, mosquitos and
other insects keep
them OUTSIDE, and
safeguard food and
health at all times.
REMEMBER, TOO ...
a woman feels much
safer if, when she opens
the door to an unwel-
come stranger, she is
protected against intru-
sion by a flywire door.
Cyclone FLYWIRE
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
ffW l/lb
temperature vary considerably all grow
this beautiful flowering shrub. Oleanders
grow in mediocre soil, bloom for six
months of the year and do not require
pruning.
Replace other shrubs that are not
thriving with any of the following
oleanders —most of them attain a height
of from 6ft. to 10ft. and provide a great
wealth of color: Alba (single white);
Madonna Grandiflora (very large semi-
double white); Variegate (single pink,
golden foliage); Mrs. F. Roeding (double
salmon); Mile. Dubois (single white)
and the rich, crimson Delphine. There
is a most uncommon creamy-yellow
variety called Luteum plenum and at
least five more single-blooming specimens
ranging in color from pink to cerise.
Owing to the low cost of oleander
shrubs country gardeners can plant them
extensively, grouping the various colors
in each part of the garden for effect.
Some cultivate them for hedges to save
labor of pruning, though in this regard
care should be taken in selecting varieties
of the same height.
Lime for Brassicas.
“P. Ater”: Anywhere in areas of high
rainfall members of the cabbage family
need generous lime dressings during soil
preparation. Not only do cabbages,
cauliflowers, broccoli and sprouts thrive
in a soil that is not extremely acid, but
deficiency diseases often occur where the
lime, magnesium and potash are washed
out of the topsoil—by heavy rains.
In a dry season, cauliflowers are parti-
cularly prone to “whiptail” and swede
turnips to dry rot. Cabbages and other
brassicas grown on old cultivated ground
may take clubroot from the fungus
spores which hibernate in the soil. They
are there from previously affected plants.
Solid lime dressings generally control
all these troubles. At least one and a
half to two tonS'to the acre are required.
For home-garden areas up to half pound
to the square yard of hydrated lime is
desirable. Scatter and dig or plough it in
right away to save the fine particles.
Ground limestone is a good form of lime
to use, but get it into the soil a bit earlier
than the hydrated (or freshly slaked) stuff.
A good way to slake rocklime is to pour
water over it till it fluffs into a dry fine
pov/der.
Plant Hormones.
“Lagonda”: Apple- and peargrowers
have for years been using plant hor-
mones (B. 4/ 9 /’46) with considerable
success for the prevention of premature
fruit drop, which is particularly liable
to attack William pears and Mclntosh,
Gravenstein, Rome Beauty and Delicious
apples.
The active principle is related to the
common naphthalene, and only very
small quantities of the chemical are re-
quired to do the job. It is applied as a
spray containing five parts per million
or less of the naphthalene compound,
usually just as the fruit starts to fall. The
trees react very quickly, fruit drop is re-
duced within two days and will last for
anything up to three weeks, when a
second application is effective. The hor-
mone retards the development of corky
tissue at the junction of fruit stem and
branch, which when allowed to develop
normally causes the fruit to be pushed
off the tree.
Similar troubles occur amongst stone
fruits, but up to date it has not been
possible to prevent them by using sprays
of this nature, although it is probably
only a matter of time before agricultural
chemists will deliver the goods. Already
it is possible to produce seedless tomatoes
and seedless apples by using similar
chemicals.
Heavy frosts at blossom time usually
spell disaster, yet it has been possible by
the use of hormones to “stick” the blos-
som on frosted apple-trees and bring
the fruit to maturity, although minus
seeds.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof”: Lambs under six months old
must not be kept yarded away from their
mothers for more than 24hrs. at the most.
If kept without tucker for longer periods
they are liable to develop staggers. Af-
fected animals get proppy on their feet,
then go down. Make any lamb that is
down swallow half a pint of weakened
milk and get it and the rest of the mob
out into the paddock as soon as possible.
“Bill C.”: Hollow logs are best got
rid of whether the country is infested
with rabbits or not. Native cats and
domestic cats “gone bush” use logs as
hiding places, and so do brown snakes.
When a prized small dog disappears,
one knows that it has been killed by
a snake or a dingo, and is not gradu-
ally dying of thirst and hunger in a
narrow log somewhere. Some hollow
logs can be split into firewood, and the
others may be fired with safety when the
country has greened up after the summer
storms.
“Mr.”: For earwigs use this bait:
Sodium fluoride, loz.; molasses, one-
third pint; bran, lib.; water, one pint.
Dissolve the sodium fluoride in the water,
stir in the molasses, then add the bran,
mixing thoroughly. See that the bait
isn’t wet or it will scorch the plants, and
broadcast late ill the evening. In heavily-
infested gardens give three applications
of bait at intervals of ten days.
“Xob 33”: When chickens are about
a month old give them fresh raw minced
meat for the midday meal and feed in
the shade if the weather is warm. About
41b. of mince to 100 chicks. Once a week
incorporate 2oz. Epsom salts with the
meat.
“Czob”: Never destroy egg shells.
Turn them into shell grit by drying them
in the oven, then crushing them and mix-
ing them with the other grit.
“Atlanta”: F. S. Hutton, of Bingegang
(Q.), who bred a junior champion heifer
of Brisbane show, believes that in order
to evolve a quick-maturing, hardy type,
heifers should be left in the herd with
the bull, to accept service when they are
ready. In his opinion, a heifer which can
have a calf while young, and rear that calf
while continuing to develop, is the ideal
type. The method should prevent good
heifers from being unprofitable through
becoming overfat. Hutton considers that
application of the same principle to bulls,
with rigid culling of those which cannot
meet local conditions, will, through
natural selection, produce the best type.
“C.S.”: A Farm Water Supplies Act
came into force in N. S. Wales on August
9 last which enables individuals or groups
to provide and improve the water supply
to their farms for domestic, stock and
irrigation purposes, enables them to ob-
tain finance with which to do water-
supply works and enables the Water Con-
servation and Irrigation Commission to
do such works on farms. Anybody inter-
ested should write to the W.C. and I.C.
for information.


NEWS of
WHITE HORSE
■ |
Supplies of White Horse were
growing old when the war was
young
If you have wondered how
it is that you can still get
White Horse Whisky from
time to time, and how it
is that the quality arid
flavour of this famous
whisky were never better
than to-day, here is the
answer in one word . . •
age.
All the flavour, fullness
and smoothness of the
White Horse you have
known in the past is in
the White Horse you may
buy to-day. For to-day’s
White Horse is itself a
whisky of the past. In the
early days of the war it
was already growing old.
It has been ageing ever
sincd.
It was the stocks of
maturing whisky laid
down in years gone by
with a prudent eye on the
future, which provided the
great blend that is White
Horse to-day. And our un-
relaxing, provident care
of the whisky still matur-
ing is your assurance that
this famous Scotch will
remain as always—whisky
fine as a fine liqueur.
j
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
"Equal to a fine
Liqueur ”
WH7.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY PARAFFIN (KEROSENE)
300—5,000 c.p.
WE HAVE BEEN GREATLY ENCOURAGED
BY THE LARGE VOLUME OF ORDERS AND .
ENQUIRIES RECEIVED FROM THE AUS-
TRALIAN PUBLIC THROUGH THE TRADE.
OUR PRODUCTION IS QUITE CAPABLE OF t
DEALING WITH THESE ORDERS, BUT
UNFORTUNATELY THE AUSTRALIAN
IMPORT AUTHORITIES HAVE SEVERELY
RESTRICTED THE QUANTITY OF TILLEY
LAMPS AND RADIATORS WHICH MAY BE
IMPORTED.
WE REGRET ANY DISAPPOINTMENT TO
THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC DUE TO
QUOTA RESTRICTIONS.
TILLEY LAMPS AND RADIATORS ARE
MADE ONLY AT HENDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
London Office & Showrooms: 33, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
_ skin and com-
plexion I Use Cuticura
Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio —Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
j
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump eat
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ’up and up. Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping youf't-
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/* & 1/3.
about it. Yes, the injury could have been
caused by a fall, in his opinion. It could
have been caused by a blow from a piece
of wood. Yes, he had seem Joseph that
night. Joseph was rambling inconse-
quently. He had taken no particular
notice. His interest was concentrated on
the patient, Joseph might have been
drunk. He might have been suffering
shock. Witness was not prepared to say.
He had no mind one way or the other.
Jack was called. He smiled respect-
fully to the Judge, an elderly gentleman
with blotchy face and big bags under
his eyes. He didn’t seem to notice Jack’s
recognition of him. Jack’s story was
given with the utmost candor and sym*
pathy. It was really touching to find him
so sorry for Dick. Without saying it,
he sadly implied that Dick was very
drunk that night, apd that the injury to
Dick’s head had affected his wits.
THE Crown Prosecutor took Jack in
hand: —
“You have said that Armstrong was far
from sober.”
“I did.”
“What do you mean by ‘far from
sober’?”
Jack pondered the question long and
deeply.
“Come on, what did you mean?”
“Mean by what?”
“By ‘far from sober’?”
Jack pondered again, and then an-
swered brightly: “I meant far from
‘sober.’ ”
“Attend to me!” resumed the Crown
Prosecutor. “Do you declare that Arm-
strong was drinking?”
“Certainly.”
“Do you know that he is a Rechabite?”
“I don’t—but—am willing to take your
word for it.”
“Don’t you be facetious with me. Do
you know what a Rechabite is?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Oh, you don’t think so. I am a Rech-
abite myself: I don’t drink alcoholic
liquor.”
Jack smiled sadly.
“Now do you know what being a
Rechabite means?”
“Being born out of wedlock.”
The Judge grinned, and there were sup-
pressed gurgles in sundry places. Jack
looked serious, as though helping that
Crown Prosecutor was the only thing
that mattered in life.
The Crown Prosecutor reddened, thrust
out his feelers and his chin, and with no
good grace tried again.
“There was a quarrel that night?”
“No.” . .
“You say you were all drinking to-
gether?”
“Yes.”
“How many bottles did you consume?”
“Bottles!”
“Yes, I said bottles.”
“Of wine?”
“Yes—we speak of wine.”
“But you said bottles.”
The Crown Prosecutor glared, warned
Jack to be careful, for which Jack
thanked him politely.
“How many bottles of wine? Would
it have been 500?”
Jack reflected deeply, and said he really
didn’t think it would have been 500.
“Would it have been 50?”
Jack said he very much doubted it.
“Well, would it have been one bottle?”
“Oh, yes, at least one bottle.”
A similar argument ensued as to the
number of glasses they had drunk, and
the size of the glasses, and how many
glasses one could get out of a bottle. It
went on endlessly, and interestingly. His
Honor interposed at last:
“Come, come —there wouldn’t be more
than 10 glasses in a bottle.”
“Thank you, your Honor, I see you
know even more about it than I do.”
His Honor grinned again.
Jack went through his account of
Dick’s departure for the cellar, his warn-
ing to be careful, the sound of the
fall, and his finding of the unconscious
Dick on the cellar floor.
It amounted to Jack’s word against
Dick’s. His Honor summed up. He
dealt with the malice motive and pointed
out that it might work either way—that
whereas accused might have maliciously
attacked Armstrong, it might just as easily
be argued that Armstrong had maliciously
concocted his story of assault. If there
was any doubt at all it must favor the
defendant.
The Jury retired for a half-hour or
‘ so, and came back to return a verdict
of not guilty. It was a popular verdict.
Dick Armstrong slunk out of court,
filled with impotent and childish rage—
and a child’s sense of injustice. Every
man’s hand turned against him, he re-
flected bitterly. And there was nothing
he could do about it. He went away out
north-west and got a job on a station.
Joseph stayed on with his sister for a
while, till at last she and his other
troubles were too much for him, and he
followed the perfectly normal course of
going off to Sydney.


VA i
*
Mr
lii
<0
A*
*
*
Just a few brisk strokes on the strop
and the "Valet” blade is keen for a
perfect shave . . . every morning!
Nothing to take apart, nothing to un-
screw. Cleaned in a moment. Valet
is still the world’s simplest and most
satisfactory shave.
VALET BLADES
NOW REDUCED
IN PRICE:
10 Blades - 3/2
5 Blade's *l/7
(Supplies novo normal)
Valet is British made. Razor stocks are short and the
demand is great. But there are_ supplies available and the
position is steadily improving.
VALET
Autostrop
Safety Razor
y
“His Master’s Voice”
the Symbol of all
that is best in Radio
i
Ask your nearest “H.M.V.'* Retailer to demon-
strate these outstanding new Mantel and Table
Model Receivers.
*
• MANTEL MODEL 456 A.C. BROADCAST RECEIVER
• TABLE MODEL 886 A.C. DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
And for homes without electric supply —
• TABLE MODEL 326 . . . VIBRATOR DUAL WAVE RECEIVES
k
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (InecrpcraUd in England),
HOMEBUSH, N.S.Wi
Rl6/46
P
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Cooked provision hands, experienced males,
for city shops.”—
Half-baked tradesmen need not apply.
•F *F *F *F
“Powder monkey. Must be experienced m
restricted blasting.”— “S.M.H.”
One who is content to abuse the ganger
under his breath.
»F *F *F
Tiles can be effectively glossed by covering
them with a thin coating of laundry stare''
after they have been washed. Let dry, and
then polish with a dry cloth.” — Women’s paper.
And if that doesn’t refurbish your old
lid, nothing will.
f
“Monsieur Pierre Mangeot, private detective
employed by the French National Railway
Company, was mystified. He had been called
in to solve the mystery of a missing loco-
motive.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
But there wasn’t a single clue^—the
theft had been too cleverly engineered.
•F *F *F *F
First he had a bankbook, see ?
That’s before he took a wife.
Now she has the book, and he
Has lost all interest in life.
O’Hell.
•F *F *F *F
“To-night—cabaret dance. Full band.”
—“ S.M.H."
They paused too long in certain bars.
*F *F *F *F
You are wrong in assuming that Adam and
Eve were ashamed of their bodies.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Actually, they didn’t care a fig for
convention.
•F *F *F *F
“Don’t let the dock rob you of that well-
groomed look.” — “Woman.”
Concentrate on your own dial, if you
don’t want to be ticked off.
*F *F «F *F
“The car, which was travelling towards the
North-west Coast, was carried on the guard of
the engine for about 50 years before the train
was stopped.”— Burnie ( Tas .) “Advocate.”
Knowing the trains in the Speck, that’s
quite understandable.
“Brassiere manufacture restricted by coal
shortage.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
As they say, one hold-up affects an-
other,
•F *F *F *F
“Mickey Rooney’s real surname is Yule.”
—Film guff.
He still thinks he’s Christmas.
•F *F *F *F
“More genuine humor is beginning to creep
into our commercial programmes,” declares
radio writer.
It’s so old it’s got to creep.
•F *F *F *F
Then there was the fellow who was so
anasmic he had to work on an overdraft
from the blood bank.
"I'm warning y', Miller—lightin' rubbish in the street is breaking
bushfire-prevention regs.!"
“American women are badly dressed. They
put on everything.”— “Sun.”
In this respect Australian women can
show them a lot.
•F *F *F *F
“Man run over by aeroplane.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
That’s what comes of walking with
your head in the clouds.
•F *F *F Af
/‘Good food of the nineteenth century is
still good food for the twentieth century.”
■ — Woman’s paper.
But it really should be warmed up
again before serving.
Affair of Honor.
“An Italian was knocked down and injured
while returning unhurt from a pistol duel in
Rome.” — Cable.
Once, so historians recall.
When language in a verbal brawl
Became too obviously candid,
The laws of etiquette demanded
That gentlemen who disagreed
On vital matters should proceed
To try the simple arbitration
Of mutual extermination.
A nd since, in these enlightened days,
Recourse to personal affrays
With bits of lethal apparatus
Has lost its former social status,
Although you probably will not
Be stretched by an avenging shot
Upon the field of honor, redly —•
Traffic, you’ll note, is just as deadly.
P. M. LUSK.
Inappropriate.
“She denied that she had ever called her
husband a worm.” — Divorce evidenbe,
“I never used so false a term,"
The lady spat with hate.
“There’s something useful in a worm —■
You can’t use him for bait."
NAT.
The Stiggle-rat.
The habits of the Stiggle-Rat
Are very strange indeed ;
It makes a nest inside a hat.
And then decides to feed
Upon the tails of wall-eyed moles
And barbecues of buttonholes.
As such a diet can't be got.
The animal in question
Eats other foodstuffs, which are not
Conducive to digestion.
Antacid powders aren’t created
For making Stiggle-Rats deflated . . .
And that is why
They die.
T. W. NATHAN.
Latest Achievement.
“According to Reuter’s Moscow correspon-
dent, ‘lzvestia’ claims that horsebreeders in
Vladimir Province have successfully established
a new breed of equine giants capable of doing
the work of ten ordinary horses.”
An air almost of gaiety pervaded the
Kremlin. Joe was wearing only a light
scowl and, reflecting his unaccustomed
cheerfulness, was humming Moussorg-
sky’s “Song of the Crematorium.” His
yes-men, ever eager to take their cue
from the Fiihrer’s temper, quickly
adopted an air of je ne sais quoi, almost
of don’t-give-a-damn. Even the hordes
of secret police seemed to have become
infected with the strange air, and while
they went about their business of tapping
commissars’ ’phones and shadowing high
party members almost forgot that they
themselves were being spied upon by
even more secret police.
The Commissar for Collectivised
Horseflesh was flushed with triumph.
“Yes, Fuhrer,” he said excitedly. “It is
a miracle of Soviet scientific achievement,
greater even than Dr. Bludjerov’s world-
shaking feat of growing hair between a
flea’s toes. Its effects will be incalculable,
not only on our military position, but
on our internal economy. The increased
output due to this discovery will bring
an era of unexampled prosperity to the
U.S.S.R. So great will it be, I confidently,
predict, that within ten years fully five
per cent, ot the population will have
baths in their houses and gas laid on, and
it will then devolve upon us to educate
them in their us&. It is obvious that
each of these ten-horsepower horses will
not only be able to plough ten times as
much land as an ordinary horse, but be
able to do it ten times faster,
“But the military aspect is even more
important. No longer will the Red Army
be forced to patch up old American
Lease-Lend vehicles to attain speed and
mobility. Our bullock wagons, par-
ticularly if they are streamlined and
given light iron-tyred wheels and drawn
by our- new super-horses, will be far
more efficient and economical than the
self-propelled vehicles of the effete
Western Democracies,
“And if the last war demonstrated any-
thing, Fuhrer, it was the enormously-
increased importance of cavalry.
Equipped with our gigantic horses, our
Cossacks, already invincible, will become
even more so. They will strike terror
into the hearts of even atom-bomb pilots.
Shall I issue the order for replacement of
existing Cossack horses with the new
Soviet super-equines?”
“Yes,” replied Joe, “and remind me to
invest the horsebreeders of Vladimir with
the Order of the Saffron Stoat’s Feather,
Ninth Class,.”
About a month later the Commissar
for Collectivised Horseflesh received, a
peremptory summons to appear before
The Presence, He went, not without
some natural trepidation. Fuhrer Joe
was in a black mood.
“You and your damned breed of gigan-
tic horskis!” he burst out in the closest
his squeaky voice could get to a bellow.
He picked up the top sheet from a sheaf
of reports in front of him.
“I am informed,” he went op, his
handle-bar mo. working with rage, “that
not only are they eating ten times as
much fodder as ordinary horskis, but
they’re kicking farm laborers ten times
as far and as hard ; that it takes ten times .
longer to get them harnessed, and ten
times as much harness to do it. Also,
it takes ten laborers to handle one of
them.
“And that’s not all. Industrial output
has been seriously affected. We’ve had
to switch from top-priority items such as
gallows, knouts, ball-and-chains and vari-
ous torture implements to extension-
ladders, without which your precious
horskis can’t be mounted. On top of all
this, ten times less land has been ploughed
because the farm laborers went on strike
—though shooting one in four quickly
scotched that.
“And, perhaps,” the Fuhrer went on,
picking up another paper, “you mightn’t
have heard that, through your stupid en-
couragement of these criminal breeders
from Vladimir, we have lost Marshal
Jewbenny, beloved leader of our Cos-
sacks—after mounting his new sixty-five-
hand charger. Happening to look down
at the ground he got vertigo, fell off and
broke his neck!”
And that’s how the new purge started.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Senior Cadets
The outbreak of war saw a great
revival of interest in the Senior Cadet
Corps. Before the war only certain
schools had cadet detachments, but the
system has now grown *to such dimen-
sions that there are Over 15,000 cadets
in N. S. Wales alone.
The Cadet Corps comes under direct
Army control and war-experienced in-
structors give lessons on infantry weapons
and minor tactics. Each detachment is
placed under one of the school’s masters
who has qualified at a cadet officers’
camp. He may be a lieutenant, captain,
or major, according to the strength of the
detachment.
Boys who wish to join do so at the
beginning of their 14th year or any time
thereafter. On enrolling, each cadet is
issued with a military uniform, greatcoat,
hat, boots, webbing and a .303 rifle —
the rifle becomes his personal property
and responsibility, and the basis for most
of his training. As well as foot drill and
arms drill, he receives instruction in
the care and use of such automatic
weapons as the Bren, Owen and Austen,
of hand grenades and mortars and in
map reading. •
At 16 promising lads may attend a
potential officers’ camp conducted by the
military branch controlling the cadet
movement. If he qualifies and if a
vacancy exists he may become a cadet
lieutenant.
It’s a good training and develops both
responsibility and leadership. In their
annual camp the lads get to know each
other’s faults, learn tolerance and acquire
a good idea of army life. Many a back-
ward lad has lost his shyness and self-
consciousness by mixing freely with his
fellows and by being compelled to stand
out in front of his squad and drill it.
I and all my mates who have left
school miss our weekly “choco” parades
and we’d willingly join any similar sys-
tem of military training that offered. We
know the value of it to Ourselves as
young men and, after reading the wosds
of General Blarney and others, we know
the value of it to our country. And we
suspect that there are thousands of war
veterans who would be only too pleased
to pass on some of their hard-earned
knowledge to us. —L A. C. (N.S.W.).
The Red Cross
I saw two parties, both strangers to
me, at the recent Brisbane exhibition. In
one a p.-0.-w. was lamenting the fact
he couldn’t go to Greenslopes Military
Hospital to see an old cobber, as his
available time didn’t fit in with regulation
visiting hours. A girl in the other party,
in a Red Cross uniform, left her group
and faced the complainer. “If you come
to the Red Cross Recreation Hut at any
time and ask for me I’ll have your friend
over there to see you. It can only be
done through Red Cross. Here’s my
name.”
Those two old mates met in the Red
Cross Hut, had a meal together there and
talked themselves dry. There were bil-
liard and ping-pong tables, darts and
bowling alleys, a picture screen and other
recreations provided by Red Cross —all
free and well attended. There were also
a couple of flats, fully furnished, self-
contained and maintained by the Red
Cross for the next-of-kin of dangerously
ill patients. There’s no charge.
'* There was a patient in ward umpteen.
This fellow, only a youngster, vyas
worried stiff because his first kid was due
to arrive in another hospital on the other
side of Brisbane. Rules and regulations
didn’t permit the young chap a means of
seeing his wife. When the time came
a Red Cross car and driver picked him
up, took him to the distant hospital and
brought him back to Greenslopes a proud
young father.
I’m not giving a free ad. to anyone,
but I intend to continue my subscriptions
to Red Cross.— Scout (Q.).
Campaign Investigations
When the bitter affairs in Ambon and
adjacent areas are investigated a little
time might be spent looking into the
“how and why” of the final campaigns of
the Third, Fifth and Sixth Divisions and
the last glorious fight of H.Q. First Aust,
Army.
The stinking jungles between Aitape
and Wewak were doing a good job killing
off a large Japanese force which, cut off
by air and sea operations, was in no con-
dition or position to present any kind of
threat to our garrison forces, nearest of
which were at Madang and Finschhafen,
Nevertheless, many fine fellows paid with
their lives for the privilege of hounding
the Asiatics through the mountains and
along the coastal swamps, while many
more were wounded or sent back sick. In
a large proportion they were men who
had survived the Middle East and two
earlier jungle campaigns, and all de-
served far better fate. In the final
accounting what was achieved that really
counted towards victory?
As for New Britain and Bougainville,
wide expanses of sea provided an effec-
tive safeguard against any possible offen-
sive action by the Japanese. Yet we lost
many lives in a futile herding operation
which placed us in a no more advan-
tageous position than existed in October,
1944. Our air and sea supremacy meant
that the Japs were secured in natural con-
centration camps from which they had no
chance of escape.
Then, too, what did H.Q. First Aust.
Army do in New Guinea any better than
it did at Mareeba or Toowoomba?
How much money was spent in the con-
struction of the elaborate establishment
at Lae —used for about 15 months?
Three divisions —the size of the force
committed in the Aitape, New Britain
and Bougainville campaigns—warrant,
according to Army organisation tables,
the establishment of a corps command.
That already existed—H.Q. Second Aust.
Corps, which changed its name to that
from H.Q. New Guinea Forces when the
Army arrived at Lae; and it directed
"I’ve brought your husband horned."
"Oh, just drop him anywhere. There's no reward ."
operations in New Britain and Bougain-
ville.
H.Q. First Aust. Army directed the
work of Sixth Aust. Division at Aitapc—
from Lae! Were that porfderous organ-
isation really necessary it could have
done a far better job from nearer the
area of operations—say Madang or
Finschhafen. The elaborate A.W.A.S.
establishment would then not have been
necessary (with more men retained to
guard the women than were released to
go forward to front-line units), nor the
stylish two-storey houses for the G.O.C.
A.M.F. and G.O.C. First Army, nor the
palatial offices which housed the heads of
branches.
Troops bitterly suggested that the set-
up was merely an excuse for a lot of base
wallahs to qualify for tax exemption and
the Pacific Star. That comment was un-
kind to those operational men attached
to the H.Q., but all those who saw the
size of the establishment wondered why.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Toll of the Road
More than mere warnings from Trans-
port Ministers or exhortations to be
careful from “Safety Council” officials
will be necessary if Australian roads are
to be made reasonably safe. There is
need for, far firmer treatment of con-
victed offenders than our Courts are at
present disposed to mete out.
In the U.S.A. the Courts take a stern
view. Gross negligence, such as driv-
ing while drunk, is treated as a
crime and punishable by long sen-
tences of imprisonment. Nor is the
driver alone held responsible when
the guilt is partly another’s —in one case,
a record of which lies before me, a gas
company official authorised a drunken
man to drive a motor truck, which
knocked over and killed a pedestrian.
Both the driver and the official were held
guilty, and sentenced to five'"years’ im-
prisonment, the Court holding;
If the owner of a dangerous instrumen-
tality like an automobile knowingly puts
that instrumentality in the immediate con-
trol of a careless and reckless driver and
permits him without protest so recklessly
and negligently to operate the car as to
cause thefdeath of another, he is as much
responsible as the man at the wheel.
Drunkenness is the cause of many seri-
ous accidents, but it is not the only one.
Fatigue may be just as dangerous, and
U.S. Courts have held that a driver is
grossly negligent when he drives a car
knowing that he needs rest or sleep.
Drivers have been convicted of man-
slaughter on such grounds. Persons with
impaired hearing or eyesight or of highly
nervous disposition, and the very aged
or very young, have been held by U.S.
Courts to be incompetent to drive, and
persons or corporations knowingly allow-
ing them to do so are liable for damages
or for criminal prosecution in the case
of accidents.
Weighing the American Courts’ atti-
tude against the tendency of Australian
Courts to “punish” by nominal fines or
temporary cancellation of licences, it is
easy to see why we have too many acci-
dents here.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Harmony
Today I witnessed the inspiring spec-
tacle of 20,000 Australians gathered to-
gether at Adelaide Oval to see a “School-
children’s Display” presented in honor
of the Duke and Duchess, ,
The huge concourse was a complete
cross-section of the community. Entrance
was free, so the grandstand and terraces
were filled indiscriminately by rich and
poor, good, bad and indifferent. There
were representatives of every political
party and of all religions. The com-
plexions of the people, ranging from
black tp ash-blonde, showed that they
were derived from many different races
and mixtures of races. The children in
the arena —7000 of them, all fine physical
specimens, bareheaded and scantily clad
—proved the point even more clearly.
They might have been chosen to demon-
strate the virtues of international breed-
ing.
Even Solomon could not have judged
by outward appearance alone to which
section of our social scheme the kids or
their elders belonged in their various
loydlties, cults, or ideologies. Yet they
were meeting and mixing in perfect peace
and amity, with never a slogan or catchcry
to remind them that they were potential
enemies each of the other. Class-con-
sciousness was completely submerged in
a sea of mass courtesy.
There is no propaganda in this par, but
I doubt if any other country on earth
today pould collect a crowd so wall
dressed, so well fed, so well behaved and
lightly policed, or could show a group
of schoolchildren so well-nourished, so
free from fear of any kind of repression.
—Migrant (S.A.).
Defence
The official announcement that we
must rely on an Interim Army and a
Permanent Military Force, with no
Citizen Force backing, for an unspecified
period, will cause anxiety to all those
interested in the defence of Australia.
It is unfortunate that the politicians who
sponsored the present scheme have no
military background, because the prin-
ciples of war, as laid down by Field
Service Regulations, apply to any force
whether armed with bows and arrows
or atomic rockets.
During and after the 1914-18 war it
was almost universally accepted by
civilians that the days of cavalry had
passed, and it became fashionable to
scream about Colonel Blimp and the
Battle of Waterloo whenever a cavalry-
man was appointed to command a major
force or operation. During the last war,
however, cavalry played as important a
part as in any previous campaign—that
the men were in armored vehicles and
moved faster than horsemen does not
alter the fact that the principles applied
were identical.
It is known to very few that Wingate,
of the Chindits, was particularly interested
in methods of transportation when he was
a subaltern attached to the Eastern Arab
Corps in the Sudan. He meticulously
recorded the characteristics and require-
ments of movement by camel, donkey
and porters in a wide variety of terrain.
The facts he established must have been
invaluable to him in his earlier and bril-
liant campaign in Abyssinia (which seems
to have been completely forgotten), and
there can be little doubt that the success
of his Chindits was due in no small
measure to his knowledge of the prin-
ciples of transportation, which are the
same whether the movement is by
elephant or aeroplane.
No country can be prepared for war
until it has the largest possible reserve
of men who are fit, disciplined and
trained to use weapons automatically in
offensive or defensive action. That can
be achieved by our present system of train-
ing whether the equipment provided be
artillery, engineering stores or rifles.
Similarly, aircrew can be made 80 per
cent, fit for action by training in machines
at present available.
There can be no excuse for delaying
the formation of a compulsorily trained
military force. The members of such a
force must be in an infinitely better
position to use any weapons put into
their hands than raw recruits, and it is
folly to wait until someone has fore-
cast what weapons might be used in
a future war. •
It should now be obvious that no army
will ever bring a war to a victorious con-
clusion with the same equipment as that
provided at the outset. —Screwball
(W.A.).
Building Sites
In my district many new homes are
being built, but, almost without exception,
they are on poor building sites or allot-
ments which in ordinary circumstances
would not attract buyers. In one parti-
cular section where a new street of houses
is going up, the land is low-lying and
poorly-drained, and in some cases is five
and six feet beneath the level of the road.
In the same locality good building sites
on high elevations and with excellent
frontage and drainage are vacant and un-
used.
Most owners of good allotments refuse
to sell at the 1942 pegged price, believing
that pegging will end shortly, and that the
market value of their properties will then
rise sharply. In the meantime, home-
builders (the majority of them ex-service-
men) are largely restricted to poorer
building sites.— Junius Jr. (Q.).
Parliamentary Debates
Why all this fuss about the low stand-
ard of Parliamentary debates? Men
are sent to Canberra to get on with the
job of governing the Commonwealth and
not to put teachers of elocution out of
business. Maybe the aspirate does re-
ceive rough handling, but is this impor-
tant? The Cockney delights in putting
it in the wrong place, the North Country-
man sees no sense in wasting time on it
and the French seem to get on quite well
without it.
The suggestion that aspirants for Par-
liamentary honors should be required to
pass some sort of literary examination
is a bit hard. The poor beggars are al ;
ready put under the microscope by loca;
committees, associations and the like;
every detail of their past and present is
ferreted out by keen-nosed newspaper
men ; all their weaknesses and mistakes
are exaggerated by their opponent'.
After all it’s not how a man speaks that
counts, but what he says. A few missing
aspirates or occasional grammatical errors
should not debar any man with natural
ability from serving his fellows in Parlia-
ment. , .
The real trouble with the broadens,
debates was that so little was said in so
very many words. Arguments for and
against were repeated time after time-
Worst of all,, it seemed to be realised
that it was all to no purpose, for the
result of the debate was a foregone con-
clusion. The days when orators could
sway assemblies or influence votes have
gone.— West Riding (Vic.).


Elections
I am an old man and have seen plenty
of them. They remind me of the old
days when the circus came to town. The
bandwagon, the tinsel, somersaulting, bill-
posting and general ballyhoo are very
similar in both forms of entertainment.
The day after, the circus had little to
show but wheel ruts, empty peanut shells
and scattered handbills. Again the simi-
lanty.
To the younger fry the political dodges
arc new and strange, but to wrinkled
age they are mostly old stuff. The baby-
kissing was well established when Dickens
described it, and most of the other tricks
were exposed by Lowell in The Biglow
Papers, proving that they are not confined
to any particular place or time or party.
“A marciful Pruvidence fashioned us
holler, in order that we might our prin-
ciples swaller” could be recited by candi-
dates in many countries. “As original as
the wind in a pair of bellows” are the
platitudes in our press, platform and
atmosphere.
As a free and enlightened citizen it is
my duty and privilege to extract a few
grains of wheat from the bushels of chaff,
but it is a tedious business apart from the
unconscious humor provided by word-
swallowers, fire-eaters and tight-rope
walkers in the Greatest Show on Earth.
—Roll up (S.A.).
As a Scot, my risible faculties are not
easily aroused, but a succession of inci-
dents recently occurring on the same day
caused me to burst out in rather hysterical
laughter. The occasion was the descent
of a Parliamentarian on a small town, and
the consequent deputations and visits to
local industry. After a civic reception
and the usual blah, the Great One pro-
ceeded to inspect Local Industry.
Having seen all the processes, and the
busy hands turning out a very necessary
commodity for home building, it must
have occurred to the G.O. that he, too,
had a job of work to do. So the works
were closed down for some 40 minutes
. while he delivered an oration on the bene-
fits conferred or to be conferred.
Whether the result of the stoppage could
possibly compensate for the loss of pro-
duction is doubtful, but the whole visit
was capped when the party was greeted by
the trumpet call of elephants belonging to
a travelling circus, which is being carted
about the country when the local timber
mills are closing down for lack of truck-
ing to carry building timber to Sydney.
A circus may, of course, be cheaper
lhan corn, wine and oil to keep the popu-
lace from fretting about leadership or
lack of it, but the fodder necessary to
save the elephants from malnutrition
would help to keep a productive cow
alive. Of course, if the cow died it would
solve the question of feed for the lions.
—A. C. M. (N.S.W.).
Poll Clerks* Pay
Every election official must be over 21,
and the rates paid are as follows; Poll
clerk, 255., or 30s. if required to count at
night after the close of the poll; presid-
ing officers, 355., or £2 if engaged on
counting; presiding officers at polling
places where there are more than two
tables, £2 and £2 ss. respectively.
These officials must be in attendance at
7.30 a.m., and the poll closes at 8 p.m.
Then ballot papers have to be balanced
and returns made, so that there is no
chance of finishing before 8.30 p.m. That
makes 13 hours’ work for 255. for a poll
clerk, or less than 2s, an hour. The basic
wage is 2s. 3d. an hour. Counting has
to be done on Sunday in the counting
centres, and poll clerks on this are paid
Is. 6d. per hour, for Sunday work. I
wonder what a wharfie or a coalminer
would be paid per hour for Sunday work,
if ever they did work on a Sunday.
Efforts were made this year to obtain
some increase in pay for electoral work,
but the Government would not sanction
any better pay. Fortunately, there are
citizens who do the job in a spirit of
service. But imagine an adult being
asked to work for, say, 15 hours on
Saturday and eight hours on Sunday for
a total return of £2 2s. The rates have
not been altered for over 20 years.— Mac-
Ropus (N.S.W.).
“Kindly and Amiable’*
“Sgt. Damocles” (B. 11/9/’46) is justi-
fied in his judgment of the Japanese
soldiers he met and whose bestiality he
experienced. He is not justified in judg-
ing an entire race by the behavior of a
section of it during a limited time. He
admits as much by refusing to base his
opinion of the Japs on their attitude
during World War I, when they were
on the side of the angels. The brutes he
met had been set apart and trained from
childhood in the parts they played, edu-
cated to act like robots in conflict and
like beasts in victory.
Events in Europe have demonstrated
that even a highly cultured white race
can be “dehumanised” by ruthless doc-
trine and discipline by a few “bad men”
who have been granted unrestricted
powers over the schools, press, police
and ballot box. It has also been proved
that sections of that race can be blud-
geoned by a dictator into behavior
worse than that of the jungle. The bal-
ance of the race is then coerced into
blind, passive, dumb obedience.
This is not a plea for leniency for the
criminals. Let the punishment fit the
crime, but let it also fit into a broad
scheme for enabling the chastened race
to start on the long way back to decency.
What evil training has done good train-
ing can undo. No student of history
will doubt that the Japanese race, with
other aggressor races, can again earn the
adjectives “kindly and amiable.” — Long
View (S.A.).
From a War Bride
An Australian war bride, I married an
English sailor and have lived for several
months in the heart of Somerset. Thou-
sands of young men from the towns and
villages of this county served in the
Royal Navy and a great number of them
visited Australia with the Pacific Fleet.
Those whom I have met speak with
sincere gratitude of the magnificent hospi-
tality extended to them by my fellow-
countrymen and -wometf during their
stay. They made me proud to call my-
self an Australian,
From all whom I have met since my
arrival in this most beautiful of English
"Quiet, Maisie—he looks as if he's house-hunting."
counties I have been given a welcome as
warm and as generous as Australia gave
to the men of the Pacific Fleet. Friends
and relatives of English servicemen who
were in Australia have been especially
kind. Even complete strangers with no
ties with Australia, upon hearing that I
am from “down under,” cannot'do too
much for me. They are anxious that I
should visit their homes and that I should
share their scant food and simple plea-
sures. They have been marvellous.
One evening in a little village inn—
their inns are the friendliest places in
the world ; nothing in Australia can com-
pare with them—the villagers insisted
that I should sing “Waltzing Matilda.”
Then I gave them “Clancy of the Over-
flow,” “The Wide Brown Land,” “Nine
Miles from Gundagai” and pieces by
Lawson and Dennis. lam an indifferent
singer and poor at reciting verse, but
from all reports my impromptu perform-
ance went down well. Not because of
my limited talents, but because -of the
immense goodwill that exists in this quiet
part of England for what they call
“Aussieland.”
Where I live women and girls have
stopped me on the green and in the
hedged lanes to comment on the quality
of my frocks and shoes. When I hung
my first washing on the line there was a
regular procession of sightseers who
came to gaze at the—to them —colorful,
varied and incredible display. The
women in these parts were hard hit by
rationing and have had to patch and
darn for years.
Before I left Australia friends loaded
me with Australian foodstuffs. In re-
turn for the hospitality I had received I
arranged a party in aid of a local charity
and contributed biscuits, dried fruits,
tinned peaches, pineapple and fruit salad,
cheese, powdered milk, baked beans,
tinned meat, spaghetti, chocolates and
candies. It was a great success —there
were items on the menu the locals hadn’t
seen for years. The food situation is
pretty grim although it is not as serious
in the country as it is in the big cities.
The Food for Britain parcels are a god-
send and are greatly appreciated.
Many of my new friends believe that
I hail from a land of milk and honey
and many of the young men hereabouts
talk of returning to Australia, They are
fine types, and I sometimes wonder, after
reading letters from home and Australian
newspapers sent to me, whether I should
not advise them to remain in this quiet
little corner of the world. — Ex-Fivedock
(Somerset, England).
Law Reports
“Junius Jr.” is right in his re-
marks (B. 11/9/’46) on the decline
in law-reporting in newspapers, but astray
in saying that newspaper reports are still
quoted in court. He is confusing reports
of cases published in newspapers with law
reports published in book form by news-
paper companies. The first can never be
quoted with authority ; the secopd are
recognised, authorised reports. The “Argus
Law Reports” of cases in the Victorian
Supreme Court and the High Court are
issued fortnightly and at the end of the
year are bound into volume form. —
Dutigalla (N.S.W.).
Farm Values
“F.W.L.” is a little astray if he be-
lieves that agricultural land values are
inflated, because he has “never struck
land for sale at shire valuations” (B.
11/9/’46).
Shire values are assessed not on the
earning capacity of land, but on the un-
improved value of it. The unimproved
value of land is not its value without
buildings or crops, but the value of the
land in its original natural state. “The
quality of the land shall not be deemed
to be affected by reason of the fact that
it is infested with noxious weeds or that
it is not cleared of its natural timber or
of scrub or other vegetable growth exist-
ing thereon”—Local Government Act
(Q.).
As soon as the land is partially, or
wholly, cleared, stumped, grubbed, broken
up or even ringbarked, it becomes to
that extent improved land, the value of
these improvements usually being worked
out at the average cost per acre of the
various items.
The only land “F.W.L.” can reason-
ably expect to get at the shire valuation
is virgin country.
In any case it is hard to see how land
values can be inflated today, as sales
are pegged at 1942 valuations by
Economic Organisation Regulations, and
even leases of agricultural land are sub-
ject to the Treasurer’s consent. In
Queensland the Cane Prices Board, which
can veto the sale of any cane lands
where the price is considered exorbitant,
is another safeguard against land values
inflation. — Sol Brass (Q.).
The Farmer’s Pay
As the son of a farmer, and now
manager of a country bank, I’m in a
position to know that the farmer does
not get a fair return for his outlay in
work and money. A business in a
country town with a capital of £l4OO-
- will give its owner a really good
living, while a farmer on only a medium
wheatfarm will have that amount in-
vested in plant alone. Why then do some
farmers show financial progress and
develop a sound financial standing over
many years? There are three good
reasons for a start :
A carefulness t|iat is not understood
by the city dweller.
Help from his wife. The wife in many
instances by her own efforts provides the
home with groceries and clothes by the
sale of butter, eggs and other products.
This avenue of income is entirely man-
aged by the wife in addition to her
actual house duties. These women are
the basis of many farmers’ finances.
They work extremely hard.
The struggle on many farms goes on
for years ; then sons and daughters grow
up who are willing to work without pay
except for a few shillings to spend occa-
sionally. From this source of unpaid
labor countless farmers establish them-
selves as well-to-do-men.
Those are three of the salient factors. I
could detail others. But I still don’t con-
sider that the average wheatfarmer re-
ceives an adequate return on his capital.
Why then do farmers remain on the
land? The reasons include freedom of
action, being their own masters, health
and a natural liking for the land and its
interests. Lastly, in most cases they
have not been trained for any other job.
—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Trees or Destruction?
It is amusing to see “Gidgee George”
(B. 18/9/’46) trotting out all the old tree-
vandal guff under the usual “Personally I
love .trees —but” camouflage. Of
course there were trees on the Brisbane
Exhibition Ground once, just as there
once were trees on the present site of
The Bulletin office. Where London
stands was once an oak forest. There
were trees, too, only a generation or two
ago on thousands of then-reproductive
square miles in far western Queensland
and N.S.W., and in south-central Aus-
tralia, now abandoned and made unin-
habitable by that same insensate and
unnecessary destruction of protecting
trees which Forestry Departments are at
last attempting to prevent.
Were “G.G,” to acquaint himself with
even some of the facts and figures set
out by Dr. Bradfield and other skilled
observers of Australia’s water resources
and the disastrous effect of stupid and
totally unnecessary destruction of protecr
tive vegetation, he might perhaps alter
his present views as to trees being only
“nesting sites for birds and hollows for
’possums.” His statement that ring-
barking causes springs to flow is not sup-
ported by any scientifically reliable evi-
dence. On the contrary, there are numer-
ous recorded instances of springs, creeks
and lagoons having dried up after sur-
rounding trees had been destroyed.
“G.G.’s” query as to whether naturally
treeless country is eroding any faster
than other areas is futile. Matters were
adjusted there by Dame Nature many
centuries ago. The vital point is that
many times their area of once-fertile Aus-
tralian soil have been destroyed, damaged
or imperilled by ignorant and unneces-
sary tree-destruction over the last 150
years, and that the evil work still con-
tinues.
“G.G.’s” prattle about not being able
to grow maize in standing timber is
equally nonsensical and misleading. He
would probably be equally certain that
he couldn’t grow it alongside standing
timber. One of the best maize crops that
I’ve ever seen grew to within 10ft. of a
10-acre block of primeval forest trees
preserved by the grower as a windbreak
and protection. “G.G.” would have had
it all down. This more enlightened
farmer prevented root-action by a 3ft.-
deep trench midway between crop and
trees. That great Australian sylviculturist
William Guilfoyle, Director of the Mel-
bourne Botanic Garden, had proved its
efficiency more than 60 years previously.
—Atrax (Q.).
Sales Tax
There is much talk about further re-
ductions in sales tax. Perhaps some
thought could be given to rectifying the
following anomalies.
Dog combs 12i p.c. tax, babies’ combs
and brushes 25 p.c.; dog powder 12i p.c.,
baby powder 25 p.c.; eyeshades for
office work 25 p.c., eyeshades for in-
door and outdoor games 12| p.c.;
betting tickets 12? p.c., Christmas and
business cards 25 p.c.; household needle
and thread on card 25 p.c., fancy pearl
necklet needle and thread 12? p.c.;
razors, razor blades and shaving brushes
25 p.c.; pocket knives, scissors, chiro-
podists’ nail clippers 12? p.c. Apparently
the official mind has some reason for
these discrepancies, but it’s hard to find.
It should give men food for thought to
know that razors, blades, strops, shaving
brushes, creams and soaps are taxable at
the “luxury and fancy goods rate” of
25 p.c.—C. S. (N.S.W.).


M
v.m
&
so< •
w
/**
And no wonder, for in addition to being the
product of a great wireless organisation,
the new Radiola brings you outstanding
tonal reproduction and performance.
The Company’s laboratories are the finest
equipped and staffed in Australia. The
A. W. A. Radio-Electric Works, greatly
increased in size, met the demands of the
Services for radio equipment of the highest
technical design. Its output was larger than
that of any other wireless organisation in
Australia.
The post-war A.W.A. Radiola has gained
immeasurably by the higher technical skill
of A.W.A. scientists and engineers devel-
oped during war time. It is a superb
instrument of Radio entertainment unpa-
ralleled for tone and performance — one
which you will be proud to own.
Although large production is being maintained, your
nearest authorised Radiola distributor may have
difficulty in making early delivery due to the big
demand from all parts of Australia. He will, however,
gladly advise you and give details of models which
will be available.
m
RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BV
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
#
r
iU
||l»
1»4 ,C
4 «i* s °
■
is
m
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
mru* 1 * .liii®
ba «d*l^ e8d
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
blc
a
|nco«M ,a
A.W.A. Radiolette
