

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vo!. 67—No. 3444
Wednesday, February 13, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Otiice, Sydney* N.S.W., Australia* for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Temple Bar.
JN its original site, Temple Bar marked the east boundary of the
city of London liberties and superseded a stone gateway which
was damaged by the Great Fire. Wren’s Temple Bar was removed
from the east end of the Strand in 1878, when the thoroughfare
was widened, and the site was marked by a memorial which in-
curred some unfavourable criticism. Wren’s famous gateway, built
in 1670, was re-erected in 1888 in a very different place —at one of
the entrances to Theobalds Park, Waltham Cross. Its west side was
adorned with statues of James I and of Anne of Denmark ; and
on the summit the heads of felons and traitors used to be spiked.
Over the central arch was a room once occupied by Pyson
the printer, and later used as a repository by the banking
firm of Child. At Temple Bar on the occasion of a royal
visit to the city, has long been observed the custom ®f the lord
mayor presenting the civil sword to the Sovereign by whom it
is returned.


Le 4 r " ru Writing
?StO* V) at HOT*TF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, V
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Addrrf"
s.B. 246
The Red Page
REVELATION.
Observe this man, he is an engineer;
Notice his useful hands; his eyes are
keen.
He has spent his life in the designing
And service—and faithful love —of the
machine.
All joy for him existed in smooth sur-
face, ’
Music was in the purr of a good flywheel,
A satisfactory evening’s conversation
Concerned the nice efficiency of steel.
We can assume that it was business that
forced him
To drive down the Windsor-road at the
end of the day
When, for an hour, the landscape is
sharply focussed
Before night smooths each long contour
away.
With every mile the mountains close on
the traveller
Who, with a sudden, a wholly astonish-
ing vision
Finds they are part of a plan, an entire
conception
Terrifying in its harmony and precision-
His sight, being trained only to see essen-
tials.
Can strip the trees from the hills and
the moss from the boulders,
Revealing the ultimate anatomy,
Spreading away from the plateau’s stony
shoulders.
A mind that had thought too long in
terms of blueprint
Discovered affinity with the slopes and the
plain.
Losing itself in technical admiration
Of this enormous provision for stress and
strain . . .
Perhaps he came again, I cannot tell you ;
But this I know, his eyes proclaim a
change.
He can touch his machines, but has no
comfort from them.
The oily wheels are meaningless and
strange.
Not that he views the world as a
machine;
Nevertheless, he is an engineer
And, having known perfection for an
hour,
Lives all his hours in beauty—and in fear.
One could expect that. Hoping to find
solutions
In man’s small science and his vast defeat,
While the strength thus sought, and tested
by the ages.
Rests in the earth absolute and complete.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.
Glory and Catastrophe.
How many novelists can see their
characters, going through the usual pro-
cedure of love and hate that make up a
life, as involved in “glory and catas-
trophe”? Among recent novelists, Con-
rad, of course ; he had the heroic vision.
And D. H. Lawrence, whose writing had
the true intensity of tragedy. A new
novel by the Australian Christina Stead
—For Love Alone (Peter Davies, Ltd.) —
belongs as assuredly as her earlier work
in that high company.
It is possible that Christina Stead’s
work derives from Lawrence. In the very
minor matter of punctuation —which
might be an indication of something
more important—she has Lawrence’s
trick of using the comma where the
normal device would be a semi-colon or
full stop, particularly in dialogue. Her
theme, “For Love Alone,” could, of
course, suggest the influence of Law-
rence ; as, too, more strongly than any-
thing else, could the intangible “climate”
of the book, the impression it gives of
desperate struggle under a stormy sky.
There are, too, certain resemblances to
the writing of Virginia Woolf.
But these comparisons are certainly
not to be taken in any way as a dis-
paragement : rather, as a compliment.
Whether Lawrence was the first in
modern times to travel the steep and
stony path Christina Stead climbs, and,
by his passing, made the going a little
bit easier, or whether she simply hap-
pens to have in common with Lawrence
and Dostoievsky a particular kind of
tragic power, she “imitates” no one.
There is a profoundly original talent
speaking in For Love Alone, something
wild and fierce and fearless that tempts
one to use the word “genius.”
“Glory” and “catastrophe” (like
“genius”) are large words; all very well,
one would think, for “Anthony and Cleo-
patra,” but this is a story about a girl
from Watson’s Bay, just inside Sydney
Heads, who hankers for a trip to Lon-
don ... not a very large theme, it might
appear. But “Anthony and Cleopatra,”
after all, was a play about a girl Who had
two “boy-friends,” as we call them; and
Teresa Hawkins is going to London to
meet Jonathan Crow—and, when she has
found out what he is, will leave him for
James Quick, and will not evep then find
an end to glory and catastrophe. It is
all a matter of how these things are
written; how effective the style; how
clearly the author portrays his charac-
ters ; how movingly he dramatises them ;
and, above all, with what degree of in-
tensity he is able to animate the whole
work.
Take it at its simplest—a landscape of
Watson’s Bay—and Christina Stead’s
style is unmistakably excellent:
People sat in their moist warm gardens,
talking and hitting out at the mosquitoes;
the smell of eucalyptus oil and pipe-smoke
reached out. Across the harbor, on the
oyster-colored water, a large Manly ferry
full of lights moved southwards towards
the city. She felt the swarm of lovers thick
as locusts behind her when she turned into
the beach path. Tied up to the fourth pile
of the wharf was a rowing boat covered
with a tarpaulin. Under the tarpaulin was
a woman’s body; she had been fished out
of the sea just outside the cliffs that after-
noon; it did not cause much comment.
They lived there, among the gardens of the
sea, and knew their fruits; fish, storms,
corpses, moontides, miracles.
But it is not simply that the words
are used capably and pleasantly; nor—
though these are the first essentials —
that the scene is clear and rings true.
There is a tang, a richness, an unexpec-
tedness in this prose. The whole book
the writing itself —is full of fish,
storms, corpses, moontides, miracles.
The description of a woman in London,
for instance: —■
Manette was a volcanic, savage, cold
and melancholy woman who could have
been satisfied by no civilised or metro-
politan man. She had dashed herself from
affair to affair in a brutal Bohemia and at
the age of thirty-eight had drifted into a
permanent householding with an easygoing
fellow who never intended to marry be-
cause of the “covetousness of marriage.”
He had stuck to her because of her primi-
tive force. She could always force him,
in the last resort, by her deep, broken,
anguished voice, her yells and the horrors
of her soul which she put into words, to
quell and terrify him. How many times
had she threatened to commit suicide, and
to murder, with such wild looks, with
staring eyes, loosened hair, glabrous cheeks,
black shouting mouth and the stormy
throwing about of her thick-set powerful
body; he never had the heart •to oppose
her.
A piece of writing one would not for-
get in a hurry. And, too, an unforget-
table portrait of a woman; an indication
of Christina Stead’s capabilities in the
delineation of character. The master-
piece of the novel —its surest full-length
portrait—is Jonathan Crow. Jonathan
is—there is no other word for him —a
beaut. A monster. A flirt, a sadist, a
masochist: sly, vain, self-pitying, bright,
arch, cruel; learned in a shallow, cynical,
perverted sort of way—a hanger-on of
the universities; a humanitarian ; a man
charming, destructive, dead. “I never
knew such a twisted soul,” says James
Quick. And Teresa, when she is begin-
ning to learn what he is:
Her pulses leaped, how strange he was;
complex, perverse, ignorant of himself!
She drew in her breath sharply. He fas-
cinated her.
The analysis of this “fascinating” and
detestable character is beautifully done.
It reminds one of Conrad looking down
from a great height at Mr. Verloc and
the anarchists, looking coldly, contemp-
tuously, mercilessly; with a complete
understanding, and with even a kind of
bleak admiration for the energy with which
destroyed men pursue their abominable
destinies.
It is impossible to do justice to this
portrait in a review: it took Christina
Stead a whole book to say all she felt
and knew about Jonathan Crow. “I
never heard such a statement from a
man,” Quick says when Jonathan has
told him how he loved to torture Teresa
—how he took more delight in rejecting
her love than he could ever have found
in accepting it; “I never heard such a
statement from a man. Dostoievsky is
nothing to it, layer after layer peeled
off and he went on revealing himself into
the lower depths, satanic depths.” The
novelist has unconsciously paid herself a
compliment here—“Dostoievsky is no-
thing to it” —and she comes near enough
to deserving it.
“It isn’t analysis that gets you any-
where in these human beings,” Christina
Stead allows Jonathan to say somewhere
in one of his moments of wisdom ; “it
isn’t analysis, but touch.” And “touch,”
in a novel, means dramatisation: to hear
the characters speak, to watch the talk
mount into action, to be present at the
clash of the actors.
In For Love Alone there is perhaps more
talk than action; yet the building of the
drama between Jonathan and Teresa is
all the better for its slowness, and it is
enlivened by scenes —such as when Jona-
than laughingly reveals that he has left
unopened some of Teresa’s impassioned
letters to him from Australia —that are as
extraordinary as they are powerful.
When the crisis is reached —the pair in a
deserted sawmill on a stormy night, com-
ing to an abyss of despair and hate —it is
as if some dark river had crashed at
last, at long last, over the cliff towards
which it had been swirling ; then, in the
happier last chapters, to run shining to
the sea.
The passion of the book, its restless
impetus, comes from Teresa. In some
respects she is not wholly credible qs a
character. Her complete rejection of
love—except in Jonathan’s letters —in the
central chapters when she is starving and
saving for her trip to London, seems in-
consistent with the portrait drawn in the
opening at Watson’s Bay. Possibly this
could be justified, outside the novel, by
the explanation that the central chapters
are skimped ; but the objection would re-
main that here, as throughout the story
(as indeed is admitted), Teresa is driven
not so much by love as by “a great
destiny.” The novelist hints that Teresa
will become a writer, but she has not
stressed the point sufficiently. A fully
convincing Teresa would have to be
genius first and woman second ; this one
is the reverse. The starvation chapters
remind one of the unsatisfactory episode
of Macca in The Pea Pickers, to the
heroine of which Teresa has a close re-
semblance.
As well as the skimping of the central
section, there is a fault of construction in
the fact that fascinating minor characters
—Teresa’s father, and an Aunt Bea —
are suddenly dropped completely out of
the story. But the tremendous vitality of
the book, embodied in Teresa, trium-
phantly overrides criticism. It is a work
of the highest quality.
Playing with Infants .
Redmond Phillips’s Playing with Girls
(Reed and Harris Ltd.) purports to offer
the “verses” of a child named Julian
Prang.
There is no pretence that Julian
ever existed. Mr. Phillips wrote
the “verses” and Albert Tucker
did the “drawings” that go with
them. But when Mr. Tucker merely
imitates the crudest of childish scrawls,
and when Mr. Phillips (after Don Mar-
quis) writes like this:
oslo is the capital of norway
i met a man once from norway
a mr jorgensen
a friend of uncle todd
big bald and very pink
he told us many stories about
the norse gods
and the fiords
he had never heard of
the
oslo
lunch
i asked him —
how is one to know whether Mr. Tucker
really can draw and whether Mr. Phillips
knows anything at all about the writing
of verse? Perhaps what is offered as
“a sophisticated book for adults written
by a child” is, after all, only childish.
Aldous Huxley wrote a memorable essay
once on “the cultured infantilism of the
a § e -”
It is possible to raise a grin here and
there at the pranks of Julian Prang, but
it is difficult to regard with astonishment
Mr. Phillips’s “discovery” that children
are sadistic. “Saki” presented his young
monsters much more amusingly and with
much better taste.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Blithe Spirit”:
Noel Coward’s “Blithe Spirit” at Sydney
Royal—a blithe comedy about spirits—was
played with blithe spirit by Edwin Styles,
Aileen Britton, Bet'tina Welch and Letty Cray-
don, and was very blithely received by a
crowded house. Except for the complaint that
he is “always the same,” everybody likes Mr.
Styles; and with reason. It’s not just that
he is polished, but that he has a natural
sparkle. Though he might well make King
Lear behave like Edwin his “sameness
is “partly necessitated by the roles he is given,
and he certainly plays Noel Coward’s Mr.
Condomine as nearly perfectly as could be
wished. . , „ • .
While Mr. Styles has praiseworthily subdued
his exuberant personality in deference to a
very good play, Frank Bradley seems too self-
sacrificing, having effaced himself to the point
of nonentity. A doctor who visits the Con-
domine household and drops bricks at a
seance, Mr. Bradley drops them so quietly that
they might as well be feathers. However,
perhaps he felt that on a stage where Letty
Craydon was present somebody should behave
rationally. . , , , .
Miss Craydon, who has invented a mad lady
of a type never met with anywhere on earth
except on a stage where Miss Craydon is
performing, seems a considerably madder
“medium” than Noel Coward meant her to be;
and, by consciously burlesquing, she deprives
the audience of laughs one might have had at
her expense if she had, for instance, not been
aware of her greed for sandwiches. Her antics
are funny, but they have the effect, as it were
of a smokescreen, through which it is difficult
to perceive that, in nearly all her lines, Noel
Coward is satirising the cliches of everyday
conversation.
Aileen Britton, though she portrayed her
character—Condomine’s second wife —effec-
tively, was also too much aware of herself.
She is versatile and capable, but she seems
tempted to adopt the hard metallic voice and
the swift, mechanical walk —almost a waddle—
of the professional hardboiled comedienne. The
present commentator prefers his actresses soft-
boiled.
Bettina Welch’s performance as the ghost of
the first Mrs. Condomine was beyond reproach.
The flowing robes, the unearthly makeup, her
airy movements, her deep, rich, chuckling voice,
the impression of passion and malice—every-
thing was both exact and enchanting.
Possibly inspired by Osbert Sitwell’s affection
for poltergeists, the play itself —in which Con-
domine and his second wife are visited by the
ghost of his first —is Noel Coward at his best;
unusual, often witty and always gay. Attrac-
tively set, it makes the best light entertain-
ment Sydney has seen since “The Man Who
Came to Dinner.”
Miss Rita McKenzie’s paintings at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries range from
two wooden nudes to several stolid land-
scapes. One of the nudes is frankly hor-
rible, the other has certain passably attrac-
tive portions. “Blossom Time, Tasmania,”
shows several fruit trees in blossom
against a background of mountains, green,
dark-green and purple. In front of the
trees an improbable fence is falling over
in perfect symmetry. By no means a good
painting, in fact, a very ragged one, it
is nevertheless promising. The original
scene must have been magnificent, and
although the artist’s technique is faulty
she apparently has an eye ; and that is
always something.
At the talkies:
“Then There Were None” (Sydney Empire):
Agatha Christie, “improved” by Hollywood.
The writer placed 10 people, all with guilty
consciences, on an island off the English coast,
and killed them all off one by one; the film
allows a pair of lovers to survive. Hollywood
mustered a cast of high names to make the
story stick, but it doesn’t, probably because
Richard Haydn, as Rogers the butler, is killed
off early in the piece while he is calmly steal-
ing the show.
“Waterloo Road” (Sydney Embassy); Soldier
goes a.w.l. to investigate wife’s fidelity. Set
against the background of London during the
blitz, the story’s feasible, and there are some
noble fisticuffs.
“Murder, He Says” (Sydney Capitol); Hill-
billy homicide. Fred Mac Murray is the Public
Opinions poll investigator who gets mixed up in
the strange doings of the moronic family, but
it is Marjorie Main with her voice like a saw
going through galvanised-iron who makes the
strongest impression.
“The Fighting .Guardsman” (Sydney
Lyceum): A Dumas story of an aristocrat in
Louis XVl’s reign who stole from the King’s
taxmasters to give back to the rabble. It is
difficult not to sympathise with the gentleman-
even if he is over-glamorised—but by far the
best performance is given by John Loder as
the English plenipotentiary who is sent to
assess France’s true internal position.
“Diamond Horseshoe” (Sydney Regent): A
tenuous backstage story barely keeps this
colored confection from flying' apart at the
joints. It contains the alleged glamor of Betty
Grable and the comedy of Phil Silvers.
“George White’s Scandals” (Sydney May-
fair): Unscandalous scandals, enlivened by
that jewel among comediennes Joan Davis
who has to work even harder than an Austra-
lian taxpayer to make up for the obvious de-
ficiencies of the rest of the cast.
Announced as positively the last of The
Firm’s series of revivals, The Incompar-
able “Rose Marie” came on at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, in more than its
usual splendor: that is, with even more
of the stuff that musicomedy dreams are
made on. On his way to the Canadian
Rockies the Bulletin observer passed
the windows of five leading haberdashers
displaying strange plaster figures in al
sorts of inhuman poses, garbed in the
latest “Back to School” and summer cos-
tumes. When he took his seat in the
very forefront of the theatre he couldn’t
get it out of his head that, behind his
back, some malign magician had brough
these plaster figures to life and equipped
them with the power of making incon-
gruous gestures and sounds dimly sugges-
tive of human beings, and of uttering
ideas about love they couldn’t feel. The
only members of the cast that didn’t seem
to fit into this description were Don
Nicol, Natalie Raine and Norma Neville.
Mr. Nicol wisecracked his way through
the evening with topical allusions. Miss
Neville played the part of the Indiar
siren, in which Stephanie Deste staggerec
a former generation, though without that
lady’s genuine voluptuousness of gesture


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
4
1
w
M
l&tcr
"STURDY OAK" Overalls for hard work. Obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns'. These combination overalls are cut with
i yard more drill than Standard overalls. English "Rigmel"
Shrunk guarantees the garment against shrinkage. Sizes
include Regular, Long and Stout.
When ordering, give height and waist measurement.
English "Rigmel'' Navy Drill combination overalls, Raglan
sleeves, strong press stud fasteners, 6 pockets, treble sewn
non-rip seams, all strain points reinforced. Sizes from 32" to
50" waists. Price 30/2 and 4 coupons.
English "Rigmel" Dungaree Bib Overalls, 7 pockets, unbreak-
able fasteners, sizes 32" to 50" waist, 22/5 and 2 coupons.
English Khaki Drill combination overalls, heavy weight drill,
"Sturdy Oak" make throughout. Sizes 32" to 50" waist.
Price 33/8 and 4 coupons
"Julius Marlow" Multiple Fitting
Shoes for Men. Super grade calf
shoes fitted by specially trained
assistants. Sixty fittings in Ato E.
Price 37/9 pair
*****
m
Athletic Singlets, ribbed white
cotton, stout weave, no sleeves,
sizes 34 to 44 inch. Price, 3/3 ea.
V
r?
a*
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Men's Underwear, Gol-
den Fleece Brand, made _
from best Australian
wool, soft finish. Light
weight.
Undershirts, short sleeves-
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
5
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)


EBB TIDE
By “STANDBY.”
<< j T won’t work,” people in the town
I had said when the two old men
j pooled their savings and built the
little house down the river. “No-
body could live with old Ben McSweeny.”
But it had worked. For six years they
had lived together, and no one had ever
heard Olaf complain. Of course, he was
not the complaining type. He was a little
round tub of a man with a shiny, pink,
bald head, fringed with snow-white hair
and a round, pink, smiling face. His
faded blue eyes were always twinkling
with amusement and understanding. He
came from Finland and his name, as long
almost as a ship’s cable, had been short-
ened to Korkar in the first British ship
he had served in. In his next ship they
had spelt it Corker, and Corker it had
remained ever since. Olaf was far too
good-natured to argue it.
Old Ben, who dominated the partner-
ship, was tall and gaunt. His flesh hung
loosely on his big bones and he looked
and was a dour-natured man. At times
he reminded Olaf of the old sea eagle
who sat for hours on the beacon across
the river—the same hunched, drooping
shoulders, the same hooked beak of a
nose, eyes half-hidden by drooping,
straggled feathers, just like Ben’s shaggy
eyebrows.
It was Ben who suggested the partner-
ship when both men retired, and Ben who
picked the site for the house. In spite
of their widely-different natures they had
much in common. Both were sober,
thrifty bachelors, both were neat and
orderly in their habits, and both had been
seamen all their lives. Olaf had been a
deep-water man, and the oceans and ports
of the world had been his home for nearly
fifty years. Ben had never served in
foreign-going ships. As a lighterman he
held a “ticket” and could claim the title
of Captain McSweeney. For twenty years
he had commanded lighters, little
steam vessels of about one hun-
dred and fifty tons, working in and
• out of the one port. He was never, except
when heavy rain restricted his visibility,
out of sight of land. But his “ticket” gave
him a certain prestige in the admiring eyes
of Olaf, who had never risen higher than
boatswain.
They built their home on the river
bank, a cottage as trim, square and
economical of space as any ship’s living
quarters. It squatted in a small clearing
of clean white sand, dwarfed by the row
of tall, slender coconut palms and sur-
rounded on three sides by dense under-
growth. On the fourth side was the river
which, at the top of spring tides, came
to within a few feet of the concrete foun-
dations. A tiny verandah overlooked the
river, but it was more like the bridge of
a small cargo vessel. It was as if, having
spent most of their lives at sea, the two
wished to preserve the illusion that they
were still afloat. They divided the work,
taking it in turn week about as “Peggy,”
and the one who was “Peggy” did all the
housework and got all the meals.
A half-mile from their home the river
emptied into the sea, and on days when
the strong sou’-easter was blowing the
dull, heavy thunder of the surf on the
bar filled the little cottage. The river itself
was not an ordinary, smooth-flowing,
placid stream; it was a tropical, tidal
river, with a rise and fall of tide of a full
twenty feet. At dead-low water Olaf
could roll his trousers above his plump
knees and wade across without wetting
them, but at high water the river became
a highway. Fishing boats swept in with
the first of the tide, chugged past the cot-
tage up river to the town. Lighters passed
out, carrying their cargoes of sugar from
the mills upstream to the waiting overseas
ships. Once a fortnight a small coastal
steamer came in, discharged cargo at the
wharf for two or perhaps three tides and
left again.
'"TIDES ruled the life of the river and
* governed the moods of old Ben. He
kept a tidal diary on the wall, and could
tell to within a few minutes when the flood
stream was due to start.
Always when the tide was making he
was easy to get on with. If it came in
ahead of time he would become almost
jovial. On fine clear days, with a big
spring tide making, he loved to watch it
as it swirled leisurely up the river, form-
ing little eddies, sparkling happily in the
warm sunlight, reflecting the blue of the
sky, taking time to explore all the odd
corners before passing on up river. It
brought the smell of the open sea with
it —that fresh, clean smell that has no
equal anywhere on land. It brought tiny
flecks of brownish foqm in from the outer
bar, little dancing flecks that chased each
other round the eddies and then broke
away and drifted upstream. Shoals of
herring glittered and shone deep down in
the clear water, and at times the graceful,
curving back of a dolphin would show as
he cruised upstream, sending sprays of
frightened small fish leaping ahead of him
like showers of silver coins flung across
the surface of the stream.
Fishing boats, lighters and occasional
pleasure craft passed in and out. Old
Ben knew them all and waved a sober
acknowledgment to their cheery hails.
As the tide reached its full he would be-
come'restless, walking down to the water’s
edge to inspect its height, muttering to
himself and hunching his great bony
shoulders up under his ears. With the
start of the ebb his mood invariably
changed to one of despondency and bad
temper. If he happened to be “Peggy”
he’d set to work furiously, hurling things
about and snapping at Olaf.
On his days off duty old Ben watched
the ebb as if drawn by some fatal attrac-
tion. With shoulders sagging forward
and eyes staring moodily from under his
heavy eyebrows he would stand in the
shade of a coconut palm and stare out
across the river.
The ebb began slowly at first as if
reluctant to leave, then gradually increased
to a swift-running stream, rushing out-
ward in long, undulating waves, each
one seeking to overtake the other as
if in fear of being left behind.
On the first half of the ebb, the lighters
still came and went, but there was*some-
thing different about them. They knew,
those lighter skippers, the moment the
bar would become too shallow for them
to cross. They had to know, for to be
caught on that bar with a falling tide
and a heavy sea would be fatal. They
scurried outwards, never taking their eyes
off the leads ahead or raising a hand to
wave to the solitary figure under the palm-
tree.
With the last quarter of the ebb the
sandbanks began to uncover, and the
broad stream dwindled to a narrow wind-
ing channel. Dreary mud flats exposed
themselves, and dark-brown rocks covered
with oysters and barnacles. No fresh,
clean smell of the open sea now, -but a
sickly smell of stale mud, rotting marine
growth and barnacles drying in the hot
sun. Even Olaf felt the depressing
atmosphere of the empty river, and, know-
old Ben’s history, refused to be drawn
into a quarrel with his partner.
I T was ancient history now, but most
' people in the town still remembered the
time Ben McSweeney ran his ship aground
on the bar in a falling tide. He was
• “young Ben” then, with a reputation for
knowing the river better than any other
man. The sou’-easter was blowing its
hardest outside, bringing with it scurrying
grey clouds and frequent blinding rain
squalls. Big seas were breaking heavily
across the bar, but Ben was not worried.
There was still plenty of water in the
channel. He had crossed the inner bar
and was swinging to round the black
buoy —the last buoy on the outer bar—
when the rainsquall caught him.
It swept in a blinding white curtain
across the sea, beating the waves into tem-
porary submission and blotting out the
buoy ahead and the leading marks astern.
Caught in the narrowest part of the chan-
nel, Ben could only keep going, trusting
to luck to carry him round the turn. But
luck was against him. He missed the turn
by fifteen feet and struck the bar. With
a heavily-laden ship and a falling tide it
was impossible to get her off, and by
high water next day the heavy seas had
driven her further ashore and broken her
back. Although Ben was exonerated he
never quite got over the effects of his mis-
hap. Men who knew him in his youth s%
that his ill-humor and black moods dated
from the night he spent watching his ship
go to pieces. They wondered how Olaf
could put up with him. Some even ven-
tured to ask, but Olaf only smiled and
said “He iss all right, old Ben. The moods
they come and go.”
The month of February always stood
out clearly in Olafs memory, for in that
month the spring tides mounted, each one
a little higher than the last, till they
reached king tide, the highest tide of the
year. As the height of the tides in
creased so Ben’s good humor increased
in proportion, but, like the swing of the
pendulum, he sank to greater depths of
despondency as the fiercer runs of ebb
set in.
Once, years ago, Olaf had tried to jolly
him out of his blackest mood. “You
make too much of der tides,” he had
declared. “Vat are dey?” He swept his
plump arm in a gesture of dismissal. “To
a deep-vater man like me —nothings.”
Old Ben swung his great bony fist up
and knocked Olaf sprawling across the
doorway. Without a word or a look he
stepped over his shipmate and vanished
up the beach. Olaf had never again at-
tempted to jolly Ben on a falling tide.
NOW the king tide was making again.
She was making early this morning,
old Ben pointed out gleefully ; fairly boil-
ing up the river, she was. The line of
brownish foam on the edge of the in-
coming water ran across the mud flats
faster than a man could walk, almost.
It swirled in great oily eddies around the
sandbanks and sent questing, octopus-
like tentacles tipped with brown foam up
all the tiny channels. It leaped across
sandbanks, joining all the channels into
one vast sea of water. This was no puny
little tide that you could glance at casu-
ally and wonder if she were flooding or
ebbing. It was something tangible and
massive. You could see this water rising
and you could not tear yourself away
from it .
“She’ll be a record,” old Ben an-
nounced gleefully. “I never seen a tide
makin’ like this one, never.”
As the tide approached it* full, even
Olaf became infected by Ben’s mood and
the sight of this Vast ever-increasing body
of water. Young Johnny Burns, skipper
of the lighter Cowrie, must have felt the
mood, also, for as he rounded thg bend,
coming up river with an empty ship, he
left the channel and swung towards the
two men on the verandah. They heard
the tinkle of his. engineroom telegraph
gong as he signalled his engines to “Full
Astern.” With her bows only a few feet
from the palm trees the Cowrie came to
a stop, the white water from her reversed
screw boiling for’ard along her plates
and ending with a hiss on the white
beach.
“Any chance o’ tying up to the ver-
andah, Ben?” young Johnny called.
“Throw us a line,” Ben answered in
high good humor. “Make ’er fast along-
side and come and have a cup of tea.”
“Some tide, ain’t she?” Johnny yelled
as he backed clear and headed up stream.
“She’ll be a record,” old Ben yelled
back.
“She’ll be a record,” he announced to
Olaf for the hundredth time. And Olaf
answered “Aye,” and looked, apprehen-
sively at the tiny strip of sand between
the water’s edge and the verandah.
“Twelve o’clock,” old Ben announced
triumphantly. “It ought to be high water
now and the flood’s still runnin’ strong.
She’s right up to the foot of them palm
trees and she ain’t never been that high
to my knowledge. That’s what I call
a tide.”
“Aye,” Olaf answered, smiling happily.
“She is big.” And then glacing at the
still narrowing strip of sand: v ßy Yim-
miny, Ben, she vill flood der house.”
“What if she does?” Ben laughed.
“Let ’er flood it. We’ll never see another
tide like this. Put a mark on that door-
step, Olaf, You’ll see she’ll never come
up to it again.”
EVEN though he knew the ebb was
now running strongly Ben remained
cheerful all through lunch. Always a big
eater, today he seemed as if he would
never stop. He complimented Olaf on his
cooking and, to Olaf’s amazement, finished
up by saying; “A man couldn’t wish
for a better shipmate than you, Olaf.”
He poured himself out a second cup
of tea and sipped it noisily, staring
around the cottage like a man seeing it
for the first time. But slowly the good
humor faded from his face and the heavy
eyebrows came down in a scowl.
“Blast you, you bloody lazy Swede!”
he roared suddenly. “Why the hell don’t
you clean this mess up instead of siftin’
there like a blasted owl?” He sprang to
his feet, overturning his chair in his hurry.
In two great strides he was through the
doorway. Olaf never saw him again.
Olaf washed the lunch dishes and pre-
pared a meal in readiness for his
return. At nine o’clock next morning he
walked into town and told the senior
sergeant of police that Ben was missing.
He answered innumerable questions
patiently, though it was obvious that the
police sergeant regarded him as an old
nuisance.
“All right, old-timer,” the sergeant
said, throwing down his pencil. “We’ll
send a couple of men out to look for him.
Any ideas about where he might be?”
“Yes,” Olaf answered. “I tink if you
go along der beach to North Point, in a
little sandy cove in der rocks you vill
find him ”
“Here, wait a minute!” the sergeant
snapped. “If you know this, why didn’t?
Never mind. Go straight home and
stay there. We may have a lot more
questions to ask you.”
"THEY found the body where Olaf said
I it would be. There were marks of
violence aplenty on it for there Was quite
a sea running and old Ben had been
battered about on the rocks. Once again
Olaf answered endless questions patiently,
but this time the sergeant had two plain-
clothes men with him and the questions
had a definite sting in them.
Yes, Olaf admitted, old Ben had been
subject to fits of bad temper and evil
moods. Yes, Ben had even knocked him
down once. No, he did not know that
Ben had left the last of his savings to
him but he was not surprised. “Who
else vould he leave dem to?” he asked
mildly. No, old Ben was not hard to
get on with. He was a good shipmate
and his moods soon passed. How did
he know where to find the body? Well,
how could anyone who lived on the river
help knowing? Any dinghys that broke
away from their moorings, anything that
was swept down river finished up there.
The current carried them out over the
bar and if the sou’-easter was blowing it
washed them up on North Point. Olaf
sighed. What was the use of trying to
explain to this blustering landsman?
Quite obviously the sergeant was
struggling to make up his mind whether
Olaf was a simple old fool or an excep-
tionally cunning old man. Had it not
been for the intervention of one of the
plainclothes men he would have placed
Olaf under arrest. It was the younger
of the two men who called him aside and
spoke to him quietly for a few minutes.
i<l ’D like to stay and have a yarn with
1 you,” the young man said when the
other two had started off Slong the narrow
track leading to the town. “I can’t get
the hang of this affair, but I’ve a feeling
you and I might understand each other.”
“Sure,” Olaf answered. “Stay and
have some lunch. Soon I vill have it
ready.”
“Bonzer little place you’ve got here,”
the detective remarked, strolling in from
the verandah to watch Olaf laying the
table. “You’d think you were on board
a ship.”
“Yes,” Olaf agreed. “She is a good
little place, but not on the ebb.”
“What do you mean, ‘not on the
ebb’?”
Olaf placed the teapot carefully on its
stand. “Sit down and eat,” he said. “Der
tide is nearly full. After lunch she vill
be ebbing. If you sit on der verandah
and watch her for an hour or two per-
haps I can explain,”
After lunch the young man sat in a
deckchair on the verandah while Olaf
washed the dishes. He lit a cigarette and
stared out over the river. No use trying
to bustle this old man, he reflected. lust
let him take his own time. Presently
Olaf joined him. He drew himself up a
chair and sat down without a word.
“You think Ben met with an accident
and was drowned in the big tide?” the
detective asked.
“It vas no accident.” The answer was
quiet, but confident.
For some time the detective smoked in
silence. “Tell me about him,” he said
at last. “About your life here together
and the sort of chap he was.”
Slowly, because it was not in his nature
to hurry and because his English was
often halting, Olaf explained. He told of
Ben’s past, of their life together in the
cottage. There was no word of com-
plaint in his story, Ben had been a good
shipmate. He explained Ben’s moods and
made excuses for them. At times he
would pause for perhaps ten minutes or
more and the two men would stare out
over the fast-emptying river. He ex-
plained how Ben’s bad moods always
started with the ebb and vanished with
the flood and finally, as the setting sun
was sending long streaks of orange and
red over the glistening wet mudflats he
explained how, like the tides themselves,
old Ben’s moods had fallen in relation to
their rise. “And der day of der big
tide,” he said, “I have never known him
so happy.” >
For several minutes the detective stared
across the empty river. The afterglow
was fading now, leaving the mudflats
dark, dreary and depressing. The oyster
rocks looked black against the greying
sand and the faint evening breeze blew
the smell of decay across the tiny ver-
andah. He stood up and shuddered
slightly. “I see,” he said quietly. It
had to happen.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 67 —No. 3444
Wednesday, February 13, 1946
“WILL THOSE FOOD SHIPS NEVER COME?”


The Bulletin
#
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
A Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; 1 Hare Place 47 Fleet Street,
on on ’
"SOCIALISM IN OUR TIME."
All socialist writers to whom Austra-
lians have been exposed have made great
play with “capitalist waste” in the supply
and delivery of household necessaries.
It was a favorite theme of the Fabians
when they were young and the world was
their oyster.
In every city and large town, those
dashing fellows wrote, there were too
many butchers, bakers, milkmen, grocers,
greengrocers and icemen. In every street
their carts were to be seen, two, three or
more from the same trade covering the
same ground in an incessant search for
custom. In this cutthroat competition
there must be spoiling of goods and there
was a great and unnecessary expenditure
on labor, fuel—whether liquid on in the
form of horsefeed wear and tear of
carts and wagons, bookkeeping, accounts
and so on. Socialism would take care
of this chaos and reduce it to perfect
order. Distribution would be made so
scientific that .there would be no such
thing as overlapping, and there would be
an appreciable reduction in household
bills, since savings would be passed on to
the gratified consumer.
Well, the experiment has been tried in
Australia, It was introduced during the
war with the blessing of “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments,” and Sydney had a special
issue, there being “zoning” of bread, milk
and ice, and cessation of deliveries of
meat, groceries and greengroceries. It
was remarked by a ludge in a report to
the “Government” that, with “zoning,”
there had in some districts been deteriora-
tion in the quality of bread, but the Gov-
ernment took no notice. Also unheeded
went the protests of housewives on many-
other scores —delivery delays, incivility,
unheralded cuts in the milk ration,
frequent disappearances of potatoes from
the market, famine prices for other vege-
tables and fruit, and nervous and physical
ailments caused by overlong standing in
queues and bearing of too-heavy burdens.
The “Government” was so blind and deaf
to what was going on that it ignored even
indignation meetings of housewives,
though these became ominously frequent
in Liberal and Labor suburbs alike.
Blithely the “Government” announced
that zoning would continue for another
six months.
Then the storm broke. From the over-
wrought housewife came a general cry
of rage. First to become conscious of
it was a lady M.L.A., who rose in Caucus
and gave the gentlemen present the plain
facts of the situation as a housewife and
a Labor woman. Doubtless reminding
the gentlemen that this is a Common-
wealth-election year, and that the women’s
Vote preponderates in all the Big City
residential electorates, from Brisbane
round to Perth, the lady M.L.A, told
them, in words that reached the reporters,
that the women had taken more than they
could stand, had become “beasts of bur-
den,” were bitterly aware of it, and in
their scores of thousands would go look-
ing for political scalps if the old “capi-
talist” competition and conveniences were
not speedily restored. A startled Caucus
straightway ordered the Government to
make an end of zoning and restore deliv-
eries of meat, fruit and vegetables and
groceries.
Feminine outburst and Caucus ulti-
matum seem to have so scared the Gov-
ernment that it could scarcely read the
lottery results, much less give sober at-
tention to the problem of Victoria Park
racecourse—whether the sale to the Nuf-
field concern should be permitted or
whether the course should be kept for
“Wednesday meetings.” Recovering some-
what, it announced that zoning would end
with April, and that it would try to
secure resumption of deliveries of other
goods as soon as Canberra could be
moved, it being “a Federal matter.”
Whether this will satisfy the housewives
remains to be seen. The indications are
that it won’t.
Under the general title of “controls’*
other forms of socialism have been fast-
ened on the community. The facts of
shipping “control” have been concealed
in the fog of war, and no member of
the “Government” would dare to tell
the shocking story; but the ugly affairs
of the Katoomba and the Barwon show
that the thing has already developed into
job-control, with more and worse to
come. And commodity “control” 1 has
always meant scarcity, with, as a rule, dis-
appearance of the commodity into the
black market. And to hundreds and
thousands of decent people, a great pro-
portion of them servicemen and service-
men’s wives and children, the results of
housing “control” have amounted to stark
tragedy.
With housing made a Government
monopoly, there are fewer new houses
than new housing authorities and there
are chronic shortages of all building
materials, above all, bricks. The Com-
monwealth Minister of Housing, a Mr.
Lazzarini, promised last year that 24,000
houses would be built by the end of June,
1946. On his own showing only a tiny
fraction of that number will be up by
June 30, though the official estimate is
that Australia is 400,000 houses short
of immediate requirements. In a com-
petitive age this Minister would have had
to pay for his complacent ineptitude with
his portfolio. Under “socialism in our
time” the responsibility of individual
Ministers for sins of commission and
omission and the doctrine of Cabinet
responsibility have gone by the board.
Socialism, as Australia knows it, is a great
thing for politicians, officials and their
pets, for black-marketeers, bookmakers
and parasites of all descriptions and for
pressure groups, but the weak go to the
wall.
The housing situation would not have
become so disgraceful if houseowners had
been allowed to sell at a fair price, with
the substantial increase in the cost of
living taken into account. They are
? forbidden to sell at anything over
10 per cent, on assessed value for
February, 1942, the month in which
Singapore fell, Darwin bad its worst
bombing and the enemy was in New
Guinea and was completing his swift
conquest of the Dutch East Indies. To
sell at such a valuation means that the
owner must lose heavily, but through
death or sickness or the demands of tax-
gatherers there have • been forced sales
involving sacrifices which no Govern-
ment has a moral right to require. For
much the same reasons there have
been forced sales of shares at so-
called “ceiling” prices, which are
almost invariably lower than the
prices that could be obtained in
a free market or the prices quoted in
New Zealand, where a free market exists,
though not for scrip bought and held in
Australia. Widows and thrifty old
couples are in both cases nearly always
the sufferers, the Government having no
use for that class of people, though in its
subservience to pressure groups it has a
lively sense of the old-age-pensioner vote.
Wheat has, of course, been “controlled”
—to such purpose that the area under
crop, 14,346,000 acres in 1938-39,
had got down to 7,860,000 acres even
in 1943-44. One utterly mad feature
has been the distribution of huge
sums, under the heading of “acreage
restriction,” among Westralian farmers
whose wheat belt had pretty good
seasons when the other wheatgrow-
ing States were drought-stricken. Even
when the English were hungry and when
famine and pestilence were raging over
a great part of Europe, the “Govern-
ment” put £285,000 on the estimates to
compensate Westralian farmers for not
growing 1945-46 wheat* Previous pay-
ments to Westralian farmers in con-
summation of these outrages on
nature and humanity, as well as
commonsense, were £599,348 in 1943-44
and £586,964 in 1944-45, all the
payments coming out of taxes or loans.
And even when the British food situa-
tion was moving towards a crisis, and
the European food situation towards a
catastrophe, it was announced from Can-
berra that the potato-crop “target” would
be reduced by 25 per cent., and that the
“Government” would no longer buy
canned and drying classes of mutton.
There are now, we are told, to be great
bursts of energy in the export of food-
stuffs to Britain, the Canberra restric-
tionists having been touched by the con-
fessions of the Labor Food Minister and
the appeals of Mr. Attlee.
Reactions of the British people to the
latest reductions in their meagre rations,
of which they had not the slightest fore-
warning, are naturally bitter, and the Gov-
ernment has been roundly accused of
letting them down. It has certainly given
an unconscionable amount of time and
preparation to its proposals for “nation-
alising” this, that and the other thing—
the Bank of England, the coalmines, air-
ways, even Cable and Wireless. But it is
the way of socialist. Governments to
neglect essential things for grandiose ex-
periments in collectivism on models
drawn from the Mad Continent. When
the “taking over” of Cable and Wireless
was objected to the Attlees hinted, not
obscurely, that the suggestion had come
from their fellow-socialists at Canberra.
They could not have worse advisers or
guides.
Before Pearl Harbor.
Except for an occasional reference, the
Australian daily press has not reported
the Pearl Harbor inquiry. It is a pity,
especially as things which concern this
country, directly and indirectly, have
come out.
For example, Mr. Cordell Hull revealed
that an arrangement with the Japanese,
“a possible modus vivendi,” was considered
“from November 22 to November 26,
1941, within the U.S. State Department,
by the President and by the highest
authorities of the Army and Navy, and
discussed with the British, Australian,
Dutch and Chinese Governments.”
The projected modus vivendi provided for
mutual pledges by the United States and
Japan that their national policies would
be directed toward lasting peace; for
mutual undertakings against advances by
military force or threat of force in the
Pacific area; for the withdrawal by Japan of
its armed forces from southern Indo-China ;
for a modification by the United States of
its freezing and export restrictions to per-
mit resumption of certain categories of
trade within certain specified limits; for the
corresponding modification by Japan of its
freezing and export restrictions and for
an approach by the United States to the
Australian, British and Dutch Governments
with a view to their taking similar measures.
There was also an affirmation by the
United States of it's fundamental interest
that any settlement between the Japanese
and Chinese Governments be based upon
the principles of peace, law, order and
justice. There was provision that the
modus vivendi would remain in force for
three months and be subject to extension.
Mr. Roosevelt was “at first taken with the
idea.” He suggested in a pencilled memo-
randum that the term should be six
months. But there were doubts about the
Japanese (“we knew the military were
poised for attack”), and there were “diffi-
culties with other Governments, particu-
larly the Chinese.”
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek promptly
asserted that we were about to appease
Japan. There was a strong intimation that
China would quit the war if the com-
promise were carried through.
Mr. Hull’s first impressions of the feel-
ing in other quarters were that the “British
Ambassador and the Australian and
Netherlands Ministers seemed pleased.”
But presently he informed Mr. Roose-
velt that in view of China’s attitude and
“either the half-hearted support or the
actual opposition of the British, Nether-
lands and Australian Governments,” the
project would have to be dropped; and
dropped it was.'
Lord Halifax had protested that the
words “half-hearted support” could not
be correctly applied to the British Gov-
ernment, which had actually communi-
cated, its “full support.” In reply, Mr. Hull
took exception to a Mr. Churchill mes-
sage, being then informed by Lord Hali-
fax that “this had been intended merely
to express the objections of the Chinese
Government.” Mr. Hull again:
Chiang Kai-shek sent numerous mys-
terious messages to different Cabinet officers
and high officials in the Government other
than the State Department, sometimes even
ignoring the President, with no real idea
of what the facts were. I remarked that
it would have been better if, when Mr.
Churchill received Chiang’s loud protest,
instead of passing if on to us without objec-
tion on his part, thereby qualifying and
virtually killing what we knew were the
individual views of the British Government
toward these negotiations, he had sent a
strong cable back to Chiang Kai-shek tell-
ing him to brace up.
The meeting with the President pro-
posed by Prince Konoye, then Prime
Minister, and since dead by his own hand,
was also referred to by Mr. Hull. He
said it was rejected because it “would
have had a critically discouraging effect
upon the Chinese,” and because “it could
only have resulted in another Munich or
in nothing at all”;
I was opposed to the first Munich and
still more opposed to a second Munich.
Not exactly convincing, for there was
no internal or external movement for
“another Munich.” The United States
Government was free to determine its
own procedure and policy, and if the
President had seen fit to meet Prince
Konoye, as he had met Mr. Churchill,
none of the other interested Govern-
ments, which were not then allied or even
associated, could have objected to any
purpose. But feeling in the State Depart-
ment was against the meeting, and the
President bowed to it.
Before great wars there seems to be
always a brief and intense period during
which the parties in dispute recoil, as it
were, from the horrors towards which
they are drifting. This is true of the days
immediately preceding those in which the
lights went out over Europe in August,
1914, and September, 1939. It is idle
to speculate on what would have
happened had Roosevelt and Konoye
engaged in discussions in Alaska. The
record states baldly that Konoye fell on
October 16, and that the militarist Tojo
succeeded him ; and, in Mr. Hull’s words,
“on December 7 the Japanese struck at
Pearl Harbor.”
In the meantime a young man in the
State Department had toyed with the
notion that war might be averted by an
offer of New Guinea to the Japanese. It
does not appear that the young man com-
municated his notion to Mr, Hull or the
President. It is common talk in the
U.S.A. that the State Department is
crowded with projectors, almost every
one of whom seems to cherish a project
of his own, which does not become
American policy unless he is a very im-
portant young man indeed. The Ameri-
cans were possessed of one great advan-
tage: they had cracked the Japanese code,
and a Navy captain stated in evidence
that a message signifying that the Japa-
nese had decided upon war was inter-
cepted on December 4, 1941. Strangely
enough, nobody in Washington seems to
have had the faintest suspicion that the
Japs would strike at Pearl Harbor as
they struck at Port Arthur on February
8, 1904. The expectation was that they
would extend their movement into Indo-
China or go into Malaya or the Dutch
East Indies or possibly into the Philip-
pines. The thrust at Pearl Harbor was
excluded from the calculations of men
who were afterwards to prove that they
had exceptional talents for war.
"A Bit of a Nuisance."
TttE Post-war Reconstruction scheme has
been criticised from an unexpected
quarter. Mr. Hooke, secretary of the
Sydney Labor Council Services Depart-
ment, declares that, because of failure
to get the training section working.
Diggers are questioning the sincerity of
the promises made and are therefore be-
ing regarded as “a bit of a nuisance.”
Some of them, Mr. Hooke suggests,
may still be waiting two years hence for
their training classes to begin. There are
now 28,000 applications in N. S. Wales,
and he estimates that the N.S.W. total will
be 100,000 by June:
There are naturally exasperating delays
which seem to be inevitable in national
schemes of this sort, but the position is
being tragically exaggerated by the inade-
quacy of the plans for the reception of the
would-be trainees.
Inquiries in other Digger quarters
bring answers that support Mr. Hooke.
An excuse inquiring Diggers run into
everywhere is that the war ended so much
earlier than was expected that there has
not been time to get the Government’s
plans working.
As to that, it is close on a year since
Mr. Dedman brought in the Re-eStablish-
ment Bill with its, and his own, large
promises. Young Diggers were to get an
altogether better spin than Old Diggers
were given. And, apart from its prefer-
ence section, which was a compromise
between what Mr. Curtin had pro-
mised and what the Government’s
union masters were prepared to allow, the
Bill as presented looked generous enough.
The Dedman Bill was to be “the ser-
viceman’s charter of re-establishment.”
Every Digger who had a job before the
war was to get it back, not only as it
then was but “under conditions no less
favorable than those which would have
been applicable if he had remained in
employment.” There were to be loans
for setting up in. business or going on
the land; provisions for housing and
weekly pay for any Digger unsuccessfully
seeking employment. But Mr. Dedman
put his greatest emphasis on training, “an
immensely important feature of the Gov-
ernment’s re-establishment policy”:
Training for the full range of the pro-
fessions will follow the usual lines at uni-
versities, technical colleges and similar in-
stitutions. Apart from rural professional
training, agricultural courses will be closely
linked with settlement projects. On the
industrial side, training is by one of two
methods. First, training in technical schools
until the trainee attains a standard of pro-
ficiency of not less than 40 p>c. of the
award minimum wage payable in the calling
for which he is being trained, as assessed
by industrial committees set up under the
scheme. Secondly, training in industrial
establishments which are approved by the
industrial committee representative of em-
ployers, employees and technical educational
authorities
Trainees, Mr. Dedman promised, would
bo paid allowances of from £3 ss. to
£5 ss. per week, with benefits, such as
books and tools of trade, also paid for
by the Commonwealth. The “scheme,”
on Mr. Dedman’s statement, had then
been in operation for twelve months, so
its sponsors have now had two years in
wdiich to get it working properly. In-
stead, Diggers are being fobbed off with
the excuse that there has not yet been
time to make the necessary arrangements.
The truth appears to be that there is
nothing like the needed number of train-
ing institutions available. “Never before,”
said Mr. Dedman, “have- the people of
this country stood more in need of train-
ing to meet post-war needs —vocational,
professional and rural —and never before
has the Government organised on such a
scale to provide the nation with trained,
skilled personnel.” Apparently a great
many, more than Mr. Dedman expected
took that promise, for granted, Like
those waiting in the hope of one day get-
ting a block of land—meanwhile living
on their deferred pay—they would be
all well advised to snap up any job
offering.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Vishinsky and Manuilsky.
“Tovarish Needlenose” greets them:
Mr. Vishinsky, whose Russian Soviet Federal
Socialist Republic is maintaining huge forces
in Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and
Rumania, as well as in Persia and on the
borders of Turkey, and in Manchuria and
Korea, was dreadfully concerned about the
presence of a few thousand Tommies in Greece.
He voiced his perturbation in the Security Coun-
cil of U.N.0., and, badly worsted in exchanges
with Mr. Bevin, threatened recourse to “veto
power” —the rock on which U.N.O. may go to
pieces.
In the end Mr. Vishinsky “agreed not to press
fora declaration” that “the small British detach-
ment in Greece,” supported by the Greek dele-
gation, was “a threat to world peace,” nor did
he “insist on” a previous demand that “the
British troops should be withdrawn immedi-
ately.” Not for the first time in its rough
island story Britain had shown that it knew
how to deal with Oriental sophistry and
malevolence.
Mr. Manuilsky, leading representative of the
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, stepped
into the breach left vacant by Mr. Vishinsky.
Mr. Manuilsky, whose province, “the granary of
Europe,” has implored the English-speaking
countries to become its granary, and is receiving
vast supplies from U.N.R.R.A., which draws at
least 90 per cent, of its resources from the
British Commonwealth and the United States,
was, it seems, overwhelmed with indignation as
to the British proceedings in the Dutch East
Indies. Mr. Manuilsky “quoted a Reuter report
from Australia describing an Australian demon-
stration of sympathy with the Indonesians” —
without, of course, mentioning that the demon-
strators, though styled “Australian,” are, in
fact, Russian subjects of the most servile de-
scription. Mr. Manuilsky seems to have ex-
asperated Mr. Bevin even more than Mr.
Vishinsky did. Said Mr. Bevin: “I give you
the lie that we ever attacked the Indonesian
nationalist movement,” and the Dutch delega-
tion, as the Greek delegation had done, certi-
fied that the British were welcome and
honored guests.
One service which the daily press almost in-
variably fails to provide for its readers is bio-
graphical material about those foreign diploma-
tists whose operations are so much concerned
with “British imperialism.”
Thus Mr. Vishinsky appears in the apparent
role of the Foreign Office magnate, so that
few recognise in him the prosecutor of tens of
thousands of kulaks, the purger of Zinoviev,
the official attorney who has, so far as records
go, never failed to obtain a conviction against
the enemies of the Soviet.- In the Zinoviev
trials, for instance, he put up something of a
record, for he not only secured the extermina-
tion of “these reptiles,” but he afterwards suc-
ceeded in conyicting and liquidating the bench
of Judges which tried some of them, along
with the Chief Police Commissioner, Yagoda,
and a few other miscellaneous potentates.
Mr. Manuilsky first turned up in inter-
national history eleven years ago, when
the Third International (on the executive of
which the Australian Communist’ party had a
distinguished representative, now drawing a
substantial Commonwealth Government salary),
amazed a conference at Baden. According to
the London “Times” :
The conference agreed that “the strategic
objective of the Comintern must be the
formation of a Danubian Soviet Republic,
.which should be the Communist revolution-
ary advance guard in Europe.”
Comrade Manuilsky was president of the con-
ference, having come from Moscow for the pur-
pose. The conference decided that “the general
direction of the activity of the Balkan sections
should be concentrated in the hands of a
special committee.... Comrades Kolaroff, Manu-
ilsky and Svidersy.” Comrade Kolaroff was
general secretary of the Comintern, and had
earned notoriety a couple of years earlier by
getting across the Bulgarian border a jump
ahead of the halter, with blood still on his
hands. He was the signatory of the charter
of the Australian Communist party. One of
the measures agreed on —all information in
this article is from the “Times” of contempo-
rary dates, —was “to begin the pitiless exter-
mination of the agents and accomplices of the
Tsankoff Government [of Bulgaria] by the
application of individual and mass terrorism.”
The “Times” quoted the resolutions verbatim.
The Bulgarian Government got wind of this
through seizing some Soviet couriers. On one
of them, apart from other incriminating matter,
was a letter from the Comintern in Moscow
“similar to a letter found by the Estonian
police in the possession of Communists who
had tried to capture Reval in December.” The
Bulgarians were able to announce that a revo-
lution had been arranged for April.
Early that month an attempt was made to
shoot the King while he was out botanising with
a professor. The King escaped by steal-
ing a picnic party ’bus and going for the police;
the botanist and an aide-de-camp were
“liquidated.” At the same time, General
Georgieff was assassinated in Sofia. A funeral
mass was arranged for April 15 at the Sveta
Nedelia Cathedral. When the congregation
assembled there was “a tremendous explosion,
and from the ruins 140 corpses were taken out,
including 20 women and 10 children.” Seizure
of Communist headquarters and its secret files
sheeted home the responsibility, and a Soviet
motor-boat and Soviet arms were captured on
the Black Sea side.
Mr. Manuilsky retired to the safety of
Moscow, where he remained a prominent
member of the Communist party organisation.
In 1939 he was entrusted with the chairmanship
of the committee which redrafted the rules of
the Russian Communist party. He presented
the report and steered it through the all-Russian
Communist Conference of March, 1939.
In June, 1941,, Germany attacked Russia.
A few days afterwards, in an edict of a few
lines, the Kremlin suspended the constitutions
of all the Russian republics. Later, peace was
in the offing and Russia sought votes in inter-
national conferences, so one morning the
“democratic” Ukrainians woke up to find that
(by Kremlin decree) they were citizens of an
independent State, with its own Foreign Office —
and Mr. Manuilsky for a Minister; a Minister
guaranteed to act in absolute unanimity and
accord with Moscow.
Thus Mr. Manuilsky was able last week to
display his softhearted regard for “our Inder-
nesian comrades,” whose right to rob and kill
Dutch women and children with arms pro-
vided by the Japanese was being interfered with
by Tommy Atkins.
Two Positions Vacant.
A lesser N.S.W. daily newspaper adver-
tised for a linotype operator, offering £9
10s. a week and “good conditions.” On
the same day the N.S.W, Public Service
Board advertised for a Hawkesbury
Agricultural College lecturer possessed
of;
Ability to lecture and conduct examina-
tions, as well as to give practical instruc-
tion and demonstrations, where necessary,
in Agricultural Chemistry and Soil Physics,
Dairy Chemistry and General Food Chem-
istry. The successful applicant will also be
required to share disciplinary and pther
college duties with other lecturers.
The “successful applicant” can expect a
screw ranging from just under £8 to just
under £ll a week, “according to quali-
fications and experience.”
The lino, man could have qualified for
his £9 10s. a week and “good conditions”
after five years from the beginning of his
apprenticeship. In point of time engaged
his “conditions” would unquestionably be
superior to those of the Hawkesbury Col-
lege man, whose qualifying period would
be at least 10 years of intensive study
at high school and university without pay.
And though setting type is no mean
occupation it can scarcely be reckoned as
responsible and exacting as the teaching
of “Agricultural Chemistry and Soil
Physics, Dairy Chemistry and General
Food Chemistry,” plus the shaping of
students’ conduct and deportment.
Knowledge, not money, is our great
national need. It is no way of acquiring
it on a massive scale to offer the teacher,
the scientist, an income which keeps him
or her in a state of genteel poverty.
AFTER THE FIRST U.N.O. MATCH.
“Excuse me, gentlemen, but does anybody own this ear?”
Mcßitchie's Ear.
Though the “hundred per cent. Labor”
Sydney Rugby League has had no over-
powering military record since it started
off in pursuit of the oof bird prior to
the first German war, under the patron-
age of a pony-racecourse proprietor now
with God, it has been concerned in a
war of its own since July 28 last year—
the War of Mcßitchie’s Ear.
The War of Jenkins’s Ear has a place
in history. Jenkins was a master mariner
who, bringing home the brig Rebecca
from the West Indies in 1731, was
boarded by Spanish coastguardmen,
whose commander “rifled the holds and
cut off one of Jenkins’s ears” —at least,
Jenkins said so, i
On arriving in England, Jenkins stated
his grievance to the King. At first the
case created no great stir, but in 1738
Jenkins repeated his story with dramatic
detail before a committee of the House of
Commons, producing what purported to be
the ear that had been cut off. The incident,
magnified by the press and the Opposition,
became a contributory cause of the war
with Spain; hence the War of Jenkins’s
Ear. Afterwards it was suggested that
Jenkins might have lost the ear in the
pillory.
Mcßitchie is no mariner of dubious
antecedents and veracity, but a simple-
hearted professional footballer, who dur-
ing the wars with Germany and Japan was
“in munitions” or something and played
forward for St. George. The opposing
team on July 28 was Newtown, and,
according to Mcßitchie’s account, his
opposite number in the scrum was Far-
rell, by regular calling a policeman,
member of the Vice Squad. Packing
down in the scrum “with my head inside
Farrell’s,” Mcßitchie found the Farrell
mouth and teeth closing on his right ear,
part of which came away (“though lost to
sight, to memory dear”). He clawed at
the Farrell countenance and cried “For
God’s sake let me go! ” ; but Farrell con-
tinued to “bite me severely.” At length
breaking loose, Mcßitchie complained to
the referee, and received “ambulance
attention,” which was followed by treat-
ment in a public hospital for 22 weeks.
Six months after the affair the ear re-
mained “strapped in sticking plaster,” and
it was still in that condition when the
owner gave his version of the occurrence
at a League inquiry, diplomatically de-
layed until the seventh month,
Farrell denied the charge. l He said he
couldn’t have bitten Mcßitchie’s ear for
two reasons —“I was on the inside of
him,” and he, Farrell, had false teeth.
In proof of which he “removed his denture
and held it out for inspection.” And the
doctor in the case testified that, although
Mcßitchie had shed a considerable
amount of blood and the ear was “ugly-
looking,” there were “no teeth marks.”
Mcßitchie here protested that Farrell had
teeth enough to “do the job.” But the
consensus of League general-committee
opinion was against him. Stifling any
natural curiosity as to who did make a
mess of the Mcßitchie ear, and ignoring
a nasty interpolation as to the truthful-
ness of League affidavits, 15 members of
the general committee voted in a secret
ballot to “clear” Farrell, the Mcßitchie
party numbering only 12,
The “incident” has some bearing on a
project for the importation of an Eng-
lish Rugby League team next April:
“28 players and managers,” players, if,
not managers, to come with the standard
equipment of ears, and perhaps teeth.
Dr. Evatt’s interest in the tour was en-
listed when he was in England, but diffi-
culties have arisen, there being thousands
of stranded people and servicemen’s
wives clamoring for “priorities,” to say
nothing of tens of thousands of would-be
immigrants. It is hoped that the “official”
ending of the War of Mcßitchie’s Ear
has contributed to the arranging of pas-
sages for the 28 players and managers,
but at the moment there is a dreadful
uncertainty about it. And the League’s
frame of mind has not been improved by
a proposal that Mcßitchie should re-
ceive a solatium of £lOO for the damage
to his “listener” as well as payment of all
medical and hospital fees ; for the League
notoriously has a frugal mind.
That Wheat Scheme.
The more wheatgrowers look at the
Chifley-Scully “stabilisation” plan the less
they like it.
N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture
Graham, having heard a rumble or two,
“called together representatives of several
organisations,” as well as stock-feeders,
and tried to soothe ’em down. Appar-
ently they refused to be soothed, for Mr.
Graham had to announce that
Growers put up a strong case for amend-
ments —excluding the current crop, dividing
the profit on export on a 50/50 instead of
a 60/40 basis and carrying the scheme over
a longer period of years.
Many growers, especially in Westralia,
were already convinced that the thing
was a political trick. A guarantee of
ss. 2d. a bushel f.o.b. for five years looks
paltry against a howling world demand
which has lifted the export price to near
10s. a bushel, and growers don’t care
for the notion that 60 p.c. of any excess
export price should go to a stabilisation
fund —like everybody else, they want their
money when they earn it. And, though
little has been said of the provision for
controlling production according to
market demands, it is still there.
The Wimmera by-election result might
alter Canberra ideas. In any case an
appalling lack of human sympathy and
vision has been exhibited by the “wheat
acreage restriction ‘Government.’ ”
"Thar She Blows!"
The announcement that the Common-
wealth Government intends entering the
whaling industry justifies a peep into the
future —a glimpse at the report on the
industry for the season 1950-51.
.... By the first week in October the chasers
and factory ship \<tere ready to sail, when a
slight hitch occurred. The Seamen’s Union
demanded 23 extra firemen to keep the braziers
going. After three weeks the Labor Govern-
ment agreed to grant the demand, the addi-
tional wages t'o be paid out of the fund accum-
ulated during World War 11, when soldiers did
wharfies’ work at A.I.F. rates of pay and the
Government pocketed the difference.
The Flensers’ Federation thereupon put in a
claim for a shilling an hour dirt money, and
the Blubberers’ Union filed one for two bob an
hour stink money, to come out of the 'same
fund. Miners and Ironworkers threatend to
strike unless these concessions were granted to
all members of the whaling crews, irrespective of
their duties, plus a further Is. per hour grease
money on all whales handled. The A.C.T.U.
sternly rebuked the unions for acting without
consulting it and offered to convey their de-
mands to the Prime Minister.
The P.M. took a firm stand and said he
would consider the case strictly on its merits.
He did so, and directed that grease money
should be paid only in respect of greasy whales,
the greasiness or otherwise of each whale to
be decided by the shop stewards of the Blub-
berers’ Union. This decision was hailed by
the press as a great victory for the moderates,
and the P.M. was congratulated on his firm
stand.
The factory ship was now ready to sail, but
a spot of trouble had developed in the chasers,
which had been fitted out with the latest har-
poon guns. The Harpooners’ Union asked for
ss. a day Battle Bonus while in action against
the whales. This request brought protests from
the Old Whalers’ Association, which scoffed at
“sissy modern methods of hunting the hump-
back” ; from Our Dumb Friends’ League, which
protested against “unprovoked cruelty to harm-
less, modest and lovable animals,” and from
the president of the Pacifist Women’s League,
who claimed that the use of guns encouraged
militarism and said she didn’t raise her son to
be a whaler. With great courage and decision
the Prime Minister ignored these protests and
granted the five bob.
Things went pretty smoothly after that. There
was a little argument over foreign exchange —
the Marine Clerks’ Union thought that the men
might have difficulty in changing their Aus-
tralian currency in the Antarctic, so it was
decided to add 50 p.c. to cover this contin-
gency. Some busybody pointed out that there
would be nothing for the crew to spend their
money on in the Antarctic anyhow, but the
Minister for Supply soon fixed that by arrang-
ing for several canteen ships to operate with
the whaling fleet. The crews of the canteen
ships naturally asked for dirt money, stink
money, grease money and exchange. Without
a moment’s hesitation the Prime Minister
granted all requests.
There were no further delays except a fort-
night waiting for coal. Miners were striking in
sympathy with the Amalgamated Cork-pullers’
protest against the mechanisation of their indus-
try. However, after the just demands of the
cork-pullers had been met the whaling fleet got
away towards the end of January.
The voyage south was uneventful, almost
the only incident being the passing of Nor-
wegian and Dutch whalers homeward bound.
Some of the youngsters aboard the Australian
vessels thought it strange that the foreigners
should be leaving so soon, but the older hands
pointed out it was only natural they should get
away early in the season as they had so much
further to go.
When the fleet got among the whales every-
one was happy. Then the novelty wore off; an
kgitation for a Forty Whale Year began, and
the whole fleet went on strike. “Old Blubber-
guts,” the skipper of the factory ship, radioed
Canberra for instructions and the Minister for
External Affairs, the president of the A.C.T.U.
and the secretary of the Slaughtermen’s Union
(on the score of the harpooners, flensers and
blubberers having negotiated a merger with his
mob) flew to the Bay of Whales for a series
of conferences.
A satisfactory settlement was arrived at immedi-
ately the Prime Minister joined them. As the
original agreement made provision for a bonus
to all hands on all whales caught, it was con-
sidered unwise to introduce the darg, but it
was agreed that all whales over a certain size
were to be put back without prejudice to the
bonus. A week later the Sea-cooks’ Union
asked for a demarcation agreement delimiting
the duties of sea-cooks and those of the
blubber-boilers. While the point was still unde-
cided a shop steward of the Flensers’ Federation
was suspended by ‘‘‘Old Blubberguts” for re-
fusing to do a little gutting, several of the
regular gutters being in sick bay with migraine.
This bringing all the flensers out on strike,
there was no work for the blubberers, and the
gutters refused to gut short-handed. There were
several whales on hand, and after a few days
their disposal became a matter of urgency. The
dumpers who had been flown from Sydney fol-
lowing the Forty Whale Year dispute refused to
dump them overboard, arguing that as they were
not oversize whales they did not come within
the scope of their engagement. The Minister
of Labor and National Service thereupon sent
down 20 casual dumpers to get rid of the
carcasses.
In the meantime the sea-cooks’ dispute and
the case of the shop stewards lingered on. An
Arbitration Court Judge sent south to investi-
gate was pelted with shark entrails, and the
Flensers’ Federation was deregistered. “Old
Blubberguts,” realising that the season was
getting late and the ice closing in, decided to
cut his losses and make for home with all his
whale oil—two gallons.
Halfway back a flying-boat met the fleet with
a cinematograph unit commissioned to publi-
cise Australia’s whaling industry. Spurred on
by the lure of film fame all hands agreed to call
a one-day truce, as a result of which a small
whale was captured. When the blubberers got
((Continued on page 5.)


[For any Wimmera-election matter requiring
a signature, J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann and
David Adams, all of 252 George-sfreet, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
INTERESTING BOOKS
FLOWERS IN BRITAIN. Wild, ornamental
and Economic and some relatives in other
lands, by L.J.F. Brimble. 19/6 (post. 9d.).
A WORLD I NEVER MADE, by James F.
Farrell, author of “Studs Lonigan.” 7/9
(post. 6d.), ,
WORLD FAMOUS BOOKS IN OUTLINE.
Outline of 35 of the world’s greatest literary
masterpieces. 10/- (post. 6d.).
THE LYRICAL WOODLANDS, by Margaret
Sackville, with drawings by L. Eagg. 38/3
(post. 6d.).
LUCRETIA BORGIA, by Swinburne. The
Golden Cockerel Press Edition. £7/7/- (post.
2/6.).
MADEMOISELLE DE MAUPHIN. A Romance
by Gautier. The Golden Cockerel Press
Edition. £5/10/3 (post. 2/6.).
LEONARDO DA VINCL, Phaidon Press Edi-
tion with about 200 illustrations. 40/- (post.
2/ 6d.).
VOGUE’S FIRST READER. A brilliant and
entertaining book. Almost everyone of im-
portance in almost everything of importance.
15/- (post. 6d.),
THIS PUZZLING PLANET. An excellent
introduction to Geology. 7/0 (post. 4d.).
WHAT’S ON YOUR MIND, by Duninger. The
mystery and technique of thought reading
with 24 practice tests. 9/6 (post. 4d.).
HOW TO REMEMBER. Practical method
of improving memory and powers of con-
centration, by Dr. Furst. 15/- (post. 4d.).
DOCTORS ANONYMOUS. The story of Labora-
tory Medicine, by Dr. German. 8/6 (post. 4.d).
GIVE YOURSELF BACKGROUND. Improve
your personality, by P. P. Bond. 8/6 (post.
4d.).
THE JOKE TELLER’S JOKE BOOK, Edited
by P. Meier. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
THE BASIC WRITINGS OF THOMAS PAINE,
Three books in one volume. Common Sense,
Rights of Man, Age of Reason. 21/- (post. 9d.).
THE PHILOSOPHY OF BERTRAND RUS-
SELL, by various writers. 38/- (post. 9d.).
A DESK BOOK OF 25,000 WORDS FRE-
QUENTLY MISPRONOUNCED, by F. H,
Yezetelly. 14/6 (post. 9d.). .
THESAURUS OF THE ARTS. Drama, Music,
Radio, Painting, Television, Architecture,
Ballet, etc. 8,500 references by A. B. Wier.
42/- (post. 1/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.
Do you need a
Jhati/
HAUNTING bills and money wor«
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart*
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
to work on him they dug out an old harpoon,
relic of a narrow escape earlier in his career.
It was not until the carcass had been flensed,
blubbered, gutted and boiled down that some-
one discovered that it was a Dutch harpoon.
There was consternation in the fleet when it was
realised that all hands had worked on a
“black” whale. As the oil had been added
to that already in the tanks the whole lot was
now “black.” There was only one way to wipe
out this insult to our Indernesian comrades —•
open the valves and dump the lot
In the report the Minister of Commerce said
that although the results of the first season’s
whaling had not come quite up to expectations
much valuable exploratory work had been done
and he was confident that the following year
would see even better result's from this promis-
ing new Australian industry.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last week “S. M. Herald” suddenly
killed its “comic” character Skooner the
Champ, At the same time it looked as if
U.N.O. the Champ might not survive the
ponderous blows of Vishinsky and Manu-
ilsky. The clumsy pair were aiming at
Britain, but it was U.N.O. they hit, and
U.N.O. was still groggy when he came up
for the next round.
A. C. Everett is no doubt a worthy
member of the Australian Wheat Board,
if that is any recommendation to wheat-
men, but there is no spark of political
chivalry in his composition. He snarled
when the Central Council of the Vic-
torian C.P., exercising an unquestionable
right, “endorsed” the returned p.-0.-w.
W. G. Turnbull for Wimmera, as well as
Everett, and in the same paltry spirit
Everett asked his supporters to give
their first preferences, not to Turnbull,
but to a man who had failed of “en-
dorsement.” Turnbull will go in with a
tremendous majority.
“All information from Wimmera indi-
cates that when first-preference votes are
posted it will be possible to lay a horse-
blanket over the three leading candidates,
Everett, Stoddart and Turnbull, all C.P.,
so close will the figures be.” Thus a
young “Argus” gentleman, and he must
have decided to drop horse-blanket illus-
trations for good when he saw the figures
that were to have been so close: Turn-
bull, who was darkly accused of getting
the Liberal vote (13,322), Everett (5471),
Stoddart (4720). The “Argus” man, how-
ever, pointed out that in 1943 Labor
polled more primaries than the Opposi-
tion in Wimmera, and that it “squibbed”
the by-election “because it didn’t want
to have its 'wheat stabilisation’ plan win-
nowed.” He was right there.
“Mr. Calwell makes a hobby of attack-
ing Communists and coined the phrase
‘Red Fascism.’ He has poked his nose
into the affairs of the Ironworkers and
Munition Workers, and now finds him-
self in the position of being the only
Labor man ever to line himself up with
the policy of the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment.” Strange as it may seem, all this
is taken —and a lot more could be—
from a pamphlet issued in November,
1943, by “Balance Sheet” Thornton, who
has become an A.B.C. protege. Now-
adays Calwell never uses “the phrase
‘Red Fascism’,” or “makes a hobby of
attacking Communists.” He chooses other
targets for his attacks, such as the 15
girls who went to Manila without asking
his high-and-mighty permission, and the
newspapers, which announced that he
had consented to 10 other girls going—
they (the newspapers, not the 10 girls)
are now on his index.
Ward has gone to a great deal of
trouble to “explain” unintelligibly that
he is opposed to the Bretton Woods
agreement. Britain has signed the agree-
ment and Russia hasn’t. Perhaps that
is why Ward is agin it.
Australia undertook to contribute
£6,000,000 this year to U.N.R.R.A., one
of the principal beneficiaries being the
Ukraine “Republic,” whose “Govern-
ment” is all broken up with indignation
at the British proceedings in Java. Now
this country will have to go find another
£234,000 for U.N.O.’s first'year. Colonel
Hodgson pleaded in London that his
Government never expected such an out-
lay, its contribution to the League being
round £47,000 p.a. Actually, the 1945-46
Budget provision for the League and its
International Labor office and union was
£70,000, and is certain to be exceeded.
The worst of it is that while “Labor”
remains in office the taxpayers will be
called upon to support both League and
U.N.O. if U.N.O. refuses to take over
1.L.0., as, if Russia remains hostile to
1.L.0., it will.
South Australia’s comparative exemp-
tion from union larrikinism is standing
it in good stead industrially. While
Chifley was in the Central State Playford
announced that the Firestone Tyre and
Rubber people had arranged to open a fac-
tory in Finsbury North, and that Philips
Electrical Industries was shifting its plant
from Sydney to Adelaide, planning to
employ 2000 South Australians. The
parent Philips concern is, of course,
Dutch, and the step decided upon cannot
be dissociated from the savage boycott
of Dutch shipping and trade with the
East Indies by Sydney (and Brisbane)
unions, all Communist-controlled. South
Australia has had no part in that wicked
business.
Announcement of a census in 1947, the
first since 1933, means there’s not likely
to be a reshuffle of Commonwealth elec-
toral boundaries for years and years and
years. Yet redistribution is long overdue
—at the 1943 polls North Sydney had
72,452 electors and Riverina 50,394, Koo-
yong 82,180 and Wimmera 44,949, Lilley
70,807 and Kennedy 53,179, Hindmarsh
77,146 and Grey 52,071. The least demo-
cratic politicians can do for democracy
is to keep it clean at the source.
A special committee has reported to
Premier McKell that a deep-sea port
should be established at Iluka, on the
N.S.W. north coast, near the mouth of
the Clarence, with a “trunk railway”
over the highlands to Inverell. The com-
mittee was composed of departmental
chaps, one being from the Premier’s
department, none from the shipping in-
dustry or the North Coast. This brings the
port well within the realms of possibility
by 1999.
Eric Spooner, sometime N.S.W.
Treasurer and Commonwealth Assistant
Minister, was one of 23 candidates for
Liberal “endorsement” for Parramatta.
He had “S. M. Herald” support, being a
copious contributor. Granny almost
fainted when Howard Beale, a 47-year-
old lawyer, with a record of enlistment
in World’War I and of service in World
War 11, got the nomination. In a 15-
minute speech to the selection committee,
Beale made individual effort and free
enterprise his strong points. People who
habitually vote Labor are of the same
mind, which is true also of the striking
steel and automobile workers in the
U.S.A.
As Macaulay noted, the triumphant
invaders of France in 1815 found the
Paris politicians of the period busy on
a constitution when it was by no means
certain that they had a country. When
De Gaulle gave up his thankless job the
first decision of the three parties in an
inexpressibly bad situation was that they
would try to settle Franco’s hash. The
same course has been recommended to
Britain, which is full of troubles, at home
and abroad, by a crowd of distant
observers from the aged Morgenthau to
the youthful Jimmy Aldridge. How
Britain is to go about it the distant
observers never precisely explain,
though it seems obvious that they expect
the British serviceman to shed more
torrents of blood for their blasted politics.
It was equally a matter of indifference to
these non-starters that the replacement
of Franco by a Spanish Tito, the only
conceivable effect of “positive action,”
would brihg the enmity of millions of
Spaniards and Spanish Americans on J.
Bull’s head.
Coles, the Henty (Vic.) “Independent,”
who, with Wilson, the Wimmera (Vic.)
“Independent,” voted Federal Labor into
office, has “accepted another position,”
as Wilson did. Coles is to be “chairman of
the Australian National Airlines Com-
mission,” designed by “Labor” to knock
progressive companies out of business, if
h can, and there are four other com-
missioners, three of them civil servants,
and a vice-chairman, Taylor. Getting
“Taylor” right, the “Argus” and “Age”
gave the vice-chairman’s name and
brand as P. G. Taylor, the great air pilot
and navigator. As indignant servicemen
at once explained, the actual appointee is
W. C. Taylor, of the Sydney A.L.P.,
whose Commonwealth Bank board posi-
tion ended with the board.
Coles took ill advance a sad farewell
of the Henty electors —they would have
done the farewelling without any sadness.
“To avoid the cost to the nation of a by-
election he will not resign immediately,
but he will accept no salary as chairman
of the commission while he remains an
M.P.” Mere snuffle—it was making a
virtue of necessity. After a few caustic
remarks from Menzies as to the Govern-
ment’s deadly fear of by-elections, Coles
conceded that he might have to dissever
himself from Henty immediately.
Though papers in other States published
an A.A.P. message that the Beasleys
arrived in London with “several cases
of powdered milk, three tons of tinned
fruit, 12 cases of cream, seven 701 b. bags
of sugar, 1001 b. of tea and four cases of
turkeys,” Sydney papers didn’t seem to
be interested in the A.A.P. message or in
Canberra’s explanation. This travelled as
far afield as N.Q., appearing in the
“Register”: —■
An Australian official going abroad is
allowed an emergency issue of ration tickets
for food, the quantity of which depends on
the importance of the post he is to fill and
the calls made on him for entertainment.
Canberra was found “reluctant to com-
ment” on the quantities or on the pre-
sence of the cream, which nobody in
Australia is allowed to buy. Nobody,
that is, except a Beasley.
Stalin —if it was Stalin —became vocal
“on the eve of the Russian elections,”
after a long and mystifying silence. He—
if it was he—gave it out that the 1939-45
war, like the one in 1914-18, “was a re-
sult of monopolistic tendencies and
factors arising from the capitalist sys-
tem.” No denial came from the leader
of the Opposition, there being none.
Clapp has gone over the route of one
of the “defence” railways—the Diaman-
tina one. He couldn’t see it for floods,
and he wasn't travelling in a railway car-
riage. Neither —as Harold said once in
a burst of candor —was Australia saved
by trains in 1942. ’Planes, not trains, did
the job.
Turner (Kelvin Grove) and Healy
(Warwick), two Queensland Labor
Ms.L.A., have made a personal study of
conditions in the N.E.1., and Turner
reports that “only 15 p.c. of the Indo-
nesians are supporting the republican
movement.”
The remaining 85 p.c. are loyal to the
Dutch; the Ambonese are 100 p.c. pro-
Dutch Macassar was in a bad way till a
Blue Funnel liner and our ship, the
Kanimbla, arrived. If the Kanimbla had
not arrived half the people would have
died of disease and undernourishment.
Turner said he would ask Premier
Cooper to do something to end “this
stupid misunderstanding.” Mild words
for the ferocious Communist conspiracy
and Canberra’s craven acquiescence in it.
Melbourne nurses are up in arms over
the new award for domestics, and one
matron lost the whole of her skilled staff
in a week. Nurses’ pay is £3 15s. a week,
less £1 for board and lodging. Domestics
draw £4 4s. less 165., accommodation be-
ing the same. After income-tax deduc-
tions the Florence Nightingales get £5 3s.
a fortnight as a reward for years of
exacting training, and after spending their
nights dragging patients over the border-
line back to life they see the girls who
scrub the floors getting more than they
do. “ ‘Labor’ Governments” aren’t inter-
ested in nurses.
Stung by complaints from New Guinea
that certain appointments to the N.G.
service were “unfair and contrary to the
principles of the A.L.P.,” Ward replied that
if the capitalist press divulged the iden-
tity of the complainants he would “expe-
dite their return to Australia.” It is in-
ferred that this would assist his efforts
to administer N.G. on “the principles of
the A.L.P.”
From Queanbeyan:
The well-advertised Fraser has a tough fight
on his hands now that the Libs, have chosen
Macarthur-Onslow in Eden-Monaro.
Opposition of non-Labor candidates helped
Fraser in 1943 ; in the final count Fraser had
25,694 votes, Macarthur-Onslow 11,785, and sit-
ting-member Perkins 10,903. With Perkins out
of the way and the Libs, concentrating on a
new young candidate with a splendid war
record, a swing of about 1500 would give them
an electorate that has been won by Labor only
twice since 1901. It was represented for
quarter of a century by Austin Chapman.
To the briefing of barristers by Federal
Labor there is no end, and the impres-
sion exists that their costs already ap-
proach Australia’s expenditure on the
Boer War. Commonwealth Government
intervention in the printing union’s claim
for a 40-hour week will swell the total
appreciably. “Poor old Holloway,” who
must be a pain in the neck to Dr. Evatt,
is positive that “the decision of the Court
will apply to all industry.”
During the Second World War there
was a relic of the League left in Mel-
bourne—its publications department, four
storeys up in a city building. Other relics
are scattered about in the shape of League
Union offices. They are kept alive by
public funds—the Commonwealth “Gov-
ernment,” which doesn’t seem to care
how much money it spends or how use-
lessly, provides £lOOO a year.
Speaking to reporters on the crazy pro-
posal for spending £229,000,000 (and the
rest) on standardising of railway gauges,
Wise, the Westralian Premier, found it
difficult to conceal his lack of en-
thusiasm. He pointed out that the con-
struction of a 4ft. B|in. line from Kal-
goorlie to Perth, “parallel with the exist-
ing line,” would “involve the State in a
loss of £300,000 a year in running costs,”
with interest and sinking fund in respect
of both lines to be added. He could have
pointed out also that the new line would
carry no additional freight to speak of,
and that after the long journey from S.A.
passengers never object to getting off the
train and stretching their legs. He con l
tented himself by saying that he had been
assured that it would be for his Gov-
ernment or its successors to determine
questions of route, priority and construc-
tion time, so he would “recommend the
scheme.”


DAYDREAMS.
“Mr. Forde is to visit Japan, ‘to ensure that members of the occupation force are satisfied.’ ”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Roofless”: Add to the
list of present-day Sydney
pests the person who ad-
vertises a house to let and
gives an address or a ’phone
number instead of asking
for written replies to be
sent to the newspaper
office. One such innocent
professed to be amazed 1
when several hundred
home-seekers besieged the
house, and was distressed
when her garden was
trampled down and picket
fence broken. I was prob-
ably responsible for the
death of some chrysanthe-
mums myself, but I am un- r
repentant. A few days later,
undeterred by photographs
and reports of this case,
another woman foolishly announced a cot-
tage vacancy and gave a ’phone number,
to be rung “not before 6.30 p.m.” Along
with possibly thousands of others I dialled
the number at 6.30 and got the “engaged”
signal. I kept trying at intervals for an
hour and a half with the same result;
usually the “engaged” signal came as soon
as I dialled the code letters, showing that
the whole exchange for that district was
tied up—most of the callers, I have no
doubt, were on the same hopeless task
as myself. At 8 p.m. I got through.
Before I had a chance to speak a harassed
voice said “Cottage is gone,” and I was
cut off. I hadn’t expected any better
luck, but I hope the thoughtless advertiser
had to keep on repeating that refrain
all night,
* * , * *
“D.”: I don’t suppose the makers of
baby powders ever in their wildest dreams
imagined the uses to which their products
were put during the war. Sweating
warriors in the tropics powdered their
bodies with a liberality that must have
skyrocketed sales, and the amount used
to prevent envelopes from sticking and
between snapshots was in itself consider-
able. Strangest use I saw was on Bougain-
ville. On a patrol the wireless failed, so
a carrier pigeon which had been brought
along was released with a message. Its
wings soaked with rain, it was un-
able to leave the ground until the sig.
took a packet of powder from his pack
and gave the bird a thorough dusting.
Within five minutes it was on its way with
the message. ,
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: On the morning
after the Jap prison break at
Cowra (N.S.W.) in 1944, guards, faced
with the grisly and somewhat diffi-
cult task of identifying the dead,
were pleasantly surprised at the eagerness
of surviving Nips to co-operate. Only
when two Nips each vigorously assigned
a different name to one corpse
did officialdom smell a rat. Each co-
operative Jap had identified a particular
body as his own. The rising was inspired
by a story, circulated by medium of inner
sheets in rolls of toilet paper, that a
Jap army had landed and was on its way.
Quite large parties escaped and called
at lonely farmhouses, where they caused
no trouble other than demanding a meal
in tones which brooked no refusal. When
apprehended, they fought fanatically—
sometimes to the death.
* * * #
“Traymon”: My milko may have his
troubles but he retains a philosophic out-
look. “How’s business?” I asked him the
other morning. “Given up worrying about
it,” he assured me, cheerfully; “I’m a lot
more interested in the business done by
the bloke that serves the streets on the
other side of the line.” “How’s that?” I
inquired, anticipating that he must be
planning to buy out his former rival.
“Well,” he informed me, “as far as we
can both make out, as soon as this zoning
ends he’ll get all my customers and I’ll
get all his.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see by the papers that a
grand “master plan” of town-planning for
N.S.W. is on the way, and that “to
carry out the Government’s highly-
commendable policy a large force of ex-
perts will be essential.” Of course it will!
But in the same papers appeared distress-
ful stories of homeless people and idle
brickyards, with pictures of idle bricks and
timber, and the failure of the Housing
“Got tired of waiting for you , big boy , so I did the job myself !”
Commission to build houses. Heaven
knows there are enough “experts” on the
public payrolls now to eat the job, but
the housing scarcity can give the hen’s
teeth position 10 on and a beating.
AH’ I hope is that they create so many
“large forces of experts” that there won’t
be any houses for ’em to live in, where-
upon it may be hoped everybody will
stop planning and talking and grab a
trowel or a hod and get to work.
* * * *
“Pawang”: In its quest for charity
funds Melbourne has gone a step lower
down the ladder of stupidity with an
appeal to be launched by the Lud Mayor
for Children’s Hospital rebuilding. A
State marbles competition or a popular
child quest is projected. The people who
organise these things are so lacking in
understanding of child psychology that
they aren’t even dimly aware that they
are probably condemning some unfor-
tunate infant to a neurosis. The inno-
cent victim who is selected will be photo-
graphed by the papers, paraded on plat-
forms, introduced to the Governor and
the Premier and probably sent to
the U.S. and made a further fuss of.
Then he will have to return to drab
reality. Having made an enormous hit
so easily, he will spend the rest of his life
trying to recapture the feeling, and the
tendency wifi be for him to try to get it,
not with real effort, but in the same spec-
tacular manner. He will believe he is
important, but won’t feel he is important.
Any psychologist could tell the Lud
Mayor and his friends that that is the
perfect soil for a neurosis.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Adam Lindsay Gordon
was certainly at Cheltenham College as
a boy, and, likely enough, at Woolwich
later, where he is said to have been a
contemporary of “Chinese” Gordon, but
he was never at Oxford (B. 23/l/’46).
The statement was started by one of his
earlier biographers, on what evidence it
is hard to say, but the name of the college
(Merton) was given, thus enabling it to
be easily verified or disproved. Years
later some English admirers of Gordon
were sufficiently interested to look up the
college records, religiously kept at most
universities, and drew a blank as far as
the subject of their quest was concerned.
Most of the stories about the poet’s earlier
life are vague and confused and founded
on mere hearsay.
* * * *
“Eve”; I’m not a fighter by nature, hut
when I ate steadily through a rolled pan-
cake and got to the last bite without strik-
ing any jam I felt my blood touch boiling
point. In the morning I went to the same
shop and said “Pancake with jam, please.
And don’t forget the jam today. You
left it off yesterday,” The man looked
bewildered, then embarrassed. Then he
said “Aw, no. Miss, I didn’t forget the
jam, but of course you wouldn’t be able
to taste it!”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A woman writer in Adelaide
“Advertiser” set out to cheer servicemen
in hospital by quoting Milton (incor-
rectly), “They serve him best who bear
his mild yoke best.” The lino, man
improved on her version by claiming that
the patients “are bearing their mild joke
in true Australian fashion.”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Wartime substitute match-
sticks that snap at the slightest pressure,
heads that fly off in flaming fury and
book matches that fizz and splutter are
familiar to everyone. Among troops in
the Islands wax matches —“vestas” —long
forbidden in Australia, are standard
issue ; they stand up to the climate better
than safeties. The waxies do the job, but
they are a fruitful cause of bad temper,
burnt fingers and foul language. There’s
quite a knack in striking them on the tin
and the slowness of the new-arrival to
acquire it has earned them the name of
“non-inflammable matches,” I doubt if
any single sound has more power to
recall to the ex-Digger his sojourn in
the tropics than has the rasping scratch-
scratch of the waxy on the tin,
* * * *
“Macnell”: Australia Day in Melbourne
provided an opportunity for the three
British carriers to “air their washing.”
Waived since ’39, dress ship was exer-
cised with gusto. Every flag and pennant
in the alphabet, plus much American
bunting used up north, fluttered on jack-
stays rigged from stem to stern. To Mel-
bourne’s swarming visitors they made a
pretty picture, with their blues and greens,
reds and yellows, but to those who knew
their colors told a grimmer story. “Enemy
aircraft in sight,” “torpedoes approach-
ing,” “gas alarm,” “abandon ship,” were
some of them. Coupled with the good-
humored reception of thousands of prob-
ing sightseers, the ships’ recognition of
Australia Day is a further example of
that goodfellowship which characterises
Britain’s great fighting force wherever it
sails.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Handing in a claim for a
chop out of dismembered Austria,' 10
Maoris have petitioned M.L.’s Parlia-
ment for a return of Maori skulls and
mummified bodies housed in the Imperial
Museum of Natural History in Vienna.
The story goes back to 1882. An Aus-
trian naturalist, Andreas Reischek,
wormed himself into the good graces of
King Country Maoris and was permitted
to enter their sacred territory—the first
white man to do so. He bribed two
Maoris to show him a cave where mum-
mified chieftains were buried. Returning
in the dead of night he made a selection
of a few bodies and many skulls, got
them surreptitiously out of the King
Country and M.L. and thence to Vienna.
It was a deep insult to the Maoris, and
still rankles in their descendants today.
=•= * * ' ♦
“Yair”: It’s my clock, so I ought to
know. Every clock-man in Sydney takes
one look at it and says “Not worth re-
pairing. Just a cheap Jap make.” Well,
I admit it stops every three or four weeks.
But I get it going again always without
aid of these clock-men. I just pick it
up and heave it to the far end of the
room. It’s a clock without any protect-
ing glass over the face, so whether or
not the rough treatment shakes the dirt
out 1 can’t say; all I know is that this
method works the works.
* * * * s
“Pawang”: At the beginning o/World
War II an army medico employed in
another section walked into a room where
A.I.F. recruits were waiting to be ex-
amined. Among the crowd he recognised
his father, whom he hadn’t seen foCsome
time. “Hello, Dad,” he cried, “what on
earth are you here for? You’re not en-
listing, surely?” “I’m giving it a go,”
replied his parent. “But you’re 61. You
might have been O.K. for the last war,
but” “I’m 39 years and 10 months,
just two months short of the stipulated
limit,” grinned the old man. Half an
hour later the son was accosted* by one
of the examining doctors. “You seemed
to know that chap you spoke to,” he
said. “Yes, I do,” said the other. “I
fancy he underestimated his age a trifle,”
said his colleague. “I’d put it round
about 45 but he was so fit that we }et him
through. What would you say his age
was?” “Round about what you thought,”
the son said. The new recruit car-
ried a rifle and saw a lot of fight-
ing. Since his return he has written
several books and has become the father
of a third child.
* * * ♦
“Scribe”: Some unusual vessels have
crossed the Tasman in the last year or so,
but few stranger than the dredge Kaione,
sold by the Wanganui Harbor Board to
a Queensland lime and cement concern,
which proposes to use her for dredging
coral destined for cement. The Kaione
is no youngster. The harbor board
bought her in Scotland during the 1914
do, and after the Admiralty had made
good use of her she came out to Maori-
land under her own steam, taking nearly
five months for the voyage. Current
price-levels have given the board a good
deal. Selling price is £47,500. It paid
£33,000 30 years ago, plus another £9OOO
to bring the Kaione out,
Jfc * *
“Simp”: With the end of hostilities
the excellent work done by many “posts”
is coming to light. One of these was the
“Wishing Well” that for over three years
was on the doorstep of a prisoner-of-
war shop in Elizabeth-street, Hobart. The
proceeds of this “till,” added to the
takings of the shop, yielded £6500. Many
a p.-0.-w. received comforts from the
generosity of those who dropped in a
coin with a wish (and often a prayer!)
that the serviceman might soon come
home again safe and well.
HIS PET AVERSION.
“Mr. Calwell announced that he had instructed
his departmental pfflcers to answer no press queries.”
Fierce light may beat, for all I care,
On crowns and Icings and so on,
But I refuse to have it where
My own proceedings go on.
Lest captious tongues too oft be wagged
At things which have men puzzled,
I keep my own offsiders gagged,
My understrappers muzzled.
They’re trained to look aloof, askance
At nosey inkywaymen,
Quite diffTent from the pleasant glance
They give to other laymen.
The first occasion them chagrin
And acid disapproval,
Like something that the cat brings in,
Requiring prompt removal.
In Ministerial state I bask
And earn, I trust, my salary;
No more congenial job I ask
Than playing to the gallery.
But ’tis my steadfast aim, by dint
Of means that I’m employing,
To keep all comments out of print
That I might find annoying.
Publicity is right enough,
The sort my talent warrants,
Yet all but eulogistic stuff
I view with sheer abhorrence.
I will not have them crash my gate
And snoop around my quarters,
These members of the Fourth Estate,
Inquisitive reporters.
Like crimson rags that bulls excite,
Or just what hawks to fowls are,
Or sudden light to birds of night,
The kind that bats and owls are,
Are such to me. I know no worse
Or deadlier infliction.
For them I keep my heartiest curse,
My choicest malediction.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
NO LIMIT.
“There is no limit to the meaning of great
poetry.”-— R.P. 6/2/’46. .
It may be so. Averse from intervening,
1 leave that point for highbrows to debate,
But when in fields ,of modern verse I’m glean-
ing
I all too often fail to find the meaning
In some that’s not so great.
Think of those bards whose names with awe
we mention,
Wouldn’t their punch have long ago been
spent
If there had been occasion for dissension
And sound excuses for misapprehension
Concerning what they meant?
Could they have lived -to be a boon and blessing
To all the countless generations that
Have prized their poesy beyond assessing,
If there had been the slightest need for guess-
ing
What they were driving at?
Yet now, as one who timidly appraises
Some picture that in galleries you find
Subtly suggestive of a nightmare’s mazes,
And mildly wonders what the blithering blazes
The artist had in mind,
I tackle one of various ebullitions
Piped from some nest of modern singing
birds,
And gather from it nothing but submissions
Of unintelligible propositions
In mists of whirling words.
N.S.W,
MIDFORD.


“Jasby”: Placing pickets outside a
“black” hotel isn’t such a bad idea after
all —for the pickets. A Sydney suburban
pub, placed under a ban, was picketed by
a score of self-appointed upholders of
liberty, and their efforts were so success-
ful that Bung surrendered. Into the bar
trooped the pickets and before the news
of the victory had time to spread they
had downed the entire stock of beer.
They are now looking for fresh pubs to
picket.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Among the new Labor
members elected in Britain last July was
a rather astonishing number of Leftist
newspapermen, who must be sorely em-
barrassed by Moscow’s crude and clumsy
hostility to Britain. One, a Mr. Michael
Foot, has already stamped himself as the
House’s prize bore, and there was keen
delight among old hands on both sides
when one of his Ministers dressed him
down. The incident was neatly reported
in the “Times”:
ADOLFO CALTABIANO.
Mr. Foot (Plymouth, Devonport, Lab.)
asked the Home Secretary for what pur-
pose the rooms of Adolfo Caltabiano, of
Nassingiyn-toad, N.W.3, were lately raided
by the police. \
Mr. Ede. —My information is that there
has been no such raid. (Laughter.)
Mr. Foot.—lf there was no raid there
must have been a burglary, and will the
Home Secretary undertake an inquiry into
this case to ensure that both in the case
of the alleged raid and the burglary there
has been no political victimisation?
Mr. Ede. —No, I have made inquiries.
The police called at this gentleman’s address
in October, 1945, to make inquiries about
a ferocious dog. (Laughter.) A summons
was issued and the matter would have come
before the court, but unfortunately the
gentleman was certified insane. (Loud and
prolonged laughter.)
The fatuous young man tried to pursue
his “inquiry” further, but made such
heavy weather of it that the old Parlia-
mentary hands laughed louder and longer.
He wrote a book which had a consider-
able vogue among the half-educated and
half-witted, Guilty Men. In this he pro-
fessed to be perfectly acquainted with all
the alleged crimes of Chamberlain’s men ;
but he couldn’t get his facts right about
a crackpot who kept a dog.
* * * *
“Findy”: A speaker at the summer
school of the Australian School of Poli-
tical Science suggested as a means of
encouraging an increased birthrate that
children be given a vote —to be exercised
through their parents. Protests against
undemocratic plural voting may be roused,
but the proposal is not so undemocratic
as it at first sounds. The increasing aver-
age age of the community and the in-
creasing interest of the average politician
in the vote of the increasing body of
old-age pensioners suggest that “votes for
children” might induce our “statesmen’
to do something about housing, educa-
tion and jobs, so as to encourage parents
to do something about an increased birth-
rate.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Indonesians wearing black
uniforms and Japanese helmets used
women and children to cover their ad-
vance in an engagement near Semarang.
An ancient custom with which the Dutch
came in contact even as late as the present
century in their punitive expeditions on
Hindu Bali. When a beleaguered native
garrison’s last hope had gone a puputan
would be staged. The gates of the fortress
would open and out would rush the
women and children, followed by arrack-
crazed Hindu warriprs. They knew that
the Dutchmen’s tendency to hold their
fire at sight of the women would produce
a state of confusion of which they could
take advantage, and there were bloody
massacres of white troops before the ruse
was fathomed. As the destiny of the Hindu
widow was the funeral pyre of her hus-
band there was a certain inducement for
the women to act in this way. The Java-
nese, however, are Moslems.
» * * ♦
“Curtain Raiser”: Add to the animals
which have been misfortunes on the stage
the horse which did service for the one
and only production of the ballet, “Don
Quixote,” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne.
In its search for a Rosinante the manage-
ment was baffled by the vigilance of the
S.P.C.A. No beast sufficiently under-
nourished could be found anywhere about
the city, and if one had been found the
fact of its possession would have imme-
diately got its owner into trouble. A
compromise was effected by hiring a well-
conditioned cabhorse and painting ribs
on its outside.
* * • * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s City Fathers
are becoming worried because of the
large and increasing number of dead
animals, mostly dogs, killed by motor
traffic, which have to be removed from
the streets. The worry is based, not
on kindness to animals, but on
hard financial facts: the contractor’s
removal fee for dead dogs is 2s. 6d., with
higher rates for larger animals, and, as
the great majority of slain mongs
do not show any registration disc,
owners cannot be come on for col-
lection of the fee. In other cases
collectors have trade risks to meet. Called
by its woman owner to remove an alleg-
edly and apparently dead cow from a
Holland Park street, the operator put a
chain round its neck preparatory to tow-
ing the defunct away. The seemingly-
“oh, George , the captain Wants us to dine at his table!”
departed thereupon arose briskly, tossed
the removalist halfway across the street
and charged through a barbed-wire fence.
Afterwards the owner threatened to sue
the council for damages to the animal
caused by the barbed wire.
* * * *
“Purist”: Should it be “different from,”
“different to” or “different than”? “Dif-
ferent from” is correct English usage,
for which Dry den, Dr. Johnson and any
number of authorities might be quoted ;
“different to” is a colloquialism; “dif-
ferent than” an Americanism. Yet “dif-
ferent than” increasingly appears in Aus-
tralian newspapers which follow American
fashions, however ugly. Their editors
ought to have some respect for the noble
language to which they are heirs.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Speaking at the opening of a
show designed to stimulate interest in art
amongst schoolchildren, Gallery Director
Daryl Lindsay said that Victorian schools
should be “plastered with the best repro-
ductions of good pictures,” as nothing
could be better calculated to stimulate
respect for art and culture. According
to a schoolmaster of my acquaintance,
nine-tenths of Victorian country schools
are high-ceilinged, low-roofed shacks
which in summer are like ovens and so
dusty that the pupils can’t see their
teachers. There are also a few old stone
buildings built by the early settlers which
have been ruined by alterations. And it
“No trouble at all getting him home with this!”
is in places like these that teachers are
expected to cultivate in their charges
respect for art'and beauty. If the depart-
ment shows so little respect for those
things itself, how does it expect the
children to show any at all?
“C. 8.”: The water shortage has started
Melbourne looking for ancient springs.
The Shrine lawns are dying, and Lands
Department officials are searching the files
to see if a spring described by a citizen
once existed there. Another citizen re-
members a spring in South Melbourne
which ran down into the Yarra ; when a
factory was built on the site a large centri-
fugal pump had to be installed to pump
the* water out of the foundations. Prob-
ably there are dozens of springs under
Melbourne’s masses of bitumen and con-
crete. Melba was brought up on Mel-
bourne water from a spring in the Mit-
chell family’s backyard. It was particu-
larly pure and fresh, and Nellie’s imbib-
ing of it may have accounted for the
phenomenal limpidity of her topnote.
“Simon Scrawler”: P.-0.-ws, in Siam
were eager listeners to news stories, as a
rule “guaranteed” by a prefatory state-
ment: “I heard this from an English-
speaking Thai.... a well-educated Thai
.... a well-dressed Thai,” and so on. One
lad, a keen newshound, got a particularly
wild yarn from an unusual source. In
reply to the sarcastic query “Did you get
that from ‘the well-dressed Thai’?” he
retorted “No, I got it from an English-
speaking Catholic, Buddhist priest. D’you
reckon a bloke like that’d tell a lie?”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Bond-street, Sydney, was
a pathetic example of one attempt to get
away from that city-centre idea (B.
30/1 / ’46). In the days when Sydney was
slavishly imitative of London, the idea
occurred to someone that a “fashion
street” (narrowness no drawback) would
be a boon. Tailors, milliners, jewellers
and others fell for the scheme. They
soon found that even names well known
for style couldn’t draw customers away
from “The Block,” and fled back to their
old haunts. Only the name remains as a
memory of the failure.
Sc * * *
“Galenus”: A curious side-result of
later stages of the experimental work
which finally evolved the atomic bomb
has been the discovery of a process which
offers the most hopeful prospect yet en-
countered of curing and preventing
cancer and other deadly diseases. Its
origin dates back to the discovery by an
Oxford professor 36 years ago of a special
form of carbon with an atomic weight
of 13 as compared with 12 for ordinary
carbon, a high degree of radio-activity,
and no harmful effect on body tissues.
Its radio-activity enables it to be photo -
graphed at all stages after admission to
the body by means of food or otherwise,
including its presence in the bloodstream
and body cells.' It can also be traced into
abnormal cells, such as those of cancer.
Unfortunately manufacture of Carbon 13,
as it is scientifically termed, was so costly
and difficult that only an ounce or so
of it could be produced. Now, the
atomic-release workers have incidentally
evolved a method of manufacture which
has speeded up production a thousand-
fold and more, and it is to be distributed
free of charge amongst approved research
organisations. Once the actual process,
as yet unknown, by which normal cells
are converted into abnormal ones is
worked out by its aid, cure and preven-
tion of cancer, calcification of arteries
and other diseases caused by cell abnor-
malities will be within short-range scien-
tific purview.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The latest notion of psy-
chiatrists is that they can find out what
was wrong with the Nazi war criminals
by examining their brains. One young
American has been given as his guinea-
pigs the 20 captive leaders standing their
trial at Nuremberg. The brain of Dr.
Robert Ley, who smashed the German
trade-unions and built the Nazi Labor
front, has been examined, and exhaustive
reports have been made on the assump-
tion that the study “will improve world
understanding of the dangers inherent in
the apparently harmless personality traits
of these individuals.” As if personality
traits can be revealed from bony
structure! Anatole France was one of
the intellectual giants of his age. His
brain, examined after his death, was
found to be one of the smallest on record.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A surprise awaits
the Australian public when it surveys the
story of Sister Kenny now being filmed
by Hollywood. After four attempts to
produce a play which would effectively
dramatise the history of a lifelong fight
against infantile paralysis and the con-
servatism of the medical profession,
R.K.O. was almost ready to admit that
it was beaten when it discovered that there
was a real and interesting love story in
the career of Sister Kenny. “I wanted to
marry,” it makes her say. “I wanted
a husband and a home, but every time
we made such plans a new polio epidemic
broke out and I couldn’t quit. Aus-
tralian nurses must give up their pro-
fession if they marry.” The man in
question was a station-owner who never
married, never forgot the first and only
woman in his life, and died in Australia
last year. That’s how the story goes, and
it’s a good story, anyway.
* * * «
“Nakhoda”: The “White Rajah” of
Sarawak has an accumulation of troubles.
There are (1) a “provisional Government ’
in London, (2) an Allied Military Govern-
ment functioning at %Kuching, (3) the
Colonial Office, which doesn’t consider
Sarawak an entity in international law
and (4) the. Rajah himself, Sir Charles
Vyner Brooke, owner of the principality
by inheritance from his great-uncle. There
are also palace complications. The Rajah
muda (heir-apparent), a vigorous young
man, the Rajah’s nephew, is at the head
of the “provisional Government” and
wants to establish a “democratic” con-
stitution. The Rajah, at present doing his
own chores in an English villa near Read-
ing, recently staggered the provisional
Government by issuing an edict disband-
ing it and announcing his intention of
returning to Sarawak as a full-blown
potentate, old-style. The first rajah, when
Chinese rebels seized his capital, slipped
with one companion, through a hole in
the floor of his palace into tWfe Kuching,
swam ashore and escaped into the jungle,
to return at the head of a force of head-
hunting Dyaks..
# * * *
“Ceg” on a link between Dickens and
the First A.1.F.:
News that Cineguild, in England, is working
on a talkie version of Dickens’s Great Ex-
pectations, mostly filmed in Kent, should
interest the many officers of the First
A.I.F. who convalesced at Cobham Flail,
only a mile or so from Gadshill. t Much
of Great Expectations is set in the strip
of country lying between the Dover road
and the Thames, and no doubt many of the
scenic shots will bring happy memories to
members of the old A.I.F. who tramped all
over that part of the countryside. A glimpse of
Z old Si? John Falstatl Inn evokes memory
of a cool glass of Kentish ale taken whilst
waiting for the bus to Gravesend or Chatham.
?he headquarters of the film
are the Leather Bottle Inn at Cobham, also
wfUl known to the officers whilst at Cobham
Hall The church of Cooling lies near t e
desolate reaches of the Thames estuary-
where the convict hulks were moored-and be-
n rhurchvard are the marshes where
St ountefMiwitch. The house of Mr.
iwiechook in the High-street, not far from
Rochester Bridge, will be recognised; also Satis
House, where the lonely Miss Hav.shatn taught
Estella the lessons of a turned hfc-
is really Restoration House, m Rochester
there’s a legend that the Merry Monarch
JhPhered under its roof on the way to London
f n ] the throne. It is near the Castle and
River Medway, favorite hauhts of the Austra-
lians from Cobham.


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.F.H.”: In N.G. I learnt this simple
recipe for catching crocodiles. Geaif
required is a pair of bathing trunks, a
bottle of whisky, a telescope and an empty
matchbox. Arme.d with these, proceed
to crocodile-infested waters. Measure 10
■paces from the water’s edge to a com-
fortable spot where you can leave your
clothes and don the bathing trunks. If
there are no crocodiles in sight go down
to the water’s edge, have .a look around
and then take a good swig at the whisky.
Drop the bottle, seek the comfortable
position you selected and drop off to
sleep. Presently a crocodile will arrive
at the water’s edge. He sights the whisky
and sniffs it deeply. This is enough to
send the croc, off in a fuddled sleep. As
the snoring of the saurian wakes you up
suddenly you see your prize barely 10
paces away from you. Stealthily you
pick up, the telescope, place the wrong
end to your eye, at the same time pushing
open the matchbox with the disengaged
hand. Fix the telescope (wrong end to
the eye still) on the croc. ; then, creeping
over, place the open matchbox alongside
him. Then in one quick movement pick
up the crocodile between thumb and fore-
finger and pop him into the box, snapping
it closed. It’s quite simple, they tell me.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The Algonquin Indians
considered a dish of maggots something
to write home about, but they regarded
the first whites in New England as re-
grettable persons because they stole
from the cows the milk that rightfully
belonged to the calves. Which is men-
tioned as illustrating how customs differ
and brings up the matter of Lee Kwan,
who appeared in our cookhouse one
morning a week after Paddy McLean,
our regular poisoner, had departed this
life. Lee, a cheerful person of immacu-
late dress and habits, gave us our first
lunch. It looked like a dry hash rolled
in pancakes, and it filled the boys with
gastronomic joy. Jones Leslie, who had
a newly-acquired wife in the town, be-
came enamored of the dish and was
pressing Lee for the recipe when young
Bob, the wood-and-water joey, appeared
with a mystified look and wanted to
know who had pinched the three long-
dead rabbits he’d been saving for shrimp
bait. Whereupon there was an industrial
upheaval on that station only settled
when the boss formally agreed to employ
only Caucasian cooks.
* * * *
“Antacid”; Despite “Bo’s” tilt (B.
9/1/’46), some people do relish mutton
birds, for there were tens of thousands of
them salted down each year before the
war, and I for one am longing for a re-
appearance of the delicacy on the menu.
Parboiled for 15 minutes and then fried
to a crisp brown in its own fat, the squab
takes some beating. But the best way
is stuffed and roasted. Parboil once more,
then heap up one half of the bird with
bread crumbs seasoned with onion, sage
and thyme and green chopped celery.
Fold over the other side and sew up with
cotton. Then broil in oven or saucepan
with slow fire for an hour, the bird cook-
ing in its own fat. Serve with mashed
potatoes.
i * * * *
“City Lights”: .Attending auctions, I
have seen quite ordinary articles run up to
fabulous prices, such as £lOO for a suite
of furniture probably valued at £25 new.
But there was a chiel there takin’ notes,
and when the bidding ran itself out a
suave gentleman stepped forward, took
“You’ve got to start training them young”
the names of the longest stayers among
the bidders, put them in a hat and re-
quested a lady bystander to make a draw.
The name out of the hat got the article.
Prices were fixed, and any bid above the
fixed price was just punk. Recently bid
up to £2 for a pair of blankets* but got
them out of the hat for 25 bob, the
fixed price. So even if “Sweat-rag” (B.
9/1 / ’46) did bid 30 bob for those hedge
clippers he probably got them in the end
for about 7s. 6d., which would be some-
thing like the fixed price. If he didn’t —
well, that auctioneer is still liable to a
prosecution.
* * * *
“Propalong”; I was away from home
when Ned called. He sat on the verandah
for a while, talking to the missus. It
was hot, he said, blazin’ hot. He wouldn’t
mind bettin’ the temperature was up
round the 120. Only 110 was it? Well,
of course, not having a thermometer a
man didn’t have much idea. He used
to have one until the top blew out of ’er
in the summer of ’3B. ’Course he hadn’t
been able to get one during the war.
When you thought of it, Ned went on
over his second pint of tea, a thermometer
was a real necessity in the bush. With-
out one a man might go out, not know-
ing it was 130 or 140, and start sinking
post holes and get sunstroke. And it was
real interesting to know what the tem-
perature was, specially for an old bloke
like him. So the missus remembered an
old immersion thermometer of mine that
had been stuck away in its case for years,
lent it to him and he left, happy in the
achievement wrought by his own subtlety.
I was home, however, when he brought
it back. “Hey, Prop,” he yelled as soon
as he saw me. “What sort of a day was
it yesterday?” “Pretty warm,” I told
him. “Well, I’m glad to know that!” he
exploded, sinking down in his relief on
to the missus’s knitting on the verandah
lounge. “Here —I brought y’r blanky
thermometer back. Y’ want t’ get it fixed
up. Frightened a year’s growth outa ipe
yesterd’y; thought I was gettin’ old, feel-
in’ the heat with this thing on’y readin’
45 degrees.” I promised to get it fixed ;
it was no use explaining the difference
between Fahrenheit and Centigrade scales
to old Ned.
* . t- * *
“Dusty Gully”: Up behind, Tommy
Dow’s there’s a small creek he has
diverted to run in a race for the house-
hold requirements. Hot weather quietens
it down to a trickle that runs only at
certain times, when a break in the weather
is arriving or on moonlight nights. The
opening of springs before a big rain is
too well known to argue about, but I’m
hanged if I can see what influence the
moon could possibly have on Tommy’s
creek.
* * J|C SJC
“Anthropo”: No, “Sister,” I can’t take
it. You may have seen a Papuan youth
possessed of the aspect of an Egyptian
prince of the time of Rameses 111 (B.
9/l/’46), just as I have seen an Arunta
lass with a figure fit to stand for a model
of Venus, but from Rameses to the pre-
sent time is just a bit too distant for even
the Papuan tribal memory to bridge.
Atavism is the explanation ; the bushman
calls it a “throwback,” Man probably
developed in Asia some few million years
ago ; and from there he spread north,
south, east and west. The section that
eventually provided the Egyptian, the
Semite, the Tasmanian, the Australian and
the Papuan may have lingered long in
India before splitting to travel south-
west and south-east —there -are certain
resemblances between all the races men-
tioned. For instance, on the W.A. south
coast lies Israelite Bay, so named from
the Semitic features of the blacks there.
Again, David Carnegie, exploring from
Coolgardie to Hall’s Creek in the late
’nineties, found a Kimberley black so
Semitic in appearance that he promptly
dubbed him The Jew. Then there is the
boomerang of the Stone Age Nile dweller,
and of the Australian. The powerful bow
and arrow of the Egyptian, and of the
Papuan. From some cause the Egyptian
and the Semite moved up into civilisation,
while the Australian and Papuan prac-
tically stood still.
* * *
“Bo”; The new schoolteacher woke up
to find herself being carried out of her
bedroom at Gibber Flat’s only pub by a
man. In the dim light of the room all
she could see of her captor was a long,
drooping moustache and a shapeless felt
hat. She let out a piercing scream, and
demanded to be put back in her room.
As they went quickly along the hall the
schoolteacher yelled “Police! Police!”
at the top of her voice, whereupon the
man carrying her turned, dumped his
burden and stayed not upon the order
of his going.. Twenty minutes later Mick
Ryan. Mick’s missus, the yard hand
and the schoolteacher, together- with sun-
dry residents of the township, watched
from a safe distance the flames consume
Mick’s weatherboard beer bowser.
Among the onlookers was a man in a
shapeless felt hat and a drooping mous-
tache. On being apprised by Mick that
this particular gent, had given the alarm
about the fire the schoolteacher went
across to him. “Why did you put me
down instead of carrying me right out
when you knew the place was on fire?”
she asked. The would-be rescuer looked
at his boots and shuffled. For a half-
minute he was silent, then he said slowly.
Well, y’ see, miss, we’d not long before
been playin’ two-up in Mick’s kitchen,
and when y’ yelled for the police—well,
if'sorta give a man a scare!”
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”: Stingarees are un-
pleasant creatures to knock up against in
muddy water, but they have their good
points. As with their cousins the skates,
the meat from their flaps is a firstrate
fish-food, particularly suitable for invalid
dietaries on account of its attractive
flavor and easy digestibility. A good
gelatine can be extracted from the fins,
and the skin of certain species makes a
useful sandpaper. The hard, sharp stings,
with the recurving barbs rubbed down on
sandstone, are used by Pacific Islanders
for needles and awls, and very efficient
tools they are. The waste parts of the
body make a fertiliser, especially good
for enriching sandy soils. And, when one
comes to think of the vast numbers of
the creatures which frequent Australian
beaches during the bathing season, in-
juries from them are comparatively rare.
* * * *
“Martimus”: “Narrin’s” kitten which
attacked and the horse which bit when
laughed at (B. 30/1/’46) did so for a
very natural reason; the human laugh
reveals a considerable expanse of bared
teeth, which, in the animal world, means
only one thing: fight! Having handled
the ape tribe from chimpanzees to mar-
mosets, and literally being able to do any-
thing with them, I speedily found that to
laugh at their antics was to invite im-
mediate attack. A dog’s natural devotion
would suppress its primitive desire to
emulate other animals in this respect.
Objection to ridicule cannot be entirely
ruled out, because the pleased-manner in
which racehorses react to the plaudits of
the crowd and some dogs strut when
praised suggests that they are equally
sensitive in the reverse direction.
* * * *
“Freeman Sandom”: Up north, in the
sugarcane country, people are a happy
lot who do not take things too seriously.
For example, there are saddlehorses,
mostly belonging to boys without pad-
docks to run them in, and milking cows,
owned by working families in the same
category, which stock roam the grass-
grown by-roads, a nuisance to property-
owners with insecure fences and to the
sugar mills when rakes of canetrucks,
unavoidably at times, are left outside
protecting barbed wire. A nuisance, but
after all only a mild nuisance, and then
it is good for boys to have horses to
ride and look after, and for families to
have plenty of fresh, pure milk to drink.
So the Shire Councils’ inspectors are not
unduly severe. They make periodic
raids, but only at infrequent intervals,
and the law’s advance is usually well-
heralded by bush telegraph. A few head
of stock may be collected. The owner
can then effect the release of his animal
from pound by the payment of 11s. 9d.,
which is the fee for “driving and dam-
age,” plus 4s. 2d. per day for “keep.”
So the law is satisfied, disgruntled land-
owners are appeased, and the public,
whose sympathy on the whole lies with
the stray stock proprietors, is not unduly
antagonised—one up for the vote-seeking
councillors with an eye to the next elec-
tions. Here is an example of this sym-
pathy and the workings of the bush-
telegraph in my district. When a raid is
decided on somebody “in the know” rings
up a friend whose schoolboy son owns
a horse, a message is sent to the school,
the boy communicates the information to
the teacher, who promptly tells the. class
that a big, bad wolf is loose on the roads
and that owners of straying stock may
take one hour off to drive their property
to within the haven of protecting barbed
wire.
* * * *
“Zake”: Joe Grimble had gone out in
the afternoon felling timber some few
miles away from his home, and when he
didn’t return at nightfall a search party
was rapidly organised. It wasn’t until
early the next morning that he was found
by his neighbor Kemp. Joe had been
lucky. A sudden gust of wind had caused
his miscalculation of a falling tree, and
Joe ‘had just managed to dive for the
shelter of a narrow,'dry creek bed as the
gully giant crashed, imprisoning but not
injuring him. After he had stretched his
cramped limbs and thanked his rescuer
Joe turned to go. Kemp stared. “That’s
not the way to your home, Joe,” he said.
“I know it ain’t —I’m makin’ for the
station,” he replied. “You know what
my missus is. Gripes, I’d never hear the
end of stoppin’ out all night!”
LINDEN LEA.
Garstin rode on a chestnut coif
That bucked to beat the band,
But Garstin needed no monkey-holt,
For his seat on a horse was grand.
He loved this colt with four white feet
And a streak and a crooked star,
And a slapping walk and a canter sweet
That would carry him fast and far.
The township girls would wave a hand
And blow him a kiss for fee,
As he passed with a rose in his forehead-band
On the capering Linden Lea.
It chanced one day, as he rode through town,
That his glance a moment fell
On a horse and trap with the reins flung down
In front of the Grand Hotel.
“Someone gone ,in for a drink,” thought he;
“He has faith in his horse, that chap” —
And then, as the nag moved restlessly,
“He’ll be losing his horse and trap.”
“Fools must look after their own,” he said,
And was carelessly passing by.
When he suddenly turned his handsome head
As he heard a young child cry.
And there, as he gazed through the dusty whirl
And the brown horse made his bolt,
He saw on the seat a baby girl,
And he wheeled his dancing colt.
A grab at the reins—too far, too far — .
And the old trap gathered speed.
Then men rushed out from the crowded bar,
Too late for that baby’s need.
But Linden Lea leapt info his stride
At the touch of his rider’s heel,
And laid himself at the sulky’s side
And raced by the nearside wheel.
As they cleared the town like a flash of thought
The trailing reins were trapped
Over the axle, and checked and caught
By the sudden strain —and snapped.
The throat-lash broke and the bridle fell
And the brown horse, mad with fear,
Fled, as it were, from the fiends of Hell,
Through the loops of his broken gear.
Then Garstin leaned from his saddle down
In one last desperate deal,
And caught a fold of the baby’s gown
And lifted her over fhe wheel.
He carried her back on his bare brown arm
Like a bride by her groom caressed,
And handed her down with a courtly charm
To be clasped to her mother’s breast.
He was always a knight on his saddle-tree,
But he wore his proudest plume
The day that he leaned from Linden Lea
To rescue a child Ifom doom.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“The 0.D.”: I see that “Sur Cingle”
(B. 6/2/’46) is in a bit of a knot about
the best kind of gun to drop kangaroos.
Presumably he’s about to take the game
up as a post-war occupation, but, after
carefully examining every weapon from
a .22 to a .44, taking in Mausers and
.303’s on the way, he seems to have
satisfied himself that none of ’em is
any good. Some drop too suddenly,
others “aren’t practical,” a grain of sand
will settle another, some make too big
holes in the ’roo and some make too small
ones. After all this, “S.C.” wants a ver-
dict. Well, I once knew a bloke who
took up golf. Very quickly he found
that some clubs were too heavy, others
too closed, still others too open, grips
were wrong and heads had various dis-
advantages. Meantime, there’s old Bill
Moody. Bill plays golf with four rusty-
headed old wooden-shafted clubs and is
'on 10-8. Then there’s old Monty
Summers. Monty shoots ’roos, foxes,
dingoes with an ancient piece made by
somebody in Belgium before 1914. But
then Bill can play golf and Monty can
shoot. That’s the verdict.
* * * ■ *
“De, Coudie”: Here are the facts con-
cerning the extinction of the Kangaroo
Island emu (B. 9/1 / ’46). Long ago, as
crude stone tools scattered from one end
to the other prove, this island was
inhabited by a primitive race akin to the
extinct Tasmanians. people died
out between 2000 and 3000 years ago,
and the island probably remained un-
trodden by human foot until Matthew
Flinders landed. He found the kangaroos
and wallabies so tame that they could be
knocked over with sticks : the species of
emu peculiar to the island, much smaller
than that found on the mainland, was
fairly numerous. The most remarkable
feature, however, was the extraordinary
tangle of dead and green scrub which
clothed much of the island ; in places the
dead litter was feet deep, proving that the
place hadn’t had a fire for centuries.
Next time the island was paid an official
visit it was found to be changed beyond
recognition ; a terrible bushfire, started
either by natural means or by careless
sealers, had swept it from end to end.
It is presumed that the kangaroos,
although unfamiliar with fire, had enough
sense to get into the sea or into water-
holes to escape the blaze, but that the
emus, just as brainless as the rest of their
kind, all perished in the flames.
“Bogaduck” :„“Yairs,” agreed old Mac,
“these Rutherglen flies are a rotten pest,
but there’s ways of fixing most things,
Watch me clean ’em up.” We went
down to his tomato patch ; the morning
was still cool, and every plant was smoth-
ered in flies. Mac went to windward of
the garden and lit some smudge fires; as
the smoke went across the garden the tiny
flies rose in a grey cloud from the plants,
“Now you’ll see my little cobbers arrive,”
the old fellow said confidently. Within
a minute a string of swallows appeared,
coming up wind and evidently drawn by
the smell of the smoke. To and fro over
the garden they darted, filling themselves
with the flies. When we, left half an
hour later the smoke had completely
cleared the plants of the pests, and some
half a mile away about a thousand swal-
lows still swooped and darted over the
moving clouds of flies. The worst dam-
age this fly usually does is to pack tightly
into the flowers of gumtrees, sucking up
the honey as fast as it is secreted and
exuding a repulsive odor which repels
bees. I’ve had my apiary starving during
a Rutherglen-fly plague, although the
trees were white with blossom.
* * * *
“Lub”: Jud, turning over a plot of
black soil in the garden, stopped digging
to lean on the shovel and fish out a
packet of seeds from his pocket. “They’re
the cabbiges,” he told me. “Big sorts.
In this ground an’ plenty of water they’ll
grow like daisies. Gripes, by the time
they’re ready t’ heart a cove won’t get
one in a wheelbarrow. An’ when the
hearts are big an’ firm it’ll be a job t’
lift one ; enough in it t’ last us a fort-
night.” He turned over a couple more
sods and paused to consider. “Y’ know,
I can’t git over the size of them cabbiges,”
he said.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: We had left York (W.A.)
on a ’rooing expedition. “Better take
plenty of water,” an old-timer advised
us. “There’s none between here and
Northam the way you’re going.” The
next day we investigated an old felled
tree that one of the dogs was reluctant
to leave. It lay across the mouth of a
well, at the bottom of whose 60-odd feet
was a few feet of clear, pure water.
Driven for the most part through solid
rock, that shaft spelled “work.” But
what was its purpose? Miles from the
nearest habitation, in virgin country, the
sole evidence of man’s intrusion, un-
known even to the old-timers of the dis-
trict, what could it have been made for?
And why abandoned so carefully, even
to the fallen tree? The answers have
passed with the sturdy toiler to whom
work apparently was life.
* • * * *
“D.R.H.”: This is an obituary notice
on Jo-Jo, a female Flinders Range (S.A.)
euro recently deceased in consequence of
a chill. She came to us two or three
months ago straight from her mother’s
pouch. She was big enough to hop about
the house and to chitter at us when
hungry or annoyed. Being accustomed
to a personal nursery where the tem-
perature was always kept automatically
level and sustenance laid on, she was a
nuisance at first, but soon grew big and
strong enough to be promoted to a
vacant fowl-pen. She was pretty ; a sharp
little steel-grey face with shining black
eyes and nose and big wandering ears.
She had a steel-grey coat with overtones
of rust and jet black forepaws. But her
chief claim on our interest was that, by
all the rules, she shoulo have been extinct
a million or so years ago. She was so
embryonic that ma had even to inject
her milk supply into her mouth. Around
the house she suffered by contrast with
the kitten, ©ne of Nature’s 12-cylinder,
fluid-drive models. Every day the kitten
learned something new, and after
day and week after week Jo-Jo’s be-
havior scarcely varied. Her reactions
were instinctive, not intelligent F she did
not seem capable of learning. Her tore-
paws were used admirably as hands when
feeding and in defence, but she could not
adapt their use to her environment,
* * * * * .
“Mat’s Mate”: We were transhipping
bagged barley at Hamley Bridge (s.A.)
and had the truck about half-empty when
an old-man rat shot from among the
bags across the floor. Mat made a
mighty kick at it, lost his balance and
sat down so hard upon the steel floor
that he had to lie down for a while. The
boss discovered him there and, being in
a bad way over something, snorted,
“Look, I don’t pay my men to run round
playin’’ football with rats.” Mat glared
at him and said, “You ever hear of in-
stinct?” The boss looked puzzled. “Any
man,” said Mat, “makes a swipe at a rat
or a snake or anythin’ like that when he
sees it. It’s just instinct, see.” The boss
wasn’t pleased and began to talk about
fellows who seized on any excuse for a
bit of a loaf and so forth. Mat inter-
rupted him. “There’s another thing
“Hey, Joe , bring us a Waddy !”
about instinct,” he said, getting to his feet
with some difficulty. “Whenever any
bloke calls me a poler I get an instinct t
dong him one,” Everything stopped for
three seconds, then the boss said he didn t
mean it and maybe Mat better take the
rest of the day off.
# * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Washed, brushed and still
being combed at regular intervals, the
pedigreed plutocrats were being entered
in a local dog show, when a schoolboy,
leading a nondescript mong by a piece
of rope through the collar, joined the
queue and worked his way to the table.
Registering 100 per cent, in my estimation,
the official let him down lightly. “You
see,” she explained, “we haven’t a class
for his breed, but bring him again when
we have a charity show and well enter
him in the pets section.” The tears were
close as the lad repocketed his 2s. 6d,
entrance fee, but he stayed to watch the
judging, his hand continually and sub-
consciously caressing his canine cobber's
head. There was something pathetic
about the picture they made, and at the
end of the proceedings I spoke to the kid.
“Like the show, son?” The boy looked
straight in my eyes and asked the ques-
tion direct: “Mister, do you reckon them
mongs are better’n my dog?” I looked
at the faithful old mong with his shaggy
coat and beautiful soft brown eyes, and
answered truthfully: “Son, I wouldn t
swap your dog for the whole bang lot of
those pampered plate-lickers.”
* * *
“Horseless Horseman”: ' An odd
aspect of New Guinea plantation life is
the contempt every old hand has for
everyone else’s personal “boy.” A
planter’s own native servant is always, of
course, the finest boong that ever “kai-
kaied” a coconut, but to any other
planter he’s the type that planter wouldn’t
employ in any circumstances. I gave a
planter’s houseboy a passage up the coast
to an Angau station. He was an excellent
fellow with a fine sense of humor who
had once saved his master’s life. As
soon as the Angau officer came on board
and spotted him, it was like red-rag to
a bull. When I explained he had come
up on “Limlimboo” (holidays) and was
returning home “along road” the next
day, the officer said he (the boy) would
start home that day or would be run in.
Admittedly personal boys are one-man
coons, and are apt to be a little offhand
with other whites, but even so, why all
this hatred? If a bushman has a good
one-man sheepdog we praise the dog and
leave it alone.
* * * *
“Naturala”: My workshop window is
inhabited by a spider which I call a
“ghost,” so delicate in structure, so color-
less, that it scarcely seems fitted to sur-
vive. Body and head no bigger than a
grain of wheat, supported on hair-line
legs, each quite 2in. long. If weaves a
web, like itself a poor fragile thing.
Recently a small huntsman spider, not
above |in. long, also took up residence
in one window corner. Days passed witn-
out either dining. Then a small wasp,
blundering towards the light, became en-
tangled in a thread of the web. Instantly
the huntsman darted forward, But me
“ghost” was also on the watch. Straddling
forward, it disputed the huntsman s claim,
The fight was on, in the contusion o
which the wasp broke loose and escaped,
Then I saw why Nature had given the
ghost such long legs Towering high, its
small body was out of reach of the hunts-
man’s jaws. The combat was something
like that ancient Roman gladiatorial fight
of the trident and net versus the sworn
and shield. For, while the huntsman bit
savagely at the tips of the ghost’s front
legs, that creature’s two rear legs were
working like treadles weaving, with a
thread invisible to human eyes, a net
which it cast loop by loop over its oppo-
nent. Within a minute the powerful hunts-
man was in bondage ; within two minutes
it was entirely encased in a bag. Then
the conqueror started to dine. Five
minutes later his body had swollen to
the size of a pea.
* * * *
“Zake”: Knew a fellow who had a
couple of pet magpies—a cock and a hen.
They looked alike to me, and I asked him
how he could distinguish them. “Oh,” he
said, “I can tell Billy easily—he’s got a
different hop from Mag and he stretches
out his left wing in a different way. But
there’s another way to tell the sexes, too.
I’ll show you.” He grabbed hold of
Billy and held the bird with its beak to-
wards him. “Watch his tail go down
when I give him a gentle squeeze.” Sure
enough, the tail dropped. When the hen
bird was similarly held and squeezed the
tail immediately went up. He assured me
this was an infallible test with all the
magpie tribe.
$ * * ♦
“X.E.D.”: “They tork about ants bein’
busy, industerous creachers,” said Andy.
“But I don’t reckon they are. I’ve been
sittin’ here watchin’ a bullant on that
peppermint; took him harf an hour zig-
zaggin’ an’ fiddlin’ about t’ git up t’ the
fork. Then he turned round an’ came
down empty-handed in about twenty
minits. Now the likes of us, ’specially
me splittin’ posts by the day f’r Snoggsie,
couldn’t afford wastin’ time like that
with nothin’ t’ show f’r it, could we?
And, spotting Snoggsie coming up the
road, Andy made a grab for the axe, mut-
tered something about “showin’ them ants
a thing or two,” and started on the
branches of the tree he’d fallen.
* * H= *
“Esk D.”: “One year at Widgeegong
station the boss put on a bloke we
reckoned must’ve stepped straight from
a Wild West pitcher,” said Jimmy the
Liar. “He was t’ give a hand with the
musterin’. He calls us ‘podners’ an ses
he’s ‘plumb tickled’ t’ be with us, an
when the boss gives instructions t slap
a brand on any cleanskins we pick up
Buddy ses t’ give him the brand an he it
‘shore be pleased t’ drop a signature on
them thar mavericks.’ Well, Buddy was
enthusiastic an’ c’d do a fancy job wit
the lasso he carried on his cowboy
saddle ; he’d gallop Tull pelt after a beast,
snake the rope out an’ bring the quarry
t’ the ground in a flash. He was so pretty
f watch that we didn’t growl about hght-
in’ a fire t’ heat the brand ev’ry time he
brought an animal down—in fact, we
might’ve sooled him on a bit. After that
musterin’ I reckon there wasn’t a flamin
kangaroo in the districk not wearin’ th&
station brand on its hip.”
THE IDLERS.
One knotted hand, lies careless on the mane,
Whilst from his pipe long curling spirals rise;
And, hooked around his thumb, the leather
rein;
One leg across the saddle, easy-wise.
Sometimes his drowsing horse will gently sigh,
And softly jerk his bright bit-rings together,
And shake his head at some soft-droning fly,
Or prick his ears at lazy creak of leather.
Before him spread the drowsy, feeding sheep;
Their moving patterns gently ebb and flow
Like swaying dreams in rolling seas of sleep,
Where dream-fraught winds forever sighing
blow.
And he sits happy, careless, idly there
—No rigid purpose; thoughtless, fancy free —
And Mows blue smoke-rings through the golden
air:
Nor dreams he dwells in earthly Arcady.
N.S.W.
R. P.


EGELABRA MERINOS
FOUR TIMES WINNERS OF THE STONEHAVEN CUP.
WINNERS OF Ist AND 2nd PRIZES ON TWO OCCASIONS.
ALSO WINNERS OF GRAND CHAMPION RAM AND EWE,
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE.
Orders are now being booked for Rams dropped November,
1944, which will be classed before the end of February.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 15 GNS. PER HEAD.
H. E. KATER & SON. EGELABRA. WARREN. N.5.W.
Telephone: AVarren 10.
JUtyht
&f£ead&Mp
fd
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, , general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY .... PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
C
_ _ .. BONE FLOUR
To Remedy ,
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum or
32,5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
■ — - All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75811 Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Culling and Classing.
“Gil S.”: Culling for clip improvement
is such an obvious necessity, and has so
long been a reguar procedure in station
flocks, that it is incredible that so many
smaller growers should go on from year
to year without culling, content to breed
from ewes bought in odd saleyard mobs.
Good ewes are sometimes bought, of
course, but it is evident that sheep bought
off shears may exhibit many variations in
the wool later on. Farmers often say
they can class wool better on the back
than on the rolling table. By culling before
shearing and clearing uneven and undesir-
able sheep in the wool, the classing of
the clip is greatly simplified. If they have
to be sold off shears, it can still be sim-
plified if the culls can be shorn to-
gether. A well-culled flock shows up on
the floor, and tells its tale in the wool
return per head. Instead of one or two
bales in the top lines and a long “tail” of
the poor sorts, the culled flock produces
a clip running principally to top lines.
Culling should be just as much a part
of the year’s operations ‘as shearing. It
costs as much to run poor sheep as good
ones, and it apparently costs as much to
shear a sheep returning 7s. 6d. for wool
as one returning 155., but actually it costs
double on a percentage basis against
net return. It is better to be lightly
stocked with good sheep rather than
fully stocked with a mixed lot including
runts ; the net return from the smaller
number will probably be higher and
worries are certainly fewer.
Feeding for Milk.
“E. 2”: In a nine months’ lactation
period the peak is generally reached in
the second month and may continue for
three or four months before production
starts to fall off seriously. If green crops
are grown to provide at least an hour’s
grazing a day, the drop won’t be so
marked. Lucerne, millet and maize are
reliable summer green crops ; paspalum
keeps the cows milking well through a
dry season.
Improved pastures, though costing a
bit to establish, are of paramount im-
portance, for it’s the clovers in mixture
with ryegrass and cocksfoot that give the
herd a chance to break records. But too-
heavy topdressing with super, will run
a pasture out in several seasons, and a
spell under cereal crops is best treatment;
two or three crops should put the ground
right for resowing with pasture grasses.
Keep paspalum out of the best pastures.
With rotational cropping and rotational
grazing, it shouldn’t be difficult to main-
tain soil fertility and a good system of
cropping.
Supplementary bail-feeding is good
practice, the ration being oaten chaff or
meadow hay, though the former is gener-
ally preferred, with bran added and
steamed. The bail ration has decided
value in maintaining the cows in strong
condition, and may be fed throughout the
season with advantage, even when pad-
dock-feeding is at its best. Feeding in
“Ma, she s laying again!”
the paddocks should be the practice from
drying-off up till calving.
Having the cows in strong condition
for calving is too often neglected, yet it’s
a big factor in getting the best from them
in the early part of the season. Some
dairymen will persist in squeezing the
last drop from their cows by keeping
them milking till the death knock, but
it’s false economy. A longer off-season
period with generous feeding to maintain
good condition would show better re-
turns.
Four New Wheats.
“8.C.”: N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture is recommencing four new rust-
resisters for the State’s north-west wheat
country this year —Gabo and Kendee,
bred by Waterhouse and Watson of
Sydney Uni,, and Yalta and Celebration,
bred by Macindoe and departmental
breeders, both lots of scientists having
the assistance of north-west wheatgrowers
and the Tamworth Plant Breeders Associ-
tion.
Gabo and Kendee are believed to be
good for the plains, but not the table-
lands ; Yalta and Celebration are recom-
mended for both. Gabo (Bobin selection
x Gaza x Bobin selection) is for late
sowing—after early June —and is highly
resistant to stem and leaf rust, but some-
what susceptible to flag smut. Straw is
short and strong, the ear white and of
medium length, yield good, flour quality
medium strong and it threshes readily
without a tendency to shattering. N.S.W.
“Agricultural Gazette” tips a big future
for it.
Kendee (Dundee x Kenya—U.A. No.
745) is for sowing after mid-May, resistant
to stem rust and flag smut, may take
leaf rust, has a mid-length strong straw
and for the rest is much the same as
Gabo, except that it is a little later and
the grain finish is somewhat better.
Yalta (Kenya x Pusa 4 x Dundee), to
be sown after May 1 on tablelands and
plains (late sowing on tableland), is fairly
resistant though not immune to rusts and
smut, fairly good in the straw, with a
creamy ear, small grain which threshes
well and doesn’t shatter, gives high bushel
weight and a strong flour getting near to
the Pusas in gluten quality. It is recom-
mended to replace the disappointing
Eurekas. Celebration (Double Cross x
Dundee x Dundee) is for early sowing on
slopes and tablelands. It has a tall, fairly
strong straw, something like Ford, with a
long, light-brown ear. It threshes easily,
but hasn’t yet proved its non-shattering
ability. The flour is medium-strong, a
bit better in gluten quality than Ford, and
the wheat may replace Ford in the worst
rust zones.
The Department, however, warns
growers not to forget that Ford has proved
itself to be “an all-round useful variety
over a wide area of the State uhder vary-
ing conditions.”
Hill Farming.
“Pat O’Day”; The poorer country of
the N.S.W. southern tablelands and sou’-
west slopes, showing lime and phosphate
deficiency, is receiving more attention
now, and with phosphates and white
clover farmers there find that, by com-
bining good pasture management and
preliminary soil preparation, they can
make their poor-class country produce a
greater bulk of feed throughout the year.
White clover has not the smothering effect
of sub. clover on other pasture plants.
As a result of trials this general scheme
of manuring has been evolved: After
the seed has been sown on ploughed
areas, a manure distributor is fixed in
front of the covering harrow and both
drawn together. By this means a dress-
ing of 6cwt. per acre of 36 p.c. total
phosphates is applied (if preferred) at
time of sowing. The poorer the hill land
the higher the seed rate. Perennial rye
grass may be added to the clover.
Growl from the North.
“J.R.L.”: I’m just a poor old Queens-
lander on the land, but it puzzles me the
way Governments throw money about in
some ways and won’t do a thing about
important matters. It’s safe to say, for
instance, that dingoes do £250,000 worth
of damage °a year. A national eradica-
tion campaign to cost £lOO,OOO would
wipe ’em out in a few years if con-
ducted by the right men. Yet all that
is done is the payment of a few scalp
bonuses in various parts. On an entirely
fresh tack, I want to know why pheno-
thiazine, which is the best sheep worm
drug we have, costs 6s. per pound here
as against Bd. per pound in the U.S.A.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: Raising calves is no sinecure
under rough and ready conditions; the
poddy is prone to a number of infections
that strike a high mortality under faulty
sanitation and inadequate shelter. Feed-
ing pens should have concrete floors,
which may be washed down regularly.
A dry camp is a big help, and a shed
should be provided if possible. A bare
concrete floor is too cold, but as it is
difficult to keep any other sort of floor
clean it’s best to use the concrete with
straw bedding. Isolate the affected poddy
at first signs of infection and keep the
feeding utensils separate ; being delicate
critters, their ailments spread quickly, and
the whole mob may pack up.
“Bill C.”: When a new queen is intro-
duced into a beehive she may be sur-
rounded and smothered by hostile bees
unless smoke is blown into the hive
beforehand. By the time the inmates get
over the effects of the smoke the new
queen will have the same odor as they
and will be tolerated.
“K.Mc.”; There is no need for
“Bennie” (B. 30/1/’46) to go to all that
trouble mixing up a dressing for an oil-
skin coat while motor-tyre paint is cheap.
It is a good waterproofing mixture and
brushes on smoothly.
“F.L.”: Quality of vegetable seed has
a very important bearing on the size and
trueness to type of the crop. Seed up to
a year old has generally the highest de-
gree of viability, and this shows out in
the vigorous early growth of the seed-
lings. Rigid selection should be the rule
when saving plants for seed, and if thefe
are other varieties or inferior plants of
the same class in range of the fertilising
agents the resultant stock will most likely
be poor. Use of any but the best seed
available is misguided economy.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Differences on the Left.
(Raymond Moley in “Wall-street Journal.”)
The bitterness between Mr. Bevin and
the Soviet suggests that, since Cajn and
Abel, the hatred of brothers is, of all
hatreds, the -keenest. These two are ideo-
logical children of the same fructiferous
Marx. One is a Communist; the other,
a Socialist. But what a difference!
Bolshevist ire can be easily restrained in
the presence of a capitalist. After all, if
there were no capitalists there would be
no revolutionary show. But to the Com-
munist, the Socialist is a marplot, a
stumbling actor whose whining voice and
rubber sword turn the great third act into
low comedy, .The Communist has no-
thing but contempt for what he deems
stupid measures of reform, such as
nationalising a few industries, social up-
lift and co-operative buying and selling.
He regards a Socialist as a creature who
is trying to convoy capitalism to a safe
harbor.
The Socialist returns the hatred with in-
terest. American Socialists and ex-
Socialists fly into a fine frenzy when Stalin
is mentioned. Men like Norman Thomas,
ordinarily mild-mannered, explode in
rage when Russia is mentioned favorably.
A meeting of these disillusioned ex-
sympathisers suggests the warmth of a
revivalist session bn the ways and wiles
of the devil.
In 1920 the new Weimar Republic in
Germany offered the U.S.S.R. a moderate
Socialist, Dr. August Mueller, as Am-
bassador. Lenin indignantly rejected
him, saying he would rather have an old-
fashioned career diplomat—a nobleman,
if possible.
Lloyd George was much more inclined
to admit the Soviets to the League of
Nations than were the British trade-
unions.
General De Gaulle went to Moscow,
hoping to purchase Soviet sympathy by
his ideas of nationalising coalmines and
railroads. Stalin regarded that as soft
and feeble stuff. France has had nothing
but rebuffs from Russia ever since.
The crowning indignity which Molotov
offered the British Labor Party was his
remark that he would rather deal with
Anthony Eden than with Ernest Bevin.
It didn’t help matters when Mr. Bevin
spoke of his own humble origins. The
Soviet is not interested in humble origins,
but in noble destinies.
To a believer in free institutions, the
choice between Communism and Social-
ism is between typhus and grindstone
consumption. The one is rapid death;
the other is grit in the lungs. Their
common interest may be the death of
free enterprise, but fortunately their
methods are vehemently incompatible.
Arab View on Palestine.
(From a “Free World” article by Abdel Rah-
men Azzam Bey, secretary of the Arab Leagued)
In 1918 Palestine had been an Arab
country for something like 13 centuries.
Its population was 90 p.c. Arab. But
in defiance of all these facts, and of Presi-
dent Wilson’s Fourteen Points and of
the principles of the League of Nations
Covenant as well, the wishes and rights
of this indigenous Arab population were
not respected and promises were made,
to the Zionists under pressure of inter-
national power groups whose implemen-
tation has caused very serious detriment
to the rights and interests of the Arab
population and brought almost continual
conflict into the Middle East.
The essence of the whole question is
the clash between the rights and interests
of the indigenous population on the one
hand and the challenge to it of a mixed
and alien immigrant population, seeking
to submerge it, on the other. The oppo-
sition of the Arabs to Zionism does not
spring either from religious or racial,
animosity and has nothing to do with
anti-semitism, but is entirely a political
opposition to a political menace, the
menace of an alien national State being
forcibly established in Palestine and either
reducing the Arabs in it to a minority in
their own land or driving them out.
The Arabs are opposed to any more
immigration because the motives of the
Zionists are political domination and their
aim the establishment of a majority over
the Arabs. The Zionists are trying to
make political capital out of the Jewish
refugee problem which is a human, not
a political, problem, and as such should
be solved on the humanitarian plane by
all the nations collectively. If this is done
and each nation takes its share of Jewish
refugees, the Arab world, which has
always been friendly to the Jews,
would willingly take its share of
refugees in proportion to its num-
bers and capacity, accept them as
individuals and give them a secure home
and full rights. But the Arabs cannot
see why the Jewish problem should be
made a political problem for Palestine
and solved forcibly at the expense of the
Arabs in it.
The Arabs demand self-government in-
stitutions for Palestine in which the whole
population, both Arabs and Jews, shall
take part on a democratic basis. They
Should be set up with the view of leading
the country, in the shortest possible time,
to full independence. In this independent
State Arabs and Jews will have full and
equal rights of citizenship, and there will
be cultural and religious freedom for all
communities, guaranteed if necessary by
the Arab League.
The last thing the Arabs want is to
have a perpetual feud with their Jewish
cousins. The whole problem in Palestine
has been created by the Zionists’ mis-
guided approach, seeking domination as
an alien community and using British
bayonets or American influence to sup-
port them. From the beginning, if the
Jews had come to Palestine not with the
idea of establishing an alien State but
to settle among the Arabs and co-operate
with them, there would have been no
conflict and no problem. Even now if
the Jews in Palestine give up • Zionist
political ambitions and seek amalgama-
tion instead of'domination, they will find
the Arabs ready ‘to accept them and
accord them as assimilated citizens auto-
nomous rights as a community.
Hitler as General.
(Jodi’s opinions of Hitler as a military leader,
given in an article by a N.Y. “Herald Tribune’’
London correspondent.)
A German Army view of the Second
World War and how Germany lost it
has come to light in the shape of reports
from Allied intelligence officers, who in-
terviewed top-ranking German general
officers. They establish that Hitler took
a large part in all general staff planning
and was personally responsible for many
critical decisions on both the western and
eastern fronts.
The most detailed information about
Hitler comes from General Ferdinand
Jodi, Chief of the General Staff,of the
German High Command, who summed
up by saying: “Many of the major deci-
sions, made by the Fiihrer himself, pre-
vented us from losing the war sooner.”
Jodi said Hitler conferred with the
general staff every day for three or four
hours, sometimes twice a day. Hitler
personally decided to spearhead the attack
on France through Sedan, although his
general staff wanted to use the “Schlieffen
Plan” and drive through the Netherlands
and down the Channel coast. Hitler was
also responsible for the decision to occupy
Norway, which Jodi called “one of his
biggest feats of leadership.”
Jodi thought Hitler’s greatest military
achievement was the personal interven-
tion with which he stopped the German
retreat in Russia in November, 1941. A
panic had already started which might
have led to a repetition of the rout of
Napoleon, Jodi said. But Jodi admitted
that some of Hitler’s other decisions in
Russia were “hard to understand, and
cannot be justified from a purely military
point of view.”
Hitler’s mistakes began in the summer
of 1942, Jodi said. He thought the reason
was that Hitler could not stand the hot
Russian climate. Hitler complained of
constant headaches and would sometimes
forget what orders' he had given and then
“bawl out the general staff for having
done what he ordered.” After one such
quarrel, in August, 1942, Hitler had
stenographic notes taken of his confer-
ences with the general staff and kept the
notes to use against his generals.
Another explanation of Hitler’s be-
havior, according to Jodi, was that “in
the early years of the war, he had fre-
quently been right when the general staff
was wrong, and this served to increase
his mistrust of our advice later on.” In
Russia Hitler ordered the attack on the
southern front toward the Caucasian oil
fields when the general staff wanted to
go on and take Moscow and Leningrad.
“Hitler had too little immediate contact
with the troops, and so some of his de-
cisions in the latter period were not based
on military reality,” Jodi said. “What
he most , lacked was the experience of a
long military career, through all the
grades, up to the top. He had no real
experience with mobile warfare and all
the difficulties that are caused in com-
munications. He therefore tended to
overlook the difficulties of executing some
of the operations which he had planned.”
“But looking at the whole picture,”
Jodi added, “I am convinced that he was
a great military leader. Certainly no
historian could say that Hannibal was a
poor general just because in the end
Carthage was destroyed.”
Passing History: The Terror.
(A London “Nineteenth Century and After
account of the sacking of Danzig was given in
these pages, 19/12/’45. From the same source
is here condensed some further account of the
terror in post-war Eastern Europe, compiled
by the editor, F. A. Voigt, from 17 statements
by eye-witnesses of what happened in Danzig
after the Russians took the city, first-hand and
detailed reports by two British officers, one of
them' a Fellow of the Royal College of Sur-
geons (Edina detailed report by a British
officer who made a tour of inquiry in the
Sudetehland during the month of September,
and numerous reports by clergy, doctors and
others who witnessed the flight of men, women
and children from the territories assigned to
Poland and from the Sudetenland.)
Perhaps the greatest—and certainly the most
difficult—task of the peacemakers last time was
to establish new frontiers between Germany
and her eastern neighbors in reasonable con-
formity with natural justice, with the rule of
law, with pledges given, and with general
and particular interests. Populations of different
nationality were so intermingled that ideal fron-
tiers were impossible frontiers. Many Germans
had to come under Polish rule, and many Poles
under German. It could not be helped, for in
those days the forcible eviction of millions ol
men, women and children from their homelands
was not to be thought of.
If we compare the Declaration signed at
Potsdam by the representatives of Great Britain,
the United States and Russia on August 2,
1945, with the Treaty of Versailles, we shall at
once see how steep has been the descent' from
principles which were the flower of the liberal
European spirit. And if we examine the
realities which Were partly sanctioned at Pots-
dam and are partly the consequence of what was
agreed upon at Potsdam, we shall see human
tragedy of such a kind that a British officer,
who has seen it for himself, has described
Eastern Germany, including the city of Danzig,
as a gigantic Belsen. [For what happened in
Danzig see B. 19/12/’45.]
The elite of the Polish nation has, for the
most part, disappeared—many have been ex-
terminated, many were deported to Asiatic
Russia, and many have gone “underground.’
Poland, under a Government that is detested
by all as the instrument of an alien domination
more grievous than any she has ever known,
with her elite broken or obliterated, and with
all her hopes disappointed, is demoralised. The
Germans would, in any case, have to suffer f<pr
the unspeakable wrongs they perpetrated in
Poland, but today wild vengeance goes hand in
hand with wild depredations that complete the
ruin of an agriculture and an industry, destined
for Poland, but half ruined by the Russians,
if not more than half.
The depredations of the Russians cannot be
computed. Whole factories have been dis-
mantled and the parts sent to Russia. Agri-
cultural machinery, all kinds of movable objects,
railway engines, trucks, even rails (many miles
of track are stripped), electrical equipment, fur-
niture, medicines, drugs, cattle, crops, and so on,
pass into Russia in apparently unending proces-
sion—and with immense loss, for much is dis-
mantled with little skill and much rusts in
roads and sidings. Skilled workmen and tech-
nicians have been kidnapped and deported to
Russia —a loss more grievous, perhaps, than the
loss of plant and machinery.
The scenes of outrage perpetrated in Danzig
have become a familiar feature. Berlin suffered
fearfully in the early period of the Russian
occupation. For days the city was given over
to the soldiery. But such things are not con-
fined to Germany. There have been similar
scenes in Vienna, in Prague, Bratislava and
Budapest. The incidence of venereal disease is
fearful —far beyond anything that could have
been imagined.
Nevertheless, although bands of Russian troops
roam the country still, and ’have frequent
clashes with the Poles, the Russians have estab-
lished some sort of authority and there is a
marked tendency on the part of the Germans to
turn towards them for protection against Poles
and, further south, against Czechs. Hated as
the Russians are, they are preferred to Poles and
Czechs, although the Germans are aware that
the responsibility for whaf is being done today
lies with Russia, and that what Poles and
Czechs are doing, they do as the underlings of
the Kremlin. There are exceptions, but they
are rare. One eye-witness relates that some
German trekkers were well protected by Polish
soldiers and that one elderly Polish officer
warned his younger fellow-countrymen of the
retribution that would surely come if they went
on robbing the Germans.
To the Russians Europe appears like a sort
of paradise. The poorest townships seem
wealthy by comparison with their own, and the
humblest farmsteads seem miraculous. A large
town, if not excessively damaged, such as even
poverty-stricken Eastern and South-Eastern
Europe can provide, is splendor far beyond
anything the ordinary Russian of today has
ever dreamed of.
The Ukrainian troops seem to be the most
civilised in the Russian Army. With them it is
at least possible to converse, though they all
seem to say much the same thing (insofar as
they are private soldiers): that war is bad for
the people and only good for the burzhuis .
And by burzhuis they mean, in particular,
their own officers, for in no army is there such
an abyss separating the officer corps from the
rank and file. . .
The mortality is terrible, even in those regions
where the inhabitants are allowed to remain,
that is to say, in provinces under Russian
occupation west of the Oder and not assigned
to Poland. In Mecklenburg and Brandenburg
most of the small children are
competent observers hold that no German
children born in 1945 east of the River Elbe
can possibly survive, and that of all children
now under three years old only about one-halt
will survive. Many towns, which had not
nearly enough food for the normal population,
have to provide for a population twice or
three times as large. Dead children are thrown
out of trains. In Magdeburg, Prenzlau and
Oranienburg there is so much typhoid that the
towns have been closed to newcomers. In
Mecklenburg typhoid is so widespread that iso-
lation has become impossible. Hospitals and
stores have been depleted of medicines, drugs
and serums by the Russians.
Millions of Germans, Danzigers and Sudeten-
landers have been on the move. Groups of
1000 to 5000 will take the road, trek hundreds
of miles, and lose half their numbers by death
through disease or exhaustion. The roadsides
are dotted with graves. Children have arrived
in Berlin looking like the emaciated creatures
shown in the pictures of Belsen.
One train which arrived in Berlin started
from Danzig with 325 patients and orphans
from the Marien Hospital and the Orphanage
in the Weidlergasse. They were packed into
five cattle trucks, with nothing to cover the
floors, not even straw. There were no doctors,
nurses or medical supplies. The only food pro-
vided when the journey began was 20 potatoes
and two slices of bread for each orphan. The
patients had nothing, but the train stopped
from time to time so that those of the pas-
sengers who were fit enough could forage. Some
of the villages through which they passed were
completely deserted —the crops had not been
gathered and the cherries had dried on the
trees Between six and ten of the patients in
each' truck died during the journey. The
bodies were simply thrown out of the tram.
Czechoslovakia is a disintegrating vassal
State. Of the three constituent administrative
regions, one, Carpathian Ruthenia, has been
incorporated in the Soviet Union. Another,
Slovakia, is independent of Prague, though not
of Moscow. The conflict between Czechs and
Slovaks appears to be irreconcilable. It would
seem that the Czechoslovak State is, today, a
fiction and that it will never again be a, reality,
for if Russian overlordship were removed, the
Czechs could only reassert their authority over
the Slovaks by force of arms —and in this they
would surely fail, for they have not one friend
in Central Europe, whereas the Slovaks have
many. Even in Bohemia and Moravia the
central Government has little authority. It is
but the docile instrument of Russian domina-
tion, with little will of its own. Dr. Benes is
the victim of the policy he himself so long pro-
moted. At the same time the Czechs, who were
amongst the most submissive of all the nations
under German rule, have developed an un-
bridled nationalism. They have accepted a
racial doctrine akin to Hitler’s (with the Slavs,
instead of the Germans, as the “master race’)
and methods that are hardly distinguishable
from those of Fascism. They have, in fact,
become Slav National Socialists.
Their towns have endured ruinous depreda-
tion and their women outrage at the hands
of the Russians. Themselves oppressed, they
have become oppressors, both of their own
people who do not conform to official doctune
and of the Austrians in the Sudetenland. Then-
terroristic N.S.B. (National Security Guards)
resemble the former German S.S. . And it is
these that chiefly carry out the evictions.
One transport of Sudetenlanders — men,
women and children —arrived in Berlin from
Troppau after travelling in open cattle trucks
for 18 days. They numbered 2400 when they
set out and 1350 when they arrived, so that
1050 perished on the way.
One reliable observer reported: “I saw
children and babies lying dead by the road-
side, their arms and legs often not thicker than
a man’s thumb. The deportees try to pick out
of the refuse of the Russian field-kitchens,
often already in a state of decay, something
that will satisfy their maddening hunger.”
One trainload of deportees took six days to
reach Freibhrg in Saxony. No food was pro-
vided. Only after insistent pleading were the
Czech soldiers, who were guards on the tram,
persuaded to allow the deportees some water.
The heat was intense. The children cried
with hunger day and night. Many people died
during the journey. Their bodies were thrown
out of the trucks. , , ,
A stream of refugees from the Sudetenland
joined a stream that had moved from Silesia.
The streams, composed of tens of thousands,
flowed on from Dresden to Cottbus and then
towards Mecklenburg. Countless men, women
and children dropped by the roadside, stricken
by dysentery, exhaustion and hunger. At
Striegau it was impossible to deal with the
influx of refugees, all the more so as me
greater part' of the town had been destroyed.
According to one eye-witness, there is, in this
district, “no fruit and no vegetables. The gardens
have been plundered, the fields are empty.
The district has been closed because of the
epidemics: “The peasants cannot prepare tor
next year’s harvest, for they have no imple-
ments, no cattle. We are a dead country. 1
cannot any more endure the sight or babies in
their mothers’ arms that all look like death s-
heads peeping around.” „t.
Many Sudetenlanders have died in the czecn
concentration camps. Both those who are in-
terned and those who are still free wish to
leave, so terrible are the oppressiveness ot me
atmosphere, the menaces and the terrorism, me
destitution, and the whole hopelessness ol the
outlook. , ,
One of the chief strongholds of the Sudeten
Labor movement was Bodenbach. When it
was occupied by the Russians, there was a
reign of terror, of looting, and of outrage to
women. The Czechs suffered as well as the
so-called Germans. Special measures were then
taken against the Germans, but many of these
were certified as “anti-Fascxsts” and were
spared. When the new Czech authorities took
over these certificates were cancelled and uer-
mans” were expelled or sent to concentration
camps regardless of their past allegiance, iney
swere robbed and otherwise maltreated—even
women and old men were whipped by Gzecns
on the slightest provocation. The rs.S.o.,
mostly young men who, even in appearance,
resembled the S.S., used whips and rifle-butts
indiscriminately. They continued the looting
begun by the Russians; some people were
killed for concealing valuables. The deportees
were allowed to take a small amount of luggage,
but this was usually stolen en route by Czech
soldiers who “controlled” the roads. There
are four concentration camps in the neighbor-
hood and the screaming of maltreated people
can be heard by those who reside near by.
There was an explosion in the cable-works
near Usti (Aussig, on the Elbe). The explos-
ion was attributed to “Werewolves,” but with-
out the slightest evidence. Terrible excesses
against the “Germans” began even before me
explosion. A massacre followed. Women an
children were thrown from the bridge into me
river. “Germans” were shot down in the streets.


STRONGER • LIGHTER • LONGER-LASTING
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and irbterials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globitel
Made bq FORD SHERINGTON LTD,
13
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
k
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
/
A
m
H RANCH KS ; I N At L• S TATES ;; ; , cr
. 'I J*& >
B
■*sm.
IN THE WAKE OF MAGELLAN
427 years ago Ferdinand Magellan,' Portuguese adven-
turer and explorer, commanded the first fleet to sail out
of the storm-swept South Atlantic into the blue waters
of the Pacific. Magellan pioneered a new route to the
East . . . discovered many islands and proved that the
globe could be circumnavigated by sea. Due to the
pioneering spirt of this great explorer, access was gained
to the riches of the Pacific, the bounteous products of
the islands found their way to European markets and
Western goods flowed into the market places of
Oceania. * * * But the growth of European-Pacific
trade was tardy because the route was long and shipping
services slow. * * * Australian National Airways, in-
spired with the spirit displayed by past pioneers, has
built up a fleet of famous aircraft which could provide
speedy inter-island services to divert trade and pros-
perity to our shores. * * * The new .A.N.A. luxury
skyliners and giant freight planes
can assure for Australia trade
dominance in this vast domain.
Wing Your Way With
AAI6.K
It is estimated that 2000 or 3000 persons were
killed.
Decent Czechs are helpless. The country is
governed not by a normal administration but
by “National Committees.” These are domi-
nated by the Communists, with an admixture
of adventurers and criminals. The so-called
“revolution” is completely bogus. It has been
imposed “from above.” It would be brought
to an end immediately—and the whole admini-
stration with it — if it were not supported by
the Russians.
Czechs swarm over the Sudetenland stealing
what they can. There is much to steal, for
whole districts have been abandoned by the
Sudetenlanders —houses and cottages stand
empty, and fields unharvested.
And the depredations of the Russians con-
tinue to inflict direst poverty upon the pro-
vinces they occupy, provinces inhabited by more
than 20 million people, by the removal of
machinery, transport, fittings, rails, cattle,
crops, fuel and stores. No one can foretell
how many will perish during this winter. One
sober-minded observer, who has seen much of
the tragedy we have tried to describe, has given
us his own considered estimate of the mortality
to come. But we have not the courage to re-
peat it.
Dragnet Digest.
('Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The agreement signed at Potsdam refers to
the “former Free City of Danzig.” This is
the first official intimation (hat the status, con-
ferred upon Danzig after the First World War,
has been annulled. If we ask how the repre-
sentatives of the three Great Powers could pre-
sume the obliteration of what was a European
State, recognised as such by all the States of
the world, and enjoying rights that were guaran-
teed by the League of Nations, we are at a
loss for an answer. When and by what pro-
cess did this State, which never declared war
on the Allies, which was never a belligerent,
cease to exist? By what right - were its sub-
jects deprived of their former status and by
what fight has their new status, whatever it
may be, been inflicted upon them (presumably
they are to become subjects of the new Ger-
man State which has not as yet come into
existence)? — London “Nineteenth Century and
After.”
* * * *
No Russian officer dared tell his men they
were driving American tanks or shooting with
American guns. All marks, designs and hames
showing American construction were meticu-
lously removed. A Russian colonel told an
American friend of mine: “You are lucky to
have the secret of our jeep.”— Kenneth de
Courcy; “Review of World Affairs.”
* * * *
There are two ways of looking at France
today, which appear wholly contradictory and
both of which are nevertheless justified by the
facts. One is to rejoice at all things that have
been salvaged from destruction and to appre-
ciate the remarkable effort towards national re-
construction which has been performed against
tremendous odds since the liberation of the
country. The other is to bemoan the catas-
trophic destruction not only of material goods
but also of moral values which has left France
a very sick country indeed —sick in body, mind
and soul. — George Soloveytchik; London “Con-
temporary Review.”
* * =H *
The things happening [in Eastern Europe]
are beyond everything that ever happened. I
am thinking of those who take their lives out of
despair. Thousands of corpses are driven into
the sea by Elbe and Oder. Thousands of
corpses are hanging in the woods and in the
neighborhood of Berlin, thousands and ten
thousands dying on the country roads by
hunger and exhaustion. — From a letter written
by a Protestant pastor, quoted by the Bishop of
Chichester in his preface to “The Human Needs
of Europe,” by the Rev. Henry Carter.
* * * *
Nearly £5,000,000 worth of food is included
in the provisional allocation of Britain’s first
contribution of £80,000,000 —one per cent, of
the national income—to U.N.R.R.A. Hungry
Europe is receiving £1,060,000 worth of her-
rings and £280,000 worth of dehydrated beef
and mutton. Other supplies are tinned meats
£290,000, compound cooking fat £94,000 and
tea £417,000. A total of £903,000,000 had been
paid or pledged to U.N.R.R.A. by its 47 mem-
ber nations by the end of last year .—-London
“Times.”
* * * *
As the result of research by the Admiralty
Signal Establishment during the war the Min-
istry of War Transport hopes that a radar set
will be devised which will be suitable for gen-
eral installation in ships of the British Mer-
cantile Marine. The first of several trials with
a new method was held in the Thames Estuary
on January 23. Those invited to witness them
include representatives of the Dominions and
India, shipping interests and manufacturers of
radar equipment. The object is to enable the
manufacturers to see what is required, and to
bring the use of radar, based on war-time ex-
perience, to the notice of the shipping com-
panies. One weakness of radar in the past
was that from the point of view of navigation
it was not possible to distinguish between ships
and buoys. For the purposes of the present
experiments buoys have been laid in the Estuary
which are fitted with special radar corner re-
flectors. They are laid in geonlelrical patterns,
light up brightly on the radar screen, and in
this way are easily distinguishable from the pin-
points of light which represent ordinary buoys
and moving ships. In a restricted sea area of
an approach to a large port the benefit to be
derived from radar when used in conjunction
with the reflector buoys was obvious to all who
saw it in operation. American merchant ships
will probably have radar sets installed in them
in the near future, but the American method
of using radio beacons entails the employment
of expert operators. The Admiralty method
now on trial is so simple to use that no outside
aid is necessary. For this reason authorities in
Britain hope that it will be adopted by all
sea-going-nations, in which event it would be
of great advantage to British export - trade. If
that were so it would be only poetic justice, for
radar was a British invention, and we gave our
allies in the war the full benefit of our scientific
research. — London “Times.”
* * * *
When the Covenant of the League of Nations
was drawn up in 1919 a list of the countries
invited to accede to it was annexed. These
included Switzerland. No such list appears as
an annex to the Charter of the new World
Organisation. Instead if is stated in article
three of the Charter that membership is open
to all [other] peace-loving States which “accept
the obligations contained in the Charter and in
the judgment of the organisation are able and
willing to carry out these obligations.” Articles
two, three, 41, 42 and 43 of the Charter show
plainly that its spirit and text are opposed to a
fundamental neutrality such as is, and has
been for 500 years, the corner-stone of Swiss
foreign policy. Members of the World Organi-
sation are bound to give the United Nations
every assistance in any action taken and
to refrain from giving assistance to any State
against which the United Nations are taking
preventive or enforcement action. The action
thus contemplated includes military and eco-
nomic sanctions, the severance of communica-
tions and diplomatic relations, contributions
and contingents to serve with the forces of the
World Organisation, and the right of passage.
All these are contrary to the terms of the Swiss
Neutrality Act and would seem to be a bar to
Swiss participation in the organised mainten-
ance of peace under the Charter. — H. G.
Daniels; London “Contemporary Review.”
* afe * ♦
The British automotive industry is aiming at
a 50 p.c. increase over pre-war production, Sir
William E. Rootes, one of Great Britain’s lead-
ing automobile manufacturers, said in an inter-
view in New York. Sir William, chairman of
Rootes’ Group, one of England’s largest auto-
mobile companies, and chairman of the
Supply Council of the United Kingdom, said
British cars were coming off the assembly lines
at the rate of between 300 and 400 a week
By spring civilian production would be accel-
erated to. about 2000 cars a week, with the
750,000-a-year mark to be reached in 1947. —
N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
* * * *
The Allied Control Council in Berlin took
the crucial step of deciding the future output
of the German steel industry—and thereby, in
one essential item, the future standard of life
in Germany. Probably effective capacity in
Germany at the end of last year was not much
more than 6,000,000 tons, which is roughly the
figure reached by the Control Council. It is not
possible to regard the Berlin decision without
certain doubts, even if the higher output of
7,500,000 tons should be permitted. Two ques-
tions of practical importance arise. The first is
whether the steel output left to the Germans
can suffice, as the Potsdam declaration required,
to maintain living standards “not exceeding
the average of European countries.” (A pro-
portion of steel exports from Germany will be
obligatory.) The second question, upon which
the future recovery and reconstruction in Europe
must largely depend, is whether the steel capa-
city destroyed, dismantled or taken away from
Germany will be balanced by an equivalent in-
crease in output—and exports—elsewhere. In
the worst years of depression German steel
output, with little or no diversion to military
uses, ranged between 7,000,000 and 10,000,000
tons. Now, with a population of more than
65,000,000 crowded into an area smaller by
about a quarter than before the war, the tre-
mendous demands of rebuilding German towns
and works must be met. There is sermus
doubt among many responsible allied officials
whether German recovery may not yet founder
in chaos, presenting-a scarcely soluble problem
of distress, disease and unrest - . The danger
remains that Germany may become in defeat
a grave 'international liability; and the steel de-
cision—though on the face of it a tolerably
reasonable compromise—at least leaves this
danger open.— London “Times.”
* * * *
It has been proved beyond doubt that the
only thing that determines wages over the years
is the value of the product produced by labor.
Wages always constitute a definite percentage
of the total value of any industry’s product,
and that percentage, strangely enough, hasn t
varied by much over the 75 years of recorded
statistics. Take the men’s clothing industry,
for instance. It has long had one of the
strongest labor unions in the U.S. Yet the
percentage which labor has received has not
changed. Since 1899 the workers in this in-
dustry have received between 18 p.c. and 20
p.c. of the total product manufactured.—Eco-
nomic writer Lawrence Fertig; N. Y. World
Telegram."
/ * * * *
Russia wants a certain sort of Germany, an
absolutely broken and harmless Germany, with
a pro-Russian—and therefore presumably Com-
munist —Government. She doesn’t care how
may Germans die or how they die provided
this object can be achieved. Russia is a more
Asiatic Power than ourselves and far more
populous, and, for her, human life does not
have the same intrinsic value. We believe —we
must believe —in saving life and promoting a
certain standard of human living. We want a
harmless but relatively prosperous Germany be-
cause we want a prosperous Europe. There is
a fundamental opposition in the two points of
view.— London “Daily Mail” correspondent in
Germany.
«*i * •
View of British experts on China is that the
civil war is on there, and is not going to stop.
“Chiang and Foreign Minister T. V. Soong
must have American backing,” continues this
British version. “They need it politically
to maintain China’s position as a member of
the Big Four or Five. They need it eco-
nomically to rebuild and industrialise China.’
In the opinion of these British experts, this
explains why Chungking has been “playing
down” the gravity of the civil war. The more
that is known of the real breadth and depth
of the strife inside China, it is said, the weaker
are the prospects of enlisting American capital
and American political and military, backing.
This consideration is also held accountable for
Chungking’s effort to persuade the world that
Chiang’s negotiations with the Chinese Com-
munists have been going well, although accord-
ing to the same British reports from the scene,
“the chance of basic agreement between Chiang
and the Communists is nil.”--London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Sun.”


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
of Tired Kidneys.
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them.
Nature may be warning you that your kidneys need
attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t
work well, poisonous waste matter stays in the
These poisons may start nagging backaches, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEYS PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
YOUR HORSE SENSE should tell you!
£
I
v
B
To spend £lO to secure, say, £8 worth of goods is silly. To pay £8 for the goods and put the
other £2 away is using what is called horse sense.
This just ahout sizes up the problem facing us in Australia today. The figures show that for
every £8 worth of goods available for purchase we have £lO in money to spend (yes, even after
taxes have been paid).
Of course, as peace-time production gathers momentum, more goods will come on the market.
But in the meantime, if we rush out and
buy everything in sight, all that we are
doing in effect is insisting on paying £lO
for £8 value, and then when the extra goods
do come along, we won’t have the money
to pay for them. To put it another way,
unrestrained spending now can only force
prices and the whole cost of living up.
What we need to do to secure our individual
and national prosperity is to do everything
possible to keep prices DOWN.
So let the watchword be “Don’t buy it
unless you must buy it.” And put the
money you save into Savings Stamps, into
freely negotiable Commonwealth Savings
Certificates, or into the Security Loan that
opens on March 12. Your Bank or Stock-
broker will receive advance subscriptions of
£lO or more for the Security Loan now, and
interest begins from the day you lodge your
subscription.
YOU CAN INVEST NOW IN THE
£70,000,000 SECURITY LOAN...
OPENING MARCH 12.
The £70,000,000 Security Loan opens on
March 12. The money raised will be used
exclusively in meeting commitments arising
directly out of the war, particularly the
rehabilitation of Australian service men and
women.
If you have £lO or more saved already you
can make an advance subscription to the
Security Loan at once, and interest will be
paid thereon from the day you make your
investment through any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stockbroker.
Interest is at the rate of 3J% for the new
12-year term, or at 2% for the new three-
year term.
Buy Security Bonds now for cash from your
savings and buy more by instalments out
of income when the Loan is officially open.
Security Bonds are available in denominations
of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Be a Saver, Mot a Spender-Help Keep Prices
Inued by the Commonwealth Loarp and National Savings Organisation
fd
CRAVENA
Obtainable In 10’s & *»’s
a*
m
M
m
4
iketfte (dwMfs h
SHtOdtk*
3787
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE JLjj_g.AA.lj.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy South Sea Vagabonds, by John
Wray.—3699. ,
To buy Valentine Vox and Chidley s Answer.
—3700. . „ .
To buy any issues of “Art in Australia since
March, 1939. —3701.
Information Sought.
Some information about the casting and coni--
position of unbreakable dolls ?
There are three, different compositions. (1)
50 p.c. fine ground argillaceous slate, 20 p.c.
rag-paper waste or sawdust, 30 p.c. burnt
plaster, mixed with water to form a paste, then
cast in moulds (which have been previously
daubed with finely-ground slate, powdered
plaster or fat). A thick crust will form in a
few minutes, and the residue is then poured out
of the mould. The castings may then be im-
mersed in paraffin or stearine, or they can be
japanned (in which case a coat of quick-drying
boiled oil is needed first). (2) Five parts ot
sifted whiting, mixed with a solution ot one
part glue and a little Venice turps, make a
good plastic material which can be kneaded to
the required shape. It must' be kept warm
while working. (3) Another plastic is made
from 17 pans wood dust, 27 parts levigated
calcic carbonate and 56 parts sodium silicate
(spec. grav. 1.3 to 1.4). It hardens rapidly and
has great tensile and transverse strength. It
can be shaped and dyed.
A way of ridding a lawn of yellow wood
sorrel weed ?
With regular fertilising, watering and mowing
the weed gradually disappears. If there is heavy
growth check it before fertilising by spraying
with arsenic pentoxide mixed at the rate of 11b.
to eight gals, water. Apply after the lawn has
been cut and when the foliage is quite dry.
It is a poison, and dangerous to children.
Liming is necessary to counteract acidity, which
frequently develops in lawns. Use 251 b. to 501 b.
per 1000 sq. ft. of lawn every three years. For
couch, buffalo or kikuyu lawns apply fertil-
iser in early spring, and for bent grasses or mix-
tures of so-called English grasses in early
autumn. A mixture of 31b. sulphate of
ammonia, 21b. superphosphate and lib. muriate
of potash is suitable; use six to eight pounds
per 1000 sq. ft.
Brief Answers.
R.V.McC.: About 50 years ago a replica of the
“Times” was reprinted showing a casualty list of
the battle of Waterloo ; yours is one of those and
has no monetary value... .G.A.L.: Contact
Tyrrell’s Bookstore, 281 George-street, Sydney.
....Atherton: The quotation is.from Tenny-
son’s “The Higher Pantheism”... .M.D.: Know
of no authentic cases of a pullet going broody
before it commences laying... .V.L.H.; Your
violin is a French copy. Mr. Sleath, of George-
street, Brisbane, or A. E. Smith, of Hunter-
street, Sydney, can give you further informa-
tion 0.W.E.: Don’t know what you mean
by afforestation tax; but profits from timber-
getting, etc., are taxable under ordinary income
tax. Money received by a contractor would
be taxable after deducting expenses (including
wages for employees) and depreciation of tools.
T.H.C. and R.H.: Write to Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., G.P.O. Box 1516 DD, Syd-
ney... .G.W.G.; The book is out of print;
your only chance would be to obtain one
secondhand.,. .C.A.L.: Total A.M.F. battle
casualties to Dec. 31, 1945, amounted to
33,628, of which 9419 were killed in action,
1884 died of wounds, 20,344 were wounded in
action, 1972 were missing and nine were un-
accounted for prisoners-of-war.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
L.K.: Not at home to “The Caller” J. 8.:
“Thoughts on the Proposed Unification of Rail
Gauges” is more pithy than poetic W.P.:
Not here will those phantoms “dither natheless
by life’s dead fires”... .J.W.E.: Flat and
abstract V.G.L.: When you want to write
about the kookaburra Why bury him in a con-
ventional lament about the passing of time?
C.A.Call again; but with less lowly themes.
... .8.D.8.: Too derivative; too long-drawn-
out . . . .E.S.: According to the Religious Editor
that’s an awfully naughty little poem... .A.R..
Write in your own words of what you ve seen
and known... .T.H.; Two lines, then, of thun-
dering indictment of Australia:
Conditions are that should not be
Condoned by men .of sanity.
D.F.; Only the profanity is legible
J.0.G.: Impassioned piffle V.VvJ.: That
piping won’t carry “The Song of the City.”


fd
fdf
Who Will L After
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 67 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and Complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray,* Sir Claude
Reading,K.C.M.G.j Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Bag.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury ; Sydney Sampson.
,_. f- MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager,
rhone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All State 4. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
' Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reservea.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 127,751 * Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ ~232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 7* „ ~116,250 91,186 1,666,362
1940. . 275,860 8J „ „ 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
1941.. 265,316 8} „ ~ 135,625 95,975 1,747,378
1942.. 226.811 8} „ „ 135,625 71,132 1,767,432
1943.. 234,183 8J „ „ 135,625 64,750 1,801,240
1944.. 161,927 8j „ „ 135,625 52,672 1,774,870
1945.. 39,095 5 „ „ 77,500 34,902 1,701,563
Continued fall in the grade of mill feed
and higher costs were chief factors respon-
sible for the collapse of earnings during
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts. Treatment and assay figures com-
pare as follows:
1939. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Ore treated
(tons) . . 1,085,933 1,535,608 1,490,654 1,480,554
Assay, copper,
P- e - •• 1-34 0.87 0.816 0.666
Blister pro-
duced (tons) 13,392 11,145 10,097 7,750*
Contents—-
copper
(tons) .. 13,298 11,077 10,033 7,697
Silver (oz.) 67,886 43,443 41,635 26,092
Gold (oz.) 7,689 7,413 6,597 5,091
* Excludes 875 tons copper in concentrates waiting
to be smelted.
Last term the manpower position became
more acute, affecting throughput and in-
creasing costs in all departments; also
removal of overburden fell further into
arrears, owing to insufficient excavating
and ore-transport equipment. Portion of
the overburden, carrying a very low per-
centage of copper, had to be included
in the feed to‘preserve mill efficiency,
hence the drop in the average assay value
of ore treated. Extraction from the small
amount of higher-grade ore underground,
used as a sweetener, was also on a re-
duced scale. Over 93 p.c. of the year’s
ore production came from the West Lyell
opencut.
The drop in assay value was mainly
responsible for the reduced copper out-
put, which in turn showed up in a shrink-
age of £213,198 in sales of the metal, etc.:
1943. 1944. 1945.
Income—
Sale copper, etc... £1',222,840 £1,100,075 £886,877
Dividends . . 56,600 62,250 44,321
Total .. .. £1,279,440 £1,162,825 £931,198
Exes.—
Mining .. .. 518,972 502,971 460,918
Refining, smelting 419,804 426,036 376,428
Development, de-
preciation .. 64,750 52,672 34,902
Admin., etc. .. 106,773 71,437 54,778
Total .. .. £1,110,299 £1,053,116 £927,026
Net profit .. 169,141 109,209 4,172
The contraction of £17,929 in djvs. re-
ceived was mainly the outcome of Metal
Manufacturers’ failure to make a distri-
bution on its ord. capital. Unit costs
rose because more ore had to be mined
and treated to produce a ton of copper.
So, despite a cut of £126,090 in total
exes., mining operations resulted in a loss
of £40,149. The net result from all
sources was a profit of £4193 (down
£105,062), thanks to the return from in-
vestments and a small unexplained addi-
tion (£2l) to reserves. No allowance was
made for taxation. A 5 p.c. div, was
paid in Dec., 1944.
After half a century of profitable
existence the co. now finds itself with a
large tonnage of low-grade ore, which
it has been unable to handle to the best
advantage, owing to lack of mechanical
equipment. It has an efficient treatment
plant and a competent technical organ-
isation. The problem is to get costs back
to a level that will allow copper to be
produced at a profit. The board is con-
fident that this can be done by quicken-
ing throughput and slightly improving the
grade of ore treated.
Over 30,000,000 tons of ore, carrying
not quite threequarters of 1 p.c. copper,
is available, and can be handled by open-
cut methods. Since mining accounts for
about three-fifths of the total cost of
producing copper, daily ore extraction is
•to be stepped up from the present figure
of 4200 tons to 5000 tons, and later to
6000 tons. This means further mechanisa-
tion of open-cut operations, and addi-
tions to the coarse crushing and fine
grinding plants. Until the whole scheme
gets into full swing—-this will be gov-
erned by delivery of equipment now on
order —the cost of producing copper will
remain high and unprofitable.
As for the market, local demand is
expected to approximate 30,000 tons p.a.
for the next couple of years; and the
Federal Government has assured the CO.
of £lOO a ton for electrolytic copper until
the end of June, 1947. This price is well
in advance of the Australian equivalent
of current London and New York quotes
for electrolytic. What will happen after
mid-1947 nobody can say at the moment.
Uncertainties include the future policy
of the Federal Government concerning
local production and happenings nifean-
while in U.S.A. in connection with low-
grade producers, stockpiling and imports
of copper. European demand may not
get into full swing for a year or two
owing to inability to finance imports.
Immediate world outlook for copper pro-
ducers is one of overproduction.
Lyell’s plan for quickened output in-
volves “considerable” capital outlay,
which is to be met by increasing the bank
overdraft (£587,827 at Sept. 30 last). This
may be cheap money, but it is a short-
term debt and won’t make payment of
a satisfactory rate of dividend an easy
matter. Here is the co.’s financial posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures show it:
1939. 1944. 1945.
Metals .. £274,026, £365,945 £404,714
Book debts .. 108,126 68,066 100,022
Stocks, etc. . . 284,724 363,380 387,132
Cash, etc. . .
Shares, other cos. 1,527,727 1,797,997 1,822,997
Total . . £2,194,603 £2,595,388 £2,714,865
Liabilities* . . 231,239 475,220 679,369
Liquid surplus .. £1,968,364 £2,120,168 £2,085,496
* Includes authorised, capital expenditure.
Shareholdings consist mainly of unlisted
scrip in fertiliser cos. and in .Metal Manu-
facturers, Ltd. Thus the market for these
shares is limited, and so, therefore, is the
prospect of financing new capital outlay
by sale of the scrip. The mine figures
at £520,551, plant £285,735, hydro-electric
equipment £181,666, railways £212,726,
freehold £15,410.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the f.-p. pound shares at 235. or
thereabouts. Including shareholdings at
book value, which is below face value,
the more or less liquid surplus at end of
Sept, last was equal to 265. 3d. per share.
In 1944 shareholdings returned a shade
over 4 p.c. on capital. At 235. the return
would be approx. 3.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. Beyond that everything depends
upon the co. producing copper at a profit
in the future.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 21,720 6800 12£ p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 $BOO 20 „ ~ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33$ „ „ 16,666 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £ 10,000.. 62,951
Prom contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised, £75,000 .. 12,951
1938.. 81,462 6800 33J p.e.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Cabreras and Subsidiary.
Subsidiary Reserves, etc., £6474 .. 52,411
1989. . 119,707 6800 33J p.c.=66,607 46,240 98,651
1940. . 156,404 6800 52£ „„ 105,000 44,604 148.255
Oct.,
1940 f 54,369 2267 70.5 „ „ 47,000 5,102 148 357
1941. .153,226 6800 71 ~,, 142,000 4,426 152,783
\ 9 * 2 - ' 6800 45 » » 90.000 2,736 155,519
‘ 6800 45 »» 90,000 15,372 170,891
1944. . 153,583 6800 28.4 „„ 142,000 4,783 175,674
1945.. 137,359 6800 25 ~,, 125,000 5,559 181,233
10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined, f Pour months.
Increased cost of imported tobacco leaf
was the main item responsible for the
shrinkage of £16,224 in last term’s net
earnings. Continued shortage of labor
kept output below capacity, with the in-
evitable effect upon costs, of course.
Demand, swollen by requirements of the
services and special groups of workers,
continued to run ahead of production.
Rationing of civilian supplies remains at
75 p.c. of 1940 sales, despite the fact that
demobilisation has substantially decreased
service needs and increased those of the
civilian trade. '
As a war-time measure the Federal
Government imported and paid for
American leaf, and then sold it to local
manufacturers on a cost -plus basis. And
it continues to do so, though in the in-
terests of economy and efficiency the time
is now ripe for the practice to be dis-
continued. Thus all increases in the
landed cost of the leaf, together with the
expense of Government handling, are
passed to the manufacturer. On the
other hand the manufacturer’s selling
prices have regained pegged since April,
1943, on the basis of costs prevailing at
the time. The broad aim of the Govern-
ment in its price-fixing policy was to keep
the cost-of-living index steady, and so
eliminate cause for wage adjustments.
Increases in the cost of imported goods,
due to rises in price in the country of
origin and other causes, were to be met
by payment of a subsidy, or absorbed
in the business concerned.
Carreras, and others in the British
Tobacco group, accordingly applied for
a subsidy in July, 1943. The Government
answered in April, 1944, with special legis-
lation granting a. rebate of p.c. on
excise, which has no connection with
landed cost. This discriminatory de-
parture from policy and principle was
carried yet a step further when the Gov-
ernment decided to confiscate British
Tobacco profits in excess of a certain
(not publicly broadcast) percentage.
On the ground that this was illegal
British Tobacco refused to comply with
the Government demand, and there the
matter ended, for the present at any rate.
It was in 1930 that Carreras, Ltd., the
prosperous English manufacturer of
Craven A cigarettes, bought the ords. of
the old G, G. Goode business at a sub-
stantial premium, and, inside a decade,
wrought miracles with a business which
had previously done little more than lose
money. Then about five years ago
British Tobacco Co. bought the £200,000
Carreras ord. capital for £1,463,335 in its
own scrip—225,861 6i p.c. prefs., 618,737
ords. and a like number of B ords.,
deferred as to return of capital only.
At B.T.’s present rate of distribution (9
p.c. to the ords.) that lot calls for £122,665
p.a. Only once in the last five years has
Carreras’ net earnings fallen short of that
figure.
After providing for all known liabilities
the co. earned enough last term (£137,259,
down £16,224) to pay its pref. div. and
show 26.1 p.c. on the half-million of ord.
capital. On shareholders’ funds (pref. and
ord. capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was 16.3 p.c. The div. was
reduced from 28.4 p.c. to 25 p.c., which
provided £2335 more than B.T. needed to
maintain its present rate of distribution.
Here are balance-sheet figures;
Carreras & Subsid.
1941. 1943. 1944. 1545.
Paid capital.. £268,000 £268,000 £568,000 £568,000
etc. 128,’175 } 555 .’ 870 487 > 546 468 > 825
Freehold ~ 68,964 68,964 68,964 68,964
Plant, etc. .. 41,373 25,572 21,771 20,766
Stocks .. 395,536 676,266 961,785 878,880
Book debts .. 161,258 136,235 127,568 188,608
Cash, etc. . . 52,220 67,302 50,710 80,958
Outstanding feature there is the growth
of £566,249 in stocks over the three years
to close of accounts in 1944. There was
a shrinkage of £82,905 in the item last
term. The aim is to guard against the
possibility of a reduction in the co.’s quota
of American leaf, and to soften blows
from price advances. Liabilities include
a loan of £250,000 from B.T. •
Direct public interest is confined to
,68,000 well-protected 10 p.c. cum. prefs..


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
FOR SALE.
TREKELANO COPPER MINE,
situated in the
CLONCURRY DISTRICT, QUEENSLAND,
and 68 Miles by Rail from Mount Isa,
WITH PLANT AND SEVEN MILES
OF RAILWAY LINE.
Trekelano Mine has in the past produced
22,000 Ton* of Copper, and still has con-
siderable known reserves of 10-12 per
cent. Copper ore averaging 1 £dwt. of
Gold. per ton.
(Geological Reports very favorable.
For further particulars write
A. MACKAY,
Tweed Street, Brunswick Heads, N.S.W.
Rupture
Worries'
t iarU® locaH.'fi,
o» ’ ~QUR RUFTISKE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do bard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
-.e than
R FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
S.
T n 7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Ladies and Gentlemen:
FINANCIAL—The Net Profits of the
Company and Subsidiaries for the year
1945 were £214,454, after providing
£113,502 for Depreciation and £351,722
for Taxation.
The corresponding figures for 1944
were a Profit of £208,633 after providing
£457,326 for Taxation and Depreciation.
£72,299 were carried forward to the
credit of Profit and Loss, an increase of
£27,430, The net position has improved
by £76,163.
Overdrafts and Creditors are shown as
increasing from £1,785,967 to £1,828,344.
The increase has been brought about by
showing the value of certain properties
as an asset, and the amount of mortgage
thereon as a liability, instead of showing
the equity only. The difference amounts
to £126,083. Actually, the decrease for
1945 in the combined total of Overdrafts
and Creditors is £83,706.
Stocks and Sundry Debtors increased
from £2,761,730 to £2,822,326.
Land and Building show an increase
of £263,877.
The item of Goodwill has now been
treated separately and deducted from
Capital Reserve. The revised method of
setting out this intangible will be more
informative to shareholders.
DEBENTURE ISSUE.—lnterest rates
being at a low level, your Board con-
sidered it was in the best interests of the
Company to obtain capital by means of
a Debenture Issue over a lengthy cur-
rency. £1,000,000 secured by 4 p.c.
Debentures were approved by the Trea-
sury. The issue was over subscribed.
I wouldrefer to the co-operation we have
received from Messrs. J. B. Were & Sons.
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPAN-
SION OF THE COMPANY’S ACTIVI-
TIES. —The war has hampered the
Company’s development, and at the
moment we are engaged on conversion
of war time activities to civil require-
ments. The visit to South Africa, Eng-
land and U.S.A. of Mr. Van de Velde was
most successful- and opens new activities
and modern development in other parts of
the world.
These activities include woven felt and
Paper Makers’ Felts, for which there is
an expanding market in this country.
The other activity concerns ouf manu-
facture of Axminster Carpets in con-
junction with our Wilton carpet plant.
The formation of British Australian
Carpet Manufacturing Co, Ltd., with a
nominal capital of £750,000, has an issue
of 125,000 shares, of which 92,500 are
held by a fully-owned subsidiary of your
Company, and 32,500 by the Carpet
Manufacturing Co. of England. This
new Company will acquire looms and
equipment.
OVERSEAS/ SUBSIDIARIES.—Tn
South Africa and New Zealand our Sub-
sidiaries have been floated into Public
Companies. Our South African interests
are expanding. The amount of new
capital required is so great that it is not
desirable for the Parent Company to
meet the requirements on this ; also it
is desirable to have South African resi-
dents interested in local industries. Our
Association with the Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation of South Africa Ltd.,
assisted in the formation of Felt & Tex-
tiles of South Africa Ltd. Felt & Tex-
tiles of South Africa Ltd., as a result
of the re-organisation, became a parent
Company, and your Company’s share-
holdings in South African Slippers Pty.
Ltd. and in The Felt Industries Ltd.,
were transferred to this South African
parent Company.
The issued capital of Felt & Textiles
of South Africa Ltd., comprised 550,000
shares held as follows:
Felt and Textiles of
Australia, Ltd... 310,000 shares of £1
Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation
of South Africa,
Ltd 165,000 shares of £1
Other shareholders 75,000 shares of £1
Your Company’s holding in South
Africa did not call for any transfer of
capital from Australia. The public flo-
tation of a Company was very successful,
and shares immediately went to a pre-
mium. The market quotation on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange in October
last was 27/-. At current rates of
Australian currency the present market
price of our shares is £523,125.
The development of the industries now
conducted are modelled along the lines
of the parent Australian company, and
will increase South Africa’s consumption
of wool.
Our South African Companies, m
addition to the wool and felt industries,
FELT AND TEXTILES
of Australia Ltd.
The Chairman’s Address 25th Annual Meeting.
also propose to operate as combers, and
to manufacture tops and spin, and later
weave. A scouring and carbonising
plant has also been established in the
Union by this company, but the delays
which apply in Australia also apply in
South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND.—FeIt & Textiles
of New Zealand Ltd., was recently con-
verted into a public Company, and its
nominal capital increased to £500,000.
50,000 shares were available to the public,
and applications totalled 861,667 shares.
This great response is proof of the con-
fidence of the investing public in Felt &
Textiles.
A new footwear factory is in course of
erection at Auckland, and with our plants
in Wellington, Wanganui, Christchurch
and Blenheim, the Company will be in an
outstanding position in the New Zealand
footwear trade.
Felt & Carpet industries in New
Zealand are very satisfactory. The
Wilton Carpet Plant has been transferred
to a modern factory in course of erection
in Christchurch. Labour was the great-
est handicap to production during the
war, but this is being overcome in New
Zealand, and it is hoped to have this new
factory in operation early in 1946.
In Australia, footwear production has
been most seriously affected by war con-
ditions, regulations and lack of grained
personnel. Our pre-war policy provided
a diversified range of footwear require-
ments. Reversion to this policy is now in
progress. The training of unskilled
people has been satisfied by the establish-
ment of annexes, which have produced a
high standard of craftsmanship. In one,
over 90 p.c. of the male employees are
returned men from World War II who
had not learned any trade or calling.
OVERSEAS RESEARCH—It is essen-
tial to know the latest overseas develop-
ments and conduct our own research.
We have taken the opportunity of
sending suitable representatives abroad.
During the year, in addition to the Man-
aging Director, we have had three of our
senior executives in the United States,
Great Britain and Canada. Their missions
covered a wide range of activities.
WOOL—It is evident that the market-
ing of Dominion grown wool will not
be entirely free from control for some
considerable time. A most important
development has been the formation of
the Empire scheme known as “J. 0.”
(Joint Organisation). Its principal func-
tion will be the liquidation of the
accumulated surplus stocks of the
Empire’s produced wool, amounting to
approximately 10,000,000 bales together
with the sale of the current wool clips.
These operations are expected to last 15
years.
Prior to the war, wool prices were
subject to violent fluctuations without
apparent cause. The minimising of this
speculative aspect of wool should materi-
ally increase its popularity. Many
innovations for the treatment of wool
fibres contribute to tnake wool more use-
ful and attractive. Our Company is
interested in these new discoveries.
WOOL CONSUMING MILLS.—The
Centenary Woollen Mills at Bentleigh,
Victoria, is a valuable addition to our
circle. The clothing mill at Eaglehawk,
which we established to produce military
clothing, has now been changed to civilian
work, and we have taken over a clothing
factory at Adelaide.
TRADING CONDITIONS AND
TAXATION—We in Australia are in
a surprisingly favourable position as pro-
ducers and manufacturers in relation to
the rest of the world. It will be necessary
to remove restrictions which hamper
operations.
A most important matter in Australian
commerce is the position of taxation.
There is no reduction at all promised
for Companies. Existing rates of taxa-
tion threaten the greatest danger to the
falling off of effort.
It cannot be supposed that business
will continue indefinitely to make maxi-
mum effort if it produces only 3/- or
4/- in the pound. Overseas capital will
not come into Australia unless it is clear
that the earnings will be taxed no higher
than such capital earns in other parts ot
the world. The rising rate of tax is one
important cause of the prevailing indust-
rial trouble.
I wish to express appreciation ot the
efforts of our Managing Director, and
his working colleagues, also of the staff
and employees of this Company and
Subsidiaries.
The Hon. Sir Walter Massy-Greene,
K.C.M.G.,
Chairman.
a reminder of the days when the co.
found it difficult to attract capital. Last
sale of the prefs, was at 485., at which
figure the return is 4.1 p.c.
Mount Isa (Q.)
For the 12 months to June 30 last Isa
netted £126,236 (up £49,256), the best
showing yet. It was equal to 6.4 p.c. on
the £1,944,202 of capital, and lifted the
credit at p. and 1. to £231,799. No div.
was paid, nor has been since the lead
smelter first started up about 14 years
ago. The profit came from sale at better
prices of silver-lead bullion and zinc con-
centrates produced before the switch to
all-copper output in April, 1943. The
return from copper was insufficient to
service the debenture debt and provide
adequately for depreciation.
Annual metal production over the last
half-dozen years compares as follows:
Silver, Lead, Copper, Zinc,
June 30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1940 .. 4,109,769 47,905 293 29,455
1941 ~ 4,096,882 46,085 Nil 29,577
1942 . . 3,437,580 38,926 351 23,886
1943 .. 2,322,308 20,171 2,138 15,154
1944 .. 85,552 Nil 10,539 Nil
1945 . . 99,810 Nil 12,214 Nil
Last term was the second full year of
copper production. Metal obtained was
extracted from 275,194 tons of Black Star
sulphides, averaging 4.61 p.c. copper
(mine average *3.96 p.c.) and 13,231 tons
siliceous fluxing ores, which included 4811
tons purchased from gougers—Chillagoe
State smelters shut down mid-1943.
Here are milling results:
Concentrates ■,
Assay, Assay,
Tons Cu, Cu, Re-
Milled. p.c. Tons. p.c. covery.
1942 .. 20,250 2.92 2,394 20.29 81.8
1943 . . 70,323 3.64 10,901 21.05 89.0
1944 . . 250,325 4.01 39,640 23.60 93.2
1945 .. 275,195 4.61 50,018 23.60 94.1
More higher-grade ore was treated, de-
spite further deterioration of the man-
power position. Number on the payroll
fell from 1402 at close of accounts in
1939 to 817, 1944, and 754, 1945. The
improvement in recovery was due mainly
to the richer ore.
Costs per ton of dry ore increased:
1944. 1945.
Mining, development . . 20.6555. 21.4595.
Milling .. .. .. 6.4215. 7.1485.
Smelting, etc. . . . . 13.2785. 13.3185.
Administration . . . . 4.9415. 4.0935.
Railage, handling . . 1.7235. 2.1825.
Total 47.0185. 48.2005.
Two factors mainly responsible for the
lift were further rises in prices of sup-
plies and slight decline in productive effi-
ciency, owing to lack of skilled labor.
Owing to the favorable statistical posi-
tion of lead and zinc, and rises in the
price of lead and silver, the co. has de-
cided to resume production of lead bul-
lion and zinc concentrates early next
month. Among other things this means a
big transfer of mine labor and conse-
quent temporary suspension of copper
production. The separate handling of
copper ore requires construction of addi-
tional ore pockets at shafts and alteration
to hoisting gear. It is planned also to
build a new smelter with a monthly capa-
city of 1500 tons blister copper, and to
add another 5000 k.w. turbo-alternator
to the power plant.
When dual production of lead, zinc
and copper is in full swing annual out-
put is expected to reach 37,000 tons lead,
24.000 tons zinc, 2,775,0000 z. silver and
18.000 tons copper. Progress toward this
goal will be governed by availability of
suitable labor, housing construction and
delivery of enough coal from the State
mine at Collinsvale. Co.’s present coal
consumption is 2200 tons a month. With
copper and lead smelters operating simul-
taneously 7740 tons a month will be re-
quired. Failing assured delivery of the
larger quantity, the co. will have either to
seek its own coal supply or convert its
coal-burning equipment to use of fuel oil.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were:
lead-zinc section 7,055,000 tons sulphides,
averaging 7.70 z. silver, 8.6 p.c. lead and
8.5 p.c. zinc, and 61,530 tons carbonates,
mostly assaying 14.4 p.c. lead and 1.20 z.
silver; copper section 2,754,500 tons,
mainly sulphides, averaging 3.96 p.c.
copper.
When the books closed the debenture
debt, plus accrued interest, totalled
£2,440,357, and sundry creditors, etc.,
figured for £1,018,838. Products on hand,
cash, etc., totted up to £817,305, debtors’
balances £144,636, stores, etc., £301,624.
Mine and plant figured at £4,647,934.
Yukon Consolidated, a gold-dredging
enterprise in which some London-con-
trolled Westralian mining cos. hold
shares, has taken an option over claims
at the head of Bonanza Creek, famous
in the early days of Klondyke for the
rich returns won from the whole of its
length. The source of the gold which
became concentrated in this creek has
never been determined. Yukon Consoli-
dated proposes to prospect the claims in
the hope of finding the lode or lodes
from which Klondyke derived most of
its gold. Goldthorp Hay, chairman of
the Lake View and Star, is president of
the co.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. has applied for
over a thousand acres of auriferous
country at Edjudina, an old mining centre
about 100 miles north of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). This area takes in much of the
ground known as the Edjudina line, held
for years as a reservation by Herman
Mandelstam, and sold by him to a Lon-
don co. in 1937. This co. installed ex-
pensive plant on the main blocks, and
did some shallow development, all at a
cost running into six figures, and then
gave up. It later tried but failed to raise
additional funds to resume operations.
Edjudina gold carriers consist of a series
of kidney reefs which have been mined
in a small way with varying success.
* * * *
The,mines on the Kalgoorlie
golden Mile (W.A.) are estimated to sup-
port a population of over 23,000 spread
over Hannan’s belt. War and other
essential service requirements reduced
the number of Golden Mile employees
from 4314 in 1939 to 2056 in 1944;
there has been an increase since.
Weekly wages bill fell from £33,500 to
£15,934 over the period mentioned.
Average weekly wage paid is now ap-
proximately £7 15s. Majority of earners
receive a margin over the basic rate.
Some machine men on contract collect as
much as £6O a fortnight; many others
earn £4O in the same period.
* * * *
Sterling receipts of Hampton Gold Min-
ing Areas (W.A.) for year to end March,
1945 were £763, of which exes, took
£635’ Cash totalled £8835 and invest-
ments £15,238. Five blocks of auriferous
country were under option, two at £lOOO
each, two at £2500 each, and one at
£5OOO The co. is the third reconstruc-
tion of Hampton Plains Estate Ltd.,
first registered in 1894. It holds 189,22-
acres of freehold land with mineral rights
between Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie.


YOUR WILL
IS IT UP TO DATE?
IT is a good plan to over your Will now and again
to make certain that it is up to date.
Be sure that it includes provision for an Executor with
long experience and sound judgment to administer the
Will and deal with the difficult problems that will arise
with any Estate, especially in these swiftly moving times.
If you wish to appoint a friend as Executor, appoint
him in conjunction with Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited. By doing this you ensure security combined
with efficient management—already proved in / the
successful administration of thousands of Estates over the
past 60 years.
Write for a copy of its booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee” which explains the service that the Company
renders and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0.: E. R. KNOX •
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R '
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager,
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £40,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
■Mi
*
i
X*
wm
m
■axtfJU S/-wu, .
“Eight bells and all’s well ...” but it’s not always
fair weather and smooth sailing on a tanker.
You’ll find this man, and hundreds like him, on
every ocean, living in constant hazard. He is an-
other of the vast army behind CALTEX,
bringing petroleum products from the
world’s richest oil fields to your nearby
CALTEX dealer . . . and your car.
6/128
QUflllTV PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Liberal-party Policy
In its draft Federal platform the
Liberal party pledges itself to the restora-
tion of the Commonwealth Bank board,
with independence from political direc-
tion other than that given by Parliament
(as opposed to present control by the
Treasurer of the day). The Liberals aim
at the full development of the institution
as a central bank, with “the complete
detachment of the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank, both in control and operations,
from all other banks. Government or
private.” The party also aims at a broad-
ening of the functions of the Common-
wealth Grants Commission to provide for
“a constant review and adjustment of the
financial relations between the Common-
wealth and the States.” As this implies,
future financial relations between the
States and the Commonwealth are likely
to involve many more rights and obliga-
tions than those falling under the head of
“grants.” One of the jobs of the extended
Grants Commission will be the annual
re-examination of rebates payable to the
States under uniform taxation.
On income taxation, the Liberals propose
to reduce the burden by 40 p.c, within
three years. Sales tax is to be pared down,
especially in cases where the tax adds
weight to the cost of living and the cost
of housing. Special help for the family
taxpayer is intended, including deductions
for education —the allowances will again
take the form of deductions instead of
the tricky “rebates” introduced by the
present Administration. Pay-as-you-go
taxation will be examined with the object
of eliminating injustices.
There is no specific declaration in the
draft platform that double taxation of
companies will be abolished, or that the
position will revert to that prevailing be-
fore the war; but, in general, “a special
examination” is promised “of the effects
on Australian primary and secondary in-
dustries of war-time estate duty and other
taxation.”
In industrial matters the party favors
the principle that wages should be the
highest the industry can pay, that good
work is an essential condition of good
pay, and that constant efforts should be
made to ensure co-operative and har-
monious conditions between wage-payer
and wage-earner.
Subject to provision for a proper mini-
mum living wage, payment by results will
be adopted wherever possible in order
to encourage production. As progress,
both as regards individual living stand-
ards and the nation as a whole, depends
on more efficient and cheaper produc-
tion, efforts will be made to remove re-
strictions which prevent a man from do-
ing his best and giving high production.
Profit-sharing schemes will be encour-
aged. (Australian Gallup Polls, con-
ducted by Roy Morgan, suggest that
wage-earners prefer this idea to higher
wages.)
It is proposed to provide fuller facili-
ties to deal with industrial conciliation
and arbitration matters, promptness and
a minimum of technicalities being among
objectives. Industrial organisation among
employers and wage-earners will be en-
couraged, with a secret ballot, conducted
under proper supervision, obligatory. The
idea that industrial arbitration and trade-
union direct action can exist together is
rejected. Strikes or lockouts in defiance of
the appropriate tribunal are to be illegal,
and the guilty organisation’s funds to be
attached, with deregistration.
An inquiry into the method of assess-
ing the basic wage is part of the Liberal
programme, with special reference to
anomalies in women’s pay.
It is aimed to accelerate home-build-
ing, and to permit no competing public
works except of an urgent nature or those
which themselves relate to housing. This
would seem to rule out, for the present,
the Labor standard-gauge stunt. Private
enterprise is to be encouraged to build
homes as the quickest, cheapest and most
effective agent. Incentives to home-
ownership will be given by means of
cheap financial accommodation, enforce-
ment of construction standards, abolition
of sales tax on building materials and
control of cost of materials.
Effective preference in employment and
home-acquisition to ex-servicemen is part
of the platform. Educational facilities
will be made available to all former fight-
ing men who desire such assistance and
who are capable of benefiting from it.
A Liberal Administration would plan
for a system of private enterprise co-
ordinating with Government activity.
“We stand for long-term jobs,” says the
draft, “not short-term jobs. That is why,
as a first line of attack upon the employ-
ment problem, we turn to the commercial,
industrial and rural business of the coun-
try rather than to short-term, and per-
haps dead-end, employment in Govern-
ment works,” The small business will be
encouraged*and protected, while “inimical
monopolies” will be regulated. “Increas-
ing production is the basis of increased
living standards and social security. A
slowing-down of production will damage
the worker immeasurably. Increasing
production demands increasing markets.
Increasing markets can be won easily if
production of commodities is both good
and cheap. "Cheap production depends
upon effort and efficiency, not upon wage-
slashing. We believe that high wages and
high production are natural and inevit-
able allies.”
Development of various power re-
sources, to make the country less depen-
dent on any one source of supply, is a
party aim. New industries are to be
developed, especially with an eye to
exports, while needed public-works pro-
grammes are to be planned in advance of
economic “recessions.” It will be endea-
vored to introduce a taxation policy that
will stimulate production. Business enter-
prise will be free to establish itself and
expand.
Social-security planning will be based
on the contributory principle, with no
means test. Contributions will be asked
from all citizens in receipt of income, sup-
plemented by grants from Consolidated
Revenue.
The rural population is given consider-
able attention by the party. The prob-
lems of water-supply, transport, soil-
erosion, education, housing, electricity-
supply, etc., are given their place in the
platform, and stabilisation schemes “to
provide an Australian standard of living
for those on the land” are incorporated.
Agricultural science, market investigation
and “adequate co-operation with Great
Britain—our best customer for most of
our primary products” are included as
matters for Government attention.
Mining, fishing and afforestation are
down for aid and investigation, and there
is to be “an intensive search for oil.”
On the matter of transport the Liberals
say; “No nationalisation. No mono-
poly.” The fullest overseas and internal
flying facilities are to be encouraged.
There is no mention of standard gauge.
Only the economic features of the
Liberal platform are outlined here. But
in times of peace economics are, or
should be, a Government’s chief concern.
On the question of banking, while the
Menzies pledge to restore the Common-
wealth Bank board is reiterated, perhaps
too little is said as regards the future
relationship between-the central bank and
the trading banks. Possibly the time is
not opportune to say more. But the
monopolistic features of the present cen-
tral-bank constitution could do with
some breaking down, even if part of the
legislation introduced by Labor has to
remain.
The objectives of the party include
“opposition to Communism and other
undemocratic movements.” A little more
emphasis and detail in this respect could
hardly have done any harm. But, in any
case, it is what is performed rather than
what is promised which matters most,
particularly in this direction.
In general, the party’s financial and
industrial platform is a good one. What-
ever Government succeeds the present
grossly inept and strangely warped Ad-
ministration will have a huge cleaning-up
job to do. The Liberal policy, as
expressed, shows an intention of grap-
pling with our problems in an honest,
commonsense way. Little is promised
that should not be capable of perform-
ance by determined and intelligent men.
Performance should vastly brighten the
future of this thwarted country.
Congressional approval of the U.S. loan
to Britain has been delayed. It is sug-
gested that months may pass before the
final vote is taken, and even then the
loan may not go through. How Britain
is going to pay for U.S. goods in the
meantime it is hard to say, except pos-
sibly by drawing on a £7OO-million reserve
of gold and dollars which, according to
U.S. estimates, exists in America. If the
dollar loan does not eventuate —and it
cannot at best be regarded more favor-
ably than as a mixed blessing—Australian
businessmen who have previously held
American agencies had better try to get
representation for the equivalent line of
British goods, if available. A breakdown
in, the arrangement to provide Britain with
dollars to buy U.S. goods will drive both
Britain and Australia deeper into the
sterling bloc, with an expansion of inter-
Empire trade certain, but, at the begin-
ning, a fall in total trade and living stand-
ards likely.
* * * *
In 1944-45 the Commonwealth col-
lected £345 million in various forms of
taxation and handed back to the States
£32 million as reimbursement of income
tax. It is estimated that the taxation col-
lections of all public authorities, including
State Governments, in the same period
totalled £3BO million, of which £2B mil-
lion was handed back to the people—or
sections of the people—in the form of
subsidies. Income from public business
undertakings and property amounted to
£55 million. Gross revenue of Govern-
ments in 1944-45 is estimated at £435
million, compared with £l7B million be-
fore the war. The rise of £257 million
during the war years largely represents
a burden upon the people—again more
particularly on certain sections of the
people. With the war over, little reduc-
tion in the burden is expected during
1945-46. The people are no longer in
control of their incomes. A vast amount
of income is nowadays taken by Govern-
ments for redistribution on a political—
often vote-buying—basis. How rotten the
results are may be seen in the malignant
spread of production depression in
almost all industries. Labor, through its
heavy taxation and “social” doles, is creat-
ing a type of depression that few thought
possible under “orthodox” finance sys-
tems and democratic types of government.
There is an enormous demand for most
products; but Labor, with idle men and
stacks of taxpayers’ money to spend, is
unable to bring supply anywhere near to
demand. It has succeeded too well in
making a decent day’s work unfashion-
able and in making “orthodox” finance
unworkable by its unorthodox methods.


BRAN DAL ERrS
m
ir*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—‘
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
o
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, ■won’t eat
or is ®out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
liAKSill SKIN XiOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
5 7/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to—
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street ... Brisbane
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co.. Drummoyne, N.S.W.
DUPLICATOR
has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines -at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dup&
color will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
•SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
" SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
£l7/10/-
rely in Austral
use
X '/j Smart Idea*
4he Original and Onlu
THE
PERFECT HAIR DRESSING
df
AH day long Brylcreem j will,;
keep your .'-hair looking smart|
and well-groomed. And all the-
time Brylcreem. is also, keeping
your ,iiair»2 ; healthy. User
Brylcreemidailj?, and sce;how
quickly your hair benefits'! in
health and appearance.
Wide-neck Jars . .'l/5 and^l/ 11
In Tubes lief, and 1/11
df
NO GUM* NO SOAP* NO SPIRIT * NO STARCH
A.M.P. FAMILY
Protection Plan
PROVIDING for your family is difficult enough while you are
alive. What if you should die? Better make a plan to
meet that possibility. \
Let the A.M.P. arrange a Plan for you to provide;—
(1) Money for the quiet enjoyment of old age.
(2) Money for your children's education.
(3) In the event of the unforseen happening, money for
your widow to maintain herself and your children.
This A.M.P. family protection Plan is open to any man in
good health. Don't leave consideration of it until it is too late
to become a member of the Society.
Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office or representative
as soon as you can. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
The“ATLAS”
B-itich Lathe
f
■
mmmmm
With
Gap
Bed
df
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr- Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MARS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MAB 8”
Lathes. „ _ ..
The Leadscrew in all “Mars ’ Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents for N.8.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd.,
Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
There have been intermittent rumblings
of disapproval in the matter of the Bret-
ton Woods currency agreement, to which
the Australian delegates put their signa-
tures, but which has not yet been ratified
by the Australian Parliament. One of
the first objections was that both the bank
and the fund had an ultimate foundation
of gold or gold-backed currencies ; “gold
has been restored to its throne,” declaimed
the critics. A second objection was that
the agreement placed final control of each
country’s exchange rate in the hands of
the fund’s managers. Both claims by the
objectors are substantially true; it is in-
tended to anchor world currency to gold
(“par values will be expressed in terms
of gold”), and, inevitably, to have any
effect, the agreement must provide for con-
trol of fluctuations in currency values. But
critics must make up their minds whether
they approve of attempts to promote
world trade by international co-operation
or whether they don’t. It has to be re-
membered that the Bretton Woods agree-
ment primarily provides for the stabilising
of world currencies and trading condi-
tions, and, ultimately, for the greatest
possible freedom in, and expansion of,
world commerce. If the efforts of the
fund and bank managers fail in this ob-
jective, or if there appears to be discrimi-
nation against any country, the whole
thing can be abandoned by that countiy,
and it can call for a settlement of its
account.
Apart from shortcomings or defects
in managerial or constitutional Bretton
Woods details, it boils down to this:
If there is to be a central world-
finance organisation which has the objec-
tive of world-trade development it must
aim at stable exchange rates, since un-
stable exchanges restrict commercial inter-
course, as was seen before the war. No
person who supports an international
attempt to promote and “free” world
trade can at the same time logically sup-
port competitive exchange depreciation.
The Bulletin has its own doubts about
the necessary co-operation, impartiality
and skill coming forth to make the Bret-
ton Woods plan a success; but while
success is attempted it believes that, once
set at a reasonable relative parity, all cur-
rencies should be kept as stable as pos-
sible. Currency stability within a country
should be no burden if the country keeps
its production costs as low as any other
country and does not import excessively.
If it fails on these two scores it is going
to be in trouble anyway.
No one with an understanding of
the matter believes that any real merit
exists in exchange depreciation. There
are land-men, it is true, who know that
they get extra money from their export
surplus when more Australian currency
is received for a selling-price expressed
in overseas currency; but those citizens
who have overseas commitments to meet
are penalised to the extent.that the ex-
porter benefits. Also, as costs tend to
rise in proportion to currency deprecia-
tion, even the exporter doesn’t benefit for
ever; and if depreciation has to be car-
ried out again there must inevitably be
loss of confidence in the currency abroad,
with, very likely, industrial and financial
troubles internally. The ideal economy
is one in which the exchange rate remains
stable and the internal level of costs is
being reduced by increasing per-capita
production. Repeatedly depreciating the
currency externally in order to offset a
rising internal level of cost is a kind of
“Latin finance” —typical of the politics
and “stability” of Latin countries.
* * * *
The housing position in Australia
remains one of the most depressing fac-
tors in the lives of its inhabitants. Not
every family is short of a home, of course,
but the scarcity is such that it is having
a profound effect on the lives of the
younger population, especially servicemen
with war-time families. The Common-
wealth Government has introduced a
housing-loans section to the Common-
wealth Bank and has made other gestures
of a similar kind. But the fact remains
that the housing position in the Com-
monwealth is growing steadily worse, and
it has been made worse still recently by
strikes in some of the unions which give
the Federal Government its orders. Within
the Ministry itself there is evidence that
it is not desired to help workers own
their own homes. On October 2 last year
Mr. Dedman, speaking on the Common-
wealth and States Housing Agreement
Bill, said, in a reply to a suggestion that
people should be helped to own their
homes and not to rent them: “The Com-
monwealth Government is concerned to
provide adequate and good housing for
the workers; it is not concerned with
making them little capitalists.” . Mr.
Anthony interjected: “In other words, it
is not concerned with making them home-
owners?” In reply to this Dedman said:
“If there is any criticism to be directed
against the policies of past Governments
supported by the present Opposition it
is this: Too much of their legislative
programmes was deliberately designed to
place the workers in a position in whic l
they would have a vested interest in the
continuance of capitalism. That is a
policy which will not have my support,
at any rate.” Mr. Dedman later denied
that he had inferred that “an Australian
Government should regard as something
wrong the aspirations of good Australians
to own the homes in which they live ’;
but the extracts are taken from “Han-
sard,” and Dedmah’s denials are nowa-
days valued about as highly as those of
his colleague, Eddie Ward. The Govern-
ment refused to accept an Opposition
amendment to the Act providing that a
tenant of a Government house who had
satisfactorily fulfilled his conditions of
tenancy for three years should be given
an opportunity of buying his home.
* * * *
War expenditure by New Zealand
during the nine months to Dec. 31 (the
begins on April 1) was £52.4 million,
including the value of lend-lease and
Canadian mutual aid received (£11.6 mil-
lion) and charged to the services. Taxa-
tion paid for £31.8 million. Borrowing
in London and Maoriland totalled £26
million, and there was a substantial sur-
plus (about £2O million, including mis-
cellaneous receipts) in the war expenses
account at Dec. 31. Heavy charges are
still to come, including gratuities estimated
at £lB million. Reverse lend-lease (£17.3
million) was the biggest single item of
war expenditure debited during the year,
whilst the Air Force (£l7 million against
£19.6 million in 1944-45) became the most
expensive fighting arm, compared with
£14.2 million for the Army (£29.7 mil-
lion 1944-45) and £3.2 million for the
Navy (£3.3 million).
* * * *
The prospectus of Bitumen and Oil
Refineries (Aust.), Ltd., had not been
published up to the end of last
week, though sharebrokers have been
taking tentative applications, for the
scrip. On sharemarket information
so far available California Texas ap-
parently will control the buying (crude-
oil) end on Bahrein Island, a Cali-
fornia Texas subsidiary will control
the selling end in Australia, while Cali-
fornia Texas will come in for something
in the middle by way of part-refining
charges, shipping charges and (subject to
conditions) service charges. The parent
will also supervise the construction and
initial operation of the Australian co.’s
refinery. Profit-earning capacity of the
Australian co. will be subject to these
conditions, and to possible competition
later from other oil companies.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.— In Divorce.
TO PATRICK MICHAEL O’CONNOR late of
Hillview Hyland Road Smithfleld in the State of New
South Wales TAKE NOTICE that FANNY AUSTRAL
O’CONNOR has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5256
of 1915 against you on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said Petition at the proper office
of this Court on or before the 3rd day of April 1946
and in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to KENNETH
HELMS ARNOTT Solicitor for the Petitioner S
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. — In Divorce.
TO DULCIE BEATRICE EVANS late of DUNEDOO
Married Woman TAKE NOTICE that BERWYN WERN
EVANS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4994 of
1945 on the ground of your desertion If you wish to
defend the suit you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme' Court King Street Sydney by
the twelfth day of April 1946 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from OSBORNE
MITCHELL ALLEN Solicitor 56 Hunter Street
SYDNEY. —(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, EMILE MARCEL NYDEGGER, of Swiss nation-
ality, born at Fleurier, Neuehatel, Switzerland,
resident thirty-one years in Australia, now residing
at Parklea, via Blacktown, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936. ,
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
13' months .. .. ..£l4O
6 12 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lOO
THE SERVICE MAN
Army Reorganisation.
“Ek Dum”: The reorganisation of the
Army H.Q. on the whole has been satis-
factory, though most observers would
feel better about it if General Rowell,
who becomes Vice-Chief of the General
Staff, had been made Chief of the General
Staff. However, it is a great deal that
he has been restored and promoted after
his period of “blackout,” following dis-
agreements about the New Guinea cam-
paign, though no credit is due to the
Government. The Government allowed
him to be disrated, and only reinstated
him after the British and American
Armies had recognised his talent and he
had been appointed Director of Tactical
Studies at the War Office during the
period of the invasion of Europe.
No other Australian has had General
Rowell’s experience of large-scale move-
ments in modern warfare. The pity
of it is that a man of his talent was
absent irom the Pacific when there were
being learned lessons in island warfare
which would have been of the greatest use
in developing post-war defence schemes.
The recognition of Major-General
Clowes also is a matter for congratula-
tion. He becomes Adjutant-General.
With Lieut-General Lavarack returning
home, the post at Washington is
to be reserved for Major-General E. A.
M. Lloyd.
Lloyd is a great, powerful figure, one
of the younger Duntroon men of general’s
rank he was just old enough to be sent
overseas at the end of the last war to
serve on the Rhine in the garrisoning of
Bonn. He is a personality in his way, a
man who might become an outstanding
field commander of a type calculated to
catch both the imagination of fighting
men and of the public. He is hard-
working and has a curiously all-round
quality of mind —is a good tradesman and
could earn his living as a skilled artisan
with his hands; still in the Army, he
devoted his leisure in peace-time to taking
a law degree. He is an enthusiastic
student of tactics. Major-General Lloyd
is 46 and was Adjutant-General at 43.
Major-General Bridgeford becomes
Quartermaster-General in place of Major-
General Cannan, and Major-General
Beavis is named Master-General' of
Ordnance. Both Bridgeford and Beavis
had great experience in the late war.
The rest of the Board consists of the
Departmental Under-Secretary, knight
Frederick Shedden; a new finance
officer, J. F, Fitzgerald, and a “business
adviser,” A. N. Kelmsley. As well as
Vice-Chief there will be a Deputy-Chief
of the General Staff, Major-General E.
J. Milford.
Exactly what the functions of depu-
ties will be is not clear in a defence
organisation which is to be whittled to
the bone in accordance with “Labor”
policy. The Government is apparently
hard put to it to find jobs for everybody,
but, if the “Deputy-Chief” position has
been created to keep Major-General Mil-
ford on the waiting list for early promo-
tion in an organisation which is over-
loaded, it is worth while, in view of his
knowledge of the defensive areas and of
modern tropical tactics gained in com-
mand in some of the worst of the New
Guinea campaigns.
Military Boards Criticised
There is some criticism of the Military
Board system. It seems the inevitable
system in all the circumstances but only
in Australia. The ingredients of the new
Board are exactly parallel to those of the
British Army Council.
The Commander-in-Chief system is apt
to centralise authority too much. It is
very efficient and satisfactory when genius
is at the helm, but otherwise it is likely
to develop monopoly, the cutting down
of “tall poppies” which grow too near
to the Great, and sometimes crusty con-
servatism. It tends particularly to keep
the forceful up-and-coming young senior
officer at a too-respectful distance in
status from the C.-in-C., especially when
the latter approaches ripe years.
Moreover, Australia’s position is such
that her organisation is never likely to
have to function independently of allies,
and the allies with which we are most
closely linked, Britain, the United States
and Canada, have no commander-in-chief
systems. The more closely our methods
of command and military organisation
are in line with theirs the better. Their
C.-in-Cs. are the political executives. They
have chief-of-staff systems with no over-
all army commands.
The Board system is the best in all the
circumstances, despite the fact that it will
be unpopular with sections of the daily
press.
District Commands
With the rest of the reorganisation goes
the division of Australia into the fol-
lowing commands:
(1) Northern, which covers Queensland.
This goes to Major-General Boase, himself
a Queenslander, and a fighting commander
of the New Guinea campaigns.
(2) Eastern, N. S. Wales: Lieut.-General
F. H. Berryman, an officer who has served
most of the Pacific war in liaison with
General MacArthur’s staff, and who has
become an expert on U.S. staff methods
and tactics.
(3) Southern Command, Victoria and
S. Australia; Lieut.-General H. C. Robert-
son, formerly in command of the Wewak
area, and earlier of the Armored Division
and the 19th Brigade, A.1.F., in Libya, who
has been promoted from Major-General.
(4) Western Command, Westralia: Major-
General J. A. Chapman, till recently G.O.C.
Tasmanian L.-of-C. and formerly 12th
A.I.F. Infantry Brigade. A son of the late
Austin Chapman, M.H.R., he is a young,
vigorous officer of very fine type, full to
the brim of energy and enthusiasm.
(5) Tasmania, Sixth Military District:
Major-General Whitelaw.
The Northern Territory and Papua will
be separate commands under direct control
of the Military Board. This was inevitable.
Major-General Father will retain Command
in the Rabaul area.
Lines-of-Communications commands
will naturally wither. Some of the com-
manders. like Major-General Stantke, will
retire on the age limit; others will go to
other positions. Major-General Plant,
who is in his middle fifties, will probably
go to London in place of Major-General
Smart.
Chances for Young Officers
The appointments illustrate the contrast
between the conditions after the last war
arid after World War XI. Then the
permanent Army was a small force with
very few Australian-trained officers
seasoned in higher-command ranks,
though the war had thrown up some bril-
liant young ones. There are no men
with »the world reputation of Brudenell
White to provide, for, and the relative
dominance of citizen officers does not
exist in the higher ranks as it did then.
On the whole, the country has been
luckier this time in retaining the cream
of the higher command.
Appointments to the higher offices of
the Army have not the eternal air which
some had after last war. Then, many
young officers below major-general’s
rank looked with a sense of frustration
at the forest of comparative youth above
them which seemed to, and did, block
progress for an indefinite period.
The present set-up seems to promise a
better future for the young Duntroon
men of World War 11, provided their
conditions of pay and pensions are put
on a proper scale.
At present both are disgraceful. Any
brisk young political roundsman on the
daily press can earn the salary of a
brigadier, and comic-strip “artists” earn
four times the pay of a major-general
who may have the fate of the country in
his hands at some crucial point.
And in the matter of pensions, it
should be remembered that the per-
manent-service man, if he does his job
efficiently and devotes himself to it whole-
heartedly, completely unfits himself for
any other occupation, unless he belongs
to one of the highly technical services.
The same applies both to the Navy and
the Air Force. R.A.N. pension condi-
tions are miserable compared with those
of the R.N., with which the R.A.N. be-
comes integral in war-time.
Territorial Units
Especially in view of the fact that Gov-
ernments like the present are likely to
baulk at all plans which call for
compulsory service, it is to be hoped that
one of the schemes to encourage volun-
tary service will be the establishment of
territorial units, with some measure of
self-government, under the district com-
mands. Australia could be well served
by territorial units endowed with suffi-
cient of the traditional attributes to
generate eagerness on the part of local
youth to join and to develop a team spirit
and a spirit competitive with other dis-
trict units.
Also the Light Horse and Scottish units
should be encouraged. In some quarters
both are regarded as obsolete in war, but
they are certainly not obsolete in training
and recruitment of volunteers. These two
sources provided a great deal of the neces-
sary backbone of the Second A.I.F.
Training Colleges
Lastly, no military-board, general-staff
or other method of control will succeed in
developing internal defence without close
collaboration, which, from now onwards,
will need- to be much more closely inte-
grated with other services than at any
previous time. So closely are sea, land
and air operations now. co-ordinated that
in the United States there is a proposal
to organise all three services under one
command—the Air Force, except as an
attribute to the Army and Navy, does
not exist as a separate entity.
This is probably not advisable here —
and it is likely to prove even too radical
in the United States for some years —in
view of our close relationship with the
defence systems of the British Common-
wealth, but a much closer liaison is neces-
sary than has hitherto been provided for.
And a primary necessity is a good set
of staff colleges, both for induction and
for “post-graduate” work, all reasonably
adjacent and all interlocking in their cur-
ricula. The present colleges have done
grand work, but it is little thanks to the
Governments, and particularly to the
present party in power, which always up
to the time of its panic in December,
1941, rushed to tear up some part of the
military structure whenever opportunity
offered. And beside the British, Ameri-
can and Canadian colleges the Common-
wealth’s belong to the dark ages in accom-
modation and equipment —especially
equipment.
Manus and the R.A.N.
“Ek Dum”: General Blarney secured
very early results with his emphatic state-
ment that Australia should not hand over
Manus to the United States to form an
American naval base in thp Australian
Mandated Admiralty Islands, but not all
the results needed.
The Canberra statement in reply merely
said that “moves to have the sovereignty
of Manus transferred would be strongly
resisted by Australia.”
It is not a question of sovereignty;
it is a question only of whether or not the
Cabinet intends to implement the policy
enunciated in America by Dr. Evatt that
“Australia” (i.e., Dr. Evatt) is prepared
to lease bases to any Power willing to
defend the South-Pacific area.
Australia should lease no bases within
her ambit. Indeed, it would be sound if,
in agreement with Britain, she were to
take over the Solomons and buy the
Tanimbar Islands north from Darwin,
providing for the development in them
of outpost fortress bases from which any
enemy approaching the coast might be
attacked.
The country has plenty of resources to
do this. The expenditure of about half
the amount that Mr. Ward proposes
to squander on his “defence” rail-
ways would provide permanent up-to-
date bases in conjunction with the facili-
ties already available at Tulagi, Milne
Bay or Moresby and Manus. It is a de-
rogation to Australia’s and to the British
Commonwealth’s dignity that Ministers
should crawl cap in hand to any foreign
Power for protection.
Commodore J. A. Collins, who re-
turned from Japan last week, added
some frank talking about Commonwealth
naval strength and capacity to that of
General Blarney.
He described Manus as the “best
harbor in this part of the world,” which
played an important part in the recon-
quest of the South-west Pacific.
He declared that it was essential, as
part of the programme for peace in the
Pacific and for Commonwealth defence,
that Australia have properly-balanced
task forces including aircraft-carriers:
Australia alone, without adequate manu-
facturing resources, cannot suddenly pro-
duce aircraft-carriers and cruisers. We
produced very little during the war. For
example, we started the war with five
cruisers, and of those three were sunk and
two Australia and Hobart seriously
damaged. We finished the war with Shrop-
shire, which was given to us; Australia,
which is still only partially repaired; and
Hobart, which was out of action for two
years.
Apart from small ships, the Australian
naval output during the whole wftr was
three destroyers. By comparison the
British, U.S. and Canadian production
was enormous. Superlatives in Australia,
however, had to be reserved for the cost
of the efforts in construction rather than
for the extent of it.
It remains to be seen whether the Com-
monwealth Government has any definite
naval-air programme.
"P.O.W." and Pacific
Campaigns.
The useful career of the Prisoners-of-
War Relatives’ Association is closing.
“P.0.W.,” published monthly until the
printers’ and coalminers’ strikes sup-
pressed it at a time when it was most
needed, is now in its last issue. The de-
voted men and women who have done
magnificent work voluntarily and without
self - advertisement, work which has
brought comfort and assistance to tens
of thousands of relatives of p.-0.-w., are
giving up their labors without the slightest
recognition from the “Government.”
The P.O.W.R.A. has, as a general rule,
steered clear of controversial matters in
politics, but it has taken a .strong stand
on the need for inquiry into cam-
paigns in the Pacific. Its magazine, in its
January issue, set down these comments:
The charge has been made that Mr.
Churchill advised our Australian Govern-
ment to withdraw our troops [from Malaya]
while there was yet time and that Mr.
Curtin replied that the Australian division
would not be withdrawn, an answer which
left Mr. Churchill with no alternative save
to order the British troops to remain also.
The result was seen in an unparalleled dis-
aster to our arms Is it true that Mr.
Churchill recommended withdrawal and that
Mr. Curtin declined to accept the advice?
Then, much later, Borneo. A strange
and disquieting story concerning that island
has been going round. The allegation is
that several months before Japan began
visibly to collapse, General MacArthur in-
formed the Australian Government that he
was aware that Borneo was held by small
and weak. Japanese forces, and that a
sudden attack by an Australian expedition
would be practically certain to succeed.
If this course had been followed there
would have been, as our readers know,
a saving effected of many valuable Austra-
lian lives since lost. But nothing was done,
and this country has learned too late the
tale of prolonged suffering and death of
1780 Australian soldiers.
And now we have, long-suspected, the
sad and ’ shameful story of Rabaul
Over 300 civilians, the ‘economic and admini-
strative backbone of New Guinea, perished
almost to a man, a tragedy sufficiently de-
plorable in itself even if it had been un-
avoidable. But it could and should have
been avoided.
Last, and by no means least, if there is
to be investigation into muddling and mis-
management, the so-called mopping-up
operations in the various islands should re-
ceive'their share of attention. It has been
amply proved, as many from the first sus-
pected, that these operations were quite
unnecessary, and contributed nothing of
any real value to the fortunes of a war
already as good as won. That is to say,
the lives lost therein were needlessly thrown
away.
As “P.0.W.” points out, quoting
R. W. Robson, there was no such tragedy
as. that of Rabaul at Moresby ; but a
mere difference of opinion between civil
and military Governments at the Papuan
centre called for the hurried appointment
of a royal commission. It might have
added that when there were allegations
of ill-treatment of rowdies in a military
prison camp there was a rush by
newspapers and Government supporters
to secure them a hearing by a special
tribunal.


i- r irtjxtf
WHEN
ITS
s
i
gjlHuai
4.45
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY
From telephoning to transportation, from light-
ing systems to mining, Exide Batteries serve
you daily in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
They still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
m
9
Mb
PERSONAL ITEMS
There would seem to be little in com-
mon between the Knights of St. John and
the Plymouth Brethren, but had the
proudest of the old knights been able to
revisit Malta between 1940 and 1942 he
would have been glad to clasp the hand
of Lieut.-General William Dobbie and
hail him as a brother. Probably the most
distinguished living member of the
Brethren, General Dobbie was born in
India, fought in South Africa and World
War I, from which he emerged with
the Legion of Honor, D. 5.0., seven
“mentions” and French and Belgian
decorations. He soldiered on dur-
ing the 20 years’ Armistice, com-
manded a brigade in Egypt 1928-32,
was O.C. Royal Engineers at Chat-
ham and for the four years before
1939 was G.O.C. Malaya. Placed on the
retired list, he was recalled to go to
Malta as Governor and C.-in-C. The
story of his defence of the George Cross
Island is now part of Malta’s history.
General Dobbie is visiting Maoriland on
a tour sponsored by the Bible Training
Institute.
A new recruit to the semi-diplomatic
service, but an old hand at administrative
jobs, Claude Massey steps down from his
position of Deputy-Controller of Food to
go to Singapore as Australian Commis-
sioner for Malaya. A graduate in
economics and commerce, with a couple
of accountancy diplomas thrown in, he
has since 1911 held many jobs in the
R.A.N. and in 1923 went abroad for three
years’ experience with R.N. and U.S.
Naval Service. When the war broke out
he was Director of Naval Victualling
and he was appointed Naval Board rep.
on several war-time committees. Since
1943 he has been Deputy Controller of
Food. A lifebelt invented by Massey
early in the war has been adopted by
R.A.N., R.N. and Allied forces.
Returned to Melbourne, Lieut-Col.
George Sutton, publishers’ representative
for Hutchinson’s for many years and for
3| years intelligence officer at Australian
Army H.Q. in London. As a change
from the usual blitz stories, he has come
back with a mass of anecdotes about the
behavior of canines under bombing,
which is only natural —he founded and is
Tail-Wagger-in-Chief to the Australian
fraternity whose 23,000 members look
after the interests of collies, and
Alsatians. Sutton was in the A.I.F. and
the R.A.F, in the last war. He is in the
market for old prints and mss. con-
cerning sporting in Australia, from port-
raits of Carbine to an action picture of
a two-up school. Walter Hutchinson is
an ardent collector of such objects,
already has £40,000-worth, and when he
has a comprehensive collection intends to
present it to the British nation.
Sydney ’Varsity’s Chair of Economics
gets a new occupant in Sydney James
Butlin, following Professor Mills’s ap-
pointment as Commonwealth Director of
Education. The new professor got his
B.Ec. degree in 1932 along with the Uni-
versity medal, the James King Travel-
ling Scholarship and the Denison Miller
Memorial Scholarship. Two years at
Cambridge followed, with vacations spent
at Freiburg University, and on his return
to Sydney he engaged in research work
for the N.S.W. Government Statistician.
Since then he has been lecturer in econo-
mics at Sydney Uni., and in between
times economic adviser to State and Fed-
eral Governments. The Official War
History will include two volumes by
Butlin on the economic side of the show.
Appointed Deputy Harbor Master in
Hobart, Lieut.-Commander C. A. Woods
is a New Zealander who trained in
H.M.S. Conway in Britain and went into
the Merchant Service with Union Steam-
ship. The war found him back in the
Navy, and when the Americans landed in
the Solomons he was on one of the ships
covering the attack. Subsequently he
was on convoy duty in the Atlantic. He
also served at Aden, in the Burma Com-
mand and was present at the liberation
of Singapore.
Exit a mummer:
Mention George Arliss, dead in London at
78, to the first 10 people you meet and nine
of them will murmur “Disraeli.” Arliss had
been acting on stage and screen for 40 years
before he became world famous by forcing the
Governor of the Bank of England, against all
the evidence of history, to buy the Suez Canal,
though he had appeared in the stage play “Dis-
raeli” in New York in 1911. He started his
career at the Elephant and Castle Theatre in
London in 1886, and worked the Provinces for
14 years before his first big London success,
with Mrs. Patrick Campbell in “Mr. and Mrs.
Daventry.” Crossing to New York with Mrs.
Campbell in 1901 he played in “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray,” and for 22 years he was a
leading figure on the American stage. During
this period he played many of the parts which
he later depicted on the screen —Sylvanus Hey-
thorp in “Old English,” the Rajah in “The
Green Goddess,” Alexander Hamilton, and, of
course, Dizzy. His first film, “The Devil,” was
made in 1920, and from 1927 onwards films
were his main activity. Always a competent
actor, the main criticism directed against his
biographical films was that he made Wellingtcrn,
Rothschild, Voltaire, Hamilton and Richelieu
appear in turn as twin brothers of Disraeli; the
filmsmiths were possibly more fo blame for this
than the actor. An English critic once con-
fessed that having seen George Arliss in various
historical parts he was living for the day when
the actor would take the role for which he was
pre-eminently suited, that of Queen Victoria.
Succeeding Brigadier T, E. Weavers as
Commandant of the S.A. L. of C. Area,
Brig, Alexander Moore Forbes moves
over from N.S.W., where he has been
Commandant of the Coast Sydney Fort-
ress. A product of Melbourne Grammar
and Duntroon, he served as artillery staff
officer in World War I, winning his M.C.
In 1938 he organised the unveiling cere-
mony of the Villers-Bret. War Memo-
rial by the King, and as lieut.-col. was
G.S.O. at Keswick Barracks, S.A., when
the flare-up started in ’39. He’s 53.
Major Kenneth J, Frazer, M.C.,
younger son of knight Francis Frazer,
who left Maoriland with the First Eche-
lon, has been appointed to the Colonial
Service with a post in Palestine. Till his
enlistment a member of the staff of the
Bank of New Zealand, he had recently
been the Kiwis’ liaison officer at Allien
headquarters at Cassino.
Speed and travel seem to have been
the guiding influences in the life of H.
(George) Harman, general-manager of
Qantas Empire Airways. The idea of
speed is implicit in the name American
Express Coy., whose Paris house he joined
in 1912. Two years later he was a
lieutenant in the Bedfordshires, but the
Royal Flying Corps beckoned and he
finished World War I as adjutant of 49
Wing of the R.A.F. After a few more
years with the Express Coy. he came to
AIRWAYS.
Australia and looked after Burns Philp s
travel departments in Brisbane and Mel-
bourne. While in Brisbane he was secre-
tary of the Aero Club at the time of
Kingsford Smith’s first Pacific flight, and
he regards Smithy and Ulm as the two
greatest names in Australian flying
history. Harman became secretary of
Qantas in 1930 and has seen the show
grow to its present important position
in Empire aviation.
Tall, lean /and loose-limbed, Vice-
Admiral Sir Piiilip Vian, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
D.S.O. and two bars, Vice-Admiral of
the Carrier Fleet which has been filling
Melbourne with tars, was born in 1894
and began his naval career in the tradi-
tional manner at Dartmouth. He became
a public character in 1940 when he laid
his destroyer, the Cossack, alongside the
German prisonship Altmark in a Nor-
wegian fiord and rescued 300 officers and
men of the British Merchant Service.
The rest of his career reads like a naval
history' of the Second World War. He
was in the Narvik battle ; sank all the
ships in a German convoy making for
Norway in 1941 ; still in the Cossack,
SEA-LANES.
scored several hits on the Bismarck;
while commanding light forces on the
Murmansk front attacked and destroyed
a German escort; took a strenuous part
in the escort of supplies to Tobruk ; en-
gaged an Italian fleet comprising a battle-
ship and six cruisers with five cruisers
and destroyers and beat off the Italians in
a battle lasting five hours, a squadron of
100 Italian aircraft not securing a single
hit; commanded the assault carrier force
at Salerno and the Eastern Task Force
at the Normandy landing; conducted
strikes on Palembang, Sumatra, and in
1945 was striking hard and often at Saki-
shima and Formosa and backing up the
American assault oh Okinawa. Three
months later he was with Halsey pre-
paring the way for the invasion of the
Japanese homeland. The youngest flag
officer at the time, Vian was promoted
Rear Admiral in 1941.
“Zalva” on a healthy Bourbon:
If Don Juan Carlos Teresa Silverio Alfonso,
Count of Barcelona, succeeds in his cherished
hope of clambering into the hot seat of Spain s
vacant throne he will have to thank the lucky
chance that decreed that he alone of Alfonso
Xlll’s four sons should be born free of hemo-
philia. His eldest brother, Alfonso, decided
against the throne when he married a Cuban
beauty in 1933 and renounced the succession.
Divorced, married to another lass from Havana
and again divorced, he was involved in a car
smash in Miami in 1938 and, although only
scratched, bled to death. Second brother,
Jaime, also a bleeder, renounced the succes-
sion in the same year as Alfonso, and the
youngest, Gonzalo (who would have had no
claim, anyway), met his death in the same way
as Alfonso. Now 32, Juan was 17 when revolu-
tion toppled his father from the throne. He
completed his education at Dartmouth Naval
Academy and spent a couple of years in the
R.N. Since his marriage to Maria de las Mer-
cedes de Bourbon Sicily he has lived mainly
in Switzerland. Lately his home has been the
centre of many goings and comings of those
working for the restoration of the monarchy,
and Juan’s recent visit to Lisbon was the cul-
mination of much planning and discussion.
The Spanish crown carries with it a guarantee
of a perpetual headache for its wearer, whom
the insurance , offices would regard as a bad
risk, bleeder or non-bleeder. But the Bourbons
have always been optimists.
E. Phillips Oppenheim, “prince of
storytellers,” had a whole batch of thril-
lers to his credit before Edgar Wallace’s
first murder mysteries started tfye crime-
novel wave that has not yet receded.
Born in 1866, Oppenheim early started
on the string of books, ultimately reach-
ing close on 200, in which jewel thieves,
ambassadors, beautiful womeri spies,
sinister foreign agents, suave big-time
confidence men, aristocratic gamblers and
confiding young heiresses jostled each
other for positions round the tables at
Monte Carlo, in French chateaux, Eng-
lish country houses. Continental courts
and embassies, on Channel steamers or
the Blue Train to the Riviera. Dead in
London in his 80th year, he was turning
out thrillers almost to the finish.
Soldier settlement in Victoria will at
least be in the hands of men who didn’t
learn all they know about the land
textbooks. H. L. Simpson, chairman of'
the Commission, was a farmer and
grazier at Birchip and Berriwillock, has
been president of the Victorian Wheat-
growers’ Association, the Australian
Wheatgrowers’ Federation and the
United Country Party, chairman of the
Farmers’ Debt Adjustment Board and
is a delegate to the Federal Treasury on
land sale price -control. He has also been
a soldier —served with the Fifth Battalion
in France, was wounded twice and won
his commission in 1917. C. L. Locke be-
longs to a family that once owned much
station and farming property in Victoria
and N.S.W. He was in charge of the
family’s stock and land sections until
seven years ago, when he was appointed
buyer and stock officer to the Metro-
politan Board of Works. For the past
two years he has also managed the
board’s farm at Werribee. E. E. Bond
is a dairy-farmer, an ex-schoolmaster,
and for 20 years was M.L.A. for Glenelg,
in the Western District. For 15 years he
was chairman of the Royal Commission
on the dairying industry.
Dr. William Carmac Wilkinson, dead
in London at 88, had a remarkable
number of “firsts” to his credit: One
of the first Australians to be admitted
to the Royal College of Physicians, first
Australian to play county cricket in
England, a representative of Australia on
the council of the first (modern) Olympic
Games, a founder of the Sydney District
Nursing Association and the Queen Vic-
toria Home for Consumptives, and one of
the first Australian doctors to use tetanus
and diphtheria anti-toxins. For a time he
was a member of the N.S.W. Assembly,
and also sat on the Sydney City Council.
He was in England when the 1878 cricket
team went home, and he played with it
in a few matches.
Down in Melbourne for a Seventh
Day Adventist Conference, Sasa Rore is
a Solomon Islander with an interesting
history. Brought up as a cook boy on
Guadalcanal he showed an eagerness for
education, studied hard and became chief
printer and native adviser to the mission
station. Ordained in 1937, he was the
only pastor of his persuasion left on the
island after the Jap invasion. He carried
on his mission in the back country till
the island was reconquered, and boys
trained by him were of great assistance
to the Allied troops.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 83, Julius Augustus Pavy, one
of the most prolific collectors for the Royal
Institution for the Blind. Born at Milang
(S.A.), he was blinded in young manhood m
a mining accident at Bulong, W.A.
In Melbourne, at 80, Henry Ambrose Hunt,
first Commonwealth Meteorologist, who organ-
ised the service in 1907 and retired in 1931.
He had world-wide recognition, and his treatise
on southerly busters, still a textbook, won him
the Abercromby Prize. He invented the Aus-
tralian rain clock, the self-feeding barometric
clock and other devices.
In Melbourne, George Bernard Blake, one
of the best of Australian crosscountry runners
and twice an Olympic Games rep. At Athens
he ran fourth in the 1500 metres, fifth in the
five miles and sixth in the marathon after
getting cramp from an old injury at 16 miles.
He was leading in the 1908 marathon in London
when a cyclist collided with him. In Vic-
torian athletics he held records in afi depart-
ments from one to 10 miles. Two of his records
still stand.
In Brisbane, at 61, Sydney Robert Tyson
Donely, member of an old and well-known
Toowoomba pastoral family and a one-time
leading breeder and racer of trotting horses.
Three of his six sons were killed in the war.
In Melbourne, at 76, Steve Ford, founder
of the Henry Lawson movement in Victoria.
Born at Buangor (Vic.), 1869, went to Zeehan
(Tas), and was the first working miner to be
elected to the Zeehan Town Board. He was a
foundation member of the Bread and Cheese
Club.


VICKERS
GIN
FAMOUS *
SINCE
17 5 0
VICKERS
GIN
NP4S/36
“Wake up Tommy, a little
‘NUGGET’ will
soon make you
as bright as the
others
□
!
For 50 years a GOOD polish
RIGISTCfttD T**o» MAR*
EH
la
dther
vdhve
Pre
‘NUGGET' SHOE POL,SH
SPORTING NOTIONS
Confidently ridden by J. O’Sullivan, Flight
won the mile C. F. Orr Stakes (w.f.a.) in grand
style at Moonee Valley on Saturday. Actually,
it was more a procession than anything, Flight
taking the lead from Tranquil Star soon after
the start and staying in front throughout. Don
Pedro, Amana, Royal Gem and Tranquil Star
were all, in that order, fairly close at the finish,
but Flight was still going easily the best of
them, and may even have had a little in hand.
She equalled the track record, 1.37 i, and that
other four were all very close to it.
Though on the day he mightn’t have beaten,
the winner, Royal Gem looked the unlucky
runner of the high-class field. He missed a
rails run that must have given him a share in
the placings had it come off. Anyway, he seems
certain to have been improved by the race, and
those who made him a 6-to-4 favorite should
soon get their losings back. Don Pedro, at
fours, was also preferred to Flight, who went
out at 9 to 2. There was good backing also
for Tranquil Star, at fives, but it was either an
off day for her or her recent “first-up” win in
sprint company may have been harder on the
old champion than it seemed. A good horse at
his best, Amana showed his best form for a
very long time. Judged by the way he shaped,
Royal Gem should get more than his previously-
favored mile this time up.
“First-up” winners have been something of
a feature of Melbourne racing this year, and
another of them on Saturday was the good
three-year-old Hellespont colt Euxine, who
finished extra strongly to down Tarabar and
Sir Marfield in the Newport Welter. Medicine,
a 5-to-2 favorite, finished a long way back. He
did not go at all well, but he’s a better horse
than his bad run would suggest.
Consistency itself at the Valley, Various made
it three in a row by very easily defeating Chat-
sol and Danfino in the 13-furlongs Wyndham
Handicap, and Securities had his second suc-
cessive win over the jumps, cmnfortably down-
ing Just Jill and Gyrone in the two-miles
Laverton Hurdle. Fugleman, despite a run of
poorish form, was made favorite again for the
Hurdle, a compliment to L. Meenan, with
whom he parted at the last jump, blundering
when moving into second place.
The, Valiant Chief-Lady Madcap colt Brave
Leader got there narrowly from Burka and the
odds-on British Boy in the five-furlongs Electric
Handicap for two-year-olds, and in the two
divisions of the six-furlongs Marine Handicap
Naval Revue defeated Attley and Felstar, and
ageing Phoines was too good for Oxford Street
and Somers. Phoines led all the way. His
form for a long time had been so bad that he
changed hands at a basement-bargain figure.
* * * *
Man and beast who survived the sweltering
heat and dust at Rosehill a week previously
turned out fresh as ever, if in somewhat lesser
numbers, for a cyclonic downpour at Rand-
wick on Saturday, and, come snow, tornado
or 110 in the shade, they’ll no doubt be out
again next Saturday.
The state the track was in can be judged
from Castlereagh’s time for the 10 furlongs
and 19 yards of the Berala Encourage. Hard
pressed to beat Rouge d’Or by a short neck,
Castlereagh (J. Hickey) took 2.171, which is
worse than Beau Vit'e’s Randwick and
Commonwealth record for the exact mile and
a quarter and actually half a second worse
than Mayfowl’s track record for a furlong
further. Mac Scott finished a couple of lengths
behind the first pair, after having the run of
the race.
Oddly enough for such a day, favorites did
what was expected of them in the first three
events, but in the other three, which were the
bigger betting races, it went all the bagswinger’s
way.
The Golden Sovereign filly Royal Court added
full marks for sheer dogged grit to the good
points she had already revealecf in winning at
three of her previous four starts and running
second on the odd occasion. Ridden by A.
Mulley, who’s having an exceedingly good run
of late, the filly was a warm favorite at
7 to 4 for the five-furlongs Collingwood Handi-
cap for two-year-old fillies, but as much as
threes had been on offer —a surprisingly good
price and probably due to underestimation of
her ability to cany 9.6 successfully in the
heavy going. Royal Court left the barrier well,
in company with the Le Grand Due filly Ana-
stacia, who has been showing promise. There-
after it was a two-horse race, and, though
two or three times in the run home the 291 b.
difference in the weights seemed to be telling
on the favorite, the judge could not separate
them at the post; Murmur (Midstream-Idle
Words) was third.
Tire other favorite to score before the rot set
in was Lucky Escape, ridden a nice even race
by W. Cook, to lead Concerto and Grand
Flight past the post in the Ingleburn Handi-
cap of five and a half furlongs. The winner
was receiving a stone in the weights from
Concerto and just lasted out to beat that Mid-
stream colt by a half-head.
Not usually regarded as a sprinter and ridden
by a not-well-known Melbourne lad (R. Cann),
Sydney Cup winner Craigie was reckoned a
15-to-l chance over seven furlongs in the Glen-
field Handicap. Last after they had covered
half the trip and still near the tail of the field
coming into the straight, he looked a bad bet at
100 to 1, but he surprised by unwinding a
great finish down the outside and won com-
fortably from Craftsman, equal favorite with
Barnsley and Warlock, who both finished down
the track. Silverelda was third, showing signs
of reproducing some of the brilliant work she
does in training. Craftsman is one of those
rough and rugged Queensland gallopers who
look as if they have had more than a passing
familiarity with a diet of pineapple tops. He
has won at Randwick and may do so again.
There were seven starters for the Warwick
February Handicap of a shade over a mile and
a half, and five of them were preferred in the
betting to Four Square, a four-year-pld Mr.
Standfast-Spear Queen mare, only recently
emerged from Novice company. Carrying the
minimum weight (7st.) and ridden by G. Pod-
more, Four Square settled down in front,
shared the lead with Thanks America over the
middle half mile, then again went clear and
held on for an easy win; three lengths to Idle
Chatter and a further couple of lengths to
Shining Night. Four Square’s time,
was also 16isec. outside Beau Vite’s best
Randwick time for that distance and three
seconds worse than the course record for a
furlong further.
Bookmakers wound up a profitable day
when the 25-to-l Granite (E. Doon) got up in
the last stride to down the heavily-backed
Felberta, with Plimsol next best.
**, • * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—•
Two-year-old: Smooth Action, 1; Te Tana,
2, Lucky Escape, 3. Maiden (fixed weight's):
King Lear, 1; Kiama, 2; Pearler, 3. Flying:
Cold Shower, 1; Hall Stand, 2; Cargeonel, 3.
Three-and-four-year-old: Lunar, 1; Asset, 2;
Right Royal, 3. S.T.C. Handicap; Chaytor, 1;
Britannic, 2; War Eagle, 3. Parramatta Welter:
Peter Con, 1; Air Link, 2; Puffbam, 3.
Bernborough has been given not merely a
good but a great horse’s weight in the New-
market, 9.13. The last to succeed with 9st. or
better was Ajax, who, at his very top, carried
9st. to victory nine years ago. It is 16 years
since Greenline won with 10.2, and a couple
of years before that Gothic, with 9.10, won for
the second year in succession. Heroic (9.8)
was the only other winner with over the 9st.
mark in the past quarter of a century, so Bern-
borough’s three brilliant Randwick wins—
Villiers, Carrington and Australia Day Handi-
cap ; all with over 9st. and in very fast times
—must have greatly impressed tire handicapper.
If Bernborough proves as good as all that—
giving weight to such performers as St. Fairy,
Sleepy Fox, Flight, David’s Last, Versailles,
Bootle, Amana and so on—it will seem all the
more a pity that his years of previous racing
were restricted to Toowoomba, especially so
on the side of his sire, Emborough, who could
have had much better opportunities.
The Newmarket is down for March 2, with
the Australian Cup for the next week-end.
Russia heads the Cup weights with 9.5, giving
lib. to Craigie and more to such as Peter, the
consistent Various, favorite Don Pedro, Similar,
Oatcake, Logical and others. Strange but true,
Prince Buzzard gives weight to half the field!
It is close on 20 years since 9st. or better was
carried to victory in the Cup. That fine stayer
Spearfelt managed it with the huge burden of
9.13 in 1927. Mostly its winners throughout its
long history have carried less than 8.7.
* * * *
As in Australia, the photo-finish is to be
tried out in England this year. In America in
1944 it recorded no fewer than 293 dead-heats.
Its most unusual picture of the latest U.S.
season was of a double dead-heat in a
four-horse race on the Jamaica track, Pindus
and Omamax crossing the line together first,
with the other pair, Oatmeal and Petrol Point,
also exactly even; winning margin, three lengths.
Incidentally, a main argument trotted out in
Sydney papers in their clamoring for the intro-
duction of photo-finish has been that it would
reduce the number of dead-heat results. On
the American experience it could have the
directly opposite effect. For example, the 293
dead-heats in 1944 compare strangely with the
“all-time low” of one dead-heat back in pre-
photo-finish 1919.
* * * «
London “Times” reports a horserace af Wind-
sor; “Only three runners appeared for the
Athens Selling Steeplechase, all of them with
bad or no form to their credit. There followed
a most farcical race. Sandown was made
favorite, but jumped his jockey out of the
saddle at the first fence. Roman Law and
Never Mind II went on until they reached the
water, where Roman Law fell. Never Mind II
laboriously clambered over the jumps until he
came to the fourth last, where he refused.
Meanwhile Mitchell had remounted Roman
Law, but when he joined Never Mind 11, who
was still declining, he also refused. After re-
peated attempts Never Mind II was ridden back
to the paddock. Roman Law stayed rather
longer but maintained an obstinate demeanor
to the last. The thrill of the race was still*to
follow. Never Mind II was sent back by his
trainer to try again and he cantered rapidly
down through the crowd, who were now throng-
ing the course in high good humor. His jockey
got him over at the first attempt only to fall
at the second-last fence. Stothard held his
horse, remounted, and jumped the remaining
obstacle, eventually being declared the winner.
The time taken for the two-mile race was
llmin. 2Escc.”
• * • *
N.S.W. reps. had. much the best of it
in the men’s section of the Australian
swimming championships in Melbourne,
R. Milgate winning the 110 yd. back-
stroke from Bourke and Bassingthwaighte
(both also of N.S.W.), A. Beard taking
the 220 yd. freestyle from Johnson and
O’Neill (all N.S.W.), and the State also
winning in the relay and collecting the
Kieran Shield with eight points to Vic-
toria’s three and S.A. and W.A. one each.
In the women’s events N. Lyons and D.
Spencer, both of Queensland, respectively
won the 220 yd. breaststroke and 220 yd.
freestyle, and that State collected the Cor-
bett shield. Victoria was strongest in
divers, R. Huston winning the men’s
junior and I. Ellington taking the women’s
section.
# * * #
The Services ended their Australian pro-
gramme in Tasmania, in a happy effort to get
at least one victory. They led 459 to 362 on
the first innings, and, closing af 194 for six
wickets, got nine of Tas. out for 166 when time
was up. The match was a thriller to the end,
quite a picnic affair, and played in fine spirit.
Thomas, making a debut for Tasmania, scored
164, the best against Services in Australia; and
Morrisby’s 82 and 50 lifted him among the few
who have scored 1000 runs in Tasmanian first-
class cricket, Pepper took nine for 142.
Many of the Services team have excellent
tour figures. Those who topped the thousand
runs were Hassett 2632, av. 51.60; Miller 2376,
av. 48.48; Whitington 2076, av. 35.9; Pepper
1587, av. 29.94; Price 1146, av. 27.95;
Pettiford 1040, av. 24.19; Cristofani 1023,
av. 24.95. Pepper got 161 wickets, Ellis
124, Cristofani 87 and Price 86. Forty-
three first-class matches were played: 27 (23
won, four lost) in England; 10 (two won,
two lost, six drawn) in India, and six (two
lost, four drawn) in Australia.
South Australia pumped some much-needed
ginger into the second innings v. Queensland
at Brisbane, piling up 351 (their second highest
this year—the other also against Q., at Ade-
laide). All the side got double figures except
Craig (8). Hamence’s 76 was his highest
score this season. Making 101 in their second
knock, Q. won by five wickets. Dooland (6
for 163) lifted his bowling figures to 31 av.
28.21 —a good first-year’s effort in big cricket.
South Aus. has gone down in all five matches
this season, twice to N.S.W. and Q., and once
to Victoria, but the side includes 10 players
with no previous inter-State experience.
Rain dampened what promised a most
interesting match between N.S.W. and Victoria.
This season the southerners had defeated
N.S.W., Q„ and S.A.; while N.S.W. had wins
over S.A. (twice) and Q. and had lost to Vic.
and Q. Winning the toss, the Victorians gave
a mixture of good and mediocre batting. The
early players crashed, and four were out for
56, but Stackpole (70) and Beames (59) added
121 for the fifth wicket in 75 min., and I.
Johnson (70), with the help of the tail-enders,
lifted the total to 291 in 257 minutes. Left-
hander Toshack (despite an injured hand) again
bowled finely, his figures being 23.2 overs, 9
maidens, 50 runs, 4 wickets; fast-bowler Lind-
wall m 17 overs took 3 for 91; O’Reilly’s bag
was only 2 for 76. Stackpole’s “sixer” off
O’Reilly was the gem of the day. On Monday
Freer, medium-pace, with some variety, had a
wicket to suit him, and, with jthe best of the
side out for small scores, N.S.W. was soon
struggling.
“Off-Spinner”: Comment attributed to R. L.
Jones, onetime; Australian selector; “Toshack
is too mechanical. He should concentrate on
varying his pace and flight in addition to attack-
ing the stumps more often. He should pit his
wits against the batsmen, think more, and be
in less of a hurry to bowl.” Toshack’s excel-
lent marathon efforts this season would seem a
fair sort of answer—2B3.6 overs, 64 maidens,
35 wickets (12 clean bowled, 16 caught and
seven leg-before-wicket), av. 18.82.
* * * *
“Old ’Un” looks back:
, There’s a fine story behind the addendum
(B. 16/1/’46) that “Dave Gregory’s team which
toured England in 1878.... was not regarded as
a representative side.” The team contained the
best Australian cricketers who had played
against Lilly white’s XI in 1877, and against
Lord Harris’s XI in 1878-79. The idea of the
1878 tour was launched by John Conway, of
Victoria. The Colonial Cricket Association
turned it down as impracticable, but the players
subscribed £5O each and matches were played
in Australia to help the funds. The tourists
were Dave Gregory (capt.), Alee and Charlie
Bannerman, Spofforth, and Tom Garrett
(N.S.W.); F. Allan, T. Horan, H. Boyle, W.
Midwinter and J. Blackham (Vic.); and G.
Bailey (Tas.). H. N. Tennant (Kent) gave the
team a hand in England. When the City of
Sydney left for England on March 29, 1878,
there were only a few friends to farewell them;
but after the team had its great nine-wickets
win over M.C.C. at Lords on May 27, 1878,
it was another story. In that match M.C.C.
scored 33 and 19; Gregory’s XI 41 and one for
12. Spofforth took 11 wickets for 20, Boyle
eight for 17 and Allan one for 12. The team
played 37 matches (won 18, lost seven, drew
12); 20 against odds, up to XXII v. Birming-
ham, Crewe and Buxton. The team’s return in
the City of New York on Nov. 25, 1878, was
marked by presentations and by a banquet at
which Governor Robinson was present.
* * * *
In a featherweight tussle at Leichhardt
Ted Sprouster was decidedly superior to
Joe Bissaker, as was evident almost from
the first bell. Before they had gone half-
way it was clear that Bissaker’s only
way to success lay in landing a knockout.
He could never bring it off,
Joe Hall, a veteran with a chequered
history, gave a sterling display against
Bobby Fuller at Sydney Stadium. In a
long battle of left hands. Hall’s weapon
was decidedly superior, and he landed a
number of solid rights for good measure.
Fuller was cautioned four times —twice
for using rabbit-killers, and twice for
hitting in the breakaway. These lapses
contributed to Hall’s long lead, which
was duly recognised by the referee.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
There was glorious sunshine for the
march of the men of Shropshire, Australia
and other vessels now in port. The R.A.N.
combined band led the column, and the
commanding officer of Shropshire, Cap-
tain Nichols, was behind the color party.
There were thousands of people to see
the march, and “all the nice girls” to
cheer and rain confetti from the windows
of buildings. Lieut.-Governor Edmund
Herring took the salute at the Town
Hall steps, and the portico above
was filled with guests, among them repre-
sentatives of the three services.
At night the Governor, Sir Winston
Dugan, and Lady Dugan entertained offi-
cers of the R.A.N. and the R.N. A cere-
monial roll of drums announced the
arrival of the vice-regal party, but the
Governor, still recovering from his recent
accident, was not present. Knight Edmund
Herring was with Lady Dugan, who was
wearing a gown in her favorite blue, a
bouffant skirt of Pervenche blue silk over
matching taffeta, the long tunic blouse
of blue and silver lame. Government
House ballroom, with its brilliant blue
velvet hangings and upholstery, made a
delightful background for the uniforms
of the men and brilliant colorings of the
women’s frocks. Grouped against
the walls at intervals were tall bam-
boos, maples and other foliage. Long
buffet tables, decorated with large silver
bowls of mixed gay flowers, were arranged
on both sides of the ballroom. In the
musicians’ gallery the R.A.N. band played
soft music.
Dinner gowns were chosen by most of
the guests. Commodore Collins and his
mother were among the guests. Her black
frock was finished at the neckline with an
ivory lace bertha, sewn with opalescent
sequins. There was a sprinkling of the
younger set. Lysbeth Boyd, attractive in
a flame linen bolero dinner suit, added a
shoulder posy of, frangipanni for contrast.
Ruth Colman chose a pastel-blue crepe
dinner skirt and a filmy blouse of hail-
spot muslin in white. Felicity Harrison’s
frock was of japonica pink crepe. White is
once again the color for evening wear.
Dawn Austin’s long white frock went with
her gardenias. Joan Austin favored a
dinner frock of turquoise blue crepe, and
Margaret Wiltshire’s full-skirted ice-blue
crepe featured full sleeves and square
neckline.
A happy luncheon party at the Aus-
tralia finalised plans for the first big ball
of the season, to benefit the Children’s
Hospital. Miss Ella Payne, Mrs. Ernest
Poolman, smart in a navy-blue ensemble
and with a small flower-trimmed navy
hat, and Mrs. G. I. Stevenson were the
hostesses. Mrs. Stevenson’s delightful
ice-blue wool frock was ornamented with
one diamond clip and worn with a
matching upturned hat in fine straw. The
three have formed a special ball com-
mittee for the do which is set down for
March 1 in the St. Kilda Town Hall.
Ruth Colman, who was wearing a smart
grey suit with a pale beige straw boater
trimmed with wine-red ribbon, and Feli-
city Harrison, in a floral frock, gaily pat-
terned, worn under a navy-blue coat and
with a small navy hat, are ticket secre-
taries. Other members of the committee
are Mrs. Edgar Rouse and Mrs. H.
Douglas Stephens. Tickets are £1 10s.
each, and Charles Taylor’s band will look
after the music for the dancers. The
Murdoch lady and Mrs. Geoffrey Grim-
wade are in charge of the decorations.
South Melbourne City Council was
among the earliest in Victoria to take an
interest in infant welfare. In 1918 the
Council appointed a nurse and opened an
infant welfare centre at the Town Hall.
There now are three centres in the muni-
cipality. Last year 1583 children up to
the age of two received attention. At the
request of the Women’s Hospital, the
Council has set up an ante-natal clinic
so that expectant mothers may avoid the
discomforts of travelling and long periods
of waiting at the hospital clinic. “It
is, indeed, a pleasure,” Lady Dugan
said, “to open such a wonderful clinic.”
An attractive and unusual feature of the
waiting room is the gay and colorful
murals. Sister artists Esther and Betty
Paterson gave up much of their valuable
time to paint the murals and the lamp-
shades as a memorial to their parents.
One wall shows a group of nursery rhyme
people: Little Boy Blue blowing his horn,
Tommy Tucker singing for his supper,
Mary with her little lamb and Little Miss
Muffet serenely eating her curds and
whey. The lampshades repeat the nursery-
rhyme motif. On behalf of the sisters
Rev. E. Petherick, a cousin of the Pater-
son girls, presented the murals to the
Council.
There was a large audience for the
opening. The Mayor of South Mel-
bourne, Cr. Wells, and the Mayoress wel-
comed Lady Dugan, who chose a navy
blue and white patterned frock and
covered it with a matching blue coat. A
large navy and white straw hat completed
the ensemble. Accompanying Lady
Dugan, Mary Lisle Johnson was also in
navy blue, a white jabot relieving the
plainness of her frock. Esther Paterson,
in private life Mrs. George Gill, wore a
dusty pink and white patterned frock
and a hyacinth-blue coat. She topped
her outfit with a small floral hat in pink
and blue. Sister Betty, pictured here,
also chose a pink and white patterned
coat, contrasted by a beige coat and small
hat of blue flowers. The C.J.’s wife was
interested, having had much to do with
the early foundation of the clinic. Slim,
fair-haired Barbara Newman, daughter of
Betty Paterson, was present with her uncle.
Commander George Gill, who is now
out of uniform and busy with a history
of the R.A.N. during the war. Beverley
Hampton’s becoming cornflower-blue
frock was made more attractive by a tiny
matching blue straw, flower-trimmed hat.
She was with her aunt, Mrs. Roger Fair-
baim, smart in black with a small black
silk straw and velvet ribbon hat com-
pleting her ensemble.
John Lee’s exhibition of photographs
at George’s Gallery has convinced Mel-
bourne that Sydney is full of beautiful
women. The collection is attracting even
more attention than Dobell’s pictures did
recently, and it is enhanced by the pre-
sence of one of the beautiful models —
Betty Dawes. The exhibition should
net the Food for Britain appeal a pretty
penny. The heat was stifling for the
opening and the crowd a big one. Gladis
Griswold sported an original model by
Schiaparelli, and in a happy speech in-
ferred the camera never lied.
Every pretty girl in Melbourne turned
up to see her beautiful Sydney sisters.
Among the younger-set were the former
Pam Forster, now Mrs. Ned Holland, in
sea-green jersey, flower-printed frbck and
large black straw. Another pretty young
married, Mrs. Dudley Laughlan, was in
a pale shell-pink jersey frock and small
matching straw hat, heaped high with
pastel-pink flowers. Rita Findlay set
off her pale beige crepe frock with a
brown straw with a crown of gay field
flowers. With Ann (“Dear Ruth”) Lin-
coln was “hero” of “Dear Ruth,” Everett
Ball. Alison Syme added nut-brown
accessories to her grey suit, and Mrs.
John Heath dressed for the weather in a
cool grey-and-white patterned frock and
large white hat. Wife of the photo-
grapher, Mrs. John Lee chose a long tunic
blouse of aqua-green crepe with her
black skirt and a Minerva helmet of
matching green and cyclamen feathers.
Inez Lillies, smart in black, had used a
little bit of veiling to turn a black hom-
burg hat of her father’s into a smart
chapeau. Two photographs are out-
standing in the collection: one of
H.R.H. the Duchess of Gloucester, and
the other of Lady Wakehurst.
From Sydney
One of the first afternoon parties of
the year given by Sydney’s Lady Mayor-
ess is always to the Press. Generally
only women scribes are invited, but last
week the Town Hall reception rooms
saw male and female of the species sip-
ping cool drinks with a dash, from four-
thirty onwards. Lord Mayor Bartley
was there, too, and he had brought some
of his friends who were not galley slaves,
radio stars, or film personalities, but who
were adept at passing savory and sand-
wich, It was a happy party, and news-
paper people had the feeling that they
had downed tools for a good cause. Mrs.
Bartley’s hat was small, white and very
becoming.
While Britain is being the target of
still more ungrateful criticism, it is well
to remember how long was her struggle,
how uncomplaining her people, whose lot
is still a hard one. Here is a line from
a letter written on the first of this year:
This winter and this peace are not proving
very pleasant so far. Life seems even more
full of slings and stones than when the battle
was raging, but the lovely feeling that young
and precious lives are not being thrown away,
every day and every minute, makes up for all
our comparatively minor deprivations and hard-
ships. One of these is that the Powers do not'
seem to understand that children grow, or that
they must be shod. The result is that a good
deal of time is spent running around the shops
almost begging for footwear for them. They
will have to resort to bare feet if something
is not done 500 n....
Poetess Marie E. J. Pitt is very proud
that her lyric “Ave, Australia,” which
won first prize in a recent A.B.C. lyric
competition, was set to music by Canadian
conductor Sir Ernest McMillan, before
he left this country. Knight Robert Gar-
ran, also, in the once secluded, almost
Wordsworthian atmosphere of Canberra,
has set the song to very fine music. This
is being published by Nicholson’s here
in Sydney.
If the girls of this State sag physically
or mentally it is certainly not the fault
of the Y.W.C.A. The association from
its headquarters in Liverpool-street has
issued a programme for 1946 that includes
everything maiden, wife or mother could
seek, from handicrafts to- reducing exer-
cises. The seeker after knowledge
can also take languages, fencing,
modern expressive dancing, bridge,
first aid, public speaking, play-acting and
almost any other subject her heart desires.
Last week’s Y.W. spotlight was thrown
on the three-weeks’ course for recreation
workers, and hostel and cafeteria super-
visors which was opened by Mrs. F. D.
Stafford, of the board of Y.W. There are
16 girls attending this pre-employ-
ment and staff course. The objective of
this is to turn out trained and profes-
sional leaders Students come from all
over the Commonwealth. One is a
Canadian, bride of a former member of
the R.A.A.F.
The Society of Arts and Crafts has
, stepped into the New Year with studio
classes in design and color. Mrs.
Hunter White, of Double Bay, has gen-
erously lent the society the billiard room
opening on to the stone-paved courtyard
bordered by azaleas at the top of her
garden (the picturesque premises were
originally the stables of the old home).
Here Mrs. A. Gillmore Rees takes the
classes. Later the society also aims at
founding a craft training college with a
three-year diploma course. In the mean-
time the lecture classes are proving very
popular; so is the correspondence
course in design and color which is
directed by Mrs. Rees and which already
has students as far away as Bourke. Mrs.
Rees trained in London at the Central
School of Arts and Crafts and studied
painting in Paris. She taught at the
London Institute of Education, London
University and at the London County
Council Women’s Evening Institute.
During the war she did good work with
the Red Cross in teaching and lecturing
on crafts to classes of voluntary helpers.
Norton Trevaire photograph of Mrs.
Rees.
Diana Beatrice Harvey Sutton and
Flight-Lieutenant David Frederick Roe,
of Perth (W.A.), are among the newly-
engaged. Diana’s parents are Professor
and Mrs. Harvey Sutton, of Rose Bay.
The Professor is Director of the School
of Public Health and Tropical Medicine
at Sydney University.
Sydney is going to miss the Alexander
Gordon lady. Apart from her Red Cross
activities, which have been tireless and
unnumbered since the first note of the
war gong, she has a place in the art world
of this city which is unique. When she
goes off, as she soon does, to visit
daughter Anne (Mrs. D. Kynaston
Lloyd) and her two children in Chelsea,
London, the feeling of loss is going to
be out of all proportion to the lady’s size.
She is so vital, so full of energy and
driving power that only a native of Wales
could tuck it all into five-foot-two or
thereabouts. This splendid Sydneyite has
presided on innumerable committees for
the benefit of her fellows. She has ever
been the friend to the musician, always
ready to espouse the cause of young
talent. She has been president of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestral Committee
for 10 years, and in her honor there is
to be a grand farewell tea-drinking
arranged by this committee. The party
will be in the drawingroom of the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms in Bligh-street at
half-past three next Friday.
Lois Bateman became the wife of
Flight-Lieutenant Clem Walsh last Satur-
day in St. Brigid’s Church, Marrickville-
Lois’s parents are the E. P. Batemans,
of Katoomba, ’groom’s father and
mother are Colonel and Mrs. C. R.
Walsh, of Newcastle. Five ’maids in
white organdie followed the bridal white
satin and tulle. Dr. Walsh’s supporters
were all servicemen. Best man John
Thorpe got down from Borneo a week qgo.
Week-end wedding also for Pat Mere-
wether and Lieutenant Herbert Ward,
A.I.F, The two were wed at All Saints’,
Woollahra. Future home will be at
Cudal. Diedre Edols, of Forbes, attended
the bride.
Two country families who have been
close friends for many years are soon
to be linked by marriage. The engage-
ment is announced of Elizabeth Milne
Love, youngest daughter of the R. B.
Loves, of Yarrabundie, Trundle, and
former p.-0.-w. Douglas Albert Shannon,
youngest son of the A- J. H. Shannons, of
Marilba, Bowning.
Elizabeth Larke has been appointed
Director of this State’s Junior Red Cross.
Elizabeth was one of the first Australian
Red Cross workers to go overseas. She
took her pleasant smile to the Middle East
in April, 1940, and she rose to the position
of Commandant of women Red Cross
personnel, and was mentioned in dis-
patches. Later she served in Atherton,
N.Q., and in New Guinea, and then
in England and in Italy working on the
repatriation of p.-0.-w.
Guest of honor at the Institute of
Journalists’ lunch in the State Ballroom
on Friday next will be Major George
Caiger. The major should have a very
interesting line of talk. He lived in Japan
for a number of years before the war.
During that time he wrote much and
often about the country and its people.
One who openly admits to not having
read Major Caiger’s writings prior to
Pearl Harbor is keenly interested in
knowing whether the soldier saw the
smiling, bowing kimono-clad nation
as the sadistic sub-humans their brief
hour of triumph proved them. The
Major served with distinction in the
Australian Army throughout the War,
and at its conclusion held a position on
General MacArthur’s H.Q. staff in Tokyo
up to the time of his; recent return to
Australia
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is wear-
ing a string of jet and carrying a black
suede handbag in mourning for two old
beaux she never met: George Arliss and
E. Phillips Oppenheim. She says those two
had the key to a world of elegance in
speech, action and dress which she her-
self has never found among the humans
of her acquaintance. Of all the George
Arliss films she had seen Alexander
Hamilton ranks the highest. Not be-
cause of its story, but because of the
grace with which George Arliss managed
the lace ruffles at his wrist, the ineffable
air with which he presented a lady with
a cup of tea. Oppenheim might write
about crime, she points out, but crime in
the South of France when that was the
millionaires’ playground does not offend
by crudity. His adventuresses, too, had,
in addition to good clothes, good man-
ners. Never once to her knowledge did
man or woman of his creation stain the
lips with cheap gin! Theirs were the
days of kings incognito. Empire building,
Crown jewels.
Their men weren’t worried over the
scarcity of suitings, the “this year, next
year, sometime” appointment with the
tailor, the quest for sherry or Scotch.
Their women didn’t have to shriek over
the matter of bread, milk and ice zoning
and food deliveries. Through them the
world can treasure the mental pictures
of rich food, sleek clothes, golden wines
just like one treasures photographs of
other days in the family album.


EDWARD LUMLEYASONS PTYLTD
The oldest and largest Insurance IJrokers in the
Southern Hemisphere effecting insurances at—
V
V
BULWARK OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY
FOR TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEARS
During the two hundred and fifty years of its
Insurance history, Lloyd’s of London has become
one of the most important factors in developing
and expanding trade and commerce between the
nations of the world. It has given security to
international ventures of the first magnitude. It
has provided protection for public and private
undertakings of every description. You, too, can
enjoy the benefits of a Lloyd’s policy by placing
your insurance with its oldest and largest brokers
in the Southern Hemisphere. If your present
policy needs revising, we will be pleased to do
this for you free and without obligation.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PT Y. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SONS PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle; 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
BRISBANE; A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace. Hobart:
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
NEW ZEALAND, and EDWARD LUMLEY INC., LONDON, NEW YORK, BASIS,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogaa blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers; Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
irom all
iStorekeepers through-
out Australia.
d
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
-
fd
When wonderful,
world-wide Radio Pro-
grammes sweep away
the memories of war and brighten your
well-earned leisure —how important then,
to have
“His Master’s Voice”
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (In c. in England). HOMEBUSH, N.S/tf.
SMOKE-OH!
Some of these old goats are very easy
to kid to.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Queensland bawling was unimpressive early
in perfect weather on a good wicket.” — “Sun.”
Barracking became more vociferous
later on.
4* 4v 4* . 4*
“A baby was born by telephone in the
Orange Free State (South Africa).”
—Daily paper.
Evidently the stork got the right
number.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The girls plied her with questions, lapped
up all the details with their coffee and dessert.”
—“New Idea.’’’
Absorbed in the menu.
“Wanted to buy second-hand wire netting,
ex p.-0.-w.” —Suburban paper.
Feeling the weight of too much liberty?
, “Clothes made from smoke.”
—Scientific item.
But still they may have their draw-
backs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
She thought that counterpoise was the
attitude adopted by salesmen and
-women when they approached a cus-
tomer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For Sale: Cyclops tricycle and nice child’s
stroller.”— “S.M.H.”
Every mother thinks her own goose
a swan,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Don’t squander your emotional resources.”
—“New Idea.”
Or you’ll feel all spent.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Black pug dog lost, answers to name of
Jacky.” —Suburban paper.
Gone walkabout?
“Corner wardrobe, skeleton, good cond.”
“S.M.H.’'’
Too flash to stop in the cupboard, eh?
4* .4* 4* 4*
‘‘Casual oyster opener, Sat. nights.”
—‘‘SM.Hr
He doesn’t give a damn how much grit
gets in.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
‘‘Two pieces skunk fur, each approx. 20 x
10 in. What offers?” — “S.M.H.” for sale advt.
Skunks with torn and shabby skins will
go for this.
“Lost, Tues. night, white gold lady’s wristlet
watch.” —Suburban paper.
She had caraty hair?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Modern marriage: a contract beginning
with a courtship and ending with a court
case.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Wouldn’t It?
The tram was waiting at the terminus
as I came around the corner. Now, I
had been caught before by tearing up
the hill, only to find that the tram didn’t
leave for another 10 minutes, so this time
I strolled up.
When I was within 30 yards of it the
starter blew his whistle. I broke into a
run. With 15 yards to go the troub.
adjusted his bag, stepped on to the foot-
board and jerked the bellcord. As the
tram moved off and the troub. glanced
idly down the street up which I was
running, I waved and made a final dash.
I missed the rear stanchion by about
five feet.
As the tram sped around a bend I
walked to the waiting shed. The starter
grinned. “Those new corridor-types are
fast off the mark, right enough,” he
observed. “Can’t make that last burst
now like you could 10 years ago, eh?
Ah, well, the old Anno Domini catches
up on all of us. Next one’s in quarter
of an hour.”
It left 20 minutes later. It might have
left only three minutes behind time, but
just before the starter blew his whistle
the troub. began rolling a cigarette. After
having finished it, he couldn’t be expected
to park it behind his ear. As it was, he
and the driver had to postpone the solv-
ing of pressing national problems until
the end of the trip.
Naturally it followed that we must call
into the depot en route to change trams.
The question has often been voiced by
harassed travellers on Government
vehicles: Why must they change trams
only when they are running late? The an-
swer is, of course, by the Socratic method
of asking another question; What other
way do they run?
Still, even the five-minute delay en-
tailed by waiting while they waited for a
relieving troub. to turn up didn’t shake
my composure. The tram I had missed
would, theoretically, have allowed me to
connect with a train at Dewhurst. The
next train didn’t go for half an hour, and
if we made ordinary time I’d still have
time to burn.
The tram continued, like Pope’s alex-
andrine, to “drag its slow length along,”
and as we at last reached the train-
connecting point I glanced at my watch
and sighed with relief—I still had three
minutes for the train. Then I looked at
the deserted platform and at the two red
lights where there should have been green
ones and my heart sank. I approached a
porter. Yes, the train had gone about a
minute before. To my caustic remarks
that it was now 10.36 by the station clock
and my own watch, and that the train
was due to leave at 10.38, he scratched
his head and said, “Well, whaddaya
know! Yet,” he went on triumphantly,
“there’s some o’ those cows who com-
plain we’re always running late. Any-
way, you’re right for the next —goes at
11.8.”
Miraculously the 11.8 departed on time.
It was due at Daisyville, where I was to
pick up a Government ’bus, at 11.17.
Right on the tick of 11.19 the train pulled
in. I observed with gratification the ’bus
still waiting. I hurried up the steps,
dashed out of the barrier and along the
overhead bridge on to the street, to see
the rear of the ’bus 20 yards off and
gathering speed. My frantic yell prob-
ably would have been heard by the con-
ductress if she hadn’t been gazing rap-
turously at a poster carrying a large
closeup of Van Johnson.
The next ’bus came along just on an
hour later, at 12.17. I asked the driver
wasn’t there one at 11.47. “No, it’s bin
cut out,” he said, curtly. Apparently he
had something on his mind. It wasn't
to do with his trip. After all, he wouldn’t
need to sling it into gear and get away
until the passengers from the next train
were halfway up the steps. But he
seemed bursting to tell me something.
At last he pulled from 'his pocket a
couple of paint sample cards. “Coin’
to paint me joint,” he said at last. “Y’
know, some o’ these private firms are
muddlers. I wrote and asked ’em to send
me a sample card. Two of ’em come
along. Suppose they got two blokes
handlin’ the work an’ they overlap. Y’
know, firms like that ought to be nation-
alised. Trouble with ’em, o’ course, is
there’s no co-ordination!”
Bo.
Alibi.
“A Detroit woman, who had 14 bullets
hidden in her brassiere, told police she bad
no idea how they got there.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The sanctum, hallowed by tradition,
Which womenfolk were wont to use
To hide illicit “billy-doos”"
Was once immune from inquisition ;
But obviously no inhibition
Confronts a searcher when the clues
Point clearly to a woman whose
Corsage is stuffed with ammunition.
But still, though sceptics would suggest
She might to violence be goaded
By all that ordnance on her chest,
The lady tried a dodge new-moded —•
In short, elected to protest
She didn’t know the bra. was loaded.
P. M. LUSK.
Trouble Transferred.
“Tired feet are often the cause of general
fatigue.” — “Sun*
Her feet, I suppose.
Were quite tired. But, damn I
The fatigue was alt mine,
For I let her recline
On my seat in the tram.
O’HELL.
Radio Fiend’s Epitaph.
An ardent worshipper of Noise
Is lying here below :
She used to play
By night and day
A howling radio.
One day the radio went bung,
And, through this trick of fate.
She had to sit
And think a bit.....
The strain was far too great.
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
New Land Tax
A new type of land tax under which
the people who receive the “direct bene-
fit” of water supply and other develop-
mental works (i.e., the landholders) would
pay is envisaged by Victorian Lands and
Water Supply Minister Galvin. Levied
on land values, it would meet interest
charges on such works. This is about the
craziest suggestion I’ve heard, even from
a Labor Minister.
It boils down to this: if taxes are to
be levied on the basis of “direct benefit”
countrymen ought to be relieved of much
of their present burden. Outback land-
holders pay taxes for police protection,
rail services and public institutions such
as universities and libraries, many of
which they never or rarely utilise. If the
landholders have to bear the burden of
developmental work alone, logically they
should be relieved of much of the load
they at present carry, with little benefit
to themselves.
If the Hume Weir and other big water
conservation schemes had had to wait
until landholders affected could meet the
interest charges on these works Australia’s
rural development would have been held
back 50 or 100 years. And who will
doubt that the whole population benefits
from these undertakings?
Would Mr. Galvin be prepared to allow
those who transform our arid, drought-
stricken inland into a productive vine-
yard a free, unrestricted market for the
fruits of their enterprise? There would
be an immediate outcry at the very sug-
gestion. His trade-union supporters would
then have to pay higher than they have
ever paid through taxation for such de-
velopment.—Nilsa (Vic.).
Uncollected Tram Fares
Under present conditions no conductor,
unless supernaturally endowed, could pos-
sibly collect all the fares the Sydney public
is willing to pay. The ratio of takings
to employees (all employees, not merely
conductors) has increased from £420 to
£435 a year over the war years, despite
a decrease in the number of conductors.
There is only one cure for the loss of
revenue: street assistants at vulnerable
points, well known in the Transport De-
partment. Unfortunately Head Office
dislikes the idea of street assistants. Any
conductor can collect £1 an hour ; a good
one 50 p.c. more. Good or bad, they cost
3s. an hour on an average. The arith-
metic of the problem indicates that it
would be good business to employ more
conductors or otherwise increase the effi-
ciency of fare-collection. — Keg (N.S.W.).
The Great Beer Mystery
My hopes soared when I read in my
Sydney evening paper for January 24 that
Minister for Customs Keane had
authorised a 25 p.c. increase in the beer
ration for the next three months, the
responsibility for making all or part of
the increase available resting on the
brewers. Immediately, in my foolish opti-
mism, I visualised a slight improvement
in the drinking conditions prevalent in
the Harbor City, and the achievement of
further progress towards the day when
a man will once again be able to drink
where and when he likes.
But I might have known. Five days
later Senator Keane denied that the beer
quota would be increased by 25 p.c. in
February and March, and, in true Minis-
terial style, tried to explain the fiasco
away by* saying that there had been a
misconception of his earlier statement.
The' Minister explained (“S.M.H.”
29/1 1 ’46) that breweries had been authorised
to bring forward one week’s supply from
February to January. A week’s supply
from March would be brought forward to
February, and one week’s supply from April
would be brought forward to March. This
meant that February and March quotas
would be normal.
Passing over the naivete of " “normal”
as applied to today’s bestial stampeding,
pushing and guzzling, listen to the climax:
Senator Keane added that he was not
able to say what the position would be
after March.
Neither is anybody else, nor will they
be as long as Senator Keane is on the job.
To make things worse, Sydney papers
have been painting an attractive picture
of the almost peace-time drinking condi-
tions prevailing in Melbourne, even to
the availability of bottled beer. If this
portrayal of Victorian conditions is cor-
rect, what is wrong with N. S. Wales?
: The Minister for Customs blames our
beer drought on the shortage of hops
from Tasmania. Where, then, do Mel-
bourne breweries get their hops? And
why can’t Senator Keane arrange an
equitable distribution of what hops are
available? —P. S. B. C. (N.S.W.).
War Crimes Prosecutors
It was uncharitable of “Ek Dum” (B.
16/1/’46) to complain that in the War
Crimes trials “the prosecutions are in
the hands of captains and lieutenants
whose names are unknown even to those
most familiar with the law in the Com-
monwealth.”
A great many of these prosecutors
served in combatant units in action
against the Japanese, and were directed
into the Legal Corps when the war ended
to prosecute at the trials. If they lack
the glamor of Sydney K.Cs. they make
up for it by a first-hand knowledge of
the cunning and ferocity of the Japanese
soldier. The fact that 90 p.c. of the
prosecutions have been successful is suffi-
cient evidence of the care and skill with
which evidence has been prepared and
presented —no mean feat when one con-
siders that difficulties of time-lapse, differ-
ences of language and the idiosyncrasies
of native witnesses had to be contended
with.
In any case, not all of them are dark
horses. The two Queensland prosecutors,
“Have you got your discharge from Manpower and fixed up your
income-tax?"
whose names I have seen in press reports,
were both leading members of the Towns-
ville Bar— Sol Brass (Q.).
Slogans and Loans
A new loan is to be launched, and
someone has devoted much time and some
thought to the devising of a suitable
slogan, , , ,
The public isn’t impressed by slogans
any more. What it wants is an honest
statement of facts. Let the Government
come into the open, state without equivo-
cation what the money will be used for,
admit past mistakes and drop the assump-
tion that the public must be told only
what’s good for it, and that the best
judge of that is the party in power.
Drop also the use of terms (like rehabili-
tation”) that have become jokes.
The Great Australian Public doesnt
mind mistakes—unless they’re pre-
arranged or repeatedit doesn t object
to waste of public money—it has been
brought up on that j but it resents the
suggestion contained in election speeches,
Parliamentary debates and slogans, that
it is uneducated, unintelligent, and
gullible.
If we must have a slogan, make it an
honest one. "Lend —or be taxed, might
fill the bill. We resent a joke against
our pockets less than an insult to our
intelligence. And, despite twentieth-
century sophistication, we admire and
respect honesty. Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Future of Fuzzy Wuzzy
“H.R.H.” (B. 9/1/’46), among a num-
ber of sweeping statements regarding the
future of the New Guinea native, makes
a vague reference to “the New Guinea
Infantry Battalion,” apparently ignorant
that there is a complete regiment of
native troops in the Mandated Territory,
comprising a regimental headquarters, a
Papuan Infantry Battalion, three New
Guinea Infantry Battalions and Pacific
Islands Infantry Depot Battalion, the
last charged with the training of rein-
forcements for the four field units.
These units are run by Australian
officers and men who have given years
to the training, education and betterment
of Papuan and New Guinea natives.
That this education and training have not
been in vain is proven by recent returns
on leave to their villages by many of
these native soldiers. District officers
reported that these men spent their time
on leave improving conditions in their
villages and pointing out to their kanaka
brothers the error of the old ways of
life. One district officer went so far as
to ask that a native be granted his dis-
charge in order to assist in the rehabili-
tation of the kanakas in his district.
Many whose time, three years, has
finished sign up again for a further three
years. Dozens have returned to their
villages on completion of their time vow-
ing they have finished with the Army. A
few months later they are again offering
for service, often having walked for a
week or more to the nearest district
office to re-enlist.
I have been in action with a native
battalion and talked with officers and
n.c.os. of all the other native units.
Never in my experience nor in the experi-
ence of . others have native troops
discarded their arms. True they fire
away a lot of ammunition, but 1 have
seen Australians blaze away three times
as much as native troops fighting along-
side them. Some of the old beliefs of
“tambarins” still persist, but these do
not affect the fighting qualities or bravery
of the native soldier.
The kuka-kukas were never at any time
employed in native units. Rather than
wiping out the natives’ independence the
presence of Australians in large numbers,
and particularly of the officers and n.c.os.
of the Pacific Islands Regiment, has done
much to increase their independence.
They have been taught things which will
improve their conditions of life and they
will not forget them.
Chewing betelnut is “tambu” in the
Pacific Islands Regiment, save on rest
days. The native soldier takes it as a
matter to be proud of that he cleans his
teeth daily and does not have the dingy
betelnut-stained mouth of the average
kanaka. They love a singsing, certainly,'
as much as the average Australian likes
dancing, for it is one of their ways of
“letting off steam.” Their sinkings are
really folk dances.
I cannot agree with “H.R.H.” that the
native will revert to his pre-war standards.
From thoughtless Australian soldiers
they have learnt some things which will
have to be erased from their minds. But
those who have had most to do with
them and have taken them into action
will agree that the Army has done more
for them than any Administration,
Mission or school has ever done. And
these men who love the New Guinea
native and believe in his future are
abundantly confident that their teachings
will stand, and that the natives will attain
a higher standard of living and learn-
ing than ever in the past. D. B. (A.1.F.).
Palestine Propaganda
“Sherrard Warnock” (B. 16/If ’46) con-
fesses to having “always been mildly anti-
Semitic because of a readiness many Jews
have” to be more studious, industrious
and provident than he is disposed to be.
In dirty, dangerous, poorly-paid rural
professions, such as mine, there is no
Jewish competition, but a fellow-feeling
with the poor and dirty rural Arabs
makes me more than mildly pro-Arab.
“S.W” taunts the Arabs with being
“lazier, dirtier and poorer” than the Jews,
and implies that consequently the latter
have a social right to oust the former, but
he omits to mention the main reason why
the Jews in Palestine today are so much
wealthier than the Arabs, It is because
vast sums of money derived mainly from
Jewish exploitation of Gentile coun-
tries have for many years been poured
into Zion in an ever-swelling stream.
It is fair to assume that had the Arabs
in Palestine been given all the money and
encouragement the Jews have received,
and had the latter been left to scratch for
themselves, it would be the Jews rather
than the Arabs in Palestine today who
would be poor, dirty and even —in their
despair—lazy, —J. W. R. (Tas,).
Fair Play for Binghi
Press reports of a protest meeting held
by the Aborigines’ Progressive Associa-
tion help every clear-thinking Australian
to realise the unfairness of the treatment
w'hich has been meted out to these unfor-
tunate people.
Since the arrival of the white man in
Australia the position of the aboriginal
race has rapidly deteriorated. Suffering
and privation have been their lot for
years, and, despite the efforts of a few
small organisations, they have little pros-
pects of improvement in the future. The
Government has set aside reservations
that may have helped had they been
thought of 50 years earlier, but they
came too late to save this race from
destruction.
The aborigines are the true Australians,
so surely everything possible should be
done to make the lives of the few sur-
vivors as happy as possible. One way of
doing this would be to give these people
special representation in Parliament (as is
done for the Maoris in M.L.). —N, G. S.
(N.S.W.).
Open-air Theatres
Rumors that Sydney aspires to an open-
air theatre are a healthy sign. What could
be more charming than a natural setting
for theatrical production?
Stage structure defeats the purpose of
the open-air theatre. Such a climate as
Sydney’s presents no such gamble on the
weather as must be taken in England, yet
in that most unpredictable climate in the
world alfresco shows flourish. The long
summer twilight is used to advantage.
I remember a production of “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” at Regent Park,
London. The hushed peace, the natural
beauty of the place, the soft turf, the
murmur of subdued voices, produced an
atmosphere which was a fitting prelude
to Mendelssohn’s overture. Owing to
judicious amplification every word of
dialogue was clearly heard even in the
cheapest seats.
The stage was earth. It may have been
covered, but there was no sound of foot-
fall even with all the leaping and prancing
of the playful Puck and the running and
hiding of lovers and fairies. Little bushes
must have been concealing footlights, for
as the long light waned the sky glowed,
the trees darkened, the bare bodies of
the leaf satyrs warmed in color, and
Oberon magically appeared or melted
from sight. By the time Titania and
her fairies flitted through the shrubs to
close the dream it was quite dark, and
each little fairy switched on a tiny light
on her forehead. •
Before the days of microphones I re-
member a choir giving Elgar’s “Dream
of Gerontius” in the open air. The trees
around and the sky above provided an
ideal setting.
Sydney, with its climatic advantages,
might well follow the English example
in such matters and strengthen her claim
to be regarded as a city of culture.—
D. Saxty (N.S.W.).
Treatment of T.B. Sufferers
What really occurs behind the smoke-
screen belched forth by our beneficent
Government about what it is doing and
what it is going to do for T.B. sufferers?
Take my own case. The Income Tax
Department will not recognise me as
being dependent upon my father, although
I cannot work. It claims that because of
complete incapacitation I am eligible for
an invalid pension. But the Pensions
Office will not grant me a pension, be-
cause it contends that my parents are able
to support me, though I am an adult, and
legally my parents are not responsible
for me.
Not only do my parents receive no
deductions for me ; they are taxed on
every pound spent in furthering my wel-
fare. If my parents were to turn me
out of their home I would be eligible for
a pension of 325. 6d. per week, a magni-
ficent allowance for a sick person who,
to regain health, must have expensive
foods and untroubled peace and quiet. I
am one of the lucky ones. I shudder to
think what must happen to hundreds
of poor wretches who are completely
dependent upon Government aid.
-T.B. (Q.).


m
'' I
m
mm
m
m
m
VfJ
m
: : : : ••...
mm
v
t -
//
ii
r<rs
w
mm I
>5
z
H
■
z
H
m
m
Hi
■
¥; '■ : V
m
m
I
: V :
fi
7
J
W
M
FOR
TYPE
EVERY SOCKET OF EVERY RADIO
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.— SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—ADELAIDE —PERTH—BRISBAN!
Incandescent and Fluorescent Lamps; Lighting Equipment and Fittings; Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves;' Radioplayers; Radio Transmitters; Sound Systems;
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment; Industrial and Medical Infra-Red Apparatus; Electronic Devices; Radio Accessories; Electrical Measuring
Instruments; Metal Pressings and Stampings.
