

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67 —No. 3454
Wednesday, April 24, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
RICHMOND CHURCH.
TN this series of illustrations of places of historic interest in Britain
the House of Seppelts has presented none more famous for its
associations with literature and art than this. In Richmond, now a
suburb of Greater London, was the home of Chaucer, Bacon, Sir
W T-emple, .T h om s °n Pope=. Swift, Sir Joshua Reynolds, J. M W
Turner and George Eliot. This view shows Richmonds church of
St. Mary Magdalen, in which are preserved many interesting monu-
ments, including a mural brass which states that “the Earl of
Buchan, unwilling that so good a man and sweet a poet should e
without a memorial, has donated the place of his interment, for the
satisfaction of his admirers, in the year of our Lord 1792.” Thus
j s honoured the author of “The Castle of Indolence.” Edmund
was a , so buried in m church 7 and its
’ ,’. ~ . _ QI _ PC
surrounding graveyard is the resting pi y
are famous the world over.


Learn
at NONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, m
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red page
A BOOK AND A COIN.
At one point in his 700-page Ccesar and
Christ (Simon and Schuster ; Angus and
Robertson) Will Durant finds the history
of Rome too much for him. It is the
third century a.d. and the Empire is col-
lapsing: war on the frontiers, anarchy
in the capital.
We shall not repeat in bloody detail
[says Durant] the names and battles and
deaths of these emperors of anarchy. In
the thirty-five years between Alexander
Severus and Aurelian thirty-seven men
were proclaimed emperors. Gordian was
slain by his troops while fighting the
Persians (244); his successor, Philip the
Arab, was defeated and killed at Verona
by Decius (249), an Illyrian of wealth and
culture whose devotion to Rome well de-
served a name so honorable in ancient
story. Between campaigns against the
Goths he laid out an ambitious programme
for the restoration of Roman religion,
morals and character, and gave orders for
the destruction of Christianity; then he
returned to the Danube, met the Goths,
saw his son slain beside him, told his
wavering army that the loss of any one
Individual was of little importance, pressed
on against the enemy, and was himself
struck down in one of the worst defeats
m Roman history (251). He was succeeded
by GalJus, who was murdered by his
troops (253), and then by Aimilianus, who
was murdered by his troops (253).
One can’t complain at the brevity of
this summary of thirty-five years. It
would take a volume as large as the
whole of Ccesar and Christ to deal with
the period in detail, and thirty-seven plays
of Shakspeare’s to present the full drama
of those short-lived “emperors of
anarchy.” But I am sorry that there isn’t
a bit more about Philip the Arab, for I
think he’s an old acquaintance.
At any rate, the only word still de-
cipherable on the Roman coin I bought
in Dorchester about ten years ago is
“Philippus”; and if Philip the Arab
reigned long enough to have coins struck
in his honor, then it may well be his
features that are outlined on the little
leaden-silver disc,, obviously the debased
currency of the Roman decline, with its
broken and blackened edges; the head
of a tall man, strikingly erect, keen-eyed,
hawk-nosed, with a mouth at once humor-
ous and merciless ... a typical soldier’s
face, not very different, except for the
fringe of beard and a certain barbaric
wildness, from, Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery’s.
I have forgotten exactly in what circum-
stances I bought the coin. If it is true
that we forget things because the memory
of them annoys us, I cannot yet have
reconciled myself to the fact that a thing
so rare and wonderful as a coin of the
Romans could be picked up in England
so easily and cheaply ; they were selling
thousands of them in Dorchester, at a
shilling each. I do remember, though,
that I had visited the town on Guy
Fawkes night, and that while crackeis
and hungers, whizzing, banging, sparking
and flaming, were hurled recklessly about
the streets, a crowd in wild procession,
costumed in light-blue smocks and enor-
mous boots and brandishing flaring
torches, rushed shouting past the
shops and the stone cottages to the
old Roman encampment in the fields,
where the archaeologists had been
digging and where the townspeople
now lit bonfires and burned their
hideous “guys.” And I remember
thinking how violent a people the British
are under that polite mask they present
to the world; how violent and how
ancient: for, of course, a ceremony so
strange could never have originated with
an attempt to blow up the House of Par-
liament but —the burning of a sacrificial
victim, an enemy, a scapegoat-must go
back and back in time, further than the
Romans, to the rites of the Druids most
likely; remote and pagan antiquity.
The head of Philip the Arab, then,
which arouses these recollections, speaks
of peoples older than the Romans. And
so, of course, does Ccesar and Christ;
for, as it is the continuation of Will
Durant’s The Life of Greece —the com-
pletion of his vast survey of the origins
of our present European civilisation—so
the Roman culture was a continuation of
the Greek. And the Greeks had theirs
from the Cretans. And the Cretans from
whom? One would like Will Durant,
with the lucidity, the humorous balance
and the broad comprehensiveness of his
mind, to examine, say, the Atlantean
legends. But in the meantime he cer-
tainly helps Philip the Arab to speak up
for Rome.
Hold a coin of the Romans in the hand,
and what does one think of? Nero throw-
ing the Christians to the lions; fiddling
while Rome- burned. Virgil. Petronius.
The Roman soldier of Pompeii. Romu-
lus and Remus. The remote but terrible
labors of schooldays; the machinations
by which a Latin master who had been
a soldier of the Great War could be
persuaded, while Caesar was being trans-
lated, to change the subject to Kaiser
Bill . . .
Ccesar and Christ is, of course, a store-
house of information to enlarge such
scattered recollections, and to correct
them. I didn’t know, for instance, that
Cleopatra was “probably a blonde.” And
it had never occurred to me how much
Nero resembled Oscar Wilde, essentially
an aesthete, but corrupted by unlimited
power;
What this uninhibited satyr really wanted
was to be a great artist. Having every
power, he longed also for every accomp-
lishment. If is to his credit that he applied
himself with painstaking seriousness to
engraving, painting, sculpture, music and
poetry. To improve his singing “he used
to lie on his back with a leaden plate upon
his chest, purge himself by a syringe or
by vomiting and deny himself fruits and
all foods injurious to the voice”; on cer-
tain days, for the same purpose, he ate
nothing but garlic and olive oil. One
evening he summoned the foremost
Senators to his palace, showed them a
new water organ and lectured to them on
its theory and construction.
He was so fascinated by the music which
Terpnos drew from the harp that he spent
entire nights with him, in practising on
that instrument.* He gathered artists and
poets about him, competed with them in
his palace, compared his paintings with
theirs, listened to their poetry and read
his own. He dreamed of performing pub-
licly in one day on the water organ, the
flute and the pipes, and then appearing as
actor and dancer in the part of Virgil’s
Turnus.
Obviously, there is a lot to be said
for Nero. No man, Will Durant’s book
reminds us, is wholly hero or wholly vil-
lain, but only more hero than villain, or
more scoundrel than saint. And yet, how
humanity cherishes its villains! No matter
what Will Durant says in his defence,
men will go on regarding Nero as a
monster unblemished by any of the vir-
tues. No matter how earnestly the learned
author points out that the color and the
violence we associate with Roman his-
tory were often superficial—the follies of
the idle rich —and that the great empire
was really nourished and maintained by
quiet men living at peace with their fami-
lies, it is still luxury and bloodshed we
think of when we hold in the hand the
head of Philip the Arab.
Luxury, bleodshed and disaster. What
we remember of the life of Rome is that
it died. The great history is the Decline
and Fall.
Since he intends his books to be an
example and a warning to modern times
Will Durant has plenty to say about the
fall of Rome. Probably it gave him,
along with some alarm, a savage satis-
faction to record that one of the prime
causes was taxation. Taxation and
bureaucracy. If nobody else in Aus-
tralia reads Ccesar and Christ, Mr. Chifley
should do so.
The fall of Rome, like her rise, had not
one cause but many, and was not an event
but a process spread over 300 years. Some
nations have not lasted as long as Rome
fell.
A great civilisation is not conquered
from without until it has destroyed itself
within. The essential causes of Rome’s
decline lay in her people, her morals, her
class struggle, her failing trade, her bureau-
cratic despotism, her stifling taxes, her
consuming wars.
The historian does not agree with Cyp-
rian, who, like an earlier H. G. Wells,
thought that the failure of the rain and
sun was destroying his world:
The cause, however, was no inherent
exhaustion of the soil, no change in
climate, but the negligence and sterility of
harassed and discouraged men.
Birth control, of course, is given its
place in Will Durant’s analysis; in Alex-
andria in a.d. 250 Bishop Dionysius — an
extraordinary name for a bishop!
mourned to “see the human race dimin-
ishing and constantly wasting away.”
Among economic causes are given “the
deterioration of transport the rising
cost of armies, doles, public works....
the discouragement of ability... .the
straitjacket of serfdom placed upon
agriculture.” And —Will Durant is a
champion of democracy:
The political causes of decay were rooted
in one fact—that increasing despotism de-
stroyed the citizen’s civic sense and dried
up statesmanship at its source. Powerless
to express his political will except by
violence, the Roman lost interest in gov-
ernment and became absorbed in his busi-
ness, his amusements, his legion, or his
individual salvation. Patriotism and the
pagan religion had been bound together,
and now together decayed.
Will Durant does not quite concur with
“the greatest of historians”—Gibbon—
that Christianity was the chief cause of
Rome’s fall. There is some truth, he says,
in Gibbon’s hard indictment; but —
The growth of Christianity was more an
effect than a cause of Rome’s decay. It
was because Rome was already dying that
Christianity grew so rapidly.
The point is debatable. But what is
certain is that, in Will Durant’s own
words, “Patriotism and the pagan religion
had been bound together, and now to-
gether decayed.” When the gods died,
that was the death of the nation. One
thinks of the empire of the Aztecs,
destroyed at a single blow when the
Spaniards captured Montezuma ; and of
the declaration of the god-emperor of
the Japanese, under MacArthur, that he
was no longer to be regarded as a
divinity.
And one thinks, of course, of the de-
cline of religion in our own civilisation,
and of attempts, such as T. S. Eliot’s, to
ensure the continuance of the State by
restoring the influence of the Church —
exactly as Virgil (whom the English poet
recently has praised) attempted at Augus-
tus’s bidding to revive the faith of the
Romans. Augustus, of course, could not
prevent a later generation from killing
Philip the Arab ; and indeed, while he
was trying to reform Roman morality,
gossip reported that he was breaking his
own impossible laws with the wife of
Maecenas; but he did for a long time
restore the vitality of Rome. .
Which is one of the many points at
which Ccesar and Christ becomes hearten-
ing company. Reading it, at a time
when the idea of Progress has endured
the severest criticism, and when a civilisa-
tion with two world wars on its conscience
is inclined to judge itself barbarous, one
is reminded —gratifyingly—that we are,
after all, more civilised than the Romans.
When Seneca went to the gladiatorial
games he wrote:
I come home more greedy, more cruel
and inhuman, because I have been among
human beings. By chance I attended a
midday exhibition, expecting some fun,
wit and relaxation whereby men’s eyes may
have respite from the slaughter of their
fellow men. But it was quite the contrary.
These noon fighters are sent out with no
armor of any kind; they are exposed to
blows at all points, and no one ever strikes
in vain. In the morning they throw men
to the lions; at noon they throw them to
the spectators. The crowd demands that
the victor, who has slain his opponent,
shall face the man who will slay him in
turn; and the last conqueror is reserved
for another butchering. This sort of thing
goes on while the stands are nearly empty.
Man, a sacred thing to man, is killed for
sport and merriment.
But such protests were rare. The games
were everywhere approved; Juvenal and
Pliny defended them; Tacitus reflected
that the blood spilled in the arena was
in any case vile sanguis —the “cheap gore”
of common men. They were a tough
people, the Romans. When 19,000 war
prisoners fought half-heartedly in a sham
naval battle for the public entertainment,
soldiers were sent among them “to ensure
a proper shedding of blood” —for one
side was supposed to wipe the other out.
European civilisation has done some
dreadful things in war; but considering
what the Romans did to Carthage it seems
possible that even in this respect there
has been some improvement in human
behavior: an improvement slight, precari-
ous, but perceptible;
The Carthaginians, though weakened
and decimated by starvation, fought for
their city street by street, through six days
of slaughter without quarter. Harassed by
snipers, Scipio ordered all captured streets
to be fired and levelled to the ground.
Hundreds of concealed Carthaginians
perished in the conflagration. At last the
population, reduced from 500,000 to 55,000,
surrendered. Hasdrubal, their general,
pleaded for his life, which Scipio granted,
but his wife, denouncing his cowardicq,
plunged with her sons into the flames.
The survivors were sold as slaves, and the
city was turned over to the legions for
pillage. Reluctant to raze it, Scipio sent
to Rome for final instructions; the Senate
replied that not only Carthage, but all
such of her dependencies as had stood by
her were to be completely destroyed, that
the soil should be ploughed and sown with
salt and a formal curse laid upon any
man who should attempt to build upon
the site. For seventeen days the city
burned.
Again, reading Will Durant on the arts
of Rome —which he discusses as illumi-
natingly as he did the arts of Greece —
the conclusion is forced upon one that
there has been a slight but steady im-
provement. At least, each civilisation in
its turn has added something.
In sculpture the Greeks brought line
and form to perfect symmetry; the
Romans, in their portrait heads, added
realism. In literature, the Greek drama-
tists explored high tragedy, the figure of
man doomed by the gods; the Romans
once again—it was their genius and their
mission—added realism, the intimate port-
rayal of character and the direct observa-
tion of life to be found in the Satyricon
of Petronius ; which novel, as Will Durant
observes, was the forerunner of Rabelais,
of Gil Bias, Tom Jones and Tristram
Shandy ; and, it might be added, of The
Pickwick Papers, Such Is Life and The
Pea Pickers. European literature, one
sees clearly in the plays of Shakspeare,
has blended Greek passion and symmetry
with Roman realism ; and so has added
something, so has improved, so has pro-
gressed.
All of which gives one the most de-
lightful feeling of complacence; to be
tempered by the realisation that it is
just as well we did not plough with salt
the ruins of Hiroshima, and that Shak-
speare and Dickens were born into our
civilisation. We have improved on the
ancients, one might say, by the skin of
our teeth. But we have —just—done it.
When the gods die and when states-
manship fails, empires may collapse, says
Will Durant’s history ; but civilisation is a
continuing process, and the achievements
of the past are not lost. As the govern-
ing genius of the Romans passed into
the Church, so, in the arts, Rome “trans-
mitted the classic heritage to the West be-
fore she died.” The head of Philip the
Arab dug out of the white clay of
Dorset speaks not only of the decay of
imperial power—the legions recalled to
defend the fortresses of the homeland;
and a scene of carnage as the soldiers,
abandoning their hidden treasure, con-
fronted a rising of the tribes of Britain
—but also of a great and continuing
adventure: the slow, perilous advance of
the race of man.
s.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The outstanding painting at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries’ Easter Exhibition
was “The Open Valley,” by Douglas
Dundas. By no means a great painting,
it is, nevertheless, spacious and light, with
a fine sweep of valley and timber and
distant hills ; and the light, nicely balanced
between sky and field, is an excellent
representation of the effect of Australian
sunlight, although the finer shades are
ignored. The main drawbacks of the
painting were a certain harshness of
technique and the fact that it was too
open. Sheep, grazing in the right fore-
ground, upset the balance, making the
space between it and the timber and the
farther blue hills too bare. A Gruner
would have put them in the picture, as he
did with his cattle. Although “The Open
Valley” was clearly the best painting, it
is more difficult to classify the worst;
Paul Haefliger’s “Evening” had strong
claims.
“C.R.”; A show of contemporary
Australian drawings put on view by
Daryl Lindsay at the National Gallery,
Melbourne, includes examples by Wil-
liam Dobell. In the case of many dis-
tinguished artists their drawings are
better than their finished paintings—
Claude Lorraine’s, for instance. Dobell’s
paintings are better than his drawings,
which are far more academic, A room-
ful of Sir D. Y, Cameron’s drawings and
washes makes the observer wonder how
the Scottish artist got his tremendous
reputation. Loudon Sainthill’s designs of
feminine costume from the earliest ages
until up to the last war, lent by
N.S.W. Army Education, are of histori-
cal interest, and the artist must have put
an enormous amount of research into the
business. They would be altogether
charming but for his habit of hanging
them on hideously ungraceful models.
There is no reason to suppose that a
lovely woman looked like a tarantula in
Greek times or in the Middle Ages any
more than she does now, but that’s
what’s called the “modern idiom.”
“Lord Luvus”: Touching the decision
of the N. S. Wales National Art Gallery
director to sell “a lot of bad Victorian
art” (B. 27 /3 / ’46). Considering that con-
temporary Italians said of Dlirer; “Why
does he force such ugly stuff upon us?” ;
that Dutchmen thought that Rembrandt’s
paint was “rough and coarse”; that
English critics found Turner’s “Ulysses
and Polyphemus” the “acme of tawdri-
ness and vulgarity” ; that Constable was
abused because his landscapes weren’t
the “color of old violins” ; that the pre-
R.aphaelites were accused of using ugli-
ness deliberately to shock the public;
that the Impressionists were described as
“madmen who squeeze colors haphazardly
on to canvas and then sign their names” ;
and that Whistler was attacked by the
most eminent critic of his day—con- 1
sidering all these facts, the director
oughtn’t to be too sure of his opinion.
But the most comic reversal of judgment
was in the case of Renoir. His nudes
were regarded by the moderns of his own
day as salacious and disgusting. Modem
“modernists” regard them as rather sissy.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW"
...
mm l HI
SVJ'
\ 'A
o\)Y 13. 6ft. 6in. DROP
a;
■
6ft. 6in. DROP
TAPESTRY CURTAINS
Tapestry Curtains, 6 ft. 6in. drop,
with pleated beading and pocket
for rod. Obtainable in a full range
of popular furnishing colours.
Blue, Rose, Green, Fawn and
Burgundy. 85/- pr. Coupon free.
■
MBlii
■
n
'->■ ’ 1
■■
mm
'ms&
■■i
: : ::
SB
■I
■p
mm
013 c
69" x 87
: 1
mi
ART SERGE TABLE COVERS
Table Covers in quality Art Serge are now available in
Red, Blue, Brown or Green, size 69 in. x 87 in.,
trimmed with braid. Price 65/- each. Coupon free.
ms. t&w
Wm i r o
111 i f
If «
II im M§S
m M msm
M IS tmm
■ % »S life
' m I m
OILED SYLK
SHOWER
CURTAINS
Oiled Sylk Shower
Curtains, have eyelets
for curtain hooks, ob-
tainable in Cream, Bis-
cuit or Red, plain or
figured. Size 4ft. 4in.
x sft. 9in. 25/6 ea.
Coupon free.
• Soft Furnishings —
Third Floor.
D.B. UTILITY BEDSPREADS
Attractive Utility Bedspreads, for double bed, trimmed
contrast colour piping, box pleated flounce on three
sides. In Rose, Blue or Fawn. £6/4/8. Coupon free.
(J
| ■
, -
Ip l
f vvv - .
_ , wbM
A
/j §4
* w m
i: -
rk m
Chenille Bedspreads that are new and different, tailored to fit your bed and obtainable
in Cream, Green, Rose and Blue. Double bed size. 105/ and .115/—. 19 coupons.
the senior store
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


ŗ
The“ATLAS”
8-iuch loathe
With
Gap
Bed
ř
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “31ARS” loathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
arc DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MARS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.;
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd.,
Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
*Gaod Mornings* begin
with Gillette
You start with a swing
And you’re right in top gear
When you shave with these
Fine-tempered blades all the year!
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents'.
Phipson & Company ( Pty ) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
BEBSSKiSai
■islliiiii
iijiin
ft
Illli!' 11
UttS
■' ■■ l 'j^ni,. '■ ■ ~“'.Mml , ,,i»i''|l » www»»<,\.-W''‘V., . "'‘ | ii |l ll>IBI'lllllhlll‘!!!'Jl^ga^
Sunshine and Calm Seas
The Netherlands Merchant Navy, throughout the dark
and stormy years of war, wrote stirring pages into its
history, carrying munitions, supplies and comforts to
our troops in the S.W. Pacific and serving the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas.
Now, they are discarding the drab grey.
Soon the Great White Yachts of the
K.P.M. Line will be here again, and
then regular sailings to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore will be resumed.
M
Incorporated fn
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD.. SYDNEY
MANSEASB
the perfect comfort mala
•uppori for everyraan’f
everyday wear.
AH mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
CP.
*Q!P
*
61
POST
Sen
FREE
3388
80*
BRANDALIERrS
m-
m
m
s?
PENS
1
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
urn.,
FDGIN6 H PHRK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . , . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maciurcan, Managing Director
feb
Do you need a /
(fyhJciitd
Jhan?
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This Old Treatment
Often Brings Happy Relief.
Many sufferers relieve nagging backache quickly,
once they discover that the real cause of their trouble
may be tired kidneys.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking the
ekcess acids and waste odt of the blood. They help
most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufflness under
the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Briefer General Psychology, by
Gardiner Adams.—3732.
To buy The History of Fifth Light Horse
Regiment, A.I.F., by General L. C. Wilson and
Captain H. Wetherall.—3733.
To buy Farm and Station Bookkeeping, also
Farm Accounts, published by The Bulletin. —
3734.
Information Sought.
Members of the first Australian Federal
Cabinet formed on January 1, 1901 ?
Edmund Barton (Prime Minister and Min-
ister for External Affairs), Alfred Deakin
(Attorney-General), William Lyne (Minister for
Home Affairs), George Turner (Treasurer),
Charles Kingston (Minister for Trade and Cus-
toms), James Dickson (Minister for Defence),
John Forrest (Postmaster-General), Richard
O’Connor (Vice-President of the Executive
Council), Neil Lewis (Minister without port-
folio).
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about Nat Gould Y
Nat Gould was born at Manchester, December
21, 1857, He was in Australia from 1884 to
1895, working on newspapers in Brisbane, Syd-
ney “Referee” and Bathurst. He ascribed the
immense success of his first book. The Double
Event (1891), to the coincidence of its publication
with the Melbourne Cup meeting. His stories
concerned with horseracing had a great vogue.
At his death he had written about 130 books.
Besides fiction he published two books on Aus-
tralian life, On and Off the Turf in Australia
(1895) and Town and Bush (1896), as well as
The Magic of Sport (1909), mainly biographical.
He died in England in 1919.
* * * ♦
To tan snake and lizard skins?
First soak the skins in water, then immerse
them in a solution of one gal. water, |oz. fused
sodium sulphide and 2oz. hydrated lime until
the scales can be freely removed. After wash-
ing the skins under running water for an hour,
put them in a bath consisting of 2oz. boric acid
to one gal. water, stirring them frequently until
all signs of swelling have disappeared and they
are perfectly soft and flaccid. Next stir the
skins continuously for a half-hour in another
bath of ioz. bating material and one gal. water
heated to 90 deg. F. To tan the skins apply
to both sides a paste of 12 parts alum, four
parts salt, one part sulphonate neatsfoot oil,
10 parts flour and three parts china clay, all
mixed with water.. Cover with a clean sack
for 48 hours, then dry out. Store for at least
a fortnight, then rinse in water and apply to
the flesh side a paste of five parts flour, four
parts egg yolk and half part neatsfoot oil.
Pile flesh to flesh overnight, rinse and dry out.
Next leave them overnight in damp sawdust,
tack on boards and allow to dry.
* * * *
Method of painting previously whitened
fibrous-plaster walls with a flat oil paint?
Scrape off water paint, wash down thoroughly,
and apply one coat of Taylor’s Cement Sealer
and two coats of flat oil paint. The first coat
of oil paint must be thinned with boiled lin-
seed oil at the rate of one pint to the gallon,
while the final coat can be applied straight
from the can.
* * * *
Method of making calico water-resisting?
Steep the cloth in a solution of one part alu-
minium sulphate to 10 parts water with a
temperature of 87 deg. F. and immediately
pass it through another solution consisting of
one part soap to 20 parts water having a
temperature of 120 deg. F. The material is
then rinsed thoroughly in water. While this
method does not necessarily render the cloth
waterproof, it does produce water-resistance.
Brief Answers.
A.J.C.: If the coins are really valuable,
Mr. C. Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt,
will look at them E.A.M.: Exact translation
reads: “View of the Temple of Bacchus in
the church of St. Urbino about two miles from
Rome, outside the gate of St. Sebastian. It is
the most complete of such style which is to
be found in Rome in our present days, as re-
gards the interior and exterior. The shrine
is perfectly conserved and bears the inscrip-
tion ‘Temple of Bacchus, Aproniano Priest.’
The wall between the columns and the bar-
bicans were made by Pope Urban VIII during
reparations. Also the keys of the iron chains
were made for the same purpose. G. P.
Piranesi, Architect” E.W.: It is not stated
where the emigrant intends to settle, but if he
decides on N.S.W. he should contact the sec.,
Australasian Society of Engineers, Trades Hall,
Sydney. If assistance towards a passage out is
desired, he should apply to the Official Sec.,
High Commissioner’s Office, Australia House,
Tlie Strand, London, or you could write to
the Department of Immigration, Canberra
C.P.: (1) The roof cannot be removed with-
out' their consent. (2) A solicitor’s costs would
be £11 17s. (£2 2s. treasurer’s consent)
J.L.G.: The addition of any preservative other
than salt would be injurious to the consumer’s
health. Heavy salting and immersion in a
20 p.c. brine solution is satisfactory, but the
excessive use of salt largely destroys the butter
flavor. The best method is to produce the
butter in the most hygienic manner and to
store it at low temperatures V.M.K.: The
N.S.W. Forestry Commission can supply pam-
phlets, while The Forestry Handbook, parts
one and two, is obtainable from the N.S.W.
Government Printer E.H.: It is impossible
to satisfactorily remove the brownish tinge; a
peroxide bleach will restore some of the natural
color, but will also deprive the wool of some
of its natural properties G.C.K.: Coin
appears to be a 1842 Queen Victoria Maundy
piece. Maundy money has been issued by every
English sovereign from Charles II, and forms
part of the royal alms bestowed every Maundy
Thursday upon certain poor persons. The
whole issue is in silver, and is issued to as
many persons as there are yeafs in the sove-
reign’s reign. Made legal tender by the Coin-
age Act of 1870, your coin should be worth
about two shillings... .A.L.A.: There is no
such thing as a Diamond Jubilee farthing;
it is merely a current coin with a one-penny
value E.D.: There is an evening course at
the South Aust. School of Arts and Crafts
which deals with the cultivation of taste in in-
terior decoration as well as period furniture
and modern decoration R.C.: The shirts are
manufactured by W. J. Douglass and Sons, 222
Clarence-street, Sydney... .G.Y.: Cannot trace
the quotation.


• Short stdry writers . . .
• Radio script writers . . .
• Poets . . . Novelists . . .
We will market your material for
you in Australia or overseas. Regi-
stration fee of 5/- per item required.
Special rates for novels. If manu-
script unsuitable it will be returned
with criticisms.
NATIONAL LITERARY RESEARCH
AGENCY,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland. •
STRONGER:LIGHTER • LONGER-LftSTIWG
GLOBITE
n
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globitel
ili«l
NP4S/39 <‘The rain wouldn't make you
///miserable if you
7 had a daily dose
■ of ‘NUGGET’
y/ like I do".
•' //// /
//
u\
m
For 50 years a GOOD polish
Finest Leather
eservdtive >
MOGGET -oe polish
GUARA«:iA
>4 ac
, wa«^»isa
WiMmi
\t«ro;
01 K3O
SAY
ILBEYS
8&
#/
ISasy-to- Serve with
WATER . . . LIME . . . ORANGE
VERMOUTH .. . BITTERS ... TONIC
GINGERBEER . . . GINGER ALE
PEPPERMINT. . . SQUASH ... SODA
LEMONADE . . . FRUIT JUICES
the occasion—whether a party,
a drink between friends, or “Cocktails at Six”
—make sure the Gin is Gilbey’s.
Whether you serve it with your favourite fruit
juices or cordials, or use it as a base for palate-
teasing cocktails, Gilbey’s is a gin that pleases
everyone. So always . . . “Don’t say Gin, say
Gilbey’s”
THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED!
Answers to Correspondents.
Hame and address must appear on the MS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
Sam Blue: “He had read Plato, Voltaire,
Pope, Bernard Shaw, Tolstoy and Marx.”
Well, so far he's escaped Sam Blue
Oigle: Items copied from newspapers are of no
use to us F.J.; No record kept of pars.
Cannot trace the one you mention Tun’ler:
Sorry; no space for your interesting recollec-
tions H.W.M.: You can’t be far off the
record. Passed your inquiry on to your old
firm C.F.: “I was aweary, aweary.” That
sort of thing is catching T.L.G.: Joke sug-
gestions if used are paid for at 7s. 6d. each.
But they must be original; the ones submitted
date from the Stone Age....5.L.: “They slept
in an immense, bosomy double-bed.” Don’t
wake them up, then C.T.: Brush it up,
scarify the dialogue and try again F.L.P.:
“He had found a double for her.” Yes, but
what price was it? Wynyard: Don’t be dis-
couraged because the story takes turns you
never intended it to; frequently characters, if
well created, take charge of their own story
K.M.: That “Dramatic Moment” took too
long to tick over Tom L.: Galsworthy was
50 or more before he earned anything from
writing Tiny Tim: Humor at the expense
of afflicted persons, however well-intentioned,
is bad taste M.M.: “Easter Egg” overripe.
B.G.: “She sent inviting looks to him.”
Presumably marked R.S.V.P Stipes: Gripes!
....Corp.:
All around, with clang on clang,
The foemen’s ringing rifles rang.
What a pity they missed E.M.: If you
want to write, nothing any critic can say will
stop you D.T.:
You’d better make it unmistakably clear
that she was a Land Army girl... .H.T.: Recite
it to your bookmaker... .C.S.: “Ho, ho, Jan-
ette.” No, no, Janette R. Frew: \yas
yours the MS. with the pink ribbon and the
gold lettering? G.T.: Not bad; come again^
... .L.C.; Sounds like an ode to Mr. Chiliey’s
pipe G.E.: Three-hundred-line poem about
faithful hound received; cut it down to a gag
for a Scorfield drawing Jim M.: Plot isn’t
so important as treatment... .McC.S.: Tried it
on the cat; cat missing... .Miss Belle: That
“Fete” is worse than death... .R.T.: Oh, come,
there are worse things than marriage; what 1
about penny euchre on a west-bound N.S.W.
train? Fred P.: Golf story not up to par.
M.D.McG.: Try a local paper P. 8.:
“I wonder if I am human sometimes?” Well,
to err is human... .L.R.8.: Might be a par. in
it J.D.: Seem to have seen it before
E.V.H.*: Let your verse make pictures instead
of pleading with the universe R.W.E.: Can’t
see that sort of false-poetic verbiage “thralling
the awe-inspired gazer”... .E.W.: “Why is man
for ever fighting?” Why is man for ever
writing? K.McA.: Landscape fair enough
until you start saying things such as “Perished
salt-stained ghosts enhance the threatening
darkness” R.L.: As far as this office is con-
cerned, you are at liberty to wander with the
teal and wildfowl as often and as far as you
like W.P.: “That Awful Nightmare” is
just that D.E.W.: Your bellbirds are out
of tune E.H.: Poem unmentionable, but
room for this much of the covering letter:
After an exclusive diet of rabbit, we keep
anxious watch on the children for (1) a ner-
vous twitching of the lips; (2) a tendency to
nibble food; (3) an inclination to scuttle when
visitors come... .Bellerive: There never was a
cat to match him;
K.G.L.: Two damning faults—wow ending,
and you don’t know your subject P.McT.:
Try a daily J.V.H.: Still no good A.S.:
“The track was long, the weather was wet,
and Sam felt dark discontent in his soul.”
Concern yourself more with tangible things,
such as Sam’s stomach 8.H.A.: There’s an
awful prejudice against golden-haired waitresses
who marry millionaires E.M.: Inmates of
Australian universities do not have “scouts,” nor
do they usually address one another as “Deah
Boy” J.K.: Give the pioneers a rest.
Oh, Marjorie, be silent now
And let me drink your beauty in.
I dream of you beside the plough
And held you did your duty in.
RECOLLECTIONS OF A DAREDEVIL TOMCAT.
Upon the tiles in
A savage combat,
A formidable tough
Was Tim the Tomcat.
To mix in a brawl
O’er the roofs he’d roam.
When for food and rest
He’d quietly sleek home.
As shifty and swift
As a tropical bat,
He’d many escapes—
The daring Tomcat.
Despite Agree bouts
Wind, rain and cold
Tim lived on till
Half blind and old.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.H.: Maybe it arrived on one of our dull
days, but we couldn’t get the hang of your
masterpiece P.T.: Sozzled corporal and
cobber under close arrest G.R.: Painlessly
destroy that dog D.G.; Political cartoons
drawn by staff artists, but suggestions always
considered E.N.: You’re still in the be-
ginners’ class C.D.: The old sundowner was
just able to totter to the envelope that is carry-
ing him home P.D.: Your pug takes the
count and your lawyer gets no brief.. . .T.S.:
Primitive brand of humor T.R.: Found
difficulty in distinguishing the swagman from
the ringbarked trees G.R.: Arriving as it
did after the beer drought had broken, it had
lost its topicality.


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
The M.LC.
(■. ■ , .
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £46,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £51,000,000


Loma the Native
By B. WORGER
I.
TOGETHER, with their bare feet,
they scattered the last of the ashes.
The fire had burned well for four-
teen days and nights, and the
thatched roof of their new home was
truly dried and free from the menace
of.insects and leaks. The stout beams
and posts were darkened by the smoke,
the earth floor hard and firm.
“It is ready,” Loma the Native, six-
feet-two in height, said, smiling down into
the dark eyes of Vatu Lailai, his bride-
to-be.
She laughed up at him, her white teeth
gleaming in the last rays of the sun.
“Because you are a man,” she told him,
“and have finished man’s work, you think
it is finished. It is not. There is my work
to do. The dried grass to be spread on
the floor. The new mats I have made
to be spread over it; and our bed is yet
to be built —where shall we put it?”
They were happy, these two. A stone’s-
throw away the Pacific rolled foaming on
to the beach and near by murmured the
freshwater creek that gave them prawns
and sweet drinking water. Above their
heads whispered the coconut palms.
Ten days later they settled down in
their little home. They were sociable,
often walking to the village after the
day’s work to meet and talk with their
friends.
Loma liked to join the other young
married men round the yagona bowl, and
Vatu Lailai enjoyed a talk with the mar-
ried women. Later when the moon had
risen they would walk home along the
track under the palm-trees back to the
peace and seclusion of their own home.
They talked of the future, of their crops
in the plantation, and the hope and pos-
sibilities of children. They sometimes
spoke of the great war that was raging
between the white people of the world,
but not often. It was remote from their
lives.
It was the young schoolmaster who
told them about Pearl Harbor one even-
ing when they were in the village. Loma
disliked Pita, the schoolmaster. They had
been boys together at the mission school.
Pita had always been quicker at learning,
teacher’s favorite and the pride of the
school. And Pita had made big eyes at
Vatu Lailai. Pita might have a big brain,
but he had a thin body and a sharp-
featured face, almost black. Loma de-
spised him.
And there was Pita that evening, hop-
ping about like a toad, waving a paper in
his hand and screaming at them that
Japan had attacked the Americans at
Pearl Harbor.
“It means war in the Pacific! ” screamed
Pita. “All you young men will have to
go and fight.”
I
LOMA and Vatu Lailai laughed as
they walked home in the moonlight.
“He is a silly boy,” Vatu Lailai said,
“always thinking he knows everything.
You will not have to go and fight, will
you? What are those Americans to us?
It isn’t our war.”
Evening after evening Pita, with pride
and condescension, read out the news
from his week-old paper. Troops arrived
in the capital. United States troops, with
their guns, lorries, tanks and even ice-
cream, poured into the islands. There
were rumors of Japanese submarines near
the reef, of Japanese soldiers creeping
through the swamps . . .
The blackout came into force even in
the outlying islands. The curfew was
introduced. When the sun set the people
of the village no longer sat about the
Rara with their twinkling hurricane-
lamps. They sat instead in the darkness
of their homes, whispering, questioning,
the women frightened, the men wonder-
ing, the children restless and puzzled.
Pita said the young men would be
needed. L6ma doubted it. The white
armies were strong, he said; they would
not call on the people of the islands to
help them. Loma and his companions
had no fear of a fight with their own kind,
but none wanted to fight in a strange
land, among strangers and with strange
weapons.
But again Pita was right. It came. The
call for young men. The unmarried ones
first. ‘One by one they went. Some re-
luctantly, some in an adventurous spirit,
some attracted by the unheard-of pay that
was offered.
Vatu Lailai’s brother Nemo, the last
of the unmarried men, joined up. He
came to bid them good-bye on his last
night. Tall and slim in the starlight, his
voice low and quiet, he spoke shyly of the
life he was going to.
“What will it be like?” he asked.
THEN Nemo came home on leave in
the full pride of his uniform. Vatu
Lailai hardly recognised him. They had
shaved off his magnificent hair, his steel
helmet sat jauntily at the side of his head,
the chinstrap dangling beneath his broad
nose.
His great feet were encased in thick
woollen socks and enormous boots, his
slim body, thickened now, was covered
from neck to ankle in battle-dress. Nemo,
once shy and gentle, swaggered about the
village, jingling money in his pockets,
shouting and laughing, handing out gifts
right and left —bottles of beer, tinned
foods, cigarettes, lengths of material,
gifts such as the villagers had never re-
ceived before.
Vatu Lailai gazed at her brother with
mixed feelings: pride, fear and a queer
sense of shame at the change. Even his
voice was different, louder, rougher; and
when, as many of them did, he spoke in
English, it was not the English he and
she had learned in the mission school. He
called Loma “Buddy.”
But the young girls of the village
flocked round him, admiringly, flatter-
ingly, throwing liquid glances in his direc-
tion, laughing at everything he said and
did. In the evenings he always had an
audience listening to his stories of army
life, all its advantages, more food, more
drink, more money than he or they had
ever had before.
Plenty of women and plenty of fun,
too. Nemo said, and winked at the
older men, A grand life. Who would
want to stay in a little old dump like
theirs or come back to it when the war
was over?
MONEY began to pour into the vil-
lage. The wives were receiving their
separation allowances. At first , they did
not know what to do with it. Then they
began to make the trip into the capital
on the weekly cutter. Some stayed there.
Others came back with new dresses, gaudy
jewellery, powders and perfumes.
They told stories of the wonders
of the capital. The noise, the
white soldiers and their money. They
smoked cigarettes all day, they
neglected their homes, their children and
their communal duties, and they taunted
Vatu Lailai because Loma was still with
her . . . then those still free from trouble
were gone back again to the capital,
caught up in the whirl and excitement
of the place.
Vatu Lailai stormed and wept and
sulked. She didn’t want Loma to leave
her, but she wanted the fun and the
money the other girls were having. Her
home and her duties no longer interested
her. Sometimes she was shamed because
Loma hadn’t gone to the war with the
others.
Then Loma the Native, last of the
young married men, joined up.
For the first few weeks of his absence
Vatu Lailai was lonely and sad. But
gradually she, too, began to feel the
restless urge to follow in the footsteps
of the other young wives—visit the main
island and see something of all the won-
ders they had spoken of.
Concealed under the mat in her hure
were her savings; several weeks’ separa-
tion allowance. This was more than suffi-
cient to pay her passage on the cutter.
Nadra, the old midwife, who had brought
the girl into the world, strongly advised
against the idea. But Vatu Lailai was
set on the adventure.
“It is only for a little time I go,” she
promised. “Just one week, and then I
will return.”
Old Nadra sniffed in disbelief and
gave her attention to a five-dollar bill
some girl had given her in payment for
her help, a piece of paper that was of
no value to the old woman except to be
rolled tightly as a cork for her kerosene
bottle.
Vatu Lailai had her week, returning as
she had promised, but she could talk of
nothing else but the Ta-ra-la-las she had
been to where the white soldiers danced,
too, teaching the girls their own dances.
And she chattered about the money to
be made by selling trinkets, tortoiseshell,
bead and shell necklaces, cats’-eyes from
the reef.
Old Nadra was not impressed, even
when Vatu Lailai gave her a beautiful
box of pink face-powder and a set of
silk underwear.
Now Vatu Lailai began to make regular
trips to the capital, always returning with
more useless gifts, new dresses for her-
self and 'more money than she knew what
to do with.
Her home was neglected, for she rarely
went near it. The thatch of the roof
sagged, the mats on the floor were dirty
and bedraggled. And her pots and pans,
once the pride of her life, were rusty and
broken, and the plantation lay strangled
in weeds and vines. Vatu Lailai s days
were spent on the reef, collecting cats -
eyes by the dozen until the cutter came
in, then she was off again to join in the
madness that was sy/eeping the islands.
Then she stayed away for good.
LOMA the Native came back to the
village on short leave. .
He found only an empty and dilapi-
dated home. His tools were gone and
his wife with them. Sickened, he turned
from the desolate sight, walking slowly
back to the village. An untidy and
neglected village where only old men,
elderly women and children remained,
and they sunk in a sort of stupor.
Of all he asked “Where is Vatu Lailai?”
but none would answer him. Old Nadra
peered from her doorway as he passed,
beckoned him in, offered him food, but
he would not touch it. She sighed.
What was there to tell him? Not the
truth, certainly. The less a man knew
the better, in her opinion.
“She did not know you were coming,”
Nadra said gruffly. “You should have
sent word.”
Loma the Native made no comment,
but he strode through the village* his
sombre eyes turning this way and that,
observing the dirt and the rubbish, the
neglected-looking children and babies',
among them more than one halfcaste, he
noticed.
It was the sight of these tiny half-
castes that sent his memory back to the
days of his childhood, his first day at
school. Among the boys of his own
color there had been others of a paler
brown, whom he thought to be from
some other island. One of these pale
ones had come up to him, saying im-
portantly “I am Georgie the Halfcaste;
who are you?”
Young as he was then, Loma had felt
contempt for the hybrid ; he drew himself
up to his full height and answered
proudly “I am Loma the Native.”
Always since then he had thought of
himself as Loma the Native, and had
been proud of his own pure blood, proud
of his own race. Now, looking at those
tiny pale-skinned infants, a bitterness
stirred in his mind. Old Nadra, sitting
in her doorway, watched him with her
shrewd eyes. She, too, recalled that
childhood incident. It had been a good
story, she remembered, when Loma the
Native had scorned Georgie the Half-
caste.
BACK in camp with his unit Loma’s
character changed. He flung himself
into army life, became caught up in its
work, its pleasures and excitements, its
new experiences.
Spectacular parades and inspections in-
terspersed with rousing martial music
woke something primitive in him. At
times he could hardly refrain from tear-
ing off his stifling uniform in a mad
desire to stamp the earth with bare feet
and whirl his naked body in the rhythm
of half-forgotten dances.
He tasted .with gusto all the pleasures
of army life. He had never seen a film
before, but after the first he could never
have enough. He had never been in a
public bar before, never drunk anything
stronger than his national kava, but once
he had sampled beer and whisky he liked
nothing better than to stand with the
other soldiers, white and brown, in the
steaming bars swallowing the fiery fluid
till he could swallow no more. Then he
would stagger out into the hot, dark night
and lie in the gutter until the array lorry
came to pick him up.
And women! He wondered sometimes
why a man ever married, when he could
have all the women he desired ; and why
a man worked on a plantation when there
was food in abundance to be had out of
tins.
More than once during this time he
saw Vatu Lailai seated on the ground
outside some hotel, her mat spread out
before her, displaying her souvenirs, bar-
gaining pertly with crowds of soldiers and
sailors. But it meant nothing to him in
his new. life, nothing to her. They would
shout a casual greeting to each other
above the noise, at other times ignore
each other, for the past was dead in
(Continued on page 33.)
Various Verse
Visibility Poor.
Now terrible, now touching,
The ancient tale is told
By the shrivelled crone,
Biddy Malone —
The gods know how old,
Over the embers crouching —
In her antique, sacred phrasing,
Of murder, rape and clachans blazing,
Of marching hosts
Through the deep glens streaming
By ways dark and stony.
Women and childher screaming.
Armies led by tall ghosts
Of towering fame.
Now Ccesar, now Arthur, Cromwell or
Boney.
And if you ask “How long ago ?”
“Sure," she says, “how should I know ?
Sure, it’s all the same !” . . .
That lamp you can just descry
With its nimbus of dissolute rays
Teasing the eye.
Gleaming through thick haze—
How far away
Down the long empty street?
A mile or two or a thousand feet ?
Who can say ?
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.
Crow.
Perhaps blown over by a hellish wind
Charred wings, burnt bill—you have good
cause to caw.
Some bushfire first attracted you offshore,
When, silver gull, you wheeled landward
to find
Those ruddy sails you’d sighted once
before.
The Spaniard’s or the flying Dutchman’s,
east.
Bringing new savors to your fish-filled maw.
But this, instead of the expected feast,
Hell’s fires, red winds, infernos vast, you
saw,
As though the Spaniard raked you fore
and aft
With a black broadside. Haven then you
sought. i
Perhaps, at your misfortunes, some bird
laughed.
Some feathered Sinbad, when, once
overwrought,
With countering desert spindrift, wraiths
of smoke,
You changed to crow and matched the
island folk.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
Adventure Among Outlaws.
Here had I come, a gauche adventurer,
Knowing my search, but not my mode of
seeking.
Twisted by harbor, the city stretched
away.
And I was untramelled, at least in a
manner of speaking.
Free to find streets and enter dusty door-
wdys
To climb dark stairs, explore each foetid
room.
Spending long nights in listening and
contemplation
Of tangled thought and hard dogmatic
gloom.
Most earnestly I strove to conform to the
pattern
Of those whose boast is non-conformity.
Who cling to streets and small dark meet-
ing places.
Forgetting their nearness to the bush and
sea.
On Sundays butterfly sails float down the
harbor
And billies boil at the side of brown bush
tracks;
The fisherman gathers his lines, and
prawns and baskets —
The elite, and I, had chosen to turn our
backs.
Preferring for this' an inept pursuit of
culture.
The constant arid company of like minds
In a dingy studio in a rat-run building.
If the sun intruded they drew Venetian
blinds.
A useless effort to lose our memory
Of some vast solitude. For this we band
Together, raising our voices to forget
The lonely wastes of a remembered land.
We did but sit, and circle the proud night
With smoke rings and the insipid argu-
ment , , ~
Of vapid minds who leave suburban flats.
Stitching Bohemian tatters for a tent
To draw around us in Arabian fashion.
I say we talked to save our sight from
stars,
And slunk away, hugging our grimy pas-
Where once we heedless drew the slip-
rail bars.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM AND UNCLE JOE.
[Strong American feeling on the sort of policy Russia has been pursuing has found
increasingly vigorous expression in the American press, the general trend of it amounting
to the admission “Well, we asked for it I” and demands for the calling of the Soviet
bluff. Representative examples are here condensed .]
( From “Saturday Evening Post")
When the Canadians could no longer
keep the secret that Soviet agents had
been operating, former U.S. Ambassador
to Moscow Joe Davies rushed up to
declare that Stalin had a “moral right’
to spy on America, because America
has the atom-bomb secret and Russia, so
tar as is known, hasn t. For our part, we
h re ?fa t °c T e ?' oralSOUto£s / 5 ; i K S ;--1!? 1 !
United States has announced that it is
gomg to improve and enlarge its espmn-
age.facilities. This kind of thing seems
new worid 6 ° f
n Toe W Davies, who endorsed Stalin’s mur-
ders of thousands of Russians without
trial, is an odd man to mention morals
in this connection. The Russians them-
selves are not so complacent as Joe Davies
was about the morals of spying. Their
first story was that they did lift some
secrets, but that the secrets were old stuff
to Moscow’s scientists, and, therefore, the
agents were not guilty of anything. When
they understood the implications of that
position, the Moscow propagandists began
all over again, and this time received con-
siderable help ftom the Trojan Horse
passenger list.
The considered Stalinist version was
that the spy story was a British invention
to cover Mr. Attlee’s confusion at being
caught red-handed in Greece, Indonesia
and India. The fellow-traveller cult took
up that evasion with obvious gratitude
and represented the “spy-scare” as an
—“Action,” France.
“Don’t take too much, it is very salty.”
entertaining diversion by Mackenzie
King. Because official patience had
finally worn thin at the presence of so
many agents operating along Canada’s
polar plains, “PM” [U.S. pro-Com. pub-
lication] declared that “the witch-hunters
are gathering in the jungle.” The Com-
munist party bought extensive advertising
space to make much the same point.
But it won’t do, folks! No witch-
hunters are gathering. There is no secret
or overt war against Soviet Russia. What
has happened is that a growing number
of people in the United States, Great
Britain, China and almost everywhere
else are wondering if they haven’t been
taken over. They begin to suspect that
Stalin, whom we aided to the full, with
never a suggestion of squeezing a con-
cession out of him, is playing us for
suckers, and is about as much interested
in international co-operation as Hiram
Johnspn was.
* * * *
{From an article by N.Y. “Times” manager
Edwin L. James.)
In Russia the press is ,an instrument of
government. It is run by the regime and
die party for that purpose. The Russians
are very frank about it. Kuzmichev, in
Problems of Journalism, writes?:
“All dissertations on ‘objective and
complete information’ are liberal hypo-
crisy. The aim of information does not
consist in commercialising news, but in
educating the great masses of workers in
organising them under the exclusive direc-
tion of the party for clearly-defined tasks.
This objective will not be attained by ob-
jective reporting of events. Liberty and
objectivity of the press—these are fictions.
Information is the means of class struggle,
not a mirror to reflect events objectively.”
So when Mr. Churchill makes a speech
in the U.S. the text goes at once to Mos-
cow, but nothing is printed for five days,
and then quotes are used along with a
three-column editorial blast. It is not a
matter of giving the news of Mr.
Churchill’s speech ; it is a matter of using
material from it to form the basis for a
propaganda attack. Mr. Byrnes makes
a speech advocating a firmer American
f ore ign policy. The text goes to Mos-
cow, all right; but what was printed was
Mr Byrnes hoped for fair elections
j n Greece. The Secretary did not mention
Greece
There is , he di)terence as clear as day .
our is t 0 let the reader know the
so that he may form an opinion.
The Russian system ' is to make up the
citizen . s mind / or then teed him
such factual material as sup Ports the
ready-made opinion.
. O" labor troubles do not at all appear
¥> the Ru fJ a ? P ress “ dlustratmg the
freedom of labor unions in our country
‘° stnke u - something they do not do in
Russia but they are presented as a death-
struggle of wicked capitalism. If there
>s a story in Moscow papeis about un-
employment m the United States nothmg
rs sard about unemployment rehe .
fere is a picture of thousands
dying of starvation. Which proves what
le Kremlin wishes it to pr .
The British in Egypt, in Greece, in
India and in Java there you have in the
Moscow press evil imperialism with a
denial of human rights. But Russian
troops any place and they are m lots
of places—why, they are there for the
protection of human rights and tor the
glory of democracy—Russian style. And
as for Iran the Russian press has finally
got around to talking about oil, which
—“Nebelspalter,” Switzerland.
“Quiet, children! You can't fly yet!”
may show some progress toward realism
on that particular issue.
Just as it will be agreed that the Rus-
sians have a right to the kind of gov-
ernment they desire or stand for, just so
they have a perfect right to their kind of
journalism. But, nevertheless, at a time
when there is so much discussion of the
future of the world depending on better
knowledge, one people of it
seems fair to ask, what might be the
result if Russia had a press which told
its people factually about what is going
on in the world. Only slightly less im-
portant would be the abolition of Rus-
sian censorship, so that people in other
countries could know more about what
the Russian people are doing, dreaming
and planning.
* * * *
{From N.Y. “World-Telegram.")
As long as Soviet troops remain in
Iran, as long as Soviet looting of Man-
churia continues, as long as Eastern
Europe is held in subjection by Red
armies and Moscow’s puppet regimes,
as long as Russia expands at the expense
of her weaker neighbors and preys upon
The report from American cor-
respondents in the Far East telling
how an English-speaking Chinese
businessman was murdered by the
Japanese for giving the correspon-
dents information concerning the
theft of property in Mukden by
the Russian Army is a persuasive
exposition of how totalitarianism
operates to maintain a blackout in
order to hide the strong-arm
methods used by Russia in dealing
with foreign countries. —“United
States News .”
the Western democracies with spies, the
world will distrust her.
It is not enough for the Russians to
say that they do not want war. Of
course they do not. But wars do hot come
by wishing. They are caused by lawless-
ness, by the unwillingness of nations to
submit their disputes and conflicts to fair
and peaceful settlement.
The United States and Britain have
made many sweeping concessions to Rus-
sian expansion and domination in the
hope of maintaining Big Three unity as
the basis of an effective world organisa-
tion. That is the proof of their sincerity,
of their desire to combine with Russia
and not against her. The tragedy is that
Russia is rejecting that friendship and
unity. If only the United States and
Britain are left standing together, it will
be because Russia has walked out on
them.
But let Stalin make no mistake. How-
ever the United States and Britain may
differ on some things and whatever their
lesser conflicts, these democracies will
stand together on the overriding issue of
an international order of peace and secu-
rity. Churchill is quite right in saying that
no treaty of military alliance is necessary
to assure that,
**• ♦ •
{From N.Y. “Times. ,r )
All of the official Russian agencies of
information and opinion are engaged m
a propaganda campaign picturing Russia
as being encircled by a hostile and war-
breeding “monopoly capitalism.” This
campaign is reaching an apparent climax
in strong protestations that Russia will
not yield to anyone or anything, but will
continue on her way without turning
aside. Yet the sole argument that runs
through the whole propaganda is that
Russia must have security, that she must
“secure all her frontiers” and that her
only purpose is defence against attack.
In the name of security Russia has
already annexed during the recent war
the following countries and territories:
Square
Miles. Population.
Lithuania 24,058 3,029,000
Latvia 20,056 1,950,000
Estonia 18,353 1,120,000
Eastern Poland .. .. 68,290 10,150,000
Bessarabia & Bukovina .. 19,360 3,748,000
Moldavia .. .. .. 13,124 2,200,000
Carpatho-Ukraine .. .. 4,922 800,000
East Prussia 3,500 f99’999
Karelo-Finland .. .. 16,173 470,000
Petsamo, Finland .. . . 4,087 4,000
Tannu Tuva, Central Asia 64,000 65,000
Southern Sakhalin.. .. 14,075 415,000
Kurile Islands .. .. 3,949 4,500
Total 273,947 24,355,600
In the name of security Russia has like-
wise obtained naval bases on the Pork-
kala Peninsula, in Finland, and at Port
Arthur, in China, together with joint
ownership and operation of the Man-
churian trunk railway lines. In short,
in a war fought under the banner of “no
aggrandisement, territorial or other,”
Russia has already acquired territories
equal to the larger part of the eastern
United States.
Yet all Russian pronouncements make
it evident that even this is not enough,
and new demands are being made through
Russian diplomatic channels and through
the press for additional territories. The
world is justified in asking: Where does
the search for security end and where
does expansion begin?
* * * *
{From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by the
regular featured contributor who writes as
“Heptisax.’'’)
We are so familiar with the twisted
use of news in Russia and with the penal-
ties on freedom of expression that they
no longer shock us. *
That is bad, thoroughly bad. We should
be everlastingly shocked and outraged by
the knowledge that in a country where
96,000,000 persons vote no one has any
balanced knowledge of world affairs or
of world opinion but a litde bevy of
hard-boiled gents in a Moscow fortress.
The whole U.N.O. idea is predicated
upon one basic assumption. This is that,
with Germany and Japan out of the way,
there is no major Power left that will
resort to armed force on its own initia-
tive in defiance of world opinion. What
everyone who had pinned any hopes at
all on the U.N.O. no# fears is that the
Soviet Union is going to prove this basic
assumption false. And what makes this
such a sickening fear is that the great
masses of the Russian people will be
given no true understanding of that world
opinion which their dictatorship seems
inclined to defy, and that we can do no-
thing about it
If the dictatorship chooses to tell them
that world opinion is hostile to Soviet
Russia and goes on to explain that they
face a world conspiracy, led by the Anglo-
American imperialists, Tories, Fascists
and so on, to encircle and crush their
wholly benevolent union of “freedom-
loving peoples,” they will all believe it,
because they will have no information on
which to base a doubt of this explanation.
Then, if 20 million of them under arms
are told to march out against Holy Rus-
sia’s satanic enemies, they will march out
with zeal. In such a situation the pleas
and assurances that 50 nations might like
to get to those zealous millions would
never reach them. It would be foolish
and provocative of feverish thinking to
say that such a development is a prob-
ability ; but it would be just as foolish
now to say that it is not possible, because
it is high time for everyone to understand
how and why it is possible. It is possible
because the Soviet Union’s system of gov-
ernment gives a little coterie of able,
hard-headed but fallible men in that Mos-
cow fortress, with much of the intellec-
tual arrogance of schoolmasters who
fiercely resent backtalk from their
students, such power over the minds of
a vast body of devoted men and women
as no human being has over the mind of
any other.
The voice of the Kremlin has for many
years told the Russian people, and Reds
the world over, every so often, that all
non-Communists hate Communism and
are for ever scheming and thinking up
excuses to destroy it at its fountain head
—Soviet Russia. This is not true. Even
those who have been long convinced, like
the writer, that all varieties of socialism
must degenerate into State serfdom and
then call for a pretty savage tyranny to
keep a spirited people in such bondage,
would far rather wait and see how tyranny
in Russia finally gives place to freer in-
stitutions than help finance a crusade to
free the miserable Russians from it. But
the question which the astute gentry of
the Kremlin may begin to ask one an-
other pretty soon is whether this progres-
sively indulgent attitude is not giving
place all over the world to an aggressive
anti-Red attitude. They may begin to
wonder whether the peoples outside Rus-
sia who have so passionately hoped for
a permanently-organised peace are not
holding their despotic control of the Rus-
sian mind accountable for bringing organ-
ised peace into jeopardy again; and
whether tolerant persons, in many lands
where Communism now gets a hearing,
will not turn on their ideology with bitter
hatred.
If Communism is critically discussed
throughout the civilised world and is held
accountable for a new threat to world
peace, the Soviet Union will suffer over-
whelming defeat on the ideological front
in every nation that has a free press, be-
sides those that have what Moscow would
call a Fascist-controlled press; and for
all their blunter it is really on the ideo-
logical front only—through their faithful
auxiliaries in all nations —that they can
hope to conquer the world. They prob-
ably have such confidence in their mili-
tary strength, and in what they propose
to make it, that they have no great fear
of a conquest of Russia by any coalition
of “democracies.” But if reports start
coming in to the Kremlin that the Rus-
sian brand of socialism is being reviled
the world over by “liberals” as well as
“reactionaries”; and that the faithful
auxiliaries are being hounded out of all
positions of trust and influence, and
treated as pariahs, the Kremlin will be
profoundly shocked. The first reaction in
the field of propaganda will probably be
angry and vituperative, according to pat-
tern. But that will only bring more agi-
tated reports of more serious debacles
on the ideological front. Then the tone
will change, and we may have an organ-
ised peace that will outlast the “iron
curtain.”


U.N.O. Better Than Yaltas.
(from “Wall-street Journal”)
International affairs got into their
present shape after a series of confer-
ences by the heads of States. The idea
that they can be straightened out by an-
other such conference seems to us to lack
any suggestion of logic.
Contrast Yalta and the meeting of the
United Nations Organisation in London.
At Yalta an American President entered
into secret agreements which he had not
the slightest authority to make and which
were abhorrent to the American people.
At London, where negotiations were in
the full light of day, Russia yielded noth-
ing. Nevertheless, her ambitions and her
methods were exposed to all the world
and the tactics of her representatives were
the tactics of men on the defensive.
Secrecy and force, or threats of force,
are the weapons which Stalin understands
better than the head of any democratic
State can understand them or employ
them. If Stalin’s ambitions are to be
curbed, it must be by the mobilisation of
the decent opinion of the world. If that
means nothing, if aggression cannot be
checked in that way, then the U.N.O. and
all the things for which we were supposed
to be fighting are delusions, and we had
best acknowledge as much and prepare
to save our skins.
Against Intervention.
(George E. Sokolsky in N.Y. “Sun.")
Intervention is a hostile act because, as
Hall’s “International Law” so clearly
states, “It constitutes an attack upon the
independence of the State subjected to
it.” Were lan Argentine, I should have
voted for Peron, under all circumstances
and no matter what my personal senti-
ments might have been, because a foreign
country intervened in the internal affairs
of my country and therefore attacked its
independence. Were I a Spaniard, I
should today support Franco to the hilt
for the same reason.
The quarrel between the United States
and the Argentine seems to be without
foundation; nothing that that new Titan
of diplomacy, sprung out of Chilean
mines, Spruille Braden, has said about the
Argentine, does not apply even more fully
to Soviet Russia. The effective factors
in the argument, the electors of the Argen-
tine, are giving the ebullient and quixotic
Braden the grand heave-ho.
As for Franco’s Spain, the contention
seems to be that we are ideologically
different and that Franco once courted
Hitler, as also Stalin once did. In its
younger and smarter days, before the
New Wisdom sprouted in Washington, as
far back as 1797, a treaty was signed
between the United States and Tripoli
containing the following:
“As the Government of the United
States of America is not in any sense
founded on the Christian religion ; as it
has in itself no character of enmity
against the laws, religion, or tranquillity
of Mussulmen; and as the said States
never have entered into any war or act of
hostility against any Mahometan nation,
it is declared by the parties, that no pre-
text arising from religious opinions shall
ever produce an interruption of the har-
mony existing between the two coun-
tries.”
The Starving World.
(From a London “Times” article.)
The present world food shortage will
continue not only throughout the cereal
year 1947-48 bxit in some of its aspects
for several years to come.
The reason is that the agricultural bal-
ance between crops and livestock, already
distorted as a consequence of war, has
been completely upset by the renewed
necessity of diverting grain to human
consumption. Next year’s demands will
certainly be exceptional.
The worst perils threaten in Europe.
The grain production of the Continent,
excluding Russia, for which no figures are
published, dropped from an average of
59.000. tons before the war to
46.000. tons in 1944, with a further
catastrophic fall to 31,000,000 tons last
year. Import requirements for the cur-
rent year amount to more than four
times the pre-war totals, and even if satis-
fied would still leave Europe short of
about ,a quarter of its peace-time bread
supplies.
But this average figure is misleading.
The shortage is most acute in ex-enemy
countries, whose current consumption is
50 to 60 per cent, of their peace-time
total. Even this reduced consumption is
not evenly distributed. Country dwellers
are better off than those in towns, and
additional rations are provided for miners
and other heavy workers. Consequently,
“many individuals who have no priority
for rations and little access to unrationed
or blackmarket foods are already ap-
proaching starvation levels.” These levels
are approached when men and women
seek to maintain life on 1000 calories a
day, which is the present ration of about
half the population in the British zone
of Germany The British White Paper
on world food states:
The experience of those who dealt' with
the grave famine situation in the western
Netherlands last winter provides clear evi-
dence that there is rapid deterioration of
physical condition, loss of weight and the
appearance of diseases of _ malnutrition
among people forced to subsist on calorie
levels below 1000 a day. When, lafer m
the period of deprivation, the rations were
cut further... .individuals were reduced to
living skeletons withip a month or two.
That is the situation which, unless
European agriculture can recover at least
its 1944 totals, will repeat itself next year
in the British zone in Germany, with its
inevitable consequences to the great in-
dustrial population involved and to the
contribution which that population Qould
make to the hopes of European recovery.
In India / almost three-quarters of
India’s millions grow food mainly for
their own consumption. The cities and
the areas which cannot supply their own
needs—and in so vast a country local de-
ficiencies are bound to occur —depend
upon the small surpluses of the peasant
cultivator and upon imports. Before the
war India imported about 1,500,000 tons
of rice from Burma. When the Japanese
conquest cut off this source of supply
famine struck Bengal. The efforts of the
authorities to increase domestic produc-
tion prevented a recurrence of that
disaster in the two following years, but
no reserves have been accumulated to
meet the deficiency created by the failure
of the winter rains. India, therefore, finds
—St. Louis “Post-Dispatch,” U.S.A
“A CLOUD NO BIGGER THAN A MAN’S HAND.”
herself compelled to set her current need
for imports at more than double the
peace-time figure.
Nor is it only in India that special
requirements have to be met. The rice
production of Japan is estimated to have
fallen by a fifth, that of China by almost
as much, and the ominous situation in
south-eastern Asia has been recognised
by the appointment of a special Food
Commissioner. It is a situation that can-
not be retrieved at once. Though special
measures were taken in Burma directly
on the country’s liberation, the White
Paper quotes an estimate that four years
must elapse before the normal figure is
again reached. During those years the
East will continue to make abnormal calls
on world supplies of wheat and will be
unable to make its former contribution
to world supplies of fats and oils.
German Arms Superiority.
(From an American “Foreign Affairs” article
by war commentator Hanson W. Baldwin. His
comparisons are with U.S. arms, etc.)
The. Germans possessed a clearcut
technical lead (over U.S.) in many cate-
gories right down to the end of the war.
Some of them were as follows: —
(1) Some of the German anti-aircraft
shells were rocket-propelled and con-
trolled by radar or radio (thus resembling
our proximity fuse), and some were de-
signed to weaken the effectiveness of our
aircraft radar. The Germans had a defi-
nite laboratory lead in developing missiles
of many types. They had under
development a transatlantic rocket that
would be capable of making the crossing
in about 17 minutes, and new forms of
VI and V2, some of them piloted models,
were in the experimental stage. Anti-
aircraft rockets, airborne rockets and
many other types considerably in advance
of our thinking in this field were also
under development. The German
bazooka was better than ours,
(2) In jet propulsion, the Ger-
mans were technologically several years
ahead of us. Some of their newest
aircraft armament was equal to, or
superior to, our operational equipment.
(3) The improved German 88mm. gun
was probably the best three-purpose gun
(anti-tank, anti-aircraft and field artillery
piece) developed during the war. Many
new types of artillery, including very
huge mortars and long-range field guns,
were under development or construction.
Some of them had rocket-assisted shells.
Among these were a 380 mm. howitzer
and rocket “guns” with smooth-bore
barrels 400 feet long, intended for the
bombardment of London. Anew
120 mm. anti-tank gun was likewise in
development. The Germans were also
working on a 32in. siege gun, with a
barrel 141 ft. long, which fired an eight
and a quarter ton projectile,
(4) The Germans were well advanced
in the use of infra-red for photography
and for tank and aircraft detection.
(5) Generally speaking German
tank development was well ahead of our
own.
(6) The German electric, acoustic and
“spider” torpedoes—the last-named con-
trolled by a long, thin, trailing wire—
were superior to ours.
(7) The Germans had developed engines
using far higher pressures and tempera-
tures than ours, although these were not
yet satisfactory. They were also experi-
menting with chemical engines.
(8) The Germans had designed sub-
marines with new hull forms and new
types of engine, as, for example, those
which operated on the principle of hydro-
gen peroxide propulsion used in rockets.
These vessels had the extraordinary
underwater speed of 18 knots, and new
ones being designed had underwater
speeds up to 21 and 25 knots. They
could remain submerged at periscope
depth indefinitely, breathing through the
“Schnorkel” device, which added only a
slight feather of foam to the wake left
by the periscope. Armed with improved
instruments and torpedoes, these new
submarines would have been a major
menace had the war continued. The
Germans clearly were ahead of us in the
development of submarines, despite our
continued assertions to the contrary.
(9) The German land and sea mines
were more advanced than our own. The
“oyster” or pressure mine, used in Cher-
bourg harbor, was a particularly crafty
one.
(10) In weight, flexibility, cyclic rate of
fire and general utility, the German
machine-guns and sub-machine-guns had
many advantages over ours. German
powder gave off less smoke, and German
use of flash-hiders made the positions of
their weapons difficult to spot.
Road to War.
(As seen by “United States News.”)
Unless trends now appearing are re-
versed war within five years is possible,
but still is highly improbable; war is to
be a definite possibility within 10 or 15
years; war is becoming probable within
15 or 20 years.
The drift toward war is strong and
clear. Nobody, however, wants war now.
No major nation is either in the mood
or the condition to fight at this time.
If eventual war is to be avoided Russia
must give up isolationism, open her
borders and come into the world, and the
U.S. must use her power and resources
to put the world back on its feet.
Otherwise, suspicions will grow and
rivalries will build up. Russia will pro-
mote Communism in a disorganised
world; will expand her influence and
control over a constantly widening area.
The U.S. and Britain then will become
increasingly alarmed ; will strive for ways
to counter Russian expansion. ,
That is the road to war, already open-
ing up.
U.S. in China.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Martin Sommers, in North China.)
U.S. is boldly following out the policy
of the open door in China, especially as
applies to the “affected area” of Man-
churia, and taking calculated risks to
make it stick.
The truth is ITS. is taking far more
daring measures to ensure that Manchuria
does not fall into the hands of the Rus-
sians, thereby enfeebling and disuniting
China, than it ever thought of taking to
save this rich storehouse of China from
the Japanese.
Lieut.-General A. C. Wedemeyer, who,
it is important to remember, not only
commands all United States forces in
China, but also is chief-of-staff for
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, is mov-
ing American-equipped Chinese Central
Government armies across seas into Man-
churia in American ships under firm
directives which originate in the White
House. Beyond that. General Wedemeyer
is charged with maintaining logistics for
the Chinese forces he lands in Manchuria
and defending American lives- and
property throughout the area he com-
mands.
The combination of these facts is
highly significant. For main-
tenance of logistics means
that for an indefinite period
U.S. has undertaken to
operate a supply line for the
masses of Chinese Central
Government troops landed
in Manchuria. This may be
a job of months, and may
be a job of years.. And the
job involves the employment
of American lives and prop-
erty on a large scale. It is
clear, then, that U.S, is con-
siderably involved in future
events in Manchuria, in
whatever may develop in
relations with the Russians
there at present, the Chinese
Central Government and the
Chinese Communists.
The mention of Chinese
Communists points to an-,
other way in which U.S. has
stuck out its national neck
in this part of the world.
Having fought and won an
enormously costly war to
ensure a free, independent
and united China —among
other objectives—it has set
out to win the peace by
doing its utmost to see that a united
China becomes a reality.
The first step was to send 53,000
Marines, many sorely battle-weary, into
North China. True, the Marines are here
to assist the Chinese in repatriating hun-
dreds of thousands of Japanese soldiers
and civilians. But their arrival in time
to accept the Japanese surrender in the
name of Chiang Kai-shek also prevented
Peiping and other key cities in North
China from falling under the control of
Mao Tsetung’s Communist armies, for the
atomic peace caught the Generalissimo
with his troops down south. The Com-
munist forces, had it not been for the
Marines, unquestionably would have
taken over this area from the Japanese.
Such a development might well have pre-
cipitated civil war of such range and
duration that any attempt at unifying
China would have proved impossible.
The importance that the Chungking
Government attached to the arrival of
the Marines was reflected in the Kuomin-
tang organ Peiping “Chronicle”: “The
people of North China will never forget
that it was the Ist Division of United
States Marines who came and rescued
them in their hour of greatest danger.”
In short, as the Kuomintang saw it, no
danger which North China was exposed to
during the long years of Japanese occu-
pation was as great as the danger of con-
trol by Chinese Communists.
Bigger Atom Bombs.
(From “United States News.”)
Atomic-bomb developments are now
disturbing even military men ; they are
giving a rather fantastic turn to the idea
of another real war.
A bomb now can be made equal to
1,000,000 one-ton blockbusters in effect.
An underwater test, even of the first,
tentatively weak bomb is postponed inde-
finitely and probably never will be held,
because of conclusions concerning the
(Continued on page 32.)


ip
* tV ' ' r
mm* -* '' * < ’ 4
v* •:• . V* ' ‘
g&« • v’\ > V
1 -f - ;-- s v - %-t.,
& * O''" ''- 4 ' '
-X'<; #'<-'■* >• ■>'
MACHINE TOOLS
for the
TASKS AHEAD
• •
u :>;■, ;•, : : - : ;r;%;Vff, ■;
■
3 :■.£■: ■ ' W«« \
■
■ .
,« \l - ssa afc '
WkSSM
I i i
'
'^r;
MRjIhI
| mmmm
V I
J
'
JP
Jf
-r : .
:;l||*i
EEi'-i
' X ' ■■ -
'*BBB
'"‘““Saw** *3
,
MapaajpgaM^
hhMmhMmh
fvT
llltel
;
a
*«
m
g&*>
.
'
fr
■■■■.■>
i I *
- "‘Y - , 1
f 'M
FaN*
■ •'
•;?
5,46 Collins Street, MELBOURNE 260 Kent St., 51 Bathurst Si, SYDNEY
■ .3. ,'.:
116 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE 532 Murray Street, PERTH
, ■ * •■■■■■>.■.,■■ '•■ ■■-■:' ' ’
. ■ '•■ \ , •■ > ■ , ~ ,; r. •> " ■ '■’ ”’
* s j.
POST-WAR COMPETITION
WILL BE VIGOROUS
AND EFFICIENT
Why be handicapped by equipment below the
standard demanded by successful competition ?
McPherson's ltd. will be pleased to advise enquirers
who seek more efficient Machine Tools.
McPherson's Ltd., recognised for many years prior
to the War as Australia's leading Machine Tool
Manufacturers, have had the added experience of
satisfying the enormous wartime demand for high
grade Machine Tools.
A few of these Machines are shown at the right:-
1. AMTA-ARCHDAIE MILLING MACHINE 1
2. AMTA-WARD No. 7 TURRET LATHE
3. MACSON 8y 2 in. CENTRE LATHE
4. AMTA-CHURCHILL PRECISION GRINDER
5. AMTA-WARD No. 3A CAPSTAN LATHE
6. MACSON 7 in. CENTRE LATHE
Particulars of Machine Tools and Industrial Machinery
will be sent promptly on request.
LIMITED
SELLING AGENTS FOR
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3454
Wednesday, April 24, 1946
FAMILY DAWN SERVICE.
“Whatever’s coming, we’ll take it together in the old spirit.”


THe Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior’ David Adam#
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings C opp■
G.P.0.), Wellington,
ANZAC AND BRITISH.
In the toasts and thoughts of the Diggers
at the traditional Anzac Day reunions
there will be mention and recollection, as
there always is, of those who were down
at “the other end” —the British at Helles.
Diggers who were not at Anzac will have
them well in mind, too, from the con-
tacts in that war in France and else-
where ; in the later war in North Africa,
in the air over Europe, and on all the
seas. Above all, they will be in mind as
the gallant people who stood alone in
the recent war’s darkest days, refusing to
give in though their position was such
that their enemies and many of their
friends as well thought they were finished.
Remembering all that the British actu-
ally did in this later war —the great
Empire leader and the great fighting
leaders they produced ; the great battles
they fought and won, from the Battle of
Britain itself, the Battle of the Atlantic
and of the Mediterranean, and from
Alamein onwards, not omitting that most
costly of all Jap defeats the campaign
in Burma; the brilliant inventiveness
which had the Spitfire when it was
needed, radar and all the rest of it —re-
membering all this, Diggers no doubt
will recall the flood of assertion between
the wars on the theme that Britain had
had its day and that the Empire was in
rapid process of disintegration.
Another war, according to that widely-
propagated notion, would see the whole
house that John built fall instantly apart.
South Africa, the forecast ran, would rush
the opportunity to cut adrift. Canada
was linked to the U.S.A. and not to
Britain, and would act accordingly. Even
Australia and New Zealand could no
longer 1 be depended on to send their men
“to fight Britain’s wars” again.
As it happened, there was in Australia
an attempt to turn that false conception
of the spirit of this country into a reality.
There was opposition in 1939 to the send-
ing of' a man outside Australia’s Com-
monwealth map boundaries. It failed,
and the political party which attempted
it went on to lead Australia through most
of the war and—except for its rancorous
Britain-haters—to boast of its perform-
ance in that role and of the magnificent
part Australians played at Alamein, in
the air war over Europe and elsewhere.
Actually, the supposed shaky Empire —
including India, whose men fought as
magnificently as any—not only stood
solid, but even grew in strength of unity ;
and it can safely be said that among the
peoples of the Dominions, despite some
yapping of limelight-hunting politicians,
that unity is as strong today as ever it
was. In some important respects it is
even stronger than before.
Yet, as after the earlier war, the tale
of a broken Britain and falling Empire
is once more getting an airing and a
hearing. Its most assiduous propa-
gators today are Communists, doing
their fifth-column work as part of the
Soviet effort to out-Hitler Hitler. They
point to India, overlooking that Britain
is, after all, still in control there, and
that the current proceedings towards
handing that control over have long been
on the way. As far as the Dominions go
—leaving out Britain-hating or limelight-
hunting politicians—the actual position is
a strengthening of the Empire not only
through the war-increased admiration for
Britain, but through the strengthening of
the Dominions themselves, most import-
antly Canada, though all are in it.
Canada, particularly, advanced during
the war a tremendous distance towards
being a great nation in itself. Not only
was it great enough not to have to par-
ticipate in lend-lease, but it was even
able to set up as a lend-leasing country
on its own account, giving most gener-
ously to Britain and to sister Dominions,
as well as to Russia, which shipped it
spies and corrupted Canadians in
return. Canada’s latest evidence of
its new Strength—and with it the
new strength of the Empire as a
whole —was its loan to Britain last month
of one billion two hundred and fifty mil-
lion dollars. In addition, Canada con-
tinues the seven hundred million dollars
interest-free provisions of the loan made
in 1942, and also cancels the four hundred
and fifty million dollars owed by Britain
under Jhe Empire Air Training Scheme.
Then there are its enormous gifts of
food.
However far Australia, in comparison,
may have fallen, and may be falling, short
of national greatness under an uninspired
and uninspiring Government, the new
stature of Canada, together with its vigor-
ous and undeviating support of Britain,
is alone proof enough that this Empire,
so far from falling apart, was never
stronger. Probably it is proximity to
Canada that makes unbiassed onlookers
in the United States realise the hollow-
ness of the disintegrating-Empire brand
of twaddle. There are plenty of the
other sort of onlookers in America, too
—professional pullers of the Lion’s tail —
but Uncle Sam, like others, knows better
now than before the late war that John
Bull is still most hale and hearty and,
moreover, a great chap to be with in a
fight.
Nobody would accuse the New York
“Journal-American” (Hearst’s) of being
particularly prejudiced in Britain’s favor,
which gives all the more force to a recent
downright debunking of the weak-Britain
myth by its military authority, Maj.-Gen.
David P, Barrows. Pointing out that it
was becoming “very common” to read
or hear that “Great Britain has ceased
to be a first-class Power,” usually coupled
with the statement that “there are only
two great Powers left in the world—.
Soviet Russia and the United States of
America, and that Soviet Russia, be-
cause she cannot be challenged in Europe
or Asia, will be the decisive Power in
settling the destiny of these continents,”
General Barrows declared himself per-
sonally unimpressed by this line of asser-
tion. It struck him, in fact, as “a whale
of a falsification.” The British Empire,
he further pointed out, “was enlarged by
the first World War. So far it has not
been diminished by the second World
War.”
That Britain itself is going through a
tough time on its food and reconstruc-
tion fronts is not disputed, but that is
very different from writing it off as weak.
A recent American visitor there—a buyer
who also travelled the Continent look-
ing for products for the U.S. market —
found the general economic effort in
Britain “grimly determined, well-directed
and much more promising than else-
where.” Another American source has
stated, as examples of Britain’s recovery
effort, that British steel output is running
at the rate of 12,500,000 tons annually,
compared with 10,500,000 in 1938, and
that already automobile production is
17,400 cars a month, halfway to the pre-
war rate. So it is, too, in building, the
replanning of the bombed cities and in
other fields of recovery ; to which it could
also be added that Britain today leads
the world in ’plane developments, and, as
well, is, for the time being, very wisely
hanging on to a strong proportion of its
armed strength.
So Diggers, many of whom know from'
personal experience, will not in their
Anzac Day commemorations be thinking
of other than a still strong enough Britain
and Empire. And in their words they
could echo a great statesman from yet
another part of the Empire, General
Smuts, speaking at Capetown earlier this
month:
There is no “target” in the affection we
hold for the people of Britain. We do not
realise that at one time we stood on the
knife-edge of security. I do know from
inside that it was by the narrowest shave
that we escaped what would have been
disaster to civilisation as we know if.
There was a period of the war when the
enemy came within an ace of victory. It
was then through the courage and stead-
fastness of soul of the British people that
they saw us through. These people re-
fused to accept setbacks, but with grim
confidence saw the situation through—a
great people under incomparable leadership.
General Smuts added to that something
which Australians who fought in the war
and are now civilians or on their way
to be civilians again may find particularly
pertinent at the present time. “Demo-
cracy without leadership,” he said, “is
like a flock of sheep without a shepherd,”
Before the end of this year these Diggers
—using the term for the airmen and
others —will have the opportunity of
showing they can provide what demo-
cracy in this country most decidedly is
without.
"Labor" Distributes Rewards.
It fell to “Labor” to recognise the ser-
vices of General Harry Chauvel on his
retirement as Inspector-General of the
A.M.F. and Chief of the General Staff.
It had turned down all his recommenda-
tions for the defence of the Common-
wealth, but it may have been advised that
during the war against the Central Powers
Chauvel had commanded the greatest and
most successful body of horsemen in
modern history, and that such a man could
not be allowed to pass into retirement, with-
out some reward. So it allowed the old
Queenslander (he was 65) the use of a
Defence Department hack.
“Labor” was again in office when
General Blarney, who was Monash’s
Chief-of-Staff in the immortal 1918 cam-
paign in France, gave up his command
after the war against Hitler’s Germany
and Tojo’s Japan. Again some recogni-
tion of great and meritorious services was
called for. “Labor” chose as its gift the
use of a second-hand car.
Friends and admirers in Melbourne
redressed the balance in a measure by
entertaining the general at a dinner and
handing him a modest cheque and an
autographed album. “The least the Gov-
ernment could have done,” one speaker
said, “was to call our G.O.C. to the Bar
of the House and thank him on behalf
of the country.” Eugene Gorman, M.C.,
a 22nd Battalion man for four years in
the First A.1.F., who had special oppor-
tunities of judging Blarney’s leadership
in the Middle East campaigns (sacrificing
a great practice at the Victorian Bar, he
was Comforts Fund Commissioner and
afterwards Chief Inspector of Army Ad-
ministration), gave it unstinted praise.
Brigadier Gorman said that Mr. Ernest
Bevin, then a member of the War Cabinet
and now Foreign Secretary, had told him
in London that the efforts of the force
in Greece under General Blarney’s com-
mand made all the difference to the fate
of Russia. It had been General Blarney’s
bitter necessity to plan a long retreat —
in all ages a* severe test of military ability.
He had two divisions, one Australian and
one Maoriland, and no air cover. Op-
posed to him were 20 German divisions
with clouds of dive-bombers, and a hun-
dred miles of frightful country had to
be covered before the delivering ships
could be reached. General Blarney’s dis-
positions were so able that he did what
no British authority had expected him
to do—got two-thirds of his troops out
of Greece. What the British {bought of
his achievement was shown when they
made him Deputy Commander-in-Chief
under the great Wavell.
The guest of the evening spoke perti-
nently, as he always does. “In 1943,” he
said, “when the troops were resting and
they became restless, gratitude died in
Australia and it never revived. The Ad-
ministration of the day had refused to
accept a national Government and
national control, preferring to maintain'
a party political attitude.” Then, referring
to service leaders who were churlishly
refused the New Year honors generously
distributed among Canadians and New
Zealanders, he added: —•
All you can give to a leader is honor.
He can expect no other reward. The
British race has recognised war leaders
with orders of chivalry. This style of
recognition belongs to the British people,
not to a little coterie of two or three at
Canberra.
That same night at Canberra, “Labor”
was challepged to justify, if it could, the
appointment of a good-as-“ Labor” poli-
tician, Mr. Wilson, as Administrator of
Norfolk Island to the exclusion of “many
returned servicemen who not only distin-
guished themselves in the war but proved
themselves able administrators.” The
challenge was addressed by Mr. Anthony
to Mr. Ward, who, having at the outset
of the war tried to prevent all the out-
lying possessions, from New Guinea to
Norfolk Island, being defended by called-
up men, was named Minister of Exter-
nal Territories. Mr, Wilson, with Mr.
Coles, who has also retired to a handsome
position, was instrumental in putting
“Labor” in office. “Labor” showed its
gratitude by building a power-alcohol fac-
tory, one of those which have never pro-
cessed a bushel of wheat, at Warrackna-
beal, in the Wilson electorate, in effect
throwing away half a million. At the
by-election it lost the seat —to a service-
man from Warracknabeal!
To Mr. Ward’s impudence there is no
known limit. He had the face to say that
the “Government” had “examined the
qualifications of all the persons available
for Norfolk Island” and had “decided
that Mr. Wilson had the best.” Mr. Wil-
son, he added, had “offered to serve the
country anywhere, though not in uni-
form.” How many other persons with
like scruples Mr. Ward was the means
of saving from having to demean them-
selves by wearing the King’s uniform is
not on record, though some day it may
be. Certainly Communists were spared
the insult in large numbers.
Norfolk Island was a military post dur-
ing the struggle with the Japanese, and
Australia was lucky to have the services
there of a grand fighting man of the first
German war, Major-General Charles
Rosenthal, of Gallipoli, Villers-Bret. and
Mont St. Quentin. Other A.I.F. generals
were among his predecessors; but gen-
erals are “out” when Mr. Ward has the
making of appointments —“no bloody
generals” is the Ward motto. And before
he finished his “reply” he indulged in a
ferocious sneer at his aversions, who,
mostly citizen - soldiers, gave their best
years to training other citizen soldiers,
qualifying for leadership and fight-
ing for their country—fighting for pay
which any “Labor” politician would
scorn. All this while Mr. Ward was cul-
tivating the arts of the soapbox spouter
and vote-catcher, feeding his hatred of
Britain and one-half of his countrymen
and refreshing himself at boxing halls.
The Opposition has been trying to secure
positions for military brasshats, who are
evidently finding difficulty in rehabilitating
erase ves.
~a cts a . r s. ° no consequence to this
ff e {? C w
ts; itself, but what he finds matter for
fnd mob were ha/nglhe time of
«
cases their hea.fh ,s paired. ThS^whJ
caUings have discovered tha°t home-kelp-
ing ‘rivals have got far ahead of them,
There is not on f y a shortage of houses ,
tragic for scores of thousands of officers
and other ranks, but a shortage of offices
and consulting-rooms. It never seems to
have entered the alleged mind of the
alleged “Government” in which this non-
starter nourishes his mean grudges—at a
large salary and with handsome travelling
expenses and the use of one of the
fluid-drive Chryslers, the most gorgeous of
their kind, in which Ministers can be seen
everywhere—that houses and offices and
consulting-rooms and many other essen-
tials would be needed after the wars,
But what a thing to delight in, that
ageing and warworn service leaders
should be anxious about their future!
That, while State politicians of the Ward
party—not one with a single day of corn-
batant service against the Japanese—have
voted themselves pensions such as no
serviceman or serviceman’s widow re-
ccives, they, these service leaders, to
whom the country owes more than it owes
to the whole tribe of “Labor” politicians,
are already facing the bleak prospect of
poverty! Ugly and venomous is the
toad, Shakspeare tells us; uglier and more
venomous the Sydney-larrikin mentality.
H.C.E.
Though the League of Nations is having
a formal funeral, after having been dead
for six years, this will mean no saving
to Australia if the present crowd of
spendthrifts remains in office. It is much
more likely that annual expenditure under
this head will increase.
For the League and its International
Labor Office £70,100 was voted in the
1945-46 estimates, made up as follows;
Contribution, League and 1.L.0. .. £59,000
Representation, League Assembly .. 100
Representation, 1.L.0. .. .. .. 10,000
Subsidy, League Union 1,000
The £lOOO was for keeping someone in
a fantastically useless job.
There is every indication that the
£lO,OOO for “representation, 1.L.0.,” will
fall far short of actual expenditure.
1.L.0. is not recognised by Russia and
other countries, and will probably be
superseded by some U.N.O. concern with
a different label, but meanwhile its
meddling and trip-giving possibilities have
been fully realised at Canberra, if no-
where else. In the course of 12 months
or so two Australian delegations com-
posed of “Labor” politicians, trade-union
bosses and employers (who could have
been much better occupied) took part in
its “deliberations,” one at Philadelphia
and the other at Paris. Now another is
off to the U.S.A. for “deliberations” in
May.
Minister Beasley went to Philadelphia,
and took Labor-member Barnard with
him. To Paris travelled Minister Fraser
and “Labor”-members Lawson and Hay-
len, “Labor”-member James going a little
later. The next lot is to include a couple of
Senators (Mr. Finlay and Mr. Lamp have
been named, though in these matters
names are unimportant) and a gentleman
from the Communist-controlled Iron-
workers ; doubtless one of the band that
demanded peace by backdown with Hitler
until —Hitler having turned on his partner
—the war became holy.
Travel these days is more expensive
than ever before. For “visit of” (un-
named) “members of Commonwealth
Parliament, North America,” £5OOO was
appropriated, which was additional to
“travelling expenses of Ministers and
members of Advisory War Council,
£7000.”
Additional, also, is the great and ex-
panding expenditure on overseas repre-
sentation arising from Dr. Evatt’s delu-
sions of grandeur.
An incomplete list of votes for Aus-
tralian legations, 1945-46:
USA •• •• £75,500
Thina . • • • 19,000
USSR” ”• •• •• 29,00°
France •• •• 20,200
S:; .. ••
New Zealand inn
India .. on nno
Latin America .. ■ • 20,uuu
And the persons in charge and the
others appointed and to be appointed to
other countries are not to be expected
to be just legation officers keeping one
eye on expense accounts. They are all
to have ambassadorial status.
No one objects to this country having
live men in the other Dominions and in
India, and this applies to the post created


in South Africa, though Solicitor-General
Knowles is a thought elderly, having
turned 64. But why expensive outfits
should be set up in countries like Chile
and Eire —the latest on the ever-lengthen-
ing list —is known only to Dr. Evatt and
colleagues and the confidants he has
gathered about him in his grandiose de-
partment. There is normally no trade
with Chile, and Eire has no representative
in Australia. Though Mr. De Valera bobs
up occasionally with statement that
Eire is not part of the* British Common-
wealth, he never rejects the rights of
British citizenship for his people when
they travel abroad or the advantages
which the British diplomatic and consular
services offer them and his country in
most parts of the world; and these, of
course, are never refused.
There remain the case of Resident Mini-
ster (“Commissariat”) Beasley and that of
Senator Donald Grant, who is to be Dr.
Evatt’s “adviser” at the Peace Conference.
In these troubled times the U.S.A. has
chosen war leaders to look after its
interests abroad, having sent General
MacArthur to Japan, General Marshall
to China and General Bedell Smith, who
was General Eisenhower’s Chief-of-Staff,
to the U.S.S.R. Service in any war seems
to be a disqualification for any foreign
post in the gift of this “Government.”
Still no one not in Dr. Evatt’s confidence
imagined that a “Labor” politician whose
—er —turbulent campaign against the first
German war brought him a jail sentence
of 15 years —with 11 others he was
charged with conspiracy to set fire to
premises, to prevent the course of justice
and promote sedition, and was released
on the recommendation of a Judge from
Tasmania after the jury verdict had been
upheld by the Court of Criminal Appeal
—would be chosen as Peace Conference
“adviser” over the whole body of
soldiers, seamen and airmen who served
their country with distinction (and not
only in combat) in 1914-19 and 1939-45.
The high cost of Dr. Evatt is not only
to be reckoned in terms of finance, though
the financial part would already require
formidable and (to taxpayers) disturbing
calculations.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Food for Britain.
It is doubtful if Australians are more
united in any one conviction than that
they should send to Britain every ounce
of food they can spare. All classes of
the community are unanimous on it;
thousands are ready to make sacrifices
for it; at a private house in Sydney
this month £BOO was collected from guests
at a party in one night. Yet this
wonderful national impulse has been
hindered rather than helped by the
Commonwealth “Government.”
The war was no sooner over last year
than the parlous food position of Britain
became evident. At once the old Aus-
tralian spirit manifested itself in the
launching of “Food' for Britain” appeals
in cities and towns. Almost at once
leaders of these appeals became aware of
chilly glances from Canberra.
In South Australia a tremendous wave
of public enthusiasm spread from the
city to the country. The South Aus-
tralians were generous with gifts of
money and food, and surrendered coupons
with which to buy food. Then, on De-
cember 13, listeners to A.B.C. were
astounded to hear the whole idea con-
demned by Mr. Murphy, the Food
Controller, in a fantastic broadcast.
Weeks later the rest of the Common-
wealth learned that eight days before
the Murphy broadcast Mr. Dedman had
turned up in Adelaide and condemned
the appeals, and that, subsequently, the
Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain Fund
was told by the Commerce Department
that it had no use for the coupons
(230,000) which South Australians .had
surrendered. Earlier the fund had
been informed by the S.A. Ration-
ing Commissioner that the coupons
coujd be used to buy sugar, butter and
meat for Britain.
Mr. Dedman had asserted (1) that the
coupon system was such as to allow
Australians merely sufficient food to
maintain health, (2) that it was better to
destroy rather than surrender coupons
as a means of making more food avail-
able, (3) that the sending of donated food
“intensified the difficulties of the British
authorities.” The first is obviously
absurd; the second was well answered
by the Mayor of Adelaide:
It shows complete lack of appreciation
of the sentimental urge which has led to
this wonderful outpouring of goodwill to-
wards Britain, and completely overlooks
the fact that food sent by the Common-
wealth Government is s old. What the
funds send is given. Buying and selling are
plain commerce; giving and receiving spring
from ties of sentiment and strengthen them.
As for the third “reason,” the British Food
Minister had already told the Fund that
machinery for the allocation of food gifts
was operating in Britain.
It remained for Mr, Fraser, Maori-
land’s Labor Prime Minister, innocently
to explode the Dedman theories at the
launching in Wellington of a National
Committee for “the voluntary saving of
food for Britain and other overseas coun-
tries.”
Mr. Fraser.
The Government has
fhe most definite as-
surances from the
Food Controller that
the direct saving of
coupons actually will
mean a direct corre-
sponding increase in
the amount of meat
or butter, as the case
may be, being sent to
Britain. The Govern-
ment will support the
whole campaign finan-
cially. If you can find
the goods to send to
Britain, shipping will
be available to carry
them.
Mr. Dedman.
If there are indi-
viduals in the coin-
munify who wish to
make do with less, the
best method is to cut
out coupons and de-
stroy them The col-
lection of coupons
voluntarily unused and
the use of these
coupons by any organi-
sation outside the Gov-
eminent for acquiring
food to send to Britain
do not add one ounce
to the total quantities
sent to Britain,
According to A.8.C., early returns
from 20 N.Z. postal districts have yielded
a surrender of coupons sufficient to pro-
vide 23,000 Britons with butter and 40,000
with meat.
Since the Murphy-Dedman blasts,
little has been heard from the
“Government” on Food for Britain, save
for attempts to take credit for the work
private people are doing. There is cer-
tainly no sign of any intention to turn
the accumulated gratitude to and sym-
pathy for Britain into a great national
drive to send donated food. Nor is there
any sign of a food-production drive,
though with an election in sight there is
plenty of talk about guaranteed prices,
subsidies and other rural vote-bait. If
anyone in England, catching Mr. Chifley
The Fluid-Drive Chrysler Touch.
"I’m Calwell, see! If you go on saying nasty things about our Government
we’ll take back your old staff car.’’
and Mr. Fraser together, should be so
indiscreet to mention Dominion efforts to
supply Britain with food, Mr. Chifley can
be expected to change the subject.
Socialising Wheat.
An organisation poor in performance but
with a sonorous title, the Australian
Agricultural Council, held a pre-Easter
session at Canberra and advanced the
socialisation of the wheat industry an-
other step by “deciding” that uniform
legislation should be brought in by the
States to “give effect to the Common-
wealth wheat stabilisation scheme” for
five years or longer.
The States are to be asked to give “a
wheat marketing authority” power to buy
and sell wheat and wheat products. The
bushel-price is to be ss. 2d. at ports,
with a 50-50 (or perhaps 60-40) division
between growers and a “stabilisation
fund” of anything received above that.
And there are to be a Commonwealth
stabilisation bill. State stabilisation bills
and a Commonwealth bill imposing a
tax on exports of wheat and flour. “En-
visaged” are a central marketing autho-
rity, State wheat committees. State mar-
keting boards, licensed receivers, world
without end.
All of which, added to the fact that
wheat may now only be grown under
licence, would make the grower a Gov-
ernment employee, no longer free either
to grow wheat without hindrance or sell
it to whom and where he likes at what-
ever price he can get. It would put him
at the mercy of party Government and
departmental Pooh-Bahs. In other words,
he would be employed by the Govern-
ment on piecework, the rate to be fixed
by his bosses, who will also decide what
share of the profits he gets, if any. That
practically puts him in the socialist bag.
South Australia is against the “scheme.”
So are the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers
and the Australian Wheatgrowers’ Fede-
ration, None of them wants 1945-46
wheat included (because it’s worth nearly
double what the Government proposes
to pay); and (though this has not been
said) S.A. is mighty suspicious of Can-
berra these days. The “scheme” reeks
of politics, is badly conceived, will tend
to restrict output when a return to 200-
million-bushel crops is a national and
international need —and were it not for
the complacent sloth of Canberra there
would never be a season with fairer
promise—and will load the taxpayer and
the industry with thumping costs. In a
world howling for wheat, “stabilisation”
has a sound like the falling of clods on a
coffin.
Rather Like 1931-32.
Obliged by a censure motion to attempt
a defence of the indefensible, the racing-
first “policy” which has driven the Nuf-
field concern from Sydney to Adelaide,
Premier McKell shifted his ground and
attacked Lord Nuffield. He asserted that
Lord Nuffield had given a “spurious”
reason for the removal, and that the Vic-
toria Park racecourse had been “avail-
able” for the Nuffield factory “all along.”
Here he flatly contradicted the chairman
of his racing club, whose attitude was
expressed in the words “We have been
charged by Parliament with a duty to
racing,” and in the unsolicited advice
to Lord Nuffield, who had bought the
delicensed racecourse for £205,000,
the full knowledge of the Premier and
the racing-club gentleman, to quit it for
one of many sites in the “outer suburbs
and the near-country.”
“Empire relationships,” Mr. McKell
proceeded, “are not cemented or im-
proved by British industrialists like Lord
Nuffield doing what he has done in Aus-
tralia.” The head of the Morris con-
cern had shown “personal pique,” and
been “lacking in the first elements of
courtesy.” A Mr. Lamb from Granville
interjected “He is an arrogant bounder.”
This language shocked the leaders of
the Liberals and the Country party, and
it shocked other people not so greatly
concerned with politics. All the same it
was familiar at the beginning of the ’thir-
ties, when Mr. McKell’s ardor for “Em-
pire relationships” was altogether con-
cealed. As a member of the then “Labor”
Administration, Mr. McKell was a party
to the proceedings which made N. S.
Wales a pariah State, its Government Sav-
ings Bank burst —the default in payment
of interest due to Britons, Americans and
the Commonwealth Bank; the attempted
10 per cent, capital levy on mortgages,
with exemption for trade-unions but not
for mutual-assurance societies; the other
acts of financial insurrection against the
Commonwealth Government which ended
in its attaching State revenues, and the
appearance of Government lotteries
(housed in a branch of the busted Sav-
ings Bank), “fruit machines” and dog-
racing on the N.S.W. landscape, in efforts
to restore prosperity by gambling as well
as spoliation. Baiting Britain and its
“bondholders” was a feature of those
hectic days. Mr, Heffron, now Mr. Mc-
Kell’s Minister of Education, was speci-
ally proficient at it.
But the great majority of the people
strongly objected, as was shown when
“Labor” had to go to the polls, and they
made no fine distinction between guilty
and guiltless. At the Commonwealth
election held on December 19, 1931, a
Federal “Labor” party which had
boasted 46 members in a House of 75
was reduced to 16, divided among two
factions, one of which had helped the
“Tories” to eject the Government. Among
those who did not come back were
eminent members of one or other or both
of the last two “Labor” Governments,
Messrs. Curtin, Chifley, Keane, Brennan,
Theodore, Lazzarini and Ward —who,
however, came in again at a by-election,
his conqueror, a gassed returned soldier,
having died before Parliament met.
On June 11, 1932, it was the turn of
the “Labor” Government to which Mc-
Kell belonged. It had boasted 55 mem-
bers, and it emerged from the rout with
21. Among the defeated members were
five of the present McKell Ministers,
Messrs. Cahill, Dunn, Tully, Kelly and
Martin ; and with them were colleague
Lamaro and Mr. Scully, who has been
a Federal “Labor” Minister since Octo-
ber 7, 1941.
These memories are still poignant.
No doubt they have influenced the
rush to provide life pensions in case
of defeat or retirement —£6 a week for
N.S.W.- Assemblymen with 15 years’ “ser-
vice,” £5 a week for those with “service”
in three Parliaments, and £3 a week for
their widows. Mr. McKell and all his
Assembly Ministers, except Mr. Graham,
and many of the rank-and-file have
“qualified.” The Liberals and the Country
party should announce forthwith that
they will recognise no such obligation,
and will, on the contrary, regard the pen-
sions measure as an infamous breach of
contract with the people, unless it is put
plainly to the people at next year’s election
and the people unequivocally approve,
"Put This Down!"
At a meeting early in April, the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation decided that it
would be represented in this year’s May
Day celebration. Some members, realis-
ing that participation in the demonstra-
tion, which is to all intents and purposes
a Red Fascist feast-day, would brand
their organisation more than ever as
a fellow-traveller of the Communist-
controlled unions, and this when all
Canada has been stirred by charges of
Soviet corruption of Government em-
ployees (the only case thus far dealt with
has been established), objected to the pro-
posal, which was, however, carried.
According to the Sydney “Morning
Herald,” some of the dissentients left the
meeting as a protest while plans for the
merrie May Day were being discussed.
This was subsequently denied by officials
of the Federation and by some of those
who walked out, but the “Herald” re-
porter stuck to his story. A few days
later the Federation decided to exclude
the Press from future meetings. A Mr. D.
A. Taylor said that a committee would
give prepared statements to the Press after
meetings. “We can then be very care-
ful,” he said, “because we can tell the
reporters what to put down.”
Teachers are of necessity well practised
in telling people what to put down. Most
of their workaday hours are spent in do-
ing that very thing. And because they
are the people who tell the children of
the community what to put down, the
community has a right to know a little
more about their doings than' those of,
say, the Sydney Ludo Club or the Mel-
bourne Toxophilist Society. The profes-
sion of teaching is not merely another
form of earning a living ; like medicine
and nursing, it is a calling that demands
something more of its followers —the will
to serve and a selfless desire to help
others. And because of the importance
of the task with which they are entrusted
there is a responsibility on the teachers
to see that they do nothing to suggest
that they are serving sectional interests or
allowing themselves to be unduly influ-
enced by outside bodies.
The exclusion of the Press from their
meetings and telling the reporters
‘‘what to put down” immediately suggest
that there may be matters discussed at
the meetings which the Federation does
not want the Press, and thereby, the
community, to hear. At least, that is
what the community is likely to think.
It is what the world thought when Hitler
clamped down on the German Press and
Goebbels instituted his handout system —
the Nazi method of telling the reporters
“what to put down.”
Mr. Taylor spoke of “distortions and
misrepresentations” in reports of Federa-
tion activities. Hitler, Mussolini and
other dictators used almost the same
words in relation to the newspapers of
democratic countries, and in such coun-
tries as they overran the system of tell-
ing them what to put down was speedily
introduced. In the country where May
Day (modern propaganda style, not the
dance-around-a-Maypole festival) is most
generally observed, there is no Freedom
of the Press —or of anything else —and
the “put this down” system is so strong
that it even reaches out to zealots and
dupes all over the globe.
In the Sydney May Day march Gov-
ernment schoolteachers will foot it along
with the rest of the motley crew that will
straggle along for the annual Moscow
Crawl. A duty rests on the general body
of teachers to show that these fellows are
not truly representative of the teaching
profession in N.S.W. If they are there
is a sorry future for the children of that
State, and for the State itself.


CRAVENA
„ aie dlutufs
sumlk'fhedti
/
s*
57 85
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
r
M APE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
POL ITICAL Points
Chifley arrived in England without his
gold pass, his gold watch and three
fountain pens, all gifts like the watch.
They were pinched on the journey. Even
if the articles are recovered there can be
no prosecution. Chifley “won’t crucify
the workers.”
Security Council events of the week
were a steady Anglo-American refusal to
permit the Persian business to be struck
off the business paper and a demand for
“action” against Franco by the Polish
representative, a clever fool of a pro-
fessor, who was silly enough to assert that
the French had been forced to close the
frontier by threatening manoeuvres on the
Spanish side. He alleged also that Spain
was full of Nazis, the scientists among
whom were engaged on atom-bomb ex-
periments. Franco countered by inviting
the United Nations, Australia among
them, to examine the evidence at first
hand. Meanwhile Colonel Hodgson, the
Australian representative, came to light
with a proposal that a committee should
be set up to report within three weeks
on the Franco business as it concerned
the United Nations ; and at the week-end
he was receiving congratulations from all
quarters—except Moscow and its stooge
“Governments.”
William Charles Wentworth, the latest
bearer of an honored name, is addicted
to bearding Communists in their dens,
being as game as the founder of the
family, and is thus no stranger to their
matchless impudence. But even Went-
worth was astounded at the cheek of a
crowd of “scientific workers” who were
permitted to use the Union Hall at Syd-
ney University for a pro-Soviet meeting,
at which disclosure of the atom-bomb
secrets to Russia was demanded and
Britain and Canada were denounced for
the arrests of Dr. Nunn May and Dr.
Raymond Boyer. As if the ravings of a
parcel of fools in Sydney could have
any intimidatory effect on the British
and Canadian Governments! May and
Boyer, with 13 other accused persons, have
been committed for trial. Examination
of their safe deposits revealed that Boyer
had “securities valued at a million
dollars.”
A note on the Canadian spy cases men-
tions that the authorities have been pur-
suing “Sam Carr, national organiser of
the ‘Labor Progressive’ party,” with a
subpoena, ■‘but have so far been unable
to serve it, Sam having made himself
scarce. Rose, the “Labor Progressive” (i.e.,
Communist) M.P., who is out.on heavy
bail, is a Canadian only by choice. He
was born in Lublin, Poland, and didn t
see Canada till he was 12. He is charged
with violation of the Official Secrets Act
and conspiracy with Dr. Boyer (“under-
cover name, ‘The Professor’ ”), who has
confessed that “he gave for transmission
to the U.S.S.R. full information with
regard to his work on explosives, which,
as he himself admits, was secret.”
Hitherto the Canberra tale has been
that the cost of floating war loans and
the like was a bagatelle compared with
the cost in Canada. There will be no rush
to reveal the expense of “filling” the
£70,000,000 Security Loan. Subscribers
of £5O bonds received free ’plane trips.
A Melbourne party of them was enter-
tained with a free ride round Port Phillip
in a destroyer. What the seamen thought
about it couldn’t be printed in a respect-
able family journal.
Because the timetable was bungled the
three referendum bills had not been
passed when Parliament shut up shop.
The third reading in the Senate cannot
be taken until next month, and a great
deal of preparation will be needed before
the improvisations are put to the people.
Under the Constitution, there must be an
interval of not less than two months nor
more than six months, and the already-
postponed Peace Conference, at which
Dr. Evatt expects to be “a party princi-
pal,” may be prolonged till August, if
held at all. It is quite possible that there
will be an election without a referendum.
Queensland judicial salaries have not
been raised for upwards of 40 years,
and there are no pensions. It is
a tribute to the high standard of
the Queensland Bench that no case of
departure from correct judicial principle
has ever been recorded. But it is cer-
tainly no tribute to the Labor Adminis-
tration, which continues to sweat its
Judges in this shameless fashion. The
opportunity afforded by the appointment
of a new Chief Justice should be availed
of to remodel a grossly out-of-date sys-
tem by giving members of the Bench a
square deal in the matter of salaries and
pensions.
One Ingersoll, editor of “PM,” via which
stacks of Moscow stuff are distributed in
Australia under the guise of American
opinion, is back on the job. Simultane-
ously he published a ferociously anti-
British book alleging that Montgomery
was a dud general; Bradley an unappre-
ciated genius who, if left to his own
devices and those of Patton, could have
knocked the Germans rotten ; and Eisen-
hower a weak tool of Churchill. Baited
into criticism, a Sydney “Herald” young
man has set it on record that “in London
in 1943, Ingersoll, though he only en-
listed as a private in July, 1942, appar-
ently expected to have a major say in
planning the invasion of Europe.” But
didn’t they all, these Leftist blowhards,
in or out of uniform, and even in this
country?
Casey is back in Australia, professedly
doubtful whether he will have another
shot at politics this year, his present in-
tention being to “tour Australia from
end to end, learning it all over again.”
What he learns on the first stage of his
tour may induce him to cancel the rest
of his itinerary and shy his hat into the
ring again. He is 55 —not as old as 16
of the 19 Ministers.
There were “scenes” in Melbourne
when the Arms, Explosives and Munitions
Workers decided to hold a meeting at the
Mechanics’ Hall in Footscray. As pro-
ceedings were about to commence a dis-
orderly mob, after bursting a door off
its hinges, burst into the building. Be-
fore the police arrived there was a
general melee, and the chairman finally
declared the meeting adjourned to a date
to be fixed. The conveners then struggled
out of the hall and the interrupters con-
ducted their own impromptu meeting.
The secretary of the union subsequently
remarked that he had observed members
of the Ironworkers’ Association amidst
the welter. He added that since the for-
mation of his union he had received
over 500 applications in one month from
men “dissatisfied with the Communist-
controlled body to which they found
themselves attached.”
Two N.S.W. “Labor” members, J. W.
Seiffert (Monaro) and C. H. Matthews
(Leichhardt), arose last week to support
the impudent McKelly Gang notion that
State members should be allowed greater
income-tax deductions from their salaries
because of their “expenses” —they’re
already allowed £l5O a year off £875. The
pair whined about all sorts of things,
from cost of meals to donations, though
they were silent about free rail, tram and
’bus passes. Both sought to make out
that there was nothing in being a poli-
tician. Neither even hinted that he
intended to chuck the job.
Queensland’s United Graziers asked
Scully whether wool-stores were to be
built at Rockhampton and Townsville,
and, if so, who would pay for them.
Scully’s answer was that wool-stores were
to be built at both places (“at an esti-
mated cost of £BB,OOO each, exclusive
of land”), “Government” would find
the money and “Government” would
recover it by charging brokers for
the use of the stores. The Q.U.G.
came back with another query—who
asked for the stores? It could also
have inquired how Scully proposes to
force growers or brokers to use them,
since they won’t use the ones he had built
at Dubbo and Moree (N.S.W.). Scully’s
airy optimism is costing this country the
price of a wool clip.
Although the Victorian housing
authorities are at their wits’ end to get
sufficient material for houses, they won’t
let a man use secondhand materials. No
use telling them that the Farnese Palace
was built of secondhand materials from
the ruins of the Coliseum. There is just
as good stone in old. buildings being de-
molished every day in Melbourne as
there was in the Coliseum, but it goes to
the crushing mills to serve as road
fillings.
Dedman arose in Canberra to de-
nounce the S.A. Government for having
“departed from the Commonwealth-State
agreement by acquiring certain lands for
soldier-settlement before consulting the
Commonwealth.” Playford drily replied
if his State waited on the Common-
wealth it would never get land for ser-
vicemen. And that seems to be the posi-
tion everywhere.
Brisbane’s meat-employee comrades
made a bad bloomer in choosing their
time for striking. They overlooked the
fact that the sea-mullet season was just
coming in, and that the resulting supply of
fat, full-roed, first-rate fish would put a
crimp into their plan for depriving the
community of an essential food because
some employers wouldn’t knuckle down.
The strike looks like crippling union
funds and will certainly not enhance the
reputation of their leaders as prophets
of victory.
More and more unionists are going to
the courts for protection against union
bosses. Crane-drivers in a Sydney engi-
neering works appealed to the Arbitra-
tion Court against a strike order. The
unions concerned are the Ironworkers
and the Federated Enginedrivers and
Firemen, both with Cdramo. affiliations.
A Commonwealth “Labor” Government
facing an election ought to be interested
in oppressed rank-and-file unionists, but
it never is.
There will be great competition for rail-
way navvies and the like if “Labor” poli-
ticians have their way. The McKellys
announce a grand new electric railway
“project” for Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs,
estimated to cost £25,000,000, and take
seven years. During the seven years thou-
sands of the N. S. Welsh will have time
to knock up humpies for themselves out
of bag and old iron all along the new
railway. When it rains too much Urey
will be able to take shelter in the tunnels.
Manpower Directorate is to be “ab-
sorbed” by Commonwealth Employment
Service, which is to “assist employees and
employers” in finding hands and jobs.
Before this country became hag-ridden
by bureaucrats, Australians found men
and jobs without their assistance. Inci-
dentally, "Commonwealth Employment
Service will compete with State Labor
Exchanges—the one in N.S.W. has a
branch in the city and seven in the sub-
urbs alone.
Just when it seemed certain that the
U.S. Senate would approve of the loan to
Britain, though a “bush” Senator was
stonewalling, Lord Keynes, leader of the
British financial mission to Washington,
died in his Sussex home of heart failure.
He was the outstanding economist of his
age, as influential at the White House as
at No. 10 Downing-street and the Bank
of England. His epitaph is already
written—“ Wore himself out in his
country’s service.”
If Lang stands again for Federal Reid
and loses again he will be entitled to
claim £6 a week for the rest of his life
under the Assembly pensions racket. It
is to his credit that he condemns the
racket, pointing out that old public ser-
vants, most of whom have subscribed
to the superannuation fund, are retired
on pensions of £2 and £3 a week and are
denied the old-age pension by Federal
“Labor’s” means test. All this and more
he said at the Easter conference of his
group, whose threat to Beasley and Mc-
Kell had palpable effects on those
worthies. A delegate said “The politi-
cians look after themselves.” “Yes,” John
Thomas retorted smartly—“they peg your
wages and increase their own.”
A comment on the quality of Sydney
bread was included in Judge Kinsella s
able report on the baking industry. Ignor-
ing it and the whole report (though in
other days Mr. Kinsella was in Caucus),
the “Labor” Government has been hastily
delivered of a day-baking measure, as
one result of which Monday bread will
by three days out of the oven. “Labor”
seems intent on making “the workers’
work-shy, with booze and betting their
main interests. Even the gravediggers
have had to be told by De Baun, J., that
they are really expected to attend to week-
end interments ; and Sunday football, with
betting, has been added to the Saturday-
afternoon horseraces and the Saturday-
night dograces, with betting.
Emanuel Shinwell, speaking for the
British Labor Government: —,
The attitude that everything must be left
to private enterprise is bunkum. There
should be no department of public activity,
whether national or local, in which Labor
has not got a finger in the pie. We must
be in everything.
Candidates for the Girl Guides, the
Dickens Fellowship and the Mothers’
Knitting Circle can obtain their forms
from the local electoral officer. Produc-
tion of evidence of financial membership
of a union is a condition of candidature.
It must be nice to live in a world of
one’s own and have the touching beliefs
of Joseph Silver Ceilings, Vice-President
of the Executive Council. Joseph Silver
C. doesn’t believe that Commonwealth
Government departments are overstaffed,
and holds that any criticism of them is
without foundation. That’s what he
blithered when McLeay said in the
Senate that one in four working Aus-
tralians was a Government employee and
wondered, as so many others wonder,
how long the country can carry on under
this top-heavy infliction.
The uniformly generous attitude of
British leaders of all parties towards the
U.S.S.R. during and after the war
is in strong contrast to that of Stalin
and Molotov, whose Soviet-“election”
speeches are being circulated in expensive
pamphlets in Australia. These worthies
carefully avoid paying any tribute to their
allies. They are prepared to allow the
ignorant Russian masses to believe that
the war was won with Russian resources
and entirely by Russian genius. They
admit that the Allies were in the war, but
no more.
Throughout the great U.S. strikes, though
there are Corns, in all the unions concerned,
no demand came from any of them for the
“nationalisation” of any of the enterprises
from which their men were ordered to
walk out. They all insisted that they
stood for free enterprise as firmly as the
employers and managers with whom they
were quarrelling, but were after a bigger
share of the fruits. And Communists on
the-union executives were afraid to set
themselves against this policy.


THE McKELLYS RIDE AGAIN.
“The passing of the N.S.W. Assembly Pensions Bill has been followed by demands from the same quarter for income-tax concessions, and the Premier has promised
to ‘make representations.’ ”
‘‘This is our next Job, gang. Get a move on.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
‘Bo”: The big limousine was surging
against the one-way traffic of a narrow
street in one of Sydney’s industrial inner
suburbs. It kept on steadily despite
shouted admonitions from passing trucks ;
then a man on the footpath yelled at
it as he was compelled to slow up:
“Hey! Y’ can on’y go one way here!”
The big car’s well-dressed, well-nourished
reffo. driver, who not surprisingly had
made more money than progress with our
language and customs, poked his swarthy
face out of the window. “Yell,” he
shouted back, “I on’y vants to goes de von
vay—l don’t goes two vays at vonce, can’t
1?” Then he continued on his one way.
* * * *
“Eindy”; When a Dalmatian dog
went a.w.l. from its post at an R.A.A.F.
depot in a Sydney suburb alarming warn-
ings were circulated. The animal was
described as a “savage war-dog” and
“one of the most ferocious kept at the
depot.” Radio stations broadcast police
warnings cautioning people against try-
ing to catch the dog owing to its danger-
ous and savage nature, and police and
air force men conducted a two-day search
for the runaway. ’Phone calls came from
ail suburbs reporting the dog, but in
every instance they led the searchers along
false trails. By the second day the police
had formed the opinion that no one in
Sydney knew what a Dalmatian looked
like ; they had been called to the assist-
ance of suburbanites terrorised by every
kind of dog from a fox terrier to a
brindle pup. At last the dog-of-war was
found—back at his depot. Like thousands
of his human comrades in arms, he had
had his fling and had reported back to
take his medicine.
* * * *
“Jasby”; That supposedly first map of
Australia (B. 17/4/’46) is the “Dauphin
Chart ’ of Jave-la-Grande dated about
1530, showing a continental land mass
separated from Java by a narrow strait.
The western coastline bears some re-
semblance to the top end of Westralia ;
the eastern, which runs away south-east
from the islands of Flores and Timor, is
in general outline similar to the northern
New Guinea coast down to the vicinity
of Finschhafen, but allowing for inac-
cuiacies and distortions due to primitive
instruments it seems more likely to be
part of the Northern Territory coastline,
possibly -reaching down into the Gulf of
Carpentaria. The Botany Bay theory
seems rather too far-fetched. An early
marinei, beset with storms, could possibly
get the impression that Timor was
nearer to the north Australian coast than
it actually was, but he could scarcely
compress the 1200 miles between that
island and Cape York to the degree neces-
sary to allow the map to be taken as de-
picting, the eastern seaboard of Australia
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”; Beer-droughts take
my mind back to the days when a man
could get a generous dash of bottled beer
jyith his pint or glass. I recall an occa-
sion when a publican’s wife left a house-
maid in charge of the bar for a while.
This novice had an exaggerated idea of
what a dash meant, and as she opened
a fresh bottle for each customer Mrs.
Bung, on her return just before closing
time, was confronted with about two
dozen half-filled bottles fast going flat—
and the next day Sunday. When she be-
gan to scold the maid a diplomatic cus-
tomer intervened. “Do like the drapers,
missus, he suggested; “hold a remnant
sale.” Mrs. Bung was not amused.
* * * *
Pooth Arl”: I beg to differ with
Jurumudi” (B. 3/4/’46) on Borneo
poisons. Only one poison is used for the
blowpipe darts and it is made from the
rengas-tree, which is a type of upas.
For small animals and birds less poison
is used on the dart tip, which will kill
—not stupefy—a small monkey in about
six minutes. This rengas poison is never
used for poisoning fish, as very few
natives will go near a tree, much less
“crush the bark in a canoe,” when tuba
(Denis eliptica ) is much more plentiful
and efficient. From “Jurumudi’s” de-
scription, this is what he has seen, as the
milky fluid is typical of tuba ; the rengas-
gum turns black on contact with the air.
I have never known a death due to walk-
ing beneath a rengas-tree, but have known
several cases where men have suffered
“ That's room service for you , Prendergast — couldn't have done better
with an iron!”
severely—including myself—without even
touching branches or leaves. Gimlette’s
Malay Poisons deals with the matter;
the best remedy is sponging with hypo-
sulphite of soda and taking a spot of
brandy to get the temperature down,
otherwise it may persist in the neighbor-
hood of 103 deg. for several days.
* * * JH
“Colonial Cove”: If “Tenens” (B.
20/3//46) is desirous of timing the paint-
ings of those murals in Moody’s Hotel,
Seymour, I suggest that he look up the
files of the “Illustrated London News” for
the ’fifties and ’sixties, for surely the
artist’s colonial-life sketches would be
published in that journal much about the
time-when he was in Victoria. Files of
the “I. L. News” are stacked in the Perth
Public Library, running far back beyond
the ’fifties.
* * * *
“South Steyne”; When a woman dis-
covers a love letter in her husband’s
handwriting, intended for some other
female, the philanderer has to think fast.
A fellow I knew came through with flying
colors. “My dear,” he said smoothly.
“Don’t be foolish, it’s only the draft of
a portion of a love story I’ve written
and sent to ‘Heart Throbs.’ ” The wife
didn’t believe him and went home to
mother for a few days. When she re-
turned there was an envelope on her
husband’s desk containing the manuscript
of a love story and a rejection slip from
the editor of “Heart Throbs.” The billet-
doux that caused the trouble was pro-
minent in the story. Reconciliation took
the form of an evening at a night club,
but the husband didn’t mind the expense.
Neither did he forget to be grateful to a
thoughtful pal and his pal on “Heart
Throbs.”
ti * * * *
False Bay”: One of the daily news-
paper boys, decrying the standard of the
hotels m a town on the Parramatta
River called Sydney, remarks that “they
compare with good hotels abroad,
approximately, as the corner pub at
Wandywallop compares with Usher’s,”
The only Wandywallop I ever found had
only one street and no corners, but that
by the way. What I started to say was
that if that writer fvants to find a pub
that, except for size, makes Sydney
pubs look silly he should spend a week
or two at the Spencer, in Whyalla (S.A.).
Every bedroom, beautifully furnished, is
a self-contained living unit, dining-room
appointments would please anybody, and
the lounges and general accommodation
are the answers to a traveller’s prayer.
What’s more, there is no fighting for
drinks, and nobody hangs round looking
for largesse. But, then, S.A. being, in the
opinion of these Sydney writers, a “hill-
billy State,” I suppose it’s useless to hope
that any of them would ever attain
Whyalla,
• * * «
Melbourne Trades Hall takes
particular care not to allow the Red Flag
to mar the harmony of its Labor Day
procession, but one which has been
familiar to spectators of Melbourne Eight-
Hour day shivoos for generations got in
as usual this year. It was borne by
“Chummy” Fleming, doyen of Yarra
Bankers. “Chummy” had his crimson
flag, “Anarchy” inscribed on it in golden
letters, flying near the head of the proces-
sion.
* * * *
- “Nakhoda”: As with other citizens, I
have been reading the daily reports of
the Nuremberg trials, with their records
of the Nazi purges. The other morning,
for instance, I read of 4,000,000 Jews
having been liquidated in some part of
Europe. These figures are so huge that
eventually they come to mean nothing. It
is impossible to visualise such statistics,
and the stories told at Nuremberg have
begun to have about the same effect on
me as fairy tales. Consider how long
it takes to tote 40,000 Australians to and
from a football ground. Then I met a
young German Jew who has just been dis-
charged from the Australian Army. He
told me that he had had news from Eng-
land about his relatives in Germany.
“How is your family?” I asked him. The
only one left alive, he said, was a niece of
a cousin of his who had been hidden by
German friends in Berlin at the begin-
ning of the Jewish purges. No trace of
his father, mother, sisters or brothers had
been found, or perhaps ever will be
found. A friend who was with him added
the information that he had been able to
get in touch only with an uncle. The two
statements, delivered quietly without
apparent emotion, pulled me up all stand-
ing. They threw a new light on those
statistics.
* * * *
“NX65381”: The boys of B Company
were lounging in the sun waiting for
the afternoon fall-in when they sighted
two outsize provosts with a dishevelled
sailor held securely between them.
-Puzzled, they stared hard at the trio,
wondering at the presence of a matelot
under escort in an army camp. Then
one of the team identified the boy in
blue as Jackson, one of the hardcases of
the unit, who had been adrift for several
days. Catcalls and ribald comments were
hurled at the prisoner, who answered
with a sheepish grin. Jacko, while ack-
willy and full of Red Ned, had con-
ceived the brilliant idea of swopping his
uniform for that of a R.A.N. rating, also
on the loose and equally sozzled. He
might have got away with the disguise
if, when reprimanded for untidiness by
a naval shore patrol, he had not answered
“On your way, mugs. I’m in the Army,
not the Navy.” The Navy pounced,
made investigations and handed him over
to the Jacks.
* * * *
“7346”: Prisoner-of-war camp tucker
being the subject, the Old Digger chipped
in with reminiscences of Stuttgart Gefan-
genen Lager, where he was a prisoner
in the second-last bust-up. What little
meat there was Fritz stewed up with man-
gels and whatnot into a thin soup. It was
not uncommon for decayed mule to figure
among the ingredients. One day whilst
working near the camp meathouse the
Digger saw what looked like sheep car-
casses on the hooks. As the heads, legs
and tails had been trimmed off diag-
nosis was not easy; then he remembered
that he had helped tie up a bundle of
grey-furred skins the previous day.' Fritz
officers had been having some sport in
the near-by Black Forest. The Old Dig
reckons he has tasted worse than wolf
soup—but not often.
* * * *
“Jurutulis”; All Jap guards were not
inhuman (B. 3/4/’46), but most of them
were extremely touchy. They were much
more bundles of nerves than the harassed
Australians, and, although they looked
impassive, they would fly into blind rages
at the slightest provocation. They were
extraordinarily particular over trifles and
often unexpectedly easygoing over the big
things. A prisoner would get a bashing
without having the foggiest notion why.
One day in Thailand a Nip cook filled
a Digger’s dixie with stew, and, after
he had eaten the stew, the owner washed
it and brought it back to be filled with
the black , tea which was his ration.
The Nip gave him a swipe over the
face and told him to get a mug. Evi-
dently he thought the prisoner’s action
dirty or disrespectful to the tea or some-
thing. Yet in that camp men were dying
of cholera by the score because of the Jap
neglect of sanitation, and men often had
to eat in sight of corpses.
“Lindisfarne”; Another one on the
Nips. Australian p.-0.-w. were working 02
Singapore docks unloading, among other
stuff, sugar. A lot of pilfering had been
going on, and the Japs detailed a guard
to search each man as he came away
from the docks. Our boys got around
this, though; they knew the guard was
himself was stealing sugar and rice, so
they blackmailed him with “You tell on
us and we’ll tell on you.” After that the
guard used to pretend to search them,
and they got away with some precious
sugar to add to their small rice rations.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A suburban
clean-up campaign resulted in little hills
of old metal and sundries appearing in
our streets. The queerest item of the
campaign was the discovery by one resi-
dent that he has had a lodger for nine
months without knowing it. Way back
on a wet day in August of last year an
old chap, led on what proved a false
trail for a room, went down a side
street, where he found a door that gave
him entry into a shed. He stayed there
for the night; and some days later, find-
ing himself undisturbed, got the rest of
his stuff and made a permanent home
there. The occupier of the house,
spurred on by the clean-up campaign,
decided to clear out the never-used
coach-house, a relic of the days of
horses and buggies. In his zeal he piled
on to the mound in front of his house
chattels of his unknown lodger, who dis-
covered them and explained his position.
His tenancy is now on a legal basis.
• * * *
“Ken”: Hillbilly music has been called
a lot of things since it was first intro-
duced into this Country, so Bananalanders
will not be flattered to learn that this type
of entertainment is commonly known to
sailors as “Queensland Opera.” Ships
passing along the east coast usually tune-
in to the nearest coastal station for their
entertainment. Observant sailors were
quick to note that the further north they
went the more marked was the preference
for the sort of noise produced by synthetic
mountain boys equipped with gee-tar,
fiddle and jew’s-harp.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: So Soviet officials in U.S.
now spend their week-ends resting from
their arduous labors on the estate of
George Du Pont Pratt, founder of
Standard Oil, on Long Island, New
York’s playground. The Pratt mansion
is set in lovely woods, has a wine cellar
containing several thousand bottles of the
choicest, air-conditioned rooms with
marble floors, several swimming pools,
indoor tennis courts, a dining-room to
seat 150, an electric organ, a private tele-
phone exchange, billiard tables, a private
beach, a front door with a lock of sterl-
ing silver, carpets so thick that even pro-
letarian footsteps will be soundless, and
a burglar alarm which not only rings but
punches a clock to show the time of the
thief’s arrival. I don’t know what Lenin
would think of this inventory, but it
isn’t likely that the officials will see any
difference. Rouble millionaires are said
to be as common in Moscow as dollar
ones in New York in this 29th year of
the Workers’ Republic.
PENSIONS FOR POLITICIANS.
In what profession other than politics' can a
member vote himself a pension at others’ expense?”
~ S.M.H. correspondence column.
Who can ensure himself
When heading for the shelf
A tidy wad of pelf,
The acquisition
Of which shall banish fears
For his declining years?
Well, only, it appears,
The politician.
Who in the whole wide earth
Can be of what his berth
And services are worth
The valuator,
And cheerfully express
The same with no excess
Of apprehensiveness?
The legislator.
Chaps on the hustings who
Were quite contented to
Anticipate the screw
Paid by the nation,
Deeming enough a feast,
Soon fail to find the least
Objection to increased
Remuneration.
Who, when they undertake
Excursions “on the make,”
Too often cop the cake
For sheer effront’ry,
And needn’t care two straws
For cavilling, because
It’s they who frame the laws
And run the country?
“Return me just once more,”
Some bloke may soon implore
Voters to still a roar
Of hoarse dissension,
“In pity you must see
How much it means to me.
For otherwise I’ll be
Dished of my pension!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Boera”; Those Yank movie-operators
(B. 17/4/’46) had a lot to put up with.
They were always short of replacement
parts, and having only one machine they
had to rewind after each reel; and their
audiences were pretty intolerant of
delays. Loudest objectors were usually
our own chaps, who were ofily present
at the shows on sufferance, anyway. One
particular incident sticks in .my memory..
The second reel had just begun and
didn’t seem to be in proper sequence.
“Wrong reel. Take it off,” roared the
audience. The operator’s head poked out
of the box ; he watched the screen for a
few moments, then stopped the film. After
a couple of minutes the picture com-
menced again. This time it was definitely
off the track. “Mug operator. Wrong
red. Take it off,” came the cry, which
was again obeyed. Next time the
machine started the reel first objected to
appeared again on the screen. This time
the noise was terrific. “Mug operator.
Wrong reel. Take it off,” was only the
beginning of it. The machine stopped,
the mug operator poked his head around
the box and appealed “Fair go, you guys!
There’s only two reels and I’ve tried
both.”
* * M *
“Uco”: Service in the hashhouse I fre-
quent is not exactly rapid, so I was not
surprised the other day to hear the cus-
tomer opposite complain that he had been
waiting 25 minutes. The dark-haired
waitress was not impressed. “That’s
nothing,” she told him. “I’ve only been
working here a few days, but last week
I came here to lunch and had to wait over
an hour. That shows the place is im-
proving.”
* * * *
“L. de R.”: What is claimed to be the
most unique series of concerts in the
world ended in London when the
National Gallery, in order to get on with
the job of repairing bomb damage.
“We carried out our five-year plan in three yea!"
suspended its lunch - time concerts,
which started in 1939 and carried on
right through the blitzes and under the
threat of invasion five days weekly. The
final concert brought the total to 1698
and the attendances to upwards of
840,000. Pianist Dame Myra Hess
organised the series, and some of the
world’s greatest virtuosi were on the pro-
grammes. The Victorian National Gal-
lery started similar evening concerts at
about the same time, but knocked off
when the Japs were reported in New
Guinea or somewhere.
* * ♦ ♦
“Atlanta”: April 24 was the centenary
of Marcus Clarke’s birth (B. 23/l/’46),
and April 23, St. George’s Day, of Major
Sir Thomas Mitchell’s discovery of
the rocky crossing in the Balonne
(s.-w. Q.), a mile below the site
of the present pastoral town of St.
George. Here a week’s celebrations
were arranged, including a two days’
show, race meetings and attendant balls.
Although in the ’eighties the State Gov-
ernment voted £250,000 towards the con-
struction of a railway tp St. George, the
town today, with its population around
1200, still daims the doubtful honor of
being the largest Queensland town off
the line.
“Eureka”: The fact that April 24 is the
centenary of Marcus Clarke’s birth recalls
a large iron cross, painted white, on a
cliff on the Blue Mountains, near Mt.
Victoria, which is said to mark the spot
where Marcus Clarke’s infant child fell
over the cliff to its death. One story told
is that the nurse left the child in a pram,
which ran over the cliff. Others are just
as certain that the child was the offspring
of another Marcus Clarke and not the
writer at all. The cross seems to be kept
regularly painted, and is one of the land-
marks of the .district.
* * * *
“Cosroe”: Queerest tattoo shop I ever
came across was in the Bowery. The
proprietor combined tattooing with the
treatment of “shanties”: on his window
was painted a huge eye with the words
“Black-eye Specialist.” I was told he did
a roaring trade.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Melbourne ’Varsity’s “Far-
rago” has a story that in 1935 a duel was
fought in the academic cloisters or be-
hind them, a real duel with buttonless
foils and with shedding of real blood.
The contestants are alleged to have been
two students, Stan Ingwersen and Peter
Lalor, the challenger having been ex-
pelled from the Conservative Club on
Lalor’s motion. A traditional proce-
dure was followed, with seconds in cloaks,
referees and an audience which met be-
hind the Clubbus. After a gashed ear was
sustained by Lalor the duellists retired,
with honor restored, to sink a couple.
Peter Lalor was fated to fall in Libya, as
his father, also Peter Lalor, fell’ on Galli-
poli. That Peter was a grandson of the
Eureka Stockade man. He carried the
family sword into action on the Penin-
sula. It disappeared, and though the
chivalrous Turks have made many efforts
to trace it, so that it might be returned
to the historic clan, they have never suc-
ceeded, and have at length abandoned the
search.
* * sR *
“V. Cluse”: For about the tenth time'
in a fortnight Jephson leapt startled from
sleep as an appalling, stuttering roar
swept into the bedroom through the open
windoAV. Then rage succeeded alarm as
he turned to his equally-startled spouse
and snarled “It’s that ruddy motor-bike
again. Bloke must have a girl or some-
thin’.” Next morning, on the way to the
tram, one of Jephson’s neighbors com-
plained of being repeatedly awakened by
the motor-bike. Pleased to find an ally,
Jephson declared that the rider should be
dealt with. “All we got to do is get his
number and send a complaint to the
police,” he asserted. “There’s a law
against that sort of thing.” That night
Jephson and the neighbor sat in Jephson’s
car, parked just inside Jephson’s gate in
a position to throw its headlights down
the road. Nothing happened. They re-
peated their vigil next night, and, about
11 p.m., heard the familiar shattering roar
approaching. Jephson switched on the
headlights, and the offender was revealed.
The neighbor glued his eyes on the num-
ber and wrote it down. The bike roared
past, Jephson switched the lights off and
the neighbor asked “Did you get the
“Tonight I feel like nothing on earth!"
number? We got to be sure, you know.”
Jephson was silent a moment. Then he
replied “Yes, I got the number. But we’re
beat. That bloke tidin’ it works at the
grocer’s where I get me weekly quota of
cigarettes.” The other put a sympathetic
hand on Jephson’s shoulder, .and, quietly
and thoughtfully, the pair departed to
their respective beds.
* * * *
“Eros”; My introduction to The Bul-
letin came just after my marriage 43
years ago, and this is how I met the Red
Page. I went out shopping, and when
I returned hubby had the fable set for
tea. My transparent table-centre was in
position, but instead of its green under-
mat a pretty pink showed. H® said “1
know you put a color under that gadget,
so I folded the Red Page and used that.
Cute, isn’t it?” That’s a use A. G.
Stephens never thought of for his page.
* * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: Something new in
rehabilitation schemes comes from W.A.,
where the Government threatens to re-
juvenate its railways by the introduction
of dining-cars, mobile locomotives and
seating accommodation which really
seats. There’ll be a certain amount
of opposition. For years no one in W.A.
has travelled by train for pleasure, but
to many rail travel has offered an escape
from a too-humdrum existence. With
arrival at one’s destination practically cer-
tain, and the time of arrival at least as
predictable as the weather, much of the
adventure of train travel will be gone. It
will be unfortunate if rejuvenation is ex-
tended to the trams. These excellent old
advertising media, for which Perth people
have that affection which is the perquisite
of the aged who have worn themselves out
in our service, would scarcely seem the
same after rehabilitation to the tune of
four million/pounds.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: The dentist mentioned
by “Curate’s Egg” (B. 10/4/’46) dealt
drastically with another client for non-
payment of dentures supplied. Meeting
nim in the street the dentist bellowed
“When are you going to pay for those
teeth?” “They’re no good ; they don’t
fit,” complained the patient. “Let’s have
a look,” said Fangs. In possession of
them he added “Well, if they don’t fit
they’re no good to you or anyone else,”
and dropping them on the road he ground
his heel into them.
ate * * *
“Pitt St.”: The drowsy citizen of Syd-
ney who seeks a shady tree for a rest has
to study his timing these days. When
police were seeking a brute who beat
down a pedestrian in an outer suburb and
robbed him, then went to a near-by rail-
way station and repeated his fell work,
sundry respectable fellows asleep on the
sward in the shade found themselves
rudely awakened by grim uniformed
figures, haled to the nearest police station,
closely questioned and then released. One
poor devil who fell asleep in a train and
was carried past his destination, got out at
a station or so further on and roosted on
a seat whilst awaiting a return train
hardly had time to compose himself be-
fore being grabbed, I suppose it’s neces-
sary, but I can’t help thinking that a
criminal would be grossly stupid who
slept under trees in broad daylight near
the scene of his crime, especially since
press and radio have been at pains to
inform him that his description and color-
ing are known. It reminds me of a time
when, confused about numbers, I paused
in a suburban street and was promptly
grabbed by a constable and taken to the
station. Satisfied as to my bona fides, the
Law somewhat shamefacedly informed
me that a woman had rung ’em up to
say a suspicious-looking character was
hanging around outside a house that had
been burgled the week before.
“Did”: A centennial anniversary over-
looked by the persons who record or
resurrect such items was the birthday
of London “Punch’s” advice to those
contemplating matrimony. It appeared in
the “Punch” Almanac for 1845 under
“January,” and was based upon the word-
ing of an advertisement widely used by
a firm of London house-furnishers;
WORTHY OF ATTENTION.
ADVICE TO PERSONS ABOUT TO MARRY
—DON’T!
M. H. Spielmann, in his History of
“Punch” { 1895), revealed that the author
was Henry Mayhew, one of the founders
of the paper.
* * * *
“Tonsi”: One of the lesser anomalies
brought about by the entry of ex-service-
men to the universities is the common
sight of students being instructed by people
younger than themselves. Staff shortage
and increased enrolments mean that the
unis, have been forced to take on as
junior lecturers, tutors and demonstrators
numbers of senior students and recent
graduates. Some of them are only about
21—in contrast with ex-servicemen, whose
average age is about 23.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The aim of every artist is,
or should be, to become completely pas-
sive to the subject matter that is before
him, but very few ever attain to .this ob-
jective or there would be far more good
pictures. A Melbourne artist set up his
easel to paint a quarry. He had become
absorbed in the task of analysing the rela-
tionships between this patch of color and
that one, when he suddenly jumped back
in amazement. From a dot of black
which measured less than a square incn
on his canvas emerged an enormous
draughthorse, a dray and its driver.
* * * v
“Si Anu”; Werewolves are reported to
be terrifying the simple Hungarian
peasant. They are not Nazi youths, but
the real old traditional werewolf, which
has crept through European legend for
centuries. A kindred belief exists in
Malaya. A native woman will some-
times wake up beside her snoring
lord and observe with horror that there
are bloodstained feathers round his
mouth, sure evidence that he has the
mysterious power of turning himself into
a phantom tiger and * preying on his
neighbors’ henroosts. The only way of
circumventing him is to follow him to
the clearing in the jungle where he per-
forms his incantations and. pinch his
clothes while he is on the warpath. Dur-
ing the Portuguese occupation of Malacca
a bishop solemnly performed the rites of
exorcism on the local weretigers, and it
is on historic record that none of the
species were seen in the district until after
the Portingalls had departed.
NO KICK.
“Beer produced in N.S;W., complained Mr. Hunter,
M.L.A., was only second-class in its effect on the
mind, body and soul.”
It quenches thirst and it keeps chaps sober,
Points that should count with the cold-tea
crank,
But it lacks the kick of the brown October,
The sturdy tipple our fathers sank.
It would never have done for Lord Tomnoddy,
The cellarer Simon or old King Cole,
For its punch is weak on the mind and body
And somehow fails to impress the soul.
There’s a phrase we owe to the Swan of Avon
Who set it down in the Winter’s Tale,
A line in memory deep engraven
That a dish for a king is a quart of ale.
But a king might fairly find but a shoddy
Sort of a dish in a flowing bowl
That hardly heartened* his mind and body
And scarcely fluttered his royal soul.
Wine is a mocker, the wowsers grizzle.
But is beer entitled to more respect
When what you’re sold for a first-class swizzle
Has only a second-class effect?
There’s bite in a gin—or a whisky-toddy,
But malted liquor betrays its role
When its stamp is faint on the mind and body
And even fainter upon the soul.
Oh for the beer with the whack of a waddy!
No merry minstrel a stave can troll
To tack that cuts scant ice with the body
And lends no lift to the mind or soul.
N.S.W.
MIDFOBD.


To
• • a thrilling overland journey • •
adventure-crowded days . . made perfect
by Pioneer*s inclusive service
For 1946 Pioneer announces a series of three overland Tours
to Darwin for which booking is now open ... Pioneer has
designed luxury vehicles especially for these tours ... super
coaches with ample lounging space ... refrigeration ... radio
. .. card tables... aircraft-type reclining chairs ... wide view
windows. An experienced crew, including a hostess and tour
manager, accompanies every blue-and-siiver coach ! A
cuisine truly superb! Side trips, camping, aboriginal exhibit-
ions en route, hunting, a thousand scenic glories you'll never
forget! Come to Darwin with Pioneer ... this year! The
local Pioneer Booking Office can supply you with all details
today.. write, phone or call I Descriptive literature available.
Book Now for
pioneer tours
SYDNEY MELBOURNE
BU 5511 MU 6014
BRISBANE ADELAIDE
B 0550 C 2514
THE SERVICE MAN
Darwin's Bitterest Day.
“Ek Dum”: Printed copies of the
report of Mr. Justice Lowe on the bomb-
ing of Darwin on February 19, 1942,
are now for sale. They were available to
a select few years ago.
The Judge explained that the field of
investigation had to be limited:
The terms of the Commission are exceed-
ingly wide, and to interpret them in their
widest sense would have involved an in-
quiry into many matters which can only be
properly understood by a knowledge of
the political background extending for
many years.... The urgency of the matters
referred to me was such, and the time
limits necessarily so short, that' I could
not, even if I had wished, have investi-
gated other matters.
Industrial matters were among those
which were not fully gone into in regard
to the past. But on the evidence avail-
able the Judge found that, “with the pos-
sible exception of the Zealandia and the
Port Mar,” there was no foundation in
any evidence before him that shipping in
the harbor at the time of the raid was
unduly large because of labor troubles in
Darwin. He found that “delays un-
doubtedly occurred and the performance
of labor was often unsatisfactory,” but
“these results” seemed to him to have
been “mainly due” to lack of facilities in
the port equipment, defects of manage-
ment and the fact that climatic condi-
tions affected the output of labor.
One official report refers to an exodus
of workmen from the town preceded by the
secretary of the North Australian Workers’
Union, Mr. Mick Ryan, and another states:
“Every wharflaborer left the town immedi-
ately after the raids, and most of them
were understood to have mobbed the train
which departed Thursday evening.” These
statements are only true in the sense that
Mr. Ryan and the wharflaborers acted as
the mass of the civilian population did in
leaving the town.
There is nothing in the report to indi-
cate whether the wharfies and their
leader, Mr. M. P, Ryan, who formerly was
a well-known figure in Communist life in
Sydney and Brisbane, were quicker off the
mark than the rest and as to where this
advance guard was found and when. For
their own credit this should be estab-
lished, and it is a pity that his Honor
did not have referred to him the com-
mon, and no doubt untruthful, rumor
that a stopwork meeting actually was in
progress on the wharf when bombs began
falling. It is a matter which should be
clear up specifically, as his Honor cleared
up the charge that there was a “probable
refusal” of train crews to perform their
duties. He says “There is no truth in
this statement, and it was afterwards with-
drawn by the person making it,”
The Raids
The exact time to the second of the
first raid is not certain, because the
watches of the various services were not
synchronised and actually differed! But
the Judge accepted 9.58 a.m. as the time.
The first wave of 27 bombers came in
from the south-east and operated by
pattem-bombing methods, i.e. r the drop-
ping of bombs was controlled by the
orders of a squadron-leader. These heavy
bombers came from Ambon, roughly 700
miles away. They made two runs —the
first over the harbor, the second over
the town.
They were followed by 50 dive-bombers
and fighters which came from a carrier
and picked out partly destroyed targets
and essayed to finish them off.
While the Darwin strafe was in pro-
gress, the R.A.A.F. aerodrome and the
civil aerodrome were bombed, and there
was m.-g. fire on the hospital at Berrima,
nine miles from the town.
The “all-clear” was sounded at 10.40
a.m., so that the terrible affair lasted just
42 minutes, providing in that brief inter-
val a stern lesson in the vulnerability of
unready defences. The bombing was
very accurate, but chiefly because it was
a case of shooting at a sitting bird.
At 11.55 a.m. there was a second raid.
About 27 heavy bombers came in at great
height, unescorted, and did heavy damage
to the R.A.A.F. station and its hospital.
Contrary to one of the many rumors,
the alarm went before the first bomb fell;
but beat it only by seconds. A.W.A.
postal radio station had heard at 9.35
a.m. that a large number of aircraft had
been seen passing over Bathurst Island
at a great height. This was relayed to
R.A.A.F, Ops. at 9.37 a.m., but no
general warning was issued until 20
minutes later. The Judge found the fai-
lure of R.A.A.F. Ops. to tell the A.R.P.
“inexplicable.” The excuse given was
that, earlier in the morning, a pumber of
U.S. machines —P4os—had set out for
Koepang but had returned because of
bad weather. Discussion as to whether
“Gee, Ma, a man feels good back in the old civvies again!"
these were the machines seen consumed
time.
Actually, the Judge says, only two or
three P4os were still in the air. The rest
were at home. The station commander
“stated expressly that he did not
consider that the ’planes flying over
Bathurst Island southward, might be
American ’planes returning.” And it
turned out that a circumstance which
should immediately have produced the
worst kind of suspicion and the
promptest action was ignored. No
sooner had Bathurst Island Radio re-
ported the presence of the machines than
its radio-telephone was jammed by the
enemy. The Judge reports:
The delay in giving the general warning
was fraught with disaster. It is impossible
t’o say with certainty what would have hap-
pened if warning had been promptly given
when received by the R.A.A.F. Ops. at
9.37 a.m., but it is at least probable that
a number of men who lost their lives, while
working on ships at the pier, might have
escaped to a place of safety. There is
much evidence, too, which suggests that
a warning of 20 minutes or even of 15
minutes might have enabled vessels in the
harbor to have had a far better opportunity
of avoiding the enemy attack than that
Which, in fact, they had. A 20-minutes
warning might also have enabled the
officials of the post office who were
killed to have gone to a place of safety.
But this is not all. Military head-
quarters had eight minutes’ notice;
Navy headquarters probably 13 minutes.
Yet none informed the civilian defence
authorities or the Administration.
A great deal of evidence was given in
trying to fix responsibility for the delay
in giving the general alarm. The Com-
missioner reported:
It is plain that the station commander
must take some responsibility for the failure
of action on the part of R.A.A.F. Ops.
There is other evidence that this particular
service was conducted with some laxity.
No logbook was kept before February
6, 1942, and the logbook kept after that
date discloses a gap in the entries between
February 16-20, 1942.
No Air Defence
The defence was solely dependent upon
a few a.-a. guns on land and on the ack-
ack defences of the ships.- Just before
the raid the land ack-ack batteries had
been resited. They saved three Hud-
sons, and their crews came through a
trying baptism of fire with credit, as did
the personnel of the A.M.F. The U.S.
P4os on the ground tried to take off to
attack, but without exception were shot
down. And ship defence “met with little
success.”
In the Judge’s opinion the enemy lost
five machines, probably five more. He
records a statement that Tokyo Radio
admitted to 23.
This writer heard Tokyo Radio boast
that three —not 23 —machines had been
lost; that Darwin was wiped out; and
that —on the authority of a Sydney rag —
the whole continent had been plunged
into a state of terror.
The Toll of Death
Canberra, in characteristic fashion,
gave it out that the raids had resulted in
15 persons being killed and 24 injured,
with not more than eight killed in the
forces. .
The admission that much damage was
done, however, proved all too true.
The first attack destroyed the seaward
limb of Darwin’s curious pier and set fire
to the Neptuna and Barossa, which were
lying against the inner limb. Explosives
on the Neptuna blew up, destroying the
ship and smashing the rest of the notor-
ious 0 jetty. Apart from Neptuna, the
U.S. destroyer Peary, Zealandia, Meigs,
Maunaloa and British Motorist were lost;
Barossa, Port Mar (U.S.) and the hospital
ship Manunda were damaged.
The Tulagi was beached and two Cata-
linas were destroyed. On the way to, or
returning from, Darwin the enemy also
destroyed two American ships, Don
Isidro and Florence Dee, and another
Catalina.
The naval oil tanks ashore had a
miraculous escape—the damage which
they suffered came from shrapnel.
Ashore the Administrator’s office—a
detached annex in the grounds of the
Residency—was blotted out, the blast
giving the front of the stone residency a
nasty wipe. The police barracks, police
station and attached Government offices,
the post office, telegraph office, cable
office and postmaster’s residence were
total losses. The civil hospital was badly
hit. Two or three civilian residences were
damaged badly. Craters suggested that
10001 b. bombs were used.
At the R.A.A.F. station the hangars
and repair shops were destroyed, the hos-
pital and hutments damaged. Our air-
craft losses were six precious Hudsons,
with a Hudson and a Wirraway badly
damaged. The Americans lost eight Kitty-
hawks in the air, two on the ground, one
824 on the ground and one Kittyhawk
damaged in the air.
Guinea Airways’ hangar was wrecked.
An ammunition dump containing
300,000 rounds of rifle ammunition, with
a couple of sheds, a fire-engine, a Moth
and some motor vehicles, blew up. The
oiling system was. put out of joint, the
telephone system of the town destroyed,
electric supply was affected. Fortunately,
water supply was intact and the railway
repairable within a few hours.
In the cold light of fact, the 39
casualties reported from Canberra
worked out as follows, though the
Commissioner stressed the point that
it was impossible to determine the
actual death roll with certainty: On
U.S.S. Peary, 80; Neptuna, 45; Man-
unda, 12; eight other ships, 23;
A.M.F., 2; R.A.A.F., 6; U.S. Land and
Air Forces, 7; civilians in town, 14;
civilians on wharf, 39. Total 228, with an-
other 15 on the two American ships and
the Catalina sunk en route.
The Barossa was the luckiest ship in
Darwin. Just across the pier from
Neptuna, which exploded, she had no
deaths to report.
The list of injured was even harder to
compile than that of the dead; but Mr.
Justice Lowe believed that “an estimate
of between 300 and 400 was as accurate
as any that can be made.”
At the Air Station
Here “the effects of the raid were
extremely serious.” Much damage was
done and personnel, most of whom were
having their baptism of fire, were
“shaken.” But under competent leader-
ship they, the Judge believed, ffould


NOTICE
"HOWARD"
(Regd. Trade Mark 79961)
ROTARY HOE BLADE
Is Registered Design No. 15192.
These blades or cutters arc constructed from steel specially
produced by B.H.P. for us to rigid specification. This material
will give longer life and better results than dthe'r materials.
Our blades are stamped with our Trademark "Howard" and
registered Design No. 15192.
See that you get only
GENUINE "HOWARD" BLADES
For use on
"HOWARD" ROTARY HOES
ANYONE MAKING COPIES OR SUBSTITUTES WILL BE
PROSECUTED.
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LIMITED,
BOX 82, PARRAMATTA NORTHMEAD, N.S.W.
P b -V
A
i'/l E
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and Incapacitation. Continuity of, administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request,
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
*7 BRIDGE sniET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
bp < «.
m
m
I mm
: -
mm
HI
(■(
w ■ i
&:#: wmms
■
■k !■
#2;
1
KB
......
1 J
i m h
1
■i
-
■H
■
NON-FERROUS CASTINGS
WHERE ACCURACY IS ESSENTIAL
in the production of castings of Aluminium Alloy, Bronze,
Brass or Zinc, Wunderlich Limited are equipped to meet all
requirements. Aluminium Alloy Castings heat-treated to
specification, as required. Prompt delivery is guaranteed.
Architects and Builders will find the
craftsmen of Wunderlich Limited ready to employ their skill
in the fabrication of fine architectural metal-work —cast,
wrought or stamped—for the distinctive embellishment of
buildings now being planned.
ited,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms, at tfw above addresses ,
soon have resumed duty. However, an
irregular order resulted in many of the
men taking to the bush. Some of
them were found 50 miles away on the
Adelaide River. One turned up at Daly
Waters —480 miles south. Another “by
an extreme feat reached Melbourne in
13 days!”
These astonishing facts resulted not
from poor quality of manhood, but from
lack of training and of leadership at the
relevant time. The Judge writes:
I regard this condition of affairs as very
serious.. ..I also had evidence that some-
what similar conditions had arisen after
attacks in Malaya, Rabaul and Koepang.
Competent officers drew my attention to
the fact that most of the personnel con-
cerned were non-flying men... .chosen for
their technical skill and promoted on
account of technical proficiency.
His Honor was told that these men were
scarcely at all trained in the use of arms.
There was evidence that some of those
who took to the bush “remarked that they
did not know how to use arms and were
not going to remain to be massacred in
the event of a Japanese landing.”
Cannibals at Rabaul.
Ten more Jap war criminals have been
sentenced to death at Rabaul. One of
them, Medical Captain TakashiTakahashi,
was convicted of cannibalism on the
bodies of two Indian soldiers. Three
others were sentenced to 10 years’ im-
prisonment on the same charge. Three
were acquitted.
Nine of those sentenced were found
guilty of the murder, en masse, of 30
Chinese. Seven were Formosans. They
were tried by a mixed Court, on which
two Chinese officers sat with Australians.
A captain of the Chinese National
Army gave evidence that the murdered
Chinese, all hospital cases, had been
taken from their sick beds and marched
to the side of graves newly dug. Then,
under orders from Sergeant Tozaburo
Matsushima and First-Class Private Hari-
moto Ayizawa, civilian Formosan laborers
beat them to death and threw them into
the graves. One batch of Chinese were
killed in this way on March 3, 1943, the
other on March 11.
It is to be hoped that if these men and
others are hanged there will be dignity
about the ceremonials. The last two who
were turned off at Rabaul had the best
of it from a propaganda viewpoint. They
were two inhuman brutes from Sandakan
who should have been disposed of in
silence and ignominy. But, with the help
of sensational rags, they were able to
make their patriotic shouts echo round
the world.
In Persia.
“Ek D”: The London “Times” telis
more in, one paragraph about the actual
background to the Persian question than
has been revealed in all the reports of
U.N.O. meetings.
Russian relations with Persia and
Turkey are governed (as was stated in
Parliament in answer to a question by
Archie Cameron) by:
(a) A treaty of friendship (26/2/’2l), a
treaty of guarantee and neutrality
w\th%ersja and a trCaty °^ aUiance ( 29 /1 / ’42)
\b) A S treaty of friendship (1925) with
Turkey.
There is no treaty with Irak. Irak, at
first under British mandate, is self-
governing. After the war-time attempt
of the Germans to dominate it, its whole
economy was given over to the supplying
of Russia with war materials. It was
one of the most important arteries through
which Russia was kept alive.
Nuri Pasha, one of Lawrence’s men, who
is a dominating figure in Irak, told the
writer many years ago that Irak could
continue to exist only by maintaining
friendship, on balanced terms, with both
Britain and Russia. And he added that
the British not merely encouraged that
viewpoint, but insisted upon it.
Yet there is strong evidence, as shown
by a dispatch from Associated Press,
dated April 1 and published in the
“Times,” that the Russians have not only
been fostering unrest in Irak but actually
organising it on Russian soil.
The dispatch reported an interview with
a powerful Kurdish chieftain who de-
dared that the rebel Kurd Army of Ghazi
a R , 7/ nks a ai l d
lorries trom a Russian unit at Miyandaub,
and that Russian technicians had been
sent to train tribesmen for “a general drive
to free Kurdistan.”
The chieftain said that he had come
directly from discussions with Ghazi
Mohammed and the Mullah Mustapha,
an outlawed IrakhKurdish leader ; that
the operations against Persian garrisons at
Sardasht, Baneh and Saquiz were only
“preliminary actions” ; that Russian
Kurds and former Russian officers were
training tribesmen at Mahabad.
All this had arisen out of a conference
of Kurdish tribal chiefs, organised in
Baku last November:—
The revenue and fighting men are pro-
vided by leaders who attended the Baku
conference, who rule over most of the
5,000,000 Kurds in the three countries -
and . who last
November declared the independence of the
Kurdish republic- xhe “Government”
formed in Baku has adopted a. new flag
and published at Mehabad an official news-
paper, “Kurdistan,” which is printed on a
press brought back from Baku.
It is worth remembering that, while
the Communist party was illegal, a press
brought from Moscow, and apparently
smuggled into the country, was being used
to break the law in the Commonwealth.
Meetinps could not be held -in Baku
meetings could not be field in ii aKU
without the full consent of the Russian
Government. Moscow Radio has shown
a fervent anxiety for the “freedom” of
.< • ...
the Kurds. Russians are organising in-
surrection by them in three friendly
countries—Persia, Turkey and Irak, as
W£ U as fomenting sedition in China,
Malaya, India and wherever the hated
British flag flies.
Aid to Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Attlee announced in
the House of Commons last week that
Britain during the war had sent Russia
5218 tanks and 7411 aircraft, including
3219 U.S. machines, which otherwise
would have been available for British
purposes. Value of these military sup-
plies, about £308,000,000, to which there
had to be added £120,000,000 worth of
raw materials, foodstuffs, machinery,
plant, medical supplies and hospital
equipment.
These figures do not take account of
separate Dominion aid, which in Canada’s
case was immense. Mr. Attlee said
nothing of the fact that almost every
pound carried during the long convoy
voyages to Russia was in British or
American ships and under British and
American but chiefly British and
Canadian air and sea escort. He
took no account of the vast value
of technical secrets which were
handed over to the Russians, who, till
they were given radar and numerous, other
inventions, were without them. And he
did not emphasise that, in return, the Rus-'
sians boorishly withheld all the alleged
marvels which, they declared, rendered
the Red Army invincible.
The Navies* Part
The part which the British effort
played in saving Russia can only be ap- ,
predated when the naval-warfare figures
are known, since without the British naval
effort Hitler would have had his own way
in the Russian campaign, and certainly
would have continued the drive past
Stalingrad. That was stopped with sup-
plies which came just in time through the
Caspian route, and by the Alamein cam-
paign, and with suction effects of the ■
Allied landing in North Africa.
Speaking on the Navy Estimates last
month, Mr, Alexander, First Lord, said
that during the war 996 U-boats had been
destroyed by the Allies, including 781 out
of 1174 commissioned by the Germans.
One-third had been destroyed within
500 miles of British shores in an area
which was equal to only about
of the North Atlantic Ocean. Six hun-
dred were killed by British forces or
forces under British command.
How much the war was a naval war
was illustrated by the fact that while the
Allied casualties in general in World War
II were only a fraction of those in World
War I, the number of British naval offi- -
cers and men (including Dominion forces
but excluding Royal Marines) killed,
20,000, was more than those lost in World
War I, The Royal and Dominion navies
won 23 Victoria Crosses, 29 George
Crosses (which rank with the V.C.) and,
to Dec. 3J, 1945, 15,000 decorations.
And the task of keeping the seas open
cost 3282 of H.M. ships of all sorts and
sizes, including three battleships (Royal
Oak, Prince of Wales and Barham), two
battle-cruisers (Hood and Repulse), 23
cruisers, 134 destroyers and 77 sub-
marines.
Australia’s Share
It might be said truly that the Royal
Navy won the war more clearly than any
other force. For if it had not done its
work the mercantile marine could not
have roamed the seas. Materials and men
for the Royal Air Forces could not have
been carried.
Australia shared heavily, both m the
glory and in the cost. H.M.A.S. Can-
berra, Sydney, Perth, many smaller craft
and their gallant complements were part
of the price which brought the R.A.N. to
a maturity in which, for the fim time,
its squadrons and its major ships alike
are commanded by Australian-born and
-trained officers, first among equals in the
world-wide Admiralty command of the
Royal Navies. The R.A.N. was part of
the primary factor in victory for British
Commonwealth, United States and Rus-
sians alike.


V
/
T
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY.
From a battleship’s electrical equipment to
emergency lighting in great hospitals. Exide
serves you in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
It will still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
re-
there's an
f OR tVERY PURPOSE
3.45
PERfONAL ITEMS
Brigadier Robert Harold Nimmo, who
replaces Major-General A. J. Boase as
G. Northern Command on the
latter’s appointment as Australian Army
representative in London, is himself a
Queenslander. Born at Oak Park station
in 1894, he was educated at the South-
port School before going on to the Royal
Military College, Duntroon. From
4 adjutant with the Fifth Light Horse Regi-
ment in World War I he became brigade-
major of the First Light Horse Brigade,
with service on Gallipoli and in Palestine.
After special training courses in England
in 1937 and 1938 he began World War II
as a G.S.O. in the Second Cavalry Divi-
sion, was attached to headquarters
Western Command, and later commanded
H. Northern Territory force. Now
commanding the 34th Australian Infantry
Brigade with the 8.C.0.F. in Japan, he
will continue there until establishment is
completed before taking over his new
command with rank of major-general.
One of Maoriland’s V.Cs., Lieut. K.
Elliott, has decided to take up study for
holy orders in the C. of E. this year. He
is 30, and went overseas with M.L.’s
second echelon as a private. It was at
Ruweisat in July, 1942, he won his V.C.,
when with seven men he charged across
500 yards of open country in face of
heavy enemy fire, outing the post. Later,
single-handed, he charged a machine-gun
post on his flank, putting it out of action
and getting wounded in the act. Elliott
is the second V.C. to enter the Anglican
ministry. Geoffrey Woolley, who served
as chaplain in the Eighth Army, was
ordained after World War I, in which he
won the V.C., D.S.O. and M.C.
“Becks” on a streamlined diplomat:
William Averell Harriman, new American
Ambassador to Britain, is not a career diplo-
■ mat; nor is he the poor-boy-makes-good type.
His father made millions —quite a lot of ’em—
out of railroads, and passed them on to his
son. W.A. took over the wheel of Union
Pacific in 1932 when the shadow of the De-
pression still lay across the land. Rival lines
were economising and, cutting expenditure;
Harriman went in for streamlined diesels,
modernised his trains and cut his freight rates.
For good measure he opened a winter sports
resort at Sun Valley, then unknown to the
American public. Union Pacific through Harri-
man made Sun Valley a household word in the
States; the films have spread its fame through-
out the world. Success in lifting U.P. out of
the trough does not necessarily betoken good
ambassador material, but Harriman’s initiative
and drive sufficiently impressed President Roose-
velt to lead him first to appoint him as a N;R.A.
administrator and then to send him to London
as “Defence Expediter.” This was before
Pearl Harbor, and Harriman’s job was to speed
delivery of lease-lend goods to Britain. Later
a similar job took him several times to Moscow,
and in 1943 he became American Ambassador
to Russia. At 55, he is tall, well preserved
and handsome, a keen art critic and not afraid
of work —before taking control of U.P. he
put in a spell as a railway linesman and also
spent a term in the workshops. Part of Harri-
man’s Moscow term coincided with Clark-
Kerr’s, now appointed his opposite number in
Washington, •'so the two should have a common
background as far as the Russian scene is con-
cerned.
“H;C.H.”: Probably the oldest prac-
tising medico in Australia, Dr, Sirois, of
Marburg (Q.), at 92, still attends 30 or
40 patients each week, makes up his own
prescriptions, draws and fills teeth, makes
and mends dental plates and performs
minor operations. He graduated in dentis-
try at Montreal in 1878, and as a doctor
five years later. He practised in Massa-
chusetts and at Denver, Colorado, before
coming to Australia in 1909. Among Dr.
Sirois’s most treasured possessions is the
badge of the American Medical Associa-
tion, which has never been off his coat
since his graduation in 1883.
Dr. Joseph Thom Tennent, who died
recently in Maitland (N.S.W.), had been
associated with the coalfields since 1916
and for many years \was Government
Health Officer in the district. He did
much to improve medical conditions in
his area, and the Kurri Kurri District
Hospital is a monument to his sterling
work. Dr. Tennent was bom at Coal-
bridge, Scotland, over 80 years ago, learnt
his medicine in Glasgow and practised in
the Land o’ Cakes for several years.
Leaving Scotland, he put in 10 years as
a ship’s doctor, travelling all over the
world, before coming to Australia, where
he practised at Forbes and Hornsby
(N.S.W.) before settling in Maitland. Out-
side his profession his interests were wide.
He was an Officer of St. John’s Ambu-
lance, as well as a lecturer and examiner
for the society; an elder of the Presby-
terian Church, a pillar of the Highland
Society and the founder of Kurri Kurri
Pipe Band.
Wing-Commander C. G. C. Olive, a
Queensldnder recently visiting the
southern States as vice-president of the
Service party of Australia, has every
right to sport the Spitfire moustache to
which Dubois has added scarcely a hair,
as he is a veteran of the Battle for
Britain and was one of the first Aus-
tralians to fly a Spitfire. He joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1936, and gained a short-ser-
vice commission in the R.A.F. the fol-
lowing year. There were no Spits in
those days, and he recalls the feelings of
his squadron at the time of Munich
when, equipped with Gloster Gladiators,
they were faced with the prospect of im-
minent conflict with speedy - Messer-
schmitts —a striking contrast to the feel-
ing of confidence they had two years
later when the test really came. Olive
THIS WAR.
was with 65 Squadron, the first to be
equipped with' Spitfires. They operated
first from Hornchurch, then from Man-
ston, near Dover. When the Luftwaffe
began its all-out blitz on airfields Man-
sion was put out of action after being
, bombed daily for a fortnight; the squad-
ron shifted to Southend and harried on.
Olive was shot down over Dunkirk, but
managed to make the English coast;
later he was again downed, but was able
to parachute to safety. During the Battle
for Britain he flew 180 sorties; subse-
quently he took copimand of 456 Squad-
ron, had a spell at showing other men
how to do it, rejoined the R.A.A.F. with
2 Tact. Air Force, returned to Australia
arjd finished up at Morotai. In turning
to politics he brings to his party a keen
and alert mind and an unsurpassed
record of service. He will contest the
Brisbane seat at next Federal elections.
Just completed a colossal task he
started in 1888, George Lyell, Victoria’s
most distinguished and indefatigable
butterfly-hunter. His first specimen of
the genus Lepidoptera was netted at
Albert Park, Melbourne, 58 years ago.
Since then he has collected 50,000 ex-
amples, comprising over 6000 different
kinds of moths and butterflies, the most
all-embracing in Australia. In 1932 he
gave them into the keeping of the
National Museum in Melbourne and set
to work to co-ordinate them with the vast
collection in that institution. At an exhi-
bition to be held there the collection is to
be released in relays, and it will take four
months to go through the lot.
Dead in Brisbane, Madame Kerensky,
nee Nellie Tritton, wife of Alexander
Kerensky, Premier of Russia during the
stormy first four months of the Revolu-
tion. A journalist and elocutionist, she
engaged in journalism in Sydney for some
years, and then took an extensive tour
of Europe, where she met her husband,
then in exile. She was in Paris when
that city was entered by the Germans,
and incurred a strained heart during the
trying times they both had when escaping
from the Nazis. Her husband arrived
inconspicuously in Australia last year to
rejoin her.
James Douglas Archer Collier, prin-
cipal librarian of the State Library of
Tasmania, who presided at the Hobart
Conference of the Australian Institute of
Librarians at Easter—the first since the
war—was formerly on the Inky Way with
the Hobart “Mercury.” An Apple
Islander and a son of the manse, Collier
saw four years’ service with the First
A.I.F. prior to becoming the Speck’s
Librarian in 1922. In 1939 he edited the
second volume of Giblin’s Early History
of Tasmania. He’s 53.
Retirement at the end of the year of
Canon W. P. F. Morris, founder and
headmaster of the Brisbane Church of
England Grammar School, will deprive
Australia and Queensland of the active
services of a great educationist. Born
in Melbourne 68 years ago, he graduated
in Arts and Divinity at the Melbourne
Uni. and Ridley Hall, Cambridge, and
taught at Geelong Grammar and St.
Peter’s (Adelaide) before coming to
Queensland. In 1912 he founded the
school which has since achieved such out-
standing success. Its first enrolment con-
sisted of four dayboys, and its credit
balance, was one shilling. He will leave
it with more than 600 boys, 166 of them
boarders, and more than 3000 others
have passed through the school in the in-
tervening 34 years. A fine athlete him-
self in earlier days, he personally
coached many of the school’s runners and
oarsmen to success in G.P.S. competi-
tions. An able classical scholar, he pro-
vided the University of Queensland with
some of its mo§t brilliant students, among
them Jack Lindsay. ,
Eric IVlillhouse, new Federal president
of R.S.L., here depicted by Coventry in
the act of nibbling his lip, will have his
hands full at the next Federal Congress.
Besides repatriation, housing, training,
soldiers’ preference and all the other
problems covered by that clumsy word
rehabilitation, a matter that will have to
be faced is the whole question of eligi-
bility for League membership. Up to the
present rival schools of thought within
the movement have agreed to shelve a
decision pending the return of this war’s
Diggers ; most have now returned. Mill-
house is well equipped to deal with the
thorniest problems. His training as solici-
tor and barrister and his seven years as
S.A. Crown Prosecutor will be a help,
but experience gained as chairman of
S.A. Football League may prove his
best asset. That body has been set some
posers in its time. A fast wingman was
LAST WAR.
once arraigned before it on a charge of
Chasing the umpire with intent to strike
him. Accused admitted the chasing, but
denied malign intent. “Well,” asked a
predecessor of Millhouse, “why were you
chasing him?” “I wanted to tell him
something,” was the bland reply.
Asked to write his own ticket in auto-
biography, Colonel H. T. (“Blue”) Allan
furrowed his tropic brow and turned in
the following:
1914-18: 17th Battalion in France —re-
turned as captain.
1939-45: 2/17th Battalion, A.1.F., in the
Middle East, Tobruk, Alamein. In New
Guinea since 1943 ; planned and constructed
Finschhafen, Madang, Jacquinot Bay and
Wewak base sub-areas. Since September,
1945, in command Pacific Islands Regi-
ment.
Those who know him, however, are em-
phatic that there are a few gaps in the
BOTH WARS.
record. He does not mention the Sydney
University career abandoned at 19 to
join the 17th. He says nothing of his
company command at 22 ; of the hot
corner in the fight toward Assyria barn,
Passchendaele I, on October 9, 1917;
of the “tremendous lot” of unfriendly
Germans he ran into on August 31, 1918,
as he deployed his company athwart the
Glery-Peronne Road; of his clearing of
the flank in the Brasso redoubt rush; of
how his men wiped the Hun out of Park
Wood and Halle and looked up to see
their companion companies in the last
stages of that “most astounding feat” the
capture of Mont St. Quentin. There is
nothing about his M.C. in the old war
and his 0.8. E. in the new, or of the
romantic years in between when he
struggled with Bill Watson and other
comrades-in-arms for a foothold in New
Guinea, until he struck it rich in gold
and then left the prosperity which he had
well earned through nearly 20 years in
the tropics to fight another war. “Blue”
Allan —his thatch has lost little of its
pristine crimson hue—is one of the best-
liked men in New Guinea, among whites
and natives alike. When he comes out of
the Army shortly he is to have a con-
siderable hand in getting the Territory
back to a production footing.
Melbourne has its civil servant who,
like C. P. Mountford, of Adelaide, has
the “Dead Heart” as a hobby. He is
Charles Metcalfe. Since 1906 he has left
his desk at the State Treasury for the
Centre on every opportunity, drawn by
the fascination of its strangeness and
remoteness. In his' early years of ex-
ploration he sometimes had for a com-
panionßaldwin Spencer. Metcalfe can yarn
with at least four semi-wild Queensland
tribes in their own patois. He is shortly
returning to his old haunts to add to his
collection, as well as to pick up a few
more lingoes. This time the Binghis
north of Ooldea, S.A., are his objective.
Into the silence:
At Goulburn (N.S.W.), at 53, G. Vern Bar-
nett, organist, accompanist and conductor of
Sydney Philharmonic for many years. He had
acted as accompanist to Melba, Florence Aus-
tral and other celebrities, and was well known
as an adjudicator at musical festivals.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 74, Thomas Clark-
son, first a journalist then a grain and pro-
duce man in Hawkes Bay, then again a jour-
nalist.
At Armadale (Vic.), W. Taylor Stone, one
of the founders of Christian Science in Vic-
toria. Some of the first meetings of Mrs.-Baker
Eddy’s Australian disciples were held in his
home. He was one of 30 students chosen from
all parts of the world to attend the Meta-
physical College in Boston in 1916.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Thursday’s march of the Victory con-
tingent through the city’s streets was a
sight to set the blood pulsing quicker.
The splendid precision with which the
250 men and women, led by Major-
General K. W. Bather, swung past to
stirring marches by the R.A.A.F. band
brought bursts of spontaneous cheering
from the huge crowd which lined the
route. Sir Winston Dugan, deputising
for the Governor-General, took the
salute. The thought intruded that in this
band of fine young Australians the Com-
monwealth will have an advertisement in
the heart of Empire par excellence.
The silhouette of a racing eight domi-
nated the decorations at the ball given
by the Gloucester Auxiliary of the Prince
Henry Hospital, held in the Malvern
Town Hall on boat-race eve. Miniature
felt pennants were worn in the lapels and
pinned in the frocks of the 800 dancers.
President of the auxiliary Kathleen Las-
celles was an attractive figure in her ice-
blue satin gown with its sunray pleated
skirt and small matching jacket trimmed
with silver leaves. For contrast she added
a spray of pink roses to her jacket.
Cherry Kaye, one of the ticket secretaries,
chose a frock of aqua-blue crepe, to
which she pinned gardenias, while Pam
Henderson, who shared the work with
Cherry, chose soft grey taffetas, striped in
green and yellow, fashioned with a full
skirt and long tight bodice. Mrs. John
Glover, joint organiser of the ball with
Ronald Evans, was in a gown of pink
marquisette sewn with silver threads.
At least one big firm has acknowledged
the importance of ex-servicewomen re-
gaining their dress sense after years in
uniform by entertaining many members of
the women’s services at a fashion show,
designed specially for their needs. The
coupon-free wool jersey suits and full-
length coats had an appeal almost as
great as the dinner and evening dresses.
Nothing had been overlooked ; there was
even a beauty-culture expert to give
advice.
A farewell party to former U.S.
Consul-General for Victoria and Tas-
mania, Mr. C. Spiker, and Mrs. Spiker,
who will leave soon to embark for
America, where they will have a short
holiday before taking up duty in Canton,
China, was held at Grosvenor, Toorak.
Drinks were served under the huge oak-
tree, which promises to become one of
the most famous trees in Melbourne —so
many parties are given beneath its boughs.
The affair served to introduce the new
Consul-General, Mr. R. F. Boyce, to the
American colony and consular corps.
Leontina Sagan came straight off the
Spirit of Progress to face a barrage of
questions from reporters in the Marina
Room of the Hotel Australia. Tall, grey-
haired, with beautiful artistic hands, this
clever theatrical producer still managed,
after her journey, to look elegant. Born
of Austrian parents, Miss Sagan spent
her schooldays in South Africa. She joined
the Reinhardt school, and spent 10 years
acting in theatres all over Europe.
In Frankfurt she produced her first
play, “Caesar and Cleopatra.” Going to
London, she met Ivor Novello, and began
producing for him, and took many of his
plays to South Africa. She will produce
one of his plays, “Dancing Years,” which
will have its Melbourne premiere on
June 15. In private life Miss Sagan is
the wife of Dr. Victor Fleischer, who has
remained in London.
When there are more original ways of
giving a party it will probably be the
Bowen-Pains who will think of it. Recently
they put on one for this city’s women
journalists, whose publicity helped the
many charity functions that this couple
have given. The do was held in the delight-
fully old-world Matthew Lang Cellars,
and each guest was bidden to remove her
hat on arrival. Reason was found when
host and hostess, with their guests, went
in to dinner. At each place was a name-
card, and guests discovered they were to
play, for the nonce, the part of women
writers of the past, hats of the period
being donned. Elizabeth Barrett Browning
rubbed shoulders with Harriet Beecher
Stowe, Mrs. Henry Wood and “Ouida.”
At each place also were a silver-wrapped
marzipan Easter egg and a posy of
violets. At the party it was learned that
another affair is being planned by the
Bowen-Pains to help further the Food for
Britain appeal. This will take the form
of theatricals at the Grosvenor early in
May. The British Empire Society’s
Younger Set will present “Queen Vic-
toria, God Bless Her,” by Housman ; the
second half of the programme will be a
preview of a British film.
From the Bowen-Pain party the guests
hurried to the celebrity concert at the
Town Hall, where Hepzibah Menuhin
was solo pianist in the Mozart A Major
Concerto. Hepzibah, pictured here by
Athol Shmith, wore a white frock, tight
of bodice, and with a full skirt. In pri-
vate life Hepzibah, whose brother is
famous violinist Yehudi, is Mrs. Lindsay
Nicholas, and the mother of two bonny
children. She lives on her husband’s
property in the Western district, and
there she practises many hours each day.
With Lady Dugan, whose bright-red
guardsman’s jacket was worn over a black
dirfher frock, was Mary Lisle Johnson
and Captain Murray Fairbairn. Among
the large audience was Viva Holgate
Clarke, a pianist who has done a lot of
broadcasting with the A.8.C.; her gay
floral satin evening gown was worn under
a dyed ermine coat.
Col. Ralph Michaelis, Military Air
Attache to the Legation of the U.S.A., and
his pretty wife, a former Sydney lass, in-
vited many guests to a delightful party
at Grosvenor, Toorak, to introduce
U.S.A. Military Attache, Brig.-Generai
E. H. Sebree, and Asst. Attache, Major
S. F. McDaniel. Mrs. Michaelis received
the guests in a black frock with a stone-
marten cape in platinum tonings. Mrs.
Sebree’s daughters, Martha and Pauline,
were with her. These girls have already
settled, down and will assist the Clapp lady
next month at the Coral Sea Ball. With
George Johnston was his wife, whose
smart little cocktail hat of black lace was
worn with a black frock. Air Vice Mar-
shal Jones, Captain I. Holyman and Wing-
Corn. G. D. Nicoll were there with their
wives. Mrs. Helen Wessells was wrapped
to the eyebrows in an unusual fur coat
a silver-blue muskrat.
From Sydney
Easter Monday was, of course, Rand-
wick’s big thrill. The Duke and Duchess
arrived in time for the first race and
stayed till after the fifth. They were re-
ceived by chairman of the A.J.C. Alan
Potter, who presented members of the
A.J.C. committee, with whom the Duke
afterwards lunched. It seems to some it
might have been a nice compliment to
the racehorses to present them. The big
excitement of the day came when his
Royal Highness handed over the Sydney
Cup from the committee box. The
Duchess hostessed a lunch party, and
their Royal Highnesses gave a tea-party
after the fifth race.
In the royal box with the Duke and
Duchess were Miss Eileen Phipps, Com-
mander Robertson, Captain McGrigor,
Captain Ramsay; and guests of the
Duchess at lunch included Mrs. P. H.
Osborne, Mrs. George Main, Mrs. R. C.
Allen, Robert Ashton, the P. G. Tait
couple, the David Prattens, Thelma Mc-
Master, the Talbot Sandersons, Major A.
Shepherd, Commander and Mrs. J. F.
Horne.
Nothing much new in the way of styles
went out to Randwick last Saturday for
the Easter meeting. But there were a lot
of new clothes, tailored suits being in the
majority. The tonings of these were often
not so severe as the line —pale pinks,
yellows, greens and blues bloomed
brightly among the tweeds and the
woollens. Hats were high, bonnet-
shaped, curvette, non-existent. Wooden
sandals, their thongs all nail-studded,
deep metal belts and junk jewellery were
among the day’s glitter.
Fur coats and capes bustled about be-
tween stand and ring. Two women
friends tackled the business of the day.
the one caped, the other coated, in exactly
the same brand of red gold pelt. As one
glossy coat came along a woman in the
stand said to her companion: “That’s
Persian lamb.” “It might be Russian,”
murmured the other with a twinkle.
“No, it’s Persian,” said didactic number
one. “Oh, well, U.N.0.,” muttered num-
ber two.
Randwick was the same old razzle-
dazzle, only more so. The crowds
were terrific. A human cyclone raged
about the totes and the ring. The stands
brimmed 6ver. The autumn afternoon
had a brooding contemplative look that
seemed to say “for two pins I’d drench
the lot of them.” Women sighed with
sympathy when Flight just missed
the Autumn Stakes. Lieut.-Governor
Frederick Jordan and his lady were
Saturday importants. The Pierre Manns
were there, her suit pale pink lush with
brown fur.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s hat was round
and high, stone-grey in tone, and her
frock, the skirt a half-sister to Dirndl,
was of the same shade. Mrs. J. R. Nor-
moyle, from Melbourne, wore a white hat
high in the crown, small of brim, well
off the face. Her suit was of softest
blue. Mbilie Oxenham’s mole suit had a
gold bird perched on its lapel. Mrs.
. Keith Morris was squired by son Barry,
down from Brisbane for the week-end.
He expects to be demobbed about the
end of next month.
Mrs. Frank Rogers, up from Austin-
mer, wore suit and cape of rose-red
woollen. Not unnoticed was Beverley
Atkinson’s smile under her cream felt
bonnet. Autumn tones of brown and
yellow were jn Mrs. Reg Bettington’s
outfit, and pretty and trig in an anemone-
pink suit was Margaret Salenger. Mrs.
Fielding Jones, daughter Annette, the Gif-
fords and Mrs. Dennis Allen, Mrs. W.
Parsons and Melbourne visitor Kath
Anderson, Mrs. H. Field, owner of Blue
Legend, winner of the Doncaster, _and
bright-faced Diana Scott-Waine, in poin-
settia-red, were glimpsed amid the coming
and going.
This is a last-week photograph of Mrs.
J. M. Tully, whose husband, the Minister
for Lands, has been appointed the State’s
Agent-General in London. Mrs. Tully
has been the guest of honor at many
parties farewelling her before her depar-
ture for London in May. Norton Tre-
vaire photograph.
Lady Louis Mountbatten flashed in and
out of Sydney early last week between
journeys from Maoriland and to Mel-
bourne. She will be back in Sydney for
Anzac Day, and will speak to the children
of the Junior Red Cross. As usual, the
young members will gather in the grounds
y of Government House and will bring
flower offerings, which will later be placed
on the Cenotaph. Lady Louis arrives on
the 24th and from then on to the morn-
ing of her departure for Adelaide has a
practically non-stop programme of en-
gagements with Red Cross and St. John
Ambulance. She will also make an after-
noon call on the Y.W.C.A.
On the 29th of this month Henry VIII
and his Court will fill with grandeur the
stage of the Great Hall of the Univer-
sity The audience will see Henry, Cardi-
hat Wolsey, Anne Boleyn, Catherine of
Aragon and the other characters, but they
will not see on any programme the names
of the girls and young men portraying
these personalities. This is one of the
rules of the Catholic University Group,
whose presentation of “The Hound of
Heaven” and “The Quest of the Holy
Grail” in the Great Hall are still remem-
bered. Remarkably good, too, was the
performance of Dr. Eris O’Brien's “The
Hostage” in the Mayfair Theatre one
pre-war Sunday night by the same group,
These men and giris do* their own stage
carpentering, make the costumes. As a
prologue to Henry VIII will be sung the
lovely, old hymn, said to have been written
by Henry, “O Lord, the Maker of All
Thynge.” The Orpheus with his lute will
be sung not in the Purcell setting but in
a setting by an Australian composer, also
nameless for the night. All profits go to
charity.
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard
arrived in Sydney by ’plane on Good
Friday, so that was a fine Easter present
for Madge’s mother. These two, who
were J.C.W. dancing stars in their early
years, have not been in Australia since
1935, when they were married and went
off to London, Since then they have
played musical comedy, straight comedy,
pantomime. During the war they did good
work entertaining the services, and after
a successful London revival they took
the “Merry Widow” on tour through the
Middle East, where everyone went wild
over them. Before coming to Australia
the two were playing in Noel Coward’s
“Sigh No More,” Now they have come
to give this country three of the plays
in Noel’s “To-night at 8.30.” They will
open with “Shadow Play”—there’s sing-
ing and dancing in that; it’s about
two who nearly lost romance, but found
it again—“ Ways and Means,” about
people in high society and low water ; and
“Family Album,” in which one of the
girls has the lovely name of Lavinia.
Madge, looking' fresh and pretty ; Cyril
slim, and, in spite of war-time exigencies,
as well-tailored as Noel Coward (though
that might be also a triumph of figure),
were given a reception by the J.C.W.
firm yesterday morning.
When the members of the Young
Chinese Relief Movement do a thing they
do it well. They are particularly interested
in the fate of the Warphans, the special
protege of the wife of Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek, and each year they hold
a dragon festival ball for this fund. Last
year the ball netted £975, artd the com-
mittee is out to make the 1946 takings
even greater. Special souvenir fans, each
decorated with a picture of Madame
Chiang Kai-shek, will be sold. Date of
the ball is June 18, and the place the
Trocadero.
Probably Szymon Goldberg doesn’t
know. what a compliment to him his
crowded Town Hall audience was last
Saturday. But in Sydney Easter Saturday
is so given over to after-the-races parties,
to cocktail, dinner and dancing celebra-
tions that a concert might easily be
sparsely attended. However, the house
was a full and appreciative one, and the
Bach Sonata in G Minor won prolonged
hand-clapping. The listeners liked their
Szymon. The violinist’s wife was in the
audience. Those untiring concertgoers
the Claude Plowmans were there, and
Ruby Adams. Seen in the foyer
violinists Nora Williamson, Mrs. Rupert
Scammell and pianist Lute Drummond.
The C.W.A. has already sent out cards
for the opening of its yearly conference.
This year the big talks will commence on
May 1. There will be an evening session
in the Town Hall on that date, when the
official opening speech will be made by
Mrs. H. G. Marfell, president of C.W.A.
of Australia. The Assembly Hall from
10 o’clock to five o’clock on May 1, 2
and 3 will be given over to the conferrers.
Australian actress Esther Mitchell and
her husband, J. Plumpton Wilson, arc
both busy with long engagements in
America, Esther writes to her mother in
Grafton telling of a season with the
Lunts. The company has been doing
Terence Rattigan’s “O Mistress Mine,”
and, of course, the Lunts are the begin-
ning and end of the piece. Appar-
ently the play had opened in Washington,
because, from the Hotel Washington,
Miss Mitchell writes:
We are doing the most tremendous busi-
ness. I think it must be a record for any
play—there is over 150,000 dollars worth
of bookings for New York. It is simply
breathtaking. Our opening in N.Y. should
be most exciting. And the Lunts are so in-
credibly stveet about it, in spite of the fact
that if is their success, and really nobody
else matters very much, except the little
boy; at the curtain calls they keep us all
on all the time.
Here are some fashion notes straight
from the sheep’s back. Paris ways are
smart, with tiny sailor hats smoothly cov-
ered with woollen jersey in such pastel
shades as almond-green or pale canary
yellow. These hats are trimmed with
fruit or flowers. One in yellow, lightly
checked with black, carries a cluster or
russet apples. Some have red velvet roses
and some a tasty knot of yellow mimosa.
One noted hat-designer shows a model
in red-and-black tartan woollen. Its
broad brim is up-curved and filled with
huge white iris blooms. It is finished
with a white veil covering the face and
drawn tightly under the chin. A semi-
circular toque by Agnes made of pink
wool net as fine as a spider’s web sounds
alluring to any woman. Veils are still
fashion news. Tiny hats are worn perched
with the forehead and peak of hair left
bare. Other hats are worn well down on
the nape of the neck.


ř
Have You Made
a Wi
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a'
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s'oldest trustee
company. It has more than 67 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,437
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raw's, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan
Newton, M.S., Melbourne, F.R.C.8., England.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones,
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
W. D. Stew’art; R. T. Hllder; John Cadwallader,
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
* „ Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
A
The WILDAL COUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8440.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 .. 1 1 568 603
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 j x ’
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 6,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932,541
1*940. . 6,076,026 3,626,703 629,996 1,919,828
Unexplained addition Invest. Res., £13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 .. I 2 185 393
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,362 523,701 (
Unexplained reduction Invest. Res., £1419.
1942.. 6,301,78'5 3,690,127 523,701 2,087,957
Unexplained addition Invest. Res, £18,777
1943.. 6,552,288 3,619,596 628,133 ]
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO • 2,104,559
Written off other assets, £200,000.
1944.. 6,884,448 3,633,893 568,572]
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ■ 2,668,032
To staff fund, £3,950
1945.. 7,208,804 3,822,276 628,751
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ■ 2,743,727
To staff fund, £4,050 ..J
* Excluding income tax and rates.
The big mutual life offices represent a
system of collective security which pro-
vides a sheet anchor in the realm of
domestic finance and a stabilising influ-
ence in the social and economic struc-
ture. They have been the largest indi-
vidual contributors to war and other Gov-
ernment loans, while the thrift of policy-
holders through payment of premiums
has helped to ease the pressure of accu-
mulated spending power in a market in
which goods are in short supply. Thus
the State benefits, as well as policy-
holders and their dependants. And the
system has withstood the tests of time,
including the strain of financial depres-
sions and the crises of two world wars.
Because the mainspring of saving is to
provide income, and not least to provide
for old age, a strong and growing demand
for the protection that life assurance thus
affords can be expected to continue into
the future.
The National continues to exhibit
satisfactory margins in all those matters
upon which progress and soundness de-
pend. Outstanding feature of the latest
accounts was the record amount of new
business put on the books (£13,169,849,
up 24.1 p.c.). The growth of group
assurance, now popular with commercial
organisations as a means of providing
staff pensions, accounted for a large slice
of this business. And there are other
sound reasons why expansion should be
the order of the day. Chief is that prices
generally are much higher than they were
pre-war, and it seems unlikely that they
will fall to their old levels again. This
calls for a larger volume of assurance
from all classes ; and there is a con-
siderable amount of savings awaiting
investment, too.
Of the problems arising out of war and
the “new” economics, reduction of in-
terest rates has affected, and will continue
to affect, life offices most. Since 1939 the
co. has invested the whole of the increase
in its funds, and more besides, in war
loans on terms increasingly favorable to
the Treasury. Together with the rise in
taxation, this has reduced the net return
from current investments, and, therefore,
the amount of surplus available for dis-
tribution among policyholders as bonuses.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio in
tabloid form;
1939 v , 1945
p.c. P-c.
Freeholds .. £I,BOILS’? 3.5 £1,584,919 2.4
Public securities. 24,333,302 50.7 42,756,462 68.3
Mortgages , .. 10,641,640 22.2 9,215,768 14.7
Foreclosures .. 316,369 0.7 148,708 0.2
Loans on policies 5,449,406 11.2 3,871,067 6.1
Other assets .. 5,600,307 11.7 5,038,832 8.3
At the close of last accounts public
securities (up £3,685,516) represented
68.3 p.c. of the balance-sheet total com-
pared with 50.7 p.c. six years earlier.
Over the same period the gross interest
return on the mean assurance fund
dropped from £4 11s. 4d. p.c. to £4 ss. 3d.
p.c. and the net return (after deducting
taxation) from £4 3s. 9d. p.c. to £3 15s, 2d.
p.c. This reduction represents an annual
loss in the amount available for distri-
bution among policyholders of over
£250,000. The effect upon bonus rates is
thus obvious.
When money has to be reinvested to-
day, the problem of obtaining an approxi-
mately equal return after sale or repay-
ment of particular securities becomes
practically insoluble. This is one of many
factors which help to explain why buying
activity has come up against a shortage
of sound securities in the market. The
aim behind the investment policy of life
offices will be to get as high a return as
possible for as long a period as circum-
stances permit, consistent with security.
As soon as building activity gets under
way more attention can be expected to
be given to house-purchase loans, which
not only carry a higher rate of interest
than Government securities, but are also
very helpful in writing new business.
With an eye to bonus prospects and
security for policyholders, the
lowered the basis of valuation of liabilities
under participating whole-life and endow-
ment policies (about 90 p.c. of total busi-
ness) from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c, in 1940 ; and
provision has been made to lower the
assumed rate which the assurance funds
will earn to an all-round 2 \ p.c.
The co. still follows the old-fashioned
idea of sending out the actuary’s valua-
tion figures triennially. The next lot will
be for the period to end Sept., 1946.
However, intermediate bonuses for 1944
were approx. 50 p.c. above corresponding
rates for the three years to Sept. 30, 1943,
and those for last term were slightly above
the 1944 rates.
The spring in the year’s income
(£7,208,804) was £324,356, of which
£271,837 was in respect of net premiums,
etc. (£5,093,910) and £52,519 interest,
rents, etc. (£2,114,894). War claims
Amounted to £205,000, making the total
since war began £1,253,000, which was
relatively much lighter than the strain
during World, War I. Excluding single
premiums and cost thereof, exes, took
8.93 p.c. of total income as against 8.49
p.c. and 8.15 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. After striking £lO,OOO off the book
value of premises and sending £4050 to
the staff fund, £2,743,727 (up £75,695)
was added fb the assurance fund, making
it £58,721,956. It has the support and
assistance of other reserves totalling
£2,232,282, returns from which are avail-
able for distribution among policy-
holders, there being no shareholders.
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. AND Subsidiaries.
r-* Dividends \
Year, Pref. Towards De-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, ficit.t
£ £ £ £ £
Added intangibles, £846 .. • • 306,730
’39..389,099 48,293 6 p.c.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12,947 .. 220,750
’40..404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,1181 112,373 108,377
Added rights, etc., £163 .. • • 108,540
’41..354.981 50,000 5 p.c.= 213,9401 91,041 17,499
Rights, etc., disappear, £lBO .. 17,319
Reserves.!
’42..376,788 50,000 5 p.c.= 224,637 J 102,151 84,832
Added intangibles, £l2B .. •• 84,704
From inner reserves, £1843 . . 86,547
'43..394,616 50,000 5 p.c.= 235,8691 108,747 195,294
Unexplained additions ..£l9Bl
Prom inner reserves, £lO7 .. ( qk vfw
Intangibles reduced, £B4 .. f ’
Outside equity bought, £B4 .. ]
’44..391,517 50,000 5 p.e.= 247,662 93,855 289,622
Net reductions reserves .. £294 1 „ SQ
Intangibles reduced .. £36) ’
’45..308,698 50,000 4£ p.c.= 238,839 19,859 309,223
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles. 1 Paid in scrip.
Formed in Victoria in 1928 as an off-
shoot of the big Imperial Chemical In-
dustries Co. (Eng.), this large manufac-
turing organisation, with its team of
chemists, metallurgists and engineers,
played an important part in Australia’s
recent industrial development by provid-
ing the chemical sinews of war, which
basically are those of peace, too. Thus
the cp. can be expected to play a part
no less important in our development
during the post-war era and after.
To finance expanding activities during
the war years, the board gathered an
extra £1,813,834 of capital, of which
£500,000 came in during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, raising
the total on the issued register to
£6,453,239 in a million 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the balance ords. The ords. are held
by the English parent and such leading
Australian industrialists as 8.H.P., A.C.1.,
the big mining cos. at the Barrier, Elec-
trolytic Zinc and Commonwealth Fertil-
iser. The prefs. were taken by the Aus-
tralian public in 1938 to help finance
erection of works to. turn out synthetic
ammonia and nitric acid, etc., in Victoria,
and to establish the £1,500,000 alkali plant
operated by a subsidiary near Port Adel-
aide, where Australia’s requirements of
soda ash and caustic soda are now pro-
duced. These products are derived from
the treatment of salt, obtained by evapora-
tion of sea-water in beds some six miles
away on the shores of Spencer s Gulf.
More recently one of the associated cos.
commenced production of phosphorus
from the only plant of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. And more recently
still the parent added eight new chemical
products to its list of manufactures, and
production of new chemicals discover"
during the war and considered essential
to the wellbeing of the civilian population
continues. , e
Last term output of some of the fac-
tories was restricted by scarcity or labor
and raw materials, and there was a sharp
fall in sales on defence account, especi-
ally in explosives and ammunition. The
new plant at Botany (N.S.W.), expanded
at the request of the Government, did not
reach production in time to meet war
demands. And in the operation of big
plants, which demand rigid control, it
takes time to retrain operatives in the
technique necessary to produce the
altered requirements of civilian markets.
However, except in explosives and ammu-
nition, the reduction in defence orders
was more than offset by increased civilian
sales. But costs continued to rise, and
there was a contraction of £82,819 in net
earnings, reducing them to £308,698,
of which £150,440 (down £12,247)
came from wholly-owned subsidiaries.
That was after allowing £284,235 (up
£69,368) for depreciation and £201,962
(down £60,016) for taxation. The
£308,698 covered the pref. div. and 4.7
p.c. on ord. capital as against 6.9 p.c.
for the previous term. Half a point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 4j p.c.
The £19,859 that remained lifted the lay-
by £309,223 in .excess of intangibles
(£653,326), not treated as an asset herein.
The financial set-up and rapid expan-
sion of the group over the last seven years
are seen in the next table;
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital . . £4,039,409 £5,953,239 £0,453,239
Outside interests* 15,231 17,211
Sundry creditors.. 271,271 1,074,906 936,985
Taxation, etc. .. 213,247 433,990 348,803
Freeholds, etc. ~ 1 , r qo ( 1,444,970 1,358,104
Plant, etc. .. 3 I>jB 1 > j8d > 167 \ 2,009,709 1,811,759
Stocks .. .. 1,090,747 2,172,586 2,453,487
Debtors ~ .. 511,987 924,763 917,452
Investments .. 857,859 1,199,941 1,209,796
Cash .. .. 1,106,483 272,769 563,796
* Including proportion reserves.
The half-million of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with surplus
earnings and allowances for depreciation,
etc., enabled £137,921 to be clipped off
the amount coming to trade creditors,
£280,901 to be added to stocks and cash
to be strengthened by £291,027. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£3,858,683) was £797,520.
The market prices the well-protected
prefs. at 265., at which figure the yield is
3.8 p.c. The net tangible cover is £6
15s. 3d.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
, —* Dividends ■, Re- Re-
Feb.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936 .. 34,276 B’p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,652
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 . . 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 80,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 ,r 12$ „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 . . 53,788 8 „ 12$ ~ 37,391 10,397 201,796
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 „ 44,70913,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12$ p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 12$ „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1944 .. 47,642 8 p.c. 12$ p.c. 37,391 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1945 .. 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 51,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
Too much notice need not be taken of
the apparent drop (£7407) in last term’s
net earnings. The year was one of profit-
able expansion, sales reaching record
figures. Rationing and price-control con-
tinued ; but as demobilisation proceeded
the demand for replenishment of ward-
robes increased rapidly. To meet their
immediate needs ex-servicemen are given
a special issue of clothing coupons, and,
for the most part, they have a tidy sum
of savings in the form of deferred pay
with which to settle for their purchases.
And some contend, not prudently, that
if they don’t get what they want now
they might continue to want. One result
has been a sudden leap in retail turnovers
during the last two quarters of 1945.
Here are percentage changes in aggre-
gate turnover of 22 Sydney stores com-
pared with the corresponding periods of
the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended.
r — A \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9-4 +11.6 —2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.0 +7.4 4-4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 _
Never has the buying wave for coupon
goods been more pronounced and sus-
tained ; and it is likely to be some months
yet before it loses much of its force.
McDowells,,which has a reputation for
shrewd buying and whose store faces
King and George streets, one of the
busiest intersections in the city, records
a leap of £40,185 in gross earnings
(£383,712) last term. The contraction in
the declared net result was due to pro-
vision of an extra £35,000 for taxation
(£105,000). The growth in trading exes.,
etc. (£226,882), was only £12,592. The
£51,830 of profit covered the pref. div.
and 17.4 p.c. on the £292,726 of ord.
capital, compared with 19.9, 16, 14.7, 13.8,
19.6, 18.1 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1939.
The distribution was kept at 15 p.c., ot
which 5 p.c. is labelled bonus. The £7121
that remained lifted the lay-by to
£258,016. That is to say, each pound
of paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of 17s. of visible reserves, which


r
ONL*
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli>
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing
Plans. Music, etc.
Buth entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE '
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SuJ
H
N MINX
YEARS AHEAD IN DESIGN
Increased Fuel Economy.
Swifter Cruising Speed.
Smoother Running.
Quieter and More Restful.
Balanced Clutch Control.
Additional Safety and Roadability.
Higher B.H.P.
A Product of the
Rootes Group.
See your Distributor
Now for particulars.
JOHN McGBATH LTD,,
11c Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
(Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD., 223 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGRATH, ETD. .. 324-340 Wickham St., The Valley,
BRISBANE.
SKIPPER BAIEEY MOTORS CO., ETD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
D. E. HOEEIB MOTORS PTY., ETD., Cr. York & St. Johns Sts.,
EAUNCESTON.
Rootes Group Regional Representative: 473 Bourke St., Melbourne.
m
(<&))»
'rs
?&V:
jT\
9
/
jch
HOW BINGO
PASSED HIS LEAVING
'Young Bingo Jones the
silly ass
Was always bottom’ of his
His homework was a perfect fright.
His sums were never, never right.
You couldn’t really blame the lad,
The lights he used were cheap and bad;
But since they gave him “OSRAM” lamps
He tops the class amongst the champs.
x' I I
a
l
HU"
°Qsrain
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
ffiufaAGmefoXStfecfcie
(Sole Australian Representatives of The ff.&C. of England.)
. NEWCASTLE . MELBOURNE . PERTH
HOBART . LAUNCESTpN . ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
partly explains the high rate of earning
on capital alone.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover until
such time as demobilisation and the de-
ferred buying associated therewith have
run their course. And then the National
Security Act and its spate of regulations
will expire at the end of 1946. What
happens after that will largely depend
upon the nature and extent of the new
price and other controls the Government
proposes to introduce, upon whether pro-
duction has been stepped up sufficiently
to bridge the inflationary gap, and upon
what happens in connection with wage
and other costs. Clothes and other ration-
ing will end, unless continued under the
heading of “anti-inflationary measures”
or undertaken by the States. The
seller’s market that grew up under
war-time controls and restrictions can
be expected gradually to give place
to a buyer’s market again, which
means that competition will get more
of an edge on .it, demand will be-
come increasingly capricious and volatile,
and exes, difficult to restrain.
The heavier trading is further reflected
in a reduction of £69,091 in stocks and
a growth of £28,980 in book debts:
1940. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £802,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages ... 75,000 50,000 ~
Overdraft .. 54,670 18,002 7,631 2,957
Sundry creditors 37,109 88,645 81,603
Tax reserve .. 41,614 160,011 176,475 224,*
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest- _ .
ments, etc... 390,945 452,601 413,667 509,495
Stocks.. .. 165,154 251,677 262,324 193,233
Book debts .. 81,490 72,337 70,168 99,148
Cash, etc. .. 6,777 10,587 11.940 16.309
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
The liquid position is obscured by the
lumping of Commonwealth loans and in-.
vestments with freehold in the published
accounts. The growth in this untidy
omnibus item was £95,828, mostly in
respect of the liquid items. It is plain,
however, that finances are comfortable.
The market, which has always held the
co.’s scrip in high esteem, prices the
ords. at 535. 6d. (official high), at which
figure the return is 5.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
Oil at Lakes Entrance
The Jekyll and Hyde character of
Government control is well illustrated in
the case of Austral Oil Drilling Syndicate
(paid capital £49,998), whose shaft at
Lakes Entrance (Vic.) is down some 750 ft.
The co. pins its faith to the Ranney-
Fairbank report, which predicted pos-
sible production of 1,160,000 barrels of
good-quality lubricating oil by horizontal
drilling radially from a central shaft at
about 1200 ft. vertical.
Recently the Government offered to re-
voke its rights and obligations under the
National Security (Minerals) Regulations,
whereby direction of the project passed to
the Controller of Mineral Production,
and also to sell to the co. plant installed
by the Government at a figure which has
not been broadcast. A condition of re-
vocation was that the co. abandon its
claim against the Crown for reimburse-
ment of moneys alleged to have been
spent on behalf of the Government. The
board acquiesced in the proposal, and
asked the Treasury for permission to raise
the funds required to buy the plant and
carry on the undertaking. The request
was refused on the ground that the Capi-
tal Issues Board had received an adverse
report from the Government’s advisers.
This adverse report, says managing-
director Demaine, is to the effect that,
although an estimated 560,000 barrels of
oil are contained in sands thus far inves-
tigated over an area of 400 acres, only
about 15 p.c. of the stuff is recoverable.
It is the co.’s belief that at least 5000
acres have been proved to be oil-bearing
and of a nature similar to the area re-
ported on, and that the sands contain
more oil than the Government’s advisers
have taken into account. Shareholders
are to be called together on May 6 to
hear what the board proposed to do next.
Oil was first discovered at Lakes En-
trance in 1928. Since then private cos.
and the Victorian and Federal Govern-
ments have spent some £210,000, £55,000
and £115,000 respectively, without bring-
ing the field to the stage of commercial
production. Early in the war the Fed-
eral Government engaged Messrs. Ranney
and Fairbank, American oil technolo-
gists, to examine the Lakes Entrance field.
They reported that prospects of commer-
cial production were favorable, and re-
commended the Ranney method of opera-
tion already referred to. It was planned
to sink a concrete-lined shaft to 1250 ft.,
but heavy water came in and work
stopped at 1156 ft. The engineer-in-charge
then visited U.S.A. to investigate the
Ranney method. ELis report was discour-
aging, and the Government ceased work
and abandoned further interest in the
project.
Permission to resume operations on its
property at Misima Island (Papua) has
not yet been granted to Cuthbert’s
Misima Goldmines (paid capital
£160,000). A maintenance party has
been on the spot for a year or more, and
£5148 has been spent on underground
and other repairs and charged to capital
account. This amount is to be included
in the co.’s war damage claim, presently
to be submitted to the War Damage
Commission. As soon as the necessary
labor can be obtained and difficulties
connected with transport and the supply
of stores and essential materials over-
come enough working faces are to be
opened up to keep 10 head of stamps
going. Before the remaining, 10 head in
the other half of the battery begin to
fall another engine will have to be in-
stalled. At end 1940 there was 1\ years
works ahead in the measured oxides in
the southern sector, where more pay-ore
is known to exist. The northern sector,
where little work has been done, is ex-
pected to prove a valuable asset. At end
December last there was £25,663 in Gov-
ernment securities and cash to meet £7793
coming to sundry creditors, etc. On the
market sellers ask 17s. for the f.-p. 10s.
shares. Last div. was Is. a share at end
1941.
* * * *
The Stock Exchange ceiling
price for Great Boulder shares was re-
cently lifted from Bs. 9d. to 9s. 3d. At
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), where the mine is
situated, as much as 17s. 6d. has been
privately offered for the scrip. The in-
trinsic value of the mine has substantially
increased in the last year or two, and the
present ceiling is much below what the
shares are worth. Majority of share-
holders on the Adelaide register favor
change of the co.’s domicile from London
to Australia.
* * * *
Western Mining -Corp. is making a
geological examination of 55 blocks at
Lakeside, southward of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), and has applied for
11 more. Some alluvial diggers did well
in this locality in the early days, and a
battery which crushed the first ore mined
on the Great Boulder, when it was an
Adelaide co., was located there.
* * * i
From a man on the spot: Blue Spec
(W.A.) has asked those on the register
for another shilling a share this month,
and may have to ask for more later if it
is to keep its financial head above water
until the mine is brought to a dividend-
paying stage, if ever. Many would
welcome a report by an independent ex-
pert of standing on the prospects of this
venture.
* * * *
In the hope of exposing a payable gold
carrier in its Mt, Monger Mine (W.A.),
New Milano is making a call of 3d. a
share. If warranted, an adjoining area
over which an option was recently se-
cured is also to be developed. The call
will make the shares paid to 6s. 3d. each.
To date Mt. Monger ore has been patchy
and shallow-seated.
* * * *
De Bernales Family Trust recently tried
but failed to sell its blue-asbestos deposits
in the Hammersley Ranges, east of Roe-
bourne (W.A.), to Selection Trust, Ltd., a
London mining and financial corporation
with big South African and Rhodesian in-
vestments. Representatives of the Trust
spent some weeks inspecting these deposits,
and, after comparing costs, found that
asbestos could be supplied by Canada at
about £2O a ton less than the Westralian
stuff cost.
* _ * * *
“Jo’Burg”; St. Helena Gold Mines,
Ltd., the first mining co. to be floated in
Orange Free State, has been registered
at Pretoria, with a capital of £4,000,000
sterling in 10s. shares. Several of the big
Kaffir houses are associated/, with the
float. Directors include Knight Ernest
Oppenheimer, chairman of the Anglo-
American Corp. of S. Africa; Carlton
Jones, director of Consolidated Gold
Fields of S. Africa; W. H. Lawrence,
general manager of Central Mining and
Investment Corp.; and P. M. Anderson,
managing director of the Union Corp. In
the Odendaalsrust district of the Orange
Free State the drill has proved gold-
bearing ore over a distance of some 25
miles. St. Helena will be the first co. to
undertake actual underground develop-
ment there.


ENJOY GOOD SIGHT
mmsm.
Without Glasses .. . with
THE CAMPBELL EYE TREATMENT
Reports from patients speak volumes for
THE CAMPBELL EYE TREATMENT:—
“I am writing to give you my third
report. My eyes are feeling marvellous
and I have had no headaches or pains for
some weeks now. I read and knit without
glasses ” —Miss J. MacDonald, Ballarat
Hoad, Creswick, Victoria.
“I wish to report to you on the progress
of my eyes, which, I am pleased to say,
are doing fine, and I can now read the big
chart at lift, with either eye, and can
read the microscopic print well. The eyes
feel well and I have not worn my glasses
for a good while.” —G. 8., Launceston.
. .1 am very delighted with the results
that I have had from this treatment, and
would certainly recommend it to any who
are anxious to regain normal sight.”—Mr.
F. Joyce, 92 Birriga Kd., Bellevue Hill,
Sydney.
“I discarded the glasses for reading
right from the start; id fact I have lost
them altogether. ' Finally, I would like
to say that the logic and commonsense of
your methods appeal greatly, and I pity,
very much so, the people one sees wearing
disfiguring spectacles and/or sunglasses.”
—Lieut. R.W.T.
“I wish to express my great satisfaction over the im-
provement in my daughter Nola’s eyesight.. .After about six
weeks’ treatment the sight of both eyes is now even and
both eyes are almost full strength. Before this treatment I
had a fearful lot of trouble and expense with Nola.”—Mrs.
A.S., Waterloo, Sydney.
Take advantage NOW of the CAMPBELL EYE TREATMENT
Send today for free booklet describing the treatment (enclosing 2|d. stamp) to
THE CAMPBELL EYE TKEATMENT
Suite 6 (n 2), Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney, or
’phone 8W7462 for Free Consultation.
EYES ARE RATIONED—
YOU ONLY GET TWO IN A LIFETIME I
Protecting
your
Beneficiaries
M ANY a man who showed
shrewdness; efficiency and
wisdom in the building up of his
pastoral estate has “slipped” in
the provisions made for the
management of his Estate after
his death.
The wise man must be utterly,
even brutally, frank with him-
self. Impartially, without fear
or favor, he must envisage the
control of his Estate, when his
guiding hand has been with-
drawn.
By the appointment of Per-
petual Trustee Company as
Executor, in conjunction with a
friend if he so desires, he
ensures for his family the ad-
vantages of the Company’s sixty
years experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of every kind;
he has made complete provision
against human frailties and
idiosyncrasies.
Call or write for a copy of
the Company’s booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” which
others have found so helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING EESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Eiverina District Representative; D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
■Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Business, Rolleuy, Etc.
External Trade and Funds
With lend-lease a thing of the past, and
the terms (if acceptable to U.S. Congress)
of the United States loan to the British
Empire such as to encourage no extra-
vagant hopes of “easy” external credit
conditions, Empire trade —and world
trade —becomes again a matter of the
greatest economic importance to Austra-
lians.
During the period of the Japanese war
it was a different matter. The United
States used the Commonwealth as a base
from which to launch the early part of
its offensive against Japanese outposts,
and all through the Pacific war Australia
was of considerable importance to Ameri-
cans ; it was largely taken under the U.S.
economic wing. Big lend-lease exports
from the United States to Australia were
made in the interests of a joint war effort,
and these were officially valued in Wash-
ington at £360 million up to June 30 last,
though no charge was made for them.
On the other hand, Australia supplied to
the United States goods valued here at
£271 million, and even if, on the basis of
comparable values, this reverse lend-lease
was probably worth as much as the U.S.
aid to us Australia was still able to main-
tain substantial exports to other countries
on a cash basis. The fact that we
were able to give material aid to the
United States on an extensive scale and
still draw a large (though reduced) re-
venue from abroad was partly because
of higher and steadier export prices and
partly because of rationed consumption
at home, with increased production of
some items, though by no means of all.
Australia is now, economically, thrown
on its own resources again. It
is under nobody’s wing, except that
militant sections appear to be under
Uncle Joe’s. The dollar sign comes
back into our external trading posi-
tion —almost with a vengeance. All
through the war we have traded with
Britain on the basis of cash, but Canada
granted us over £2l million of mutual aid,
and nearly all our U.S. imports up to
Sept. 2 last were under lend-lease.
With so much in the way of “free”
goods passing between countries in war-
time, and with so many charges incurred
by expeditionary forces in countries other
than their own, it is difficult to get a clear
view of the position today, even in retro-
spect. Increases in our overseas funds,
as shown by the Commonwealth Bank,
do not, for instance, tally remotely with
our export and import figures.
To take the last complete financial year
—1944-45 —it will be found that in the
12 months Australia’s London funds in-
creased by £4l million Australian. Yet
in that period it is estimated that we had
an adverse trade balance of £64.5 mil-
lion sterling (£80.6 million Australian)
including gold and specie items. Even if
we take what the statistician refers to as
“civil” figures, we find that the merchan-
dise export surplus is only £10.2 million
sterling. The trading position other than
“civil” showed an excess of imports
amounting to £73.8 million sterling,
against which may be offset Government
exports of £1.6 million. We imported
£2.4 million more of gold, etc., during the
year than we exported.
To increase our London funds by £4l
millioil Australian during a year in
which our total exports were short of our
total imports to the value of £80.6 mil-
lion Australian indicates that many of
our recorded imports have not to be paid
for even, perhaps, when regarded as
“civil” goods. A good deal of printing
paper came to Australia during the war
as lend-lease, and other goods went into
commerce rather than into munitions.
These items may be classified as “civil”
by the statistician even if they are really
lend-lease goods supplied under war-
time arrangements by the United States.
In addition to actual trade figures, Aus-
tralia’s external funds have been added
to by credits derived from products sold
to Britain but not shipped, though in
1944-45 the total wool exported was
valued at £5O million Australian. (The
clip was valued at £62 million.) Credits
have accrued from other sources; re-
cently, for instance, Australia recovered
from the British Government £27.6 mil-
lion, representing costs incurred by Aus-
tralia on behalf of the British Govern-
ment, and at the same time we paid
Britain £12.5 million for items of a re-
verse nature.
While Americans were in the Common-
wealth in force they spent large amounts.
In one year, according to an estimate
quoted by the National City Bank of
New York, they scattered a sum equal
to nearly the proceeds of a season’s wool
cheque. This seems to be an exaggera-
tion, but there is no doubt that many mil-
lions of pounds were spent by United
States servicemen in the Commonwealth,
and the money they disbursed was in the
first place converted from dollars into
Australian money. It was not part of our
reverse-lend-lease obligation to provide
U.S. soldiers with their pay ; their spend-
ing here added to our dollar reserves.
During 1943-44, when probably the
greatest number of Americans on record
were stationed in the Commonwealth, the
Commonwealth Bank’s holding of over-
seas funds rose by £63 million Australian,
whereas our adverse trade balance
totalled £97 million sterling—over £l2O
million Australian.
During the past few years Common-
wealth gold production has been of the
nature of £7 million a year. Almost none
of this was exported in the ordinary way
during the financial years 1942-45 (July-
June). But most of the proceeds were
credited to the Commonwealth Bank,
and this would appear in the holding of
gold and overseas funds, even if the
actual gold were sold to the Bank of
England but not shipped. Substantial
shipments have recently been made from
Australia and these will probably appear
“ ° r , April trade returns.
Mr. Chifiey recefttly stated that the Com-
monwealth Bank s gold holding was £lB
rmlhon m Australian money.
The comparative chaos accompanying
Australia s war-time shipping and trad-
mg activities may be partly judged from
th !u faC u th *l m which coincided
with the fall of Singapore, the Nether-
lands Indies and Burma and with the
first arrival ot U.S. forces in Australia,
the estimated unrecorded imports of the
Commonwealth totalled £l6 million ster-
Img. Australian harbors and wharves at
the time were filled with refugee ships
with refugee cargoes, and the merchan-
dismg of these cargoes was undertaken
by the Government, through the Division
of Import Procurement. Liberty ships
were bringing U.S. war cargoes to the
country at this time, too. In the same
year the estimated unrecorded exports
were valued at £lO million sterling. In
respect of all import and export figures
covering the Pacific-war period the Com-
monwealth statistician adds this footnote:
“Subject to revision, as some imports of
war materials and some goods imported
for civil consumption under United
States lend-lease and Canadian mutual aid
have not yet been included.”
On latest records, Australia’s holding
through its central bank) of gold coin
and balances abroad totals £l9B million
Australian. It is unlikely that there will
be any great hangover from lend-lease
transactions ; certainly there should be
none so far as goods supplied to us up
to Sept. 2 are concerned. We will be
debited with the price of many supplies
after Sept. 2 by the United States, and
whether there is an accumulation of such
items still to be met out of our external
balances is unknown. It is likely that
there will be Australian supplies to U.S.
forces' in the Pacific covering the same
period to be paid for, and the net debit
against our funds may not be appreciable.
Export trade and world prices are again
clearly vital matters to Australia. We
need many imported products and raw
materials, and therefore must export a
maximum of production to pay for them.
It is a bad start in our post-war search
for markets to have smacked the Dutch
in the face a‘nd for wharflaborers to
be deliberately slowing-down all shipping
activity in Australian ports. Only those
who enjoy damaging their own country’s
interests—if this is really their spiritual
home—could continue going on as mili-
tant unionists in Australia are behaving.
.
On December 31 last the public debt
G f the Commonwealth was £lB6O mil-
ifon and that of the States £904 million,
making a total of £2764 million. Of the
Commonwealth debt, £249 million is in
respect of the 1914-18 war, and £1494
million in respect of the 1939-45 conflict,
interest payable on the debt incurred in
World War n as ca i cu lated at Dec. 31,
was £36 million a year> interest actually
t 0 be paid during 1945-46 on the 1939-45
war was put at £32 . 8 million in the
Budgetj and contributions to the appro-
priate s fo k fog fond at £B.B million. The
average rate of interest payable on the
Commonwealth debt is £2 12s. 2d. per
cent including the low average payable
on TreaS ury bills. The actual growth in
the interest bi n on war indebtedness, as
t he situation stood at Dec. 31 last, is
not one of the worst economic features of
fifi s war jyfore serious are the inflation
fo a t bas occurred in the national credit
position during the war, the loading of
fo e national Budget with grossly political
expenditure, the heavy taxation which
a ims at maintaining or increasing Gov-
ernment expenditure rather than redemp-
tfon G f debt—especially the Treasury-bill
variety—and the decline in the level of
national production that has been accom-
panied by greatly increased costs,
* * * *
The bill brought in by Premier Cos-
grove to govern the timber-getting opera-
tions of Tasmanian Paper and Timber
Mills, Ltd., aims to give the co. a 30-year
right over timber lands in the counties of
Devon and Dorset. The total amount of
pulpwood to be cut in any financial year
shall not exceed 37,000 cords, and the
annual limit on milling timber is 250,000
super feet. Royalty to the -Tasmanian
Government is to be ss. a cord on pulp-
wood, 12s. 6d. a thousand on milling
timber, and 2s. a cord on firewood, of
which the co. may use 10,000 cords a
year. Minimum royalty, after four years,
shall be a total of £2OOO a year. Prin-
cipal object of the co. is the manufacture
of woodpulp, paper and cardboard. The
Government concessions will be in-
operative unless the co. has £500,000 in
hand to do the job before July 1, 1947.
The co. is sponsored by Holyman inte-
rests, some of which it will take over,
and Captain Ivan N. Holyman has fore-
cast a paid capital of £2,000,000, of which
£1,500,000 will be offered to the public,
When in operation the co. will represent
Tasmania’s third pulp and paper industry,
• * * *
Between June, 1941, and June, 1945, the
trading banks and the Commonwealth
Bank added £3OO million to their hold-
fogs of Government and municipal secu-
rities, including Treasury bills. The sav-
ings banks in the same period added about
£265 million to their holdings of Gov-
ernment paper, making a total of approxi-
mately £865 million held by all kinds of
banks at June 30 last.


Wh en Ne w Tyres
UotMT j
ASK FOR THOSE
100% AUSTRALIAN
EXTRA MILEAGE
01
ympic
TYRES
Production of
. THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS Of THE RUBBER INSUIATEP CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRAUa'^
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
m
INSULATED
CABLES
BONDS TO-DAY SAVE WANT TO-MORROW-
BUY SECURITY BONDS
ANCUS & ROBERTSON LTD
FOX WVFBYTKA
BRIEF SELECTION FROM OUR EXTENSIVE RANGE!
1. Hundreds of Things Any
Boy Can Make
“THE BOY MECHANIC” (Popular
Mechanics). The book for
your boy—for any boy. Tells
how to build boats, models,
games, craftwork. Book-
binding, toys, furniture,
photo equipment.
284 pages crammed
full of diagrams.
14/- (post (id.)
ŗ
2. Practical Building Repairs
(Illustrated)
An up-to-date practical
guide to the best methods
and materials used in the
repair, decoration and
maintenance of Build-
ings. 384 pages, 300
practical Illustrations.
13/9
(post Bd.)
k
M
M
■
3. Over 450 Easy Projects
“The Young for Boys
from 10 to 60 years. Here is a prac-
tical How-to-Make-It
book. Useful articles
L for the home furniture.
Gadgets, toys, boat
models, photo equip-
m e n t, etc. Only
simple tools needed.
224 pages, 1100 pic-
tures (Popular
Mechanics publi-
cation).
7/6 (post 6d.).
*s*6
s
4, “Fortunes in Formulas”
By Hiscox and Sloane. Contains
10,000 trade secrets, recipes and
processes for Home,
Farm and Workshop.
Over 900 pages illus-
trated. Full of money-
making ideas.
12/6
(post lOd.)
ř
5- Forty Power Tools You
Can Make
If you want an inexpensive workshop
get this amazing book.
Explains how to make 40
different machines, such
as 'lathes, drill press,
jig saw, band saw, cir-
cular saw, etc., from
pipe fittings, old car
parts, wood, etc. (A
Popular Mechanics
book). 96 pages,
hundreds of dia-
grams. 8/9 (post 6d.)
r
6. How to Make Your Car
Last Longer
“Auto Owner’s Home Ser-
vice Manual,” prepared by
the editors of Popular
Science Monthly. Here is
a whole library of vital
information and advice
in one volume that
will help you get the
most out of your car.
Tested ways to get
more miles per gal-
lon, more wear from
your tyres. 2 4 7
pages. Illustrated. 17/6 (post' lOd.)
ŕ
7. The Greatest
Encyclopaedia of Farming
Facts, methods, ideas, short cuts,
tables and practical in-
formation. The greatest
k ever packed into one
volume. O v er 1000
pages, 400 pictures.
"’A Practical Guide to
Successful Farm-
ing,” by 35 out-
standing author-
ities on all mod-
ern farming
subjects.
22/6 (Dost 1/-).
//
Wtm
8 a A.B.C.’s of Diesel Engines
Prepared by the Editorial Staff of
Popular Science Magazine. A practical
manual of Diesel engine
. theory and practice, writ-
' ten in simple non-techni-
cal language and covering
V the subject from A to
Z. 330 pages, many
diagrams, i 11 u s tra-
tions.
10/6 (post 1/-).
ŗ
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD. ORDER FORM
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the books whose numbers I have encircled.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
' (A) for which I enclose payment, ( B) charge to my account.
NAME •„
ADDRESS 84/46
Savings Banks and Inflation
Money has been flowing into Australian
savings banks at a record rate over the
past four years. And it has been rolling
. . , .
out again at a record rate the Treasury
receiving more than the total of pre-war
savings-bank deposits for expenditure on
war. Three things of outstanding econo-
mic importance are involved m this situ-
ation namely (u) the fact that the people
have largely neglected to fill war loans
direct, and the Government has required
the savings banks to subscribe depositors
money indirectly, (b) the excessive war
and post-war expenditure oi the Govern-
ment and (c) the inflationary dangers m-
herent in the expenditure of depositors
money on war wastage when a large por-
!!°n t^ieir war-time deposits aie only
idle now because ot temporary difti-
culties in spending it as desired. Credit-
expansion is indicated as the one likely
method by which large-scale repayment
of war-time s.-b. deposits couid be made.
At June 30 last year the Common-
wealth Savings Bank held £304 million
of Commonwealth Government securities,
an increase of nearly £2OO million since
1941. At the same date the Savings Bank
of South Australia had £3l million in-
vested in Commonwealth securities, £lB
million having been added to the total
in four years. The State Savings Bank
of Victoria has been a particularly big
supporter of Government borrowings
during the same period, investing £4B mil-
lion (total £79 million), and it put large
subscriptions into the Security Loan. All
the savings banks have contributed to the
Security Loan as well as to the Victory
Loan offered towards the end of last year ;
these subscriptions are additional to those
up to June 30 last. Indications are that
savings banks have been called upon to
put up more than £3OO million for the
purpose of financing Federal Govern-
ment spending since June, 1941, even
though the increase in their Consols hold-
ings may not entirely represent subscrip-
tions to new loans.
At February 28 this year total savings-
bank deposits in Australia were £645
million, compared with £244 million prior
to the outbreak of war. The increase
since war began is thus £4Ol million, or
164' p.c. During the year to February,
1945, the increase was £96 million, and
in the 12 months to February this
year £ll3 million. The number of active
accounts accounts,
5,46°,0 00 on the latest information.
9 J s ° b ™ us ULSk
trahans possess savings-bank accounts —
and {he £ ajority of Australians are ready
ders there is something worth
nding money on .
/ obvious alsoj that the greater
t of their deposits is represented by
Federal Government borrowings, and that
b M the , a proportion of their war-
time additions to deposits is represented
b war ]oans The Government has been
reluctant to supply full particulars as>to
tbe ex t en t savings banks have been called
at the last minute to fill loans that
have been public failures> though Mr.
p adden b as asked questions on the sub-
j ecb Without savings-bank support, how-
ever> every loan offered by the Federal
Government since 1941 would have been
a f adure openly as well as behind the
scenes Lack of public support has been
one startling feature of this country’s
war-time and post-war Government bor-
rowing operations.
Possibly the lack of direct public sup-
port to loan offerings left the Government
no alternative but to get, indirectly
through the savings banks, what it was
not a ble to get directly from the people
themselves. But, whatever the cause of
the huge recourse to savings-bank money
f or war-finance and reconstruction pur-
poses, the effect has been to create a situa-
tion Q f inflationary danger,
The Federal Government, after borrow-
j n g savings-bank deposits, has used them
f or war fi nance . Most of our war expen-
efiture has been waste from an economic
po int Q f view, and there is no practical
way j n pro spect by which the Govern-
ment can recoup its war outlay, even
though it taxed the population severely
dur ing the war and is still taxing it
heavily. When the people get the urge
to spend the greater part of their war-time
additions to deposits in the savings banks
a position will arise in which money
spent by the Government on war waste
may again be spent by the people—that
is, as soon as the ordinary cash reserves
of the savings banks became exhausted
and it was necessary fdr the central bank
to lend notes against the security of Gov-
eminent stock held by the savings banks.
This double spending, if it occurs—and
it seems that the people are only waiting
the opportunity of buying arrears of re-
quirements running into hundreds of mil-
lions of pounds—would put strong in-
flationary pressure on the economy, and
would add to the difficulties of those trying
to control prices. Inflation is a very grave
danger,, to the future of our whole
economic structure, and it will call for
great administrative skill in public and
private finance—so far as any finance is
“private” these days—to avoid disaster.
The refusal of the public to subscribe
adequately to Government loans has been
the apparent reason for the inflationary
possibilities behind savings-bank deposits,
If the public had supported loans to the
hilt they would now hold several hundred
millions more in war loans and that
much less on deposit in the savings banks,
They could not convert their war loans
into cash without finding another * buyer
er lender, and the net amount of spend-
ing money would not have increased so
grossly As things stand now they are
fully entitled to draw £645 million out of
the savings banks and spend it in the most
extravagant way they choose, regardless of
the extreme shortage of things on which
to spend it. Though this situation arises
from poor public support to Government
loans, it does not answer the question of
why the people refused to give this Gov-
eminent adequate assistance in its borrow-
ing operations. The answer seems to be
that the Government played politics
harder than it fought the war, and that
there is little confidence in it.
The South Australian Government is
now all set to acquire the undertaking
of The Adelaide Electric Supply Co. Its
bill provides for the acquisition of the
l / A. u • r
business on the basis of sharemarket
prices in August last actually, in the case
of the ords., pegged prices. It proposes
to pay £7,765,000 for all the shares, pref.
and ord., and to take over debentures
totalling £1,953,614, giving the undertak-
ing a capital value of £9,718,914. The
co.’s valuation is £11,718,914. The ord.
holders would get 355. a share under the
Government plan, and the seven classes
of prefs. will be bought at varying prices,
The S.A. Auditor-General makes the
point that, under the Government scheme,
the pref. shareholders will get £1,115,000
more than if repaid in terms of the co.’s
articles of association. This simply arises
through the Government exercising its
own judgment over the rights of share-
holders inter se, and not through any act
°E Treasury generosity. The bill pro-
poses that the prefs. be bought out at
market value, whereas, under the articles,
they could be repaid at par in six classes
out or seven. London, where the co. was
originally formed, and where much of
the capital has since been placed, has
raised protests against the acquisition pro-
posals, and there are suggestions in Add-
aide that, with acquisition assured, it
would be the right thing for Premier Play-
ford to make a concession on the point
of compensation and submit the matter
to arbitration. There is no guarantee, in
general, that the State will be any better
off under an Electricity .Trust than in
dealing with private enterprise, but the
Government has its ambitions. It wants
to reticulate power to areas that are com-
mercially unpayable without what
amounts to Government subsidy.
* erud „ e a „ a * nsf the*nresent
f the*
V not n getting us nearly as
far in any direct ion as the expenditure
of it should. While the burden is great
upon all those who pay their just
clues there is not enough result to
?•>»« £<* “ *ll. What hurts most
15 the , extravagant expenditure of tax-
payers money on all manner of vote-
chiflg BtuntSj especially stunts that in
nQ way j ncrease t b e production of the
country or benefit the productive mdi-
vidual. Heavy taxation that encourages
idiotic departmental and Governmental
waste must eventually bring an angry
public reaction.


SOME NOTABLE BOOKS
MASTERS OF RUSSIAN MUSIC. Biographi-
cal studies of the great Russian composers.
A standard work. 16/6 (post. 9d.).
ARISTOPHANES. The Eleven Comedies. The
translation unabridged is a beautiful and
accurate one. Two volumes in one. 882
pages. 21/- (post. 1/-).
HOME BOOK OF THE OPERA. The outline
and analysis of nearly 300' operas, with bio-
graphical studies of their composers. Illus-
trated. 21/- (post. 1/-).
ORPHEUS —A HISTORY OF RELIGIONS.
The story of man’s beliefs and taboos by. a
scholar of world renown, Solomon Keinach.
Illustrated. 18/6 (post. 6d.).
DECORATING YOUR HOME. A useful guide
to interior decoration, with numerous illus-
trations, by K. P. Parker. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
OUT OF THE PAST. The bypaths of Aus-
tralian history, by ,T. H. M. Abbott. As a
historian all his facts can be relied upon.
Special offer, 6/- for T/- (post. 3d.)
A HISTORY OF THE JEWISH PEOPLE.
The outstanding one volume authentic history,
by Margolis and Marx. 844 pages, with maps
in color, 18/6 (post, l/-).
THE MALE HORMONE, by Paul de Kruif. A
new gleam of hope'for prolonging man’s prime
of life. 14/- (post. 4d.),
THE WONDER BOOK OF TRAVELLERS’
TALES, by H. ,C. Adams. Ancient and modern
travellers, strange customs, man-monsters,
strange beasts,, birds,: fishes, reptiles, Insects
and plants. 18/6 (post. 9d.).
THE OLD CHINA .BOOK. A useful handbook
of English porcelain and pottery, with 150
beautiful photographs. 18/6 (post 6d.).
TWO OUTSTANDING GARDENING BOOKS.
THE COMPLETE BOOK OF GARDENING
MAGIC,, by R. E. Biles. Large handsome
volume, with beautiful colored plates and
numerous other • illustrations and designs.
Expert gardening experience, completely in-
dexed to help you find exactly the information
you want right away. 35/- (post. 10d.).
GARDEN planning and BUILDING, by
Orloff and Raymore, Landscape Architects.
Here is the ideal book for anyone who wants
his garden expertly planned,. but who also
wants the satisfaction of doing It himself.
With 55 illustrations. 19/3 (post. 6d.).
& ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO NORMAN . WILLIAM AGAR:—TAKE NOTICE
that Clarice' Agar has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4249 of 1945 on the grounds,of desertion without
just cause or. excuse for three years and upwards If
you want to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Tenth day of June 1946 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from Messrs.
A. J. McLachlan, Hoare & 06., Solicitors, 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney.—'(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO LINDA EILEEN REYNOLDS.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD JOHN REYNOLDS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 851 of 1946 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 18th June 1946 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
MAURICE JAMES McGRATH Solicitor 56 Hunter
Street Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
OIL PAINTINGS
WATERCOLOURS
SCULPTURES—PRINTS
MORLEV & TORDA invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building,
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Telephone: MA5805.
We represent the leading Australian Artists of
all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for
your home.
No gift is more acceptable and dignified than a
Work of Art.
Prices from 5 Gns. to 200 Gns.
Limited number of imported prints available
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to
5,-30 p.m. Saturday 9.30 a.m. to I p.m.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The moist weather which had prevailed
through the week in Sydney having cleared,
over 60,000 turned up for the first day of the
A.J.C. Autumn round. Though safe, the track
was very heavy, but results favored punters
much more than might have been expected.
Two favorites and three second favorites were
successful, and, while two odds-on chances
went down, that type of betting is not greatly
indulged in by small bettors.
A field of 21 lined up for the Doncaster, the
betting indicating a very open race, with the
Victorian three-year-old Royal Gem favorite
at 9 to 2. With every horse misbehaving the
starter had his hands full, and finally got them
away 11 minutes late. Native Son soon hit
the front and made the running to the home
turn, Abbeville meanwhile going very nicely
held in behind the first few, with Sajakeda also
handy. Below the distance Abbeville took
charge, while, well back in the field, Blue
Legend (J. Duncan) commenced a long run.
Inside the distance Blue Legend’s run had car-
ried him to the front, and as they passed the
post he was three lengths ahead of Abbeville,
with Sajakeda a further two lengths back.
The last three-year-old to win the Doncaster
was Jacko in 1932, and he carried 6.10, includ-
ing 31b. overweight: Blue Legend had 7.5.
Glancing back through the history of 80
previous Doncaster Handicaps we see that 16
were won by three-year-olds. Of those, 13 car-
ried less than Bst., including half a dozen with
less than 7st. So what a wonderful effort was
Valicare’s win in 1926 when, with 8.9, she car-
ried 31b. over w.f.a. for a filly. And, by the
same token, what a lot was asked this year of
Royal Gem, who with 8.11 had the same rela-
tive weight as Valicare—3lb. over w.f.a. In
addition, he was drawn with only one outside
him at the barrier, and the track was so heavy
that Blue Legend took 1.40 for the mile, as
compared with Mildura’s race record of 1.355.
By the Metropolitan winner Waikare from
Delarosa, Blue Legend is a diminutive colt,
quite the smallest horse in the field this year.
He is raced by Mrs. H. Field, who thus be-
comes the first woman-owner to have her colors
carried to success in a Doncaster.
- The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes was worth
£3090 to the winner, a shade better than the
£2968 collected on- behalf of Blue Legend.
Ranging alphabetically from Actor to Tudor
King, 73 sires were nominated, but only 10
were represented in the final field of 12 two-
year-olds, Titan having the strongest hand with
three starters. Chaperone was an odds-on
favorite, but the Le Grand Due colt Flying
Duke, though heavily backed and beaten at two
previous starts, again found substantial support,
his price shortening from 12 to 1 to fives.
Munro conserved Flying Duke for a final dash
down the straight, which proved successful.
Vigaro (Fresco-Figurine) was the one he had
to run down; Euryalus (Titan-Buzz Wing)
finished third.
Collapsing completely after leading for a
time, Chaperone finished an inexplicably bad
last. Maurice McCarten prepared Flying Duke,
and he should know something of the require-
ments of the race: he rode no fewer than six
of its past winners. Flying Duke, is .owned
by P. Miller, who also collects £l5O as nomi-
nator of the winner’s sire.
The A.J.C. St. Leger called for a bit of
back-peddling on the part of those who claimed
that Gay Lad had won the V.R.C. St. Leger
purely thanks to Munro’s cunning riding tac-
tics. For the A.J.C. classic Munro was sur-
prisingly displaced by Breasley, and Gay Lad
again made very short work of Don Pedro and
a few others. In fact, Don Pedro missed filling
a place, Sydney representatives Chaytor and
Monmouth landing. the minor money, with
margins of four lengths and three lengths be-
tween the placegetters. Gay Lad won . easing
up, and in view of the state of the track the
time for the 14 furlongs, 3.5*, was not bad.
The Randwick record for the, distance is Young
Crusader’s 2.55, but only two of over 100 St.
Leger winners have bettered three minutes.
Wining the two St. Legers was a by no
means uncommon feat in pre-war days, but
Gay Lad is nevertheless in distinguished com-
pany ; Reading, Allunga, Limarch, Veilmond
and Phar Lap are among those who have scored
the double within the past 20 years.
When Bernborough beat Flight' at Randwick,
Russia was third, 10 lengths away, with Craigie
still further back. So with Russia, Craigie and
Silver Link her only .opponents in the Autumn
Stakes (12 furlongs) Flight seemed the biggest
certainty imaginable, but again she went down
fighting, this time to Craigie in a finish every
bit as exciting as the race with Bernborough.
She (tried, as usual, to lead all the way, but,
never established a really substantial lead, and
Craigie was able to join her and battle it out
over the last furlong. The huge-hearted mare
came again and again, but Craigie had the
stride on her at the post and won by a half-
head, with Russia third a long way back.
Breasley gave his Sydney admirers a good
start on the day by landing the winners of
both divisions pf the seven-furlongs Vaucluse
Handicap. In the first division The Gaekwar
finally fulfilled the promise he has always shown
by downing Oberon and Royal Janette. Then
in the second division Strathdarr carried his
9.7 rather too comfortably for Constable and
Magic Wand. Lady Marie started a warm
favorite for the last race, the City Handicap
(10 furlongs), and beat Open Air and Royal
Peer very easily.
At the continued A.J.C. meeting on Monday
Bernborough, as expected, won as he liked in
the All Aged Stakes from Modulation, with
the other two, Accession and Don Pedro, a
dead-heat for third. In the Sydney
Cup it was Cordale a neck to Swan River, with
Russia third. Cordale came with a late run.
* * * He
With fairly big fields of mostly moderate
performers punters had the job ahead of them
picking the winners at Mentdne on Saturday,
and they came off a distant second-best. The
most solidly-suppqrted winner was the Green-
wich gelding Noble Prince, and . his was the
“Here's your horse, and I Want my money back!”
day’s outstanding performance. Carrying 9.7,
he made his record three wins in four starts
by nicely defeating Geronimo and Gay Hua
in the seven-furlongs Exeter Handicap for three-
year-olds.
• • • • • •
The only other favorite to score was the
six-year-old Valiant Chief gelding General Cun-
ningham (3 to 1) in the Hurdle, and he gave his
backers enough frights to last them for ever.
He led all the way, but he hit so many hurdles
that it seemed only by sheer oversight _ that he
missed any. It was, more than anything else,
a game bit of riding by R. Hall, who kept the
risky fellow going fast at ’em as if he was a
Winterset. Halga, next in the betting, jumped
a little, though only a little, better, but was
still able to finish five lengths ahead of Wan-
garatta (third).
The lightly-weighted Canterbury Handicap
for two-year-olds—weights ranging from 7.11
down to 7.2—went to the smallest of the
starters, the pony Fly Beam (Solar B'ear-
Numenia), who started at 15 to 1 and defeated
a hot favorite, Leading Role, with the also-
solidly-supported Dhoti’s Star third.
The real Tot set in, however, with the six-
fuflongs sprint, the Winchester Handicap, won
by Regeen (20 to 1) from Naval Revue and
High Play. Then 10-year-old Contact (25 to 1)
accounted for Sir Locket and Phillip in the
Ascot Easter Cup, with the hot favorite Val-
curl among the others. Next the four-year-
old Manitoba gelding Sir Mana (also 25 to 1)
got there narrowly from Jean Ercil and Henty
(favorite) in the first division of the mile
Scarborough Handicap, and after that Dross
(15 to 1) downed Bonny , Bob and Lord Cavil
(favorite) in the 13-fiirlongs Bristol Handicap.
To wind the day up, Thor, defeating Savona
and Voltaire in the Scarborough second division,
was only at sixes, but four others were pre-
ferred to him in the betting.
* * * *
In Melbourne on Monday that great three-
year-old Attley carried on his winning sequence
by taking the J. J. Liston Stakes. In the
W. R. C. Easter Cup A. Cooper on Maniototo
went to the front and led all the way to win
from Sir Locket and Phillip.
* * * *
It was a great day for the Irish at the Eng-
lish Grand National. All three place-getters
—Lovely Cottage, Jack Finlay and Prince
Regent—were Irish-bred, though first and second
were trained in England. Lovely Cottage is a
nine-year-old gelding by Cottage-The Nun 111.
Incidentally, the tote “daily double” —Lovely
Cottage and Minster, winner of the Earl of
Sefton’s Plate-—returned £lOB9 15s. on each of
the eight tickets taken out.
* * * *
America’s grand old horse Man o’ War is
still on deck, now rising 30 years old. His
visitors’ book gets something like 50,000 names
added to it every year. All sorts of notable
people are in it, among them Lord Halifax.
Another good one with plenty of years on
him there is Sir Galahad HI, now over 26
years old. Sir Galahad 111 has been three times
America’s leading sire, and his sons and
daughters have won over three million dollars,
which is more than has ever been won by the
get' of any other sire.
* * * *
American trainers are trying to get schools
fof jockeys set up in various parts of the
country. They point to the success achieved
by the one at Detroit. It has cost something
like 30,000 dollars, but has turned out over a
dozen capable jockeys in the past couple of
years, which is considered good value. To
help the school along Detroit puts on numerous
races exclusively for novice riders and permits
them to win five such races before being de-
clared apprentices. After that they get a 101 b.
allowance till they have ridden 40 winners.
* # * *
Horseracing continues to boom on an enor-
mous scale in America, and, naturally, breed-
ing is getting into bigger and bigger figures.
Counting in Canada and Mexico, it is expected
that over 6000 foals will be this year’s crop,
about half of them foaled in Kentucky. One
of the best of U.S. sports writers, Joe H.
Palmer, reckons that anybody trying to buy the
Kentucky crop with 15,000,000 dollars would
probably run out of money. A curiosity of U.S.
breeding is that year after year about 51 fillies
are foaled to every 49 colts, whereas in Eng-
land the figures are reversed,
* * * *
Carlton has won its first V.C. A. pennant
and its second successive premiership, and
its Seconds also took the premiership.
K. Meuleman (Essendon) averaged 108.28
for 758 runs. Only W. H. Ponsford (779,
average 111.28) ever did better.
• * * *
Six of the 12 Vic. League teams opened
the season on Saturday, the other six
playing as this went to the printer. With
Richmond-Fitzroy and Footscray-Essen-
don the crowds had an open choice for
match-of-the-day, though 10,000 turned
up to see Melbourne put Geelong through
the hoop by 20.17 to 12.19. Over 30,000
got their money’s worth at Fitzroy, where
the locals staged a flying last quarter,
but couldn’t quite make it; Richmond
12.15, ’Roy 12.11. At West Footscray
about 18,000 saw the Tricolors stage then
typical early burst. They led to half-way
were outplayed in the third quarter b>
Essendon, and then came again to pre-
vail, 15.10 to 14.14, in a finish that stirrec
even the umpire. ,
* * * •
In Sydney, Rugby Union also got ofl
to a piecemeal start, Randwick downing
Drummoyne 26-10, and Northern Suburbs
lasting long enough to beat Parramatta
27-24 after having a big lead early,
All ten Rugby Union teams are greatl>
strengthened tor the season ahead by ex-
servicemen players, Manly having no
fewer than 40 out of 45 of them in its
first three grade teams.
* * * ♦
The official Australian tennis ranking
list places them; Bromwich, Pails, Quist,
Brown, Hopman, Crawford, Brodie,
Harper, Barnes, with Sedgman and M.
Bonner equal 10th. The ladies are
ranked: Mrs. Bolton, Mrs. Hopman,
Mrs. Long, Miss Fitch, Mrs. Wilson, Miss
Whittaker, Miss Hattersley, Miss Jones,
Miss Hartigan and Miss Toomey with
Mrs. Thiele equal 10th.
There is little between the last four or
five in the men’s list, and Harper, ranked
No. 8, provides a line to the high standard
of tennis in Australia. At present in
England, Harper played in the Surrey
Hardcourt Championships and was evi-
dently the outstanding player at the
tournament. In some of the earlier
rounds he eliminated opposition in
ajpsurdly easy fashion, winning matches
6.0, 6.0 in about as few minutes as a
couple of sets could possibly be played.
In the final he met the leading Chinese
Davis Cup player, Kho Sin Kie, and,
after dropping the first set 4.6, took the
next couple 6.2, 6.2. Kho Sin Kie has
twice won the British Hardcourt title.
Harper almost swept the pool. Part-
nered by Worboys, he won the men’s
doubles in straight sets 6.1, 7.5, and with
Miss Hilton reached the final of the
mixed doubles, being beaten 6.2, 1.6, 6.2
by R. C. Nicholl and Mrs. Bostock.
* * * *
S.A. Bowls Association has taken over
officially the Veterans’ Day, run hitherto
by old cricketer Rundle, now head of the
State Savings Bank. The age limit had
to be 78, there being so many claimants.
The average age of the 112 was 82, and
four of them were over 90. Among them
were Cowan and Anstey, former Cabinet
Ministers; Dyer, S.A. cricketer in Dar-
ling’s time ; Jack Woods, footballer 60
years back ; and Torr, who owned the
Caulfield Cup winner of 1923.
« * * *
Lightweight Jimmy Hill, of Melbourne,
is no relation to the former pug of that
name, but the elder Jimmy—still a bright
circumstance in the sporting life of
Sydney—has no cause to be ashamed of
the lad. With Les Fuller, Jimmy turned
on a thrilling contest at the Sydney
Stadium. Fuller floored Hill with a left
to the chin in the first round, but Hill
was on his feet before a count could be
commenced, and he shot so many lefts
to Fuller’s face and body that he was
leading on points at the end of the ninth.
Fighting fiercely in the three final rpunds,
Fuller made up the leeway and the deci-
sion—a draw —was correct. Properly
matched, Hill will go far in the game.
* * * *
“Burnt out” was the judgment of old-
timers on the former featherweight cham-
pion Tommy Chapman when he failed
dismally against Ted Sprouster at Leich-
hardt. Winning all 12 rounds, Sprouster
was awarded a one-sided decision. Chap-
man could neither land punches nor get
away from Sprouster’s, but no memory
of his past prowess stirred the crowd,
which hooted him savagely.


Valet Blades
now more easilq
obtainable......
You, perhaps, were one of those unfortunates
who had to give up "Valet” shaving when
Valet Blades became scarce.
Valet Blades are now back again in reason-
able quantities.
Get out the old Valet ... put in a brand
•new blade and lather up for the best shave
you’ve had in ypars.
Valet
AUTOSTROP RAZOR BLADES
ve/it*
m
i
9
m
m
i
Orusaber.
mm
■
m
m
vs
m
w
%
> 1
m
m
m
fa
m
n
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
xh*W&.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Beat!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“A Persian carpet, a mere nine feet by six.
feet, has just been sold for £4OO, and the only
explanation I can find is that the buyer thought
it could fly.”— "Sun.”
In any case, the buyer must be sitting
on a pretty pile.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She had produced the sword to protect her-
self when a tenant shook his fist at her.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And thus she foiled the villain.
“Girls Dance in Sailors’ Clothes.” — "Sun.”
They were at a loose end.
4* + 4*
“Wanted, football, Rugby or Soccer, com-
plete with blader.” —Suburban paper.
To mow down the opposing side?
4* 4* 4* *l*
“The modern human being is a slave of
time.” — Woman’s paper.
And his master keeps ticking him off.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Imagine St. George setting forth to slay
the dragon with a sundial strapped to his wrist
and a time-schedule to keep.”— Woman’s paper.
Why, he’d be worn to a shadow!
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Can any reader tell me a cure for loquacious
public phoneites?”
—"Daily Telegraph *’ correspondent.
They should be cut off in their prime.
& •& 4* 4*
“For 10 years I had an affair with a man
I thought I loved. Now I realise I was only
infatuated with him.”— Letter to Dorothy Dix.
Why not give him a fair trial, dearie?
“These days especially in the upper
stratum of society,.. .the perambulator is not
unusually merely the blunderhfus.”
—"Doctor Who Tells.”
With father also in the gun.
•J*
“Writing for publication is no birthday-
party.”—Literary article.
With beginners it’s often a case of
many unhappy returns.
4* 4* *l* 4*
“The ball snickoed Brown’s pads.”
— "Courier-Mail.”
Later, it snickoed Barnes’s bat and
pad and whackoed the stumps.
“ Remember , this rocket's got an atomic Warhead, so be extra careful
how y ’ land.”
“Male stenographer desires position.’
If married, he should be an asset to
any office, being used to taking dictation,
•b 4* 4* 4*
“A bishop polished his own floors.”
—“Sunday Sun ”
And found the job a crook one,
4* 4* + 4 1
“Old lathes rolled out the barrels.” — "Sun.
But they were good enough for new
stocks.
“Every stray cat which intrudes upon his
property is promptly dispatched and laid peace-
fully to rest in a spot where it is designed
to plant another fruit tree.”
—Bombala ( N.S.W .) "Times."
Or perhaps a pussy-willow?
Blood Sports.
“A man found guilty of shooting his wife
‘in mistake for game’ was ordered to pay $5OO
compensation to her parents.”
Down in the forest something stirred ,,.
Although the huntsman glimpsed it
barely
He drew a bead and, undeterred,
He shot the lurking menace squarely.
Well, since a man, however rarely,
Will term his wife his "little bird,”
No one, you’d say, could reckon fairly
In making game of her he erred.
And yet, in the location where
A sporting bloke is wont to air
The fruits of resolutely tracking
The jungle monarch to his lair,
Among the heads you’d almost swear
At least one trophy would be lacking.
P.M. LUSK.
Incapacity.
“When the cat burglar was at last caught,
he completely lost control of himself and burst
into tears.” —Daily paper.
With most consummate skill,
He stole both goods and pelf ,
But when at last
They held him fast,
. He couldn’t steel himself.
NAT.
Appropriate.
A race-mare with another name
Should now be called "Queen Anne”
instead;
For all my sporting cobbers claim
She’s long been well and truly dead.
F.M.
Multiplication.
Once more, despite our earnest pleas,
despite
Our prayers, and our entreaties day and
night.
Our cat, neglecting hunt of rat or mouse.
Has had five kittens underneath the
house.
I’d like to think when each becomes a cat
It will assist in hunting mouse or rat.
But ah ! I take a most depressing view —
For each of these may have five kittens,
too!
T.W. NATHAN.
Battle of the Bulge.
“Many women have found that the arm they
naturally use for carrying parcels has, because
of lack of deliveries during the war and since,
become bigger.”— "Sun” correspondent.
Of course, I had heard the wife, who
is a natural left-hander, mention some-
thing about the “simply terrific” loads of
kitchen fodder she had to lug home every
day from the shopping centre, but it regis-
tered only dimly. After all, women love
to speak in superlatives, so I assumed it
to be just another overstatement. Besides,
Frangipani invariably raised the subject
while she was dishing up the dinner,
which is a time when the masculine
stomach is in no mood to allow of the
mind’s digesting anything not directly
connected with such matters as gravy and
baked potatoes.
I didn’t even wake up, except literally,
when early one morning I came up fight-
ing strongly out of the blankets to save
myself from suffocating. I thought at
first it was a nightmare and I was
battling to hurl off a telegraph pole that
had fallen across my Adam’s apple. Actu-
ally it turned out to be Frangipani’s left
arm I was throwing off my windpipe,
where she had carelessly parked it when
she turned over in her sleep.
Then one day I happened to come in
as she was letting out the left sleeve of
each of her 14 dresses, and I was co-opted
to assist by measuring the circumference
of her upper arm. Just as I was getting
it she flexed her muscle, snapping the
tape measure, I got a distinct shock then
to see a set of biceps that would have
made those possessed by the late Mr.
Hackenschmidt appear by comparison
like a pimple on a canary’s fetlock. „
To remedy Frangipani’s growing lop-
sidedness—her non-carrying right arm
was still of the same pipelike appearance
and blancmange softness as when I mar-
ried her—l got her using it to wind up the
car engine on cold mornings and to push
the mower in foot-high paspalum, as well
as the heavy garden roller. This, com-
bined with the exercise I ordered of pull-
ing herself around the house guttering a
dozen times each morning by her right
hand eventually made the biceps of her
right arm hard enough to crack walnuts
on. Unfortunately I persevered with this
a little too long, resulting in the muscles
becoming almost twice as big as those of
her parcel-carrying arm.
To even it up again and save more
dress alterations I advised her to carry all
the groceries home, although deliveries
had recommenced, as well as such garden
items as a bag of blood and bone, super.,
garden stakes, etc.
The efficacy of this treatment was-made
apparent when one day Frangipani, who
must have been in a skittish mood, gave
me a hug with her left arm as I bestowed
on her the usual pre-bus-rush peck. It
broke three of my ribs,
I despaired then of evening up her
muscle balance, there unfortunately be-
ing no demand for lady wheatlumpers or
lead-ingot stackers. Then out of the
blue came the beer strike. Frangipani
got a job as barmaid for the B-day re-
opening of the pubs. Two days after
operating on the beer pump her right arm
biceps looked like a fully-inflated foot-
ball, and were as hard. Her muscles
were now fairly even, both arms being
characterised by veins which stood out
like whipcords.
But I found then that I had created a
feminine Frankenstein. My days of
ordering were over. Under the shadow
of threatening bulging triceps and rippling
biceps I do my household chores.
Does anyone know a quick way to un-
muscle women?
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lub”: The new schoolie who came
to board at Judd’s was a bright young
thing new to the bush; and she made the
mistake of speaking in somewhat scath-
ing terms to Alec, the dopey-looking
hand, on the night of her arrival. AleC
took it with a sheepish grin, and con-
tinued treating her with timid advice. A
couple of weeks later Judd, puzzled by
the girl taking a roundabout walk to the
school, decided to broach the subject.
“Why don’t y’ cut through the ram
paddick?” he asked, “That’d save
y’ half a mile each way.” “Ye-es,
it would be a help, Mr. Judd,” she
said. “But do you think it safe? Alec
told me if that new ram of yours got
loose he’d batter me to pieces.” Where-
upon Judd assured her solemnly it was
perfectly safe, even if the hydraulic ram
did slip its cable.
* * * *
“E. 2”: “I’m after dingoes in the back
country behind Murphy’s an’ me own
place,” said Dan. “The council is payin’
two quid a skin, an’ I have t’ keep
a sharp watch on Murphy liftin’ me
catch. I had a dead horse baited with
strychnine, an’ f’r good measure I set four
dogtraps close in. Well, a big crossbred
dawg got caught in one trap, jumped the
carcass an’ got into another. Murphy
comes along an’, tryin’t’ stiffen the dawg,
gits his great hoof into a trap, does a
hop an’ a jump an’ lands his other beetle-
crusher in the fourth. When I git there
the pair of ’em are spreadeagled on the
dead horse, with their heads about a foot
apart glarin’ at each other. ‘By cripes,
Dan,’ Murph. ses when I set him free, ‘y’
oughter let me have that skin after all the
trouble I had gittin’ it f’r y’.’ ”
“Brian Bureau”; Duck-shooting was
Dagger Datton’s hobby and his constant
theme, so during a recent visit to his place
I tried to steer the conversation away
from his pet subject by remarking that
his black retriever was a fine dog.
“Yair!” he agreed. “The last time I was
out duck-shootin’ ” “He seems a
bit tender about the feet, though,” I
interrupted, “and stiff about the neck.”
“That’s wot I’m tryin’ to explain,” con-
tinued Dagger doggedly, “Y’ see,
Nigger’s a grand gun dawg, but funny
in one thing; he won’t fetch any more
ducks outer the water than shots’re fired.
If I bring down five birds, say, with a
single shot, he’ll on’y fetch me one, so
I’ve got t’ fire four more cartridges to get
the rest, unless I’ve got crackers, which
do just as well. The other day, after
bringin’ down four ducks, instead of
lettin’ orf on’y three' crackers I accer-
dent’ly exploded a string of 25. Nigger
retrieved the four birds, then disappeared.
While waitin’ for him to return I dropped
orf to sleep among the reeds. When I
woke that dawg was lyin’ flat out beside
a big heap of ducks. Y’ see, he’d kept
on raidin’ the nearest poultry-run till
he’d made up the right tally.”
“T.P.”; Tallangatta (abo. for “the
meeting of the waters”), under sentence
of death by drowning when the wall of
the Hume Dam is heightened, has been
temporarily reprieved, pending inspection
of selected towns in U.S.A., where
doomed areas have been saved by the
erection of levees. Residents boast that
even if the rich valley is turned into
another Lake Superior the extensive
sports ground will remain untouched. In
the dim past someone in Melbourne laid
out the future town in blueprint. On it
allowance was made for a spacious re-
serve on which generations yet unborn
could hold race meetings or kick foot-
balls. It is on the most straight-up-and-
down slope, halfway to the summit of
the Alpine Range, which encircles the
beautiful old town,
• * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Rambling up the gorge
that leads to Minnamurra Falls, South
Coast (N.S.W.), I found myself wonder-
ing why this beauty spot is not better
known. Rarely have I seen maidenhair
fern of such perfection in such profusion.
Staghorns grow from tree-trunks 20
to 40 feet from the ground. The occa-
sional tree-fern seems to have been placed
by a matchless landscape gardener—
always in a position that shows it
to the greatest advantage. Lawyer-
vines give a tropical-jungle effect,
dropping from the massive, gnarled
Moreton Bay figs and lofty cedars
in ropes longer than 50ft. One natural
swing, falling in a loop fully 40ft. from
one immense fig and 30ft. from another,
is no more than l£in. in diameter, yet
“Told him he should never look a gift horse in the mouth!”
will bear the weight of a 14st. man.
Even the harsh notes of leather-heads in
the trees seem melodious when blended
with the gurgle of fast-running water on
rounded stones. But the “channel of
coolness” where the waters shoot over
the sheer chasm and float down like a
lacy veil to the pool below held me en-
tranced. And deep down in the clear,
cool water, a hiding place for three
gudgeon-like fish and making a back-
ground for an eel some 2ft. long, a stag-
horn grows, its base obviously attached
to the rock bottom. I would never have
believed that such a plant could live 10
or more feet under water.
* * * *
“Simon”: On this page we’ve read of
fish-spearers, fish-trappers and fish-
shooters, but no one has described a con-
trivance such as I saw at Cronulla (Syd-
ney). Two men in a boat were making
such a haul that I thought of the Galilee
fishermen whose performance has kept
them before the public for two thousand
years. My fishermen were operating with
a sort of inverted umbrella frame. About
half-way up the handle a piece of meat
was tied. Inside the “ ’brella” was fitted
all manner of sharp arrow-headed gad-
gets on which the fish were impaled when
the fishers suddenly hauled up. It was
noticed that leather)ackets mostly con-
stituted the catch, but it is likely that
everything would be fish that came to
that net.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Yeast Bun Paddy, the
station cook, got his name from the ex-
cellence of the buns he turned out, having
acquired some mysterious touch either in
mixing or baking that put his product
far ahead of that produced by anyone
else. But the time came when Paddy
grew aware of his reputation and began
to swell with pride, so that whenever he
found himself in company in that part of
Riverina he would lead the talk round to
buns and start to skite. This, of course,
earned him another reputation which re-
sulted in his being avoided in pubs and
billiard-rooms or being told to pipe down.
On the station we copped the rebound,
for we had to face him at every meal-
time, and the accumulated skite swamped
us from the soup to the nuts. Came
Easter, and Pocket-knife injudiciously
asked Paddy if we were to have hotcross
buns. For a week we heard of nothing
else. The hands wore troubled looks,
and there was a penalty awaiting the man
who even used words beginning with B.
On Good Friday morning we assembled
in the galley, morosely ate our porridge
and fish-cakes and, enduring Paddy’s
torrent of skite about the epicurean
wonder about to be laid before us,
watched him place a tray of smoking hot-
cross buns on the table. Then Big Flem-
ing swept everything aside, made a dia-
gram on the table with a hunk of red
raddle, gravely placed a bun upside down
on one square, placet! another right-side
up on another square and said to Little
Curl “Well, your move.” The rest of us
crowded aound as the two alternately
placed the buns, upside down and right-
side up ; then Paddy fell in. “Hey, what
y’ doin’?” he demanded. “Playin’ norts
an’ crorsses,” snapped 8.F., slapping
another bun down. “This is better’n
drawin’ flamin’ lines all over the place,”
Patrick was never the same man again. 1
* * * *
“Rooster”: I recall the words of an
old abo, I met in the Hopkins country.
The coolibahs were covered with manna
at the time, so that they had the appear-
ance of being sugar-coated. “Bimeby
mine tinkit him drought pfeller be bad,”
he said, shaking his shrivelled head
ominously. “It is Byamee who sent the
manna. Allsame children cry out for
honey. There is none, except where
Byamee walks alone. No man dare
touch the trees where Byamee dwells. So
the Great Pfeller send us manna for big
droughts.” The story has a parallel in
the Biblical account of the sending of
manna to the Israelites in the desert. The
manna on our eucalypts is formed by a
species of scale insect ( Psyllids ) which im-
bibes the honeylike sap from the leaves
and deposits the protective lerp scales, in
appearance like lump sugar and resembl-
ing it in taste. It’s regarded somewhat as
a delicate sweet by the bush children.
Whether there is anything in the legend
or not, the fact remains that in drought
years the scale insects increase vastly in
numbers. A natural form of the manna
is exuded from the leaves and small stems
of some species of eucalypts. This,
doubtless, is the manna-gum to which
“Dronestung” (B. 3/4/’46) refers. But,
to the aborigine, the term conveys the
scaly form.
* £ $ 4
“Mat’s Mate”; It had been a hard,
lonely, cold and hungry .track, and as we
topped a rise in the weak light of a wintry
sundown we sighted a small homestead.
“Your turn,” said Mat. “I’ll get a fire
goin’ while y’ give it the works.” All the
woman at the house could manage was
two mutton chops, a potato and a hunk
of bread. “Well, it ain’t much,” Mat
said, “but we’ll have t’ make it do.” He
popped the spud in the coals, skewered
the chops on a forked stick and began to
grill ’em. To a couple of hungry men on
a cold night there is no aroma quite so
enchanting as that of grilling chops, and
Mat, remarking on this, became almost
lyrical about it as I made the tea and laid
out the tools. He was squatting there,
dreamily enlarging on the theme, when I
suddenly pushed him aside and grabbed
the stick. On the end of it were two
charred remnants. “Gripes,” said Mat
abashed, “I was gettin’ such a good feed
off the smell of ’em that I couldn’t take
’em off the fire. Sorry, mate.” “Yair?”
I snarled. “Well, you digest y’r ruddy
feed while I’m havin’ these bits o’ char-
coal. You’ve had twice as much as me
already.” It was one time when he didn’t
think he was justified in arguing.
* * * *
“Herbie”: “Ain’t many remittance .men
kickin’ round these times,” commented
Joe. “Last one I struck was durin’ the
big manpower comb-out; he came to
Upthe Creek. Old Job Haystack’s missus
saw a way out of her doin’ the farm
sekketry work, so this cove, who called
himself Gerry, was put on. He was
generally useful, and, besides his family’s
remembrance and a wood-and-water-
joey’s wages, he picked up a handy few
ten bobs fillin’ in them want-t’-know-all
forms them burrycratic blokes was scat-
terin’ about the country. Per ten months
Gerry’d act the gentleman and then he’d
blow his roll on a mop-up-everything
bender. After one o’ these washouts the
cream carter dumped him one night at the
gate, but he couldn’t locate the kitchen
door. ‘Open your hospitable portals,
Mrs. Haystack, I beg of you,’ he pleaded.
No answer. Very politely he kept on
pleading. Eventually Mrs. Job got her
feathers riled. ‘Go and sleep with the
dogs, you blithering reprobate,’ she
shrilled. ‘lt grieves me, madam,’ Gerry
replied, ‘that you should depart from
that sterling amalgam of glamor and
respectability which has characterised our
long association. I bid you good evening,
and good-bye.’ Next morning we found
Gerry and the cattle pups sleepin’ soundly
under the tank.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was messing
around with an ancient piece of
machinery he was going to fix better than
new, and as his mechanical experience
extended no further than the intricacies
of a wheelbarrow the renovation re-
sembled a Government job. Then came
the morning he arrived in with an eight-
pound chunk of rusty iron, and dropped
it on the table. “You ridin’ inter town
t’day, Sol?” he inquired. “Well, I want
y’ to take this in to ol’ George.” “Sure,”
I snorted. “In me pants pocket?” The
old coot bridled. “How can y’ git a rod
made t’ fit in it if y’ don’t take the
thing?” he challenged. “Y’ll find George
at the pub, but if y’ shout f’r him enough
y’ll git him back t’ the forge. Have t’
give him a hand though, an’ watch out
or he’ll sneak orf an’ git lorst.” My
second snort went unnoticed as Seventy-
fiver concentrated on his problem. “It’s
the length I want y’ t’ be particular
about,” he explained, weightily. “If she
ain’t erzact, she won’t work. So don’t
f’get,” he tapped the iron impressively,
“three fist an’ thumb spans with one nail
overlapping four half-smoked fags end to
end an’ a match-box, side on an’ a bit
tilted.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: At the approach to'
Greek Harry’s beach camp the air
was filled with an appetising aroma.
“What’s cooking?” I inquired. “Oh,
onlee a bit of octopus,” he re-
plied. The taste of that octopus,
flavored with an onion and just a pinch
of garlic, and thickened with slightly-
browned flour! But there was a trick
about the cooking. Octopus tentacles are
among the toughest things in organic
Nature, so before placing them in the pot
Harry macerated them by beating with
an empty bottle, a block of wood serving
as the anvil. This rendered the otherwise-
rubber-like flesh quite edible. Yes, the
sucker cups are a bit of a bother to the
fanciful diner, but, then, when eating
chicken it isn’t mandatory to swallow the
bones.
* * * *
“Propalong”: “All this blasted Com-
munism and Socialism is a ruddy insult
t’ the man who battles out on the land,”
rumbled George. “Private ownership’s
the foundation we built all this on” —he
indicated the gibbers, red sand, the acacia
flat and the patch of red fallow. “Eh?
Y’ want a loan o’ the ol’ mare? No;
y’ see, Jack Barnes’s got ’er. I borrowed
his tractor as soon as.he finished his fal-
lowin’ an’ he took the mare f’r a few odd
jobs. Y’ see, I gotta finish fallowin’ pretty
quick, because I got a loan o’ Wilson’s
: disc, an’ he’s borrowed Jim Hyland’s team
; and he wants the disc as soon as I get
i done with it. An’ look—if y’re goin’ past
i Cromby’s on the way home, would y’
ask him whether I can have the combine
, after Andrews have their turn?—ol’ Pete
[ Jackson’s got it now.” I’m still trying to
t puzzle out the local system of private
I ownership, which, by the way, works.
AT EASTER.
Life has the last word here, along
The awakened rain-washed earth.
The new saps stir, the streams run strong,
We’ve done with fire and dearth.
Blue crane and black duck all about
The billabongs and shallows
Hear bullfrogs drumming out the drought
From splashy swamps and hollows.
Swiftly the brown creek’s currents slide
Through foamoakes, ferns and wrack;
The grass on its returning tide
Bjrings the good seasons back.
Lightly the green waves sweep and sway
By paddock, crest and bend,
Over the hills and far away,
On to the sunset’s end.
Life has the last word here at least—
That river’s voice might be
The voice of an exultant priest
Giving thanks for victory.
Thin leaves like red-tongued candles sway
New sprung from branching sconces,
Where all the airs of heaven may
Make murmurous responses.
Sweet is the bright rosellas’ low
Bird-gossip on the bough;
Those two grey butcher-birds have so
Much more to boast of now.
And magpies in the morning gold
About the billabongs
Flute all day long their lovely old
Australian folksongs.
Life has the last word after all
About these western plains.
How great the miracles that fall
In the rich wake of the rains,
Where now green resurrection sweeps
Triumphant down the wide
Acres .today where April keeps
A glorious Easter-tide.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


that hair-restorer of yours — marvellous !”
“Zake”; “You don’t, call these log-
masseurs axemen, do y’?” asked the man
with the wall-eyed dog as he looked dis-
gustedly at the efforts of the sweating
contestants at the Billanharri show. “They
wouldn’t ’a’ got a job with the blokes
who swung a Kelly up around Wau-
chope when I was a kid. Take Josh Sim-
monds, for instance. He was so fast he
had to use asbestos handles —the wood
’uns burst into flame with the friction of
goin’ through the air so quick. It was
Josh who made the districk famous for its
fellin’ ‘drives.’ Got a contract once to fell
a big acreage o’ bluegum. He just went
around and put a few nicks in every tree
just where it’d do most good. Then he
went and felled the tree he’d selected to
start the nine-pin act goin’. That was
the mornin’ he got married. Cornin’
back from his honeymoon a coupla
weeks later he wondered how it could be
thunderin’ on a beautiful clear day until
he found out if was the last of his trees
failin’!”
♦ * * ♦
“Sur Cingle”: Sorry to hear “The
0.D.” (B. 20/3/’46) has had the horrors
again (where; does he get the stuff?).
Even when he’s seein’ ’em he sees ’em
crooked. Fancy perceiving a mob of
’roos and connecting the things with me
and the .22 I said I used on euros, a
rather different marsupial dingbat. And
the only Nectar Brook in the case would
seem to have been flowing in “The
O.D.’s” vicinity—our “brooks” in these
parts are noted for their large nobbly
boulders. When they do flow they run
wet mud and wire fences.
♦ * * *
“Bray Rock”: Judging from recent
proceedings in Queensland’s Parliament,
it looks as if the once-dreaded man-eating
shark is in for a bad time from shark-
eating man. Labor Minister Gair re-
vealed that grey nurse shark steaks were
readily saleable in N.S.W ; indeed
scarcity of fish supplies had increased the
sale of shark flesh for human consump-
tion in other Australian cities. He was
not sure whether the tropical man-eaters
of the Barrier Reef would prove suitable
for filleting or curing, but it seems quite
likely that they are. Wobbegong have a
good sale in Brisbane already, disguised
as rays. So have shovelnoses, but, unlike
wobbies, they really are rays. As a matter
of fact, the vast majority of ail fish-
species anywhere in Australian waters are
both edible and flavorsome. The only
poisonous kind of sufficiently attractive
appearance to tempt one to eat it is the
Chinaman fish of the Barrier Reef, and
it is poisonous only at certain seasons.
Nobody in his senses would ever want
to eat a toado.
“S’Aussie”: For abo.,place-names with
identical endings (B. *27/3/’46), don’t
forget the S.A.-N.T. endings that are
variants of -unga, meaning, roughly, place
of, or thing of. To take an example of
each of the forms in which the ending is
found, S.A. has Bumbunga, Patawolonga,
Kingoonya, Wilpena, Mantung, Milang,
Ningana, Sheringa, Echunga, Eudunda,
Ceduna, Callabonna and Callanna. A
number of words in native dialects have
the same ending as -oonga and -oona, but
I can think of no place-names in the
central State that carry those sounds.
“G’Roper”: Nullabor sounds pure
abo.; but it isn’t. The surveyor
who first gazed on that vast expanse
had had a classical education, so
he delved into his Latin :* Null
Arbor —no tree, which adequately de-
scribes it. In W.A. is a neat little town
which dates from the 1830’s—Toodyay.
Sounds pure Cockney or Yorkie or per-
haps Geordie. But it’s abo., the nearest
that W.A.’s first botanist, J. Drummond,
could get to translating the abo. pronun-
ciation into writing. Again, Oodnadatta,
the resting place of the Afghans. Pure
’Ghan, that name, eh? But it’s abo., the
name of a mulga blossom, a small bottle
brush, deliciously scented, which, after
rain, blooms luxuriantly in that part of
the desert.
* * * *
“Bo”: Tyler was visibly affected when
someone broke the news to him that his
wife had run off with Sloan, the big,
handsome railway ganger who always
boarded with the Tylers when near
their section of the line. He dashed in-
side, put on a hat and coat and, with a
wild look in his eye, dived for his battered
utility. “It ain’t no good y’ chasin’ ’em,
Jeff,” said the self-satisfied bearer of the
tidings. “Scotty and yer missus ’ve got
too long a break on y’—they caught the
1.15 out o’ Blackwattle over an hour
ago.” Tyler stopped winding up his
coughing mechanical ruin to stare in
blank amazement at the dispenser of
advice. “Who the hell’s talkin’ about
chasin’ ’em?” he snapped. “This’ll leave
me short-handed with the milkin’, won’t
it? Well, ain’t I gotta sell them
heifers at the best price before the news
gets around.”
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: It isn’t fair to draw com-
parisons between rifle shooting and
archery (B. 13/ 3/ ’46), as they work on
entirely different systems. The modern
archer has no counterpart of the back-
sight on the rifle, but he draws the string
to his nose and locks his drawing hand
firmly on his chin, always “anchoring” in
exactly the same way. This means that
the base of the arrow is always the same
distance below his eye, allowing him to
concentrate on the point of the arrow
alone. Keeping both eyes open, he selects
a “point of aim” some distance short of
the target at close ranges, just below it or
actually on it at medium ranges, and at
varying distances above it for the long
shots. If his bow tends to shoot left or
right with that particular set of arrows,
due allowance must also be made for it
when selecting the point of aim. I have
taught hundreds of people how to use
the bow, and I’d sooner teach women
than men any day, because women
do exactly what they are told, and thus
pick up the knack quite easily, whilst most
men persist in trying to squint down the
arrow shaft as if they were sighting down
a rifle barrel. Trick shooting, like split-
ting a playing card edge on, is in a class
apart; it is done by instinctive pointing
aim and is an inherent ability akin to
that of the champion at billiards.
Another point is that the arrows used in
these amazing feats are outstanding
examples of the ancient craft of the
fletcher. Made from the finest cedar,
spruce or pine, with hardwood footing
at the point and feather vanes set to hair-
breadth accuracy, each one in the set is
of exactly the same weight and has the
same degree of “spine” or stiffness in the
shaft as the rest.
♦ * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Always thought
silver gulls nested on lonely and inacces-
sible rock-bound cliffs and islets. Around
Flinders Island and on other rugged coast-
lines about Bass Strait it is so, and to
approach most seagulls’ nests in those
parts you require mountaineering ability
or a good rope. Strait men used to say
those birds built in secluded spots not so
much because of Homo sapiens but to
get away from hawks and other vermin.
Recently, however, on the landlocked
lower lake of placid Mallacoota Inlet,
in East Gippsland, I waded ashore to a
narrow sandspit island, not six inches
above high-water mark, on which the
red-legged ocean scavengers each Decem-
ber build ground nests among the sausage
weed. Remarkably enough, odd gannets
breed there, too. There are higher islands
near at hand, but, unlike the terns, the
silver gulls flying in from the steamer
tracks about Gabo never build anywhere
but on the barren, sandy islet. It is a
wonder to me that the wedgetails one sees
soaring over the lake, and fishing boats
chugging past, don’t drive the birds along
the near-by rocky ocean coast. From
Mallacoota along some 50 miles to Cape
Everard lighthouse is the loneliest strip
of coast anywhere between Brisbane and
Adelaide. It has no roads, no habitations
and only one little-visited boat harbor
at Wingan Inlet. But perhaps this lone
shore doesn’t offer breeding gulls the same
easy feeding as the lake at Mallacoota.
♦ * * *
“Thugine”: The spirit of adventure and
travel is apparently not confined to human
beings or even animals. A spider built
its web between the horns of our cow,
apparently finding the pitching and roll-
ing of its moving home no great dis-
advantage.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: What is the reason behind
the great mass migration of winged adult
grasshoppers? In this S.A. district, at
least, it can’t be connected with lack of
tucker, and mating would probably be
just as efficient on the old known breed-
ing grounds. Perhaps it is that Nature
is making sure that those grounds won’t
be exhausted of feed. Local opinion is
that the pest is not so harmful at the
flying stage. That may be so during the
day and while there is a wind, but when
the breeze drops and in the evenings the
insects' appear to settle seriously to the
trough. The general effect round here is
not so noticeable, because of the great
quantity of feed and because the ’hoppers
seem to pass over saltbush and the succu-
lent members of the genus Bassia, which
“Better get off, lady—this is as far as I go.”
is well represented by the bindi-eye and
a thicker, softer and bluer species. But
clumps of speargrass look like a counter-
jumper after a bargain sale. Judging by
the insects whose innards I’ve examined
grass is the favorite fodder. You find
the crop, a delicate sac of ridged cuticle
armed with minute pointed “teeth,” and
the muscular gizzard, with its toothlike
plates, full to bursting-point with shreds
of grass that have been lopped off by the
cutting jaws in lengths much greater than
you expect to find in such a small
The soft leaves of juicier plants
show bites, but whether because of their
protective hairs or because the grass-
hopper likes something to bite on they’re
mostly left alone.
“Rooster”: The only point I question
of “Naturala’s” termite mound (B.
3/ 4/’46) is his assumption of the termites’
“well of water 20ft. down.” The habits of
most species, particularly the milk ter-
mite, prevalent in N.S.W., northern S.A.
and W.A., reveal independence of water.
All the workers deposit the clay particles
piece by piece, cementing them together
with a salivary secretion which has its
source in the natural foods they absorb.
Some workers possess a small cavity in
the forehead from which a milky fluid
can be expelled for considerable dis-
tances ; this is used for both self-defence
and mound-building. The secretions have
the properties of liquid mortar. I’ve read
of travellers’ tales concerning their rapid
overnight building operations. Usually
they’re far from any water supply. If
you’re unlucky enough to bed down on
a colony, likely as not they’ll eat the
blankets from, under you.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Hadn’t had the new dog
long before he’d killed a fox, a snake and
offered to mop up, single-handed, a tres-
passing ’roo. Then I discovered the big
mong’s Waterloo was mice. Thinking to
cure him, I insisted on him dispatching
one of the pests that was cornered in a
chaffbin. He backed off, whinged, hid
behind me, then, forbidden to depart,
dropped his fail and wailed. Followed a
heap of coaxing, and at my insistence the
tyke rolled back his lips, and with bared
teeth snapped up a small pinch of mouse
and flung it so far it took me five minutes
locating the thing again. Then, as it
wasn’t dead, I relentlessly called Bruiser,
A caricature of abject misery, he eyed
the mouse, crept in sideways, and with
another vigorous fling sent it flying
through the air to flop with a small splash
into the dam. Eyeing his feat, the look
of unadulterated delight on old Bruiser’s
mug was so undisguised I hadn’t the heart
to see the second mouse in the chaffbin.
* * * *
“C.E.”: For years I admired Bill's
flourishing property, his improved pastures
and his efficient handling ; then labor be-
came scarce, the war intervened, and
Bill’s place slipped fast. Soon scrub
seedlings and rabbits had taken posses-
sion of several of, his outer paddocks.
With more men available, I asked him
the other day why he didn’t start in again
on the pests. His smile was cynical.
“Tried to get a man lately?” he asked.
“I’ve tried ’em all except the Mills boys,
who returned from a downcountry job
a few weeks back. Here they come now.
Listen. Hey, Snow!” he called. “Feel
like taking on a job?” The rider came
over. “S’pose I will sooner or later,” he
replied halfheartedly. “Had no experi-
ence at stock work, but I c’n fill in if the
screw an’ conditions is right.” “Not
stpck,” explained Bill. “A bit of fencing,
digging-out or scrub-clearing. Help
y’rself.” Snow laughed. “Not on y’r life,”
he grinned. “How ’bout you, Hefty?”
yelled Bill. “Want a job?” “What sort
o’ job?” asked the second Mills warily.
As they passed on Bill shook his head at
his wasting property. “Soon they’ll say
a bloke ain’t running his place right, so
why not settle a soldier or two on it. Ah
well,” he sighed, “I better keep going.
I’m paying a man twenty-five bob a day
an’ keep t’ nail the boards on these noo
yards, but I got t’ do his timber-humping,
an’ anything heavy, plus splitting, cart-
ing an’ erecting the bush posts an’
getting his smoke-oh.” I mooched off,
thinking that what this “grand new
world” needs is more self-reliance and
sweat.
BELLS OF ECHUCA.
When blue mists are drifting
Across the dark river,
The bells of Echuca
Their message deliver—
Each chime as a challenge,
Each stroke as a warning;
Echuca’s old clockbells
Toll on fill the morning.
The bells of Echuca
Have chimed out for ages;
Their notes tell the stories
In history’s pages,
When in the soft twilights
Or when night was fleeting
The whistle of steamers
Gave warning or greeting.
The angelus holy
Of Trinity felling
Through morning light slowly
The sweet notes are swelling . ..
While dawn’s on the plainlands,
While night’s on the river,
Old bells of Echuca,
May you ring on for ever!
VICTORIA.
WILL LAWSOK.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
OUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r 7u
c
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
I'l
r
'i r wm
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS*
DESTROY THEMI
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
SPECIAL COUNTRY OFFER—
TARPAULINS and
WATERPROOF COVERS
Made from Heavy Waterproof and Rot-proof Canvas.
Fitted with Reinforced Brass Eyelets.
6ft. X 10ft £1 18 0
10ft. X 12ft £3 19 0
12ft. x 20ft £7 15 0
CANVAS AWNING & TENT CO.
113-115 BROADWAY (Cnr. Wattle St.), SYDNEY. MA3686, 83655
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS!"
Brands in Wool.
“R. Ney”: So far as brands made of
tar or paint; are concerned, it is no longer
a question of whether sheepowners are
to get higher prices for non-branded wool
or not, but a question of whether the in-
dustry as a whole can afford to suffer
branding of the fleece any longer.
Wool, though it has many friends and
has increased them since so many service-
men and -women learned its value as
clothing during the war, must face serious
competition from artificial fibres in the
near future. Australian wool, in addition,
must face competition with wool from
countries which have either made tar-
paint branding illegal or are about to
do so.
The Australian Wool Board has made
an instructional documentary short film
on the subject which leaves no doubt as
to the harm caused by this form of brand.
It shows starkly that no matter how care-
fully and repeatedly the wool from
branded sheep is scoured and washed and
even hand-picked, particles of the tar or
paint survive and show up in the finished
article as damaging spots and blemishes.
The manufacturer is then forced to dye
the fabric a color that will help to
“deaden” the marks, and at best must be
prepared to sell it as a second-rate article.
Manufacturers are growing tired of the
continual and costly battle to defeat brand
stains; they’re beginning to ask why
growers, of wool don’t do something
about it.
In the old days of large badly-fenced
runs, when big droving outfits moved
thousands of sheep on foot through the
back country for days, when there were
few scruples about lifting a few head into
one’s own flock, lasting and prominent
brands were necessary. Today, with most
stockroutes soundly fenced, long droving
trips and huge mobs practically elimi-
nated, with most large runs subdivided
and most of the wool coming from
smaller properties well-fenced and well-
managed, it is doubtful if there is any
real need for great black splotches of tar
on the sheep’s back. And the travelling
T-brand demanded in some States could
be cut out.
Whatever the opinion on these things,
the fact remains that tar-paint brands will
have to go, as the Wool Board’s film
clearly shows, and it doesn’t much matter
whether it’s by way of branding fluids
that can be easily got out or by straight-
out elimination. The risks of theft of
unbranded sheep are paltry compared
with the risks of damage to our first land
industry while tar-paint brands remain.
Wool Price Prospects.
“Delano”: There has been consider-
able movement in wool stocks during the
past few months. Demand in the U.S.A.
in particular has been tremendous, and
now that Yorkshire is allowed direct ship-
ment from Australia selection for Eng-
land has been considerable. France, Bel-
gium and unexpected countries like Egypt,
Mexico and Turkey have taken a quota.
Some of this demand may have a
speculative angle, as there is a strong
feeling that the price level will be higher
after June 30, when auctions are resumed
and the ceiling is removed though the
floor remains. Prices of tops and noils
for Britain’s home trade are to be in-
creased to bring them into line with
export parity, which at present is about
13 p.c. higher for merinos and fine cross-
breds. Current opinion in Britain is that
the wool conference’s estimate of up to
14 years for the clearance of the wool
surplus is too long, that seven to nine
years will be sufficient. Buying capacity
will have a great influence on this matter,
but changes of sheep population and
national habits and prejudices will count.
Since 1939 Britain has lost pasture land
to agriculture, and her sheep population
has fallen from 27,000,000 to 20,000,000.
The U.S.A. wool clip has fallen by about
one-third; at one time it amounted to
the equivalent of 1,500,000 bales Aus-
tralian, but is now estimated at under
1,000,000.
Concurrently, American demand for
wool has increased. Prior to the war
Americans used 2.651 b. of scoured wool
annually, or exactly half the Britishers’
quota. During the war the millions of
Americans in the services used much
larger quantities and have been indoctri-
nated with the idea of wool-fabric superi-
ority. Although civilians have had diffi-
culty in obtaining their requirements,
American wool consumption reached
1100 million pounds, which equals
3,600,000 bales, about an entire Austra-
lian clip.
Although permanent American demand
may not remain so high, the fact that it
has doubled whilst domestic supplies have
faded to less than one-third of current
requirements can be a dominant factor
in Australian wool prices for some years,
by which time the impoverished European
countries may be back into stride again.
Weather Forecasting.
“S.H.K.”: Some years ago an Antarctic
explorer said that the South Polar regions
held all we Australians wanted to know
about our weather, and advocated that
a large and well-equipped observatory
should be established in the Antarctic
Circle where careful weather records
could be compiled. Intermediate obser-
vatories could be established on Mt.
Wilson (Tas.) and on the Australian Alps,
linking up with Canberra and Sydney.
Study of the different records of these
observatories would have a good deal of
bearing on weather forecasting.
Several years ago, in our southern
N.S.W. district, we experienced some of
the heaviest falls of snow for 40 years;
the spring that followed was a very good
one. The following winter the falls were
even greater, and we had the best spring
for 40 years. In the winter before the
great 1944 drought hardly any snow fell,
resulting in the worst spring in 40 years.
This is some proof that conditions in the
Antarctic have a very marked effect on
our weather.
In April, 1943, a very dry spell was
on, when a most out-of-season change
was experienced, with heavy snow on the
mountains. As soon as the weather
changed an extensive unstable air front
came from the north and great rain fell.
Only a few weeks ago a most unseason-
able change occurred, the barometer read-
ings being as low as 24deg. for a couple
of nights, with snow on the Southern
Alps. Immediately the change cleared
unusual weather was experienced—great
floods in S.A., Victoria, Tasmania,
Queensland and the N.S.W. North Coast
with cyclones. These changes are proof
"I's fed-up with this bloke! Lei’s all go over
together and then call it a night.”
that the weather in the south has a
marked influence on continental Aus-
tralia.
Winged Benefactor.
“340 G.”: Originally the bulk of the
fig plantings on the N.S.W.M.I.A. were
white-fruited varieties used solely for
jam-making. Later, some Smyrna or dry-
ing types were planted, which necessi-
tated the introduction of a special small
wasp which pollenates the figs and also
the planting of a few Capri-type fig-trees,
the fruit of which, though small and un-
commercial, acts as a host for the wasps.
The wasps quickly acclimatised them-
selves, and when they got busy on their
special job did not let up when they
had pollenated the drying types but
tackled the jam figs, too. This at first
looked like disaster for the growers be-
cause the pollenating turned the white
flesh of the jam figs red; the Australian
refused to buy red fig jam, so the
jam-makers, in turn, refused t® buy red-
fleshed figs. Then it was found that the
white-fleshed fig, previously unsuitable
for drying, had, in the process of being
pollenated, developed a higher sugar-
content, and figmen turned to drying the
fruit.
Last year buyers were operating freely
at £196 per ton dried weight, which is a
better paying proposition than selling the
fresh fruit at £2O per ton for jam-making.
Now it is hoped that nothing goes amiss
with the little wasp which does the trick.
“Wonder” Tree.
“Yabbie”: It’s the /Ethel or evergreen
tai£arisk (Tamarix aphylla). Introduced
recently from California by Essington
Lewis, it is originally a native of the
Middle East. It is now thriving under
dry conditions at Broken Hill and else-
where, and has also shown that it re-
sponds remarkably to irrigation. Cuttings
from the Hill, n(\ larger than a pencil,
were planted on the N.S.W.M.I.A. last
spring, were irrigated and are now sturdy
trees over sft. high.
The /Ethel transplants easily from cut-
tings or roofings, and, as it has a shrub-
like habit of growth, branching from
ground-level, and a
vigorous matted
root-system, it is
admirably adapted
for arresting soil
drift. Its grey-green,
pine - like foliage
and mass of pink
blooms at blossom-
time add to its
other attractions. In
the dry inland it
should be given a
bucket of water or
two in the year of
.planting, and, as
stock will eat it,
some protection is
needed until it
grows above stock
reach. It is advis-
able to plant after
danger of late frosts
has passed, as frost
is always severest
nearest the ground
and is likely to
harm the small
plants before they
get a good start.
Given these simple attentions the /Ethel
will soon look after itself —and that is
more than can be said for almost any
other type of tree likely to be of much
use on the dry plains,
“The Tatler”: Essington Lewis put it
on the Broken Hill mining dumps, and the
Hill calls it the “Wonder” tree. It will
literally grow anywhere, and will thrive on
one watering in 15 years. In areas sub-
ject to periodic long dry spells, such as
the mallee country, the “Wonder” tree
should be a boon. Cuttings are readily
obtainable from Broken Hill.
North Queensland Legumes.
“Mac”: Has lespedeza been tried (B.
28/11/ ’45)? This exists as several species
of annual (of which the Korean variety is
the best) and a perennial (L. sericed). It
is of bushy habit and rather resembles
lucerne, although it is not so palatable
to stock. Still, it will thrive where lucerne
will not.
Its long suit is the reclamation of steep
land where heavy seasonal rainfall tends


Legal Notice.
DOUGLAS VIVIAN WHITE, a son of Augustus
White, late of Black Mountain, New South Wales,
grazier, deceased, or anyone knowing anything, of
bis whereabouts is requested to communicate with
the undersigned, who will be able to give the said
DOUGLAS VIVIAN WHITE information to his
advantage.—WEAVEß, GENTLE & HARRISON,
Solicitors, 11 Faulkner Street, Annidale, New
South Wales.
ds
M#
iple
inc
Australia's authority*"bh ammal
breeding, R. B. Kelley, O. V.Sc.,*
brings this long overdue book
covering every phase of
Principles and methods. Artificial
insemination. Progeny -
Grading-up by selective
Modern breeding. , Sections on)
cattle, sheep, horses.
BASE YOUR EXPERIMENTS ON THIS BOOK
Written for the practical man on the land as a solid
foundation to base methods and experiments. A 1945
publication based on facts and explaining the results
of the world’s great breeders in all stock raising.
Mail orders sent by return post.
ORDER
r "angus &~robertson limited.
? 89 CasclereagK Street, •
I Sydney, N.S.W. J
I Please send me n Principles and Methods oj Animal |
I Breeding’ for which 1 enclose 15/- plus 6a. postage, . |
| NAME— |
I ADDRESS |
-8. l
STOPvDUpßupture
Worries/
Rl •>•■■■
Mark ® locaHan,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE KODSSEI, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
r
BARKO
VA.
«»
.1
I
/G
W/
My
ff*
|S*u3rantefc
Vw*""'
L “.x: -
SV
\
The HYGEIA DISSDLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS,
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
-WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the Public
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not be misled by specious statements. Buy only that which has
an unsullied reputation.
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY.
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Est. 1927
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Gouihurn St.. Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissoivenators (Q’land), Wooiworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Viet.: Victorian Producers Co-op. Co. Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
S. Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
miiim
m
3SS
to gullying. It does best in warm climates,
although a frost-resistant variety is under
development. Yields of feed are a little
below lucerne and stock will take it well,
provided it is kept heavily grazed. Leaf-
age is good for hay. Once established, it
is strongly drought-resistant so that an
occasional dry year or two does not kill
out the stand.
All the usual precautions in establish-
ing legumes, such as inoculation, are
necessary, and in addition the perennial
seed needs to be scarified before sowing
to ensure a good strike. Along with
kudzu, the establishment of good stands
of lespedeza is subject to a good bounty
on an acreage basis in the southern States
of the U.S.A. I have seen excellent
results in South Carolina. There are
millions of acres of it in the U.S.A.
Buckwheat.
“E.H.S.”: Though it appears to be of
little interest to Australian farmers, it has
much to recommend it, particularly on
poorer soils. It can be grown with satis-
factory results on land too poor to pro-
duce wheat or other cereals, and it will
show a good return from any but wet or
swampy soils. It is a heavy seed bearer,
yielding from 30 to 40 bushels per acre.
Buckwheat makes excellent cakes and
bread and has the reputation of being
more nutritious than wheaten flour. It
provides first-class pig and poultry food
and is particularly valuable when
ploughed in as green manure on poor
land. Preparation of the land is the
same as for oats. It should be sown in
drills 15in. apart, using a bushel of seed
(401 b.) per acre, and it should be har-
vested before it begins to dry off, other-
wise there may be loss through shedding.
Buckwheat requires a temperate climate
as it will not stand up to heavy frost.
Rabbiting.
“Dusty Gully”: If you know the
ropes you scoot round the district early
in the season and book up paddocks to
work, but a price may have to be paid
for a good-sized block swarming with
bunnies. And the “good, clean job”
some cockies demand is generally in the
prospectus. Equipment needed is a
utility or old car, about 10 dozen traps a
man, setters, wires, one or more pairs of
ferrets, nets, shovels, a good trap-dog
and any number of assorted hounds
and camping gear.
A dozen good trappers may have as
many ways of executing a “drive” on the
bunnies, working lines of traps over the
area. Trapping the burrows drives
bunny to the open, while he will go to
earth if the dunghills receive first atten-
tion. If the traps are not “worked,” but
reset after each catch, as in small pad-
docks, rabbits become trap-shy after
three nights.
Ferrets do well in “fresh” country,
where the taint of the animal is un-
familiar, and a good day’s catch may run
into hundreds. Warrens worked and re-
worked cause loss of time on account of
rabbits “sticking up.” Usually this hap-
pens when a stubborn rabbit blocks the
ferret; the ferret kills it and is unable
to get out for some time. Vigorous young
ferrets, with teeth cut, are best, and
muzzles are not required.
If the trapper has plenty of country to
work he’ll find it most profitable to go
over the paddocks quickly several times,
reserving the final clean-up for the end
of the season. He’ll probably be able
then to afford time for digging-in
burrows and leaving fairly clean pad-
docks. Digging-in after a few nights’
trapping early in a season finds a lot of
rabbits returning in a couple of weeks
to reopen the burrows. Poisoning won’t
“take” unless the winter is very dry.
In the winter rush for skins the carcass
trade doesn’t get much consideration, and
many tons of rabbit meat are thrown
away. Rabbitters argue that they get
more for skins alone than carcasses with
them, and carcass-buyers have neglected
collection of bunny sans overcoat to an
enormous degree.
Cut Out Burning-off.
“Lub”: It’s impossible to calculate
the losses of topsoil and humus to farm-
ing through burning-off, but -big they
must be, and it might be a wise move to
have the practice banned by legislation.
Scrub, fern and native and introduced
weeds appear to relish the fire as a stimu-
lant to fresh, vigorous growth, and I’ve
seen thousands of acres of once-good
grazing country transformed into dense
wattle groves through burning regularly
to provide green picking from the coarse
native grasses and tussock growth. The
loss to cultivation paddocks is the whole-
sale destruction of humus and humus-
building material.
There seems no reason why machinery
can’t be devised to deal effectively with
rubbish growth of every description and,
perhaps, chemicals for use for harbors
of rabbits and other pests not accessible
by other means. Rollers with blades are
effective with ferns, crushing the plants
giving far better results than cutting or
burning or a combination of both. This
type of roller could be adapted for almost
any kind of rubbish.
Following the roller is needed a
machine to tear up the vegetation and
leave the soil roughly broken ; further
cultivation should incorporate the enrich-
ing vegetation in' the soil. The rotary
hoe, perhaps with variations, or disc-type
ploughs should provide suitable means
for the second operation. But the prin-
ciple may be hard to establish while
burning is permitted as a method of rapid
clearing; soil destruction in one way or
another doesn’t seem to matter to most
farmers.
Timber Lore.
“E.H.S.”: In most trees direction of
the grain is indicated by more or less
distinct grooves in the bark, most of
which approximate to the vertical, though
in some they tend to wind to one side or
the other. When these grooves are not
discernible, the direction of the grain is
found by cutting a short section from the
tree and splitting it on the quarter. Post
splitters frequently reject perfectly-sbund
trees exhibiting a winding grain, because
posts split from such trees will be twisted
to the same degree.
Good straight posts can be got from
a log with a winding grain by Cutting
grooves about 2in. deep in a straight line
from one end of the log to the other at
the required distance apart. The enter-
ing wedge is driven into the end of the 1
log about 4in. below the groove and a
heavy wedge is then inserted in the crack
that appears in the groove and followed
by others until the log opens up. The
lamination of the annular rings is not
affected by the “wind” in the tree, and
posts backed off the quarters or billets
are as free from distortion as those from
a straight-grained log.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: When yard-building save
yourself a lot of heavy work by driving
the waggon or truck carrying the heavy
corner-posts up close to the dug post-
holes. Then drop the posts off into the
holes.
“Mrs. Jock”: As vitamin A is neces-
sary to pigs it can be given in green
feed, particularly in young, leafy lucerne.
Pigs, unlike most cattle, do not bloat on
lucerne, so they can be allowed to graze
lightly on the pasture, thus reducing the
amount of grain normally required, with
a resultant decrease in production cost.
As farmers realise the value of green
feed they will get more out of rearing
pigs.
“F.L,”: Horse-collars need regular
attention when in use or sore shoulders
may result. The stuffing should be of
good quality, and inspections to make
sure that no lumps have developed save
later trouble. Scrape off matted hair
before it accumulates and causes rubbing.
When a horse’s shoulder becomes rubbed
lightly tap a hollow in the collar to keep
the pressure off. Don’t by any means
pad a rubbed or sore shoulder, but make
sure the collar is well-fitting and not press-
ing against the tender spot,
“E. 2”: One cow-cocky’s recipe for pre-
serving kero.-tin buckets is to enamel the
outside and bottom and keep them up-
ended when not being used. They last
easily twice as long, and iff these days of
light tinning it’s a point worthy of notice.
“Plane Creek”: The neighbor grew the
best pawpaws I ever saw on sandy loam
on the side of a gully that only carried
water during the rainy season. I’ve
grown my best pawpaws on a similar
gully. What pawpaw-trees require is
shelter without shade, and fairly rich soil
that doesn’t get unduly dry during the
dry season, but that drains quickly
during the “wet.” An overmoist soil
means unthrifty trees and watery, poor-
keeping fruit; a thirsty soil leads to poor
development of fruit, shy-bearing and tall
and spindly growth of the trees. The
fruit is always better-flavored in the
tropics than elsewhere, but the useful life
of a pawpaw-tree nowhere exceeds five
or six years. Bearing should begin at 12
months old.
“E.M.R.”: Scatter the stove and
copper ashes around the fowlhouse to
provide the fowls with charcoal, scratch-
ing material and “dust baths.” Then,
when the fowlhouse has its weekly clean-
out, the droppings and ashes combined
make a valuable fertiliser for the garden.
“Bennie”: Keep a strict eye on fowls
for symptoms of tuberculosis. In early
stages sufferers become thin, sometimes
lame, and very dry and pale in the
comb. If t.b. is present the droppings
will show a greenish-yellow color. There
is no cure. Destroy affected birds im-
mediately the disease has been identified.
“F.L.”: Cement may be used for all
types of farm buildings where perman-
ence is desired. Concrete floors are ver-
min-proof ; permanent and, damp-coursed
and well covered, quite as satisfactory as
wooden ones. Fire risk is negligible;
they are cool in summer and snug in
winter, and their simplicity of structure,
with materials usually readily available,
brings them within the scope of the man
with a useful pair of hands, thus circum-
venting the scarcity and high costs of
skilled labor.
“B.”: During humid wet seasons dogs
sometimes suffer from rheumatism. Give
sufferers a five-grain sodium galicylate
tablet twice a day dissolved in a little warm
water. Rub the semi-paralysed parts with
a reliable liniment, and give a one-grain
tablet of calomel once a week while the
dog is suffering. This isn’t a permanent
cure, but the mong will appreciate the
relief.
“W. Court”: When the yearly cleaning-
up is done in the farm orchard, cut weeds,
grass, etc., should be spread under the
trees to rot into humus and to prevent
the sun from baking the ground. Pruned
branches should be left under the trees
until all leaves have fallen, then the limbs
may be burned and the resultant ash
added to the leaf refuse. If all leaf
refuse is burned every year, however, the
trees will swiftly reduce the natural re-
sources of the soil and artificial fertilisers
will have to be bought.
“Bill C.”: Wild turnip and similar
weed pests are destroyed quickly by a
spray of sulphate of iron, which doesn’t
injure most pasture plants, though it must
be kept off clovers. If there’s any doubt
try it on weeds in minor grassy areas first.
If the pasture isn’t injured, it may be
used generally. On the other hand, it’s
better to prevent weed growth than to
destroy it when it has appeared, and to
do this (a) don’t overstock the grass, ( b )
don’t burn off the old grass under dry
conditions, (c) topdress with fertiliser as
required and (d) grow grasses and
legumes suitable for your locality.
“Herbert”: A. G. Muirhead, a Dar-
ling Downs farmer, has patented a simple
device which, when attached to a sunder-
cut, will do much to prevent soil erosion.
He claims that its use materially increases
soil productivity. With the device
soil can be made to hold 30,000 gallons
of water to the acre without any running
off. He intends to mass-produce the de-
vice, and says that the first 20 acres on
which it is used will pay for its cost.
N.S.W. Soil Erosion Director is said to be
showing interest in the attachment, which
should be a boon if Muirhead’s claims
are substantiated.


ammiMouceA
“a
i run vinuan
,c%rivf Ml UiH
IMfflMaii
nfcuwi jyMMi
AmS
£WAKC THE BO fr ilJ
, SAUCE
\
p
•!
TOMATO
SAUCE
.V.,
By
LEA AND PERRINS
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
A (tpruri pc *
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
!f any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
AcmmYoa
k m rmr spare ms.
BIG opportunities for WRITERS
WE OFFER YOU expert personal tuition at the hands of ace
writer, WILLIAM LYNCH, and his team of professional writers.
Within six months YOU can be earning big money writing
WILLIAM LYNCH
★ SHORT STORIES
★ RADIO PLATS
★ HOTELS
★ ARTICLES FOR THE
PRESS
£2OO fur a SHORT STORY
Miss Joyce Skinner, an MSA
student, without previous ex-
perience, but with MAY N E
TRAINING, won First Prize of
£2OO for her story, "Unsought
in a writing contest
launched by the "Australian
Women's Weekly.”
RICHARD
WILKES-HUNTBR
William Lyifch, "Australia’s best writer
of short stories" (Syd. Sunday Tele-
graph," 15/4/’44) .> Novelist, play-
wright, author of current radio features,
"Backstage of Life," and "Meet Mr.
Hyde" (2UE).
Richard Wilkes-Hunter, novelist and
writer for “Liberty” (U.S.A.)* author
of radio feature "Drama of Medicine”
(2UW). He recently received
£l5O for a Liberty Magazine Short Story
EVERY MONTH thousands of pounds sterling are paid to free-
lance Radio and Magazine writers. YOU can be earning: some
of this money, by being trained to write by the simple, home-
study methods employed by the Mayne School of_Auttiorship.
Some MSA students have published over ONE HUNDRED short
stories in the past three years; others are holding down im-
portant positions in Metropolitan newspaper offices Here is
your chance to add to your income and to consolidate the future.
We not only train, you, but we SELL your work when tuition is
completed. Successful authorship means security, travel, a high
income and a highly respected name in the community.
REGINALD KIRBY,
author of 13 novels,
including the best-
sellers, "Beaufighter”
and "The Man Who
1,500 PUBLISHED
STORIES
In the past five years,
MSA students have
collectively published
not less than 1,500 short
stories and articles,
proof of MSA effici-
ency and modern mar-
keting methods. Our
London and New York
at your dis-
posal the moment that
your tuition begins.
Courses are payable in
easy monthly instalments:
Short Story, £B/8/-; Radio
Play, £B/8/-; Novels,
£lO/10/-; Newspaper
Articles, £lO/10/.
FREDERICK CHAP.
FER, author of 160
short* stories and
numerous novelettes.
Follow fhe Moyne Road fo Security. Mail this coupon now.
The Mayne School of Authorship, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney, „ _
Please send me William Lynch’s free book. “Successful Authorship. I
enclose 2Jd. in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS-
8.4/46
effects of radio-activity on sea life and on
ships over uncertain areas.
A bomb many times more destructive
than the most destructive atomic bomb
now developed—which is itself many
times more destructive than the first —
now is clearly in sight.
Military men themselves are becoming
worried over the power now in their
hands, and are no longer inclined to talk
down the meaning of the bomb.
There is a bare chance that the atomic
bomb may yet force a limit on war.
Dragnet Digest.
(i Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
As matters stand in an increasingly disturbed
world an alliance of U.S. and Britain will
become a certainty if Russia keeps on expand-
ing; if Russia insists upon pushing until con-
fronted by force. A large dollar loan to Britain
is made certain by Russia’s attitude. Dollar
loans to France, to China, to other friendly
nations are much more probable; are brought
nearer by U.S. need to make sure of friends in
the world. Russia, in effect, is driving much
of the outside world together. —“ United States
News.”
* * * *
Must there be another world war? That
question may be answered in the not too dis-
tant future in Manchuria, which has been
v«riously known as the “cradle of conflict,
the “tinder box of Asia,” the “cockpit of Asia
—and with good reason. Manchuria, since
1860, when Russia moved in and grabbed a
choice chunk of this rich granary, mineral de-
pository and arsenal of power, has been just
that. It still is .—“Saturday Evening Post
correspondent in North China.
* * * *
The ostensible purpose of the visit to Ankara
of the former Prime Minister of Iraq, Nun
Said Pasha, was to strengthen the ties between
Iraq and Turkey, but its real object was to dis-
cuss the position of these neighboring States
in face of the potentially threatening moves oi;
the Soviet Union in Iran and Turkey. Nun
Said, one of the ablest of Arab statesmen, has
long been a strong advocate of Turco-Iraqi
co-operation, and in a statement on this mission
he expressed the conviction that other Arab
States will follow Iraq’s pattern in concluding
agreements with Turkey “within the framework
of the United Nations.” This brings up the
question of Arab reactions to the brusque in-
trusion of Russia into the Arab world, become
lately so self-conscious of its importance and its
potential unity. As yet a kind of hothouse
growth, stimulated by Zionist claims, the Arab
League is a new factor in the Middle Eastern
complex, and it may be a factor in the crisis
that is fuming this region into the international
centre of gravity. So may the problem of
Palestine, which occupies a strategic spot in the
Arab world as well as on the road of empire.
— NY. “Times.”
* * ♦ *
American forces are stationed on every con-
tinent and in 56 foreign countries and major-
islands. This is true even though occupation
forces are posted only in Germany, Austria
and Japan. The forces in question number
more than 1,275,000. — “United Slates News.”
* ♦
The omnipresent and exceptionally capable
and ruthless N.K.V.D. (secret police) always is
at work [in Russia] watching for potential
leaders of dissident groups and ready to spirit
them away to a remote section of Siberia at
the slightest sign of hostility. Dissatisfied
though the Russian people undoubtedly are,
there is at the moment no organised opposition
to the system and its rulers. — N.Y. “Times”
staff correspondent.
* * * *
The secret reports of our [U.S.] Ambassadors
and missions to Europe and China would shock
the world and awaken this country to the fact
that the Big Three have passed from discour-
tesy to insult, and from insult to not-so-thinly-
veiled force. I hate to disturb the sleep of
editorial writers, but at this time it is a night-
mare for some of us —who know the real news
—just to be awake. — N.Y. “ Daily Mirror"
columnist.
* ♦ * •
Russia will not be stopped if the United
States and Great Britain drift apart. But
there is a very good chance that she will be
stopped if the United States and Great Britain
stick together. All this is not to say that an-
other war is imminent or inevitable. It merely
means that the Russian problem is being
tackled in its incipient stages instead of being
allowed to drift, as was the case with the
Hitler problem.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
“There is an impression among many Ameri-
cans that at a critical moment in the war we
were so fearful that Russia would lessen in its
resistance to Germany that we went on our
knees, and Russia has kept us there ever since.
That is not a very self-respecting posture for
any nation. And the sooner the people of the
United States are made certain 'we are squarely
on our feet the better it will be for ourselves,
for the Soviet Union and for the world.”—
Maj.-Gen. William J. Donovan, former head
of the U.S. Office of Strategic Services.
* * * *
“It is not enough for nations to declare they
do not want to make war. Hitler said that.
In a sense he meant it. He wanted the world
to accept the domination of a totalitarian Gov-
ernment under his direction. He wanted that
without war if possible. He was determined to
get it with war if necessary. To banish war,
nations must refrain from doing the things that
lead to war.” — U.S. Secretary of State James F.
Byrnes.


them, the future did not exist* only the
present absorbed them.
His battalion was ordered overseas. On
the day of embarkation the pavements
of the streets were packed with the poly-
glot population of the capital. Euro-
peans, Chinese, halfcastes, Indians and true
natives of the islands. All came to watch
over 800 magnificently-built dark-skinned
men in full battle-order marching under
the tropical sky towards the sea. ,
In the close-packed crowd stood Vatu
Lailai, laughing, calling, waving a slim
brown hand ; but when Loma came near
her an unexpected wave of emotion made
her cry out. Sobbing hysterically she
pushed a way to his side, tears stream-
ing down her face, her hands clinging to
his arm.
11.
IN the heat of the afternoon sun, seated
1 crosslegged on the ground with her
mat and her souvenirs spread before her.
Vatu Lailai, with brooding dark eyes,
stared unseeingly at the crowd of soldiers,
sailors and airmen surging round her,
deaf to the fabulous prices they offered
for her beads, tortoiseshell trinkets and
pieces of vividly-dyed coral.
“Take them,” she said to a stout
matron beside her. “Do what you like
with them; throw them in the river if
you like.”
She was through with it all, the money-
making, the excitement, the wild and
reckless lovemaking that had filled the
last few months.
Loma had been gone many weeks now,
and she had had no news of him, but
it was not of Loma she was thinking.
He was a dim memory. It was of her-
self. Like so many of the girls she was
pregnant, and Loma was not the father
of her child. And now she had a great
desire for the peace and quiet of her
village.
It was dusk as the cutter dropped
anchor next evening. No twinkling lights
gave out a welcome, no children ran
down to the water’s edge to meet the
dinghy.
Hoisting her mat bundle of possessions
on her back, Vatu Lailai set out along the
old track leading to her bure. Often she
stumbled in the dark, for the track was
overgrown and strewn with fallen
branches. A darker shadow rose up be-
fore her, and Pita’s voice broke the
silence. “So it is you at last. Night after
night I have sat in your doorway, think-
ing perhaps you would come.”
Vatu Lailai had never liked Pita, but
she was glad to hear his voice now. It was
at least a greeting in what seemed to be
a dead world.
“You cannot live in your bure ” Pita
said, “the place is in ruins. Come, we
will go back to the village. Old Nadra
will care for you.”
In silence they stumbled along the
track.
| OMA, in the battle zone, made a
good soldier. The Fijians fought in
the jungle month after month; sleeping
when and where they could ; eating when
the opportunity came. Soaked to the skin
in the tropical rains, steamed dry in the
heat of the sun ; tormented by insects
and flies; sometimes brought low with
malarial fevers, sometimes by utter weari-
ness ; but always going on again with the
creeping, crawling warfare.
Memories of his old life before he be-
came Joe the soldier became fainter. As
always, he lived in the present. Only
three things stood out clearly in his mind.
To obey his commanding officers. To
kill. To avoid being killed. This was his
only existence. Nothing else mattered,
andftime had no meaning for him.
, He had forgotten the number of weeks
he had been fighting in the jungle.
Long ago he had discarded his tattered
uniform, flung away his thick socks and
heavy boots, wearing only a pair of
khaki shorts and his steel helmet. More
often than not the helmet was slung
round his neck, protecting his chest
rather than his head. That was how he
came to be wounded.
They found him face down, the wound
in his head showing, and the ants scurry-
ing backwards and forwards, from his
shaggy head and down the broad high-
way of his strong brown back.
But he was not dead, although the busy
doctor at the field hospital had little hope
of his recovery.
ATU LAILAI’S baby was born about
* the same time. It was a girl, pale-
skinned and puny, and it lived for an
hour.
“Just as well,” pronounced old Nadra,
waddling philosophically about her
duties. “There are enough of such ones.”
Vatu Lailai made a slow recovery, for
she lacked the interest to take up life
again. She wanted only to lie on the mats
in old Nadra’s bure or sit in the doorway
dreaming of the past. She spent hours
staring apathetically at the sea.
During this time Pita was a persistent
suitor.
“Marry me,” he urged. “Married to
me you will be of some importance in the
village, but now you are nothing. Loma
is dead. You have never had word of
him. I am certain he is dead.”
“I will never marry you,” retorted Vatu
Lailai with some of her old spirit.
Old Nadra grew impatient with the
girl, who seemed to be for ever under her
feet,
“What is the use of sitting brooding
like a sick hen? What is done is done.
It is over and finished. But there is much
work to do. You young women who
have returned after having your fill of
pleasure and wickedness should now take
the place of our young men. You are
strong. Can you not work? Can you
not dig and plant? Make mats? Or cut
down the weeds and the grass? Look at
our Kara, once as smooth as green silk,
now so overgrown we can no longer meet
there for a talk and a rest. See the state
of our homes! And the plantations!
You will not always have the money to
buy this tinned food.”
Her old lips twisted in scorn. “Take
this and begone,”
A cane knife was thrust into Vatu
Lailai’s hand. “You can cut grass if you
“You're a nice one! At that flatette you sent us to they're D.D.T. mad!"
can do nothing else,” she said, and
turned a contemptuous back.
Vatu Lailai went, sulkily at first, but
as she swished the long-bladed knife, idly
watching the coarse grass toppling before
it, interest began to stir in her. Soon she
was calling to the other girls of the village
to help with the work, and in the true
native way they made a game of it. The
air rang with the sound of knives being
sharpened on stones. The long grass went
down like trees before a hurricane. The
girls shouted with laughter.
The village began to take on a new
appearance of life and order. Patches of
ground were cleared and planted. Fish-
nets were brought out and mended, and
the neglected fishtrap rebuilt. Even the
old men roused themselves from their
prolonged siestas and watched the im-
provements with awakening interest. Be-
fore long they were recalling the days of
their youth and energy, when they were
familiar with all the secrets of building,
thatching and planting, and they gave
advice with tireless gusto.
• • • • I V •
A THOUSAND miles away in a great
military hospital surgeons and nurs-
ing staff fought for the life of Loma. His
head-wound healed well, but he was often
racked with fevers and haunted by
dreams ; tossing restlessly one moment,
sunk in apathy the next.
For weeks they thought he would not
live, but gradually their efforts were re-
warded. Loma began to improve. He
was able to sit up and look about him, to
answer questions if put in simple form.
But there was a strange, puzzled look in
his eyes.
“Who are you?” they asked him.
Smiling and showing his fine white teeth
he answered “Joe.”
Yes, they told him, that was the name
he had been known by in the army, but
what was his real name?
Then the puzzled look came into His
eyes as he shook his head, muttering Sa
siga ni kila” (I do not know).
Nemo, in another part of the great
hospital, suffering from malaria, was
brought to see him, but Loma did not
recognise him.
“You are Loma, and you married my
sister Vatu Lailai surely you re-
member?”
But Loma only shook his head, repeat-
ing “I do not know” ...
They said he must not be worried, and
led Nemo away. Perhaps the memory
would come back in time, after rest and
care, or when he was discharged and sent
back to his home.
\/ ATU LAILAI stared at the official
V notice the skipper of the cutter
handed her. It told her bluntly that
Loma was seriously wounded.
“It is weeks old,” she said, and the
skipper, grinning widely, said “Yes, it is.”
It had been on his cutter, going back-
wards and forwards, for a long time, but
always he forgot to give it to her.
“Then by now he may be dead” . . .
She spoke more to herself than to the
skipper; but he answered her.
“No, he is alive. See, here are two
more letters—one, I think, is from your
brother Nemo.”
Vatu Lailai snatched her letters from
the brown hand. She learned that Loma
was out of danger, but suffering from
loss of memory.
Loma was strange, so Nemo wrote, and
could not remember anything except that
he was Joe the Soldier.
“What,” said Vatu Lailai to old Nadra,
“shall I tell him when his memory comes
back?”
“Everything, or nothing,” came the
prompt reply. “And nothing is better.
Memory or no memory, Loma will not
tell you anything. A man never does.
Why should a woman?”
The news soon spread through the
village that the boys would be coming
home; that Loma had lost his memory
and Nemo was fever-ridden ; but Loma’s
memory would return as soon as he saw
his village, they said, and Nemo’s fever
would leave him when he was given kaVa
and a special concoction of herbs known
to old Nadra.
Pita, looking sideways at Vatu Lailai,
said “What will you do when Loma re-
members you? What will he do when he
knows that you have borne a child that
was not his?”
“The child is dead,” Vatu Lailai
answered quietly. “The past is dead.”
“But Loma will know.” Pita’s voice
had a strange ring. Vatu Lailai turned
to look at him, and his eyes were those
of an enemy.
“How will he know?” she whispered.
“Maybe it is my duty to tell him.”
There was silence between them for a
moment. Then Vatu Lailai flung two
words at him —“Gata vakaisi!” (Vile
snake.) She rose to her feet, spat on the
ground, and walked away, her head high.
Pita shrank within himself, his almost
black skin turning a queer greyish mauve.
To be spoken to like that! By a woman.
He, Pita, the most respected man in the
village. And the most unloved, he sud-
denly realised. He sobbed.
For three days the school was closed
and no one saw anything of Pita. On
the morning of the fourth day Pita came
out of his schoolhouse and went across
to old Nadra’s home.
Vatu Lailai looked up as his shadow
fell across her; she did not speak.
He broke the silence —“I have been
thinking, Vatu Lailai. It would be good
if I and my pupils begin the work of re-
pairing Loma’s bure ... You and he will
want a home to return to when he comes
back, eh?”
Vatu Lailai smiled.
111.
THE island, cool green, floated on the
unruffled blue of the sea, the moun-
tainous peaks rising high into the clear
sky.
In the village by the shore the frangi-
pani trees, in full bloom, suffused the
air with scent; hibiscus flowers —saffron,
orange and crimson—splashed the hedges
with color; scarlet-breasted parrots
flashed from branch to branch in the
fruit-trees.
The women and children in their bright
dresses were gathered on the green Kara,
Below the village, down along the coral
beach. Pita, with his pupils and the old
men, dressed in their spotless white sulu
and shirts, stood in orderly line, waiting.
Out in the lagoon the cutter drew nearer.
In the bows, Nemo, tall and thin,
shivering a little even in the warm sun-
shine, looked longingly towards his
island. “See,” he cried, turning to Loma
seated beside him, “we are nearly there.
Look! Look! Loma, you must remem-
ber it.”
Loma lifted his head and looked across
the glistening water, a smile curving his
lips. “Yes, but Ido not remember it.”
Again Nemo pointed. “See, there
among the trees, close by the creek, is
your bure. It has a new roof; and the
track to and from it shows clearly; and
there is Pita running down to the water’s
edge to meet us. Pita has never run to
meet anyone before!”
Loma answered, “Which one is Pita?”
Nemo had done his best, as he had
been doing for weeks, but nothing seemed
to rouse Lbma’s sleeping memory.
The anchor went down; the dinghy
swung round. A great shout of welcome
rose. Soon old and young were rushing
down to the shore, regardless of best
clothes and dignity, anxious to be first
in the water to carry the two returned
soldiers ashore. Loma felt himself being
lifted by strong brown hands.
A girl flung her arms round him as his
feet touched the land. “I am Vatu
Lailri,” her voice pleaded rather than
stated, “and you are my husband.”
“I do not know,” came the answer,
“but I hope it is true, for you are beauti-
ful.” He smiled from his great height.
THE day passed in feasting, merry-
ihaking, much talking and the drink-
ing of yagona, bilo after biloful being
consumed. Even the women, at least
those over eighteen, swallowed more than
one biloful. ‘Souvenirs from the battle-
field were handed round for inspection.
Loma sat looking on, a smile on his
face as this one and that, old friends or
relations, came to shake hands with him,
but there was no light of recognition in
his eyes. Beside him sat Vatu Lailai,
holding tight to his hand. On his other
side squatted old Nadra, elbows resting
on her fat knees, her chin supported on
her hands, her eyes studying Loma’s
face.
As the sun moved down towards the
rim of the sea Nadra leaned back and
touched Vatu Lailai’s elbow to draw her
attention.
“It is time now,” she said as the
woman turned with a question in her
eyes. “Soon it will be dark and we must
all go to our homes ... That would be
too late. Do not move. Stay here with
Loma. Now I go, but in a little I will
come back and then you will see what
you will see.”
The great yagona bowl, glistening in
the evening sun, was being refilled. The
air was full of the thud-thud of the
wooden mallet crushing the root to
powder, the chanting and clapping of
the brewers as the powder was tipped
into the bowl, the water poured over it
and the straining and mixing solemnly
performed. The watchers roared
approval.
As they did so Nadra returned. She
moved forward, carrying on her hip a
halfcaste baby boy. A sudden silence
fell upon the crowd. All eyes concen-
trated on the fat, unwieldy figure with
the child on her hip.
“Look!” said Nadra to Loma. She
touched the child’s face.
Loma looked. Suddenly he was on his
feet. Tormenting half-memories turned
and twisted in his mind.
“Who is he?” he said,
Nadra flung up her head. “He is
Georgie the Halfcaste!” she said. “And
who are you?”
Loma stared at the people seated about
him. With a great shout of joy he cried
“I am Loma the Native!”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Jap in Defeat
When Lieut.-General Adachi surren-
dered the remnants of his 18th Army to
Major-General H. C. H. Robertson at
Wewak he had fewer than 14,000 troops
left. Jn over three years of jungle
fighting seven-eighths of his army had
been killed by the A.LF. or had died of
sickness. The survivors were in a poor
way, ragged, underfed and diseased. Yet
discipline remained. A cowed and beaten
force, they retained that outward symbol
of a soldier.
I was present when Lieut.-General
Adachi arrived at Kaboibus en route for
Wewak. To him his officers showed the
utmost deference—he was still the army
commander to them. To the officers the
men showed a respect that was almost
subservience.
At Rabaul a tin of tobacco and a bottle
of sauce were stolen from the officers’
mess of an Australian unit. A Jap
p.-0.-w. who had been working close to
the mess was suspected. Interrogated, he
tried to incriminate a mess steward. A
thorough investigation proved his story
false.
The C.O. of the unit called for the
Japanese officer in charge of the working
party and informed him that he was to
take disciplinary action. He did.
The fellow was “lined” by the Jap com-
mander just as all officers of the unit
were entering mess for the midday meal.
The officer proceeded to “tick off” the
thief, emphasising his remarks by slaps
on the face with an open palm. His
tirade finished, he kicked the man in the
groin. After five kicks the Jap officer was
told that such punishment would not be
countenanced.
The officer and the soldier withdrew to
a secluded spot, where, away from Aus-
tralian eyes, a further seven kicks were
administered. At the conclusion of the
performance the soldier saluted, and
marched back to his work. Nor did the
incident close there. It was learned later
that the soldier had been tried by the
Jap commandant of his prison compound
and sentenced to forfeiture of all pay he
had earned since reaching Rabaul, plus
one year’s detention. His own C. 0., for
having such an undesirable character in
his unit, was ordered to forfeit one year’s
pay and sentenced to two months’ im-
prisonment.
This is the true character of the race
that sought to rule the Pacific —and nearly
succeeded. This character remains in
defeat as a warning to those who may
think “the war is over ; let us forget.” We
must not forget.— Nogat (N.G.).
A Sandakan Man
I am another whom all the fuss and
ferment over packing a few hundred'
Japanese and Formosans on a destroyer
left cold.
In 1942, with 1499 other members of
the A.1.F., I was packed aboard a boat
down in the hold. At night we had to sit
back to back because there was no room
to lie down. Food was so vile that hungry
as we were we threw it overboard. Only
six out of 2550 were recovered from the
camp —Sandakan —to which we were
sent.
I, with four others, escaped. We were
recaptured seven months after when we
put to sea in a small boat.
We then did six months in a wire cage
in Kuching, awaiting a court-martial, and
after a farcical trial were sent to Outram
Road in Singapore, the infamy of which
jail is known to you.
We survivors took this cheerfully—one
of us died —in the belief that we had
struck a blow for Australia and had been
recaptured whilst trying to get back here
to fight again. My reward was to be de-
prived of pay to which I was entitled and
of 96 days’ recreation leave.
If Menzies wants an issue on which to
lock horns with this Government, what
about his fighting for the rights of the
Eighth Divvy?—Ex-QX23995 (N.Q.).
“Disposals”
I was cheered considerably by H. I.
Sabey’s reply to my par. He says the
Commission would never allow equip-
ment to lie and rot in dumps. I trust he
will never see the vehicle park at Ruther-
ford (N.S.W.).
And now, can Mr. Sabey tell me where I
can buy, borrow or beg a typewriter? He
says surplus Army typewriters are turned
over to the Typewriter Control. My
many inquiries at typewriter agents about
surplus Army machines merely elicit grins.
One agent blithely informed me that it
would be 12 months before I could buy
an ordinary machine, 18 months to two
years before I could buy a portable,—
C. S. (N.S.W.).
An A.I.F. soldier had been trying to
obtain a wheel assembly suitable for a
caravan. He approached the Disposals
Commission, and was told there were
none listed, but he should get in touch
with a dealer and watch the sale notices.
In one of these several assemblies were
listed, so he attended the sale and there
met several intending buyers of similar
assemblies.
Ninety-two were listed for sale, sub-
mitted in three lots, one containing 40,
one 30 and one 22. All were knocked
down to dealers at the price of £1 per
assembly. The Digger approached one
of the purchasers and asked him what
price he wanted for one of the assemblies.
He was coolly told that the price was £lO,
—Old Digger (Q.).
Because the Commission is a sound
organisation, achieving real milestones in
progress towards economic stability on
a policy which has been adopted also by
the United Kingdom, Canada and the
United States, it should not be afraid of
comments or criticism —nor is it.
In 8.. 3/4/’46 “G.W.H.” sought an
answer to his query, “Why is it necessary
to display the coat-of-arms in such adver-
tisements as appeared in the classified
columns?” Because it is vitally neces-
sary to attract buyers who may be inte-
rested in our sales; a mass of black un-
relieved by a display, or any white con-
trast, brings down advertising material
to a reduced level. Secondly, the Dis-
posals Commission holds nearly 100
auction sales per month around Australia,
from Jacka Jacka near Cape York to
Broome, in the West, and down south
as far as Hobart. The sign of the Crown
connected with auction sales has become
synonymous with a Disposal auction. I
can assure “G.W.H.” that this is not mere
waste of money; our monthly returns
from auction sales have risen to over
£250,000.
Referring to “C.Q.’s” comments —1000
sets of new harness auctioned, small
bids not accepted, new harness sold
at 12s. 6d, —the Commission has obtained
two reports, one from its officers and the
other from the auctioneers, T. H. Curnow
and Sons, known throughout Victoria, to
the following effect:
First, the harness offered was not new,
nor were the sets complete. Second, the
harness was actually offered in small lots
in conformity ' with the Commission’s in-
structions. One cash buyer bought one set
at £1 10s. (lot 536 a); another cash buyer
bought two sets at £1 10s. per set (lot
536 c). A Mr. Clem Mitchell was shown in
the report of the sale to be a small-lot
buyer. He purchased ten sets at £1 14s.
per set (lot 536 b), and a further ten sets
V at £1 10s. per set (lot 536 d).
Nine lots were finally sold, realising £460,
but one of the lots of 100 had not yet
been claimed by the buyer. Perhaps
“C.Q.” would be interested to purchase
this, as he considers it such a great bar-
gain. —H. I. Sabey, Public Relations
(Vic.).
Typewriter Racket
Although interest rates charged by
moneylenders are pegged, no such con-
trol is exercised over people hiring out
typewriters.
I hired a machine of rather ancient
vintage for 7s. 6d. a week, plus all trans-
portation charges. A tag attached to the
machine shows the value at £2O. A year’s
rental yields £l9 10s. Nearly 100 per
cent, profit on any investment would be
pretty good going, even for a money-
lender. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Nurses
The shortage is attributable to taxation,
among other things. In 1942, then a third-
year trainee, I was exempt from income-
tax. Last week I received an assessment
for £6, £1 being the fine for late return.
Another sister on the staff received a red
form stating that she had not paid £l2
and that legal proceedings were being
taken. Previously she had had a state-
ment saying she was £l4 4s. 3d. in credit
and that .the taxgatherers had taken
£l2 ss. out of it for her assessment, leav-
ing £1 19s. 3d.
Then there is the matter of pay. What
other profession (or trade) is asked to do
so much for so little? And as to hours.
When I started training seven years ago
nurses worked 52 hours per week on day
duty and 55 hours on night duty. Only
in the last few months have nurses had
the 48-hour week ; in the last few weeks
44 hours when there are only two nurses
in a ward. Generally there is only one
where there used to be four. And when
a nurse has completed four years’ train-
ing she may be asked to fill a position as
staff nurse when she is entitled to sister’s
pay.
And there i.s the matter of justice. A
staff sister went back to nursing when her
husband went to Malaya,. Her husband
did not return. She was granted ex-
tended leave to visit her people in West-
ralia. She had great trouble getting a
passage there and is having even more
trying to obtain a return ticket, as all
berths are booked until June. One
wonders why it should be so difficult
when a nurse has made such a sacrificei
At our local cannery the woman in
charge of Casualty is not a trained nurse.
There is an able trained nurse working
among the fruit-pitters.
Nurses prefer picking beans or work-
ing in tobacco factories, the latter prob-
ably because they can get cigarettes.
Where the tobacco ration is concerned
nurses are not considered essential
workers. Matron gave myself and an-
other sister permission to go to the store
that supplies hospital groceries and ask
for a regular supply. This we were re-
fused. Any housewife obtains cigarettes
with her order. — Nurse (N.S.W.).
Raw Deal for Riflemen
It appeared in the papers on April 3:
Speaking at Canberra, Senator Fraser,
representing the Minister for the Army,
stated that when the Government received
the Military Board’s report it would de-
cide the future of the rifle-club movement - .
When this policy was fixed a decision on
rifle clubs’ property now held by the Gov-
ernment would follow. He knew nothing
of allegations that rifle sights, revolvers,
field glasses and telescopes, surrendered
war broke out, were being offered to
traders for sale to the public. He was
aware that most rifles and aperture sights
surrendered were impressed and paid for,
but considered their return to original
owners impracticable as a general policy.
A statement which reveals a poor
appreciation of the value of the rifle-club
movement, and has been read with dis-
gust by riflemen. Lack of a fixed policy
for firearms and rifle equipment has
already resulted in a lucrative black-
market traffic. Impressed .22 automatic
and repeater rifles released in small
batches to traders have been snapped up
at the fixed prices by individuals who
were lucky enough to be on the spot, and
many of these are being sold again pri-
vately at exorbitant prices.
Prior to enlistment I surrendered a .22
Browning automatic rifle for £2 10s.
Upon discharge I was offered a rifle of
the same type in similar condition for £B.
Sufficient forms were available during
war-time for impressment, and should
still be available as records. Why not
permit owners to apply for their property,
withholding releases of all ttnpressed rifle
equipment for a set p.eriod? This would
at least be a just appreciation of the sac-
rifice of private equipment at a time when
it was badly needed. Nor would it be
inconsistent with the .much-advertised
Government policy of “keeping prices
down.” Otherwise, rifle-club members,
along with people who surrendered sport-
ing rifles, will get a very raw deal, —
R. W. S. (S.A.).
Australian-made Pencils
“Col. Bungstarter” (B. 13/3/ ’46) must
be unlucky in his pencil purchases. For
years I have used none but Australian,
and mostly penny ones at that. For soft-
ness and evenness of wood and quality
of graphite, the Aussie article is the equal
of any in the world —miles ahead of the
pre-war German and Jap, The Jap pencil
was rubbish ; the Germans had a madden-
ing economy of making one half of the
wood of soft cedar and the other half
of something nearly uncuttable, so that
when sharpening with a knife one con-
stantly broke off the point. And despite
the world-wide rise in prices I can still
buy a quality Australian pencil for a
penny.— Scratcher (W.A.).
A Book Is Censored
The Australian censorship “works” in
this way.
Some book by an Australian writer
catches the eye of a policeman in
Sydney. He reads a couple of pages and
is so upset that he rushes back to the
police station and draws the attention
of his superior officers to it. They take
one look at the offending object and ring
up Mr. Baddeley. Mr. Baddeley has a
look, and, not being able to trust his
own judgment, invites a couple of
members of the vice squad to read the
book right through, including the commas
and semicolons, in order to see if, in
their opinion, the book is an obscene
book, unfit to be read at the domestic
fireside.
Immediately these facts are known
some booksellers return their stocks of
the suspected volume to the publishers,
who pass them on to others not so timid,
confident that there will be a large sec-
tion of the public anxious to judge for
themselves as to whether the book fulfils
the definition. No doubt to the delight
of the author, who never expected such
luck, the first edition is sold out in a few
days, and the publishers are bombarded
with requests for thousands of extra
copies.
The newspapers that don’t like the
color of Mr. Baddeley’s politics make a
feature of it, splash the news in three-
inch headlines and try to interview the
author to find out what he thinks ob-
scenity is. If he is a wily bird he
refuses to give a definition. In the mean-
time, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Mel-
bourne are apprised of the situation and
take steps to ensure that they will have
the opportunity of coming to an inde-
pendent judgment about a work of such
importance, and there is a fresh public
demand for copies.
The net result is that a book which
would probably never have been heard
of outside a select circle of the literati
becomes almost a bestseller, like
Beckett’s Budget. Yet it can easily
come about that a book by an Australian
writer which is a pure work of art can
be officially stigmatised as obscene.—
Pawang (Vic.).
“I'LL have to hang-up now, Sweetypie. Someone waiting on the "phone."


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 ~ 12 6
3 ’0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia '
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ~£l9O
Food for Britain
The desire to assist Britain, strongly
shown by the people though not by their
“national ‘Government’,” could also
prove a great advantage to Australia if
we could break our own tradition of poor
cooking.
In my young days we killed our own
meat, and every part of this was utilised.
A sheep’s head, boiled, with carrots,
parsnips and an onion, served with
parsley sauce, is a delectable dish, pre-
ceded by its own soup. But how many
butchers prepare these heads for sale for
human consumption? Then cowheels
make delicious dishes of jelly, soup or
in alliance with stewed tripe. Instead
they are usually wasted.
Jane Austen wrote “I am very fond
of experimental housekeeping, such as
having an ox-cheek now and then.”
Where, in Australia, can one get an ox-
cheek?
In my State there is a most shocking
waste of milk and butter, because of
the Government’s refusal to allow small
cowkeepers (who are numerous) to sell
their produce without a lot of registra-
tion and red tape. If butter production
in such cases were organised by practical
people such as the C.W.A. or the Red
Cross pounds and pounds could be pro-
duced for .local use, while most of the
present output from the factories could
be sent abroad. — Milgia (Tas.).
Vanished Freedom
Surely the time has come when the
power of a Commonwealth Minister to
veto or attach conditions to a person’s
right to travel abroad should cease —at
least as between British possessions and
Allied countries.
This power has been exercised by re-
fusing to issue a passport or by placing
irrelevant conditions upon its use.
The ordinary purpose of a passport is
to enable a British subject to travel with
safety in foreign countries, but there
must, of course, be restrictions on its use
for this purpose in time of war.
Now that hostilities have ended the
power should be used only for its normal
purpose and not to prevent people from
leaving Australia or to require persons
who wish to travel to go by air. Nor
should the Minister have the right in the
issue of a passport to discriminate be-
tween different classes of people or to
assess the relative values of businessmen’s
tours in search of markets.
This is another curtailment of our
liberty and an illustration of the misuse
of Ministerial control— Lex (N.S.W.).
Fiats and the Birthrate
An advertisement in a daily paper,
authorised by the Housing Commission,
called for tenders for the building of
flats.
We are told that crowded living con-
ditions are a menace to the health of the
future generation, yet by official sanc-
tion large blocks of flats are to be built.
Such buildings may offer a temporary
relief of the housing problem, but they
certainly will not have a favorable effect
on the birthrate.
Parents who respect the health of their
children will not force them to live
under conditions which restrict them to
the narrow confines of a two- or three-
room apartment. Apparently we, the
taxpayers, are to foot the bill for a
scheme which will provide, not homes
for the needy, but posh flats for the
selected few who have no children, and,
in most cases, don’t intend to have any.
—N. G. S. (N.S.W.).
Army Command
After World War I the Government of
the day called into conference the senior
officers of the A.I.F. —Chauvel, Monash,
White, Glasgow, Coxen, Rosenthal,
Hobbs, Gellibrand, Foott, Brand, Dodds
and others, crystallising their many-sided
experiences. In the result it was decided
to organise the Army on a divisional
•basis, commanded and staffed as far as
possible by the same officers who had
held those appointments in the A.I.F.
Shortly before World War II this
scheme was modified by the command
system, under which nucleus Army and
corps staffs and commanders were ap-
pointed, war planning was speeded up
and a Lines-of-Communication organisa-
tion established.
No provision was made for an expedi-
tionary force. Another weakness lay in
the retention of the Military Board, until
General MacArthur swept it away and
appointed General Blarney to create and
command an Army as C.-in-C. in Aus-
tralia.
The command system and its prede-
cessor the divisional scheme owed their
success to the wholehearted loyalty and
unselfish devotion of a band of perman-
ent and militia commanders and staffs
who gave their knowledge, energy and
money to keep alive and train, on an
elementary basis, a skeleton army for
war.
Clothing, equipment, ammunition,
transport and accommodation, were made
available grudgingly and parsimoniously.
The period of six days a year, with
obsolete and deficient training equipment
and transport and an “effective” (?)
quota at one stage of only 25,000 men,
was totally inadequate. But Australia’s
Parliament, despite grave warnings and
signs that any schoolboy could under-
stand, preferred to live in a paradise of
fools.- A complete brigade for overseas
service using the whole of the “pooled”
equipment in Australia could not have
been maintained for more than a period
of weeks.
Repeated requests for money for muni-
tions, ■ for the placing of “educational”
orders with private industry and the
establishing of shadow factories were
opposed tooth and nail by the Curtin
party, then in opposition.
In between wars we have prepared not
for the next war but on the lessons of its
predecessor; based our preparations
on what has happened, rather on
what will happen. V-bomb, atom-bomb
and numerous other developments which
come to light almost daily demand a new
design and a complete reorientation of
our resources. Enlistment of the best
technical brains within and outside the
services is essential. A method of con-
trol and leadership that will result in de-
cisions, clearcut, far - reaching and
prompt, must be set up. This does not
happen under the labored processes of a
Board of Administration.
A board has been described as some-
thing “narrow, flat and long” ; “a system
of middle-way compromise and medi-
ocrity.” Its speed of movement resembles
that of an egg-laying competition. In the
Army the board system plays into the
hands of civil servants, who, having direct
access to the Minister, the P.M. and
Treasury officials on matters of life and
death to the nation, can and do veto the
technical opinion and advice of trained
soldiers. The effect is that a watered-
down and anaemic substitute takes the
place of virile decision. The very essence
of command in peace and war lies in the
ability of a series of commanders, high
and low, to issue and receive orders and
accept responsibility for their decisions
and executive action.
Profiting by dire necessity and the de-
cision of MacArthur in the moment of
stress, we have now a golden opportunity
to sweep away board and civil-service
control in all the fighting services, but
particularly in the case of the Army. A
man of the Montgomery type as C,-in-C.
would .ruthlessly cut the red tape and,
backed by a sympathetic Parliament,
press and public, would transform our
forces into a fighting machine ready and
prepared in every respect for the inevit-
able and inescapable war in Asia and the
Pacific.— Three Wars (N.S.W.).
Payment to Come
After nearly five years in the Army
I can still find something about it which
I’d like to see in post-war civil life —de-
ferred pay.
The stigma of charity would not cling
to a nation-wide deferred-pay or super-
annuation scheme. Besides interest would
supplement the amount the earner pays
in. As no more could or should be taken
out of emaciated pay envelopes the Gov-
ernment might make a remission in tax
as a special gesture and credit the indi-
vidual’s d.p. account.
Another new department? Not at all.
The machinery is already there. A volun-
tary scheme? No.
Ask any serviceman what he thought of
his d.p. He never resented paying and
at times he almost Jforgot about it, except
that it was always a nice feeling that was
tucked away at the back of his mind. —
Sono (N.S.W:).
Franco
Many people must have wondered at
the ceaseless vituperation of Franco by
some of our newspapers. Franco is
accused of having favored Hitler; yet he
remained neutral throughout the war
when possession of Spain would have
been of vital importance to Hitler and a
corresponding loss to the Allies. Sweden
also remained neutral, and was probably
quite as sympathetic towards the Ger-
man cause early, whatever she may have
felt later in the war. Yet no attacks are
made on Sweden.
Stalin was so far from neutral that in
August, 1940, “Izvestia” could report that
“Russia is helping Germany to beat.the
British blockade by supplying raw
materials.” And it wasn’t Stalin who put
an end to this state of affairs.
Franco is also blamed for the poverty
and bad government of Spain. These
things, though tragic and deplorable, have
“I must run along now , cherub —my husband doesn't like me going
through the park after midnight.”
always been the same, as everyone must
know who has read anything about that
country. But newspaper correspondents
seem to think that Spanish history began
with the civil war. There is an old folk-
tale, which explains that Spain, gifted
with a good climate, a rich land (poten-
tially) and a charming people, was at the
same time condemned to bad government
to prevent her from becoming perfect.
It may be hoped that Franco may over-
come this sad heritage, but he did not
cause it.
The only explanation of the Franco
attacks seems to be that they are of Com-
munist origin, in revenge for the Reds’
defeat in Spain, later carried on by non-
Communists who have fallen victims to
propaganda. There are no means of
knowing how far Russia helped to bring
about the civil war. Wasn’t it Lenin
who prophesied that Spain would be the
next country to go Communist? Why
did Lenin make this forecast? It is in
flat contradiction to the gospel of Marx,
who said revolution would start in the
most highly industrialised countries. Time
has shown this to be false. It makes one
wonder whether Lenin realised even then
that Marx was wrong in several of the
assumptions on which his philosophy was
built. —E. and O. E. (Tas.).
Nauru
I thank you for your splendid article
on Nauru (B. 3/4/’46), and hope that
something may come of it.
Not only has the general public not
known anything about what happened in
Nauru during those three and a half
years ; the relatives of the murdered men
have never had any satisfactory explana-
tion of events. The Government did not
even have the courtesy to inform the
next-of-kin when the island was taken
by the Japanese—the news came only
through hearsay and rumor.
' Touching the statement of the member
for Barker that there were a few soldiers
on Nauru when the Japanese landed, the
entire garrison had left a few months
before. The brave men who stayed be-
hind to uphold the prestige of Britain and
Australia in that remote part of the world
were quite unprotected. The Government
has shown its appreciation of the work
of my brother, the doctor, and his com-
panions by treating their dependants,
especially the children, in a most mean
and niggardly fashion. — Margaret Quin
(Vic.).
Missing Link
The decision of the Premiers’ confer-
ence to build a standard gauge railway
from Bourke to Dajarra, through Win-
dorah, probably means shelving the con-
struction of a connecting link between
Charleville and Blackall.
This link was endorsed by the powers
that be as far back as 1898, and was defi-
nitely approved by a Queensland Royal
Commission on Public Works in 1939,
when Harold Clapp recommended that
the proposed standard-gauge railway
should go from Bourke to Cunnamulla.
The Charleville, Blackall, Longreach
and Winton Graziers’ Association
branches and shire councils thought that
at long last the transportation needs of
the sheep industry of south-west and cen-
tral-western Queensland had been given
the consideration they deserved. It has
been officially estimated that of the 17
million sheep lost through drought in
Queensland between 1925 and 1936 about
15 million died within a reasonable
economic distance of the links proposed
by Harold Clapp.
On a conservative basis it is estimated
that if rail transport had been available
the saving to Queensland during those 11
years would have been £7£ million.
The route eventually decided upon for
the standard-gauge line will be of con-
siderable assistance to the cattle industry
in the far west of Queensland, but it will
miss the main sheep areas. Transport
Minister Walsh made no bones about his
opposition to any line likely to take traffic
away from Queensland ports, and for
this reason he opposed the linking-up of
Charleville and Blackall.
TfeQueensland Government to a man
endbrsed a line from Goondiwindi or
Mungindi to Miles, Wandoan, Taroom
and on to Charters Towers, but the Fed-
eral Cabinet stated that the defence
authorities were definitely opposed to
such a line. It has, however, been re-
vealed that last October the Defence
Committee reported that standardisation,
“although desirable and convenient,” was
by no means imperative from the defence
aspect. The final decision was obviously
based solely on political considerations
and with an eye to retaining as much as
possible of the present trade at Queens-
land ports.
The Premiers are apparently regarding
the work as a good standby for men
wanting work and making themselves
heard in the capital cities. Adoption of
the Clapp plan would have served the
great sheep and cattle industries of cen-
tral, southern and north-western Queens-
land, and conferred a lasting benefit on
the State.— Outback (Q.).
Jobs—But No Women
“Junius Jr.” (B. 3/4/’46) may explain
why there are no women for the jobs
men can’t take. A friend in Sydney,
whose p.-0.-w. husband is resuming prac-
tice, has advertised repeatedly in “S. M.
Herald” for help in the house, offering
£3 per week, week-ends free, afternoons
off, no washing to be done, no young
children to untidy the house ; the home, a
modern one in a comfortable suburb
Not a single answer!
That woman doesn’t wonder that coun-
try people can’t get domestic help. But
where are the girls from the services?-
Tilburina (N.S.W.).


THEY LEARN BY DOING.
Steel Industry Apprentices Benefit
by New Training Development
c
KILLED tradesmen are as necessary to
modern industry as lubrication is to machinery
The manufacture of iron and steel requires the
combined efforts of many men and many
trades, among whom fitters and turners com-
prise a large proportion.
It was appropriate, therefore, that appren-
tices indentured to fitting and turning should
be the first to be chosen for training in the
apprentices’ training-shop recently established
by The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., at
the Newcastle Steel Works.
The shop was designed expressly for the
practical instruction of fitting and turning trade
apprentices in the important formative stage,
i.e., the first two years of their apprenticeship.
The experience gained in this shop is most
varied, and includes both productive and
maintenance work on various engineering
equipment necessary to steel works operation.
The shop has 6,000 square feet of floor
space, and provides for the accommodation
of 40 apprentices. It is divided into two
sections, one for training in machine operations
and the other section for fitting and assembly.
First-class equipment includes high-speed
drills, turret lathes, shaper, miller, fitting
benches, and all tools necessary for modern
machine operation. The shop also has its own
instrument- and store-rooms.
The safety and welfare of the boys are a
prime consideration, and well-designed mess-
and shower-rooms are provided for their
exclusive use.
The apprentices have reacted most favour-
ably to these surroundings which provide
invaluable practical experience right from the
start of their apprenticeship.
On completion of the two years’ training in
the shop the apprentices are transferred to the
main machine-shop.
The selection of capable supervisors well
qualified and able to understand young people
is a great factor in the smooth and successful
operation of the shop.
These supervisors maintain a keen interest
in the progress made by their charges, who are
most painstakingly grounded in the basic
knowledge of their chosen trade. They work
in a good causes—the building of the appren-
tices’ technical skill and the development of
general character, thus providing a firm
foundation on which they may well fashion
their future as skilled tradesmen.
The excellent results obtained by the New-
castle apprentices’ training-shop have resulted
in a similar shop being established at Whyalla.
At this South Australian port the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., Ltd., has established a blast-
furnace plant for pig-iron production and an
extensive shipyard which have created a steady
demahd for skilled tradesmen.
Mr. Jack Weichart, foreman in charge of
the Newcastle Steel Works training shop
nstrucfing a second year apprentice in
working to a drawing.
Mr. N. Anderson, instructor, explaining to
apprentices the valve gear of a winch recondi-
tioned in the Newcastle Steel Works training
shop.
Instructor inspecting lathe-setting at the
Whyalla apprentice shop.
Below: Modern accommodation, including hot and cold showers,
is provided for apprentices to clean-up after the day’s work.
Above: Apprentices receiving theoretical instruction
at the Broken Hill Proprietary’s Whyalla, S.A., appren-
tices’ training shop.
