

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67-No. 3445
Wednesday, February 20, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
The Temple Church: The Rotunda.
T'HE Rotunda of the Temple Church is a transition Norman
building that dates from 1185. It is 58 feet in diameter,
and is entered through a fine Norman archway. The public are
admitted to the Round Church during divine service, but the
adjoining choir is reserved for the barristers of the Inner and
Middle Temples and their friends. The nine dark recumbent
marble monuments in full armour are those of Templars of the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries ; James Howell, John Seldon and
Edward Thurlow were buried here and in the churchyard is the
grave of Goldsmith The effigies were restored, like the rest of
T , e Church jn 1837 . 42 by Smirke , this is one of
■ •
England’s four round churches, the others being Cambridge,
Northampton and Little Maplestead, Essex.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your NewFrf-
Booklet explaining how to toT
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin
Profit,
My Kame ~
My Address
S.B. 146
AGE...
The Red Page
l HEARD THE POSSUM CRY.
I
Where a twisted tree
Split the rough sandstone
I stood at night and heard
A possum scold the moon.
1 listened for the cock
Who would call my dead
Grandfather from his grave
To my grandmother’s bed.
I waited for the magpie
One hour before the dawn
To sing “Tan-tara, boys!”
On old John Bax’s horn.
I lifted up my hand
And made my ear a cup ;
The skewbald dingo slept
At Brigalow Gap.
The only sounds I heard
That hour before the light
Were the tide in the leaves,
The possum’s cry to the night.
x II
1 heard the possum cry
Beneath the yellow moon.
I said “That moon was made
From this same sandstone.”
The moon looked through the trees
And where her shadows stood
Blackmen sprang upright;
They filled the ancient wood.
A tide ran through the leaves;
Otherwise a still
Hush lay on the bush
Where the shadows fell.
Like a lubra, the land
Lay quiet, indifferent;
The shadows stole to the trees
At the moon’s ascent.
n.s.w.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
The Inimitable "Mo."
Theatrical memoirs, unless they are of
the acid kind, are usually full of loving-
kindness for all men; .all fellow-per-
formers are “wonderful” ; all managers
generous and patriotic to a fault; all
companies “one big happy family.”
Mo’s Memoirs (Reed and Harris Ltd.),
a book of this kind, is remarkable for
an example of matrimonial agreement
of a completeness not hitherto known on
earth.
Says “Mo” of “Mo”:
“People often think of me as a man
who likes blue jokes, but the truth is I am
a simple, serious-minded man, and my ideas
and tastes are modest. Sadie says in some
ways I am almost narrow-minded.”
Says the comedian’s wife, Sadie
Gale:
“Roy is a simple, serious-minded man,
modest in taste and ideas, and at times
almost narrow-minded.”
Says “Mo”:
“You know I never say anything. It is
my expressions and the vulgarity in people’s
minds that make a joke a little blue. It
is my antics, because everything I say has
a double meaning. I object to a show
where there is no get-out.”
Says Sadie Gale:
“Actually in his shows Roy never says
anything that is vulgar in' it'self. The
vulgarity exists in people’s minds. It is
Roy’s expressions and gestures that make
his sketches so funny. He objects strongly
to any show in which there is no get-out.”
Says “Mo”:
“I read a lot. My favorite books are
English history, and to me one of the
greatest sorrows of the war is the way all
my favorite places have been destroyed. I
get through four books in the week-end,
and I always bring them in from the library
eight at a time.”
Says Sadie Gale:
“Roy adores English history, in fact, ever
since he was a boy at school it fascinated
him. He reads anything he can lay his
hands on about England, and it was one of
the sorrows of the war to him that so many
of his favorite historical spots were de-
stroyed by bombs. He is a tremendous
reader. He gets through at least four
books every week-end... .Libraries must
hate him, because he brings home eight
books at a time.”
The publishers, who bob into the
memoirs every now and again to say a
few words, add a final confirmation:
What Sadie says is undoubtedly true of
Roy. He is a simple, serious-minded man,
but at the same time he is a great comic
artist.
Well, there’s no doubt about it: “Mo”
must be a simple, serious-minded man.
But, somehow, it would be enchanting
to hear him say just that from the stage.
It would rock the roof every time, just as
does his celebrated opening:
“I will now give you an impersonation of
birds, beasts and flowers.”
Apart from minor flaws, which in any
case are hardly the comedian’s responsi-
bility—the book was “ghosted” for him
by Elisabeth Lambert and “put into
final form” by Max Harris, “a member
of our firm” — Mo’s Memoirs is a con-
tribution to Australian theatrical history
both capable and attractive. The “ghost-
ing” has been well done on the whole, so
that one feels it is “Mo” himself talking ;
and what his talk chiefly exhibits is his
genuine love for the theatre, demon-
strated not only by his recollections of
great shows but by his distrust of radio,
talkies and the enforced adherence to
scripts—anything that mechanises or
dehumanises the spontaneous warmth of
the -living stage.
His book is all theatre: “Mo” at the
age of nine—his real name was Harry
van der Sluys and his father was a cigar
manufacturer —performing as a lion-
tamer with the cats/ of the neighborhood
in a kids’ circus in Adelaide (admission
a penny or a bottle); Peter Dawson
riding to singing lessons in North
Adelaide on a great white horse; a
monkey band, dressed in uniforms of red
and gold, at a Fuller show in New
Zealand; much about “The Bunyip”
pantomime, which had to do with a
Demon King and a Fairy Wattleblossom
and in which “Mo” played Ned Kelly ;
the real “amateur hours” when anyone
was welcomed on the stage as a target
for laughs and cabbages ; the Beef Trust
ballet, in which ajl the girls weighed over
twenty stone; the Five Manchurians
“who were real Chinamen, and swung
by their pigtails on the trapeze”....
“You never see animal acts nowadays,”
the comedian laments ; “they must have
cost a fortune.” Some other criticisms:
“You can’t hear half the singers nowa-
days for five or ten yards if they haven’t
got a mike. Now what would grand-opera
singers do if they had to work with a
microphone?”.... “People ask where the
audience of today has vanished to, but I
say it’s the movies and the high price of
the flesh-and-blood theatre. The working
man can’t afford, the high prices, and it’s
the working man who makes up the audi-
ence if you’re going to have a real suc-
cess” “It was everyday life that gave
us our material and that is one reason why
we could all ad-lib. Now it’s nothing but
scripts all the time and we are losing that
touch with the ordinary people round us,
which is bad” “If you don’t stick to
your script you get a-memo from the office,
and in a way it deadens your comedy, just
remembering lines. The spontaneity goes
out of it” “I only made one picture. I
found it too hard trying to be funny to
no - one. You need the stimulus of the
audience when you’ve been used to one.
That’s swhat I have against radio”:...
“What has happened to the theatre that we
have to go overseas for everything? How
would England and America get on if they
had to get all their plays and acts and
sketches from other countries? I think
it is a shame that there are not more plays
and acts with an Australian flavor.”
The comedian is “serious-minded” all
right. But as far as his own stage per-
formances are concerned, he offers quite
the wrong defence; nor do the pub-
lishers quite hit the mark when they
analyse his art as, like Chaplin’s, a
dramatisation of the “ordinary bloke.”
Essentially, “Mo’s” genuis is Rabelaisian:
and that is the proper defence for it: it
is genuinely Rabelaisian. And when
Rabelais wrote it was as if the earth it-
self had spoken ; it was very old, very
wicked, very wise, very much amused at
itself and not in the least ashamed of
being earthy.
"Dog's Life."
A dog named Samuel Perkins in
Gordon Boshell’s Dog’s Life (Seeker and
Warburg ; Moore’s Bookshop), requested
by the editor of a newspaper to write an
attack on the bureaucracy, refuses on
the grounds that
War-time bureaucracy imposed and in-
creased by Flush water’s party with avowed
object of winning war which now done.
If bureaucracy necessary greatest struggle
why unnecessary now? Will point out
Flushwater ready to appeal Government
for more bureaucracy and imposition new
burdens on public, when private business
fails to make profits and needs subsidies;
but where national interest imposes limits
on private buccaneering Flushwater gang
scream for lifting controls.
Samuel does not seem to be a very
bright dog, for it surely does not follow
that because bureaucratic control may be
imposed in war-time and (to a more
limited extent than Samuel cares to
admit) during a depression, it is there-
fore desirable at all times; the truth
being, of course, that, if sometimes un-
avoidable, it is at all times undesirable.
To enter Samuel’s own world —what sen-
sible dog ever thought he should spend
his whole life on the chain?
That is an analogy which didn’t occur
to Samuel Perkins. Gordon Boshell
hasn’t really made a dog of him at all.
A long way after Lady Into Fox and
closely resembling J. K. Stanford’s The
Twelfth (a pleasant little book reviewed
here some months ago about a sportsman
who was turned into a grouse), Dog’s
Life is concerned with a Fleet-street
journalist whose soul, when he is knocked
o.ver by a bus, enters the body of a dog.
He becomes famous as the Writing Dog
of the “Daily Monitor.”
There are some amusing bits of animal
comedy—for instance, when Samuel meets
a large Persian cat very much troubled
about “the mousing problem” —but on the
whole this aspect of the book is pale,
and the only real interest is in Mr.
Boshell’s satirical commentary on the
press. He is sucessful in a minor way in
his shots at the atrocious Little Man of
the cartoonists, and at newspapermen
who model their style on the magazine
“Time” (“Podgy, snub-nosed, bull-necked,
cigar-puffing British Premier Winston
Spencer Churchill”), but as a thinker he
is muddled. Among journalists he is a
rarity and a prodigy in that he actually
seems to want Government control of the
press, and, in his contention that the
“people’s censorship” that would result
would be preferable to “censorship by
individuals” (newspaper proprietors), he
blinds himself to the fact that the ordinary
man would, in practice, have no say
whatever in his “people’s censorship.”
As in Russia and Nazi Germany, a
“people’s censorship” would be adminis-
tered by a bureaucrat for a Party ; an
instrument not of liberty but of tyranny.
Abos. and Aeroplanes.
Told in the first person by Elisabeth
George, Two at Daly Waters (Georgian
House, Melbourne) is the story of Hen-
riette and Bill Pearce —principally Hen-
riette —who .made a home for themselves
in the Northern Territory. The author
says what she has to say briefly, simply
and clearly, with considerable under-
statement and not a little quiet humor.
The way, in fact, one would imagine
Mrs. Pearce herself would tell the story
were it not for the fact, a's Elisabeth
George remarks in a foreword, that she
has been “too busy living to know what
a good story she tells.”
During the last war the Pearces went
tin-mining, went broke and then started
a store at Daly Waters with little capital
other than enthusiasm and a fair share
of intestinal fortitude. The early part of
the book is not unlike We of the Never
Never. Indeed Elsey Station was the
Pearces’ “nearest visiting place” and every
year they travelled the 126 miles to Mrs.
Aineas Gunn’s old home, to renew ac-
quaintances and to “eat fish” from the
Elsey lagoons. There is some good ob-
servation (and description) of aboriginals,
birds, beasts and the rather underpubli-
cised beauties of the Territory. Also, not
unnaturally, a good deal about the domes-
tic problems of the outback:
One is saved from any Excessive love of
possessions by the fact that the white
ants call for a philosophic outlook.
The termites ate everything, apparently,
except the kitchen stove, and they were
not averse to hair oil. And there were
other trials. Despite this, Two at Daly
Waters is essentially a cheerful book.
When the great airlines chose Daly
Waters as a fuelling place things changed.
Celebrities became a comrfionplace and
the place itself a hive of industry. Then
the war with Japan broke out and “our
bush dwelling had the distinction of
being the first headquarters of the U.S.A.
squadron in Australia and the first
R.A.A.F. hospital south of Darwin.”
Besides celebrities from overseas, some
well-known Territory men come into the
story. Sergeant Blain, M.P., gets honor-
able mention, and Fenton, the flying
doctor, gets a chapter to himself. “When
Doc. Fenton dipped the wing of his
’plane as he came over the house, I knew
he would be coming in for an omelette.”
The doctor’s duties were varied enough
—on one occasion h£ had to shoot a mad
buffalo as well as attend to its victim —
and there is no possible doubt about his
services to the Territory. Besides an ac-
count of these there is- some account of
the doctor himself:
Normally his time was fully occupied
but on rare occasions, when work was
slack and the Doc. a trifle irritated in con-
sequence, he had his own little diversions.
One was to buy from the local storekeeper
20 or 30 bags of flour, hop into his ’plane,
and, from a height, severely bomb the town-
ship of Katherine.
On another occasion he flew to China
in a small Moth to visit a sick relative,
in defiance of authority. Since Doc.
Fenton is now one of Australia’s heroes,
it is well that we should have these little
personal touches. And they give warmth
and character to the book.
Cecil Mann’s The River and Coast to
Coast, 1944 (edited by Vance Palmer),
Have been bracketed as the Australian
Book Society’s “first book choice for
1946.” The selection was made by Miles
Franklin, Katharine Prichard, Nettie
Palmer, C. B. Christesen and R. G.
Howarth.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Gathering momentum, the 1946 art
season in Melbourne produced at least
six shows in one week, including Alex.
Aldridge at the Athenaeum, Marjory Pen-
glase and Sergeant Newton Hedstrom at
Myers’ and Elise Bluman at the Velas-
quez. Miss Penglase paints a country-
side familiar to Melbourne, and Sergeant
Hedstrom the strong lights and heavy
colors and the ruin and devastation of
Labuan on a basis of impressionistic
study, best shown in some of the lady’s
smaller sketches. Alex. Aldridge needs
more skill or more concentration his
work is extraordinarily uneven. Elise
Bluman is a Westralian artist who, in her
European wanderings, came in contact
with the primitive art of Catalonia and
became enamored of its simplicity—
which isn’t the same as simplification.
Her pictures are endeavors to simplify her
impressions, and, while some Sre quite
successful, others have a posterish ap-
pearance.
The general vagueness of the
paintings at Sydney Macquarie Galleries’
annual “show of fives” leaves one,
two days later, not quite sure whether
one has seen the show or not. For in-
stance, in Mr. Russell Drysdale’s “Sketch
for Woman Sleeping” the bed and bed-
room are indicated, sketchily but clearly
enough for anyone with keen eyesight
to recognise their purport, but the
woman, or rather the sketch for a woman,
is a sketch indeed; in fact, it is a sketch
of a sketch: a masterpiece of
negation. Of the same vague species
was Donald Friend’s ,work, labelled
“Abstract Studies.” They were. Jocelyn
Rickards’s chef-d’oeuvre was also some-
thing of a tax upon the comprehension.
What at first sight seemed a procession
of the rodents of Hamelin, without the
Pied Piper, on closer inspection revealed
itself as a funeral procession, with sedately
prancing horses. “Boys Fishing,” by
Justin O’Brien, was distinguished by
bright, primary colors against a light
background. The boys themselves were
frozen into a flat and unnatural immo-
bility. It seemed a passable imitation of
a French poster or a Javanese tapestry or
something. Robert Campbell’s “On the
Hunter,” Enid Cambridge’s “Scotland
Island” and Joy Ewart’s “Kangaroo Val-
ley, Bundanoon,” were the pick of the
collection.
“F.S.” attends a melodrama:
Realism in traditional Australian melodrama
has a peculiar connotation. In the case of
“Monagan,” a three-acter by Locksley Shaw,
put on by the Australian Theatre Movement at
the Australian Playhouse in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, it consists mainly of a live koala and
a country store packed with not one or two
examples but shining pyramids of everything a
housewife longs for, from Rosella tomato sauce
to Rinso. In spite of these aids to the imagina-
tion, however, there was an unrealistic air
about the story of the country j.p., one of
whose sons becomes a city bank clerk, suc-
cumbs to the temptations of a gangster, helps
to rob the bank, and returns to his hometown,
presenting his elder brother, a handsome young
mounted trooper, with the unpleasant alterna-
tive of having to arrest him or be false to his
oath as a policeman. The problem is re-
solved by the heroic action of the refugee from
justice, who attacks the gangster, recaptures the
loot and is shot in the process, dying in the
arms of his sweet old father. A love interest
is provided by the city girl, inspired by the
movies, who is with the crooks but not of
them and who marries the honest countryman
whose heart is in the right place. All this goes
on to the accompaniment of almost Shak-
spearean eloquence, with an undercurrent of
On Our Selection humor. It will be gratifying
to Melbourne citizens to know that the play
is “set” in Warrego, N.S.W., and Sydney.
In a largely acrobatic confection —“Laf-
fiesta” —at Melbourne Tiv. the appro-
priately-named Rollos, two well-nourished
skaters, whirl each other about on a
platter and give the impression that they
could do it on a threepence; Joe Page
and company ramble about on the tight
wire; Les Warren brings art into the
problem of equilibration while in a state
of alleged inebriation ; Frank Donnellan
flips into the auditorium a boomerang
which returns uncannily to his hand, after
stirring the top hairs of conductor Mos-
chetti; and the De Pauls defy the laws
of gravitation in a flying item. The
microphone puts up with a good deal ot
punishment between times.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
-
*
■
v --. 1
V>V C^-x ’ v
*
ft
Ns
-
OSk-*
&
l s>- /
&
l\
WE WANT TYPISTES!
We require Typistes experienced in Correspond-
ence and Mail Order work. Permanent positions
if satisfactory. Girls 17 years of age or ex-service-
women. Apply Staff Superintendent, Third Floor.
— ,
jpilll
PALACE
BRAND
Po
0/\.
■1
UhinFt
<?c/
/7
w< c/
■
B
Nam*
fgl
\
$
li ?>•
m
mm
£cne d c/e^ettce
“PALACE” EUCALYPTUS DISIN
FECTANT. With a clean and refresh-
ing odour this disinfectant is specially
prepared for Hospitals, Sick Rooms or
Restaurants. Suitable also for house-
hold use. Price .. . \/- bottle
“PALACE” ANTISEPTIC TEA TREE OIL
LIQUID SOAP. Purer than the finest
soap it can be used freely on the most tender
skin. Widely acclaimed for its curative and
germicidal powers “Palace” Liquid Tea Tree
Oil Soap can be used with success for the
treatment of wounds op sores on Humans or
Stock. Absolutely safe, it is suitable for all
domestic and household purposes. 4 gallon
drums. Price 32/6
t '
PALACE’ PHENYLE DISINFECTANT
A powerful disinfectant fluid, ideal
for sinks, drains, floors, stables, pig-
geries, etc. Price lOd. bottle
v
7mm
*■» zf
, 'V^»
' <*' »
‘ „>V/
“PALACE” OIL OF EUCALYPTUS. For internal
or external use. Produced in conformity with
British Pharmacopoeia Standard (1932)—the
guarantee of purity and efficiency. Obtainable
in three sizes. Prices lid., 1/7, 2/10
“PALACE” D.D.T. INSECT POWDER. This
amazing, revolutionary, superfine Insect Powder
will penetrate the finest crevice and destroy
Moths, Fleas, Silverfish, Lice and other insects.
The efficiency and effectiveness of D.D.T.
renders it a necessity in every household, 1/
Chemistry Department —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
“PALACE” PURE GLYCERINE. A necessity
for coughs and colds; also recommended for
Chilblains, Sore Lips, Chapping, Sunburn, etc.
Every medicine chest should contain a bottle
of “Palace” Pure Glycerine. Available in three
sizes. Prices Bd., 1/3, 2/- each
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
’PHONE: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


m
■ ■ ■ r>c “
... j
Bililpi
:i#islciil
A ■ * - -
rnmm
lilt*
111 |
■
v:
...........
-
SHHi
* ■
■
I
■
I-
mmm
:
.........
■
j <
H
J
1
*
j! J
; s s ■•:
.
v.
££9B9 $3
'—- -- s
m
P-
a
.
ar
m
m
mm
mm
9
Hm
m
■
Steelbilt Locker Installation in Ladies’ Change
Room at Kellogg’s Factory, Botany, Sydney.
«. d the invisible force that builds efficiency
and helps production!
Today, Australian employers have recognised the importance of providing
safe locker facilities for employees.
Everywhere Steelbilt Standardised Lockers have replaced old fashioned
Cloakroom fittings in stores and institutions. Whilst in modern factories it
is being made a first consideration.
Security, cleanliness, privacy, these are the major advantages offered in
a Steelbilt Locker Installation.
Solidly constructed, distinctively finished in olive green, Steelbilt Lockers
can be assembled individually back to back, back to wall or flush with wall.
A call to Wormald Brothers will bring a Steelbilt expert to your factory.
11
m
m
WORMALD BROI HERS PTY. LTD. [lnc. in N.S.W.J Fire Protection Engineers since 1889 .* All Australian States and New Zealand


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3445
Wednesday, February 20, 1946
“THE DOG SAT ON THE TUCKERBOX.”
"W. ... gravely concerned to not. that, apart from the promiee by Mr. Scully that fire million MM. «* ’
no specific promises have been made.”— Mr. Mensies and Mr. Harrison (Liberal), Mr. Fadden and Mr. Mchaeen (C. .) J


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
UNDERESTIMATING J. BULL.
Between the wars the idea of a decadent
Britain and a disintegrating British
Empire was so sedulously hawked about
the world that the actual performance in
the later war pleased and surprised the
friends of both and dumbfounded their
enemies. On the evidence of Mein
Kampf Hitler himself had high respect
for British toughness. Where he blun-
dered fatally was in overestimating the
German strength and war-making posi-
tion. But others were clearly taken in,
not only in potentially friendly countries
like America but even in the Empire itself.
The notion is now being as sedulously
hawked again. As before, it probably
bases on confusing Britain’s apparent
position with what the British are capable
of performing at a pinch. Britain’s
apparent position is not good. The
country is suffering the inevitable after-
math of its tremendous war effort. As
generous in peace as it was in war, it has
been diverting cargoes to India, where
crops have Tailed, and giving of its own
scant supplies to save Europe from large-
scale actual starvation before this present
winter is out; indeed, trying to save the
world from epidemics worse than war.
It is now itself in urgent need of all the
help in food and in other ways which
can be given and which assuredly has
been well earned. The mistake would be,
the old one of confusing this present need
with Britain’s probable future.
Through John Bull’s traditional reluct-
ance to be a self-propagandist, his war
performance is not yet as well known as
it should be, and certainly not as well
known as the American and Russian,
which in the popular idea dwarf it com-
pletely. Uncle Sam and the Russian Beai
are therefore viewed as colossi striding
the world, with John Bull a pigmy. The
view gaining a lot of ground is that
Britain is no longer a firstrate Power,
which serves to show how quickly history
can be forgotten, the more so the more
recent it is. No one would question
America’s most powerful position, due
largely to that country’s extraordinary
production ability, but it would be a
great mistake to underrate Britain un-
duly on that account, especially in com-
parison with other countries.
Any who might be misled by this cur-
rent line of anti-British propaganda would
be wise to dip into a recent special issue
of the London “Times” giving a record of
British war production. Actually it gives
a good deal more than that. As long as
a substantial book, the record touches on
every aspect of the great achievement —
by far the greatest in British history, and
all the more splendid in comparison with
the “decadent Britain” notion which pre-
ceded it. There is adequate mention,
also, of the Dominions and India to com-
pare with the disintegrating-Empire
propaganda which has been having a
revival. Mainly, however, the “Times”
record is necessarily of Britain’s own per-
formance, and that performance on this
massive showing compares in actual
results with that of any other country,
and in spirit more than compares.
The great testing of the spirit of the
“decadent British” came, of course, after
Dunkirk; when, with the B.E.F. defeated
and all its equipment lost, they stood
isolated and alone against the enemy then
riding on the crest of overwhelming
victories and about to be joined by allies.
In comparison with what Germany then
appeared to be, the British seemed for
practical war purposes as weak as had
been represented. What they were not
weak in was spirit, and by this they rose
to the occasion as no other till then
tested country had been able to do, and
as no other then untested country prob-
ably could have done. They were faced
with the threat of total war, including
expected invasion, and went into it
totally. “It is claimed for the British
people, after the most careful examination
of the facts in all countries,” the “Times”
record is able to say, “that it was more
fully deprived of its peace-time comforts
and more fully mobilised for war than
the people of any other country —not
excluding Germany.”
The mass of evidence presented on all
aspects of the British war effort substan-
tiates that great claim. Conclusive facts
can be picked out of every one of the
dozens of articles. Some of them may
be roughly known, but it is the mass
parade of them which sets forth the
splendid story, though even fragments of
it are impressive enough.
Mobilisation of women went much
farther in Britain than in any other
country. Of women aged between 18 and
40, 90 per cent, of the unmarried and 80
per cent, of the childless married were
roped into industry or the services.
Naturally mobilisation of men was on a
like total scale, and practically all those
not brought in were directly concerned in
some way with the general effort. All
men up to age 64 were mobilised. And
the men and women in the munitions
industries worked a 54-hour week.
A tragically large proportion of the
houses in which these devoted Britons
lived was wrecked or damaged by
bombs. And apart from reductions in
food to about the barest minimum, “all
luxuries disappeared: cars and motor-
cycles, radio sets, refrigerators, silk
stockings, rubber boots, table silver,
vacuum cleaners, furs, pianos, tennis
balls and golf clubs, watches, even
armchairs and carpets all these
things were simply not to be had
and were not made.” Rationing of food,
clothing and the like was general and
strictly enforced ; Britain’s black market
never got out of hand as in other coun-
tries. The British went hungry—as they
still are doing. They became thread-
bare. Many a Tommy was surprised at
the comparatively well-dressed and well-
fed numbers he came across in Europe.
Through all this, of course, the British
were undergoing continuous murderous
attack from the air, and were shipping off
to fight in Africa, Asia and elsewhere the
men that other countries, far less peril-
ously situated, would have kept at home.
Despite the lack of food, the bombing,
the huge call-up for the fighting forces,
and all the rest of it, munitions and other
productions rose to heights exceeded only
by America’s prodigious output. “Of all
the munitions used by the armed forces
of the British Commonwealth and
Empire (8i million men in all) since the
beginning of the war, 70 per cent, was
produced in the United Kingdom itself.”
The rest came mainly from the U.S.A.
and Canada, and, of course, Britain sent
huge supplies to Russia. And all that
production was accomplished with im-
ports of raw materials cut by 50 per cent,
by U-boats, bombing and other causes!
Add a few more merely headline facts,
’all dealt with in detail in the impressive
“Times” record: In general the produc-
tion of the “decadent British” became the
highest ever attained in the country’s
history. They were the pioneers of radar
and jet propulsion. “It was a British
scientist who discovered penicillin, a
British engineer who invented and de-
signed the Bailey bridge.” The pre-
fabricated portable harbors which made
the invasion of France possible were an-
other British invention, and British ’planes
proved second to none in the world.
Then there were the guns of various sorts,
some of them the world’s best of their
kind ; the huge amount and incomparably
high quality of all manner of munitions ;
the great (still undisclosed) shipbuilding ;
the necessity for salvaging all sorts of
things all over the country (it was an
offence to waste a ’bus ticket).
Next to the British spirit one practical
asset is featured in the record as having
very largely contributed to making the
achievement possible —the comparatively
decentralised nature of British industry.
“It has been said that if at Dunkirk the
positions of Britain and America had been
reversed the war might very well have
been lost by the allies,” the American
production at the time —it became more
dispersed later —being largely centred in
huge plants, whereas, though Britain also
has its vast factories, some 80 per cent,
of its 230,000 factories and workshops
employed only a handful of men apiece.
With the pressure on, they became even
more scattered;
Prisons were converted into workshops—
from one former condemned cell came vital
parts for aircraft that saved many a pilot’s
life A cellar under the Houses of Par-
liament was transformed into a well-
organised factory. Thousands of tiny
garages became the workshops of a small
army of sub-contractors, many of them in
the south carrying on under attack from
’planes, long - range shellfire, flying
bomb and rocket. One man set up a
machine under the front stairs of his home
and then worked to one-thousandth of an
inch For one important job a henhouse
became a small factory, and shell-caps in-
stead of shell eggs were turned out
Some 20,000 women became “outworkers”
—using the front parlor table as an
assembly line and calling in the neighbors
as extra hands.
Those were mere commonplaces for
every part of the tight little island. It
was one of the most striking triumphs
of spirit and sheer dogged endurance that
could be imagined, certainly not of a
“decadent” people. In all it has never
been equalled, in Britain or anywhere
else, and could hardly be excelled.
Britain today, as is shown in the record.
is a net debtor for nearly three billions
sterling to other countries, where it began
the war as a net creditor for a like or a
larger amount. The British themselves
cannot be in the best of shape —a natural
reaction after what they have been
through. It will be years before they are
comfortably housed. Nor are their hard-
worn industrial plants as sound as they
will have to be made to pull Britain
through the peace as through the war.
But it would be a large mistake to rate
J. Bull as anything less than the very
tough customer he always manages to be
when necessity arises. He is in no
danger of becoming “decadent,” a mis-
conception that has proved costly more
than once to those misled by it.
Out with Red Fascism!
In their ingratitude, ill-will and inepti-
tude Vishinsky and Manuilsky (how
Machiavelli and Talleyrand would have
laughed at them!) have demonstrated
that, alike in peace and war, Communist
parties in the English-speaking world,
whatever nationality they may claim, are
Russia First parties, completely in the
Soviet bag.
Mr. Bevin got to the heart of the
matter very early in his argument with
Vishinsky, who, his hands stained with
the blood of many of his own country-
men, professed to be overcome with
horror at the proceedings of the British
liberators in Greece. Said the Foreign
Secretary:
The British Governmen(t has been
charged through that extraordinary organi-
sation called the Communist party, which
seems to act with great unanimity, in every
country in the world at the same time, by
some mysterious methods to attack Great
Britain. When I displease the Soviet Gov-
ernment our shop stewards, who are Com-
munists, send me resolutions on exactly
the same thing. I cannot accuse any Gov-
ernment of taking any action. All that I
can say is it is one of those strange coin-
cidences that occur.
The history of Australia since Sep-
tember, 1939,' is full of these “strange
coincidences.” Knowing, no doubt, that
Australian Communists are the most
obsequious of all its serfs, Moscow did
not admit them to the secret of its in-
tention to make the arrangement with
Hitler which let the war dogs loose.
There was a brief following period of
confusion during which Australian Com-
munists were urged by their leaders to
support and even fight for the Poles.
But while Nazi Germany and Com-
munist Russia were partitioning Poland
the party line changed, and thencefor-
ward for 21 months Australians were in-
formed by the Red Fascists that the
war was “imperialist,” and that to sabo-
tage it by means of strikes, opposition
to the national register and national ser-
vice, refusal of enlistment in the A.I.F.
and withdrawal of the forces from the
Middle East was a sacred duty.
Peace with a victorious Hitler was
the “policy” right up to the time when
the war became holy. One notorious
Communist blackguard was heard to
say he hoped “the ‘scabs’ of Down-
ing-street” would be “defeated.” Then
the party line changed again, and even
while Australia, after heavy defeats and
losses, was threatened with invasion by
the Japanese, with whom the Russians
were not at war (having entered into a
treaty of peace and friendship with Japan,
as well as with Nazi Germany, and re-
newed annually agreements which assured
the Japs of ample supplies of their staple
food, fish), the Communist cry was that
Australia’s predominant duty was to
hound the suffering British on to an im-
mediate invasion of Europe, though the
men and equipment and ships they did
not then possess.
And with peace came more Red Fascist
outrages. There were efforts to make the
rehabilitation of Australia impossible
by wicked strikes, which failed only be-
cause the strike leaders are as stupid in
their way as Vishinsky and Manuilsky
are in theirs, and efforts to make the
disarming of the Japanese and the
restoration of order in Java and Sumatra
impossible to the British, to whom Gen-
eral MacArthur had entrusted these duties
until the Dutch could collect forces
enough from their four-years-invaded
and desolated countries to take over.
The measures employed in this case
were a union boycott of Dutch mercy
ships in Australian waters —cravenly
connived at by the “Government” even
to the extent of refusing Dutch
soldiers, our allies, the hospitality of
a landing in Sydney—and championship
of the persons and crimes of colored
savages, called “our Indernesian com-
rades,” who specialise in murder and
mutilation of the dead. This particular
Communist ruffianism, prolonged while
Vishinsky and Manuilsky were trying to
bluff U.N.O. into interfering in Indo-
nesia, is also failing, having, among other
things, stirred up opposition among
Labor politicians and union leaders
concerned for the White Australia
policy, though, unhappily, not before a
great many innocent Dutch people, men,
women and children, have become victims
of murder, starvation and disease. In
their clumsy malignity, Vishinsky and
Manuilsky made it plain that the Com-
munist ruffians have been acting under
orders from Moscow.
Since the Nazis had Russian sympa-
thisers who welcomed them into the
Ukraine and the Cossack provinces and
joined them in astonishingly large num-
bers, even choosing to share their fate
when adversity befell them, there must,
on a higher plane, be Russian admirers
of Britain and the British Common-
wealth. It would be plain suicide for
them to set up a British Commonwealth
party and begin meddling in Soviet in-
dustrial policy and foreign policy. They
would be shot down almost as soon as
they shot up, bullets in the back of the
neck being the sovereign Soviet remedy
for any sort of opposition.
It is not in the nature of democratic
English-speaking peoples to resort to these
Oriental methods of barbarism. It is
part of their tradition to allow and pro-
tect freedom of thought, of speech and of
association. But why should they, Ameri-
cans, Britons, Canadians, Australians,
New Zealanders or South Africans, allow
wreckers and trumpeters of sedition, sold
to a hostile foreign creed and military
power, to organise and campaign for the
destruction of the national policy,
economy and institutions to the end that
an Oriental despotism may be fastened
upon them or any of them? Since
Sovietism claims and asserts the right to
protect itself, how can that right be denied
to any English-speaking democracy?
In a world where bloody revolution,
with mass robbery and murder, is not
only preached but practised, and in a
part of the world where savages—most
of them young savages organised in one
of the familiar youth movements —are
trying to set up a colored Communist re-
public invoking and receiving help from
Moscow and Sydney, it would be plain
madness for White Australia not to pro-
tect itself beforehand.
Under United States law any foreign-
born resident concerned in a conspiracy
to overthrow American institutions is
liable to deportation. This would have
been the fate of the alleged Australian
agitator Bridges if he had been proved a
Communist to the satisfaction of the
Supreme Court Judges, two of whom
were against him but were overruled by
their colleagues. In Australia Communist
organisations and publications were out-
lawed under the Commonwealth defence
power, and Dr. Evatt, in restoring theii
legality, did not question that the defence
power—in operation still, as his colleague
Holloway eagerly proclaimed after a
High Court judgment in an industrial
case —had been validly exercised. The
Attorney-General said that certain indi-
viduals “representing themselves and the
Communist party” had given certain
undertakings, and that “if these under-
takings” were “not observed the Govern-
ment will reimpose the ban.” As every-
one knows, the “undertakings” have not
been observed, but the ban has not been
reimposed, the Government being too
scared of Communists to shake a feather-
duster at them.
The Opposition parties ought to have
other views. They are not now in a posi-
tion to invoke the defence power again,
but there are other powers they can draw
from the Commonwealth Constitution
when they return to office, as they now
look like doing this year. Our Consti-
tution-makers thought deeply of more
things than they are given credit for by
Dr. Evatt and his friends. They realised
that the people of Australia in days to
come might require protection against
internal as well as foreign foes; and
hence Section 119:
The Commonwealth shall protect every
State against invasion, and, on the appli-
cation of the Executive Government of the
State, against domestic violence.
Strikes aimed at “revolutionary con-
trol of the means of production and dis-
tribution” could be construed as
“domestic violence.” And the Consti-
tution-makers foresaw that agents of
a foreign Power or Powers might worm
their way intb the Legislature, with
danger to the country: so they wrote
a prohibition into their instrument ot
government:
Any person who is under any acknow-
ledgment of allegiance, obedience or adher-
ence to a foreign power, or is a subject
or a citizen or entitled to the rights or
privileges of a subject or a citizen of a
foreign power... .shall be incapable or
being chosen or of sitting as a Senator or
as a member of the House of Representa-
tives.
This most comprehensive definition
appears in Section 44, and it should
be effective against Red Fascist
aspirants to Parliament now that Vishin-
sky and Manuilsky, those unutter-
ably clumsy haters of everything
British, have shown where all Communist
parties’ stand. And from refusing Com-
munists seats in Parliament under the
Constitution to refusing their organisa-
tions and poison press protection anh
privileges under the laws would be oflv
a step.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Refer to Murphy."
When the wars against Germany and
Japan ended it was evident that most of
Europe and a large part of Asia were
threatened with starvation and pestilence,
which knows no geographical boundaries.
Last week, with the British people, who
have given generously from their small
supplies, forced to tighten their belts still
more, Mr. Bevin said in the U.N.O.
General Assembly that within a few
months a thousand million people might
be facing famine.
In spite of Communist ferocity and
“Labor” materialism and weakness, Aus-
tralians remain at heart a generous
people. Even before it was realised that
the British position was so bad, “Food
for Britain” appeals were launched. In
Adelaide there was a particularly striking
response. People gave freely of money
and surrendered thousands of food
coupons with which rationed foods might
be bought for despatch to Britain.
Adelaide’s example was followed in other
places.
But on the night of December 13
A.B.C. listeners were astounded to hear a
blast from J. F. Murphy, Controller-
General of Food, against the Food for
Britain appeals:
The civilian consumer has a duty to
adhere strictly to all ration conditions.
Funds raised by those appeals might, if
they became big, seriously deplete the
supplies of an important class of food avail-
able to Australian civilians. Everything
relating to food policy, including food
supplies of our own people and food ex-
ports to Britain and other countries, must
centre in the efforts of the Government
itself People think that surrendered
meat, sugar or butter coupons should be
used to buy quantities of those foods to
send independently to Britain. Such a
course is impractical and undesirable.
About the same time, Mr. Dedman
bobbed up in Adelaide. In the result the
Lord Mayor of that city announced that
“because of antagonistic influences from
outside the State” his remarkably success-
ful appeal had had to be closed. His
statement was published in the third per-
son:—
Before the appeal the Lord Mayor dis-
cussed with the State Deputy-Director of
Rationing the use of surrendered coupons
to send rationed food to Britain. The
Deputy-Director explained that this might
be done the fund was to be given per-
mits to buy from nominated suppliers
sugar, butter and meat to the value of
the surrendered coupons... .Mr. Dedman
arrived and spoke of the good intentions
animating the appeal, but said people
should destroy coupons rather than hand
them to the fund. Later, the fund was in-
formed that no permits would be issued for
buying food. Efforts were made to have
the embargo removed.
When Mr. Chifley was in Adelaide late in
January, he was appealed to. He returned
to Canberra and sent a telegram saying
Mr. Dedman had arranged for use of
coupons surrendered before a certain date,
but nobody knew what the date was.
The Lord Mayor then referred to the
Murphy-Dedman case:
It shows complete lack of appreciation
of the sentimental urge which has led
to this wonderful outpouring of goodwill
towards Britain. It overlooks the fact that
the food the Commonwealth Government
sends to Britain is sold. What these funds
send is given. Buying and selling are plain
commerce. Giving and receiving spring
from ties of sentiment and strengthen them.
Meanwhile Mr. Beasley had arrived in
London, and astonished Britons and Aus-
tralians were informed that he had been
accompanied by tons of preserved fruits,
sugar, cream, turkeys and other delect-
able things; 140 cases.
The Canberra “explanation” was that
the gentleman would probably have to
entertain on a large scale. But Mr.
Murphy had said in his broadcast:
Let every Australian public man inter-
ested in the food problems of Australia
and Britain publicly announce that he will
not use any meat or sugar at any function
over which he presides.
The very fortunate Mr. Beasley has since
given U.N.O. an undertaking that “the
Australian Government and people will
contribute in whatever way they can to
overcome the present world shortage of
food and check the famine.” His way
and his “Government’s” way and the
Murphy way, whether considered separ-
ately or taken together, pass understand-
ing.
This year, ushered in with wide-
spread heavy rains, looks like the
usual rebound from drought. Aus-
tralian experience is that lush sea-
sons have always followed bad
seasons. There could be a 200-million-
bushel wheat crop, with other land pro-
ducts up in proportion. Assured of
seed, machinery, fuel, labor and, above
all, freedom from restrictions and the
form-filling mania, farmers would go to
work with their ears back.
Leaving the Ship.
In a very brief period an unusual number
of persons eminent in “Labor” and
“good-as-‘Labor’ ” politics have decided
that it is an excellent time to quit.
There was, first, Mr. Beasley, who since
October 7, 1941, has held several port-
folios, the latest being Minister of De-
fence. Mr. Beasley was appointed to suc-
ceed Mr. Bruce in London with all the
emoluments and privileges of High Com-
missioner, though with the title of Resi-
dent Minister. Then Mr. Makin (Navy,
Munitions and Aircraft Production) was
appointed to the Washington post for-
merly held by Mr. Casey and then by
Mr. Eggleston, again with all the emolu-
ments and privileges and the title of Resi-
dent Minister.
Mr. Wilson, the member for
Wimmera (Vic.), announced his intention
of retiring on the ground of ill-health.
The invalid magically improved when he
was offered the Administratorship of Nor-
folk Island, a semi-military position in
which a succession of A.I.F. generals
served the islanders and Australia well.
“No blanky generals” being now the rule,
Mr, Wilson was sworn in as Admini-
strator on January 1, having qualified for
drawing' his Parliamentary salary up to
midnight on December 31.
Then Mr. Coles, member for Henty
(Vic.), who, with Mr, Wilson, had voted
“Labor” into office, with consequences,
financial and otherwise, which will be felt
for generations, discovered that he was
needed as chairman of the “National”
Airlines Commission. Graciously over-
PRESENT FOR A GOOD BOY.
“When General Chauvel retired ‘Labor’ allowed him the use of a Defence Department
horse. From the same magnanimous quarter General Blarney has been promised the use of
his staff car.”
* “I love it, I love it, and who shall dare
To tear me away frpm my old staff car?
(It’s all I’ll get from the beggars, anyway).”
looking what he had said when “national-
isation” of airways was debated in
the House (“Nationalisation of airways
would be a politically immoral act; the
proposal in defiance of the will of the
people,” as expressed “at the recent”
[1944] “referendum and the referendum
of 1937, would shake public confidence,
and the Government would be well ad-
vised not to pursue it”), Mr. Coles
offered to serve temporarily without the
salary (still unfixed but expected to be
massive), and remain member for Henty
till the House dissolved for the general
election.
But here he had to reckon with Mr.
Menzies, for whose knowledge of consti-
tutional law he has a profound respect.
Mr. Menzies tartly referred him to the
relevant parts of the Constitution:
Any person who holds any office of
profit under the Crown shall be incap-
able of sitting as a Senator or a mem-
ber. If a Senator or member directly
or indirectly takes or agrees to take any
fee or honorarium for services rendered
to the Commonwealth his place shall
thereupon become vacant.
Mr. Menzies struck not only at Mr.
Coles but at Mr. Beasley, Mr, Makin
and their “Government,” saying, in effect,
that the Resident Minister business as
well as the Coles affair outraged the Con-
stitution and the rights of the electors
concerned, and proceeded from ignoble,
though understandable, anxiety to dodge
by-elections. Mr. Coles saw the point
as regards himself and resigned from the
representation of Henty. This was a
facer for his patrons, who, afraid to run
a “Labor” candidate for Wimmera
(though their Senate team polled a major-
ity in the electorate in 1943), and eager
for the return of Mr. Wilson’s political
soulmate Mr. Everett, saw that gentle-
man, with a beggarly number of primary
votes, heavily defeated in each of the 16
subdivisions by a Young Digger C.P.,
whom the “Government’s” protege
angrily accused of getting Liberal sup-
port.
In the same week it was given out
that Mr. Tully, the N.S.W. “Labor” Min-
ister of Lands, Was to join Mr. Beasley
in London, though not as another Resi-
dent Minister. Mr. Tully had been ap-
pointed Agent-General “for at least five
years” at £3OOO a year or better, and
would take a permanent farewell of his
seat (Goulbum) and Ministerial rank.
This caused no great astonishment, for
Mr. Tully, who is a gentleman farmer in
a pretty big way, had made lavish un-
fulfilled promises to would-be soldier-
settlers, and was recognised as a kind
of “Labor” politician who, while care-
fully providing for his own future, would
bo content to leave fulfilment of the
promises or non-fulfilment, plus vexatious
consequences, to a Caucus-chosen suc-
cessor.
What was astonishing was an an-
nouncement made by Mr. Tully’s leader,
Mr. McKell, and the manner of it. “At
a social function given by him to mem-
bers of A.L.P. branches in his Redfern
electorate,” Mr, McKell said he had
decided to “lead the life of a private citi-
zen after the next election” —he also is
a gentleman farmer in a pretty big way
—and so would ask Caucus to choose a
new leader (and Premier) and Redfern
a new member before the period, 15
months, was up. Yet he recently came back
from a world tour, during which he paid
a visit to Brazil as guest of the dictator
Vargas, who preceded him into retire-
ment, bearing with him vast plans for the
betterment of his native State, now con-
signed to the ashbarrel.
On paper the Federal and N.S.W.
Labor parties are still strong, their majori-
ties being overwhelming. It is curious
that so many of their leaders and “Inde-
pendent” friends should have come to the
sudden conclusion that the jig is up.
Mr. Williams and Mr. Stone.
Towards the end of the fateful year 1941
two vacancies occurred at the Sydney
University Law School, and it was pro-
posed to appoint two candidates from
Maoriland, each aged 34; Mr. James
Williams and Mr. Julius Stone, who had
set out in the first place from England.
Legal members of the Senate objected on
the ground that there was no immediate
need for the appointments and that to
make them immediately would be unjust
to applicants on service abroad who
could not be subjected to the test of
personal examination until after the Ger-
man war. The Law School, they pointed
out, could be carried on without life
appointments till the war was over.
These views at first prevailed.
Then a piercing cry was heard from
Mr. Abie Landa, Labor M.L.A. for
Bondi. Mr. Landa asserted that Mr.
Stone was “young and brilliant,” was
“associated with the Labor party in New
Zealand,” and was being treated foully.
Certain members of the [University] Senate
have adopted the Nazi and Fascist tactics
of trying to get rid of a man for the
simple reason that he happens to be a
Jew. I shall want to know their names
before long.
As a result of Mr. Landa’s importuni-
ties, the “ ‘Labor’ Government” threw
itself into the struggle, and whipped
up votes enough (one, newly con-
trived, was its own) to secure the
plum for Mr. Stone and (incidentally)
another for Mr. Williams, Thereupon
Justice Halse Rogers (Chancellor), Justice
Davidson, knight John Peden (retiring
head of the Law School) and former
Attorney-General Manning resigned as a
protest. The Japanese war had then
arrived, and in ensuing months the
number of students fell away from 300
or so to threescore or thereabouts.
Mr. Stone and Mr. Williams had
met one another in Maoriland, and no
one seems to have troubled to inquire
whether they had esteemed one another
there or could get along in intimate
association at the Sydney Law School.
As it happened, they didn’t. It be-
came a case of each hating to see the other
around. Mr. Stone complained to the
Professorial Board that Mr, Williams had
omitted to call meetings of the Law
Faculty and thus “prevented the ventila-
tion of certain grievances.” Mr, Williams
declined to admit the authority of the
Professorial Board, but offered to give a
full explanation to the Vice-Chancellor.
In the end each Professor decided that
the other’s face annoyed him too much,
and Mr. Williams offered his resignation,
which was accepted. In a Parthian shot
he “described as ‘false’ the charges which
Professor Stone had made against him.”
Mr, Williams’s activities have been con-
fined to the University. Mr. Stone thrust
himself into prominence as a passionate
Zionist. In that capacity he fell foul of
Isaac Isaacs, whose position is that he is
not a brooding exile but an Australian of
the Jewish faith; and Isaac Isaacs had
much the better of the controversy. Mr.
Stone also got a job as an A.B.C. news
reviewer, A.B.C. having a weakness for
Leftists —one of its recent “guests of
honor” was “Balance Sheet” Thornton.
In “news reviews” Mr. Stone echoed
Leftist and Moscow criticisms of General
MacArthur on the score of the general’s
management of affairs in Japan, which
every Australian with a son, brother or
husband in the forces has deep cause to
regard with gratitude.
Possibly the “ ‘Labor’ Government” or
Mr. Landa or Mr. Stone has a ready-
made candidate for the position vacated
by Mr. Williams, but the RS.L. will have
to be reckoned with. It hasn’t taken at
all kindly to the appointment of Mr.
W. C. Taylor as vice-chairman of the
Airlines Commission, Mr. W. C. Taylor
is of the same age as Mr. Stone when Mr.
Stone was elevated to the Chair of Juris-
prudence, and is not only a Labor lawyer
with a flourishing industrial practice but
was president and is vice-president of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P.
"No Reduction."
“Uco” gets his electricity bill:
Past events soon fade into history and his-
tory soon becomes legend, so it is possible that
many people have already forgotten the aus-
terity of Sydney’s first post-war December,
when people had to cook their meals over
newspapers burnt in kerosene tins and light
their way to bed with candles.
The reason? Oh, it was something to do
wifh solidarity and, I daresay, our “Indernesian
comrades.” One Parker, an ironworker, had
been put off, and the coalminers naturally stopped
production with the iron and steel workers,
and the seamen said they wouldn’t handle coal
or steel anyway, and, of course, as the “Gov-
ernment” couldn’t offend the mifiers or the
seamen or the ironworkers or Comrade Parker,
the only thing to do was take it out on the
public. After three or four weeks it was all
over.
While the power restrictions were in force
my household observed them strictly—wore un-
ironed underwear and spilt enough candlegrease
on the floor to rival the stalagmites in Jenolan*
Caves. Our radio was switched off dead a
minute before the end of the single hour, and
our kettle and toaster were locked in the
fowlhouse out of temptation’s way. The only
bright spot in our Mack period was the pleasure
with which we looked forward to our next gas
and electricity bills. /
The electricity bill I have. On this evidence,
against which there is no appeal, I stand con-
victed of being one of “331- p.c. of consumers
who used more electricity during the quarter.”
At first I was up in arms at what seemetf
like robbery in cold blood. My wife, a reason-
able woman, supplied the answer. She took the
one 60-waft globe, which had to be out at 9
p.m., as an illustration. With only one light on,
naturally all the power in the house was con-
centrated on that one, and in consequence it
used more power. This sounded convincing,
especially as I remembered how bright the light
seemed —in contrast with the candle.
It shows what a valuable asset an intelligent
wife is. Left to my own resources I would
have made a fool of myself by rushing round
to the County Council and accusing it of day-
light (or nightlight) robbery. Still, lam not
quite clear how the authorities saved any coal
at all.
[For any by-election matter requiring a signa-
ture, J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann and David
Adams, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, take
the responsibility.]


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes o£ the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
117 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
REMEMBER . . .
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as nominated in your Will, entails knowledge of legali-
ties, experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investmen
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability ana
faithful guardianship of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet,
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
93.2 S O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
need a
Do
you
Jhuu/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms#
Whatever your financial problem, caU
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart*
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. State Labor has been rocked to
its foundations, which were fondly sup-
posed to be solid, by changes announced
on the same day. The first concerned
Tully, the Minister of Lands, who is re-
treating to the safety of the London office.
Then McKell, without taking Caucus into
his confidence, intimated that the general
election, which is only 15 months away,
would see him back in “private life.” The
A.L.P. executive has asked or ordered
him to carry on till he has introduced his
Budget, and the official organ has im-
plored the bhoys, many of whom want a
“spill” (election of Premier and Ministers
by Caucus ballot), to beware of a split.
It was here noted (B. 13/2/’46) that,
“except for an occasional reference,”
Australian daily newspapers had “not re-
ported the Pearl Harbor inquiry.” They
were obliged to sit up and take notice
when “Colonel Britton, Chief of the U.S.
Army’s Far Eastern Section, Military In-
telligence,” went into the witness box:
Colonel Britton said that on December
6, 1941, the American military at
Melbourne, Colonel Merle Smith, sent a
message to the War Department and the
commanding general conveying the warning
that the Dutch Government had put its
war plan into operation, and reading
“Held up 17 hours by the Gov-
ernment.”
The Government in question is recog-
nisable, the blanks being sufficient. No
reply has come from it, but the Opposition
members of the Advisory War Council
have testified that they were ignorant of
the incident, and they suggest an inquiry.
Dr. Evatt’s foreign policy has been the
theme of another discourse by Menzies,
Robert G. said, among other things, “It
is easy to hit the headlines in many coun-
tries by attacking Britain, but the time
has come when Australia, instead of try-
ing to rally small nations to give us some
fictitious position, should be going to
Britain and saying ‘We were with you in
war; we will be with you in peace.’ ”
The doctor replied by accusing the Men-
zies Government of almost everything,
from “appeasement of the Hitler and
Japanese Fascists” and the closing of the
Burma road to “inadequate preparedness
against invasion.” It was unfortunate
for him that the Communists whom he
restored to legality should have selected
that very moment to renew their boycott
of Dutch mercy ships bound for Indo-
nesia, in contempt of an A.C.T.U. deci-
sion, as well as of his “Government” and
the White Australia policy. Unfortunate
also that he should have agreed to open
“an exhibition of official Soviet photo-
graphs” when the world was ringing with
the Canadian discovery of a Soviet plot,
with Government employees and mem-
bers of the Soviet Embassy among the
“wanted” parties.
Victorian Labor is worried about
Henty. The Labor vote put Coles in last
time, but there has been a great falling-
away since. For the Liberal nomination
Lord Mayor Connelly, young Gullett, ex-
Senator Spicer and F. R. Lee —who would
have ousted Curtin in 1940 if a few hun-
dred Nationalists hadn’t carelessly voted
down the ballot paper —are mentioned.
The “Argus” nominated Casey, just when
he had his hands full in Calcutta.
Tully was at Narrabri at the week-end
assuring a repatriation committee that
he would not leave for London “until the
soldier-settlement is functioning
fully.” Indications are that he will be
sorry he said it, especially as he went on
to “deny statements that no men have yet
been placed on the land,” claiming that
“45 have been settled in the Central divi-
sion and more than 20 in the West.”
That’s “more than” 65 and probably
fewer than 70. And, as Bruxner has drily
pointed out, “thousands of servicemen
hold qualification certificates.”
Eden, a fishing village on the far south
coast of N.S.W., held a public meeting
at the week-end and vigorously voted
against the Baddeley fish - marketing
measure. Another vote among the Eden
fishermen was emphatic for private
enterprise. Remote as it is, Eden is
“within the metropolitan area” under the
Baddeley Act.
As a rule, Labor Governments are too
highminded and tender-hearted (or they
say they are) to send killers to the scaf-
fold, even when, as lately in New South
Wales, a brave policeman is the victim, so
when a Labor Government has a mur-
derer hanged it’s news. The one in Tas-
mania commissioned Ketch to hang a
wharf laborer aged 32. He had destroyed
a little girl in circumstances so atrocious
that could people in the neighborhood
have got to him he would have been
lynched.
In London the Moscow delegation to
U.N.O. was worsted on every issue
it raised, all its bluster and anti-
British invective notwithstanding. It
seemed to have gained a point when
U.N.O. agreed to admit to “collabora-
tion” the Moscow-dominated World
Federation of Trade Unions, to which
“Balance Sheet” Thornton was a dele-
gate ; but at the instance of U.S.
Senator Connally, supported by Peter
Fraser, U.N.O. decided to bracket with
the W.P.T.U. “the International Co-oper-
ative Alliance, the American Federation
of Labor and other national and
regional non-govemmental organisations.”
This was a dreadful blow for Moscow,
for the American Federation of Labor
holds that Soviet trade-unions are bogus,
being mere servile instruments of Stalin,
Molotov and co.
The U.N.O. debate on the admission of
trade-union federations as “collaborators”
was brightened by a brush (the second)
between Mr, Gromyko, of Russia, and
Peter Fraser. Peter, “leaping to his feet,
his eyes blazing and his face reddening,”
fixed the blazing eyes on Gromyko,
shifted them to Manuilsky and thundered
“These tricks won’t do! ” Slippery Mos-
cow gents are at a disadvantage when they
try conclusions with a fiery, honest Scot.
The Victorian C.P. has expelled A. C.
Everett, member of the Australian Wheat
Board and “representative of the radical
wing of the party,” who, “endorsed” for
Wimmera, cut up rough when Turnbull
was bracketed with him. It was thought
that he would have some consideration
for the bitter war experiences of his
younger associate; instead, he was all
squeals, winding up by asking his sup-
porters to give their preferences to the
Ind. C.P. Stoddart. That the party organ-
isation had correctly sized up Wimmera
opinion of the bracketed pair was shown
by the voting: Turnbull beat Everett in
every subdivision, and at latest had nearly
15,000 votes to Everett’s 6000-odd. Be-
fore the blow fell Everett made the public
boast that he or Stoddart would whip
Turnbull, but he could have got 20 to 1
about his chance.
Federal Labor’s very palpable fear of
by-elections must have amused David
Gordon, dead in Adelaide last week. In
1911 E. L. Batchelor, Minister of Exter-
nal Affairs in the second Fisher Govern-
ment, died suddenly, and Gordon, a news-
paperman whose talents commanded the
respect of the journalistic world, won the
vacant seat, Boothby (S.A.). Gordon
soon had the ear of the House, and a
career in Commonwealth politics was pre-
dicted for him on both sides. As it hap-
pened, he was unseated at the general
election —by German-bom George Dan-
kel, who, his origin notwithstanding, was
to become a Labor conscriptionist and
he never came back. Like Kirwan, of
Kalgoorlie, he entered the State Leg.
Council, becoming President for many
years.
A complete original has figured in a
Brisbane boxing match —an eight-stoner
with a ribbon of valor on the coat he
hung up beforehand, who polished ofi
his opponent with the skill and pluck
he showed against the Germans and
the Italians. He is a South African
who fought in the Middle East and
was discharged with an honorable
wound and a Military Medal. No Aus-
tralian pug with anything like his record
has appeared before that eminent patron
of boxing E. J. Ward, who was Minister
of Labor and National Service when the
list of reserved occupations was drawn
up in 1942.
In N. S. Wales, as the A Senators can
testify, it is an advantage to be first on
the ballot-paper and a corresponding dis-
advantage to be last. These considera-
tions never seem to operate in Wimmera
(Vic.). Wilson, the 1937-45 member, be-
came resigned to being last on the ballot-
paper, and in the by-election the returned
p.-0.-w. Turnbull was last of seven.
Though one df two “endorsed” C.P.
candidates, Turnbull, an Eighth Division
lad, went very close to winning on the
first count.
From last week’s Sydney transport
records;—
Bus Overturns —Forty Persons Injured.
Tram Collides with Trailer —Eight
Persons Injured.
Bus Strikes Pole —Nine People Hurt —
Twentieth Smash Since
October.
McKell, who was frightfully indignant
when a Royal Navy aircraft crashed in
a Sydney suburb, has received no R.N.
request that in future Sydney’s jugger-
nauts fly above 2000 feet.
The Federal Lazzarini announced the
other day that the War Service Homes
Commission had been flooded with appli-
cations for houses, the number to the end
of December being 9742. Then he sup-
plied his Government’s record of achieve-
ment in dealing with the flood —47 houses
built during the six months to December
31 and 110 under construction!
The Advisory War Council being ex-
tinct, and with it all arguments as to
whether it was of some use or none,
Hughes and Spender are fully accredited
Liberals once more. Billy had to go up
for “endorsement” in North Sydney, and
Percy in Warringah, and each approached
the ceremony with some trepidation ; but
the event showed that neither had any
caused And both know very well that, for
them and many of their colleagues, this
year’s election will be a picnic compared
with the one in 1943.
When the U.S.A. was forced into the
war the Government at Washington con-
sisted of Roosevelt, Wallace, Hull,
Morgenthau, Knox, Stimson, Biddle,
Walker, Ickes, Jones, Wickard and Miss
Perkins, with Hopkins as the President’s
closest adviser. Death and resignation
have removed all except Wallace, who,
failing of renomination as Vice-President,
entered the Truman Cabinet as Secretary
of Commerce after a mortal struggle with
objecting Senators. Ickes gave up his job
as Secretary of the Interior last week,
taking the huff at the President’s naming
a California oil operator, Pauley, as
Under-Secretary of the Navy. Ickes had
been a Roosevelt “original,” appointed on
March 4, 1933.
Barry, the Victorian Minister of “Hous-
ing,” innocently asked whether city publi-
cans were providing board and
lodging as required by the licensing laws.
Anybody could have told him that they
weren’t. With the assistance of the
wowsers and the restrictions which enable
them to sell more beer in one hour than
they used to do in 12 hours, Melbourne
pubs have become swilling troughs under
the excuse of war-time exigencies and
lack of service.
Two items from the Baltic:
(1) There are still 40,000 Germans in Nor-
way. They chiefly belong to the Russian
zone, but the Russians refuse to remove
them, preferring to let them live on the
country, as their soldiers live on a dozen
countries. The rest of the 500,000 origi-
nally in Norway have been repatriated.
(2) A Russian garrison is still on Bom-
holm, the Danish island commanding the
entrance into the Baltic, which was seized
without by-your-leave on the ground that
there were German troops on it nearly
eight months ago. When a Bornholm
newspaper put the matter to the Danish
Prime Minister the Danish P.M. said
“Doubtless in due time an account will be
issued of the negotiations now going on.”
Both matters offer a wonderful chance
for the delegates of “independent” Ukraine
to call for a United Nations Commis-
sion to “investigate,”
In B. 25/4/’45 “Old-timer” sang the
song of “The Seed”:
The great men plan the future world and
talk as they were gods,
But all the future lies out there among the
broken sods;
And they who work the fecund earth have
greatness in their toil,
And nations die who once forget that life
springs from the soil,
So couple up the draw-bar and keep the
mixture sweet;
A thousand million mouths await the grow-
ing of the wheat;
And though the soldiers’ work be done,
the plough we still must speed,
And we must get to work again and sow
the waiting seed.
“A thousand million mouths,” A
thousand million people tHS British
Foreign Secretary said to the United
Nations Assembly are facing starvation.
The plough must speed as never before;
and the Australian farmer is ready—if
the Government is!
“C.Q.”; Food for Britain, is it? The
authorities even put obstacles in the way
of its coming to Melbourne. A farmer
in my district bitterly complains that the
Railways Department would not let him
send a bag of potatoes to the city with-
out a permit, although hundreds of tons
of undersize spuds, just as good eating
as the regulation ones, are being ploughed
in by local growers. Melbourne house-
holders can’t buy potatoes.
Addressing the 18th Congress of the
Soviets, Stalin said
In 1937 Tukhachevsky, Yakir, Übore-
vitch and other fiends were sentenced to be
shot. After that the elections to the
Supreme Soviet were held and 98 p.c. of
the votes were cast for the Soviet power.
At the beginning of 1938 Rykov, Bukharin
and other fiends were sentenced to be shot.
In the subsequent elections 99.4 p.c. voted
for the Soviet power.
In the recent elections the Soviet power
polled 99.8 p.c., there being no argument
like a bullet.
From 1939 onwards, though there have
been brief local shortages of some food-
stuffs, often man-caused, everybody
in Australia has had plenty to eat. In
March, 1943, when Canberra spokesmen,
answering criticism of “Labor” food
bungling, tried to make out that it was
due to commitments to Allied forces, Dr.
Page drily replied that average annual
production in Australia sufficed not only
to feed the population of the Common-
wealth but to leave a tremendous surplus
for other consumers:
Spare butter for 6,000,000 people, spare
meat for 4,000,000, spare dried fruits for
20.000. spare canned fruits for
' 5,000,000, spare apples and pears for
7.000. spare wheat for 20,000,000.
Our average food production is over
7,500,000 tons a year. On figures quoted
by Mr. Beasley and Mr. Chifley, the total
supplied to Allied troops is 75,000 tons a
year.
He was never contradicted or even an-
swered. Neither was he answered when
he said last week that “the Country
party” was “shamed to its soul that
Britain, arrived at a great crisis and
dogged by Russia, should be forced to
cut down her meagre food rations, and
that, in Britain’s time of need, Australia’s
contribution should have declined so
tragically.”


ANOTHER CATERPILLAR CLUB.
(Thus far identified: Commonwealth Ministers Beasley and Makin; Commonwealth members Wilson and Coles; N.S.W. Lands Minister Tully and N.S.W. Premier McKell.)


'» ">
Wm
'’-V-
-a®
■ *
mt.
mSm i
HUGHES U l ®
io w-'ujL
=T»
V V
Sh
B
i?
»d
ssr (1920
H
&3&a£M
;.V>
Si
K*.
rfi
i?»
(Panto*
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
Twenty-FIVE YEARS of service to
Australia under nine successive Prime
Ministers is one of the records of
“Qantas” achievements in the field
of air transportation.
Serving without prejudice from
Hughes in 1920 to Chifley to-day,
from peace, through war and on to
peace, 144,000,000 passenger miles
have been flown by “Qantas” air-
craft in establishing and maintaining
Australia’s overseas air links.
Equipped with experience based on
past achievements, “ Qantas” is
pre-eminently qualified to assist in
developing Australia’s International
routes.
c, „
p b 4/
£
%
cut
HAVE YOB
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By means ol such a codicil you CM. am. J..or.
sSssSiS.fe
full particulars. , .
„ T VnsnjnrfhT - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchel
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Noswortby .
P. X. W. Black. Manager L. S. Parker.
BDRNS PHILP TRUST
cOMP A N Y LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Box 543 ~, G.P.0., Sydney.
PHONE: B7WI. Z F ?-ii.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Britain and Bretton Woods
-Trade and Engineering,; a London
“Times” publication, m its January issue
said, referring to the United States loan
to Britain: “It seems that the loan, which
is badly needed, is dependent on accept-
ance of the Bretton Woods agreement,
and many people declare that, as dratted,
the Bretton Woods agreement includes a
return to the gold s Jndard with it
admitted, certain modifications but still
in their opinion definitely a return to
the gold standard. That they are>unwifl-
mg to accept, nor are they agreeable to
enter into an arrangement that makes it
certain, humaifly ;speaking, adds
Young agreement seems to have no mes-
IZXTIX/t
and we could not pay. Neither has any-
body shown how we can pay now. It is a
strange position for a victorious country
—the only one to defy the enemy and to
bring off a victory but the curse of
monetary considerations has been ad-
mitted, and America insists on regarding
our indebtedness on commercial prin-
ciples.”
The “Economist” commented: “We are
undertaking to pay America, to pay our
other creditors, to accept limits on the
power to devalue sterling and to put no
check on complete convertibility for cur-
rent transactions. To win this battle we
shall need to take all the tricks—and the
only trump cards we have are taken away
from us. It is cruelly hard.”
And the “Times” publication again:
“The London Chamber of Commerce
points out that, whereas, under the Bret-
ton Woods scheme, no nation could be
compelled under five years to abandon
exchange restrictions, under the proposed
agreement for a loan from the United
States Great Britain, and Great Britain
only ’will be required within one year
to make its currency freely convertible,
In practice this will mean that, whereas
any country selling to Britain will be able
to demand dollars, BriteimseUingto other
the Button Woods Rng
gven more difficult the task of
rgachi stable equilibrium within one
task which> in any case, the
Govemment impos-
was this steriing-convert-
m condition w hich Churchill described
tQ be true „ at the same time
describin lend . lease as “the most un-
thg history of nat ions.”
chance that even this hard
by the United States
S rnment may not be acceptable to
c ° n in its present reactionary mood,
Sir Wilfred Eady, a British Treasury
financial aid says B Bretton
Woods the dollar loan does
not go through. . f
All this is a far cry from the terms
the Atlantic Charter and the comraae-
ship-in-arms that existed between Britain
and the United States during the desper-
ate war days. American politics are at
t i mes even more incomprehensible than
Labor political policy in Australia. The
Bretton Woods plan is basically Amen-
can> the terms of the dollar loan are
i ar g e ly American, and, having had its
own way to such a large extent in plan-
ning for post-war international recovery
and for the “freeing of world trade, the
responsibility plainly rests upon the
United States to give the world a lead
towards financial stability and restored
living standards—that is, if all such talk
about international co-operation is not
mere sparring for time in order to gam
economic and military advantages over
other nations,
The world can do with a great deal of
economic co-operation, and that is why
our approach to the Bretton Woods
agreement should be tolerant, in spite ot
its restraint on some aspects of our
financial initiative. But much more conh-
dence would exist in the agreement if
the United States, which has the greatest
voting strength, showed wider vision in
its financial “aid” to Britain.
Up to June 30 last, according to a
British White Paper, Britain disposed of
£lllB million of foreign securities in
financing its war effort. During the war
also it increased its overseas debt from
£760 million (excluding the American
debt arising from the last war) to £3355
million. The debt is located as follows:
Sterling Area.
Dominions £384,000,000
India, Burma and Middle East 1,732,000,000
Other sterling-area countries .. 607,000,000
Non-sterling Area.
N. and S. America .. .. 303,000,000
Europe 267,000,000
Rest 62,000,000
In addition to the loss of overseas in-
vestments (with its consequent loss of
annual income) and the growth in the
debt, there has been a big fall in Britain’s
gold and dollar reserves. These stood at
£864 million in 1938, fell to £74 million
at the end of 1940, and had been built
up to only £453 million at October 31,
1945. It isodifficult to reconcile the latest
figure with the United States estimate of
£7OO million (B. 13/2/’46).
Plainly, Britain and the Empire are
too far on the wrong side of the inter-
national-payments ledger to be able to
give away trading concessions or currency
advantages unless they get at least as
much in return. The hope of Bretton
Woods lies in United States acknowledg-
ment of this, and, consequently, in the
United States adopting a generous “dol-
lar” and trade attitude during the re-
habilitation period. Americans can use
two very good arguments to convince
themselves on this point. One is Britain’s
far greater per-oapita contribution to the
defeat of the Axis Powers. The other is
that buoyant American trade depends on
a Britain economically strong.
It cuts across the American grain to
give away deliberately anything in the
nature of a trade protection or trading
advantage. Building-up a competitor also
seems to be a mode of business hard to
swallow. But unless the United States,
as a nation, is prepared to do just those
things in order to bring ultimate advan-
tages to itself and to the whole world,
then the Bretton Woods craft is sailing
under false colors.
The New York Stock Exchange is in
the throes of an industrial-share boom
the like of which has not been seen since
the speculation that preceded the depres-
sion of the 1930’5. Labor troubles at
present are the only blot on the U.S.
industrial horizon, there being a wide
market for U.S. goods both at
home and in most parts of the world
(dollars available); and the United States
has long had a seller’s psychology. Ris-
ing costs and overseas countries’ dollar
difficulties may eventually prick the pre-
vailing Wall-street hoom, but in the mean-
time the bulls are in a vigorous mood,
stimulated by the removal of excess-
profits tax from January 1 and the back-
ing of oceans of idle money.
* * * *
According to Dr. Edwin H. Booth,
chairman of the International Wool Sec-
retariat, United States woolgrowers are
seeking additional tariff protection, a
subsidy, or imports restricted to quotas
in order to bolster up their uneconomic
industry. Already U.S. wool is protected
by a duty somewhat higher than the aver-
age price received by Australian growers
under the appraisement scheme; and, of
course, the average grade of American
wool is lower than Australian. If there
is any real attempt by the United States
to abolish economically unjustifiable tariff
barriers (under Bretton Woods and the
Anglo-American loan plan) the U.S. wool
tariff will be one of the first to go. If
it does, it is likely that American con-
sumption of wool will rise prodigiously, as
the high cost and poor quality of the
domestic staple have restricted woollen
consumption. During the war, out of
necessity and convenience, U.S. milk pro-
cessed a very large amount of Australian
wool, and it has grown in popularity.
The United States would, in normal cir-
cumstances, provide a huge market for
Australian wool, and removal of the
tariff would not affect the U.S. pastoral
revenue to any great extent. But the
middle-west States of the Union each
send two Senators to Washington, the
same number as New York or any other
populous State. Texas and California
have the most sheep, but States like
Wyoming (population 250,000), Montana
(560.000) New Mexico (531,000), Nevada
(110.000) Idaho (525,000) and Utah
(550.000) all talk sheep language in
politics. The total sheep population of
the United States in 1941 was 56 million,
and the wool output 400 million pounds.
* * * *
Austin 8-h.p. sedans are available in
England to people holding the requisite
priority at £255 sterling, plus £7l pur-
chase tax. In 1939 the price was £149.
The 10-h.p. model now sells for £3lO
(plus £B7 tax) compared with £lB5 pre-
war, The 8-h.p. Ford has returned to the
market at £229 (plus £64 tax), compared
with £125 (de luxe) in 1939, and s the
10-h.p. model at £275 (£77 tax), compared
with £152 for the pre-war four-door
saloon.
* * * *
There is a move afoot —sinister in some
respects—to alter the arbitration system.
The A.C.T.U. wants the whole thing
loaded in its favor, while Communist
Thornton is all for “collective bargain-
ing.” R. G. Menzies, leader of the Opposi-
tion, has said that the proposal to remove
the Judges and to substitute some system
of conciliation committees is one which
has far-reaching implications, and which
seems to proceed from a wrong concep-
tion of the system. There must be some
persons with authority to decide. The
person who is to decide must either be
versed in the particular industry or be
an outsider with an objective and balanced
mind. It is scarcely possible to find a
man versed in a particular industry who
has not taken part in it, either as an
employer or an employee. For this reason
the case for having as arbitrator a com-
petent outsider seems irresistible. He
need not be a lawyer, but, said Mr.
Menzies, from a sensible and experi-
enced lawyer we we are more likely
to get the kind of approach that is
needed than from those who have not
had wide experience in the hearing and
analysis of evidence and the forming of
detached and impartial judgments. These
arbitrators should have financial independ-
ence, but should be called commissioners
rather than Judges. The office of an in-
dustrial arbitrator is primarily to examine
the facts and to decide the terms and con-
ditions by which the industrial relations
between the parties are to be governed in
future. This work is legislative rather
than judicial.
# * * ♦
Savings-bank deposits rose to £622.6
million at the end of December, a lift of
£10.9 million during the month. This
big increase in a month of extraordinary
festive spending is partly accounted for
by a higher distribution of deferred pay
to the boys who not only got home for
Christmas but who also were discharged.
Deferred pay should have a similar effect
on s.-b. deposits for the next few months,


n
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei __
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITIO!* POWDERS
SKIN LOTION
lODINE DOG SOAP ..
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
View through a Trouble Shooter
Wherever corrosion or metallic contamination are problems —in the
chemical, textile, brewing, dairying, and food-processing industries, to
name only a few Stainless Steel Tubing is the answer....a real
“trouble shooter.” ,
Added to its corrosion-resistant properties are other advantages. It has
high mechanical strength. It can be bent, coiled, welded, threaded and
fabricated by ordinary engineering methods, to meet the needs of the job.
These tubes are available with either descaled (silvery matt) or polished
finish, inside and out, in gauges and diameters to suit any need. Our
nearest Branch Warehouse will supply you.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—-Head Office and Works: Waratah, N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane — Adelaide —Perth
Needed for Recovery
With hardship of various kinds con-
fronting many people in Australia —un-
fortunately, too many just-returned ex-
servicemen are affected —there is a
tendency for the population to listen to
commonsense after a stretch of inglorious
political irresponsibility. The foolishness
was partly that of the people themselves,
largely that of the third-rate politicians
of which the Parliamentary Federal Labor
party is principally composed. Gross
vote*-buying and the free indulgence of
class prejudices and phony doctrines
have been the main policy of the Labor
party, and, of course, it could have only
one end if persisted in—economic failure
in a greater or lesser degree. Failure up to
date has been serious, largely illustrated
by the amazingly inadequate production ;
but the position can get much worse if
we don’t return to a more matter-of-fact
way of conducting our affairs and oust
political opportunists and racketeers from
the vicinity of Canberra controls.
The controls are still largely of war-
flme make sweeping, severe and
often politically loaded and the
Government shows little inclination
to relinquish them, even where they
are entirely superfluous, as, f®r
instance, in the case of the Stock Ex-
change regulations. The forces of pri-
vate enterprise, which, with all their short-
comings, are basically productive/ have
little chance of offsetting the Labor-
created industrial depression so long as
a Labor Government deliberately frus-
trates private initiative. With the party
put before the State there can be no full
recovery from our present production de-
pression and our financial disequilibrium.
Through hard experience, it can be
seen, many more people are becoming
opposed to the country’s business being
Tun on party-political lines. There is a
growing realisation that a good Govern-
ment is a good administrator, not a reck-
less experimentalist and distributor of
political plums. Blit what is the correct
remedy for the political and economic
sickness that ails Australia today?
The political side rests largely with the
voters and with the Opposition parties.
The economic aspect depends not only
on correction in the political sphere, but
on many social, financial and industrial
factors as well.
Restoration of industrial harmony is
a first consideration. Present disunity
in many industries has often been created
deliberately by Communists, “militants”
and politicians of the Eddie Ward kidney.
A return to commonsense is obviously
indicated, with discipline and justice im-
posed where trade-union anarchy has
reigned.
Raw materials, with a few exceptions
(such as wool), are still largely in short
supply in Australia —even if they are
adequate for local demands they are not
enough to restore our export trade, on
which our power to import depends. We
need many vital imports. Both our im-
porting capacity and our own manu-
facturing capacity rely considerably
upon the availability of raw-material
production. Particularly vital are coal
and food, as well as imported petroleum
and rubber.
Labor supplies, skilled and unskilled,
are another paramount consideration;
and the willingness of Labor to do a fair
day’s work for decent pay is an essential
in our recovery. The long-term prospect,
in a fully-functioning economy, is that
there will be a shortage of labor later on ;
but with present political mismanage-
ment of the country and with no central
economic planning that is worth any-
thing we have a “surplus” of labor. The
unemployment problem is embarrassing
the Government at the moment.
If labor and raw materials can be
brought adequately together in manufac-
turing for the country’s crying needs the
provision of the necessary finance should
prove no difficulty; there is a huge
volume of idle money awaiting invest-
ment in industry and to buy the products
of industry. The sooner opportunities
for such investment are made avail-
able and the sooner industry be-
gins to turn out a rapidly-increasing
volume of goods for popular consump-
tion the sooner will there be evidence
that the inflation menace can be kept in
hand. Not only our living standards but
our financial stability depend upon a
speedy restoration of industrial production.
There must be a revival of thrifty in-
centives. It must be made worth while
for a citizen to save and to invest in new
industries and in house property. There
must be a wiping out of the Dedman
scorn for the “little capitalist.” Efforts
will have to be made also for a restora-
tion of the Commonwealth’s capacity to
borrow at a free but reasonable interest
level. This will mean a return to
budgeting on economic rather than vote-
chasing factors.
Production incentive is a great thing in
the behavior of both Capital and Labor.
It is helpful to incentive to allow both the
wage-payer and the wage-earner the right
to spend or invest his own money in his
own way to the greatest possible extent.
In other words, there should be taken
away from both in taxation only an
amount necessary to meet the legitimate
costs* of Government, including contribu-
tory social-welfare planning.
Australian coastal shipping is in a
chaotic state. Heavy losses are being
incurred by the Government in its inter-
state shipping operations—private owners
have been supplanted—in spite of the big
trade available. Under more competitive
circumstances, before the war, shipping
companies made reasonable profits. Sea-
men and wharfies, by their swollen pay
—there is a “war-risk” bonus of 25 p.c.
south of Townsville and 50 p.c. north of
it—and their refusal to do a reasonable
amount of work, have inflated operating
costs and slowed down all shipping ser-
vices. The Department of Supply and
Shipping shows an estimated debit of
£4,285,000 in its shipping branch for
1945-46, compared with £2,260,000 in
1944-45. The debit may not be a true
measure of the Ibss, but the comparison
shows the trend. Having got the industry
into this condition, the Gbvernment will
later on hand the ships back to the
owners, who will then be expected to
carry the baby born of war-time “nation-
alisation” of the industry.
* * - aic *
The war-risk bonus to seamen is to
continue until March 2, ’and then, no
doubt, it will be “reviewed” by the Gov-
ernment, which is scared to deal forth-
rightly with any Communist-created
problem—Gom.-ridden unions dictated
terms to the Government in this matter
just over 12 months ago, when thefe was
to be a reduction in the rate paid in
southern waters. Because of the con-
temptuous treatment of the Maritime In-
dustries Commission by some of its* union
members, Judge de Baun resigned from
the chairmanship towards the end of
1944. The bonus rises to as high as 50
p.c. on seamen’s earnings, although even
Dr. Evatt says the war has been over
since September 2.
At the annual meeting of Financial
News, Ltd., in London, the chairman told
shareholders;
Until October 1 last two daily financial
newspapers were published in the City of
London —“Financial News” and “Financial
Times.” Financial newspapers are to some
extent a feast-or-a-famine business. Our
costs of production steadily increase. In
times of great financial activity financial
dailies make large profits; in days of de-
pression it is an exacting task to balance
revenue and expenditure. We decided to
act on the opportunity that offered and
acquired a preponderant interest in the
Financial Times, Ltd. The actual holding
eventually acquired by us totals 228,000
shares out of 500,000 ords. In addition,
Eyre and Spoftiswoode, who are closely
associated with us as important share-
holders with representation on the board
of your company, acquired 25,000 shares.
The purchase price of our 228,000 shares
was approximately £480,000. Subsequently
the goodwill of the “Financial News” was
sold to Financial Times, Ltd., for £280,000.
The “financial News” has ceased publica-
tion, and your company and Eyre and
Spottiswoode hold rather over 50f p.c. of
the shares in Financial Times, Ltd. Your
company also retains its interests in its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, The Investors’
Chronicle, Ltd., and the Practitioner, Ltd.,
and its 50 p.c. interest in the Economist
Newspaper, Ltd. In addition, we continue
to publish the “Banker.”
The “Financial Times” is now published
as incorporating the “Financial News.”
The “Financial Times” was formerly in
control of the Berry group of newspapers,
which bought the “Daily Telegraph” from
the Burnham family in 1927.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Junius Jr.”: Some of our unit were
sent for a time as hospital guard at an
A.G.H. in New Guinea, where some half-
dozen Nip prisoners, grown fat and
cheeky on good Aussie rations, were em-
ployed on jobs round the grounds. The
Nips were working close, to the guard
tent, and one day, on the inspection by
the officer of the guard, one of them
turned to his mates and in perfect Eng-
lish remarked “Poor show, poor show.”
“Dusty,” at the end of the file, shot a
malevolent look at him, and ran his finger
along his bayonet meaningly. Half an
hour later the sergeant spotted the gen-
eral’s pennant on an approaching jeep
and shouted to the guard to turn out.
As they came tumbling out of the tent,
rifles and bayonets at the ready, the Nips
gave one horrified look and went for their
lives in all directions squealing like stuck
pigs. There were no more cheeky re-
marks after that.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Like the breath of a fresh
breeze in a stuffy court is an indication by
the Bench that it has a knowledge of
mundane speech. In a divorce case a
man had used a phrase for his wife’s
conduct when he came home from work
on which her counsel pounced. His Honor
interposed. “There is no need to ask the
witness to elucidate,” he said. “Every man
knows what is meant when it is said that
a woman flies off the handle. Every
married rn4n does, anyway.”
* * * ♦
“Centen”: I have seen no mention of
celebrations in the West, but this year is
the hundredth anniversary of the arrival
in' the sandy State of Dom Salvado,
Benedictine bishop and founder of the
New Norcia aboriginal mission. Dom
Salvado and another Spanish monk
started out from Perth with two
carts; one loaded with their belong-
ings, the other with an altar. Ber-
fore long they were in inhospitable
country, and the drivers of the two carts
refused to go further. They dumped the
monks’ possessions under a tree and left.
The monks struggled to exist there for
a while, and then Salvado walked into
Perth, and, being a fine musician, gave
a concert to raise funds for a bullock
wagon and supplies to carry back into
the semi-desert. Later the mission moved
to New Norcia, on the Moore River, and
the Spanish buildings, including the fine
cathedral that shelters his remains, are a
memorial to the musician-monk who be-
came bishop of the mission he founded.
Dom Serra, one of his associates at New
Norcia, became Bishop of Perth.
# * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A nomad spirit
seems to have fallen on woman as a re-
sult of war conditions: the latest report
is about a trio of Victorian girls who
have been “doing” Tassie on bikes, pay-
ing their way by hop- and apple-picking.
But the almost continual reports about
girls who are hiking, hitchhiking, biking,
motoring or caravanning about the country
hardly touches the big, restless move-
ment. Nearly a third of the girls who
came to the Leeton Irrigation Area for
the fruit picking and packing this year
scorned the rail approach ; they had come
from other nomadic jobs, and will push
off to new ones when the packing is oyer.
In the meantime employers are vainly
advertising fqr women to fill “regular”
jobs in factories at exalted wages and
with tempting conditions. Many women,
grown used to still higher wages doing
men’s work, won’t go back to “female
employment” without a fight.
* * * #
“Usquebaugh”: In England the othef
day a Lord Strabolgi concern was fined
for selling a drink labelled “Whisky Sour,”
the label describing the concoction as
“aged’ in the wood and made from the
finest blended Scotch whisky.” The tipple
was 70 per cent, underproof, and the
Court ruled that the label was “calcu-
lated to deceive buyers about the nature,
contents and quality of the drink.” I
don’t know whether “the Court” was a
Scot, but any Scot would be indignant at
the coupling of the word sour with his
national drink, and that by a peer whose
bitter attacks on British generalship
“Go on, Daniel , he cant hurt you. I’ve got him!”
brought him a crushing rebuke, plus' an
invitation to a ducking, from Lord Lovat.
* * * *
“Jasby”; How long hjas “ ‘Granny’
Herald” really been a granny? I always
assumed The Bulletin was responsible
for the familiar nickname, but I have
just been dipping into the 1870 volume
of Sydney “Punch,” and I find that scar-
cely a week went by without that paper
having a slap at “Granny,” sometimes by
way of variation referring to her as “the
dear old lady.” The name was obviously
well established by 1870, although the
old girl was then still in her thirties.
Gran must have developed her grand-
motherly traits at a very early age.
“Aesop”: Mention of the Sarah Sands
Hotel on Sydney-road (B. 6/2/’46) re-
minds me that it is almost as well known
in other States as in Victoria. Thou-
sands of motorists in pre-war days passed
it on their way to and from Sydney.
Camp Pell, in the adjacent Royal Park,
held at various times large numbers of
inter-State Diggers, and although the
camp entrance is at the southern end
some thirsty souls found the “Sands”
most convenient. I once heard half a
dozen soldiers hurrying to catch a city-
bound tram ask an old chap sunning him-
self on a nearby seat “Does that car go
to Melbourne, Pop?” “Yes,” came the
laconic reply. “And where does this
street lead in the other direction?”
“That’s- the Sydney-road,” the old chap
told them. One Digger kept on. “How
far is the nearest pub in that direction?”
“About a mile to the Sary Sands.” “Come
on, boys,” said the soldier, “we’ll go that
way—it’s nearer Sydney, so the beer’ll
taste more like home.”
• * ♦ »
“Uco”: When Norman Lindsay (B.
6/2/’46) drew the Ancient Passenger dis-
embarking from the Katoomba in Wel-
lington and explaining to the Customs
official that the reason he had no pass-
port was that he wasn’t born when his
mother went on board that long-delayed
vessel he wasn’t so wide of the mark alter
all. The ship that showed once again how
subservient the jellyfish Government is
to Commo-controlled unions at long
last reached a Maoriland port, and there
was an extra passenger on board a baby
girl born the day before the Katoomba
hit port.
* * * *
“Bump”: I am inclined to be a bit
sceptical about these contacts by radar
with the sun. If any effect produced m
a radio receiver is, a manifestation of
solar communication, then my pumpkins,
which droop in the heat however much
water I give them, are in touch with the
luminary. The fact that they don t emit
screams like static doesn’t mean that
they aren’t feeling something. Even
human beings don’t always express their
feelings verbally. Some run to talk*when
they are nervous, others sulk. The cables
were affected by sunspots long before
radar was invented.
* * *
“Laetitia”: In those Cooktown fres-
coes mentioned by “Bamekaw” (B.
30/1/’46) Garnet Agnew certainly con-
jured speaking likenesses of the males
amongst the local identities, but, although
there is an equal proportion of female
figures in the merry group that plays a
giant ring-a-rosy round the parlor walls,
in no case are individual features por-
trayed. The women have a strictly stereo-
typed profile like none of the ladies in
Cooktown, which says much for the dis-
cretion of the cx-Bulletin artist. The
frescoes are striking in their subject matter,
ranging from the receipt of the first news
of the Palmer rush to the final drawing,
showing a giant figure of Death stooping
over a greybeard loon, who is recklessly
spilling from his dish a stream of golden
nuggets. Another series of Agnew’s fres-
coes adorned the pre-war walls of a Bns-
bane pub. Executed with a Glugs of
Gosh” motif, these pictures seem to have
beaten Disney to the punch in the Seven
Dwarfs. * # *
. “Wanchai”: This, story was told m e
in a Tasmanian mining town and is part
nf thp nlarp’<! In tlip roaring davs
of the place s history. In the roaring days
of the town an evangelist preacher arrived.
He was piqued to find that the men
had boycotted his first meeting, and
that only women were present. However,
undeterred, he commenced his address.
“Sisters, I am going to speak to you on
morality. But first I want all the virgins
in the congregation to stand up. There
was a protracted and painful sfienceunt.l
a matronly woman, wit n ..
“SrFSdV “Pm at“d
you misunderstand me. I asked that all
the virgins stand up, and you get up with
a baby in your arms.” The matron’s
response was quick and indignant: “Well,
surely y’ don’t expect little Emily to stand
up all by herself an’ her only four months
G f d ,»
* * * *
“Kilocycle”: Perhaps the most incred-
ible railway trip in Australia is that from
Croydon to Normanton in n.-w. Queens-
land. Built in the'days of the gold rush
the 90 miles of light track still stands
on its original iron sleepers, and a trip
in the “Spirit of Salts” rail-motor, which
makes one journey each way weekly, is
an experience never to be forgotten,
There’s a 50-mile straight dash, and until
complaints were lodged the rail-motor
used to do the 90-mile trip in under three
hours, while passengers held on like grim
death and stared with grave distrust at
the line. The fishplates have rusted to
the rails, and expansion has caused buck-
ling to an extent which has to be seen
to be. believed. The motor sways and
leaps like a bucking bronco. The driver
is also guard, porter, stationmaster, freight
clerk and engineer. A stop is made half-
way at a lone water tank, and the driver
boils the billy from which the passengers
partake of a “cuppa.”
* , * * *
That medico who discovered the
ear plug in the gunner’s lug did not receive
as big a surprise as a Melbourne doctor
who took a melon seed out of a 50-ycar-
old woman’s ear. She told him that it
had been f there since her kindergarten
days, she having put it there when she
was’ given some melon seeds to count
with. His theory was that the wax pre-
served the seed. Until recent years she
had suffered no inconvenience,
* * * *
“Simon”: “McGlum’s” tale of the
starving boys of Changi and their dream*
of tables loaded with delicacies (B.
6/2/’46) accords with the Freudian claim
that man will dream of unsatisfied desires.
Knew a chap who had a 4in. length of
phospor bronze tubing inserted in his
intestine after the manner of a splice in
a hose. He took a ghoulish fancy in
showing the X-ray of the arrangement to
acquaintances. Everything he consumed
had to be strained. He told me he regu-
larly dreamed of roast beef dinners and
other things he fancied, and regarded this
as a pleasing break from his semi-liquid
regimen. He seemed healthy, but didn’t
long survive.
* * * *
“Squizz”: Traffic lights in busy urban
areas must show a handsome profit for
their installers. Asa regular attendant —
at the press table—at the police court of
a very respectable Melbourne suburb I
have to record with monotonous regu-
larity the conviction of unwary motorists
who have overlooked, wilfully or other-
wise, the existence of a local set of traffic
lights. Many families could live com-
fortably on the weekly earnings of these
lights,
* * * *
“Pardon”: Can’t agree with “Colbun”
(B. 23 /1 / ’46) in his claim for Boston.
Flinders was bom not there but at
Bonington. Franklin was born at Spils-
by. Bass graduated from Boston hospital
but was born at Aswarby, near Sleaford.
Further, Flinders did not return from im-
prisonment to die in Boston: he lived in
London from 1810 until his death in 1814,
working on the preparation and publi-
cation of A Voyage to Terra Australis.
He died at 14 London-street, Fitzroy-
square, on July 19, 1814, and was buried
in the graveyard of St. James, Hamp-
stead-road, the burial ground for St.
James, Piccadilly.
ifc * ♦ ♦
“Adelaide”: S.A. had a record number
of births last year, over 14,000. Cynical
officialdom argues that this is merely the
result of a record number of marriages
in 1944, and is not to be expected to
set a standard for the future.
* * * *
“V.C.”: Touching these niceties of
English (B. 13/2/’46), I should like to
place on record my elder son’s descrip-
tion of a minor accident: “Well, see, this
feller’s walkin’ along an’ these blokes go
past on a bike or somethin’ an’ they
sing out somethin’ an’ this feller looks
an’ he’s Mister Jones — you know him,
Mum. He’s that feller in the bootshop
—an’ they flash past laughin’ an’ this
bloke runs into a dog an’ crashes —or
somethin’ —an’ they reckon he cut his
head —or somethin’.” He paused, rumi-
nated a moment and concluded enthusi-
astically—“ Gee! Y’ ortef seen the am-
berlance flash up!” He is nearly 14 years
old, in his second year at a Great Public
School in N.S.W., writes an interesting
and grammatical letter, has a natural
selectivity in reading and spends at least
half his pocket-money on good literature.
I can only attribute the wide gulf be-
tween his written and spoken language to
his teacher having no interest in English
“as she is spoke.”
* * * *
“Comer”: That cartoon of Unk White’s
(B, 6/2/’46) showing a
locomotive of ancient vintage and a kid
standing by asking “What’s wrong with
the Spirit of Progress, Mister?” was being
laughed at by some passengers on Vic-
toria’s famous train as it raced towards
Albury the night after that particular
Bulletin came out. They’d hardly
turned the page when the train stopped.
The great streamlined flying loco, had
broken down. They cut the cartoon out.
presented it to the engine crew with their
compliments and then thoughtfully
awaited—for 2\ hours—the advent of the
relief engine.
BARMAN AND BARD.
“A New York paper recalls that among the early
activities of John Masefield, the Poet Laureate, was
a term of employment serving beer in a Greenwich
village bar.”
Never forget—although it doesn’t follow —
That he who fills a schooner or a tid.
And planks it on the bar for you to swallow
May be, what time his true vocation’s hid,
An undiscovered son of bright Apollo.
For that’s admittedly what Masefield did
Twixt spells at sea in those far distant days
Before he rose to grasp the Laureate’s bays.
Bear it in mind, in any pub’s environs
And crowded Bacchanalian retreats,
There may be lurking mute inglorious Byrons
And chaps to rank with Shelley and with
Ktats
In years to come. Likewise among the sirens,
Whose fairy forms across the bar one greets,
There may be Sapphos; Mrs. Brownings, too,
In course of making—if one only knew.
Bethink, the cove who ladles out the Iptions, .
Malted or spirituous, that you require,
May feel within him laudable emotions
To build the lofty rhyme and sweep the lyre,
And own a heart charged with poetic notions
Waiting to be expressed with force and fire
As soon as spinning sonnets shall appear
More lucrative a job than drawing beer.
The genial Fred or nimble-handed Flossie
Who slakes your thirst and gathers in your
dough,
Though not perhaps so dressy and so glossy
These strenuous times as in the years ago,
May be a Swinburne or a Moore in posse,
Or Mrs. Hemans, say, in embryo,
Dowered with the gifts and cherishing the hopes
To follow Masefield up Parnassus’ slopes.
From humble crafts he rose—and well we know
it —
To blaze in poesy’s heaven like a star;
Clear proof, if there were any need to show it,
What sturdy democrats we moderns are,
When one may happen on a genuine poet,
A Laureate to be, behind the bar,
Thus obviating any need to hunt
Among the cheerful souls who stand in front.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ex-Gefangener”: Browsing through a
“Lone Hand” of pre-1914 vintage I came
across an article on the German army
which mentioned that infantrymen often
sang to the word of command when they
were on the march. When a p.-0.-w. in
Germany I noticed the same thing. Our
Stalag was in the centre of a nest of
training camps, and at early dawn or late
at night companies could be seen swing-
ing across the forest or down the roads,
lustily singing. Most of the tunes were
excellent. Thei£ was one we called “the
laughing song,” which the Jerries used
to beef out whenever they passed the
barbed wire of our compounds. It
mainly concerned the invincibility of
the Wehrmacht, and catalogued their
victories, each verse ending with a merry
and rhythmical “ha, ha”; by no means a
modest song, but it had a swing to it.
Then the tide of war turned, winter came,
transport was held up and the bread ration
of trainees in our neighborhood was cut to
five men per loaf. The morning after
the new ration came into effect we lined
up on our side of the wire, and as the
cold and weary infantrymen tramped
past on their way to breakfast greeted
them with “fiinf man, ein Brot, ha-ha,”
an incorrect but recognisable version of
five men to a loaf, repeated along the
wire for about a quarter of a mile with
gloating emphasis. After that they sang
a different song when they passed our
prison, or were silent.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Professional etiquette in
Melbourne, as in other cities, prescribes
that medical men shall not advertise, ex-
cept for a bare announcement in the
papers when they take up or renew a
practice. A young doctor who had had
four years of strenuous service in the
M.E., New Guinea and Borneo got his
discharge and set up his shingle in a
suburb, without getting any patients.
Then he thought of Bob Sawyer in
Pickwick, and had a confab with the
local cinema proprietor. At discreet in-
tervals, the performance would be inter-
rupted and there would be flashed on the
screen the statement which always causes
an immense thrill in movie frequenters:
“Is Dr. Sawbones in the house —urgently
wanted!”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I sometimes wonder who
it was that enriched the great American
language with the word “guy” and where
its derivation is to be looked for. I
suppose it may fairly be described as an
opposite number to our owp. “bloke”
(on which Professor Murdoch has
written an appreciative essay), for which
a gipsy origin is sometimes claimed. But
“guy” has .established an even wider
vogue in its own domain, having long
distanced all other flippant synonyms for
homo sapiens _ I can’t remember en-
countering it in any of the lighter Ameri-
can writers of last century, but it cer-
tainly arrived pretty early in this one.
The first time I read it in print and
stopped to register it as something novel,
it came from the mouth of John L.
Sullivan. “Say,” said the much-para-
graphed pugilist, to an interviewer who
asked his opinion of President Theodore
Roosevelt, newly established at the White
House, “that guy is all to the good.”
That must have been something like 45
years ago. Since then the word has
swept the national vocabulary and even
forced its way (in its new meaning) into
other than slang dictionaries.
* * * *
“J.J.W.”: A useful trait of the visiting
British tars seems to be their ability to
sleep anywhere at any time. They curl
up and doze in the middle of the day
at tram stops (which is about the only
sensible thing to do on some lines),
in trams, on ferries and, in fact,
everywhere. I have seen a sailor
asleep on a trolley affair at the
entrance to Spencer-street station, Mel-
bourne. It was half-past five in the after-
noon, and every person of the thousands
who passed in the next hour cast envious
glances at the unconscious innocent, A
shore patrol was not so sure of his inno-
"You cant have a bath—the home brew's got another two days to
stand yet!"
cence, and, still asleep, he was carried to
a waiting truck and driven away.
’“Craiser”: You can’t beat the boys of
the bulldog breed. A draught horse, one
of a pair attached to a wagon, fell down
a hole in Flinders-lane, hard by the Port
Phillip pub. Policemen arrived, and
swarms of officials, and approximately
the entire population of Victoria looked
on, but nothing could be done to remove
it until a dozen lads from the Shrop-
shire, waiting for the beer to be released
at the Phillip, took a hand. Sailors are
traditionally supposed to know nothing
about horses, but they lifted the desperate
animal out —bodily, it seemed to this
observer.
* * * *
“Zake”; School history books on
which most of us depend for an appraisal
of kings seem to be particularly hard on
Charles I. That son of the mean-souled
James I had his points. He got off to a
bad start in life ; he was unable to speak
until his fifth year or walk until his
seventh. Charles not only overcame both
defects but became a better-than-ordinary
athlete and an accomplished scholar.
And when at 49 he went to the block
he met his fate with a dignity and com-
posure immortalised in verse by the
Puritan poet Marvell. Of Charles’s
literary talents a bright example
has been revived and set to music by
“Lower your voice, you rabbit-toothed idiot—do you Want the neighbors
to think Were having a row P”
Australian composer May Brahe. The
song, “Close Thine Eyes,” is a fine ex-
position of Miss Brahe’s flair for attrac-
tive melody, and reveals Charles in the
unexpected light of pure philosophy.
» * * -
“R. Volt” farewells an institution:
I see that the Eastern Extension, as part of
Cables and Wireless, is to be nationalised. I
rang up a former colleague and asked him how
he liked it. “Well,” be said, “I suppose we’ll
have to wear a peaked cap and striped trousers
now, and if the public complains of delay to
its cables we can refer it to Mr. Chifley.”
Australian cable was landed by the Eastern
Extension at Darwin in 1871 when the Franco-
Prussian war was raging; it met the landline
strung from Adelaide across the Never Never
by Charles Todd. The only rate in those
days was £9 7s. 6d. for a minimum of 20
words, which was subsequently reduced to one
word for half a guinea—today you can send
25 words for the same money. It was such
a blessing to an isolated country that the com-
mercial community gladly paid it. Five years
later the first cable from M.L. to Australia was
laid, and La Perouse became the Australian
training station. A second M.L. cable was laid
in 1890. The Cocos cable was dragged through
the surf at Cottesloe in 1902 and direct com-
munication established with London via Durban,
a useless cable being also laid from Broome
to Banyuwangi at the W.A. Government’s in-
stance. The company had already lifted Tas-
mania out of its isolation with a cable from
Flinders to Georgetown; this was taken over
by the Government in 1909. Loaded cables
with three channels capable of a speed of 150
words per minute came in in 1926 —150 letters
a minute was a remarkable speed for the manual
key-pumper in the old days. Nowadays there
is direct automatic communication between Mel-
bourne, Sydney and London at a speed which
would leave old-timers gasping.
During 75 years Extension has trained at
La Perouse, Adelaide and Nelson (M.L.) hun-
dreds of young Australians and Maorilanders
who have staffed its stations all the way from
Peking to Elephant Point, in Burma. The
stations —most of them were malarious death-
traps in the old days—were worked through
wars, revolutions and rebellions without inter-
ruption. It was an Australian, G. H. K.
La Nauze, who sent out the wireless message
from Cocos which brought the Sydney hurry-
ing to the destruction of the Emden. Five
Australian cablemen were murdered in the
mutiny of Indian troops at Singapore during
the First World War. It was only during the
Japanese eruption that any stations were aban-
doned, and then most of the staff became
p.-0.-w. The superintendent at Labuan was
ordered by the Japs to work the cable. He
refused and asked them what they were going
to do about it. It took them months to
establish connection. During the war 25 Aus-
tralians and 25 Maorilanders were specially
trained, and when peace came were despatched
to Singapore to reopen communications.
It would be interesting to know whether all
these fine overseas jobs will be lost to Austra-
lians and Maorilanders now that the system is to
be centralised in London; also whether the
almost fussily good service the private co. gave
will be possible in a Government department
controlled by politicians.
“Puyyaka”: A Brisbane maintenance
case in which a husband disputed
paternity of a child born some nine
months after his wife had left him has
again illustrated the limitations of blood-
group tests in such cases. Applied at his
suggestion, the tests showed that he be-
longed to group A, his wife and child to
group O, one of the two primeval units
of the four blood groups amongst man-
kind. A parent belonging to Group O
can have children belonging to any
group, so that in this instance the test
proved nothing regarding paternity. The
only reasonably positive result obtain-
able from it would be where both hus-
band and wife belong to the fourth or
AB group, second of the primeval ones.
In that case, all children begotten be-
tween them would also be AB, and a
child showing any other grouping could
not be theirs. But even then should the
wife happen to step carelessly aside from
the path of virtue with another AB man
than her lawful wedded one the offspring
would still bear the marital group-label
in its blood. ,
* * * *
“Cauboy”; One of the theatrical pos-
sibilities of 1946 is a full-scale Shak-
spearean company to tour Australia under
J.C.W. auspices with at least 15 principals
from the Stratford-on-Avon Memorial
Theatre. Transport is one obstacle;
Actors’ Equity might be another. As
the company to be imported plays
the Bard on principle and nothing
else, it isn’t likely that the tour
will suffer the fate of a former Tait ven-
ture into Shakspearean drama. It billed
Maurice Moscovitch, a fine actor, as the
greatest exponent of Shakspeare on the
planet; he played “The Merchant of
Venice” for one season at the old Royal
in Melbourne and then took to Edgar
Wallace. Mosco. packed the Firm’s
theatres nightly for one of the longest
seasons on record, and, as it happened,
started a boom in crook and horror films,
with doctors, nurses and ambulances wait-
ing to attend to patrons rendered hys-
terical by the proceedings behind the foot-
lights, It culminated in a play at the
Palace, in which a gorilla-man with a
dreadful disease chased the passengers of
a Zeppelin about the rigging. Then the
boom collapsed, and the great Shak-
spearean actor left Australia, having
made a fortune.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: If this paragraph meets
the eye of President Truman, let him
think twice before allowing the National
Gallery of Art in Washington to hold in
“temporary custody” the 200 art master-
pieces which the Americans, according to
the cables, have removed from German
museums. Some Americans have already
remarked that the “protective arrest” of
paintings by Botticelli, Fra Angelico,
Breughel, Franz Hals, Holbein, Raphael,
Rembrandt and Rubens looks too much
like ordinary looting to have a really dis-
couraging effect on the Germans’ own
tendency to make off with other people’s
property; but lam more concerned with
the fact that to strip a country of its art
treasures is to reduce it to barbarism.
If our intention is to make the Germans
better Europeans, it would have been
much better to have exported a few hun-
dreds of the world’s masterpieces from the
crowded American galleries and to have
invited the entire German populace to
inspect them; for while horror films) of the
concentration camps will show the Nazi
only what a savage he has been, the con-
templation of Botticelli’s grace and
Rubens’s rich humanity would remind
him that it is possible to be civilised.
* * * H=
“G’pa”: “Petermac’s” mention of
Dickens and the Corn Laws (B. 6/2/’46)
reminds me that in the Kangaroo Ground
(Vic.) cemetery is a tombstone over
Griffith Evans, described as “the first
lecturer on Corn Laws in Wales and also a
lecturer on the Anti-State-Church move-
ment.” There’s another Dickens link in
the Melbourne General Cemetery, where
lies Charles Whitehead, who secured for
Dickens the job of writing Pickwick
Papers. Falling on difficult times through
his ability to make friends and bend his
elbow, he emigrated to Melbourne. For
a time he did well, but his habits were
too strongly ingrained. His wife died in
an asylum, and he was later found dead
in the street and buried in a pauper
grave. Years after, Araluen Kendall,
daughter of Henry, was buried in the
same plot. In 1927 the Australian Litera-
ture Society erected a stone over Araluen
bearing the words from Kendall’s
pathetic poem—“ Leave the darling with
her flowers; Other hands will come and'
tend them —Other friends in other hours.”
This prophecy has been fulfilled, but
Whitehead has been forgotten except by
students who know of his “Richard
Savage,” “Life and Times of Sir Walter
Raleigh” and “Lives of Pirates and High-
waymen.” >
BALLAD OE MURDER SERIALS.
I’m surfeited with the excess
Of pseudo-literary fare
Purveyed by our enlightened press.
I don’t particularly care
About the crossword puzzles there,
But what I find the most funereal
And hardest of the lot to bear
Is just “Our Thrilling Murder Serial.”
The crude cartoons with less and less
Of any telling point whate’er
Afford me nothing but distress;
And I could profitably spare
The quacks who astral secrets blare
And babble about things aerial.
But, above all, let me declare,
I loathe “Our Thrilling Murder Serial.”
Gaboriau’s plots they steal and mess,
From Doyle’s prescriptions they prepare
Grim mysteries in modern dress,
Dark tales of crimes that sear and scare.
The sleuth who handles the affair
Disdains all methods magisterial,
But' he alone, you’re well aware,
Will solve “Our Thrilling Murder Serial.”
Who did the deed, one’s apt to swear,
Is absolutely immaterial
As long as means are'found somewhere
The slippery miscreant to snare
And end “Our Thrilling Murder Serial.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: It had been raining
steadily for three days and the hands,
confined to the hut and isolated on the
station by impassable roads, were bub-
bling over with malice towards one another
—as generally happens when four or five
men are confined together for days on
end. They’d played crib, poker, euchre,
five hundred, grab, stag knife and lazy
stick till they were sick of ’em all; every
blessed book, calendar and label had been
read twice over'; the ’phone line was down
and the radio batteries dead. By the
fourth night it needed only a word to
start an all-in brawl. We lay on our
bunks, morosely staring at the roof and
listening to the rain, and cursing our-
selves for ever coming to such a dump.
Then Little Curi said “Gripes, this rain’ll,
wash out the cricket in town nex’ Satur-
day.” Big Tom Fleming arose on his
bunk, eyes glaring, and snarled “Shut
y’r flamin’ mouth, y’ blank, blank.” Little
Curl leapt to the floor, snatched up a burr
hoe, raised it high and made for Big
Tom, Pocket Knife leapt for Little
Curl and Harry jumped at Pocket
Knife. Then the door burst open, and
out of the streaming night came a satu-
rated figure who, eyeing the tableau of
men frozen in attitudes of violence, asked
mildly “Anybody know where I could
get a blacksmith? Me wagon’s broke
down.” In five minutes we’d laughed the
accumulated badness out of ourselves;
in 10 we were hatted and coated and joy-
fully following the drenched wagoner
through the storm, Big Tom trying to
keep a tarpaulin over Little Curl’s head.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: My nomination for
the best all-round rifle for the kangaroo
shooter is the Winchester .44. My ex-
perience of the Mennlicher, Mauser and
.303 satisfied me that the high-powered
weapon is a handicap, as the nickel-
pointed bullet bored a hole clean through
the animal, with little of the shattering,
devastating shock caused by the soft-
nosed, expanding Winchester ball. To
stop a kangaroo with a h.-p. rifle the
hunter must get him in the heart, brain,
spine or leg. Even when a bone is struck
the nickel-cased ball leaves a fairly clean-
cut perforation, except in the case of a
leg hit. The Winchester is light, handy
and accurate, its cost less than the h.-p.
gun, and the ammunition cheaper. The
use of the Winchester- combined bullet-
mould and refilling apparatus still further
reduces ammunition cost.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d been doing a bit
of a starve and were glad to sight the
lighted window in the farmstead soon
after dark. As we approached the place
we were wary for dogs, but no hound
lifted a voice. We could hear a piano
being played as we made for the back
door. It must have drowned our knock-
ing, for nobody answered. So we pros-
pected round the front, and, as we passed
the lighted window, saw a young woman
absorbed in her playing. Mat looked at
her thoughtfully, then drew me off into
the gloom. “You wait here,” he said,
“till I have a look round.” I waited.
Presently he came back and whispered
“Come on ; we’re gettin’ out.” The piano
played on as we drifted away. When the
house was about half a mile away I de-
manded an explanation. “Don’t be a
goat,” Mat said. “She’s there on her own.
I hunted round. No car in the shed, no
horses anywhere near, no men or boys,
no dogs. Reckon they’re all over at some
neighbors.” “Well” I began. “Look,”
he said. “We knock at the door, she
comes out, sees a coupla whiskery blokes
in the dark. She’s on her own and scared.
Y’ can bet she’d a started screamin’ an’
maybe tore off yellin’ to that neighbor s.
Well, what chance would we have had?
Gripes, she might ha’ pitched any tale an’
they’d ha’ believed it. Come orn.” We
went. Later, I asked “But why did y’
reckon she was scared?” “Gripes,” he
answered, “didn’t y’ see her playin’ the
piano, thumpin’ it hard t’ make a lot o’
noise?” I thought that over and said
“An’ y’ reckon y’ don’t know much about
wimmen! ”
“M.U.R.”: Ben was sitting on a box
in the chaff shed, his back to the door,
studiously doing a bit of calculating with
pencil and paper. Hearing a bit of a
shuffle at the door he said, without look-
ing up, “Run over to the house, Elsie,
and get me some matches.” No answer.
Ben looked round. A five-foot black
snake regarded him curiously. Ben went
over sideways, picked himself up, grabbed
the box and hurled it. The snake van-
ished into the chaffbags. Ben recovered
the box, stood it up and muttered dis-
gustedly, “There. Now I got t’ go an’
get the bloomin’ matches meself.”
* * * *
“Konthai”: No wonder “Nakhoda’s”
elephant (B. 16/1 /’46) refused to go any
further when it arrived in the p.-0.-w.
camp on the Burma-Siam (not Burma-
“Pass, friend!”
Bangkok) railway, towing teak logs. It
must have had a long haul, as no teak
grows in the area. However, that is over-
shadowed by the bloke who observed
the beauties of the grain miraculously
displayed on the outside—or perhaps it
was on the ends of the logs. But the
real hero was the p.-0.-w. who was con-
fronted by the “enormous orang-outang,”
who must have just parachuted in from
Borneo. Instead of grabbing the guard’s
rifle, the p.-0.-w. should have bought a
fish spear from an Eskimo who was glid-
ing by on an icefloe at the time, and,
transfixing the big ape in a non-vital
spot, carried him back to the camp, where
he could have learned English from the
Jap officer with the Oxford accent. Good
old “Nakhoda”!
* * * *
Snowy Baker: Was thrilled and
flattered—to find in my Bulletin men-
tion of our Riviera Country Club, here
at Pacific Palisades, near the Pacific
Ocean, in Southern California, U.S.A.,
and our Australian tree growth atmo-
sphere. We have more than 10,000 gum-
trees on this 4000-acre country club. The
Gunyah is my Australian-type cottage
on the grounds adjoining our polo fields.
Most of these eucalypts were raised from
Sydney gum seeds sent to me by my
mother 15 years ago. Around The
Gunyah there are passion-fruit vines,
wattle and other Aussie plants, trees and
vines. It seems a strange fact that Aus-
tralian trees and shrubs do better here
than in Australia. The Geebungs men-
tioned in the par are our club riders from
five years old to 15. There are some 40
in the Geebung Club at Riviera. Their
slogan is “Good Sportsmanship and
Horsemanship.” The Geebungs have a
“corroboree” once a month. A corro-
boree here is mounted sports and games
—and the call of the Geebungs is
“cooee! ” , Tell your readers, should they
come this way, to drop in at The Gunyah
and say what-ho to a fellow-Aussie.
* * * *
“Munja”: Subjected to a centunes-long
blitz, the New Guinea cassowary, still as
plentiful as ever, is used from feathers
to shanks by the boongs. The native
Beau Brummell festoons himself with
the showy crest and feathers; with-
out them he feels as naked as
Mrs. Grundy would in a French
swimsuit. The strong, heavy shank-
bones are fashioned into spear and arrow
tips ; the flesh, baked and served with
yams, bananas and the usual gooey mess
of sago, is the epicurean dish of the island.
Egg contents (delicious) are a prized deli-
cacy, and the thick, sea-green shells adorn
the mastheads of sea-going canoes and
lakatois from Fak Fak to Hanuabada.
Even the squawk of the big five-footers
is used with effect. The Kiwai, expert
mimics all, imitate the peculiar booming
call of the cassowary to lure them to
their doom.
* * * *
“Luluai”; An article that has been
traded throughout New Guinea for
centuries is the clay saucepan. Each
district has its long-established saucepan
makers; although neighboring villages
have access to similar clay deposits, they
would not dare encroach upon this long-
inherited monopoly. The Sepik River
saucepans are far more ornamental than
any I have seen elsewhere, and are really
fine pieces of work. In size they range
from about two gallons in the ordinary
round type to a long-necked Egyptian
style pitcher, holding anything up to six
gallons. The saucepans are traded among
the natives for mosquito baskets, native
blankets, pearlshell, leaf tobacco, grass
skirts, etc. The methods of manu-
facture are similar in all districts, except
that at Yabob village, near Madang. I
have seen the Marys chewing the clay,
before it is moulded, in order to make
certain that there are no pieces of stone
remaining, to cause a crack when the
saucepan is being baked.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Coppermine” Jack was
lying on his bunk reading the paper when
I called at his camp. “G’day,” he
grunted, brushing the spectacles off his
nose and the cat off his chest. “Yair,
he said in answer to my remark that he
didn’t look overworked ; “I’m takin’ it
easy. Havin’ a spell orf till dinner time
’tany rate. Y’ see, I had t’ hand-draft
them wethers yestiddy, an’ young Harry
come along an’ give me a hand. Saved
me half a day, I reckon. So I’m takin’
me half a day this mornin’.”
* * * *
“Physalia”: More evidence accumu-
lates with every new season to show that
the Murray cod, Australia’s very best
freshwater table fish, is being ex-
terminated. Food shortage is certainly
not the reason, for no more omnivorous
or voracious fish exists. Locks have been
blamed for preventing restocking of
locked river sections by upstream migra-
tion. Illicit use of drum nets and set
lines during the close season is another
ascribed cause. Yet another is the bio-
logical fact that the close season is too
short Even late in December many
gravid fish contain hundreds of eggs, and
spawning extends through January. With
effective protection, propagation and
organisation, three States at least could
have a lucrative industry, with none of
the risks and uncertainties attaching to
sea fisheries.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Joe’s yarn, and he
likes to tell it, is that the successful farmer
from the blacksoil country of northern
N.S.W., where they go in for a special
type of sheep which won’t get so fat on
the succulent feed that it can’t be
travelled to market, sold up and came
over to have a look at W.A. Before
leaving Paradise he told a send-off party
that he’d let ’em know. The gist of his
report was that it was all sand. “I be-
lieve a patch of clay was found at a
place called Guildford,” he wrote. “But
they made it all into bricks.” The exist-
ence of an old clay hole near Guildford
gives point to the story, which is prob-
ably true, because a man could travel
around for a little while in W.A. and
see a lot of sand. Still, I dunno. Pass-
ing over the fact that much of the State
isn’t pure silica, you should see what we
produce from that part of it that darn
near is. Using plenty of water and fer-
tiliser, we can grow enough to supply our
own needs and export some to the east.
Our vineyards compare favorably with
any in Australia, and in many of them
the pickers rest their buckets on some
of the purest sand you’d find away from
a beach. Which prompts me to ask why
sand is in such disrepute. Without water,
of course, it’s just sand. With water—
and W.A. is rich in that —it can be a
garden.
* * * #
“C.E.”: Dick hadn’t been at Simpson’s
long when the boss got him carting a few
dray-loads of wood. Dick growled his
way through the first
makeshift gateway,
cursed heartily through
the second, and pulled
up at the third with a
groan. Fifteen minutes
later he untwisted the
last piece of barbed
wire, chucked away the
last piece of wood from
the pile, and, walking
the nag once more, led
her through. Twenty
minutes it took to load
the dray, but by the
time he had demolished
and rebuilt all the barri-
cades again on his re-
turn he found he had
been nearly an hour
and a half making the
short trip. “Hey, how
many loads do y’
want?” he asked the
boss, as he backed into
the woodheap. “Aw,
seven or eight will do,”
was the reply. “Well,
does it matter if I leave
them gaps undone till I
finish ?” Simpson
straightened up.
“Gripes, don’t tell me
yTe one o’ them blokes
that’s too lazy t’ shut a
flamin’ gate,” he chal-
lenged. “Use y’r ’ead, can’t y’? Why, if
the milkers git through with them other
cattle out there, it’ll take us a bloomin’
half-hour sortin’ ’em out.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Bluey’s Creek had long since
stopped running, and the isolated holes
were drying fast. Mooching up the creek
bed from the camp, I came on a decent-
sized hole, the clear water revealing seven
or eight trout of about a pound each,
confined therein, and obviously doomed.
There was no shortage of camp tucker at
the time, so, planning to take the fish
back with me the following week-end, I
kept an eye on the hole for a night or
two to make sure of my catch. Assured
there was no great difference in the water
level, I didn’t revisit the spot for several
days, but the night before returning
home busied myself fashioning a land-
ing net from a piece of wire netting.
Proud of my makeshift, I stalked off next
morning to land my find. There was
not a fish in the pool. Puzzled, 1 in-
vestigated, and soon found fox tracks in
many places round the edge, the prints
at some spots seeming to lead right into
the water. I’m still wondering how the
ginger bloke managed that job.
“Spokeshave”: Education authorities
don’t like admitting their mistakes. In
the Victorian Education Department s
school paper there appeared a picture de-
picting a damsel milking a cow on the
wrong side. Nobody noticed the slip,
although the building from which the
journal issues positively crawls with agri-
cultural experts of all sorts. The de-
partment’s mail, however, was full ot
letters from indignant cockles. In the
next issue the paper drew attention to
the picture and innocently asked: How
many children noticed anything wrong
with the drawing?” Anyway, why are
cows always milked on the offside.
LIFE’S RIDE.
When you saddle your horse in Youth’s stock-
yard
Look well, look well to your gear,
For the road you travel is long and hard
And its length is fenced with fear.
If you launch away with your girths left loose
You are facing tremendous odds;
You are giving the Devil a grand excuse
And asking a toss from the gods.
If you don’t sit straight as a lifted lance,
If you ride with a rein too slack,
Life, the bucker, will seize his chance
And soon get rid of his pack.
If you don’t beware of the gilgai holes
And the bogs so often found,
And the clutching boughs and the crooked
boles,
You will some day hit the ground.
So, see that the bit that holds you straight
Is wrought of a stainless steel.
And the spur of ambition that rules your gait
Is hung on a careful heel.
And then through the stockyard’s open rails,
Where the waiting world lies wide.
Like a peerless knight of the ancient tales,
Ride out as the best men ride!
ScOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Just take a bit of friendly advice and leave *Waiting for Ships that
Never Come In outa yer repertoyer!”
“Allwet”; George, the boundary-
rider, in town on the spree, drifted into
the dining-room of the hotel and sat
down at the long table in the midst of
half a dozen commercial travellers. Be-
hind the menu he exchanged a wink with
the waitress. “How’s the steak?” he in-
quired. “Only fair.” “That’s good,” said
George. “Cut us off a junk from the
lean and scraggy end, throw it on the
fire and char it to a cinder. Don’t cook
my chips—just bring me the spuds raw —
don’t even peel ’em. If you can find any
eggs slightly high use them.” The com-
mercials had stopped eating and were
listening to this unusual diner in amaze-
ment. “And take. this away,*’ ordered
George, picking up the cruet. “I might
put some Worcestershire sauce on by mis-
take and give the meal a bit of flavor.”
He whistled softly at the ceiling while
the commercials exchanged quizzical
looks. Finally one spoke: “That’s a
funny sort of meal to .order. Are you
on a diet?” “No,” George drawled.
“Y’ see, I’ve had worms for years, and
I reckon anything is good enough for
those blankards.”
* * * ♦
“Alpine Willie”: Tell “Moyhu” (B.
6/2/’46) that when we saw those mobs
of plains kangaroos heading over the
Bogongs to East Gippsland they were not
damaging their noses scaling the rocky
heights. As a matter of fact, we did
notice most of ’em wearing lumps on
the backs of their skulls, and later found
this was caused by falling backwards in
attempting a steep pinch after a down-
hill run. I offer the suggestion that the
snout rash may have been caused by the
hunger-stricken creatures, used to bur-
rowing in the ironstone ridges for their
natural diet of witchetty grubs, striking
trouble in the more abrasive granite.
“C.W.M.”; “D.R.H.” (B. 30/l/’46)
asks why a wounded ’roo licks its fore-
arms. Any bushman knows that wild
marsupials are timid animals; the action
mentioned is a sign of distress —in this
case, agony—much the same as humans
swallow hard when under the dentist’s
drill. Years ago in the Rangers’ League’s
annual “Bushland” Exhibitions we in-
cluded live wallabies and kangaroos in
our display. This part of the exhibition
was immediately discontinued when it
was noticed that the animals were doing
precisely the same as “D.R.H.” mentions.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Jim built himself a new
boat, full keel and as trim a river craft
as you’d see. We attended the launching
with a bottle of beer (our style), and she
floated like a duck beside my scarred and
battered, though still serviceable, fishing
boat. Then, because Jim fancied showing
off the paces of his treasure, I accom-
panied him in a trial run downstream.
We cut through the pool like a knife, and,
with Jim rowing flat out, slid into the
shallows and the drag of the rapid, going
in great style. The rapid turned sharply
to leap over a bar and drop steeply in a
channel of churning, racing white water.
We took the leap gracefully, dived in the
drop and went clean through to the
bottom of the river. Jim had to remodel
his boat to semi-keel with a blunt, up-
swept nose before he could take the rapids
without a ducking.
* * * *
“Narrin”: In this S.A. district the
principal building material for yards,
sheds and barns was native pine. It
makes you tired on a hot day even to
look at sheep-yards, cow- and calf-pens
enclosed with solid walls of timber —
hundreds of trees roughly trimmed and
dropped into place between the double
posts. Sheds were walled with vertical
Ibgs; one 12 by 14 shed on this place
has 130-odd logs in the walls alone, and,
as the district is pretty dry, that repre-
sents about as many trees. And there
are a lot of bigger pine buildings round
the place as well as the house itself, which
has several-walls built of logs plastered
over with home-burnt lime. One has to
admire the passion for hard work that the
pioneer builders must have had. But
when you go out and see slopes that were
once covered with pine scrub now bare
and rutted with a network of miniature
canyons, many of them so abrupt and
deep that a horse can’t cross, and when
you start to reckon the acreage that goes"
down the big creeks after every thunder-
storm, you begin to wonder if cow-
sheds in figured marble wouldn’t have
been less expensive in the long run.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: “Naturala” is right
when he says that cells in the brood combs
reduced by the thickness of successive
cocoons from bees hatched will account
for undersized bees (B. 30/1 / ’46), but that
wasn’t the case in the hive I described.
In my par. I particularly stated that the
combs were a season or two old, which
should have made that clear, for it takes
a number of years before the cells and
worker bees become reduced appreciably
in size. I hadn’t before seen such midgets
as in the hive I robbed, and can only
put it down to some fault in the queen-
mother.
« * * *
“Propalong”: Five years ago Stringy
Jones poisoned old Bob’s favorite dog,
and since then all other news has had to
share local interest with the doings of the
two feudists. There followed the usual
impoundings of stock, the threatened law-
suits over fences, the money wasted on
deals just to get the better of the other.
Both the old chaps are keen gardeners,
and each has on sundry occasions accused
the other publicly of keeping specially-
trained pigs, cows and cats for the pur-
pose of trampling down fences and root-
ing up vegetables. Then came a lull on
the feud front, during which Bob made
a peace offering by sending a parcel of
water-melon seeds over to Stringy.
Stringy put them in and reported later
that they were doing fine. I jnet Bob
the other day and chiacked him a bit on
his olive branch. “Well, ‘Prop,’ ol’ boy,”
he chuckled, looking warily about, “just
you wait until that long cow’s melons are
ripe, I want to be there when he picks
one an’ takes it up on the verandah, pulls
out his pocketknife an’ starts to enjoy
himself. That’ll be the day, ‘Prop.’ Y’
see —but don’t you say nothin’ —them
seeds come from melons I had in las’ year
—they was crossed with paddy-melon.”
* * * »
“Gravelsnatcher”: If those white
swans in the London Lake (B. 23 /1 / ’46)
had tried conclusions with their black
brethren the natives would have been
treated to a fight that makes most other
forms of combat look tame. When two
swans, black or white, come to grips the
sole idea in the mind of each is to kill
the other, and although it often looks
like a case of Sydney rules—kick, belt or
bite—actually there’s quite a bit of
science in it, too. They circle in the
water,* dealing out terrific clouts with
their powerful wings, aiming at the head
and waiting for an opening for the
winning grip—a beak hold at the base
of the neck. Once that grip is secured
the issue is never in doubt. The winner,
on the other’s back, his own head tucked
away safe from the other’s wings,
“scalps” him with his pinion. If by dint
of furious effort and manoeuvring the
victim succeeds in shaking off the victor
and staggering ashore he’s in no condition
to continue the fight —but mostly he
doesn’t get ashore.
* He *
“Bo”: Sidwell, the tovynship’s lawyer,
stared as the door was pushed open and
a long stringy man clad in dungarees, an
old vest over a grey flannel, elastic-
side boots and a felt hat that had once
been grey, staggered in dragging along
a bulging sugarbag. He dumped it on
the floor in front of the table
with a clatter. Then he turned towards
the door. “I’ll be back in a mo, with
the rest,” he volunteered to the goggle-
eyed man of law. “I’m Carstairs, from
Drumstick. Come in to fix up ’bout that
place of Enright’s I’m buyin’.” A minute
later he returned, this time dragging a
battered trunk behind him. Then he un-
tied the string around the top of the
sugarbag, pushed it on its side, took hold
of the bottom corners and up-
ended it. A stream of gold and
silver coins rolled out. He opened
the lid of the trunk. It was packed with
silver and copper coins. “There y’ are,”
Carstairs announced. “The purchase
money; y’ can count it. You’ll find it
right—£l76o, right to the penny!”
About three hours later Sidwell straight-
ened up wearily. “You’re right,” he
said.. “I’ll give you a receipt and get
“It needed this to set it off!"
you to give me a hand to take it across
to the bank ; and the manager, poor cow,
can make the adjustments. But why,” he
went on curiously, "didn't you change
your coins for notes? You can get two
notes, and more, for a sovereign,
and then notes are so much easier to
carry around.” Carstairs looked at the
lawyer pityingly. “Mister,” he said,
“when we get grasshopper plagues out
our way we get ’em proper. I don’t
take a risk on ’em chewin’ up my hard-
earned cash. All they can do with them
coins is blunt their teeth!”
“Brand Chaser”: Leather Joe had
restless fingers and a passion for plaiting.
A good craftsman, he was always plaiting
whips, bridles, breast-plates, belts, hat-
bands, watch-keepers, pouches or any-
thing that could be plaited. He was never
without a bundle of kangaroo-leather
thongs sticking out of his pocket. One
day some visitors came to the station for
a holiday. Joe made up to a nice type of
a girl with chestnut hair, which was so
long that it hung down below her shoul-
ders, This hair seemed to fascinate Joe,
and his fingers seemed to itch to get hold
of it. The girl seemed to take to Joe, too,
and one day they went out riding. When
they came back in the evening the girl’s
tresses were coiled around her head in
fancy plaits, and everybody admired the
new hair-do. The next morning an irate
girl was looking for Joe. Two plaits
were hanging down her back, 16 strands
of hair in each, with a raised ridge and
finished off with two tight Turk’s heads.
Two days later, when they left, she had
only half of one plait unstranded. Joe
found he had an appointment with some
cattle about 14 hills away.
* ♦ * ♦
“Sub-Druid”: “Germ-Proof” was a
health crank with decided views on the
dangers of flies on the tucker and sharing
pannikins. Old Mike was the station’s
hard-doer. Camped together at the depot
hut, they quarrelled constantly until the
boss gave them separate camps, where
their paddocks had only one common
fence. But Mike went off rankling under
the indignity of being called a “flamin’
rotten unhygienic iggerant fool” and
made it his business to clock “Germ-
Proof’s” fence-riding schedule, with the
result that, one blazing hot noon, they
met at the far corner. Each on his own
side of the fence, the two old warriors
dismounted, but Mike, groaning as he
stooped, crawled through the wires and
flopped down weakly in the shadow of
“Germ-Proof’s” prad. “Listen, George,”
he wheezed out before the other could get
in a word, “you was right about that
water in the ’cacia soak. I drunk some
las’ week an’ by hell I’m crook. Real
crook. Haven’t hardly had any sleep f’r
days. Wished I’d had sense enough t’
take y’r tip. Reckon it’s dysentery T
typhoid ’r somethin’—anyway, it’s got
me somethin’ awful. I wanted t’ tell y’
I was sorry I slung off at y’ but I’m so
blanky weak I’ll have t’ get back t’ the
hut now.” He pulled himself up to his
feet, swayed a minute, holding to the
mane of “Germ-Proof’s” prad, and then,
absently, took a deep swig from “Germ-
Proof’s” neck waterbag. He got on to his
own horse and rode off, slouched weakly
in the saddle, and weak indeed with in-
ward mirth: “Germ-Proof” had 15 miles
of sandhills to cross and he’d never dare
to use his waterbag.
♦ ♦ * •
“B. A. Ker”; With the air of a miser
Bob showed us the dustlike contents of
a small envelope and gloated: “Terbacca
seed! When I get this
growin’ properly the old
girl at the store can keep
her mangy weed under
the counter for ever as
far as I’m concerned.”
Despite our scoffings
the seed germinated and
the plants grew rapidly.
Came the day when
Dad walked in for
lunch and asked
“What’s all the leaves
pinned up on lines in
the shed for?” Said
Bob, “That’s the dryin’
process; after that I
have to cure the dried
leaves with honey and
mature ’em under pres-
sure.” In due course a
constant stream of ants
led to the shed door —
and a ;sticky mess in a
box being pressed by an
ingenious system of
crossed logs and a dray
axle. The process didn’t
appear to be an over-
whelming success, so
the repulsive mass was
put on the shed roof to
“dry up a bit.” Bob
“didn’t feel like dinner”
the day he announced that he had succeeded
in nuking a perfect blend but towards
night he presented Dad w,th a chunk
s aj» / make a
- for , he ; .. Two days
® ed d Dad having made n 0 com -
J n£nt Bob brought the subject up. “Oh,
tbat ’bacca?” Dad murmured. “Yair, it’s
a p r j g ht when you get to know how to
U se it. You want to wrap it up in a
couple of lettuce leaves before you put
it in the pouch, leave it there at least
twelve hours—then smoke the lettuce
leaves.”
YELLOW-BOX TREE.
Oh, yellow-box tree:
Rugged of bark,
Uncompromising, dark,
Till summer’s hot prime
Gives armfuls of blossom
Born for the bee.
The alchemists come
Sure to the goal—
The hermitage home
Made in the bole
By the fretting of Time..
Burdened and fleet
To the hexagon comb
With the exquisite sweet
The alchemists come,
Oh, yellow-box tree.
Oh, yellow-box tree!
The child far away
Over land, over sea,
Where clouds dress the day,
Tastes the joy in his mouth.
While I from the South
Am dreaming of home;
Oh, yellow-box tree.
N.S.W.
E.


LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
for loveliness
{licit I asls ...
rew clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find it advantageous to
dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
restricted.
m
mt
m
M
mm
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT :
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
xBl Clarence Street.
NO. 2 "MOTOR TRANSPORTATION SERVING AUSTRALIA' 1
gr
vmmsm.
iMMMM
jSS »
Hurry Doctor,
Hurry
Urgency is the keynote of a doctor’s life . . .
accidents don’t occur on schedule . . . sickness
gives no warning that will allow of long range
planning . . .
Motor transport is an essential item of a doctor’s
equipment—he of all people must be sure that his
movements will not be impeded by breakdowns.
Dunlop take pride in the tyres which contribute to
the efficiency of his car —those same tyres that
carry you on your weekend tours and haul the
country’s produce.
YOU CAN RELY ON DUNLOP
DUNLOP
Throughout the
British Empire
MUTT
S 3
most people ride
on Dunlop Tyres
NOTE to all users of car and truck tyres
Conservation of rubber is still necessary and car and track
operators should observe strict control of inflation pressures
and loading, especially during the hot Summer months.
Synthetic tyres are performing satisfactorily, but best service
will be ensured when they are operated under favourable
conditions. .... ,
Observe the speed limitations and loading recommendations
to SAVE rubber t
D 135
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Facts on Persia.
(From a report by a London “Times’'’ special
correspondent.)
In September, 1945, a “democratic”
party appeared in Persian Azerbaijan.
Observers found some difficulty in distin-
guishing these “democrats” from the
Tudeh, the Left-wing party founded in
1941 by Persians who had been im-
prisoned by the late Reza Shah on sus-
picion of being Communists. The Tudeh,
whose original programme was liberal
and progressive, had early fallen under
Soviet influence through seeking from
Russia the material and moral support
it had been denied elsewhere. This
domination of the party increased until
the Tudeh could fairly be described as a
Russian instrument. Its Persian founder-
members became submerged in a host
of later adherents owing more allegiance
to Moscow than to Tehran.
In the south of Persia, exposed^to
Governrhental repression and Right-wing
hostility, and wanting direct support
from the Russians, the Tudeh made little
headway. In the northern provinces,
however, it consolidated its position
steadily until only party members could
expect influence or office. In Gilan,
Mazanderan and Khorasan, which are
almost purely Persian, and where the
stranger is quickly detected if he does
not speak the provincial language, the
Tudeh was not reinforced by any signifi-
cant influx from outside. Its power was
checked by public resentment of its
violent methods, its disregard of the
law, and its interference with commerce
and food exports, which developed into a
profitable racket. In Azerbaijan, how-
ever, with its heterogeneous population
and Ihultiplicity of dialects, conditions
favored an infiltration into the party of
numerous political prospectors from Cau-
casia, and in September the Tudeh felt
strong enough to act.
Its tactics were simple to the point of
naivete. Overnight the unpopular Tudeh
disappeared and was superseded by the
“Democrats.” Events moved rapidly.
By November the “Democrats” had set
up an “All Peoples’ Assembly of Persian
Azerbaijan.” Owing to the Russian ban
on observers, the gestation of this
assembly could only be observed from
afar; but sufficient facts are known.
The movement was efficiently planned
and executed, and bore all the marks of
expert staging. The “Democrats” were
well organised; their opponents were
thoroughly cowed. The Persian Govern-
ment forces in the region were powerless
or were speedily rendered so. One or two
military and gendarmerie posts showed
fight, but most succumbed at once to
Russian threat or blandishment, the men
remaining passive in their barracks,
many of the officers making for Tehran.
The “Democrats” quickly disarmed the
hated Persian gendarmerie. Their patrols
controlled all communications, inquired
into the business of travellers unless they
had Russian passes, and stopped all who
did not answer “democratic” questioning
satisfactorily. A number of non-sympa-
thisers were expelled from Azerbaijan,
and others fled.
Troops sent by the Persian Govern-
ment to help the existent garrison of
some 6000 to deal with the “disorders”
were halted by the Russians and refused
entry into Azerbaijan on the grounds—
as flattering to the Persian soldiery as
insulting to the intelligence of those who
know the Red Army—that their arrival
‘might provoke troubles that would com-
pel the Russians to reinforce their own
garrisons, estimated at from 30,000 to
70,000 men. There was fighting between
“Democrats” and Government supporters
at a number of places, but the total
casualties seem to have been very small.
In Tabriz and other towns taken over by
the “Democrats” there was practically
no street-fighting and little looting.
Several millions of usually turbulent
Kurds kept aloof. Two hundred thou-
sand Shahsevan tribesmen, loyal to the
Persian* Government, might have been
expected to resist the insurgents, but they
had been deprived of most of their arms,
tjieir chiefs had been arrested or threat-
ened by the Russians, and they could not
count on help. It was,in fact, an almost
bloodless revolution, in spite of the com-
plex racial mixture and communal an-
tagonisms of Azerbaijan.
The presence of a strong hand guiding
and restraining the whole movement
could not be ignored. By warning the
Persian authorities of the consequences
of injuring a single Red soldier, and by
barring the passage of Persian troops
from the south, the Soviet virtually para-
lysed all Governmental action against
the “Democrats.” Its attitude ensured
that the movement would not be resisted
by those Azerbaijanis who might not
have been in sympathy with it. The
Russians further assisted by distributing
arms to the “Democrats.”
Towards the end of November the
“Democrats” held elections in Azerbaijan.
The majority of the voters were de-
scribed by eyewitnesses as factory
workers and “the scum of the towns.”
Few of the merchants or richer classes
voted. Loads of voters were driven to
the polls in American-built Red Army
trucks driven by Soviet soldiers in uni-
form. Most voters were illiterate, and
their blank polling papers were filled in
for them by the polling officers, though
this would have equally been the pro-
cedure elsewhere in Persia. Only “Demo-
crat” candidates were allowed to receive
votes. The results showed those over-
whelming majorities in favor of official
candidates which are the hallmark of the
supervised “free” election.
Russians in Germany.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by William Bayles, recently an official
American observer in Germany.)
To American scientists and investiga-
tors working in Germany it seemed logi-
cal that in addition to finding out what
the Germans had achieved during the
war we should also take advantage of
their best brains. And, far more im-
portant from a national security point of
view, we should prevent those brains from
going to other countries. But United
States military control not only had no
policy except to treat all Germans alike,
but it effectively blocked attempts by indi-
vidual groups to remove German experts
from Germany.
On the other hand, from the day the
war ended the Russian radio coaxed top
German scientists in the British and
American zones to come to Russia by
offering them flattering inducements, in-
cluding large salaries, complete personal
freedom, the privilege of having their
families with them and unlimited research
facilities. In their own zone the Rus-
sians naturally did no coaxing. The
entire personnel of large German plants
were sent off to Russia, together with
every intact piece of the plant equipment.
The vast Leuna plant near Leipzig,
which produced a substantial percentage
of Germany’s war-time gasoline, chemi-
cals , and explosives, survived 22 heavy
air attacks. When captured by American
forces it was able, with local repairs, to
reach almost 75 p.c. of capacity produc-
tion. The Americans held Leuna until
the middle of summer, then turned it over
to the Russians as part of the boundary
agreement. During the entire period of
American control, moves to remove the
top scientists and technicians were frus-
trated by the military commanders. When
the Russians arrived, the familiar curtain
of secrecy descended, but weeks later a
chemist who had escaped from the plant
and managed to enter American territory
revealed that the Russians were rounding
up all who had ever worked at the plant
and sending them off in batches to Russia.
They were also dismantling the plant.
The remark of a typical example of army
brass-hat on learning this fact was reveak
ing. “It’d be nice if we could find out
where they are building it,” he said.
“Some day we’ll probably have to bomb
it.”
In handling Russian relations the brass-
hats did what may turn out to be a seri-
ous disservice to peace by concealing the
true situation and setting up a flimsy
fabric of pretence. The official story was
one of complete Allied harmony with
exchanges of official visits by generals;
no war correspondent cared to get him-
self into trouble by reporting otherwise.


TO Magein tij ’EMTT EIPIA Enr ttoaaou ’a-iou'h TH AOEEIV *
W 9
J
AHMOJQENHE
THE UIISDOm OF THE POST IS fl lESSOH FOR TODRV
“ln almost everything, experience is more valuable
than precept.” Demosthenes.
For seventy-five years we Lave
specialised in the design, fabrication
and erection of steam generating
plant . . . carried out extensive
research on all phases of thermal
engineering and developed the
modern high temperature, high pres-
sure boiler to an unprecedented
peak of operating economy and
efficiency.
Modern production facilities, sound
engineering and the treasury of
Babcock world-wide experience
enable us to design and build in
Australia steam plant to suit every
individual requirement ... to work
in close co-operation with factory
managements extending the benefits
of practical experience rather than
advising by precept.
The lesson is obvious, and Babcoclc
engineers in every State will gladly
respond to your enquiries for infor-
mation and advice.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICER.WORKS—REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia,
This planning gives, recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
Pritish organisation . . , maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
• 'MM.e H' is /■/< <>i ll> ',r «/; ft-K-jn'ice , *o-p ;it ah cock hoi leh plant
AKUBRA
hat
hint—
No.l
EIGHT
WRONG
The correct way to put on a hat,
by grasping the brim at front
and back, as compared with the
incorrect way, by pulling it
down from the sides.
Good hats are scarce—take this
hint and preserve the smart
shape and snappy appearance
of your ''AKUBRA/'
2. Always brush WITH the nap—see arrow.
3. When rain-soaked, push out dents, turn
- up brim, and stand hat on level surface.
4. Always rest SIDE of hat on hat peg—
this allows hat to hang clear.
5. Never allow your hat to be placed In a
pile with other hats.
6. Turn out leather—this allows par.
spiration and hair oil to dry out.
7. When laying aside a hat, put It away
in a hat box.
AKUBRA
/uz&
2
3 m
41
6 m
7P
i*SSm
Actually relations between ourselves and
the Russians gave rise to anxiety and not
a little anger, particularly in the border
regions.
Practically every observer I talked with
in Germany felt that the Russians were
deliberately provocative and often openly
challenging. In broadcasting to the Ger-
mans, the Berlin radio, controlled solely
by the Russians, strove to foment trouble
in the American and British zones by
repeatedly asking such questions as “Who
bombed your cities and wantonly de-
stroyed your cultural centres? Why don’t
the Americans, who have now grabbed
the resources of two continents, feed
you? Why don’t the Americans
release your men from prison camps
so that they can provide for you
and protect you? Why do the Americans
discourage fraternisation? Is it because
they regard the Germans as inferior
creatures fit only to lick their boots?”
There were also specific cases of incite-
ment to violence, as when the Russian
radio told Communists in western Ger-
many that their foremost enemy was “the
capitalist Power whose arrogant suppres-
sion of free political development must be
met with force.”
In broadcasts to Europeans the Rus-
sians carefully played down their role as
victors and lumped themselves and the
rest of the Europeans as victims of west-
ern capitalist rapacity. At the same time
they teased the miserable Germans in the
western zones with glowing accounts of
the proletarian paradise in their own area.
The accounts bore no relationship to the
facts, of course, but the effect on western
Germans was very marked.
American broadcasting stations in
Europe were not allowed to refute Rus-
sian statements or even to cite evident
truths because the fiction of harmony had
to be maintained. Our troops were often
horrified and angered by what they saw
in the border territory, but references
were censored out of their letters. One
consequence of this suppression has been
that the public at home has never received
a true picture of the actual political situa-
tion in Germany.
A vastly more serious consequence is
the drawing of Germany into the Russian
orbit. It is ridiculous to maintain that
we are not interested in Germany as a
future political force. Even defeated she
is still the most potent power unit in Cen-
tral Europe. It is equally ridiculous to
insist that there is no h/oc-building in
Europe. Russia has worked diligently
throughout the war to build up a power-
ful Communist bloc, and Germany was
naturally the prize upon which she set
her eye. Although practically every Ger-
man was by nature inclined toward the
western Powers we did nothing to encour-
age this feeling and finally Germans began
to succumb in great numbers to Russian
blandishments. It seems slightly incred-
ible that, while exerting almost exagger-
ated effort to preserve Japan from Com-
munism, a more vital nation should have
been allowed through neglect and con-
cealment of facts to drift in that direction.
Personal relations between Americans
and Russians were allowed to exist as a
purely one-way affair. Only with the
greatest difficulty and delay could an
American enter Russian territory for any
purpose whatever. In one case ? the Rus-
sians did allow a group of American
scientists to make a survey of the big new
synthetic rubber plant at Auschwitz.
When their data had all been assembled,
however, the Russians confiscated the in-
formation on the pretext that it had to
be cleared by Moscow. Instead of getting
tough, Frankfort merely warned mem-
bers of research missions that the Rus-
sians did not like to have Americans
snooping around in their territory and
might express their disapproval by im-
prisoning the snooper in some local jail
and forgetting about him.
Russian groups, on the other hand,
were constantly touring American and
British territory. It was agreed at Yalta
that the Russians should have not only
whatever they wanted from their own
territory, but 15 p.c. of the resources of
the American and British zones. Since
it is difficult to estimate 15 p.c, of the
total resources of a vast territory the Rus-
sians settled the questioh by demanding
practically everything movable, including
railway tracks and high-tension cables.
Commissions worked throughout the
summer cataloguing items for removal.
While I was participating in a survey of
a large synthetic rubber plant in western
Germany a British and a Russian com-
mission arrived at the plant. The British
announced that they were working out
the most efficient way to destroy the plant
because Britain intended to have no Ger-
man competition in the post-war rubber
market. The Russians said nothing, but
the nature of their investigations indi-
cated clearly that they were cataloguing
the plant for dismantling and removal to
Russia.
la failing to control inter-Allied
finances in Germany our military authori-
ties revealed incompetence ; in failing to
disclose the situation they violated the
trust of millions of our taxpayers who
will have to foot the bilk Occupation
marks were printed for the use of United
States troops, and in order to maintain
currency unity the plates were supplied
to both the British and the Russians to
print their currency. The British played
the game, but the Russians saw an oppor-
tunity to put one over on the capitalist
Powers and proceeded to flood the Reich
with marks, which were not redeemable
in roubles but could be exchanged
by American soldiers for dollars. Prac-
tically every Russian soldier carried
thousands of marks in his pockets,
and explained his wealth with the tale that
he had just received three months’ back
wages. Russian ex-slave workers also had
pockets stuffed with marks, and insisted
with rehearsed consistency that they had
taken them from Germans, which, of
course, was untrue, because the Germans
had no occupation marks. According to
an estimate by the New York “Times,”
30,000,000 marks passed from Russian to
American hands during the first month
of the Berlin occupation, and these were
redeemed by the U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment.
The Nuremberg Tribunal
(From a London “Times’'’ article by
Wilson Harris, M.P.)
Appearing for Britain as prosecutor,
the Attorney-General, Sir Hartley Shaw-
cross, expressed the conviction that the
Nuremberg Tribunal “will a
contemporary touchstone and*n authori-
tative and impartial record to which
future historians may turn for truth and
future politicians for warning.”
Such a declaration rests, of course, on
the assumption that the Tribunal, though
appointed by the victorious Powers, will
act with impartial objectivity. It is clear
to any layman attending no more than
three or four hearings that the Tribunal
is in fact so acting; The whole setting
of the Court is impressive and reassur-
ing. Though the Court is technically an
International Military Tribunal, and the
two Russian Judges are therefore fully
justified in appearing in military uniform,
it is the plain black gowns of the other
six, the British, the American, and the
French, that set the note ; and no one can
doubt that it is the right note. No Bench
could be more impartial than this un-
precedented body is showing itself to be,
William Joyce received no fairer hearing
before three British courts than Goering
and his 20 associates are being afforded
by their international Judges.
That is manifest to anyone who
observes the manner and the occasional
interventions of the President of the
Court, Lord Justice Lawrence, interven-
tions quite as often directed to checking
irrelevancies by the prosecution as by the
defence. That defence has as full rights
as in any British Court, and it will no
doubt exercise them at considerable length
at a later stage, for, quite apart from the
cross-examination of witnesses by defend-
ing counsel (if need be, by every counsel
for every prisoner), there will be general
addresses to the Court by these counsel,
and then, after the prosecution has re-
plied, each prisoner may make his own
personal statement —and some of them
will not be short.
For final vindication of the imparti-
ality of the Tribunal we must await the
closing phase. It is possible that on the
evidence all the 21 occupants of the dock
may be deemed worthy of the death
sentence, but if it were pronounced on
that wholesale scale, color would at least
be given to the comment that the
prisoners might, after all, just as well
have been shot to start with. In fact, it is
already clear that there will be no such
wholesale sentence. There may conceiv-
ably be some acquittals. There will
almost certainly be some terms of im-
prisonment of varying length. Each in-
dividual’s case, it may be asserted with
assurance, will be studied and decided by
the majority of the Bench with scrupulous
adhesion to the principles embodied in
the Charter of the Court.
It is plain that the proceedings must
be protracted. The Tribunal held its first
sitting at Nuremberg on November 20,
after lengthy preliminaries in London,
Berlin, and it will be fortunate
if it gets through its work by the end of
June. The prisoners, after all, are on
trial for their lives, and a man must not
be condemned to death except on damn-
ing evidence. Actually the evidence is
overwhelming in its mass. The contents
of the document-room, most ably organ-
ised under American direction, are
astonishing in their volume. Some
4500 papers of capital importance have
been acquired, indexed, photographed
and pigeon-holed already, and others will
come dropping in. The failure of the


Mar
°v
+
1 &
5*5
3 Generations o£ seafarers have toasted ‘bon
voyage’ in Tintara Amontillado Sherry, and many
a good ship complements its stores with such
Wines of Tintara as Tintara Gold Label Port,
Tintara Gold Label Muscatel, the Tintara Sparkling
jWines—Champagne,Hock,Moselle and
Burgundy—and Tintara Old Brandy.
I often wonder what the Vintners buy.
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
Omar Khayyam
w
s
Tmifbifc.
ALUMINIUM ENAMEL
c oil UtfueA -of !
A bright, clean, rust-resistant
and hedt-resistant silver finish
with a brilliant sheen.
Ena/
'ffli/w/a&M
SYNTHETIC
QUICK-DRYING ENAMEL
The miracle finish for interior
decoration. Hard, tough,
waterproof, with a brilliant
lustre. For all wood or iron
work in bathrooms, kitchens
and living rooms. Easy to
apply—long lasting.
*>S l „ oss '
S-u/fajeA.
PAVING ENAMEL
< D'Ua4 0/6 'flOAjd. 0-6 -tA-OTU 1
Brilliant lustre, quick-drying,
waterproof. This iron-hard
surface is ideal for garage
floors, concrete paths, steps,
verandahs, passages. It is
guaranteed to withstand
heavy foot traffic.
Victorian Distributor: T. S. NETTLE-i
FOLD & SONS PTY. LTD. Queensland
Distributor; BROWN & BROAD LTD.
Tasmanian Distributor: A. G. WEB-
STER & SONS PTY. LTD. Made by
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD.,
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W.
19.5
by, thi, 5 VeaAd Zf-eM;
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.'* 3s. 6d., POST FREE. "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Germans to destroy them is surprising ;
the end presumably came too quickly.
You can see the original plan for the
invasion of Britain, signed in black in an
indecipherable hieroglyphic by Hitler, in
green by Jodi, and initialed in red pencil
by Keitel; or a “top-secret” intimation
that the displacement of the Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau was 20 per cent, greater
than had been announced, and that it
was important to keep this knowledge
from Whitehall. Not all these docu-
ments, or a tithe of them, are being read
in Court, but extracts from very many
of them are, and some that are not read
at all are put in. All this takes time.
So does a certain ambunt of evidence
that a rigorous Judge would be justified
in ruling out as irrelevant. The practice
in the United States Congress of
ing dosuments into the record” is*
familiar, and a certain amount of it is
going on at Nuremberg. Within limits
that is no bad thing. A statement from
the Vatican, for example, on religious
persecution by the Nazis adds nothing
to the weight of evidence against any
individual prisoner, but it is of value
to get on public record facts (though it
must be remembered that they are un-
proved facts in a legal sense) which the
world ought to know. All this may leave
the public at home impatient. The im-
patience is natural; but that does not
mean that the Nuremberg method is
wrong ; in the main it is right.
Despite some futile clauses in the
Treaty of Versailles this is the first time
politicians who, for example, contract a
treaty of non-aggression and then deliber-
ately breaWt are*brought to judgment in
their individual capacities. The sentence
pronounced on Ribbentrop in particular
will be a signpost for the future. And it
is of immense importance that the atmo-
sphere of vengeance and retaliation is so
totally absent from the Court House.
The atmosphere is one of justice, stern
but scrupulous, and based on evidence
which the defence has full liberty to con-
trovert, if it can, to the utmost.
In Ruined Berlin.
(From a report by London “Times” Berlin
correspondent.)
In ruined Berlin the people are trying
to live approximately normal lives amid
a desolation where not only normality
but even life itself seems out of place.
In London there* are the tidy remains
of ruins among the buildings; in Berlin
there are the untidy remains of buildings
among the ruins.
It is possible to walk along whole streets
in districts like the Tiergarten, in the
British sector, and see no life except for
a man trundling home wood on a hand-
cart, or a single smoking stove-pipe stick*
ing through a ground-floor window in
sign that the street shelters one family.
The Allies have provided direction and
some materials; the Germans have
obeyed orders. They have worked well.
The German’s capacity for obedience, for
doing quickly and efficiently what he has
been told to do, has shown to advantage
in this rebuilding of broken walls and
broken organisations in a shattered capi-
tal. Yet it is only* the framework of life
that is normal; the detail within is still
abnormal. No amount of careful cook-
ing will make the rations more than
they are —enough on which to sustain life
and health. No one pretends that there
can be any reserve of strength against ill-
ness or epidemics.
The occupying Powers do not hide their
anxiety in these days of winter. Dysen-
tery, typhoid and typhus have been
checked ; there are no signs of serious
influenza. But the factors that favor
the spread of disease and epidemics are
there. The population in Berlin is no
more than sheltered and fed; and
refugees, dirty and perhaps diseased, are
constantly arriving, and some of them
slip the net spread to get them into the
refugee camps where they can be cared
for till they are sent on to the western
zones. The final factor in the “battle of
the winter” remains the winter itself. 11
it stays cold and dry there will be less
risk of epidemics, though there will be
more deaths among young children and
old people, whose death rates are already
abnormally high. If it becomes less cold
and damp there will be influenza, which
in any case can be expected in March at
the turn of the winter.
Bacteria for War.
(Before the recent war it was widely believed
that bacteria would be among the forms of
frightfidness in any coming conflict. That did
not happen, but this London ‘ Times repoit
shows how seriously the possibility was re-
garded and the steps taken to be ready for such
warfare.)
Intense research work on biological
warfare was carried out during the war
by a team of highly qualified scientists.
An official announcement by the office
of the Minister of Defence which makes
this disclosure states that from 1942,
Britain, the United States and Canada
worked together to devise counter-
measures, for it was known that Ger-
many was studying biological warfare.
Biological warfare was discussed at the
Geneva conference of 1925, and a pro-
tocol prohibiting the use of bacteria in
warfare was ratified by various countries,
including Great Britain and Germany.
Before the war it came to the know-
ledge of Great Britain that Germany
was conducting experiments in this form
of warfare, and an organisation was set
up under the Committee of Imperial
Defence to consider counter-measures.
After the fall of France it was decided
that experiments should be carried out to
assess with greater accuracy the possible
effects of German secret weapons of this
nature and to design defences. Intense
research work was therefore carried out
by a team of highly-qualified scientists.
At the end of 1942 it became clear that
greater resources were necessary ade-
quately to protect against any weapons
containing bacteria which the enemy
might produce. British representatives
were therefore sent to the United States
to make a full disclosure of results and
seek assistance. Discussions had already,
in May, 1942, taken place in the United
Kingdom with Canadian scientists and a
working collaboration established. From
this time onwards research and develop-
ment proceeded in close collaboration
between the three countries.
It was laid down by the War Cabinet
that “it is only by a full examination
of methods of attack that we can develop
effective means of defence.” At the same
time the policy of the War Cabinet, was
clearly Refined in the following terms:
“That our principal aim in these studies
and experiments was defensive and pro-
tective, and that we should under no
circumstances initiate these forms of
frightfulness.”
A report to the United States Secretary
of War by Mr. George W. Merck,
Special Consultant for Biological War-
fare, states that at the height of its de-
velopment the Special Projects Division
of the Chemical Warfare Service of the
United States Army employed 3900 per-
sons. Their achievements have been
most remarkable.
The report adds: —•
Although remarkable achievements can
be recorded, the metes and bounds of this
type of warfare have by no means been
completely measured. It is important to
note that, unlike the development of the
atomic bom.b' and other secret weapons
during the war, the development of agents
for biological warfare is possible in many
countries, large and small, without vast ex-
penditure of money or the construction of
huge production facilities. It is clear that
the development of biological warfare could
very well proceed in many countries, per-
haps under the guise of legitimate medical
or bacteriological research. In whatever de-
liberations that take place concerning the
implementation of a lasting peace in the
world, the potentialities of biological war-
fare cannot safely be ignored. .
It is also stated that Japan had made
definite progress in biological warfare.
Palestine Turns to Industry.
{From an “American Mercury’’’ article by
Gerold Frank.)
Legend has it that Palestine is a back-
ward agricultural country whose Jewish
population consists predominantly of
farmers. The fact is that Palestine was
essentially an agricultural country. To-
day it is a growing industrial Country.
Of its estimated 600,000 Jews, one-fifth
or about 120,000 are settled on the land.
Agriculture continues to flourish at an
amazing pace ; in the last six years 79
new agricultural villages have
founded, and Palestine’s collective farms
now have as many tractors per cultivated
acre as farms in the U.S.A. But since
1943 industry has outstripped agriculture
as the leading source of national income.
Palestine’s 1943 industrial production
was valued at $80,000,000 ; its agricultural
production $75,000,000. Last year indus-
trial production leaped to an estimated
$160,000,000.
What must be remembered is that
within the last decade the best of Europe’s
Jewish industrial workers and craftsmen
have moved to Palestine. The roll-call
is impressive: dressmakers, de-
signers, perfumers, auto mechanics from
Paris and Vienna ; diamond cutters, glass
blowers, shipbuilders from Amsterdam,
leather craftsmen, glove workers, interior
decorators from Budapest; scientists, engi-
neers, chemists, optical and steel workers
from’ Berlin ; pharmacists, shoemakers,
laboratory technicians from Prague ; geo-
logists, oil drillers, petroleum specialists
from ’Bucharest; garment and textile
workers from Warsaw and Lodz ; gold-
smiths and canners from Belgrade and
stevedores and shipwrights from Athens


n the right:
fessed Steel Door Frame.
A craftsman in the
welding section.
■
I
t.V
PRESSED & WELDED METAL-WORK
WUNDERLICH LIMITED are equipped
to produce pressed or welded architectural metal-work, such
as door frames, doors, and all types of bent, stamped or cast
metal-work required in the building field; also pressed and
stamped metal sections and panels for industrial requirements.
* .
The craftsmen of Wunderlich Limited
are specialists, and your enquiries are invited for work involving
resistance welding (spot and flush butt), oxy-welding, light
constructional arc welding, and profile machine cutting.
dertic/i a/un I ted,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER 50 YEARS
BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN. SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
A I <# e not
>*" ‘. ab «,, *>
ffE tiA i&&
V i fc'
m
i
a
m
»
v£? *
Every young couple’s plan for
the future centres inevitably round
a home . . . equipped with new
labour-saving devices, artistic fur-
nishings. . . .
FELTEX
FELT and TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Plain $• Marbled Feltcx
As the demand for Feltex is so great, it is regretted that
intending purchasers may have to wait for delivery of
orders placed with their furnishing store.
pro
jJr
and Salonica. As Hitlerism grew, into
Palestine poured not only highly-skilled
workers to join those trained farmers
who had gone before as Chalutzim, or
pioneers, but industrialists and entrepre-
B r*orUtol anH nknc fnr it<s in-
neurs with capital and plans tor its in
vestment.
Almost overnight Palestine underwent
an industrial revolution. Industries un-
dreamed of by the most tervid Zionist
sprang up. Electrical consumption soared
2000 p.c, in a decade. The first cotton
cninnin cr mill hpofin onpratiom fgw
spinning mill began operations a lew
years ago, and diamond cutting was first
introduced in 1941. Last year Palestine s
booming textile industry manufactured
$10,000,000 worth of fabrics, and Tel-
A,,iv nnw ic tho fashion centre of the
Aviv now is the fashion centre or me
Middle East. Palestine today is one of
the largest diamond cutting centres in the
world. Last year it was able to export
<ro nnn nnn worth of industrial cut
$9,000,000 worth of industrial cut
diamonds to the United States alone.
Palestine’s shipbuilder? turn out fishing
trawlers equipped with diesel engines—•
, w Dimrmnr-miti
manufactured in Palestine. Pharmaceul -
cals produced in Palestine—patent medi-
cines, serums, vaccines, cosmetics, vita-
mins, salves and even penicillin—are
, \ A • t r
found on druggists shelves from Casa-
blanca to Cairo, and soft drinks made
from Palestine fruit concentrates are
nnrmlar thrnnohont the Middle East
popular throughout me Jvnoaie nasi.
Haifa steel, though limited in quantity,
is said to equal Swedish steel in quality,
and along the shores of the Dead Sea,
u;« ar tv-.’rw* to on inpvhnnstihle
whose bitter brine is an inexhaustible
source of minerals, chemical plants pro-
duce industrial acids, potashes, phos-
phates, bromides, chlorides, bleaching
powders and fertilisers. Tel-Aviv, once
a small suburban excrescence on the sana
dunes north of Jaffa, is now a city of
nearly 200,000. Haifa, terminus of a great
■I V • , Wrvoot mtrt rtn
oil line, is now the third largest port
the Mediterranean, with a population ex-
ceeding 160,000. And though Jerusalem’s
Old City within the Walls still preserves
its medieval character
Jerusakm surrounding it boasts an Xl }aus
trial production of $8,000,000 m food,
drugs, ceramics and precision tools.
In Palpctinp aoriniltnral Palestine —
In Palestine—agricultural i aiesune
where the pioneer Polish and Russian
Jewish settlers once thought only in terms
of oranae groves and dairy products, the
i . f ? ■ • Wp.rVprc’
largest trade-union is the Metal Work
Union.
Dragnet Digest.
{Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Although the Soviet Union is not exposed to
the danger of attack from any quarter after the
crushing of Germany and Japan the consider-
able sum of 137 billion roubles out of a total
budg£t of 3Q5 billipn roub i es for 1945-46 is
earmarked for military purposes.— “ Wall-street
journal.”
A appea * red )n ne * ly every
country — £ j, a , mere unth is a sufficient reason
f or tbe tota j satisfaction of personal needs. Pro-
ductivity does not count. Work does not
count. Achievement does not count. Only
existence counts For are no longer indi .
v j ( j ua i s we are parts of a mass. —George E,
Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun. v
* * * * .
Since the day, in 1940, when the Italians
first attacked, 1,000,000 Greeks—one m every
eight _ have , mied in bat ti e , have succumbed to
starvation or have been executed. Greece has
bec ome a land of widows—wherever you go
sombre figures in black remind you of the
sorrow of this nation Saturday Evening
posf , correspondent in Athens.
« * * *
London’s new airport, Heathrow, now under
construction between the Bath and Staines main
roads, near Hounslow, is to be almost trebled
| n s j ze _ xhe Ministry of Civil Aviation has
decided to enlarge it from its present area of
1500 acres to more than 4000 acres. This will
make Heathrow almost as big as the final size
planned for Idlewild, the airport being built
or j^ ew York, which is to cover 4600 acres.
The enlarged Heathrow airfield will be not only
wider but longer, permitting of an extension of
the existing main runway from its present
Jength of 9000 ft to i s)o ooft. and the two sub-
sidiary runways from 6000 ft. to 9000 ft. If
necessary there will also be room for further
runways. When completed, Heathrow will be
the finest airport m Europe. Idlewild, its only
serjous rival^in the wor f d) is bein g built in
tbree stages. It is now being provided with
three runways, temporary administrative build-
ings, and two hangars. The secondl stage, which
f or “t a £ “ SS
and further hangars. The final stage, which is
expected to be completed by 1954, will bring
the total of runways to 12; and will see the
completion of the ambitious terminal building
b j g enougb to house the offices of all the
United States external and domestic air-lines
and a number of foreign air-lines, including
British Overseas Airways.— London “Times.”
Even the sketchiest picture of French con-
djtjons would be incomplete without mention-
j ng t he Americans. I regret to say'that their
continued presence ..in France raises a series of
ugly problems—which are as bad for the
Americans themse i ves as they are for the
p rencb Broadly speaking, these armies have
be come the strongest factor of corruption, not
merely in Paris, but throughout the country,
and they are both corruptors and corruptees.
There is not an informed American observer
in or out of uniform who is not profoundly
aware of it and David Anderson, Brussels
corresDondent of the New York “Times,” hit
the 3 oi? the head when he had the moral
SBVti S"SUS
ts °s
Netherlands. In Paris as in Brussels, some of
our troops on leave are showing no discretion
in their approach to women. There is no sign
of discrimination.” I am no puritan and fully
appreciate the problems of the American army
in Eurone but I must say that, compared to
the wav these young—and*often not so young
men have disported themselves throughout
France, their conduct in Piccadilly after dark
has been a model of good behavior. Of course,
there are lots of honest, sober, decent, well-
mannered and immensely genenpus men amongst
them whose record is unassailable. But the
bulk behave like a bunch of drunken louts let
loose in the zoo, and are certainly no credit to
the western civilisation they fought to save.
George Soloveytchik; London “Contemporary
Review.”
* * * * .
“If we get any satisfaction from a comparison
of American free enterprise and Soviet indus-
trial controls, it lies in the fact that Soviet
Russia, if it continues its present system, will
not be able to compete successfully in the world
markets, in consumer goods, for a good many
years to come. Russia is very short on capital
goods. Russia has so far to go even to get to
scratch that she will not be a threat to America,
under her present system, for generations to
come. There will be no threat to us commer-
cially or industrially unless we are foolish
enough to the capital goods to build
up economy that could compete with us. The
Congress of the United States might well set up
a special fund to send Americans with Pink
ideas to Russia. They would come back better
Americans than they were when they went
away, and the idea that the Russian system is
better than ours would have completely dis-
appeared from their minds.” — Jesse P. Wolcott,
senior member of the U.S. House Banking and
Currency Committee, quoted in N.Y. “Journal
American.*’
* * * *
Let us face the reality. Universal military
training is not for the “enforcement of peace.”
It is asked because there is no peace... .in pur
consciences, our minds, our hearts, our policies,
our societies. It is asked in the frantic hope
that the great nations, estimating each other’s
terrifying power, and manoeuvring against each
other over the moans of the real “peace-
lovers”—the suffering, sacrificing, believing,
hoping and broken-hearted people of the world
—will fear to attack each other, lest the result
be mutual annihilation. This is our peace, for
which the youngest and noblest died. Im-
mense and crushing military power, armed with
the most horrible instruments of destruction,
“defending” an ethical vacuum and an intellec-
tual wilderness, inhabited by the furies of
broken faiths, shattered promises, abandoned
principles, rule-of-thumb policies; travesties of
freedom; assassins of Democracy; mockeries
of Socialism; crucifixion of Christendom. That
is our peace. The “people’s peace.”— Dorothy
Thompson; N.Y. “Post.”
There is no strong underground movement
for Communism m Japan, perhaps because of
powerful repressive measures for the past 20
of
agreement with each other. Scnpps Howar
Tokyo correspondent.
* . f
Eisenhower thinks that U.S. occupation of
Germany will need to last 25 years, but with
civilian administrators in charge and with mili-
tary forces reduced to the size of a constabulary
recruited on a volunteer basis. Some other
officials expect that U S. , will, be sick and tired
of the occupation job in Europe within five
years .—“United States News.
* * * *
j n making the atomic bomb the army
neede d silver for giant current carriers known
as busba rs. The U.S. Treasury had a lot or
silver it wasn’t using, so the army borrowed
400,000,000 troy ounces. The Treasury puts
out a daily statement about where its silver
is, and prides itself gn its honesty. The neces-
s j ty f or arm y secrecy posed a problem. For-
tunately, silver also was being leased to the
office of Defence Plants. So the daily Treasury
statement stated the number of ounces held
by the Office of Defence Plants of the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation, etc.” The utile
WO rd “etc.” covered the atomic bomb. Luckily
nobody asked the Treasury what it meant. —
//. Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Contrary to general belief the Arabs, m-
stead Q f being driven out of Palestine, have
been deserting their homes in neighboring Arab
i an ds and flocking into Palestine to live. From
1922 to 1944 the Arab population of Palestine
increased from 670,000 to nearly 1,200,000:
G f this increase more than 85,000 were immi-
grants. There are reasons for this. In Pales-
tine Arab labor receives more than in any
other Middle Eastern country. After all, you
cannot pour $650,000,000 into a country as
small as Palestine, reclaiming land, drying up
swamps, eradicating malaria, trachoma, amoebic
dysentery and many of the diseases stemming
from ignorance, filth and malnutrition, without
benefit to all. While the Arab population
has doubled in Palestine in the last quarter-
century, it has risen at most only 20 p.c. in
other Arab countries. In Trans-Jordan, also
under British mandate, it has remained station-
ary. Today Palestine has the lowest Arab
deathrate, the lowest Arab infant mortality
ra te and the highest Arab birthrate of any
country in the Middle East. — Gerald Frank;
“American Mercury.”
* * * *
The British sphere in China traditionally
has been concentrated in the Yangtze Valley
between Shanghai and Chungking. But this
.immense region, with its rich commercial oppor-
tunities, is expected in the immediate future
to become a joint Chinese-American field of
enterprise. British export traders and ex-
perienced British “China hands” hope only
for crumbs from this Sino-American loaf. U.S.
influence, as seen from London, has been super-
imposed on this old British hunting
London correspondent, N.Y. “Sun.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
advances made on grazing properties, on stock, and on
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
UCENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
AT qn at 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT bb OURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
rpmn . r J^y NSVILLE > CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
EGELABRA MERINOS
FOUR TIMES WINNERS OF THE STONEHAVEN CUP.
WINNERS OF Ist AND 2nd PRIZES ON TWO OCCASIONS.
ALSO WINNERS OF GRAND CHAMPION RAM AND EWE,
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE.
Orders are now being booked for Rams dropped November,
1944, which will be classed before the end of February.
PRICES PROM 5 GNS, TO 15 GNS. PER HEAD.
H. E. RATER & SON. EGELABRA, WARREN, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott
BLOWER that makes it
easy.
A small quantity of
pvlrv gaS which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24° hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead—even those in dead ends.
Sbblt lest. Pump BloWer and a tin 0f Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
Priees, f.o.r. Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 68/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10, Now available.
FOOT-PUMP
o cheap and
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
mm
■ '
mat 7.
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very attractive, and some pur-
chasers _ have reported recovering their full
outlay in one season.
MAXIMUM COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS.
The Coupling is the only one on the market that has
positive flexibility for it can be coupled in any direction to in
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight. The patent outlet
SSSb’or'ttS'ZSr' 1 ” S ““ Ch ,ffi ln t ? of P'P' Positions without stopping either the
or ‘he tnotor Quotations given (or plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
Ob s HSON 1 XY., 102-124 Melbourne St.,. South Brisbane. Box 21 South
VVELLING & CBOSSLEY PXY., LTD 148-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. 'Phone, MX4889.
MSI 954 282 Port Road. Woodville, South Australia.
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
f
39-41 DIXON STREET,
SYDNEY. MA 7858.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for everyman’*
everyday wear.
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co.. Drummoyne, N.S.W.
EYE LOTION
ii-or Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.RoseiCo.,Pty_Ltd., King Street. Sydney.
PROTECT
FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £ 19/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLYENATOR
YOUR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE. I
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR.
NAME
address,
8N.6.44
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Brands of Wool.
“C.V.S.”: There is no more trouble-
some foreign matter in wool than brands.
, Burr and seed can be carbonised out, but
brands remain. Tar is the worst material
used, but science has not yet produced a
branding fluid that will endure the ele-
ments for 12 months \nd wash out in
the scour.
In scouring and carbonising brands
often eat into the profit of commission
lines. In the case of dumped bales of
burry fleece, each fleece becomes so
matted together that it is impossible to
sort out all the brands in the grease. In
the preliminary “opening-up” process
willow machines break up the brands, and
subsequent willowing during the carbon-
ising process finely distributes each brand
through the bulk of the wool. Sorting
out specks of brand in the finished state
is a costly job, and even then the pro-
duct cannot be guaranteed free.
Brand-free wool is worth an extra Id.
per pound, and any grower who can dis-
pense with the convenience of recognis-
ing his sheep apart from ear marks, and
who lives outside a compulsory brand-
ing area, should should try throwing away
his branding stick and stencilling “Guar-
anteed Brand Free” on his bales. With
a similar mark on the catalogue his wool
should command an extra price when we
return to auction sales next selling season.
Importation of Studs.
“Agric”; Mr. Scully has advised the
Aberdeen Angus Society that the Gov-
ernment is considering allowing im-
porters of stud stock the following con-
cessions: Cattle and draught horses £lOO,
pigs £5O ; sheep and milch goats £4O. W.
Eaton Webster, of Kingaroy (Q.),
remarked that the concessions were, not
worth thinking about in view of the*cost
of imported stud bulls of the standard
required to improve Australian herds.
The amount does seem paltry. South
Africa pays all expenses of importing
stud stock; Uruguay is giving importers
substantial concessions. If Australian
stud breeders are to pay £3OOO to £4OOO
for the class of bull necessary to main-
tain the standard at the leading studs the
Government should either make a hand-
some gesture or do nothing.
Graziers consider that the least the
Government can offer is to defray all
expenses associated with importation.
There are practically no top sires in Aus-
tralia today owing to importation being
prohibited during the war, and the leading
herds will deteriorate unless fresh blood
is brought in. It should be possible to
work out some scheme of financial assist-
ance, not necessarily by straight-out
grant, but by advances on long terms at
low interest rates. Otherwise the cream
of British sires will go to those countries
whose Governments are more aware of
their value.
! .
Unbranded Hides.
“A.W.S.”; As a breeder and seller of
cattle, I was interested in what “Murra-
wong” (B. 19/12/’45) and “Simon the
Tanner” (B. 16/1/’46) had to say on the
matter, and pleased with “Simon’s” state-
ment that he will pay more for hides un-
branded or lightly branded—but I’m
sceptical, and here is why. Since 1914 we
have used a small one-piece symbol
brand placed where it would be near the
end of a side of leather. Yet it has
never brought us a penny more for our
cattle or hides over the man who splashes
a large three-piece brand from the hip
to the shoulder. It’s not just a few head,
either. We probably have av&raged over
600 head a year to meatworks or
butchers. If the trade gives us a bit of
practical encouragement it will get clean
hides.
“Simon” says his firm pays 3s.
direct to the grower for hides with thigh
brand only. All ours are branded like
that and we’ve never heard of any 3s.
per hide. How does “Simon” buy his
hides from the grower ? Are they re-
moved before forwarding the bullocks to
the butchers? If “Simon” means he pays
the butcher or meatworks, I wish they
would pass it on.
Land Reform.
“Alpha”: “C.S.” (B. 12/12/’45) said
that many sons of farmers decide against
the land when they see their fathers
desperately trying to meet their “com-
mitments.” The biggest handicap to land
men is over-capitalisation, and here is one
way in which it could be partly alleviated
and in some cases avoided: the nation
should subsidise development and im-
provement, which will increase produc-
tivity, because both the individual owner
and the nation benefit.
The State could work with the banks
and pastoral-finance firms which, in most
cases, hold the farmer’s deeds and already
largely finance his operations. The bank
would make available to the farmer the
cash for approved development at, say,
H p.c. for three to five years according
to the length of time before that particu-
lar land would be in full production.
After that period the landowner would
pay the normal interest rate. The State
would pay the bank the difference be-
tween the rate charged to the client and
the ordinary bank rate.
The advantages are these:
L The State would need to find no cash
exc'ept the difference between the reduced in-
terest charged by the bank and normal interest
rate.
2. The State would not assume responsi-
bility to the bank for the principal. This would
act as a guarantee that a bank would not
recommend an advance unless assured that the
client possessed the experience and capacity
to carry through the development satisfac-
torily, that the proposed improvement's were
economically justified, and that by increasing
the productivity of the holding the owner would
be able safely to pay normal interest rate
in three to five years’ time.
3. The plan should be acceptable to the
banks, whose business would be increased and
the soundness of their clients established, while
the State would be protected against imposi-
tion.
It is not practical for the State to make
direct development advances where deeds
are held by a bank, as most of them are.
There would be less likelihood of un-
justified advances being made by a bank
which generally has each client summed
up and knows his proposition and his
standing more intimately than does a
State department. There are about
16,000,000 acres of brigalow-belar coun-
try in the Maranoa (Q.) where ring-
ing would treble the carrying capacity in
three years. There are large areas of
fem, scrub and heath land in Victoria
worth £2O or £3O per acre if properly
cleared. Such a plan would help to
bring large areas into production, make
work,' avoid the danger of over-capitali-
sation and benefit farmer, bank and
nation.
f ~ ~
It Doesn’t Pay.
“Aerogenes”: Milking machines are
being installed on many Queensland
and in many circumstances where
they are not an economic investment.
Usually machines are arranged as two-,
three-, four- or six-unit plants. Basic
apparatus is worth about £75 and each
set of unit gear about £l5, the basic gear
being large enough for at least four
units, so that the smaller plants are not
proportionately low in either capital costs
or running costs. For more than six
units the basic gear begins to need en-
larging or duplicating.
Four units is a very useful size, enabling
two operators to milk over 100 cows in
reasonable time at the rate of over 40
per hour. Milking a herd of 40 cows,
the man-hours saved will more than pay
for such a plant as well as relieve the
operators of the drudgery of hand milk-
ing. With fewer cows,, the economy is
doubtful, though the line is lowered a
little for smaller plants using less labor.
Recently, however, many plants have
been bought for small herds because of
sheer lack of , abor . Special war . lime dr .
cumstances demanded special measures
and furnished the special prices to pay
for them. Such buying will probably not
continue. Of much more importance is
the growing tendency to regard milking
machines as “necessary” luxuries, what-
ever the size of the herd. It is quite
P 1 °pcr that a man should have every
com^or t which he can afford, but he
£ ann s ) * : P ro P er |y afford to overcapitalise
l£ , th £ T™U S £ro ” a
Government subsidy. When the subsidy
is discontinu< , d such over i o aded enter-
P rises ™ B£ be supported from some other
source or they must tail,
Erosion Report,
“Plane Creek”- According* tn r SIR
officjal c G who has b«n
d ”T W *
? Ee * ty bad ° n the of the far
ai } d around Childers (S.Q.).
Macka y d,stnct has some deep erosion
but its sloping residual and allu-
via* sods are mostly only guttered so far.
Sheet erosion is common, as is evi-
denced by deep deposits of soil at the
lower ends of canefields. The practice
of growing cane on land having a lOdeg,
to 15deg. slope is deplored by the C.S.I.R
and cane authorities as being conducive to
rapid and uncontrollable gullying and
sheet erosion. Yet some farmers are
foolish enough to plant cane on a 25deg.
slope.
The major rivers are eating back into
adjacent caneland, and during the wet
seasons N.Q. rivers overflow their banks
and cause disastrous erosion of adjoining
canefields. The C.S.I.R. regards the rapid
wearing away of river banks and the
periodic scouring of caneland by flood-
waters very seriously.


A No. 212 "Caterpillar”
Diesel Motor Grader
building up a terrace at
the rate of 700 feet per
hour!
/i
4s
>1
trfm b
%
7.f
///
m
MACimES
TERRACING
A
FUTURE!
WITH
With erosion a major problem through-
out Australia’s food-producing areas, the
post-war years will call for large-scale soil
conservation projects. Terracing will call
for "Caterpillar” Diesel Motor Graders,
such as the "212,” which has proved able
to build up to 700 feet of completed
terrace per hour. This machine can move
itself from district to district on any kind
of road at 10 to 15 miles per hour, bring-
mg to terrace-building all the "Caterpillar”
advantages which have so transformed
road-building and maintenance practices
(and costs!). Larger models of the "Cater-
pillar” Motor Grader, such as the No. 12
and the No. 112, have an even greater
earth-moving capacity, and will bring to
the biggest soil conservation projects new
speed and economy under a wide range of
conditions.
CATERPILLAR Diesel
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
EQUIPMENT
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie,
'Phone Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail, 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
5.45.33
HTS
LYS
m
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
I
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
V '
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable^from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
Rearing Turkeys.
“Bogan Joe”: Three-fourths of the
losses of poults up to the age of six
weeks are caused by ailments from chills,
and to prevent them artificial brooding
has many advantages. The young birds
are able to run in and out of the brooder
at will. Warmth is immediately available
to them when required instead of being
dependent on the moods of a capricious
mother. Detection of the first signs of
disease is easy, and preventive action can
be taken at once.
The brooder should be of sufficient size
to permit the poults to get away from
the lamp if they wish. Don’t feed the
young birds for the first 36 hours, but
after that dry bran, rolled oats, oatmeal
or crushed wheat can be given for a
couple of days. Care and close attention
in the first few weeks are essential to
ensure a high percentage of survivors. If
this is done turkeys can be the most
profitable sideline on the farm.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: C.Q. graziers are turning
against the burning off of grass pastures
to clean up the stubble in readiness for
the new season’s grass. They claim that
grass-fires deprive the soil of humus and
kill the best grasses, giving the rubbish
and weeds a free hand. There is no
doubt that humus is destroyed by fierce
bushfires, but burning off after a good
rainstorm leaves a carpet of unburnt stuff
on the ground. The writer has found
that on moderately grazed Central Coast
terrain, the leaving of grass from year to
year invariably has serious consequences.
Sooner or later the superabundance of
dry grass catches fire and the resultant
blaze burns hell out of the grass roots.
Then it takes years for the grass to re-
cover.
“Billjim”: Perennial veldt grass is do-
ing well in the upper south-east of S.A.
between Meningie and Bordertown, now
being closer settled. Wherever the soil
is of “a sandy nature resting upon a
firm subsoil at not too great a depth”
the grass has done as well as lucerne and
evening primrose. It is relished by stock,
sheep eating it right down.
“Mr.”: An article in the Vic. “Journal
of Agriculture” suggests the following
treatment for a sanded horse: Prepare
the animal by giving three small bran
mashes —one each at morning, midday
and evening. Early on the following
morning give a drench of 11b. honey
stirred into one to one and a half pints of
warmed fresh milk. Feed lightly on
damped bran and chaff, and follow with
a powder made by mixing bicarbonate
soda 60z., sublimated sulphur 60z., bitart-
rate of potash 30z., powdered nux
vomic*a Divide into 12 powders
and give one powder in damped feed
morning and evening for six days. On
the second day give a drench of one pint
of liquid paraffin and towards the end
of a week’s treatment another milk and
honey drench.
“Myrr.”: As cereal grains—oats, wheat,
barley, etc. and concentrates, such as
linseed nuts, are deficient in lime put
ground limestone, slaked limestone or
powdered chalk in the salt lick when these
foods are fed to sheep. To make a com-
bined lick add between 20 and 50 p.c.
of lime to the salt, or mix one bag of
lime with two bags of salt. Phosphate
deficiency in sheep is rare in Victoria, as
the topdressing of pastures with super.
usually corrects any such trouble. On
farms where no super, is used add 20 p.c.
of bonemeal or boneflour to the salt.
“E. 2”; Silage is easy to handle, has
great keeping qualities and doesn’t have
to be exposed to the vagaries of the
weather for curing as with hay. Best
time to cut is when the grass is at its
naost succulent stage, which is when it is
coming to head or flower, and it may be
brought to the pit with a sweep shortly
after mowing. But it is generally
reckoned that about four times the bulk
of grass is required as silage for an equal
feed value with hay. Rain ruins the hay
to a great extent, and the most practicable
way to handle it is to have it baled with
a hay-press as soon as possible and stored
under cover. Best grass hay is a well-
balanced mixture of good cereal grasses
and clover.
“P.R.A.N.”: Washed eggs are much
duller in color than unwashed, and con-
sequently less attractive to buyers. If,
after cleaning, the eggs are dipped in a
p.c. solution of formalin with Water
and allowed to dry naturally, the bright-
ness of-color will be restored. A similar
treatment can be given to citrus fruit
affected by scale or stained through some
cause. Fruit dipped in a formalin solu-
tion is less likely to develop mould when
packed.
“Bumble”: Bees rob neighboring hives
generally when they have access to honey
outside their own domiciles. The im-
pulse then is to give nectar the go-by and
make persistent raids on a neighbor’s
tuckerbox. Occasionally the trouble will
arise when a honeyflow ceases abruptly,
Care should always be taken when hand-
ling combs or honey, so that none is left
a b out to excite the habit. If this is made
the strict rule and a watch kept for be-
ginning of the habit, the wholesale dis-
turbance and turmoil of robbing should
be avoidable. But if it gets out of hand
there is little more can be done than con-
tract the hive entrances • and leave off
working the apiary till the spasm dies out.


Stainless Steel Cutlery for the
modern table service is back
again at Prouds ... in traditional
English quality.
Fine examples are the Stainless Steel, Mirror Finished Knives
illustrated; slightly curved in the modern trend; correctly balanced;
round white handles. Will give a lifetime's service.
DESSERT 32/6 half doz.
TABLE ...... 35/- half doz.
Also 3-piece Carving Set. Stainless Steel Knife; Stainless Steel Fork;
Steel. Mirror Finished; shapely design; round white handles.42/6 set.
Stainless Steel, Mirror Finished Bread Knife with "clean-cut" saw
edge. Round white handles. 9/6 each
Owing to restrictions still in force in England, boxes are not available.
7-FLOOR GIFT STORE
'Phones BW 2721 (3 lines)
Cnr. King & George Sts., Sydney
P 6
Jud
Quail
'^l
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ... Their judg-
ment has made ffintaator (Clntlf the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Eruaa&rr Qllotlj is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to shout you
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
foaik
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
“Larry Lingle, 17 months, of Pennsylvania,
swallowed a nickel and coughed up a cent.”
—“Sunday Sun."
Despite his misadventure, small change
was found in him,
+ *l* •J*
“He was chased by one of the employees,
but turned into a lane and disappeared.”
— “Sun.”
Now trot out your Mandrakes!
•b
“Found —small dog Sunday, cross between
pom. and pek.”— Suburban paper.
Will return to man Friday.
*
“Kind person, adopt boy, eight weeks, mid-
brown.” — Brisbane “Courier-Mail” a'dvt.
A warning to expectant mothers
against wearing these modern two-piece
bathers.
•b ■ *b *b
“Make your coiffure conform to your career.”
—“Sunday Sun."
If you are a pastrycook, for instance,
wear a bun.
•b •b *b 4*
“According to U.S. scientists, housewives of
the future will be able to cook by radio!”
— “World’s News.”
Tripe will become a daily dish.
“Lovely hand-knitted baby’s set 305.”
—Suburban paper.
Original wearer cast-off by its mother.
Normal Reaction.
“Do women really trust one another?”
— Woman’s paper.
Of course they do!
In a millinery shop I heard Jessie say
to Joan “Which of these two hats d’you
like, dear?”
“Try them both again, pet,” said Joan,
When Jessie did, Joan’s decision was
emphatic. “I like the blue ohe on you,
Jessie. It goes perfectly with your color-
ing.”
So Jessie trustingly bought the pink
one, knowing, by Jessie’s remark, that
the blue one was awful.
Eve.
“Down, pleas e!”
Debut.
The theatre was rapidly filling. In the
auditorium there was an air of tenseness
and expectancy, Robin loosened his
collar nervously as he lingered at the side
of the stage, for this would be his first
public appearance. His great moment
was at hand. He hoped that he wouldn’t
forget his lines, and that his voice would
be as clear as when he last rehearsed
them.
At last he stepped forward, facing the
centre aisle ; then in a loud and clear
voice he declaimed; “Skeeter’s ice-cream!
Sweets!”
Paton.
All in Fun.
“After the rice crop had been planted by a
tribe, the young men delighted in a head-
hunting expedition. If a Dyak colleague was
strolling down a path, they would sneak up
and ‘take’ his head for a joke.”— “S.M.H.”
Such simple pranks do no one harm.
And safely may remain unchided.
But we should view with grave alarm
Head-hunting jokes as too one-sided.
And if mere fun ’twixt friend and friend
Can have results so deleterious,
We’d hate to think where things might
end
If lads one day became quite serious.
D. H. E.
•b 4*
Intelligence Test for Emigrating
Politicians.
1. —You are leaving to take up an im-
portant post abroad. It has been arranged
that you travel in the “gold” suite of a
luxury liner. You find, however, that
there will not be the hold space for the
thirty-seven lorry loads of fancy foods
you are taking with you. You casually
mention this to a Cabinet colleague. On
the Sunday before the ship is due to sail
a gang of wharf-laborers starts unloading
parcels of Food for Britain already in
the holds. These are transhipped to a
slow freighter, and your own food put
aboard the liner.
Would you say that the shipping com-
pany voluntarily decided to shift the other
cargo because it considered the Food
for Britain would be less liable to damage
in a slow freighter, and that the fact that
the wharfies worked on a day when they
get double time was purely coincidental?
2. Pursuant to the previous question.
On arriving at your destination you find
that the 130 tons of butter you brought
with you (representing 1540 years of
ration coupons for the family) and the
900 frozen lambs (1800 years’ rations)
will need to be kept in a refrigerated
warehouse. What would you consider
your first duty: to lease such a warehouse
and send the bill to Canberra, or give a
press conference, at which you will em-
phasise, as the representative of a Gov-
ernment whose aim is the elimination of
all privilege and the emancipation of the
toiling masses, that in these days of despe-
rate food shortage equality of sacrifice
should be the keynote for all?
3. —Having gone abroad, you judge
that the seven morning coats with striped
grey trousers, three pairs of satin knee
breeches, four pairs of spats, five top-
coats, eight top-hats and twelve dozen
shirts with which you left Australia, and
which practically exhausted your rations
for the year, will prove inadequate. The
material for the nine extra sac suits you
deem essential to the dignity of your
office cannot be bought in London, even
were the English clothing rations allotted
you adequate. Obviously you cannot
order the suits in Australia, having no
Australian coupons available. When the
suits eventually arrive from Australia a
letter of thanks is obviously called for.
To whom would you write it? Indicate
also whether the cost of the suits should
be in a specific or a miscellaneous expense
account, chargeable to the taxpayer.
4. —Your English butler, who previ-
ously had completed twenty years’ service
with a duke, has indicated to you, albeit
with great tact and delicacy, that a yellow
and black banded tie does not quite go
with ,a brown check suit, a bottle-green
snap-brim felt hat, a pink and white
spotted handkerchief, lavender spats and
ox-blood shoes. Recalling that before you
became a union secretary you were re-
garded as one of the best-dressed bookies’
clerks in Sydney, write about 500 words
on the manner you would inform the
butler that his ideas on sartorial refine-
ment are hopelessly out of date, and that
in future he is to confine his menial duties
to the taking of your orders.
5. —On the announcement of your ap-
pointment to a high post overseas your
childless wife insists that her two nieces
accompany her. You yourself are veil-
ing, but you are aware that Mr. Calwell
has made it an inviolable rule that no
women are to be allowed to leave Aus-
tralia. When your nieces reach London
they find the climate intolerable and wish
to return. You are busy on an immigra-
tion drive which is to stress Australia as
a Home of Freedom. You will, of course,
temporarily halt the drive to attend to
this pressing problem. Detail the steps
you will take to get your nieces sailing
priority over British war brides.
Bo.
The Feminine Touch.
“Names for perfumes in London have
changed from ‘Nuit d’Amour,’ ‘Palmtree
Passion’ and ‘Sin’ to ‘Yellow Peril,’ ‘Blue
Terror’ and ‘Thunder and Lightning.’ ”
—Fashion note.
In wearing down a man’s defences
You used to find the subtle lure
Of “Indiscreet” or “Nuit d’Amour”
Sufficed to paralyse his senses;
But if some other wench has tricked him
With gentler brands of anesthetic,
You need more positive cosmetic
Effects to stun the wary victim.
Well, perfumes of the violent kind —
“Thunder and Lightning,” say, combined
With a good dash of “Purple Strife” —
Should help in some degree to train
Your chosen ( though reluctant ) swain.
Blest damosel, for the married life.
P. M. LUSK.
The Philosopher.
The true philosopher is always calm :
He would not feel the slightest loss of
face
E’en though his pants descend in Martin-
place ;
But, with a soul made tranquil by the
balm
Of age-old wisdom, scorning smile or
frown.
He would observe with candor “Well,
they’re down.”
T. W. NATHAN.


CCZtMA
SENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema ia not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DO Ail’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
inmii
*4
What has posterity
ever done for
XJ
m
m
i
T’S a hoary old gag but the devil
still uses it. He trots it out when
you’re planning more insurance or
a more costly education for your
children, or some other long-term
investment of an equally unselfish
character. “What has posterity ever done for YOU?” he asks.
“Why not spend your money whilst you’re still alive to enjoy it?”
The only lasting enjoyment that
money can give you is peace, of mind
a sense of security the assur-
ance that you and your family are
SAFE. That is why the man who has
money ‘in Commonwealth Bonds or
Savings Certificates knows what real
contentment means. Do you?
Thoughtless spending at the present
time will merely force prices up: help
to increase the cost of living. Put
your money where it will do you and
your family most good. Put your
savings into more Bonds, more
Savings Certificates, more Savings
Stamps. You can buy Certificates
and Stamps at any time, and you can
invest rt&w any amount of £lO up-
wards in the £70,000,000 Security
Loan opening on March 12. Interest
begins immediately. See your Bank
or Stockbroker.
You can invest now in the £70„000,000 SECURITY LOAN . . . Opening March 12
The £70,000,000 Security Loan opens on March
12. The money raised will he used exclusively
in meeting commitments arising directly out of
the war, particularly the rehabilitation of Aus-
tralian service men and women.
If you have £lO or more saved already, you can
make an advance subscription to the Security
Loan at once, and interest will be paid thereon
from the day you make your investment
through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stock-
broker.
Interest is at the rate of 3i% for the new 12-
year term, or at 2% for the new 2-year term.
Buy Security Bonds now for cash from your
savings, and buy more by instalments out of
income when the Loan is officially open.
Security Bonds are available in denominations
of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Be a Sawn Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
jssuecHty the Commonwealth Loans and National Savings Organisation.
P5L22.113.16
N
CRAVEN
Umlltippiicudi tkeib
JSL jl. fm / m <S>
Obtainable in 10’s & 20’s
5788
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
99
b
am
90 m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Microbes by the Million (Nicol),
Mysterious Universe (Jeans), Stars and Their
Courses (Jeans), Bases of Modern Science (Sul-
livan), Science and Modern W.orld (Whitehead).
—3702.
To buy The Spirit of the Child, by Wollaston.
—3703.
To buy On the Western Edge, by Randolph
Bedford, and Into the Great Unfenced , by Wil-
liam Hatfield.r—37o4.
Information Sought.
If several new inventions are all contained in ■
the one machine will one patent cover them
all?
Normally a patent is for one invention only.
Select those features you regard as most valu-
able, discarding matters of detail and known
engineering practice. Generally there is one
governing invention in a machine, .and it can be
claimed and covered. Other less important
features can be patented in dependence upon
it.
- (1) What is the widow's pension ? (2) How
much can a pensioner earn before the pension
is affected? (3) What is the maximum bank
balance permissible? (4) Can she own and live
in a house valued at £lOOO ?
(1) A widow, without children under the age
of 16 years, must be at least 50 years of age
to be eligible for the full pension of 275. per
week. (2) 12/6 per week. (3) £4OO. (4) Yes.
Some information about contracted finger
sinews ?
Contracted sinew of the third finger is known
as Dupuytren’s contraction. The cause is pri-
marily occupational. Friction of tools, pressure
of driving screws and the like, with wasting
tissue fat on the palm, are aggravating factors,
while there is also an inherited trait. Condition
begins with formation of hard nodules or lump
tissue in the palm. These unite to form a
ridge so that the third finger tends to bend in-
wards. The little finger is soon involved. It
can develop at any age, but is most noticeable
in later years, when the tissue fats are depleted
in natural oils. It requires surgical treatment.
A glue that will stick leather to cardboard ?
Dissolve good joiners’ glue (softened by swell-
ing in water) with a little turpentine and enough
water in an ordinary gluepot. Make a thick
paste by mixing two parts, by weight, of starch
to every one part, by weight, of dry glue;
allow the mixture to cool before application.
Brief Answers.
8.A.D.: A bait consisting of 1 / lOoz. sodium
fluoride, 11b. sugar, 3oz. honey and one pint
water, boiled together, may destroy the ants
H.D.G.: Only dressed mink skins from sterling
countries can be imported into Australia. The
wholesale selling prices range in accordance
with the quality from £2 to £lO per pelt, while
the duty is 40 p.c. ad valorem T. 1.: The
Le Jay Manual (125.) from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., G.P.O. Box 1516 DD, Sydney.....
M.F.; Unable to find any record of the acci-
dent. A. J. McKenzie’s A Guide to Amateur
Shearing.... M.S.M.; (1) Franz De Defregger
was born in the Tyrol in 1835. He was a pro-
fessor at the Munich Academy in 1883, and a
member of the Jury of the Universal Exposition
of 1900. (2) The label reads “Union of Art
Friends, for the official publication of the Royal
National Gallery of Berlin, No. 64, Fnedenck
Street, Berlin. Union—Page No. 2 Defregger
(artist) The Tyrolean Salon (title).” It is im-
possible to give more information without see-
ing the work... .E.F.S.: Information unobtain-
able J.H.S.; The Queensland Agricultural
Dept, has been experimenting with the plant.
E.A.; Loangarra, “where small trees and
plants grow”; Monalgana, “root and growth’ ;
Amaroo, “beautiful place”; Brimbonga, “in
shelter of trees”; Gubbanoo, “fi n ®
T M • (1) G. Stuckey won the 1897 Stawell
Gift. (2) Contact the Melbourne Amateur
Athletic Assoc J.K.H.: Interview one ot
the manufacturers.. r.H.H.: Only the British
House of Commons would have the informa-
tion A.A.: The Deputy-Director of Posts
and Telegraphs said last month that “experi-
mental radio telephone plant would shortly be
tested in the far west with a view to the instal-
lation of networks which would give distant
subscribers access to the normal trunk line
system through base stations.’’
Answers to Correspondents.
L.1.H.: Same old road... .M. 0.: The world
may be all you say it is, but “left” will not
rhyme with “wept” A.A.W.: It’s not clear
what the ghost is talking about P.F.O’G.:
“Let our thoughts go back to the Pioneers.”
For a change, let our thoughts not E.D.:
“A drunkard smashed an oath.” Don’t you
mean a bottle? J.G.G.: The only interest in
that theme is its long, snowy whiskers
A.W.T.: Estimable opinions in indifferent
verse J.O’D.M.; At least it’s the only
poem ever written about “Williams on Real
Property”.... S.J.C.: Well, the lady should
like it W.T.: “Love’s Unfortunate Com-
panion” is illegible J.V.: How can you
hope to reform the world when you are pre-
pared to inflict on it 172 lines of chopped-up
prose? Too airy-fairy J.E.S.:
Both featherweights D.D.; Among all those
noble sentiments and conventional poeticisms
it’s hard to get a glimpse of the landscapes
you’re trying to describe R.A.McC.: Im-
proved; but not enough.


Heed these warnings
.... strengthen
WEAK KIDNEYS
m
Dr. Sheldon’s GIN PILLS act directly on the Kidneys ;
stimulating their action ; relieving inflammation. Soon
they have your Kidneys working normally again, filter-
ing out all those accumulated poisons from your body,
and in a short while you feel your old self again, Bach-
ache and Rheumatism forgotten. So remember, if you
suffer from any signs of Kidney Weakness, start right
away on a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
27 pills 1/9 60 pills 2j9
m
The quickest way of overcoming Backache or Rheumat-
ism is to keep the Kidneys functioning properly, so that
they can carry out their important work of eliminating
impurities from the blood stream.
ďf
df
F
V
HARD
HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Bill Ponsford, long prominent in Aus-
tralian and international cricket as a
consistent run getter. His aggregate
in first-class games was 13,659 (aver-
age 65). A very fine player.
Despite restrictions, limited sup-
plies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and .22
RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES are
available to primary producers
for essential pest destruction sub-
ject to police permits, ALL
AUSTRALIAN.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
“BRING YOUR FIDDLE, JOE!”
By BRIAN JAMES.
f j RING your fiddle, Joe! You
won’t forget your fiddle?” they
I J used to say through many a
year, just as if Joe would come
and not bring his fiddle. “Tuesday night,
Joe, down at Mason’s barn! Great
turnout! Bring your fiddle, Joe! ” And
»T’ < n S u. anS u ,er Was an mva y iable f ? rmu , a: -
111 be there at seven o clock-sharp.
Or it may have been at a “hop” at The
Gap, or a “shivoo” at Riley’s, or a “ball ’
in the new “School of Arts” at Round
Swamp. But it was all one Joe and his
fiddle must be there. And at seven
o clock sharp Joe would tie up the
quietest and fattest and most (contented
of mokes to a tree or a, stump or a
asthe case might be, and shuffle
* e S;v°,r S i^i or fiHHf r - 00m ’ m
’°r. a ! e r ltwa s. fiddle man old
fL n, d .’. G ?°4
everyone’wks’ah pleased lessee
Joe, and said, “You brought the fiddle,
Jnr? n . . .
w ™ .U ™ Rocks. At
least, on the very vague boundaries
of Two Rocks. Some people reckoned
he really belonged to Kilmarnock. It
didn’t matter so much, no doubt, and
Joe didn’t mind much, only there are
peopje who are fussy about such matters
and they were stout in their claim that
Joe lived in Kilmarnock. Anyway, he
lived on the farm where he had been born
and reared. His father and mother had
died long ago, and the rest of the family
had gone far and wide. Joe just lived
there alone, and didn’t do much with the
farm, though it had kept a big family in
the old days.
No one seemed to know how old Joe
might be. “Strike me, now that you
mention it, I don’t rightly know how old
Joe is.” That was “Flip” Riley As
“Flip” knew practically everything, it
seemed to indicate that Joe’s
one of the mysteries—like the terrible
“Yahoo” at Barney’s Elbow, or the red
light that was seen at times over Sandy
McLean’s grave. “Flip” would ponder
deeply, and pucker his forehead, and
squint with the efforts of memory, and
say at last: “But, dammitall, I ought to
know! Let me see: Old Perry Wilmot
died fifteen years ago, or was it sixteen?
T an u n’ tke year * got twe^ve f° r
the bullocks and Joe was the fourth
boy, not counting the two older ones
what died, and there was two girls and
two boys younger than Joe, not count-
mg the baby girl what died on Palm
Sunday, though I don’t think the Wil-
mots worried much about Palm Sunday.
Well, and there you are! I’m damned
now if I can tell you exactly how old
Joe ought to be.”
j oe didn’t have any age, in a way of
S p ea king. He had always looked the
same, and it was hard to imagine him
, ooking any diflerent His big head was
covered with a thick, sandy thatch that
no one bad ever seen properly trimmed ;
his f ace was leathery qnd durable and
se t wd h a rusty moustache that curved
right over his mouth and could be sucked
without undue stress when Joe was so
inclined ; very blue eyes with brows that
drooped and looked like small models of
his mo ustache ; big ears with tussocks
B ro ™B out o£ them - His head always
seemed to be l ean i ng over b , s r ig b t
If you saw Joe’s coat among a thousand
T time.
gj tL Sed P up fto^hTey
were surprised at something, and between
toes and laces were hills and hollows like
folds of £at on an ovemourished baby .
J
T ,„ c ,
lOE was no really a farmer, and you
U could harcdy call 5 . place a farm
a ny more. His heart wasnt.in farming. He
was a better carpenter. He liked carpen-
terin §- Not that he was an ex P ert either ’
in the city of the term, but a town
carpenter would have been maddened if
he had t 0 work Wlth the timber Joe m , ostly
to> use: round stuff-cypress poles—
for rafters battens adzed out of similar
P ole , s ’ and whe J re sc l uare timber was
ne< r ded trued * U P as B ° od as any
mill could ever do.
Joe couid P ut U P a house fit for any ‘
one—unless perhaps for a squatter or the
u PP Jt y- sor t- There are some houses still
standin S that Joe built—good solid
houses > too > though perhaps a little shy-
°f architectural adornments. People
hked to have Joe building for them, that
is, if they weren’t in a hurry. He was
very slow, but he did a good job, and he
was cheap. He liked working for people
in his go-easy, independent fashion, yarn-
ing as niffbh of the day as he worked, and
puffing solemnly at his crooked-stemmed
briar, and smelling thoughtfully at a
curly-adzed chip now and then as he
yarned. It was all no good for his “farm,”
of course, and neighbors’ cows got in
and ate out the orchard till the only trees
left were long stems with bunches of
leaves on top of them ; and the wheat
paddocks were covered with briar bushes,
giving a pattern much like a slice of
pudding with plenty of raisins in it.
Still, a man can’t be everything, and
Joe was a public character and rendering
an important public service. Not that
public service went to Joe’s head at all,
a,s it often does with public characters
whose service is much less than his. He
was not a bit conceited, though he was
proud enough, with the humble pride of
the true giver. Hardly a week went by
but he was reminded “Bring your fiddle,
Joe!”
CTOMETIMES Joe went to two dances
s —' in a week, and had he been so minded
he might have made a lot of money. He
never asked for money for his playing,
and he always looked surprised when it
was mentioned after the dance. No one
was foolish enough to ask beforehand
“What do you want for it?” Just as no
one would have been crude enough to
ask after the dance “What’s the damage,
Joe?” What Joe would have said or
done can only be conjectured, but it is
pretty certain that he wouldn’t have
fiddled there any more.
No, it was a far more delicate matter,
and far more delicately handled. If it
was at Round Swamp, where “Curly”
Jack Ryan was M.C., Joe would see the
crowd getting ready in a most indeter-
minate fashion to depart, for the crispy
smell of dawn would be in the air
outside. “Curly” would say “Well,
Joe, it’s been a great night.” And Joe,
with the music of his fiddle still softly
in him, would'look dreamily pleased.
“And you’ll be having another small
wee taste of schnapps, Joe, before we go.
Won’t you now? There’s just a drop left
in the bottle.” The schnapps was an in-
stitution. Joe drank only schnapps or
brandy, and very particular he was in
.such things.
“Well, ‘Curly,’ only a taste then.”
“Curly” would pour out about half a
tumbler. “It’s about a taste and a half,
maybe, Joe.”
Joe would drink half of it slowly, stop,
suck his moustache and say “I’m glad
they all had a good time.” Then he’d
drink the second half at a gulp.
“Oh, by the way, Joe, the boys asked
me to make *you a little presentation.”
“What is it, ‘Curly’?”
“A little mark of appreciation, Joe.
Only this.” “Curly” held out a sovereign
or a pound note. “Just a quid, Joe.”
“No, ‘Curly,’ I couldn’t take that.”
“That’s what I thought, Joe, But it’s
not as simple as that. You see, if you
don’t take it the boys will think you're
offended or that you don’t think it’s
enough or you don’t really want to play
any more, and they’ll be afraid to ask
you.”
“It’s jolly good of them, ‘Curly,’ I’m
sure. But I don’t play for money,” ‘
“And don’t we all know it!”
“But the way you put it, ‘Curly,’ it’s
different. And I’ll take it. Just this time,
mind.” ,
Then “Curly” would put half a taste
more of the schnapps. in the tumbler.
Or perhaps a shade more than a half.
And what with the schnapps and a night
of fiddling, and everyone having such a
good time, and the boys thinking so much
of him, and the fresh, clean smell of
morning, and his fat moke having a head
too many and twice as many bodies and
legs as usual, Joe found it a kind and
gracious world. “Curly,” Jack would
say, “show me the fiddle, Joe,” and lead
Joe carefully along. “Look, Joe, Alee
Sims says he wants to ride your horse
so that you can go along with the Ritchies
in their sociable. Tom Ritchie wants to
have a yarn with you.”
It was palpable subterfuge that always
worked. «And so Joe went to sleep in
the Ritchies’ sociable, and played his
fiddle, no doubt, in his dreams.
IT is not to be supposed that Joe was
1 a brilliant musician. No doubt, really,
he wasn’t. He couldn’t read music if
he had tried to. He played by ear, as
all the true fiddlers did, and he was, if
he had known it, about the last of the
fiddlers. Like the minstrels of old, the
fiddlers are all gone now. A new world
doesn’t want fiddlers, and is perhaps by
that much the poorer. A new age was
dawning, and the good, old, easy world
was going to pieces In every way, that
was, and not merely as far as a fiddler
was concerned: the motor-car was being
heard of in distant places—fantastical,
of course, but—“they’re doing such won-
derful things these days!”
Into this planned and ordered world
came pianos. Many of the old bush
homes got pianos, and the girls, and even
the boys sometimes, went into town to
learn music at the Convent. A violin
teacher appeared in Summerlea —“Pro-
fessor” Karl, who taught his pupils to
play stuff that no one could properly
understand or appreciate. A sleek-look>
ing fellow was the “Professor,” with long,
smooth, black hair that glistened behind
his white forehead, and great sidelevers
to make him look foreign and distin-
guished ; and a big mouth, and paper-
thin lips, that moved easily into a grin
to show rows of regular white teeth in
great numbers; and smooth-shaved all
the time, and smelling of toothpaste and
hair oil and scented soap ; and dressed
up with long black swallow - tails
and all, as if he was ready for a
wedding or a funeral. Blast him, and his
long white fingers and his thin contempt
for fiddlers and such as played by ear!
But pupils went to him in great numbers,
and he said so often, “Ah, but I must
unlearn you then.” And he made a
refined clicking noise—“tch! tch!” —
which meant that Joe and all his race of
fiddlers were condemned. Of course, the
“Professor” could play, but the dancing
feet of all the ages were not in any of his
smart playing. And he banished the word
“fiddle” as something uncouth, if not in-
decent. “Feedle! feedle! You call it the
feedle! To me!”
The fiddler was doomed, and along
with him, among others, the old-time
midwife. Trained nurses and private
hospitals appeared. The nurses were effi-
cient, uniformed and intolerant. Said one
of them, “We will put an end to all the
Sairey Gamps,” and she specially men-
tioned old Mrs. Want. “Fancy that old
‘Mother’ Want carrying on so long, driving
round, spring cart, umbrella, black gloves
and little white coffin! He, he!” And
“Mother” Want did go. She wasn’t re-
quired any more, so she died.
There came, too, the “qualified” vets.
They “set up” just like doctors and
charged big fees, so that horses and cows
and famous rams and infamous bulls
could die a lot more expensively. So
Joe wasn’t alone in being pushed from
the stage.
What Joe thought of it all he didn't
say. But fewer and fewer were the calls
to “Bring your fiddle, Joe!” He saw,


MAKE AERATED CORDIALS.
Gingerale, Lemonade, Kola, Hop Beer, etc., also
legal refreshing 2 p.c. proof spirit beer. In-
gredients to make a season’s supply. Simply
make a bottle as you want it. Costs about one
penny per bottle. Free patent pressure regulator
ensures the correct amount of gas in every
bottle. Obtainable from A. Holmes, Chemist,
Portarlmgton, Victoria, or £1 post free from
Beerx Registered, Box 14 Portarlington, Vic.
Look at any major city and you
will note this: its growth came
from trade made possible by trans-
portation of persons, raw materials
arid processed goods. Without
transportation today’s large cities
would be fishing villages or rural
hamlets,' for industrial growth
comes only from jobs and trade.
Now there is a new form of
transportation tp help build cities.
Air transport builds trade and
creates jobs. Where mountains,
swamps, seas or rivers block sur-
face routes, the plane carries
passengers, mail, express and
freight in a straight line. With
air Service, cities formerly handi-
capped by poor transportation
systems can take a place on world
trade routes.
'
ifi
m.
fl\
;.■■•-
a
s«5
I
**
■m
4
rs
w&r.
m
M
A,
**
Me?**
W
V‘
Transportation Builds the Cities
Yet to build trade, any air
transportation system must be ef-
ficient. In a quarter of a century
of experience, it has been proven
that Wright Cyclone aircraft en-
gines offer the most efficient
source of power for air commerce.
They are high in power, low in
operating costs, long on service
life and reliability. That’s why
they are the choice of leading
airlines the world over.
THE JOB FOR PLANES TO COME
In future air commerce, the Lock- *
heed Constellation will offer high
speed service over the blue ribbon
transoceanic and transcontinental
routes. Combining speed with a
heavy load capacity, it can carry
55 passengers at over 300 miles
per hour. Its power: four Wright
CycJone 18's of 2,200 HP each.
7
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
DIVISION OF
CU R TIS S >s Jg' < W RI cH T
first in flight
Wright Aeronautical Corporation •, Paterson, New Jersey, U. S. A,
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA.- E. L HEYMANSON &, COMPANY, MELBOURNE
too, the waning of the old-time dances —
the Varsovienne (always pronounced
“Varsuvianna”) with its “one, two, three
—stop!” ; the Mazurka ; the Polka (“My
mother said that I never should”); the
Schottische ; the waltz, and the “squares”
like the Alberts and the Lancers, with
the M.C. chanting, “Ladies catch hold of
the gentlemen—deedle-dum, deedle-dum,
deedle-dum-dee.” The old dances were
pushed back to the rude ages where they
belonged. The new dances, hoydenish
and hugging, were as indecent to Joe as
the too-obvious blandishments of a pros-
titute.
AT the Round Swamp School of Arts
the committee installed a piano, and
ran a welter of dances to pay for it.
Some of the local girls—pronounced
brilliant by the town teachers of music—
now played for the dances, and were
burningly jealous of each other, and hated
each other with an intensity that only
genius knows. They were wonderful
players, but, 'yet, there was something
missing . . .
“We’re holding a dance in the School
of Arts on Tuesday, Joe.”
“I’m glad to hear it,” rather wistfully.
“You will be along, won’t you, Joe?”
There was still some feeling that Joe’s
presence was a benediction in itself.
“I’m not so sure, I might be.”
“Aw, do come. And bring your violin,
Joe.” This was an afterthought.
Violin! So that was it, was it? Violin!
And be asked perhaps to play an “extra”
or two! Joe sucked his moustache, and
his blue eyes looked farther than the
farthest distance. It was young Bill
Ritchie talking to him. One of the
Ritchies of all people!
“It will give you a kind of spell, Joe,
and give you a chance to have a hop
yourself.”
“Yes, Bill, that’s very thoughtful of
you. And I might, too.” Joe’s eyes
looked still farther into the distance. He
didn’t wish to offend young Bill. But he
didn’t go on Tuesday night.
The Masons were having big dances all
the winter in their “barn.” They were
helping to pay off the church debt, a
swollen affair being attacked with great
vigor just now. The Masons enjoyed the
church debt, for it gave the younger
Masons a chance to “perform.” They
supplied wonderful music, with two of
the girls learning the piano and one of
the boys learning the violin. They didn’t
even bother to send word to Joe any
more. Just as well, perhaps. The Masons
—at least she and the young folk —
always had big ideas. They didn’t, like
other people, have a “shed” —they had
a “barn.” They always got in the “har-
vest,” too, while other people had
“crops.” Small things these to notice,
maybe—but they went to show, just the
same.
No, Joe wasn’t wanted any more. And
fancy Joe dancing—even if they did the
old-time dances any more! Joe never
had danced. He had been the grand
celibate, the very High Priest of Dancing.
Lesser musicians had danced, of course ;
there had once been an accordion player
at Tipperary, a flash fellow he was, who
played and danced at the same time;
the girl hung on to him, and he played
over her shoulder and behind her back.
And sometimes he acted as M.C. as well.
That was the lowest debasing of Art. A
true fiddler, so Joe felt, danced all the
time in his own heart, and he took his
joy from the rhythmic swaying couples
that translated his music to motion.
So Joe stayed at home mostly on his
“farm.” He didn’t do so much carpentry
either. Contractors from town did nearly
all the jobs now —skilled tradesmen, and
very expensive. But they did put a
“finish” to a job. In any case, people
were putting up brick houses —the
Masons, of course, set the fashion there
—if they could afford it, and very often
when they couldn’t afford it at all.
THERE was once a vague sort of
theory that Joe might marry and
“settle down.” It was thought that he
“had his eye” on one of the Hayes girls
—the oldest one, Mary. Nothing came
of it. True, Joe went over to the Hayes
house on Sunday afternoons for years
and years, and sometimes on week
nights; and he built a shed for the
Hayeses, and put a verandah on their
house, and played his fiddle by the fire at
night, tapping out the time with his foot,
and though Mary made better honey-
cakes and plum-cakes and scones than
she ever had done—before or since—
there was really nothing in it. It is hard
to say what Mary herself thought of it.
Anyway, she never married anyone in
the end.
There were certain “impediments,”
though it is doubtful that Mary would
have been “minding them now” over
much. The first of these was the stark
fact that Joe was a “Prodestan,” and “eats
meat on Friday and all that.” Mrs.
Hayes was very strict and proper in the
matter of religion. She had said to
Mary once, “Do you think he would
‘turn’ at all?” And Mary had said “I
think he would now, for me.”
There was really not much for Joe
to “turn” from, the Wilmots never
having been strong on formal religion,
and even their special brand of it was
a matter for conjecture; but, as Mrs.
Hayes wisely pointed out, “them Wid no
convictions at all are always the most
contrary in the very convictions they
haven’t got at all.” She had even once
or twice “sounded” Joe in her own way
in this important matter, and found him
“deep as the sea, but wid no depth at all
neither,” which meant probably that Joe
had looked mildly at her with his big
blue eyesr said nothing, and sucked his
moustache in his absentminded sort of
way. Once she had mentioned that there
“would be a grand mission next week in
Summerlea” and “worth anyone’s while,
so it was.”
But Joe didn’t go to the mission. And
Mrs. Hayes sighed, and said that even if
the religion part of it were right now
there were other things nearly as bad
•—and even a lot worse; which meant
Joe’s family.
Mrs. Hayes, with old Daniel concurring,
of course, considered the Hayeses were
a “cut above” the Wilmots, and a pretty
big cut too. Not that Joe could help
what his mother had been, and him as
decent a fellow as you like. It seems
that Mrs. Wilmot had a “reputation”
that stretched right back to the digging
days, and she' had only improved “in
that” when she had attained her seven-
tieth birthday or thereabouts, though
even then she still had a “dirty tongue”
and indulged in “rough talk” that
betokened no contrition for what she
had been but only regrets that her age
was against her. And when the factory
began in Summerlea, she took milk to it,
and continued to do so right up till she
died, with the manager so often complain-
ing of the bull frogs in her cans.
All this was bred in the bone, as it
were, and a big bar to any close
association with such a family Mrs. Hayes
felt. The Hayeses might have had
their own little misfortunes, but these
could easily happen anywhere, and
were not a matter of family at all.
One of the Hayes boys, because he was
a trifle wild, had got into trouble over
a horse, outback somewhere it was; and
another had trouble at Crisp’s store;
and the girl Anna had her trouble, too,
being “strayed” by a young fellow in
town, who cleared out. But all such
things did not detract from the deep and
solid quality and respectability of the
Hayes family. So, if Joe had been in-
dined at all, he would have found himself
dp against a pretty solid impediment. At
l eas L Mrs. Hayes often said so.
But Joe hadn’t been inclined at all ...
T , , , , „ .
s arte<^. *9 ai ln a gradual and
, uncomp aming way. He got thin,
f nd his brown leathery sk.n started to turn
” a^‘ on f ol yc ow and his cheek
T m d, k, £° m «
nently. Im all right just a bit off
co | or> tha f s all .. he wou ' ld answer
inquiries . B(J , the genera| verdict was
that “Poor old Joe is pretty crook”; and
a more discriminating verdict was “He’s
got a growth on the liver, you see if he
hasn’t,”
Joe got worse,* and thinner, and
yellower, but he stuck it out on his
“form,” and no one could discover if
f l 6 suffered much or not. People went
*° see bim, and “took him a few things”
or which he was a^wa y. s gruteful, and
mostly didn’t use. His fiddle, long
un fi se d, was in its old green baize bag on
the table. It was as much an anachro-
nism as Joe.
At last, Joe had to go to hospital in
Summerlea. It was the end really and
he didn’t last long there, and his passing
didn’t matter much either, except perhaps
as a sort of satisfaction to the wise ones
who had correctly diagnosed the state
of his liver. But somewhere, wherever
old fiddlers happen to go, someone of
proper understanding and a real memory
of things gone for ever would surely
have asked “You’ve brought your fiddle,
Joe?”


fd
One Executor
with the Knowledge
of many
When you take the serious step
of appointing someone to act as
manager, executor or trustee of
your estate you are entitled to
be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much
to you depends upon your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia meets all requirements. For
sixty years it has rendered service
precisely similar to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge
and experience which, through trained
executives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed
to the discharge of very responsible
duties. Their accumulated experience
is also at your disposal.
Estates worth in the aggregate many
millions of pounds have been handled
by the Union Trustee, tover two
generations. That is the basis of the
confidence which has led so many
prudent people with responsibilities to
choose the Union Trustee.
For further information consult
The Uniox Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., h.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens,
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
, Mai pr- Genera! Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman):
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, n. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan."
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.e.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.A.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call J.° r a ct^^°
Can also quote for all classes of mining machmery. includmg stamp battenes,
amnlpamatina tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
vS?ef TS and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
_ " * Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
guthridge pty. limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDQWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Adelaide Electric Supply (S. Aus.)
t —Dividends Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 10 p.c. serves, serves.
£££ £ ’ £
1935. . 334,073 172.500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520 .. .. 931,858*
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
Written off plant, £90,990 .. .. 1,001,687
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 .. 991,255
1938.. 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,763
Written off plant, etc., £105,377 .. 1,012,386
New capital exes., £3887 .. .. 1,008,499
1939. . 388,889 185,000 62,500 141,389 1,149,888
Written off plant, etc., £102,572 .. 1,047,316
New capital exes., £2597 .. .. 1,044,719
1940.. 400,459 193,854 62,500 144,105 1,188,824
Written off plant, etc., £28,120 .. 1,160,704
1941. . 427,095 197,500 62,500 167,095 1,327,799
Written off plant, etc., £12,062 .. 1,315,737
1942.. 437,732 197,500 62,500 177,782 1,493,469
Written off plant, etc., £6,674 .. . . 1,486,795
1943.. 432,547 197,500 62,500 172,547 1,659,342
Written off plant, etc., £6,429 . . .. 1,652,913
1944.. 451,860 197,500 62,500 191,860 1,844,773
Written off plant, etc. £12,406.. .. 1,832,367
Share premiums, £11,561 .. .. 1,843,928
Added Contingency Res., £19,000 .. 1,862,928
7 p.c.
1945.. 478,605 152,500 131,950 f 194,155 2,057,083
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
t Includes 24 p.c. on old ords. for first quarter.
The business has again been subject to
investigation by a royal commission.
This time the inquiry was into the supply
of current and all matters connected
therewith, and the question as to whether
any further legislation relating to the co.
is desirable and, if so, the nature of such
legislation.
Among other things it was found that
the management was efficient and econo-
mical, enterprising in response to demand
and abreast of technical developments;
that little, if any, complaint can be justi-
fied as to service to consumers; that
prices charged are not, generally speak-
ing, excessive in comparison with those
in other States ; that there is no likeli-
hood of any general reduction in charges
for some time to come, unless the tax
burden can be eliminated and /or the cost
of coal substantially reduced.
The commission has recommended that
the assets and liabilities of the co. in
South Aus. be acquired by the Govern-
ment and vested in the public authority
to be known as the South Aus. Electri-
city Trust; that the price be fixed by Act
of Parliament, based on the market value
of the co.’s shares at Aug. 1, 1945. Alter-
natively it is recommended that prices
charged by the co. for current be fixed
by regulation, and that the co.’s affairs
be investigated once every two years.
These and other things, including limita-
tion of the div. on ord. shares to 7 p.c.,
and sale of shares by public auction,
were provided for in the suggested draft
of a bill submitted to the commission by
counsel for the Government.
In any question of acquisition or con-
trol by the Government the guiding prin-
ciple must be the public interest. Chief
grounds on which the commission recom-
mends purchase by the State are that this
would mean freedom from taxation and
cheaper capital cost in the future. The
co.’s charges are governed by interest and
divs. paid on debenture and share capital,
by allowances for depreciation and by the
cost of generating and distributing cur-
rent. At the close of last accounts the
share and debenture capital was made
up as follows:
Capital Stock—,
Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £
Pref. 6 182,367 67,633
„ 5 A 250,000
„ 8 B 249,950 50
„ 64C 758,696 241,304
„ 5 D 500,000
Ord. .. 2,482,453 17,547
Total 4,173,466 576,534
t —Debenture Stock—,
Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £
4 E 197,750
44 F 200,000
44 G 200 805,664
4| H 250,000
3| J 250,000
3f K 250,000
1,147,950 805,664
On tHe basis of 7 p.c. to the ords, that
lot calls for £395,674 p.a., or 4.5 p.c. on
debenture and share capital and reserves
combined. The rate at which the South
Aus. Treasury advanced money to vari-
ous Government undertakings in 1944-45
was 4.025 p.c.
The market prices the shares to yield
approximately 4.4 p.c. So there would
be no gain worth mentioning, nor should
there be, in the capital cost of purchase,
which it is suggested should be met by
issue of Government securities. The sav-
ing on capital issued in the future would
be very small indeed when measured in
terms of price of current to the consumer.
The co. makes no specific allowance for
depreciation and obsolescence. Mainten-
ance is of a high order, and plant is kept
in commission until technical advances
make it more economical to buy new
equipment. Old plant is then scrapped
and written off against general reserves.
These are “not excessive, and it would
be prudent to increase them,” the com-
mission says.
The main source of saving after Gov-
ernment purchase would be taxation, now
about £200,000 p.a., equal to .24d. of the
1944 average unit rate of 1.66 d. That
assumes that all other costs would be the
same under Government ownership as
they are now, which is doubtful. It is
reasonable to assume that a Government-
owned and -managed undertaking might
not be as efficient in all respects as the
same undertaking privately-owned but
subject to Government supervision and
control.
Where a virtual monopoly has been
created with the assistance of a fran-
chise from the State there are good
reasons for protection of the public in-
terest by some form of supervision. What
is not so good are reasons for Govern-
ment taking over a private organisation,
after that organisation has built up a
highly-efficient undertaking and carried
the risks inseparable from its develop-
ment, without showing that overwhelm-
ing advantages to the public would result.
The co. wrote last year’s net earnings
after capitalising £9375 spent on the new
Osborne powerhouse, and charging the
cost (£18,879) of new capital, etc., to p.
and 1. Not taken into the reckoning are
£11,561 of share premiums, £12,406
written off plant scrapped and £19,000
dropped from somewhere into contin-
gencies reserve. After payment of deben-
ture interest, pref. divs. and 7 p.c. (10 p.c.
previously) to the ords., the £194,155 that
remained was 2.3 p.c. on the net book
value of fixed assets (£8,401,517, up
£866,383),at the end of August rast. Other
assets were stores £245,107, debtors’ bal-
ances £183,256, cash, etc., £556,302. Sun-
dry creditors figured for £474,157,
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 4,691 8 p.c. = 4,200 491 8,675,
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 1 in , n
Staff bonus, £1720 .. \ 2450 11)130
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c = 6,300 | 1000 12,130
Staff bonus, £1559 .. )
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 7 3076 15,206
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. J
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 7
Staff bonus, £lO2l .. j iD.doa
1941.. 9,01.7 14 p.c. = 7,350 7
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. 3
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .. 15,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. = 2,625 12,993
Unexplained reduction, £5OO .. 12,493
Profit.
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 12,235
1945.. 7,515 laO „ „ 5,250 2,265 14,500
Earnings of this Sydney real-estate busi-
ness reflect the vicissitudes of the metro-
politan property market. Following the
boom of the mid-1920’5, slump and Lang-
ism brought a collapse of property values.
Then, just as the market was getting into
its stride again. World War II arrived.
And with it came restrictions and con-
trols that brought new building practi-
cally to a standstill and reduced sales of
existing properties to a trickle.
Consider these figures : —-
SYDNEY PROPERTY SALES.
City. Suburbs. City. Suburbs.
>OOO. ’OOO. 'OOO. ’OOO.
1926.. £7,000 £3,750
1928.. 2,750 4,816
1931.. 364 484
1933.. 786 794
1935.. 1,238 2,339
1936.. 1,174 2,994
1938.. 1,185 5,083
1939.. £575 £4,925
1940.. 326 6,176
1941.. 1,739 6,509
1942.. 187 1,933
1943.. 422 2,294
1944.. 398 1,878
1945.. 2,112 3,064
Windfall city deals aggregating £ 1,400,000-
odd bumped up the 1941 figure. The
improvement last year was due to a slight
easing of restrictions following end of
war with Japan. There was, and still is,
keen inquiry for city properties and in-
dustrial sites, and demand for homes,
large and small, is strong wherever there
is a possibility of early possession and
occupation. It was often necessary to
hold ballots to select a purchaser from
the many prospective buyers.
The co.’s net earnings sprang £5480,
reaching £7515, or 14.3 p.c. on capital
compared with 3.8, 6.6, a loss, 17.1, 10.9,
11.2 and 21.6 p.c. back to 1938. The
div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
making the average for the last five years
8 p.c., as against an average of 10.8 p.c.
for the preceding quinquennium.
Shortly before the close of accounts
the co. bought Eldon Chambers, 93
Pitt-street, Sydney, for £65,000. For
many years it has conducted business
from rented accommodation in these
premises. Balance-sheet figures reflect only
payment of the deposit (£7150) on the
deal. Shareholders aren’t likely to be
asked to assist:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £.52,500
Liabilities .. 10,720 27,911 29,491 69,262
Freeholds .. .. 7,150
Advances . . .. 27,361 24,130 22,376 22,378
Shares in other cos. 2,966 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc. . . 49,221 69,268 66,386 104,272
Commission,
suspense, etc... 2,869 9,660 1,618 1,545
Sundry debtors . . 4,338 4,242 4,589 5,120
Liabilities (up £39,771) are mostly de-
posits on sales. The more or less liquid
surplus is £67,019 (down £1419).
The outlook depends largely upon the
Federal Government, which controls all
real-estate transactions. While nobody
wants to see an orgy of inflation, every-
body wants to see the regulation which
makes 1942 the criterion of values inter-
preted with more understanding and sym-
pathy. Few property owners are pre-
pared to sell at the arbitrary official valua-
tion, because true market value is new
so much greater. Still, Government
resumption of property is being made at
prices based on 1942 values.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Rg- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
June,
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12it, „ 18,760 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10 „ „ 15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 „ „ 15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ ~15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 .. 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. = 15,000 3,430 111,197
Loss.
1943.. 11,537 6 „ „ 9,000 90,660
Profit.
1944.. 7,505 5 „ „ 7,500 5 90,665
Loss Gwydir collision, £3918 .. 86,747
1945.. 7,718 5 p.c. = 7,500 218 86,965
* Six months. + Including 2 J p.c. sesquicentenary
bonus.
It wasn’t always like that. The co.,
whose ships ply between Sydney and New-
castle, paid a steady 10 p.c. for the dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1929.
Slump and sickness in the coal trade
brought the rate down to 5 p.c. in 1931,
but it had climbed to 10 p.c. again in 1937,
and, with a 2\ p.c. sweetener added, it
remained steady until 1942.
Then, for the first time since the begin-
ning of this century, a loss (£11,537)
showed up. That was because of reduced
cargo and passenger takings, which were
affected by loss of the Gwydir (not re-
placed) through collision in 1942, and
“exceptionally heavy extra expenditure”
incurred in connection with opening up
a new service to meet urgent demands
between Sydney and Port Stephens. At
the same time control of the fleet began
to pass to the Shipping Board, for which the
co. acts as agent. Charter fees have proved
insufficient to provide a reasonable return
on capital, and at the same time cover
maintenance and repair charges (they
have more than doubled since war began),
plus an adequate allowance for depre-
ciation.
After maintaining the fleet in good
order, but making no provision at all for
depreciation of ship property, the board
was able to show, a trifle more profit than
the 5 p.c. div. called for last term. That
leaves out of the reckoning a loss of £3918
in connection with the Gwydir collision
charged direct to reserves.
What shareholders can expect from the
business in the future is difficult to say.
A very different set of circumstances is
at hand from that which prevailed pre-
war. Operating costs have rocketed owing
to lifts in wage rates and prices for fuel
and stores, etc. —the 25 p.c. war-risk
bonus that was added to seamen’s wages
when Jap subs, were on the coast is still
being paid. And the Federal Government
has announced that it will continue to
regulate coastal shipping freight charges
and passenger fees, etc., and that the coas-
tal trade is to be reserved for Australian-
built ships, not to be licensed after they
become 25 years old. It all means a
shaYp rise in capital costs, and the public


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22Q), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to—
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, P. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager.
00$
w'dA, -(At DtstiMctAii
, tomato ,
SAUCf
lift 1
s^mmmm
r
K
r
VI
Time for my..
CAPSTAN
*]ke £mp.in,e'i jjcuuui/ute Qi^a>iett&
6
<s
I
X4SSD-11.45
will have to pay high freight and pas-
senger charges to cover inflated operating
exes, and the extra cost of maintenance,
insurance and depreciation on the high
price of locally-built tonnage. And in
the background looms the question of the
40-hour week and the spectre of recurrent
industrial disturbance.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances: —•
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 16,907 29,738 21,385 19,260
Ship property 122,809 197,751 162,847 162,847
Freeholds, etc. 3,963 2,032 2,033 3,686
Plant, stores, etc. 8,587 11,717 12,277 10,855
Book debts . . 16,414 31,505 51,697 45,028
Consols, cash,
etc 112,347 33,405 36,947 37,559
Last term portion of the co.’s property
at Morpeth was resumed by the Govern-
ment, and the co. bought a property at
Newcastle. The net result was an increase
of £1653 in the book value of freeholds,
etc.
The pound shares, covered by 31s. 7d.
in net tangibles, seldom come on to the
market. The ceiling price is 495., at which
figure the return on a 5 p.c. div. basis
would be 2 p.c., or 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div, basis.
Sulphide Corp.
After the worked-out Central Mine at
the Barrier closed down in March, 1940,
the co. —paid capital £1,050,000 in
600,000 £1 10 p.c. non-cumulative par-
ticipating prefs. and a like number of 15s.
ords. —became an industrial undertaking.
The immediate problem was, and still is,
reconstruction of the capital account on
a basis fair to both lots of shareholders
in the light of future earning power of
the undertaking. Chief source of earn-
ings is production of cement, super-
phosphate, sulphuric and hydrochloric
acids and limestone at Cockle Creek
(N.S.W.), where the roasting of concen-
trates for Electrolytic Zinc also contri-
butes to the pool. Cement and super, are
the principal revenue producers.
For the year to June 30 last the co.
netted £21,806 (down £9263). That was
after providing £28,515 (up £20,910) for
taxation —previously assessable trading
profits were offset by losses brought for-
ward. Earnings included £18,567 (gross)
from interest, etc. The prefs. received
5 p.c. less Bs. in the £ English income
tax, or £lB,OOO, leaving £3806, equal to
0.8 p.c. on the £450,000 of ord. capital.
Previously the board thought it would
be necessary to lop ss. a share off the
ords. in order to wipe out the book value
of the mine (£167,670). Now the mine
has been written off from reserves, thanks
largely to utilisation of a tax reserve no
longer required for that purpose. The
financial position at June 30 last was as
follows, expressed in sterling;
Cash .. .. •• £125,186
Government securities .. 547,526
Other investments . . .. 23,343
Book debts.. .. .. 78,090
Stocks and stores . . .. 144,431
Shares in subsidiary .. 18,747
Total £937,323
Liabilities .. .. . . 86,017
Liquid surplus .. .. £851,306
Fixed assets:—
Cockle Creek .. .. 257,290
The question of capital reconstruction has
again been deferred until the board can
see more clearly what future earning
capacity of the business is likely to be.
The original plan, besides providing for
the cut in the ords. already referred to,
contemplated return of half the pref.
capital and reduction of the div. to 6 p.c.
cumulative, plus the right to a small
bonus in the event of liquidation. •
On the market 225. is offered for the
prefs. and 10s. 9d. for the ords., com-
pared with 20s, and 9s. respectively a
year ago.
Burma-Malay Tin
This Australian-controlled holding and
prospecting co., with headquarters at
Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.), is getting ready
for resumption of operations in Siam and
Malaya, where its chief dredging interests
are. Managing director J. Atkinson and
assistant g.-m. N. Gow are about
to visit and inspect the properties and
dredges. Shortly after the British evacu-
ated Siam the tinmines there were taken
over by the Thai Mineral and Rubber
Co., a Siamese Government-sponsored
concern in Bangkok. Unofficial informa-
tion concerning dredges of associated cos.
has been obtained by members of Burma-
Malay staff who were interned in Bang-
kok from officials of the Siamese Mines
Department. Particulars, believed to be
near the mark, are briefly as follows:
Katu. —Worked from Feb. 19, 1942, to
Dec., 1942. Recovered 150 tons t.o. Screen
plates taken for use elsewhere. All ma-
chinery supposed to be intact. Stores prob-
ably taken as required for other working
mines.
Renong.—Worked from Jan. 28, 1942,
intermittently to Aug., 1944.- Closed while
installing transformer to take power from
Bangrin power plant. Restarted July,
1945. Output 1942, 5000 piculs; 1943,
3800 piculs; 1944, 1000 piculs. Total 9800
piculs, equal to 580 tons t.o. Spares are
short. Twenty-five buckets were received
from Sichon.
Ratrut. —Dredged into dock. One engine
dismantled and boxed at landing. Some
spares went to Ronpibon for safe keeping;
some were stolen; some, such as screen
plates, taken and used elsewhere. Office
books, etc., reported missing. Twent'y-five
buckets went to Renong.
Later advice confirms, the above infor-
mation, with the addition that Renong
worked into November, 1945, using power
from Bangrin. Katu, which doesn’t
appear to have been worked much, might
have suffered by removal of equipment
after closing down.
Staff for Katu and Renong is ready to
take over, and a range of spare parts is
on order. The question of compensation
will receive attention as soon as inspection
is made and damage assessed. Until then
the exact position with regard to produc-
tion, labor, transport, replacements, etc.,
will not be known either. One thing cer-
tain is that costs will be higher than pre-
war and likely to remain so. Much will
depend upon the course of prices.
It is anticipated that the principal
share register at Kuala Lumpur has been
destroyed, and that a new one will have
to be prepared.
The f.-p. pound shares recently
advanced Is. 9d. to the new official limit
of 18s. 6d. in the market. Before its
Siam-Malaya properties fell into enemy
hands, the co. was paying 6d. a share
quarterly.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
No exact date' for resumption of pro-
ductive operations on the co.’s property
in New Guinea can be given ; rehabili-
tation is expected to be slow. Chief
obstacles are: (1) difficulties in obtain-
ing mechanical and other equipment, (2)
scarcity of transport, (3) absence of
native labor in the district available for
indenture, and (4) need to reconstruct
roads, water-races and other surface
equipment. New Guinea still lacks a
stable form of Government, a state of
affairs that is not likely to make for
speed in rehabilitation. As soon as
rations and accommodation are available
a nucleus working staff and sawmill per-
sonnel are to be sent to the field. The
sawmilling machinery was removed and
the water-race damaged. The board
hopes to buy a portable-type mill
from war disposals. It is also on the
hunt for a 100-k.w. diesel alternator to
provide power and light for preliminary
operations. A high-level water-race from
Big Wau Creek to Little Wau Creek is
being surveyed, the idea being to pro-
vide for delivery of water into the
Koranga deep alluvial race system ; and
a 800-h.p. hydro-electric plant is to be
used for the purpose.
When operations ceased ore reserves
were put at 58,878 tons assured and prob-
able, plus 24,000 tons claimed as prob-
able, at Upper Ridges and Anderson
Creek, and 559,500 c.y. alluvial, averag-
ing between 4s. and ss. a yard, on Bulolo
River and Edie Creek.
At end September last cash and Gov-
ernment securities totalled £142,481, stores
£47,108 and book debts £lBOO. There
was £9249 coming to sundry creditors.
Paid capital is £950,371 in 4s. 3d. shares,
which recently changed hands at 3s. sd.
Last div., 6d. per share, was paid in
January, 1942.


*1
m
P’P'.' ...
li
1 j
• •
■
vw'u.v>
m
*♦
m
'4rr,- w
aj
&5i
■ >
To
Engineers
who are
planning
the
“Battle
of Peace”
Australia will need your plans. The job of reconstruction is a
big one... the absorption into peacetime employment of thou-
sands upon thousands of fighting men and war workers' is an
essential factor in making a new and different world now Victory
has been won..
You’ll be considering many new projects that will improve roads
and beautify the Australian scene... projects whi ’h will provide
employment for those who will be needing it.
Plan now for the reconstruction period... and include in your
plans the use of Armco Multi-plate Pipes... for beauty, per-
manence and economy.
Write to your nearest Armco office for Free Booklet giving full
particulars of all Armco Drainage Products.
ARMCO
MULTI - PLATE
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY.. .MELBOURNE.. BRISBANE.. .ADELAIDE
V


(yilcxrio^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the death of G. F. Davies, the
dwindling ranks of the Sudan Contin-
gent are further thinned ; 37 now remain
of the 750 who left Sydney in 1885 and
were the* spiritual forerunners of the Boer
War volunteers and the First and Second
A. George Davies, born in England
and educated at the Blue Coat School,
was commissioned in the Royal Marines
in 1878, but shortly afterwards left for
Australia with his father, Captain Owen
Davies, who was the last military Gover-
nor in charge of Cockatoo Island. When
the call was made for volunteers for the
Sudan, the ex-Marine was among the
first to sign up, and he went away as a
sergeant of B company. Not long after
the return of the Contingent —disbanded
shabbily with a month’s pay—Davies
helped organise Australia’s first Returned
Soldiers’ League—the Sudan Contingent
Survivors’ Association —and was honor-
ary secretary of it for 60 years. That’s
a record that must leave all other hon.
secs, standing. When the tough old sur-
vivors meet in Sydney on March 4 for
the 61st anniversary of their sailing, for
the first time a voice other than George's
will read the minutes. He was 85 at the
finish.
Returned to Melbourne, lan Morrison,
who, as an uncompromising correspon-
dent of the “Times” in s.-e. Asia, has
trodden in the footsteps of his father,
“Chinese” Morrison, whose dispatches
from Peking before and during the Boxer
troubles caused a worldwide sensation.
Morrison, jun., was educated partly in
China and partly at Cambridge. He
worked for the British Ministry of Infor-
mation during the Malayan crisis, and
later reported the fighting in Java and
New Guinea. He’s a tremendous walker,
another point of resemblance to his
father, who often got his news by slipping
out of his back door in Peking in the blue
cotton garb of a Chinese coolie to turn
up in Canton.
Carman Milward Croft, Commercial
Counsellor to Canada’s High Commis-
sioner, had four years on the staff of
the Canadian Legation in Tokyo, leaving
Japan a few months before the Nips
decided to hand over diplomacy to the
admirals and generals. Before that he
was Trade Commissioner in Maoriland
(where he met his wife) for 14 years, so
he is well equipped for his present job.
A Nova Scotian, he left McGill —where
Stephen Leacock taught economics when
he wasn’t writing funny stories —with a
B. degree. Croft had three years in
France with the Canadians in the 1914-18
war. During the Jap struggle he was
concerned with shipping priorities, com-
mercial intelligence and other things as
chairman of the Canadian Export Board.
He says there is a big market in Canada
for Australian wines and spirits, wool
and sheepskins.
Alfred Daff, visiting Australia in the
exalted guise of vice-president of Univer-
sal Films, is a Melburnian. Twenty-five
years ago he was turning the handle
nightly as assistant biograph operator at
a cinema at Moonee Ponds. In 1921 he
joined Universal in Melbourne, and got
the Victorian managership a few years
later. Sent to Nippon as manager, he
was appointed supervisor of the whole of
the Far East, from China to Malaya.
Back in New York, he was given the job
of surveying a world at war from the
movie viewpoint. The next step was to
the vice-president’s chair and a Fifth-
avenue suite in New York.
The passing of Stanley P. Johnston,
staff manager ,of Dymock’s, Sydney,
leaves a big gap in the Australian book
world, “Johnny,” who was 61 at the
end, was known to bookmen all over the
Commonwealth, He had been among
books all his life, being with the old
Cole’s Book Arcade before joining
Dymock’s over 30 years ago. A ball of
energy who could always snatch a
moment for the customer, itinerant author
or budding poet, he had an encyclopaedic
knowledge of books, and could tell on
the instant where any book might be
found, who wrote it and what it was
worth. Added to that, a keen eye for
anything of promise and an unsparing
devotion to his work. The death of a
son in action with the R.A.A.F. was a
blow from which he never recovered.
Subject to requirements of space, Wool-
cott has here pictured Colonel Colin
Ross, chairman of the Medical Equip-
ment Committee for the Army, who has
the responsibility of supplying in any
quantity 'anything from Number Nines
to Mobile Hospitals. Graduating from
Melbourne Uni. in 1930, Ross became
Registrar of Royal Melbourne Hospital,
SOLDIER AT REST.
and later went to England for post-gradu-
ate work and became a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Medicine. A versatile
man with more than a working knowledge
of a variety of subjects, he has been
Alan Newton’s right-hand man on the
committee and now steps into his shoes.
When necessity dictates a ’plane trip for
Ross, there are headaches among the
lading clerks, who have to decide which
cargo or which two passengers must be
left behind.
When war broke out Dr. H. D.
Robertson, of Wanganui, Maoriland, and
his wife were on the way to England,
where the doctor planned to do post-
graduate work. Joining N.Z.E.F. he
got all the post-grad, work he needed
as Colonel in command of No, 2
N.Z.G.H. at Helwan (Egypt). Mrs.
Robinson also looked after the health
and comfort of Maorilanders overseas.
She was a voluntary worker at a conva-
lescent home in Eversley, Hampshire, and
later a hostess at the King George and
Queen Elizabeth Dominion Club in
London. Helwan Hospital closed down
towards the end of last year and the
Robinsons are re-united and back home
again.
Retiring after 23 years as Under-Trea-
surer in S.A., Reginald Robert Stuckey
still has an interest in State figures, as he
chairs the S.A. State Bank board and
the Public Service Superannuation Fund
board. S.A.-born and -educated, he spent
17 years with the A.M.P. before his ap-
pointment as Public Actuary in 1914.
He’s an associate of the Institute of Actu-
aries (London).
Maoriland’s nominations for Rhodes
scholars this year are G. L. Cawkwell
(Auckland), B. F. Harris (Auckland) and
J. W. Ridley (Canterbury). All have had
active service. Lieut. Cawkwell took his
M.A. degree at Auckland Uni., captained
the Rugby team at King’s College and
campaigned in the Pacific, wfibre he
was wounded. Captain Harris, B.A. of
Auckland Uni. and enthusiast in many
branches of sport, won his commission in
the Middle East. Lieut. Ridley, a gradu-
ate in civil engineering of Canterbury
Uni,, captained an overseas Rugby team.
He saw service in the Pacific, returned to
M.L., then went to Italy, where he was
second in command of an assault troop of
engineers.
Another Australian to make good in
British Colonial Service is Percy Allen,
now in London as Settlement Officer
for Kenya. Born at St. Kilda in 1893, he
was educated at the Christian Brothers’
College, St. Kilda, He was employed
after leaving school at the Melbourne
Electric Supply Co., and went away with
the A.I.F. in 1915, serving with it
in Egypt and France. After the Armistice
he went to Kenya as a junior officer and
rose to be head of the Labor Department.
Revisiting his native land as a guest
scientist at the medical congress in Auck-
land, Colonel Stanton Hicks, Professor of
Physiology at Adelaide University, has
had six years as Director of Army Cater-
ing. Born at Mosgiel, near Dunedin, the
son of a journalist in that city, he was
educated at Otago Boys’ High School and
University and graduated with first-class
honors in chemistry. Proceeding to Cam-
bridge, he won a Doctorate of Philo-
sophy. He turned down a job at the
Mayo Clinic at Rochester, U.S.A., for his
present post in Adelaide.
“Si Anu”: Sir Charles Vyner Brooke,
the abdicating Rajah of Sarawak, has,
like most dynasts, had his domestic
troubles. One of his daughters married
a professional wrestler, and another mar-
ried a dance-band conductor. They and
a sister were given flapper-press titles
unrecognised in Sarawak, and the Rajah
had publicly to announce that there were
no such persons as Princess Gold,
Princess Pearl and Princess Baba. Later
he issued a proclamation depriving his
nephew, Anthony Brooke, of the title and
powers of Rajah Muda or heir apparent.
This left the succession to a five-year-old
grandson, child of Lady Inchcape, How-
ever, Anthony recently bobbed up in
London proclaiming himself to be Rajah
Muda and head of the late provisional
Government of Sarawak. Possibly these
nursery squabbles had something to do
with the Rajah’s ‘desire for abdication
and a quiet life,
F. W. Robinson, Master of Arts (Syd-
ney) and Doctor of Philosophy, magna
cum laude (Jena), whom Dubois caught
unawares at his researches, was one of
Sydney University’s best classical scholars
in the decade before World War I, is a
University medallist in classics. He went
abroad on a Cooper travelling scholar-
ship, and returned from his wanderings
well equipped in German and French to
become first assistant professor in
SCHOLAR AT PLAY.
Modern Languages at Duntroon under
the now legendary General Bridges. He
field the job for seven years, with an
interval of “holiday leave” from 1915-19,
enjoyed strenuously, partly with Bth Field
Ambulance and partly as captain and
intelligence officer with the sth Division,
A.I.F. (mentioned in dispatches) and Aus-
tralian Corps School. He was assistant
director of education, A.1.F., in the later
period of the war. Since leaving Can-
berra in 1922 he has been lecturer in
Modern Languages at Queensland Uni ,
has published several learned works and
,s an ardent student of early Australian
literature He is a trustee of the Queens-
land Art Gallery, and has served as presi-
dent of the Queensland Authors and
Artists’ Association,
Died, as he lived, without publicity, a
quiet Australian man of science, Frank
Taylor, F.Z.S., F.R.E.S., Entomologist of
Sydney Tropical Medicine School and a
world authority on insect-vectors of
disease, especially malaria and dengue
mosquitoes. Illness in childhood forced
a long convalescence in his Lakemba,
N.S.W., garden, and a sympathetic doctor,
noticing his boredom, suggested a butter-
fly net as a toy. A five-bob microscope
supplied by his father fired the lad with
an interest in “bugs,” and the course of
his career was determined. Taylor’s
works included malarial surveys of the
New Guinea goldfields. South Pacific
war zones, Torres Strait islands and the
Murray River from Albury to the S.A.
border—which he always lauded as a
tourist trip, claiming the river steamers’
menus of cod, wild duck and so on ex-
celled those of any ocean-going liner he
had sampled. He also did good research
in the botfly problem on Roma (Q.)
sheep. A tall, laconic fellow, with a
dry, savage humor, Frank died suddenly
in his fifties.
“Recco” on the Chief Scout:
Lord Rowallan, Chief Scout for the Empire,
was born in 1895 and joined the Ayrshire Yeo-
manry direct from school in 1914. He trans-
ferred to the Grenadier Guards in 1917 and won
the M.C. In 1918 he was blown into the air
by a shell and, to use his own words, “made a
poor landing, having no parachute.” His leg
was so badly damaged that he was invalided
out of the army in 1919. When the Territorial
Army was doubled in 1939 he raised and
trained a new battalion of the Royal Scots
Fusiliers, and fought with it from the Saar
to the Somme after the Germans invaded
France. It was in this period that he saw the
magnificent work of the French Scouts handling
the streams of refugees. He got his battalion
out in good order, but the old leg trouble
kept him from further active service. He then
took command of a Young Soldiers Battalion
scattered over n.-e. Scotland, and to the train-
ing of this unit he applied Scout methods.
In 1944 he took command of an O.T.C. in
Scotland, and, in addition, became Scottish H.Q.
Commissioner for Scouter training. The Chief
Scout is the holder of the Medal of Merit arid
Silver Wolf, the highest award for Scouters.
A. J. Brooks, who was superannuated
as head of St. Peter’s prep, school in Adel-
aide, has done the “Mr. Chips” act, and
goes back to work as head of the Pulteney
Grammar School, which is itself a prep,
school of the C. of E., with its playing-
fields on the Adelaide parklands. The
original P.G.S. was taken over by the
Repatriation Department about 1919.
“Colbun”; Latest advancement of that
remarkable Australian Raphael Ward
Cilento, U.N.R.R.A. chief of the
British occupied zone in Germany, is
the rank of major-general in the British
Army. Although he himself refers to it
as being merely an official bluff to secure
for him equivalent military status in his
U.N.R.R.A. directorship, and thus to
enable him to avoid bother from local
red tabs, it is none the less a high honor.
The appointment was made on the per-
sonal recommendation of “Monty” him-
self. Cilento’s command includes some
1700 officers, and controls 129 field teams,
800 camps of displaced persons and seven
mobile medical squads.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 80, E. A. Scammell, of the
noted Paulding Co. chemical family, but him-
self mainly a grower of eucalyptus in S.A.,
and then a stockbreeder on Kooralpyn station
(Q-).
At Wellington (M.L.), at 58, Vincent Aubrey
Ward, M.L.C., second son of former Priminister
Joseph Ward, whom he served for some years
as private secretary. Since 1940 he had been
hon. secretary of the Wellington Provincial
Patriotic Council and Metropolitan Patriotic
Committee. At 21 he was joint manager of
the New Zealand Shipping Company at Mon-
treal. He held Invercargill, his father’s seat,
for a term from 1930, but didn’t seek re-
election.
At 92, in Melbourne, Harry Hussey Farrall,
pioneer of Victorian irrigation. He held the
belief that a million people could be settled
in the Goulburn valley, and for half a century
he pushed his faith in newspapers and on com-
mittees. A builder by trade, he built scores
of schools in all parts of the State for the
Public Works.
At 92, in Melbourne, Francis Wellington
Were, of a famous Melbourne stockbroking
family. A former chairman of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange, he began life as a banker but
resigned to enter his father’s business, the city’s
oldest broking firm, which, under his guidance,
weathered the crises of the land boom, the dis-
coveries of lead and silver at Broken Hill and
gold elsewhere, and the frenzy of the ’nineties.
He had been a pastoralist since 1916. As
Consul-General for Denmark, he held a Danish
knightjhood.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 72, W. J. D.
Freeth, founder and owner of Ngahiwi stud,
Taranaki, well known throughout M.L. and
abroad as a breeder of Jersey stock. He was a
brother of the late P. C. Freeth, one-time
editor of Christchurch “Star” and the defunct
“N.Z, Times.’'


BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography-
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
X .1
> 1 ....
a"'
I
SI
\HTO
V
I
WAR
B
*€
; ■
S-VSMt
*oi>>
■SJ
fer
SS
V;
SS-#
*3S
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy; most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The ASA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and an ASA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. R 2;
AGA
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmet
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primarj
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd..
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Mallocl
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
f
df
j vst r / ff#/ fon firm g
:
mi
99
sSStfS
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Alrwavl
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Monyfacforers’ of CLO BITE Travel Coses
TH IS
<r<S
YEAR
f ■»
i
ever
Wiw.
IORIM£4
it was necessary to save carefully
and to spend wisely, it is now.
We are all planning for the future.
To carry out those plans means ex-
penditure of money and that money
must first be accumulated.
True Thrift is not only the accumu-
lation of money—it is just as much
a matter of careful, useful spending,
but obviously the saving must come
first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings
Account and use it faithfully. It costs
nothing, but will help you to help
yourself.
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
O F AVSTR A LI A
There's a Branch orAgentyin YOUR District
i
hL£
THE SERVICE MAN
The First Essential.
“Ek Dum”: General Blarney has con-
tinued his monologues on defence, no
doubt to the great discomfort of the Gov-
ernment.
He said in the latest that, any defence
plan which did not envisage every in-
dividual in the nation doing the essential
task he could best do would be only a
perfunctory step towards national safety.
The preparation of armed forces is the
first essential.
The law of this land has foreseen this,
and for many years has required that all
males within military age shall undergo
regular training in order to meet the shock
of enemy attack when it comes.
The trade-union movement recently ex-
pressed the view in Melbourne that the re-
quirements of the law should be abro-
gated and that we should fall back on a
voluntary policy. The margin by which
the decision was reached was very narrow.
This seems to show that amongst the
trade-unions there is a large body of
realists, and that the curious prejudices
against requiring the youth of the country
to prepare to fight for it are dying out. It
gives ground for hoping that the funda-
mental law requiring the whole of the youth
of the country to train will remain. Experi-
ence has shown us that a system dependent
on volunteers for training would fail.
Sg“g b “” hope “ 1 '
Here the C.-in-C. (retired) is an
optimist. Despite the alleged setbacks to
the Communist party, it is still strong
enough to control policy on matters in
which votes have to be bought. It already
is adopting the tactic which it always
applies in defeat—that of going under-
ground in the councils of its opponents,
Communist policy in regard to military
forces is set out in the “Communist
Party Training Manual :
The working class must break up and
shatter the State bureaucratic and military
machinery as a preliminary condition of
the workers’ revolution In the struggle
of the working class for political power
to overthrow the capitalist class the struggle
ultimately passes from the defensive to
the offensive, and a period of insurrection
marks the period of revolution,
j n t j ie category of softening-up meas-
strikes no-slow and domestic
ures are go stow ana aorpesti
quarrels within industry, the demorahsa-
tion of the police and the weakening of
mi l itar y to the point of futility,
J
• a
Enemies as ir in Arms
Henry Gullett, when introducing the
, t u e Communists in 1940 said-
°a“ Upon me UOmmuniSlS in IVW, said.
Under the pretence of advocating
peace. Communists are working to
weaken the Allied war effort and
strengthen 4he enemy,” being “splashed
right through the militia, not as open
Communists, but as whisperers and urgers
against enlistment for overseas service”;
Every loyal Australian who wishes to
keep his country and the British Empire
from disaster should repudiate Com-
munists of any degree and look upon them
as enemies, as they would upon enemies
in arms. They are even more dangerous
than an honest foe.
The judicial tribunal which inquired
into the Ratliff-Thomas case just before
the outbreak of war with Japan sheeted
home to Communists “a guerilla move-
ment growing in space and time” to
undermine the war effort, “until prepara-
tion can be made for something big.”
Communists and Japan ,
The attitude of Communist unions
which control the production of arms
and the means of military organisation
was expressed by Thornton, secretary
of the Ironworkers, in June, 1942, just
after the submarine attack on Sydney
Harbor —the italics are Thornton’s:
Towards the end of last year, just after
our management committee decided to sup-
port the war [i.e., when Russia was
attacked], Japan entered into it. This did
not alter the character of the war for us,
but it did bring home to the people more
closely their immediate duty in relation
to the war. What do some people in the
Labor movement say? They say Australia
has to look to herself first. That is just
pandering to the most backward section of
Australian life, and it is no accident that
some people in the Labor movement say
put Australia first. '
Returned soldiers and other loyal Aus-
tralians whose case was that defence of
Australia should be a primary considera-
tion were flung into internment camps
when the Thorntons and Healys and
Elliotts were in a position to say how
much of a,, war effort, if any, there
should be.
Thornton’s position in 1942, when he
admitted that Australia was “in mortal
danger,” was that his union should
take up “not a narrow parochial
attitude,” confined to “doing something
to safeguard Australia”; it should look
for help “only after considering the needs
of our Allies” — i.e., of Soviet Russia. Yet
the Japanese had already sent thousands
of Australians into bondage in Singa-
pore and were at the moment killing
hundreds of them through medieval
tortures. And Australian women had
been raped and beheaded in New Guinea.
Thornton’s executive endorsed his re-
port without a word of pfiblished criti-
cism. It accepted and printed his draft
of the following expression of soaring
patriotism at a moment when the
Japanese were beginning to drive over
the Owen Stanleys ip an onslaught
against Moresby and the mainland, an
operation which was to cost Australia
40,000 in killed, wounded or permanently
affected:
It has often been charged against Left-
wingers that they are more interested in
what is going on overseas than in Aus-
tralia. My viewpoint is that Australia
could be at least ds good a country as
the Soviet Union, provided it had a
Government of a similar character to the
Soviet Government with the methods
of the Soviet Union applied in Australia.
Yes, General Blarney is an optimist if
he thinks that there can be any effective
compulsory defence organisation or any
war effort while people like Thornton
rule the industry of the country, stopping
and starting ships, coalmines and iron and
steelworks at their pleasure.
No Shooting War, But
Except that there is no shooting war,
Soviet Russia is waging war in its fashion
on the democracies. It hopes to achieve


Position Vacant.
WANTED— LAW CLERK required for large
practice in adjacent State. Applicants, who
should be of undoubted integrity, should state
full particulars of experience and any special
knowledge or qualifications. The position is
permanent and holds prospects for suitable
applicant.—Apply No. 314, Adyt. Dept.. The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 North
George Street, Sydney. _
Public Notice.
I, PASQUALE FRANCESCO RASCHELLA, of
Italian nationality, born at Caulonia, Reggio, Cal.,
Italy, and resident seven years in Australia, now
residing at 430 Elisabeth Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM GILLETT.—TAKE NOTICE
that HILDA MARY GILLETT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4146 of 1945 on the grounds of
desertion without any cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 19th day of April 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition, without charge
from HERALD BRUCE BRIERLEY & ENGLAND
109 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s,) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
17th September, 1944.— My . interest a d
powers of concentration have c t reas ed to a
suprising extent. I look forward to a . J
with pleasurable anticipation and undertak
each new matter as it arises with added
confidence in my ability to Jc/TOKfiX-
a satisfactory conclusion. SOLICII OK tsA
SOLDIER.
3rd March. 1944.— Force of circumstances
had caused my fires of interest
Now I feel that I have regained my grip
and have definitely laid the basis ofasuc-
cessful course. I intend to make small
task my immediate aim, whether it be
correct some habit or to carry out duties.
—MAJOR.
31st October, 1944.—1 find myself becoming
more methodical about things and can deal
with problems more clearly and quickly. In
fact, Pelmanism has fulfilled exactly what
wanted It has widened my horizons socially
S Sturally .-LIEUTENANT.
6th September, 1944.— 1 must thank the
Institute for the co-operation and the almost
unbelievable benefits I have received
through the Course, but most of all for
the happiness that I have derived since
started. — CORPORAL.
18th September, 1944. —In retrospect I find
that I have gone a long way to the accom-
plishment of my aim. Frankly,
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now 1 feel I am advancing towards the goal
of the fuller man. Fear of the future has
been replaced by willingness to embrace it
with open arms and a desire my
fellow-men in my own calling. EKIVAIt,
A.LF.
12th October, 1944— Pelmanism has shown
me the road to success with keen percep-
tion, memory power, concentration and the
new emotional drive, which comes from
having a definite aim in me. E.A.C.
30th September. 1944.— Without a doubt I
have made progress. My original aims
clearer perception, concentration and more
astute mental employment—have become
clearly defined. In covering the ground I
have found other which I
had not previously thought. — CAPTAIN.
30th October, 1944.—0ne of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and refer-
ence numbers. By using the Pelman
methods. I was pleased to find I had the
whole list correctly reproduced. Similar
instances often occur. — CORPORAL.
H.M. Forces.
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training
Speed and Accuracy
V The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that
we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We
see more and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence
there is a great access of confidence in our a i ity to acquire
knowledge, remember it. and recall it as required. We learn to trust
our sense perception. _
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then
open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and women.
The more important of these qualities are;
Observation
Will-power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Organization
Judgment
Concentration
Social Ease
Initiative
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
lor faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
The exercises are pleasant, and each has its special purpose. The
Pehnan Course is a real training, its primary objects being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones,
to train the conscious and the sub-concious so that every faculty will,
when called upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of
anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 60.000
have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” are posted free. Inquiries are
regarded as confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind. Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me. post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind-
NAME
ADDRESS
172
its victories without the loss of a single
Russian through the operations of Red
Fascists.
Canada, which has been magnificently,
generous to Russia, as to all its other
war partners, and is still, as part of its
arrangement with U.N.R.R.A., exporting
huge quantities of produce, free, to White
Russia and the Ukraine, reports the dis-
covery of a Russian spy service “amount-
ing almost to a Fifth Column.” Having
revealed the facts to President Truman
and Mr. Bevin, the Mackenzie King Gov-
ernment struck hard. Among those
rounded up by the counter-espionage
squads *are “persons employed or previ-
ously employed in a number of Govern-
ment departments and agencies,” and
“members of the Soviet Embassy staff
at Ottawa” are “involved.” ,
Vishinsky has been appointed Foreign
Minister because he is the most experi-
enced man in Russia in the liquidation
of oppositions, many of which are being
liquidated in Eastern Europe —millions
have died or disappeared as the result of
his operations in the past.
Manuilsky is Foreign Minister of
the Ukraine because in his hands for
many years has been the special spear-
head work against the British Common-
wealth’s structure, work the success of
which is esteemed the primary necessity
in the promotion of world revolution.
The very first essential of a successful
organisation of Australian defence is the
establishment of patriotic control of the
industrial side of defence and of those
departments of the Government and its
agencies which steer the fervors of the
people.
What can be expected of a Government
which tolerates-the control of war indus-
tries by men who make it clear
that they would be on the side of the only
potential enemy in sight if war were in
the offing, and which has many Commu-
nists on the payrolls?
General Blarney, while criticising the
Military Board —which is an exact replica
of the British Army Council —remarked
that “the Government has produced no
policy for the development of the military
forces themselves.” He said also that
“Australia alone among the peoples en-
gaged in the war” had “elected to run the
war as a party political affair.”
A party political affair it remains, and
will remain so long as the present Gov-
ernment is in office. ___
War Criminal Trials.
Japanese war criminals continue to be
tried in Australian war zones with all the
newspaper publicity given to the hearing
of minor traffic charges.
The British, wherever they are, remem-
ber the Black Hole of Calcutta, the Resi-
dency at Cawnpore and the Kashmir Gate
in Delhi and see that the stories will
never be forgotten. But the loss of 2500
Australians in Borneo in circumstances
which chill the blood makes no impres-
sion on this country except for the silent
parents, wives, relatives and children. To
Sydney newspapers the loss of the men
of Borneo was of infinitely less news
value than the Saturday races.
Up to the week-end there had, accord-
ing to Mr. Forde, been 164 trials, 58
death sentences, 74 sentences to imprison-
ment and 32 acquittals.
Only eight of the death sentences have
been confirmed. Thirty are under review ;
20 have been commuted to imprisonment.
Not a single murderer has been executed.
With the “Labor principle” of no capital
punishment to consider, the “Government”
is leaving the fate of these criminals en-
tirely in the hands of the Acting C.-in-C.
The delays, the secrecy and the lack of
interest are completely defeating the only
objects which these trials can serve. Jus-
tice to be effective must be swift, severe
and public. , ,
The Ambon trials, dealing with the
maltreatment under which 400 Australian
prisoners-of-war died in Tantoei from
beatings, starvation and other calculated
atrocities, ended last week. There were
93 Japanese in the dock, where they had
sat stolidly for six weeks.
Thirty-six were found guilty and 57
acquitted at Morotai, whither the Court
had been moved from Ambon. There
it had sat for the first three weeks. About
90 witnesses were examined.
The Court consisted of Colonel F. H.
Costello, of Mosman (Sydney), Colonel
L. Wade, formerly of the Artillery School
at Holdsworthy, and Captain J. S. Ken-
nison, of Rose Bay (Sydney).
The six Japanese defending officers, who
paid tribute to the fairness of the Court,
were given an adjournment to prepare a
case in mitigation of sentences —not pro-
nounced when this was written.
Challenge from New Guinea.
From an old soldier and colonist in
New Guinea:
The cartoon and the article on the Service
Pages (B. 23 /1 / ’46) raised cheers in this part ot
the world. Both hit the nail on the head.
Through the efforts and foresight of Mr.
Hughes the first Australian settlers to take over
the Territory from the Germans in 1920 were
to a man returned soldiers of World War 1.
A very big percentage of these men
fought again during 1939-45, and many of the
remainder were lost in the Montevideo Maru.
The number of enlistments, casualties suffered
and decorations won in proportion to popula-
tion must be among the highest m the world.
Those of us who have survived two wars
and who have spent most of our adult lives in
New Guinea feel that we should have been given
a chance of helping to determine the after-lhe-
war status of the Mandated Territory.
After all, it is the former residents who
have pioneered and developed the country
and who have supplied the bulk of the funds
to build roads and wharves and to establish the
medical service for the native population, in
addition to finding wages for the great number
of Government officials.
It is not generally realised in Australia that,
although much credit was given to the Com-
monwealth for the manner in which the terms
of the mandate were carried out', practically the
whole of the money required, in the period be-
tween the two wars, was raised frorh revenue
collected in the Territory
The position now is that former residents,
instead of being given a chance to express their
opinions about the setup in the M.T., have
had their only means of expressing their opinion
taken away from them. The new provisional
administration does away with the Legislatiy
Council, which did give a limited opportunity
to civilians to air their opinions and grievances
A visit to the cemeteries of both wars at
Rabaul, Sanananda, Salamaua, Wau, Fae,
Finschhafen, Madang, Wewak, and Toro-
kina and other places where our troops have
ES, SS
who
were first to die in the 1914-18 war.
It looks now as if these sacrifices have not
iILS What a bitter thought it is that
our politicians, in their chase after publicity
and kudos, are prepared to give us away, and
that we are expected to take it and like it.
In any case, what right have these peqple to
give us away? We challenge them to include
the question in the next referendum proposals.
"Massacred?"
“Ek Dum”: One of the most telling
contributions to the campaign for more
daylight on the war in the Pacific has
come from Colonel E. O. Milne, D.S.O.
Colonel Milne is one of the best-loved
ciftzen soldiers, a man who never Speaks
ill of anybody, and who has the faculty of
inspiring affection among men with whom
he deals. He was through the Syrian cam-
paign and had a very fine record in World
War 1.
He said that if the Scullin Government
had not abolished compulsory training
our young men would have had some
knowledge of defence when war came.
In Syria, in 1941, he proceeded, many
reinforcements were pushed into action
with the Seventh Division only a fortnight
after they had arrived from Australia.
When they found themselves against
trained professional soldiers it was “just
plain murder.”
It was a disgrace that our young
fighters should have been sent into action
in such circumstances.
It was the same, Colonel Milne re-
marked, in the closing stages of the Singa-
pore campaign, when a brigade of un-
trained soldiers was sent into action.
The writer saw hundreds of them taken
off train for the wharves, and there was
little about them that did not make the
heart sick. It was perfectly true, as the
colonel said, that it was “utterly unfair
to the men and the country.” They did
far more than might have been expected
of them in the circumstances, and many
paid with their lives for the “policy”
which sent them straight from rookie
camps to the firing line against
highly-trained crack Japanese battalions
with a mass of artillery capable of a
barrage which reminded old hands of
Somme.
Having regard to the fact that the
Malayan tragedy was reduplicated, often
in worse form, for several months after
its lessons should have been learned —at
Ambon, where Colonel Milne says the
gallant battalion and ancillari.es were sent
to be “massacred” ; at Rabaul, in Java,
Milne Bay and the Kokoda Trail —it
speaks volumes for the somnolence of
daily-press and public opinion and
the general carelessness about human life
that the Government is still in office, un-
challenged on the score of its campaigns.
And no impartial person with a know-
ledge of the defence position before the
war can dispute Colonel Milne s sum-
mary that “the Scullin Government”—
enthusiastically driven to its conclusions
by men who now claim to be the coun-
try’s saviors —“placed us in a worse posi-
tion in the early months of the Pacific
war than we were in at Gallipoli in 1915.”
It was the sheer mercy of Providence
that the Japanese were so foolish as to
leave their attack from 1939 till 1941. A
single division with a cruiser squadron
and a couple of bomber squadrons would
have been sufficient.
There was not a brigade trained and
equipped to fight in modern war, not an
air squadron which could have lasted ten
minutes. Nor could the small naval
squadron, even if concentrated, pos-
sibly have availed against a single
aircraft-carrier properly escorted. Aus-
tralia’s industrial centres were utterly un-
protected. And if the enemy had sneaked
on Sydney as he sneaked on Pearl Harbor
he need not have laid off and blasted it.
He could have come right into the harbor.
Previous Governments are not guilt-
less, but some of them did try to do some-
thing. “Labor” was not merely passive
but hostile to defensive effort.
In brief:
About 1200 Australians, the spearhead of the
British Commonwealth Occupation Force,
reached Kure last week.
* * * *
With its usual secrecy Australia —that is, Dr.
Evatt—has sent a delegation to Washington to
discuss the fate of Manus. Apparently th is
will be decided by Dr. Evatt and presented to
“Parliament” as an accomplished fact.
* * * *
More than 2000 Japanese military and civilian
internees left Melbourne on Sunday in the Kim
Maru, the first Japanese ship to come to Aus-
tralia since 1941. And 700 Indonesians are
being sent back to Java or thereabouts, affec-
tionately farewelled by Communists and girls,
presumably white. The association of white girls
with “black, brown and brindle” Comrades
seems to be a source of delight to Communists.
* * * *
Recruiting for the Commonwealth’s “interim
army” will commence this week. The scheme
has been launched from Canberra with a
celerity which is more a tribute to the yastness
of the soldier unemployment problem than to
the drive of the Government. Recruits from
to 40 are wanted for a maximum period of two
years to serve where needed on war-time pay and
allowances, but with taxation exemption only
for periods spent outside Australia in Japan,
island garrisons or essential mainland units.


brings thiflfjS 063T8L.*
...dearer
,o.
V (
Sii
-
•• .* *; ■*. v
»*?!<> '-'.rS. .
...
P|
m
V.
8
■
If the filament of an incandescent lamp were as big as it looks
in this micro-photograph, the fair operative whose exacting
job requires her to pass the delicate coiled filament through its
holder would have an easy task. ~.but in actual practice she
works 20 diameters smaller.
For all industrial processes requiring precision work the
shadow-free high-intensity, cool light of Condor Fluorescent
lighting renders fine details with utmost clarity. . .eliminating
eyestrain and affording the most comfortable seeing conditions
which promote higher rates of production.
df
CONDOR LAMPS (A/ASIA) PIT., LTD., 35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY
Ctrrtdor
FLUORESCENT AND
FILAMENT LIGHTING
DISTRIBUTORS.
SYDNEY; George Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., National
Theatre Supply Co. (A/sia) Pty. Ltd., Keg. Bose & Co.
Pty. Ltd., X. F. Stewart & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sun Electric
Co! Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE: Howard Electrical & Radio
Pty. Ltd., Sun Electric Co. Pty. Ltd., A. J. Veall Pty.
Ltd. BRISBANE: Trackson Bros. Pty. Ltd. ADELAIDE:
B, C. Woollard.
Position Vacant.
WANTED. —CLERK, male, for Cdmmercial
Office in adjacent State. Some accountancy
qualifications desirable. A permanent position
with prospects is open to a reliable applicant.
Apply No. 315, Advt. Dept., The Bulletin
Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 North George
Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The V.A.T.C.’s customary varied Oakleigh
Plate Day bill of fare promised a feast of good
racing at Caulfield on Saturday, and the record
crowd of 47,800 that turned up to get at the
dish certainly had nothing to complain about on
that score. Flight’s win in the St. George
Stakes and Delina’s in the Oakleigh were both
brilliant performances, and there was bright
racing also in the other five events. The tote
handled £157,025, up nearly £15,000 on the
same day last year, and indicating, with the
huge wagering that went on with the books,
that there’s still plenty of loose money around.
Not counting Flight, who’s been in Mel-
bourne long enough now to claim citizenship, a
sidelight of the day was the failure of the Syd-
ney contingent. The Artist, Prince Standard
(kicked at the start) and Man o’ War were all
well beaten, but perhaps they can hardly be
said to be representative of Sydney form.
Chaperone, Bernborough and Havoc should pro-
vide a better guide to comparative form over
the next week or so, though Havoc is reported
to be amiss.
Flight’s win in the nine-furlongs St. George
Stakes (w.f.a.) was practically a repetition of her
C. F. Orr Stakes win over a mile at Moonee
Valley a week earlier. Against practically the
same field, J. O’Sullivan used the same confident
tactics, taking her to the front as soon as they
got going. She never looked like being caught,
comfortably passing the post three-quarters of
a length ahead of the outsider Four Freedoms;
Royal Gem a neck away third. Both Royal
Gem and Don Pedro (fourth) were at 2 to 1,
half a point shorter than the winner, though she
had beaten them at the Valley. Still, that is the
way of punters the world over.
Flight has now won 19 races, none of them
in better style. Without being pushed she
covered the nine furlongs in 1.51, three-quarters
of a second outside the track record, and
at present the big and particularly shapely
five-year-old daughter of Royal Step-Lambent
may be fairly rated the best mare racing in
Australia. Her great rival for the honor, Tran-
quil Star, one of the beaten both at Caulfield
and Moonee Valley, is aged, and may have
about had her day, though she has seemed to
have had it before, and has turned up again
more brilliant than ever. Anyway, Flight still
has a long way to go to outstrip Tranquil
Star’s Australasian record money-winning figure
for a mare.
Delina’s win in the Oakleigh was of another
variety, both of racing and riding, and A.
Breasley’s horsemanship had a good deal to do
with it. It can be said of Breasley that no other
jockey in the country has quite the same fond-
ness for the rails, the patience in sticking it out
there even when getting through may look fairly
hopeless or the ability to profit when an open-
ing occurs. Sometimes it fails to come off, but
it’s extraordinary how often it does, as “Breas.”
exploits it. He won his second Oakleigh for the
Lou Robertson stable in that way, slipping the
favorite through after she had been much closer
to last than first in the big field in the early
stages. Thus luckily cleared of the ruck,
Delina went on extremely fast to beat Attley a
neck, with Unfurl" a length away third.
Delina’s time, 1.45, was only quarter of a
second outside the race record first put up by
Aurie’s Star in 1937 and shared in 1941 by
Zonda, Breasley’s other winner for the stable,
and also, like Delina, a four-year-old Manitoba
mare at the time of winning. Without taking
anything from Delina’s win, there were some
other attractive performances in the race. The
Portofino colt Attley had a big burden in 8.12
for a three-year-old, and was carried out a little
at the turn. Then there was that game battler
St. Fairy, to whom, evidently, all distances come
alike. Carrying the great burden of 9.13, the
St. Magnus five-year-old horse finished very
close to the placegetters—a wonderful perform-
ance for a Caulfield Cup winner. The only one
to succeed in the Oakleigh with that burden
was Whakawatea over 50 years ago, but the
great Woorak did it with the crusher of 10.5
in 1917, and in recent years Aurie’s Star
managed it with 9.12 and Pamelus with 9.11,
though in about a second slower time. Alto-
gether, some 6$ secs, have been clipped off the
time over the years of the race.
A week or two back St. Fairy downed a
smart field of sprinters over six furlongs when
carrying 9.9, and he seemed to be going faster
than anything in the field at the end of the Oak-
leigh five-and-a-half. Hence he seems certain
to provide stout opposition for Bernborough in
next Saturday’s Futurity. In that peculiarly
weighted race Bernborough has slightly the
better of the weights compared with the other
most likely-looking candidates, and on his three
remarkable Sydney successes should about land
it, _with St. Fairy
Ddhe toughest to beat.
Ajax is, of course, the great Futurity winner,
taking it three years in succession. Another of
its recent winners was High Caste, and in Syd-
ney Bernborough performed perhaps more like
that strong galloper than like any other of the
good ones. It will be his first really big test —
provided enough of the good prospective starters
line up—and if he wins it he should be capable
of anything.
What, in that event —with the Newmarket,
for which he is ruling favorite, then apparently
at his mercy—would the ex-Queenslander be
likely to get from the handicapper in the big
£lO,OOO Ahearn Handicap sprint set down for
the B.A.T.C. racing in June? It would be
ironic if he did eventually manage to collect
that huge stake, by far the biggest sprint prize
ever offered in Australia. Until lately Bern-
borough was banned from Brisbane races, big
or little, and did all his racing—with mixed suc-
cess, it might be noted —at Toowoomba. But
the whys and wherefores of that is another
story, a current version of which would have
been swooped on by Nat Gould as lively
material.
Apropos of that big Queensland prize for a
sprint race, there is no doubt it will have great
value from the point of view of publicity and
gate. Its value to racing might perhaps be
more questionable, unless it is to be a yearly
affair. Then it would no doubt have important
effects on breeding, leading to a new emphasis
on animals that can go fast but not far —the
Melbourne Cup always has put an emphasis on
stamina. Also, of course, as an annual affair
it would give a new importance to winter racing,
and certainly if winter racing wants a bit of
boosting Queensland seems the right State to
do it. Whether the breeding of mere speedsters
is desirable could no doubt be argued for hours.
At one time “improving the breed” was held
to be necessary for cavalry and suchlike pur-
poses, but that’s at least one line of argument
that seems to have worn a bit threadbare. Any-
way, the £20,000-odd to be handed round in
prizemoney at the Brisbane meeting in May
includes good provision this year for stayers,
including the £5OOO Q.T.C. Victory Cup,
The Caulfield bill of fare on Saturday in-
cluded two races for two-year-olds, and no
fewer than 10 of the Dhoti breed were saddled
up. It was not one of the good days for the
stock of that ske, who is a comfortable leader
in this season’s list. A promising one of the six
in the fillies’ division, Nestani, broke a fetlock
and had to be destroyed, and the strong equal
favorite with her, very consistent Hawa Rani,
was downed a neck by the lightly-weighted High
Title filly Gay Queen. Hawa Rani ran a fine
race under her 9.3. The Devonshire filly Seaton
was third. In the colts and geldings division
two of the Dhotis, Durbar and Cotham, were
respectively second and third to the still-improv-
ing Hellespont colt Flying Fury.
Of the other Caulfield events, the three-year-
old St. Magnus colt Star Knight had a very
good win from New Warrior and Blue Express
in the 12-furlongs Bond Handicap; Lunar
Lynx downed the hot favorite, Gay Lad, and
Drama in the mile Welter; and Mokan ac-
counted for Basdell and Nawab in the nine-
furlongs Trial. Altogether, a day full of
promise for the big racing just ahead.
* * * *
Easily the best performance at the S.T.C.
meeting at Rosehill on Saturday was that of
Cragsman in the seven-furlongs Flying. A
noted track specialist, he had won there at his
previous start, but neither that nor the fact that
he was ridden by the lately most successful of
all Sydney riders A. Mulley secured him strong
support. Going out at fens, he overhauled Car-
geonel with a great burst of speed down the
straight, and went on to beat that gelding and
Silverelda in track record time, 1.235.
A four-year-old Felcrag horse, Cragsman
carried 9.7. He looks the best sprinter of the
moment in Sydney, though both Modulation
and Tahmoor —they finished well back —were
weighted above him. Hall Stand was 41b. better
off than Cragsman and was made favorite, but
could only finish fourth; obviously not the
horse he was.
Cragsman’s win made a double for Mulley,
his umpteenth at recent Sydney meetings. With
Thompson, whom he resembles, he is one of the
most stylish riders here at present, particularly
good at holding a mount together over a long
finishing run. His earlier win, on the Hua colt
Smooth Action (certainly a prophetic name),
was another of that sort, the colt coming from
a fair way back to down the improving Nizami
colt Mumtazi and the Felcrag colt Lucky Es-
cape in the six-furlongs Two-year-old Handi-
cap.
Once more a heavily backed favorite—this
time Britannic —went down in the S.T.C. Handi-
cap, Grand Prodige (F. Williams) returning to
form to get there ahead of Four Square and
Chaytor. Four Square may have been a shade
unlucky. Cordale (G. Moore) ran down Puff-
ham in the nine-furlongs Welter, with High
Flight third; Fast Flash (A. Ward) beat Asset
and Gallant Law in the Three-and-four-year-
old; and Rose Glory (A. Ward) and Tamaroa
(E. Fordyce) won the respective divisions of the
Fixed Weight Maiden. '
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old (colts and geldings): Brilen, 1;
Grand Flight, 2; Regal Light, 3. Two-year-
old (fillies): Tibalina, 1; Beautiful, 2; Murmur,
3. Novice: Pearler, 1; Waratah, 2; Union Jack,
3. Flying: Gay King, 1; Cargeonel, 2; Star
Gold, 3. S.T.C. Handicap: Peter Con, 1 ;
Cordale, 2; Murray Stream, 3. Welter: Fel-
berta, 1; Gigli, 2; Western Monarch, 3.
• j|c jf; «£
The Tasmanian Turf Club’s Victory Cup, to
be run today (Wednesday), carries the record
prizemoney of £1350, but that wasn’t enough
to entice a solitary stayer over from the main-
land.
* * * *
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club is to get
back to its own course in the Adelaide hills for
Easter, transport from the city now promising
to be ample. The club celebrates the occasion
by raising its record in stakes to £lO,OOO, of
which £3OOO goes to the Great Eastern Steeple.
Last time the club raced at home, in 1941,
the total stakes were only £4500.
* * * *
A scribe commenting on the N.Z. sales said
that “sportsmen are having a long-waited laugh
at the criticism made a year ago by Mr. Sol
Green, who spoke disparagingly of New Zealand
thoroughbreds.” Speaking from memory, the
unkind remarks were actually made by John
Wren; and, anyway, why the sports should be
laughing isn’t so clear. With all due respect
for the great N.Z. breeding record, the mere
fact that the recent prices soared to new
heights, including the Australasian record for a
filly (4750 guineas), doesn’t necessarily shake
the critic. Record prices for bloodstock are
the rule everywhere, and the general prices
paid in these parts are almost chicken-feed to
prices in England. And the stock bought has
still, of course, to prove itself.
For all that, there is a laugh on John Wren
if he made that criticism. He purchased a
Foxbridge colt while he was over there, paying
the tidy sum of 2000 guineas. Called Anstey,
the colt was heavily backed at his first start
to beat the flying Chatter Lad over about
five furlongs, and Chatter Lad won by a vast
area. Moreover, Anstey has bad a good many
starts since on various Melbourne courses, and
is still a maiden.
As for the Australasian record price for a filly,
there are two interesting sidelights. One is that


HARTS
Circular Charts lor all *rp«» oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get om quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
r TV, LIU.
BRISBANE, O LD.
THREE OUTSTANDING THOROUGHBREDS
for Auction at Toowoomba, Queensland.
Direct on account of the Breeder, Mr. E. E. D. White, Woodlands, Greenmount.
ON TUESDAY, 26th MARCH, 1946.
1 Chestnut Colt, foaled 20th Oct., 1944, by THE BUZZARD (imp.) from HELIX,
by Wyvern (Imp.) from Hololse (Imp.)—See A.S.B. Vol. XIX, page 299.
1 Chestnut Colt, foaled 7th Oct., 1944, by MONASH VALLEY from HELWISE. by
Wvvern (imp.) from Hololse (Imp.)—See above reference A.S.B.
1 Brown Gelding; Wed 29th Oct.. 1942, by SPEABFELT from BALLET' See
A.S.B. Vol. XX, page 46.
In addition to above, 100 Thoroughbred Yearlings, Brood Mares, and untried Two
and Three-year-olds will bo offered on this day.
Catalogues, which cover a most attractive offering, are available on application.
Inquiries Invited.
McPHIE & CO., BLOODSTOCK SALESMEN, TOOWOOMBA, QLD.
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
d
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
h
tr*
tOV>
JOB
fd
fd
A.T.L offers you without obli-
gation - constructive advice in
connection with any post-war
production problem involving
tools, gauges, instruments or com-
ponents which must be engineered
to limits of super-accuracy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY i » . . MELBOURNE , . . . PERTH . . . . BRISBANE
AU4-E
the filly involved is by Coronach ■ (from Prin-
cess Ball), and so far the only direct product
of that sire to race in N.S.W., the F. M.
Hughes importation from N.Z., Balmore, nas
been a regular failure on Sydney tracks, and
has only one win in the State to his credit, at
his last start in a very weak field at Newcastle.
The other sidelight touches on the previous
highest-priced filly, Anne-Tien-Et. By Golden
Sovereign from the fine mare Feminist, the
hyphenated lass, by being very hard ridden, just
managed to beat an ordinary lot one day at
Rosehill. She did run other good races, but
that was her only win, and, still showing a
deficit of about three thousand on her purchase
price, she has developed foot trouble and been
retired, as a three-year-old, to the stud.
Coronach, of course, is an English Derby
winner, and so is to be highly respected,
winners of the Derby being the best blood in
the world. But he’s an old horse.
Anne-Tien-Et’s stud career should be inter-
esting. A white-faced brown, she was a fine
sort of filly of the compact variety, looking
more in her first year like a stocky colt. Like
her, Aulone, the dam of the best filly of the
year in Sydney, Chaperone, also went to the
stud as a three-year-old; and, as well as
Chaperone, Aulone has produced (also to Ajax)
the fast Civic Pride.
* * * *
Before the Vic. v. N.S.W. match petered out
with wet feet last week at Sydney some N.S.W.
batsmen made a stout effort to overhaul Vic.’s
291 made on a fine day. On a wicket doing
a lot to help spin bowlers five of the early
batsmen were down for 33 (Barnes 13,
Carroll 0, Saggers 0, Alley 3, Donaldson 13).
Then James (111) and Grieves (32) put on 75
for the sixth wicket. James and Gulliver (61)
helped with 117 for the eighth, and the innings
closed for 255. It was James’s second cen-
tury this season; the other was 108 v. Queens-
land at Sydney. James’s crouching stance at
the wicket got him a lot of knocking about
by the bowlers. Victoria had 3 for 21 at
stumps in their second innings. Left-hander
Freer (5 for 62) and fast-medium W. John-
ston (4 for 43) wrecked N.S.W.’s chance of
success. On the two non-working days on
which the match was played 25,724 paid
£1396 to see the game.
* * * *
Left-hander G. Tribe’s 9 for 45 put Vic-
toria in a safe position against Queensland at
Brisbane. The northerners crumpled for 109,
their lowest this season (Brown 26, Tallon 25
not out, McCool 20). McCormick (9 for 40 v.
S.A. in 1936-37) and Fleetwood-Smith (9 for
135 v. S.A. in 1937-38) are the only other Vic.
bowlers to get Tribe’s number of wickets in a
single innings. Vic.’s reply was 469 (Meule-
man 109, Beames 94 not out, Fothergill 82,
Tribe 61). Meuleman scored 100 out of 163
for three wickets on the first day, and enhanced
his claim to be the opening batsman with
Brown in the M.L. tour.
* * * *
“Mat” sums up:
Bradman, Dwyer and Ryder did a good job
as selectors of the Australian cricketers to tour
M.L. With a score of eligibles to choose from,
many with fine performances had to stand down,
among them W. Johnston, Freer and Tribe
(Vic.), Grieves and Alley (N.S.W.), Morris (Q.),
Pepper and others of the Services XI. Brown
(captain), O’Reilly, Barnes and Hasset't have
played in Tests, and also, with Tallon,
Hamence, lan Johnson and K. Miller, in Shef-
field Shield. Lindwall, Toshack, Dooland,
Meuleman and McCool are the newcomers.
Particular interest will focus on Meuleman,
who scored 150 out of 276 v. S.A. in the
second innings at Adelaide and has made
five centuries in Melbourne club cricket this
season; B. Dooland, a righthander who has
29 wickets av. 25.34 in big matches this
season; lan Johnson (Vic.) an all-rounder;
and left-hand bowler Toshack (N.S.W).
* * * *
Before the Kiwi (M.L.) Army Rugby
Union team could play Combined Che-
shire-Lancashire-Yorkshire last week, at
Manchester (hoodoo of cricketers), “the
fire brigade was called to pump as much
water off the ground as possible.”
The Kiwis swam home by 41 to nil.
* * * *
When England met Ireland at Rugby
Union in Dublin this month it was the
first time for almost seven years to the
day since they had faced each other. Ire-
land won on that previous occasion by
5 to nil, but this time England got there
by 14 to 6.
* * * *
The first English amateur billiards
championship to be decided since 1940
has been won by M, Showman, of Man-
chester, who fairly easily beat J. H. Beet-
ham, of Derby, in the final. Showman
played consistently well, but without the
polish of K. Kennerley, who had won the
previous four championships—he is now
a professional. These days the public
that pays to look on in England is re-
ported as preferring snooker to billiards
as played among the pros., which makes
Horace Lindrum a special attraction.
* * * *
N.S.W. Water Polo Association last
week took what the troops would call “a
poor view” of a player’s having pushed
the ref. into the water during a match.
The player was disqualified for five
years!
* * * *
This year’s Cambridge crew for the
boatrace includes one Australian, J. G.
Gosse, of §.A. The race is to be rowed
over the Putney to Mortlake course on
March 30, the first time it has been there
since 1939.
News calculated to give all golfers itchy
feet comes from the ancient address,
where, even while the war was on, they’ve
been constructing a new course. Planned
by the St. Andrews-born open champion
of 1893, Willie Auchterlonie, it will give
St. Andrews its fourth golf course of high
quality, with wide fairways, long holes
and excellent facilities for crowd con-
trol. The report of it says there are no
“double greens” and no “crossing” fair-
ways, the outward holes being separated
from the inward by the sand dunes.
* * * *
Although the opposition was not for-
midable, Hockey Bennell showed fine
boxing skill and form against Clem Sands
at Leichhardt. Sands failed to win any
of the 12 rounds. Bennell wants to meet
Patrick again. He avers that he was
promised a return match within three
months of their September, 1943,
bout, and has always been willing. This
gives the Stadium concern something to
answer. Bennell v. Patrick or Bums
would undoubtedly “draw.”
Back from the islands below his best
fighting weight and form, Alan Westbury
was knocked out by Jack Kirkham at
the Sydney Stadium. At the beginning
the returned wanderer was faster than
Kirkham and was leading on points at the
end of the eighth round, although solid
rights had shaken him in the third. As
they came up for the ftinth, the Westbury
chin was wide open to a right that
knocked him down for “nine.” Kirkham
wasted no time in the tenth. His service-
able right had Westbury down twice, and
on the second occasion the prostrate pug
was so obviously beaten that Joe Wallis
did not count him out.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester
and "the little Princes arrived in Sydney
last Saturday morning from their holiday
in Tasmania. There was quite a flutter
of excitement among Kirribilli residents,
who hurried down to Lady Cowrie’s
Lookout or to the Kirribilli pontoon to
watch the party arriving at Admiralty
House. Later in the morning there was
an investiture at Government House.
There were 127 names among the
honored. Soldiers, airmen and men of
the Navy and the Merchant Navy were
among the decorated. Dr. T. S. Douglas
received the A.F.C. awarded to his dead
airman son, Wran Ruth Douglas accom-
panied her father. Sick-berth Petty-
officer P. A. McKenzie, R.A.N.R.,
received the British Empire Medal for
devotion to duty at the naval base hos-
pital in Darwin. Mackay of Bardia re-
ceived the accolade of Knight-Com-
mander of the Order of the British
Empire. With Sir Iven, down on leave
from his High Commissioner job in India,
were his wife, son and two daughters.
Unforgettable bravery in Germany, on
the Owen Stanleys, in the Middle East,
in Darwin was recalled by this ceremony.
The Duchess wore a flowered silk frock
with white hat, gloves and handbag.
Lieutenant-Governor Jordan and his lady
accompanied the royalties.
There was a subdued thrill through
the R.S.Y.S. last Friday. All was
being made ready for the visit of the
Duke (the squadron’s commodore) and
the Duchess, who were lunching inform-
ally with the squadron’s flag-officers on
Saturday. The lunch was in the ordinary
dining-room, and if you want to know
what the royalties ate —it was fish and
chicken, separately, of course.
No longer are the city streets streaming
with young servicemen in khaki, in navy
blue, in the blue -of the Air Force. As
their numbers decrease the six-years
voluntary and loving occupation of hun-
dreds and hundreds of women is gone.
One by one since V.J. Day the canteens
for servicemen and -women are putting
up the shutters, and the women who gave
their days to caring for them are quietly
and unobtrusively slipping back into the
daily round of peace-time —as quietly and
unobtrusively as they shouldered respon-
sibilities of their war-time activities.
These women have done a splendid job.
They cooked and served meals and
washed up —that hated task of all —in the
hospitality huts founded by their various
churches (every creed flung non-sectarian
doors wide to the soldier), in the Anzac
Buffet, the All Services Canteen, the Kal-
oola Hut. They made money for the
A.C.F., as in the Army War Comforts
Cafe. Entertainment and concert groups
provided music and dancing; the Wed-
nesday nights entertainment group
notched up many happy hours in the
hall of Christ Church, St. Laurence.
C.E.N.E.F. and C.U.S.A. were launched
within a week of each other, and both
are preparing to carry on into the post-
war rehabilitation period, C.U.S.A. at its
Elizabeth - street address. C.E.N.E.F.,
president Mrs. Mowll announces, will
continue to swing its welcome sign at
the St. Andrew’s Hut until the C.E.N.E.F.
Memorial Club in Castlereagh-street —it s
the building that once was Grimes’s
Garage—is ready to take over.
The Presbyterian Hospitality Centre at
the Haymarket (still supplying beds for
about 200), which ran sleeping accommo-
dation as well as meals for four strenu-
ous years, had the bed-making, washing-
up and serving of meals and cloak-room
attendance all done by voluntary women
workers from the various Presbyterian
churches. The All Services Canteen ran
a marvellous service of free meals at
Central —all around the clock till black-
out became too severe.
The Anzac Buffet, which owes so much
to its women’s auxiliary, and to the
organisers of that auxiliary, Mrs. Sam
Jones and Miss Leo Wray, will remain
an evergreen memory to servicemen
whenever they pass Hyde Park. The
auxiliary has served over four million
meals and has raised approximately
£66,000, as well as £7OOO worth of food-
stuffs.
Then there are Air Force House and
the Air Force Association’s Welfare
Centre. It is impossible to name all the
groups. The points that stand out, apart
from that of sustained self-sacrifice, are
the efficient management, the cleverness
in handling finance and the sure business
instinct displayed by the women organis-
ing these canteens.
Just as in Shakspeare, no matter
whether he is writing of Venice of*
Rome or Egypt, there is always England,
so in Alfred Hill there is always Maori-
land. Throughout his music there is
something of the simplicity and the grace
of island places, and if you come from
Enzed you will catch in his music the
sound of the wind in the tussocks. Any-
way, if the listener doesn’t hear it that
way, he will still own it is very fine music-
writing. Last week, for the first
whole programme of works by an Aus-
tralian composer was given in Sydney
Town Hall. Alfred Hill was the hero
of the night; Henry Krips the gifted
conductor.
In spite of the concert’s having
been postponed owing to lighting
restrictions, and the night being a
very wet one, the Town Hall was
crowded, and it’s safe to say it has
never heard such salvos of applause as
greeted the 76-year-young composer, as
he took his bow at the end of the concert.
Altogether it was a grand night for
Maoriland as well as for Australia, for
the composer spent his early youth in the
land across the Tasman. Singers and
musicians packed the audience, and
Alfred’s entry to the vestibule was some-
thing in the nature of a royal progress.
Peter Dawson was there and the Conser-
vatorium’s director Dr. Bainton. The
miniature-like Gladys Verona was in her
usual place in the gallery. The Ernest
Lashmars and Mrs. Harald Bowden were
present, and the Roland Fosters, and all
the writers on music. Blodwen Hill,
soloist in the concerto for viola and
orchestra, was handed a great basket
spilling with roses.
Jacqueline Talbot, winner of the Asso-
ciated Music Clubs’ scholarship for sing-
ing, was the nominee of the Woollahra
Music Club, the members of which had
been greatly impressed by the quality of
her rich contralto voice. This talented
girl had already held a scholarship at the
Conservatorium, her first teacher there
being Mrs. Roland Foster; now Roland
himself is continuing the good work. The
young singer is busy getting the feel-
ing of the opera stage. She has been in
the chorus of most recent Conservatorium
opera performances; confesses a par-
tiality for Eugene Onegin. Norton Tre-
vaire photograph.
The Alexander Gordon lady clothed
her slender little figure in tailored black
silk, and her tiny hat had a touch of
beige pink, when she came along the other
afternoon to farewell, and be farewelled
by, the Cymmrodorion Society. Like
every one of the 80 guests, she is bi-
lingual. The whole afternoon the con-
versation babbled along like a streamlet
crossing the Wales-England border. To
the mere Australian the sibilants and the
vowels sounded alike; but an initiate
explained that the inflections of the man
from Carnarvon and those of the chap
from Glamorgan have quite a different
texture. Still, they all seemed to under-
stand one another, and whether from the
North or the South there was the same
accent of regret in their good-byes.
The guest of honor, a true Welsh-
woman, and a patron of the society,
goes off to England by the Rangi-
tiki. v She will breathe again the air of
Cei Newydd, her natal place, for which
her heart and mind have been burdened
with “hiraeth,” the same as our home-
sickness. President “Ben” Elystan-Price
gave tongue to the general regret; Rev. S.
Bostock Jones was another speaker. Mrs.
C L. Jones dropped into the party.
Miss Katie Jones presented red roses and
a book. R.N. Chaplain Caradog Hughes,
called on informally, gave a humorous
recitation in Welsh. And, of course, the
Welsh can’t meet without singing. They
all burst into their national anthem on a
high key, and “Coming Home” was sung
by Ray Alexander.
From Melbourne
With a wonderful gift of £20,000 from
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, the public appeal
for the building fund of the new Child-
ren’s Hospital got off to a flying start.
Mrs. Stevenson is a daughter of the late
H. V. McKay, and before her marriage
to Col. Stevenson was Mrs. Cleve Kidd.
Mrs. Stevenson, who has always been
interested in the Children’s Hospital, is
also a member of the special committee
for the ball, which will be held early in
March, to augment the building fund.
As the Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, was
unable to attend the launching of the
appeal, Lady Dugan deputised for him.
The Lord Mayor, Cr. Ray Connelly,
was in the chair, and on the platform with
him were the Premier, John Cain, Cr.
Barry, Minister of Health in the present
Government, Dr. Douglas Stephens, senior
honorary medical officer of the hospital,
and the Latham lady, president of the
hospital committee. In a short speech Dr,
Stephens said the deathrate of children
could be reduced by half “in a new hos-
pital built on modern scientific prin-
ciples,” and he urged those present to give
freely and to encourage others to do so.
Another speaker suggested that the new
Children’s Hospital be regarded as a war
memorial.
The Premier said that not enough
money was spent on preventive medi-
cine, and that the Government must be
prepared to make some contribution to
the new building. Three hundred and
fifty thousand pounds is required for the
new hospital, and already more than
£40,000 has been subscribed. The present
hospital was built in 1870, but there have
been so many additions to the old build-
ing that the grounds are cluttered with
temporary structures. The kitchens, built
to provide meals for 135patients,have now
to provide a daily output of 1363 meals.
Wearing a smart navy-blue suit and
large matching straw hat, Lady Dugan
was a gracious figure as she was intro-
duced by the Lord Mayor to deliver a
message from her husband. She was
accompanied by Miss Lisle Johnson, also
tailored, but in a fine grey suiting, with
accessories of navy blue. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze, was also
wearing a grey suit with deep wine-red
accessories. The C.J.’s wife wore a blue-
and-white patterned frock under a navy-
blue coat, and with it a pavy-blue hat.
Pictured here is Pauline Cartmell, who
played the part of “Menna” in the Little
Theatre’s production of “The Wind of
Heaven” another play from the pen of
Emlyn Williams. The period in
which the play centres is just after the
Crimean War, and players, of course, wear
the clothes of the period. Pauline looked
very glamorous in her crinoline and did
an excellent job. “The Wind of Heaven”
is running in London at present and is
causing quite a stir. The author, with
Diana Wynyard, is playing the lead.
Associated with Pauline in this play at
the Little Theatre was Jean Campbell,
who is always a source of surprise in any
part she portrays. Jean had to learn to
speak with a Welsh accent.
People who had met Lili Kraus previ-
ous to her first concert carried away a
memory of an elfish personality featured
by two long plaits and slacks. On the
concert platform she was transformed into
a gracious woman, wearing a long gown
of black georgette with side panels glit-
tering with moonlight sequins and with
a short bolero of honey-toned lace. The
pianist captured the hearts of all her list-
eners not only with her music but her
charm of manner. Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
who was with her musical professor hus-
band, covered her black dinner gown with
a silver-fox cape. The Raymond Lam-
berts were keen appreciators of fine
artistry, she in an ice-blue gown embroid-
ered in silver beads. Many among the
audience were members of the Dutch
community in this city who had shaied
the same internment camp as the pianist.
When Melbourne became the tempo-
rary home of many airmen from other
States the need for hostesses who would
care for them during their week-ends was
great, and so the Victoria League formed
a sub-committee for this purpose. Head-
quarters was the Hospitality Bureau at
Air Force House, and here every day
members of the League worked as liaison
officers between men and hostesses.
At a happy little tea party given to some
of the women journalists of Melbourne
Miss Mary Chomley, president of the
League, expressed the grateful thanks of
her committee to these hostesses.
In the five years that the Hospitality
Bureau functioned almost half a million
men were sent out to private homes or
given free entertainment in this city.
With the wonderful co-operation of these
hostesses 1500 men were every week given
the opportunity of enjoying a brief taste
of family life. In addition to those
billeted by the Hospitality Bureau, 200
to 250 men received Sunday dinners and
teas. Every Sunday night the Victoria
League Young Contingent held parties
either at the Oriental Hotel or the Vic-
toria. Among those at the official table,
which was attractively decorated with
bowls of pink roses, were Mrs. Cluny
Harkness, honorary secretary of the
bureau ; Mrs. E. Davies, hon. treas., Mrs.
Guy Bakewell, a vice-president of the
Victoria League, and Mrs. Stanley Addi-
son, general secretary.
At the final meeting of the Lady
Mayoress’s Entertainment Committee the
Angliss lady, as secretary, announced
that during the war years £338,702 had
been raised. This committee was formed
in 1939 when the Lady Mayoress, at that
time Mrs. A. W. Coles, called a meeting
at the Town Hall at which were present
32 people. At a later meeting it was
decided that members should help jointly
the Australian Comforts Fund and the
Red Cross. In 1941 46 groups were
attached to the parent body. When new
appeals were launched with the consent
of the Lord Mayor the workers aided
these as well. Numbers decreased as
younger members of the various auxili-
aries were called up for work in the ser-
vices, but in 1944 they increased again
until there were 53 groups under the
banner of the Town Hall authorities.
The present Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Ber-
nard Heinze, is the fourth President of the
Lady Mayoress’s Entertainment Com-
mittee. The first was Mrs. A. W. Coles,
second the Beaurepaire lady, third Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell. Mrs. Wallace Mit-
chell’s Younger Set has been particularly
active. This energetic woman, with the
help of her girls, brought in a total of
over £14,000 in three years. Over a cup
of lea the guests chatted and congratu-
lated each other on a job well done. The
Lady Mayoress had a word of appreci-
ation for the fine work done by the
Angliss lady, who has been the hon. sec.
since the committee was formed.
When a large gathering of representa-
tive citjzens met recently at the Lord
Mayor’s request, they were greeted with
the news that Ernest Connibere, a busi-
nessman well known in this city, had sent
along a cheque for £lO,OOO towards the
objective for which were meeting,
which was to raise funds for the Food
for Britain appeal and to launch a Queen
Carnival. First prize will be an air
trip around Australia, a 100-guineas
diamond watch and a wardrobe. Six
other queens will be given gold watches,
and other prizes are to be given by
the Lord Mayor. Among those who
attended the meeting and were later voted
to the committee were Mrs. Marchant
Penfold, cool and attractive in a white
crepe frock, with white accessories;
Reita Findlay, whose grey tricorne hat
was trimmed with veiling and worn with
a smart grey coat; Thelma Naunton, in
black crepe and silver fox cape; and
Mrs. David Ely, in a blue-and-white pat-
terned crepe jacket suit and worn with a
wide navy blue hat. Mrs. Beatrice Camp-
bell was also present with her daughter
Margaret.
A wedding of last week was that of
Judith, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Rolfe Spain, Evans Court, Toorak, to
Lieut. Deon Scott Lang, A.I.F. (ret.). Hie
Rev. H. M. Arrowsmith tied the knot
at St. John’s, Toorak, and Judy was given
away by her father. She wore an old-
world gown of ivory French satin, its
long, tight-fitting sleeves allied to a fitted
bodice, pointed at the waistline. The
bouffant skirt extended at the back to
form a brief train. The misty tulle vei'
was lent by Mrs. W. Seymour, which
was held in place with stephanotis, and
she carried a mid-Victorian posy of the
same flowers. The bride was unattended.
The bridegroom, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. G. Scott Lang, St. James-place,
Toorak, had Lieut. Tony Miller, A.I.F.
(ret.), as best man. The reception was
held at the home of the bride’s parents.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
State Types
Differences of climate and political
history have already begun to produce
distinct State types. Any observant
soldier was able to guess the States of
origin of his mates after being in their
company a short time. Queenslanders
and Westralians are the most alike and,
in my (perhaps biased) opinion, the most
friendly and open-hearted. Units pre-
dominantly from these States welcomed
reinforcements as a hospitable host would
welcome his guests, with such small
courtesies as putting on the brew and
helping them rig up a bunk.
The Victorians, good enough fellows
when you get to know them, are the
most standoffish. In my experience, a
reo to a Victorian unit wandered round
like an ownerless dog for months until
the old hands gradually thawed to him.
Most Victorians had a fanatical pride
in their State and a corresponding con-
tempt for those “lesser breeds without
the law.” I have heard a lad from a
Footscray slum tenement speak with con-
tempt of a “hillbilly” who owned his
20,000 acres in western Queensland.
What’s more, he did genuinely pity him.
You couldn’t miss picking the New
South Welshman. Most of the swi kings,
the s.-p. bookies and the big gamblers
in my unit were from the Ma State. If
there was a good “lurk” going, ten to
one a Sydneysider had thought of it be-
fore you. Their supposed affection for
Our ’Arbor and Our Bridge is much
exaggerated. I have myself lived with
Sydneyites who never referred to these
subjects more than a couple of times
iri the hour.
S.A. and South Australians had a great
reputation among the troops for hospi-
tality. Even Melbourne men would
admit that Adelaide was “a good little
town.”
The Tasmanians were always so much
in the minority that they just had to be
quiet and unassuming so far as their
State was concerned.
I have met a few DX’s, too ; all mighty
performers when the pig’s ear was flow-
ing. Having sampled the N.T. climate,
I am not surprised at that. — Junius Jr.
(A.1.F.).
Tjhe Sandakan Diggers
Why has the press given so little pub-
licity to the ill-treatment of Australian
prisoners-of-war? Is it sheer indifference,
or does it spring from a desire not to
harrow the feelings of bereaved rela-
tives?
Nobody seems to know who is re-
sponsible for the secrecy. Some blame
the military, others the Department of
Information. That a hush-hush policy
exists is all too evident.
Two thousand Australians, every one
of whom enlisted as a volunteer, died
while prisoners-of-war on the track be-
tween Sandakan and Renau, North
Borneo, about 168 miles. Their fellow-
Australians know practically nothing of
how they died.
Only six Australians are believed to
have survived that terrible march, but
there must be many Japs now in p.-0.-w.
compounds who might be induced to talk.
The story of the greatest tragedy in
Australian military history remains to be
written. Who will undertake the
task? — Lest We Forget (Vic.).
Give Communism a Trial!
Many of our industries today are
plagued by Communists, whose gospel is
that the workers should own and run
everything. Why not give them a chance
to produce a working model of their
scheme in action?
Hand over a good coalmine to the
Miners’ Federation on the understanding
that a certain percentage of its profits is to
go to a sinking fund to pay off the pur-
chase price. Don’t listen to any cry
about the bosses preventing such a ven-
ture from paying its way ; other unionists
will see to it that coal from the Com-
munist mine has a ready sale —and no-
body can say that we can’t use every ton
of coal that is produced.
The same applies to shipping. Hand a
modern steamer over to the Seamen’s
Union on the same terms. Other unions
could see that she always carried full
cargoes and had speedy loading and un-
loading at ports. And why not let the
Ironworkers’ Union run a factory?
Thornton will tell them how the Russians
do it.
If the Communists can show us that
they can run one mine, one ship or one
factory in a proper and efficient manner,
with freedom from strikes and stoppages
and with the best wages and conditions,
they will have done something to support
their claim that they are fit and proper
persons to be entrusted with the manage-
ment of industry and Government.
But if they make a howling mess of
the show at a time when coal, shipping
and manufactured goods are all in short
supply, it will prove that they aren’t fit
for anything save to act as wreckers, as
they are doing.— lvan Golubchick (S.A.).
Better Australian Houses
“M.T.R.” (B. 23/1 /’46) asks; “Why
not two-storey houses?” They would be
much more suited to the climate than
the one-storey bungalow house which was
borrowed from the U.S. and has spread
like measles over Australian suburbs. Un-
fortunately two-storeys are expensive. The
English peasant-farmer evolved a better
method purely to give himself space
cheaply. Instead of increasing the height
of his walls he lengthened his rafters and
thus gave himself room for attics.
Australian architects imagine that the
high-pitched roof was intended to throw
snow off. It wasn’t; I have seen as
many low-pitched roofs in Siberia as I
have in Australia. The motive was
cheapness, and the English farmer acci-
“I like Ibsen and Shaw, but I cant STAND Joyce."
“Me, neither. Vm glad they strung him up”
dentally developed a design admirably
suited to the Australian climate. The attic-
room cools down quickly and is admir-
ably adapted to be a summer bedroom.
In the daytime it keeps the rooms beneath
it cool because it provides the maximum
amount of circulation of air, being much
more effective than any modern air-con-
ditioning system.
Building regulations should be altered to
allow of low ceilings combined with high-
pitched roofs and roomy attics. Then
residential districts would lose the dread-
ful monotony commented on by D. H.
Lawrence in his Australian novel Kan-
garoo. ■
I live in a house of the type recom-
mended and can vouch for its superiority
over the houses built after the pattern
consistently favored by Australian hous-
ing authorities. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
Wool Plans and Profits
At the end of last June the
British Government owned 3,315,000,000
pounds of accumulated wool, of which
2,060,000,000 pounds was Australian-
grown, valued at £100,000,000. Subse-
quent to the purchase agreement made
with the U.K. Government in 1939 wool-
growers were informed by Canberra
Ministers Dr. Page and Sen. McLeay
that they were to receive half the profits
on unprocessed wool sold to foreign
buyers. These profits amounted to
£20,000,000 at the end of June, 1945.
Under the new agreement the Aus-
tralian Government is to buy a half-share
in the accumulated Australian - grown
wool, and to make payment easier the
£2O million profits were used to write
down the value from £lOO million to £BO
million. Greasy wool doesn’t depreciate..
The new wool plan provides that the
two Governments are to share the profits
or losses. Unless J.O. officials are
muddlers losses are unlikely to eventu-
ate ; the writing down of stocks on hand
by 20 per cent., the eagerness of an ill-
clad world to get woollen clothing and
the inflationary trend in prices should
result in the stock-pile wool being readily
disposed of at healthy profits. Dr. Edgar
Booth, chairman of the Imperial Wool
Secretariat, says that if properly handled
surplus wool stocks could be absorbed
within five years, demand would exceed
production. Although America has been
well supplied with wool during the war a
recent Boston report says “Wool im-
porters are still deluged with inquiries
for foreign stocks.” American mills
have found Australian wools more
economical and easier to work than the
homegrown product.
The Australian Woolgrowers’ Council
and the Australian Wool Producers’
Federation should note that there is no-
thing in the new agreement nor has any
official announcement been made that
growers are to get half the profits. Wool-
growers are showing concern at the
official silence about the promised profits
of six years ago, and the onus is on the
two organisations to seek an agreement
with the Government that such profits
will eventually be distributed among the
producers of the wool. —K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Scientific Secrecy
A lot of bother might have been saved
and very little good left undone if the
idea of keeping processes connected with
atomic bombmaking a secret had never
been thought of.
Secrecy in scientific discoveries has
never been a success —and not for want
of a trial. During the war the pooling
of certain commercial information used
in industry brought forth the news that
different firms had been jealously guard-
ing the same secret.
In recent years scientific men have be-
come more and more internationalised.
Most prominent workers have spent time
in many universities scattered over
Europe, America and elsewhere. Co-
workers of all nations have become per-
sonally acquainted. They have almost
established a scientific State unrelated to
geographical or political boundaries.
Consequently investigators of all
nations are sufficiently grounded in prin-
ciples to make it a useless business to try
to withhold from anyone in particular
any speck of knowledge involving a
development based on known processes.
The atomic bomb is such a develop-
ment, and any capable physicist skilled
in the rooting out of such things would
not be likely to have much bother making
a rediscovery or maybe replacing it with
a better one. Besides, scientific dis-
coveries have a habit of repeating them-
selves in different places at about the
same time. This could make things un-
comfortable for the advocates of secrecy.
—Metax (Tas.).
Seniority and Socialism
“J.B. ? s” comments on Socialism and
Freedom (B. 16/1/’46) touched a tender
spot. When I enlisted in the service I
was veering to the Left. Four years in
the R.A.A.F. have corrected any such
tendency.
It . was not fire-eating drill in-
structors or commando courses which
arrested the rot; the men in charge of
this part of my training were gripped with
the importance of their job and were
determined to see that the men were ready
for whatever was demanded of them. I
encountered deadly inertia farther along
the road. “Careerists,” knowing neither
responsibility nor initiative, damped down
any patriotic fervor, brought all of the
same rank to the same dead level. These
men relied upon seniority and enslave-
ment to *flers, rather than upon ability
and real worth, in getting on with the
job. How many times have I seen good
men driven to exasperation by such con-
ditions !
Looking back now I do not blame those
who were thrust into temporary authority.
It was the fault of the system which put
mediocre men in control. This is no re-
flection upon all the real leaders of men
who won their way to promotion by their
own efforts and worth ; it is criticism of
a system which allowed so many mediocre
men to wield authority achieved only by
seniority.
Just one little sidelight. When tall
canegrass had to be burnt off around tents
for safety, just to make sure it would
burn a bottle or two of kerosene would
be splashed liberally around—kerosene
which cost anything up to a shilling a
bottle to land in remote areas. I’ve seen
men of varying ranks do this. If the
same men had to burn off grass in their
own backyards an old newspaper would
suffice. A small thing, maybe, but in-
dicative of the waste which went on.
If “the Army (or R.A.A.F.) is an ex-
ample of socialistic control and organisa-
tion,” as “J. 8.” states, then here is one
man who is forever sworn against
socialism.— The Tatler (R.AA.F.).
Bourke to Cunnamulla
It was generally accepted that, in any
scheme for standardising of gauges, a
link would be built between existing main
lines to join the pastoral areas of Cunna-
mulla and Bourke, to bridge the gap of
160 miles between the railway systems of
N.S.W. and Queensland.
The country along that route presents
no engineering difficulties whatever apart
from a bridge over the Darling ; it is
level nearly the whole way.
The reason why this gap has remained
unbridged for half a century is the fear
that Queensland fat stock would go to
Sydney instead of Brisbane.
In the case of store stock the gap has
cost Australia many millions of sheep
and cattle. There have been very few
droughts that covered the whole of
N.S.W. and Queensland, but all too often
that 160-miles gap is drought-stricken.
The trucks at Cunnamulla disgorge their
hungry freight, which must be fed. Turin,
Barringun, Angonia, Grasstree to Bourke
—more sheep have died on that stock-
route than it would take steps to walk
the distance.
The cost of constructing this section
of railway would be a small fraction of
the whole amount proposed to be spent;
the survey was completed many years
ago.— Hadley Propsting (Q.).
Service and Citizenship
“A.C.” (B. 23/1/’46) says hundreds of
soldiers came through, World War II
better citizens in mind and body. He may
be right about the hundreds, but I affirm
that thousands of minds, if not bodies,
deteriorated badly during training and
combat periods.
Six years of service have shown me that
generally the recruit is attracted to the
most popular personalities. These, in-
variably, are the biggest braggarts, the
most inveterate gamblers, the loud-
mouthed rebels against authority and the
fellows with the biggest stock of smutty
stories.
Those who hold themselves apart are
regarded as “pansies” or as being queer,
and often loneliness edges them into the
circle. Those who are decent and intend
to remain that way are left out in the
cold. The behavior of drunken louts,
the filthy language, the obsession for
gambling, the boastings about amorous
adventures —all so insidiously encouraged
by a certain type of newspaper—are the
main features of any Service barrack
anywhere.
After such training a great many
servicemen won’t be interested in anything
but grog, girls, gambling and growling.
— McGlum (A.1.F.).
Commonwealth Loan Policy
It is evident that two Commonwealth
loans a year will be raised for a long
time to come. For some years borrow-
ing will be on a large scale; then it should
drop, but still continue above pre-war
figures.
To avert extensions of closing day (two
last time) and to revive interest among
the class most interested in investing I
have some suggestions to make:
(1) Increase the number of war-savings
certificates that may be held by one person
from 250 to 500.
(2) Inaugurate a campaign for the reinvest-
ment of w.s.c. falling due for repayment.
(3) Accept subscriptions on a 10 p.c. instal-
ment basis. I am aware that ss. stamps can be
bought but many people would sooner pay £1
a month for 10 months than buy stamps. One
can please himself about stamps, but the de-
posit creates an obligation to go through with
the larger transaction.
—Accountant (Vic.).


- > *>) Sf>> ;>
,'' ' '
'' - Jm v/*
(i v ' ISi
iliililii
Fun* Australian
Virgin Wool
■ • , ■
. i iiiii
Fun* Australian
Virgin Wool
» ■
■ / ' V\i: : :k
mi
i'WU.
le-
a
•' • A** **■ * *<> J*>' y$ v ...
> ••> ■>■>*'*. ■>'■*.* ■*■*■*,<> *<• y <C -;. .;
* *:** *.<* #*jj> .•>*-? <• x x
• y V' **x * x ?s■£
■■PL - ' ***»■
' ;a*ustnzntv?sii ; k ; -'
/. f ************ .
-i::;:t:xi*:9Sttsifr : . -Mi
!x:ntst:tsfor 4
2i^K-
>*' Vx
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
BMPMf
i
Sf:>: ;: : :: -: : v
MR
HI
■■ s 5 v &•'■■' gSgSS & ' \'x v VL
_ _ „ ■HmIIIIpM' NBhlh 1 1
■ ■ ■ ' ...
■ ' \
-v-
I
THE
o
i
I _
I >
V
; , f
Slillli
iliil
FROM
MANUFACTURES
VIRGIN WOOL
:s:SSi®sSS®S¥;3s«®j
M
I W
