

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3472
Wednesday, August 28, 1946
Price 6cL
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Grosvenor House.
JN Queen Victoria’s day no dwelling-house in London had so
fine an entrance as Grosvenor House, then the Duke of West-
minster’s town residence, which lay back from the south side of
Upper Grosvenor Street, The house itself was built for the Duke
of Gloucester, son of George II; but the entrance, as well as the
western wing, both designed by T. Cundy, are of much later date,
the latter completed in 1842. It consisted of an open stone screen
of classic pillars, connecting the arches for entrance t© and exit
from the house, the whole elaborately decorated with armorial
bearings and other carvings. The gates are fine examples of metal
work. In the western wing was hung an almost priceless collection
of pictures, including works by Rembrandt and Rubens and other
Dutch, British and Italian painters. During World War I
Grosvenor House was the headquarters of the food ministry, and
in 1924 the house was bought by Viscount Leverhulme.


at HOME
Leant <
M
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Uy Name
tty Address
B*B> «« AM,
The Red Page
ART AND IMMORTALITY.
C, S. Lewis’s speculations in The Great
Divorce (Centenary Press; Moore’s
Bookshop) as to what might happen to
the individual after death are in striking
contrast to the ideas recently expounded
by Aldous Huxley, who seems to have
adopted a typically Oriental philosophy
in which nirvana—nothingness—is helc
to be the most desirable fate for a well-
behaved citizen.
The souls of the good became, in Hux-
ley’s Time Must Have a Stop, pinpoints
of practically nothing in a stream of light
—a very disconcerting proposition to
most mortals; who, if they should be
given any choice in the matter, would
probably prefer to remain themselves in
eternity—in, no doubt, a new and re-
vised edition. Which, C. S. Lewis sug-
gests, is more likely to be the case:
Even on the biological level life is not
like a river but like a tree. It does not move
towards unity but away from it, and the
creatures grow further apart as they in-
crease in perfection.
The Great Divorce —not to be com-
pared as a work of art with Mr. Lewis’s
novels such as That Hideous Strength—
is a brief “fantasy” in which the author
travels by ’bus (through the air) from a
twilight region of “hell” to a place of
flowers and streams and birds —the out-
skirts, so to speak, of his paradise—*•
where the ghosts from “the grey town”
are given the choice of going on to the
distant and delectable mountains or of
returning whence they came. Each
ghostly tourist is met by some friend or
relative —now a transfigured Spirit—who
explains the situation to him, and, if he
is willing, helps him on his way. Such
mild narrative and dramatic interest as
the book has —it is chiefly interesting for
its thought—comes from these meetings
and from the struggles of the ghosts as,
one way or another, they make their
choice. Mr. Lewis says that Blake wrote
about the “marriage” of heaven and hell,
but that he is more concerned with their
“divorce”: sooner or later, he believes,
the soul is called upon to make a final
decision between good and evil. “I do
not think that all those who choose
wrong roads perish; but their rescue
consists in being put back on the right
road.”
By a very plausible paradox—which, he
says, he picked up from an American
magazine of “Scientifiction”—Mr. Lewis
makes his paradisal landscape, instead of
being vague and shadowy, a world of
striking, even dangerous, solidity. The
human beings, or what is left of them,
are ghosts—mere “man-shaped stains on
the brightness of the air”—so that the
rocks and trees, by contrast, are infinitely
more solid than on earth.
I noticed that the grass did not trend
under their feet: even the dewdrops were
hot disturbed... .Moved by a sudden
thought, I bent down and tried to pluck
a daisy which was growing at my feet.
The stalk wouldn’t break. The little flower
was hard, not like wood or even like iron,
but like diamond.
All of which, declares the author, who
writes from a Christian standpoint, is
“solely an imaginative supposal, not even
a guess or a speculation at what may
actually await us. The last thing I wish
to arouse is factual curiosity about the
details of the after-world.”
The present commentator finds Mr.
Lewis disappointing in his understanding
of the arts. Not because he suggests that
no immediate meetings with, say, Homer
or Euripides or Shakspeare will be pos-
sible —it is a relief to imagine that, in
this after-world of continual effort, the
great men of history and of letters have
“moved on” in time and space out of
reach of the impertinences of tourists.
Nor, again, because Mr. Lewis believes
that the artist must outgrow personal
vanity about his achievements. Where he
falls short is in his perception of the im-
mortal nature of the thing created.
“When you painted on earth, at least
in your earlier days,” says the transfigured
Spirit of an artist to the troubled ghost
of a colleague, “it was because you
caught glimpses of Heaven in the earthly
landscape. The success of your painting
was that it enabled others to see the
glimpses, too.”
That is well enough as far as it goes,
but when Mr. Lewis, continuing, appears
to suggest that works of art, as mere
trifles of earth, must be “left behind” he
is dismissing altogether too lightly, as is
the way of philosophers, the mystery of
artistic creation. That mystery the pre-
sent writer does not profess to under-
stand. But what is certain is that a work
of art has, in a way that everyone can
feel, a life of its'own.
And that life is something that our
feeble senses can only dimly apprehend.
In a lyric of, say, W. H. Davies or Hugh
McCrae, there is a song of joy such as
has never been heard on earth: not even
in the highest melodies of Beethoven. The
“total effect” of such a drama as “Mac-
beth” is more, infinitely more, than any
reading or performance can convey: as
if, while reading or watching it, we hear
faintly from the distance the profound
and mighty symphony that is its true
reality. And when one considers such a
feat of the imagination as that beautiful
play “The Tempest” it seems not merely
that, as Mr. Lewis suggests, it is a
“glimpse” of supernatural beauty, but
that it adds to the glory of the universe.
As, for that matter, may the birth of a
child. Mr. Lewis should have borrowed
from the scientists the notion of an ex-
panding heaven.
Norman Lindsay’s theory as to the
ultimate fate of a work of art, expounded
in Creative Effort and elsewhere, is that
it has a twofold immortality. It becomes
part of “the content of the human mind”;
and it is “translated to another degree of
space” where, one might say, it is magni-
fied or where its full significance and
beauty may be apprehended: a theory
very consoling when one is tempted to
regret the “lost” masterpieces of an-
tiquity. Shelley, when he spoke of the
poet creating “forms more real than
living man,” was probably playing with
the same idea.
And, indeed, Mr. Lewis should con-
cur. “Nothing,” he says, “will not be
raised again if it submits to death. It is
sown a natural body, it is raised a
spiritual body.” When he is prepared to
admit even animals to this kind of trans-
figuration it seems singularly unimagina-
tive to deny some kind of “spiritual
body” to great works of art.
A Visitor to the Goldfields.
Lord Robert Cecil’s Gold Fields Diary
(Melbourne University Press) is the
second edition of a pamphlet-sized book
first published in 1935. It has an intro-
duction and notes by Ernest Scott,
late professor of history at Melbourne
University, explaining, for instance, such
abstruse matters as the cry of “Who stole
the donkey?” with which his Lordship
was greeted on two occasions as he
strolled about the goldfields of Victoria:
At the time when white top-hats were
commonly worn, it was believed that they
were made from fhe skins of donkeys, and
that donkeys were frequently stolen because
the thieves could get good prices for the
skins. Consequently, when rude boys saw
a white top-hat they would call “Who stole
the donkey?”
These somewhat over-democratic greet-
ings, which he received with evident
amusement, were the only acts of violence
that, contrary to his expectations, in any
way troubled the visitor. He had been
told that he would meet insult, robbery,
riot and, very likely, murder; but he
found:—
The most interesting point of view in
which the diggings appeared was fhe marked
contrast they presented to California. The
rush of population was nearly if not quite
as great; the temptations to come were as
powerful; the country in which the gold
lay was as wild and desolate; but fhe
Government was of the Queen, not of the
mob....and therefore instead of murders,
rapes and robberies daily, Lynch law and
a Committee of Vigilance, there was less
crime than in a large English town and
more order and civility than I have myself
witnessed in my own native village of
Hatfield.
Observations of this sort make the
booklet, slight though it is, valuable as
a counter to the common exaggerated
pictures of the violence of the early gold-
fields. And, too, it is noticeable that the
visitor found the goldseekers, on the
whole, prosperous as well as contented.
“It’s a wonderful country this for the
poor man,” a friend of Lord Cecil’s, Sir
Montagu Chapman, was told by some of
his former tenants from Ireland. Sir
Montagu asked how another of his
former tenants, also working on the
fields, had been getting on, and was told
“Oh, sir, not very well. I believe he has
got about £500.” And Lord Cecil
records:
At Specimen Gully we found the diggers
sitting very comfortably in a shady bower,
leisurely smashing the quartz out of which
they extracted the gold. One of them told
, me that “It was not very profitable work —
a man could get only an ounce a day,”
equalling £l6 a week.
Doubtless .Lord Cecil’s visit was too
brief for him to learn the whole story;
but this is an authentic and first-hand de-
scription of the goldfields and certainly
convincing enough to demonstrate that
the life of the diggers wasn’t all poverty,
lawlessness and insurrection as it is nor-
mally described in fiction. The booklet is
given additional interest by the reproduc-
tion of 20 drawings of the period by
S. T. Gill.
The Eternal Australia.
Reviewers are a contrary tribe. During
the war years there were many books
published which attempted to analyse or
present the spirit of Australia and the
complaint made here against most of
them was that they dealt too much in
familiar history—convicts, Bligh, the
discovery of gold, the pioneering of the
wool industry, and so on. And now that
A. A. Phillips offers An Australian
Muster (Melbourne University Press) the
only reasonable criticism to be made is
that history is absent.
Not that one would want the whole
story over again—Mr. Phillips has merci-
fully withheld from his readers the infor-
mation that Captain Cook has been
sighted off the coast. But something,
written in the period, about the beginnings
of white settlement, or the early gold-
rushes, or the bushrangers—a very un-
kind omission—would have been more
satisfactory than the very brief refer-
ence to “convicts and soldiers” in the
extract from Paul McGuire’s Australian
Journey. Probably M. Barnard Elder-
shaw’s My Australia would have supplied
a sketch of Sydney with a stronger feel-
ing for its historical tradition. As for
the goldfields, there would have been
very interesting fossicking in Bowyangs
and Boomerangs, an unpretentious little
book published in Tasmania a year or so
ago.
However, Mr. Phillips certainly makes
a fresh and remarkably successful
approach to the problem of stating, with-
in a short book, what an Australian
understands by the word “Australia.”
The book is an anthology of prose
sketches, embodying selections from Jack
McLaren, Frank Dalby Davison, Lance
Skuthorpe, Francis Ratcliffe, Bernard
O’Reilly, Henry Lawson, Tom Collins,
McGuire, Daisy Bates and Gavin Casey.
Of course one could make just as signifi-
cant an anthology from a different set of
writers —including, say, Dyson, Steele
Rudd, Eve Langley and some of the
naturalists—but that point doesn’t arise.
Mr. Phillips’s authors do all that he re-
quires of them ; which is to
reflect the one great tradition that our
young country has had time to develop—
the tradition of the “Dinkum Aussie,” the
standard of character that we have set up
as our national ideal. It is a tradition
with obvious faults and limitations, for if is
a flexible and living reality, not a standard-
ised abstraction. The miraculous profanity
of the “Champion Bullock-driver”—and
the comic mendacity of his - creator —belong
to it no less than the heroism of the Beer-
sheba horsemen. It includes the drunken,
brawling shearer of “That There Dog o’
Mine” as well as the cheerful endurance of
Mrs. Morley of “The Desert Mail.” It is
a tradition of great variety; but every Aus-
tralian understands it, and accepts it with
pride.
Mr. Phillips doesn’t say so, but it is
to be suspected that he thinks Jack Mc-
Laren’s aboriginals have contributed
something to the national character; for
the selection from My Crowded Solitude
is placed first in the anthology, and the
abos. are very, very Australian:
The others.... informed me they would
» be willing to accept the things I spoke of
in return for a little work; and with that
they wandered away and returned with a
number of others, who addressed me in
similar terms, though quite without eager-
ness or delight, but almost as though they
were merely obliging me, as though they
didn’t like to see me stranded, so to speak.
This appearance of indifference, however,
was but the expression of the philosophy
of the nomad. As befitted members of
the most casual race of people in the
world, casualness was one of their out-
standing characteristics.
Quite apart from its special purpose of
extracting from Australian writing the
essence of Australia, the book is worth
reading for the pleasure of renewing old
or making new literary acquaintances..
McLaren, for instance, reads as charm-
ingly as Herman Melville, and has a rich
irony all his own. Lance Skuthorpe, an
old-time Bulletin contributor, whose
story is a typical far-fetched yarn of the
bush, remains delightfully humorous;
and, like other stories of his period, his
work seems already to have the quality
of folk-lore. The extract from Frank
Davison’s The Wells of Beersheba would
well bear comparison with Masefield’s
Gallipoli. The account of the discovery
of the lost Stinson airliner from Bernard
O’Reilly’s Green Mountains has lost none
of its drama. And Gavin Casey’s Talk-
ing Ground really does go underground
—in man as well as in the earth.
Discussing the fact that nearly all the
sketches deal with the Outback, Mr.
Phillips says:
Can the Australian tradition of character
continue to live in the restricted and safe
conditions of our modern town life?
I believe that it can. The pioneer has
bequeathed us not only a continent, tamed
for us to live in, but a Legend, established
*°T. us to live by. The standard of the
Dmkum Aussie”—the Australian Legend
belongs to all of us; it insensibly anects
our actions and our outlook, however
uujuteu „ °V r town-living opportunities.
After all, there were Australian townsmen
aplenty at Gallipoli, at Tobruk, at Kokoda
Many of them died; and the Australian
legend lived and grew through their fidelitv
to its spirit. It will grow and change
further as our national life expands; it
will, I hope, lose some of its sillier, noisier
and narrower characteristics; but the Aus-
tralian legend is firmly and permanently
based on the standards set for us by the
pioneers of the Outback.
To which admirable sentiments one
might add that the continent itself still
does its share to keep the Australian
Legend essentially unaltered. For, by
comparison with the closely-settled lands
of Europe, as the extract from Green
Mountains emphasises, it is still very
far from tamed, and will be wild for a
very long while to come. . And even the
city-dweller still lives in intimate contact
with the bush and the sea. There are few
Australians so urbanised as to be afraid
to boil the billy.
Various Verse
Winter Morning.
Roll up, roll up, the circus is in town,
And frosty tents are pitched in every field.
What artists, lad, you say ? Daredevil
Vent .de L’Quest, conjured out of space
Will leap through the poplar flames and
tear aside
Their lowing tatters; whirl to the bead
and there
Commanu me finest ballet of white horses
You’ll see for many a day. What animals
You ask? The cages of the mornins
trams
Are filled with creatures half woman, kj
rabbit or fox.
And human leopards swing upon tk
straps.
Roll up, I say, it is the wildest show on
earth.
And staging here for a restricted season.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.
Watch Tower.
Night breathes around,
Close as furred hands;
Thought draws me forth
From sleep’s white bands.
Thought spins in pin-point light —•
The thief of time —
With colors chiming through window
words,
And a lost rhyme.
Sudden as shaken bells
A blackbird calls, then two.
And into my dancing mind
Bright day breaks through.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
The Dancing Ships.
Night draws his convoys in. Converging
dark
Shadows the pallid mirror of the sea.
Now in the heart the light, the dancini
ships
Point urgent prows across the flood oj
time ;
Swing from the harbors of a lamfo
hour.
The murmured voices and the moving
dusk,
The lip and wash of water at the pier,
And stars like lanterns flickering watt
to wave.
Point urgent prows... The plunge
whip of spray.
Those storms in time. Recall, my Marine
How once we nearly drowned; that on
great wave
Sucked us to Hell almost, yet from W-
depths
I was spewed forth who live to tell tk
tale,
And still would set my sail that vs}
again
To tumble on the plunging crest of tnt
wave
And lose my self. And find my self one
more.
I’d ride, my Mariner, as I do now
A while at anchorage. But ships withft
Point urgent prows... The mornmi
wakes, the waves
Glitter and toss. Without the Heati
there lie
Unvisited seas, those wind-delightt
wastes.
The Mare Incognitum of my life,
And all’s to see and know that's } ‘
unknown.
N.S.W.
ROSEMERY DOBSON.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
Julius
raciiona
i Hin g,s
Oil)
m
BRISTOL
Swing to style in this new and different toe. Being a
“Marlow/* with so many fittings, foot comfort is
assured. In soft, pliable Black Box or Tan Willow Calf.
WARWICK (Below)
Neat and dressy is the “Warwick” Shoe, specially
designed for the man who prefers the toe a little
“squarer”. In soft Black Box and Tan Willow Calf.
k
o MEN’S SHOES —GROUND FLOOR,
GEORGE STREET.
COUNTRY CLIENTS
To our COUNTRY CLIENTS we bring this
message. Future service is guaranteed if you will
have your feet accurately measured by a trained
fitter. These shoes are obtained in fractional sizes
and we would suggest that when next in town
your obtain your correct fitting. Your measure-
ment will then be filed in our Footwear Register,
thus enabling you to order by mail at any future
date. We cannot stress too deeply the value of
this service which exists for your benefit and
would strongly advise a visit so that you may
secure a correct fit in Julius Marlow Footwear.
ALL ONE
PRICE
379
SAXON
So you suffer discomfort because of your
short and broad foot! There’s no need to —
not while the Saxon Shoe is available to give
you that little extra in the width. You’ll revel
in the luxurious comfort of this* superior shoe.
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9
“The Senior Store”
TELEPHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


nrm
<K
> “V s.A
tutu S-tASMAN lie
I
Id* 11
f light?
In only five and a half years
after the inaugural flight, Tasman Airways flying-
boats have made 1,100 crossings and flown a million
and a half miles. Convincing proof, if proof were
needed, of the popularity of a service which will
continue to offer greater speed, increased comfort,
extra saving of time!
Reservations for passengers and freight can
ep be made through any office or agent of
Q ANT AS . EMPIRE AIRWAYS,
principal agents in Australia for
TASMAN EMPIRE
ms*
m
Q
%rewW
\sm<
m v
mm-: mmmm
SfSfS&SS
■■■»■
m
< '
SSiSS
p¥; ; ■■• '-;■ . >:?:¥!$
mmmm
mm
* v ‘ :
\ • • " S-im.S:' |
»s
:W;S
: : $s
v.v-; -’
yy.:^>>y.X&'£:
m
?
;. •■•■■■■
WSmmMmi
jm
w
fm*
ƒ
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG Products
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy novels by Louis Becke.—3792.
To buy Fair Girls and Grey Horses, by W.
Ogilvie, The Man from Snowy River, by A. B.
Paterson, and The Sentimental Bloke, by C. J.
Dennis.—3793.
To buy Frank dune’s Try Anything Once,
Tobruk to Turkey and Roaming Round the
Darling. —3794.
To buy Nine Miles from Gundagai, by Jack
Moses.—379s.
To b*uy Shades of the Prison House, by
Stuart W00d.—3790.
To buy Democracy versus Socialism, by Max
Hirsch.—379l.
Information Sought.
What were the voting returns in the last
Federal elections?
A.L.P. 2,041,033, Other Labor 133,283, Com-
munist 31,816, Independent 297,421, U.A.P.,
U.C.P., Lib. Dem., C.N.0., L.C.L., Nat.,
N.C.P. 1,359,127, Other Non-Labor 209,811. A
total of 4,245,369 votds were cast, of which
122,878 were informal. The total number of
electors enrolled was 4,467,562.
Why is it that the rising sun is a lot larger
than at noon, and the rising full moon than at
midnight ?
It isn’t really so. The large size of the
sun and moon at rising and setting is an optical
illusion, probably brought about by the fact
that in their positions then on the horizon
their size is compared to terrestrial objects.
If the full moon is looked at through a tube
in order to cut out surrounding objects it will
seem to be of normal size.
(1) Is it possible to catch crayfish on the
N.S.W. coast? (2) Should traps be set near
the shore or out in deep water? (3) Do cray-
fish travel away from our shores in the summer
season ? If not, what happens to them ?
Cl) Crayfish are prevalent on the whole of the
N.S.W. coast, as far north as the Clarence
River, from August until the following March.
(2) Generally only a small run are caught close
to the shore, a larger run being caught in the
deeper water. (3) It is only during the period
specified that crayfish are present on the coast;
where they migrate during the intervening
months (April to July) is not known.
/ 5 Australia subject to severe windstorms’
What areas are the most troubled?
During the winter the southern shores are
subject to cyclonic storms. North-east Queens-
land is occasionally visited by hurricanes from
the north-east during the first four months
of the year. Cyclones, locally known as “willy-
willies,” are peculiar to the north-west coast of
W.A. from November to April inclusive.
What is the story of the “Black Hole of Cal-
cutta” ?
In 1756 Suraj-ud-Dowlah, the 19-year-old
Nawab* of Bengal, marched upon Calcutta with
a large army. The Europeans, under John
Zephaniah Holwell, were compelled to sur-
render. To the number of 146 they were forced
into the guard-room of Fort William, a chamber
measuring only 18ft. by 14ft. 10in., with but two
small barred windows, where they were left
for the night. It was June 20; the heat was in-
tense; and next morning only 23 were taken
out' alive, among them Holwell, who wrote an
account of the awful sufferings endured.
Origin and source of ambergris? How much
do pieces generally weigh when found?
It is occasionally found in the intestine of
the spermaceti whale. If ejected soon after it
forms, it is soft and black; if it remains and
accumulates it causes death. The carcass is
gradually broken up, eaten by fish, etc., and the
compact brown or grey material, which is much
harder than the black variety, floats to the sur-
face of the ocean and may be washed ashore.
It is this variety which has been found in pieces
weighing up to 2001 b. In the majority of cases,
however, the pieces vary from a fraction of an
ounce to a few pounds.
(1) Names of the Australian XI to England in
1938 ? (2) Result of matches? (3) Did all
players bowl as well as bat on the tour?
(1) Bradman, Brown, Hassett, Barnes, Bad-
cock, Fingleton, McCabe, Barnett, Chipperfield,
Waite, Walker, White, Ward, O’Reilly, Fleet-
wood-Smith, McCormick. (2) Played 36; won
20, lost 2, drew 13, abandoned 1. (3) All
except Barnett bowled.
When and where did Clem Hill, Bradman,
Hammond and Larwood first play Test cricket,
and their ages at the time ?
Hill (19) at Lord’s, June 22, 1896; Bradman
(20) at Brisbane, Nov. 30, 1928; Hammond (25)
at Brisbane, Nov. 30, 1928; Larwood (21) at
Lord’s, June 26, 1926.
Who were the Australian Rugby Union cap-
tains and their field positions in the Wallabies
(1908-09), Waratahs (1927-28) and teams to
Maoriland ?
Wallabies, H. Moran (forward); Waratahs,
A. C. Wallace (centre). Australian teams to
M.L.: 1905, S. Wickham (three-quarter); 1913,
E. Fahey (forward) in two matches and L.
Dwyer (full-back) in one match; 1931, S. Mal-
colm (half-back); 1936, R. Walden (forward).
Brief Answers.
L.R.: Anna Pavlova died at 46, Nellie Stewart
at 70 L.CJC: Cannot trace her address.
R.R.J.; (1) It is impossible to advise on
the number of sluice gates necessary without
a thorough knowledge of local conditions. It
would appear that gates are required and
contact should be made with the local Govern-
ment authority or a consulting engineer. Action
should be taken lest the dam is lost through
silting up or flood-water damage. (2) Will be
answered later... .LB.: To obtain a good finish
on the balsa, apply a preliminary coating of
shellac before tfie ordinary undercoat (which
may need sandpapering), then finish with final
coat L.H.C.; Dehydrated lime ■ and fresh
lump lime are the same, and should be used in
preference to hydrated lime. Small quantities of
dehydrated lime may be obtained from Noble’s
Lime Pty., Ltd., Sydenham-road, Marrickville.
S.O.S.: H.M. George VI (Albert Frederick
Arthur George of Windsor) was Duke of York
when he visited Australia.... M.H.:, Ernestine
Hill’s publications include Water Into Gold,
Great Australian Loneliness and My Love
Must Wait L.G.W.: Tobacco companies are
not prepared to disclose the ingredients used
in the manufacture of their products.
Tobacco Leaf, by Killibrew and Myrick, and
Tobacco Land, by Werner, are useful books on
the subject 5.8.: (1) Nothing much can be
done about wilt —provided it is wilt —save to
pull up and burn affected plants as soon as they
show up. Your State Department of Agricul-
ture will advise as to whether it is wilt. (2)
Blood and bone is a good fertiliser for rhu-
barb, but if the plants don’t respond Ume
sprinkled on the soil may help W.T.8.: The
various Government departments have the in-
formation D.F.Y.: Contact a Sydney adver-
tising firm S.E.C.: Impossible to give defi-
nite information about the British red stamp
without seeing it, as there are many variations.
The penny Great Britain stamp (first type) was
in use from 1841 to 1879 and was not per-
forated, but another type Was issued in 1854 with
a 16-gauge perforation G.H.P.: “Bees and
Honey,” -which deals with all aspects of bee-
farming and specially caters for beginners, is
obtainable from the N.S.W. Department ot
Agriculture. Profit derived from bees depends
largely on the value of the honey, pollen flora
in the locality, the breeding of the bees and
competent apiary management, but under
reasonably favorable conditions 1201 b. per hive
per annum may be obtained. The number ot
hives depends upon the time that can be spared
to give the necessary seasonal attention to the
bees; most casual bee-keeping is limited to
from 25 to 50 hives... .M.M.; Two percent.
D.D.T. dusted on the combs and bees will kin
bees; repeat the application after two weeks.
A.L.; Rainbow colors of the primary bow,
starting from the inside, are violet, indigo, blue,
green, yellow, orange and red; but as tn e
colors overlap and become diffused the out
standing colors are violet, green, yeUowsn
orange and red. Colors in the secondary bow
are in the reverse order—red inside, violet out-
side L.W.A.: To remove the dark .stam
from the floors, soften with a paint stripper,
scrape thoroughly, then, if surface is not M
enough, resand... .P.R.: Remove the oil pant
from the duck blind with a pure solvent paint
stripper.... W.R.D.: You have made amj
take in your judgment of the pieces;, the arger
piece is the king while the other piece s tne
queen. Should the two pieces be misplaced,
there is no difference made to the ga®*
vided they are used in the same capacity
throughout. This occurred in % Sydney cornpg
tion same (Cotton v. Mercer) when Mera*
checkmated with his king. As it had been us
throughout’ the game as a queen the. resm
stood 8 /. • M.S.: Essendon won the
four years in succession-; 1891-92-94 94
went through undefeated in 1893.


Missing Friends.
LIVSEY or LIVESEY. —WILL any relative last heard
of in Melbourne please write to MR. REGINALD
FREEMAN LIVSEY, 15 Robin Grove, Holgate Road,
York, England?
TO HENRJT JOSEPH MOSS formerly of Myrtle
Street Clifton Hill in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MABEL FLORENCE MOSS has instituted proceedings
for a divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the Twenty-seventh day of
September one thousand nine hundred and forty-
six the case may proceed in your absence IF you
intend to defend the suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the Seventh
day of October One thousand nine hundred and forty-
six AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE a copy of the
Petition and copy Citation in the suit may be in-
spected at the Office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor,
JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Victoria Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO WILLIAM ROBERT JARVIS formerly of 42
Breese Street Brunswick in the State of Victoria
and 115 Darby Street Pascoe Vale aforesaid but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BORIS MAY JARVIS has instituted proceedings for
a divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
°f the Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on
or before the Twenty-seventh day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty-six the case may
Proceed in your absence IF you intend to defend
the suit you must also file an answer in the said
office on or before the Seventh day of October one
thousand nine hundred and forty-six AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE a copy Petition and copy
Citation in the suit may be inspected at the Office of
the Petitioner’s Solicitor, JOAN ROSANOVE, 415
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS
Obtainable from all leading booksellers
Or direct from the publishers
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS.
CARLTON, N. 3, VICTORIA,
LITERATURE
MEANJIN PAPERS, Australia’s leading literary quarterly, SO pp. illust.,
2/6 net (3/8 posted). Vol. 5, No 2, just out, containing Geoffrey Sawer’s
timely survey of “Indecency and Obscenity under Australian Law.” Vol. 5,
No. 1, a Marcus Clarke Centenary number, still available. •
THE MINING PROBLEM
COALTOWN, A Social Survey of Cessnock, N.S.W., by Alan Walker, 152 pp.,
2/6 net (3/8 posted). Tbe only sustained attempt made to discover how an
Australian mining community lives and thinks.
SOIL EROSION
AUSTRALIA'S DYING HEART, Soil Erosion and Station Management in the
Inland, by J. H. Pick and V. R. Alldis, 119 pp., map, 3/- net (3/3 posted).
A story which should make every Australian keen to keep his native land
from a fate such as that of the Sahara.
DECENTRALIZATION
COUNTRY TOWNS OF VICTORIA, A Social Survey, by A. J. and J. J.
Mclntyre and foreword by Professor S. M. Wadham, 316 pp., maps, illust.,
10/6 net (10/11 posted). An attempt to record facts and to assess attitudes,
as a contribution to the development of the Australian countryside.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
i " —i —VWHWTl improvement or recovery.
A Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and H days’ free
trial offer. No obligation,
THE KOCSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull.,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
Him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO Iodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Converging
Roads of
Dastinv •
v,:
DODGE
X
w\.
R
•»
BjJBeWo
n
/
v m DODGE
Ss KTRUCKS
fa neon ms
v»
■ -
%
aw.
/
I!
Every motor vehicle of the great Chrysler
Dodge line—Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth and
De Soto cars and Dodge and Fargo trucks —
had its own road of destiny to travel; but
these roads are merged into one broad high-
way along which the whole Chrysler Dodge
group travels abreast in perfect harmony and
in mutually beneficial co-operation.
They travel the same road towards the same
goal —the production of cars and trucks that
excel in every particular. Along the road they
exchange ideas, developments and resources
of skill and enterprise, so that an advance
made by any one furthers the progress of all.
Wherever the broad road leads in Australia,
the going is made smooth by Australian owned
and controlled Chrysler Dodge Distributors
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. whose whole organiza-
tion is devoted to maintaining and enhancing
the great reputation of the Chrysler Dodge line.
C hrysler D odge
(AJSTRALIfc)fPTY. LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: York Motors Pty. Ltd., Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty, Ltd.. Harden & Johnston Ltd.
• MELBOURNE:Lane's Motors Pty. Ltd.. Automobiles Pty.. Ltd.. Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Ltd.. Stradbroke Motors Pty. Ltd. • ADELAIDE: Weymouth Motor Co Ltd.
• PERTH: Winterhottom Motor Co. Ltd.. Wentworth Motors Ltd. % HOBART: Co-operative Motors Ltd.,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
R & Me.
D 65
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is un<^er^^. ' Te e°addressed
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addresse
to the Editor.
R.F.T.: Write more realistically... .H.G.B.:
“All Aboard” close, but the gruesome ending
is hardly necessary R.G.: If drought poems
would bring rain the would live in a
perpetual flood... .B.K.: No place here for
A glorious vista, solely had
On the cover of a writing pad.
....M.L.: “Trees” the nearest; marred by
those empty polysyllables G.D.: If that s
what the Parliamentary broadcasts do to you,
switch them off... .A.W.E.: You’ve saddled
yourself with too heavy a load of rhyme....
W.R.: “Blue Metal” is pretty rocky... .P.P.:
Wispy... .J.W.: Epigrams need to be clearer
and sharper than that... .M.W.E.; You cannot
very well be pursued by a clutching “maw”....
L.K.: “Beans” won’t spmut here G.D.:
Ah. So you’ve been watching the bees in the
wattle blossom, too... .Bellerive: There’s a
punch in every line: —
D.R.; We want stories, not epitaphs
J.W.A.: Ambiguous phraseology and wordiness
mar it C.V.M.: “Is there any short cut to
the literary plums?” If there is, we don’t know
it Adelong Aggie: “The Great Fountain” is
only a drip S.D.: Promising style—keep at
it A.S.F.: One of Jack London’s....
I.McD.: “A Caledonian Cutthroat” is realistic
but gory D.A.F., K.R.: You both appear
to be suffering from lovesickness... .C.S.: Wel-
come once again:
W.W.: Restrain your use of slang, especi-
ally in the narrative A.McD.; Isolated
pieces of good prose, in descriptions of scenery:
but humans are treated as vegetables
J.L.: Come again H.G.: Too many charac-
ters for a short story F.D.A.: Slight
T.Y.: Thin and stilted and stumbling, but
promising W.J.K.; Try a daily H.H.:
Too many obscure Americanisms in the dia-
logue: and the character?, too, are obscure and
pseudo-American... .F.D.: “Joe” is just an-
other one of those queer bush characters pleas-
antly described but with no special flash of in-
sight or humor to make him remarkable....
0.M.J.; Don’t pontificate, least of all with bad
punctuation... .A.S.R.: A glimmer... .P.O’N.:
Dull A.E.; Don’t write bush yarns if you
don’t know the bush... .R.E.: You’re im-
proving... .M.T.T.; Steele Rudd and Lawson,
considerably watered.... V.M.: Du 11... .C.C.;
Try something less complicated P.Q.: It’s
either a very subtle comedy or very bad tragedy.
....Peter McM.: A harrowing tale:
—S.R.G.: Sentences too long: by the time
they finish only an extraordinarily good memory
could grapple with their beginnings... .J.McD.:
Brevity is the soul of wit; but you leave too
much to the imagination.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.D.: You’re just fumbling along
N.M.K.: Gag went the round of the music-
halls long, long ago P.R.: Refuse to be-
lieve that curates stagger home with lobsters.
J.S.: Appeal is hardly wide enough
W.F.: Can’t find a trace of humor in any of
them... .A.FJ.: Scrap three-fourths of the de-
tail in the background and trim up the figures
in the foreground S.C.: Swagman returned
for reasons too numerous to mention H.B.:
Heaven only knows why you call them “topical”
drawings—the subjects have been dead for
months E.P.: You’ve slipped a bit since you
sent in the last lot... .T.L.B.: Tired of the
drunk who ends his benders in a goldfish pond.
J.G.R.: Hands donk look like toasting
prongs and legs don’t look like drainpipes
P.S.: Drapery looks as if it were corrugated-
iron D.J.E.: They bear the signs of heavy
labor and many erasions R.E.C.: You’re
biting off more than you can chew M.L.:
Not in the market for silhouettes .V.M.:
Much too good for derision, but not up to the
mark for print J.O’C.: Humor too thin
A.B.: Drawn from memory? Well, it must
have been half a century since you saw a cow.
T.F.: Faint lines on highly-glazed surface
won’t commend you to editors H.N.H.:
What is the old boy doing riding a zebra?
E.R.M.: No, but we like your enthusiasm, even
though we "don’t think much of the drawings.
J.M.: As a jest it is the dead limit in
feebleness B.S.: Let the next batch be your
own work L.P.: Too many lines thrown in
for the sake of filling up space.
RECOLLECTIONS OP PADDY SLAVIN.
[Paddy Slavin prevailed in his time among the
foremost Australian heavyweight pugilists. Ring
warrior and a great rover, he travelled far and wide.
After experience in snow-mantled Klondyke, among
daredevil diggers, adventurers and rough-and-tumble
pugs, etc., during the stirring gold rush, his up-and-
down career began to draw to a close. When some-
what past his prime he waned out from the midst of
life’s mighty throng.]
A cyclone fighter of
Our Australian clime,
Among the leaders of
His prize-ring time;
A man of lion nerve
And determined will,
A slogger and stayer
In a slashing mill.
After a stirring career
Did wane and depart,
The rover and master
Of the manly art.
It was forty years since Swaggie Sam
Had boarded a Sydney tram.
He was ashamed of his beard and dirty feet
Till a flapper got up and gave him her seat.
Sleepy and cold and yawning
In the morning chill
I wait at the kiosk, fawning.
But they only say
“No smokes to-day”
And I feel a bit of a dill.
My eyes are alight, with a keen desire,
My hands shake and I feel on fire,
And I fret
Till I reach the office, where I
Talk nioely to people and try
To get
A cigarette.
But if the office is empty of bounty
(As nowadays mostly it is)
I wait till the lunch hour
With tortured nerves and temper sour
And doleful phiz.
Then I walk round in a kind of dream
Here and there and everywhere
Buying lottery tickets and shaving cream.
But in reply to my question fair
There is only “no.”'
So
I shall go
And buy a gun
And have some fun
Shooting someone.


A?.
jaraff";; dtt
S& &
s*# •: ; :'.-.v
»p|Of
\ f V
\ ' *< S-
?qaMyp|
: :55.. : %,
-
: • '
': •
''''■ ;., •■■:,, ' : V ' ■ :V ' ' '
-.•-.- •■:' : :;i
: ■
.. ' v '<•/ ' :s '"
;, -SS;- t ;V
s'
:y % %
- '■
\ ; fi* ** ■< j
’ ' ;■• ;V "r ?
• /, , ■
>t ; .:
<^V*<
•'•. ' v: ■ " > ;
>.- 'v;. '•■_*. '■. _ ■ ■ ■;
%.■ ■?•*•■
k'
'v.; y’v - , ■
: H;, ; -%! A ;x : ■.; yMyK'P'^Myt'
k% % ■
:•• ... - ■ <
v.“ . %
.. ■- v. •. .. ;.■• ■' ■ .'
> is , \ s
,x •■ <- <m ' ■ \ ‘‘
-
: \ A •>.
/■ ;V % >
•% :*■
V
cMacU
■ v *
■h y 'y
. *<, r v V,
p:::^r
< *. *
x < *?, J
i ... *.. •*
X
< <• ■
v. k. •
mmm
>. :«
3&;:'y»X;
k -
/: ;> k '-k v.. •:■;<•• v
'•<. 4 v >: " ■;:••' <\
.v Vi:. : %. t&i'V
r :: . ••:•.%. %
k. •>.,
% <:fc
mm
•m >
•m* .
f f •' ° X.S v V -,v < .
<>< V? k ; , % M %
■>k. • r' v k -k ;-/. y k >; : ; . . .. '■■■
. Abbotsford Ns. Vicforia. Austrolia.


SAY NO MORE
BY CECIL MANN
Fortunately, when Mr. Petty
woke up they were all gone, as he
knew they all would be without
going out to look—the young lion,
the brown tiger, the collie dog, the bull-
dog and the fox terrier, all of which a
friend of Mr. Hopkins back from the Far
East had left with Mr, Petty, and which,
when Mr. Petty had gone out to the
kitchen, having to step there through a
pool of water an inch deep, were all five
of them sitting round eating blocks of ice
out of the refrigerator, with the water
dripping out the sides of their mouths.
Nor did Mr. Petty find himself with his
head pillowed on a large watermelon,
with the brown tiger sitting on his chest
eating curry and rice out of a saucepan.
Nor was Mr, Petty, after all, a little black
monkey being led through the black-
market on a chain, kicking people in the
shins with a big pair of boots, while the
people all cried out with one voice “There
by the grace of God goes Mr. Petty! ”
thus reminding him of his name, which
he had completely forgotten and would
have to write down in his pocketbook,
where he could look it up if he ever
forgot it again.
All those things, and others, had been
with him in his sleep, but, having all gone
when he woke up, and not having at all
scared or worried him while they were
there, they gave Mr. Petty no real ground
for going out and getting sober.
NOR, indeed, was the death of Mr.
Hopkins any reason for doing so.
Rather to the contrary. It had happened
the day before, on Tuesday ; suddenly;
and it had severely shaken him, making
him do what hitherto he had only done
now and again, on special occasions,
and always in the company of his friend
Hop, and therefore in a more jolly
fashion. That is, he had got himself
under the weather properly. Not, as he
and Hop had done for years every ordi-
nary day of the week, just mellow enough
to go to their respective bachelor habi-
tats knowing they had had a few ; at
least, every ordinary day except Wednes-
day, on which they possibly took enough
for others as well to know they had had
some. No, not moderately like that; but
really well and truly under.
It was after such departures from his
customary state of mere technical in-
sobriety, and sometimes also after the
extra ones on Wednesdays, that Mr. Petty
would acquire some part of a menagerie
in his sleep. He never saw such things
in his waking hours ; not at all, and no-
body looking at his always neatly-turned-
out, dapper and invariably smiling and
cheerful self would have suspected that
he ever had fictitious animals with him
even in his dreams. Nor were they at
all to him frightening dreams.' They
made him laugh. When he saw the young
lion, the brown tiger, the collie, the bull-
dog and the fox terrier sitting round in
the kitchen eating ice, he fairly roared
with laughter, as he did at the delight
of being a little black monkey kicking
people in the shins. That was not so
strange of him, either, for two reasons ;
he liked animals, and he liked laughing.
As often as not, it was laughing that
woke him up.
He had a dog of his own; a big,
shaggy brown Airedale called Hop, after
his friend Hopkins. On those occasions
when they took more than their -usual
quota —on Wednesdays, for instance ; or
always on their respective birthdays; or
the day war was declared and the day it
was declared off —Mr. Petty would reach
a stage when he would pull out his
pocketbook, take the snapshot of Hop the
Airedale from the slit in the cover, and
hand it over the bar to Pat.
“Who’s that remind you of?” Mr,'
Petty would say, at that stage getting
just a little thick in his speech.
It had happened often enough over
some half-dozen years for Pat, behind
the bar, to know what was expected of
her,
“He is a bit like you, you know, Mr.
Hopkins,” she would say. “It must be
those beautiful brown eyes.”
“Say no more, say no more,” Mr.
Hopkins would say, wiping the Highland
dew from his walrus moustache and
laughing out from under his shaggy eye-
brows.
“He’s beautiful dog,” Mr, Petty would
add. “You old scoundrel, Hop; what’s
my dog want to be like you for?”
“Say no
more,” Mr.
Hopkins
would roar
down from
what to Mr.
Petty was
somewhere
near the
ceiling. “D o
the honors,
Pat; one for
the road.
Take no
notice of my intoxicated friend. And
have one with us. Say no more.”
“Beautiful dog,” Mr. Petty would in-
sist. “Beautiful dog. Best dog in Syd-
ney.” Igl.
“Say no more,” Mr. Hopkins would
repeat from up there; and Pat would
know from similar experience that they’d
now soon be on their way. Also, that
next day at almost exactly ten minutes
past one they’d be there again, their usual
big and little selves, having their usual
two each before lunch, and once more
at almost exactly twenty minutes to six
for their regular four each, as they’d been
doing every week, with the extra quota
on Wednesdays and special occasions,
ever since she started there.
Hence she was naturally surprised when
Mr, Petty came in that Tuesday half an
hour late, and alone.
“Hullo, Mr, Petty,” she greeted him;
“where’s my sweetheart today?”
“Didn’t you hear?” From his look
she part-knew before he said it: “He
died at nine o’clock this morning.”
“At home?” said Pat; she believed
they both had nice homes, and had
always been kidding her when they told
her they were a pair of old bachelors.
“On the ferry,” Mr. Petty said. “Just
collapsed while he was reading the paper,
and when they got to him he was dead.”
PAT reached across the counter and
squeezed Mr. Petty’s wrist. She felt
sorry herself. Even more completely
than Mr. Petty yet did, she realised that
she would never again see Mr. Hopkins
looking down there across the counter.
She did not think of him as Mr. Hopkins.
She thought of him as “Say no more!”
just as, if it had been Mr. Petty, she
would have thought of the spotted blue
bow tie, the handkerchief part out of his
top pocket and the flower in his button-
hole—usually a big one, a rose or a
camellia.
By that time, being Tuesday, they’d
have both lifted their hats to her, and
gone out for their lunch. Mr. Petty did
not go out. He stayed on, saying nothing
unless she spoke to him, and after an
hour or so not even then. He drew a
tail, red-topped counter-seat up to the
bar and perched on it, with his elbow on
the counter. Through his mind, some-
what in liquid form, flowed the dozen
years he had known Hop. Most of them
had been war years, but, as far as the
two of them were affected, there could
have been war all the time. Taxes were
a slug, but Hop’s fleet of taxis and Mr.
Petty’s own wine-distributing business
and ferry and brewery shares kept both
of them nicely enough on deck. For the
rest, Pat saw to it that the most regular
of her regulars got what was going of
the war shortages, and neither of them
had any personal reason for thinking any
the less of the war.
Mr. Petty, reaching the right stage—
though it had taken a fair number more
to do it —pulled out his pocketbook and
had a look at the snapshot of Hop the
Airedale. He looked at it solemnly,
however, and put it away again. He
didn’t smile, either, even when he thought
of his first getting to know Hop, which
had been brought about when Hop came
in and stood near where he was having
one with the flies, and next thing there
were three of them there, the third one
a little black monkey with white tufts of
eyebrows, which had climbed on to the
counter out of Hop’s overcoat pocket and
introduced them by knocking over Mr,
Petty’s whisky.
“Say no more,” Hop had said, gather-
ing up the monkey and putting it back in
his pocket with its head sticking out.
“Fill this gentleman’s glass again, Miss,
and what suits him suits me. And my
friend here will have a biscuit straight.
And have one yourself. Say no more.”
Mr. Petty had greatly enjoyed it at the
time, and had laughed over it so many
times since that on that count of laughter
alone he must have become firmly
attached to Hop, There were other rea-
sons, a whole endless string of them in
the course of the daily meetings which
began there, and were, apparently, to go
on for ever.
But now Hop, as Mr. Petty still on the
Tuesday only rather vaguely grasped, was
not Hop any more. He was dead. It
made Mr. Petty nod very solemnly over
his whisky, and the more he had the more
solemn he became. He was still solemn
when, taken there in the taxi Pat called
for him —one of Hop’s fleet —he arrived
at his home up on the hill at North
Sydney and staggered in along the side
under the trellised grapevines. Airedale
Hop was there leaping around and bark-
ing his usual welcome, and Mr. Petty
said “Good dog. Best dog in Sydney,”
and went inside. So did Airedale Hop,
through the open back door as usual, to
sleep as usual in his own room, which
adjoined Mr. Petty’s, and, like Mr. Petty’s,
was always made up for him by Mrs.
Mighell before, her day’s housekeeping
done, she went home. A very under-
standing dog, Hop ; sufficiently so to help
himself, on occasions like this, to the
supper left on the table, which Mr. Petty
forgot to give him.
AND so Mr. Petty woke up on Wednes-
day morning, with no brown tiger
sitting on his chest eating curry and rice,
and himself not a little black monkey
with boots on. Nor was he the solemn
Mr. Petty of the day before. He woke
up laughing at his dreams, and even when
he remembered that Hop had died and
that he’d be going to the funeral today
he was not anything like so depressed as
he had been. He saw now that that had
been sheer weakness and all wrong. Hop
wouldn’t have behaved like that at all.
He’d have roared out from up there,
“What d’you know, Pat? My old church-
mate has gone and left me for ever. Say
no more.”
Quite right, too, thought Mr. Petty,
getting out of bed to shave and have
breakfast and dress for the occasion. He
thought of a black tie, and laughed at
the idea. Instead, he put on one that
Hop had given him for a birthday joke •
an outsize in floppy bow ties, maroon
with white spots. Hop was to be
cremated, and he thought up what Hop
would have said if it had been himself:
“Must go out for the cooking of my old
college chum. Stoke up, boys. Say no
more.”
Mr. Petty’s thought fastened to that
idea. “So long, old fellow,” he said to
Hop the Airedale. “See you this evening.
Going to the cooking of Hop.”
On the way out he plucked a carnation,
patted Hop the Airedale’s shaggy old head,
and went off down the street whistling.
He felt right with himself. He’d almost
let his good friend down. The thing to
do was to go on as if his friend Hop was
still there. Go in and see Pat as usual.
and, this being Wed-
nesday, have a few
extra as usual, as Hop
would have done if
it had been himself,
and as Hop would
have expected him to
do. The funeral was
to move off at noon,
so he'd have to take
the couple of midday
bracers a bit earlier,
but the rest of the
usual day would be
all right afterwards.
Pat looked at him
with undisguised sur-
prise when he went
in for them shortly
after eleven. Mr. Petty sitting all Tues-
day afternoon arid eventually going un-
steadily out was one thing. That was
only to be expected. It was not to be
expected that he’d come in today like
this, with a spotted maroon bow-tie on and
a carnation in his buttonhole, laughing
as if nothing had happened. She would
have thought nothing actually had hap-
pened if she hadn’t read the funeral
notice herself.
“Hullo, darling,” Mr. Petty said.
“Mine’s the usual. My old friend picked
a beautiful day for it, didn’t he?”
“Yes, he did,” Pat said shortly. She
turned her back to get him a whisky,
thinking “That’s men all over. They
haven’t got the feeling of rats, Mr. Hop-
kins wouldn’t have, though. He’d have
been sorry. He wouldn’t have been there
as if nothing had happened.”
She gave him the whisky without com-
ment, and Mr. Petty thought: “Poor old
Pat; she’ll break down and sob in a
minute.”
“Cheer up, Pat,” he said. “We’ll all be
there some day, won’t we?”
“Yes,” she said, “and be forgotten over-
night.”
Mr. Petty laughed. He felt glad he
hadn’t married one of them, and that
Hop hadn’t, either. He had his own two
whiskies, and then Hop’s two as well. He
could hear Hop encouraging him: “That’s
the way to do it, boy. Out we go now.
Say no more.”
HE went round and got his car out of
the garage where he’d perhaps wisely
left it the night before. Over the bridge
at the funeral parlors he was rather sur-
prised to see that there were a couple of
dozen cars drawn up, waiting for the ones
at the service inside. He had expected
to be there alone. He drew in at the end,
and decided to wait.
Not on account of Hop, which would
have been all wrong, but because, appar-
ently, there were others going along, he
felt that a black tie would have been
more the thing. He took the carnation
out of his buttonhole.
He saw them all coming out, and at
once noticed the several black-dressed
women among them ; something he had
never associated with Hop before. He
wondered who on earth they could be,
and was still trying to make it out when
the procession got going. He felt a bit
subdued by it, and as the procession went
fairly slowly through the traffic at first
he several times had the thought that he
could easily turn off at the next side
street and not be missed. Still, he stayed
there; drawn along, as it were, by Hop
out in front.
He felt better when, getting clear of the
traffic, the procession gathered speed.
Out on the open road leading down
through the winding hills it went faster,
and his momentary depression lifted still
further. Then in the car at the back of
him he heard a noise that made him
double over the steering wheel shaking
with laughter. He had the thought that
Hop would hear it and be laughing, too.
Stowed away under the seat there the
couple of bottles had got loose and were
clinking together. The faster the pro-
cession went the louder they clinked. It
was like music ; the sort of funeral music
that would have made Hop roar out
“Listen to that, boy! Isn’t it sweet? Say
no more.”
Mr. Petty drove along delighted. He
could see now, listening to the clinking,
that he’d have to watch himself. If he
didn’t he’d be getting like he was yester-
day for keeps. Sitting there soaking in-
stead of enjoying it as Hop would have
done. He’d be getting all serious like Pat
and these others here ahead of him.
' All up the hills the bottles clinked
away. They still clinked as he followed
the red gravel fbop round the crema-
torium building, and gave a final clink as
he pulled in and stopped on the outer
edge of the cars lined up at the back of
the wide red gravel parking area. He
put on a serious face for the sake of
appearance as he got out and shut the
car door, but inside himself he was
laughing grandly.
He expected them to move across at
once, but evidently some word had been
passed along, and they all stood waiting,
the men bare-headed, in front of the
cars. He could see the few women m
black away near the end to his right.
Apparently they had come before the end
of another funeral.
As the others had their heads bowed,
Mr. Petty bowed his, too, looking at the
ants on the red gravel at his feet. Th en >
as he waited there, he heard a very differ-
ent sound from the pleasant clinking of
the bottles. It was a harsh, grating sound,
and, with the rest of them there, it made
him look up and over towards the build-
ing.
AT the side, towards the rear of the
building, a big lorry was backed in-
Mr. Petty could scarcely believe it, and
when he did it failed completely to make
him laugh. The crunching was the boots
(Continued on page 32.)


TIRED feet?
Hot. tired fe(
this treatment
A Cuticura So;
and Cuticura
raent applicati
it.and enjoy r<
comfort. C
Ointment, <So
Talcum Powd
the famous
trio.
532 •
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
ra{*lm™S E DY N a MICALLY
balanced - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
f
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
KT v-W . rru Distributing Agents :
v*"r*. as Herbert & Co - Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
OueensiflT,rt • T^^ V 1 f n , M , ac^ in . e Tools-(Aust), 343 A Sydney Road, Brunswick.
NewZealand- Motor Sn^lu t « 1 r 0 ?i al * Borlng Co> Ltd - 450 Ann Street, Brisbane.
• otor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
TRADE MARK
“CELLOPHANE”
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manu-
facturer, is the registered owner in the
Commonwealth of Australia of the fol-
lowing Trade Mark:
“CELLOPHANE”
which is registered under No. 40461 in
Class 50 (3) in respect of Cellulose sheets
made from pulp and all products and
articles manufactured from the said
sheets.
The application of the word “CELLO-
PHANE” to goods of the above-men-
tioned class means that such goods are
the goods of British Cellophane Limited.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
RUSSIA SPREADS EAST AND WEST.
,drift of the world is such that nearly
a billion people in the Orient and the Middle
tast may fall under effective Russian domina-
tion within foreseeable time—David L. Cohn
in the Atlantic Monthly.”
, It I s becoming more and more clear that
the Russians will attempt to become the de-
cisive power in Germany itself just as they
nave done in the countries lying between Ger-
many and the Soviet Union,” —Fritz Sternberg
in Asia and the Americas.”
The expansion of Russian influence
and the Soviet’s unspoken yet obvious
plans for the domination of the industrial
resources of a large part of Europe and
almost the whole of Asia have become
subjects of increasing interest to Ameri-
can observers, the more so since the new
series of Russian Five-Year Plans have
as their avowed intention the building-up
of Soviet industry to a stage where it
can rival the industrial output of the
United States.
Discussing that possibility in “Asia and
the Americas,” Fritz Sternberg forms
the conclusion that even should the set
plans be met in full, “the American in-
dustrial body will remain far stronger
than the Russian, not only in the coming
X ears „ k ut for the longest foreseeable
time. ’ But there are, he believes, two
necessary conditions for that forecast to
prove true. American production must
continue to increase or at least maintain
in peace the figures it achieved during the
war. “The second condition is that the
Russians do not bring under their influ-
ence industrially strong areas outside the
borders of the U.S.S.R.
“The Soviet,” says Sternberg, “is a
great European Power. Apart from her
territorial expansion, she has influence on
a European area in which more than
90,000,000 people lived before the war.
She influences in the countries between
the Soviet Union and Germany alone
[in Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary,
Yugoslavia, Rumania and Bulgaria] a
production strength which before the out-
break of the world economic crisis was
nearly as great as her own.”
In Sternberg’s view “the tremendous
Russian market is of decisive importance
for the industries of those countries. In
Russia they find a market not only for
the present transition period, but for a
far longer time. And in future blueprints
of their Five-Year Plans the Russians
will unquestionably try to co-ordinate the
production of these countries with their
own planned economy.”
There arises again the question of the
future of Germany. Sternberg points the
facts that while Russia has often em-
phasised that the Soviet Union comprises
one-sixth of the earth’s surface, German
production before the war amounted to
just about one-sixth of the world’s total.
Since the Russian campaign German
birth rates have dropped sharply, and
they may be expected to drop still further
in response to the economic paralysis of
the country. Moreover, the war has
killed about three million people, many
in the midst of the reproductive period.
Nor is the toll yet in. If a thorough de-
industrialisation of Germany were to be
carried out, there would be about 1000
people dependent on agriculture for
every square mile of agricultural land.
This density is more than twice that in
India. It is doubtful that such a situa-
tion will actually develop; but if it does *
the population will either be kept alive by
relief or new millions will be just as
dead as if they were hit by bombs. In
any case, at least from the point of view
of population growth, Germany is
through.—Frank W. Nqtestein, in a re-
view of population trends the world over
for the “Atlantic Monthly.’’’
“If one of the world Powers should be
successful enough to bring Germany
into its sphere of influence, this Power
will achieve a very decisive strengthening
in the world parallelogram of forces.”
As he sees it, “simultaneously with
their own reconstruction, the Russians
are exerting tremendous efforts to incor-
porate all of Germany—and if they
should not succeed in that, at least a
considerable part of Germany—into their
satellite system. In doing that they will
have to overcome considerable difficul-
ties. Immediately after victory the Rus-
sian armies in Germany, as elsewhere,
robbed and plundered. They have also
in Germany—just as in Manchuria—dis-
mantled a part of the factories and
machinery as reparations, a factor which
in the beginning considerably diminished
the sympathies of the German workers
for Russia.
“The Germans, barely freed from the
terror machinery of
the Nazis, then had
to realise that in the
Russian zone there
was no question of
an assured political
and personal free-
dom. But on the
other hand the Rus-
sians began immedi-
ately after victory to
change decisively the
foundation of Ger-
man society. They
have in their zone
broken up the feudal
estates of the Junkers
and have also carried
out a . far-reaching
socialisation of in-
dustry,”
Those last actions,
Sternberg thinks, will
make the Russian
task easier, David
L. Cohn, writing in
the “A 11 ant i c
—Lynchburg, U.S., "News.”
“MIND IF I MOVE IN?”
Monthly,” does not believe it is difficult.
He has recently visited the Middle Eastern
countries, China and India. “The facts of
life in Eastern lands,” he finds, “propel
their peoples towards Russia. The greater
part of the world is conditioned for totali-
tarianism. If that should become its
state its alignment would be with the
one great totalitarian State left on earth.”
That fact, in Cohn’s view, contains all
the ingredients which go to make for
future war. “If half the world’s popula-
tion and a huge fraction of its resources
(including the greatest oil reserves on
earth) should come within the Russian
orbit the West will be faced with making
one of two choices. The first is to accept
the new order of things and eventually
become part of it. The second is to fight.
As between these alternatives, I believe
the West would fight.
It is irrelevant to discuss whether or
not Russia plans to rule the world, or
entertains ‘sinister designs’ upon others.
Only in time can her design unfold. In
the absence of convincing evidence to the
contrary, we must believe she does not
seek world domination. Certainly it is
absurd to suppose that Russia wants war
any more than we want it. But although
neither Russia nor the West wants war,
and even if neither should do anything
to provoke it, logic points toward the dis-
tinct possibility of eventual conflict.”
Cohn declares that there are “certain
theorems applicable to the peoples of
Eastern lands,” and, by implication, to
the peoples of many parts of Europe at
th§ present time. “Men are guided by
their minds; they are moved by their
bellies. You can’t eat democracy. Hunger
is revolutionary. Bread is counter-revo-
lutionary. A square meal is a rarity in
the lives of hundreds of millions of people.
If the brotherhood of man has not been
a conspicudus success at the soul level,
we might try it for a while at the stomach
level.
“The people to whom these theorems
apply are close neighbors, or neighbors
not far removed, of Russia. Enormous
hordes of them pass their short
lives in a twilight zone between
sleep and hunger. We offer them
democracy. The Russians, implicitly
or explicitly, offer them bread, or at least
the hope of it. The Russians have long
been at some pains to let the peoples of
the world know that they are interested
in their social and economic betterment.
As between democracy without bread, or
bread without democracy, it is not hard
to guessjvhich a hungry man will choose.”
Too, “in the Russo-democratic struggle
for the Eastern lands, Russia has certain
other advantages. The peoples of these
countries find democracy an almost in-
comprehensible idea. They have had no
preparation for it, because they have had
some form of despotism or dictatorship
for thousands of years.
“Russia is a neighbor to these peoples.
Her mighty shadow falls upon them.
Her prestige has been enormously en-
hanced during the war. She is more
Asiatic and Oriental than European and
Western, and as such is more natively
understanding of Orientals than we are.
She has their capacity for infinite patience,
their talent for circumlocution, their en-
durance and stoicism. Millions of her
citizens are Moslems, who have an affinity
with the huge groups of their co-religion-
ists outside Russia. Recently Mr. Jinnah,
head of the Moslem League, was quoted
as saying that he is a Moslem first and
an Indian second. This feeling is of the
essence of the separate Moslem State,
Pakistan. It is not surprising, then, that
Russia is sending to the Middle East, as
diplomats and emissaries, Arabic-speak-
ing Moslems of Russian citizenship.
“Russia is not only spiritually closer to
the Eastern peoples than we, but she
enjoys the enormous advantage of being
physically near them. She is on the
borders of, or close to, China, India,
Tibet, Burma, Afghanistan, Turkey, Iran,
Iraq. We are in almost every way re-
mote from the populations of these coun-
tries. In each of them, moreover, while
there is no one to state our case, there is
at work a tireless, devoted, intelligent,
ruthless Communist group.”
Speaking for the U.S, Cohn says that
in future relations with Russia “it is not
likely that we shall come into conflict
with her over ideology alone. It is pos-
sible that we may come into conflict with
her in the matter of influence over others
amounting to dominance. We are pro-
foundly concerned with the balance of
power, however much we may shrink
from using that ominous phrase. No
nation, no group of nations, must be per.
mitted to become so powerful as to
threaten our security. That, essentially,
is why we have twice gone to war within
a generation. And we shall continue to
be concerned with the balance of power
until the dream of world government be-
comes a reality. If, then, the greater part
of the world’s people should, through
puppet Governments or openly, align
themselves with Russia, war between her
and the West would become probable if
not inevitable,”
ESCAPE TO PALESTINE.
The British decision to turn back the
stream of illegal Jewish immigrants which
has been finding tortuous routes to
Palestine has pointed the fact that the
problem of what plan is to be adopted
for the permanent future of that un-
happy country and the problem of what
is to be done to relieve the distress of the
Jewish populations in Europe, an obliga-
tion imposed upon the world by humani-
tarianism, are in effect two problems,
widely-separated, clear and distinct. That
they have been at all confused is the
result of prolonged Zionist propaganda.
The confusion has been dangerous, lead-
ing as it has, says the London “Times,”
to the “contention that a Jewish national
State embracing the whole of Palestine
is the answer to all the ills from which
Jewry has so long suffered and that
the present Arab majority must submit to
the process regardless both of its rights
and of natural justice.”
The problem of Jewish distress in
Europe, says the “Times,” “unlike that
of Palestine, is primarily one for the
Western Powers to relieve by domestic
action; it cannot be solved vicariously
by any attempt to transfer it to the
shoulders of the Arab world.” The influx
of illegal immigrants has prejudiced any
decision on the future state of Palestine,
and has prejudiced the consideration be-
ing given by America and Britain to the
proposal for admitting an additional
100,000 Jews, above the quota, to Pales-
tine during this year. It is estimated that
40 per cent, of the Jewish immigrants to
Palestine since December last have
entered the country illegally.
It is the belief that “the distressed
Jews of Europe must find in Palestine
their only refuge,” and the confusion
of the two great problems—what to do
with the European Jews and what to do
with Palestine—that in the “Times” view
“inspires the terrorist organisations to
their fanatical crimes.”
“Times” correspondents have reported
on the type of Jews who are being
smuggled into Palestine, and on the
manner of their arrival. One of them,
writing from Vienna earlier this month,
records a swarming of Jews into the
Austrian capital from Eastern Europe—
they think they will have a better chance
of getting to Palestine if they can only
get to Austria or Germany and become
registered among the displaced persons.
Although throughout the whole of July
only 15,000 refugees arrived here, the
rate has suddenly changed, and in the
first days of this month they have been
arriving in numbers of between 1500 and
2000 a day.
“Among those who have just reached
Vienna are some of the Jews who fled
to Russia when the Nazis seized Poland,
and who lived for a time in the Caucasus
or in Siberia. They went back to Poland
believing that thev would be free there.


NP4S/38
For 50 years a GOOD polish
Ask Mummy to
give you a daily
dose of ‘NUGGET’
to make you sturdy
and strong like me’.’
H22i
it
The
rinest Leather
Preservative >
NUGGET SHOE POLISH
Outstanding Books of Today
THE COMPLETE BOOK OF GARDEN MAGIC. By R. W. Biles. Large, handsome volume,
with beautiful colored plates and numerous other illustrations and designs; expert
gardening experience, completely indexed to help you find exactly the information you
want right away. 25/- (post. I0d.).
THE WORLD WAS MY GARDEN. Travels of a Plant Explorer, by David Fairchild. A
fascinating travel hook, which teems with human interest, superbly illustrated with 127
pages of photographs covering the entire gardens of the world. 27/6 (post. 1/-).
THE ASHLEY BOOK OF KNOTS. Every practical knot—what it looks like, who uses it,
etc., with 7000 drawings representing over 3900 knots. 52/6 (post. 1/4).
PACIFIC GAME FISHING. By Kipp Farrington. There are 290 pages containing more than
150 photographs of action pictures, famous catches, baits, fishing tackle. 85/- (post. 1/2).
MUSIC FOR THE MILLIONS. A complete concert, radio and record guide, the encyclopaedia
of Musical Masterpieces, by David Ewen. 38/6 (post, 1/2).
100 GREAT LIVES. Revealing biographies of Scientists and Inventors, Leaders and Reformers,
Writers and Poets, Artists and Musicians, Discoverers and Explorers, Soldiers and
Statesmen, and Great Women. Illustrated with rich sepia portraits. 25/- (post. Bd.).
LOCK, STOCK AND BARREL. The story of collecting, by Douglas and Elizabeth Rigby.
A most comprehensive and entertaining book. 48 pages of illustrations. 36/- (post. Bd.).
COMMONSENSE IN HOME DECORATION. A complete guide to the fundamentals of home
decoration, by Carl Maas, with 180 illustrations. 12/6 (post. Bd.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
but they had found that life there was
impossible. Their one wish was to get
away.”
From Germany the refugees pass into
Italy, and from there they are taken to
Palestine. Another “Times” man visited
a group of the “immigrant” ships on their
arrival at Haifa. He found appalling
conditions.
“The ships resemble floating slums.
From the bridge down to the holds -not
a yard of deck was free of people, almost
all young men and girls, some in three-
tiered wooded bunks, some under rough
shelters, and some standing against the
rails. On the voyage they were at least
twice as cramped. Some said they had
been at sea 18 days, others 10. Almost
all admitted that Italy was the country
where they embarked, but none could
say exactly where—they had been taken
in lorries into some dim port.
“Most of the immigrants were Jews
from Rumania, or Poland, with
one or two Russians. Some spoke bad
German. They were doctors, lawyers and
artisans. They claimed to have been in
concentration camps, and since the war
to have wandered in Western Europe. The
majority said that in the last eight months
they had been in Italy. Few, however,
would talk, and those who did were
cautioned by the others,
“Some of the arrivals looked ill or
underfed. At present they are being
given food by the Government —milk,
eggs, bread and so on —and the Jewish
Agency gives them cigarettes. They seem
to make little effort to keep the decks
clean, accepting the conditions provided
by the organisation which sends them,
and arguing that they are too crowded
to do anything. Some, it is believed, pay
for their passages, but the majority obvi-
ously could not.”
The correspondent thought it surpris-
ing that some of these voyages have not
ended in disaster, “The Hagana had
only one lifeboat, which was plainly un-
sea worthy. Various sailing orders were
found, some for Egypt and others for
elsewhere. Charts had holes in them, so
that no one theoretically knew where a
voyage began or where it was to end.
Crew and passengers were indistinguish-
able on arrival, and no one seemed to
be in command. One could scarcely tell
who was captain and who was deckhand ;
who was an inspired pilgrim, and who
was simply an adventurer.”
The majority of these illegal immi-
grants would find themselves in Athlit
Clearance Camp. Osgood Caruthers, an
American Associated Press correspondent,
investigated conditions at the camp after
the Jewish Agency had issued a statement
concerning the “medieval tortures”
practised there. He described it as the
“gateway to the promised land for thou-
sands of illegal Jewish immigrants.
“They have braved a long and hazard-
ous road only to wind up behind barbed
wire and guns.. But the camp is the last
milestone. Here they will receive the
certificates that will admit them to Pales-
tine as legal residents. The process
usually takes about two weeks—two
weeks of virtual imprisonment, but the
certainty of release makes that an almost
minor detail. After kissing the ground,
after the wild joy of arrival, after the
relief of embarking from cramped, foul-
smelling little ships, they pass through
heavy gates. But they go through sing-
ing and their wobbly sea legs carry them
through willingly. This is the way more
than 3000 Jews have been introduced to
Palestine since December.”
Caruthers saw one group of 500 arrive.
“They had travelled for 15 days in a
crude, one-masted caique of 100 tons—
young, sunburned men and women
crowded on, the open decks. They had
come across the Mediterranean, leaving
secret ports at night, certain they would
be caught as soon as they came within
sight of Palestine.
“They had smuggled themselves know-
ingly into the very hands of authority.
Flouting the Government’s law, which
says they cannot enter, large sums were
invested on a certain total loss. The ship
they came on will be confiscated. They
knew they would be imprisoned at Athlit.
“Athlit is the axis where the official
lines of contradiction cross. The law
says only 1500 Jewish immigrants will be
admitted to Palestine each month. It
says that no one can enter without a visa
or official certificate. But some 40 per
cent, of the 9000 Jewish immigrants since
December came here illegally and were
released with Government certificates.
This camp is the concrete admission of
that contradiction. It is an organised and
highly efficient institution set up solely
for the purpose of caring for and admini-
stering illegal immigrants. They are
given medical treatment, their clothes are
laundered, they have clean beds and they
are not required to labor,
“Why this contradiction between law
and sanction? The answer from every
Government official is the same. ‘What
are we to do? We can’t put them back
on their stinking little ships and set them
wandering again. We can’t send them
back to Europe. We do everything pos-
sible to discourage illegal immigration;
but once they get here there isn’t much
we can do but accept them.’
“The certificates issued to the illegal
immigrants are charged against the
official quota of 1500 a month, but these
are drawn upon for weeks in advance,
which, in effect, raises the actual monthly
—London “Daily Mail."
“HELP!"
admissions above the legal maximum.”
Now all that is finished. The anomaly
of Camp Athlit is no more. But the
problems—what to do with the Jews, who
are no longer content to live in Europe ;
what to do with Palestine —still remain.
What Hope for China?
To China’s many millions there was a
certain grim irony in the celebrations
marking the first anniversary of the
successful conclusion of the country’s
eight-year war with Japan. A year after
the war’s end some six million Chinese
are still reported bearing arms, and peace
seems still as distant a dream as at any
time during the war. Too, to the internal
problems of China has been added yet
another—it has become another sphere* for
the vastly-spreading conflict of ideas be-
tween the United States and Russia. That
conflict has so far been confined to a
shouting of denunciations. It is evidenced
as regards China in “Pravda’s” echoing of
the Yenan Communist party’s declaration
that the U.S. is. “fostering civil war in
China” —“U.S. military assistance is pour-
ing oil into the fire of civil war”—and in
the retort in the Washington “Post”: “As
long as Russia continues to fish in China’s
troubled waters there will be no peace in
that country.”
American efforts to bring about an end
to China’s internal conflicts have been un-
successful. “In that effort,” the London
“Times” reports, “the American officials
have contributed imagination, patience
and unremitting labor, but, it is now
admitted, to very little purpose.
“When General Marshall went to
China he faced a problem which Far
Eastern experts believed to be impossible
to solve except by a miracle, and if he
fails he cannot be measured by that
failure, for the measure of the man is
that he came within sight of achieving the
miracle. He is credited with having pre-
vented a general attack on the Com-
munists by Government forces a few
weeks ago, but his efforts since to bring
the two sides to an agreement have been
unsuccessful.”
The “Times” correspondent says that
both the Kuomintang and the Communist
parties seem to agree that the situation is
worse now than it was when the general
first began his efforts to arrange a peace
conference at the end of last year. “In
January these efforts brought the truce
agreement, which has since been observed
more in the breach, and now its tattered
remnants threaten to blow out of the
window altogether,
“The gaunt fact is that China is on the
edge of a disastrous civil war at a time
when several million innocent peasants
are on the verge of starvation, China’s
export trade is at a standstill, and her
post-war reconstruction has not yet be-
gun.”
Barnet Nover, writing in the Washing-
ton “Post,” is of the opinion that civil
war has arrived
already—“ China to-
day is in the midst of
a civil war that
threatens to spread
over a very wide
area and postpone
her recovery indefi-
nitely”—and he is
specific about some
of the causes: “It is
no coincidence that
the deterioration in
China’s internal situ-
ation during recent
months has paral-
leled the deteriora-
tion in the relations
between Russia and
the Western Powers,
notably the United
States. It is also no
coincidence that the
centre of the struggle
in China at this time
is Manchuria.
“The latter fact
cannot alone be ex-
plained by the fact
that Manchuria is
rich. It has great mineral wealth,
abounding agricultural resources, a vast
industrial nnfpntial What is norhans of
inaustnai potential, wnat is pernaps or
even greater importance at the present
time is that Manchuria’s borders run
along with those of the Soviet Union for
r ..
many hundreds or miles,
“Were the Chinese Communists to sue-
ceed in dominating Manchnria it would
then become a centre of disunity and a
source of continuous pressure on China,
T . u , r , , .
It would be impossible under such Cir-
cumstances for China to become strong
and united. Yet without a strong and
° ,
united China there can be no peace and
harmony in the Far East.”
Nover says that the Chinese Govern-
, , ..
ment had all this in mind when it con-
eluded a treaty with Russia in August of
last year.
“In that treaty China made a number
e c _ , . 1 . T .
of far-reaching concessions. In return,
Russia agreed to accept the principle that
Manchuria was Chinese. The treaty also
contained the ctinnlation that- ‘Ac ennn
contained the stipulation that As soon
as any part of the restored territory
ceases to be a zone of direct hostilities
the National Government of the Chinese
p. nn L|;. c.r.aii aoc.,™*. f.,n »»
Republic shall assume full authority .
This agreement, Nover continues,
Russia has repeatedly Violated both in
i .. , . . ,
letter and spirit. Russian troops were
kept in Manchuria long after the date
set for their withdrawal. During these
months the Russians not only stripped
Manchuria of everything movable, but also
carried out a programme of systematic
destruction of installations that could not
be moved. This calculated vandalism
could have only one explanation, namely.
that Russia did not want China to inherit
the industrial apparatus that the Japanese
had left behind them; that she wanted
China to remain weak,
“Russian policy in Manchuria also left
the strong impression that her aim is to
keep China divided. The entry of
Nationalist troops into Manchuria was
held U p a s long as possible while Com-
mUnist forces were allowed to filter in so
a s to be on hand when the Red Army
began to evacuate the area.”
Nover concludes that, the victories the
Government forces have won in Man-
churia notwithstanding, “the prospects of
pea ce in China remain very far from
bright.
“jo secure peace in China it is not
enough for the Chinese Government and
t h e Communists to get together again,
j t is a i so essential that Russia live up to
the pledges she gave in her treaty with
China.”
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Britain is making a determined bid to recap-
ture her pre-war dominance in world shipbuild-
ing. British shipyards are building more than
half the merchant tonnage now under construc-
tion throughout the world. Not since 1922 have
they reached such a peak. By contrast, U.S.
shipyards, which outbuilt the globe in war-time,
currently account for less than one-sixth of new
construction. Britain’s shipbuilding drive has
the long-range objective of regaining for her
merchant marine the leading position it held
in the last years of peace, when one-third of
the world’s sea traffic moved in British ships.
The U.S. merchant marine will be a strong
Current volume of American ship-
building is no index of present maritime capa-
bilities, for the U.S. finished the war with a
lot of fast, new merchantmen. Norway, Den-
mark, the Netherlands and France are busily
working to build up war-depleted shipping.
Sweden is very much in the immediate picture,
for, as a neutral, she emerged with her ton-
nage intact. Even Italy is seeking to restore
extensive war losses to her merchant marine.
—“World Report."
* * * *
The occupation of Japan is being accom-
plished with a lower percentage ratio of troops
to population than the occupation of any other
country in the world. Troops in Japan, in-
cluding both United States and British Com-
monwealth forces, have a percentage ratio to
population of only one-fourth of 1 per cent.
The next lowest occupation zone ratio is Italy,
where Allied troops are equivalent to 0.88 per
cent, of the native population and the highest
is in the Soviet Union’s zone in Austria, where
140,000 troops amount to 6.6 per cenT of a
population of 2,120,000. — Statement from Mac-
Arthur's Headquarters.
* * * *
Soviet foreign policy remains what Churchill
called it in the first year of the war: a riddle
wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma. Some
light is thrown on Soviet aims by developments
in the countries of Eastern Europe. There is a
systematic attempt by Russia to step into the
place vacated by Germany and to dominate
the economic life of these countries, limiting, if
not altogether excluding, their trade with the
West. And there is an intensified campaign
of repression, designed to strengthen the posi-
tion of the Communist-dominated regimes in
preparation for an eventual withdrawal of
Soviet troops. The Soviet determination to
establish a monopolistic control over the eco-
nomies of Eastern Europe is dictated partly by a
desire to exploit the resources of the Danubian
countries and partly by strategic considerations.
There has been some reduction of Soviet forces
in this area, but at the same time there is a
strenuous effort to build up Soviet political con-
trol by other means. The new armies and
political police organisations are heavily in-
filtrated with agents who are reliable from the
standpoint of Moscow. — William Henry Cham-
berlin in the “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Russia is swinging into Switzerland in dip-
lomatic strength. Estimates place the size of
the expected Red legation at 500 persons,
more than double the number in the largest
legation here, that of the British, which is 230.
The United States has 200. For 28 years no
official Russian visited Switzerland. The ex-
pected influx results from the recent Swiss
agreement to resume diplomatic relations with
Russia, which were broken off in_1918 after the
Bolshevik revolution. Included in the Russian
legation will be many army, navy and aviation
experts as well as diplomats, economists and
scientists. One of the largest sections will be
the propaganda bureau.— Chicago “Tribune"
correspondent in Switzerland.


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
The M. LC.
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £46,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £51,000,000


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3472
Wednesday, August 28, 1946
THE TOO-CONSTANT IMP.
Last night I met upon the stair
A little man who wasn’t there.
He wasn’t there again today;
Oh, how I wish he’d go away!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K, Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MOTHER S DAY.
In the three years of “Labor” rule just
ended Australian women —above all in
N. S. Wales, the chief “Labor” State-
have suffered from politics as never be-
fore. That their votes helped in a large
measure to elect the Government which
has been the principal architect of their
woes should make them the more anxious
to correct the mistake when their chance
comes next month.
The 1943 Commonwealth election
caught women in a state of mixed
emotions. There had been nearly
four years of war. To the north
of Australia the Japanese enemy
was being slowly driven back, after
having penetrated almost to the main-
land, and having caused death and
destruction in Australian towns and
Australia’s greatest port and in the waters
off the coasts, as well as in the northern
islands. There was a fine fervor of senti-
ment towards our U.S. allies, though not
among the blackmarketeers and orofiteers
who battened on their free spending and
robbed them in cold blood and .with im-
punity under “Labor’s” very eyes. And
the “Labor” Government, though
forced to introduce conscription, tied
such geographical strings to it that
many husbands, brothers and sons
were spared what A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
volunteers and called-up Americans
had to endure in the way of death,
wounds, privations and cruel tropical
diseases. Moreover, “Labor” introduced
a multitude of “essential” classifications,
elastic enough even to include hulking
union secretaries and organisers, a class
which enjoyed no such “privileges” in
America or Britain. All this must have
won “Labor” many female votes.
And with all this went the Father
Christmas disguise which “Labor”
adopted. It had inherited from its
predecessors in office the machinery
of price-control and rationing and had
in this way and through the efforts of
producers, rising superior to all manner of
difficulties “Labor” imposed on them,
managed to keep everybody fairly well
fed and clothed. The Father Christmas
aspect was emphasised by the prevalence
of jobs in war factories. There was work
at big money for every member of the
family. Often Mother herself could send
the youngsters off to school and put in
six hours a day at union wages. Younger
women, were encouraged to join the ser-
vices, where they enjoyed good pay and
equipment, regular hours and a healthy
diet, which increased their already con-
siderable personal attractions.
By August, 1943, in the cities and larger
towns at any rate, the war had become
a sort of distant backdrop to a scene of
great, though delusive, prosperity. Those
women who, through having a loved
one in the thick of it, persisted in
seeing the war for what it was were
repeatedly assured by Government
spokesmen that all was going well. The
terrible incidence of malaria, scrub
typhus, dermatitis and so forth in Papua
and New Guinea, the captivity and suffer-
ings of the Eighth Division, the tragedies
of Rabaul, Timor, Amboina and Java, the
sinkings off the Australian coast and the
deaths and desolation at Darwin were
either glossed over or concealed. “Labor”
constantly and assiduously painted a pic-
ture of a somewhat pleasant war in which
the enemy was getting the devil knocked
out of him at little cost to ourselves. And
all the time there was plenty of work
and money.
About that time, too, “Labor” began
painting its lovely pictures of the post-
war world. In victorious Australia there
was to be no more want or worry. A
grand and glorious Post-war Reconstruc-
tion Department was set up to provide
everything. The rich were to be soaked
so that there might be no poor other
than the new poor. There were to be
free medical services and free medicine,
bigger and better pensions, “security”
from the cradle to the grave and “full em-
ployment.” “Put your money into war
loans or war-savings certificates and when
victory comes you can buy everything you
want from refrigerators to fur coats” was
the burden, if not the actual wording, of
“Labor” publicity.
Many a woman, seeing her man’s or
her own savings-bank account grow by
leaps and bounds, believed that realisation
of long-cherished desires was within her
grasp. The family would buy or build
a dream house, fitted and furnished to its
own taste. The wives of men on active
service, particularly the thousands forced
by the housing shortage to live with their
in-laws or in dreary lodgings, had a
special dream of their own. It had to do
with their own savings and their hus-
bands’ deferred pay and the great time
they would all have in good old Aus-
tralia when the fighting men came back.
This dream was spiced by the romanticism
of the men away, by the tenderness ex-
pressed, however roughly, in camp letters,
by their shared and cherished illusions of
a happy future with the Girl and the
kids.
Almost from the day when “Labor”
was returned with 49 seats out of 74 in
the House and 22 out of 36 in the Senate
disillusionment began for women.
First to be disillusioned were wives of.
servicemen. “Labor’s” concentration on
its socialist theories, its fear of Com-
munist union bosses, of coalminers, of.
wharf and metal-trade strikers, of any-
body else who barked at it from that
gallery overrode any consideration it may
have had for them. “Labor’s” complete
surrender to outlaws in industry, its abdi-
cation to teams of highly-paid but imprac-
ticable planners so reduced and ham-
pered and hamstrung the building industry
alone that a serviceman’s chance of get-
ting even a hovel to himself, either by
rent or purchase—much less a cottage in
which he could have a spare room in case
his malaria or dermatitis grew unsup-
portable—became hopeless. His wife, the
war glamor gone, found herself no longer
welcome to her or his in-laws. Her
chances of bringing up a family are fad-
ing, along with her savings. Her future,
so rosy in former anticipation, is vexed
with doubts and fears.
Women who had jobs are tom between
two emotions. Droves of them saved so
much during the war that they are not
obliged to work until the money gives
out. So many have retired to enjoy their
new wealth and to avoid taxation that,
for the time being, employers of female
labor are at their wits’ end to find it.
This would be very nice if there were
no catch to it. Scarcity of labor means
scarcity of wearing apparel and other
things dear to the feminine heart. Even
the glamor girl has fbund that beaux with
oodles of cash have disappeared. Marriage
under conditions of no housing and ter-
rific prices for furniture, artificially in-
creased by sales tax, is almost out of the
question. And working women, like
working men, never know when they’ll be
out of a job because of some distant
strike affecting supplies or transport, or
both.
One-time servicewomen are now
workers or housewives. As housewives
they know to their bitter cost the stage
to which “Labor” has brought them.
More than a year after the war’s end
they are beasts of burden, having to
battle daily for food and other necessaries
and having to lug home on overcrowded
trams and buses the goods which, in
other and saner days, were delivered to
their doors. As if that were not enough,
the housewife sees her own and her
family’s clothing falling into ruins, and for
replacement she must accept shoddy stuff,
pay inordinate prices for quality, or go
into the blackmarket. The household
furniture is in the same condition ; the
house itself is often in need of repairs
which can’t be had except at blackmarket
prices.
And her menfolk are like her furniture.
Sons and husbands returned from the
wars find avenues of employment closed
by “Labor’s” lethargy and cowardice, by
involved rules and industrial troubles.
Whether they want to start in businesses
or go on the land the story is the same.
Men out of uniform and men too old to
have worn it are worried by taxes and
high costs and the fear of loss of employ-
ment through strikes in which they are
not concerned. And all too frequently
the housewife finds it necessary to dip into
the family’s savings to meet the extra
needs of the moment, with the purchas-
ing power of the Australian pound
diminished far below statisticians’ calcu-
lations.
And all the time, in every city and
large town, the housewife is likely to
find the gas and electricity cut off, the
trains, trams and buses idle except on
racecourse routes and the family reduced
to cold meals and candles because miners
a thousand miles away seize on the
flimsiest pretext for selfish idleness.
She is the sport of any tinpot union
boss who wants to throw his weight
about, of any parcel of union larri-
kins who choose to take everything
and give nothing. Never does she
receive the slightest consideration from
“Labor.” In N. S. Wales, under a “zon-
ing system” and a wild and one-eyed day-
baking act, she has to make shift and cut
the children’s lunches on Monday with
bread three days old.
Much more could be said, but it is
sufficient to say that the last three years
of “Labor” rule have put 10 years on
the housewife’s age. Her mind is a prey
to anxiety; her nerves are worn to
shreds; increasingly she has to go to the
doctor for treatment of bodily ailments.
She must be looking forward to Septem-
ber 28 with feelings that augur ill for the
party responsible, along with its Com-
munist and State “Labor” confederates,
for her many afflictions.
That Fellow Menzies!
The applause for Mr, Menzies before
and after he spoke at Camberwell (Vic.)
and the reception given to his policy
throughout the country, strikingly ex-
pressed at public meetings, indicate that
the feeling against him in quarters to.
which he had every right to look for
support has disappeared.
It was worked up by Communists, in
the first place because he refused to let
them take charge of Australian foreign
policy through their control of water-
front and associated unions and their in-
fluence in Labor Councils and the
A.C.T.U. What this has meant, in loss
of national reputation and, trade alone,
in the last twelvemonth of “Labor” pol-
troonery we know only too well. What it
would have meant when the Empire was
tragically ill-prepared for a war in
Europe, let alone a war in the Pacific,
against military Powers ready to the last
button and gadget, we can only surmise
with a shudder.
This detestable feeling was inflamed by
the Moscow party and its sympathisers,
not a few of whom were employed on
professed anti-Communist newspapers,
when, the German war having come and
Communists having been proved guilty
of sabotage of war industries and peace-
with-Hitler propaganda, the Menzies
Government imposed a ban on their
organisations and publications. There-
upon hatred of “Menzies” achieved a
dingy sort of popularity, and people who
should have known better repeated the
insulting expressions which Communists
had put in their mouths. What Mr.
Menzies said in those years millions of
Australians are saying now. What he
did in 1941 is now accepted as neces-
sary in 1946, except by “Labor,”
which exploited his unpopularity to its
own sordid advantage. But for five years
he was a marked man, exposed to the
malice of Communist mobs every time he
spoke in public, and as often as not fol-
lowed from the meeting place by jeering
larrikins, who were restrained from
assaulting'him by the presence of police.
Only a man with rare endowments of
moral and physical courage could have
stood up to what this man has endured
with stoical composure dll these years.
Australians admire courage in all its
forms, but a great many Australians, in-
fluenced by Communist catchcries and
the sly digs of “Labor” journalists, have
hitherto refused Mr. Menzies credit for
his unfaltering stand against the enemies
of the country, theirs and his. Though
all the “Labor” parties profess to be anti-
Communist, and though a few Victorian
and Queensland State members have
resisted the outrageous proceedings
and pretensions of Communists, not one
Federal “Labor” Minister or member has
followed their example. Silent and
abject surrender to Communist outrages
has been the attitude of even the large
proportion of Federal “Labor” Ministers
and members who are of Irish origin
and were brought up as Catholics. In
all other English-speaking countries, as in
Ireland itself. Catholic Irish politicians are
banded together against Communism, but
not this Federal mob.
Unwilling to take the buffets of Com-
munists, Dr. Evatt, who roars abroad and
bleats at home, has allowed these ruffians
to involve Australia in a shameful and
costly quarrel with the Dutch. There
will be no more of that if the Menzies
Government is returned, nor will there
be any more of the self-sufficient, one-
man, “myself alone” improvisation of
foreign policy with which Dr. Evatt has
been identified, changing as the wind
blows for or against Soviet Russia. Hark-
ing back to the time when Dr. Evatt
alleged that Britain was trying to elbow
poor old Austrylia out of the Japanese-
surrender ceremony, Mr. Menzies said at
Camberwell that “it is a basic error for
Australia to act as if it were detached
and independent, and to seek its special
association and even a position of leader-
ship among small Powers”;
It is mere commonsense to say that our
most powerful contribution to world peace
and security will be made through the
British Empire; surely not outside of it;
certainly not in competition with it. We
still belong to a family.
This is in line with the policy of Mr.
Mackenzie King and Field-Marshal
Smuts, as exemplified at the Paris Peace
Conference. Of that conference, Mr.
Menzies said:
It involves questions of procedure and
substance which have never been debated
in the Commonwealth Parliament and upon
which Ministers, other than the absent
Minister of External Affairs, have been
plainly unable to provide any information.
These questions have all been debated
in the New Zealand Parliament. Mr.
Menzies is on an unassailable ground in
proposing “an all-party Parliamentary
Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs.”
For the industrial field, in which Com-
munist larrikinism prevails, Mr. Menzies
proposes a positive policy:
High wages; good conditions; friendship
in industry; snaring of prosperity; the
independent settlement of differences by
conciliation and arbitration; protection
of the rights of employees and employers
by law; the enforcement of the law arid the
rejection of anarchy.
He maintains, rightly, that “the only
guarantee of all-round freedom is to be
found in good and fair democratic laws,
fearlessly and impartially enforced.” To
such laws, with enforcement placed at
their service, he pledges himself and his
party in these terms:
All strikes and lockouts occurring in the
course of industrial disputes for which some
competent tribunal exists, or against a de-
cision of the competent tribunal, shall be
declared illegal.
There shall be prosecution and a resolute
enforcement of penalties against those
organising, encouraging or taking part in
such illegal strikes or lockouts.
The funds of any organisation of em-
ployees'or employers guilty of an illegal
strike or lockout shall be controlled by the
Arbitration Court.
It shall be a condition of registration of
any organisation that its rules shall provide
for the election of office-bearers and for
making of decisions involving stoppages
of work by a secret ballot of all members
under the supervision of an officer of the
Arbitration Court.
In that way, and that way only, lies a
return to and a guarantee of industrial
peace and steady production. The alter-
native is a continuation and spread of
Communist anarchy leading to another
depression, the beginnings of which are
already visible.
On production, Mr. Menzies very pro-
perly lays great stress. It is, he says, “our
master problem; to the extent that we
expand it, it will mean higher wages,
more and better homes, the amenities of
life, markets in other countries, constant
employment among our people”: unless
full production is consummated, “security'’
is an empty word. And so that land men
may play their part without the handicaps
imposed on them before and during the
wars and since, this Liberal proposes “the
investigation of rural costs and the fixa-
tion of rural prices by an independent
body, periodically reporting to Parlia-
ment.” He pledges his party also to dis-
tribution among the woolgrowers and the
1945 wheatgrowers of the millions which
they have fairly earned, and of which, if
“Labor” has its way, they* 1 are to be
robbed under forms of law.
The Opposition-leader proposes also a
substantial reduction of income tax and
sales tax, together with a simplification
of the intome-tax measures, so incompre-
hensible to the man who can’t afford to
employ a taxation agent. In respect of
the current/half of the financiaLyear the
“extravagant expenditure” of the Govern-
ment which, unlike the N.Z. Government,
is going to the country without a Budget,
militates against tax-relief, and this “ex-
travagant expenditure” will be attended to
from the moment the new Administration
reaches office. But the British, United
States, Canadian, South African and
Maoriland Governments have shown
what can be done, and so
We propose that as from January I,
1947, the reduced rates of personal-income
tax now operating [and very reluctantly
introduced by Mr. Chifley] shall be further
reduced by another 20 per cent, all round.
This will mean that the total ultimate reduc-
tion of personal-income tax during the
second half of the year will be approxi-
mately 30 per cent. And we shall review
the rates of company tax, which have at
present level a depressing effect on employ-
ment, especially as shareholders pay on
dividends after a company’s profits have
already been taxed. And we shall re-
examine sales tax, with a view to relieving
the part of it which directly affects the
cost of living of the basic-wage earner
and the cost of housing.
“Labor’s” reply is, of course, that it
can’t be done; but it is being done
beyond the Tasman. In Mr. Nash s
Budget, introduced on August 15, the
excess-profits tax is abolished, the
income tax on companies is restored to the
March, 1942, figure, the war surcharge on
income tax is reduded from 33| p.c. to
15 p.c., the exemption for a wife goes up
from £5O to £lOO, the gold export duty
disappears, and with it the 3 p.c. primage
on books and periodicals, and sales-
tax revenue is sacrificed to the extent or
£7,000,000 in a full year. Sales tax is
removed altogether from
All building materials (timber, cement,
paper and wallboard, glass, hardware, wall-
paper, paint, bricks and roofing); aff de-
scriptions of clothing and household furni-
ture, “including perambulators”; and,
among “a miscellaneous number of articles,
dried and dehydrated fruits, surgical and
dental instruments. >
What a difference from Mr. Chifley s
ungracious and meagre cuts! How differ-
ent N.Z. Labor has been all along! lb®
only thing it has in common with Aus-
tralian “Labor” is the party label;
genuine in the one case, fraudulent in the
other.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Communists Are Voting Yes.
Constitutional reform undertaken in a
non-party spirit and aimed at a complete
definition and separation of national and
provincial powers would be a good thing,
though the electors might very reason-
ably refuse such a grant unless satisfied
with the methods and intentions of those
seeking it. They were not so satisfied in
1944, when hastily drafted party pro-
posals were served up to them in the
guise of constitutional reform, and they
should stick to that decision this year,
when much the same proposals, tacked
on to the general election in an obvious
attempt to save a discredited party by
raising and exploiting baseless fears,
have been spread before them.
There are three questions on which
electors will be required to vote. If they
fail to see through the sham one will be
inserted in the Constitution after the
trade and commerce clause, the formula
being “(1a) Organised marketing of
primary products.” “Organised” (some-
times called “orderly”) marketing had an
appeal to countrymen in other days. It
has lost its charm since “Labor” took
leave in enactments rushed through Par-
liament last session to “withhold” from
woolgrowers a substantial part of the
profits on transactions in their wool, and
from wheatgrowers a substantial part of
the profits on dealings in their 1945
wheat. If concerns like Goldsbrough
Mort and co-operative organisations had
done the like there would be fierce
“Labor” threats of prosecutions.
Another proposed amendment will, if
adopted, come under the same section,
51, which empowers Parliament “to make
laws for the peace, order and good gov-
ernment of the Commonwealth.” The
proposed amendment reads:
(XXIIIa) The provision of maternity
allowances, widows’ pensions, child endow-
ment, unemployment, pharmaceutical, sick-
ness and hospital benefits, medical and
dental services (but not so as to authorise
any form of civil conscription), benefits
to students and family allowances.
It is dishonestly alleged that all these
things will be in danger unless the rig-
marole is voted into the Constitution, be-
cause they are not expressly mentioned in
that instrument as “invalid and old-age
pensions are.” This is all bunkum. The
baby bonus is not mentioned in the Con-
stitution, but it has been paid for many
years without ever having been chal-
lenged ; and who is going to challenge
widows’ pensions and the rest? If any
challenge came and were upheld any
Commonwealth Government could get
round it by making the State Govern-
ments their agencies for payments, as
has been done, also for many years, in
the case of the Federal-aid roads and
other grants.
The third question also comes in as
part of Section 51.
(XXXIVa) Terms and conditions of em-
ployment in industry, but not so as to
authorise any form of industrial conscrip-
tion.
If approved of this will precede sub-
section “(XXXV) Conciliation and arbi-
tration for the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes extending beyond
the limits of any one State,” and in bad
hands it may dish Commonwealth con-
ciliation and arbitration altogether. It
would admit of Parliament fixing wages
and working conditions itself, and who
wants that? Communist and Left-Wing
Laborites. These minorities have already
shown their contempt for conciliation
and arbitration, and have even moulded
foreign policy to their liking. If they
gained the inordinate power sought by
“Labor” at their instance Parliament,
when “Labor” is in, would sink to be-
coming the servile instrument of their
ukases and caprices in the whole domain
of industry.
Communists, who have no use for Aus-
tralia as a British Commonwealth, being
intent on making it a Soviet “republic,”
allied with the one designed for “our
Indernesian comrades,” are supporting all
three “amendments.” That should be
enough for real Australians to reject all
three.
Tito, and Some Admirers.
Comrade D. A. Mountjoy, “Labor”
member for Swan (W.A.) and privileged
instrument of a ferocious Communist
attack on an old man whose only son
fell in New Guinea, has a lot of Com-
munist Yugoslavs in the vegetable-grow-
ing parts of his electorate, with H.Q. at
a place called Osborne Park. Another
Mountjoy, an avowed Communist, is, or
was, on the executive of an organisation
which brings out a paper, the “Market
.Gardener.” In one issue of the “Market
Gardener” this intriguing table of con-
tents was presented:
A good Lead for W.A.: Housing Con-
struction in the U.S.S.R. [The Australian
Colonel Jackson’s report for U.N.R.R.A.
is that 20,000,000 Ukrainians and White
Russians are houseless and are mostly
“living in holes in the ground.”]
Member Don Mounfjoy deals trenchantly
with army critics.
The pamphlet “Government Enterprise”
(by Sharkey, the Communist leader, and a
collaborator) completely debunks the argu-
ments of those opposed to the Government
undertakings.
Young members rendered “Soviet Land”
in English.
Don Mountjoy, M.H.R., gives revealing
close-ups of leaders of bankers’, democracy.
Tito has given valuable lessons that we
can employ.
The Communist Yugoslav vote or in-
fluence is reckoned so important that
Senator Ashley, the Minister of Supply
and Shipping, going to Westralia with
Mr. Chifley, “began his election cam-
paign” in that State “in the Osborne Park
Town Hall, with Mr. Mountjoy, M.H.R.,
and Mr. J. Harris, a Labor Senate candi-
date, as supporting speakers.” The “West
Australian,” which recorded the fact,
noted that “Yugoslav citizens formed a
large part of the audience.”
The British and American Govern-
ments would demur to the statement that
“Tito has given valuable lessons that we
THESE DOUBLE-DRUMMERS!
can employ.” They have been forced to
send strong Notes to Tito’s Government,
which, leaning on U.N.R.R.A. for
enormous free supplies of food and other
requisites, has repaid its benefactors with
a special issue of the Communist mix-
ture of malice and mud, Tito’s “valuable
lessons” being expressed in ingratitude,
insolence and outrage.
Remarking that Tito had circulated
offensive allegations in the Belgrade
press, expressed in one of this chocolate
soldier’s communiques, before the British
representative at Belgrade had been com-
municated with, the British Note said:
His Majesty’s Government is aware that
it is the policy of the Yugoslav Govern-
ment to do its utmost to discredit the
British Government and the British and
American forces in Trieste. The Yugoslav
Note was sent with this purpose, and there-
fore the British Government is not surprised
at its extravagant terms or the clearly ten-
dentious character of many of the charges.
There was also a refereqce to the Yugo-
slav Government having “incited propa-
ganda attacks against the Allied Military
Government in the Trieste region and
criminal and terrorist activities, industrial
unrest and intimidation.”
The American Note was concerned
particularly with the shooting down of
two American Army transport ’planes, one
of them stormbound, over Yugoslavia,
Issued by the Acting Secretary of State,
it stated that the Yugoslav Government
would be “held accountable.” There
followed an ultimatum to this effect:
“Surrender the survivors of your murder-
ous attacks immediately or we’ll hale you
before the Security Council of U.N.0.”
Saying he was “extremely sorry,” Tito
surrendered American survivors, but the
fate of a Turkish passenger in one of the
wrecked ’planes and of the crew of the
other had not been up at the
week-end. '
In effect, it may be necessary for
Britain and America to cut off
U.N.R.R.A. supplies to Yugoslavia and
break off relations with Tito of the “valu-
able lessons.” Recourse to actual hostili-
ties is on the cards if Yugoslavia attempts
a coup in the Trieste region and Russia
in the Dardanelles. In that case there
should be a forced exodus of Yugoslav
Communists from Swan, if not from
other electorates, and if the Mountjoys
chose to accompany them Australians
would try to resign themselves to the
deprivation.
Killing Local Government.
Poets as well as more practical people
have always applauded the man who
could make two blades of grass grow
where one grew before. No such accolade
is likely to be bestowed upon the Sydney
Minister of Local Government if he con-
jures up eight cities where one now stands
and in the process wipes out 60 muni-
cipalities and shires. That’s what this
Mr. Cahill, with the backing of his
“Government,” is aiming at and the
“Government” is apparently determined
to do it without giving either the local-
government bodies or residents a chance
to express an opinion about it.
Generally, local government in N. S.
Wales, despite the meddling of an un-
necessary Minister and staff, has a pretty
good record. There have been blots, here
and there, notably in 1927, when, as a
result of investigations which brought
jail to one person and ensured permanent
retirement for others, the City of Sydney
was placed under commission rule. There
have been smaller scandals in other muni-
cipalities with “Labor” regimes. But as a
rule the people in local-government areas
have a too close intimacy with aldermen,
councillors and council employees for
anyone to get away with skullduggery.
The Cahill proposition—if it is Mr.
Cahill’s and not a mad dream of the
Caucus which gives Mr. Cahill his orders
—would bring 1,229,635 people under
one city council and the rest of the popu-
lation of 1,601,150 under seven others.
This would mean remote control by
strangers. Partyism would become rife
with all its present evils multiplied. Under
existing conditions 1.-g. areas are gov-
erned by elected representatives—unpaid
except that the Mayor has an entertain-
ment allowance —and administered by.
trained specialists. “Labor” sees it as a
field for wielding power and employing
friends.
Labor set up a Royal Commission
which spent 10 months inquiring into the
amalgamation business and returned three
different findings. A Mr, Shannon, a
Sydney City alderman and “Labor”
M.L.A., was one of the witnesses. “It is
the object of the ‘Labor’ party,” said Mr.
Shannon, “to gain control of local gov-
ernment.” A charming prospect for some
people with “Labor” in control of the
Commonwealth and N. S. Wales Parlia-
ments, but not for most people.
There is a volume of argument against
doing away with so much local self-gov-
ernment, not the least powerful being the
experiences of Newcastle and Brisbane,
where the economies promised by the
amalgamators never materialised, there
occurring in both cities heavily increased
costs. And it will be monstrous if the
people concerned are deprived of their
right to signify approval or disapproval by
ballot. The flimsy excuse for this is that
not sufficient of them would vote. There
is no reason to suppose that they would
not. If there were voting could be made
obligatory. This “Labor” proposition
is at least as important to those concerned
as the second Evatt referendum or the
McKell booze vote, which amounts to
an ignoble shirking of Ministerial re-
sponsibility. “Labor” never does consult
the people unless expediency or constitu-
tional requirement dictates.
A Man With Ideas.
S, H. Ebery, the seasonal weather fore-
caster, whose forecasts have been so
accurate over the past 10 years, that he
now has several hundred experienced
farmer subscribers in Victoria who work
by his predictions, is a man who isn’t
easily daunted, but he has found, since he
received the endorsement of Mr. Dedman,
that it is about as easy to abolish red
tape and routine from Government de-
partments as it is to abolish taxes.
Having got Commonwealth Govern-
ment sanction to seek information from
the Air Force, Ebery has been supplied
for 18 months with upper-air drift from
various R.A.A.F. stations throughout the
country. A recent check-up on the data
was disappointing. The observations,
made by pilot balloons, disclosed that
Ebery gets as much at the 30,000 ft. level
by personal observation at his own
private meteorological station at Black
Rock, near Melbourne, as 14 aerodromes,
ranging from Alice Springs to Cloncurry
and Kalgoorlie, obtain at the 20,000 ft.
level. Three per month per station is the
average number of observations. The
pilot balloon takes one to H hours to
reach the cirrus zone at 30,000 ft., and the
eye cannot be taken off it in its flight,
whereas Ebery can get a nephoscope
observation from his backyard usually in
less than two minutes.
The unceasing struggle for ascendancy
between tropical and polar air masses is,
in Ebery’s opinion, of the highest import-
ance in assessing seasonal possibilities
over at least the inland portions of Aus-
tralia. After 35 years’ study of the
problem he believes that upper-air data,
as revealed by cirrus directions and velo-
cities, provide the best possible means of
ascertaining which of these two opposing
forces is, or is likely to become, dominant
and govern the future of the weather. So
he has decided to go outside official
assistance and establish a private network
of voluntary stations, where observations
can be taken daily, if there are people
enthusiastic enough to act in a matter
which he regards as of paramount
national importance.
Displaced or Displacing?
When Mr. Calwell was twitted about
giving landing permits to a couple of
thousand refugee Jews while wives
of ex-servicemen were still awaiting pas-
sages from Britain he protested in his
blustering way that giving landing permits
was not the same thing as giving travel
priorities, and that the people in question
had no priority. The arrival of a party
of Jews from Shanghai weakened the
effect of this statement, and a man who
returned to Australia in an aircraft-carrier
last May has other cause for conscien-
tious doubt.
Australian-born, this man served
years in the Royal Navy. He left behind
him in Britain a wife and two children.
When he tried to get a passage for them
on the carrier he was told all berths had
been allotted, but that as his family was
on high priority there was no need to
worry—they would soon be following
him.
He accepted the reply in good faith,
but his doubts began early in the voyage,
when he found among his fellow-passen-
gers three who were neither ex-servicemen
nor war brides. They belonged to the
race whose militants in Palestine have “de-
clared war on the British Empire.” Two
were middle-aged men intending to start
up in business in this country —not in any
of the building trades. The third was a
youth who blithely declared that his
parents had dispatched him ahead of
themselves to get him out of Britain be-
fore his call-up came. He was a dress
designer. His parents, he said, would be
following him soon.
Four months have passed since that
carrier left Britain. The Navy man’s wife
and kiddies are still over there waiting
for a passage, and no one in London,
Canberra or this side of Heaven can tell
them when their top priority will get it
for them. But the dress designer’s parents
have arrived, and if they choose to show
their gratitude to Mr. Calwell by helping
to make up an audience for his platform
performances they are free to do so.


(For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams and Cecil Mann, all or
252 George-street, Sydney, are responsible.)
■<2SS>
m
55788
CRAVENA
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding quality i
if.,. *** v< *l ! I
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
9
y-M
m
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell and Ward entertained East
Sydney as a sort of comedy duo or
something, and at one of the more hilari-
ous stages of the show Calwell blithered
that he hoped the day would come when
“you will hear Mr. Ward deliver a policy
speech on behalf of the Federal Labor
party.” That will be the day when the
party is reduced to one.
The Menzies policy speech was fol-
lowed by an issue of “Labor” advertise-
ments in which the public was bidden to
“contrast” the Opposition-leader’s “prom-
ises of an overnight Utopia”—he made
no such promise—“with J. B. Chifley’s
firm refusal to give any undertaking
which cannot be honored.” What about
the Chifley crowd’s promises to have
heaps of houses and farms ready for the
servicemen when they returned! While
the advertisements were being incubated,
poor old Dunn, Tully’s successor in the
soldier-settlement business, was reduced
to saying at the N.S.W. Diggers’ confer-
ence that “50 ex-servicemen had been
placed on the land.” Fifty, and 17,000
applications have been received, and there
would be thousands more if there were
a shadow of a chance of their getting the
promised farms.
Forgetting or ignoring Chifley’s. prom-
ise that “Labor” would sling no mud,
“Labor” came out with a muddy attack
on Menzies in election advertisements,
“Can you trust this man?” “Labor” de-
manded, and gave, among other twisted
quotations, this one:
He formed a Government which the Syd-
ney “Morning Herald” (26/ 7/ ’43) described
in these words: “The Government has
become stale. It contains too many dis-
sentient factors and its personnel is sadly
lacking in administrative ability.”
If “S.M.H.” did say that on the date
stated, it could not have been referring
to the Menzies Government, which went
out of office nearly two years before.
The Federal Opposition parties are
getting some unusual recruits in N.S.W.
The Liberals have no more enthusiastic
election worker than a brother of the
A.L.P. Taylor whom “Labor” put on the
Commonwealth Bank Board and then on
its Airlines Commission; and a son and
namesake of Gregory McGirr is coming
out for the Country party against Joe
Clark in Darling. The fathers of both
candidates were in the N.S.W. State Labor
Caucus in the early ’twenties, Father
McGirr being Minister of Motherhood in
1920-21 (in 1906 he had been on the
Labor ticket for the Senate). During that
period. Father Clark was the victim of
a blackguardly outrage. While he was
sleeping the sleep of the just in the Parlia-
mentary smoking-room, someone went
through his pockets and got away with his
“roll.” The miscreant (a “Tory,” no
doubt) was never discovered.
Though from Bali to India our north-
western neighbors want Australian goods
and have the means of paying for them
in produce or money, the only export
item of which any mention is made is
“Labor” lottery tickets. Malaya in par-
ticular has been flooded with these un-
asked-for imports, and the Straits “Times”
got dashed wild about it. Dealing par-
ticularly with Westralian “Labor” exports
of lottery tickets and blurbs, it pointed out
that lotteries are illegal in Singapore —
actually they are illegal everywhere ex-
cept in four “Labor” States —and declared
that the “Labor” Premier of Westralia
should be ashamed of “having the dignity
of his office sullied by printed appeals
for the purchase of lottery tickets through
‘all the Government departments of Wes-
tralia, the Commonwealth Bank and the
Bank of New South Wales.’ ” It is a low-
down business and a rotten “Labor”
sequel to the heroism and martyrdom of
the Eighth Division.
When Chifley was in Perth, it was
pointed out to him that Westralian wheat-
growers object to being fobbed off with
half the world price for their 1945
wheat. Taken aback, he blurted out that
he was “not going to conduct this cam-
paign on the principles of political dis-
honesty.” A very unfortunate expression.
In Westralia, as in other States, all that
wheatgrowers and woolgrowers ask is that
they should receive honest value for their
wheat and wool, less fair handling, freight
and administrative charges.
The Chifleys, unable to get the doctors
to toe the line for a national medical
service, propose to train their own doc-
tors and turn them into civil servants.
This is no doubt on the assumption that,
as bureaucrats have done so much for
the people, medical bureaucrats will be
able to do still more.
Forde, electioneering in Adelaide, ran
into a crisis of his own when his meeting
in the suburb of St. Peter’s had to be
cancelled because of lighting restrictions
caused by the coal shortage. He is ex-
pected to call for a report.
Paterson, the (pro tern.) Communist
M.L.A. for Bowen (N.Q.), bobbed up in
Melbourne to announce that any Commo
who might be elected to the Federal Par-
liament next month would support
“Labor.” “Labor” will be at pains to
assure everybody that it doesn’t want the
Corns., but since it has surrendered to
them at every turn it’s going to have
them, whether it likes it or not. You
can’t be a host to parasites without some
of them clinging like burrs to a blanket.
New Guinea, under Ward’s version of
Chifley’s “Golden Age”;
Natives drive around in trucks and re-
fuse to work... .Twenty-one plantations in
the Madang district are idle because no
native labor is available Natives have so
much surplus money that it will be months
before they spend it.... When natives are
reprimanded they refer the employer to
Mr. Ward, saying they are the white man’s
equals:
Under Ward’s suzerainty a country which
should be turning out produce needed
by Australia and the world has become
a paradise for over-indulged loafers.
With a fine pre-election flourish, the
National Works Council, six-sevenths
“Labor,” announced a public housing and
building programme great enough, with
private construction, to employ 130,000
men for 10 years. Chifley added that these
men should produce more than 60,000
new dwellings per annum —he did not add
“strikes permitting.” And the question
arises as to whether the workers will be
able to buy the houses they build. Cost
of Victorian Housing Commission dwell-
ings has more than doubled, according to
the chairman, J. N. O’Connor. In 1939
Jiouses were built for less than £5OO. The
kme sort of cottage can’t be run up
today for less than £lOOO. And the dif-
ference is more shameful in N. S. Wales.
According to an A.A.P. correspondent
in Spain, Franco has been cutting up
large estates and settling families on the
land:
The Institute has resettled almost
15,000 persons on 3.00,000 acres in three
years The applicants had to be married,
have children, be of good character and
have a knowledge of farming....A farm-
house for a family with six children is of
stuccoed brick, three bedrooms, combina-
tion dining-room and parlor, kitchen and
pantry This house and property would
cost the farmer about £1250, and he has
20 years to pay it off with interest at
3 p.c. per annum.
The whole thing is probably a dark plot
designed to discredit Holy Russia in the
eyes of the world. All the same, there
are at least 60,000 Australian ex-service-
men yearning to be farmers who’d like to
wind up the Commonwealth-States
soldier-settlement scheme with a Spanish
windlass.
Mention was here made, (B. 14/8/’46)
of the complaint of J, H. Julin, who holds
a big coal lease in the Queensland Callide
Valley, that despite a raft of orders for
coal he couldn’t get a licence to mine
it on the ground of “insufficient trade.”
Somebody on the Central Coal Board
must have brushed the sleep from his
eyes; anyway, Julin now has his licence.
Almost overcome, he called it the “end of
a two-year battle” and rushed off to hire
a miner and a couple of shovels. The
nation, desperately short of coal during
the two years, hasn’t been and won’t be
told who was responsible for the hold-up.
In an atmosphere of riots and strikes,
India is acquiring an Interim Govern-
ment headed by Pandit Nehru. In it are
Rajagopalachari, Sarat Chandra Bose, an
Untouchable, a Sikh, a Parsee, an Indian
Christian and three Moslems, none of
them a member of the Moslem League,
which refuses to come in. One of the
Moslem Ministers-elect, Sir Shafaat
Ahmad Khan, has become a hospital case,
having been stabbed “seven times” in a
Simla street. British soldiers had to be
called in to quell the Calcutta riot, in
which there were at least 7000 casualties,
and Wavell has reminded all hands that
“the armed forces will still owe allegiance
to the King-Emperor and the British Par-
liament.” None of Wavell’s campaigns
has been’more difficult.
If the number of stale loaves thrown
out every Monday by N.S.W. house-
wives were stacked together, they’d make
a mountain of food any country in
Europe would be glad to get. It is all
the result of a “Labor” Day-baking Act.
“Bread-wasting” Act would be a better
name for it.
Scully, with a crowd of dried-food plants
on his hands, announced at the week-end
that they were all to be closed down be-
cause U.N.R.R.A. wouldn’t buy their
produce. Earle Page wants an inquiry
into the whole thing. While he’s about
it he might ask for an inquiry into the
Scully wool-appraisement centres in
“Labor” electorates and those wheat dis-
tilleries at Cowra and Warracknabeal.
While McKell was putting in for
over £20,000,000 of loan money for
“works,” most of them in Sydney, and
airily described as a “reservoir aimed at
ensuring employment for many years,”
his State statistician came out with a sum-
mary of pastoral returns. They showed
that N.S.W. had, since 1944, lost
13.000. sheep and 6,000,000 lambs,
mostly through drought, from which
cause it is still losing them, and
17.000. of wool from the same
cause, and that 56,000 dairy cattle had
gone west in the same period. That loss
may be attributed partly to drought and
partly to dairymen’s inability to carry on
under “Labor” ideas of farming.
“Anyway, they can’t hang me, because
there’s a Labor Government in.” Remark
of an 18-year-old North Sydney youth,
told he was to be charged with bashihg
a boy of five to death.
N.S.W. “Labor’s” Turf Club claims a
profit of £48,474 on its first full year’s
operations. Though it was launched with
Treasury backing, none of the profit will
be set against the immense losses expected
on the working of the Government rail-
ways and tramways, which, while trans-
port of the non-racing public has been
drastically restricted, even to the stopping
of hospital and cemetery trams, have been
run to suit “Labor’s” club. There are no
workers among the club members, nor has
any worker been known to share in the
sumptuous meals spread before the privi-
leged class of members and guests.
Kelly and Kenny, of Sydney, have dis-
solved partnership. As partners in the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. they secured the ex-
communication, in name only, of Com-
munist organisations and subsidiaries,
with the result that the Communists and
the Lang group have been laughing ever
since. As president of the Sydney Labor
Council, Kenny announced that Kelly,
who is president of the State A.L.P.,
was resigning as assistant secretary to
go into business —the public-house busi-
ness —and that he, Kenny, was a candidate
for Kelly’s paid job. There being no
other applicant, according to Kenny (this
was tempestuously disputed), Kenny de-
clared himself assistant secretary, forth-
with resigning as president. It has set
people recalling that Coles, Wilson, Tully,
Beasley and Makin, scenting a “Labor”
crash, retreated to soft snaps before the
crash came.
A Sydney “Herald” proof-reader, A. E.
Rowe, was the only “Labor” candidate
who ever won the Parramatta seat. Now,
in circumstances apparently as unfavor-
able, a “West Australian” proof-reader,
C. A. Henderson, is opposing that very
self-satisfied young gentleman Beazley in
Fremantle. Henderson, a native of Cool-
gardie, was for three years in the Church
Army, and for another three years in the
Australian Army. He will be no mean
opponent for Beazley, though in normal
times Fremantle is a Labor electorate.
King Ibn Saud, of Saudi Arabia, has
been looking towards this Common-
wealth. He wants to know why Jews per-
sist in crowding into Palestine and claim-
ing the whole country, an Arab country',
“when there are vast empty territories m
Australia, New Zealand and the two
Americas that could absorb and support
several times the total number of Jews in
the world.”
Because the peoples of these countries
are strong and supported by the right of
might, they are not called upon to take
any Jewish refugees, and if they are asked
to do so and refuse they are not blamed.
Calwell, that enthusiastic patron of
Jewish immigration, and no questions
asked, will have to send a remonstrance
to this King. A trip to Mecca is indi-
cated. Perhaps some of “our Indernesian
comrades” would furnish the necessary
disguises.
Because they heard that somebody in
Melbourne was silly enough to pay 10s.
a pound for South Australian whiting “a
night coup was made by special investi-
gators of the Prices Commission at Theve-
nard” and “prosecutions are to follow."
If the investigators ever get tired of ram-
paging round distant coastal villages, they
could come up to Sydney, where black-
market petrol is ss. a gallon and cigarettes
4s. a packet of 20, and where many other
things can be got at a price if one knows
somebody who knows somebody.
Hanlon and McKell, two of the five
Labor Premiers who have been at Can-
berra, joined in accusing the Chifley
crowd of having hung on to nearly
£9,000,000 of taxation arrears from the
period before uniform taxation came in.
The same crowd is hanging on to
£7,000,000 to £10,000,000 of woolgrowers’
money, but the two “Labor” Premiers
said nothing about that.
Kennelly, the Victorian Minister in
Charge (nominally) of Electrical Under-
takings, was scandalised to the depths of
his official soul when he read a pamphlet,
“Why Electricity Rationing,” issued by
the State Electricity Commission without
his O.K. Jobbins, of the S.E.C., ex-
plained that the commission had been
placed in an invidious position in the
absence of a political statement on the
facts concerning rationing, having re-
peatedly reminded the fuel authority of
the inadequacy of briquette supply with-
out producing any effect whatever.
Liberal-leader Hollway said that the
pamphlet was a challenge to the Cains to
prove that the electricity breakdown
wasn’t due to Government meddling.
Kennelly feels offended because he wasnt
consulted, but to a community fed up
with rationing Mr. Kennedy’s feelings
are of small consequence.


THE ARCADIANS, 1946.
(With Always-Merry-and-Bright Eddie singing “Cheer up, Chiffo, you'll soon be dead. )


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Jasby”: A year ago when Bentwhistle
was doing some week-end weeding in his
front garden, a woman walked in through
the gate and engaged him in conversation.
From her strange manner he realised that
she was suffering from loss of memory,
so, granting the couch-grass and thistles
a brief reprieve, he took her to the police
station, found out her name and address
and delivered her to her family. Last
month Bentwhistle received a letter from
a firm of solicitors, recalling the inci-
dent, stating that the woman had since
died and asking whether he would kindly
call on them at his convenience. With
his head full of all the stories he had ever
read of kindly actions being unexpectedly
rewarded, Bentwhistle found it convenient
to call the very next day. The lady had
left a will, the solicitor explained after a
few preliminaries—Bentwhistle’s heart
beat rapidly—and the family wished to
contest it on the ground that the testator
was of unsound mind. Would Mr. Bent-
whistle be prepared to testify that on the
occasion he met her she was not respon-
sible for her actions? His dream of for-
tune rudely shattered, Bentwhistle asked
for time to consider, and went off to get
his own lawyer’s advice —which was to
leave well alone. It cost him two guineas.
* * * *
John Brennan:
lya Tqguri, one of the three girls who at
various times conducted Radio Tokyo’s “Zero
Hour” programme—they were known to the
troops generally as “Tokyo Rose,” and they
did provide a good deal of amusement and cer-
tainly the best “session” of popular music heard
in the Sqpth Pacific in the early days of the
war—was raked in for an interview with corre-
spondents a couple of days after the landing
in Japan in September last year. She came to
the Bund Hotel in Yokohama, obviously pre-
pared to give an ingenuous and disarming
account of her activities. She had been born
and educated in America, had been visiting an
aunt in Japan when war broke out, had got a
jqb as typist with Radio Tokyo “to earn a
living,” and had drifted innocently into broad-
casting scripts without, of course, realising that
anything she did or said could have any effect
on the soldiers who heard her. Her particular
line had been to appeal to the homesickness
of American troops. She had announced her-
self as Little Orphan Annie: “This is your
little playmate Ann, speaking to those forgotten
men of the South Pacific, whose wives and
sw.eethearts are fast forgetting them, and who
themselves are fast forgetting them." In Tokyo
she had married a Portuguese and claimed
Portuguese nationality. The pleasant, American
college-girl voice was recognisable, but the
woman herself was hard and shrewd and cal-
culating. There were beginning lines of age
about her eyes, and she gave the impression of
ageing like a Westerner rather than with the
soft falling to flesh of the majority of Japanese
women. There were more than 100 corre-
spondents to question her, and she had already
begun to answer questions before some of those
still crowding into the room realised who she
was. One, from the back, called out “What’s
her name, first?” “Iva Toguri.” “What?
I —V for virtue, or B for hitch?” When she
left American Eighth Army M.Ps. were waiting
to take her in hand.
* * ♦ *
“Gladesville”: The country bank man-
ager takes his job seriously—overdrafts
and securities are real things and a per-
sonal interest in customers is necessary.
But now and then he oversteps the
mark. Our local cattle sale was in
progress, the bank manager watching
events, and bids were soaring when a
voice shouted across the ring “That’s
enough for you, Bill —you’re over your
limit now.” Bill was a client with an
overdraft.
♦ * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Newspaper stories
of Sydney’s thugs and bashers are having
their effect on our quiet Perth suburb.
Mrs. Joe lay in bed thinking of the long,
lonely stretch of road from the station ;
Sally, the housemaid, wasn’t home and it
was past ten o’clock, A weird shriek
from down the road froze Mrs. Joe into
inarticulation and brought Joe out on
the cold floor searching for his slippers
and his dressing-gown. He reached
the front door in time to admit Sally,
who clung to him and babbled incoher-
ently, “What happened?” Joe asked, im-
ploring Sally to stop strangling him. “A
—a man,” Sally gasped. “Did he molest
you?” Sally shook her head. “Did he
speak to you?” Another shake. “Well,
what did he do?” “He w-w-walked
past me,” Sally wailed. They got her to
bed, and Joe soothed her with an assur-
ance that he’d look for tracks in the
morning. He found them all right in the
soft gravel on the side of the road. They
were made by a man’s shoes, but in every
other respect they resembled tracks made
by a startled doe with a greyhound on
her tail. Joe estimated that the “assail-
ant” did the first hundred yards in 3Gft.
leaps when Sally’s scream galvanised him
into action.
* * * *
“Ray”: In a weak moment I agreed to
take the kids'to Taronga Park Zoo. It’s not
my idea of the best way of spending
Saturday afternoon, but a promise is a
“ Whacko! A fresh egg at last.”
promise, so off we went. We fed the
monkeys, patronised the elephant, admired
the koalas, saw the lions fed, ate buns and
ice-cream and drank lemonade. Then
the youngsters spotted the merry-go-round
and clamored for a ride. Personally I
can never see what a merry-go-round has
to do with a zoo, but the kids seemed to
accept it as part and parcel of the place,
so there was nothing else for it. I always
associate mechanical music with merry-
go-rounds, but that Saturday the zoo
wasn’t giving music. Certainly they had
the wireless going full blast and they may
have been hoping for a few bursts of
popular melody, but whoever expects to
find music on an Australian radio station
on Saturday afternoon? The children
were whirled round and round to the
accompaniment of a frenzied description
of the fourth race at Randwick. There’s
no doubt about it —the zoo is educa-
tional.
* • * *
“Dick Swiveller”: The lure of a new
reef for an old miner is nothing to the
fascination which a fortune in chancery
has for those who regard themselves
as its rightful heirs. I have vivid
memories of one claimant. A dignified,
though diminutive, gentleman of courtly
manner, he had proved to his own satis-
faction that he was heir to several mil-
lions in chancery. As proof he placed
on my table what appeared to be a piece
of very thick paper about six inches
square. “Open it up,” he said. I pulled
the top layer to the right, the next to the
left. “Keep on,” he said. I continued
to open the folds of paper. Soon it
spread over my blotting pad, then over
my table, then over another table I had
drawn up alongside it. Fully opened, it
covered both tables and the ends hung
down over the edges and draped along
the floor. It was his family-tree, and I
did not doubt him when he said he had
given up work years previously to devote
his full time to its preparation. I folded
it up again, muttering something about
not having the time his case merited. He
bowed politely and left. His claim may
have been valid, but no one else on
earth had enough time to spare to fol-
low through the ramifications of his
family-tree.
* * ♦ *
“Ike Hollar”: An O.F.M. mentioned
“Boys’ Own Paper” and Treasure Island
as an indication of the kind of literature
provided for youngsters of a previous
generation. There was a connection;
Treasure Island ran as a serial in “8.0. P.”
Stevenson was battling with poverty at
the time ; the magazine editor continually
received appeals for advance pay. The
rate was two guineas an instalment, and
the payments were three instalments in
advance when the serial concluded.
Rather proudly, the editor later boasted
that the journal gave R.LJS. a bonus
equal to three instalments.
* * * •
“F.S.”: The travelling scholarships for
Australian art students are being revived
now the war is over and, as formerly, the
Mecca of the artistic pilgrims is Paris.
Paris is the city to which thousands of
art students from all over the
world have gone every year,
but very little has come out of
it. If the scholarship winner is
a sociable individual he hasn’t
a hope of becoming anything
important—the cafes are too
lovely. The whole life of the
city is concentrated on them
and every little boulevard is
more jolly than the whole of
Melbourne or Sydney during the Victory
celebrations. An austere individual might
be able to do some work in Paris, but not
a person who likes sociability and friend-
ship. I once asked a young student, the
son of an American millionaire car-manu-
facturer, how he was getting on as an
artist. “Waal,” he said, “the model calls
in the morning and, of course, we have
to have a drink before we start and we
go out to a cafe. You know how it is—-
one drink leads to another, and then we
have something to eat, and then we go
to another cafe, ‘ and before you know
where you are it’s time for dinner; and
after dinner, waal, you can’t work then.
so we go to the Folies.”
» * * n
_ “Youanmi”: Like “Oliver Filter” (B.
7/8/’46) I’ve just returned to civvies and
the tobacco problem.
I studied the furtive
manner in which the
average ciwie slinks
up to a kiosk, takes
a quick look round
for spies and then al-
most grovels on his
stomach begging for
a packet of smokes.
Others wander into
the shop, talk about
the weather, buy a
few odds and ends
and then, casually
but self-consciously,
ask for the gaspers.
Then there’s the bloke with the
hard-luck story and the desperate ex-
pression—he asks the girl to sell him just
one cigarette, please. There are a dozen
other approaches and I’ve seen ’em all
used unsuccessfully. So today I marched
boldly into the tobacconist’s, planked the
money on the counter and, in the confi-
dent tone of a free and unharried citizen,
said “Two packets of smokes, please.”
The chap behind the counter handed ’em
over briskly and I was half way out of
the shop before he realised what he’d
done.
“Coongan”: The quiet little bloke in
front of me was about fortieth on the
queue for smokes. After about an hour
of waiting and shuffling, during which he
muttered and grumbled about shortages
and racketeers, he reached the window.
The dispenser of heavenly gifts shoved
a packet of gaspers at him s but he pushed
them back at her with “No, thanks, I
don’t smoke. I want a bottle of hair oil,
please.” He got away unscathed.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“C.P.R.”: The boy was five, the girl
seven, the day cold and windy and they
were given a corner of the lounge-room
in which to play “shop.” They set up a
counter and stock, the girl went behind it,
the boy became the customer. When the
establishment was open for business he
entered and asked for a pound of butter.
“Where’s your coups?” the girl asked.
He grinned and made motions of fishing
in a bag. “Oh,” said the girl, “excuse
me—the telephone.” She reached an
imaginary instrument from the wall,
placed a bit of paper on the arm of a
chair, poised a pencil, listened thought-
fully to an imaginary voice and then said
Very well, thank you. Yes, I’ll put it
down. Two shillings each way Bern-
b rough an’ seven shillings on Royal
Janette. Thank you.” And with the in-
tent, unsmiling air of the businesswoman
she hung up the imaginary instrument’
Now we’re trying to decide which local
shop she has been in lately.
“Uramao”: A shortage of jockeys in
the seven-stone class has perturbed a
Maoriland M.P., who wants to know
whether the Government will take some
measures to correct the deficiency. The
member was afforded little enlightenment
as to remedies, but it seems that the prac-
tice of feeding children during school
hours with milk and apples is a contri-
butory cause to the building up of heavy-
weight champs rather than the lightweight
variety.
• * * *
“Five-by-two”; The tentative reappear-
ance in shops of a bit of tinned fish and
the rush of their womenfolk to buy it
have brought sour grins to the faces of ex-
servicemen. The average civilian seems
to think that “bully” was the soldier’s pet
aversion, and the only other Army tucker
which has come to the notice of comic-
strip artists seems to be m. and v.
Soldiers did hate the latter, but if a census
were taken “goldfish” would be an easy
winner among those who saw service in
the Islands. Another much-hated meal
was “beans and bacon.” This was served
with maddening monotony in many
camps, and since the majority of cooks
seemed to think they were doing you a
favor if they opened the tins you often
got your rasher dumped in your mess
tin still in its grease-proof paper.
♦ * * * *
“Oliver Filter”: An acquaintance of
mine who, miraculously, runs his own
business seems to spend most of his after-
noons in the saloon-bar of a hotel nearly
two miles from his office. One lunch-
hour, over a pint, I said “Surely it’s
much too far to come for a drink.”
“It’s never too far to go for a drink,”
he replied. “But it’s always much too far
to go back to the office,” he kdded and
settled contentedly into a comfortable
leather chair for the afternoon.
* * * *
“Cumbrian”: An American magazine
advertises a scheme whereby one can read
more quickly and with greater under-
standing. You sign the coupon on the
dotted line and mail it with your two
dollars 50 cents, and the wonder book is
“rushed out to you at once.” The an-
nouncement claims that you should read
by phrases, not words, and that the mind
grasps more this way and does it more
quickly, a reading speed of 400 w.p.m.
being given as the goal. The average
man’s. reading is undertaken to inform,
enlighten and entertain. It is to be sup-
posed that each one of us has settled
down to a speed in reading which is most
suitable to his individual comprehension,
and in such a matter every man must be
a law unto himself. It seems nonsense
to claim that comprehension is in propor-
tion to celerity.
* * * *
“Dough”: The friendly, familiar cry
of “Baker” means a lot more than a loaf
of. bread in our suburb. In one day’s
round our local carter killed a black
snake in Mrs. Jones’s backyard, lopped a
couple of roosters for Mrs. Blunt, who
can’t bear to see the heads fall, restored
Jimmy Johnson, aged three, to his home
a mile and a half away, delivered a par-
cel of old clothes to the Red Cross and
helped in the rescue of a cat from a tree.
In between whiles he delivered the bread
and passed on the latest news.
* * * »
“Pab D.”: I’ve heard of many excuses
for drinking, but a rollicking alcoholic
who lives next door seems to have the
game completely sewn up. Last Thurs-
day I caught up with him as he was
taking violent evasive action against
stationary lamp posts. “D’ y’ know what’s
today?” he said. “Napoleon’s birthday,
it is. Couldn’t poss —posh—damnj
couldn’t let it pash without celebrashun.’
On Friday evening I met him while he
was trying to untangle his gate latch.
“Had to have a few t’night,” he said.
“That bloke T. E. Lawrence; y’ know—
Shaw of the Arabs or something. It's
his birthday today.” Yesterday he cheer-
fully announced that “Orville Wright was
born sheventy-fife years ago today. Great
man, he was. Great man.” I met him
on the tram this evening (August 20)
and, although he was lit up, he was
melancholy. “’S Moshquito Day,” he
said almost “Had to have a
drink with the mossies.” Never having
heard of Mosquito Day, I asked him
what it was all about. “Dunno,” he con-
fessed almost guiltily, and relapsed into
gloom. Then he brightened. “But its
Baphume tomorrow,” he said. “And
Bosworth Field on Thursday. Goo’ ole
Bosworth! ”
THE WATCHMAN.
Bewilderedly I wonder when
We’ll see the price of oysters fall;
For one-and-nine for nine or ten
Packed in a bottle slim and small
Is —spare me days! a trifle tall,
My balance-sheet it blurs and blotches
And sets me wondering withal
What Maxie Falstein gets for watches.
Some say there’s no inflation. Then
Why do the goods on every stall
Cost twice, or half as much again.
What barrowmen were wont to bawl?
Or fish that, braving storm and squall,
The enterprising trawler “cotches”
Be sold at figures that appal?—
And what does Falstein charge for watches?
Why worry, though? The Englishmen
Will soon be here, intent to haul
The ashes from our keep and ken
With many a wile of bat and ball.
Our backs may soon be at the wall
And every run a batsman notches
Be viewed as far more critical
Than Falstein’s quid pro quo in watches.
I wonder when once more I’ll call
For nips in which some real Scotch is.
But what I wonder most of all
Is just what Maxie makes in watches.
N.s.w.
C. W. A. HAUWARD.
252 George-street, Sydney.


“S.W.K.”: For that sense of depression
which over-exposure to the efforts of some
radio comedians induces, I find no more
satisfying palliative than turning up a
Federal income-tax assessment of the
days before it was considered safe to
sock the family man, and before almost
a quarter of Australia’s population be-
came Government employees. In my 1938
assessment not only was my statutory ex-
emption given in plain figures, but it was
clearly demonstrated how to arrive at it.
1 totalled the straight-out deductions for
wife and kids, insurance and all other
allowable items, took that from my screw
and could arrive at my taxable income
with no need for any excursions into the
Differential Calculus and Euclid. My
taxable rate —hold on to your chairs
was 2.8866 d. in the pound, and my total
tax for the whole year considerably less
than what I now, pay for a week’s
butcher s meat. I was informed that
the tax could be paid without fine up to
two months plus three days’ grace after
issue, and when I paid it two days after
the final date it was graciously accepted,
sans fine. Yes, I suppose I did go crook
at the time —wondered why the soansos
had to put the .8866 of a brown on to
the rapacious tuppence.
« * * *
“Low-pointer”: “Sach’s” young man
requiring Is. 7d. to complete his journey
(B. 7/8/’46) was working an old one.
That touch was worked to death in the
West years ago. His prototypes, soldiers
wanting a shilling for a home wire,
were stronger in numbers than badge
“Fined sixpence. Next case.
sellers outside Perth’s G.P.O. Schoolboys
put the touch on a novel plane by standing
in public conveniences and, with a look
of dire distress on their faces, saying to
all comers, “Got a penny, mate?” Mate
usually dropped a “zac” or so in with
the penny ; some boys averaged eight or
nine bob a day. I unwittingly struck a
good line at Townsville on the “way up.”
Being 4d short of admission to a dance
I tried selling an airmail stamp. That
one stamp brought in two quid before an
airforce bloke took me fair dinkum.
* * * • * u
“Debunk”: How many miles to Baby-
lon? I don’t know the answer, but I’ve
a feeling that, if the Railways were re-
sponsible for changing the spelling ot
Nimmitybelle to Nimmitabel, some rail-
wayman must have known his Assyrian
history. According to the best authorities
the city of Babylon was surrounded by
two walls. The road between the two
walls was paved with stones and the walls
on each side were lined with enamelled
tiles, on which a procession of lions was
represented. The inner wall was the
Imgur-bel, the outer wall was the Nimitti-
bek Perhaps someone can explain why
this name was given to Australia s bleak-
est town. The Australian Blue Book
gives Nimmitabel as aboriginal—source
of many waters.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Judges of the Arbitration
Court are often given little credit for com-
monsense and shrewd insight into human
frailty by some of our politicians and
union secretaries, but I saw one of them
display both recently. Backing up verbal
evidence on factory conditions, a union
“organiser” produced a collection ot
photos taken by him while on visits to
members at their places of work. He
began to spout about the abuses revealed
by the snaps. His Honor laid them aside
after a cursory glance, remarking cpldly
that he was an amateur photographer
himself and knew something of what
could be done with photographs. He dis-
counted the carefully-prepared exhibit
with the announcement that he would
personally inspect the'premises under dis-
cussion.
* * * *
“K.8.L.”: It’s a common notion that
the criminal type possesses a high order
of intelligence, the misuse of which is
a distinct loss to society. Having at one
time been induced to take a holiday at the
Government’s pleasure, 1 studied the type
at first hand and was not impressed with
the brilliance of the country’s permanent
and semi-permanent hostages. Animal
cunning certainly, but brilliance, no! Big
Tom (semi-permanent type) was one day
lamenting the fact that while he was
“cooling his heels” there were “mugs’
galore running about the city. According
to Tom, city life in 1942 was providing
an age of golden opportunity with so
many Yanks and other cashed-up service-
men about. Tom was doing five years for
robbery with violence —an old man the
victim, 10 shillings the booty.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson and his missus
were entertaining a couple of rather prim
maiden ladies in hopes of capturing their
votes for the political party which the
Jephsons espouse. The three Jephson off-
spring arrived from school, were proudly
introduced to the guests, given pieces of
cake and invited to go out and play.
Quietness, modified by the slow drone of
voices, returned to the room, except that
occasionally from outside came a distant
whoop or yell and once an agonised cry
of “Mum!” hurriedly squashed by a thin
scuffling. The Jephsons had gently led
their visitors up to the point of declar-
ing themselves in favor of the Jephson
politics, and there was a reaching for
handbags in search of financial donations,
when the door burst open and a well-
grown boy charged yelling through the
room, hotly pursued by his brother and
sister. A shocked silence ; for the quarry
was clad in a short singlet. While Jepn-
son rose to deal with the matter the visi-
tors bade Mrs. Jephson farewell in cold
and dignified accents, resolutely closed
their handbags and departed, brom the
mass of explanation that followed it de-
veloped that the kids had been playing
politics and, having heard their father
declare* that a certain candidate would
“have the pants licked off him,” had
elected one of their number and forcibly
removed his garments to illustrate the
game.
* * * *
“R.E.”: A man staying at a country
hotel for a few days came home in the
small hours to find himself locked out,
and the building in darkness. Vigorous
knocking failed to bring any response.
The night was bitterly cold, so he rapped
‘I'll take a deener's worth!”
on the door of the police station, further
down the road. The sergeant suggested
that they carry a ladder down ,to the
hotel; the guest could then climb up to
his bedroom window. The ladder was
weighty, and the pair struggled down to
the pub. They propped the ladder against
the wall, the visitor scaled up, and slipped
through the window. Patiently the
sergeant waited. Time passed, and then
the cold truth struck him. Instead of
coming down and unlocking the door to
assist, the other had gone straight to
bed, leaving him the task of carrying the
cumbersome ladder back to the station.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Under - nourishment in
well-to-do families (B. 14/8/’46)? A
boy I knew grew up on a diet of potatoes
and gravy, plus puddings; the only
meat he would eat was sausages. After
a meal he would put his head under the
tap and fill himself up to the ears with
water. There was plenty of other food
on the table, but he could never be in-
duced to eat it. How he survived this
diet is a wonder, but his peculiar dietary
prejudices were almost the sole topic of
conversation in that family, which was
desperately concerned about it. When
he went out into the world he had to
live in messes whose members didn’t care
tuppence if he voluntarily starved him-
self to death, and he gave up the practice
and now looks quite normal. Pyschologi-
cally considered, his strange habits were
an endeavor to capture attention, and he
certainly succeeded with his family.
Many cases of malnutrition among the
comfortably off can probably be ex-
plained in the same way.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: I cannot tell “Blank File”
(B. 14/8/ ’46) how the brasshats decided
just who was the officer type. But I can
tell him how, in one case, they decided
who was not. m The reject, enlisting at
19, rose to C.S.M. of a training regiment
in the M.E., and followed this with a
good combat record, which he “furbished
new” in N.G. At 22 he went before the
preselection wallahs. That august body
looked him over searchingly, and found
his hide liberally bespattered with a varie-
gated but strictly decent set of tattoo de-
signs. On the ground that such ex-
hibitionism damned him as a potential
officer the board washed him out. A
psychologist would have interpreted the
decorations as the demonstration of a
youthful enthusiasm for* the military way
of life, but the brasshats sent away an
embittered youngster. The effect on the
morale of his men was noticeable in his
subsequent career as an n.c.o.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: When I was at school
a sapient headmaster observed that when
a row developed between boys it usually
ended in fisticuffs the reason being that,
in the presence of spectators, each
contestant felt obliged to keep up
the pose of a redoubtable hero
the insult to whose honor could be
wiped out only in blood. He thereupon
made a rule that the moment a fight
threatened to develop the prefects must
promptly take the principals in custody,
• escort them to the gymnasium and lock
them inside for 20 minutes. In the
absence of an audience the two antago-
nists felt ridiculous and silly, and after
a few minutes shook hands and asked to
be let out. Fights fell to a minimum at
that school after this system was inaugu-
rated, and there is a moral in it for adult
use. Human beings don’t really grow up ;
,they only get bigger.
# ip # *
“Lord Luvus”: A virtuoso said that soon
a pianist or fiddler would be able to leave
a concert in London or New York, hop
into a ’plane and two days later be per-
forming in Australia, and, having no
doubt collected his boodle, be playing
the following week in Moscow. I dare
say he will be in such a devil of a hurry
all his life that he will have no
time to practise. Certainly the traveller
of the future won’t give himself time to
see anything between Australia and Lon-
don, and a couple of generations hence
some new Marco Polo will set out from
Brisbane to rediscover India and Java, and
everyone will be agog to read about the
primitive marvels and beauties of those
places. The other day I met a man in
Collins-street whom I hadn’t seen for a
couple of weeks. “I was talking to your
old pal Dauber five days ago,” he said.
“Were you?” I exclaimed, astonished. “I
didn’t know he was in Melbourne. Last
I heard he was in Chelsea.” “That’s where
I met him,” remarked this modern
traveller.
* * * -
“Zake”: Two recent car accidents—
in one an 84-year-old driver was
involved, and in the other a septua-
genarian driver, victim of a heart attack,
slumped dead across his wheel while his
car careered out of control to be wrecked
against a pole—are pointers to N.S.W.
official methods of granting drivers’
licences. I know one old fellow whose
hand shakes like a half-set jelly exposed
to a tornado whenever he tries to hold a
cup of tea. With high blood pressure,
diabetes and a touch of dropsy thrown in
for good measure, as well as being able to
see things in a blurred way fully 20ft.
ahead, he still insists on driving his car. He
averages about 10 m.p.h., mostly hugging
the crown of the road, and as a result he
has been involved in a number of minor
accidents. And he will be allowed to
keep on enjoying more accidents even if
he has to be lifted into his car, provided
he is able to cough up his 10s. licence
renewal fee each year. The last time I
renewed my own the man beside me
placed his licence, with fee, on the counter.
Glancing idly at it I saw that it described
him as having “dark hair.” Just then he
took off his hat and with his handker-
chief mopped a shiny dome which had
a tenuous circle of grey fringe behind
the ears.
* * * *
“M.J.E.”: Surely “loughboy” (B.
17/7/’46) is a rather fantastic spelling of
“lowboy,” which is a “tallboy” cut down
to something like one-third of its Vic-
torian stature. Tallboy is an Anglicisation
of a French term in which “bois”
(“wood”) retains its colloquial significance
of “furniture” made from same, and the
“taille,” which became “tall,” might have
as easily referred to carving, or special
shape, as to height, since most of the older
furniture was on the tall side, anyhow.
This “bois” is what gave us “boy” and
“boys” as a term for negroes and then
for all colored labor. Cargoes of “black
ivory” were “bois d’ebene.” I often won-
der if the French are afflicted with re-
formers who worry about the “semantic
inconsistencies” of the language, and rave
at some breed called grammarians whom
they seem to consider responsible for its
non-mathematical evolution. Because to
that kind of mind French must be as
aggravating as English.
AN UNKIND CUT.
“Listeners to • the broadcasting of Parliamentary
debates have been shocked by the prevalence ot
atrocities against the King’s English, alike in the
way of tortured grammar and mispronunciation.
— “S. M. Herald.”
Shocked! Did they then expect
To find the land’s elect
So careful and correct
An institution
That every word would be
A guide to you and me
In syntax, prosody
And elocution?
Shocked! When C.Ps. or Libs.
Dong Labs, beneath the ribs,
Or Labs, with jabs and jibs
Detractors hammer,
What odds if orators
In heat of party wars
Mingle their metaphors
Or mangle grammar?
i,
Sane sentiment's and sound
Beliefs may still abound
In those who haven’t found
The way to speak in
The English undefiled
Which erst our dads beguiled,
The stirring stuff compiled
By Reid or Deakin.
What though they murder rules
That kids are taught in schools
And risk more ridicules
Than boy debaters,
Out on cheap sneers and scoffs!
These are no cultured toffs
Or learned uni. profs.—
Just legislators.
Still, Senators and Reps.
From now should watch their steps
To dodge unkind remarks
About their diction
And learn to reprobate
The misused aspirate
Which earned for poor old Parkes
So much affliction.
N.S.W.
C. W. A. HAYWARD.


m
i
m
r?
$
w
fir?
m
Pack up your worries
Let Pioneer transport you from familiar sur-
roundings to the deep, cool forests, the serene
old mountains, the playful streams and pur-
poseful rivers.* Leave everything to us. We
drive you in lounge-like luxury. We do all the
reserving of accommodation and booking of
meals. We take you to see all the loveliest
places and most fascinating things along the
route. And you—you pack every day to the
brim with carefree enjoyment.
NOW is the time to book for
heer tours
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE
MUBOI4
8U5511
84635
C 2514
Talk over your next holiday with the Pioneer Travel
Expert, or send for descriptive literature.
as
■■l
: :
ii
■
: BSs
M
m
il
m
m
v
m
V>"
mm
0
i
PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW
WHEN I JOSS YOUR INGRAM'S FACE.
Can you blame a girl when it’s
her excuse to kiss his' Ingram’s
face again. A nice face, a soft
face, a cool face. A face on which
a whisker scarcely dares to raise
its head. Beards find Ingram’s
quite heartbreaking. The famous
atomic lather burrows in, wounds
’em, wilts ’em, stands ’em up and
then caresses the skin into a vib-
rant, purring coolness.
INGRAM’S
■O
■M
LunnniU!
ngram*
Xnofad’
wvi\g Qa^
SHAVING CREAM
f • '-.
p • - •
Obtainable at all Chemists.
INA
TH E SERVICE MAN
Historical Proceedings.
Hearing of the case against Major
Charles Hugh Cousens, first of its
kind in Australia, was begun in the
Central Police Court, Sydney, on August
20. The charge was laid under the Eng-
lish Treason Act of 1351, and was in
these terms;
That on August 1, 1942, and on divers
other days thereafter, between that day and ,
August 15, 1945, Charles Hugh Cousens,
w Khkoswald-avenue, Mosman, New South
Wales, being then a British subject, and
while on the said several days an open and
public war was being prosecuted and car-
ried on by the Japanese Emperor and his
subjects against our Sovereign Lord the
King and his subjects and his allies, then
on the said several days traitorously con-
triving and intending to aid and assist the
said enemies of our Sovereign Lord the
King and his allies against the King and his
subjects and his allies, did traitorously
adhere to and aid and comfort the said
enemies in parts beyond the seas without
the King’s realm, to wit, the Empire of
Japan.
According to Mr. Dovey, K.C., open-
ing for the Crown, Major Cousens was
accused of having committed treason in
five ways, of which the last two were
the most serious:—*
On August 12, 1942, he broadcast to
Australia on the benevolent Japanese treat-
ment of prisoners-of-war.
To December, 1942, he broadcast propa-
ganda for the Japanese.
From 1942 to 1945, as an expert in
broadcasting, he instructed Radio Tokyo
“Did I ever tell y’ of the time I got lost In the kunai?”
employees so that their propaganda and
commentaries might be more effective.
Between 1942 and 1945, without restric-
tion, pressure or deletion, he composed,
wrote and published news commentaries for
broadcasting.
He sub-edited commentaries of others.
Major Cousens, counsel proceeded, was
an Englishman born at Poona in 1903,
who came to Australia before the war
and had considerable experience in broad-
casting. He enlisted in the A.1.F., went
to Singapore with the Eighth Division
and became 2/i.c. of the 2/19th Bat-
talion as temporary major. After Singa-
pore fell, on the suggestion of high-
ranking A.I.F. officers he broadcast to
Australia, saying that the troops were “as
well as can be.” Later he rejected enemy
overtures for him to broadcast from
Singapore and went with “A” Force to
Merguy, in South Burma. From there he
was ordered to Tokyo by the Japanese,
arriving on July 31, 1942. Although it
was conceded that Major Cousens had
first objected when ordered to broadcast
from Tokyo, there was no evidence, apart
from his own statement, that he had suf-
fered any violence before he finally agreed.
The Crown’s first witness was a Japanese
woman, Foumy Saisho. She said she had
been educated in Japan and at Michigan
University, U.S.A., where she obtained
B.A. and M.A. degrees. She returned to
Japan in 1934 and divorced her husband,
an American citizen, in 1941. Her pre-
sent occupation was given as journalist on
a Japanese newspaper and interpreter for
a Sydney “D.T.” representative.
When Major Cousens arrived in Japan,
she was script-writing, translating and
examining English scripts to see that they
conformed with Japanese policy. She had
read every script written by Major
Cousens and had found them “satisfac-
tory.”
Proceeding, this witness deposed that
Major Cousens had spent the first week or
two in Tokyo revising English news
scripts, after which he began broadcast-
ing “Nippon Times” editorials. His voice
sounded “flat and monotonous” and she
did not think he was doing his best. He
was shifted to script-writing. She re-
membered “some fuss” when Major
Cousens was ordered to broadcast. Nami-
keawa, a Board of Information official,
brought Major Tsuneishi, in charge of
Japanese propaganda, into the office and
the latter read a “command of the
Japanese Imperial Army” to the effect
that Major Cousens was to cause no more
trouble and was to co-operate with the
rest of the staff. Major Cousens bowed
and said nothing. No violence was done
or offeree! to Mainr Tomeris nor bnH be
/ ottered to iviajor uousens. nomad ne
complained of any to her at any time.
To Mr. Dovey the witness said that,
as well as writing news commentaries,
Maior Cousens wrote srrints f“entirelv
iviajor cousens wroie scripts f entirely
entertainment, largely illustrating the par-
ticular music”) for “Zero Hour,” a pro-
f??™ 8 desi f ed t 0 ‘ n£ t ect A “* ed t ™°P s
with homesickness. Late in 194 Iviajor
Cousens had shown her a letter which he
said he had written to Tsuneishi suggest-
ins * hat he (. c » usens ) Ay A “ s « raiia w “ h
peace negotiations, undertaking to return
as soon as J l6 had finished. She thought
a S°°d idea.
Under cross-examination by Mr. Shand
Miss Saisho admitted having heard that
Major Cousens had said he would rather
“do anything, even sweep the floors,” than
broadcast. Tsuneishi’s tone of voice was
“very strong,” but she denied that Major
Cousens had been threatened with execu-
tion. He had appeared willing to do his
work and to be satisfied with his job.
There were occasions when he seemed
“most unhappy,” and he once said he
was going to commit suicide. She had
replied that it was far easier to die than
to live and that it was cowardly of him
to think of such a thing. She denied that
she bore Major Cousens the “slightest
animosity or ill-will,”
• To Mr. Dovey: There was a con-
siderable improvement in the broadcast
technique of those announcers who re-
ceived tuition from Major Cousens,
Miss Saisho’s evidence extended over
the first four days of the hearing, On
the third day Mr. Shand produced a
bundle of photostats, declared to be
copies of pages from the diary of Lt.-
Commander Henshaw, of U.S. Naval In-
telligence, who was also a prisoner-of-war
in Japan. The diary “reeked of coercion,”
Mr. Shand observed. He added later that
if the Crown did not call the lieut.-com-
mander the defence would bring him to
Sydney,
On that third day the prosecution began
the reading of 51 commentaries alleged to
have been written by Major Cousens. By
the week-end 43 of them had been read.
On the morning of the fourth day a
recording of a -broadcast said to have
been picked up from Japan by an Aus-
tralian station on August 1, 1942, was
played in court. The voice, pronounced
that of Major Cousens by Miss Saisho
and the manager of a Sydney radio
station, said that prisoners-of-war in
Japanese centres were being considerately
treated.
The hearing was resumed on Monday
and was still in progress when this report
had to be closed.
Communists in the R.S.L
Though the question of harboring
members of the Communist conspiracy
in the R.S.L. was sidestepped at the
N.S.W. annual conference —on the ground
that it was a matter for Federal Congress
to deal with —more is certain to be heard
of it.
At the Sydney gathering it gener-
ated a fair amount of heat, one member


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JACK WALL (Respondent) and LORRAINE
LEONARD (Woman charged).—TAKE NOTICE that
MAVIS FRANCES LOUISA WALL has filed a
Fetition No. 3058 of 1940 praying for a divorce
from JACK WALL on the ground of his adultery
with LORRAINE LEONARD If you «r either of you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the fourth day of November 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from Mr. E. PAUL
BRANDT Solicitor 350 George Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
WOULD SAMUEL HEBBLETHWAITE, at one time
employed at the Crown Solicitor’s Office, Sydney, or
anyone knowing of his whereabouts or particulars of
his death, kindly communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.), 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney,
I &
YOUR
|UT 0
ill
■
m
1
S>
See the AGA Cooker . ~. biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amaiingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. Rj}
AG A
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
€OOKEH
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. In N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmei
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.O. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
f.
«ES»
A
>
A
F
When you
cruise over the
hills and far away
piplC TYRES
will be right in the picture
Wait for the rugged . . .
extra-mileage quality .. .the
bigger value of Olympic,
Australia’s foremost tyre.
KEEP ON BUYING SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND STAMPS
OLYMPIC
WIRES
W
AND
CABLES
A PRODUCT Of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE
& RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF TIE RUBBE R I HSU IDIED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AIS TRA LI A
* in'nlpnt extreme of hurling a
going to the Violent Xtre ™f
Communist flag at the platfo , &
off his badge and stamping outfor which
he was expelled from membership. 1 .
is no way to dea* Wl * v * e „ OW n
racket; its i ■ uyy
ga T-, Fe< S r l l
to deal with it,, an ‘
see that it is brought up there.
At • t I be V^ t 0 IS S
president G. W. H° nand ed Sfbership
mumsts were debarred an bv
under the League s
hVirraling” BAU, 8 AU, R.S.L. sub g branchcs
in Victoria have since been
tbat tbe y are bound by the decision, o
throughout Vitoria the Corns are out
As they shoul
Returned Sal s. It has been
Impend League of Australia. 1 has
an .lmperial League from its inception
inft?Teame
***** and the British Commonweaith
° Themis’ no nrovision in the League
first loyalty is to a foreign country.
Return to Nauru.
In Mid-Pacific Outposts (Brown and
Stewart, Auckland) Sir Albert Ellis, the
N.Z. Government representative on the
board of the British Phosphate Commis-
sion, has written an excellent sequel to
his Ocean Island and Nauru, published
in 1935. His acquaintance with the
phosphate islands goes back to 1900, and
he was a witness to the reoccupation of
both. The natives have always held him
in high regard.
The. first chapter gives an account of
Nauru in peace-time. The veteran and
his party visit the Residency “to pay our,
respects to the Administrator.”
He is an Australian, for the Common-
wealth has administered the mandate to the
British Empire which was accorded at Ver-
sailles. The successive Administrators have
carried out their duties wisely and well, and
the best' interests of the native inhabitants
have been carefully studied.
Perhaps this was written for the special
information of Mr. Ward. That remark-
able Minister a year after his appoint-
ment lo External Territories was -still
under Jlhe impression that Nauru was ,“a
British mandate.”
There follows a vivid story of the Ger-
man raiders’ attack on Naum in Decem-
ber, 1940. They did great damage ; sank
three of the commission’s four vessels,
“all built to meet the special require-
ments of the trade,” fired the oil tanks
and devastated mooring buoys and shore
equipment. Also they made prisoners
of “36 of the commission’s seafaring
men” and others and carried them off to
Germany; “all except one” were freed
at the Nazi surrender.
When the Japs became supreme in that
part of the Pacific such plant as had sur-
vived the German attacks had to be de-
molished, and the white folk on Nauru
and Ocean Islands (“226 Europeans, in-
cluding the garrison”), together with 597
Chinese laborers, were shipped to Aus-
tralia.- But a few devoted men remained
on Nauru:
The Administrator, Colonel F. R.
Chalmers [who commanded the old 27th
Battalion, with which S.A. Premier Playford
and Archie Cameron, M.H.R., served in
France], refused to leave his post, though
pressed to do so, an officer having come
up for the purpose Of relieving him.
Dr. B. H. Quin and the dispenser, Mr. W.
Shugg, both of the Administration staff, who
were in charge of a small native community
of leper patients, courageously elected from
a high sense of duty to remain behind.
With like bravery Mr. F. Harmer and Mr.
W. Doyle, of the commission, staff, volun-
teered to remain and look after the Chinese
and Gilbertese native labor.
These splendid men paid for their de-
votion with their lives. When the
reoccupation force reached Nauru in
September, 1945, and received the sur-
render of the Japanese, its “worst fears
were realised.”
There is evidence to the effect that after
the first heavy American bombing attack
about the end of March, 1943, when many
enemy ’planes were destroyed, the five men
were taken to their place of imprisonment
at 2,30 in the morning and brutally put to
death. Up to the present [January, 1946]
the site of their burial has not been found,
but investigations have continued.
No report of the investigations or of
any charging of the murderers has
come from Mr. Ward.
The fate of these heroes of Nauru was
shared by 22 British subjects on Betio,
Tarawa atoll. Going to Tarawa, the
author and the accompanying New Zea-i
landers and Australians found that a
memorial had been raised to them by the
Americans after Tarawa was taken by
the United States Marines; and the
inscription is nobly worded:
In memory of 22 British subjects, mur-
dered by the Japanese at Betio on October
15, 1942. Standing unarmed t'o their posts,
they matched brutality with gallantry, and
met death with fortitude.
Everywhere in the captured islands the
enemy behaved barbarously. Six Euro-
peans on Ocean Island were so badly
treated, being underfed and over-exerted,
that two of them died, and the others
were never seen again. A party of
Gilbertese, to whom arms had been issued
and who agreed among themselves to
turn them on the Japanese in the event
of an American or British landing, was
shot in cold blood. But the Japanese got
no phosphate, though they left Nauru a
wreck —Ocean Island not in quite so bad
a shape.
The Australian Brigadier J. R. Steven-
son, D. 5.0., took the surrender of both
islands nearly 31 years after the Australian
Colonel Holmes first hoisted the Union
Jack on Nauru. Among Stevenson’s
Australians was a Digger who showed
Sir Albert Ellis “a very fine wristlet
watch,” got from an American on Toro-
kina in exchange for £lO and a Japanese
sword, trophy of a rush on a Jap post
on Bougainville. Another “explained the
working of his Owen gun,” showing the
safety catch. “At this I was somewhat
relieved, for they appeared to be rather
careless with these deadly little weapons.
One of their number had unfortunately
lost his life on Nauru, being accidentally
shot by his own gun.”
Brigadier Stevenson wrote a foreword
to this most interesting volume. He
noted that his 11th Australian Infantry
Brigade “was originally raised in North
Queensland, and was composed of a
large number of graziers who in the
course of conversatioh frequently referred
to the lack of phosphate for their proper-
ties during the war.” This omission is
being repaired, though without any pre-
cise and detailed information from Mr.
Ward or Mr. Scully, whose thoughts—
when they have thoughts—run to other
things.
Horror-Camp Sequels.
Mr. Calwell’s Department of Informa-
tion could —and should —offer some re-
turn for the vast amount of money it
mops up by giving the nation timely and
intelligible accounts of the trials of Jap-
anese war criminals. It is a subject of
importance to all Australians who served
in the war against Japan and of special
and poignant interest to returned
prisoners-of-war and their families, but
D. 0.1. and its boss leave it to the cursed
press.
In Sydney it was reserved for the “Sun”
to announce the impending trial at Singa-
pore of “five Japanese concerned in bru-
talities to Australian, British, Dutch and
American civilian internees in one of
the camps,” and to report the sentences
passed on some of the fiends guilty of
some of the horrors inflicted on men
condemned to work in ghastly conditions
—half-starved, sick and suffering —on the
Siam-Burma railway:
Sentenced to be hanged were Lieut'. Usuki
(known as “The Kanu Kid”), Sergeant-
major Hiramatsu (“The Tiger”), Korean
guard Motoyama (“The Black Prince”),
Korean guard Tokuyama (“Donald Duck”)
and Korean guard Iwaya (“The Mad
Mongol”).
Three other Korean guards, Matsumoto
(“The Silver Bullet”), Morimoto (“The Mad
Bugler”) and Minaka (“The Singing
Master”) were sentenced to life imprison-
ment, and Kumoi (“The Bombay Duck”)
tp 15 years. Toyojama, the only one not
nicknamed by the p.-o-.w., received 10
years.
Many other ruffians to be attended to
are • mentioned by Rohan Rivett in his
fine book Behind Bamboo. There was
“Buffhead,” “a hideous Korean who dealt
out some ferocious beatings” ; there was
“Pinhead” or “The Snipe,” “a master
of petty persecution.” There were “The
Bull,” “a giant who seemed to spend
his entire waking hours in seeking to
bash prisoners”; “Mickey Mouse,” “a
vicious dwarf”; “The Undertaker,”
“whose favorite sport was to beat up the
sick with his rifle butt, and who bayoneted
to death two escaping British officers (one
was an American in the Argyles)” ; and
“Dillinger,” “who shot Sergeant O’Don-
nell at point-blank range from in front.”
For many more of these wild beasts the
p.-0,-w. found appropriate names. In
circumstances as frightful as were ever
endured by English-speaking men our
fellows never lost their sense of humor.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
{£3l
mn
its
ftaai
m
Upstart
a.4s
Exide serves the public in a hundred
ways, from telephonic communication to
the production of coal. In your choice
of a car battery be guided by un-
dertakings that depend upon Exide.
6
ft
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sydney Harbor aquatics recruited a
new enthusiast in Lieut.-Commander
John D. S. Hoarder, whose hobbies from
boyhood were sailing (he owned his first
boat when he was 12) and photography.
Both were useful during the war. At 22
Hoarder, who had sailed round the Nor-
wegian coasts in peace-time, showed the
British raidifig forces the way into Nor-
way ; he was a commander of a motor-
launch flotilla in successful adventures
with U-boats and E-boats; he swept mines
to clear the way for the D-day invasion,
helped clear the Schelde River of mines
and then came to the Pacific as head of
the Royal Navy’s photographic depart-
ment. He had his traps on board an air-
craft-carrier ready to go back to England
when an old colleague who runs a photo-
graphic studio told him that there was a
job for him if he cared to stay. He made
made up his mind to accept the offer, a
bright sun-glimmering harbor with sailing
craft already on it aiding his decision.
Tasmania’s new General Superinten-
dent of Transportation, Harold Tasman
Dale, wasn’t always a railwayman. At
13 he was with Holymans, lumping and
stacking apples; at 16 he was purser of
the Waldemar, then a well-known
Derwent River identity. By 1911 he had
decided that despite his second name his
future lay on land and not on sea, so he
joined the railways as a porter, and
rose steadily through the grades to be
appointed Chief Train Controller about
nine years ago. Next job was Northern
Transport Officer, and early this month,
on the retirement of E. H. Connor, he
moved up to the top desk.
A few months ago a contributor to
the Society page remarked that it was
strange no one had written a book telling
the colorful story of Sydney Harbor.
Bill Cousins, of Angus and Robertson,
thought it a good idea and put Jack
Abbott to work to make good the defi-
ciency ; the manuscript is now in the
hands of the printers. No man is better
equipped to produce the story than
J.H.M.A., who is so steeped in Sydney’s
romantic past that ghosts of Macquarie’s
day peep over his shoulder as he writes
to refresh their memories Of forgotten
days. Abbott was a Boer War man and
his first book grew out of his South
African experiences. That was Tommy
Cornstalk, published in 1902. For many
years he maintained a steady output and
has a long list of books to his credit; if
all his Bulletin stories and historical
sketches were put between covers the list
would be quadrupled. The Common-
wealth Literary Fund has recognised
Abbott’s contribution to Australian litera-
ture with the grant of a pension of £3
a week.
Guy Packard, general manager of
Adelaide Steam, drawn here by Coventry,
licked his first stamp for the company
SHIPPING.
45 years ago. Born at Kooringa, in
S.A.’s mid-north, where his father was a
solicitor, he looked like following in the
paternal footsteps, but after a couple of
years in the office of an Adelaide legal
firm he decided to throw in his lot with
the yellow-and-black funnel. Except for
service with the 50th Battalion in World
War One, he’s been up to his neck in
shipping affairs ever since, for the past
12 years as manager of his firm’s Sydney
branch. In his younger days Packard was
a first-rate golfer—he won the first
championship of Kooyonga Club, Adel-
aide —and in circles where bridge is a
science rather than a pastime he is recog-
nised as a hard man to have sitting over
you.
John M. Fegan, a Queenslander re-
cently in Sydney as a delegate on wool
business, likes nothing better than to
settle down with a fellow spirit and dis-
cuss Australian art (and literature, to
WOOL.
which he can bring a fair knowledge and
a sound critical faculty. He’s likely to be
criticised himself shortly, being the
author of Merino Wool, Its Character-
istics and Classing (Graham Book Co.).
The work deals with wool from the fol-
licle to the finished manufactured article,
and Fegan has brought to it a lifetime of
study and experience. He left Sydney
Grammar in 1905 to join a wool firm,
worked his way through all stages of the
game in stores and sheds, and was class-
ing the Mimosa (Riverina) clip at 19.
Followed three years among mills, scours
and fellmongeries in Maoriland, then
back to Sydney and so to Western
Queensland, where he classed in large
and small sheds along the Barcoo,
Thompson, Bulloo and Cooper’s Creek.
In 1920 he joined the Queensland Primary
Producers Co-op. as organiser, becoming
wool manager and technical staff chief.
Q.P.P. began with an annual turnover of
18,000 bales, by 1943 it was handling
172,000. During the war-time wool
scheme Fegan handled over a million
bales for “Primaries,” and was on the
board which advised the Central Wool
Committee on technical matters.
William Rowell, dead at 48 in Mel-
bourne, belonged, as his brother John
does, to the school of Australian land-
scape painting which stemmed partly from
Streeton and partly from the solid train-
ing of Bernard Hall at the National
Gallery in Melbourne. Like his brother,
Rowell was a consistent winner of prizes.
One of his landscapes won the Centenary
Art prize, a portrait won the Melrose
Prize in S.A. in 193-7, and he twice won
the Crouch Prize. Some of his work was
included in the collection of Australian
pictures that toured U.S. Rowell was a
foundation member of the Australian
Academy of Art, and a council member
of the Victorian Artists’ Society and the
Twenty Melbourne Painters. In 1941 he
was appointed drawing master, at the
National Gallery and sickness prevented
his succeeding Charles Wheeler as paint-
ing master. Every leading gallery in Aus-
tralia, as ‘well as some abroad, has ex-
amples of his painting of Australian sun-
light.
John R. Bailey, a 33-year-old ex-ser-
viceman, former Curator of Parks and
Gardens at Toowoomba (Q.), and re-
cently-appointed Curator of the Brisbane
Botanical Gardens, affords an interesting
example of hereditary inclination towards
a particular branch of science. His father,
J. F, Bailey, was Queensland Goyernmeul
Botanist and Director of the Brisbane
Botanic Gardens, and subsequently
Director of the Adelaide Botanic Gardens
until 1932. His grandfather, J. B. Bailey,
had been S.A.’s first Colonial Botanist.
His great-grandfather, F. Manson Bailey,
was Government Botanist in Queensland,
and Director of the Brisbane Botanic
Gardens from 1881 to 1915. Behind him
again were several more botanically in-
clined generations in Britain.
A name associated with Maoriland
politics in the ’seventies has been revived.
J. E. L. Vogel, grandson of Julius Vogel,
twice Premier of M.L., is to contest the
Hutt seat as a National candidate.
Successor to John Rankine Brown, in
the Chair of Classics at Victoria Col-
lege, Wellington (MX.), is Professor H.
A. Murray, an Aberdonian. On the
bright side of 40, the professor has had
wide experience. An Arts graduate of
Cambridge, he went to Munich to get
further classical polish, and returned to
Aberdeen to collect an M.A. degree. A
year before the war he was lecturer in
classics at Durham, and he spent four
years at Newcastle-on-Tyne with the
Ministry of Home Security. At the time
of his MX. appointment Murray was
registrar at Durham Uni.
“Adelaide”: The March family, 300
of them, have held a celebration in S.A.,
being all descended from a pair who came
from Norfolk, England, to Adelaide just
a century back. They have scattered
since, and members Came from Gilgandra
and Temora (N.S.W.), Maffra (Vic.) and
Kalgoorlie (W.A.).
Hundreds of Melbourne University
students used to go to Mildura for the
fruit-picking season. A lot of them will
be going there soon to continue their
study at the branch of their Alma Mater
which has been opened there in accord-
ance with the new policy of decentralisa-
tion of culture. Its first warden Will be
PHYSICS.
Dr. J. S. Rogers, a graduate of the Uni.
and one of its best lecturers, his subject
being physics. In the Kaiser’s war
Rogers rose from the ranks to become
Brigade Major 10th Brigade, was lent
to the British Army as a G. 5.0., became
Brigade Major 3rd Tank Brigade, and
added a M.C. to his scholastic letters. In
the last war he was secretary of the opti-
cal munitions panel, and in 1943 visited
America for the Munitions Department.
Richard William Chenoweth, 8.A.,
LL.B., F.1.C.A., F.A.1.5., ought to be the
most unpopular man in Melbourne, be-
ing Victorian Commissioner of Taxes,
but his fund of engaging stories makes
him a welcome guest at functions.
Addressing a Church of England young
men’s society, he told a good one of a
bishop who, having discovered that his
doctor was receiving a rebate on income
tax for depreciation of his medical
library, asked for one in respect of his
theological volumes. “Sorry, I can’t do
it,” rejoined the chief taxation clerk. “The
science of medicine changes from day
to day, and it is necessary that a doctor
should get fresh works to keep himself
up-to-date, but the Word of God is the
same today as it was 1900 years ago.”
Chenoweth was born at Richmond (Vic.),
and educated at Wesley and the Univer-
sity of Melbourne. He is 60.
- Appointment of Group-Captain Julius
Cohen, D.F.C., as Director of Training at
R.A.A.F. H.Q., in succession to Paddy
Heffernan, recalls that this officer
served in Britain with the Sunderland
Squadron. He was one of' the team that
went over in 1938 to bring out the flying-
boats to Australia, but was kept there
when the war started. He won the D.F.C.
in 1940 when he got out of Rabat with
his passengers, Gort and Duff Cooper.
French officials did everything they
could to prevent the departure, but
Cohen got off in spite of all sorts of
obstacles and a very rough sea. He
came back to Australia to take part in the
war with the Japs—first with a Catalina
squadron and later as commander of a
flying-boat training school. Director of
Intelligence at H.Q. was his last job.
Maorilander Dr. A. E. Porritt,
Wanganui, has been appointed surgeon
to the King. H.M. obviously has confi-
dence in Porritt, who in 1936 was ap-
pointed surgeon to the Duke of York
and later surgeon to the King’s House-
hold. A Rhodes scholar, a sprinter and
a competitor at Olympic Games, Dr.
Porritt went to England in 1923 and won
a C.B. and 0.8. E. for war service as
lieut.-colonel in the R.A.M.C. In 1943
he was acting consultant surgeon for the
Aldershot, Woolwich and Eastern Com-
mands.
Just notched his 106th birthday at
Waikaka, Southland (M.L.), Thomas
Barrett, a native of Newtown, Tasmania.
Tom was a coach-driver, cracking his
whip about his team’s ears on the run
from Ballarat to Bendigo and over Cobb
and Co.’s four-in-hands in MX., where
he arrived in 1868.
“Weff”: One of the most treasured
possessions of the Mitchell Library,
Sydney, is the Tasman map, based on
charts of discoveries of various parts of
the Australian coast from 1606 to 1644.
Produced by Van Keulens, carto-
graphers to the Dutch East India
Company in its early days, the map
was owned in recent years by Prince
Roland Bonaparte, at whose wish it came
eventually to Australia. As the original
map is buckled, indistinct in parts and a
great deal of its fine coloring and beauti-
ful lettering has faded, the Library
trustees decided to have a facsimile made.
The exacting task was entrusted to James
Emery, a cartographer who learned art
under Julian Ashton. During World
War 11, Emery—he is in his middle fifties
—served with the A.I.F. in the Middle
East, and did valuable work as a map-
maker. One of his originals of
Lebanon, with other of his maps, is in
the War Museum at Canberra. In 1938,
Emery produced a map entitled the “Dis-
covery of Australia” which won a Sesqui-
centenary Celebration competition and
which hangs in the Science Hall at Sydney
Uni. Another splendid map executed by
him covered Tobruk and the surrounding
area. It was compiled from captured
Italian documents.
Into the silence:
Edwin Matthews, dead in Adelaide, was
wounded at Gallipoli, was a noted Technical
School instructor in sheet-metal work, biit was
most widely known as drum-major of the City
Band.
At Victor Harbor (S.A.), at 83, H. J. Tuck,
a 'great educationist. His father, like himself,
was a State-school headmaster. His wife, a
Playford, was daughter of one S.A. Premier,
and aunt of the present one; one son is Dean
of the Electrical Engineering Faculty in Hobart
Uni.; the other is yet another S.A. headmaster.
In Adelaide, at 53, Eustice Alexander Genders,
a solicitor whose practice included Tailem Bend
and Murray Bridge. He was a committeeman
of the Tailem Bend Racing Club, and a member
of the S.AJ.C.
At Wellington (MX.), at 90, William Edwin
Fuller, said to be the oldest Old Boy of Scots
College, Melbourne, in which city he was bom.
Arriving in MX. when 17 he put in 55 years
with Levin and Co., Wellington.
In Sydney, at 83, Edward James Lane, pioneer
film exhibitor and showman. He established
Sydney’s first chain of dance halls; ran Lane’s
Pleasure Gardens at Fern Bay, Parramatta River,
and at Clontarf, where he showed some of the
first motion pictures. And he pioneered con-
cert boat’s on the harbor.


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
Arrival in Melbourne of H.M.A.S.
Shropshire, with the Victory Contingent
aboard, was the signal for many interest-
ing functions to take place. Lieut. W. O.
C. Roberts, R.A.N., went to the Toorak
Presbyterian Church, where he was mar-
ried to Katharine Turnbull; the five
W.A.A.A.Fs. who arrived home with the
contingent were entertained by f§llow-
servicewomen, and Chief-Officer Sheila
McClemans was guest of honor at a
party at H.M.A.S. Lonsdale. Sheila had
an exciting time. She was presented to
the King at Hampton Court and he
thanked her for the hospitality given to
British W.R.E.N.S. in Australia. She
also talked with the Queen, who visited
the contingent at Kensington Gardens.
Sheila found the Queen most interested
in the W.R.A.N.S. One of the highlights
of Sheila’s visit to London was a party
given in the Hall of Goldsmiths. Here
she met Princess Elizabeth, who she
says is much more attractive than her
pictures suggest. Sheila said that the
British people had given women members
of the contingent a wonderful time.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell had an oppor-
unity to display her organising powers
when daughter Jean sent a telegram say-
ing she was coming back from Sydney to
be married. Jean and fiance Dudley
Gordon arrived on the Wednesday, and
were married with all the trimmings on
the Friday. Jean and her sister Betty
were outfitted in two days, and arrived
at their parish church of St. Mary’s, Caul-
field, looking as though weeks of prepara-
tion had gone into their frocking. Jean
wore a lovely frock of shadow-patterned
cream satin ; the skirt on full flowing
lines, the bodice slightly draped to one
side and with three gardenias holding her
veil to her hair. She carried a bouquet
of white azaleas, hyacinths and gardenias.
Canon Dewhurst officiated. Bridesmaid
Betty Wallace Mitchell wore a trained
gown of aqua-blue crepe, sequin-trimmed,
and carried a bouquet of pink camellias.
Dudley, who is the youngest son of Mrs.
Gordon of Perth, and the late Mr. Charles
McLean Gordon, was thrilled to have his
mother at the wedding; she is visiting in
Melbourne; Robert Wallace Mitchell
was his best man. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
who wore a formal gown of black crepe
and cross fox furs, sat with her other five
sons in the church. Friends who gathered
at Menzies included Mr. and Mrs.
Ned Holland —she was formerly Pam
Forster —the Eric Cottrells, Gertrude
in a black crepe evening gown,
with a black lace mantilla. In con-
trast was sister Marjorie Spry wearing a
formal gown of white crepe, the skirt
draped into a bustle, Mrs. Frank Watts
chose an Alice-blue wool crepe and small
flower-bedecked hat. Surprise at the re-
ception was the presence of Strella Wilson,
looking very fit after her trip to Japan.
Her ’plane arrived just in time for her
to make the reception.
Valerie Clarke, who was one of Ruth
Colman’s bridesmaids when she married
Harry Gullett, M.H.R., went again to
St. John’s, Toorak, this time as a bride.
Bishop McKie, assisted by the Rev. H.
M. Arrowsmith, celebrated her marriage
to Captain Robert Southey, of the Cold-
stream Guards. Valerie is the youngest
daughter of knight Frank and Lady
Clarke, of South Yarra, and was until
recently a corporal in the A.W.A.S.
Captain Southey is the only son of Mrs.
Southey, Hopetoun-road, Toorak, and
the late Mr. A. H. Southey. The bride’s
lovely gown of ivory satin had a heart-
shaped neckline; the long-sleeved bodice
was encrusted with pearls, and pearls
were lightly scattered around the edge
of the train, which fell separately from
the waist. Mrs. lan Mann lent the tulle
veil, which was held in place by a coronet
of pearls; the bridal bouquet was of
hyacinths mingled with pearl-tinted
freesias. Blossom-pink tulle frocks were
worn by the three bridesmaids. Felicity
Harrison (she also was a bridesmaid at
the Colman-Gullett wedding), Helen
Southey, schoolgirl sister of the ’groom,
and Helen Lewis. Osmond Smyth was
best man, and John Young and Richard
Mims (brother-in-law of the bridegroom)
were groomsmen. After the ceremony
the bride’s parents received their guests
at Greenknowe, Toorak, the home of
the bride’s aunt. Captain and Mrs.
Southey will leave shortly for England,
where he will continue his studies at
Oxford.
In the midst of preparing to leave for
Sydney, where she will play the Brahms
Concerto in D. Minor with the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra, Melbourne pianist
Vera Bradford found time to give a small
intimate party at her home in Brighton.
Guest of honor was Miss Kappela Khand-
vala, who has come from India for the
education conferences. When Vera was
living at International House in Chicago
she met Dr. Khandvala, father of Kap-
pela, who had come to Chicago to study
comparative religion. He was then 77 and
Vera says he was a man ©f brilliance and
intellectual fire. His daughter is in charge
of six primary schools, and is secretary
to the Department of Education in Bom-
bay. Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
John Heath—Eileen in a long black crepe
gown trimmed with colored sequins and
wearing beautiful garnets —Sydneysider
Patricia Walker, Mr. J. Brown and the
Frank Youngs. Mrs. Young is a Mus.
Bac., and she played the orchestral part
of the Brahms while Vera played the solo
part.
Guests who were bidden to the
students’ dance held at the Emily McPher-
son College of Domestic Economy en-
joyed a supper cooked by students in the
kitchens of the college. Spring flowers
were arranged on the dining tables, and
the City Council provided the artistic
decorations of ferns and primulas which
adorned the hall. More than 300 guests
were received by the principal. Miss M. I.
Stuart, who chose a* burgundy-toned even-
ing frock for the dance, and the head
girl of the college, Judy Cook, who wore
a most attractive frock of flower-patterned
crepe, printed in cherry, red and white.
When Eileen Bradley, the attractive
lass pictured here, was recently in this
city, her many friends tried to pin her
down to parties and visits, but Eileen had
come to work, and work she did, although
she did stop just long enough to talk of
her future plans, which include a visit to
England for more singing lessons. Eileen
began her musical career at the Catholic
Ladies’ College, Music was in the
blood. Her mother was one of the
musical Gardiners, who toured Australia
giving performances in out of the way
places; her six brothers are all instru-
mentalists, and her sister sings. In 1937,
Eileen began her radio career with A.B.C.
Now she is in Sydney, with an entertain-
ing unit. She was first hon. treas. of the
Press and radio women’s appeal for
the Mission to Seamen.
In 1942 Mrs. W. G. L. Spowers offered
her lovely home in St. Georges-road,
Toorak, as a hostel for members of the
newly formed W.A.A.A.F. During the
subsequent four years 130,000 girls, all
from other States, found accommodation
there. At a handing-back luncheon party
given by the trustees and committee of
the hostel recently Mrs. Spowers ex-
pressed her delight at receiving her
home back in such good order.
Norman Brookes, as chairman of
trustees, paid a glowing tribute to
the work of Mrs. Eric Harrison,
president of Air Force Auxiliaries, and
on behalf of members of the committee
presented her with a fitted handbag.
Misses Frances Lane and Enid Sender
were in charge of W.A.A.A.F. House,
and both gave a full-time voluntary ser-
vice, Mrs. George Jones, wife of Air
Vice-Marshal Jones, was a guest; her
outfit was of azure-blue wool crepe. Mrs.
Eric Harrison was in hyacinth blue.
Three hundred guests packed the
National Theatre for the reception given
to Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard by
the president, knight Robert Knox, and
the ladies’ committee of the National
Theatre Movement, Madge’s pleated
frock was of beige crepe, which she wore
with a small fur pillbox hat. The guests
of honor were welcomed by Gertrude
Johnson, director of the theatre, who
chose a beaded black frock to wear under
her Indian lamb coat. The Knox lady’s
Persian lamb coat was worn with a small
black hat relieved with pale-blue ospreys.
From Sydney
From the very cut of the cards of
entrance for the R.S.L. Ball you could
tell it was indeed going to be a Victory
Ball. The tickets were in the shape
of the R.S.L. badge, crown-topped
and all. The Trocadero was seething
with 1500 humans out to enjoy them-
selves, to greet the new Governor (one of
themselves) and to watch with apprecia-
tive eyes the presentation of the 19
debutantes. These bright-faced youngsters,
all daughters of ex-servicemen, made
their bows to the Governor and Mrs.
Northcott. They were presented by Mrs.
F. W. Taylor, whose trained blue satin
frock shone sapphire in the bright lights.
After the girls had dropped their curtseys
they and their escorts walked down the
ballroom gradually fanning out into a
V.
The ball, socially, was the starry event
of the R.S.L. Conference, and among the
60 or so official guests were Federal
President Eric Millhouse, K.C., and Mrs.
Millhouse. President of the N.S.W.
branch K. McL. Bolton and Colonel E.
O, Milne and a pipe band met the Gov-
ernment House party. The band played
“The Road to the Isles,” but really the
masses of orchids that greeted them sug-
gested more exotic surroundings. Mrs.
Northcott’s black crepe skirt was flared,
and her sequinned jacket was burgundy
in tone. Daughter Elizabeth’s frock was
of white moire, sprinkled with silver
beading, the skirt very full. Sheila Collett
and Lieut. K. Bieri were also in the
group.
French tenor Georges Thill has a big
voice, used to big opera houses and a
background of big orchestras, and his
strong and dramatic qualities raised a
tumult of applause in Sydney Town Hall
at Georges’s opening concert. At the end
of the concert the listeners stood up clap-
ping, they stamped, some rushed the stage
for autographs. There was excitement in
the air. The singer must have amazing
vitality, for his tour will be a shuttling
back and forwards between the States.
From Melbourne he came to Sydney,
from here he flies back to sing again in
the south; next Saturday he will give
another concert here. After that it is
Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane and Can-
berra. The audience at the opening here
was a cosmopolitan one. There was no
age limit; furs ranged from ermine to
rabbit. Women loved the Spanish songs
by De Falla, the “Flower Song” from
“Carmen.” The memory of Meyerbeer’s
“O Paradiso” will linger about the Town
Hall.
Herewith Shirley Lyons, of the happy
face, who is studying for her pilot’s
licence. She has already made several
solo flights. Shirley,’ whose parents are
Mr. and Mrs. J. Lyons, of Strathfield,
hopes soon to have her own ’plane, and
eventually to use it on business trips be-
tween the three branches of her father’s
firm: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
Norton Trevaire photo.
Their first lunch since the anniversary
of Victory in the Pacific was held by the
Australian - American Movement last
week, and it was right that the speaker
should be Robert Burlingame, Public
Affairs Officer of America’s Embassy. He
told of the work of his department, which
aims at presenting real pictures of
American life in 60 countries of the
world. In this country the department
will present documentary films to schools
and educational groups, aims at the ex-
change of professors and even orchestral
conductors. On our side so far, however,
it has been all take and no give in this
last class. Orchestra conductor Eugene
Goossens was a guest, and he too spoke.
The wife of America’s acting Consul-
General, Mrs, Charles Derry, was an-
other who made graceful speech.
Dr, Chau, of China’s Ministry of In-
formation, and his wife were the guests
of the women’s committee of the Royal
Empire Society last Wednesday. Dr.
Chau didn’t sing for his tea, but he did
read a poem. It was in praise of a dish
of bamboo shoots and pork. And it’s
pretty safe to say that any woman pre-
sent, though she mightn’t cook her pork
with bamboo shoots, would certainly sing
a paean in its honor if she could get it. The
talk was, of course, on China —that land
of immense distances, of varied climate
and dialect, of the mighty Yang-tse, the
land that was almost a fable to Europe
till Marco Polo brought back tales of its
wonders—a jewel richer than any con-
cealed in his coat.
The dragon of zoning has raised the
St. George in the breasts of the citizens
of Killara-Gordon. Its particular branch
of the Citizens’ Association of N.S.W. is
calling a public meeting tomorrow,
August 29, to discuss ways of dispatching
the monster. The Memorial Hall, Killara,
is the place, the hour 8 p.m. Chairman
of the meeting will be Alderman J.
Brown, deputy-Mayor Kuring-gai Muni-
cipal Council.
The Killara Music Club went all young
and gay last week and had a ballet night.
Soprano Lily Kolos sang groups of songs,
and in between the Bodenweiser group
presented dances in sympathy with the
music. Shona Dunlop’s “Joan of Arc” was
a sensitive wedding of mime and move-
ment. Very jolly and free were the
Russian dances that followed Lily’s songs
by Russian composers. But perhaps hap-
piest of all were the Czechoslovakian folk
songs, after which the dancers in the
bright Czech costumes whirled and tossed
like all the colors of the spectrum run
riot. President Mrs. Hope Gibson led a
group of committee women who deco-
rated the black velyet curtains at the back
of the stage with a close pattern of flat
silver leaves, and the front of the stage
curtains with palm leaves lacquered to
iridescence.
John Antill, who composed “Cor-
roboree,” the work which Eugene
Goossens is taking with him to play
to American audiences, was born at
Ashfield. He got good foundation
for his art when he attended St.
Andrew’s Cathedral Choir School, where
music was subject number one. He
wrote his first melody, a waltz tune, at
the age of five, and his first opera at the
age of 15. During a five-year appren-
ticeship to the N.S.W. railways, he studied
organ, piano and singing, then he wrote
two more operas. Study at the Con-
servatorium followed and that grand-
master of melodic music, Alfred Hill,
recognised his merit. Since then he has
appeared in ballet, in light opera, in
grand opera, has been conductor for
amateur operatic societies, and once he
took his own opera company on a country
tour. Eugene Goossens has chosen “Cor-
roboree” as the typically Australian work
to take back with him.
The Society of Artists’ show, in the
Education Galleries, this year did a thing
it has never done before. It opened with-
out the presence of president Sydney Ure
Smith, who had been torn away from his
desk and thrust into St. Luke’s for a
three weeks’ rest. Sydney is a very
popular man, and the artists had planned
to give him a wonder dinner to celebrate
the twenty-fifth year of his presidency.
However that will be all cooked up hot
when he is well again. Lots of artists
from other States are to attend, Consuls,
too. In the meantime his work hangs, a
panel of quiet beauty, on the wall backing
the stage cm which Mrs. R. G. Casey
stood to mace opening speech last Satur-
day. f
Tomorrow night at the Ccnservatorium
the Mercury Players will repeat their
Mercury Theatre preview, which was so
successful when presented last month.
Proceeds go to Rona Convalescent Home.
Smiles were very wide at the Smilin’
Thru Club one evening last week when
hon. auditor Houison’s balance-sheet for
1945 and 1946 was read. Turnover for
the year ending January, 1945, was £3586
13s. 4d., and for the year ending January,
1946, £3925. Of this £3162 went to cheer
up the lot of the boys in hospital, mainly
those in the 113th A.G.H. The Smilin’
Thru workjed for many causes during the
war, and is carrying on its good work
into the peace years.
A f£te to aid the Hospice for the Dying
was held in the grounds of the tall grey
building last Friday. It was the happy
meeting ground of children of the district.
Some grubby, some slicked up in their
best, they gathered about the Punch and
Judy show in the grounds or had rides on
the donkey. Admission was free, no
little girl or boy was barred. There
were stalls in a big marquee, and nuns
from the hospice and St. Vincent’s were
among the workers. Mrs. George Duncan
managed a jumble stall, and Josephine
Marks presided at a stall where a tall
bottle of champagne and a glamorous
doll were rivals. Mrs. Slattery was them
Miss Kate Egan, patroness of the Hos-
pice, was on the balcony at the speech-
making.


mJm
m
Over 68 years of
service , 1878-1^46
On the 14th of June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the lm*
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor*
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of over 68 years’
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
lanital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £902,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORSi
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshead.
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria In 1878.
J
K
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Promnt and liberal settlements of claims.
Director,: THOMAS A*MAamY. F.
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. “
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States.
-Xj Ji y VJCIJCIft* O
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1936.. 34,017 10 p.c. = 18,317 15,700 18,146
1937.. 55,259 12) „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13| ~ „ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 14) „ „ 55,580 42,640 128,153
1940.. 75,152 14) „ „ 69,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 13) „ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 11) „ „ 70,121 23,782 166.778
1943.. 90,284 11) „ „ 74,948 15,336 182,114
1944.. 88,571 11) „ „ 75,037 13,634 195.648
1945.. 92,578 11) „ „ 75,037 17,541 213,189
1946.. 96,897 11) „ „ 78,179 18,718 231,907
An achievement of which the manage-
ment has good reason to be proud. The
co. was set on its feet by the chairman
and managing-director (Frank Beaure-
paire) and production began a little over
12 years ago. Since then shareholders
have had annual divs. averaging 11.8 p.c.,
£231,907 of reserves has been visibly
accumulated to support and assist the
£696,000 of capital, there are over 1500
names on the pay-roll, and tumovef is
expected to pass- the £3,000,000-per-
annum mark soon.
And the business keeps on expanding—
indeed, there are few important industries
that have not at the moment the over-
flowing order books that go with a seller’s
market. Last term £43,500 of fresh
capital was gathered—the remaining 7s. 6d.
on 116,000 £1 shares issued in 1941 to
help finance installation of plant for pro-
duction of rubber-insulated electric cable.
A year ago the chairman talked of plans
to further extend production into lines
.other than tyres and tubes, and there was
mention of formation of a subsidiary to
take over part of the business. But in-*
dustrial turmoil, with the subsequent
shortage of coal and dislocation of pro-
duction generally, together with other
difficulties, has prevented a quick get-
away in the'transition race. When the
time is ripe, the board proposes to make
an issue of preference capital to finance
additions to plant and stock. In these
days of cheap money a pref. issue should
help to stabilise the capital structure, and
be very helpful to the ords. Shareholders
are to be asked to approve any recom-
mendations made.
Last term turnover was approximately
the same as for the previous year. After
making liberal allowance for deprecia-
tion (£111,105, down £335) and setting
aside £95,500 (up £1950) for taxation, the
net result was £4319 stronger at £96,897 ;
that was 13.9 p.c. on capital as against
14.3, 13.5, 13.8, 15.4, 12.8, 17.6 and 18.4
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
1U p.c.
On the market, which sees no cloud m
the co.’s sky, the pound shares, "visibly
covered by 265. Bd. in net tangibles, are
jammed at the ceiling price of 465. 3d.
At this figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution.
As fbr the outlook, tyre production in
Australia during the last six months has
been greater than for any corresponding
pre-war period. Still, the big deferred
demand for replacement and initial shoe-
ing promises to run ahead of plant capa-
city for some time. However, the present
stock position and rate of production is
such as to make possible relinquishment
of Control. In anticipation of this the co.
has made arrangements to reopen its
Sydney and Brisbane branches, and to
erect a new warehouse in Perth, though
shipping and other difficulties might delay
full operations for a while. On the raw-
materials side stability of price is an all-
important factor for the rubber manu-
facturer. In this respect synthetic rubber
promises to prevent emergence of an over-
generous price for the plantation article.
Australian stocks of synthetic used in tyre
manufacture are expected to be absorbed
by the end of September, and allocations
of plantation crude by the Combined
Rubber Committee (an international
organisation) are now sufficient to cover
the requirements of the Australian in-
dustry.
An increasing demand for electric cable
is anticipated. Orders for war purposes
out of the way, production was switched
to commercial requirements, for which
thousands of miles of cable have already
been supplied, a growing proportion of
which is for housing projects.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1989. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £392,500 £649,099 £652,500 £696,000
Overdraft .. 953,299 208,942 687,989
S’dry creditors* 107,929 304,670 426,565 839,732
Premises .. 78,119 201,160 183,590 181,268
Plant, etc. ~ 116,707 343,562 208,679 163,486
Stocks .. 244,359 1,334,669 896,981 1,330,961
Debtors, etc.. . 245,448 229,336 251,096 321,673
* Including tax reserve.
To carry an extra £433,980 of stocks,
add £70,577 to debtors’ balances, etc., and
reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £86,833, the board went to
its bankers for an extra £479,047, which
includes an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£624,913)
was £110,343.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
,1936.. 17,819 5) p.c, = 15,300 2,519 51,601
' Staff fund, £5OO 51,101
1937.. 30,106 6J p.c. = 18,170 i 1,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO 62.037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939.. 24,859 6 „ ~19,360 ) . . QQ 7ft 9 ,. Q
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..] 4,499 '°- 269
1940.. 32,482 6 p.c. = 19,552 ) „„ „ QQ
Sufi fund, £2500 .. ,1 10,430 80,699
1941.. 26,881 5 p.c. = 18,486 ) r RQ - , Q ,
Staff fund, £2500 .. ..( 5,89 a 86,594
1942.. 24,601 5 p./;. = 18,665 ) „ nqn
Staff fund, £2500 .. ..| 0,436 90,030
1943.. 31,240 5 p.c. = 18,770 ) q q7O , nnnftq
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. C * ),97 ° 100 > 000
1944.. 29,997 5 p.c. = 18,887 I B fiin Ins cm
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. \ 8,610 108,610
1945.. 21,011 5 p.c. = 18,821 ) ms mn
Staff fund, £2190 .. ~ 108,610
1946.. 20,020 5 p.c. = 18,827 1,193 109,803
Excepting the s.-w. of the State and the
large cattle-breeding runs in the Gulf
country, Queensland was in fair pastoral
order during the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts. Industrial unrest
among shearers interfered with the hand-
ling of the clip, and bumped up growers’
costs, while the fly trouble again caused
considerable stock casualties, and the
strike in the meat trade affected sales of
fat stock, especially at Cannon Hill yards.
Altogether the co. received an extra
10,006 bales wool, sold 9288 fewer cattle,
and put an extra 312,637 sheep under the
hammer:
Year Wool, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle). Lambs). Turnover.
1934.. 82,556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
1940.. 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
1941.. 155,382 32,647 81,746 4,124,373
1942.. 172.016 42,193 107,467 4,378,420
1943.. 166,065 33,043 180,501 5,074,105
1944.. 161,882 152,406* 977,047* 5,814,034
1945.. 130,611 110,808* 777,144* 4,792,126
1946.. 140,617 101,520* 1,089,781* 4,980,221
) Brisbane sales only to 1943. * Total sales.
Prices for both wool and livestock held
well, thanks largely to the British wool
and meat contracts, and turnover stepped
up £188,095.
After allowing for taxation, deprecia-
tion and rebates to consignors on
scheduled handling and selling charges—
-40 p.c. wool, 30 p.c. fat stock, 30 p.c.
produce and 20 p.c. store stock—the
board figured net earnings £991 short of
the previous year’s at £20,020. That was
5.2 p.c. on capital as against 5.5, 7.9, 8.2,
6.4, 7 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1940. The div.
was kept at a moderate 5 p.c., but the
substantial rebates just referred to gives
the div. a different complexion for most
shareholders, who are also clients.
The co. has borrowed to lend:
1940. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £330,621 £377,949 £378,079 £378,210
Liabilities* .. 481,068 581,552 576,200 616,272
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 199,401 252,634 271,753 268,816
Plant, etc. .. 40,378 46,085 18,966 18,649
Stocks .. 16,357 13,584
Advances .. 683,775 706,335 577,364 569,009
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 602 75,397 228,607 286,210
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Including an unspecified provision for
taxation, there was 255. 3d. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders when the
books closed. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£252,531)
was £7003.
For sheep- and ‘cattle-growers the
immediate seasonal outlook is anything
but bright. The whole State is now in
the grip of drought, severe in places and,
except in the coastal areas, damaging
everywhere. The driest patch is the s.-w.
corner, from Charleville through Quilpie
to the N. S. Wales border, where it is
estimated that half or more of many
herds and flocks have perished over the
last two years.
Brightest spot in the picture is the new
wool stabilisation plan, which aims at
marketing current clips, together with
portion of accumulated war-time stocks,
without undue fluctuation of prices. For
the current season the basic price has
been fixed at 18.14 d. a pound, less a con-
tributory sharge of 5 p.c. (0.91 d.), or
17.23 d. net. Reserve prices fo t ' hundreds
of different types of wool will be gov-
erned by this basic figure. If bids for any
particular type fail to reach the reserve,
the staple will be taken by the Wool
Realisation Commission —it represents in
Australia the U.K. Dominions Wool Dis-
posals, Ltd.; in which four Governments
are interested —at the reserve figure.
Owners have the right to put their own
reserve on their own wool, and to with-
draw any lot from sale if the price offered
is considered inadequate. Auctions begin
on Sept. 2, and a strong demand is antici-
pated, the Commission having made
special arrangements to meet financial
problems created by shipping difficulties.
To June 30 last London sales had reduced
stocks from 10 million bales to 6,334,000
bales, Europe and other markets having
been starved for the commodity for seven
years. By the time this deferred European
demand is overtaken, hopes are that the
potentially vast and relatively untouched
markets for wool in India, U.S.S.R. and
East Asia may develop.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re-
June. , Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 25,788 10 p.c. = 20,000 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 11) ~ „ 22,500 ) - IQ7 117 i n,
Written off freeholds, £l6OO ) 0,19 ' 117,106
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 ) , Ql2 110 fl1 c
Written off freeholds, £3806 ( ’ ’ 8
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 1 . ...
Written off hotels, £2383 j 1,900 120,916
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,000 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 ) ioobiv
Written off hotels, £2060 3 “ 122,01 '
1942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) . ... ......
Written off hotels, £2500 j 1,208 124,0 Ha
1943.. 36,145 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) o 945 127 030
Written off hotels, £6200 t 2,94 j 12 ' ,od0 ‘
1944.. 39,367 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) R Qfi7
Written off hotels, £3400 \ 8,967 135,997
1945. . 41,406 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) c on** -ti-i enq
Written off hotels, £B6OO \ 0,806 4,8
1946. . 44,578 12 p.c. = 27,0001 7>091 148>894
Written off hotels, £10,487 )
Dislocation of tourist trade and rising
costs slowed down earnings for the first
couple of war years; but not enough to
interrupt the flow of 12 p.c. divs., which
began in 1938. Over the last five years
there has been a steady and heartening
improvement in earnings, thanks to the
island’s steadily expanding industrial acti-
vity, following establishment of new in-
dustries and expansion of old ones. Ser-
vice demands and a flood of officialdom
helped, too. With the ban on the Inter-
State freighting of ales, etc., the beer-
making section of the business lost its
mainland trade, but it stepped into the
former connections of Victorian brewers
in the flourishing north of the island.
Actual beer-making is in the hands of
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., in which
Cascade and J. Boag and Son merged this
part of their activities as far back as 1922
on a 50-50 basis. The curtain is kept
drawn over the brewing co.’s figures, and
the board is tight-lipped about its earnings
and distributions. Cascade itself concen-
trates on dispensing the brew through its
hotels, and on manufacture of cordials
and cider. Appearances are that each
side of the business is giving a satisfactory
account of itself. And Traders Pty., a
small wine-and-spirit offshoot, is also
sending along something.
Last term output of ale and beer was
restricted by shortage of raw materials
(barley and hops). So, although official
liquor control ceased in March last, the
brewery was unable to fully meet local
.demand, or to revive any of its inter-
state agencies. The spring in earnings
came mainly from the cordial factory.
The improvement in gross profit from all
sources (£91,403) was £6783. Exes.
(£46,825, including £26,000 Government
bleeding) took £3386 of the gain. Allow-
ing for minor reserves movements in 1945,
and for £10,487 (up £1887) struck off
hotel freeholds in addition to ordinary
depreciation, the net result (£44,578, up
£3172) was the best yet. It was 19.5 p.c.
on capital as against 18.4, 15.9, 13.3, 12.5
and 11.6 p.c. back to 1941.
There is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that the 12 p.c. div. is likely
to be interfered with. Competition from
Victorian breweries will soon reappear,
but revival of the co.’s inter-State connec-
tions should prove an effective offset.
And production and operating efficiency
of the brewery are to be stepped up by
installation of additional plant and equip-
ment, now on order in Britain. Also,
some of the hotel properties are to be
rebuilt, and others remodelled, so soon
as labor and materials become available—
hence the special writing down of free-
hold properties, the aim being to reduce
them to land values.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1042. 1945. 194®.
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225,000 £226,000 £226,000
M ‘deposits and , 161,979 166.758 99,988 86,648
Other liabilities 5,274 7,089 8,490 B,SOT
Tax reserve .. 19,84 2 22,000 26.000
Hotels, etc. . . 306,398 316,24 8 298,255 291,094
Plant, etc. .. 95,600 98,551 87,068 90,804
Stock . 17,568 25,462 21,90/ 21,?-)
Book debts, etc. 38,840 42,059 28.970 ?6,045
Cash, etc. .. 18,972 208 9.934 lo.Slo
Shares other cos. 64,646 64,646 64,646 «4,64«
Mortgages and deposits include £80,574
coming to the A.M.P. Society, repays c
by half-yearly instalments over the nex
17 years. When the books closed, more


ESPERANTO
THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
World Friendship for Correspondents,
World Literature for Readers,
World Contact for Travellers.
Aust. Esp. Assoc. “Popular” Correspondence
Course, 10/- complete.
F. A. Pitt (Course Sec.),
3 Rupert St., Elsternwick, Victoria.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL" PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
BRAN DAD ER^S
SSSS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two ppundt
Of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue. _
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pill*
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else, 3/- ft 173.
THAT*
A
%
W
ai E
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, Illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
Importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. X. W. Black.
Manager—L, S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE :' BU 5901. 543 e p -°- Sydnsy.
BP 4-M.
(Eottmtprrial lanktttg (Eompang
oHsgdtt?g Himitoft
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria; Limited)
Incorporated In New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS. Deputy Chairman.
GEOFFREY F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS, DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT,
Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX.
General Manager; A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1946
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
St., Sydney, on Friday, 23rd August, 1946, at noon precisely.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised £ 12,000.000 ,
in 480,000 shares of £25 each. ’
Issued—379,l2l shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0
Less : Reserve Capital of £ 12/10/- per share 4,739,012 10
Paid up 4,739,012 10
Reserve Fund (wholly used In the business of
the Bank) 4,300,000 0
Final Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders' Funds ••••• £9,350,638 14
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, Including provisions
for contingencies 9 5,°47,345 19
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. £4,720.163 2 6
Money at Short Call In London 1,000,000 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia 34,106,000 0 0
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances
with and due from other Banks 1,611,379 12 7
Treasury Bills—Australian Governments .... 7,070,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —
“ at or below market value (Including £4,000
lodged with Public Authorities)— n
Australian Government Securities 19,467,233 11 a
Bills Receivable and Remittances In Transit .. 3,828,850 18 4
£ 71,000,b27 4 o
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting provisions
for debts considered bad or doubtful) 31,545,292 17 4
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts written
1,055,37b 5 0
aii other" AsVete'!.'!!!!!!!!:!! i 388.093 19 1
£104.792.390 6 1
ORWELL PHILLIPS) „. . E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
G F.HUGHES \ Directors. A . g OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the
Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and
counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company s
affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us,
and as shown by the books of the Company. ~ , _ .
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is
required to keep by law or by its Articles property kept.
Sydney, 18th July, 1946. G. MASON ALLARD I
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1945,
at the rate of 7% per cent, per annum, paid on 2oth .
January, 1946 ••••• 19 4
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account Zb.uuu u «
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows; —
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1946, at the rate of 7% per cent, per
annum £ JJ7.712 19 5
„ Amount carried forward 133,913 5 1
— 311,626 4 o
£514.330 3 10
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1945 £126,584 3 7
.. Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1946, after payment of .
all expenses of management (including Directors’ Fees,
£3,750) and provision for taxes and for rebate on current
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies 387,755 0 3
£514.339 3 10
ORWELL PHILLIPS)
G. F. HUGHES i
>
Directors.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager..
or less liquids exceeded the amount com-
ing to outsiders, including the tax reserve,
by £5496, an improvement of £10,517
over the twelvemonth.
/
Dr. H. G. Raggatt, director of the
Federal Bureau of Mineral Resources,
Geology and Geophysics, has just made
an inspection of the Westralian goldfields
at Kalgoorlie, Coolgardie, Agnew, Norse-
man, Southern Cross, Marble Bar and
Nullagine. The purpose of his visit was
no doubt connected with Federal assist-
ance to the industry. He says he was
impressed with the healthy revival of
activity. Everywhere there was evidence
of increased prospecting and exploration,
a large number of ex-servicemen were re-
turning to the fields, production was in-
creasing each month, and the improve-
ment was expected to continue. The need
for increased activity is certainly great.
The 1945 output of most, of the big and
medium-sized producers in the West
ranged from about 60 p.c. to 70 p.c. of
the 1939 figure, and there is years of
deferred war-time development to over-
take. In many cases this lack of develop-
ment resulted in selective mining. But it
is the rise in costs that is likely to affect
the industry most. At the present price
of gold (£9 17s. 7id. net), a rise of 9s.
lOd. a ton in mining and treatment costs
is equivalent to a drop of Idwt. in the
grade of run-of-mine ore. In many cases
this means a revision of ore reserves, be-
cause stuff that could be worked at a
profit before the war will now have to be
left out of ore-reserve calculations. More
than half the gold produced in the West
comes from the Kalgoorlie field, which
provided 45 p.c. pf the State’s output in
1939 and 59 p.c. in 1944. Stores, especi-
ally construction materials and tools, are
the bottleneck at the moment —shaft-sink-
ing awaits cement for winder foundations,
preparation of stopes is delayed owing to
lack of timber, and machine maintenance
is made difficult by the shortage of spares.
It may be a year or more before pro-
ducers generally catch up with their pre-
war output. Of the important producers
in 1939, Wiluna, Moonlight, Yellowdine,
Youanmi and Cox’s Find are now out
of the race.
» * * »
In the London market there was a
sharp rise of 2s. 6d. last month in the
price of Wiluna’s pound shares, which
reached 17s. 6d., the figure later easing
to 16s. 3d. stg. The lift followed market
rumors of a possible early flotation to
deal with the Mt. Charlotte and/or
Porphyry options. In Australia sellers
ask 19s, 9d. for the scrip. At Mt.
Charlotte, , on the eastern fringe of
the Kalgoorlie field (W.A.), prelimi-
nary boring has indicated about H
million tons, averaging sdwt, to a
depth of 750 ft. On a 300-acre block,
which includes the Porphyry property, on
the North Coolgardie field, some 6000 ft.
of drilling has disclosed a flat ore-body
expected to contain at least 350,000 tons
of 4.sdwt. ore. Here two prospecting
shafts have been sunk, and further work
is expected to disclose more pay-ore. If
exercised, consideration for the Char-
lotte option, in which Wiluna holds a
75 p.c.' interest, is £A220,000. The
other 25 p.c. interest is held by Moon-
light Wiluna, the Australian subsidiary
of Gold Fields Australian Development,
which introduced the business. Wiluna,
Lake View and Gold Fields Australian
each have a one-third interest in the
Porphyry property, Wiluna and Gold
Fields Australian are also interested in
two other properties now being examined,
* * * *
During the first half of 1946 18 of the
principal gold producers in Australia de-
dared dividends totalling £406,049. A 1
Consolidated, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
headed the list, which is as follows:
f— —Dividends \
Per
Total. Share.
Company. & , s -, d -
A 1 Consolidated (Vic.) . . .. 58,500 13 0
Lake View and Star (W.A.) .. 48,125 0 6
North Kalgrirji (W.A.) .. .. 47,266 1 3
Central Norseman (W.A.) .. 40,000 0 6
Great Boulder (W.A.) .. .. 32,713* 0 6
New Occidental (N.S.W.) . . .. 35.437 0 6
Western Mining Corp. (W.A.) ~ 32,484 1 0
North Deborah (Vic.) .. .. 26.000 8 0
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) .. 19,320* 0 6
Paringa (W.A.) 16,600* 0 li
Central Deborah (Vic.) .. .. 12,000 4 0
Wattle Gully (Vic.) .. .. 9,000 1 0
Eldorado (N.T.) .. .. • 7,752 0 6
Phoenix (W.A.) .. .. .. 7,500 0 9
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) .. 5,042* 0 2
Deborah (Vic.) .. .. , .. 3,060 1 0
Monument Hill (Vic.) ..' •. 2,500 0 6
Black Jack (Q.) 1,890 0 6
* After deducting English income tax.
* * * •
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.), paid capi-
tal £llO,OOO, netted £5563 (down £1783)
for 1945, and paid a 2d. div. (£5042, after
deducting English income tax). The profit
includes a tax rebate of £5750, and was
struck after allowing for taxation (£1600)
and depreciation (£1000). Great Boulder
No. 2 dump provided the feed until end
October, 1945, when operations were
transferred to Lake View No. 2 dump,
estimated to contain 500,000 tons tailings,
which are expected to be worked out
about the end of next month. After that
a start is to be made on other dumps
which the co. has arranged to treat on a
profit-sharing basis. The Lake View tail-
ings are easily sluiced, but gold recoveries
have not come up to expectations, owing
largely to the presence of charcoal.
* * # *
Triton announces that it has obtained
Government loans aggregating £96,500
to finance the further opening-up' of its
mine, near Mt. Magnet (W.A.). Recon-
ditioning of the workings has begun, and
production is expected to be resumed
next March. A full statement of the
co.’s position is promised for the annual
meeting, to be held shortly.
* * * •
There was a rush on Norseman' town-
site (W.A.) the other day following a re-
port that the cap of a 3ft. reef, showing
free gold, was visible at the bottom of a
30ft. dry well in the backyard of a cafe.
Areas pegged included blocks on which
banks, business houses, pubs, post office,
jail and Government buildings are situ-
ated. Later it was said “there was no
reliable evidence to warrant the rush.”
* * * *
Mining of pyritic ore, used in the fer-
tiliser industry, has been carried on for
some time at Norseman (W.A.), and the
State Government wants it continued,
with the aid of a Commonwealth sub-
sidy. Dr. Raggatt recently visited Norse-
man in connection with the request.
ak $ * *
“Tramp”:
The Culpa Creek alluvial area, some 30
miles from Ravenshoe (N.Q.), discovered by
prospectors George Clarke and Willy Joss
over 40 years ago and worked by some 50
or 60 miners, produced gold that tested 99.9
p.c. pure. Owing to the difficulty of getting sup-
plies to the field from Herberton, the miners
did not remain for any great length of time.
Recovery of the gold also required more up-to-
date methods on account of its flaky nature —
it must be amalgamated. Given an access road,
and the use of coconut matting in the boxes,
there are possibilities here for alluvial miners.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: South Australia is to de-
velop a big gypsum find, almost at the
State’s western boundary, near the coast.
The Government has promised to run a
short line to the sea at Ceduna, and the
Harbors Board is to recondition port
facilities there. A co., with Sydney
directors and a Melbourne manager, will
make fibrous plaster, mainly, it is said,
for markets in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land.
From London: The issue of 505,000
ordinary shares of Is. each at par by
Corderoy Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), has been
oversubscribed. Co. intends carrying out
a drilling programme on its mines at Pil-
grim’s Rest, Pilbara.


Mctefoyin&uiq.
LEA
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
*hah
TM£
mm
S4UCE^
A «. PJSHi
!jo^‘
Ml
am
m
THE
f
by DORA BIRTLES
The thrilling romance of the real people of
the outback. A book to buy and keep ... as
Australian as the gumleaves; as fast moving as
hoofbeats.
Made into a memorable motion picture by
Ealing Studios .
From all booksellers 8/6
THE SHAKESPEARE HEAD
THE BOOH OF THE YEABT
Distributed by CONSOLIDATED PRESS LTD., Box 4088 G.P.0., Sydnty.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SOCIETY OF ARTISTS.
The Society of Artists’ show in the
Education Department’s Gallery, Sydney,
suffers from the anrlual fault of too many
paintings and too many bad ones, handi-
caps which the services of a “hanging”
expert does little to mitigate—the trouble
lies in selection, not presentation. The
general effect is of murk and turgidity.
There is, however, an interesting
group of portraits. One by a newcomer
to Sydney exhibitions, Roland Strasser, is
interesting on that score and has some-
thing vita! to state on its own account.
A large study of the artist’s wife, it is
dramatic and rich in the black gown and
green ornaments of the subject. It also
has technical imperfections—one hand is
badly drawn —but its merits carry it and,
apart from a fine Lambert lent for the
exhibition, it is the only approach to the
grand style in the show. The Lambert has
a beautifully painted head and a back-
ground which belongs to an older conven-
tion. But. it is the human subject which
is important, not the trappings, an axiom
which William Dobell has ignored in his
gaudy portrait of a pair of green gloves
with a pair of twinkling brown eyes as a
kind of human background.
Strasser has another painting, a study
of a Balinese girl, which is gay with the
immature charm of the subject. J. Car-
rington Smith’s ‘'Arrangement in Grey,”
bought by the N. S. Wales National
Art Gallery, is a rather dull arrangement
strongly influenced by Augustus John.
John Rowell has some pleasant oils, the
best of which is the smallest. Arnold
Shore, a modernist with vitality, achieves
some subtle effects with solid-looking
color - patterns. Frank McNamara’s
“Waterfront, Balmain,” though icy cold,
is the best of the watercolors.
* * * *
Douglas Pratt
At Douglas Pratt’s exhibition at the
Royal Art Society’s Gallery, Sydney, the
drawings seem to be the work of an
entirely different man from the painter
of the oils and watercolors. A rare
mastery over line is the chief merit
of his drawings, and his gum-trees
are particularly impressive—each gnarl
and knot is there, and the hanging mass
of the tree as well.
His paintings are less impressive. The
best of them have warmth, sunlight and
naturalness. “Winter Afternoon, Martin-
place,” a slight study of a familiar part of
Sydney, is unaffectedly warm and gay,
with green stalls and red flowers and
the comely lines of buildings. But this
is not the prevailing type of subject. The
paintings are usually of country scenes,
inland and coast, and on the more exact-
ing scale the faults —a certain blankness of
expression, a monotony of mood, and
some crudities of color —become more
obvious.
But the effect of sunlight is sometimes
very good—the sky, for instance, in the
Martin-place painting is just that melting
shade of blue and white which is difficult
to capture. One of the best oils, “The
Murrumbidgee from Jugiong,” is faithful
and pleasant, and its fidelity has been
severely tested—it was bought by a resi-
dent of the district.
* * * ♦
Melbourne “Independents”
If any art lover wants to see how paint
can be really tortured he should journey
to the annual show of the Independents at
the Athenaeum, Melbourne. Some of the
younger ipembers belong to the modernist
dispensation, but most are old hands who
have been schooled in the academic tradi-
tion. Apparently not liking to feel old-
fashioned, some of the old guard .have
gone in for new hats, and the result is
often screaming pigment with odd bits of
the old technique quaintly showing
(through it.
Bernard Lawson is one who believes
in modern methods and paints without
inhibitions. James Quin also sticks to his
last, although his portraits of “Mrs. Sabina
Burnard” and “Eva” look rather like
magazine illustrations of bygone years.
Louise Thomas’s “Wind in the Grass” has
a suggestion of that invisible element
about it, and James D. Watson, an invitee,
has knocked off aji attractive couple in
“A Winter’s Day” and “Toowong
Valley.”
A cavalier attitude towards the truths
of Nature distinguishes the “Cliff
Climbers,” “Old Men’s Bench in the
Park” and “White Bowl” of Grace
Gardiner —the last-named looks like a
magnified slide of white corpuscles or
something. Lieutenant Charles Bush
weighs in with some well-painted war
pictures of Dutch Timor, and there is a
fresh and salty air about the “Fisherman’s
Jetty, Tooradin,” of Alan Sumner.
* * * *
Both Douglas Miller and H. B.
Minchin, showing in the two Kozminsky
galleries in Melbourne, seem familiar
with the impressionistic method of paint-
ing, Excellent as some of Minchin’s
attempts are, they don’t merit publication
until he knows more about the language.
The most engaging of his efforts is the
stout matron who is pausing for tea in
No. 15. There is a strident note about
Miller’s oils which is absent in his water-
colors. In the latter he seems to be fol-
lowing the quiet school of early English
watercolorists. His “Spring” and “Along
the Yarra” are attractive, and his “Oak-
leigh Convent” exudes the calm of an
English evening, though it was painted in
a Melbourne suburb.
* * * ' *
P.McM.”; You can almost feel the floor
swaying with a nautical motion when
you enter the Merchant Navy’s exhibition
m Anthony Hordern’s galleries. There
are models of all kinds of ships, old and
new, photos and paintings of ships afloat
and ships sinking, and there are even
miniature ships imprisoned in bottles.
John Allcott, marine paintings are
rich in color and atmosphere, has several
on exhibition, among them “Dawn,” show-
ing the First Fleet leaving Sydney Harbor.
The best marine limning on display is by
Schnars Alquist, his stormy seas having a
stark greyness that is intensely sullen and
foreboding. There are anchors, ropes,
flags and enough other nautical impedi-
menta to make any sea dog feel in his
element.
Georges Thill.
When Georges Thill stepped on the
platform at Melbourne Town Hall there
were murmurs of surprise, no doubt
from admirers of his records. Possibly
they had visualised him as the traditional
vivacious and demonstrative Frenchman
of the theatre, whereas he was serious and
almost solemn, and seemed capable of
breaking into a philosophic discourse in-
stead of singing.
There were fresh expressions of surprise
when he started singing. Thill throws his
voice into parts of his anatomy different
from the usual run of singers and there
was a high nasal intonation in it, charac-
teristic of French speech—it was so pro-
nounced that his Handel, Schubert ahd
Brahms sounded much like his native
Massenet and Bizet, while his rendering
of the lovely “Traum” of Grieg
sounded like another song altogether. He
clung to his middle register so resolutely
during the first half of the programme
that there was a certain monotony about
it, and some trepidation about how he
would fare with the more dramatic
numbers.
Advised to listen carefully to hear how
Thill would “turn over” when he reached
the top notes in “Andrea Chenier” and
“Pagliacci,” the present commentator
could not determine whether M, Thill
“turned over” or not. The nasal quality
persisted and the singer twice broke down,
but made courageous recoveries. His
“Pagliacci” wasn’t like the Italian, but it
had a character of its own, plus the
nuances of the accomplished performer.
* * * »
Ritchard and Elliott
The reported “riot” at the Sydney open-
ing of the Cyril Ritchard-Madge Elliott
season was reproduced in only a mode-
rate degree at the parallel occasion at
Melbourne Comedy. The audience was
not lacking in enthusiasm, but the
Comedy circle is as suitably constructed
for emotional displays as a mountainside
in the Swiss Alps. It gives a nervous
theatregoer the illusion that, if he sur-
rendered to his natural feelings of exuber-
ance at the spectacle of Madge and Cyril
in an affectionate clinch, or in bed to-
gether, quarrelling over the financial situ-
ation, he might end up in the footlights.
The Noel Coward of “Ways and
Means,” “Shadow Play” and “Family
Album” was obviously invented for
Madge and Cyril, and those two worthies
were certainly created to serve the pur-
poses of Mr. Coward. Mr. Coward is a
brilliant skater who occasionally takes
a nick out of the surface to show the icy
depths beneath, and in “Shadow Play”
he does this with diabolically clever
theatre. But Mr. Coward’s wit is in the
right vein for Mr. Ritchard, and his senti-
ment is all in order for Miss Elliott.
* * » *
Whether he is playing Beethoven in the
grand manner or demonstrating the fragile
beauties of a Chopin prelude or waltz
Paul Schramm’s tone is always rich and
his playing warm and full of life. At his
“request” concert at Sydney Town Hall
he gave an excellent rendition of Stradal’s
scholarly transcription of the Organ Con-
certo in D Minor by W. F. Bach, son of
Johann Sebastian, and one of the finest
organists of his day. In a group of pieces
by Prokofiev, William Walton and others
Schramm brought out thS slickness and
shallowness of latter-day composers. His
genial, humorous comment on each one
before playing it was almost a turn in
itself.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Musical festivals
have been held in English cathedrals for
years, but when Professor Heinze raises
his baton over the A.B.C. string orchestra
at St. Paul’s in Melbourne, with Dr.
Floyd at the organ, it will be the first
occasion of its kind in Australia. The
composers will be Bach and Handel—
appropriately enough, as they wrote for
churches—there will be no applause, and
admission will be by programmes cost-
ing three shillings each.
* * * *
The programme presented by the
Singers of Australia Society in the Sydney
Town Hall was ambitious, and, except in
some concerted numbers where there were
ragged ends, the singers gave very good
accounts of themselves. Jean Houston
sang two Gluck arias well; two Handel
numbers gave soprano Eleanor Houston
scope for her considerable range ; Gloria
Read, another dramatic soprano, sang
with feeling Schubert’s “Hymn to the
Almighty.” Albert Chapelle, a baritone
with range, resonance and an easy plat-
form manner, gave the “Credo” from
“Otello” its full dramatic values.


m-:
m
X :-. ■■■ ; '
They
?**» clothes
We mntkn j-
wre than
Moths do
Children
war-devastated areas
of our Allies overseas-
particularly in China
will freeze this winter
without your help.
Your spare clothing
can be such a wonderful help to
European and Chinese people
who are in such bitter need. Your
suits and frocks and coats will
protect them from icy winds . . .
your old shoes will keep their feet
from freezing and the goodwill
of your heart in sending these
clothes will warm the spirit of
these unfortunate, desperate
people for whom the war has
not yet ended.
WHAT CAN YOU SPARE THAT THEY CAN WEAR?
GIVE YOUR spate CLOTHING TO
The 1946 Australian National
Clothing Collection for Over-
seas Relief is a combined effort
on the part of the forty-eight
relief agencies which comprise
NATIONS
HURRA
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED
RELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION
RING YOUR LOCAL COUNCIL NOW... TH(Y’U TELL YOU WHAT TO DO
: ——^———
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Spring was in the air at Moonee Valley on.
Saturday—or it may have been a singular case
of mass amnesia affecting the Ring. The betting
on the Tullamarine Handicap was 8 to 1 the field.
There were three equal favorites at that price
Four Freedoms, Noble Prince and Lunar Lynx.
Then it was tens a few more, and so on up to
100 to 1. It paid the bag-holders handsomely.
Only one of the 8-to-l shots —Four Freedoms
—so much as got a place, the winner turning
up in the four-year-old St. Magnus-Wellington
Maid horse Geronimo, who trailed the always
prominent Four Freedoms round the turn and
doggedly worried him out of it in the run home,
winning by a head, with Don Pedro third.
It was a sensational race apart from the bet-
ting. There were 19 starters, mostly fairly
good ones, and the doings were rough in spots.
At least half a dozen —among them Noble
Prince—could be excused on the ground ot
interference, and when making a run nearing
the turn Gay Lad came down with A. Breasley,
who has had a wretched spin for some time.
To cap it off the stewards opened and
adjourned an inquiry into the winner’s running.
Compared with his previous couple of runs,
Geronimo’s performance in defeating just about
as good a field as could be lined up in Mel-
bourne at the moment could be called a vast
improvement; but a little earlier he had been
consistency itself. As a two-year-old he was a.
washout; then, in May, after a long list of
placings, he began a sequence of three nice wins
in a row —the first at a mile (last Saturday’s
distance) and the other two at 10 furlongs.
They seemed to stamp him a good horse, and
his Tullamarine Handicap win made that definite.
The one thing against him from, say, a Caul-
field Cup point of view is the amount of racing
he has got through in recent months. Still,
he could be freshened up. Incidentally, perhaps
a few more horses would score good wins if
it wasn’t for the present-day fashion of keeping
them wrapped in cottonwool.
As well as Geronimo, the two place-getters
ran most promising Caulfield Cup trials. Four
Freedoms had not had a run since it took
Bernborough to down him by half a head in the
Flemington Newmarket, and Don Pedro’s last
run was a third at Randwick in April, also
behind Bernborough.
Of the other Moonee Valley performances
the best' was Stormy Sea’s win in the mile Ailsa
Handicap for three-year-olds. A Hellespont-
Mascara colt,' Stormy Sea won by four lengths
from Star Act, with the next of them, Touch
and Go, seven lengths further back. It was
such a hollow win—all the better because
Stormy Sea was carried wide by Star Act - at
the turn —that it was given out that Stormy
Sea would be taken to Sydney for the A.J.C.
Derby. So far, however, the Hellespont colt
has beaten nothing, and the Sydney three-year-
olds look like making very tough opposition.
A solidly-backed equal favorite, Accelerate
did not win the Valley’s Broadmeadows Steeple
—in fact, he parted company with his rider after
going a bit over half the distance —but there’s
one thing about the' bay Veilmond gelding:
any event he’s in is certainly worth watching.
On Saturday he was quickly in front, going very
fast, running his fences down as if they didn t
exist. Keeping it up, he was soon out 10
lengths, still knocking ’em regardless. He
was going so freely that it was only a matter
of his standing up for the faithful to collect.
At the fence by the “seven” they tore their
tickets apart: he hit it, and A. McCoy bit the
dust. It left Grand Slam five lengths out, but
Garofil, running next, had no trouble making
up the leeway and plugging on to hold off the
outsider Brewster’s Millions by three-quarters
of a length, with Lord Kagal third.
Divisions of the Morang Maiden Plate for
three-year-olds respectively saw the hot favorite
Gilwell downed by Prince Curl (20 to 1), with
Top Rank third, and the even hotter favorite
Praetor win easily from Golden Buddy and
Gotham. Breasley rode both the thirds, and
it says enough for the run last season’s leading
jockey is having that Top Rank started at
20 to 1. “Breas” was on yet another third —
Neutron —in the 13-furlongs Ngarveno Handi-
cap, won nicely by the Enfield mare Fungi,
with Macclesfield next.
Down the straight in the final event, the
six-furlongs Macedon Welter, there were only
two in it —Kind Link and Burnevoke —and at
the finish the judge said a dead-heat, with
Somers third. For what it might be worth,
the New Zealander High Play, despite top
weight of 9.7, was backed in from twenties to
5 to 1. Yet the gelding’s form has really been
quite poor ever since he came over.
« * * *
Promising to be the best race on the S.T.C.
card at Rosehill on Saturday, the Three-year-
old Quality Handicap duly did provide the most
thrilling finish of the afternoon. Several just
beginning Derby preparation were given a run,
topweight being the Champagne Stakes winner
Persian Prince. It had the appearance of a
very open race, but Wqralie was popular choice
on the strength of his till then unbeaten record.
My Hero settled down in front and was still
leading at the leger, but both Prince Standard
and Hiraji were threatening, having moved up
from well back in the field. Hiraji (Mullane)
went through to take the lead inside the dis-
tance, but was weakening over the final 50
yards, and Prince Standard (Doon), finishing
in great style, just drew level to dead-heat a
little ahead of My Hero.
Wirralie, who was never likely, probably
needed the run, as did Persian Prince, Concise
and others, but that excuse only enhances the
merit of Hiraji’s performance. It was his first
start since arriving from New Zealand; Prince
Standard had a pipe-opener at Canterbury and
My Hero won recently. Hiraji has fair cre-
dentials from the Dominion, where he won
several races and ran Majesty to a neck in the
Great Northern Champagne Stakes. He was
subsequently purchased for F. W. Hughes and
brought to Australia as an advertisement for his
sire Nizami, earlier acquired by Hughes. By
the time Nizami has had a few seasons at
Kooba Stud greys should be less of a rarity
than at present. He gets a fair number of greys,
among them Hiraji and Gold Taj.
Horses carrying the colors of Mandel have
been consistent. In the Dundas Flying Handi-
cap one of Mandel’s string, Alderman, chalked
up his fifth successive win. (Fordyce)
was not favorite, Young Veilmond being pre
ferred, but the Manitoba gelding won as he
liked from Oliver and Field Captain. _
Sir Neith was made a warm favorite for the
10-furlongs’ Rosehill Handicap, but with Turn
Again setting a smart pace and Buzz Oil en-
suring that Turn Again did not lag, the race
was not run to suit the topweight, who dropped
right out of it under his 9st. burden. Run-
ning past Turn Again near the distance Buzz Ott
seemed the likely winner, but could not with-
stand Open Air’s finishing run. C9imng again
after appearing beaten, Turn Again relegated
Buzz Off to third place.
An unlucky runner-up at his previous three
starts, Royal Duke (Fordyce) made amends in
the nine-furlongs Novice. It was an example of
“Give him my congrats when he Wakes up.
“the bigger the field the bigger the certainty ;
of the 24 starters punters wanted only one, the
call being 12 to 1 bar one, with Royal Duke
at 9 to 4. fie won as easily as the betting
suggested, from Regal Light and Lord Ivan.
With the Trial Handicap, run in two divisions,
punters had mixed luck. Scotch Gift (E. Crack-
nell) accounting for Sonmng and Ihe Cheat
in the first division, was a 2-to-l favorite, but
the second division went to Midair (R. Cole-
man), a skinner for the books and paying
£l2 12s. on the win tote; Pennicuik and Fra
Diavolo in the places. However, the books
had to cough up some of the proceeds after
the final race, a nine-furlongs Welter, which
went to another favorite in Avalanche (Cook),
with Kuvera’s Double and Flying Cloud next.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Three-year-old Handicap: Dutchman, 1; Son
of Persia, 2; My Hero, 3. Hobartville Stakes:
Smooth Action, 1; Flying Duke, 2; Prince
Standard, 3. Warwick Stakes: Bernborough,
1 * Craigie, 2; Magnificent, 3. Campbelltown
Handicap: Puffham, 1; Gay King, 2; Victory
Lad, 3. Warwick Farm Spring Handicap:
Buzz Off, 1; Codicil, 2; Nepean River, 3.
Glenlee Handicap : Air Flare, 1; Sir Neith, 2;
Active Service, 3.
* * ♦ *
The Australian Rugby Union side got
away to a bad start in Maoriland. Skipper
McLean was on the injured list before
the "first game and after North Auckland
had beaten Australia 32-19 on a heavy
ground, scoring seven tries to five (Sydney
grounds have been cement-hard), vice-
captain Windon, * Allan, Johnson and
Hodda were also crocks. Against the
strong Taranaki side on a faster ground
the visitors did much better. After a
scoreless first half their forwards hunted
as a pack to good purpose and a snappy
field goal by full-back Piper gave them a
point victory, 9-8. An unexpected suc-
cess which has delighted the sporting
Maorilanders.
On Saturday Randwick trounced
Manly 25-5 and West surprised by defeat-
ing University 18-15. The leaders are
Randwick} East Parramatta (which de-
feated Gordon by a point), Drummoyne
and St. George equal in fourth place.
* * * *
Only threat to the V.F.L. “four” last
Saturday was Carlton, and 35,000
people picked the Blues’ match with
Richmond as the event of the day.
They were right. Richmond, by deadly
goal shooting, broke away to an early
lead, whereupon Carlton went for the
Tigers bald-headed, and a hard and fast
game, with the lead fluctuating by points,
ran into the last quarter, Richmond sur-
vived the final snelde and kicked Carlton
out of the “four” by 16.29 to 13.15. The
“four” are Essendon, Collingwood, Foots-
cray and Melbourne, Melbourne stay-
ing in by a four-point win over Fitzroy,
10.9-9.11, Essendon ran all over St.
Kilda, 16.20-11.9, Footscray floored
Flawthorn, 23.27-8.5, and Collingwood
swamped Geelong, 17.26-7.11. South and
North had a bit of a go, for South to
win, 15.19-11.8,
• * ♦ ♦
John Wren, described as “a sportsman,”
a “sporting entrepreneur” and the like,
went through the motions of proposing to
—er —reward O’Reilly for playing in the
Test matches, offering him the equivalent
of what he is to get from a group of
English newspapers for reporting the
games. The “sporting entrepreneur” ex-
pressed himself in stilted language,
whereas, by hiring a poet with a good
memory, he could have made a neat job
of it with lines beginning
Oh rise up, Bill O’Reilly,
And come along with me!
You bowl those English batsmen:
I’ll pay the damage, see!
The answer —fully anticipated—was the
O’Reilly knee, which bothered the owner
badly last season, has “gone” altogether.
Bill went on to take a sad and proud
farewell of the game in which he has cut
so interesting a figure for so many years.
* * * *
Von Nida, the Queensland pro., had a
win at last on his English tour when he
collected first prize in the “News
Chronicle” tournament by one stroke,
doing the 72 holes in 283.
His last putt was worth
£350.
* •
W. A. Edgar, amateur
champion of Victoria as
a youngster, but now liv-
ing in Adelaide, has won
the S.A. amateur cham-
pionship, beating the
titleholder, W. S. Rymill,
two up. The loser was
amateur champion of
S.A., also as a youngster,
in 1928 ; Edgar had cap-
tured the Victorian title
a year earlier. Edgar’s
first care was to send the
good news to his
widowed mother, still
resident in Victoria.
Bruce Auld won the pro-
fessional title from W.
Harvey four and three.
England v. India:
Rain spoilt the third and
Test match at Lord’s,
the closure having been
applied when, with India
331, England had lost 3 for 95. England won
the only match that was played out. In the
three, India scored 1128 runs for 49 wickets,
against England’s 1018 runs for 28 wickets.
Taking a line from the result of the Aus-
tralian Services’ tour of India last season
(eight of the present Indian team took part,
and India won a match; the other two were
drawn) England’s effort promised well for the
Australian tour.
Of the team to come this way Hardstaff
(210, av. 105), Compton (146, av. 73), Ham-
mond (119, av. 39.66), Washbrook (146, av.
36.5), Hutton (123, av. 30.75) were the leading
batsmen. Of the 47 Indian wickets that fell
Bedser took 24 for 298, Pollard 7 for 107, Edrich
4 for 68, Wright 4 for 150, Voce 1 for 4«,
Ikin 1 for 54 and Smith 1 for 58.
Vijay Madhavji Merchant, who got' the lone
century for India iq the final match (128), ranks
with Ranjitsinhji and Pataudi as his country s
greatest batsmen. In his earlier cricket Mer-
chant' disliked fast bowling, but after a knock on
the chin, inflicted by the Essex fast bowler
Nichols in 1933, developed into a prolific scorer.
He is 34, and, like most Indians, active and
accurate in the field.
* * * *
Taxation Department, promoters and
pugs are reckoned to have divided £6000
as a result of the Patrick-Miller meeting
at the West Melbourne Stadium. It was
little more than a pleasant spar for four
rounds, during which Patrick was con-
tent, for the most part, to prod his'
opponent with straight rights, Miller’s
blows being of the gymnasium order. In
the fifth Patrick began to use his left in
earnest, and had Miller down on his
knees, though he came up without tak-
ing time. In the sixth it was all over,
the referee coming between them after
lefts to head and body had thrice sent
Miller to the canvas. Patrick weighed
9st. 5|lb., Ulb. heavier than his over-
matched adversary. In effect, he is a
genuine lightweight, and he will be a fool
if he accepts matches with any more
welter- and middleweights.
A fifth Sands brother from. Newcastle,
Alfie, is now in the boxing business. A
lightweight, aged 17, he knocked out a
lad named Walsh in a couple of rounds,
after Walsh had him down. This was
one of the preliminaries to the main bout,
in which Ritchie Sands was engaged with
George Elliott, a middleweight. Ritchie
outfought Elliott, who was 111b. lighter
and too much of the clinging vine. But in
the last three rounds of 12 Elliott shot
many rights at his opponent’s chin, and
though they never seriously disturbed
him they must have impressed the referee
in declaring for Elliott.
The best of the Sands brothers, Dave,
was in action at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, and went home with the
light-heavyweight title. Conceding all
the physical advantages to Jack John-
son, his fiery onset had that ageing
warrior bothered from the beginning.
Scratchy straight lefts to the face earned
points for Johnson, but a flurry of right
swings floored him in'the fourth round.
Semi-consciously staggering almost up-
right at “seven,” he went down again
without being hit. . The decision —ques-
tionable, if merciful —was a “technical
knockout.”


REVIEW YOUR
WILL-NOW!
MANY a man reviewing
the Will he signed
some years ago has been
surprised and shocked to
find how changes in cir-
cumstances have altered his
real intentions.
Never before has it been
more essential that the
management of your estate
after your death should be
in capable and experienced
hands.
There is a happy solution
to this problem. You may
appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your
Executor, conjointly with a
friend or relative if you so
desire, and so ensure ab-
solute security for your
family.
Write for a copy of the
interesting and informative
booklet “Your Executor
and Trustee,” which will be
gladly sent upon request.
It explains the service the
company renders and what
it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.: E. R KNOT*
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H R ’
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING BESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga. ’
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,’
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Wlk with “'WIk 9 *
Double D
trip
Be on your guard against Flu-Colds;
start with the Double “D” Eucalyptus
3-way treatment at the first sneeze—
quick soothing effective.
3 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” ON
SUGAR.
CKEST AND BACK WITH
DOUBLE “D”.
15 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” IN
HOT WATER.
Double “D” Eucalyptus is pure, strong and
penetrating; this popular 3-way treatment
enables Double “D” to fight Flu-Cold germs
in nose, throat, and bronchial tubes. Be sure
to use only genuine Double “D” Eucalyptus.
ENORMOUS SALES
&
X'
m i
* * V
m
/ i
i
Double D
THE PURE STROM fUCfItHPTHS IDITH THE SLUEET FRESH SiTIEiL
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Economics of Menzies
The policy speech of R. G. Menzies, in
Camberwell Town Hall, made it plain
to all who know anything of real ad-
ministration and practical planning that
the Liberals’ economic programme pos-
sesses a clear, well-considered objective
of restoring productivity to the country
and economic freedom and prosperity to
the people. There is a plan here by
which the nation can, if it tries, regain
its social health and economic strength,
and make the progress that every Aus-
tralian believes this country to be cap-
able of.
“Production,” said Mr. Menzies, “is our
master problem. To the extent that we
expand it it will mean higher wages,
more and better homes, the amenities of
life, markets in other countries, constant
employment among our people.” He
added: “We must set out to achieve two
results—one is to improve the freedom
of action of the citizen ; the other is to
reduce the burden of government for
which he, as a citizen, has to pay.” In
connection with this burden of govern-
ment, represented by the heavy taxation
load, he said; “We believe that some very
prompt and large relief should be given
to the people if there is to be a restora-
tion of incentive to produce, just as we
believe that unless there is a dramatic
increase in civil production all the arti-
ficial restrictions in the world will not
prevent post-war inflation, and increases
in real living standards will be post-
poned.”
The Federal Labor Government, Mr.
Menzies maintains, has neglected the
problem of production in favor of the
maintenance of a high rate of Govern-
ment expenditure. It has grievously
failed to realise that the restoration of
civil production and business activity in
the post-war years requires an even
greater, and more concerted national
attack than did the creation and develop-
ment of military production during the
war.
In order to induce the people to give
way to its semi-socialistic policy the Labor
party has made a great show of its social-
security activity and policy of “full em-
ployment.” By the muddled, wasteful
and political fashion in which it has gone
about “securing” these things for the
people, Canberra Labor has actually
undermined the economic security of the
whole nation. In this connection Menzies
has said: “We believe that we must have
an adequate system of payments for old
age, incapacity, sickness, medical ex-
penses, unemployment, widowhood and
family endowment.” But, “I want to say
to Australia that if we are to grow to
our full strength we must not sit at
home huddling about ourselves the gar-
ments of mere safety. We must go out
to develop Australia’s resources and in-
crease the national wealth so that there
may be available for all the people stan-
dards of living and achievement which
seemed impossible a generation ago. We
need to avoid a purely defensive conser-
vatism of mind.” He added that the main
political and economic accent should be
placed upon how we can learn more and
grow more, make more and sell more
and enjoy more. “Social security is not
the end of a national journey ; it is merely
a necessary incident upon the way.”
“Above all,” said Mr. Menzies, “the
Government has failed to realise that the
whole basis of rising living standards, of
adequate social security, of business
activity, of full employment and of that
stability of the currency which makes
savings and pensions and deferred pay
and gratuities worth while is increased
production of civil goods and services.”
The Chifley Government is truly miles
behind in dealing with the problems of
restored peace-time production. It com-
plained almost bitterly last year that the
war had ended sooner than it expected.
Today it has masses of manpower in the
wrong places, its half-baked socialistic
policy has placed it at the mercy of Com-
munists and industrial anarchists, its
tangle of war-time controls are tending
now to defeat their original purposes, and
the heavy taxation and extravagant spend-
ing of the Ministry have become an in-
tolerable obstruction to development, pro-
duction and marketing. The financial out-
look is full of menace.
Mr. Menzies proposes, if given a man-
date, to reduce substantially income tax
(including company, tax) and sales tax
on items affecting the cost of living and
the cost of housing; to continue neces-
sary economic controls, but in a manner
that will encourage production and render
controls unnecessary as early as possible ;
to eliminate redundant Government de-
partments as soon as the need for con-
trols is ended ; to give the manpower of
the nation the opportunity of working
productively and profitably to the great-
est extent; to uphold the law, including
the industrial law ; to make a secret ballot
compulsory in trade-union matters in-
volving election of office-bearers or stop-
pages of work; to introduce a contribu-
tory social-insurance scheme without the
means test; to speed up housing activity,
and to reduce building costs, with full
encouragement to those desiring to own
their homes. ♦
If the Liberals are returned to office
it is intended to establish a Ministry of
Development, the job of which it will be
to see that public expenditure is well
directed and, above all, reproductive. In
co-opefation with the States regional de-
velopment will be aimed at. As opposed
to the lumbering, wasteful, badly-con-
ceived bureaucratic projects that are
illustrative of Labor’s almost defeatist
efforts, the Liberals say that they look
first and foremost to the natural elements
in a progressive society and 'Seek to en-
courage them by wise and sympathetic
government.
Mr. Menzies has put before the Aus-
tralian people a good, workable plan. Aus-
tralians by this time are probably appre-
hensive of “plans,” and rightly so, but
in the Liberal planning “the divine rest-
lessness and ambitious enterprise of the
individual” are given free rein within the
economic and social laws of the country ;
all the institutions of government will
aim at aiding the enterprising, the hard-
working, the productive and the inventive,
in each case demanding a recognition of
national obligations by the individual,
whether the individual be an incorporated
company, a trade-union or a person.
It has been the Liberal party which has
forced upon the Labor party such taxa-
tion reductions as Mr. Chifley has already
announced. Mr. Menzies is thoroughly
justified in going further, especially in
granting relief to business enterprises in-
corporated as companies, the shareholders
in which pay double tax. Industry should
bear no special penalties that can be
avoided, since it is upon industry that
employment and production so greatly
depend. Industry largely represents the
investment of savings, and further savings
should be encouraged so as to expand
production and minimise the inflation
danger possessed by present excessive con-
sumer spending-power.
It has only been political futility and
industrial lawlessness that have prevented
this country from now standing in a posi-
tion where it can see a great economic
future ahead of it. The whole outlook
is one in which, granted good govern-
ment and industrial and monetary sta-
bility, an age of great productive activity
is in front of us.
The Bulletin has consistently claimed
that Government economic functions, in
order to help the nation to its greatest
prosperity, should aim at complementing
private enterprises, not superseding them,
that public spending plans should always
acknowledge this, and that taxation
should be kept at the minimum required
to administer such necessary Government
functions, subsidise scientific and econo-
mic research, and allow for interest on,
and redemption of, the national debt.
Social services should be a co-operative
arrangement wherever practicable, not
wholly a charge on taxation collections
involving indiscriminate burdens and re-
wards. In all callings a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay will be required of
the individual.
The Liberal-party policy announced by
Mr. Menzies is admirably suited to a re-
surgence of industrial and social pro-
gress in Australia. It deserves the full
support of his colleagues and every per-
son possessing commonsense and a will
to do better for himself and his fellows.
Followed out as it has been presented to
the people, the programme will leave the
makeshift, socialistic economic arrange-
ments, the extravagant, paralysing . vote-
buying and the “class-war” propagation
of the Labor party shown up for the soul-
destroying, bankrupting influences they
really are.
Eddie Ward is all for financing his
£230 million standard-gauge plan by
Commonwealth Bank credit, interest to
be “avoided.” He is also in favor of
additional social services at a cost of £35
million, which he admits to be a consider-
able sum, but which, he says, involves
only “internal readjustment.” If Ward
really believes that taxing to provide
revenue for pensions is only an internal
readjustment he should not be opposed to
taxing in order to meet interest on loans
to pay for railways, since the one pro-
position is no less an “interhal readjust-
ment” than the other. Whatever Ward’s
“beliefs,” taxation is no joke—as Ward
and the rest of his party are realising as
they face the electorate—and redistribu-
tion of incomes is as prickly a subject as
any other in which the rights of the in-
dividual are altered by Government
action. Like everything else, railways and
social services have to be paid for by the
people.
* * * •
Frank Beaurepaire, chairman of
Olympic Tyre Co., continues to shape the
board nearer to the desire of his own
heart, in spite of strong protests from
other shareholders and directors. Last
year he had his way (after a hot con-
test) in increasing the directorate by two
(to seven), sponsoring two outsiders, and
now he has supported Lieut.-General
Savige, involving the displacement of
I. B. Knight, who continues in his job as
assistant-general-manager. Mr. Knight
withdrew his nomination when he found
General Savige was standing; he had no
idea when offering himself that there was
to be a contested election. Mr. Knight,
at the meeting, said: “I propose to carry
on in my executive position with all care
and loyalty.” The appointment of
General Savige, who only recently ac-
quired his shares, met with much criticism
at the meeting by Captain Ivan Holyman,
who referred to the heavy voting strength
of the Beaurepaire family and to the
chairman’s activities in changing the
directorate. A shareholder said he was
disappointed and surprised at Mr.
Knight’s withdrawal He was opposed
to General Savige being a director. “This
election seems to be like a Labor Cau-
cus,” he added. Another shareholder,
addressing chairman Beaurepaire, said:
“We apparently have to get your
approval as our controlling shareholder.
Would you consider expanding the board
to retain Mr. Knight’s services?” The
chairman replied that the request was
irregular. Olympic Tyre Co. has been an
extremely successful enterprise to date,
but chairman Beaurepaire should consider
the question of whether teamwork is not
likely to be embarrassed by continued
changes on the board. Captain Holyman
asked, “Are we to have a repetition of
this next year?” The question was perti-
nent. <


Why I Bank at the 44
.99
N5
Everybody knows how difficult importing is
nowadays.
That is one reason why I bank at the "Wales".
The Bank's connections with the principal
markets of the world, through its offices in
London and over 7,000 oversea agents and
correspondents, have frequently helped to put
me in touch with fresh sources of supply of
goods. The "Wales" also informs me on the
intricacies of exchange control overseas.
Another reason is that, by using "Wales" com-
mercial letters of credit — which are of world-wide
acceptability — I am able to establish my credit
in distant places and to ensure that payments to
suppliers are made only against documents which
accord with the terms I stipulate.
Take my advice: reduce your importing worries
and risks by using
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
XUSd
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
The following are taken from several
similar communications received whilst
this announcement was being prepared.
The writers are discharged servicemen
who have got half way or further
through the Pelman Course. Our mail
each day contains many such apprecia-
tive references from service members and
civilians alike.
12th June, 1846.
“My -wife advises me that nowadays I
appear to be more affable and in my work
I have noticed that at times I remember
little things which other people have not been
able to recall. This is a definite help, and
I feel that I am improving in all respects
as I progress with the Course.”
12th June, 1946.
“Since I began the Pelman Course I have
found a great improvement in myself gene-
rally. I have acquired the ability to make
decisions and have confidence in those decis-
ions. I have more confidence in myself and
I am more precise in the way I do things.”
24th June, 1946.
“I consider I have benefited greatly and I
intend, on the completion of this Course, and
when less adverse conditions prevail, to go
completely through the Lessons a second time
and carefully look for points which I may
have missed.”
24th June, 1946.
“My aim was social, moral and financial
gain. Have easily doubled social contacts.
Morally, have made good progress. Have
improved my employment situation and am
earning more than before starting your
Course. The Course is very helpful in my
other studies, even if only because of more
agile brain.”
24th June, 1946.
“1 have definitely made advancements since
beginning the Course. I think I have
improved mainly in memory, though I have
improved in every subject so far touched on
in the Course.”
The utmost promptness marks the
Pelman Institute’s correspondence with
its members from the first inquiry to
completion of the Course.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 38 years, and has enrolled more
than 60,000 of the half-million
Pelmanists.
What our senses do for us
A highly developed perceptive faculty recognises with little or no conscious
effort what is of use to its possessor: what is harmful, who is friendly and
who is indifferent or hostile, and what other people’s interests, moods and
intentions are.
The Pelman Course of Training develops the perceptive faculties first.
In doing so there are many indirect effects which prepare the pupil for
other training which follows. The mind learns to think objectively, outside
and away from itself, and thus acquires new interests; self-confidence grows;
habits of will and concentration are formed; the ability to sift and sort
daily happenings into the mass of experience which is the basis of judgment
is developed; material for reflection and conversation is acquired; tact and
sensibility in the company of other people become habitual; and there is
a general quickening of the mind so that understanding of conditions and
people is easier.
These effects in part are felt in the early Lessons. They Increase
with each Lesson and because there is observable growth—a conscious
unfolding of ability and power—the pupil is eager to proceed.
THE SERVICES; DISCHARGED OR SERVING. Members of the services
discharged or still serving are accepted at the reduced fee instituted In
the early war years. Enrolment maj be made direct with the Pelman
Institute, under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme, or with
a Unit Education Officer.
CIVILIANS. The fee for the Pelman Course remains the same as
before the war. In spite of the many difficulties of the war years we
have maintained our full service and have made all our communications
to pupils as promptly as at any time in our history. The Institute has
in fact practised what it preaches, one text of which is that there are
few difficulties which, by foresight, judgment, initiative and the exercise
of the inventive faculty, cannot be overcome.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” describing the Pelman Course of
Training are sent free on application to The Pelman Institute,
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne ,
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note; Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman
Institute, Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
Fro the Pelman Institute, S Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
1 MIND.’’
Name
Address
181
Developing Australia
For a number of years in Australia the
emphasis in political circles has been on
“social security” rather than upon higher
living standards and accelerated indus-
trial expansion. It is true that the Labor
party has attempted to sell the idea to
electors that it can achieve all these things
at once, and it is also true that any form
of real social security will be dependent
upon greater industrial production well
distributed among the population; but it
is not true that mere redistribution of in-
comes —that is, taxing the population
heavily in order to hand back to the
people in a different way a variety of pen-
sions, endowments, unemployed and other
“benefits”—will do much to increase the
actual wellbeing of the country.
On the contrary, there is evidence that
too much of this book-entry “social
security” interferes with production incen-
tives and undermines the whole basis of
economic security. The present Federal
Labor Government is going through
the motions of “giving” the people
bigger pensions, child endowment and
“free” medical and hospital atten-
tion, but the evidence of the moment
points to the fact that the coun-
try’s standard of living has declined,
and only partly because of the effects of
the war that ended over a year ago. The
truth is the productivity of the country
has been allowed to fall away because
of political and social malaise rather than
because of straightout economic difficulty.
Australia before long will have to
appraise this book-entry “social security” a
great deal more shrewdly than it has done
to date. It will need to give greater atten-
tion to the need for more and bigger in-
dustries, for increased industrial efficiency
and for a higher output per man em-
ployed. Only by so doing shall we be
able to take advantage of the economic
possibilities of the age in which we live.
Finance will need to be arranged for
our future industrial development, and it
will need to be provided on a sound basis
if our development is to be fruitful.
Finance is one of the essential frame-
works on which modem industry hangs
and on which the smooth running of
trade, however widely dispersed, depends.
Australia’s productive ability relies
upon the extent, quality and skill of its
manpower, upon its raw-material, fuel
and power resources, upon the nature of
consumer demand, and upon the economic
organisation at the head of affairs.
By December 31 last Australia’s popu-
lation, exclusive of full-blooded aborigi-
nals, was estimated at 7,411,000. During
the war years the average annual increase
has been about 70,000, the birthrate in
1945 being exceptionally high. In the
next few years we may expect an influx
of European migrants provided the
country can offer employment, housing
and decent living standards. Most Aus-
tralians, Communists and a minority of
Labor vested interests excepted, will want
to see all the expansion and development
of which we are capable over the next
20 years. Balanced development will em-
brace greater water storage and coal
production, all possible utilisation of
hydro-electric power, extended reticula-
tion of electricity, wider and more modern
transport facilities, increased industrial
capacity and the building-up of more
modern country towns.
There will have to be a carefully
studied financial plan behind all this,
finance being now a particularly centra-
lised function: money must be made
available to all projects filling a reasonable
public demand and for the carrying-out of
which adequate manpower and materials
are available. The turning on and off of
the Government-controlled finance tap
must no longer be dictated by political
considerations involving great waste and
industrial frustration. Credit, public
and private, must only be made
available for national development and
increased productivity and better living
standards. Applied thus, credit can be
safely extended to the limit of our em-
ployment capacity. So long as it is ex-
pended on development most necessary
to the nation and in industries supplying
a genuine public demand there is little
risk of unhappy after-effects.
But it should be perfectly obvious that
within the foregoing outline of develop-
ment there is a high obligation to plan
our industrial and social development
with extreme care and to see that each
major project, as a whole, dovetails with
all other projects, so that the production
and service rendered generally will be in
keeping with the initial cost and subse-
quent maintenance charges. Granting
of credit in the future will no more re-
lieve us from the obligation to plan well
and economise to the full than it has done
in the past. And at all times the rights
of the lender must be remembered.
Credit-extension must be regarded as a
matter of lending, credit, in essence, in
no case being anything more than “time
to pay.”
Men employed on national works
and in private industry will be required
to give full value for their wages, though
their wages should rise in proportion to
the increased production of the country.
But it will be recognised that in the early
stages of a period of industrial expansion
there will not be an abundance of goods
for the consumer in view of concen-
tration on the construction of dams,
machinery, buildings, roads, etc., which,
while increasing our productive capacity
in the long run, in the initial stages rep-
resent a drain upon the manpower and
materials ordinarily available for the
making of consumer goods. During the
period in which consumer goods are
short the wage-earner should invest as
much as possible in the industries of his
country or save money in order, later, to
buy a home.
For years to come there be little
need to expand credit, there being such
a large accumulation of money now
ready for investment. It should be neces-
sary to expand central-bank credit only
when private savings have been utilised
to the full, or when investment confi-
dence is suffering from groundless fears.
Where investment confidence is at a low
level for valid reasons it will be time
to review the economic scene and ascer-
tain where development, production or
marketing plans have gone wrong.
Chronic shortage of shipping is giving
Maorijand a headache in distributing
coal, perishable foodstuffs and fodder for
drought-stricken North Island dairy herds.
As potatoes trickle through the transport
bottleneck from the Dominion’s most im-
portant producing areas, in South Canter-
bury, to North Island towns and cities
clamoring for supplies, harvesting is
slowed down because southern stores are
chock-full of spuds that can’t be shipped.
Growers say that people in the north
denied potatoes are eating more bread,
and that M.L, will have to draw on world
wheat supplies later on to make up for
the loss of potatoes.
* * ♦ *
In Auckland’s biggest property deal in
26 years, ownership of an eight-storeyed
building and site in the heart of Queen-
street has passed from W. R. Cooke and
Son to the A.M.P. Society. The price
of £lOO,OOO exceeds £3300 a foot, com-
pared with £1420 paid by Cooke’s in
1927. The previous highest price paid
for Auckland real estate was £1630 a
foot in 1941. In 1934 Woolworths (N.Z.)
paid £1470 a foot for a Queen-street
property near Cooke’s.


ABOUIGINALITIES
“Hanko” : I was just dropping off to
sleep when the raucous call of a boobook
on the roof-top startled me to full wake-
fulness. In the bunk next to mine, Little
Joe sat up, swore and reached for a
boot, which he hurled viciously upwards.
With the thump of the footwear against
corrugated-iron came startled gasps and
plaintive voices. “Possum on the roof,”
mumbled Jackie Snowflake. “Possum
on the roof be hanged!” barked Big
Joe, and he lit his hurricane lamp, picked
up a mirror, and peered into it. Even
from my bunk I could see the egg-sized
swelling on Joseph’s forehead. Then
Big Joe began a search for the mis-
sile that had dominoed him, and Little
Joe seized that respite to slide from his
bunk and sneak out into the night. Big Joe
found the evidence he needed and came
straight over to me, “Pelt a blanky boot
at a man, would y’?” he snarled, and
he scragged me till my back teeth rattled.
Of course, the big man made an honest
mistake in picking on me, for it was my
boot. Fair’s fair, and that’s why I didn’t
knock him. Instead, I locked the hut
door, and was glad that it had set in to
rain a cold, sleety rain,
* * * *
“Bill C.”: I’ve seen many coves trying
to locate bush bee-hives by gumming
•thistle-down to live bees and then letting
’em go (B. 31/7/’46), but they all got
more stings than honey. The trick, how-
ever, is always worked by the blacks. In-
variably it is Mary’s job to tear after the
fleeing speck while the buck pelts after
her, yelling in warning whenever in her
blind rush (she never dares lift her eyes
from the quarry for fear of dire penalites)
she seems about to collide with a tree
or rock. Seldom does a bee reach home
unobserved.
* * * ♦
“Zake”: Whenever the rabbit is men-
tioned by pastoralists, I have found
Thomas Austin, of Barwon Park (Vic.),
blamed for having introduced the pestifer-
ous rodents into this country—though no
doubt his name is honored where trappers
and reffo furriers congregate. Of any-
thing that happened before 1859 Austin is
guiltless. An “Account of Livestock in
the Settlement,” compiled by Andrew
Miller, Commissary, at the direction of
Governor Phillip on May 1, 1788, reveals
that there were “seven horses, seven head
of cattle, 29 sheep, 74 swine and five
rabbits.” The Governor himself was
listed as the owner of three of the rabbits.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Like “Lower Tops’l”
(B. 24/7/’46) I had regarded quail-chasing
and -catching as a pursuit for tireless boys.
So. when, on my first trip through
Palestine, I saw on every second station
dozens of the little flutterers crated, alive,
awaiting transport to the markets, I
credited the Wogs with bringing to the
pursuit of an honest, though despicable,
living some of the industry which they
expended on the plundering of tourists,
uniformed and otherwise. That credit
vanished when, where the railway skirted
the coast, I saw literally miles of nets
about 10ft. high hanging suspended from
posts along the sand dunes, placed to
catch low-flying quail. A native assured
me, as well as his outlandish gibberish
would permit, that the birds were netted
a$ they landed after their flight across the
Mediterranean. Even if I hadn’t been
familiar with the lovable little bird I’d
have disbelieved him on principle, but if
any member of the council cares to assure
me that the quail, in any part of the
world, is capable of a sustained migratory
flight, I’ll look that Wog up on my next
trip to the Holy Land and apologise.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Nor’-west’s” idea (B.
7/8/’46) that playing a fish involves giv-
ing it slack line shows clearly that he
doesn’t understand the first principle of
the business. Skull-dragging with a small
hawser may be all right with his benighted
sort of fish, but our more sophisticated
ones in S.Q. won’t look at that kind of
primitive tackle to any paying extent.
The whole art of playing is to keep a
constant steady strain on the fine at a
rate adapted to its breaking strain, and
thus to tire the fish out by the brake-
effect so applied to its motile power.
The strain also keeps the hook firmly
fixed in place, and, anyhow, there’s a barb
to prevent “throwing.” When sufficiently
tired out, the fish is brought alongside
and gaffed—not skull-dragged over the
gunnel—if its weight seems likely to ex-
ceed the breaking strain of the line.
Thus, and thus only, do we players suc-
ceed in getting 501 b, kingfish and 451 b.
jewfish on light fines with a breaking
strain of around 351 b. , It is the same
principle which the big-game rodmen use
to capture giant swordies and mailin on
a fine which would not support a fifth of
their weight out of water.
# * * *
“F.L.”: A neighbor complains that the
foxes which periodically raid his chook-
house have reached a new degree of cun-
ning. Previously from his collection of
mixed poultry, they took the white ones,
more easily found in the dark. But now
only the black ones go off, and he swears
the foxes have worked it out that they
run less danger of being seen making
away with blacks.
* n* * *
“Dicky Beach”: Whales are unusually
plentiful in S.Q. waters for this time of
year and some people are getting nasty
“Give me a trial. Dad — I'm a wizard at finding eggs."
shocks from the clumsy giants. A fishing
launch anchored over a snapper patch
off Noosa Head suddenly began to sheer
and swing, then gathered way and moved
out to sea at a good ten knots with her
bow pulled down almost to water level.
The anchor line luckily parted before she
was dragged under, and a minute or so
later the startled crew saw a 60ft. whale
surface a hundred yards or so ahead.
A few days later, a boat Was making out
for the offshore “wides” in the early
morning, her skipper drowsing at the tiller
with an occasional squint at his steering-
star. Suddenly, she fetched up with a
thud against something extremely mas-
sive, the bow lifted until he nearly fell
backwards over the tuck, and a terrific
splash from a few yards away drenched
him to the skin and half-filled the cock-
pit. Had the vast tail of that sleeping
whale hit the little craft she would have
been a goner. If some of these scientific
coots would invent an efficient whale-
scarer at a moderate price it would have
a good sale in these parts just now.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: One seems to become
immune to some scents and not to others.
Out from Esperance (W.A.) I’ve camped
beside a waving swamp of wild boronia,
and at first was almost overpowered by
the fragrance. Days later, however, we
couldn’t even whiff the stuff. Yet, away
for weeks on a crayfish ketch in Bass
Strait, I’m hanged if a man ever lost his
sense of smell. That gummy shark!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: As a further debit from
the ant’s reputation for efficient work (B.
31/7/’46) count the wasted effort due to
the little numbskull’s inability to realise
that a straight line is the shortest distance,
etc. Then let us turn our attentidh to an-
other vaunted toiler: the working bee.
If its work were anything like efficient
this world would be a drab if not an
impossible place to live in. Watch a
working party of bees busy on a flowering
shrub. One bee alights and commences
to take on a load ; a few seconds later it
gets itchy feet and flits to another flower ;
then to another, and another. Meanwhile
other bees are working and re-working
the blossoms that have already been done.
An industrial efficiency-expert would be
aghast to see human workers wasting
time and effort through such deplorable
overlapping and lack of system. He could
point out that an efficient bee might
collect a complete load from one bloom
and take it direct to the hive. And he
would probably be correct; but fortun-
ately bees are not efficient. With its rest-
less movements from flower to flower one
bee must fertilise and cross-pollenate
hundreds of blossoms an hour. Mother
Nature is most efficient in her ineffi-
ciencies.
* * * *
“Potrero”: Mention of Macquarie
Island and of wrecks there (B. 19/6/’46)
recalls that a voyage to this storm-lashed,
mountainous isle in the Southern Ocean
was the undoing of Australia’s first fishery
investigation ship, the Endeavour. The
little 102-ton wooden trawler —she was
built at Cockatoo Island in 1909 —sailed
from there in December, 1914, and dis-
appeared with 24 hands. It was 22 years
before her work was resumed by the
Warreen,
* * * *
“Ex-Emu Bobber”: I thank the Fates
for “Tim Tywire” (B. 14/8/’46) and his
par. about the force of habits acquired
in the bush. My missus is always picking
at me about my old felt hat, wflich is
never more than a couple of feet from
rrfe, awake or asleep. Even if Igo merely
to the front gate to empty the letter-
box, on goes the cady. The missus can’t
understand that, with it on my nut, I’m
prepared with a weapon to swipe strange
dogs or importunate beggars, something
to wave to friends, to act as a hold-all
on messages, to use as a glove for hand-
ling hot saucepan handles and to be ready
for other uses. And where would Ibe if,
when some stranger asks me for a direc-
tion, I couldn’t push my hat back,
scratch my napper and slowly give the
answer? But the thing that maddens her
more than anything in our suburban
mdnage is the way I take it off last thing
at night and put it on first thing in the
morning.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: Lonely graves
and awful deaths? Crossing to the un-
inhabited west side of the Fitzroy River
at Yeeda (W.A.) I came on a wooden
cross and a stone-covered mound. It was
the grave of an ill-fated swagman who
20 years before had humped his bluey
the rough 90-miles stretch from Broome,
the last lap of which is a vast, anthill-
covered plain, appropriately called The
Graveyard. He had injudiciously camped
on the river bank and a crocodile had
taken off one of his legs. Somehow the
poor devil had managed to shin up a
10ft. iron telegraph-pole and cut the wire.
Sixty hours later a linesman from Broome
found him—too late. What that swag-
man went through in pain and tortured
by mosquitoes, heat, thirst and the
thought of more crocs is left to the
imagination.
* * * •
“Chuck”: Smithie held his jumbucks
outside the contract shed till word came
to take the end pens, and from there he
was soon shoving his first draft into the
building. Presently the classer in charge
of that section came back to run an eye
over the mob. “Cripes, how many blacks
y’ got, Smithie?” he asked, noting the
sprinkling of boongs. “Dunno; but a
good few. Tell y’ what,” grinned
Smithie, “How much’ll y’ gi’ me f’r me
black wool?” “Well, it’s hard to say.”
“G’ on, I ain’t puttin' one over,” urged
the sheep owner. “There’s about the
same number outside, an’ y’ know as
much about the game’s I do. A sportin’
offer.” The classer’s eyes narrowed.
“Give you fifteen quid,” he answered
shrewdly. “Done,” chuckled Smithie
heartily. “For if there’s one thing I like
it’s an easy gambler.” The catching-pens
filled, the machines bit in, and Smithie’s
mob were going through. “Black,” called
the classer, as the picker-up flicked out
a fleece with a black patch on the rump.
“Black,” he called again, as the next one
hit the table. “Aw, cripes, it’s only got
a tinge on one shoulder,” pointed out an
emergency skirter. “I said black,” the
classer bellowed, and into the colored bin
hastily went the fleece. Next day the
classer tightened the bales on £4O
worth of black-labelled wool, and Smithie
tightened his opinion on “easy” gamblers.
* * * *
“Blue”: Striking some chaps ruefully
contemplating the flat tyre of their
truck, we stayed to help them out
Imprisoned between the iron rim and
inner tubing we found a 4in. lizard.
It had evidently been trapped when
the tube was inflated a week pre-
viously. It had escaped suffoca-
tion, and had survived the weight of the
truck passing over it with every revolu-
tion of the wheel. Its claws had eventu-
ally punctured the tube.
» * * ♦
“Blime”; “Trapper” fed the pack,
pegged out his skins, then, calling the
mongs in turn, began chaining them in
their places. “Shag,” he bellowed.
“Here, Shag.” He whistled peremptorily.
“Cripes, I’ll break your neck some day
f’r this,” he growled, dropping the chain
to follow a little tyke, which promptly
dived under the shed. Even a hunk of
mutton failed to coax him out, so
“Trapper” substituted a big yellow grey-
hound at the little hunter’s kennel.
“Shag’s always a cow t’ tie up,” he
explained, as we turned for the hut.
“Likes t’ sleep under the shed, Cripes,
the skinny bloke don’t seem to like that
kennel, either, does he?” he chuckled,
as a din arose from the end kennel.
“Well, he’s got t’ learn.” The howls died
down, but at intervals through the cold,
wet night they broke out afresh.
“Trapper” ignored them. Going up next
morning he discovered a wet and bleed-
ing greyhound shivering on the end of
the taut chain, while at the kennel en-
trance was a long-haired little tyke indig-
nantly defending his housing rights.
* * * ♦ -V
“Naturala”: Everyone knows that the
nut of the zamia-palm is highly poison-
ous, but it is curiods the way in which
this nut bequeaths its poisonous property
to the infant palm that springs from it.
Usually such young palms spring into be-
ing after a section of country has been
overrun by fire. With the land bare,
cattle naturally go for the tender palm
fronds, with the result that they soon
become afflicted with a dreadful form of
rickets. At one time in sou’-west W.A.
it was common to see wretched bovines
dragging their hindquarters, scarcely able
to walk. Young fronds springing from
the centre of the mature palm were also
liable to be eaten, with the same toxic
effects. A cure was finally found, in the
extermination of the zamia over grazing
areas —accomplished simply by thrusting
a crowbar down the middle of the palm
and then pouring in kerosene.
* * * *
“Rank-and-Filer”: Old Bill the dogger,
dry as a wooden god and camped with his
horse near town, was broke. Happening
to be trimming Bally’s hooves he found
embedded in one of them a two-bob
piece. A fair-minded man, he tossed
Bally to see whether to spend it on chaff
or beer. Bally won, so he tossed again,
best two out of three. Bill lost, so he
decided to make a final test, five out of
eight. The nag’s run of luck again held.
In desperation Bill bdrrowed the two
shillings from Bally and hastened town-
ward to quench his thirst.
* * * *
“Colonial * Cove”: My dictionary
defines the term “navvy” as “a laborer
employed in the digging of canals, etc.
Actually the word is a shortening of
“navigator.” In the early 19th century
the digging of London’s docks employed
thousands of such workers. It was the
first really big pick-and-shovel job up
to then, and the newspaper boys of the
day were at a loss to find a name for
such an occupation. Then some wit,
perceiving that the combined toil of these
thousands would end in ships being
brought into waters where a ship had
never before floated, dubbed them “navi-
gators.” As late as 1832 H. W. Reveley,
the Swan River Settlement’s first civil
engineer (incidentally, a friend of Shelley
and a son of Maria Gisborne, to whom
the poet addressed some charming lines),
applied the term “navigators” to pick-
and-shovel men employed in digging his
mill dam, on the site where now stands
the Perth Technical College in St.
George’s Terrace, Perth. When the bow-
yang boys started railway building, the
term, losing its original meaning, was
shortened to “navvy.”
FROSTY MORNING.
The air is crisp and frost is on the grass;
The breath of cattle warms the chilly shed;
The rich milk flows with sound like tinkling
glass.
And dew drops from the rafters overhead.
A magpie trills a silver roundelay;
A kookaburra sounds his rousing call;
And tiny twitters greet the dawning day
As mists disperse and light steals over all.
We blow on fingertips and stamp our feet,
Then breathe the essence of the rain-washed
gums;
Upon the air there sounds a lone lamb’s bleat
While yet' the old ewe’s answer softly comes.
A red-breast robin, opulently plump
Sits, preening feathers for his audience,
The background of his perch on blackened
stump
The pale green moss upon an old grey fence.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.


“Old-timer” : “Little Curl,” cashed up
and dolled up, rode his horse into Euston,
absorbed a few beers, caught the coach
over to Manangatang, absorbed some
more beers, caught the train to Bendigo
and found himself in the Golden City that
was. Late that night a policeman spotted
him sitting on the kerb in the
Mall, made a few inquiries, did some
telephoning, called a taxi and presently
“Little Curl” found himself installed at
the Eaglehawk hotel. Gratefully he fell
into bed. Shortly after dawn the police
telephone rang and an agitated voice de-
manded a concentration of the law upon
the Eaglehawk hotel, where, declared the
voice, “a ratbag of a fellow is up on the
roof tryin’t’ shoo the stone eagle away.”
With a ladder and some persuasion the
law grounded “Little Curl” and threatened
punishment. Abashed and scared, “Curl”
confessed that he’d been watching the
lambing ewes on the station and “the
crows is pretty bad up there an’ I’ve had
me share of it. I wake up this mornin’
an’ without thinkin’ hop out o’ bed an’
went through the first door I see an’ up
some steps an’ through another door.
“Ready? Go!“
Then I see a bloomin’ great eagle siltin’
on the fence an’ I thinks by cripes they’re
gettin’ cheeky. I’m tryin’ t’ shoo him
orf when you fellers come an’ I wake up
to meself.” They were disinclined to be-
lieve him until an old and grizzled senior
constable who’d served many years along
the river put in a word, saying that “You
can never be surprised at what these
blokes from up the Murray will do,
’specially at lambin’ time.” “Curl” got
off with a caution and swore carefully to
examine the decorations of the next hotel
at which he stayed.
* * • *
“Propalong”: Skinny Smith, the horse-
breaker, had wandered down into the
sheep country and asked for a job on a
mutton run. “C’n y’ ride?” asked the
boss. “Aw,” mumbled Skinny, “I c’n
ride a quiet hack.” “S’pose you’re good
for a few pigjumps?” “Aw, I dunno,”
Skinny drawled. “Well, y’ c’n ride a
horse jumpin’ about, can’t y’?” “Aw,
I dunno.” “Dammit, man,” barked the
boss, “c’n y’ ride a horse shyin ?” “Aw,
I dunno,” mumbled Skinny. Then, be-
coming confidential, he drawled, “I
reckon I c’n stay with a prad unless he
gives a reel cough.”
* - * * *
“Atlanta”: Chasing scrubbers on a red
sandy ridge, we noticed a salmon gum
with its dead leafless limbs towering
gaunt above the bull-oaks. From about
five feet from the ground the bark had
been torn in ragged strips. “Lightning,”
someone suggested. “Lightning be
hanged,” Mick sharled. “I was camped
f’r dinner here early last summer when a
storm blows up. There’s a red glare in
the sky an’ a low whine in the distance
that I know is wind —big wind. I get a
grip on that gum when it hits. It nearly
jerks me arms apart as I’m whirled round
and round the tree till me head’s spinning
but I hang on. I can feel the bark bein’
drug off where me claws is fastened, but
I’m still there when that dry storm passes.
First time I ever ringbarked a tree with-
out an axe.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
24/7/’46) that my theory about the wind-
blown ocean salt does not account for
those big salt lakes, so prominent a fea-
ture of interior W.A. Geologists have
decided that such lakes were originally
arms of the sea. Being the oldest of the
continents, Australia has been subjected
to much alternate elevation and subsi-
dence. Such subsidence at one time took
place along the valley of Lakes Dundas,
Cowan, Lefroy and Hannans and even as
far north as Lake Barlee. Then came a
sudden rise along the south coast, which
locked in great arms of the inland sea.
Fossilised marine shells found along most
of these lakes are one evidence. Deposits
of limestone found on many parts of the
goldfields are another; and limestone,
free from sand, is not deposited in less
than a depth of 200 feet of sea. The
samphire weed, which grows around the
lakes, is yet another. Given such massive
basins of sea water, cut off 2nd subjected
to evaporation, we have in their present
beds, and in the porous strata beneath, a
sufficient deposit of salt to account for
most, if not all, of those phenomena of
which “G.” speaks—fresh-water lakes in
the midst of chains of salt, the variation
in brine of wells and underground
streams, often in close proximity.
* * * »
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Them there messer-
merists oughter be run in,” said “Old
Joe,” scowling at a picture of a dentist
allegedly hypnotising a patient, in the
paper that I’d brought him. “Ruined me
brother ’Enery’s milk business, one of
’em did. Doin’ well ’e wuz. Then an
’ealth crank comes an’ gives a leckcher
at the School of Arts, and talked a lotter
rot about ’ow clean their milk should be.
Blow me if a blanky messermerist didn’t
come along the very next week an’ guv
a exherbition in the same ’all. Me an’
’Enery went along fer a lark, an’ when
the bloke arsts fer volunteers ter come
up an’ get put under, ’Enery sez ter me;
‘Watch me stonker the silly coot,’ an’ up
’e goes enter the stage. The bloke waves
’is ’ands about an’ ’Enery starts lookin
a bit cockeyed, but I thought ’e wuz only
up ter ’is larks. Then the messermerist
bloke arsts ’im wot ’e does fer a livin’ an’
’Enery sez milkin’. ‘Show us ’ow yer
milk,’ sez the bloke. ‘There’s the cow
in front uv yer.’ An’ blow me if ’Enery
don’t give a kick like ’e alius did ter
make ’em let the milk down, spits on ’is
’ands, rubs ’em together, squats down
on ’is ’unkers, an’ starts milkin’ away
like mad. Every now an’ then ’e’d spit
on ’is ’ands again ter make ’em slide
easy on the imagin’ry teats. It looked real
funny, but nobody laughed ’cept some
kids. Then the messermerist coot tells
’im ter knock orf, an’ ’Enery wipes ’is
’ands on ’is pants an’ stands up. The
bloke waggles ’is dooks again, an’ ’Enery
“I cant arrest you now; it’s lunch-time. Come hack at two o'clock.
sorter wakes up with a start. When
’Enery takes the milk round next momin’
none uv the flamin’ customers’ll take it
any more.”
* * * *
“Afrikaner”: Touching on the origin
of the word “double-gee” (B. 7/ 8 / ’46),
the Afrikaans word is “duivelje,” not
“debbilje” as given by “Oxmead.”
“Duivelje” means “little devil.” “Deb-
bil”-je, to me, savors more of the Aus-
tralian aboriginal word “debbil-debbil.”
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”; Artificial incubation
of eggs (B. 31/7/’46) has been carried on
throughout the East for centuries. In-
vestigate a queue outside one of the open-
fronted shops in an Asiatic town, and you
will find the chicks and ducklings being
sold as fast as they emerge from the
shell. For the first 12 days the eggs are
packed in deep baskets filled with rice
hulls. Then they are taken out and spread
on large felt-covered trays, where they
are turned daily. Heat of germination
does the rest. A moderately sized “egg-
shop” has about 10,000 incubating at one
time. There is no attempt at separating
ducks’ from fowls’ eggs.
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”: Chequed up, we were
taking it easy down in Mt. Gambler
(S.A.) when a lean-looking bloke sifts
up to us and says “You blokes lookin’
for a bit o’ shearin’?” “Go away,” Mat
says. “We ain’t lookin’ for anything.”
The long cove withdrew, but about an
hour later he sticks us up again and says
“Now, listen. I got a mob of ewes, beau-
tiful sheep t’ shear. I hear you blokes
is good shearers, an’ I was thinkin’ of”
Mat interrupts him. “How many
ewes you got, Mister?” “Aw,” he says,
and he kind of goes all proud, “I got
about 150 or so. Real good ewes.
They” “Go on,” Mat cuts in, as
though he’s mighty interested. “What’s
their names?” Then that long bloke
went away and never troubled us again.
* * * *
“Wonk”: The mice in the hut were
getting beyond a joke, and “Careful” de-
cided on a mousetrap. “These are good
little traps,” remarked the storekeeper,
handing down a box. “Old
missus, camped out on his prospect, is
always buyin’ ’em.” “Careful’s” ears
pricked forward, and his nose wriggled.
“D’you say always ?” he questioned.
“Don’t they last?” “Course they last,”
defended the tradesman, “but you know
whaf women are when it comes to picking
up a mouse. Soon’s Mrs. Charlie makes
a catch, she grabs trap and all with a
long pair of tongs, and bungs the lot.
Then she walks the four miles in here
for another trap.” “Y’ mean, chucks out
the trap?” “Sure. Just over that big
rock below their camp. Know it? Rough
granite boulder on the edge of the bank.
Got quite a dump, they tell me. That’s'
women for y’.” “Yair,” said “Careful”
thoughtfully. “Don’t bother wrappin’ that
trap, George,” he instructed. “I’ve de-
cided not t’ buy one, after all.”
* * * *
“Bo”: “Fifteen-two” Fletcher had two
passions; crib and weather prognostica-
tion ; and of late even his lifelong am-
bition to land a 29-hand at crib had had
to take second place. Some 12 months
before he had got a relative in Sydney
to send him up some seaweed. This, he
had read somewhere, was a certainty to
tell how the weather would be: when
dry conditions prevailed it would remain
hard, brittle and dehydrated, but when a
wet change was impending it would be-
come moist and soft. The fact that it had
obstinately remained hard, brittle, etc.,
during a subsequent heavy down-
pour might have been due to the fact that
the seaweed was hung outside a hut
about 400 miles west of its natural ele-
ment. In midsummer “Fifteen-two”
heard that if you kept a frog in a big
glass jar half-full of water, covered with
gauze, and with a pronged stick placed in
the jar,, when the frog left the water
and came out on the stick it was
going to be hot. The old weather fancier
had to travel 20 miles to a creek to get
a frog, and when he installed it in its
new glass home on the kerosene case in
his hut it was already the fourth day
with the temperature over the century.
One day about a week later “Fifteen-two”
rushed outside the hut and called ex-
citedly to Jim the rouseabout. Every
day of that intervening week had been a
scorcher, and the mercury was now
around 102. “Me frawg’s hopped out o’
the water on t’ the stick, Joe,” he yelled.
“I told y’ I’d be able to tell this way—
we’re going t’ get some hot weather now,
I bet!”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Choom had gone to the
mailbox on the main road and the boss
was waxing impatient at his tardiness.
‘ Long time, ain’t he?” he said. I went
out and had a screw down the paddock.
“He’s just getting through the bottom
fence,” I reported. We yarned till the
trump started to fidget again. “Gripes,
he should be here be this time,” he said,
and we both went out to have a squint.
Choom was still getting through the
bottom fence. At that, the boss forgot
his urge to see the market reports and
shook with helpless laughter. We prised
Choom from the clutches of the middle
barb and escorted him back to the house.
There, the boss suddenly bethought him
of the fat lambs he’d sent away. “Where’s
the mail?” he said. Choom looked sur-
prised. “Happen it’s in mailbox,” he
said. “Oi got cotched in fence, doan’t
thee remember, sir?”
* * ♦ • ♦
“Esk D”: It is time for the evening
milking at Bunglewingie, and the cows
wade udder-deep through mud to the
yard. Mrs. Tolley bails up each cow in
turn, clamps large and lumpy fingers on
each udder and massages gently to dance
twin streams of milk tunefully in the
bucket. The evening grows chilly and
Mrs. Tolley shivers, draws her thin red
cardigan closer and wearily finishes
stripping the seventeenth cow. Over at
the house her lord half-dozes before a
fire of glowing coals, unhcecfing that the
stove fire has gone out and the meal
won’t be cooking till his lesser half re-
turns from the cowyard and gets it started.
There is a knock at the door. It is the
parson. “Well, Tom,” he begins. “I
see your wife is doing the milking on her
own. I felt sure you must be sick and
in need of some assistance.” “No, 1
ain’t crook,” Tom says. “Well, ah,” the
parson says, taking off his glasses and
polishing them industriously. “Hardly
the thing —ah —to sit back and let
the good woman do all the work.” “Y*
got me wrong there,” Tom protests.
“Maggie’s bin a great help t’ me all these
years, doin’ a man’s work besides her
own, an’ not arskin’ a penny ’cept f’r a
few clothes an’ an outin’ once or twice
a year. Gripes, it’s on*y fair that I do
sumthin’ f’r her now. So I’m lettin’ her
do the milkin’ on the shares this season.”
OUT OF BASRA.
To Ali and his tribesmen
An ancient debt we owe.
O’er windy wastes they carried
Quaint cargoes to and fro;
And by a Lone Land tarried
Long centuries ago:—
Dark dhowmen out of Basra
Who conquered hungry seas,
Before the Dutchmen wallowed
Behind the Portuguese,
Or French and English followed
In well-found argosies.
Our lean nomadic tribesmen,
Close-ridden in a glade
Of screw palms, saw them turning
s To Mecca as they prayed,
Ere knightly hosts came burning
To join the first Crusade.
In search of far adventure
Or lured by hope of gain
Their crafty keels went gliding
Along our Western Main,
Or in its bays abiding
Until they sailed again.
Then, high prows homeward turning
To ports they longed and knew,
They bore their freight and plunder,
Mayhap gaunt captives, too,
And carried tales of wonder
From realms remote and new.
Had they not left behind them
Green Indonesian isles
To find a Mainland, falling
In wan, uncertain miles,
Whose voices strange were calling
And genii worked their wiles?
They gathered what of value
Those haunted shores might hold;
Fine sandalwoods discovered;
In diving ventures bold
A wealth of pearls recovered;
And, landward, looked for gold.
Of those forgotten shipmen
Remains no rune or rhyme
To tell their hither mission;
Their dhows rot in the slime.
They passed from ken and vision—
A picture out of time.
To Mahoun’s pleasant heaven
Their Paynim souls have gone.
The West Land still lies dreamy
Beneath its tropic sun;
To Basra still, the steamy
Blue seas of Ind roll on.
One day, aforetime, musing
Beneath a spreading tree,
With all that West Land’s glory
Laid out by Kimberley,
The baobab this story
In leaf-talk whispered me.
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


RedMiti
RUM
BOTTLED OVERPROOF IN BOND
BY THE PROPRIETORS
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848
OVERPROOf
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
n\ir G-
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
p£ any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
■ All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
“EMLMNBFCO Y”
is the condensation of a distinguished long name. It is
the telegraphic address of Australian, Mercantile, Land &
Finance Coy. Ltd. Whether it's the sale of Wool; Produce;
Fat, Store or -Stud Stock; or Property the purchase of
Station and other requirements—or personal sefvices, etc.,
telegraph "AMLANDFCOY" Sydney, or write to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A 1.22.76
• ■•>• '• v« W/h lifmfssfi _
r /■
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation Is individually designed and built to nt
your particular needs. Cost per acre is very
attractive, and some purchasers have reportea
recovering their full outlay in one season.
"MAXIMUM" COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented
“MAXIMUM” Coupling is the only one on the market possessing its
all-round flexibility and ease of connection. It can be coupled by
a simple movement to any inclination up to 15 degrees in any
direction and remain watertight. 77
Agents: SMITH & GLUYAS Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence. Street, Sjdney. M-977.
WAUGH & JOSEPH SON Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South i Brisbane. J 14o ,
PASCOE & CO., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M712<.
WELLING & CROSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX48S .
f
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
sa-41 DIXON STREET,
SYDNEY. MA TW^
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORYY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding.
“Atlanta”; Begin feeding before stock
lose condition. Split sheep into mobs
small enough to be handled by the men
available. Lambing ewes lose condition
long before dry sheep. They’re the
foundation of future flocks, and should
be given priority on best feed available.
Good water is essential Distribute flocks
widely over timbered country so that
roughage and windfalls can be picked
up. Supplement rations with rock salt
or a good lick placed in troughs near
water. If seasonal prospects are un-
promising it may be wise to shear sheep
carrying more than six months’ wool.
Start scrub-cutting as close to water
as possible. Depending on the amount
of scrub available, one man should feed
600 to 1000 daily. If insufficient to last
longer than a week or two don’t start
cutting; stock will fall away quickly
when the supply ceases. Timbers whose
leaves are least fibrous possess highest
food value. Mulga, myall, leopard-wood,
bumble, supple-jack, kurrajong, wilga,
whitewood and doolan are among the
best.
Where possible lop all trees and leave
at least one limb to encourage regrowth.
Don’t chop limbs right through, and
leaves uneaten will remain green. Where
plentiful, mulga can be cut on a face or
thinned. Once cut myall never shoots.
It should be flogged with a long-handled
wire whip. Sheep will starve on the
heavy leafed “black” wilga. Cut a test
limb from each tree and then lop those
which attract sheep.
Variety is important. Cut different
scrubs on alternate days or mix them.
An odd belar, ironwood, young ironbark
or box will do no harm. Keep supply
ahead of stock, but avoid waste. After
drought has broken keep the axe going
until feed is long enough to fill.
Where grain is distributed see that
weaker sheep get their share. Corn or
prepared nuts and cubes can be broad-
cast on hard ground, but troughs are
needed for milo. Be sure adequate and
regular supplies of feed are maintained
or results can be disastrous. Experi-
ments indicate that a good feed once or
twice weekly is preferable to splitting
the sanie ration into small feeds daily.
A good many droughts are man-made.
Save yourself work, worry and losses by
keeping numbers reasonably below carry-
ing capacity.
Pigs in Queensland.
“Archaps”; Feeding them, says F.
Bostock, a State expert, calls for study.
He instances grain sorghum, which
has a fattening value equivalent to from
80 to 85 p.c. of that of maize, but when
fed alone is an inefficient ration. It must
be supplemented with a protein-rich food,
otherwise inferior bacon is likely to fol-
low. For feeding young pigs sorghum
must be ground. Pasture crops, says
Bostock, are rich in substances needed to
make a balanced protein supply and
therefore are of more value than merely
as a means of saving grain, but even so
do not make the perfect ration.
No other domestic animal shows so
quickly the result of mineral deficiency as
the pig. The rapid development up to
1801 b. and 2001 b. liveweight at six to
seven months calls for much bone f
building material. Moreover, sows pro-
duce two litters a year, which makes their
demand on minerals heavy. Even when
feeding dairy by-products, additional
quantities of minerals are needed. Sug-
gested mixtures include equal parts by
weight of air-slaked lime, sterilised bone-
"I’m sure, I could do it, but how do you turn them off?”
meal and fine salt, or wood ashes, steril-
ised bonemeal and fine salt, to both of
which one-eighth of meatmeal could be
added to increase palatability. Where
dry feeding is practised, \\ p.c. of ground
limestone and 1 p.c. of fine salt may be
mixed with the ration.
Daily Plant Care.
“Big Billy”: With rubber and other
replacement supplies still short, care of
plant should be first consideration of
dairymen. Cleansing with caustic soda
and boiling water is best, and should be
done promptly after milking. After a
rinse of cold or lukewarm water one
gallon of a solution consisting of one
tablespoonful of caustic soda to four
gallons water should be drawn through
each unit. No damage to plant will re-
sult if parts are rinsed immediately in
clean boiling water and finally subjected
to an application of live steam for several
minutes to ensure prompt drying.
Rubber parts require actual boiling in
a caustic soda solution of one tablespoon-
ful to the gallon at least once a week.
As such a solution would ruin the tinning
of metal parts, it entails the dismantling
of the machines and segregation of the
rubber parts. Soda solution promotes a
smooth glazed inner surface to the rub-
bers, preventing fat, one of the greatest
enemies of rubber, from penetrating.
When small parts are dismantled for
ordinary washings care should be taken
to protect the inner surface of the rub-
bers. Brushes should not be used, as they
will score and roughen the rubber and
create pockets and lodging places for
milk and germs, with serious results both
to rubbers and milk quality.
Kikuyu on the Downs.
“Exkewex”: On our south Queens-
land red volcanic soil landslides leading
to erosion are a constant menace once
the roots of the heavy rain forest have
rotted out, especially on the steeper hill-
sides. Here Kikuyu comes into its own.
Once firmly established it binds the soil
to a depth that is surprising, seeing that
most grasses are surface feeders. It
stands up well to heavy feeding, responds
quickly to rain after a dry spell, remains
succulent into the winter a little better
than paspalum and does not show the
same tendency to become rank when
understocked.
Once established, Kikuyu holds its own
with most pests, including wild tobacco,
the worst vegetable in these parts. Clover
planted with Kikuyu lasts for many years,
and a quick response to early spring
rains is assured. It is excellent for mak-
ing a good sole of grass on stony ground,
but keep it away from any patch of
ground you may wis T to cultivate. It
thrives under ploughing and harrowing,
and no amount of cultivating can dis-
courage it. Probably that is why, when
the time comes to renovate Kikuyu
pastures, they give a better response'than
paspalum.
In Maoriland.
“Mac”; So M.L, dairy-farms im-
pressed “E. 2” (B. 19/6/’46) with their
even pastures. The rye grass-clover mix-
ture is the standby, but there’s some
paspalum in the warmer areas to the
north and a bit of cocksfoot where it’s
what we Maorilanders call dry. The
neat appearance he observed is partly
due to hedges. We have the rainfall to
grow them, and besides providing partial
shelter they are cheap fences. The only
trouble is keeping them in order, because
gorse slashing has to be paid for. Labor
of all kinds has been hard to come by,
but our gorse hedges are looking better
than ever. The mechanical hedge-
clipper run by a local contractor supplies
the answer. The present rate for trim-
ming is round 6d. a chain, so you get
a lot of work for your money. The idea
is worth considering wherever rainfall
permits tight hedges.
Another thing that helps to make our
dairy-farms look neat and to bring about
the orderly outbuildings is the cheap,
readily available electric power. Only
3 p.c. of M.L. is beyond the reach of
the power lines. This makes a big differ-
ence to lay-out and economy of labor.
In Praise of Gums.
“Hux”; Australia’s best trees are the
eucalypts; they make better avenues
than cypresses (B. 3/7/’46), which are
short-lived by comparison and susceptible
to borer. Gums rarely suffer disease,
give freely of shade and are majestic in
appearance. The Australian Forestry
Advisory Council now asks people to
make 25 p.c. of their tree plantings bee-
trees and thus aid honey production-
gums are splendid bee-trees.
The flowering gum (E. ficifolia ) is a
beauty, but beware of a windy spot, as
it’s a shallow-rooter and needs protection.
Not long ago an avenue of these gums
in one of Bendigo’s open spaces was laid
low by a gale.
The pink flowering ironbark (£. sider-
oxylon var. rosed), with its black trunk,
silvery pendant foliage and reddish
flowers, is a good subject for the slopes,
though somewhat slow in the shoot up-
wards. Scone (N.S.W.) has a fine show-
ing of them down one street. The sugar
gum ( E. cladocalyx), which hails from
S.A., should also be considered for in-
land avenues or windbreaks and for
shade. It is strikingly handsome, a heavy
nectar yielder, and adaptable to most
soils. West Australians swear by its
drought-resistance ability.
A Weedicide.
“Roma”: The newly developed hor-
mone weed sprays, Methoxone and 24D,
that are claimed to eliminate weeds from
cereal crops, lawns, etc., without damage
to the crop or grass are exciting local
interest. But there is a local product,
cheap and readily available, capable of
doing the same job, in sulphuric acid. In
5 p.c. to 10 p.c, concentration it may be
a more generally useful and cheaper
selective weedicide than the new pro-
ducts. It will not harm cereals, grasses
or such vegetables as peas and onions,
but will kill most annual weeds at any
time of the year. It is corrosive, and
there is danger if the acid is not mixed
with water in the correct manner, but
the few necessary precautions and adjust-
ments to spraying gear are easily under-
stood and applied.
Preserving Posts.
“Mr.”: Butts of round timbers to he
placed in the ground for shed uprights,
tankstands, yards, etc., can be made re-
sistant to decay and termite attack by
immersion in creosote oil, says the Vic.
“Agricultural Journal.”
Place the posts in a drum, the oil one
foot above what will be the ground level


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Eliminate Poisonous Waste
li you have an excess oi acids in your
blood your IS miles of kidney tubes
may be overworked. These tiny filters
and tubes are working day and night
to help Nature rid your system oi ex-
cess acids and poisonous waste.
When disorder of kidney function per-
mits poisonous matter to remain in
your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling, pufiiness under the
eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent or poor kidney action sometimes
shows there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Sidneys may need help the same as
bowels, so ask your chemist or store
for Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, a
stimulant-diuretic, used successfully
by millions for over 40 years. Doan's
give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate
poisonous waste from your blood.
Ask your Chemist or Store for
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney
, mi
OnogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“It's the Gas
That Kills Them”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas "A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers and
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
GUARD
with TMf
“PROTECTA" Registering TIU
Records all Counter Sales, Credits, Pay-outs, etc
All Details on Axrpltcation
PRICE £l2/10/" Plus Freight
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W
B
a
'S'
m
l*w
x
1
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans —germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying,, germs, flies—
are all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l7/14/9 F. 0.8. Sydney (in-
cludes surcharge), plus 10/9 crating
if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST.CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, Qld., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR 00. (S.A.), 81
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
D
O
s
If
;;w'
i '"i», \
w*
• FOR DIP OR JE7
2 ’ % G4 uT^^
7&sts c O S r<. D/p
■ &■■*&* is** *7* 71
A 'O O A /, v/ft .
, a w!SS %°* *&£%?* i
di > «£** /
is ‘*%°2’T i
ayK'v-,
iir/A7 in
li
SHEEP
• FOR
CAT
TLE
OR
FOR SHEEP USE IT AS DIP OR JET
• Field tests carried out by Taylor’s
Paints Pty. Ltd. on sheep indicate that
•5% to 1% is highly effective. Wool
fibres are so finely intermingled that
they provide an ideal lodging place for
D.D.T. residue in lasting form (the active
killing part of D.D.T.). This kills every
tick and fly that touches it for many
weeks. Test lambs dipped once only grew
much larger than untreated, comparison
lambs. This is considered due to three
factors : (1) Ticks, being blood-suckers,
take good out of the animal ; (2) Tick
and fly are irritants and worry the animal
into poor condition ; (3) A pest-free
animal eats more and keeps the good of
the feed. MAKE YOUR OWN COM-
PARISON BY TAKING A TEST PAD-
DOCK OF SHEEP DIPPED OR JETTED
WITH TAYLOR’S NUMBER 13 D.D.T.
EMULSION CONCENTRATE.
PEST-FREE LAMBS GROW BIGGER I
Available at your general store or
mail your requirements direct to
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD.
Sutherland Avenue, Paddington,
Sydney, N.S.W. (Tel. FA2125)
advising when delivery is required.
45 gal. drum £7B/15/0 F. 0.8. Sydney
5 gal. drum £B/15/0 F. 0.8. Syctney
A PRODUCT FROM
THE CHEMICAL
LABORATORIES OF
TAYLOR’S PAINTS
EASY TO USE MIX ON JOB
There is nothing intricate, involved or difficult.
Carry it to the job in Emulsion Concentrate
form. Then mix it into the water and stir.
It mixes immediately, turning the water milky
white. Then you use it. Best results are ob-
tained by mixing each day’s requirements as
needed. This will ensure maximum efficiency
when using TAYLOR’S NUMBER 13 EMUL-
SION CONCENTRATE.
TLw&ti,
13
0% DD
1
E MlrBS I ON
CONCENTRATE
re
WWJoA
NUMBER
LQiOD.Tj
KEEPS' ON
KILLING FLY £-TICK
when set in the ground. Heat to not more
than 212 deg. F. and keep this heat steady
for four hours. A higher temperature may
cause the oil to froth over and catch me..
After four hours draw the fire and allow
the oil to cool. Treated timbers can be
used at once or stacked until required.
Posts 4in. in diameter need about a hair-
pint of oil per linear foot of treated butt,
with increasing quantities for larger posts.
Skim-milk Possibilities.
“Agric”; In an A.B.C. session Frank
Daniell, a director of Kraft Walker
Cheese Co., urged the tremendous com-
mercial possibilities of skim-milk. Eighty
per cent, of the milk produced in Aus-
tralia was separated into cream and
skim-milk, he said, and skim-milk
powders were wanted in Europe and
India in unlimited quantities. If Australia
wished to secure some of this trade whole-
milk would have to be transported to
central factories equipped to process the
whole-milk and skim-milk products.
Cream could be handed over to butter
factories and the skim-milk preserved in
concentrated or dried forms. If skim-
milk was fed as human food there
would, on a dry-matter basis, be an extra
350,000 tons weight from the present
separating system, equivalent in food
nutrients to 1,000,000 tons of meat, the
present meat production in Australia.
Now that dairymen are becoming better
organised and dairy technologists are
constantly engaged on research work
affecting the dairying industry, it should
be possible for such a scheme to be fully
investigated by, or at the expense of, the
dairying industry, and the farmer ad-
vised in which direction his best interests
lie. Pig-raising is a valuable sideline on
most dairyfarms, and the average farmer
might be as well off today as he would
be if he discarded pigs and sent his skim-
milk in dried form to India. On the
other hand, if he discarded his pigs and
was no better off financially he might
have a less strenuous life if he concen-
trated on the skim-milk, which would
make the changeover well worth while.
Dairying today is successful mainly
when ample family labor is available, and
anything which could be done to do away
with some of this family labor and leave
the dairymen at least as well off as they
are today would be welcomed by most
dairymen.
Hints for the Farm.
“Agro”: Fowls confined in a pen need
exercise. A good method when feeding
them greenfeed is to tie the green with a.
piece of string suspended from the roof
of the pen to within 2ft. or 3ft. of the
ground. As the birds jump up to pick
the food they exercise the necessary parts
of their body. Wheat dropped in their
straw also makes them work for their
meal.
“W. Court”: Sharpening cane-knives
is greatly simplified if the pointed end of
the file is driven into a short wooden
handle. There is no risk of injuring the
fingers when a knife is being sharpened
with a handled file. Also, a worn-out file
with its narrow end ground to a sharp
point makes an excellent punch for drill-
ing holes in leather or rubber.
“Xob 33”: The job of “hardening”
young tobacco plants should begin when
they are about an inch high. Plants
grown wholly under cover will be too soft
to sustain the altered conditions when
transplanted. The covers should be re-
moved so that the beds will be open to
the sun for two hours in the early morn-
ing and two hours in the late afternoon.
Time should be increased gradually until
plants are able to withstand a full da> s
exposure to the sun without being
scorched.
“E. 2”: Seed potatoes, whole or cut
tubers around 20z., should be exposed to
air and light to “green” them for planting.
Each seed must have one or more eyes
and is ready for sowing when the shoots
have begun to grow. Soil prepared to a
fine tilth ahead of planting, with a green
crop turned in, is an advantage. Choose
varieties to suit local conditions and times
of sowing.
“F.L.”: Dogs get tapeworms through
eating raw rabbits and offal in which
there are hydatid cysts. Boiling all this
kind of feed may save infestation, but in
some districts and at certain times it s
extremely difficult to avoid. Cure is to
starve the hound for 24 hours and then
dose with arecoline hydrobromide dis-
solved in water, a quarter grain for
puppies, small dogs a half grain up to
one grain for greyhounds and other large
dogs. Keep the dog chained till the drug
has done its work and destroy the evi-
dence by burning. Repeat treatment in
eight weeks.
“Gravelsnatcher”: If you send for a
vet. make sure you have a liberal supply
of boiling water on hand when he arrives.
If you’ve got some good disinfectant as
well, so much the better. The vet. will
use both. The same applies if you’re
doing the job yourself, particularly wheie
there’s the slightest risk of spreading in-
fection from wound or instrument. A
cow may recover from the milk fever
for which it is treated only to go down
with mamitis introduced by the instru-
ment. Sterilisation of the instrument be-
fore insertion into each teat is the answer.
“W, Court”: Growers of pumpkins
aver that the sowing of fresh pumpkin
seed leads to heavy growth of vine and
poor yields, of pumpkins. Or, if the vines
bear all right, they are a long time doing
so. New seed is anything up to two
years old. When old seed is sown, vines
are said to come into bearing earlier and
to yield heavy crops.


Missing Friend.
ROBERT WALKER.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of ROBERI
WALKER, formerly of Perth and Merredin, Western
• Australia, Farmer and Company Secretary, and mote
recently of Queen Street, Melbourne, please communi-
cate with JACKSON, McDONALD, CONNOR and
AMBROSE, Solicitors, C.M.L. Building, Perth, M.A.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JACK OROSER. —TAKE NOTICE that ELEANOR
ELIZABETH ANNIE OROSER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2782 of 1946 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards IP you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the Ninth
day of September 1946 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from C. JOLLIE SMITH k
CO., Solicitors, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO DANNY DANIELS late of Nova Scotia.—TAKE
NOTICE that the said ANGUS DONALD SMALL
has commenced a suit No. 5016 of 1945 against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of adultery AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Seventh day of October 1946 and in the
event of you not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. Dated this Ninth day of August, a.d.
1946.— ROWLEY, ROSEBY & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, St. James Buildings, 107-09 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorcd 1 .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS SAUNDERS late of Roxburgh Street
Stockton Newcastle.—TAKE NOTICE that EVERARD
STEWART SAUNDERS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2715 of 1946 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards IP you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney on or before the Twentieth
September next and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge.—ROWLEY, ROSEBY & CO., St.
James Buildings, 107-09 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD CHARLES MULHERON late of 94 Grass-
mere Road Oremorne. —TAKE NOTICE that CLARA
FERNEAUX MULHERON has filed a Petition for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights No. 1865 of 1948 on
the ground that you have without any just cause
whatsoever withdrawn from cohabitation and refused
and still refuse to render to her conjugal rights
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before the 23rd September 1946 at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney and obtai?
a copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS
KALESKI & KARRIS Solicitors 39 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO MAOEIN TIJ’EMTTEIPIA EITI - TTOAAOU 'AsIOU’H TH AOEEIV «
*• IT'
r
AHMOSGENWt
THE UIISDOm OF THE PAST IS fl LESSOR FOR TODHV
ln almost everything, experience is more valuable
than precept.
For seventy-five years we have
specialised in the design, fabrication
and erection of steam generating
plant . , . carried out extensive
research on all phases of thermal
engineering and developed the
modern high temperature, high pres-
sure boiler to an unprecedented
peak of operating economy and
efficiency.
Modern production facilities, sound
engineering and the treasury of
Babcock world-wide experience
enable us to design and build in
Australia steam plant to suit every
individual requirement ... to work
in close co-operation with factory
managements extending the benefits
of practical experience rather than
advising by precept.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
iiniiD
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS—REGENTS PARK.N.S.W,
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
The lesson is obvious, and Babcock
engineers in every State will gladly
respond to your enquiries for infor-
mation and advice.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Bahcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ
isatiop for designing, testing and re
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . , ,
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
A
CASE
OF
m
i
S'
mm
SHEER NEGLECT! ...
Summoned to repair the only passenger lift in a city building, Waygood-
Otis maintenance engineers found the slip-rings on the machine's A.C.
motor in this advanced state of wear.
Obviously, the equipment had received little, if any, attention and,
inevitably, it broke down. Result—considerable traffic dislocation in the
building while the lift was shut down for extensive repairs, and a bill for
new parts and labour which would have covered the cost of Waygood-Otis
maintenance for many, many months.
WAYCOOD-OTIS MAINTENANCE OFFERS
|T] One single responsibility OURS for peak lift and escalator
performance.
[2] The elimination or considerable reduction of inconvenient shut-down
periods.
w [3] Regular routine inspection—DAY AND NIGHT SERVlCE—throughout
the year,
[4] Replacement of all wearing parts with genuine Waygood-Otis
components.
BST jjjj A flat monthly, all-inclusive service charge for consistent budgeting.
Telephone your nearest Waygood-Otis office or write for details.
No obligation, of course .
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART , NEWCASTLE
FOR VCRit C A L TRANSPORTATION
of the two men on the lorry, trudging
into the building, gritty and bent over
under their bags of coke. The sound of
their boots crunching on the spilt coke
echoed across the gravel to the half-circle
of waiting mourners. The two men were
black from their work. The bags were
stacked upright in two layers, and there
were still a couple of dozen to be carted
in. The sound was still coming across
the gravel, “Crunch, crunch. Crunch,
crunch,” as Mr. Petty saw that the others
were moving in through the front
entrance, for, he thought grimly, the
cooking of Hop.
Mr. Petty heard the brief service. He
saw the parson step down from his
slightly-raised platform and shake hands
with the three women, saying something
to them which Mr. Petty couldn’t hear.
The parson went back again, and, as he
spoke on, reached out a hand to rest it,
as it seemed, on the stand beside him.
As he pressed the button there the panel
in the polished woodwork slid upwards,
the coffin went smoothly through, and
the panel came slowly down.
When they came out again the work-
men had delivered their load of coke and
gone with their lorry. Mr. Petty lifted
the back seat of his car and safely
separated the two bottles. He drove off,
winding down the hills and up again,
across the bridge and into the city.
They were surprised to see him back
at the office, and just as surprised when
he was still there to see them off at the
end of the afternoon. He did not go
back to see Pat. For the first Wednesday
since he had known Hop Mr. Petty was
coldly sober. For the first time since
they had told him of Hop’s death he
realised that something had happened not
only to Hop but to himself. It frightened
him. He stayed on until night.
Out of force of habit he rang for the
taxi before he remembered that on this
Wednesday, for once, he could drive him-
self home. He rang again, cancelling the
taxi, and got into his car and drove home
across the bridge through the street-lit
evening. He opened the gate and drove
in through under the trellised grapevines
into the home garage.
Hop the Airedale came from the back
door barking. Mr, Petty was thinking of
other things, and it was just Hop barking.
In the dark he didn’t see that Hop was
not welcoming him with wagging tail and
big open shaggy mouth. Hop had his
hackle up, snarling. As Mr. Petty stepped
lightly, without a stagger, out from be-
side the car. Hop did an astonishing
thing. Hop bit him. Hop caught him by
the leg and ripped out a mouthful of his
trousers, and a chew of his leg with it,
“Hey! What the hell!” yelled Mr.
Petty, grabbing down at his leg and hop-
ping back into the garage, groping for
the light switch.
To his astonishment, it was Hop all
right. Still snarling and glaring up at
him.
“Heavens above,” said Mr. Petty, “he
doesn’t know me! Here, Hop, old boy,
what’s up with you?”
The snarl went from Hop’s shaggy
mouth. He cocked his head half to one
side, looking up, as if ready to be con-
vinced, but not quite convinced yet.
Mr. Petty roared laughing. “Well, Pm
damned,” he said, gripping the side of
the car, “I come home sober and the
damn’ dog doesn’t know me! ”
Hop let out a couple of whoofs, wag-
ging his tail and jumping around like a
ballet dancer in the spotlight, as if de-
lighted to hear Mr. Petty laughing. He
paused and looked up, head cocked side-
ways, letting out a couple more welcom-
ing whoofs as Mr. Petty, still gurgling
laughs, reached in, groping under the
back seat.
“Whoof, whoof,” said Hop, as Mr.
Petty found what he was after and came
out. “Whoof, whoof, whoof.”
“Whoof, whoof,” said Mr. Petty, letting
Hop lick his hand.
HE went inside laughing, switched on
the kitchen light and examined his
leg. It was bleeding a little, but Mr.
Petty still gurgled laughter as he rolled
up his torn trousers and tied a handker-
chief round it. Then he set about serving
up the supper set on the table for him-
self and Hop, who was already perched
in his usual chair expectantly waiting.
Mr. Petty poured himself out a nice
stiff whisky. He looked at its pale amber
glow in the light.
“Well, old man,” he said across the
table, “here’s to your brown eyes ; you
damn’ old scoundrel, you didn’t know
me. Chin, chin.”
Mr. Petty drank his whisky, and, draw-
ing in a good breath after it, poured him-
self a milder one. The old shaggy face
looked across the table at him, delighted.
Mr. Petty tossed him a piece of steak,
and held up the glass.
“Mustn’t let you forget me again, you
old scoundrel,” he said. He looked past
him into emptiness, adding absently,
“Well, here’s to you. We’ll say no more.”


R46/I3
PROCLAIMING
UNIFORM HIGH QUALITY
As a guarantee of quality, the British
hall-mark is accepted throughout the
world. Since the year 1300, the
Leopard’s Head has been the symbol
used by London Silversmiths to pro-
claim unfailing high quality. The
symbol of sterling quality found only
upon confectionery of the highest
grade, is the signature
"EXTRA CREAM"
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
MILK
CHOC O LATE
AKUBRA
hat
hint—
No. 7
m ■
When laying aside your hat for a
while, always put it away in a hat
box.
Before placing in the box, see that
the hat is dry and brush it over to
remove dust. To prevent damage
by moths enclose a little Naph-
thalene.
Take the hint-good hats are scarce.
1. The correct way to put on a hat flrasp
brim at back and front.
2. Always brush WITH the nap—see arrow.
3. When rain-soaked, push out dents, turn up
brim and stand hat on level surface.
4. Always rest SIDE of hat on hat peg—this
allows hat to hana clear.
5. Never allow your hat to be placed in a pile
with other hats. .
6. Turn out leather—this 1 allows perspiration
and hair oil to dry out.
A KUBR A
kcdi
&
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
-i- v v
“Dozen Eggs and a Home, Please.
— “Sun” heading.
A home with a nice setting.
F F F F
“There is nothing you can put into your
bath water that will make you grow thin.’
— Woman’s paper.
But drinking it may diminish your
appetite.
F F F F
“Beware of snobs who pretend to be friendly.
When they tire of the game they won’t spare
your feelings.”— Psychological book.
The foolish girl admired the snob.
He smiled. But — here’s the rub —
When she smiled at the smiling snob
She promptly got the snub.
Yair.
FFF F .
“Why, oh why, do my hips have to be in
such close proximity to my knees and
shoulders?” — Woman’s paper.
Because you aren’t in good shape, dear.
“There is a greater proportion of unmarried
people in Eire than anywhere else in Europe.
— “World’s News.
Irishmen won’t submit even to home
rule.
•I* F F F „
“Anaesthetics were fun 100 years ago.
— Article.
Even nowadays they leave people with
a stitch in their side.
“Took plug out of bath to get, rid of
tenants.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
That wouldn’t deter any hardened
boardinghouse lodger who is used to
clinging to the sides to stop himself dis-
appearing down the hole.
“If you cackle like a and do
it well it’s easy to get on the air ”
—Sydney Sun.
So we’ve gathered, listening to Par-
liamentary debates.
F F F F
“Hair gone wrong?”— Advt.
Well it’s gone, right or wrong.
F F F F
“Baked potatoes can do a solo as well as play
an accompaniment.”— l Cookery note.
Especially if your teeth are a bit loose.
F F F F
“Women protest on atom.” — Social note.
It’s always the small things they nag
about.
“Do you know anything about seaweed —as
a food, we mean?” — Woman’s paper.
Seaweed is a friendly food.
It waves to you when in the mood.
O weed of sea, there is no question,
You float on waves of indigestion.
E.
Second Thoughts.
“A New Jersey sailor and his fiancee were
married in Honolulu after chasing each other
round the world for three years.”
, —“Sunday Telegraph.
A common failing of humanity
(Despite what scientists expound)
Is said to make the world go round,
But when a similar, insanity
Descended on these two, they found it
A tougher test to undergo —
The world remained in statu quo,
And they instead were going round it.
And though, through both its hemispheres
Their resolution stood unshaken,
If it required so many years
Pursuing to bring home the bacon,
Well, neither of them, it appears,
Was anxious to be overtaken.
P. M. LUSK.
To a Politician.
It’s very probable that in September
The thought affords me much malicious
pleasure —
You’ll no more be an honorable member
Enjoying well-remunerated leisure.
No more your labored “wit” and
speeches. Yet
Should paucity of votes bring your defeat
I’ll still be plagued with a profound
regret :
There’ll still be someone — dammit —in
your seat.
Al Johnson.
Shaggy-dog Story.
“During sheep-dog trials at Stirling a
mistook two golfers wearing white woollen
sweaters for sheep.”
The dog in question had nothing on
my uncle Agamemnon’s Pongo. This
notorious hound was twice as large and
three times as shaggy as a Shetland P oi |y-
He combined an acute dislike of the
human race with the ability to learn any-
thing, and my uncle apprenticed him to a
farmer who promised to train him as a
working dog. Pongo came back
few days licking traces of the farmer
from his chops and with an experimental
look in his eye.
The next day Agamemnon was sur-
prised to notice that Pongo had bailed up
a dozen passers-by in the backyard and
was moving in to the kill. Thereupon
my uncle frugally rang up the butcher
“Wake up—Were coming to a bend!”
and cancelled the week’s order for dog s
meat.
The personal effects of Pongo’s fodder
furnished the nucleus of my old-
clothes business, which, with Pongo s re-
peated assistance, flourished amazingly.
The hound would go out several times a
day and shepherd in a sizable quota of
unwilling customers. Since Pongo had
been trained as a heeler, most of them
actually needed some replacements to
their wardrobes. For the docile ones who
had come quietly, my uncle maintained
an exorbitant first-aid service on the way
out, and left Pongo to do the rest.
Pongo finally got pyorrhea and lost his
teeth, but even in his decline he came in
handy. My uncle made enough to retire
by selling him as several dozen fur coats.
PLUM.
Suggestion.
“Advice to a son about to marry.”
—“Sunuay Sun.'
Don’t shave for days, don’t clean your
boots,
Don’t brush your hair or press your suits,
Nor demonstrate that you’re enchanted—
In other words, take her for granted.
And when she tries to set the date
Just back and fill; procrastinate.
Perhaps (your chance is slender, though),
She’ll change her mind and let you go!
P. O. M. C.
Unkindest Cut.
“I’ll bet my new spring hat that if coupons
were removed from meat tomorrow butchers
would think up some other reason why they
should not deliver meat.”
— “S.M.H. correspondent.
A modicum of space allow me this
conviction to endorse. In fact (and I d
believe the cow), with all the tradesman’s
suasive art, our butcher wpuld inform us
how he’d sawn to sawdust all his cart
and killed and sausage-minced his
horse!
PERCY.
Among Our Political Thaumaturgists.
“The Dutch Premier, Dr. Beel, who is a
keen amateur magician, attended as a guest
of honor an international conference of pro-
fessional magicians held in Amsterdam. ’
Not that the good mynheer doktor
would be the only politician interested in
that art, of course. Some of our owe
Boys of the Gold Passes can turn a job
of sorcery on, too.
There’s Benno the (Gutless) Wonder.
His masterpiece is the Great Rebate
Vanishing Trick. Taking 52 weekly tax
deductions from a member of the audi-
ence, he wraps them slickly in a tax-re-
turn form, makes some mysterious passes
over it, mutters an incantation which
sounds something like “It’s better than
the old straight-out deduction method
an’ it brings it inta line with modern
overseas practices,” and waves a Refund
Promise at the end of the year in front
of the subject’s eye. Gradually the Re-
fund Promise swells until it assumes
gigantic proportions, but as the victim’s
hands reach out to grasp it the Refund
quickly shrinks, then vanishes altogether.
Finally the mug is left holding an In-
creased Assessment.
Bert, the Barton Wizard. His Great
Series of Disappearing Acts has won in-
ternational fame for this witchdoctor,
especially in places like Guatemala and
Uruguay. He doesn’t need even to say
“Presto! ” By simply bowing abjectly in
the direction of Marx House he can make
anything disappear, from Australia’s
Foreign Policy to himself.
Cally the Great (Blob), The incom-
parable magicianship of this wonder-
worker finds its greatest expression in
his famous pulling-from-the-hat act.
Surpassing anything ever before accom-
plishecf in this field of legerdemain, the
wizard from Melbourne can drag with
the greatest ease out of a pure fur felt hat
(7s. lid.) thousands of 22-bob-a-week
attractive five-room bungalows, pork
chops at 4d. a pound, made-to-measure
double-breasted worsted three-piece suits
with extra pair of pants at only 355.,
eightpenny tins of preserved fruit and
maple bedroom suites for £B.
In an entirely new act, and under the
exalting stimulus of his rehearsals for
the coming series of perfervid obsequious
welcomes to flocks of Britain-hating
Zionist immigrants, Cally will use for
the first time a top hat, symbol of the
£2OOO-a-year plutocratic class to which
the wizard himself now reluctantly be-
longs. He is hoping to stun hitherto
sceptical audiences by extracting from it
a Rough Idea of what his Department of
Information is doing.
Eddie the Thrice-Mage. The spectacu-
lar example of illusionism which is the
pride of this master medicine-man is the
most expensive (to the public) trick ever
attempted. It involves tying himself in
knots while at the same time besmatter-
ing himself with East Sydney mud—a feat
that he makes look quite simple. While
in this condition he does some frenetic
skipping, using the Brisbane Line freely.
The Great Illusion takes place after he
has stopped frothing at the mouth. What
makes the feat so highly original is that
it is the Thrice-Mage himself, after the
act is over and his disillusioned audience
have gone home to disinfect themselves,
who keeps hugging the illusion that he is
no longer mud-covered or tied in knots.
S. W. Keough. 252 George-street, Sydney.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
Milne Bay, ’42
The fourth anniversary of the attempted
Jap invasion of Milne Bay (August 26-
September 7) finds the great Australian
victory forgotten by most people.
Few realise the important bearing this
action had on the ultimate Pacific triumph.
It was the enemy’s first land defeat and
started him on the retreat from which he
never rallied. It smashed the pincer
movement on Moresby, saving the port
from a sea attack which would have cut
it off from the mainland. Most import-
ant was the fact that it showed that the
Japs were not supermen against whose
numbers and ju.nglecraft it was impossible
to win.
The victory was 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian, and many of the troops fired
their first shots “in anger.” The dogged
stand made at what was then No. 3
Strip—now Turnbull Field, in memory of
a great Australian airman—should go
down in the records of valiant deeds. The
Nip hordes, experienced and flushed with
success, were held and finally routed.
Few home-front Australians, realise or
appreciate the prodigious effort put forth
by the RA.A.F. in this battle. Our
airmen flew and fought continually in
pea-soup weather and in conditions which
made flying a hazardous feat in itself.
How they found their way back to the
strip in the continual “visibility zero”
weather, or why they didn’t crash their
battered kites into the cloud-enshrouded
mountains, only they knew. Yet they flew
from dawn till dark and continued meet-
ing the enemy long after the fight on the
ground had ended.
The Battle of Milne Bay was short, but
bloody. In our everlasting praise of more
spectacular battles fought by famous
divisions, we should not forget the men
who fell fighting on Australia’s door-
step. — Bondi Beachcomber (N.S.W.).
Milne Bay, ’46
I only had one look at Milne Bay, but
I can support all “C.C.D.’s” claims for it
(B. 7/8/ ’46). Its harbor, climate and high
plateaux are all good, and the approach,
especially when coming from the sqpth, is
comparable to anything in the world. If
the Solomons are to be amalgamated
with the rest of our island territories,
Milne Bay is central and on the main sea
route to all of them. It is difficult to
approach from the land, however, being
right at one extremity of the main island,
and, if one is travelling by air, it is not on
the direct air route.
Probably land transport will never be
important in New Guinea. Air transport,
must play a large part in future develop-
ment, and Lae and Madang have claims
above those of Milne Bay on the score
of present ’drome development. But
Milne Bay must always be important in
any defensive scheme and that, plus the
advantages listed by “C.C.D.,” should
tip the scales in its favor. — Five by Two
(Q-).
R.A.A.F. Reserve
A recent “Commonwealth Gazette”
discloses that 1250 officers had their
appointments in the R.A.A.F. terminated
while only 22 were transferred to, or
granted commissions on, the reserve.
When war broke out we did have a re-
serve, in name at least, consisting of those
officers who had served for four years
on the active list of the Citizen Air Force,
officers who had completed short service
commissions, and other ranks who had
been active in the Citizen Air Force.
Now we have a reserve which is only a
joke. Twenty-two out of 1250 officers
are selected, by whom nobody knows, to
join this nebulous body, but not one single
member of the technical staff, either
n.c.o. or ranker, has even been asked to
join. The folly of ditching thousands of
men, on whom millions of pounds were
spent, is almost incredible.— Recco
(N.S.W.).
Radar
“Macnell’s” reference (B. 14/8/’46)
reminded me that the U.S.A. has received
more than its fair share of credit for the
invention and development of radar.
In 1925 two American scientists, Breit
and Tuve, first used the pulse technique
which is the basis of radar. Research was
carried further by Appleton in England,
and the next important development was
in 193!, when two British post-office
engineers (Mumford and Crawford), ex-
perimenting in the ultra-high frequencies,
were able to connect certain observed
phenomena in their equipment with the
passage of aircraft near by. They attri-
buted this to reflection of energy from
the aircraft. In 1932 the experiment was
repeated successfully and the results were
published in scientific journals.
From 1932 onwards the development
of these two ideas was carried on inde-
pendently in all the leading countries.
In 1935 a British committee investi-
gated air-defence problems, particularly
that of detecting imminent attacks.
Robert Watson Watt, suggested (April)
that a combination of the “pulse tech-
nique” and the post-office experiments
could be used, and by June 20 had com-
pleted and successfully tested the first
“radar” set, “radio location” then.
From then on, British development was
so rapid that when war was declared a
chain of ground radar stations had been
installed, and aircraft and shipborne
equipments established and were in use.
Also, the R.A.F. had been trained to take
full advantage of the facilities provided.
In America it was not till 1936 that
scientists first produced equipment which
would detect aircraft. Development was
very slow, and in 1940, when the British
radio-location system was bearing the
brunt of the German attacks, there were
in America only a few experimental sets.
In 1940 scientists on mission to the
U.S.A. took with them all the British
secrets. It was thereupon that American
industry really started producing. Ulti-
mately the U.S. forces possessed equip-
ment which in quantity and, in some
cases, quality exceeded that of any other
country.
Australia played no small part in the
story of radar. Australian scientists
worked in Britain. (including Oliphant),
and the Australian effort before the
Pacific war was to have been that of a
research and development centre under
the C.S.I.R. The services were to man
installations in the Middle East and Mal-
ayan Commands; and the RIA.A.F.’s
function was to train R.A.A.F. and R.A.F.
men also, surplus trainees going to Eng-
land, where there was an acute shortage
of specialists. The Japs spoiled that plan,
and in 1941 there was thrust upon the
C.S.I.R. and the Australian radio industry
the tremendous task of providing Aus-
tralia with adequate equipment, and of
developing new gear to meet the particular
conditions of the S.W.P.A. This objec-
tive was achieved.
In the early days of the Pacific war, the
bulk of equipment was Australian-made
and designed. There was only a few
British sets and one or two American
sets in the Commonwealth, The C.S.I.R.
designed the lightweight radar equipment
which, built by Australian manufacturers,
was so good that America bought a large
quantity; moreover, a complete set was
shipped to the United States for investi-
gation and test by experts. Australian
industry and enterprise combined pro-
vided over £13,000,000-worth of radio and
radar equipment for our own and Allied
Services.
Americans were so impressed with Aus-
tralian methods of training radar special-
ists that they asked that American service-
men be trained at the R.A.A.F. Radar
School. Hundreds of Americans, both
officers and G.ls., came from New
Guinea, were trained by Australian in-
structors and took Australian equipment
into battle.
One final note. Although Britain was
sorely in need of every available expert,
when training was proposed in Australia
instructors and trained men were pro-
mised, and the promise was kept.— Cro
(N.S.W.).
Getting Nowhere by Degrees
As a university graduate who has learnt,
in the painful process of earning a living
during the last 15 years or so, that
“private employers set far more store on
practical experience” than on degrees, I
enjoyed that par. by “Ess Ecks” (B.
7/8/’46).
His reference to Indian students who
were great examination-passers, but hope-
less at applying their knowledge, reminds
me of several Australians who possess
exceptional aptitude for acquiring de-
grees, but little capacity—or, perhaps, in-
clination —for making use of their learn-
ing. One chap when I first knew him
had an Arts degree and was studying
divinity. On completing his theological
course he decided to tackle science, so he
stayed on at the university, doing suffi-
cient tutoring to support himself at one
of the colleges. When I last heard of him
he had his science degree and a diploma
in education, and was in the middle of
the medical course. Another man, a
fully qualified accountant, did a bachelor-
of-commerce course, and found he could
get credit for about a third of an arts
course, so now he’s “doing” arts.
Where these fellows expect to get to
with their academic laurels goodness
knows, for each degree conferred seems
merely to whet their appetite for further
studies. If it were merely a thirst for
knowledge, it could be satisfied far more
easily and at less expense by buying the
necessary textbooks.
When a student myself, I would not
have questioned anyone’s right to stay at
the university getting degrees indefinitely,
if they wanted to. But I realise now that
students’ fees cover less than half the cost
of their courses, and as a taxpayer I
object very strongly to subsidising per-
sons who will never benefit the com-
munity by making real use of their train-
ing.— Wusslean (Vic.).
“Cultural Backwaters”
Australia may be a cultural backwater,
but why write about it as if it were some-
thing new in history? Dreamers,
idealists and seekers after truth have al-
ways been in the minority. Even in the
golden ages of literature and art the
masses have preferred superstition to
truth, the sensational to the lifelike and
the bizarre to the beautiful.
The ancestors of those 20th-century
readers of horrors and “sensational dis-
closures” of the week-end Press were
equally avid readers of the broadsheets
“The Ghost of Drury Lane” and “The
Headless Man.” Two thousand years
ago, the mob gave the same idolatry to
charioteers and gladiators that it gives
today to jockeys and professional sports-
men. War profiteering is as ancient as
warfare itself.
The small citadels of “culture” are
still standing—the musical societies where
the classics are still loved, the music-lovers
who gladly pay two or three times the
price of a movie ticket to hear a sym-
phony, the literary societies, the book-
lovers, the amateur poets and the teachers
training young Australia to a love of
beauty and truth. If is these little people
who keep “culture” alive and no amount
of vulgarity from press, screen or radio
is likely to kill it. — Eagle (Q.),
A Few Details
A Digger friend who went into a Gov-
ernment employment agency for a job was
told to fill in a form giving the following
particulars; “Christian name,, surname,
address, employment sought, educational
qualifications (refer to availability of
school-leaver’s card, school certificate,'
trade certificate, diplomas and degrees);
means of contact, occupationally regi-
stered as , code number, employed,
unemployed, will be employed on ,
ex-service details, demob, details, v.g.
report; previous employment history
(including, if relevant, while in the ser-
vices), with occupation, previous em-
ployer, industry, period, during what
years, and reason for termination.”
That’s only half of it. Also required
are “details of trade training, any special
experience bearing on occupational poten-
tial, personal details, including date of
birth, conjugal state, dependants, nation-
ality, height, weight, health, physical
capacity, personal type, occupation suit-
able, with reference to any handicaps
occupationally restrictive or to any other
matters requiring special comment — e.g..
“Skipper s Wanted on the bridge when hes finished the spuds!”
relating to ability or inability to live away
from home.”
Of course, when you pay a man two
thousand a year you expect him to pro-
duce something like that, otherwise there’d
be insufficient work for the army of clerks
whose job it is to tabulate all the answers
required of the poor blighter who merely
asked for a job. In this instance he was
told that there was nothing doing, but that
if anything turned up he’d be “advised.”
—Demos (Tas.).
“Free”
In May and June the Commonwealth
“free” employment service found jobs for
17,400 persons at a cost of £130,000 —
approximately £7 10s. each for positions.
probably available without the interven-
tion of a Government service. The aver-
age rate charged by registry offices used
to be £1 per job, and they paid taxes.
It was ever thus with the “free” Gov-
ernment services and so it will be with
“free hospitalisation.” The cost is unseen
by the recipient, but a silent horde of tax-
gatherers dips into his pay envelope, or
taxes his beer and tobacco for more than
the value of services rendered. —
Xenophon (W.A.).
Interference
I start my homeward journey each
night from an underground station. To
get to it I have to walk along a 50yd.
subway and for the last week, holding
a regular step, I have timed each subway
trip. Only on two occasions have the
times coincided. This, of course, is be-
cause of crowds of other people, who
block, crowd, push, bump, knock and
otherwise prevent a run-through on the
rails, or a run on the outside. Just when
I go through for an opening a fat female
or a burly fellow crowds me out or runs
on my heels.
The final furlong is run to the platform
barrier, and although here the straight
widens out a little the interference in-
creases. Cases, parcels, umbrellas and
other assorted gear are used in a final
sprint to get through the gate first.
Similar conditions and hazards seem
to exist on a race track, and probably
explain the failure of many a favorite.
And that’s why I’ll spend all my future
Saturday afternoons gardening.— Nomug
(N.S.W.).
Country Industries
“Hist” (B. 7/8/’46) contends that
scarcity of labor prevents the large-scale
establishment of country industries, but
that is only part of the picture.
There are sound prospects for industry
in many seaport towns along the east
coast; towns having excellent harbors
and shipping facilities, towns backed by
rich hinterlands producing a wide
variety of raw materials which now go
to city factories. Business people in
these towns "see local opportunities for
factories and have the capital to finance
them. Yet they are reluctant to invest.
Why?
A review of the industrial picture over
the past few years supplies the answer —
high taxation, inflation, strikes and red
tape. Under these conditions outlay on
a new factory in any country town would
be a risky venture. — Blue (Q.).
The flaw in “Hist’s” argument (B.
7/8/’46) is that raw materials originate
in the country. The railways, owned by
the Government which talks so much
blah about decentralisation, are the chief
centralising organisation in the Ma State.
Years ago, when a city grocery had a
soap factory at Dubbo, storekeepers at
Bourke found freight charges on soap
were cheaper from Sydney than from
Dubbo. Exit Dubbo soap factory!
“Hist” says country towns haven’t
sufficient labor or housing for large
factories. During the war Lithgow was
able to find 3000 employees and
Bathurst and Orange about 1000 each.
The chief cause of housing shortage in
N. S. Wales country towns is Mr, Mc-
Girr’s Housing Department, which corners
building materials for metropolitan ex-
pansion and compels country sawmills
to forward 60 per cent, of their output
to the city.
Decentralisation of industry will come
when we have more oversea ports and
when revised rail freights make it cheaper
for free enterprise to process raw materials
near the source of supply rather than at
points hundreds of miles away. Freight
charges should be adjusted so that it
would cost no more to send 10 tons ot
breakfast food from the country to the
metropolis than it now costs to send 10
tons of com. — F. D. (N.3-5V?).*


Votes for ’Teeners
Touching on votes for 18-year-olds (B.
24/7/’46) there is a whale of a difference
between a youth who has spent a year or
two in the army and one who is still
living in the bosom of his family. Aris-
totle said: — ,
The young are not fit to be students of
politics, for they have no experience of ute
and conduct, and it is these that supply the
premises and subject-matter of this branch
of thought.
I was much older than 18 when I
joined the army, and thought 1 had con-
siderable “experience of life and con-
duct.” But I learned more of these things
in four years of army life than I had in
all the years before.
Other things being equal, the lad who
has grovelled on his belly at his platoon-
leader’s signal, who has given and looked
for support in action, who has sweated to
bring up rations and ammunition for his
mates, who has seen a plan go awry
through somebody’s neglect or indolence,
who has stood the rough give-and-take
of camp life —that kind of lad is better
fitted to “have some voice in the way
this country is governed” than one who
has done none of these things.
He has had a concentrated dose of
“experience of life and conduct” that has
been denied the stay-at-home lad. He
has some appreciation of the utter de-
pendence of man upon men, and that is
the essence of politics. The man who
lacks that appreciation, whether he is
18 or 80, is unqualified in political mat-
ters. — Ichabod Crane (N.S.W.).
“Additional Powers”
The present Federal Government’s
“powers” proposals make the medieval
feudal barons seem like “moderates” in
comparison.
Apropos of the employment power, Dr.
Evatt, speaking at the Constitutional Con-
vention on December 2, 1942, said:
The power with which we are now dealing
is a vital one. It is very difficult to say
here and now what the limits of it may
he I should not like to attempt to define
further. I regard it as a very great power.
It is difficult, especially at the beginning,
to assign precise limits. Its more obvious
meaning is not only the relief, but also the
prevention, of unemployment, by the pro-
vision of employment. Whether it goes
further than that I should not like to say.
At the Political Science Summer School
at Canberra in January, 1944, Dr. Evatt
was more explicit:
“....there is no longer a full right in
every person to choose his own vocation in
life What are Manpower Regulations
but a system which —imperfectly, I know-
attempts to ensure that everybody in this
country shall be usefully employed?....
There has been a nearer approach to what
is a well-ordered society in respect of em-
ployment during this war and the last than
in any of the years between the two wars.
In other words, Dr, Evatt admits the
employment power is a vital one, and
states that we have no right to choose
our own jobs. He says Manpower Regu-
lations are the only real method of
making you work where the Government
tells you.
Although the Evatt utterances are two
and four years old they apply just as
forcefully to the additional powers which
are needed to institute the socialist State.
Choice of vocation and place of employ-
ment will be filched from all, notwith-
standing the specious “but not so as to
authorise any form of industrial conscrip-
tion.”
Regarding marketing it is of interest to
recall the report of the Royal Commis-
sion on the Commonwealth Constitution
(1929), which reads in part:
We do not recommend that power to
legislate with respect to marketing be con-
ferred on the Commonwealth Parliament.
An unlimited power to legislate with respect
to marketing would, we think, involve an
unnecessary and dangerous interference witn
the internal government of the States, and
might be so interpreted as to enable the
Commonwealth Parliament to control the
disposal of all products and the use of all
lands or factories employed in production.
Think how an Administration with
Communist sympathies would relish these
powers!—A. Middleton, Vice-President,
Service Party of Australia, Martin-place,
Sydney. (All contributions on election
and referendum issues and characters
must now bear names and signatures.)
Leave
Neither “S.T.’s” faith in G.R.O
598/43 nor his rigmarole about A.8.83s
and leave credits (B. 14/8/’46) can alter
the fact that many men waited 30 months
for leave, while few officers spent more
than six months in the islands without a
mainland spell. Some did, but not even
the most important “key” officer waited
for 30 months.
Fair distribution of leave to maintain
morale may have been a feature of
“S.T.’s” formation, but it wasn’t of mine,
where on one occasion rejection of a
private’s application for compassionate
leave coincided with a captain obtaining
leave and ’plane transport to attend his
sister’s wedding.
“S.T.’s” bit about emergency leave
being granted “if it was shown that the
soldier’s presence at home was neces-
sary” makes me smile. The correct word
to use is “when.” I’ve known investiga-
tions to take six or more weeks, at the
end of which time the reason for the
soldier’s presence at home had vanished.
It’s all very well to quote the imparti-
ality of G.R.Os. What matters is
whether or not they are adhered to.
Bondi Beachcomber (N.S.W.).
Reading for Children
Like “Junius Jr.” (B. 14/8/’46), 1
have sought vainly in post-war bookshops
for anything resembling the youngster-
literature of a generation and more ago.
Even the “Jack Harkaway” kind,
frowned upon then by pastors and
masters as too daring and lawless, has
gone. But I have awakened to the sad
fact that the average ’teen-age youngster
of today is simply not interested in that
sort of reading, and that after an honest
effort to get through Moby Dick, or even
Robinson Crusoe, the result has been un-
affected boredom. “It’s all so out of
date” and “Why can’t they put in some-
thing funny?” are the usually expressed
opinions.
To me it seems merely another mani-
festation of the trouble-saving, short-cut
mental outlook which dominates so much
of the world today. To read and under-
stand any book requires mental effort
and concentration. Strip-pictures and
balloon wisecracks require none. Pro-
duced in, and for, a country of 140 mil-
lions whose all-over average mental age
is barely 10 years, Yank “comics”
naturally appeal to similar mental ages
elsewhere. Superman has ousted the
footballer, and the cowboy is as out of
date as his broncho and six-gun.
It is not Australian publishing houses
that are responsible for such a state of
affairs. Nor can they do anything, of
themselves, at all effective towards re-
placing it by a better one. Our so-called
“educational” system and methods of to-
day have helped largely in its creation by
their lack of any organised attempt to
arouse appreciation of good literature at
school ages. Should one ever be made
it will need, for success, to be planned
on totally new and wholly original lines.
To any average teacher a new subject is
an unjustifiable infliction. And no better
method exists for arousing the lifelong
hatred of a schoolchild against a literary
masterpiece than to set it as a school
textbook, complete with notes and pars-
ing.—Fi Fa (Q.).
iVhite Australia?
In July a mysterious launch arrived at
'hursday Island' flying the Dutch flag
nd manned by an Indonesian crew,
’here was no quarantine or customs in-
pection. Later a Dutch corvette arrived
ying the quarantine inspection flag. No
uarantine or customs official went out
a this vessel, and after some delay some
»f the crew came ashore.
The corvette had come to collect a
aunch stolen from Merauke, which they
lid collect. But the launch crew had
reaped and were ashore on Thursday
sland. The corvette and launch have
-one back to Dutch territory, but our
ndonesian friends are still at large on
Thursday Island.
We were told that appropriate action
vould be taken, but as I write we’re still
vaiting.— Wyben (Q.).
Poison Baits
That article denouncing the broadcast-
ing of poison baits by ’plane (B. 7/8/’46)
is plain commonsense. Whoever sug-
gested that method of dog-poisoning must
be an absolute bonehead.
At the present time in our Queensland
district We have men all over the bush
trying —and, I think, succeeding—to kill
out all the grain-eating birds, and per-
haps animals also, by using strychnine-
poisoned wheat for rabbit poisoning.
They lay it in little heaps wherever there
are rabbits and that’s pretty nearly every-
where about these parts. If this is
allowed to go on there soon won’t be any
grain-eaters left. — Texas (Q.)
That Palmer Goldfield
If Mt. Madden and Mt. Buchanan
aren’t on the Palmer watershed, I will
give £2O to any hpspital D. Gavin (B.
31/7/ ’46) suggests. R. L. Jack said Mt.
Madden is 200 ft. above the surrounding
country and gave its height above sea
level by aneroid barometer as over 1200 ft.
Gavin’s half-truth would make it appear
to be a low hill.
The reason why this field is lying un-
worked is that, although the deposits
are large, they are in an inhospitable
region far removed from a railway. They
are dipping at low angles and this means
more cc~ly mining. Finally, they have
not been prospected except for a. few
trenches and potholes so that no one
knows their potential value.
As to practical miners “who generally
believe” the whole formation is a mass
of low boulders, there is R. L t Jack ? s
statement to the contrary. Jack was an
able geologist, and his maps and records
can still be seen at the Geological Survey.
W. Wray, a geologist with a world repu-
tation, also reported favorably on the
field. And if big mining cos, are intending
to develop any mineral deposit, they are
guided by the reports of geologists based
on scientific evidence, and not the
opinions of practical miners. Alex.
Strachan (Q.).
“Blast it —must be losin' me touch."
One, Not Many
There is a definite need for one ex-
servicemen’s league to unite the Diggers
(B. 31/7/’46), but I doubt whether the
R.S.L., for reasons of prestige, will ever
admit all those who wore uniform.
As one of those who didn’t go overseas,
I think I can speak for the rest of my kind
when I say that we do not expect the
same privileges and badge as those who
did. On the other hand, we don’t expect
to be treated like pariahs or inveterate
base-wallahs. Most of us saw some years
of strenuous service in various parts of
Australia, and some of us are broken in
health even though we didn’t come to
grips with the enemy. Two members of
my own unit were permanently maimed
at the Canungra Jungle Training School.
The R.S.L. missed its opportunity early
in the war when the first few discharges
began to filter back into civilian life. In-
stead of forming an auxiliary organisa-
tion to admit those who hadn’t left Aus-
tralia, it kept its doors closed to all but
“returned” servicemen, and thereby
created competition for itself. As the
Government was issuing badges only to
“returned” servicemen, the others had
to look elsewhere for recognition, and one
organisation is seriously challenging the
R.S.L.’s supremacy.
Those who want to see the Diggers
disunited must be laughing up their
sleeves at what has happened. Actually,
the Diggers have dissipated their strength
in a dozen or more servicemen’s leagues
apart from the two main ones. It is not
too late to effect a merger even now, and
the sooner the better if the ex-servicemen
are to make their presence felt and speak
with one strong voice. Petermac
(N.S.W.).
The Disappearing Bailiff
Since distress for rent was abolished in
Australia, and execution against a debtor’s
goods has, in these days of easy money,
become almost a thing of the past, the
ancient and honorable calling of bailiff
is fast disappearing. Most Courts still
have so-called bailiffs attached to them,
but in most cases they have degenerated
into mere servers of writs and summonses
—some of them even call themselves
“process servers,” an expression which the
old-time bailiff would not have under-
stood, or answered.
Once, distress for rent — i.e., entry into
possession and seizure of a tenant s fur-
niture for arrears of rent —and execution
against the goods and chattels of a judg-
ment debtor were the commonest function
of a bailiff. As both these processes were
thickly strewn with legal pitfalls and per-
plexities, a bailiff who knew the ropes
was worth his weight in gold. Entry
could only be made between sunrise and
sunset—an entry even one minute after
sunset rendered the entry illegal and the
landlord liable to an action.
Entry could not be forced, but the
bailiff might take advantage of an un-
fastened door. Certain forms of cajolery
to induce the tenant to open his door
might be used by the bailiff; other forms
might not; and once “in possession” the
bailiff might not quit the premises even
for a minute. If he did so the tenant
could bar him out and refuse him re-
admittance.
Along with an intimate knowledge of
( these niceties, the old-time bailiff usually
had his full share of guile. One highly
successful bailiff always put on his most
disreputable suit and omitted to wash or
shave before going into possession. Sate
in the premises he would take his ease
on the verandah, pipe in mouth, or lounge
at the windows chatting familiarly with
the next-door neighbors. Horrified that
this unkempt individual might be taken
for a relation or guest, the tenants usually
made haste to pay up arrears and rid
themselves of him.
As the bailiff was required to stay in
possession for five days before selling the
seized furniture, a trial of strength fre-
quently developed between a determined
debtor and a resolute bailiff. The debtor
would endeavor to starve the bailiff out
(getting meals into a bailiff in possession
was sometimes like running the blockade)
and the bailiff would make his presence
as objectionable as possible in the hope
that the tenant would pay him out. The
time-honored practice of removing the
roof from over the head of a reluctant
tenant was another operation at which
an experienced bailiff usually acted as
chief of staff.
Distress for rent was an archaic pro-
cess of law, and no doubt Parliament did
the right thing in abolishing it. It’s a
pity, however, that the profession immor-
talised by Smollett and Dickens, and
whose heroic deeds (and misdeeds) have
enlivened the pages of the law reports for
centuries, should disappear with it. Dick
Swiveller (Q.).
Thugs and Vandals
Eve Merritt’s suggestion (B. 31/7/’46)
that free, compulsory university education
might eradicate thuggery and larrikin-
ism is a little late. It would take years
to establish and staff universities on the
required scale, and years more before
the effects would become noticeable. The
thug is with us here and now.
In any case there are those who doubt
the efficacy of the proposed remedy-
undergraduates have more than once
over-stepped the mark that divides ex-
uberance from larrikinism. There is, too,
the fact that a great many larrikins and
vandals are many years below university
age.
The only thing that will eradicate
thuggely and larrikinism is a spiritual
regeneration of the nation accompanied
by an immense improvement in the
material welfare of the people. Failing
a Savonarola or a Wesley, an adequate
police force backed by rigid enforcement
of the law is the best alternative.—C. G.
Salis (N.S.W.).
To place free university education at
disposal is a good idea, but
don’t make it compulsory. People in
poor circumstances could not afford to
keep their children at school until Uni-
versity age, and to force them to do so
would cause serious trouble.
Laziness, not the slums, is the breed-
ing ground for thugs. No matter how
good or bad a man’s education, if he is
continually on the look-out for easy
money his mind will eventually turn to
robbery, by force or otherwise.
A closer check on the “don’t-want-to-
works” of both classes, and heavier pen-
alties for the guilty, is the real solution
of the problem of our crime wave.—J. M.
(N.S.W.).
Gas from Coal
The present seems a good time to in-
vestigate the underground gasification of
coal. If successful, it would eliminate
almost all miners from the pits.
Other industries could absorb the dis-
placed miners, who show no desire to con-
tinue in their present job anyway.—
E. and O. E. (Tas.).


1
, I 1
isi?
m
i-:-
.
\ ' 3
*< • ,v.»
a o
.
.
; ‘ '
3 ?•■ U - r *' s
•: , ' ‘ ' '
. . ■<
• .
'
li
a-a
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
0469
