

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
Vol. «-No. 544?
Wednesday, December 11, 1946
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post AU&fSTRP, by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
WINDSOR CASTLE: QUEEN ELIZABETH’S GALLERY.
/*\N the north terrace of Windsor Castle, overlooking the Home
Park, are the rooms once occupied by Queen Elizabeth, of
whiph the Gallery extending from the Norman Gate was used
as a library during the reign of Queen Victoria. Here, as the
Marquis of Lome has written in the “Governor’s Guide” to the
Castle, we may think of Queen Elizabeth as telling Shakespeare,
summoned to her presence, that she wanted a new play with
more about Falstaff in it. In this illustration the fine chimney-
pieces form a feature of the room ; and in one of these may be
seen a bust of the great queen herself. In addition to the treasured
collection of books with which the shelves were laden, a valuable
number of medals, miniatures, illustrated manuscripts and old bind-
ings were kept in this apartment, which adjoined a smaller room
where Queen Anne first heard the news of the victory at Blenheim.


F
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
liooluet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,**
ily Name
Jl/jf Address
S.B. 146 .AGE,
The Red Page
HIS FATHER'S SONNET.
“Mr, Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “I
announce to you with joy that there are
no Australian versifiers whose names be-
gin with X, Y or Z.”
“Bless my soul,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“you must have read Dr. George
Mackaness’s Poets of Australia (Angus
and Robertson) right through from end
to end, A feat I had considered quite
beyond human endurance ”
“If,” said Mr. Shean, “one approaches
this gigantic mausoleum of dead verse in
the necessary spirit of irreverence there
is a good deal of accidental entertain-
ment to help one along. The misprints,
for instance. I do not know that ‘scene’
for ‘scent’ on page 54, ‘dimmed’ for
‘dinned’ on page 127, ‘thrash’ for ‘thrust’
on page 199 and ‘flattering’ for ‘flutter-
ing’ on page 272 will arouse the sweeter
emotions in the poets misprinted ; nor
the dropping of a whole stanza from the
poem on page 17, nor the alteration of
the last line of the poem on page 234;
yet I cannot say these pranks caused me
any sinking of the spirit. ‘Simming eyes’
on page 280, moreover, might be re-
garded as a just reproof to versifiers who
write about old grey cattle-dogs with
swimming eyes.”
“I remember,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“that a New Zealand anthology once
got a very good effect by printing the line
‘Not without tears of women’ as ‘Not
without ears of women.’ But considering
the misprints that are achieved by
country newspapers, I do not think it is
worth while undergoing the anguish of
Poets of Australia for the few it con-
tains ; they are not ribald enough.’-’
“Nevertheless,” said Mr. Shean,
“there’s a lot of fun in the footnotes.
They seem to have been designed to help
the Young Person through this fearsome
tome, and I was particularly enchanted to
discover that the anthologist describes
the explorers Lawson, Blaxland and
Wentworth as ‘intrepid.’ ”
“Certainly,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“there’s nothing like a resounding cliche
to pass the time away; but any poor,
miserable, grubby little urchin of a
schoolboy who is shut up in a classroom
with this anthology, when he would
sooner be out fishing *for yabbies or
shooting street lamps with a shanghai,
will go raving mad.”
“Even,” asked Mr. Shean, “when he is
told, at the head of every poem, the full
Christian names of the authors, Ijke the
revelation of some dreadful family
secret?”
“lt is not enough,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I don’t think there’s a single Higgin-
botham in the whole book.”
“Surely there will be much to please
the young,” said Mr. Shean, “in the extra-
ordinary contrasts that result from the
arrangement of the verses in alphabeti-
cal order—the bearded jowl of a balladist
against the hairless cheek of some child
of extreme modernism.”
“The young,” said Mr. Gallagher, “will
lose their wits in the monstrous confu-
sion of this anthology, and run to the
wildwoods and never return to poetry.”
“You speak with much emphasis,” said
Mr. Shean. “Almost as if you yourself
had been guilty of indulging in versifi-
cation and Dr. Mackaness had left yon
out. And that could never be. For
although Percival Serle’s Australasian
Anthology manifestly does not deserve its
title when the introduction blandly ad-
mits ‘No attempt has been made to select
recent work by New Zealand poets’; and
though Professor Walter Murdoch in A
Book of Australasian Verse performed
the truly remarkable feat of omitting,
among others, Robert Fitz Gerald and
Kenneth Slessor, at least Dr. Mackaness
can hardly be charged with leaving any-
body out. My own opinion is that he
did his anthologising with a shovel: took
a vast heap of Australian versification —
good, bad and indifferent—and heaved
the lot into print.”
He omitted,” said Mr. Gallagher, “my
father’s sonnet.”
“I hardly thought you had a father,”
said Mr. Shean. “At least, one you could
name.”
“Look you,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
had a father and he wrote a sonnet It
was published in the old ‘Red Funnel’
magazine. Everybody’s father has written
a sonnet at some time or other; it is
about Love ; or, sometimes, the Sunset.
It appears that, especially during the
months immediately preceding their mar-
riage, prospective fathers are thrown right
off their balance by love and sunsets.
My father’s sonnet, which was a good
deal better than the average, and quite
as good as a hundred things in Poets of
A ustralia, had both love and a sunset
in it, if I remember rightly. And I
want to know why Dr. Mackaness hasn’t
got that sonnet in his anthology.”
“But,” said Mr. Shean, “is your fafher
a professional sonneteer?”
“Certainly not,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“He is a professional fisherman. But
would you say that Dr. H, V. Evatt was
a professional sonneteer?”
“Judging from the specimen in Poets of
Australia,” said Mr. Shean, “I should
say not. It is a creditable piece of verse ;
but creditable pieces of verse grow on
every bush.”
“I single out Dr. Evatt for my fury,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “because he is a
politician and, therefore, is used to it.
But I think Dr. Mackaness should know
that Mr. Menzies also wrote a sonnet
once and sent it to The Bulletin, where
somebody souvenired it. Like my father’s
sonnet, it was a highly-creditable piece
of verse, and dealt, I believe, with the
sunset.”
“By cripes,” said Mr. Shean, “now that
we are on the subject of statesmen, I am
staggered to find that Dr. Mackaness has
not included a single poem by the late
Sir Henry Parke's. Parkes’s poetry was
so singularly atrocious that I cannot
understand how Dr. Mackaness could
have borne to leave him out.”
“The whole thing,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“is gravely unjust to my father’s sonnet.
I am reconciled to its omission only by
the reflection that, had it been included,
if would have been buried alive. And
I am reconciled to the anthology as a
whole only by the reflection that it will,
serve as a solemn warning to all future
anthologists never to try to please every-
body.”
“Come,” said Mr, Shean, “Dr. Mac-
kaness has included some very good
poems. I found myself charmed by the
information that Mary Gilmore had, as
a child, attended Lambing Flat and
observed sixteen Chinamen hanging by
•their pigtails.”
“Every poet included in this an-
thology,” said Mr. Gallagher, “is hang-
ing by his pigtail to a dead tree. It is no
use your telling me that there are good
poems here and there, and that all the
reputable Writers have been included.
When I disregard the excruciating rubbish
put in for its ‘historical importance’, and
the very many undistinguished trifles by
writers distinguished in politics or fiction
but not in poetry, and the poems that
borrow T. S. Eliot’s Sweeney under the
name of Sprodd and Eva Gore-Booth’s
little waves of Breffney disguised as the
little roads of Braemar, I have a terrible
impression that the whole book was written
by one man, whom we may call the Aus-
tralian Magazine Versifier. On a few
occasions, as when somebody (a long
way after Hugh McCrae) exclaims ‘Pan!’
and bounds in pursuit of a dryad, this
versifier is a merry fellow; sometimes,
when he is seeing fairies, he is harmlessly
sentimental; often (a long way after
Francis Thompson) he is chased about
the earth or through the skies,in a mildly
engaging manner by nightmares and
vampires; and, most frequently, he sits
down and complains that inspiration has
eluded him. And, if the weight of this
dolorous mediocrity is enough to sink
the anthology for ever, to what depths
of nethermost Limbo are the few good
writers dragged by the innumerable
poems that are not merely so-so but
frightful?”
ec “I must confess,” said Mr. Shean,
that when I read the couplet with which
this cavalcade of doom opens:
Once more this autumn-earth is ripe,
Parturient of another type—
I trembled.”
“Mr. Shean, ” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
got to page 18:
Specific gravity has been bended
Down to Murder!
Was it for this that Science
Curbed the elements?
Caged the gases—
Tortured earth’s bowels
With the foulsome mines?—
and I shuddered.”
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “I
persevered to the dead gum-trees with ‘lips
a-cry’ on page 21 and I found my own
lips a-cry exactly like a dead gum-tree’s.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “did
you read about the angels kissing the
blossoms on page 47?”
“I’ll tell you what,” said Mr. Shean.
“If you’ll come with me to page 65 I’ll
pick you a pearl from the pigeon-pink
pool’.”
I think,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I would
sooner you did not p-pick me a p-pearl
from the p - pigeon -p - pink p-pool,
p-please.”
“Anyhow, I don’t think that’s by any
means the worst line in the anthology,”
said Mr. Shean. “I am inclined to pick
the wonderful flatness of the last line of
this quotation from page 117:
The trees still.
Still the oily reach of river,
Detailed replicas of leaves and flowers and trees.
Horizontal water,
The bush vertically strained
Towards the sun. All stationary.”
“I am willing to bet any money you
like,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that no later
versifier could be as terrible as Barron
Field on Captain Cook’s landing-place at
Botany Bay:
Here fix the tablet. This must be the place
Where our Columbus of the South did land.
He saw the Indian village on that sand,
And on this rock first met the simple race
Of Austral Indians, who presum’d to face
With lance and spear his musket.”
“I fear,” said Mr. Shean, “I must quote
from Bernard O’Dowd:
Tho’ sage illusions beckon hence
To systems more complete,
On autochthonic Common Sense
Rigid I plant my feet.”
“A peculiar stance for a poet,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “but O’Dowd has done
better than that. I still maintain that for
sheer unmitigated dreadfulness there is
nothing to match those poems of the
early days which have been included for
their ‘historical importance,’ if any;
Ere yet their Tasks the sturdy Swains began,
Invaded Nature startled at the Plan.”
“Even though X observe that William
Charles Wentworth imported a number
of ‘skulking’ fauns and dryads,” said
Mr. Shean, “I trust that it will not b»
imagined by the Young Person that Aus-
tralian poetry began with those impos-
sible poetasters. A rough native poetry
began with the balladists; lyrical poetry
with McCrae and Shaw Neilson; but as
for the ‘historical importance’ of poor
Barron Field —strictly speaking, in a
critical sense,, he did not exist.”
“The writer of a tolerable piece of
verse,” said Mr. Gallagher, “or even, it
may be, the writer of an intolerable piece
of verse, serves in all times a valuable
purpose: he keeps the flame of poetry
alight. But I am afraid’that, strictly
regarded. Poets of Australia as a whole
must be summed up as an attempt to pro-
long the existence of that which is already
dead. Palgrave’s Golden Treasury, cover-
ing 400 years of English poetry, contains
the works of 157 authors. The contributors
to Poets of Australia total 205. We have
not had 205 major poets in 150 years; nor
yet, in the sense in which Burns or Walter
de la Mare, Hugh McCrae or Shaw
Neilson are ‘minor,’ 205 minor poets.
As an anthology of every tolerable and
intolerable piece of verse ever written in
this country Dr. Mackaness’s anthology
inevitably falls short: for, taking in my
father’s sonnet, it could have been ex-
panded to the size of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. As a critical anthology—and
that, surely, is what we need —it could
only be made a credit to the nation by
taking an axe to it.”
“I think,” said Mr. Shean, “that Dr.
Mackaness must have picked all these
pearls for us from the pigeon-pink pool
either because he is a historian or because
he has a kind heart. I am quite certain
he would never have left out your
father’s sonnet if he had known about it.
He has done an awful lot of work on
this anthology—or a lot of awful work.
I like to finish our discussions on a happy
note and I think you should, in return,
try to be kind to Dr. Mackaness.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “1
have been.”
Earnest Drinkers.
To read The Earnest Drinker’s'Digest,
by Oscar A. Mendelsohn, B.Sc., F.R.1.C.,
F.R.A.S. (Consolidated Press), is itself a
liberal inebriation. In subject it is as
another promised land, flowing with
spirituous and fermented.
The timing looks neat; publication
date coming before Christmas and after
the departure of the last of the Yanks. As
if the author had felt the inappropriate-
ness of floating such a flood of fair fluid
(from the days when even the currency
achieved the dignity of being bottled)
o Continued on page 4.)
FISHING SEASON.
Old Fisherwoman :
The wave that is dark piles white and slips to its death ;
The dorsal grey whirls in the shining break
Of fins in flight, red stippled, stayed and slain.
The black net wades ashore, straddling its paunch
And spews its silver gorgings on the sand.
Now, in the time of barrenness on earth
Has come our season of rejoicing. Strong
The wind-wolves bayed beyond the rising moon.
We heard their crying on the autumnal gusts
Sou’-west of summer; saw their frost-dark feet
Trample to mud the late green of the season.
The hedge-waves whiten with swifter flowers than
spring.
And feeding salmon rocket from the sea.
Young Fisherwoman :
Call back the men who have gone to cast their nets.
The white of the gull beyond the harbor bar
Dipped to the boil of the waters. Call them back !
For the gull’s wing low smears white at the face of
the cliff
And the grey of the gull has stained the racing clouds.
Like a bloodshot eye in the gaping skull of the wind
The red flag burns on the mast at the harbor offlfe.
And in night’s eye the pupil of the moon
Dilates in its iris of cloud-barren space.
These are not times for men to dare the sea.
When moon and wind and water plot against them.
Old Fisherwoman :
Be still, young wife. Giant mackerel sweep the coast.
And Dorey” tells of salmon near the Rip.
Soon will the mackerel pass, and the salmon move
Up Townsville way, and what will summer bring
But gathering shells and time for beaching hulls ?
Hear this from one who lost her son at sea.
I stood upon the pier and watched his sail
Shake out its wings, and on his deck there fell
The shadow and I saw him in its darkness.
The churning porpoise rolled before his bows;
A.I.F.
The aimless turtle rose. The curlew cried
The note of all the sorrow of the world.
They tell me, who were in the dinghy with him,
He chanced upon the loosened yarn of night
And from the unravelling skies was hauling in
A thread of tangled stars, when the sea leapt up
To draw him down with arms as cold as death
And wrap him in the meshes I had made.
The green wave, in the autumn of his blood
At sunrise drifted brown about the shore . . .
Hold down your fear, and drown it in your heart.
Young Fisherwoman :
How can I still the mounting gale in me ?
Death is the only answer that fulfils
Each question-mark the wind-curled waves imply.
Old Fisherwoman :
/ say the salmon and the mackerel leap
Offshore. Though finning death may scourge the shoals,
They flood, a living tide, about our coast . . .
And this: when, sewing up the hole he’d made,
I held the torn mesh to the lamp that night
And through its tasselled cave a face met mine.
Death grinned at me, like a spider from its web.
Thieving his glances from the flickering lamp.
The flame burned low, depleted by his theft.
And aimlessly my fingers plied the needle.
When, at sunrise, night and tears grown old,
I saw the harbor waking through the mesh,
Death was my prisoner. The net was whole again ;
Its knotted squares of toil had walled him in,
And only promises of spangled scales
Silvered its patterned air. There was no room
For him to shelter in my needle’s wings. ■
And then I knew that, like the mended net,
I, too. would go by seasons to the sea,
No refuge in my heart for death or fear.
And patch with toil the ravages of grief.
Until, from salt and buffeting of tides.
My twine dissolve beneath its weaver’s hand.
VAL VALLIS.


■RUTH IN ADVERTISING
a
s ' )
, Mmm
v>
• (
a
i
si f^S,
£><-<V,
'■•
-AM
mm
<gm>
m
m
I
* : <s
I* //
/ ? *? A
J*'-' '" -
! K|\
» 4
» &<►
PV>r
4-
IX
€
MS
«€
«
i
f-
ax
A
■rs
CSI
m
m
W-m
f mr a
’m
frnztmm
mu
: -i\<.-\<-'
4
Sv
4
a?
CL-.
v:
ClXr
m
n
m
A}
Vi
X
Tf ■ S
mu ,
1
4
XSsi
Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George St
*'V
N W&
A
9
Fine Quality Skin Gloves in Black “only.-
Price, per pair 23/6
Imported Hand-made Crochet Cloves in White.
Price, pair, 9/6. Beige. Price, pair, 10/3
• Ladies’ Gloves—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Give yourself long, sweeping lashes with
Bronneck Eyelash Grower. Price ..... 5/6
Bronneck Bath Salts priced at 3/11 and 7/9
• Bronneck Beauty Salon—Second Floor, Pitt St.
Rubinstein Skin Perfume, Apple Blossom 7/7
Apple Blossom Body Sachet 7/7
Cyclax Special Lotion, price 8/3
Penetrating Tissue Cream, prices 6/1, 11/7
• Chemistry Dept. —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
d /BRILLIANT DRESS /
jewellery/
Dress Clip
li 7'n
m m
‘V,
' V
Dress felhq
15
Ldrqe B roods N . ■/ /
* I#
' ,tlc
J'Periilant
Brooch
SO'*
* \
. Jt
N'"A V
S ** Cluster Brooch
55'-
Art. Jewellery Dept. —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
WHY NOT PLACE YOUR GIFTS NOW ON OUR LAY-BY
An ideal gift for the smoker is this attrac-
tive Smokers’ Stand, bakelite and chrome
fittings, including revolving arm ash-tray in
shades of Mottled Green, Walnut. 667-
Table Ash Tray with bakelite base and patent
chrome ash trap. Price, each .... 14/11
• Fancy Goods —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Rolls Shaving Cream, made from only the
purest ingredients. Price, jar 4/6
The Perfefct After-Shaving Lotion, used in
conjunction with the shaving cream, makes
shaving a pleasure. Price, bottle .... 4/6
Rolls Liquid Hair Dressing,* imparts gloss
and healthy vigor to the hair. Bottle, 2/9
• Chemistry Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Men’s Sports Shirts, cool, open weave with
polo collar and button front, in Plain Grey,
Saxe, Canary and White. SM-OS sizes.
Price 6/6
No coupons.
Men’s Striped Poplin Business Shirts with
neck-band and two detached fused collars,
in Fawn and Blue stripes. Sizes 14 to 17
inch neck. Price, each 18/6
12 coupons.
Men’s Half Hose. Cream Sports Sox in all
|wool cashmere, 10 to 11-jf ins. Pair, 3/3
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
I 'Phone: M 2401', day and night. Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


and of saying (in explanation of his
book’s purpose) that “the enjoyment of
anything has never been diminished by
knowledge of it” at a time when what
was desired was knowledge of where to
get it. As if he had felt it would be cruel
and unchristian to take the unhappy war-
shortage sufferers through chapters
brimming with such then mocking asso-
ciations as: “The difference between the
food value of stout and beer is negligible
... . Brandy is not more potent than
whisky. If both are of good quality there
is no appreciable difference in their effect
... .The olives and sardines [olives and
sardines ?] and buttered bread often
eaten with the preprandial drink have a
sound basis.... .Most people know the
full value of a nightcap... . It must be
remembered that today sherry-drinking
before meals has become rather a badge
of respectability, just as owning a piano
once was.”
.Who could not then have dispensed
with the piano if somebody had dispensed
the sherry! If Mr. Mendelsohn had then
said “I can think of a hundred reasons
for wine-drinking and not one —literally
not one —against it, except the ruinously
high price,” his respect for accuracy
would have made him add: “and the im-
possibility of getting it.” Presumably he
would have thought that unfair, and so
charitably delayed his book till the war
and all that had passed.
A nice consideration for his readers,
not as common in authors as perhaps it
might be ; but surely an underestimation
of vicarious values. Surely the right time
for it —not as a substitute, which has a
lasting acrid taste in this context, but as
a compensation—was when they were all
here in their absorbent force ; when Mars
himself was at last seen in his* true
character, not as the hearty, rollicking,
manly figure of the cartoonists’ misrepre-
sentations, “round as a globe and liquored
every chink,” but as truly depicted in the
heartfelt lines :
....on tipsy feet we trod,
Till a great big black teetotaller was sent to us
for a r0d....
Cartoonists, for U.N.O.’s sake, please
copy, that wars may end for ever! That,
as all now know —from the bitter experi-
ence of the absence of bitter—is the true
state of Mars ; let it be shown, that there
Shall be no repetition for the unfortu-
nate of that extreme degree of frightful-
ness the legionary victim was subjected to
—of course in a dream —in those war
days when
he wondered if the chef would show
The treasures of his hoard,
When a voice behind him whispered low,
“Sherry or ’ock, m’lord?/’
Gods! What a tumult rent the air,
As with a frightful oath,
He seized the waiter by the hair,
And cursed him for his sloth;
Then, grumbling like some stricken bear,
Angrily answered, “Both!”
And woke up, to reach for a glass, and
pledge, in water, that saddest of' all
toasts, “Absent friends, coupled with the
name of the Wine waiter.”
That, surely, was the time tor Mr.
Mendelsohn to come helpfully along;
the time when anyone, asked such a fan-
tastic question as butler Raven of Night-
mare Abbey asked Scythrop, “What will
you have?” must desperately have
answered as promptly as Scythrop,
“A pint of port and a pistol!” Those
days when again, in a more agonising
sense than convicts ever knew, over the
hills lay China, where, as has been re-
corded, “the hangover, not the bullet, was
the most grisly hazard” ; those days when
the poet, if he had then noted that “in
Clara’s face the lily only has its place,”
could never have leapt to the happy con-
clusion that it was
because the absent rose
Has gone to paint her husband’s nose.
If Mr. Mendelsohn had happened along
then, in that hospitable spirit of Ecclesi-
asticus which he could fly as a banner
on his book, “A cheerful and good heart
will have a care of his meat and drink,”
it might not have mattered quite so sadly
how much of his precious goods Bung
passed out the backdoor to the black-
market.
Who cared in those grim days for any
such reassurance as that “there is no
ground for the vague charges that modern
beer is made from ‘chemicals’ ”? What
nostalgic bouquet would have arisen
from “beer is a drink essentially for quick
consumption”; how disastrously quick
they were, too, in the downtake! But
what irony would have seemed hidden in
Mr. Mendelsohn’s learned analysis of the
overblamed iniquity of mixing , our
drinks ! Or think of the effect if it had
been known that “a fresh loaf of bread
may contain up to about 4 per
cent, of alcohol”! Is that, perhaps,
what Sydney’s weekend stale bread comes
to —another victory for the wowsers?
What time (vide Mr. Mendelsohn) this
sort of secret guzzling goes on: “Many
of the tonics and other nostrums so be-
loved of the wowsers (see the patent-
medicine advertisements in some religious
papers) contain so much alcohol that
they really ought to be called liqueurs or
at least cocktails,”
Even now, in these Purgatorial times
betwixt Hell and Heaven, it is largely
promise to hear Mr. Mendelsohn de-
claim: “Almost anyone can make a
simple bottle-rack; and one which will
hold a few dozen assorted bottles of beer,
wines, and whatnot will prove a con-
venience and a jolly sight.” More for-
titude or abandon than common flesh is
Jieir to is also still needed to read with
complete calmness “Where opportunity
occurs, lay in a small stock of wine for
cooking purposes,” but at least it is be-
coming possible to read such a chapter
title as “What Alcohol Does to You”
without altogether unbearable imagina-
tive strain.
It may not quite amount to being taken
bodily back to such days as those when
(as recorded by Froude) the Earl and
Countess of Northumberland (mere typi-
cal examples) breakfasted together alone
on a quart of ale, a quart of wine and a
chine of beef ; or ( per the same authprity)
when at the installation of George
Neville, brother of Warwick the King-
maker, as Archbishop of York, the feast
for 3500 persons included ( inter alia):
“Ale, 300 tuns; wine, 104 tuns ; oxen,
80 ; wild bulls, 6 ; muttons, 1004 ; geese,
3000” ; in like abundance pigs, peacocks,
cranes, chickens, pigeons, conies, bitterns,
partridges, plovers, curlews, etc, (from a
half to a whole one of each per person);
“pasties of venison, cold, 4000 ; pasties of
venison, hot, 1506 ; dishes of jelly, pasted,
1000; plain dishes of jelly, 4000; cold
custards, 4000 ; custards, hot, 2000 ; pikes,
300 ; breams, 300 ; seals, 8 ; porpoises, 4.”
It does not perform such a miracle of
transportation as that, but it conjures up
the mood and feeds the hope, however
vain.
Welcoming such partial return to
civilised living as may be discerned
(coupled with the name of Mr. Mendel-
sohn), and touching wood (it would be
nice to think this harmless custom, like
other healthy things, had its origin in.
casks) against poet ever henceforth hav-
ing to cry out in anguish “For the Curse
of Water has come again because of the
wrath of God,” there remains a word to
be said on the adjective in Mr, Mendels-
sohn's title. The author himself is appar-
ently not wholly satisfied with it, since in
a sub-title, sufficiently descriptive of his
book, he changed it: “A Short and
Simple Account of Alcoholic Beverages
(with a Glossary) for Curious Drinkers.”
And even that second attempt is not
altogether accurate, for the drinkers Mr.
Mendelsohn really has in his mind’s eye
are the moderate ones, those temperate
and so blessed souls who never drink
without eating (or vice versa, if it can be
helped).
Either these blessed ones were born
that way or, perhaps, in accordance witH
the ancient prescription against later in-
discriminate soaking, they were fed on
owls’ eggs when children; at all events,
eating is their reason for drinking (not
their excuse; they want no excuse), and
drinking is their reason for eating. They
may, like the ordinary unblessed —the
ones with “a genius for the ale-house” ;
the heathen habitues of Hebe’s haunts —
“enliven their cups by lamenting the de-
pravity of this degenerate age,” but they
will not be heard saying, with Fatout, “I
drihk-a-de ponch vid Raven de butler, to
keep out de bad air.” They drink-a-de
whatever to keep in de good food. Theirs
is the gospel of the great Cham himself,
that “A man is in general better pleased
when he has a good dinner on his table
than when his wife talks Greek.” They
may not agree with Mr. Mendelsohn’s
dictum, “If drinking beer with chicken
d la King gives pleasure, let beer be
drunk,” but, since “Wine, the, great
reconciler, allows that its students should
dispute without rancor,” the dispute even
on such a dictum would be amicable ; and
the alternative to beer would not be
water, though, of course, it could be
watered. The main point is that there
would be food. Therefore, at their table,
disreputable as he may have been, there
could be room for such a guest as Richard
Savage, who, vide Macaulay, “dined on
venison and champagne whenever he had
been so fortunate as to borrow a guinea,”
the password being in his case “venison,”
considered by romantic or coarser palates
a form of food, as Scots, when hungry,
describe haggis,
A borderline case would be that per-
sonification of the indolence that sleeps
in the castle of his verses James Thomp-
son, “so excessively lazy that he is re-
corded to have been seen standing at a
peach-tree, with both his hands in his
pockets, eating the fruit as it grew.” But
James might both acquire and join in the
grace by the simple movement —if he
were capable of it—of taking his hands
out of his pockets ; he having the primary
qualification of eating, and flu? other
being necessary for the important rite
of bending the elbow.
Among the many others, Boswell, too,
might be admitted, since, though these
temperate brethren could not approve
of a picture of him as he “raises glass
after glass of port wine to his active lips,
and dyes his complexion a deeper red
with every libation,” he did eat some-
times. Depending on that essential quali-
fication, there might be room, as well, for
all such as Ben Jonson, who loved
canary; Dr, Johnson (“I have drunk
three bottles of port without being the
worse for it” ; true, he did want to climb
a college wall afterwards); Chris Smart,
who, according to the Cham, “used for
exercise to walk to the ale-house, but he
was carried back” ; the verger recently
met in Robert Henrey’s The King of
Brentford, who had the wisdom to water
his tomatoes with beer, making them
grow stronger and have a richer flavor ;
and also for any in Mr. Edmund Cleri-
hew Bentley’s list:
Some talk of Alexander; some impute
Absorbency to Mirabeau-Tonneau;
Some say that General Grant and King Canute,
Falsfaff and Pitt and Edgar Allan Poe,
Prince Charlie, Carteret, Hans Breitmann —so
The list goes on—they say that these could clink
The can, and take their liquor— a proposl
Excuse me while I go and have a drink.
Excusing Mr. Bentley—and admitting
him, if he will also chew a bone —the
line of the admissible (to this company
at Mr, Mendelsohn’s table; you are
there, Winston?) and the inadmis-
sible could be roughly drawn between,
on the taboo side, the sober Waller, “He
drank only water, and while he sat in a
company who were drinking wine, he
had the dexterity to accommodate his dis-
course to the pitch of theifs as it sunk”
(this last surely a gratuitous aspersion!),
and, also of the taboo, all such as
Richard Porson, of whom- Horne Tooke
declared that he “would drink ink rather
than not drink at all” and who himself
wrote, having Visited the Continent:
I went to Frankfort, and got drunk
With the most learn’d professor—Brunck:
I went to Worts, and got more drunken
With that more learn’d professor—Ruhncken.
“Porson would not scruple,” Sam
Rogers reported, “to return to the dining-
room, after the company had left it, pour
into a'tumbler the drops remaining in the
wine-glasses, and drink off the omnium
gatherum.” Sorry, no, Mr. Porson ; even
though that would seem substantial evi-
dence that you invented the cocktail, and
even though we suspect you would plead
that the moon periodically is full, and -
as for the tide! . . .
Go your way, too (unless you will eat
some of your second line), the author of
If the ocean was whisky
And I was a duck,
I’d dive to the bottom,
To get one sweet suck.
Also go your own way, Richardson ; on
the opposite Thackerayan testimony that
your “goddess was attended by old maids
and dowagers, and fed on muffins and
bohea.” You, too, Rochester, at the
other, Porsonian, extreme, “always
drunk”; and, anyway, we prefer (with
Mr. Mendelsohn) a clear glass (“utensil
of good companionship”) to your design:
Vulcan contrive me such a cup
As Nestor us’d of old:
Shew all thy skill to trim it up;
Damask it round with gold.
Make it so large that, fill’d with sack
Up to the swelling brim,
* Vast toasts,, on the delicious lake,
Like ships at sea, may swim.
No, John, you monstrous toss-pot; it
is too ornate ; it is too big. We’d as soon
drink whisky out of the Davis Cup ; or
(as we confess we have done) champagne
out of empty cordite tins (there were
no glasses in that French field of barley,
Mr. Mendelsohn, so forgive us our dese-
crations), But you, Mr. Glowry (and, of
course, as his creator, you, Tom Pea-
cock), there could not but be room always
for one holding the memory of an an-
cestor in such high honor as to make a
punchbowl of his skull. Touching on
ancestors, Christy Brennan, the father of
Chris, was one of the earliest of our own
respected brewers ; Brennan’s Beer one of
the first of our noble brews. Come in,
Christy. Come in, Chris.
And—before the rush of other Aus-
tralian candidates ( and and
and, etc.) crowds the board —come
in, too. Fielding, old fellow ; you whose
muse “had sung the loudest in. tavern
choruses, had seen the daylight streaming
in over thousands of empty bowls, and
reeled home to chambers on the shoulder
of the watchman.” Drunk as Chloe ; but
for all that enough to have been the
author of Tom Jones, our copy of which
bears a noble added testimony to your
splendid memory: it was bought second-
hand at the Methodist bookshop, and
some other, and pious, owner had
written across the title-page under your
name: “Man of God; immortal soul.”
Similarly, our copy of Jurgen.
As for you, Chloe, now that you have
come into this: are you still there on
canvas in Young and Jackson’s excellent
hostelry in Melbolirne, where the un-
couth used to strike matches on you?
Or are you back where you belong, with
Daphnis and the sheep (and the grapes),
libelled in simile and situation no more,
since, dear soul, it wasn’t your divine
self at all that anyone was ever “as drunk
as,” but the Cloe without the “h,” Mat
Prior’s (alas, married!) girl-friend. Cloe
indeed could sink ’em; sister in spirit to
Ceres, who, as the legend runs, “wander-
ing over the earth in search of her
daughter, taught men the art of making
beer” ; sister in spirit, too, of that George,
Duke of Clarence, who, also as the legend
runs, “being allowed to choose by what
death he would die, choose drowning in
malmsey wine.” Maybe it was George
Mr. Bentley had in mind in concluding
his moving “Ballade of Liquid Refresh-
ment”: —
Hullo there, Prince! Is that you down below
Kicking and frying by the brimstone brink?
Well, well! It had to come some time, you know.
Excuse me while I go and have a drink.
That goes for us, too, Mr. Mendel-
sohn ; with parting thanks for your robust
debunking of fallacies alcoholic ; for your
learned dissertations on “Yeasts and their
Action,” on brewing, distilling and the
mystic making of wines ; the placing of
Australian products vine, hop and
sugarcane—on pedestals, or in glasses,
worthy of their true merits ; in short, for
keeping us alive, vicariously but suffi-
ciently, until the tardy clock “gathered
his strength and struck,” Excuse, etc.
C.M.
Various Verse
There Was a Man.
There was a man who wasted sixty, years
Subduing humanity to intelligence
Because he thought his rare collection of books
Was more than a sufficient recompense.
So satisfactory found old, intricate bindings
Or all-absorbing d finely printed page
He had never looked at the comical world at all
And never noticed the sad advance of age.
Some friends he had who talked of books with
him,
This being their only common meeting ground;
The man was oblivious to beauty of form,
Gay color, shifting light, or lovely sound.
At last, however, his eyes grew old and tired
And when their reading for the day was done
He held his book on his knees and started
dreaming
In the half-forgotten warmth of the autumn sun.
Gradually, bone by bone, sinew by sinew,
His unacknowledged body became aware
Of the delicate play of wind upon the skin
And the scent of flowers floating with the air.
At last his stiff old mouth achieved a smile;
His throat managed a chuckle an hour after.
The sudden discovery of such passionate fun
Resulted in death on a burst of furious laughter.
Friends found him when they came to talk that
evening,
Shuddered awhile, till one of them cried,
“Look,
I never remember him to look so happy;
How right that he died while reading his favorite
book.’’
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
Native Inhabitant.
Red the dust and brown the rock,
Red and brown lie the leaves and bark,
And red and brown came stealing forth
An incarnation of native earth:
Bandicoot with a quivering whisker
Sits up stiff and his heart beats brisker,
Cocks his ear and twitches nose.
Then swift as a shadow off he goes;
For long ago where the leaves are brown
The blackboys laid their boomerangs down
And stood so still so many a year
They grew green leaves in place of hair.
And —now you see him and now you don’t
And won’t again however you hunt
For a tree that clumps on two great boots
Is a terrible sight to bandicoots;
And you will wait in a fruitless hope
Till the blackboys pick their boomerangs up
To catch the bush again like that .
Off-guard in the shape of a great red rat.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Hares.
There is a stranger on the stock route.
See his red beard and eyes of flame !
The sky’s his swag; the magpies shout
Across a continent his name:
It is the sun! It is the morn !
Bless the day that I was born.
There are two boxers through the gwntrees;
Their shadows spar on the far hill,.
Counter and close. What giants are these?
Surprised, a pair of hares stand still.
It’s a fine thing at your front gate
To see such angry lovers mate.
Bill is out on the red stallion;
His piebald mob crops blades of fire.
Trees burn, leaves melt, in conflagration.
The big buck hare has his desire
On the red ridge by the white tree.
Jugged, he would do Bill for his tea.
N.S.W.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


SYMBOL OF
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
G 46 10


A MATTER OF
JUDGMENT
By Standby
WE saw a car parked too far from the kerb as we
were going into the club, and that reminded
Captain Bell of Henderson. Later, inside the
club, Bell told us the story.
To appreciate the story you’d really have to know
Henderson, Captain Bell began. He was a tall,
damned good-looking bloke with a high-bridged nose,
a good firm jaw and sleek, straight black hair with
just a touch of grey showing in it when I first knew
him. He was chief officer in the old Moonbah then,
and the women passengers used to fall for him in a
heap. He looked so damned distinguished and well-
bred.
Very particular about his appearance, too. You
never saw that sleek hair ruffled, and when we were
in the tropics you never saw a
mark or wrinkle on his
uniforms. First-class seaman,
too, navigation faultless as his
appearance. But Henderson’s
greatest asset was the gift of
the gab. He could hold his
own with any politician, and
he would have made a fortune
as a salesman. You might
have a fixed conviction on a
certain subject, but start arguing about it with
Henderson and he’d finish up by convincing you
that you were wrong. Nothing objectionable, you
understand. Oh, no. He was always very polite-
charming. He listened to your point of view and then
went quietly ahead to show you where you were mis-
taken, and you found yourself wondering why you’d
been fool enough to hold such views all your life.
K/| Y present ship, the Waitara, was just being built
* ** for the company then, and there was quite a lot
of speculation over who’d get her. We reckoned there
were three skippers in the running, all men with good
records in command of the company’s ships. And
damn me if the board doesn’t give her to Henderson,
right over the heads of senior men! Sent him home
to Scotland to bring her out, too. Not bad that, eh?
From mate of the Moonbah to master of the com-
pany’s newest ship!
The Waitara made a good passage out, and
Henderson, when he berthed in Sydney and reported
to the office, had only one complaint to make. Com-
plaint is hardly the word to use, for Henderson was
far too shrewd to complain to the owners about his
first command, and a brand new ship at that. He
enlarged on all her good points, and you chaps who
know her must admit she’s got plenty, but he warned
the owners that she was a trifle unhandy on her
helm at slow speeds in narrow waters ; a difficult ship
to manoeuvre into a berth, and one that would need
expert handling. Some ships are like that.
During the whole of his command Henderson
never took his holidays. He was on hand every time
she had to be moved. Do you see the set-up he built for
himself with the owners? He had their interests too
much at heart and thought too much of the ship to
trust her to other, and Jess competent, hands. In the
next few years she certainly compiled a record that
bore out what Henderson said of her, for she damaged
two wharves, and on several occasions buckled some
of her own plates coming alongside.
Once she struck Pipon Reef not one hundred
yards from the light. But that, Henderson pointed out
at the inquiry, was through no fault of the ship’s; it
was entirely due to the carelessness of the chief officer,
who was on watch at the time. I remember the case
well. The mate claimed that the master had come
on to the bridge and ordered the alteration of course
ten minutes before she struck. He put his case badly
and there were no witnesses to support his evidence.
The Court suspended his ticket for twelve months and,
after exonerating Henderson from all blame, compli-
mented him on the way he had given his evidence.
On another occasion, backing out from her berth
in Cairns, she damaged her own stern and stove in two
ports in the fo’castle of a Dutchman moored astern
of her. It was the second mate who lost his job that
time. He was in charge aft at the time, Henderson
pointed out at the inquiry, with nothing to do but
warn the master of |he impending danger, a duty he
neglected to perform. In one way and another Hen-
derson got five officers dismissed in as many years.
I THINK there was only one man on the shore staff
* who wasn’t impressed with the great Captain Hen-
derson, and that was old Mclntosh, the company’s
marine superintendent. Old Mac was a dour Scot, a
big, thickset, stei;n-faced man, ponderously slow of
speech and movement.
I heard afterwards that old Mac had suspected
Henderson’s failing for a long time, but he couldn’t
get the directors to share his views. But he must
have made some impression on the board, for they
invented some business in TJ. for him and booked
him as passenger on the Waitara’s next run north.
I think the general idea was that he should make his
own observations without letting Henderson suspect
why he was there.
I’m not likely to forget that trip. Three days be-
fore she sailed I joined her as chief officer. Old
Mclntosh was on the wharf when I moved my gear
aboard, and he stopped me at the gangways.
“Ye’re joinin’ her. Bell?” he asked just as if he
knew nothing about it.
I said “Yes; sir. Chief officer.”
He nodded and moved aside. And then as I
was about to walk up the gangway he grunted “Watch
your step, young mon.”
I started to say something about always doing
my best, but he was gone. I’d been uneasy about that
berth right from the start, but that warning gave me
a jolt; it put me right on my toes.
Henderson, I found when I reported to him,
hadn’t altered much since we’d been shipmates in ihe
old Moonbah. His hair had gone quite grey, but that
only added to his distinction. It was still as sleek and
carefully brushed as ever. He still had the same
charming manner, and in spite of myself I couldn’t
help being impressed. He had the ship’s business at
his fingertips, and while he went into it he inquired
about my doings over the last few years, my ambitions,
my home life, and finally complimented me on my
progress. I came out of his room feeling that even
if there was a hoodoo on the Waitara it was through
no fault of Henderson’s. That’s the sort of man he
was. Still, I was a long way from feeling happy that
trip. What with Henderson’s reputation and having
the marine super, on board, I felt as if I was on trial
all the time. It was like a long-drawn-out version of
your first Board of Trade examination, where you feel
the cold eyes of the examiners boring into you, wait-
ing to pounce on your first slip.
Mclntosh was a model passenger. He neither
sought nor avoided Henderson’s company. For the
first three days Henderson exercised all his charm on
him with no result; after that he gave up trying to
draw the super, out. I suppose even he couldn’t carry
on a lengthy conversation with a man whose sole
contribution was an occasional grunt that could mean
anything—or nothing. The only person whose company
Mac sought was old Hughie Andrews, our chief
engineer. They’d been shipmates on the China Coast
years before. Andrews was another dour Scot, a lean,
serious old man with a head as bald and shiny as a
well-used bollard. His flow of language was about
“Shift that horse-float, you! You’re on my fishing possy.”
on a par with old Mac’s, so what enjoyment either of
’em got out of the other’s company I failed to see.
Every morning at 11 Andrews would come up
on the boat-deck and these two grim old birds would
set out for their daily walk. That’s all they ever did—
just walk. Up and down the deck, hands thrust into
pockets, pipes going full blast and never, as far as I
could see, a word exchanged. At noon they’d march
off down to the chief’s cabin and sit down over a
whisky and water. They may have burst into con-
versation over that daily drink, but I doubt it.
I INTIL we were coming alongside in Cairns every-
thing went as smoothly as things should go in a
well-run ship. Henderson had had a bit of trouble
putting her alongside in Brisbane —not much. I re-
member thinking that I could have done the job better,
but then every mate standing on the fo’castle-head
flatters liimself that he could do a much better job than
the Old Man. In Cairns I first realised that Hender-
son had that failing. He was a bad judge of distance.
He’d swung into position too far out from the wharf,
and it was impossible to get a line across. The way
was off her, and in another minute or two the tide
wovlld be setting her back towards the ship berthed
astern. Just a touch ahead would have done it, and
I’m standing on the fo’c’sle-head waiting for him to
give the order when he calls out:
“Would you kindly get a line ashore, Mr. Bell,
instead of admiring the scenery?”
And the sarcasm he put into it! I thought to
myself you’re a damn’ poor judge of distance if you
think a heaving line’ll reach that far, but I said to the
seaman behind tae “See if you can do it. Madden.”
Madden had his heaving line halved ready for throw-
ing. He said, “Aye, aye, sir,” but I knew what he was
thinking. It was a damnfool thing to ask any man to
do. He put everything he had into that throw; the
line straightened out to its fullest extent, bar taut—it
takes a good man to do that —but the weighted end
fell a good fifteen feet short of the wharf. I called
out to Henderson “Could you come ahead a little,
sir?”
He came ahead then, but after we were made fast
I found him waiting for me in the chart-room. He
looked at me as if I was something a steward had
left lying on the deck and said, “Next time I put the
ship into position, Mr. Bell, I’d be obliged if you
wouldn’t waste as much time getting a line ashore.”
I knew then what I was up against.
Between Cairns and T-L we had to call in at a
few places off the beaten track. One of these was
Throne Island. It’s a small, usually uninhabited,
island, but for some months a party of surveyors and
scientists had been making it their headquarters. I’d
been in there once with Johnstone in the old Moonbah,
so I was familiar with the layout.
THE approach to Throne from the south’ard is free
from outlying dangers; even the fringing reef is
little more than a shelf extending a bare fifty yards
off-shore. An easy place to get into, even at night-time.
The Waitara, I reckoned, would be off the island some
time between eleven-thirty and midnight. I had the
eight to twelve watch, and at eight-thirty Henderson
came on to the bridge.
It was a beautiful night, the sort of night you
remember. The moon was well up, and there was
literally not a ripple on the
surface of the sea. There
must have been the very
lightest of swells coming in
over the reefs, because the
Waitara was rolling with
a slow, hardly perceptible
roll. You had to look at
the horizon to be sure she
was rolling. The sea lay
about us like a great sheet
of dark velvet, and look-
ing .down at it from the
bridge you couldn’t actu-
ally see anything to call a
swell; it was more as if
the sea underneath that
velvet surface was breath-
ing slowly and gently.
There wasn’t a cloud in the
sky, and the moon and
stars, bright as they were,
were hardly more bril-
liant than their own reflec-
tions on the sea. On our
port hand the bluff rock
summit of .Flinders Island towered upwards like a
fairy castle... Damn it all, I’m getting as bad as
Henderson with my fancy talk!
But it was that sort of a night. Up ahead of us
even Wharton Reef Light, sending out its steady single
flash every three seconds, was affected by it, for there
were two beams, one stabbing into the sky and one
slipping along the surface of the sea to mix with the
glittering display of phosphorescence around our bows.
On the deck below me a couple were leaning over the
rail. The man’s arm slid around the girl’s shoulders
and I saw her face upturned to his. In that bright
moonlight you could tell by the expression on her face
that she was ready to give him the world. Henderson


must have seen it, too, because he smiled in that
charming way he had and said:
“On a night like this, Mr. Bell, anything can
happen—when you’re young.”
He talked for a while after that about the old
times in the Moonbah and the chaps who had served
in her. And when Henderson talked like that you
couldn’t help thinking what a hell of a fine chap he
was. I looked at his high-bridged nose and the strong
handsome sweep of his jaw-line and wished I’d been
blessed with half his good looks. Standing there in
the moonlight, straight and tall in his spotless white
uniform, he looked the ideal film-star hero. That s
what he should have been.
We discussed the time of arrival of Throne Island.
About eleven- thirty,'we reckoned, if she kept up her
present speed. Henderson
tossed his cigarette over
the rail.
“You know these
waters, don’t you, Mr.
Bell?” He smiled that
undeniably attractive
smile. “You should;
you’ve been practically
reared in them. You can
take her along till we’re
closing the island. I’m
going to lie down for a
while. Give me a call
when we’re getting close.”
AT ten-thirty the chief
engineer came on to
the bridge. I think he suf-
fered from insomnia, be-
cause I’d often seen him
prowling round the decks
at all hours of the night.
He stood for a moment
rubbing his hand over his
bald head —it glistened in
the moonlight like a bil-
liard ball —before asking:
“What time d’y’ figure
we’ll be at the island?”
I stepped across to
the chart-room. The door Was open and 1 d left the
shaded light over the chart-table switched on. The
pool of light reflected from the white chart lit the
clock-face plainly.
“Another hour and we should be rounding the
point,” I said. “It’s ten-thirty now.”
The chief pulled a big old-fashioned gold watch
from his pocket. “There’s one minute difference
between your time and mine,” he said accusingly.
I laughed and said “What’s a minute to the
engine-room, Chief? The ship won’t come to
harm just because your watch is one minute out.”
“It’s not my watch that’s wrong,” he snorted and
stumped off the bridge.
I don’t need to look up the log-book to refresh
my memory about the various times between then and
midnight. I’ll never forget ’em. At ten past eleven I
sent Barnes, the stand-by seaman, below to get two
cups of tea, and at a quarter past I called Henderson
through the speaking tube connecting the bridge with
his room. “It’s fifteen minutes past eleven, sir, I
said. “We’re about two miles off the island.”
He said “Thank you, Mr. Bell. I’ll come straight
up.”
came back with the tea just after 1 d
replaced the plug in the mouthpiece. I took the two
cups and sent him off to get the stores out on deck.
He went down the port ladder and a few seconds later
Henderson came up the starb’d one. He looked ahead
at the dark mass of the island and yawned as I handed
him his cup of tea. It’s funny how your mind retains
pictures of trivial incidents for years after jm event.
I can see Henderson standing there now, sipping his
tea and staring ahead. There must have been a tea-
leaf floating in the cup, for I remember that he walked
to the rail and spat it out. He put the empty cup
down on the flag locker and lit a cigarette, twirling the
burning match till it burned almost to his fingertips.
A BEAUTIFUL night, Mr. Bell,” he said. “I
doubt whether in a lifetime at sea you’d ever see
a more perfect one. Look at the reflections of those
trees on the water. You’d almost think the island was
resting on a gigantic dark mirror.”
We were drawing close now, and the point stood
out black and clear. I had her headed to clear it by
about four hundred yards. Henderson tapped the
ash from his cigarette and leaned both elbows on the
dodger.
“Haul her in another ten degrees, Mr. Bell,” he
said. “I’ll keep as close to the island as I can in case
they have to row out. You can slip down and check
the stores then and see them lowered. I won t anchor.
Just send the stuff down as quickly as you can and
we’ll get under way again.”
We were standing over towards the starb’d wing
of the bridge, and I’m pretty sure the helmsman
couldn’t hear our voices. We’d been talking softly as
you do on the bridge at night. I stepped into the
vvheelhouse and said “Starb’d ten degrees, Hansen.
That’ll make you north fifteen west down here.” I
heard him repeat the order, but I didn’t wait to see
him steadied on his course. Henderson was in charge
now and I was merely relaying his order. Automati-
cally I noted that it was eleven-thirty by the wheel-
house clock as I gave the order. Henderson rang
“Stand by” just after I left the bridge.
On the lower deck I passed the chief. He was
standing in the starb’d alleyway just outside the
engine-room door sipping tea out of the biggest mug I
ever saw. There was no need for him to be out of
bed; the second engineer was on watch, but as I said
before Andrews seemed to spend half his nights prowl-
ing around the decks.
The engine-room gong clanged again, and the
engines slowed down and stopped just as I reached
the for’ard well deck. Barnes had the stores stacked
against the rail and had rigged a line ready for lower-
“and the sparkling prince turned out to be a frog !”
ing. He flashed his torch on the cases while I checked
the labels. Six cases there were, and a sack of vege-
tables. Not a lengthy job to check them, but when
Barnes switched off the torch and I looked over the
side I got such a shock that for a few seconds I
couldn’t speak. We were rounding the point, and
although the engines were stopped we were still carry-
ing a hell of a lot of way. The trees on the point were
slipping past at a speed that told of their closeness.
Close! We were right in the shadow of those trees. In
spite of myself I gasped. “My God, he’s cutting it
fine!” And Barnes said in awe-stricken tones “E’ll
clout the bloody reef, that’s wrt ’e’ll do!”
He did. She struck the reef, not with a grinding
crash or the sudden jar I’d been dreading but with a
long gentle crunch, coming slowly to stop and listing
very slightly to starb’d. I’d never seen a ship strike a
coral reef before, and I don’t quite know what I
expected—a rending of plates, a jar that would hurl
men flat on the decks perhaps—but certainly not this
gentle almost inaudible crunch.
engine-room gong clanged, and I could tell by
* the shuddering vibrations of the deck beneath my
feet that the engines were being put full astern. Full
astern! We might as well have tried to tow her off in
a flattie! She was up, rammed hard and fast on the
reef. Inexperienced as I was in the matter of wrecks
there was no mistaking that dead feeling, that utte'r
lack of buoyancy. The white water from our reversed
screw was boiling and hissing for’ard along our plates ;
the ship was shuddering with the power of her engines,
but she wasn’t moving. Right opposite where I was
standing one lone coconut palm hung far out over
the water, the dark tracery of its reflection shattered
by the turmoil of our threshing screw. But the tree
itself didn’t move for’ard as it should have done if
we’d been going astern ; it just hung there motionless
with its graceful fronds glistening in the moonlight.
It was a queer sensation, my first shipwreck. She’d
gone aground so gently that I doubt if anyone except-
ing the watches on deck and in the engine-room
realised that anything had happened.
Quite suddenly I remembered that there were a
number of things I should be doing instead of standing
there staring at that blasted coconut-tree, I said “Get
the lead-line out, Barnes ; I’ll be back in a minute,”
and bolted for the bridge. On the boat deck just aft
of the ladder leading to the bridge I passed a man, a
thickset man with a pair of pink and white striped
pyjama trousers showing below a tweed jacket. He
was lighting his pipe, and in the glow of the match I
recognised Mclntosh.
Hardy, the second mate, reached the bridge just
ahead of me, and Henderson wheeled round and
snapped “Mr. Hardy, fihd out if she’s making any
water,” and to me “You believe in taking your time,
Mr. Bell, Get the lead-line and give me the soundings
all around her.”
I went back down the ladder three steps at a
time. Barnes was waiting with the lead-line, and we
sounded right around her from stem to stern. There
was no doubt about her being well up ; the soundings
showed her to be resting on coral for her entire length,
and judging from some of the depths she’d crunched
her way through nearly two feet of it in places. The
chief came aft just as I finished jotting down th*e last
reading under the stern. Henderson had stopped the
engines by then. I sent Barnes for’ard with the lead,
and old Andrews tapped his pipe out on the rail.
“Nae doot she’s properly up,” he said.
“She is,” I answered. “Well and truly. Thank
God he can’t hang the blame on to me.”
The chief gave me a queer look. “I wouldna’
count on that too much, young mon,” he said.
“But damn it all!” I spluttered. “He can’t! I
wasn’t even on the bridge.”
The chief shrugged his bony shoulders. “I’ve
been five years wi’ Henderson,” he announced. “He
could say he wasna’ called in time.” He started to
walk for’ard then, but over his shoulder he grunted
“If y’ find y’sel’ in trouble see me.”
I remember thinking as T went up to make my
report that Andrews was a queer old bird and that he
must have some personal grudge against Henderson.
Mclntosh was still standing at the foot of the
bridge ladder, but he followed me up and stood listen-
ing while I reported the soundings. The tide was
falling, and it was obvious that she wouldn’t come off
until the next high water, if at all. Hardy came back,
then, and reported that she was not making any water.
Henderson ordered him to get fresh soundings every
fifteen minutes, and when he left old Mclntosh spoke
for the first time. He stepped forward with his hands
thrust into the pockets of his tweed jacket and his pipe
jutting out at a right-angle from his grim old jaw. For
nearly half a minute he glared at Henderson before
barking out “Well?” Just that one word, but the very
tone of it was enough.
l_l ENDERSON jumped straight into his stride. He
* * was badly rattled, we could see that, but he was
by no means speechless. I can’t remember his exact
words, for in spite of Andrews’s warning I was too
staggered to even think clearly.
I just stood there gaping like
a fool and fairly shaking with
rage. What kept me from
jumping in and bashing Hen-
derson’s damned handsome
face I don’t know. Perhaps it
was that grim, silent old Scot
standing almost in between us.
Henderson told him that in
spite of his orders he hadn’t
been called. He only realised
that we were approaching the island when he heard
“Stand by” ring. He was reading when he heard it and
he rushed straight to the bridge. His eyes hadn t time
.
( Continued on page jj.)
The World and the Child .
/.
This is the child. He has not yet put out leaves.
His bare skin tastes the air; his paked eyes
know nothing but strange shapes. Nothing is named;
nothing is ago, nothing not yet. Death is that which
dies
and goes no farther; for the mere dead he grieves,
and grief has yet no meaning and no size.
Where the wild harebell grows to a blue cave
and the climbing ant is a monster of green light
the Mid clings to his grassblade. The mountain range
lies like a pillow for his head at night,
the moon swings from his ceiling. He is a wave
that timeless moves through time, imperishably bright.
Yet what is it that moves? What is the unresting
hunger
that shapes the soft-fleshed face , makes the bone
harden ?
Rebel, rebel, it cries. Never be satisfied.
Do not weaken for their grief; do not give in or
pardon.
Only through this pain, this black desire, this anger
shall you at last return to yohr lost garden,
H.
Out of himself like a thread the child spins pain
and makes a net to catch the unknown world.
Words gather there .heavy as fish, and tears,
and tales of love and of the polar cold.
Now, says the child, I shall never be young again—
the shadow of my net has darkened the sects gold.
Yet what is it that draws the net and throws ?
Forget to be young, it says; forget to be afraid.
No net is strong enough to catch the world,
nor man of such a sinew ever was made.
What is the world? That secret no-one knows—
yet look, beyond the sundazzle, the blinding blade —
was not that the white waterfall from some vast side ?
Nets have been breached and men have died in vain.
No net is strong enough to hold the world.
Yet gather in your bleeding hands your net again—
not till Leviathan’s beached shall you be satisfied.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


DICKELLA
By BRIAN JAMES
( ( F course, I know the arrangement is not ideal.
f \ but in the circumstances it is the best that
li can be done. And it is helping the War
Effort, and it is up to us all to help everyone
else. That’s patriotic.” .
Mrs. Grant was summing up a difficult situation,
and unconsciously expressing at the same time her
perfect genius for management. She frequently
summed up difficult situations, tracing these back to
their beginnings. And showing the identity of personal
and national interests . . .
“Someone said ‘Guns or
Butter,’ and we need guns
more than butter at the
moment. So I said to Henry
‘There’s the tip—get rid of the
farm and get into munitions.’
I hated the dairy, anyway, and
here was a chance to get out
of it. I lived in Sydney be-
fore, and I loved Sydney;
which was only commonsense.
But Henry said he’d go into the-
Army, and I told him he’d look a fool in the Army if
he had no gun ; or if he had a gun he’d still look a
fool if he had nothing to shoot out of it. Henry’s a
dear, but he doesn’t always see things. Anyway, Man-
power caught him halfway between the dairy and the
Army, and sent him to a munition factory. Which just
went to show —Henry was marvellous at fixing up
those milking-machines. Poor Henry, he didn’t like it at
first, but he found he could make a lot more out of
munitions than he could out of cows. But even then hp
complained that the Taxation people were awful.”
Mrs. Grant was 35, and didn’t exactly deny it
either —proud of it in a way really, perhaps because
she looked not much more than half of it. Mr. Grant
must have been 40, and wasn’t so proud of it because
he looked half as much again. But he wasn’t a good
manager, and didn’t take things easy. Mrs. Grant was
a fine-looking woman, nicely rounded off, as it were,
not too tall, and yet not short
enough to be just a dumpling.
No one would ever dream
that she came from a dairy and
had lived much of her life at
Sailor’s Gully—which, is near
Chapel Corner. She had friendly
red hair, and such big blue eyes
—just far enough apart—and a
complexion to match. Red hair
is mostly very dangerous,
especially when it goes with
those small, sharp, blue eyes,
close together and set in very
deep. Nothing like that at all
with Mrs. Grant, ,
“I’ll do my best,” said the
agent, when Mrs. Grant first in-
terviewed him. “I’ll certainly do
my best, Mrs. Grant. It’s the
War, you know. Houses unpro-
curable, War Effort and all
that. But call again” ...
At the second interview the
agent said —he was such a nice
fellow, really—“l have a place
for you, Coralie, such a dickie
little nest of a place really.
Snap it while the going’s good.”
Mrs. Grant snapped it. Henry said —“Good
Gawd, it’s miles too big for us, and look at the rent —
two-ten!” That was like Henry, who couldn’t forget
that the house on the dairyfarm cost nothing—and
was hardly worth that.
And Mrs, Grant said, “Don’t you know that
there’s a War on, Henry?” which was of course a
quotation of a much-repeated phrase. But she said
it quite pleasantly. Then Henry said, “It’s 12 miles
at least from the Factory,” and Mrs. Grant said, “If’s
worth it to be that far away. And look at the view!
And did you see the name on the house?”
“What of it — d I c K E L L A?”
“Lovers, Henry! Lovers long ago! Dick,and
Ella. It’s romantic.”
Henry only said “Ugh!” rather stolidly, indicat-
ing that he had no understanding, no appreciation of
those coy public pronouncements of undying love,
so frequently met with on suburban dwellings.
However, they took Dickella, a gem of a
place, beautifully tuckpointed in front, though not
quite so nice at the back. Probably it was the very
last free and unfettered place to be let anywhere round
Sydney before the War Effort put its final blight on
Housing. Such a nice street too —Fairview-avenue.
North Wrigley.
“By the way, Coralie,” said the agent, “perhaps I
should mention that Mr. Belfont goes with the house.”
“Mr. Belfont!”
“Well, you see, Coralie, Mr. Belfont was there—
front room —when the Carsons had the house. He’s
a fixture in a way.” The agent was inclined to apolo-
gise for his inability to shift Mr. Belfont, but Mrs.
Grant thought the arrangement quite all right, and
seeing that houses and accommodation were so terribly
limited it would be doing something for the War
Effort.
Henry, who was never able to grasp anything very
well, didn’t approve, and moaned somewhat about it.
Moaning was second nature to him on account of his
being a dairyfarmer.
“Henry, you’re a goose,” said Mrs. Grant.
“Can’t you see it’s just up to us to do something?
You know yourself that Mr. Churchill said we must
all tighten up our belts.”
But these were matters Henry % didn’t understand,
“Besides,” went on Mrs. Grant, “that, Mr. Belfont
—isn’t that a lovely name, Henry?—paid the Carsons
two-ten a week for that room —and breakfast, of
course, when he was able to eat it. Just fancy—two-
ten ! That’s the whole rent, and we get the rest of the
place for nothing.”
Henry had less difficulty in seeing this.
MR. BELFONT turned out to be a Co-ordinator,
which meant that he —well, he co-ordinated. Be-
yond that simple definition of his duties no one was
able to go, except to a vague understanding that he
was dealing severely with Bottlenecks.
You couldn’t question a Co-ordinator very well,
nor ferret into his business. In a dimly suggestive way,
Mr. Belfont looked like a Co-ordinator, though he
looked other things too. Not at all unlike an under-
taker with particularly gloomy views on mortality.
“Come on, girls — who'll step into the breach?”
But he was important. Very. He went to work very
late, and came home very early, and then stayed in his
room most of the time. Mrs. Carson —the Carsons
were going to a country town on account of Mr.
Carson’s War Work —called in the first afternoon to
get something out of the manhole, and said, “Coralie,
he’s a wonderful man. But, poor soul, he has a
‘duo’.” And Mrs. Grant nodded sympathetically,
though she interpreted the term as a musical instru-
ment. “Still,” said Mrs. Carson, “it’s not catching
at all —that’s a comfort.”
Such a nice woman, that Mrs. Carson, and
wonderfully thoughtful.
Henry became reconciled to Dickella in his
grumbling fashion, and worked in the Munition
Factory, but kept on looking like a dairyfarmer.
“Henry is such a dear,” said Mrs. Grant. “And I’m
proud of his War Effort, but I’m sorry the Income-
Tax people nip him so much. He.gets so hurt about
it —all his Overtime and War-Loading just going for
nothing, as it were.” 6
Henry and Mrs. Grant were the parents of three
little Grants —girls with long double plaits and won-
dering eyes. Good little girls, and you hardly heard
them at all. It’s a great thing to have good children
like that; as Mrs. Grant freely admitted.
“I think, Henry,” said Mrs. Grant, “now that we
are properly settled we ought to give father and
mother a little holiday. Don’t you think so? It's
a pretty slow life at Chapel Corner.”
Henry moaned and grumbled/
But 4 Father came. Alone. He even took an un-
pardonable pride in having outwitted the old woman.
Father looked like a creaky old lion, and acted like
one. Also he had a complaint he called “me asmer.
Mr. and Mrs. Grant moved out of the other front
room, and installed Father. Father wasn’t particularly
grateful, and when he wasn’t concentrating on the
“asmer” he did a deal of growling at anything that
had life and movement in it. But Mrs. Grant said,
“Father’s a dear —'and isn’t he a trick! She alwa>s
said “dear” when Father was struggling with the
“asmer,” and “trick” when he growled.
Father conceived a violent hatred of Mr. Belfont,
just because that gentleman was a Co-ordinator, and
therefore presumably in the Government. Father hated
the Government, which was the usual feeling up
Chapel Corner way. But Mr. Belfont remained totally
unaware of Father’s existence.
Not so long after Father’s advent, the invasion
set in. It’s curious how things happen and how
people find out, but someone must have told someone
else, and they passed it on again, that there was some
sort of a chance of getting a room or something at
Mrs.' Grant’s.
Of course, Henry grumbled and said “Why
doesn’t the Government or Someone build a few
houses?” And Mrs. Grant said, “Oh, Henry, don’t
be foolish, dear. Just as if! We simply must take a
Realistic View, Henry.”
However, Miss Harker came along with her sister.
Miss Harker was real, and the sister a dim shadow
of Miss Harker’s personality. She even had no name
any more, and was simply “Miss Harker’s sister.”
Miss Barker, who was rather
gaunt and thoroughly grim, was
in the War Effort somewhere —•
pretty high up, too —and took
her sister along to help her, in
the reliable capacity of shadow.
Mrs. Grant said “If you fancy
that room. Miss Harker, Henry
—Mr. Grant I mean —and I
will be only too glad to move
over -the hall. Everyone must
help everyone else these days.”
Miss Harker wanted “that
room,” and asked how much,
and Mrs. Grant said that all
things considered, and on ac-
count of Father and Mr. Bel-
font and the three little girls
and Henry, to say nothing of
the War Effort, she was asking
two-ten and breakfast, of
course. But there were people,
not so far away, either, who
were asking three-five for
rooms not as good. That was
profiteering.
Miss Harker took two
pounds in her left hand and a
ten-shilling note in her right and
. passed over the two pounds reluctantly ; and it seemed
an age before the ten-shilling note came to join them.
Funny business, indeed, as Mrs. Grant remarked
later.
Miss Harker had no Christian name that was at
all discernible, and Father didn’t like her, and Mr.
Belfont was noticed just once to nod severely at her,
and then forgot her existance.
“Still,” said Mrs. Grant,
“the two-ten is something,
and the taxation people
won’t hear of it.” And
that pleased Henry a little
more.
Then came the Row-
linses —late at night and in
terrible distress. “Could
Mrs. Grant —they’d heard —
if only”
In a tale of woe there were glimmers here and
there to be seen of an “impossible position” and an
“unbearable situation” at the home of Mr. Rowlins’s


mother, and something “grossly unfair” to his wife.
Anyway, here-they were.
MR. ROWLINS was a B.A. (with Honors, it soon
transpired) dnd taught at a High School; and
Mrs. Rowlins wasn’t “used to it,” and apparently had
been spending most of her time,
since transfer from the country, in
weeping. There was a weedy little
Rowlins boy of four in owlish spec-
tacles, and he’d been “going back
ever since.”
So Mrs. Grant and Henry (with
the three little girls) moved from
over the hall to the glassed-in back
verandah, and the Rowlinses moved
in. The back verandah was quite comfortable, really
—except when a westerly blew. But one couldn’t turn
the Rowlinses away, even if Henry did grumble a bit.
However, he was going on to night-shift and would
be able to get a fair deal of sleep at the Factory.
Father took the arrival of the Rowlinses pretty
hard, and what with his “asmer” and other troubles
became more of a trick and a dear than ever. But
Mr. Rowlins was such a nice man, even if Mrs.
Rowlins grizzled a lot. Still, it was only fair to re-
member that the gas-stove was old, and you couldn’t
get new ones if you wanted to, and others had to use
it, too, and the gas-heater in the bathroom didn’t
always explode, if you were careful; and even when
it did explode it wasn’t so very dangerous —unless you
were leaning over it at the time. Anyway, two-ten
was mild for a room the way things were, and it was
up to everyone to help everyone else.
The four girls arrived on Sunday afternoon, and
giggled a lot, and Father may not have been so far
out in his finding that they were “hissies.” But they
were nice girls, too, from the country somewhere, and
they worked in the same factory as Henry. Alice and
May were sisters, and June and Joyce were cousins
to each other and second cousins to Alice and May.
They explained this as an intricate and interesting
circumstance, though the relationships were never com-
pletely understood by anyone else.
They had bare legs, and overcoats which they
wore without putting their arms into the sleeves.
These habits, as well as their fluffy or flossy hair, and
the incessant tendency to giggling, annoyed Father,
and undoubtedly made him agreeable to vacating his
room. The girls took it over, and were willing to pay
three pounds, because it was a big room, and a front
room, and there were four of them, and they were
on a good thing at the Factory. And they called Mrs.
Grant “Coralie” because Henry worked in the same
factory, and they called Henry “Henry” because if
seemed silly to do anything else.
Father retired to a hutch —he was such a dear that
way—under the house, a little narrow storeroom of
some kind and directly beneath the kitchen. And he
might have been happy here but for the kitchen-sink.
If the plug was left in the sink leaked —in a dull,
monotonous, regular fashion. When roaring and
growling were heard under the house it was safe to
assume that the plug had been left in—probably by
one of the “hissies” —and those in the know raced to
the sink and took out the plug.
The drip came on to Father’s bed, and Father
mostly caught it in a baking-dish he commandeered
from the kitchen. The hutch was too small and
narrow to allow dodging the leak. Father shared
the hutch with a rat —a grandfather rat of impossible
cunning, even for an aged rat. In a way, however, the
rat was entertainment, or at least diverting occupation,
for Father spent much time in trying to capture and
slay him.
NEAR by there was another hutch which apparently
had been designed originally for wood and coal
and such things. Two young men came along and said,
“She’ll do! ” and cleaned it out and took possession -
at two pounds.
These were Fred and Ben, very nice fellows, and
they were “making aeroplanes.” Sensible fellows and
serious, and they called Mrs, Grant “Coralie,” because
they made aeroplanes; and as they didn’t take over-
much notice of the “hissies” Father liked them—also
because one of them had a father who nearly died
of the “asmer” before he got “injections” for it. And
then, as a sort of triumph, he died of something else.
Fred and Ben used to listen to Father quite a
lot and learned what a rotten place Sydney was, and
how things were done at Chapel Corner, Also they
entered a conspiracy with Father against the rat. In
less than a week their combined wisdom was too
much for the rat, and at the end of a series of faultless
manoeuvres that rat found himself impaled on the
two prongs of a carving fork.
Father went into ecstasies. Waving the limp
trophy and throwing off his wonted creakiness he
announced his victory to Mrs. Grant in the kitchen:
VCorry, look! We’ve caught the bastard!” Rather
unfortunately Miss Harker was also in the kitchen,
making a chaste pot of tea. Neither the corpse nor
the exultation seemed to impress her favorably. Nor
was she disposed to agree with Mrs. Grant that “No
doubt about it, but Father’s a trick.”
But Father had now only the leak to worry over,
with “asmer” as a sideline. The leak was a lot worse
than the rat, and the carelessness of the “hissies” made
it worse still. Mrs. Grant got a plumber, a very nice
plumber, to come along. He came several times. He
said: “Coralie, they allows us nothing—would you
believe it? —and I’m just about stonkered.” And Mrs.
Grant said: “Herbie, I’m not blaming you. And the
War Effort does come first. Wouldn’t a bit of putty
do?”
The plumber in a long roll-call of technical terms
expressed the total inadequacy of putty. Even if you
could get putty—which you couldn’t. And even if
respectable plumbers could swallow their pride to use
putty—which they couldn’t. Again the plumber said
he was “stonkered.”
Fred and Ben came to the rescue. First they
tried to cope with the leak by jiggling Father’s bed
around. But the size of the bed and the smallness of
the hutch beat them: the leak come on to Father’s
head instead of his feet, and Father considered that
“a bloody-side worse, if you ask me.”
Fred and Ben were on their mettle now. People
don’t build aeroplanes with nothing in their heads,
All the inventive and technical genius of Fred and
Ben was brought to bear on the leak.
With nails and screws and cuphooks, pulleys and
window-cord and a kerosene bucket, they arranged to
intercept the leak at its source. Father eyed the
bucket above him with misgiving—part of which he
expressed in terms that were no doubt current at
Chapel Corner. But that was only at first: when he
heard the monotonous rhythm of the drip-drip-drip in
the kerosene-tin, and his bed remained dry, he was
“Tobacco’s a bit damp, Emma ”
delighted. The drip-drip-drip changed to plop, plop,
plop, and Father was almost reconciled to the
“hissies,” because he could now defy them.
And then —something may have broken or
slipped or Father may have pulled the wrong cord.
Whatever it was it happened. Fortunately, the bucket
wasn’t much more than half-full at the time, and,
fortunately, it practically missed Father’s shoulder
when it fell.
• At times people speak in exaggerated figure of
the rain being just poured out of a bucket. Here it
was happening literally. What Father said —or rather
roared —on the occasion was almost beyond belief,
especially when his “asmer” was taken into account.
No one escaped his condemnation, least of all Fred
and Ben. Then he announced his intention of return-
ing to Chapel Corner and the “old woman,” and the
implied comparisons and contrasts surely showed that
Father was laying aside his chivalrous instincts. Nor
did he waver in his resolve. He returned to Chapel
Corner. Mrs. Grant said “But he is an old dear.”
MR. GROUNDSELL—the big Produce Agent—
who lived opposite in a regular mansion, and
who ran a big dark-navy sedan with unlimited petrol
(on account of his business, of course, and because he
was something on the Food Front) —Mr, Groundsell
had come across when father’s roaring and growling
were beginning to fade into his “asmer.”
Mr. Groundsell was such a nice thoughtful man,
and always came over when the bath-heater blew up
or when he thought it might have blown up. Or when
any untoward thing at all occurred. And he would
look so sympathetic and say “Coralie, I do wish I
could do something,” and Mrs. Grant would say
“Perce, you’re a dear —I know you would.” If Miss
Harker was in the offing Miss Harker would sniff ;
and the four girls would giggle.
But these errands of charity always ended the
same way —a streak of a Groundsell girl would dart
over the road and shrill out —she was just like her
mother —“Father, Father! Mother says you’re wanted
on the ’phone —and it’s urgent! Father! ”
Mr, Groundsell’s big round face would wrinkle
in a tolerant understanding: “Marvellous! Marvel-
lous! Well, I’ll see you again, Coralie.”
Mrs. Groundsell had something wrong with her
—“pernicious something or other”—and it made her
a wonderful ’phone attendant.
Mrs. Grant’s mother arrived soon after. There
was very little of the softly-ageing maternal about
Mother, Rather she looked like an old-time general
masquerading as a woman. Mrs, Grant said she was
a “dear,” but apparently Mother never qualified as a
“trick,”
On arrival Mother surveyed the field and made
her dispositions. She scorned Father’s hutch (it was
“let” soon after to a sort of Junior Co-ordinator or
Regulator at two pounds five).
“This,” said Mother, “will do me,” and she
marked out her encampment at the far end of the
hall. Getting Mother installed there was a noisy
affair, and the “hissies” locked their door and then
alternately listened and giggled. Miss Harker con-
versed with the sister in fierce whispers, and the sister
said “Yes.” Mr. Rowlins, in soothing sort of argu-
ment, said to Mrs. Rowlins “But you can’t, dear!
You can’t! You can’t live
under a culvert —with
winter coming on, too.”
An old tent-fly was
found, and with it Mother
made a room for herself.
A gathering together of
the fly at the top gave it
something of dis appear-
ance of a cocoon.
At that period so
often described as the
dead of night Mother was
given to wandering.
Heaven only knows what
for, but she would emerge
from her cocoon and be-
come a fearsome appari-
tion : clad in a white night-
gown that barely reached
the ankles and a frayed
lacy cap, she held aloft a
lighted candle with paper
wrapped round the bot-
tom of it; and looked like
some grotesque rendering
of the Statue of Liberty.
Then she paraded the hall,
listening at every door and retiring at last, apparently
satisfied
By day Mother did a variety of things, among
them the slaughter of three hens with scaly and knobby
legs. “Hens like that are only fit for eating,” she said.
She drove a small sheaf of rusty nails into the big
pear-tree: “Won’t it bear now —you’ll see the differ-
ence ! ” Then she dragged Mrs. Grant off to see them
secondhand shops in Redfern.” There must have been
some half-lost association with the name Redfern,
but Mother loved the place, and the secondhand shops,
and would spy and reconnoitre round these for days
on end. And buy all sorts of “junk” for which the
mind of man could conceive no possible use.
Mr. Grant —Henry, that is—was mortally afraid
of Mother, which was quite unreasonable, for she
liked Henry and loved to corner him and talk confi-
dentially about “the way things are going.” They
were not going too well, it seemed, except in Redfern,
and Mother said so.
Henry tried to get a “release” and enlist, and
when he couldn’t because he was more “gainfully
employed” where he was he hoped he might die with-
out too much inconvenience to himself.
Mr. Belfont tried to ignore the existence and
presence of Mother and failed miserably, which went
to show that even Co-ordinators'can’t do everything.
The Rowlinses had to shfy on, for Mr. Rowlins
worked it out that he would spoil his career if he
“went to the country” again. Anyway, he was warned
that “the housing position was desperate in the
country.”
Alice —no, it. was May —became engaged to a
young fellow with a splendid job in the factory. “We’lV
have to wait a bit, I’m afraid,” said the young fel-
low. “For I don’t know where we can go. Just now,
that is. Things will be better soon when Reconstruc-
tion and the Blueprints get going.” A wonderful
fellow, he was, and knew such a lot. Alice and June
'and Joyce said “Bring him along
here, May!” and giggled. May
didn’t like it at all.
Mr. Groundsell came over to
see if he could fix up something or
other, and Mother took' him in
hand, as it were, and Mr. Ground-
sell stayed by the -phone after
that.
And at Dickella, too, that
romantic nest of lovers long ago,
everybody “stayed put.” They had to.
Reconstruction and Blueprints took a long time
to get going; a very long time ; an eternity. And
during that eternity, from which only Father had
escaped —Father and the rat —Mrs. Grant continued
to reflect how splendid it was to be doing something
for the War Effort (especially as the taxation people
were not getting it all); and Henry began to yearn
for Sailor’s Gully and had to keep yearning ; and the
girls giggled, and Miss Harker hissed to her shadow,
and Mr. Belfont co-ordinated, and Mr. Rowlins
soothed Mrs. Rowlins, and Mother prowled and
listened. And all, like the bath-heater, spasmodically
and in secret exploded.
October in Camden,
N.S W.
Now, gladly, like myself, the sun
His cloudy blankets, one by one.
Throws down ; then, naked, to the stream,
His body gives ... • Oh, see its gleam,
Like flowers golden, blown astray
Between young willows, all the way
Through Eldersl'ie, to catch upon
The lifting steeple of St. John:
The horses’ little boys and girls
Wake up and shake their backside curls :
The magpie sings—he stole that trill
I swear, by God, from Alfred Hill—
A lovely thing! What matter then,
Since I’m in Camden ... horn ? agen ?
HUGH MCCRAE .


TH E HALLMARK OF QUA LI TV
■
PURE AUSTRALIAN
VIRGIN WOOL
iv"
Y A P PA
1 jF% IV
FALLS
LIMITED
cManu fa ct u rers of
f 1
FIN E WO RST EDS
o
mm
ABBOTSFORD,
VICTORIA,
AUSTRAL! A
plllßiiliii
1111
iiiliii
• ’ • '■• •■


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3487
Wednesday, December 11, 1946
FRIENDS TOGETHER, IN ALL SORTS OF WEATHER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man” /
Directors:
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street , Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BADLY RATTLED.
Last week, Mr. Scullin, “Labor’s” Elder
Statesman, must have been a prey to
gloomy thoughts, in which a 15-year
cycle figured.
This time 30 years ago the second
Hughes Administration had taken office
as one of two “Labor” groups, being
wholly composed of conscriptionists ; the
anti-conscription Labor members had
whirled themselves away into a separate
faction enduringly hostile. This time
15 years ago Mr, Scullin’s Administra-
tion, itself wholly composed of Labor
factionists, was facing the electors with
the certainty of being routed—as it was,
the electors dealing with it more harshly
than they had dealt with the anti-con-
scription Labor faction in 1917.
And now, exactly 15 years later, the
“Labor” 'Government to which Mr.
Scullin had given his blessing, already
shaken by the reactions to its nomination
of Mr. McKell as Governor-General, was
worsted in conflict with another group,
led by Mr, Ward, one -of the architects of
the Scullin Government’s downfall. The
issue this time was the Bretton Woods
Agreement, to which Prime Minister
Chifley and Deputy Prime Minister
Evatt, as well as Mr. Scullin and friends,
had .given their adhesion.
The Bretton Woods negotiations, to
which Dr. Evatt, representing Australia,
was a party, provided for the setting up
of an international fund and a world
bank. To the international fund Aus-
tralia (i.e., Dr. Evatt) agreed to sub-
scribe 200 million'' dollars, and to the
international bank the same amount.
Soviet Russia’s contributions were fixed at
1200 million dollars in each case. All
the 44 nations then constituting U.N.O.
were parties to the agreement, the United
States undertaking to bear the main finan-
cial burden —2750 million dollars and
3175 million dollars respectively.
Of the international fund, the Ameri-
can Sigrid Arne, a great admirer of Dr,
Evatt, wrote in a book. United Nations
Primer :
The fund proposes to see that the nations’
various moneys exchange a.t a nearly con-
stant rate.
This country will be the only nation to
put in a money which will be in really
great demand. However, this country will
not be alone. The world will also need
the currencies of Canada, Australia and
several of the Latin-American countries,
all of them nations which will have raw
materials to sell to a rebuilding world.
The provision that no nation can buy more
than 25 p.c. of its quota each year should
stem the drain on the fund.
As for the world bank:
It can make loans only to projects private
banks will not touch. Such a loan has
these four characteristics; (1) it is a loan
for a constructive purpose which has a
chance of earning income and repaying
itself f (2) it will demand a long time to
repay; (3) it will pay out at a low rate
of interest; (4) it is a loan that no private
banking interests will want to take on
because of the slow and low rate of pay,
and yet it is a loan that promises to
engender new wealth.
Moved by these considerations, but-
tressed by the arguments or pleadings of
Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt, the Federal
A.L.P. executive gave its sanction to the
agreement. It is a body unknown to the
Constitution, but Mr. Chifley and Dr.
Evatt hold it in high respect, it being
part of the hierarchy of our master-class.
However, its decision was arrived at
only after delegates from one State
A.L.P, had departed from their instruc-
tions, and, our master-class being com-
plex and varied, there had to be a refer-
ence to the Federal Parliamentary
Caucus. In the Caucus discussions, seven
of the 19 Ministers separated themselves
from their colleagues and from Mr.
Scullin, and, joined by 21 members of the
rank and file, they carried an amend-
ment postponing a “decision” on Bret-
ton Woods “until the inter-State confer-
ence of the A.L.P. has considered the
question and formulated a policy.”
In other days this rebuff to the leaders
of the Administration and most of their
colleagues would have been immediately
followed by the return of their commis-
sion to govern. But these are strange
times, and “Labor” is a queer party.
So the House was not astonished when
the Prime Minister lamely informed it
that Australia would not become an
original member of the international
fund or the world bank (time was the
essence of the contract, the closing date
being December 31), and that “the rea-
sons why the party and the Government
believe the present is not the best time
to join” would be “indicated later.”
The “Government” had emerged from
the previous week’s proceedings in a
rattled condition. It was reeling from the
attacks of Mr. Lang on the Budget and
Jewish-immigration issues, and of the
A.C.T.U.’s Mr, Monk on the wage-peg-
ging business, Mr. Chifley’s “fetish,” as
Mr. Monk acidly observed. A union dele-
gation was bearing down on the Prime
Minister with an ultimatum: “modifica-
tion of wage-pegging or more strikes.” To
this Mr, Chifley made the anticipated
surrender: wage-pegging would be
“modified” by December 14.
At bottom Mr. Chifley is a weak man,
his stubbornness being such as weak men
often exhibit until they come up against
stronger characters or convictions or cur-
rents of opinion. Still he might have
been expected to put up a fight for the
Bretton Woods Agreement, if only to
save Dr. Evatt from being left flat in the
sight of U.N.0., and of the little peoples,
Cubans, Peruvians, Guatemalans, Liber-
ians and the rest, who proclaimed him
their champion and passed a resolution
to prove it.
Dr. Evatt has had other crosses to bear.
During the Tasmanian election campaign
Mr. Ward, and not he, the Deputy Prime
Minister, was invited to the islet to take
the stump for State “Labor.” Deeming
an explanation necessary, the Hobart
“Mercury’s” Canberra correspondent ex-
plained, on the authority of Caucus
blabbers—-and how these fellows ao
blab! —that Mr. Ward was preferred to
Dr. Evatt as a missionary to Tasmania
because “Labor” questioned the doc-
tor’s devotion to the Cause: he
had been voted into the deputy leader-
ship, not in recognition of his superior
qualities, but as a safeguard against his
going over to the Opposition. At the
same time, a dead set was made against
his brother with the object of depriving
that Minister of Tourist Activities of the
party nomination for Hurstville, which is
part of Dr. Evatt’s electorate. Mean-
time a wholesale use was made of veto
power, against which one of the doctor’s
young men is contending in U.N.0., to
prevent the Estimates being debated, and
the doctor was placed in the humiliating
position of having to refuse an inquiry
into Mr, Lang’s charges concerning the
Jewish-immigration racket and into Mr.
Calwell’s clfarges against Mr, Lang—a
matter which Mr. Menzies. and Dr. Page
made the subject of cutting observations.
It would be too much to expect the
Opposition to spare Dr. Evatt’s feelings,
or even to sympathise with him in the
humiliating anticlimax to his self-suffi-
cient adventures in foreign policy; but
his own party owes him some gratitude.
He came to it, descending from the High
Court bench, at a time of division, when
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Beasley led hostile
groups, Mr. Beasley’s delicately labelling
itself “the anti-Communist Labor party’’
—Mr. Curtin, thoroughly aroused by the
insinuation, called it “the scab party,” and
that w’hen electioneering. To the larger
mob Dr. Evatt brought a seat wrested
from a Menzies man, as well as a con-
siderable appeal to middle-class electors;
and the two factions, equal in numbers
to the Ministerialists and united by the
prospect of office, reached that haven in a
twelvemonth, thanks to the manoeuvres of
the “Independents” Mr. Coles and Mr.
Wilson, since richly provided for. These
“Independents” would scarcely have been
in a position to oust the Fadden Govern-
ment but for Dr. Evatt and his gain of a
seat, to say nothing of his prestige. At
the 1943 and 1946 elections Dr. Evatt
was again a tower of strength to the
party, and it cashed in on the reputation
he won, with the assistance of a friendly
press, by his exertions abroad.
Yet now we see it inflicting on him a
bitter humiliation, and that in accordance
with the policy of Mr. Lang. Some of
the triumphant dissidents, notably Mr.
Ward, may have been influenced by the
fact that Soviet Russia has not yet sub-
scribed to the international fund and the
world bank ; that Russia, which is Always
Right, and which, when Mr. Curtin was
about to leave for Britain, Mr. Ward ex-
tolled as having made more progress in
25 years than “capitalist” Britain or
America had made in 250 years. But
others, among them a Senator from
Sydney and another from Adelaide, seem
to have been actuated by a return of their
old servility to Mr. Lang.
More than once during a month of
ignominy it seemed possible that the end
of the third 15-year cycle would see the
party as violently sundered as it was in
1916 and 1931. The “Government”
averted the possibility by swallowing its
pride and rushing into recess, in the
process putting dubious measures through
the legislative sausage-machine at a record
rate, and using the forms of the House
to stifle debate on an expenditure of
hundreds of millions, a great deal of it
questionable and a lot indefensible. But
its difficulties and problems are not to be
solved by brushing them aside for a
season. In the months ahead they will
accumulate and grow worse, and so long
as Mr. Lang is about the party rent, now
painfully visible, will remain. It would
be inadvisable for “Labor’s” bookmaker
friends to wager on there being a Chifley
Government or even a “Labor” Govern-
ment in December, 1947.
Naive—or What?
While Mr. Molotov was “up” at a
U.N.O. meeting it almost looked as if
peace on earth and goodwill to all men
were at last to be ushered in. Incredible
as all the past meetings of U.N.0., the
Security Council, the Foreign Ministers
and the rest of the abortive peacemaking
experience made it sound, Mr. Molotov
was not only apparently moving for
general disarmament and the outlawing
of atomic weapons but coinciding in
international inspection and control.
If Mr. Molotov had really meant all
that, the whole world would have had
something wonderful to celebrate this
Christmas season. The year could have
been seen out as one of the greatest in
history and the New Year welcomed .in
as the dawning of a splendid era in the
long human struggle towards an ideal, or
at any rate a better, world.
The surprise in Mr. Molotov’s pro-
posals was that hitherto his country had
been the single opposition against the
very things which he now appeared to
propose. It had erected secrecy and
suspicion into a policy. In the
war British and Australian airmen of
the R.A.F, who were sent on the mis-
sion of bombing out the Tirpitz had
their planes for a while in Russia, but
were not themselves allowed to camp on
Russian soil; they had to live anchored
offshore in* a houseboat. General Eisen-
hower had to get his information of
Russian strength in the final onslaught
on Germany from any sources but the
Russians themselves, though countless
Russian lives might have been saved by
co-operation such as worked smoothly
between the other allies.
The war won, Russian suspicion was
intensified. The “iron curtain” of Mr.
Churchill’s descriptive phrase stretched
from the Baltic to the Mediterranean. It
is still there. And the same restriction
of the movement of foreigners inside
Russia —especially press correspondents
—that was enforced long before the ? war
still operates. The reports that come out
from behind the “iron curtain” are little
better than jokes. Sometimes it is pos-
sible to read meanings into them ; but
they are all official handouts, all cen-
sored: only when somebody who fyas
left the country makes a public report
does anything come out.
In such circumstances the American-
British insistence on inspection and con-
trol was an obviously necessary safe-
guard. The Soviet counter to it was
that the say-so of nations should be suf-
ficient. Had the representatives of Russia
and its Slav satellite States come from
kindergartens they could not have
appeared as such innocents abroad.
What they asked was that, despite
Moscow’s very strong claims to a world
record in word-breaking, its word should
be enough on a matter involving the
safety and security of every country and
every person on earth. That word was to
come from a country shut off from the
rest of the • world by impenetrable
barriers bolstered by the strictest possible
form of censorship.
The Russian word for its disarming
was, moreover, to be taken by countries
in which any secrecy on the point would
be impossible. There can still be mili-
tary secrets in Britain and America, but
neither country could hope to get away
with a mere pretence of disarmament.
They are democracies, with the press and
other freedoms attaching to a true mean-
ing of the word. Naturally, therefore,
their representatives had to insist on an
equality of inspection and control be-
fore they could agree to set about
disarming.
Such was the position when Mr. Molo-
tov first spoke, appearing to break
down the deadlock with half a dozen
words, and thus bring the assurance of
lasting peace as a gesture wonderfully
matching the goodwill season of the year.
Mr. Molotov was piously indignant about
the “arms race,” which he declared “has
already begun.” There must be “a reduc-
tion of armaments affecting every country
and every type of armament.” These
assertions had already been made so many
times by representatives of other countries
that they had become diplomatic cliches.
Seeking something more concrete. Sir
Hartley Shawcross, for Britain, suggested
that “the disarmament programme must
be a real one and not a fraud and a
sham.” Mr. Molotov replied, quoting
Mr. Stalin, in words apparently so direct
and final that they echoed exactly the
stand of Britain and America:
Very serious and strict international con-
trol must govern the international regulation
of armaments and atomic weapons.
Nothing could seem more assuring—
but Mr. Molotov had not yet finished.
He may, perhaps, have had word from
Russia; at all events a day or two later
he added the typical qualification that
those who had watched the Russian pro-
ceedings throughout the peacemaking
must have been expecting. The qualifi-
cation was that the policing of world
disarmament was to come under control
of the Security Council; in other words,
would be subject in all moves to veto.
That is, by its single vote Russia at any
stage that suited it could stop the whole
of the policing proceedings.
Apart from the previous Russian stand,
it would be hard to name anything more
naive in public diplomacy than that veto
qualification. The British delegate
promptly described it: “A scheme subject
to such hazards [as being rendered at any
time ineffective by the veto] would be a
fraud, delusion and snare. Don’t let us
foist this humbug on the world!”
Taking another day or two to loosen
up his muscles —or await fresh instruc-
tions —Mr. Molotov threw another back-
slam. In what was described by opti-
mists as “a major switch of policy,” he
announced that Russia would agree to
waive the veto right on disarmament. At
least, that was the surface appearance,
and on the strength of it a 20-nations sub-
committee was appointed to draw up a
disarmament plan. Actually, however,
the veto remains, since it can be exercised
against anything the sub-committee may
propose! All that Mr. Molotov agreed
to was that if a disarmament and atomic-
weapons plan is produced which Russia
endorses the veto will not be used on
the operating of the plan.
That is a mighty different thing from
waiving the veto right. Still, Mr. Molo-
tov may be learning a little. In re-
treating from his first position he “re-
iterated the necessity of establishing con-
trols and rigid inspection of atomic
weapons and general disarmament,’’.and
if Russia finally submits to this —there
will be no disarmament unless it does—
it will mean that peace on earth is get-
ting somewhere at last. Also it will mean
a contradiction of Russia’s history of
secrecy and suspicion that only an extra-
ordinary change in Russia could bring
about. That some change is in process
there —whether because the internal situ-
ation has got out of hand or because the
cessation of U.N.R.R.A. supplies is an
omen of disaster, to be averted only by
concessions—seems definite. It could ex-
plain Mr. Molotov’s acrobatics —it is
very dangerous for a Soviet diplomat
abroad to be adjudged wrong when he
gets home.
The Champion.
With all the fuss that has been made
over the Garratt engines, and not in West-
ralia alone, it is a wonder no one has
thought of the obvious way of deciding
the merits of the men’s «?ase.
Committees of inspection have been
appointed, but there is bound to be a dif-
ference of opinion over the qualifications
of the members to pass judgment. What
is wanted is a single authority whose
verdict on a Garratt would be accepted
as final. There is such a man available,
-and it is not necessary to go outside Aus-
tralia to find him. Surely no railwayman
would refuse to accept the decision of the
champion enginedriver of Australia?
It may be questioned whether am
man has the right to claim such a title,
but Whitaker’s Almanack for 1946 —
usually accepted as an authority on such
matters —is quite definite about it. On
page 644, under a section headed “British
and World’s Railway Facts and Records,”
is this little piece of information: “The
Best Enginedriver in Australia. Mr. J. B.
Chifley, now Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia, was at one period of his life the
best railway enginedriver in the Com-
monwealth.”
It must be taken as a sign of party
prejudice that no Australian paper has
ever mentioned the P.M.’s claim to the
championship crown. Few who saw it
will ever forget the magnificent display
of plain and fancy driving he put up to
win the title against a field from all over
Australia, when, with his .pipe going full
blast, he brought the 11.59 in from
Bathurst after the neatest piece of foot-
plate work ever seen this side of the
Black Stump. Or when, defending his
title in the All-gauged Stakes, he took
his T-model locomotive into every State
of the Commonwealth and made the
thing do everything but change its mind.
With the possible exception of his non-
start record put up during the 1917 strike
the champion’s best performance was
registered last September, when he ran
his decrepit old engine back to Canberra
without a lump of coal in the tender or
a drop of steam in the boiler, getting her
there solely on faith.
These days the Champ, isn’t worrying
much about engines—he’s having a tough
time keeping his 19-mule team in order;
but if he’s asked nicely he could surely
take a few days off to look over those
Garratts.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Flat Repudiation.
As if the twin disasters of drought and
Mr. Scully were not cruel enough, wheat-
growers are to have the Pollard Wheat
Tax Bill (1946), which “imposes a tax
on wheat marketed through the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board from the 1945-46
and 1946-47 crops.” Introduced and
passed through all its stages when the
stampede into recess was approaching its
end, its full import was realised only by
a few members of the Opposition, and to
farmers it will come as a stunning shock,
if they are still susceptible to shocks from
the “Labor” quarter.
Under the Export Charge Act (1946),
a tax was clapped on export wheat;
50 p.c. of the difference between ss. 2d. a
bushel and 9s. 6d. a bushel f.o.r. ports.
Thus 2s. 2d. a bushel on export wheat was
the maximum tax.
Under the Pollard atrocity, with export
wheat now 13s. s£d. f.o.r. Sydney, the
tax is “50 p.c. of the price of a bushel
exceeding ss. 2d.,” and it is levied on all
wheat grown and delivered to the pool,
with flour, feed and manufacturing wheat
included.
The farmer (vide Sect. 10) can never
know his final rate of tax till the last
bushel is sold. If the tax is too high, a
refund may be made ; if it is too low
the farmer owes a debt as an individual
to the Commonwealth. The measure is
retroactive in its effects.
If this law holds good it will be possible
to tax every grower of wheat and other
land produce out of existence. And any
litigant who may succeed in a claim
against the Commonwealth under Sect. 51
(XXXI) of the Constitution (“the acquisi-
tion of property on just terms from any
person for any purpose”) may be left with
no more than an empty verdict. This will
apply to the litigation challenging the in-
clusion of 1945-46 wheat in the Scully
stabilisation scheme. The Commonwealth
Government will not need State co-opera-
tion to soak the farmer. It simply im-
poses its tax and does what it likes with
the money.
Not only the wheatgrowers, many of
whom will be sorry they voted “Labor,”
are affected. Once the principle is estab-
lished, manufacturers, miners, graziers,
dairymen and general farmers all are in
the net. Industry, or any part of it, if the
High Court upholds this atrocity, can be
controlled by taxation or abolished by it,
in direct negation of the will of the Aus-
tralian people expressed by referendum.
And the matter is all the worse because,
if sales are held up, and surpluses are
held over, the grower or other person
affected may not know for years the ex-
tent of his liability.
Crime and "Punishment."
Every few weeks a particularly ferocious
type of criminal competes with gamblers
and bold little beach brats for pride of
place in Sydney newspaper columns. The
victims of the criminals are generally
women and girls, who are nearly always
subjected to unprintable atrocities.
In one case a policeman was done to
death, and particulars of the killing, cir-
culated in Westralia, evidently inspired
a similar crime in that State. Long ago
in the same State two detectives were
murdered by gold thieves, and a Labor
Government with some pretensions to the
label had the murderers hanged, Yoo-
manitarianism being now in the ascend-
ant wherever “Labor” is in office, the
latest murderer of a Westralian detective
is not to hang.
There are criminal and larrikin ele-
ments in all communities. They are
nothing if not imitative, and they can be
held in check only by fear. In N. S.
Wales they have ceased to fear. The law
should be swift in apprehension of
criminals and larrikins and severe and
certain in punishment. This is no longer
the case. The “Labor” Government re-
fuses to hang murderers or attempted
murderers, whether the victims are
civilians or policemen, and larrikins are
handled in so lily-fingered a fashion that
they attack helpless persons of both sexes
in public places, knowing that the worst
that will befall them, if caught (they
seldom are), is a short “stretch” in a com-
fortable jail, with all mod. cons., even
cinema pictures and s.-p. betting.
Horace Greeley’s story, of the horse-
thief comes in appositely here:
“It is very hard,” said a culprit to the
Judge who sentenced him, “that I should
be so severely punished for merely steal-
ing a horse.” “Man,” replied the Judge,
“you are not so punished for merely steal-
ing a horse, but that horses may not be
stolen.” That distinction seems to me
vital and just.
Applied and acted upon in Sydney and
other parts, this view of crime and pun-
ishment would restore to unprotected
people of both sexes a feeling of security
which they have lost.
"In For All Time!"
During the election period, which is over
for a season, the boast was heard in Aus-
tralia (from Mr. Ward in particular) and
echoed in New Zealand that “Labor is
in for all time.” On the evidence of
figures there is no more warrant for it
than there was in the early nineteen-
twenties, when Mr. Theodore uttered the
vaunt —a year or two before he was to
have a painful experience of the caprices
of constituencies.
It is now evident that Federal
“Labor” was amazingly lucky to be re-
turned with 43 members in the House, a
loss of six. Apart from favoring
boundaries, it is on official record that
the rolls were in a shocking state, and
the electoral arrangements were such as
to make impersonation and multiple vot-
ing as easy as winking. Two or three
ruffians in a car with plenty of petrol
could each have voted scores, hundreds,
of times without the slightest danger of
being found out and brought to book.
In Parkes (N.S.W.) persons who made
themselves scarce when an Assembly by-
election was held six weeks later in the
subdivision of Ashfield must have de-
cided the issue in favor of the “Labor”
member. On paper other “Labor” mem-
bers in borderline electorates owed their
success to irrational distributions of pre-
ferences. Over the whole field a mere
few thousand votes made all the differ-
ence between a “Labor” victory and a
“Labor” defeat.
In Tasmania a very cocksure State
CHRISTIANS, AVAKE!
“Labor” Government, cocksure because
it had a 2-to-l majority in the last
Assembly, lost ground in each of the five
electorates and two of its Ministers were
defeated. In the new Assembly it will
have 16 of the 30 seats, but a mere hand-
ful of votes in Bass saved it from a 15-
15 result, which, with a “Labor” Speaker,
would have meant its being in a minority
of one on the floor of the House.
In New Zealand also the Labor Gov-
ernment was hard pressed. It began by
retaining the four Maori electorates,
where happy-go-lucky conditions ob-
tained, there being no provision against
bands of natives going from one polling
place to another and voting often —there
are morose protests that this was done.
In any case, the Maori contests proved
decisive. In the other 76 electorates it
was level pegging. Labor prevailed in
the cities and the Nationalists in the
counli y.
maced. Labor secured its retention ot
office by the abolition of the “country
quota,” which dated from 1881. As the
Official Year-Book puts it, “the country
quota was computed on the basis that
28 per cent, was added to the rural popu-
lation, which for electoral purposes
means population other than that con-
tained in a city or borough of over 2000
inhabitants, or in any area within five
miles of the chief post-offices at Auck-
land, Wellington, Christchurch or
Dunedin.”
The Labor Government made the
electorates equal in population, or
professed to do so —in point of fact, city
electorates had fewer electors than most
of the provincial divisions; Wellington
Central had the smallest number in the
Dominion. To Wellington were assigned
four new electorates, and to Auckland
two ; Brooklyn, one of the new Well ng-
ton constituencies, gave Mr. Fraser a
2-to-l majority. In the provinces, the
West Coast coalmining electorates (two)
and Hawke’s Bay excepted (Labor was
two to one in Hawke’s Bay), the
Nationalists went close to sweeping the
polls, winning all four seats in South-
land, four out of five in Canterbury, two
out of three in Oamaru, eleven out of
14 in Auckland and five out of eight in
Wellington. Had the country quota been
preserved Mr. Holland, and not Mr.
Fraser, would now be Prime Minister
Queensland Transport.
Queensland’s new transport bill, debated
in the Brisbane Parliament last week,
provides among other things for a maxi-
mum licence fee of 3d. a ton or Id. a
passenger per mile for land, sea and air
transport within the State; for abolition
of the existing Transport Commission;
for a single transport commissioner;
closure of the Transport Road Fund
(now £81,350 in credit) and pay-
ment of all receipts into the consoli-
dated-revenue account. There will be no
limit to distances travelled, and the Gov-
ernment railways will be forced to com-
pete against private operators without the
aid of legislative favors.
The commissioner is to be given pretty
wide powers. He can, for instance, order
an operator to carry any kind of freight.
Where a local authority is compet-
ing with a private operator for a licence
the commissioner must grant the licence
to the local authority.
At first glance the bill appears
modern in conception, especially since it
breaks through the deadening notion that
State Governments are justified in emascu-
lating motor transport in order to pro-
tect their non-paying and mostly obsolete
railway systems. But the Opposition is
suspicious, seeing in the tax provisions
a plan to obtain greater revenue to off-
set railway losses and to permit the closure
of non-paying branch railways, for which
non-Government transport operators
would have to pay. A truck carrying
five tons, averaging 200 miles a day in a
five-day week, would have to pay over
£3OOO a year if maximum fees were
charged. A hundred such trucks alone
would yield £300,000 a year.
Since motor-vehicle owners already pay
heavy registration fees and road tax,
plus compulsory insurance, driving-
licence fees, petrol tax and large amounts
in indirect taxation, to say nothing of
thumping Commonwealth income tax,
there are grounds for Opposition sus-
picion. All the same, the bill is note-
worthy for its wider significance—
which is that Government railway-trans-
port dictation has taken its first knock.
R.S.L. Plebiscite.
Though the R.S.L. Federal Congress in
Melbourne decided on a vote of four
States to two that membership eligibility
should be extended to volunteers for
service abroad, instead of being restricted
to returned men, the issue was not then
disposed of. Threats by sub-branches
to secede and other opposition to chang-
ing the old order culminated in a move
for a special congress to discuss the
matter further.
At the Federal Congress, N.S.W.,
W.A., Queensland and Tasmania were
the States in favor of the extension.
Tasmania has since joined Victoria and
S.A. in calling for a special congress,
which three States under the League
constitution can demand. The special
meeting will be held in February, and
the most likely outcome is that a plebis-
cite among all R.S.L. members will be
taken.
The matter is, of course, one wholly
for the Diggers themselves to decide. It
turns simply on two separate viewpoints
on the League: whether (1) it is to be
kept as an organisation limited exclu-
sively to those of the services who went
abroad; or whether (2) it is to be made
as strong a Diggers’ organisation as pos-
sible by bringing in certain non-returned
men who served in uniform on lines of
communication and such essential
branches of the war-time establishment.
No doubt the R.S.L., if it decides on
a plebiscite, will arrange for the case
for and against to be printed and dis-
tributed to every member, as in a national
referendum. No doubt, too, the Diggers
will abide by the result of such a vote,
without further talk of breaking up the
League. It is too valuable an organisa-
tion from the Digger viewpoint to be
damaged; also, it is so necessary that
strengthening its numbers could be the
surest way of getting Diggers generally
a decent deal.
In the New Order.
Extracts from a report of Derby Day,
1947, at Rand wick:
His Excellency Baron Redfem, K.C.,
C.M.G., 0.M.T.,* Governor-General, en-
tertained a large number of guests in the
vice-regal enclosure. There was a slight
contretemps when several persons tried to
enter, claiming that they had been invited,.
Being unable to display Rugby League
badges or produce satisfactory evidence
that they were financial members of a
union, they were removed.
In the vice-regal group were the Ker-
frump sisters, Annie in a striking magenta
frock happily reminiscent of his Excellency’s
early life; Myrtle in a snappy imitation
of a trotting driver’s jacket, embossed with
greyhounds and large, intertwined L.R.,
the latter motif from the well-known
referendum.
Mrs. Bill Buggins’s purple-and-yellow robe
was decorated with scarlet whips and horse-
shoes. She is as charming as ever, and
everybody remembers her so sweetly roman-
tic wedding, when she gave up her in-
heritance of the vast wool lands on New
England to marry Bill Buggins, then just
coming to the fore as secretary of the
Rabbitproof Fence Whitewashes’ Union.
Others seen in friendly discussion with
his Excellency from time to time were
Mr. Vic Loredano, the prominent pugilist,
Mr. Athol Gully, the celebrated jockey,
several leading shop stewards and the sec-
retary of the Redfern branch of the A.L.P.
The luncheon was worthy of Lucullus,
and it was served by stewards prettily
arrayed in boiler-suits as a tribute to his
Excellency. Flowers were the gift of the
Federal Labor party, the only sombre note
being a wreath with the device “J.T.L.,
Auburn.”
The Flat was a stirring scene when
thousands of unemployed received a pam
nikin of soup each, donated by the Grand
United Order of Bookmakers. There was
to have been a special distribution of one
piece of fried fish per person, but a search
of the fish shops failed to locate any,
though it was known that large consign-
ments had arrived the night before. The
generosity of his Excellency was again
displayed when he asked the AJ.C. to
admit free all unemployed and persons on
strike.
Outside the course there was a some-
what nostalgic note, for former members
of the employing and salaried and profes-
sional middle classes acted as racebook-
sellers, saveloy-vendors and urgers. The
deputation of 1945-46 farmers was well
controlled by police.
His Excellency, in a delightfully informal
speech during the placing of the Blue
Riband upon the Derby winner, announced
that he had derived so much pleasure from
the meeting that he would strongly urge
his Ministers to resume a large part of
Moore Park, Centennial Park, Hyde Park,
Taronga Park and Central Square for con-
version to racecourses. “The people,” he .
said, graciously, “must be given the oppor-
tunity for indulging in clean, healthy
sport.” Shortly afterwards, accompanied
by the Hon. Barney Mullins, A.D.C., his
Excellency departed.
* Order of the Magenta Trunks.
A footnote adds: “It is understood
that his Excellency will spend the week-
end as the guest of Mr. Drowning, the
famous bookmaker ; but whether in the
mountains, at the seaside or in Sydney’s
fashionable flat area or in all Mr.
Drowning’s houses is uncertain at the
moment. Mr. Drowning, while modestly
admitting that he won £297,896 11s.
on his horse Rotten Idea and is applying
the 11s. 3id. to the endowment of a
Home for Bankrupt Bookmakers, refused
to be drawn.”


Society
"AND IT'S pRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Uco”: “What’s a permit. Dad?”
asked my seven-year-old hopeful. I told
him. “Why do we have to dip it?” was
the next question. It was my turn to
seek enlightenment, so I looked at the
toy he was handling. It was a sort of
.-drawing-board someone had given for
his birthday. He pointed to a printed
inscription which instructed him, without
variation of type or size of lettering,
“Color in with chalk and rub out with
damp rag D.I.P. Permit 16.” I examined
two or three other toys. All had similar
departmental stamps. Thus is the blight-
ing hand of officialdom laid upon our
young.
“Pubserv”; Accompanying my notifica-
tion of appointment as an issuing officer
of 1947 ration cards was a leaflet en-
titled “Hints and Instructions to Ration
Card Issuing Officers.” The first para-
graph of the instructions still has me
puzzled. It reads: “Read the accom-
panying detailed instructions carefully.
There are important points not mentioned
in these hints with, which you will need
to be conversant.” I’m Irish myself, but
1 still can’t work that out.
* * * *
“Eve”: Wouldn’t the kids cheer if they
read the “Lancet,” May 4, 1946? It tells
how fifty children at two institutions were
given daily supplements of boiled sweets
and chocolate biscuits at bedtime with
no suggestion of toothbrush drill after-
wards. And no increase in the activity
of dental caries was found in the brats
over periods of from six months to two
years. Further, some cases of decay were
actually arrested.. Dietary factors may
have had something to do with it, as a
rather high intake of vitamins A and D,
plus a satisfactory amount of calcium and
phosphorus, was evident at the time of
the test. But still, it’s enough to start
a revolution if it gets about.
*** t *
“Quilliam-street”: South Australia is to
scale model of “Mulberry,” the in-
vasion port of concrete caissons, block
ships and floating breakwaters which was
floated across the Channel to the coast of
Normandy and helped to solve the supply
problem for the invading hosts of libera-
tion. Actually there were two of these
artificial ports, but the one that was to
have been used by the Americans was
damaged in a storm. The model will be
on display at next year’s Royal Adelaide
Exhibition, occupying a place of honor
in the Centennial Hall at Wayville. The
original “Mulberry” was the size of the
port of Dover.
** * * *
“Col M.”: The terminus in sight, our
tram was fairly flying along when its
gallop was cut short by a rattling noise
from under the floor-boards. Guard and
driver lifted a trap-door directly under my
seat, adjusted a small lever, took up their
positions and started off. We moved six
inches and stopped again. Once more
they attacked the lever, and we travelled
a foot closer to our destination. After
the Seventh try the conductor and driver
both seemed ready to erupt. Enter the
hero. One of the higher-ups in the tram-
way caste, he leaped off a passing tram
with all the grace of a Lancelot succoring
a damsel in distress. He, too, headed for
the lever, gave it a slight flick and treated
our driver and his assistant to a ten-
minute discourse on the workings of a
tram. Grinning hopefully, as were the
passengers, they started the vehicle off.
Completely contrary to their hopes—and
ours—the tram got to the terminus with-
out further mishaps.
* * * •
“Chev”: Hamilton Fysh, of Qantas,
speaking at the conference of Inter-
national Air Transport Associations in
Cairo, stressed the need for a universal
language for communication between air
traffic and ground-control stations, and
quoted the case of a befogged plane
trying to land on an English aero-
drome during the late war. 'French,
German, Russian, Italian, Swedish and
Danish - were tried on the plane,
which replied with an incomprehen-
sible flood of verbiage which turned
out to be Portuguese—the plane was
Brazilian. There is a universal language
in earthbound communications and it is
officially supposed to be French. All
service messages between administrations
are supposed to be couched in it, and
it is the lingo ostensibly used in all in-
ternational cable conferences. The only
time I used it during 20 years of service
in an English company was one night
when I received an inquiry from a cable
“Now, if I can only get these last few on she's mine!”
station in a French dependency in Asia.
The message was in my own tongue, but,
feeling that this was an insult to the
majesty and intelligence of the British
Empire, I summoned all my school know-
ledge, and with some assistance from a
dictionary couched my reply in the
sender’s language. In a few minutes the
retort came: “Can’t understand you;
why don’t you use English?”
« * * «
“S.T.S.”: An odd likeness between
European ballet and Australian corrobo-
ree is stressed by a ballet at Adelaide
Tivoli, which tells a story somehow of
the much-boomed 50-day exploration in
1853 of the Murray, from the mouth up
to Swan Hill. S.A, Legislative Council
voted £4OOO for this navigation by Cap-
tain Cadell, and the then Governor,
Young, took a party on the Lady Augusta
voyage. The ballet is by Joanne Priest,
to music by Dvorak, with Ludwig
Schwab conductor, and all the players be-
long to S.A. It somehow manages to in-
clude the Adelaide banquets before and
after the trip, also two wool-loading
scenes on the voyage.
• * ♦ «
‘‘Retired Volt”: In experiments just
completed by A.W.A., two-way communi-
cation was established between a motor-
car equipped with a frequency-modula-
tion set and the central station at the
A.W.A. works. I suppose we are ex-
pected to be impressed, but I haven’t yet
discovered what is the use of an ordinary
telephone. I can hear the man in the
office next to mine quite clearly, too
clearly at times. He spends at least five
hours a day on the phone and I haven’t
heard him say anything of importance
yet. When he isn’t talking into it his
typiste is, and I haven’t heard her say
anything to her various boy friends that
wouldn’t have been better left unsaid.
Multiply this case by thousands and you
get a mass of verbiage passing over the
system which staggers the imagination.
The only time I have heard the tele-
phone put to an aesthetic purpose was on
a recent evening in Melbourne when I
tried to call a number and found that
crossed lines had given me a hook-up
with a private quarrel. A man’s voice
accused a woman of having been un-
faithful, and a female voice retorted that
the first speaker ought to know what
that meant, as he had been so often un-
faithful himself. The domestic drama
rose to a tremendous crescendo, and then
the man said in a voice broken with pain
and passion that he held a bottle in his
hand labelled arsenic and in a few
minutes he would be a corpse and she
would be riven with remorse and anguish.
My hair standing on end, I was just about
to break into this nightmare discussion
when I realised that they were two
amateur actors who had been prevented
by the tram and train strike from attend-
ing a rehearsal and were using the
P.M.G.’s system to get their parts right.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“NX Flam”: Japanese on trial at
Rabaul for war crimes display no emotion
and appear to take no interest in pro-
ceedings. They sit rigidly at attention
for hours at a time, staring with un-
wavering eye at the opposite wall. Not
even the verdict or sentence causes a
nerve to twitch or an eyelid to flicker.
Only once in many months have I seen
this dead-pan mask shaken. After an
adjournment, the accused re-entered the
dock ; lawyers, interpreters and the few
spectators butted their cigarettes and took
their seats. All stood and the Court-
members entered from behind the bench.
Then a girl appeared. She stepped down
from the platform where the Court-
members sat, and walked through the
body of the court to the gallery. As she
passed the Jap, he truly leapt, and slanted
eyes strained at their sockets. Lifelong
training was of no avail. The traditional
dead-pan mask was momentarily shat-
tered. The conqueress of Nipponese im-
perturbability was a 'Tivoli glamor-girl,
on her way home from an entertainment
tour in Japan. She had had tea with the
Court-members and was taking a short-
cut to her seat. The Jap may have found
some consolation in the fact that all in
court were quite as staggered as he by
our girl’s unexpected entrance. To
Oriental and Occidental eye alike, in any
place, she would have been beautiful, but
in Rabaul she was a “knockout.”
* * *
“Smouge”: Psychology tests? A Navy
man about to be demobbed visited the
vocational guidance officer. He was
given observation tests, general-know-
ledge tests, aptitude tests ; asked innumer-
able questions relating to civilian jobs
he had held, his liking for his present
occupation of stoker and his future am-
bitions. He had been an apprentice car-
penter before he joined. At sea he had
looked after the ship’s boilers. Nqw in
a shore base he is working as a clerk.
His ambition is to become a builder. He
got the report the other day. A half-
sheet of paper contained the enlightening
information that he was considered suited
for the building trade, but could just as
suitably be employed as a boiler attend-
ant, carpenter or clerk.
* ♦ * •
“Nagheer”; A first-for-years gorge on
genuine beche-de-mer soup incom-
parably the best of all soups—has made
me wonder why it never appealed to
British or Continental epicures. Perhaps
it was by reason of an unfortunate mis-
take in Sir Joseph Banks’s kitchen in
1803. Governor King sent him some
samples from Wreck Reef in that year,
with the comment: “To do the China-
men justice, I think it is a most delicious
dish that would not disgrace an alder-
manic feast.” In the same box he en-
closed a sample of Newcastle beach coal.
The Absence of any recorded gastronomic
comment from Sir Joseph, always a good
trencherman, makes it seem likely that
an unfortunate outward similarity be-
tween prepared trepang and water-worn
coal led his cook into trying the latter for
soup. If, by doubly evil mischance, the
trepang was put into the stove the
domestic report on the two products must
have been of a positively devastating
kind. Burning trepang has a smell quite
out on its own.
♦ * * *
“Wanchai”: A bank-teller strikes many
variants of the conventional request to
“change a pound.” Most are hackneyed
and wearisome, and he is expected to
laugh gaily at such inanities as “split-
terrup,” “arf-an-arf” and “break it
down.” But there is occasionally a little
oasis of originality in the dreary desert.
Two recent examples: “A pound shandy,
please” (ten-bob note and silver), and —
this with a distinctly modern flavor —
“Atomise this fiddly-did, will you?”
* * * *
“Old Richmondite”: Despite the
authority of Morris’s Austral English (B.
20/11 / ’46) I still think the word barrack-
ing is derived from barracks. Australian
Code football was first played in Rich-
mond Park, on the north-side of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground. The ground ex-
tended from Jolimont-street to Berry-
street, where the JMounted Police Barracks
were situated. Richmond Park was then
known as the Police Paddock; the
troopers’ horses were run there. A found-
ling home now occupies the site of the
barracks. Melbourne winters were just as
cold then as now, and as the barracks
were the only shelter most of the specta-
tors gathered there, and they were just
as noisy and partisan as they are today.
“Barrackers” at that time meant literally
“the crowd at the barracks,” and the
term was gradually applied to football
partisans generally. I lived in Punt-road
close-by nearly 70 years ago, and was
acquainted with men who saw the begin-
ning of Australian Code football.
* * * *
“Niloc”: I have a theory about the
people who overwhelm the film stars and
crooners when they are on their way to
see themselves act. Perhaps the mobs
are not showing hysteria at the sight of
their “idols,” but are merely giving way
to the very human urge of tearing them
limb from limb. . Mr. Sinatra’s throat
was once bruised “inside and out” by a
person alleged to be trying to relieve him
of his tie. Jascha Heifetz, who wrote a
popular song for the “hepcats,” is now
reported to be taking his meals inside his
violin case. According to Heifetz, he
wrote the song in a moment of weakness
because someone “dared him to.” And
he doesn’t know now if he is glad or
sorry. Judging by the fact that Bing
Crosby’s recordings of it alone will be
over 300,000, the only reason Jascha
would have for sorrow is that the Income-
Tax Department may also be about to
create a record.
# * # *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson, having been
away with a party of bucks for the week-
end and getting home on the Sunday
much later than he had promised, success-
fully resisted an invitation to a sort of
encore on the Monday night—the resist-
ance being dictated not by any reluctance
to be in it, but by Jephson’s reluctance
to debate the matter with an indignant
spouse. The lady was asleep when Jeph-
son got in and he forbore to awake her.
The next morning he slipped out early
and got her a cup of tea. She smiled
sleepily, opened her mouth a couple of
times, grimaced and pointed at her throat.
Jephson bent closer and caught a faint
whisper, “Laryngitis.” He put the tea
down, went to the phone, dialled a
number and to the voice which answered
said, “Ah, George, just wanted to tell you
that I’ll be along tonight, after all.”
* * * «
“Hamer”: Abbotsford (Sydney) re-
members that Lawson, though only
briefly a resident, died there; “Henry
Lawson Avenue” keeps the memory
green. It is one of the few memorials
to the poet, who lived in many places;
Grenfell has a Lawson monument to
recall that his infancy was spent there.
In a cottage at Willoughby where
he lived for a time Harry, who described
himself as “a bit of a rough bush carpen-
ter,” put in a built-in bookcase and cup-
board, very happy over the labor while
he was on it and the achievement when it
was finished, and the occupants at the
time of Lawson’s death were proud of
their “Henry Lawson Cupboard.” But
a block of flats has been reared where
stood the cottage ; the prized cupboard
must have gone out with the scrap from
the original building.
THE SPEAKER.
“When the Speaker acrimoniously participates in
debates he degrades the status and dignity of the
Chair.” —Professor Bland.
Who is traditionally held to be
The stem embodiment of justice, free
From any taint of partiality?
The Speaker.
Who, when he shifts his carcass off the Chair
To join in hot debate, should take good care
Not to forget for what they put him there?
The Speaker.
Who cannot be one day a guardian
Of members’ rights, aloof from either clan,
And on the next a red-hot partisan?
The Speaker.
Who's pledged to preference for neither side,
And hence is ex officio denied
The dual role that Jekyll shared with Hyde?
The Speaker.
His personality who cannot split
Whether he stand upon the floor or sit
Behind the mace —and get away with it?
The Speaker.
Who, on all points to which he yet may list
And have to give his rulings, should insist
On being strictly noncommittalist?
The Speaker.
Who should remain, through scenes of stress
and' strife,
When tempers rise and bitter censure’s rife,
Above suspicion—same as Caesar’s wife?
The Speaker.
Let others roar the faction’s fee-fo-fum
And resolutely bang the party drum,
There’s one at least such conduct doesn’t
become,
The Speaker.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Teret”; Going south on leave we were
given the usual security lecture. This
advice never impressed us much, and
the security blokes knew they were wast-
ing their time. But this one was trying
hard. “Now, chaps,” he pleaded, “hand
in any ammo you’ve got before you go—
you might have an accident and get
hurt.” The circle of faces remained
blandly innocent. “You won’t be able
to get it through. There’lkbe regular kit
inspections on the way.” No one moved.
“Now be sensible, chaps—live ammo’s
no good to you and it might get into the
hands of the kids.” Still no move. “All
right! If you must keep it, don’t de-
louse it with a blanky blowlamp!”
* * * •
“Simon”: Early Bulletin para-
graphed (B. 27 /11 / ’46)? I wrote a par.
about a girl that walked ten miles to a
country hop in the ’nineties with the
mercury at 100. A few weeks later I was
a proud youngster ; printed and paid for
in silver by old Tom McMahon. It
was quite a long time before I rose to the
dignity of collecting the famous
Micawber cheque. Incidentally, that
mettlesome girl came to the city, became
a noted caterer and recently died wealthy.
“Bo”: Sporting fans who love to be
alternately elated and depressed can do
no better than take an intensive course
of the pint-size dailies. Let Quist miss a
couple of sitter smashes and the depths
of melancholy will be plumbed, with the
Davis Cup already packed for transport
to U.S.A. The next day Quist, burying
a couple of overheads with power and
precision, becomes a wizard and a
certainty to partner Bromwich, and it
doesn’t look as if the Yanks will take
“Wed better offer him a partnership — he's taking all our business."
even a set throughout the coming pro-
ceedings. The following day Brom-
wirh’c dnulrlp tinnHpr will Up frmnH not
S • . , er y'-ifi fi e round not
to be ‘functioning With its accustomed
smoothness, so the black crepe is hung
out again, the accompanying gloomy
t r rt J °iT *
prognostication being a five-rubbers-to-
nil win for Kramer and CO. In the
cricket sphere, catered for by ex-players
whr* an plnop tr« nntnnmhprinff thp Test
wfio go Close to outnumbering me lest
men, the mercury of morale goes even
higher and lower. During the Brisbane
Test the “can’t-get-England-out-twice”
Dismal Jeremiahs led the “innocuous-
howlina” deiectiohists by an easily-taken
, T . Tn--lnek who one of
single. There Was i OStiaCk WUO,
{Le Sydney “D.T.’s” team Commented
furiously after that bowler’s inauspicious
, . • “dinnlH ho the first to be
beginning, Should be tne nrsi to oe
dropped from the side. Toshack finished
with nine for 99. Next day the “D.T.”
was move d to sling off at its own “ex-
pertv. opinion in a blurb about the
“successful” Toshack.
« * * •
“Hamlet”: During the First World
War Tasmanian-born Professor Detaer
(B, 23/10/ 46) was interned in Ruhleben
Camp, near Berlin. So was I. Quite a
number of Germans were with us in
Ruh)eben legal | y the y were
British subjects and hadn’t bothered to
adjust the position. Most of them at
nnPP nnt f n establish German
on f e P u } to establisn
nationality, but meantime had td stay put
with the hated Britishers. One of these
had wor ds with a British sailor who
called him a bloody German He re-
ported it to the camp commandant, who,
though a decent enough Hun, had no
En B lish f nd "O. B™* 8 ™* of humor and took
& very strong view of the insult. To him
“bloody” was “blutig,” implying a per-
son smeared with blood. Maybe it was
too near the truth. Anyhow, he had us
all lined up for a dressing-down. Pro-
fessor Delmer tried painstakingly to ex-
plain that “bloody” was merely a cor-
ru P tion of “ b y our Lad y ” but the com '
mandant disregarded the explanation and
«,?!
™ 8a ” O.*-"
1 * ba f “ to th J You your-
selves are bloody Englishmen. The
dramatic gesture was very well done but
‘ h f. G °f kn f Ba,lor b ®" d * T
fo f °y thc husmess. Wots e sy. he
asked me. 1 told him. The sailor
.scratchedl his head. That s got me beat
Ee is a bloody German, amt e. Same
as y° u . and me . s bloody Englishmen,
“Zing”: At last on the market for
those possessing cigarette-lighters is the
spare-parts kit. It contains little bottle-
brushes for cleaning toe .Clinkers from
¥’° und 1,12 ” ,ck ' spare flints, wicks tools,
™e user will be able to strip hts flame-
,hrower completely at any time, give the
en ? ne a and with the wrenches
“tS Mtt hri
assemb,e machine and light fiis
bum P e . r ’ Only essentials lacking from
f be k ‘‘ appear to be a supply of new
S a 81Ve “ P
eas ly ’ a box * matche |- *
' “Findy”:
A New York sensation sheet, reviving a
60-year-dead scandal ofjan alleged secret inar-
riage of King George v wiffi a daughter of
Admiral Seymour, “explained” that Seymour
“figured in a great naval disaster. Smarting
under the indignities inflicted on his daughter
by Queen Victoria, he was reputed, according
to the newspapers, to have ordered the battle-
-- hi P Victoria steered across the bqws of the
Camperdown, a British ram. The Victoria sank
with the ]oss of 350 lives .. Sydney “Sun”
quoted the cabled nonsense, though it wouldn’t
have taken the sub-editor’s infant son two
m,l ? utes to check up on the story of the Vic-
tona. It was Vice-Admiral Tryon, a few years
previously in charge of the Australian station,
who made the terrible blunder that sank his
ship and half her, company. On June 22, 1893,
„ Mediterranean Squadron, under Tryon, was
off Tripoli, steaming in two columns line ahead,
Tryon in Victoria leading the starboard column)
Markham in Camperdown the port. The
the s< 3 uadron to reverse its
course by the two lines of ships turning in-
wards in succession: In this way the relative
positions would be preserved when the squadron
returned to its anchorage. The distance be-
tween columns was 1200 yards and the turning
circle of both Victoria and Camperdown was
more than 600 yards, so it was apparent that
the manoeuvre would make a collision inevi-
table. Victoria’s executive officers made three
unsuccessful attempts to persuade Tryon to
increase the distance between the lines. Markham
queried the order, which was repeated, Tryon
signalling “What are you waiting for?” The two
vessels turned in towards each other and the
commander of the Victoria again warned the
admiral, but was ignored. The distance les-
sened and the commander asked, “May I go
astern full speed with the port screw?” When
he had repeated the question twice, Tryon
gave consent, but it was too late: Camperdown
crashed into the flagship, her steel underwater
“Silly ass !”
ram ripping through her plates like paper.
Victoria sank, taking more than half her crew
with her. Admiral Tryon, accepting blame with
the words “It’s all my fault,” refused a life-
belt and went down with his ship. A court-
martial held in Malta found that the respon-
sibility for the disaster lay with the admiral.
It regretted that Markham had not protested
more strongly, but did not censure him, as
he had obeyed orders. President of the Court
was Admiral Sir Michael Culme-Seymour. That
was Seymour’s sole connection with the episode
f~- which the New York muckraker blamed
him.
4 4 4
“Zake”; Hollywood leads the field in
handing out guff, but only slightly less
nauseating is that publicity slipped in
almost slyly on behalf of politicians,
mostly Ministers. In one revolting
splurge I read that the private life of one
of our Ministerial duds was “not much
different from other human beings.”
Many people will, I am sure, resent this
implication.
• * * «
“Passun”: Our guards were taking a
nap, and with a Chinese village only a
stone’s throw away the entire work-party
of 12 Aussie prisoners decided to risk it.
We were back inside the half-hour, haver-
sacks laden with precious rice and salt.
The Japs were still sleeping, but later in
the. afternoon a pimp from the village
gave us away. As n.c.0.-in-charge I was
ordered to punish my men, Jap style, in
front of the village population—an inter-
esting collection of 60-odd ancients, chil-
dren and chooks. It was a situation re-
quiring hard thought, because the bashing
normally due to us would be terrific. 1
lined the men up and explained. Their
decision was unanimous—go ahead;
principle was of no consequence here and
I would save them possible injuries. With
the guards gloating I walked up to my
first victim, old Danny, who had won an
M.M. at Villers Bret., and raised my open
hand —but I couldn’t do it. The 12 of us
divided four broken limbs, one cracked
skull, and a thousand welts and bruises.
It was the only bashing I was ever glad
to take. My mates? Four survivors still
write to me.
* * * *
“Mark Time”: The Sydney baker who
doesn’t make wholemeal bread has
cousins in Queensland (B. 20/11/’46).
In several towns lately I’ve asked for
wholemeal bread, and bakers have shown
varying degrees of irritation. “Don't
know what’s coming over people,”
grumbled one. “Everybody’s going mad
about wholemeal bread.” “Well, why not
make more?” I ask. “Aw, I dunno,” he
replied.
* * * *
“Nexa”; Mrs. Bing has lived in our
suburb for 25 years. To the average
feminine curiosity about other people’s
affairs (magnified, in her case, a thousand
times) she is thus able to add historical"
data which leave the other women of the
suburb amongst the also-rans in the gossip
stakes. Timms, projectionist at the local
flicker show, had lived in our street only
a fortnight when he summed-up Mrs.
Bing very aptly, “That woman,” he said,
“has documentary eyes. They can record
and store for future release the meanest
event in this suburb.” Then he added
the rider: “For adult exhibition only.”
* * * *
“Friday Island”: September, 1946, was
a red-letter month for malaria sufferers,
for then was released for general use of
returned servicemen “with the wog” the
new cure paludrine. Distribution of the
drug is at present confined to patients
whose blood-slide shows “positive,”
although a “negative” does not mean that
the patient has been cured. Many fac-
tors may cause a “negative” slide
—time of the attack at which the
blood-slide was taken, recent dosage
of atebrin, etc. “First-attack” cases
are given an 11-day course of quinine
sulphate, atebrin (mepacrine) and plasmo-
quine tablets, followed by one tablet of
paludrine twice a week for 25 weeks.
“Relapse” cases are given a six-day course
of atebrin only, followed by the same
paludrine treatment. With improved
preventive and remedial methods man-
kind is catching up with its greatest
single killer.
“Niloc”: We’ve had to lock Uncle
Albert away again. Every summer it’s
the same. With the first breath of warm
air he ventures out of doors, looks about
him and sees the latest in women’s hats.
Then the poor old chap is carried off
shrieking with mirth and put on ice for
another year. It was unfortunate for Sir
George Macpherson Grant, of Banffshire,
Scotland, that on a recent visit to a
theatre in Aberdeen, he chose to sit be-
hind a lady with one of the larger mon-
strosities perched on her cranium. An-
noyed because she refused to take it off,
the belted knight burnt holes in the back
of her fur-coat with a cigarette. Fined £4.
* ' * *
“R. of O.”: An unfailing source of in-
nocent merriment was a C.S.M. in a
Queensland battalion. Ablution benches
to the C.S.M. were “abolition benches.”
Platoons were “pertoons.” On an equip-
ment parade in 1939 he gave the com-
mand “Them as ’as no rifles will slope
harms, take one pace forwards and fall
hout.”
* * * *
“Jasby”; .Newspapers, have discovered
in a New York hospital a man, just
turned 100, who claims to have heard
Lincoln, deliver the Gettysburg speech.
His claim may be genuine he
would have been 17 at the time —but
if he was impressed by it at the time he
must have been out of step with most
of his generation. At the dedication
ceremony the main speech, of two hours
duration, was delivered by Edward
Everett, one of the foremost orators of
his day.' Lincoln’s short address followed
and was next day almost ignored by the
newspapers, which lavished praise on the
main oration. Some papers even abused
Lincoln for not rising to the occassion
with a more worthy speech. It was
years before the President’s little master-
piece received proper recognition, but
Everett himself seems to have been one
of the few to appreciate it immediately.
On the morning after the dedication he
wrote to Lincoln, “I wish that I could
flatter myself that 1 had come as near
to the central idea of the occasion in
two hours as you did in two minutes.”
“C.0’8.”: “Youanmi’s” par on W.A.
goldfields (B. 4/12/’46) recalls a remark
passed by an Italian in Cue long ago.
Cue, three miles from Day Dawn, and
at that time the centre of the Murchison
mining boom, had been rushed by miners
of all nationalities, and the Irish were
not the last of the wash. The Italian,
after being heaved out of* a pub by an
angry Ryan, picked himself up with the
remark: “To hell wid da Irish —I go to
Con O’Brien’s pub.”
* * * *
“Bush-cat”: So “Blank File” (B.
16/10/’46) has a greatcoat seven years
old and still worth writing about. Mine
was reissued in 1919, as we had to hand
in greatcoats on discharge, and they were
posted to us many months later w'hen
someone in authority decided we could
have them. Mine (aged 27, remember)
has been used in mustering camps,
in trucks, on motor-bikes, tractors and
the mud of irrigation fruit blocks and
in V.D.C. operations; and it has not
been to a dry-cleaner.
A TIP FROM MOSCOW.
“The Russian Government has warned astrologists,
along with other purveyors of allegedly supernatural
phenomena, that their activities can no longer^be
tolerated in a scientifically-educated community.”
The Muscovite, it’s held beyond correction,
Has quite a lot of things to learn from us;
Yet it appears, at least in this connection,
There’s something we might copy from the
Russ,
A fixed determination to be free
From trammels of exploded quackery.
The coves who tell us that this constellation
Or that affects our horoscopic track.
Or gammon they can gamer information
About our futures from the Zodiac —
One wonders, in their dicta as he delves,
If they believe such flummery themselyes.
Or is it tongue-in-cheek they calmly answer
Questions from those who’ve happened to be
bom
Beneath the signs of Taurus or of Cancer,
Of Sagittarius or Capricorn,
Requests to be advised concerning what
It’s up to them to do next week, or not.
A harmless sort of hocus-pocus, mighty
Suggestive of the medieval biz
Of prospecting for the elixir vita.
A poor old joke? Well, possibly it is.
But not when it exploits credulity
And peddles fairy tales for £ s. d.
Must we resign ourselves to being rated
Lower than those of whom Max Gorky
wrote.
Less scientifically educated
- Than the poor souls who got Maloney’s
goat?
Presumably—as long as there exists
Aught but derision for astrologists.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


r
CRAVENA
—for yom*
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & M’s
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
A
6745
POLITICAL POINTS
Parliament took leave of the Governor-
General at a dinner where party spirit
was almost the only brand not in
evidence, men of all groups pronouncing
the laughing Duke a good cobber and
his Duchess and the children charming
people who had won all hearts. After
the proceedings there was some confu-
sion in each Chamber as to which par-
ticular bill was under discussion —there
was a flurry of bills in both —but these
little difficulties were soon surmounted ;
and, anyhow, it isn’t every day that
members and officers farewell a prince
of the blood. Nobody had disturbed the
Cave of Harmony by mentioning McKell.
Five ex-servicemen, backed by the
R.S.L., have succeeded in getting a
magisterial order for their appoint-
ment as Wool Realisation Commission
valuers. ■ It was a Sydney case, heard in
the Special Court, and Atkinson, S.M., in
delivering judgment, said that five valuers
with no record of war service had been
employed regardless of Re-establishment
and Employment Act requirements, “Mr.
Murphy, the Commissioner, trying to
justify the technical committee by stating
that it had no obligation under the Act.”
Can this be the Mr. Murphy who, with
Mr. Dedman, came out against the Food-
for-Britain movement?
It cost the R.S.L. £l2OO to establish the
five Digger wool-valuers’ right to prefer-
ence, and though it is grossly unfair that
there shduld be no provision for recovery
of costs when the Government is proved
to have violated its own undertaking and
law, the money was well spent. Pre-
sumably the League will now challenge
the Mountjoy appointment, Dedman
asserts that it was made in the exercise
of his prerogative, but how can this
two-faced blunderer be accepted as an
authority on an Act which is already
being shot to pieces from inside as well
as outside the departments?
Thomas Andrew Foley is back in cir-
culation -as Queensland Minister of
Health and Home Affairs. As a sequel
to the case in which his brother-in-law
and a truck-driver were heavily fined
for possession of 5331 b. of contraband
tobacco in the Foley garage and in a
truck, Foley was charged with having
had the stuff “in his control.” The Foleys
went into the box with denials of guilty
knowledge, and after a protracted hear-
ing Aitkin, C.S.M., found for the mem-
ber for Normanby, awarding him 80
guineas costs against the Commonwealth.
Afterwards there was a rare old debate
in the Assembly’s worst style.
The magistrate’s decision in favor of
Foley ended the related Royal-Com-
mission project, the Chief Justice in-
forming Premier Hanlon that neither he
nor any of the puisne Judges would
undertake an inquiry into a matter de-
cided by a court case. In making this
announcement Hanlon said he would ask
Chifley to commission a. Judge to “in-
vestigate allegations of racketeering and
blackmarketing in Queensland,” with
special reference to the proceedings of
Customs officials. But if Hanlon thinks
there is warrant for such an inquiry he
should go further and ask for the whole
administration of Trade and Customs to
be probed. Hitting at “Customs officials”
who can’t hit back gets nowhere.
Miners in one State at least are making
an effort to save the public from the
depressing gift of a Black Christmas, but
it wouldn’t need a champion tipper to
guess that the State isn’t N.S.W. At
Collie (W.A.) a second shift is being
worked at Wallsend open-cut. In an
effort to make best use of daylight the
nrst smlt woixs irom 6 a.m. to 1 p.m.
and the second from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Any mention of a second shift in the
N.S.W. coal industry makes Commo
bosses start talking of Fascism, though
they’ll work (in their fashion) all round
the clock to start a strike or keep it
going
For prevention and cure of the nation-
menacing diseases with which Com-
munists are identified, and sometimes so-
called “moderates” bidding against Com-
munists, The Bulletin has always pre-
scribed law, and plenty of it. Law, swift
and sure, and comprehensive enough to
protect the individual unionist in the ex-
ercise of his rights as a citizen and make
blackmailing and boycotting union bosses
answerable at the point of their bank
balances and persons. Having tried every
form of appeasement, Truman invoked
U.S. law against John L. Lewis when
that gimcrack dictator, in contempt of
Government control of the soft-coal
mines, started another cruel and wicked
strike threatening death to myriads of
Europeans, as well as misery to his own
countrymen. A Federal Judge fined him
the equivalent of £A3127 and his United
Mineworkers’ Association the equivalent
of £1,094,000. Lewis’s boasted courage
soon oozed out of him, and from his
trembling lips came a return-to-work
order. Put to the test of law he proved a
squib, as did Thornton when he with-
drew his action against Lang, brought
on the score of that worthy’s published
denunciation of the Communist con-
spiracy, and paid Lang’s costs. Most of
these fellows are squibs. They have only
been able to get away with their outrages
because “ ‘Labor’ Governments” have no
guts.
The last “back Saturday” in the coal-
mines has been worked. According to
Wells, the Communist president of the
Miners’ Federation, it served its purpose
in building up coal reserves so that the
miners could take their ten-day Christ-
mas holiday. It is on occasions such as
this that Australians appreciate the force
of that well-known Americanism “Oh,
yeah!”
One queer fact which the broadcasting
of Parliamentary debates has revealed is
the brotherly intimacy of Dr. Evatt and
the P.M. So persistent were the prompt-
ings of Chifley’s deputy on two evenings
—he apparently did not realise that the
radio was picking him up —that it made
Chif. sound like Charlie McCarthy.
Having come to the conclusion that
it would be dangerous for “Labor” to
meddle wifh the present hours for absorb-
ing liquor in Victoria, the Cain Govern-
ment —unlike the McKell Government,
which is passing the buck to the people
—has decided not to meddle with them ;
but it will place a permanent ban
on drinking in dance halls and in other
places of amusement. And, if it has its
way, the statutory liquor poll, held every
eight years, will be abolished. Tax--
payers will thus be saved £60,000 and a
heap of “bull.” It is held to be without
precedent for a “Labor” Government to
save a whack of the people’s money.
When North Queenslanders learned
that Riordan, the Navy Minister, had
said that the launch which struck a mine
and was destroyed with its three occu-
pants on Rib Reef had strayed into a
prohibited area, there was bitter laughter
along the N.Q. coast. It was remembered
that for months fishermen had reported
anchored, grounded and drifting mines;
seven near Rib Reef. Unionists came in
with a declaration that waters from
Bowen to Cairns would be “black” unless
mines were cleared within a fortnight,
and the president of Townsville Chamber
of Commerce said there should have been
no “prohibited area” if “the Navy had
been employed profitably.” For its part
the Navy can only point to its denuded
ships, crews and money, and reiterate
that, under extreme difficulties, it is doing
its best. Like the Army and the Air
Force, it has been reduced by “Labor”
to a shadow of its former self.
Cabled “that two valuable diamond
brooches” have, in the course of a fort-
night, “been presented to Mrs. J. A.
Beasley” at ship-launching ceremonies,
one at Newcastle-on-Tyne and the other
at Belfast. Old-fashioned people of a
cynical turn might object and wonder
whether this sort of thing is an innova-
tion or whether there have been un-
reported precedents, and those not ex-
clusive. Anyway there is nothing to pre-
vent the fortunate family altering an old
verse to suit the new occasion, and sing-
ing it, if it has been set to music, as
perhaps it has:
It isn’t raining rain today,
It’s raining diamond brooches.
Professor Laski’s vanity and Leftist
arrogance have landed him in serious
trouble. t)uring the British election cam-
paign, being then chairman of the Labor
organisation, he made a speech at
Newark, a borough with a population
of 20,000 or so, and a local paper re-
ported him as having said that if Labor
didn’t attain its objective by constitutional
methods it would resort to revolution. The
prof, asserted that he had been misre-
ported, but, instead of writing a letter
which would assuredly have been pub-
lished, he issued libel writs against the
editor and proprietors of the little paper.
He lost the case, and having issued other
writs which were dependent upon the
verdict he is up for £15,000 costs ; “and
we haven’t got £3000,” Mrs. Laski tear-
fully observed.
Canberra is a place in which people are
thrown together and correspondents see
a great deal. They rarely report all they
see, but an Adelaide “Advertiser” man
noted that when Lang took up his
quarters at a pub in Canberra “he sat
alone at his dining-table for a week,
whereupon he began to have company”:
....Almost without exception, men who
once comprised the Lang party.... Mr.
Lang has said—and he is not disbelieved —
that four Caucus men separately and
quietly tipped him oT about the move to
.elude him from the Budget debate.
Rosevear can scarcely have been one of
the “visitors,” but the correspondent in-
sisted that “there are undoubtedly many
more than a mere handful of men in the
Caucus who still believe that ‘Lang Is
Right’ and remain his secret sympa-
thisers—and not particularly secret at
that.” The Caucus vote on the Bretton
Woods Agreement, dreadfully humiliat-
ing to Chifley and Evatt, gave point to
the paragraph.
On the morning of June 4, 1942, a
member arose in the House during the
debate on the Supply Bill, and said:
We are asked to approve of the appro-
priation of £50,000 for the Department of
Information. If ever there was a depart-
ment that ought to b'e abolished it is that
department Apparently the department
is to continue because we are still spending
£200,000 a year on it. The money is being
raised by all sorts of methods that are
obnoxious to me.. ..The Government does
not seem to worry about squandering
money.
The member’s name was Calwell. He
is now Minister of Information. His de-
partment cost £326,000 last year and has
been allotted £324,600 in the Budget for
the current year. At least five-twelfths
of the £324,600 has been- spent already.
Just on eight years ago the two Sydney
morning papers agreed that the British
Empire should go to war for dear old
Czechoslovakia, which dates from 1920.
“S. M. Herald” has had to admit that
“under the new Czech press laws, private
persons are not allowed to publish any
journal, except those dealing entirely with
scientific or art matters,” and that pub-
lication of evening papers is absolutely
forbidden, all this being according to
“the will of the people.” Czechoslovakia
was already in serious economic trouble
because it has driven out all its Sudeten
Germans, the most industrious part of
the population, who if their prayer to
the Versailles peace-makers had been
granted would never have been in Czecho-
slovakia at all —they wanted to join the
Austrian republic. The crowd in office
is, of course, Communist, it being in the
nature of Communists to make a mess
of their affairs and to treat subject peoples
with ape-like malignity.
Unless A.B.C. is dreaming, Calwell and
his crowd are not only robbing Britain of
part of its tragically inadequate building-
labor force for a wretched Canberra job
but are “poling” on the war-wasted
country for 600 passages. This, of course,
is only of a piece with the Ward-Calwell
gang’s rejection of the Bretton Woods
Agreement on the score of them foreign
bankers always plotting against poor old
Austryler, and with “Labor’s” refusal to
send a food-ship to any stricken nation.
Selfish, callous and bigotedly provincial,
squealing to the Yanks for succor in
1942 and refusing them the service of
Australian conscripts in 1944-45—such
is this “Labor” mob.
Victoria, according to a Melbourne
“Herald” cable, is contracting to get two
giant dredges for Yallourn from a Ger-
man concern in the British zone. Time of
delivery, 18 months, “compared with five
years stipulated by manufacturers in
Britain, the U.S.A. and Australia.” You
would almost think we were back in 1919,
or that nothing had happened in the years
between.
An addition to “ ‘Labor’ principles”
never contemplated by the founders of
the party is that defeated politicians
should be billeted on the taxpayers.
Victorian “Labor” has caught the con-
tagion, and a “scheme” has been intro-
duced in the Assembly. Under the
“scheme,” if perpetrated, members will
pay 10s, a week into a fund and the tax-
payers “any additional sum required.”
Benefits: half a year’s salary for one-
term politician?; a year’s salary for two-
termers ; and, after three terms, the basic
wage. It is pointed out that “a similar
scheme is operating in N. S. Wales.”
N. S. Wales taxpayers, who, like Victorian
taxpayers, were not consulted, will have
something to say about that “scheme.”
. N.S.W. Housing Commission is going
great guns lately. Press statements
announcing new “targets” appear almost
daily and results of “ballots” rival in
frequency the lists of prizewinners in the
Government lotteries. ?But since the death
of General Tom Thumb no one can live
in a ballot-box. A Sydney woman saw
her name among the lucky ones. A
week later she called at the Housing
Commission to inquire the whereabouts
of her new home and when she would
be able to take possession. Without even
being asked her name she was informed
that no information could be given for
six or eight weeks; but she needn’t
worry—she’d hear all about it “in due
course.” Four more ballots are an-
nounced for drawing before Christmas.
Winners had better not make any plans
for moving before Easter.
It should be perfectly clear to the
majority of Australians that less than
one per cent, of the population, repre-
sented by Communists and fellow-trav-
ellers, are obstructing the even flow of
Australian industrial and social life and
doing it with the utmost deliberation and
impudence. More than half the economic
troubles of Australia today are arising
from industrial breakdown caused in the
first instance at Com. instigation. And
one industrial failure leads to further
failure almost without Com. supervision.
Fed up with Federal “Labor” control
of soldier - settlement, Queensland
“Labor” has “defrosted” nearly half of
4,294,000 acres reserved under the Com-
monwealth-States agreement and told the
owners to go ahead. Owners are talking
about appealing to the High Court for
a ruling as to whether a Government can
“freeze” land, buy it at a 1942 valuation
and leave the seller to buy other land on
a 1946 valuation.


CHRISTMAS DAY IN THE GASHOUSE.
" We don’t WANT your Christmas puddin'"


D
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Arrived in Melbourne from the N.E.I.
for an Australian concert season, Willem
Noske, Holland’s leading violinist. An
infant prodigy of the piano before he took
to the fiddle—his father is a pianist, com-
poser and music publisher and his mother
a concert pianist—he has packed a lot of
adventure into his 28 years. During the
Nazi occupation he could see from his
bedroom window a V 2 bomb site sending
missiles off to England daily. It was his
violin which saved the family from star-
vation. He used to go around playing to
farmers to get bread and potatoes. Noske
was the first Dutch musician to visit In-
donesia after the war, and be has played
to audiences in New York and Paris.
Raleigh, Drake, Hawkins and other
Elizabethan sea-dogs have at various
times been credited with the introduction
of the potato to Europe. A German city
erected a statue honoring Drake for this
achievement and oceans of praise have
been lavished on the other contenders for
the title. If the whole sum of this grati-
tude could be credited to the account of
Arthur Clement Foster it is doubtful
whether it would offset the abuse that
has been hurled at him during his five
years as Commonwealth Potato Con-
troller. An old Lighthorseman of World
War I, Foster was before his appointment
as Spud Dictator manager in Sydney of
the Tasmanian Potato Marketing Board.
He retires from the Commonwealth job
at the end of the year. There must be
something attractive about potatoes, be-
cause he’s going back to his old billet
marketing ’em for the Speck.
North Queensland has acquired a J. T.
Lang of its very own —Lieut.-Col. Joe
Tilson Lang, 0.8. E., M.C., veteran of
two A.I.Fs. and runner-up to Victor
McLaglen in 1919 in an officers’ heavy-
weight boxing championship held at
London. He then represented the
Expeditionary Force in Egypt. Later, he
represented the British Army in the
Imperial Service heavyweight contests
and lost by a narrow margin of points to
Gordon Coghill, of the A.1.F., previously
a professional in Sydney. Proof that
Lang’s powerful frame had retained its
endurance into later years was furnished
by his notable performance in the grim
and arduous five-day march from Sili-Sili
to Nadzab in 1943. He goes to Towns-
ville as residential representative of Evans,
Deakin and Co. of Brisbane, engineers
and shipbuilders. A son carries on the
family service tradition as a Naval
College cadet.
Cardinal Gilroy, back in Sydney after
a fortnight’s tour of Japan, found the
Nips reconciled to defeat and eager for
friendship and the Australian troops
well-dressed and orderly and a credit to
Australia. While his Eminence was
flying to and from Japan a Japanese
whaling fleet was heading for the
Antarctic, where vessels from most of
the other maritime nations were already
operating. Australia, which has staked
a claim to Antarctic territory stretcnmg
over more than 100 degrees of longitude,
could not find a solitary chaser for the
job ; her sole representative in the biggest
whale season in history will be an
“observer” with the Jap fleet.
Eureka Stockade has been much in the
news in Melbourne lately, Harry Watt,
of “The Overlanders,” being in search of
material for a film dranja of that episode
in the Victorian story. There is still a
Peter Lalor available for information on
its central figure, and there is Nathan
Frederick Spielvogel, of Ballarat, to give
the facts about it. A tough veteran
of 72, Spielvogel is a walking encyclo-
pedia on Eureka. If there is any docu-
ment, fact or relic even remotely con-
nected with it, he knows where it is. It is
40 years or more since he started-writing
short stories for The Bulletin, and he
has since poured out books of verse,
travel books and histories on such diverse
subjects as the Hebrew congregation of
Ballarat and the Mechanics’ Institute of
that city.
Granted a Nuffield Travelling Fellow-
ship, Dr. Darcy Sutherland, surgical
superintendent of Royal Adelaide Hos-
pital, goes to London to undertake
further special training in surgery of the
chest. A product of Saint’s, he collected
his M. 8., B.Ch. at Adelaide Uni. in 1937,
his M.Ch. in 1944, and became a Fellow
of the Royal Australasian College of Sur-
geons last year. During the war he served
as surgeon-lieutenant in the R.A.N. J. R.
Magarey, who was with the A.I.F. in
New Guinea, takes Sutherland’s place at
the Adelaide.
“Yipe”; Minister Bob Semple, slating
the Opposition at Blenheim (M.L.), said
“Mr. Holland doesn’t know whether he
is coming or going.” Thereby Bob un-
consciously launched a boomerang. It
struck him next morning when, return-
ing from a long walk, he demanded
breakfast. Twice asked by the waitress
if he was sure he was a “guest,” Robert
gave the young woman his room number.
Having done justice to the ham and eggs,
he strolled out for a further look at the
electorate. Then he discovered that ne
had breakfasted at the place next door
to the one at which he had put up. Later
in the day when he found that the room
number he had given belonged to a very
respectable Blenheim lady he realised
why the waitress had goggled.
Wyndham Heathcote, former minister
of the Sydney Unitarian Church, has been
preaching again at 85. Holder of an
Oxford degree in Arts, he was at one
time in the Anglican ministry in Queens-
land. He had many interests, not the
least being cricket; he had played in the
Clifton College qnd Trinity College,
Oxford, elevens.
“R.W.”: Appointed Dean of Sydney,
Dr. S. Barton Babbage is only the third
to occupy that office ; it was instituted in
1858, The two previous holders were
Deans Cowper and Talbot. Dean
Cowper was appointed ih 1858 and died
in 1902. The office vacant for 10
years. Dean Talbot was appointed
in 1912, and died in 1936. Like his
predecessor, the new Dean has been a
padre. Dean Talbot was senior chaplain
in the First A.1.F.; Dean Babbage was
senior chaplain to the R.A.F. in Irak
during the war. Still in his thirties, Dean
Babbage was born and educated in Nevv
Zealand, received his Doctorate of
Philosophy at London University in
1942, and is the author of a number of
historical and theological works. He is
married and has two children. His wife
is a graduate of London University, and
was a flight officer in the W.A.A.F, at
the Air Ministry.
Friends all over Australia contributed
towards the perpetuation on canvas of
the features of Dave Stewart, of the
N.S.W. Workers’ Educational Associa-
tion. The portrait was painted by Mary
M. Abbott; present caricature is by
Dubois. Stewart was born in Scot-
land, and it was there that he first
came in contact with adult educa-
tion work; it has been his passion
W.E.A. SECRETARY.
ever since. He came to Sydney via
Maoriland in 1910 and at the suggestion
of Albert Mansbfidge, founder of the
W.E.A. in England, inquired about the
possibilities in Australia. As a repre-
sentative of the Amalgamated Carpenters’
Union, he submitted to the Labor Coun-
cil a resolution on the subject, which in-
terested Carmichael, then N.S.W. Minister
for Education. The result was legisla-
tion requiring the University to maintain
tutorial classes. The association was
launched in 1913 and Stewart became fuil-
time secretary in 1915. In that year he
went to New Zealand with Meredith
Atkinson and launched the movement
there. Professor Copland was his col-
laborator on a missionary tour of W.A.
More recently the Carnegie Foundation
made it possible for him to investigate
the work in Britain and America. Now
secretary of the Federal as well as of the
N.S.W. body, Stewart has a great belief
in trade-unionism, but he holds that the
system requires informed and educated
workers. To make that education possible
has been his life’s work.
Ernest Thompson Seton, who wrote as
Seton-Thompson, had to a certain
extent outlived the fame which his books
on natural history, written during his
long career as naturalist to the State of
Manitoba, had brought him. At the
height of his career no nature-writer was
more widely known, and the Woodcraft
. League, an outdoor movement started
by him in 1902, grew to a membership of
80,000. His first book was published in
1898, his latest last year ; he died in New
Mexico last month. Many years ago a
New York reviewer who had grown tired
of Thompson Seton and Seton-Thompson
referred to him rather peevishly as O Sit-
Down Johnson Johnson Sit-Down. He
was 86 when he finally obeyed the order.
Like Charles 11, Lord Hayter, England’s
oldest peer, who died last month at 97,
was an unconscionable time dying. Origi-
nally George Hayter Chubb, he was
christened in his mother’s bedroom be-
cause the doctor attending at his birth
was convinced he could not live more
than a few hours. Overcoming the hard-
ships of indifferent health, he founded the
huge Chubb safe organisation whose fish
trade-mark is now familiar on strong-
room doors throughout the world.
Created a baronet in 1900 and raised
to a barony 27 years later, probably his
greatest triumph was his assumption of
the deputy-chairmanship of the life-
assurance company which had refused to
insure his life at 21 on the grounds of
his “delicate constitution.”
Philip Motteram, who steps up from
vice-president to become president of the
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures, has
been a member of the Chamber Council
since 1924 and chairman of'directors of
Motterams, of biscuit fame, since 1943.
A product of Adelaide Uni., where he
gained his B.Sc., he was lecturer in elec-
trical engineering at S.A. School of Mines
prior to joining his father’s business in
1919. He’s 64.
“Becks” on a Mississippi spell-binder:
U.S. Senator Theodore Bilbo, of Mississippi,
whose past history and recent performances
have inspired a threefold attempt to separate
him from the seat he has occupied in Congress
since 1934, has througnout his career shown
an uncanny knack of turning attacks upon him-
self to his own advantage, but he’ll have his
hands full this time. The Senate Republican
Committee is seeking to have him debarred
from taking his seat, the War Investigating
Committee is to inquire into charges of graft
over war contracts and another Senate com-
mittee is considering charges of intimidating
negro voters, it’s no new experience to Bilbo.
Over 30 years ago the State Senate of Mississippi
arraigned him lor impeachment on a brioery
charge—a matter of 600-odd dollars. Bilbo
admitted taking the dough, but claimed he did
so with the highest motives as “decoy and
detective to expose corruption.” He escaped
expulsion by one vote, whereupon the Senate
by resolution called on him to resign, as his
testimony was “a trumped-up falsehood utterly
unworthy of belief” and his actions made him
“unfit to sit with honest upright men in a
respectable legislative body.” Bilbo ignored
the invitation, and played the martyr so well
that he became lieutenant-governor and then
governor, lost the job, served a jail sentence
for contempt of court over a case in which his
successor and friend was charged with seduc-
tion, capae back as governor for another term,
at the end of which the State of Mississippi
was bankrupt, spent a few years in the wil-
derness, then stormed his way into the U.S.
Senate. At 68, his Washington colleagues are
trying to do what the Mississippi Senate failed
to do when he was in his early thirties. When
Senator Taft referred to him as a disgrace to
the Senate and a national magazine survey
adjudged him “the worst man in' tne Senate,'’
Bilbo’s reaction was to. describe the one as,
“a mockingbird just out of its shell, all mouth
and no bird,” and the other as “a damn’
mggah-loving Northern social-equality maga-
zine.” Both remarks were mild for Bilbo.
More typical of his eloquence was his advice
to an opponent —“Go bespatter your muddled,
twisted, swivelled, infinitesimal suggestion of
brains on the brimstones in the bottomless pit
of a perpetual hell,” or his description of
another as “a vicious, malicious, pusillanimous,
cold-blooded, lop-eared, blue-nosed, premedi-
tated, plain and ordinary liar.” RhStoric like
this is apparently appreciated by the electors
in Bilbo’s State, and his vituperative attacks
on negroes, Catholics, Jews and capitalists have
returned him three times to Congress. In verbal
attacks on negroes last July he was reported
as urging white men “to get out and see that
no niggah votes,” adding “and the best time
to do it is the night before.”
Robert Butler, U.S. Ambassador to Aus-
tralia, has been making courtesy calls on
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane and has
made a good impression in all three
cities. If he keeps up the standard
he has so far set for brevity in
speech - making he will stand no
U.S. AMBASSADOR.
chance of ever being regarded as a diplo-
matic bore. In Melbourne he was in-
veigled into opening an art show, and
thither went Mcßeath, pencil in hand, to
capture the drawing here presented. The
audience prepared itself for the usual
admission that the speaker knew nothing
about art and the customary 20-minute
dissertation showing that he thought he
knew quite a lot about it. A moment
later the show was open. “I like art,”
said the Ambassador, “This is it.”
S.A. has appointed to its Education
Department, and already put to work
in country areas of its medical branch,
Dr. Naomi Ryan, a local woman, and
Dr. Phyllis Rodriguez, who came from
Singapore during the war. They are
examining children in Yorke Peninsula
and in the Renmark district' of the
Murray.
In Melbourne are two Scotland Yard
sleuths, Chief-Detective E. W. Daws and
Detective-Sergeant Miller, Daws is an old
friend of Chief-Commissioner Duncan —
a sergeant under him when Victoria’s
police chief was Chief Inspector of Fly-
ing Squads in London.
Harold Seddon, successor to Jimmy
Cornell as president of W.A’s Leg.
Council, has represented North-east
Province since 1922. Born in. Manchester,
he came to Westralia at the turn of the
century and joined the Government rail-
ways as an electrician. Originally a
Labor man —he is still a member of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union —he left
the party at the time of the conscription
break-up. His hobby is the Eastern Gold-
fields Flying Doctor service, of which he
is president. James Dimmift takes over
Seddon’s job as Chairman of Commit-
tees,
Into the silence:
At 53, in Melbourne, Dr. Stewart
Cowen, first censor-in-chief of the Royal Aus-
tralasian College of Physicians and one of Vic-
toria’s unusual medicoes with a philosophic
slant on his profession. He interrupted his
medical course to join the A.A.M.C. as a
private in the First World War and in the late
one was on the staff of the Heidelberg M.H.
He was Stewart lecturer on medicine at the
University of Melbourne.
In Launceston, at 99, John Oliver, who came
to Tasmania from Melbourne over half a
century ago and worked at his trade of boiler-
maker for Tasmanian Railways and private
firms until he was 81.
In Adelaide, at 87, T. J. Walter, founder
60 years back of a timber firm bearing his
name, and descended from the famous Walter
of London “Times.” He was a committee-
man in Port Adelaide Racing Club from 1887.
At Dunedin, M.L., at 81, Louis Barnett,
who filled the chair of surgery at the
Otago Medical School for 30 years till his
retirement in 1924. He was president of the
surgical section of the 1 Australasian Congress
in 1902 and again in 1924, and was one of
the founders of the College of Surgeons of
Australasia.


ap i
iiiil
i
'!»
i
lIP
IM
i|:
BOOK GIFTS
A SELECTION OF BOOK
GIFTS FROM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON...
1. DUSTY
By Frank Dalby Davison. Winner of
the Melbourne “Argus” and “Australasian
Post” £5OO novel competition, 1946, “Dusty”
was commended by the judges as follows:
“We think this novel is clearly the best of
those submitted. It has a good deal of
human interest, and the human characters
are well drawn and real.* The story is well
constructed and the interest is maintained
throughout. The prose is good, and at
times beautiful.”
With its quiet dignity of style, its pathos
and ironic detachment, this is a book for
lovers of animals and lovers of literature.
8/6 (post 4d.)
2. SKYSCRAPERS IN THE
MIST
By George H. Johnston, who needs no
introduction to Australian readers. His
“Grey Gladiator,” “New Guinea Diary” and
“Australia at War” are among the most vivid
records of the war. In “Skyscrapers in the
Mist” he has taken a holiday fiom the
griraness of the front line and devoted his
talent's to covering what he calls the Battle
of Manhattan. In other words, he gives
an Australian’s impression and experiences
in the “glittering madhouse” of war-time
New York. It is written with gusto and
good humour, and at the same time with
shrewd observation and penetrating insight.
10/6 (post 6d.).
3. TRY AND STOP ME
By Bennett Cerf. This collection of
humorous anecdotes is a veritable treasure
house of good stories and is the per-
fect antidote for a gloomy day. There
are stories of brilliant people authors,
actors, columnists and other celebrities. A
grand collection. As the “New York Times
Book Review” says: “Just about everybody
will like Mr. Cerf’s miscellany.”
“Try and Stop Me” is already a great com-
panion to thousands of American readers.
It is a bright book. 12/6 (post 6d.).
4. LEVIATHAN’S INCH
By Brian Elliott. While it is essentially
a novel of contemporary life, “Leviathan’s
Inch” is refreshingly unusual in conception.
With brilliant portraiture it combines a
powerful underlying symbolism the sym-
bolism of the Leviathan, the whale that,
heaving by the water’s shore, lures the
unwary to camp on its back: and so they
perish. 7/6 (post 4d.).
5. ' THE MAN IN BROWN
By Maurice Walsh. “The Man in Brown”
is an unconventional tale of villainy’ and
detection, introducing some of the most
engaging characters Maurice Walsh has
created. Peter Faulkner, on trial for the
second time for the murder of his uncle,
Marcus Aitken, steps down from the dock
free, but a marked man. Fortunately for
him (and for the reader) Con Madden,
“Private Investigator,” takes a hand in the
game, assisted by his mysterious accomplice?
Daniel Glover. There are fisticuffs and
fishing, bold, men and lovely women, the
open air and good weather, in this e>diilara-
ting romance. 8/6 (post 4do.
6. HARVARD DICTIONARY
OF MUSIC
An indispensable reference book for all
musicians by Dr. Willi Apel. Published
by Harvard University Press. Large hand-
some volume, 839 pages.
Here is a dictionary of music which all
intelligent musical amateurs will thoroughly
enjoy and which the scholar in music will
find to be the first reference book in Eng-
lish to satisfy his needs. The product of
exceptional scholarship, the “Harvard Dic-
tionary of Music” provides accurate in-
formation on all musical subjects. ’ It is
written with clarity, directness and explicit-
ness. The arrangement of the material per-
mits the quick reference that makes a dic-
tionary most valuable. 35/- (post 1/-).
7. LOCK, STOCK AND
BARREL
By Douglas and Elizabeth Rigby. The
story of collecting. With hundreds of illus-
trations ; 570 pages.
“Reading this rich, scholarly and exhaustive
book one is inclined to wonder how any
man or woman ever escaped the infection
of ‘collectomania’... .‘Lock, Stock and
Barrel’ is a collection in itself....” said
Orville Prescott in the “New York Times.”
35/- (post 10d.).
8. ENGLISH SOCIAL HISTORY
A Survey of Six Centuries, Chaucer to
Queen Victoria, by G. M. Trevelyan,
O.M.
“Daily Telegraph” says; “In this masterly
portrayal of the daily life of our ancestors
it is difficult to know which to admire more,
the immensity of the learning, the charm
of the style which adorns if, or the intimacy
with all things human which illumines every
page.” 33/3 (post Bd.).
9. GLORY AND BONDAGE
By Edgar Snow. This is a stimulating and
entertaining account of Edgar Snow’s travels
and is told in his vigorous and critical style.
No one could put down this volume with-
out having learned much about India,
Burma, China and more especially the
Soviet Union.
“Glory and Bondage” is an important con-
tribution to the study of Asiatic affairs.
12/6 (post 6d.).
10. OFFICIALLY DEAD
By Quentin Reynolds. The story of
Commander C. D. Smith. An out-and-out
adventure story of an amazing man, whose
exploits would have made Dumas and
Sabatini gasp for breath. 10/6 (post 4d.).
11. FLOWER PIECES
By Helen Blaxland. Important b'ook on
flower decoration for the home, with superb
photographs by Olive Cotton and Max
Dupain of original arrangements suited to
the four seasons of the year in Australia.
Two full-page plates in four colours, and
other coloured illustrations by Elaine Haxton.
21/- (post 6d.).
12. THE COMPLETE BOOK OF
GARDEN MAGIC
By Roy E. Biles. With eight full-page
plates, beautifully colored, size 10£ by 7 Jr,
and hundreds of drawings jjn the text.
Gardening today is not the gardening of
10 years ago. Mew plant's and flowers have
been developed. New methods, new short-
cuts have been worked out. All of this
new, helpful information has been gathered
into one complete volume. 25/- (post 10d.).
is. NED KELLY
A Play by Douglas Stewart. Illustrated
with 18 black-and-white drawings by
Norman Lindsay, which capture both the
spirit of the drama and the atmosphere
of its period. 30/- (post 6d.).
14. THESAURUS OF THE
ARTS
By Albert E. Weir. Drama, Music, Radio,
Painting, Screen, Television, Literature,
Sculpture, Architecture, Ballet; 690 pages.
It is, indeed, a liberal education in the arts.
Its 8500 references embrace biographies of
great artists of all times —writers, • painters,
architects, dancers, virtuosos and many
more. The only complete reference work
ever published on all the great fields of the
ar(s. 42/- (post 1/-).
is. THE ART OF WILLIAM
DOBELL
Edited by Sydney Ure Smith, with an
Introduction by Brian Penton. 136 pages.
Present Day Art in Australia Series.
N.o artist for years has excited the interest
of the Australian public as much as William
Dobell. No fewer than 21 plates appear in
'colour and 80 in black and white, and Mr.
Dobell has made available a series of his
sketch-book pen drawings His most' famous
paintings appear in this book.
30/- (post Bd.).
16. BRITANNIA MEWS
By Margery Sharp. A choice of the Book
Society. The author of nearly a dozen
popular successes gives us in “Britannia
Mews” her best and most mature novel.
Amusing, satiric, dramatic, it will be the
most popular of her exceedingly popular
stories. 12/6 (post-6d.).
17. FORLORN SUNSET
By Michael Sadleir. A new novel by
the author of “Fanny by Gaslight,” “For-
lorn Sunset,” though it is also a novel of
London, and also set in the 1870’s, is not
a sequel to “Fanny by Gaslight.” It is
rather a companion piece—the other side
of the medal. “Fanny” showed that it was
fun to be rich*in mid-Victorian London;
“Forlorn Sunset” shows that it was hell to
be poor, and a bit of the helpless material
which was used to provide the rich with
their enjoyment. An exciting, complex
crowded book and, above all, a book about
London. - 12/6 (post 6d.).
is. COOKABUNDY BRIDGE
By Brian James. Awarded the “Bulletin”
S. H. Prior Prize for 1946. Rich and varied
stories, mainly of country life, by one of
the finest Australian short-story writers. A
book to be picked up and read at all times.
7/6 (post 4d.).
19. SO WELL REMEMBERED
By James Hilton. This novel, the first in
4| years by the author of “Good-bye,
Mr. Chips,” and “Random Harvest,” is the
story of a plain man of our times.
The period of the novel is both before and
during the' Second World War; the scene
is chiefly a small industrial town, in the
British Midlands, 10/6 (post 6d.).
20. the bedside bonanza
By a galaxy of 41 stars, edited by Frank
Owen. This fine volume will make an
excellent addition to your library. Here the
reader will find stories to please every taste.
Some are humorous, others satirical; some
deal with adventure, some with love and
romance. There are selections recommended
for quiet, bedtime reading. 18/6 (post 6d.).
21. THE COMPLETE ADVEN-
TURES OF SNUGGLEPOT
AND CUDDLEPIE
By May Gibbs. With many coloured and
other illustrations. This attractive new
edition contains the three complete stories
-—“Snugglepot and Cuddlepie,” “Little
Ragged Blossom” and “Little Obelia.”
Printed in two colours throughout, with full-
colour jacket and illustrated cover.
10/6 (post 6d.).
22. the COMPLETE ADVEN-
TURES OF BLINKY BILL
By Dorothy Wall. With many coloured
and other illustrations. This beautiful new
edition contains the three complete stories,
“Blinky Bill,” “Blinky Bill Grows Up” and
“Blinky Bill and Nutsy,” printed in two
colours throughout, with fqll-colour jacket
and illustrated cover. 10/6 (post 6d.).
23. the ADVENTURES OF
CATKIN AND CODLIN
By D. H. Gilmore. Catkin and Codlin
are two little silkworms with very good
intentions. They set out for the market
town to sell the fine silken thread spun by
Mrs. Silkworm, and have many adventures.
This is a delightful story for the very young.
4/6 (post 4d.).
24. PEGMEN TALES
By Ella' McFadyen. With 24 pages of
illustrations in colour, and type printed in
two colours throughout. The Pegmen family
are only clothes pegs to begin with, but
we soon forget about that as we follow
the adventures of Mrs. Peg and her sons,
Dan and Nobby. It is impossible to be
dull in the company of these lively and enter-
taining characters, which appeal at once to
the imagination of the child. 8/6 (post 4d.).
25. RIGBY’S ROMANCE
By Tom Collins (Joseph Furphy).
Now published in unabridged form for the
first time, this is a second novel by the
author of “Such Is Life.”
Originally forming part of the first book,
“Rigby’s Romance” has all its qualities and
merits. Furphy, indeed, regarded it as his
best work. For here are wit and wisdom,
keen observation and abundant humour, and
a spirited discussion on the political and
social questions no less stimulating for us
today than it was for the readers of the
newspaper “Barrier Truth,” in which the
story first appeared in serial form.
8/6 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
i m
v ils
m
m
o^'f
m
W-
m
mum
i
r
■m
o
m
.Msm
/S'?
:■
615
Jl . : -- 1
wM
mm
WmmmM&Wsk IMiHi
f 2
jy
■■ -
ORDER •
FORM •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the books, the numbers of which I have encircled below.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
(a) for which I enclose payment, (b) charge to my account.
Name
' m
Address ......’
S.B./1 2/’46


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Sunday morning. The
township quiet in the heat, nobody about.
Little Curl sat in the shade of the pub
verandah, bored, wishing for human com-
panionship or action or both. Presently
he scowled at the empty street, arose,
went inside and knocked on a door.
“Gerraway,” snarled a voice. Little Curl
withdrew and drifted morosely to the
back door, where he noted a disturbed
but fmpty bunk on the back verandah.
Knowing that Pocketknife, late occupant
of that bunk, wore sneakers when not at
work. Little Curl examined the dust of
the yard and found signs that pointed to
the river. “Aw, sneaked off fishin’
without tellin’ a man,” he muttered indig-
nantly, and promptly headed for the
stream. He was almost there when
Pocketknife, emitting strange noises and
waving his arms wildly, raced over the
bank and went past in a cloud of dust.
Little Curl glanced quickly over the bank,
saw nothing unusual, turned and galloped
after Pocketknife, who was then entering
the pub. Life awoke within, there were
shouts, questions, yells, and when Little
Curl got there he found Pocketkniife
backed against a wall, gibbering at a
crowd. Then the Bush Nurse appeared,
strong men held P. while she did some-
thing efficiently and quickly, and there
was a general movg for refreshment.
Little Curl learned that Pocketknife, hold-
ing a hook in his mouth while he un-
ravelled a line, had somehow got the barb
through tongue and lip, gagging himself
and was now suffering pain from wound
and antiseptic. But Curl didn’t mind.
“Woke the place up,” he remarked,
happily.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Sight of a cow giving the old
two-railed fence a tentative bump with
her horns in the hope that it would col-
lapse was getting too. prevalent, so Harry
Barr hit on the idea of putting up an
electrically-charged job. Disdaining com-
mercial varieties of high-voltage fence, he
swiped a plan from his kid’s radio book,
and with a few innovations of his own
the kid’s pa soon had his land surrounded
by wire, depending for its kick on the
local light supply. As his stock now
huddle themselves in clusters, in the centre
of the paddocks, the device must be work-
ing. Also, Harry could formerly be recog-
nised from three miles off as the bloke
always leaning on the top rail of his
fence. He has now already bought four
fights in the Commercial by upsetting
blokes’ beer ‘whenj about to rest both
elbows on the counter, he recoils like a
twenty-five pounder.
* * * *«
“Mat’s Mate”; We made camp one
evening on a niountain track. There was
a high wind and dry undergrowth, so I
took the billy and made for a house and
some hot water to save lighting a fire.
When I got -back I said to Mat, “There’s
a couple of wimmen over there. They’re
trampin’, humpin’ their swags like us.”
Mat peered at the house and seemed
somewhat distraught. “Cripes,” he said,
“we better grab the next job we sight,
good or bad.” “What’s the matter with
you?” I demanded. He looked at me
with exasperation. “Well, cripes,” he
roared, “a man don’t want t’ be trampin’
round these bloomin’ roads with wimmen
on ’em!” Then he calmed down and
with a wistful air sighed, “Gosh, it usen’t
to be so bad on the old track. But it
looks as if it’s gone a million now.
Wimmen!” He almost wept into his
tea.
* * * «
“Salmon Gums”: The axeman’s ability
to “size up” the tree he’s about to fell
may be astounding to the stranger (B.
6/11/ ’46), but so is any tradesman’s
knowledge of the finer points of his job.
Actually the axeman has much to guide
"That new signalman has a one-track mind "
him. A “pipe” is generally clearly indi-
cated by some dead wood at the top;
gum veins are indicated internally, and
the yield of the tree in sleepers or fencing
posts is merely a matter for experienced
judgment. Detecting its splitting qualities,
too, isn’t so difficult. A straight-grained
bark or one that spirals slightly towards
the left indicates a good splitting tree.
One in which the grain twists to the right
is worth leaving for the next-comer.
* «
“B. A. Ker”: Having a spell in the bed
of a dry creek, I turned my head lan-
guidly at the mate’s shout —and found
myself almost looking into the eyes of a
five-foot black snake that was slithering
speedily down the bank. My backward
somersault would have been too late if
the reptile had been out to avenge the
whack on the tail he had just received,
but Joe didn’t appear to be vengeful. A
beagle pup that had never seen a snake
before cringed in instinctive terror; the
wriggler slid straight under his belly
without attempting to bite! Of course it
was ingratitude, but I blew the scaly body
in halves as it was disappearing down a
burrow. On my return home I walked into
my own kitchen and was immediately
attacked by bees. Now that the swelling
has gone down I’m drawing comparisons
—with a marked preference for the con-
duct of the snake. And I’m also trying
to find out why four bees should throw
away their lives for the simple pleasure
of causing me intense pain. A theory
which receives a certain amount of biased
feminine support in the house submits
that the creatures were looking for a
hollow in which to squat, and they vented
their chagrin on discovering that the
aperture went through from ear to ear.
* * * *
“Loc”: On Sundays, in a “T” Model
Ford, with a pointer-model dog, Bill
Harris heads for the hills in search of
pigeons. The hound used to coil up on
the back seat, but on one trip, his usual
possie being cluttered with gear, he had
to stretch out on the front floor. All
went well until, half-way up Dobson's
hill, the rattletrap bellowed and stopped
with a jolt. Re-knotting the string with
which he kept his plugs tied down. Bill
drove on for another thirty yards, where
it happened again. The hound’s dial was
now bearing a decidedly guilty look, so
Bill investigated. Lulled by the noise of
the engine, or possibly overcome by
fumes, the animal had lowered his head
on the self-starter. Banished to the run-
ning board, the dog has now developed
a knee action comparable to that of
Ben Hur. •
* * * *
“Creel”: Despite the fact that no
case of “Chinaman” fish poisoning has
been reported (B. 20/11/’46), there have
been such cases. Surgeon-Lieut. W. E.
J. Paradice, R.A.N., of H.M.A. Survey
Ship Geranium, who made a study of
North Queensland fishes, wrote an ac-
count of the “Chinaman” in The Journal
of Australia (Vol. 11, 1924), recording
therein that Dr. P. S. Clarke, of Cairns,
had treated a number of patients, on one
occasion a whole family being severely
poisoned. Dr. Clarke also recorded that
“of two fish caught in the same locality,
one Chinaman was found by dire ex-
perience to be poisonous and the other
to be harmless.” The fish’s scientific
name is Paradicichthys venenatus, the
generic name given in honor of Paradice,
the specific name referring to its pois-
onous properties.
*,* * *
“Solitude”; Came in the other even-
ing to find a sheet of bark blown off the
hut roof, and the rain pouring steadily
on Seventyfiver’s bunk. Got the bark
in place again, tipped a couple of lakes
off the bunk and, deciding the old chap
could work the rest out for himself,
turned to boiling the billy. Presently, in
he came. “Still raining?” I asked, as
he shed a coat. “Yair...er.. .1 durmo.
Man gets so used to it lately he takes no
notice,” he answered. “Like sand in the
jam, I s’pose, an’ drinkin’ y’r tea half-
sugared. Seems a bloke c’n git used t’
anythin’.” “Don’t be silly,” I argued, as
he made for the empty camp oven.
“What about going without meat? Can’t
get used to that, can you?” We were still
wrangling half-heartedly when, the meal
finished, the old bloke made toward his
bunk. “Waal, yair, I s’pose y’ must be
right, Sol,” he murmured, kicking off his
things and settling luxuriously between
the dripping blankets, “It’s just that
we’ve had so much flamin’ wet lately,”
he added sleepily, “I reckon I must
be gettin’ used to it. G’night.”
* * * *
“Hanko” : I’ll betcha “Betcha” (B.
20/11/’46) calls a sapling a spar and a
wombat a badger, and, because he dubs
Menura: a pheasant, I’ll betcha I know
where he hangs out. Now let The Bul-
letin give three of its five cobweb-en-
shrouded exclamation marks to the
first reader who correctly radiograms
“Betcha’s” habitat. Gippslanders, and all
who speak Gippserish, are barred from
the competition.
* * * *
“Gravel snatcher”: “Old-timer’s” char-
acter with the contempt for-coffee (B,
30/10/’46) probably would have been
converted had he ever tasted the beverage
brewed as it should be. There are two
methods. One is known only to old
swagmen—a dying race —and their secret
consists mainly in the “curing” of a billy-
can, a process taking many years and in-
numerable brewings and providing a con-
tainer with which the swaggie never parts.
The other method is practised in—
amongst other places—Syria. It was
there, in Rayak, that I sampled it, in a
Wog cafe. The coffee I ordered came in
a cup little bigger than a thimble,
and black with a velvety blackness
that suggested limitless depths. The
taste was atrocious and I drank—l
mean sipped—rather less than half of it.
That taste haunted me until I returned
to dispel, by another dose, the illusion
that it contained some hidden fragrant
quality. The visits were repeated until I
became a coffee-addict with a violent
aversion to the insipid substitute some
people imbibe in Australia. I’ve tried in
vain to buy the correct ingredients. So
I stick to beer. You can get that made
from almost anything and to almost any
recipe, diluted as on troopships, warm as
in country pubs or chilled as in cities
when there isn’t a power strike on; in
barrels, bottles and tins, and served in
anything from tin mugs to broken bottles
—it’s still beer.
» *' * i
“Straight Wire”: About eight stone
odd, five-foot six, he had been telling us
for weeks what a wallop he carried in
his right hand. It was dark as pitch
and raining hard when he burst into the
hut all excited. “I’ve been over to see the
manager,” he said, “and coming back I
think 1 sees a bloke in a white weskit
standing in tfie track barring my way.
‘Get out of the road or I’ll belt y’,’ I
says, but no word and no answer. So
I dongs him an’ drops him cold. Struck
a match to see who he was, and finds
it’s an old bay horse with a white blaze
on its face.”
* * * *
“Bo”: The swaggie had pitched his
camp on a cleared but sheltered spot be-
tween the road and the fence fronting
Bradley’s property. Bradley, a small, shy,
timid man, far from resenting the prox-
imity of his camp, passed him over on
his first day there some potatoes and a
pumpkin. On the second night the
swaggie heard sounds of altercation com-
ing from the house, but the dominant
voice was a shrill, querulous one which
was not stilled after two hours, of it!
Around nine o’clock, while the nomad was
having a smoke beside his fire, Bradley
came out holding a blanket, looked with
some embarrassment at the other and
said “I think I wouldn’t mind sleepin’
out, it’s such a bonzer night. Mind if I
doss beside y’r fire?” The swaggie gave
him a sympathetic, worldly-wise grin,
told him to help himself to a possie and,
himself a rather silent man, diplomati-
cally refrained from comment. The
1 swaggie was in no hurry to* move from
jthe locality, and for two days he caught
glimpses of Bradley going to the tank
“for water, but never a sign of Mrs.
Bradley. Then one night the row started
again. The swaggie grinned to himself as
the distant sound of verbal combat
floated out to him. The high-pitched
voice was going hammer and tongs
from the House when Bradley again ap-
peared with his blanket and an apologetic
air and requested space for a shake-
down. This time .his host was moved to
comment. “I don’t know how y’ put up
with it, mate,” he said. “I had a missus
like yours once, but 1 nicked off and left
her to mag to herself. You’d be much
happier if y’ come along with me than
lead the life you do.” Bradley looked
at him in astonishment. “I ain’t got a
missus,” he said. “Then who was”
began the swaggie. “That’s me sulphur-
crested cockatoo,” he said. “It’s been
givin’ me a hell of a time lately—it’s a
wonder I put up with its tantrums the
way I do. But one o’ these days I’ll tell
it off, you see if I don’t! ”
* * % $
“Oto Stridor”; As one of the blokes
who trained the tree-faller woodpeckers,
I resent the implication by “D.T.” (B.
27 /11 / ’46) that I don’t know my job.
Me an’ me mate put in a lot of hard
work on those birdies. We’d observed
the natural depression of the tail-ele-
vators during pecking operations, and de-
termined to. reverse their gears. Yair,
hours of training produced the upright
carriage of which “D.T.” complains.
Our ’peckers use their fanned-out tails:
(a) to gauge the depth of cut; ( b ) to
gauge the commencement of a lean; (c)
to Morse-signal each other (their beaks
being too full for words); and (d), wag-
ging at high-speed, to set up a draught
which keeps the chips out of their eyes.
Me an’ me mate don’t mind disclosing
that we train the birds to hoe-in at the
right spot this way: we simply bore a 2in.
auger-hole to the heart-wood and drop in
a Maxie F. wrist-watch, wound up and
ticking like a Parliamentary broadcast.
The ’peckers think it’s an outsize bardie o
and drill in. Maxie’s price for the vatches.
is our only secret.
“M 8”: That par. on woodpeckers
ended surprisingly with the state-
ment that the bird, at work on the*
tree-trunk, “enjoys steady support in its
destructive job.” Far from being destruc-'
tive, the birds peck at the bark in a
search for insects, some of them harmful
to trees.
CHRISTMAS INVITATION.
“Are you coming home for Christmas?” ran
the message in the mail,
And it brought me thoughts of Nancy in her
riding suit and veil.
Sitting smartly in her saddle by the mail-box
in the lane,
Watching for the mailman coming o’er the
distant plain.
And T remember Nancy and the times when
we were young—
The waltzes that we whirled in and the good
old songs we sung.
She’s been twenty years a wife to me and I
must take her back
To the old home farm for Christmas on the
Tooraweena track.
“Of course, you’ll come for Christmas; you
bet we’ll all be glad
To have you with us once again,” so wrote the
dear old dad.
I’ll bet he’s made a deal or two and got a
line of sheep
The envy of the neighbors, who think he’s
rather “deep.”
He’ll drag a young ram up for me and part
its shoulder wool
And smile and wait to hear me cry, “By gosh,
that’s won-der-ful.”
And though I hate the smell of sheep and
loathe the bovine race,
I’ll love them just for Christmas and to watch
his happy face.
“We’ll have Uncle Joe for Christmas, with
your auntie and the boys,”
So Mother writes to lure me to join the family
joys.
Poor Uncle Joe is fated, or so at least it seems,
He never “flukes the market right” or profits
from his schemes;
The banks are “out to get his land,” his back
is often “bad,”
He wishes he could work as once he did when
but a lad.
He knows that I am doing well, he’ll “tap” me
for a loan,
And I’ll grant it just for Christmas, when I’m
back amongst my own.
“We’re expecting you for Christmas,” ran the
letter that I got.
And I thought of dear old Gran’pa as he
quaffed a brimming pot,
With his tales of boot and saddle and the
musters on the plain
And the daring deeds of horsemen who will
never ride again;
For Gran’pa knows the history and all the
district lore,
As he should, since he’s been living there for ,
sixty years or more. (
I know he waits to bore me with his senile'
yarns and brag,
But I’ll wish him “Merry Christmas” and I’ll
fell him he’s a wag.
“Are you coming home for Christmas?” I can '
see their faces dear,
And the turkey and the pudding and the sherry ;
and the beer.
We’ll have to cart old Gran’pa out and set
him ’neath a tree,
And all the kids with sticky hands will clutch
and claw at me.
They’ll talk of land and lamb's and crops and
seasons, good and bad,
While I sit there and listen and be slowly driven
mad
By mosquitoes and a horde of ants and blow-
flies on the wall— *
But I’m going home for Christmas, for I love
them, each and all.
N.S.W.
C. H. S.


“Wogle”; Crashes from the cookhouse
told us .that our temperamental cook was
at it again. We hurried along to inquire
the cause of his outburst. “You flamin’
’eathens ask me what’s the matter,” he
snarled. “When I nearly burn me mitts
off the other day liftin’ a dixie y’ ask
me if it’s ’eavy. That I c’n stand. When
I slave all day over a ’ot stove and cook
y’r stuffed fowls, you ask me why the ’ell
I didn’t clean ’em first. That I c’n stand.
When you used me scones as dingo-bait,
I c’n stand that, too. But you’ve gone too
flamin’ far with this note one o’ youse
cows left pinned to the wall tellin’ me
if I must feed y’ with ’orse meat to take
the shoes of the ’orses first. They wasn’t
shoes —that was me novelty pastry. And
any’ow I on’y use their feet fer soup
stock, see!”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Those of us station-hands
who could handle the bogai were set to
bartering the wo oiled stragglers which
had eluded the shearing-time musterings.
“You’ll be on shed-hand rates,” said the
overseer. “So don’t go for tallies; take
your time and don’t rough ’em. Of
course,” he added, “anyone who thinks
he’s a gun can have shearer’s award.”
“I’ll take it,” said Little Joe, and he
dived into the pen. An hour later the
little bloke was enacting the sufferer in
*the kidney-pill advert., but he stuck it
out, and that’s why he “rung” the shed
that first day with 26. “Well, Joe,” the
overseer summed up. “You’re two bob
up on station-hand’s pay; you’re down
five bob on shed-hand rates ; but you’re
right on the dot at shearer’s award with
ten and fourpence.” Little Joe hobbled
lamely round the fleece at his feet.
“I’m walkin’ orf the board,” he
yelled, “I won’t work with scabs who
shear for shed-hand’s wages.”
* * » *
“Notaden”: The Australian region is
the only part of the world where members
of all the five families of pigeons are
found. Two of the five occur nowhere
else. Biggest and handsomest in the
world is the crowned pigeon of New
Guinea, but the splended woompoo runs
“ You’re stiff —he still wins on points.”
it close in size and beauty. The white
delicate flesh of the wonga Gould
named it Leucosarcia, white-flesh—is a
dish for epicures, and probably the reason
for its present-day scanty. The gloriously-
clad fruit pigeons of the eastern coastal
scrubs, particularly the red-, purple- and
rose-crowns, are worth braving the ticks
and lawyer-canes and green ants to their
native haunts to watch, shy and elusive
amongst the tree-tops. Practically all
species lay white eggs, usually two to a
sitting, and it might be expected that they
would protect thair nests from hovering
or climbing robbers. But the thin twig
platforms leave the uncamouflaged eggs
clear to view when the mother leaves
them to feed. Admirable spouses, they
mate for life, though occasional flirtations
must be admitted. A curious departure
from ordinary bird-habit is their manner
of drinking—instead of lifting their heads
with every beakful they suck it up as a
horse does.
« * * *
“Plop”: Boongs in malarial Pacific
islands have their first dose of the wog
about ten days after they are born.
Nipped frequently during the piccaninny
stage, they emerge as fuzzies completely
immune from attacks of the disease, with
their only symptom a swollen spleen.
Similarly our own hardened locals laugh
at the concentrated attacks of Hexham
Greys, whilst English visitors after one
sortie by those vicious mossies have faces
with contours resembling a sugarbagful of
golf balls. However, there is one speci-
men of insect life to which nobody, black,
brown or brindle, appears immune and
that is the sandfly. Canadian women
atheletes are said to be still scratching
the bites they received here during the
Empire Games eight years ago.
“Flathead”; “Zake” (B. 27/11/’46), in
his par. on the cove who cut glass by
lighting a string soaked in brandy, has
raised a roar of indignation throughout
our district, at the disclosure of such
shocking waste, seeing that kerosene works
just as well. Diggers used the kero.-
soaked string for making beer mugs,
bottles being severed just below the
neck. They also made a tankard by
filling a bottle, to the level at which it
was desired to cut, with crude oil. Then
a touch on the top with a red-hot poker
boiled the surface oil, after which a
plunge into cold water would result in a
clean cut. The first couple of noggins
would retain the oily taste, but with the
kind of beer we got from the canteens
this slight flavor was scarcely noticed.
# * • * *
“Noc”: Just why anyone would want
to buy a death adder, *1 can’t imagine,
but the Museum authorities have fixed
the export price on him at £2O. They
are willing to dispose of carpet snakes
at £2 per foot, and koalas and platy-
puses at £5OO a pair. Most expensive
birds for overseas buyers will be the
cassowary and jabiru at £lOO a pair, with
bustards and native companions listed
at £75. The red-rumped rosella and his
missus are probably very hostile at their
value being listed at only £l. Tasmanian
devils will set buyers back £75. Dingoes?
Yes, we’ve got ’em; fifty quid per.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Hudson in his A Shep-
herd’s Life suggests a fox bait of strong
cheese buried in ashes, that being a com-
bination no fox can resist. We’ve tried
the idea on our farm with no results.
Similarly we’ve baited a rat-trap with
banana skin, said in English farm journals
to be an irresistible lure ; the rats showed
they preferred pumpkin seed. Maybe both
verminous imports, with different diets
in this country, have now different
mineral and vitamin deficiencies that make
them drop old food cravings and adopt
new ones.
* * * *
“Col M.”: Give the keen fisherman a
line and he will sit through a tempest in
perfect happiness. The chanciness of the
game has always been part of its fascina-
tion, but that will shortly be nothing but
a memory. Installed on many of Britain’s
trawler fleet, a device working on the
same principle as war-time sub-detectors
tells the skipper when he is oyer a shoal
of fish. At an exhibition in London a
tank of goldfish was placed under one
of the detectors. Movements of individual
fish chasing ant’s-egg fodder were re-
corded on a moving graph.
* * * *
“Zake”; That straggling tree the she-
oak, which burns so well, has me puzzled
as to its sex classification —it must be
that, for the genus Quercus also includes
the bull-oak, which, it may be pre-sup-
posed, would be the theoretical boss of
the arboreal household. But why the
“she,” anyway? The tree, so far as I
have, observed, possesses no marked
feminine traits —at least I have never
heard a she-oak whispering to the one
alongside it that she thought the new
“What you knittin' now, bosun?”
leaf color worn by that dowdy-looking
thing over on the hill was a positive
fright. On the central-north N.S.W. coast
I have heard it called the shea-oak, by
which one might judge the vegetable to
have Hibernian origin. However, never
having come across an O’Murphy gum
or a McGeoghan messmate I misdoubt
me this explanation. Perhaps some Abo
timber-fancier may shed some light on
the mystery.
« « « 4>
“Heresone”: “Malo” needn’t start
growing gills for a while yet (B. 6 /11 / ’46),
Mother Earth has more than once in
the past been in sight of the dead level
envisaged by “Gravelsnatcher,” but each
time, accumulating heat from radioactive
minerals in her core, has suddenly re-
versed the process. In the Jurassic and
Cretaceous periods most of the present
day continental areas Were covered by
swamps or shallow seas. In them the
giant reptiles flourished and the Ipswich
(Q.) coal measures were laid down.
Then, a mere fifty million or so years
ago, occurred a series of great upheavals
that began by throwing up the Alps,
Himalayas, Rockies and Andes, and
ended by lifting the whole continental
masses some hundreds of feet out of the
heavier rocks of the sea floor in which
they were embedded. The energy thus
expended used up most of the Earth’s
reserves of heat, causing an ice-age that
lowered the sea level some hundreds of
feet further, locking up the water in great
icecaps over the continents. At that time
much of the Mediterranean basin was
dry land, and the Whitsunday Islands
were the peaks of a coastal raiige. Now
we have started on the long trip back
to flatness, but there is little doubt that
there will, in the fullness of time, be
another upheaval. Incidentally, the
apostles of security should note that one
hundred million years of the easy, un-
eventful life of the swamps produced no
progress except ever bigger dinosaurs
with smaller and smaller brains (an ounce
of brain to a ton of bone and muscle
was about their standard ; man has about
41b. per cwt.). But the fifty million years
that saw the Earthquake Age and the
Ice Age saw also an advance from
Tyrannosaurus Rex to the atom bomb.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Our W.Q. town was once
startled by the apparition of a gilded
buggy pulled by eight black ponies.
Their driver was a young abo., suit-
ably accoutred himself, even unto a
diamond tie-pin. Since he also ap-
peared to have overmuch money for
one of his race, the police became
interested and finally located him in an
isolated spot some 40 miles out. There,
with conspicuous success, he was con-
ducting a breeding establishment —pro-
ducing dingoes for whose scalps he col-
lected 15s. a time.
• * * ♦
“D.R.H.”: Why do the greyhound
and the hare need such compara-
tively large lung - space and lungs?
In violent muscular exercise energy
derived from ordinary oxidation of
“food” would be made available too
slowly, so nature has another trick. The
animal stores glycogen—“animal starch”
derived from his tucker —in the muscles.
When a sudden demand is made on the
muscles a ferment, which is not depend-
ent on oxygen from the lungs, turns the
glycogen into lactic acid, an explosive re-
lease of energy accompanying the re-
action. Then oxygen, from the increased
blood supply that, soon after the mus-
cular action commenced, is pumped along
by the heart, acts on the lactic acid,
converting it to carbon dioxide and water
with a slow release of a bit more energy.
The big chest of the hare would seem to
be an advantage in that it gives more
heart-room and because the bigger lungs
with their greater oxygen intake allow
this secondary reaction to go on longer.
The larger lungs, too, probably help to
get rid of the accumulating carbon di-
oxide and some moisture, though most
of that goes to the skin, where its
evaporation helps to get rid of the heat
consequent on the chemical reactions in
the muscles,
* * * *
“Moyhu”: In exploiting the wombat’s
burrowing abilities in erosion-control
work, advantage is taken of the creature’s
fondness for honey, a thin trail of the
liquid being run over the course to be
excavated. With honey somewhere
around £2 the 601 b, tin, such a method
of furrowing on the contour appears, at
first glance, expensive; but as a thin
ribbon of the fluid, diluted 1-1 with
water, will cover just on two miles of
furrow and labor requirements are small
(sixteen miles of furrow can be run by
one man in an eight-hour day) costs are
low compared with those incurred by use
of the more orthodox furrowing methods.
The honey placed at one end of the trail,
the womby will advance without pausing
until the stuff peters out (in this regard it
is well to terminate each trail at least 10
yards from a fence), rooting a furrow of
a remarkably uniform depth of six inches.
At completion of each furrow it is neces-
sary to restart the animal on the next, the
furrows being purposely left unjoined
to give the worker a short “break.” In
loamy country after rain two adult wom-
bats will complete a four-hundred-acre
slope in a week, but in stony or dry land
the team will need to be trebled. The
wombat’s keeping its nose well beneath
the surface is accounted for by the pres-
ence of thousands of bees lured by the
honey forcing the animal’s tender snout
well below ground whenever it shows
signs of surfacing, while sensitiveness of
the organ to the continued and close
presence of its favorite sweetmeat keeps
it moving steadily forward.
♦ * * *
“Pongo”: The fact that a blue-heeler
cattle-dog can reach old age without being
booted into oblivion long amazed me. A
recent slow-motion film showed just how
he does it. After giving the bovine a nip
on the hind fetlock, the dog flattened him-
self on the ground, allowing the kick,
which goes upwards as well as backwards,
to pass harmlessly overhead. A station
abo. out our way apparently had also
noticed this fact, and proved that a little
learning was worth at least a fiver. For
that sum he bet someone in the bar of the
Commercial that he could bite a horse on
the fetlock and emerge unscathed. Lying
down behind a prad tethered to the
rail, he selected a tender - looking
spot and sank his fangs in. The dust
hadn’t subsided before the chocolate
bloke was up on the verandah collecting
his coin.
DROP THE FLAG.
She was no trifling prancer
But the daintiest hack I knew;
She stepped as light as a dancer
With shoeless teet in the dew.
Though Loyal Heart lasted longer
And Skylark could walk her down,
Though Goodbye’s gallop was stronger
'And Ardath showed better in town,
A thread could hold her and guide her,
She needed no touch of spur;
The least low word of her rider
Was a quickening call to her.
Some laughed on the. day I bought her
And called her a thoroughbred weed,
But a long line of blood ones had taught her
To step with the pride of her breed.
As thistledown floats on the ether
She floated, and hour after hour
Her hoofs kissed the grasses beneath her
As a butterfly kisses a flower.
And she who stepped light as a dancer
With a fairy-like foot on the track
Was the final and absolute answer
To “What is the perfect hack?”
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


22*
*
jfe 7 '*£ sj\'* ,+< r *’" w 'fPl
® . '* -j
X
Vs
w.
m
S V
\v
m
f i
1:111
\ \\' ■
»^ v V
.
;\
■ U . ./
• ..V •.'
mmm
«■
■
i ii i
,
■M
- II •
! i
V
'->-X- •; •; V
■
L ,
I
f
t
Hi
- X
Rk
V\ I I
_ I *
TO
ik m
\\
mmM
■-Vrv
C/^
Lovely Margaret Lockwood, photographed by Wilfred Newton, as she
appears in the Two Cities film * Hungry Hill ’ made recently at Denham,
England. Clarks, who set shoe fashions as long ago as 1825, took a
trip into their own past and made period boots and shoes specially for
this production.
HOES
Made by C. & J. CLARK, LTD. (Wholesale only). Street, Somerset, England.
London Office; Mitre House, 177, Regent Street, London, W.i.
msmsm » m m
it*
11
13
m
mrnmm
s
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue RJ2
AGA
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. In N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.O. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth,
X
THE SERVICE MAN
The Month of Victory.
“Ek Dum”; It seems a long time ago,
but there are many men of the A.I.F.
who have put away their souvenirs and
hung their Samurai swords on the mantel-
piece (if any) who will look back with a
sort of nostalgia this Christmas to the
33 days between November 28 and De-
cember 31, 1943, the last Christmas of
active warfare, the month of victory on
Huon.
Brigadier Edgar’s Fourth Brigade will
especially have its memories. It had been
chafing at its tasks—unloading of ships,
implementing lines of forward communi-
cation and padding the hoof, an occu-
pation of which the 22nd Battalion in
particular had had more than its share,
since it had marched all the way from
Hopoi to Langemarck Bay in the ten
days before the battle of Finschhafen.
After all the attrition, of Satelberg the
Ninth Division had increased its tank
support, and all was ready at the end of
November, 1943, to capitalise victories
which had all too little advertisement in
proportion to their difficulties and results.
On the Wareo Track
The fighting was not over. The enemy
was set for his final resistance in the
spirit of a mortally wounded leopard
when the Fourth broke across the
Keleung, to smash his last salient de-
fences in conjunction with men of other
brigades, and push up the coast to
Lakona, while the 26th Brigade inland
clamped down on Wareo and the 24th
took possession of the Wareo-Bonga
track.
None of these feats, so carelessly
recorded at the time, has been fully ap-
preciated. The gorges in the path of the
Wareo force were scarcely paralleled by
those of Syria and Greece in depth and
in difficulty. Deep chasms, which in one
place dropped 3000 feet from the saddle,
alternated with slimy tropical ridges. The
terrain was too much for native. trans-
port. On the route communications were
mainly the work of stalwart Australians.
Stores, ammunition and armament all
had to be brought forward by sheer
muscle-power up the terrible slopes and
down the dreadful and Jap-ridden gorges.
It was reminiscent of some of the pas-
sages of the Ghauts in Tippoo’s wars of
150 years before.
The Jap was on the run, but, as usual,
was not running all the time. And when-
ever he found. opportunity he took the
only measure of offence possible to him
in the circumstances, in savage and gusty
onslaughts on the communication lines.
Skulking in any corner suitable for am-
bush, he sometimes fired a few shots and
ran hastily away; sometimes swooped
on a supply line —as when he ap-
peared in the rear of the 2/23 Battalion
and cut the line altogether for a time —
reducing the life blood of the advance
to a trickle.
When he was found engaged in these
tactics he was not easy to get at, for the
lush vegetation often concealed his fox-
holes from an observer only feet away,
and the approaches to his lairs were as
often as not churned-up mud in which a
rhinoceros would have bogged.
However, Peak Hill was the crowning
point of the advance. The enemy
struggled with a fierce futility for it. Then
he gave up. The A.I.F. was on the sum-
mit, and its shadow hung over his valley
positions. The vanguard of the Aus-
tralians surged through Wareo and down
the Bonga track on December 8.
They were a hollow-eyed and weary
lot of victors, mired with bits of a hun-
dred cliffs up or down which they had
crawled. Behind them for miles of the
razorbacks was a long trail of mangled
Jap dead and battle detritus, marking the
fierceness of the struggle. Sometimes
bodies, with equipment, had fallen from
surfaces which gave them no hold and
swung horribly in the branches of the
trees below and among the swaying
lawyer vines. Sometimes the climbing
had had to be done with ropes. And
many a rushing stream was waded.
Especially the panting troops looked
back on the final stage from the Sang
River to the Wareo summit, three hours
of cliff crawling which could be taken
only in 10-yard stages.
On the Way from Bonga
The 24th Brigade, while this advance
was going on, was on its tortuous way up
the Bonga-Wareo track from Pabu (or
Gusika), with part of the 20th Brigade
moving directly northward to cut the
track half-way.
Here the task was nearly as hard. The
enemy’s positions on the track were well
prepared. One of the two tanks involved
was put out of action by no fewer than 40
hits from a 37mm. gun. The going was,
at times, beyond human endurance, and
fresh battalions made advances alter-
nately, each day’s gain even by this pro-
cedure. being not much more than a few
hundred yards.
At last the combined operations of the
area were reduced to their final form-
desperate assaults on more desperately
held defences in which the Japs were
giving their lives in preference to sur-
render.
Across the Masaweng
The Fourth Brigade at this stage was
playing the part of reserves, but by De-
cember 5- its vanguard units, moving up
the coast with close tank support, had
found themselves faced by a grim wall of
bunkers guarded by a minefield.
This immobilised the tanks for as
long as it took the peerless bulldozer unit
to repair the damage done to the track by
mine explosions. For a time, one of the
best places in New Guinea to make sure
of being shot at was on one of the Fourth
Brigade’s bulldozers.
The infantry went on without waiting
for the tanks and, on the second day, met
the first consignment of Japs breaking
back before the victorious men of the
Wareo trails. They ambushed them and
advanced over scattered dead.
This was the beginning of the last
phase of the Huon campaign. On De-
cember 13, 1943, the rear of the enemy
found itself in all too violent contact with
the victorious Australians. The real race
began at the Sanga River —a race of
which speed had been checked from the
first only by the defence at Fortification
Point, at the wide mouth of the Masa-
weng River, where the enemy might have
made a block, but where the most he
could do was to survive three hours of
tank attack and delaying action in the
cliff defile.
Christmas Day gave the only pause
in the subsequent drive along the slopes of
the kunai-clad hills by the sea which
seemed to belong to another and better
world after the cliffs of Kakakog and
Wareo,
From now onwards to the New Year
the task lay not so much in killing the
Jap but in the back-breaking business of
catching him as he lit out in a terrified
rabble behind a trail of broken bridges,
spewing dead and wreckage in his wake
along the road to Sio.
Only Gneisenau Point, and its rope
ladders, remained to remind the A.I.F.
that the Jap on the Huon coast was a
fighting enemy. The victorious year of-
-1944 dawned in an atmosphere in which
resistance had ceased.
"Backs to the Wall."
“Ek Dum”: A collation of British
and German documents, has made it pos-
sible for Mr. Attlee to give the first con-
nected account of Germany’s plans in
1940 for the invasion of Britain,
July, 1940, found the Germans with
their timetable overrun and in danger
of becoming . involved with. Russia.
Hitler's thoughts naturally turned to
means of putting Britain quickly and
completely out of the struggle so that he
could avoid a two-front war.
He first set out on his “peace” cam-
paign, based on the ground that there
was “nothing left to fight for,” a cam-
paign stridently carried on for him by the
Communists and those who were pre-
pared to follow them in Australia. At
the same time alternatives were not for-
gotten.
The only long-range German war
plan in existence at that time was
Admiral Raeder’s naval-operations plan.


that will be long
remembered . . . .
I. The famous Ever-Hot Tea and Coffee
Service. A really acceptable gift. 5-
pieces comprising Tea Pot, Coffee Pot,
Milk or Cream Jug, Sugar basin and
Tray to hold 3 pieces. Price £l2/10/-.
2. Chromium plated powder compact.
She would appreciate this. Price 30/-.
Other designs from 8/6 to £6/10/-.
3. Valet safety razor in Bakelite case.
Complete with strop and 3 blades. Price
11/3.
4. English Mantel Clocks. Striking hours
and half hours. Cabinets of Queens-
land Walnut. £5/17/6 to £lO/10/-.
B. Modern Plastic Cigarette case. Holds
20 cigarettes. A Sift with novelty
appeal. Price 35/-. Also in 10
cigarette size. Price 21/-.
6. Kangaroo skin tobacco pouch, hand
made. Price 20/-. Other lines from
15/- to 42/-.
7. Ladies' Cosmetic case by Maylor of
London, in Beige, Red or Black Pin
Morocco, with zipper fastening. Lotion
bottles have secure screw tops. Price 38/6.
8. The famous English made Orlik
stormproof cigarette lighter. Price 32/6.
All other outstanding makes in stock.
MAIL YOUR ORDER NOW TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT.
-Pleads
SEVEN FLOOR GIFT STORE
CNR. KING AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY —BW 272
1
PIO2
On May 21, 1940, Raeder discussed
planning with Hitler —this was on the
eve of Dunkirk. On July 2 Hitler ordered
an intelligence appreciation and the initi-
ation of Operation Sealion, which was to
consist of the invasion of England.
On July 16 Hitler issued a directive in
thdkcourse of which he said:
' Since England, in spite of her militarily
hopeless situation, shows no signs of com-
ing to terms, I have decided to prepare a
landing operation against England and, if
necessary, to carry it out.... The prepara-
tions for the entire operation, must be
completed by mid-August.
Mr. Churchill’s Defiance
This order, it is curious to notice, fol-
lowed hard on the heels of the closing of
the Burma Road and the destruction of
the French fleet at Oran by a Royal
Naval squadron.
It followed, too, hard after July 14,
France’s national day, which Mr.
Churchill had chosen as the occasion for
a determined and defiant speech: —•
Here in this strong City of Refuge, which
enshrines the title-deeds of human progress
and is of deep consequence to Christian
civilisation; here, girt about by the seas
and the oceans where the Navy reigns;
shielded above by the prowess and devo-
tion of our airmen—we await undismayed
the impending assault. Perhaps it will come
tonight; perhaps it will come next week.
Perhaps it will never come. We must show
ourselves equally capable of meeting a
sudden, violent shock, or, what is perhaps
a harder test, a prolonged vigil We may
be sure that there is —perhaps built up
over years a plan for destroying Great
Britain, which after all has the honor to
be Hitler’s first and foremost foe. All I can
say is that any plan for invading Britain
which Hitler made two months ago must
be recast in order to meet our new posi-
tion.... We have 1,500,000 troops under
“You Were right , Abdul. It isn't a mirage!"
arms in Britain tonight. All around lies
the power of the Royal Navy....We must
prepare not only for the summer, but for
the winter; not only for 1941, but for
1942; when the war will, I trust, take a
different form from the defensive.
The Preparations
Hitler’s plan left his staff one month
to prepare. The General Staff had no
stomach for the job. Its sea transport
consisted only of a nondescript collection
of river and canal boats and barges. They
had no defence even against machine-
gun fire. They were fitted only to traverse
a calm sea, and they were not built tp
carry heavy guns or to land guns and
tanks.
The Reichsmarine and the Luftwaffe,
faced with the jobs of transport and
protection, must have been even more
unhappy than the General Staff. The
Reichsmarine commanders, in fact, knew,
according to Admiral Donitz, that even
if the invasion plan succeeded the Ger-
man naval forces could expect to be
wiped out in the process. Goring’s air
force, in its turn, would be scheduled
for the back-breaking assignment of
keeping off and destroying the R.A.F,
destroying the R.N. and covering the
landing troops. His force, indeed, was
to be the vanguard, for it seemed cer-
tain that the primary part of the inva-
sion operation must consist of the de-
struction of the R.A.F. and of British
morale. Furthermore, the Luftwaffe
had considerable misgivings as to whether
it could deal with capital ships, its
bombs being in the main too small and
its armament too light.
Twenty-five Divisions
However, a general plan was made for
the landing of 25 divisions between
Folkestone and Worthing on the Chan-
nel coast. Ten of these were to be put
ashore in the first four days to form a
beachhead. This was to be consolidated,
and, about the eighth day, an advance
• was to be made to the first objective, a
line running from the Thames Estuary
along the hills which sweep from the
south of London to Portsmouth. Efforts
were to be made to isolate London as
quickly as possible. Dover was to be
taken over by parachute troops, so as to
obtain command of the Channel at its
narrowest point from both sides and to
bring all traffic passing into it from the
north within 11-mile artillery range of
Britain or France, A third landing at
Lyme Regis, to isolate the west, also
was contemplated.
On August 16 Hitler issued an order
that preparations were to continue till
September 15. On August 27 came orders
for embarkation preparations at Rotter-
dam, Antwerp and Le Havre, On Sep-
tember 3, the first anniversary of the out-
break of the war, September 21 was
named as invasion day, but a clause was
inserted in the order that cancellation
would be possible till within 24 hours
of zero hour.
On September 17 the operation was
postponed. Two days later orders were
issued for dispersal of the strategic
shipping concentrations as a measure of
protection against R.A.F. air attacks.
On October 12 the invasion was called
off until the spring, and, as had happened
in the case of Napoleon, spring saw the
would-be invader with steps turned east-
ward. The chance never came to him
again.
Cromwell’s Ghost Rises
It had been a fairly near thing—Mr.
Churchill’s 1,500,000 fully-armed men
were largely heroes of a fairy tale.
Actually the “invasion imminent” signal
was given in England in September,
stimulating American newspapermen to
the wildest flights of fancy and fiction.
The date of the signal—issued by G.H.Q.,
Home Forces —was September 7, 1940.
The Germans for some days had been
embarking troops in French and Bel-
gian ports, and the R.A.F. Bomber Com-
mand was having a high old time among
them. German bodies in uniform were
washed up on British shores, giving rise
to all sorts of rumors.
By September 7 the British Intelligence
had noticed signs such as the westerly
and southerly sneakings of barges and
small ships along the European coast be-
tween Ostend and Le Havre and the re-
markable strength and nature of the
Luftwaffe between Amsterdam and
Brest, where it had been strengthened by
160 long-distance bomber aircraft from
Norway. Short-range dive-bombers had
been redeployed at forward aerodromes
in the Pas de Calais area. Four spies in
a rowing boat were captured; they ad-
mitted that they were to be ready at any
time in the next fortnight to report the
movement of British reserve formations
in the Oxford-Ipswich-London-Reading
area. The moon was most favorable for
invasion on September 8-10.
It seemed that German preparations
were at a stage when the attack might
begin at any time. The German attacks
from the air on aerodromes and aircraft
plants arid certain other phases of the
air attack provided warning signals. So
the word “Cromwell,” the “invasion
imminent” signal, was issued at 8 p.m.,
September 7, to the Eastern and Southern
Commands and to the reserve IV and
VII Corps in the London District To
the formations in the south this implied
an “action-stations” call; to the reserves
a call to be prepared at ‘ short notice.
Then enthusiastic Home, Guard com-
manders, without orders, rang church
bells, and rumor had full play with tales
of parachute troops.
The truth was that the collapse of the
operation was due to Goring’s failure to
win the first phase of the battle —that
in the air. In the Battle of Britain he
came up against a number of surprising
factors, such as radar, new aircraft aim-
ing devices, rocket-gun batteries and other
wonders which the Russians were invent-
ing three years later, thus making boo-hoo
boys in Sydney sick for shame at the
backwardness of effete Britain.


aluiaifs
r
m
i
a
HATS OF
QUALITY
SMOKE-OH!
TO the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Lewis is the most-discussed, most-feared
man in America. A twitch of his eyebrows
can affect the lives of millions.” — “Sun.”
Then it’s time Americans refused to be
brow-beaten.
•i* SE* . •h
“Turkeys are now receiving their final
Christmas fattening.”— “Sun”
People will keep on stuffing them even
after they’re dead.
“There are certain boundaries of conduct,
of dressing, of good taste.” — Woman’s paper.
But many girls try to make a hit right
over the fence.
4* 4*
“The average woman has a vocabulary of
only 500 words.” —‘‘New Idea.”
The low selection, though, is more than
offset by the high turnover.
The two masked men crept through a
window into the exotic apartment. One
switched on the light.
“Not that one, Claude,” said the fas-
tidious one. “It’s too garish, somehow.
The little shaded lamp, perhaps.”
“He has some gorgeous things,
Clarence,” said the other. “Just look
at that statuette. Where’s the dilly-bag
•—I positively must have this?”
“Mf word, isn’t that a Heysen?” ex-
claimed Clarence, clasping his hands be-
fore a small watercolor. “I adore
Heysen; do put it in, Claude.”
Claude ran his fingers idly over the
keys of the grand piano, picking out the
first notes of a Schubert concerto.
“Lovely thing, that,” Clarence com-
mented.
“The piano? No room in the dilly-
bag, old boy.”
“No, that thing you’re playing.”
Claude blushed beneath his mask and
turned away shyly.
“Flatterer!” he simpered. “I wonder
if he’s got a ’cello?” But Clarence was
standing lost in ecstasy in front of the
sideboard.
“Look, Claude, it’s that marvellous
’93 port,” he enthused. “Remember the
bottle we found in that bookmaker’s
flat?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” said Claude. “I
always did prefer the ’O7. A much
better year, really.” >
“Never mind, do try some of this. The
goblets are simply perfect. Remind me
to pack them.”
They were discussing vintages and
bouquets when the police arrived.
“Beg!”
Clarence was most upset at not being
allowed to finish his third glass, but
Claude took it philosophically.
“Never mind, old boy,” he said sooth-
ingly. “I’ve always thought the view
from Long Bay was rather sweet. Re-
mind me to do it in oils.”
Plum.
The average Australian stage comedian’s
jokes are 10 years old,” declares leading
manager.
The brain-children of radio comedians
are not so precocious. Most of them were
old enough to vote at the recent election.
“Rissoles are a part of England's history.”
—Culinary note.
So that’s why they keep on repeating.
•h 4* *l*
“What does C.S.I.R. stand for?” asks reader
of a daily.
Almost anything, judged by the Mount-
joy appointment.
“College head advocates three lives for
women.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Catty women will do better than this.
“The new star Jorja Curtdght isn’t pretty,
it’s her looks.” —Film guff.
Likewise Jack Lang isn’t vocal —it’s his
speeches.
4* 4* f
A Communist is a fellow who works
like hell to stop anyone else working
like hell.
The only time some of these punters
ever get anything out of their systems is
when they’re operated on for appendicitis.
•J* •J*
“Butcher’s shop in court.” —Melbourne ‘'Sun”
The accused was made a chopping-
block by the prosecutor, whilst the
barristers, not a bit worried about the
pickle everyone was; in, hopped in for
their chop.
Painless Surgery.
“When John Fritz, of Chicago, comes home
dnmk his wife hides his artificial feet and lets
him sleep it off.” —“Sunday Telegraph!'
If you find, when with alcohol you’ve
plied them.
Your feet take a notion to do as they
please.
And on a hypothetic trapeze
Defy your well-meant efforts to guide
them ♦
Till you sit in impotent wrath beside them
And curse your errant extremities,
You’d attain a certain measure of ease
If someone would take them off and hide
them.
But in the. dawn, with your temples split-
ting,
Your tongue befurred and your throat
emitting
Volcanic vapors, you’ll apprehend
After a late, convivial sitting,
A similar sort of detachable fitting
Would be handier still at your opposite
end.
P. M. LUSK.
Love’s Appetite.
“He met a nice girl at the ‘Britain Can Make
It’ exhibition, but she said she was for export
only.”— “Sun.’-’
Though she was nice enough to eat
It would have been presumption
To try this gastronomic feat,
She’s NOT for home consumption.
BERT.
Burglary De Luxe.
“While one thief played Beethoven on the
owner’s piano to drown the noise, another
thief ransacked a luxurious London flat.”
“Daily Telegraph."
Nuisance.
As I parade around the house
(Or should I say the flat?)
I’m often followed by a mouse.
Though maybe it’s a rat;
It’s definitely not a grouse,
Because it wears a hat.
Whene’er I tell it to be gone
It passes me a wink,
And, judging by the leers upon
Its whiskered face, I think
This troublesome phenomenon
Is much the worse for drink.
T. W. NATHAN.
In the Gun.
“Shotgun wanted urgently.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
Her father’s heart is glad —
He’s going to a wedding ;
With snakes he isn’t mad.
Her father’s heart is glad.
But just look out, you cad.
Or there will be blood-shedding /
Her father’s heart is glad —
He’s going to a wedding.
D. H. E.
Force of Habit.
He used to be a merchant whose
Commodity was lace;
Ere horses, women, wine and Jews
Had scratched him from the race.
However, habit sticks like tar ;
It’s difficult to kill;
You’ll strike him now in any bar —
He’s selling laces still.
BRLAN BUREAU.
First and Last Appearance.
“Fifty professional Santa Clauses in Detroit,
Michigan, are demanding a wage rise to 14s.
an hour, because ‘a proper, chubby Santa
must eat a lot, and expensively.’ ”
This recalls my own brief career as an
enziffed professional Yuletide patter of
little ones.
I was sitting on the back of my neck
one morning studying form in the
women’s magazine section of the paper
when my wife tartly suggested that I
prove I wasn’t absolutely useless by trying
for a job as Santa Claus which one of
the big stores was advertising. As spine-
bashing has little charm when ear-bashing
is a corollary I went.
The general-manager, a brusque man,
eyed me up and down in swift appraisal.
“H’m! Duck’s disease and lolly-legs,” he
commented brutally. “If he had a few
more navels he’d make a passable piccolo.
Hang half-a-pound of cotton-wool around
his phiz and he’d probably go in the
hocks under its weight. Nb —shovel him
out.”
The staff-manager whispered something
to him, after which I heard the g.-m.
say in a shocked voice: “The only appli-
cant T’ Then he grated on, bitterly: /“1
pray for a Falstaff and I'm sent a Cassius!
Well, take him on, but we may as well go
the whole hog now and invite the kids in
our next ad. to come and meet Dor-
kins’s Dehydrated Daddy Christmas”—
and strode out.
The next day, installed in my trappings,
I was reaching up to pat a toy-seekef on
the head when I saw the g.-m. and the
s.-m. some little distance away screwing
me olf. After I had told the child that
I couldn’t give him a toy fire-engine, but
I’d promise to put a box of cigars and a
bottle of castor oil in his stocking, the
pair came over. It was the trump who
spoke up.
“We’ve decided to feed you up in the
hope of fattening you quickly,” he an-
nounced. “You’ll have the run of the
dining-room. Lash into as much tucker
as you can eat and don’t spare the diges-
tive tract. And if you feel like something
between meals as well there are hot pies
laid on. But for someone’s sake, Claude,
if not for mine, see if you can look less
like a cadaver —looking at you now
customers will expect to hear, not the
rattle of sleigh-bells, but the death-
rattle ! ”
Now, I happen to have a strange fond-
ness for eating, so naturally I took the
trump joyfully at his word. The chef
hit the roof when I used to lob in and
demand a seven-course breakfast, but he
couldn’t do much about it. The between-
meals pies I bowled over must have put
as great a strain on the pastry-roller as
they did on my dexterity. After all, eat- 1
ing hot pies through a thick face-mat of
cotton-wool with one hand and patting
kids on the head with the other and try-
ing to chase the gravy around as it
squirted out both sides of the pie is, I
claim, no mean feat. With all this pie-
eating, too, my ziff began to get a rather
gravy-stained look, so that the mechanical
staff had to keep manufacturing relays of
beavers for me. But soon it got that I
couldn’t look a piece of gristle in the face
and I swung over to sausage-rolls.
About a fortnight after I’d been there
the g.-m. came along and gave me the
once-over, then shook his head more in
anger than in sorrow. “You’re as skinny
as ever, Claude/’ he said at last ini
despair. “What are you made of?
You’ve eaten your way through about
forty quids’ worth of tucker, to say
nothing of a couple of gross of pies, and
you still look as if you’d saw a reindeer
in halves if you were to ride him bare-
back.”
“Why, I thought I was getting quite a
pot-belly,” I said proudly.
He glowered. “It’s probably a pimple
on your stomach through scoffing too
much pastry,” he said. Then he grew
thoughtful. “Perhaps,” he said at last,
“if you were to drink beer it might help.
If it fattens brewery horses it might fix
you. Anyway, try it. Soak up as much
as you can every night after you knock
off and charge it to the firm.”
Now, I am nothing if not conscientious.
Part-time beer treatment would not be
fair to the boss, so I decided to make it
full-time. I therefore borrowed a dozen
rubber hot-water bags from stock and
had them filled at the pub opposite.
When the kiddies came along with their
orders for Santa I’d put on a funny act
by up-ending the bag and pretend to .
blow it up. But instead of blowing I’d
be sucking.
One afternoon, a few days before
Christmas, the store was crowded. I had
just polished-off my eleventh bag and was
beginning, under its mellow influence,
to entertain homicidal thoughts towards
all children, when an outsize brat ol
about ten who had apparently not been
told the Facts of Life came up with his
doting mother and demanded loudly that
I bring him a large Hornby train. In-
censed, I told him to shunt off before he
got a boot in the grummet, whereupon
he up with an air-gun his mother had
just bought him and blew my beard off.
In the stand-up fight with his mother
that followed I was almost holding my
own until the kid set me on fire with a
cigarette-lighter. I was just extinguishing
myself with the last bagful of beer when
the manager, attracted by the uproar,
dashed up. By this time the kid, who had
got too close to my breath, was stagger-
ing around saying “There’sh the shkele-
ton-man, Mumsh —remember him at the
shircush?”
Need we go further?
Bo
Unpoetic.
The poet’s eager eyes were on the sand.
His chosen hour of joy was close at hand.
That honeyed hour when sombre work
and care
Were captured in Oblivions crushing
snare.
He came not there to stir poetic fancy,.
To write an ode upon a wavelet’s dance.
He
Arrived instead a fit of blues to cure
Deflating fat bluebottles with a skewer!
EVE.


From public house..
m
m
S.:
i I
;
m
mg.
S S 3?
-
3
H
m
ii
.. .to modern hotel (Great Northern Hotel, Newcastle)
The old-fashioned public house served the needs of an earlier day, but now it
is giving way to the luxuriously appointed and well planned modern hotel.
Important features of the present-day hotel include comfortable bedroom accom-
modation, a good dining service and spacious bars and lounges. In addition to
convenient drinking conditions for the general public, every consideration is
given to the needs of tourists and guests. The improved standard of N.S.W.
hotels is due, in no small measure, to Tooth's pre-war reconstruction policy,
which will be resumed as soon as conditions permit.
SYDNEY
Makers of Good Beer since 1835
ON REFERENDUM DAY
Mark your ballot paper
3, 2. 1, from the top
for 10 o'clock closing
Remember you must number
EVERY square


ESCAPE OF A PRISONER
BY E.O. SCHLUNKE
""HT HE escape of the Italian prisoner-of-war
f Leonardo Finoti caused a great stir in Chepley
V, and the surrounding districts. Farmers kept a
wary eye open for a crouching figure ; they left
loaded guns in their houses for their wives’ protection,
and took care to keep their daughters inside, especi-
ally in the evenings.
Even in the near-by towns the people huddled
more closely together, plaintively blaming various;
authorities for allowing such things to happen.
Leonardo Finoti was delivered to the farm of
Albert Renshaw, Esq., in a tilted military truck in
charge of a - lieutenant, assisted by a sergeant-inter-
preter, two corporals and a private. He was small,
even for an Italian, with big, sad, brown eyes and a
face which started characteristically
round on top, but ended in a long,
melancholy chin. His shoulders
were hunched and there was a
general air of long-suffering pessi-
mism about him.
When they arrived Leonardo
looked curiously out of the back of
the truck, first at the homestead,
which was impressively substantial;
then at the narrow valleys of
grazing land dotted with sheep;
then at the dark timber-covered
hills which surrounded them on all
sides. No other house was visible.
Leonardo looked uneasy.
“Molto solamente,” he said
to the interpreter.
“Oh, you won’t be very lonely,” said the inter-
preter.
“Lupi in foresta?” Leonardo asked, nervously
glancing at the scrub.
“No wolves in Australia,” the interpreter assured
him, smiling patronisingly.
But Leonardo, listening intently to a strange
howling and yelping which came from the edge of
the timber, looked only half convinced. He got down
from the truck as if he had neuritis in all his joints.
This was not like the reports they had heard from
other p.-0.-w. who had volunteered for farm work, of
rows of farms with fellow-prisoners on each, all
within hailing distance; reunions in the evenings,
bright times at week-ends, and friendly, easygoing
farmers for “padroni.” He was just-in the act of lifting
out the usual home-made tin trunk and three-ply suit-
case of the p.-0.-w. when he first saw his future em-
ployer. He stopped dead, and stared with his luggage
arrested at chest height.
It was a mistake on Leonardo’s part because
Renshaw did not like being stared at. No one was
sure what kind of blood was responsible for his
swarthy complexion and sensuous mouth, but his
saturnine expression and his ready scowl were prob-
ably the result of people acting like Leonardo, when
they first saw him. He was an enormously tall man,
very'’ well built, and he carried himself with an arro-
gant, soldierly bearing as if to show his contempt for
ordinary people. He had just come home from, his
paddocks and carried a rifle slung over his shoulder.
Leonardo turned abruptly to the interpreter and
spoke rapidly in Italian. He seemed to be very
agitated. The interpreter listened, frowningly at first,
then he began to grin, shooting quick glances at
Renshaw.
The lieutenant came round and said, “Now, what’s
the matter here?”
The interpreter hesitated, then smiled broadly as
if the joke was really too good to keep. “He says that
Mr. Renshaw looks like an Indian Sikh, and he doesn't
want to stay on a lonely place like this with him be-
cause (he says) the Sikhs are very bad men.”
The whole p.-0.-w. truck staff had a good look at
Renshaw and grinned, though furtively because they
could see that he was not taking it well.
Leonardo, still clutching his luggage to his breast,
turned to the soldiers and exclaimed dramatically,
“In Egypt; Indian Sikh dead two prigionieri Italiano ;
amici mio.”
He put his cases back in the truck 1 and gave a
pantomime of how his friends had merely marched
a bare 11 inches out of line and the Indian had shot
them “Bong! Bong! ”
Everyone burst into laughter. The lieutenant
made a careless gesture and the corporals threw out
Leonardo’s luggage. The truck started up; Leonardo
looked round in wild alai^m; he made a dive at the
truck, but the driver accelerated quickly and he fell flat.
He got up, dusted his over-large red uniform carefully,
then went and gave himself up. Renshaw showed him
to his room, without attempting, to calm his fears,
then went and told his wife that the Italian was a
“blasted fool.”
LEONARDO did not appear in answer to the tea
bell because several sheepdogs were running loose
and were eager to examine him. Renshaw had to go
and bring him in.
Leonardo looked relieved to find that Mrs. Ren-
shaw was fair and not much taller than he was, but
he ate his meal quickly and quietly, nervously trying
to imitate the Renshaws’ methods. of handling knife
and fork. He politely declined Mrs. Renshaw’s offer
of illustrated magazines, saying “No Inglese.” When
she tried to tell him to look at the pictures he became
so distressed at being unable to understand that she
gave up.
Renshaw got up early next morning, but the
prisoner was up before him gloomily breaking the
ice in his water-tank to have a wash. Renshaw said
“Good morning” in as cordial a manner as he could.
Leonardo dropped the dish, looked helplessly at Ren-
shaw, then ran wildly and grabbed an axe that hap-
pened to be near by; he looked expectantly at Ren-
shaw, who shook his head peevishly.
Leonardo dived for a shovel, making digging
motions with it to show how well he understood.
Renshaw shrugged his shoulders and walked away.
Leonardo remained standing With the shovel in his
hands for five minutes, looking puzzled and very de-
jected.
After breakfast Renshaw loaded Leonardo with
a cyanide rabbit-burrow fumigator and a mattock.
Then he tied up the sheepdogs which had kept
Leonardo pinned down all the morning and led the
way to a high netting enclosure at some distance from
the house. In the cage were half a dozen dogs, most
of them big and all of them very ugly. They howled
and yelped as they saw the men approaching.
Leonardo hung back terrified as Renshaw opened
the gate. “Similar lupi,” he said quaveringly.
The dogs plunged out of the gate in a frenzy of
excitement. They knew that the fumigator meant
hunting and crowded round Leonardo trying to jump
up on him and wejre obviously disconcerted when he
cowered away from under their paws. Then they all
plunged into the scrub and disappeared.
The men had just
stopped near the first rabbit
warren when a great noise of
crashing undergrowth and
yelping dogs broke out in the
scrub, rapidly becoming
louder. The dogs broke
cover only a chain away in a
tight bunch behind a small
and terrorised rabbit. The
rabbit, as if realising
Leonardo’s harmlessness,
dived between his legs for the
nearest burrow. The leading
staghound crashed into
Leonardo, knocking him
over, all the other dogs piled
on top of them and an all-in
fight broke out. Renshaw
joined in, kicking hard at
everything.
When it was all over
Leonardo looked surprised
to find that he was still alive
and expected to work.
Renshaw showed
Leonardo how to pump the
cyanide fumes into the
warren. He did it very reluc-
tantly ; it seemed that all his
sympathies were on the side
of the rabbits. Sometimes one would make a
dash for life out of the burrows, but Renshaw invari-
ably got it with his gun. Leonardo was very much
impressed by the excellent shooting, but it did not
make him any happier.
Each time they finished a warren Renshaw would
smile grimly, write a number on the ground with a
stick, *and say “Fifty dead ” or “a hundred dead."
It seemed to have a most demoralising effect on
Leonardo.
DENSHAW told his wife that Leonardo was a
1 miserable, useless fellow, but she said to him,
“Don’t be too hard on him. Can’t you see that the
poor little fellow is scared to death?”
When Leonardo came in Mrs. Renshaw went to
a great deal of trouble, getting some infant photo-
graphs and making all sorts of signs to tell
him that she had two children. Leonardo
looked quite pleased. Then she showed him
on the calendar that they would be home
from school at the end of the week. A faint
smile flickered over Leonardo’s face.
“Fanchuli good,” he said, and when he
had finished his meal he nearly stood up
straight as he walked out.
“There you are,” said Mrs. Renshaw to
her husband, “see how he reacts to a little
kindness.”
The next morning when Leonardo came in foi
breakfast he looked significantly at the calendar, held
up five fingers and said “Fanchuli chinque.”
Mrs. Renshaw nodded and smiled. Leonardo
smiled back at her quite happily.
Renshaw took him fumigating again, but Leonardo
liked it no better, though he ( was delighted when he
caught a little rabbit which came staggering out of the
burrow just as he started pumping the fumes in. He
carried it round in his pocket for several hours, taking
it out at intervals to stroke it, talk to it and encourage
it. He had it showing signs of returning his affection
when one of the staghounds sneaked on him and
snatched it from his hands. Leonardo shed a quantity
of silent tears.
In the evening Mrs. Renshaw smiled on Leonardo
and said “Fanchuli four days,” exaggerating a bit be-
cause he looked so low,
Leonardo managed a weak smile for her sake, but
he ate little and quickly and escaped to his room.
By morning he seemed to have rallied and he said,
almost mischievously, to Mrs. Renshaw as if correcting
her wishful thinking, “Fanchuli four days adesso.”
Renshaw was scowling more fiercely than usual
over his breakfast, because he had a difficult job to
do in which he needed a lot of help from Leonardo;
and he couldn’t think of how he was going to make
him understand. He took him to the cowyard and
explained very slowly and patiently, using only the
simplest words and many well-thought-out signs, that
he wanted to catch and tie a young steer.
Leonardo listened earnestly and attentively, but at
the end shook his head and said dismally, “No
unnerstan’.”
Renshaw swore profanely. He gave him a big,
long stick and showed him how he was to keep the
steer’s mother safely in a corner while Renshaw
lassoed its offspring.
The cow soon learned that Leonardo was terrified
of it. It escaped several times and tried hard to
disembowel Renshaw, Renshaw got hold of Leonardo
and shook him to show that he was more to be
feared than the cow.
Leonardo did better after that.
Renshaw lassoed the calf, threw it and tried to
tie it. But it was a lusty young animal, fed on milk
straight from the cow and determined to retain its
privileges if it was bovinely possible. It gave Renshaw
a prodigious kick in the stomach and got to its feet
again. Renshaw threw it again, but still could not tie
it; he called to Leonardo to come and help him.
Leonardo rushed to obey and the cow saw its chancel
It got Renshaw while he was crouching and nearly
“ We Won't bother about it, Steve —she runs smoother on the rims, anyhow!"
pushed him through the netting fence before he could
get away from its horns.
Renshaw wiped the sweat and dust from his eyes.
He took a look around, but said never a word. He
picked up a heavy iron-bar and hit the cow so hard
on the horns that he broke one off and it retreated,
bellowing. He laid the calf out with a blow behind
the ears and tied it with savage deliberation. Only
when he was finished did he turn to Leonardo. Still
wordless, he seized him above the elbow and pulled
him towards the homestead. Leonardo went quite
limp and had to be dragged.
“Oh, meester; no dead,” he said several times.
Renshaw took him to his room and locked him
in. He left him there until the next morning, explain-
ing to Mrs. Renshaw that he was being punished for
trying to murder him.


mm
& K o
" \ A<<\V „<•
,s« ,*
.. < c to V 6 * 6 * .
\' „ m&\*, * \ ®*\ „o
„* “"^'f' o V* •
‘“Vt < s.*!>
» s
*0 A3V,
V’V*'
fi*
0 o''
.i /ft
V
> tS >*
.iiN . -p> s
. ** * V *<*« C °>V
'° >sv- k 0
**»''*
A\* A , '
\ a \> X 6 k 3 r v c
'\ s e V/'*V\» 1
*°'v
•Vo ,\e s
A 6
»v>e< **;> v
•s;s2'>
.•<o
Illustrated is a blue
and silver Pioneer
Roadcruiser. Ad-
justable, aircraft-
type seats, wide
windows, radio and
public address sys-
tems give to these
Roadcruiser s,
lounge-like luxury.
iieer
tours
MELBOURNE
MU6014
SYDNEY
8U5511
BRISBANE
84635
ADELAIDE
C 2514
KUCHING’S
Travel Goods Specialists
Zipper
Overnight
Bags
IN ALL SIZES
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station BW 7133
WHEN Leonardo came in for breakfast next morn-
ing Mrs. Renshaw smiled at him to show that
she forgave him. But Leonardo looked at Renshaw
with such apprehensive eyes that she asked her hus-
band to allow Leonardo to work in her garden for
the day. She showed him the flowers, most of them
familiar to him, even their names being similar.
“In Italia, rosa,” Leonardo would say, beaming
at her. It was a great day for him.
Mrs. Renshaw was very pleased with Leonardo’s
help, so Renshaw handed him
over to her again the next day,
without any reluctance. She set
him to work in the house, and he
was so thorough in his work, so
obedient and so eager to please
that she began to consider adopt-
ing him as her houseboy. She
even took him to town with her
in the car to open gates and carry
parcels for her; but there she
made an error.
Many people in the town
saw him and were horrified. They
gathered into tense little grqups
discussing it. One group was alarmed that a woman
should expose herself and the townspeople to the
dangerous violence of an enemy soldier; the others
sfeethed with annoyance and asked each other what
the boys in the forces would say when they heard
about Italian prisoners being petted and pampered
and taken for rides in cars.
Renshaw heard about the sensation and was very
annoyed. He took Leonardo in hand again next morn-
ing, showed him a great pile of wood and made him
understand that he was to cut it all that day. At
noon Leonardo was very tired and discouraged, but
Mrs. Renshaw revived him by telling him that the
“fanchuli” would arrive soon. He had the job well in
hand when they appeared.
Mrs. Renshaw called him over, but all his enthu- -
siasm for the “children” vanished when he saw that
they were taller than he with great chests on them and
tremendous muscular shoulders which made them the
pride of the school football team, They greeted him
cheerfully, and so slangily that he couldn’t understand
a single word.
While the boys ate a great “feed,” Mrs. Renshaw
told them how lonely and miserable Leonardo was and
asked them to show him a little friendliness. The boys
agreed readily enough. They went to where he was
chopping steadily and by word and sign invited him
to accompany them. Leonardo shook his head regret-
fully, and pointed to the remaining wood. The boys
threw the logs back on top of the main heap and
carried him off, protesting and apprehensive.
As soon as they were screened from the house
by the scrub they pulled a couple of .303 military rifles
from a hollow log. The rifles had recently been
issued to them as military cadets, and they had brought
them home against the strongly expressed wishes of
their father.
When the boys began to load the rifles Leonardo
turned deathly pale. They handled the weapons with
such complete disregard of all elementary precautions
against accident as would have earned them a court-
martial in any army in the world.
Leonardo said “Scusami,” and went through the
motions of chopping wood.
But the boys patted him on the back to show
friendliness and to reassure him. Meanwhile the
nozzles of their loaded rifles wandered over various
parts of his body. They instructed him to march
ahead of them at the edge of the scrub and chase
the rabbits towards them. Leonardo’s eyes popped out
when he realised how poor his chances of survival
were. As soon as the scrub hid him from sight he
turned about and ran for home.
He went straight for the woodheap, hoping for
time to finish before dark; but, when he arrived,
Renshaw was there. He looked hard at Leonardo
panting, terrified and obviously guilty. But just then
there was a fusillade of shots from the bush.
After tea the boys came to Leonardo’s room in
a very worried state. By using their villainously bad
school Latin they contrived to make him understand
that if he betrayed them he would be “mortum.”
Leonardo promised lavishly.
IT was not a happy week-end for Leonardo. Ren-
-1 shaw was suspicious, the boys apprehensive.
Renshaw kept prowling about like an indefatig-
able detective, but he discovered nothing until Mon-
day morning, when he identified the logs of wood the
boys had thrown back on to the woodheap. He
pounced on Leonardo and it was not long before he
knew everything.
Before the boys left for school they got hold of
Leonardo and indicated by fearful signs of throat-
cutting and hanging-by-the-neck just what they were
going to do to him when they returned next week-end.
Renshaw poured most of his wrath on poor
Leonardo because he remained on the spot. He was
just quietening down a little when he remembered that
he had intended getting the boys to help him lower
the hayframe on to his motor lorry before they left.
In a calm state of mind Renshaw would have
realised that it was impossible to do the job assisted
only by Leonardo, but now he rushed into it, bellow
ing at Leonardo.
The hayframe was a large, heavy construction
of hardwood, which had been suspended by a wire at
each corner high up under the roof of a shed, Ren-
shaw drove his truck under the frame, and proceeded
to show Leonardo how the lowering was to be accom-
plished. His method was cautiously- to untwist one
wire at a time, just sufficient to allow the corner to be
eased down a little, and then secured again. The
wires were old and rusted and repeated twisting and
untwisting had made them very brittle. Leonardo was
frankly terrified of having to stand under the heavy
frame and lower it by this precarious method.
. “Possible disgrazia,” he said, anticipating an acci-
dent.
Renshaw seized oa the familiar sounding word.
“I’ll disgrace you, you yellow he said threaten-
ingly.
Leonardo did as he was told.
The very first time he tried to do a corner on his
own he was taken by surprise by the weight of the
frame; he could not check it once it started to come
down. The other wire at his end broke under the
sudden, double strain, and the whole frame came
crashing down on the lorry. Leonardo’s timidity saved
him, but Renshaw hadn’t a chance.
He lay flat on the truck with the bars of the
gate across him in three places. Leonardo gazed at
him, white-faced, incapable of movement.
. After a while Renshaw began to struggle. He
raised his bleeding head and looked at Leonardo with
murderous eyes, but neither by word nor sign did he
demand Leonardo’s help. Leonardo moved his hands
and feet in extreme agitation ; perhaps he remembered
Renshaw’s silence when he knocked the calf uncon-
scious.
He continued to gaze fas-
cinated at Renshaw slowly ex-
tricating his long, bruised and
battered body from under the
hayframe. Renshaw remained
silent except for a few soft
grunts. He kept staring to-
wards the side of the shed to
which he was creeping ; so per-
sistently, that Leonardo looked
there, too. Leaning against the
wall were the boys’ confiscated rifles.
Leonardo waited no longer ; perhaps he remem-
bered the rabbits as he ran, dodging frantically until
he reached the shelter of the scrub.
The escape of the Italian p.-0.-w. Leonardo Finoti
caused great alarm in the locality. The news was
flashed over the radio and reported in all the news-
papers. Nobody within 50 miles of Chepley felt safe ;
the police stations were reinforced, and the company
commander of the V.D.C. ordered all his men to be
ready to go into action at a moment’s notice.


THE POSSUMS
By Cecil
mann
SURPRISING little
things, ’possums.
Coming in out of
the night on to the
balcony without fear, as
if sure of a welcome.
Not a balcony some-
where in the bush, but
right in North Sydney.
Up on the side of the
hill overlooking the
Harbor and the city. As
good as in the heart of
the city itself. Just a
stone’s throw across the
Bridge.
Very surprising. Take Joe, for instance, and Mr.
Hutch.
Come to that, Mr. Hutch was on the surprising
side himself. The neighbors thought so, anyway. So
—only because Mr. Hutch had been as good as his
word —did Mr. .Hutch’s landlord. At first Mr. Hutch
had tried the approach subservient: simply pointing
out that the ice-chest was rusted and leaking and
needed a new inside. That approach failing, Mr.
Hutch declared flatly that if something wasn’t done
about it he’d personally “throw the damn’ thing in
the Harbor.” Next scene had been Mr. Hutch setting
off down the hill on a Sunday morning with the ice-
chest on his shoulder. Arrived at the Kirribilli wharf,
he unhesitatingly did throw the thing into the Harbor,
to the great entertainment of the small boys fishing
there for yellow-tail. Then he went back up the hill
home again, with as clear a conscience as the Village
Blacksmith.
Back home, Mrs. Hutch asked him, with ordinary
feminine curiosity, if he had seen anything of their
four lamb chops and half-pound of butter; but, said
Mr. Hutch, “You should have thought of that before,
girl,” and she couldn’t have been Mrs. Hutch if that
hadn’t seemed to her perfectly logical.
It was not quite the same when Mr. Hutch made
the home brew. (His name, by the way, was Leonard:
“My little Lennie,” Mrs. Hutch not always unlovingly
called him. But the neighbors and the people living
on the floor beneath all called him Mr.; it may have
been because they didn’t quite know what to make of
him, or because most of them would have liked to
throw their ice-chests into the Harbor, too, with their
landlords inside. Therefore, Mr. be it, even though it’s
too old for him and doesn’t go either with his carefree
appearance or his acts.)
The home brew happened at the time Sydney had
been drunk bone dry by the invading Yanks. Mr.
Hutch wasn’t really put to desperate straits by that.
He could have subsisted, after a fashion, on water.
It was the injustice of the thing that stung him. Hence
the home brew.
The occupant of the other floor, above which Mr.
Hutch lived, had had a shot at it earlier, using what
was reputed to be the recipe of a Church of England
clergyman in Queensland; but either the versatile
divine had omitted some important part of the ritual,
or, as seemed more likely, had put in a chapter and
verse too much. At all events, the entire two dozen
quart bottles went off in explosions one after another
in the night, a cannonade most disheartening and
macabre.
That recipe had included
hops, gelatine, sugar and other
ingredients at the time costly
and difficult to come by. Mr.
Hutch thereupon bethought
him of a simpler one he had
heard of; as used, he had been
told, by some of the finest
fighting troops in the line. A
very simple one. Take a melon,
pumpkin or some other such
fruit or vegetable (Mr, Hutch
took a pumpkin; a big one).
Cut a circular piece out of the
top so that it can be fitted back
in again. Scoop out seeds ; fill
with sugar. Then put the plug
back in and set aside to work.
Whether this recipe is the
one used by the gods to provide their elixir will have
to be asked of any other authority except Mr. Hutch.
For a while it cost him his wife, and that was some-
thing.
Whatever great mind may have first thought of
the pumpkin recipe, it called for the peculiar genius
of Mr. Hutch to think of putting his version of it in
on the top shelf of the wardrobe, which was vacant
because it was too high for Mrs. Hutch \to reach.
There in due course, perhaps through some flaw in
it, the pumpkin burst, cascading its dreadful contents
over Mrs. Hutch’s best hat (not only her best hat, but
her only hat), her red handbag and what have you,
ruining the lot.
“You’re one to talk about justice!” said Mrs.
Hutch. “What justice is there in that? I’m off.”
CT HE did go, too ; and it took Mr, Hutch’s wedding
to bring her back. But a lot of ’possums were to
flow up to the balcony before that happened.
Joe was the first of them, and Mr. Hutch was to
learn a good deal from and about Joe. Maybe Joe
learned quite a lot about Mr. Hutch, too. Whether it
is Joe or Mr. Hutch who now has the better idea*
about the general run of each other’s kind is perhaps
a rather open question.
As a passing point of interest—though the
neighbors, and particularly the people living below,
know it well enough—Mr. Hutch earns his share of the
Hutch income using two implements only occasionally
found in such affinity: a typewriter and an easel. He
has them both out on the balcony: the typewriter on
1 the table, and the easel standing at his left side, where,
being a large one and the balcony being only half
glassed-in along the front, it acts as a breakwind.
What Mr. Hutch mostly writes is children’s stories,
peopled with fantastic and fabu-
lous characters, which he illus-
trates himself. Every child by
this time surely is familiar with
Old Shovel-nose and the Old
Griffin with a face like a bit of
Biffin. Still, what Mr. Hutch
writes isn’t really to the purpose.
Much more to the point here is
how he writes it.
That, briefly, he does by
pounding on his typewriter. Out
there at the table on the balcony,
with the electric light shining
from above at the back of him, he
•sits at night and pounds away.
Pounds is not anything too heavy
a word. He gives it a great hid-
ing, and the more interested he
gets in Old Shovel-nose and the Old Griffin with a face
like a bit of Biffin the harder he belts, and the sharper
the little bell keeps ringing on the typewriter.
Between such bursts Mr. Hutch can look out
through tfee glassed-in front, first at the spreading
acacia-like tree with its long, thin branches barked
in places from rubbing against the panes in the
southerly winds, and away through the tree to the
walling hills all a-glitter at night with their lights about
the Harbor, and the ferry-boats here and there drag-
ging their golden caipets through the water.
One night there, not long after Mrs. Hutch left
home, Mr. Hutch had been pounding away in great
style when, finding he had got the Old Griffin into a
particularly nasty spot, he stretched back looking up-
wards, wondering how he’d get him out of it. To his
astonishment he found
himself looking straight
into a sharply puzzled
little face, peering down
at him from the rafter-
beam above the glassed-
in front, within easy
reach of his hand, stand-
ing up.
A grey little pointed
face, with a pink circle
about as big as a six-
pence for the end of its
nose, and sharp pricky-
up ears, it was staring
down round-eyed at him
as if trying to puzzle out why he had been giving the
typewriter such a fearful hiding.
Mr. Hutch —it’s quite ridiculous to keep on calling
him Mr., but the neighbors do it —hadn’t ever seen a
live ’possum before, but he knew what it was at once,
as who wouldn’t? So he not only extended a friendly
greeting but performed a christening.
“Hello, Joe,” he said; “where on earth did you
spring from?”
The face on the rafter peered slightly forward,
evidently satisfied with the sound of Mr. Hutch’s
voice. Coming just into the light, its little round nose
shone pinker. Mr. Hutch saw its small, handlike
paws gripping over the edge of the rafter and its bushy
tail curved outside the pane.
“I know what’s biting you, Joe,” Mr. Hutch de-
clared. “Just dropped in for kai, eh? Biscuits for
boys ; that’s the stuff to give ’em, isn’t it?”
Mr. Hutch went inside and returned with a
handful of sugar-coated biscuits. Joe accepted one
from him, and squatted up holding it in both little
paws, nibbling; but, having nibbled out only a small
half-moon, Joe jerked the biscuit out of his paw into
the air with a movement which seemed to Mr. Hutch
most histrionically like a gesture of contempt.
“Damn’ particular for your size, Joe, aren’t you?”
said Mr. Hutch. “What d’you expect for fourpence,
feathers?”
Mr. Hutch had a thought, remembering he’d
heard somewhere that ’possums liked milk.
“Hang on a jiff,” he said. “I’ll get you a gargle.”
There was plenty of milk. Jugs of it; Mrs.
Hutch being away, and Mr. Hutch not having got
round to having a word with the milk-oh. Going on
the biscuit as a gauge to Joe’s appetite, Mr. Hutch
brought out only a tablespoonful.
“Here you are, Joe,” he invited, “Drink this and
you’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din.”
Joe leant down eagerly, and the pointed tip of
nose dipped deep into the spoon. Whatever it was
Joe may have thought to find there, evidently it wasn’t
milk. With a grimace of revulsion that would have
done credit to Mr. Hutch himself, Joe jerked his head
up, shook and pawed the drops vigorously from his
whiskers, seemed to glare down a look of reproach,
and then turned and leapt from under the eave on to
the nearest long branch of the tree. In a moment
he had gone along the branch out of sight.
Mr. Hutch felt so guilty about it that he tasted
the milk himself. As far as he could judge, it seemed
all right. It was out of the freshest jug, and, facing
up to another taste of it, Mr. Hutch was left with the
not unpleasing conclusion that be and Joe had at least
one thing in common.
By a like process of trial and error, Mr. Hutch
gradually learned a great deal more about Joe. For
one thing, he found that he had only to go out, switch
on the light and pound the typewriter for a while,
and sure enough Joe would emerge out of the night,
look in through the pane at him, then stand up on the
branch and, just reaching the outside of the rafter-
beam, pull himself up and take his expectant perch.
It seemed that Joe came down into the tree from some-
where up in the roof, and Mr. Hutch was quite satisfied
that he heard and regarded the regular tinkle of the
typewriter bell as his dinner-bell.
EACH night Mr. Hutch went home feeling confident
that Mrs. Hutch would by now have got as fed-
up of living without him as he was of being without
her. With his nice sense of justice he had come to
think that perhaps he should have told her he’d put
the pumpkin on the top shelf in the wardrobe. She
would have, of course, agreed, and then there wouldn’t
have been any injustice. But Mr. Hutch could no
more think of a reasonable excuse for sending for her
than he could think of one for stopping the milk.
Meanwhile there was Joe.
Begging her pardon—Josephine.
Something else Mr. Hutch learned.
At least Joe, as far as he knew,
would hardly have a pouch. So,
exercising the benefit of the doubt,
he rechristened her.
Each night she came Josephine
submitted better to Mr, Hutch’s
friendly stroking and patting. She
became civilised remarkably fast.
She still determinedly bit off any
attempts to pick her up, but she
didn’t mind his tickling her ribs,
getting hold of her short little arms
and making her sit up, burying his
fingers deep into her thick silver-
grey fur, even taking hold of both
her ears or rubbing her silver-
and-black cheeks.
Mr. Hutch tried her with every fancy food he
could think of. He bought from a shop in George-
street what looked like a most beautiful cake; a
(Continued on page 30.)
Imminent Summer.
A girl is sleeping beside the fallen tree
Whose limbs were charred by fire six years ago;
Her limbs are blackening now in the bright spring sun,
Lying like her neighbor, stretched careless, breathing
slow.
The black ants crawl from the wood to the skin of
the girl.
The wind plays with loose bark and with loose hair;
Tree knows they both must fear the imminent summer,
But cannot tell her white she sleeps on there.
Six years since he crashed, a roaring westerly
Behind the fire, branches and leaves all burning,
A halo of flame about him as he fell.
His smouldering heart said: “There is no returning
To the height of the air, and never again your branches
Will take the last, the red salute of the sun.
Dry rot for you, my lad, white ant and borer;
Your laughter and pride, flowering and seed-time
doner '
Now every summer, sodden with warm rain
Or dry to dead core, insects explore his heart;
The winter respite but delays the end.
There’s no new growth, no sap to rise and start
Impulse to leaves on the black tangled boughs;
He knows the slow decay will be complete
And surely when again the bush takes fire
This rotten frame will vanish in the heat.
She is like a tree, a sapling fallen too soon,
Nor does she wish to hear from him of rot; »
Still can stand straight, get brown grace from the sun,
Growth in her body, and pride and mirth she’s got;
Sleep in the sun is but an hour’s sleeping.
No captive to dead weight, no sorrow has she —
Only the dead wood guesses their resemblance.
Only a tree knows thus another tree.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


D
im
%
■ 11
OV^
m
MV
You mix it like this: Chop and squeeze a fresh pineapple to extract
the juice. Strain this into long glasses into which you’ve already
poured a pretty good nobbier of Vickers Gin. Now add sugar
and chips of ice and frost-cold water or soda water and give each
glass a good stir. Finally, be professional and decorate the glass
with a slice of pineapple. But be sure the gin is Vickers. Always
excellent . . . always satisfying . . . Vickers Gin is the universally
accepted drink of the times.
£IOA


<rph&lf
It)*
vX**
of**"
*>ch*
v^fi
t=%
s
I'M
qriS^X
S>- 1
/
/
/
/
\j9
/
/
tr \
if#
w ss
CHAMPION
Also in Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe.
A neat pull to square leg and the
game is beyond doubt . . . now you
can pull out your Champion Tobacco
and enjoy a smoke.
Champion Ready Rubbed in the 2oi.
"Pouchpak"...it's a Champion smoke.
We teach
mm
re time
CONTROL AND OPERATION
We teach you without drudgery, without wasting time. We teach
you the essentials, all that you will ever want to knoV to operate
any type or size of Diesel Engine. Age does not bar you from this
opportunity—we have qualified students up to 60 in well-paid Diesel
jobs. We can-qualify you, too, for this modern, congenial, well-paid
occupation if you are prepared to devote a little of your spare time
to assuring yourself a future free from worry. If you are in a
dead-end job, now is the time to hoist yourself out of it, because
any ordinary man can afford both the time and the money to take
up the Diesel Engineering College Course.
F
TRAINED
OPERATORS
WANTED FOR
r*
TRUCKS • TRACTORS
Isiiil
BUSES
TRAINS
BOATS
SHIPS
MINES • FACTORIES
EVENING LECTURES AND
PRACTICAL TRAINING
In addition to concise and interesting lessons,
diagrams and drawings, city and suburban
students—and country students, too, when in
town can attend without extra cost our
regular evening lectures and practical train-
ing on a 180 h.p. Diesel Engine. Our students
enjoy every minute of this instructive and
entertaining training course.
OVER 90% PASSES IN
GOVERNMENT EXAMINATIONS
for the Diesel Engine Drivers’ Certificate . . . That
is our proud record over the past 10 years . . .
Every day sees the Diesel Engine replacing other
mechanical power for mobile and stationary pur-
poses, opening up a vast field of opportunity for the
ambitious man. Ordinary school <(Jucation and the
will to do it is all you need to earn £8 to £ I 0 a week
and more. Post the coupon below to-day—don’t
delay or call any day or Wednesday or Friday
evenings or Saturday mornings for full information
—or ring B 2902.
FREE
V>
Send for this Booklet • FREE
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
(Estab. 10 years)
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street, Sydney.
NAME AGE.
ADDRESS.
B. 11/12/’46.
CONGENIAL WORK’GOOD WAGES*SECURI
1
circular confection four inches through and covered
with chocolate and pink and white scrolls of icing.
He handed up to Josephine a wedge of it as big as
her head. Leaning down, she accepted it with her
customary eagerness, took a bite of it, looked at Mr.
Hutch and tossed it away, almost as if throwing it at
him.
A lump of loaf sugar —a delicacy, Mr. Hutch had
been told, much preferred by ’possums —was treated
with the same, contemptuous distaste, and so it was
with an assortment of other fancy foods he secured
for her.
Mr. Hutch was being irked by the thought that
apparently all she came there for was to watch him
work, when one night, having nothing richer to offer,
he gave her a piece of bread.
Surprising things, ’possums, without a doubjt.
She took a nibble of it, chewed a while, wriggled her
furry back against a side beam for complete comfort
and, holding a side of the slice in each little paw, sat
up and waded in as avidly as a nigger with a piece of
melon.
Hungrily she finished it, looked down eagerly for
more, and, slowing down steadily as she progressed,
got through altogether four half-slices. It was wonder-
ful where she stowed it, because, though the fur
nearly a couple of inches thick made her look quite a
size for a ’possum, she had really a small body under-
neath.
The feast over, she further surprised Mr. Hutch
by wedging back into the shadowed corner, pressing
her forehead against the side beam and going at once
to sleep,
“Bread,” pondered Mr. Hutch, profoundly im-
pressed. “The staff of life. Well, I be damned.”
Not a really serious-minded man, Mr. Hutch,
Hardly. Even so, he felt that he had stumbled on to
something he hadn’t understood till then. It struck
him that, in a manner of speaking, he himself had
been living on bread all his life. What hadn’t
occurred to him, also, was that he’d been liking it.
He thought that that would go for Mrs. Hutch, too.
He felt, if not on better, at any rate on clearer, terms
with the world.
It next occurred to him that he could now send
Mrs. Hutch a telegram which could be couched in
what seemed to him the last word in conciseness and
clarity. Simply “Bread.”
On further consideration Mr. Hutch scotched the
idea. He had a ready appreciation of Mrs, Hutch’s
intelligence, but he thought that she might misunder-
stand the wire for all its obvious clearness. She might
think he hadn’t enough sense to go out and buy some.
Mr. Hutch resented such an aspersion on his common-
sense. The mere idea "of it made him go out and
empty two jugs, a saucepan and a billycan of milk
down the sink.
But, if there was no Mrs. Hutch, Josephine nightly
became more and more friendly. Mr. Hutch induced
her, with the temptation of bread, to come off the
rafter on to the top of the easel. He found, too, that
she liked such plain food as bananas and carrots, cut
in rings, but still most of all she liked bread. She ate
it at any time, sitting up with a slice of it in her paws
“Can you fold this up for me? 1 Want to put it in the wife's Christmas
stocking."
and a look of sublime peace and contentment on her
face.
Shortly Mr. Hutch had her coming down the side
of the easel on to the table in front of him to help
herself. He put out a spread for her there on a sheet
of newspaper against the glassed-in front, and while
he typed, as if she regarded the typing as sweet dinner
music, she’d sit there and eat her fill.
THAT was the stage when one night, the good word
having apparently passed around, the ’possums
came in force. At any rate, out in the tree there were
three more of them —and four ’possums dropping in
like that in North Sydney can surely be described with-
out much exaggeration as being there in force.
In strict point of fact, the other three didn’t
actually drop in. They were there in the tree, but,
evidently lacking the superb confidence of Joe-turned-
Josephine, they stayed out there like uninvited guests
looking in at the feast.
One thing else about them Mr, Hutch noticed.
One of them was like
Josephine: a beautiful big
silver-grey ball of fur. The
other two were just as evi-
dently a pair to themselves:
a different kind altogether:
comparatively little fellows,
with short, brownish fur,
rounded little fawn faces
and ears that looked
cropped, and, the most re-
markable thing about them,
extraordinarily long tails,
with only the closest cover-
ing of brownish fur for half
the length and then white
for the end half.
The lesser pair stayed
off right in the background,
towards the farther extent
of the light flooding out
from the balcony into the
tree. They looked, and
acted, with the self-con-
sciousness of poor relations.
It made Mr. Hutch feel
strongly sympathetic to-
wards them, and, taking a
piece of bread from the
table beside the feasting
Josephine, he tapped on the
pane with it, hoping to coax
them over.
As far as they were concerned it had no effect,
except to make them cock their little flattish faces up
and look more suspiciously across at what was going
on. There was, however, a positive effect on the other
stranger. Slowly, with some show of caution, it got on
to one of the branches that rubbed their bark off
against the panes and, keeping its round eyes fixed on
Mr. Hutch, made its way closer. As it came Mr.
Hutch saw that it was somewhat bigger than his
Josephine. Once, on the way, it stood erect, with
front paws held close to white waistcoated chest, and
{Continued on page 32.)


RUM AND MILK.


DF
WHISKY #
C
9
m 3
XSEO- ltd
hn Haig & Co
|| (/urzp, £
Kst.it 1 ” .MAR Kl NCH. Scotla
GOLD LABEL
blended
QuE UR SCOTCH WM IS
iy^^HA/stC ll A
Whisky has been a study with Haig, not only for a
lifetime, but for generation upon generation. Haig
Whisky is old and is thoroughly matured in wood.
UmA ufAisJL'
ym Uvtb anydsttie
J
in 8 hours to
NEW ZEALAND
E
SIX SERVICES A WEEK
Increased frequency of services and increased
accommodation, now make it possible to meet
the personal preferences of air travellers to
New Zealand.
In a speedy 8-hour flight you may relax
in comfort with first-class steward and
stewardess service—enjoying the best of food
and personal attention.
Go by AlR—and fly your freight , too —by
Tasman !
Reservations for passengers and freight can be
made through any office or agent of QANTAS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, principal agents in
Australia ... and all leading Travel Agencies.
T&SM&Ii EMPIRE
HEAD OFFICE:—MECHANICS BAY .AUCKLAND. N.Z.
like that it seemed almost big enough to have passed
for a young grey wallaby.
•Satisfied with that spying of the promised land, it
came on again and was close outside the pane when
Josephine looked through and spotted it. The effect
on her was instant and electric. She dropped her
pi6ce of bread, took a flying leap up the easel and
scuttled on up to her rafter. There she further greatly
surprised Mr. Hutch. She leaned out and proceeded to
hurl down at the one outside as palpable a flow of
coarse language as Mr. Hutch had’ ever had the
pleasure of listening to. Most definitely she seemed
to be swearing; a raucous outburst of ’possum bad
language. She fairly coughed it out. Her whole
puffed-up body shook with it.
Outside the pane the stranger, instead of wilting
under the blast, conscience-stricken, let go the branch
with front paws and stood again upright, cocking its
head to one side and looking up, even seeming to be
reaching up, to the termagant above. Mr. Hutch
made an observation and a deduction.
“Ha,” he said, “so you’re Joe, eh? That’s the big
idea, is it? The ’possum would a-wooing go? You
little beaut!”
It occurred to him further that perhaps Josephine
might not be quite so hostile to the idea as she was
making out. To Mr. Hutch’s* turn of thought she
seemed to be protesting just a bit too much.
However right or wrong Mr. Hutch may have
been about that, Joe did not persevere. Instead, be
presently turned on the branch and made what he may
have considered a dignified exit, going slowly out along
the limb, to disappear into the darkness through the
leaves, as, Mr. Hutch then noticed, the other pair
already had done,
Josephine remained, but a much agitated Jose-
phine. If it was, as Mr. Hutch rather readily accepted,
a flirtation, it evidently had violence in it; strange in
such a silver-grey ball of fluff as the hitherto docile
creature up on the rafter.
NT EXT night, with scarcely any variation, practically
1 the whole affair was repeated: the early arrival
of Josephine; the later coming of the other one ; the
voluble imprecations hurled down from the rafter;
even the pair of small, popeyed, interested onlookers
in the background.
Being Mr. Hutch—Mrs. Hutch’s own little Lennie
himself —Mr. Hutch felt that he was somehow in-
volved in what was, going on. He felt the pleasurable
sensation of responsibility. From that sort of feeling
Mr. Hutch’s next step was always certain to take a
direction thoroughly consistent with Mr. Hutch. As
with the ice-chest and the home brew —not to rake
over a succession of such happenings—some positive
and logical action was called for.
As Mr. Hutch looked on the scene his thoughts
suddenly turned Druidical. There, through the panes,
was the Tree of Life; outside was the groom; and,
within, the bride. Who could Mr. Hutch be in such a
setting? Who else but the high priest of ceremonies
himself? Natural and logical. Even tl\e two wit-
nesses there in the tree. Nothing missing but an
acolyte to look after the minor details of the service.
So next morning Mr. Hutch sent off the wire;
“Wedding here tonight
eight-thirty.”
Nothing else. Anyhow,
what could be clearer?
It brought Mrs. Hutch all
right. She arrived slightly ahead
of time, and, going inside, she
found Mr. Hutch, if not alto-
gether as she had expected to
see him, at least not so greatly
changed that he wasn’t most ob-
viously and indisputably still her
own little Lennie.
He had on a grey dressing-
gown sprigged over with fresh
leaves. There were a couple of
twigs of leaves in his hair and
more leaves hung in pendant-
style about his neck. In his right
hand he carried a small leafy
branch, and he put a finger to
his lips to indicate solemnity and
silence. From the dressing-table
he took up a bunch of large pink
roses and gave them to her, say-
ing in a priestly voice of com-
mand: “Follow, acolyte.”
Mrs. Hutch felt overcome
with happiness. She had feared
she might find him changed;
perhaps into some such smug
monster as a successful author.
Most happily she followed him
out on to the balcony, where
Josephine was sitting on the
table at the back of the type-
writer eating a slice of bread.
“Wherefore,” Mr. Hutch declaimed sententiously,
“thus delays the ’groom?”
He picked up a crust of bread and tapped on the
panes. From out on his branch Joe began making his
way forward. The pair of short-furred, white-tailed
ones sat watching in silence.
“Attend to the bride that she does not make a
bolt,” the high priest ordered his acolyte.
„Mrs. Hutch leaned over the typewriter and began
stroking Josephine’s broad, rounded, silver-furred
back.
“Here comes the ’groom,” chanted high-priest
Hutch. “This happy couple,” he proceeded, “are
now about to be made man and wife for all of their
life on this leafy earth.”
“Just a minute,” said his acolyte. “You can’t
have the bride down on all fours. It isn’t done. Here,
pretty, sit yourself up.”
She put down the roses, and gently lifted
Josephine’s paws from the table, sitting her upright.
“Better face her round this way,” said the high
priest. “She’ll mizzle if you don’t.”
.His acolyte coaxed the turning, made easy by
Josephine having noticed the roses, to which her paws
at once reached out.
“Of course, dear, you must have a bouquet,” de-
clared Mr. Hutch’s acolyte.
She broke one off, and Josephine snatched it
avidly, squatting up and biting off a mouthful of pink
petals. The rose foamed about the furry face as
Josephine bit and chewed away, oblivious of the
’groom, staring in close outside the pane at her back.
“Well now,” said high-priest Hutch ; “ndt by bread
alone.”
He continued with the service:
“I hereby solemnly declare this handsome couple,
Josephine here and Joe outside there, to be linked in
bonds of matrimony as man and wife, for richer, for
poorer”
' “Lennie!” The high priest’s acolyte interrupted
tije service sharply. Holding up one of Josephine’s
paws to give him a better look, she pointed a finger
at the bride’s pouch.
The high priest looked closely. Indubitably there
was a tiny bare hand sticking out of it. He looked
from it steadily at his acolyte.
“Go on,” she ordered ; “no need to look at me.
You’re delaying the nuptials.”
“Better late than never,” intoned the high priest,
waving his leafy wand, “For richer, for poorer. For
better, for worse. Amen.”
Non-starters.
“People here seem to work on the basic assumption that
a woman ought to marry.”
If women mould themselves careers,
Invade our pubs and sample beers.
Or even find in hitting sixers
A well-earned rest from concrete-mixers.
Mere man will have no condemnation
While this is part-time occupation;
But, if, by freedom’s lure attracted,
Our womenfolk are once distracted
From Nature’s role of wives and mothers,
As life speeds on, be sure, my brothers,
This fact we shall be forced to face —
Our children won’t be in the race!
BERT.


And no wonder, for in addition to
being the product of a great wireless
organisation, the new Radiola brings
you outstanding tonal reproduction and
performance.
It has gained immeasurably by the higher
technical skill of A.W.A. scientists and
engineers developed during war time.
The Radiola is a superb instrument of
entertainment unparalleled for tone and
performance - one which you will be
proud to own.
Although large production is being maintained, your
nearest authorised Radiola distributor may have
difficulty in making early delivery due to the big
demand from all parts of Australia, He will, however,
gladly advise you Snd give details of models which
will be available.
<B RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORSANISATION
RAYON
J
VVThen you are consid-
** ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yams provide
quality and service as
well as beauty.
World Distributors for Couttaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS s
Melbourne- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office - Ltd., Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane.
Sydney - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty,
Ltd.,BroughtonHouse,lBl Clarence St.
fitasßANß - Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE K. T. Flint, 178 Bundle Street.
berth - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
Ktfft
3590
to accustom themselves to the darkness, but he realised
the ship was very close to land. He stopped the engines
immediately. Mr. Bell had merely muttered something
about stores and left the bridge. As a witness Hender-
son produced the helmsman, who said that the last
steering order he had received was “Starb’d ten de-
grees,” and that order had been given by the chief
officer only a few minutes before the ship struck.
Suddenly I found my tongue. I started to talk,
and believe me I had a lot to say. But before I got
two’words out Mclntosh held up a hand as broad as
the back of a bus
“Hold it,” he said. “If ye’ve anything to say in
defence put it in writing. I’ll wait for it here.”
You can imagine how I felt. I was fairly boiling
with rage and indignation—in no state to put my case
clearly. I was still shaking when I got to my cabin,
but it wasn’t until I’d sat down and picked up my pen
that I realised what a mess I Was in. I could put all
the times .and facts on paper, but I hadn’t a single
witness. No one knew what time I’d called Henderson,
and no one had seen him come on the bridge. What
he’d said about the final order to
the helmsman was true. I had given
it, and no one could support my
statement that I had merely been
relaying Henderson’s order. I
think I chewed the end of my pen
for ten minutes before I remem-
bered Andrews’s last words to me.
Although I couldn’t see what help
he could give me, I felt that the
old chap might give me some sound
advice. Lord knows, I needed all
the advice I could get just then.
It didn’t take me long to find
Andrews ; he was seated at his desk
writing when I looked in at his
cabin.
“He’s done it, Chief,” I blurted
out. “The bloody lying old twister’s
hung it on to me. And he’s got
me, too.”
The chief finished writing,
scrawled an untidy signature and
looked at me over the top of a pair
of ridiculous steel-rimmed spec-
tacles.
“Tut, mon,” he said, waving
his hand towards the settee.
‘‘Where’s your speerit? Sit doon;
I’ve been expectin’ ye. Read that,”
He handed me the sheet of paper.
DID you ever feel like kissing a
sour-faced, bald-headed old
Scot who smelled strongly of stale
pipe tobacco? I did. He’d handed
me a statement saying that he had been up on
the boat deck that evening and had seen Captain
Henderson go up to the bridge at seventeen minutes
past eleven by his watch, which was one minute ahead
of the chart-room time.
“Awa’ wi’ ye and write your report,” he said when
I’d finished reading. “Make sure o’ your times. Mc-
Intosh’ll ken all a boot it. He was on the boat deck
wi’ me.”
That’s about all there is to it. Mclntosh, the wily
old bird, knew all about the times and had sent me
off the bridge to prevent me making a fool of myself.
I wrote my report and took it and the chief’s up to
him in the chart-room. He read them both through
carefully before passing them over to Henderson.
“Ye’ve talked yourself out of a lot of trouble in
your time, Henderson,” he said. “But ye can save
yourself the bother this time. Just for once I’m doing
the talking, I was on the boat deck myself tonight.
Take those statements to your room and take your time
reading them. The company’ll no be needing your
services any longer. Mr. Bell will take over.”
Oh, yes, we got her off, Mclntosh and I. It took
three days, but we finally got her off on a big tide
without any serious damage. I say “we” because
technically I was her skipper. Actually, I only carried
out Mac’s suggestions. Great old boy, Mclntosh.
He’s still going strong. Told me once he’d always
suspected Hentlerson’s failing. There’s nothing wrong
with the Waitara; she’s as easy to handle as a launch.
Don’t know what became of Henderson. I’ve never
heard a word of him since we put him ashore, but
I’ll bet if he owns a car he’s been pinched a few times
for careless parking.
Still Life.
Tall glass, round loaf and tumbled cloth
And leaning flask of smoky brown.
The gutted candle and the cask;
And Time and Silence flowing down,
Welling against the canvas, held
By stroke and feather-touch of paint
As one might build a weir to hold
Some spreading pool in sweet restraint.
Whose was the hand that held the brush ?
And who the guest who came to break
The loaf which I, three hundred years
Belated, still reach out to take ?
A •
/, who now pour the wine and tilt
The glass, would wish that well you fare,
Good Sir, who set out food and drink
That all who see might take and share.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


The Batance
by
JOHN FOUNTAIN
LARGE and golden and Gothic, like
the picture-postcards of itself the vil-
lagers sold to tourists in peace-time,
the Adlersberg Clocktower, reared out
of the purple mist which veiled its humble
neighbors, staring complacently across the
valley to the prison camp —The “Stalag”—
a lopsided smudge below the greater
shadow of the Adlersberg.
George leant out from the open win-
dow of the mixed ward in the hospital
compound, staring at the Clocktower.
Medium-sized, wiry, alert and brown-eyed,
the owner of a greasy British Army issue
battledress, a beard, a villainously-cropped
head of hair and a good deal of uncol-
lected A.I.F. pay, George was unhappy.
He shifted his gaze from the nearest
sentry-box to the dark lovely Austrian
valley, but his mind found no refreshment
there. It was, he supposed, rather like ad-
miring another man’s wife. And the
barbed^wire discouraged philandering.
The Adlersberg—the Eagle’s Mountain—rose just
behind the Stalag, shutting out light early. Rugged
and mighty, a boisterous monster of a mountain with
a piebald cloak, it shrugged a scarf of -clouds from its
mighty shoulders, and from high up came muted
growls, as though it were threatening to burst out.
Its shadow lay on the Stalag now, at the close of day,
so that while the Clocktower was tall and pale-gold
and incorruptible—-a mile away in- distance, eternities
in lime —rand the valley a, wide green lake, flowing in
waves and sheets and ripples, dark green, then vivid
light green, with patches of bare earth like black shin-
ing rocks and, here and there, the faint foam of low
stone fences, the light had dwindled in the Stalag and
the searchlights were already playing and flashing
around the barbed perimeter.
A wedge of forest pierced the valley from east to
west, mottled in the path of the streaky light and
glowing dully, like a rough piece of red and green and
brown stone.
The slanting light caught
the Clocktower fairly, so that
it seemed to smile, a fat
golden smile. And a false
one, George thought; like a
venerable Father Christmas
beard on the face of a hang-
man. Involuntarily he glaqced
at the dark outline of barbed-
wire in the comer. A man
had hung there all night,
trapped and riddled and alive, once.
The searchlights dug bright holes in the half-
darkness and all the barbed-wire which had been coiled
and lurking there sprang into instant ugly life. A
beam slid over the “warning wire”—a single innocent
strand—on the tall fences with their fat rolls of barbed-
wire below, their curved tops, and the spindly legs of
the sentry boxes—poised, repeated threats —showed
gleamingly in the moving rays like reeds.
It was almost dark in the village, wine-dark, and
the ridiculous high roofs showed darkly against a
narrow luminous wash of sky, like inverted ice-cream
cones before a mirror. The tall tower was golden.
Behind and above it floated a single dark cloud, the
Great Forest. Tempting and terrible and stretching
to infinity, dotted by the casual white mileposts of
vanishing mountains. #
A searchlight beam flickered towards the rugged
haunches of the Adlersberg, faltered, then darted into
the sprawling mass of the camp. A fantastic geo-
metrical city, divided and subdivided into lanes and
squares and triangular paddocks, George spat.
Two white swords clashed in the sky, slid down
each other and settled on the relief; a straggling line of
little men, blunt helmets bowed and grey-green backs
humped to the wind, like so many meek and mourn-
ful sheep. Well, George thought, I don’t envy them
their job tonight. The thought raised his spirits.
A stony rumble came from the breast of the
Adlersberg, and the wind swept down more fiercely,
carrying a faint damp scent of decay.
A raw, cold night outside.
Round and round wheeled the searchlights and
George slammed the shutters hastily. A shot would
come ringing in here one of these fine nights if he
hung round mooning. As they had in the old days.
Well, at least the old days hadn’t been stagnant.
A man couldn’t blame himself, though, for want-
ing to fill his lungs with cold pure air before the black-
out shutters were closed and the ward foul with the
odors and breath of too many men. And most of them
foreigners ; and so, naturally dirty. The thought of
their dirtiness made George swell, as though he was
being inflated with warm air.
Those short sharp spasms of anger had been
worrying him lately. A moment only they lasted, and
then he could see clearly and breathe freely again.
What was the sense in getting worked up about the
foreigners? They were naturally dirty. As well preach
social hygiene to rabbits as try to alter them. And
they weren’t the only
ones. There was Paddy.
Paddy Maher, the black
Irishman from Liver-
pool, the blot on the fair
British name in the ward,
A scowling young man
with a black bullet head
and darting dark eyes,
Paddy Maher had an
astonishing contempt for
everyone, which ex-
tended, by association, as
it were, to the use of cold
water and soap. What
Paddy Maher did with
his cakes of Red Cross
soap was a mystery.
“Ate ’em, most likely, the
’bg,” Alf had opined:
but the general opinion
. was that he sold them for
cigarettes on the Stalag market.
It was no use making oblique remarks about
s rong men from Liverpool,” as Alf was always doing
Such. subtleties simply bounced off Paddy Maher’s
dark hide. Or, what was worse, he took them for com-
pliments. For Paddy Maher was strong —-tall and
heavy and alarmingly muscular, and his injured leg
would be no real handicap to him in a rough-and-
tumble. On second thoughts, George decided, per-
haps it would be as well not to tax; Paddy with his
personal habits. After all, a man had to live with
him. For years, perhaps. And with the Yugos and
Froggies, too, for that matter.
A T this melancholy reflection George began to pape
up and down the ward near the closed windows,
cropped head down, as though searching for sixpences,
and hands thrust deep into greasy pockets.
There was a faint swagger about his walk, a
slight sway of the hips and elegant thrust of the foot,
which was reminiscent of the George Palmer of 1939,
the dashing and nonchalant George who had lolled at
the doorways of suburban dancehalls with a cigarette
loosely poised on his lower lip, running an expert eye
over the assembled talent; and, having leisurely made
his choice, there was none in the noisy hall noisier or
more expert than he. But instead of dancing pumps
his feet were shod now in boatlike sabots, stuffed tight
with footcloths, and these gave his steps a paddling
abbreviation.
Every now and again George stopped, and
sniffed determinedly at the comparatively fresh air
near the closed windows. , '
Apart from his beard the most impressive thing
about George was his hair, or rather the lack of it.
It had passed the bristling stage and had gathered
strength and color now after the first shock of
amputation. It had, in a way, historical significance.
In fact it was history itself, in microcosm.
George's haircut was intimately connected with
the German thrust into the Ukraine, for when the first
Russian p.-0.-w., more than half-starved and
very filthy, arrived in Adlersberg they
brought lice with them. Not that lice were
any strangers to Adlersberg. In normal
times the prison camp had a fairly stable
population of them. But these lice, in their
turn, bore typhus, and a vicious circle was
created which could only be broken, the
British medical officers saw, by eliminating
filth and lice.
Cleaning up the camp thoroughly, like
most counsels of perfection, proved impos-
sible. Apart from the camp commandant, a
stout, easy-going, lazy but somewhat touchy
Viennese, there were other foreign suscepti-
bilities to be considered. So a policy of
segregation and lice-elimination was decided
upon and, to whip up zeal, the senior British
officer offered a prize of cigarettes for any
louse found in the British barracks*after they
had been fumigated. Which in its turn started
a small but flourishing trade between the
Palestinians and the Russian compound, lice
being at such a premium.
Apart from these slight, reversals, the
British threw themselves in to the business
with a will, scrubbing and cleaning and shav-
ing their hair. These rites were observed
with lowering suspicion by the Serbs and
Croats and Slovenians, and all the minor
and indeterminate tribes between these three major
unfriendly branches of the Southern Slavs. The
French, too, in their shifty and mercurial way, were
suspicious, although they kept up an unconvincing
show of bland tolerance. But the general foreign
opinion was that no possible good could come from
propitiating the jealous gods thus. THe Russians, how-
ever, by this time were in no fit state to express an
opinion one way or the other, even if they had been
intelligible.
George had been one of the first —as became a
corporal—to offer himself to the scissors and razor
of a volunteer barber, a New Zealand medical orderly
who had been a butcher in civilian life and retained
a taste for the trade. When the German authorities
took official cognisance of the typhus outbreak —a
clear sign that the danger had passed—George grew
a beard. And a fierce brown growth it was, lusty and
unhygienic enough to compensate for a dozen shaven
heads.
George fingered it, thoughtfully, and with some
slackening of eagerness he inhaled the relatively pure
air near the closed windows. Outside the wind was
still whistling and stamping, and the chill had crept
within. The only way to get warm was to go to bed
or to sit near the stove in the corner.
The stove was a rusted sniffling contraption with a
broken door, inadequately fed by Red Cross parcels,
“clinkers,” and a little coal stolen by the enterprising
Alf. Salem, a hawk-faced young Frenchman from
Algiers, was carrying the process of sitting near it to
its logical conclusion by lying on it, long loose arms
hanging on one side, knees bent on the other.
Cramped and uncomfortable from his position but
determined, with a mingling of French rationalism
and Islamic fanaticism which was probably the heri-
tage of his mixed blood, that he was entitled to it,
and therefore should yield to no man.
The assumption that Salem was of mixed blood
was made on somewhat flimsy premises. True, his
name was against him. But then again, he was no
darker than several other Frenchmen in the ward; or
Paddy Maher for that matter, as Alf was at pains to
mention whenever the Liverpool Irishman was within
hearing.
Old Tim, however, who had seen more foreigners
and niggers than any of them, was convinced that
Salem was a “half-chat.” Otherwise, how was it that
he could imitate English words—indecent ones,
usually—so perfectly, with only the vaguest compre-
hension of their meaning? No other Frenchman in
the ward had this gift. There was something else, wild
and woolly and half-formed like many of Old Tim’s
deeper musings; something sinister about Salem which
Old Tim regarded as indisputable proof that he was a
hybrid.
Above Salem’s bent knees the thin cloth of his
grey underpants-enm-pyjamas was extended in a taut
bulge, on which a swastika and an eagle proclaimed
plainly that the garment was the property of the Third
German Reich. George felt an imperative desire to
kick the eagle hard.
George was undecided. He could go to bed and
read, oXjie could join Salem and Old Tim and Alf
at the stove. But there was only one English language
book in the ward, a tattered Tauschnitz edition of
somebody’s letters, which Georgs had already read.
At the stove were warmth and companionship. George
desired the warmth, but hesitated before the com-
panionship.
"Yairs, a fiver each way-I'm giving it a fly while me
luck's in."
Alf and Old Tim were talking, tossing listless
tokens of comment at each other, as men do who have
plumbed each other’s conversational resources thor-
oughly. Bored with each other, but desperately weary
of themselves, talk was a kind of drug, tedious but
provocative and indispensable.
“Wonder what sort of a bloke the new padre is,”
Alf said, carelessly, lethargically. “Tm as come in
from Spittal yesterd’y.”
o Continued on page 36.)


t
j:« hi
■■.
m
m
i
*
W§i
m
m
I n
1
m
m
mmm.
* ■
mmm
'imstints
■•■ ■■'.
5
wmmmk
m
I:
" ■':
■■*■■
*
I
i
./#*
m.
m
If stopping back flow is part of your drainage problem, ARMCO-
CALCO gates will give efficient service without the expense of
maintenance and upkeep. Although usually attached to lengths
of ARMCO Pipe, these gates are readily adaptable to any type
of drainage construction. The lower illustration shows the ARMCO-
CALCO Automatic Gate in action—outflow being permitted to the
full capacity of the pipe, and backflow being effectively stopped
immediately the flow is reversed.
ARMCO Drainage Products are the result of many years experience
with drainage undertakings of all types, both large and small.
For culvert or small bridge work, ARMCO Corrugated Pipe provides
a low cost, easily installed and durable solution while larger
projects will be ably served by ARMCO Multiplate Arch. Armco
Drainage Pipes are manufactured in a range covering diameters
from 8" to 180".
For full information on ARMCO-CALCO Gates, as well as other
ARMCO Drainage Products, you are invited to write to your
nearest ARMCO office.
%
1
timed
¥
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY O MELBOURNE • • ADELAIDE
A 12-46


m
Journey's End tor
In the construction of the Studios
of the A.W.A. Broadcasting Station,
2.C.H. Sydney, it was found necessary
to consider—in addition to ordinary
vibration problems—the vibratory
motion set up ih the underground
railway that passes beneath the
building. Such vibrations, which
would pass almost unnoticed in any
other part of the building, could
seriously affect the delicately bal-
anced microphones used in the Studios
With the assistance of Dunlop
Rubber Engineers, the problem was
solved by devising what is, in effect,
a pneumatic trap for all unwanted
tremors . . . the whole floor was
floated—like a huge raft—on air
held captive in special Dunlop Rubber
bags—66o of them! TJhese special
“isolators”, illustrated above, are
arranged in 6 main sections and
are so connected that they can be
inflated or deflated at will at the
touch of a button in a neighboring
control room.
The Research and experiment
involved in overcoming unusual
rubber engineering problems such
as those encountered in the con-
struction and installation of this
pneumatic floor, often lead to im-
provements in many other directions.
For instance: During the latter part
of the war, huge air bags known as
“Camels”, were designed
on a similar principle
and made by Dunlop
for use in raising sunken
ships . . . today, Dunlop
diving suits, far out-
strip previous suits for
flexibility, wearing qual-
ity and improved design
features.
Because of Dunlop
leadership in the rubber
industry no one is better
equipped than the Dunlop Tech-
nical Service to advise you on any
problem you may have and for
which rubber in one of its many
forms, may be the answer. If you
have such a problem you are cordially
invited to telephone or write to
the Dunlop Branch in your own
State.
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRA L I A LIMITED (INC. IN VI C .)
DUNLOP
in the OwUm
SttcCuafaq
“Same as most of .them, I expect,” Old Tim said,
following Alf’s example and inclining his hands to
whatever warmth escaped Salem.
Alf’s hands were long and white and blue-veined.
Old Tim’s were blunt and scarred by all manner of
humble and laborious tasks which he had performed
with a sour patience and industry, which was charac-
teristic of the man. Before the war Alf had sold news-
papers on some East-End corner, but Old Tim had
been all kinds of things in his time. Laborer, navvy,
fisherman, soldier, sailor, then soldier again. But
mostly he had been a sailor, a deep-sea sailor, crossing
the greater and lesser oceans of the world in grimy
and obscure steamers, seeing the great and small cities
through the smoky lenses of waterside places of enter-
tainment.
George shuffled across the floor in his boat-like
clogs, squeezed past Salem’s adamant buttocks and
squatted on the floor.
“Seems a bit of a snob to me,” Alf said, tiring
of staring into the glowing coals.
“Who?” Old Tim asked.
“The new padre.”
“Oh.”
“There’s too much snobbery in our army,” Alf
said, blinking. Alf’s eyes were weak, and they
fluttered, at times, like the shutters of a naval signal-
lamp. Thick-lensed horn-rimmed spectacles sheltered
them from a distorted world.
“Maybe,” Old Tim said, with neutral softness.
Knocking around the rough corners of the earth had
removed almost all trace of accent from Old Tim’s
voice, and now only a softness of the voice and a
hardness of spirit whenever the doings of the Black-
and-Tans were mentioned remained to him from the
green land of Cork. Paddy Maher, on the other hand,
who had been born and bred in Liverpool, used a
rich and fruity brogue whenever he thought of it.
Looking at Old Tim’s brown and pink face, at
once tough and innocent, like the face of a weather-
beaten baby, George wondered, in a vague way, what
impression all his voyaging and adventuring had made
upon him, spiritually. Physical marks there were in
plenty. A knife-slash across his bulging forehead, dis-
appearing into the thin matting of hair, brushed back
carefully to hide the baldness of his vain old head.
A scar or two on the pink pug nose. And the lower
lip sagging to show teeth stained by the tobaccos of
the nations, with a gap in the centre where a Yankee
sailor had laid the boot in one night in Buenos Ayres.
“Too much "blinkin’ snobbery,” Alf repeated,
blinking himself, by way of emphasis. “They don’t
have it in the Awstralian Army.”
George stared at him distrustfully, torn between a
desire to contradict him on general principles, and an
urge to boast about the Australian Army. But, he
realised, any extolling of the democracy of the A.I.F.
might be perverted into a condemnation of the dis-
cipline in that army. Alf was quite capable of this
form of oblique attack.
THERE was a heavy silence. George realised he
would have to say something#
“It’s different,” he said cautiously. He paused,
finding it uncommonly hard to explain the difference.
“We ain’t got any aristocrats in Australia,” he said at
last, lamely.
“Y’ don’t want ’em, Aussie,” said Alf stoutly.
Alf called George “Aussie” or “George” according
to context; the former in his national capacity, the
latter in his private capacity. “They’re nothin’ but
parasites, anyway.”
A shadow moved between George and the light.
It was Paddy Maher, trembling with the desire for
speech.
“Don’t tell me there ain’t class distinctions in
Awstralia,” he said. There was no brogue now in his
strident, unpleasant voice.
“There is and there ain’t,” George said.
Paddy Maher sneered, “What d’ y’ mean —there
is and there ain’t?”
“Well, it ain’t the same as in England.”
“ ’Course it ain’t,” Alf said sweepingly. “You
don’t ’ave fox-’untin’ in Awstralia —now, do you,
George?”
George said that they did hunt foxes in Aus-
tralia, but not in the same way as in England. They
didn’t wear red coats.
“There y’ are,” Alf cried triumphantly.
“Have you ever seen a fox-’unt?” Paddy Maher
demanded, sneering nastily at Alf. Paddy had, George
noticed, quite a formidable sneer.
“No.”
“Well, what are y’ talkin’ about?”
“What are you blokes nattering about now?” It
was Bill Ferguson, the other Australian in the ward,
just arrived and lounging genially.
“Fox-’untin’.”
Bill scratched the back of his sandy head with a
large freckled hand and reckoned he wouldn’t mind
(Continued on page 38.)


A
Sinks, busy ?
\\
HavP A OIGAR • » «
* I /
ViHAT ABOUT COMING OUT
fOR A aoiCK ONP f
\> /
IVP JUST ReTURNPP PROM A
60NZA HPUPAV . . .
v\
/W GrOPF /MPROVFP
OUT OF SIGHT . . .
*
P/P A £POT OF FISHING . . .
♦
Uanppp an *
avezy pay»..
SrgurH/ rr& 5 o'clock /
v' (/W 1
♦ Vm.U, SO-UONG, Ct-P MAN/ — tf
i'u. spping rou.
SORRy, PPAR; (U HAV& n
TO WORK. SACK. TO-NIGHT,
THE PEST.


being in a certain back paddock he knew of, out
Cootaqpundra way, potting a few foxes at the moment.
“Chooks is more in my line,” said Alf the irre-
pressible ; Alf had picked up a lot of American slahg
from his favorite intellectual activity, the talkies,
“I’ve done a bit of it myself,” George said, feel-
ing that he could hardly be regarded as an authority
on Australian affairs without some statement of the
kind.
“Yair? Thought you came
from Newcastle, George?”
“That’s right. Carrington”—
with pride —“but I’ve been in the
bush, too. During the depression.”
“Yair? Whereabouts?”
“Fruit-picking ; .Leeton. Then
corn-pulling, round Tumut. Up the
North Coast though, mostly.”
“I’ve never been there, meself,”
Bill said in his low, slow voice.
“Must be nice country though, George.”
“I’ll say,” George was emphatic. “And the
fruit...” He paused, to give some idea of the desir-
ability of the North Coast fruit. “You go for tropical
fruit. Bill?”
“Not much,” Bill admitted. “Never see any, up
our way. Come to think of it, we’ve got a lot of fruit
in Australia, haven’t we, George?”
“Too right.”
They stared at the greying coals, pondering the
distant multiplicity of fruit.
“Apples and pears and grapes and peaches and
persimmons and oranges,” George recited dreamily,
“and bananas and paw-paws and guavas....”
“And passion-fruit, George. Don’t forget passion-
fruit.”
“Marvellous things, ain’t they?” George said en-
thusiastically. “Give a flavor to anything. Just a
pinch”
“Ha-ha-ha!”
Startled, George and Bill stared at a
convulsed Paddy Maher.
“What the” George began, then
stopped at the broad grins on the faces of
Old Tim and Alf. Even Salem, who didn’t
understand a word, was beaming like a
hyena.
“You blokes gone mad?” Bill in-
quired with stiff courtesy.
“There’s no doubt about you Aws-
tralians,” Alf said, chuckling,
/“Eh?”
Old Tim smiled secretly.
“You can’t put that over us, y’ know,”
Alf said. “We weren’t born yesterd’y.”
Paddy Maher was still laughing, a
high, choking, strangely womanish laugh.
“Passion-fruit,” he exclaimed, point-
ing a shaking finger. “Passion- fruit. Ha-
ha. I’ve ’card of wombat farms and kanga-
bloody-roos: but passion-fruit. There
ain’t no such fruit.”
George and Bill exchanged glances.
There was nothing they could say.
| AUGHTER conquered, Alf was impatient of the
*—' interruption. “I still reckon there’s too much
snobbery in o’ ■- army,” he said. But he was less con-
fident. The Australians had let him down badly, he
thought, with their ill-timed tales.
“I saw a mob of Aussie officers drinkin’ with their
men, goin’ over on the boat to Greece,” Paddy Maher
volunteered, surprisingly.
“That’s it,” Alf said. “Catch our blokes doin’
that.”
“An’ why should they?” Paddy Maher said.
“ ’Alf the ignorant cows in the ranks would only take
advantage of it.”
“Familiarity breeds contempt,” Old Tim said,
heavily.
“Y’ can’t expect orficers to drink with the likes of
you,” Paddy Maher continued, encouraged now be-
yond all bounds. “Y’re only dirt.”
Alf blinked at him in amazement.
“We don’t drink with our officers much,” George
said pacifically, “Only on special occasions, like.”
“But y’ do sometimes,” Paddy Maher said, fiercely
and vindictively, “An’ y’ can see what ’appens. The
Awstralian Army ain’t got any discipline.”
George stared up at him angrily. No good explain-
ing, The brute was determined to be offensive.
Strange how Alf, or Old Tim for that matter, could
say something without offence, yet if this sneering
black hulk of a man said it it had the sting of a
personal insult.
“We got discipline,” Bill said calmly. “Only
there’s little things we don’t bother about.”
Paddy Maher chuckled, an unpleasant sound.
“Like Lord ’Aw-’Aw said over the wireless in Athens.
‘We was goin’ to bomb Athens, but we won’t now.
The bloody Awstralians will do enough damage.’ ”
George could feel the anger rising in him. “I
never ’eard it,” he said at last, his voice trembling.
He strove to keep it level, to get the right cutting
effect. “I was in the infantry, up past Larissa.”
The inference was obvious. Old Tim and Alf
both recognised it, an 4 nodded their heads approv-
ingly, If Paddy Maher had heard the broadcast in
Athens he couldn’t have been fighting.
“I was in ’orspital—-convalescin’,” Paddy Maher
said, flushing. “Fell orf a truck an’ ’urt this leg—one
that was shot later.”
“Anyway, it don’t signify,” Bill said, pushing back
his sandy hair impatiently. “I don’t know when the
broadcast came over. But I didn’t hear it.”
“Well, I did,” Paddy Maher said sullenly.
“Blokes like you make me sick,” he said suddenly,
raising his head and looking at Alf. “Always screamin’
about somethin’. Give y’ two stripes, though, and y’re
so posh it takes two men to say good-day to y’. Y’
can’t change ’uman nature —not even in Awstralia.”
He glared at George and Bill. “The bloke on top
always rubs dirt into the bloke underneath.”
His dark-brown eyes glowed and his lips were
twisted. It was obvious he was in deadly earnest. And
passing on this bitter philosophy seemed to give him
a dreary pleasure.
“Whittaker’s a decent sort of a bloke,” Bill said
slowly, almost irrelevantly. Captain Whittaker, an
Englishman, was the doctor in charge of the ward.
“’E can afford to be,” Paddy Maher said, “Be-
sides, ’e ain’t got anyone much to talk to ’ere except
uS. But meet Captain-bloody-Whittaker in England
and see ’ow pleased ’e’ll be to see y’. Take y’ ’ome to
meet the wife most likely. Like ’ell.”
“That’s different,” Alf said. “No one expects toffs
like ’im with us in Civvie-street. It’s —it’s
different We go to our boozers —’e goes to ’is.”
Alf was uneasy ; his iconoclasm was of the cheer-
ful, carefreee kind, and so much, venom disturbed him.
Paddy Maher stared at him glassily, “Y’d make
a fine batman, Alf,” he said, “Why don’t y’ suck up
to Whittaker properly? ’E might make y’ ’is valet
when y’ go ’ome.”
Old Tim stirred, “I’ve been a batman,” he said
in his soft placid voice.
Paddy Maher was silent. Something about the
old man’s serenity disturbed him, broke the pattern of
his thoughts.
“I’m cold,” Paddy said at last. He moved to-
wards the stove, but the way was barred by Salem’s
obstinate posterior. “Get over, y’ greedy cow,” he
said, bringing his fland down with a jocular slap.
“Did y' book 'em both, Arthur?"
EVERYTHING happened very swiftly. One
moment Salem was leaning on the stove and Paddy
Maher’s hand was raised; his hand fell.
Then there was a flurry of movement; George,
squatting on his heels, was knocked over, Alf and his
stool were upset, Old Tim leapt back, as nimbly as an
ancient goat, dragging his stool after him, and Salem
and Paddy Maher were locked breast to breast,
spinning like tpps. They crashed to the floor, Salem
on top, his dark lean face twisted into a mad grin,
his long fingers fumbling for Paddy Maher’s throat.
They dragged him off.
Salem stood still, unnaturally still, face white and
tense and deep-set eyes burning black. Paddy Maher
took a long time to scramble to his feet. A ring of
Yugoslavs and Frenchmen had collected as though by
magic, the- Frenchmen pressing .closer, ominously
silent, the Yugoslavs hanging back a little, awkward
and interested, like farm animals in a drawing-room.
The atmosphere was dangerous, the Frenchmen
still edging forward and Salem quiet. There was some-
thing queer about Salem, George decided in a flashing,
half-completed thought. After a brawl a man would
normally be noisy and protesting, struggling, perhaps.
Not quiet. There was something ludicrous, too, about
Salem mastering Paddy Maher so easily, It didn’t
seem right.
“I ’urt me leg,” Paddy Maher said, clasping that
limb. “The rotten black cow ’urt me bad leg.” His
voice was a whine.
All his bluster was gone. His dark eyes darted,
swiftly, appealingly, to left and right. They were
unexpectedly soft and timid. So that was his secret,
George thought.
George felt ashamed and embarrassed, as though
someone had committed an act of indecency. Then
he felt resentment. No Englishman—or Irishman —•
had a right to show Tear like that before a French-
man. But that soft glance had melted him. His
resentment was concentrated on Salem, rigid and
white, and looking as though he was about tq launch
into some incredible deed of violence.
Salem was talking, waving his hand and spitting
in his vehemence. The tension relaxed.
Paul, the round-faced little French Jew, was in-
terpreting, with manual see-saws more impressive than
Salem’s, and, instead of spitting, hissing.
“Eet ees too bad,” Paul said. “Pad-dee ’it Salem,
so, so,” he smacked wildly at the edge of the stove.
“Pourquoi ? Eet ees offence. Yes.” Paul nodded his
head violently, smiling. “So, smack!” The smile
widened. Paul was amused at his own boisterousness.
“Mats,” he lowered his voice and his eyebrows rose,
“eet ees no good.” Higher and higher rose Paul’s eye-
brows, his eyes round and shining below them like
innocent black buttons, and down and down sank
the confidential voice. “Salem ees — peut-etre —a leetle
— fou!” The last word was breathed urgently into
George’s ear with an apprehensive glance at Salem.
George recoiled, wiping his ear. Salem was more
than a little mad, he thought. And so were the rest
of them.
. “I’m going to bed,” he said roughly, deliberately
walking between Paddy Maher and the Frenchmen.
“It’s time,' anyway.”
Paddy Maher followed him.
“All set?” Old Tim called a few minutes later.
They were all ready except Salem, who was deliberately
removing his black patched boots. The other French-
men, George noticed, were giving Salem plenty of
elbow room. As in all primitive communities, the
suspicion of insanity bestowed prestige.
“Everyone ready?”
“Yes.”
“Oui.”
“Da.”
The room was cjark,
GEORGE lay in bed, eyes closed, temples throbbing.
The incident had looked ugly enough, but nothing
had happened. No racial clash, fortunately. Or was
there?
He felt resentment himself. An Englishman—the
fact that that Englishman was a fool made no differ-
ence —had been humiliated. George twisted angrily.
Paddy had brought it all on himself. But... He
propped himself up on one elbow. No wonder his
head ached. Old Tim had neglected to open the
shutters when he switched the light off.
George slipped out of bed and ran across the
ward. The boards were cold and hard under his bare
feet, 1
Creakingly the shutters swung back,
and George had a glimpse of two pale
stars and felt the cold violence of the wind
before he scurried back to bed. Jumping
in and pulling the blankets over himself
was one movement.
“Fermez les fenetres !”
George made no reply.
“Fermez les fenetres !” The voice was
low, but cold and violent, like the wind.
Salem, probably.
Then. “Bastard, bloody Awstralian
bastard, cow, bludger, you go to hell,
fermez les fenetres” Yes, Salem, assuredly.
The perfect mimicry and the senseless
words. The voice went on, streaming silly
obscenity, like the mouthings of an idiot
in the darkness.
“Fermez les fenetres I” The voice was
high-pitched now, crazy,
- George sat up. “Pull y’r head in,
Salem,” he shouted. “Teds toi.”
There was silence, a clump, and then
the sound of a body rushing through the darkness.
With a thump and a bump Salem reached the win-
dow, slammed the shutters viciously and stamped back
to bed.
George swung out of bed. This game, he could
see, might go on indefinitely. Or it might have a
savage ending. He opened the shutters and retired.
Grimly Salem rose, closed the shutters, and retired.
But George was prepared. He sat on his bed,
dressed in greatcoat and boots, smoking his last
cigarette. He had difficulty with the match, for his
right hand trembled. Two draws helped him, crystal-
lised the black, choking fog of rage into a steady
resolve. The boots, smooth-toed black British Army
issue, would be more useful for what probably lay-
ahead than clumsy sabots. He stood up, marched to
the window, flung the shutters wide, then went to the
other windows, opening the shutters there, too.
This was too much. A wailing and complaining
and crying broke out immediately from all the French-
men. Courant d J air was bad, terrible, and it would
assuredly kill them. George must close the shutters at
once. Paul, the suave and polished, was particularly
insistent. “Jorje! Jorje!” his rich baritone kept bay-
ing above the rest. “Jorje! You understand...
Courant d’air. ., Jorje!”
But no sound came from Salem’s bed.
Even the Serbs and Croats and Slovenians began
to stir and rustle and whisper among themselves like
uneasy birds. One of them, the narednik with the fierce
moustaches who slept next to Old Tim, sat up, calling
plaintively “Gospodin. Oh, Gospodin,” and murmur-
ing “Eto bolnitza. .. Ya sum boli.y.boli
nye dobro ladno” ...
“Eh?” Old Tim said, staring at him ill-temperedly
through the obscurity. “Speak up, man.”
Despairing of making himself intelligible, the
narednik, too, simply whispered and rustled.
It was cold. A bitter wind poured through the
open windows, and George braced himself against it,
his greatcoat flapping about him, his beard distended
by icy fingers. But an unholy sense of power warmed
him. He peered into the shadows —greyish, in patches,
from the light of the cold stars —tense and waiting
{Continued on page 40.)


AIR TRANSPORT IS AIR POWER
The commerce of the world lias
taken wings. Today, every nation
is establishing its air transport in
order to compete for the aerial
trade of the future. Your nation
has answered the challenge with
Trans-Australia Together
with Great Britain, Canada, South
Africa and New Zealand, the
Commonwealth of Australia takes
its place in the Empire’s network
of national airlines, and in the
Empire’s potential resources of
men and equipment. TAA’s motto
is “Service” ... to the passenger,
to the Nation and to the Empire.
SSsS
mm
■
.............
Sfif SSfift
Wmmmm
: ’
m
.
*»»£**
Pill
•^;: : v : ;:v: : ''
m
i
mm
Wx¥;
lili
SSsSsw
m
mm
m
m
mm
mv
m ■ ■'■'■' So?
m
mm
mm
smm
11
....JL
m
mm-
SSfceß
' *pp i
■
mM.
mm
m
ma
■mm
m
■■■>, .
HiMip
iiiiii
mm
•mmmm
W-Xv:«WW<W
wmm
'S''"
yy.< : : : . x-xv
m
; '¥V S :
, • ' s - v A .f Xv-
m
m
‘&BSSSsSi : f$&
r
Regular services between Brisbane, Sydney, Canberra,
Melbourne, Hobart and Launceston . . . extending on
December 2nd to Adelaide and Perth, thus linking all Capital Cities.
Full information regarding passenger and freight bookings at
\ ft A 1 1 A
Civic Centre, CANBERRA.
Telephone: F 615.
Anchor House,
North Terrace, ADELAIDE,
telephone: Central 7545.
St. George's House,
St. George's Terrace, PERTH.
Telephone: B 2453.
Phillip House,
119 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone: B 0526.
Myer Building, 273 Lonsdale
Street, MELBOURNE.
Telephone: MU 6751.
Terries House, Cr. Adelaide
and Creek Sts., BRISBANE.
Telephone: B 1341.
Cr. Collins and Argyle Sts.,
HOBART.
• Telephone: 7411.,
Cr. Brisbane and George Sts.,
LAUNCESTON.
Telephone: 2061.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
F-75-46


f EDWARD LUMLEYASONS PTYLTD \
The oldest and largest Insurance
Brokers in the Southern Hemisphere
effecting insurances at—
The focal point of
International Insurance
Lloyd’s leadership in the broad field of
Insurance has been won and maintained
through the confidence of millions of
policy-holders throughout the world. To-
day, it is the focal point for organisations
and individuals in every civilised country
seeking the protection of insurance. In
Australia, Lloyd’s has, for the past 50
years, written hundreds of thousands of
policies through Bennie S. Cohen & Son,
now known as Edward Lumley & Sons
Pty. Ltd., the oldest and largest brokers
in the Southern Hemisphere. Avail your-
self of the unquestionable security of
a Lloyd's policy through —
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SOWS PTY. LTD.
formerly
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle:
33 Watt Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide:
T. & G. Building. Brisbane; A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St.
George’s Terrace. Hobart: 82 Collins Street; also Wellington,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, new Zealand, and
EDWARD LUMLEY, INC., LONDON, NEW YORK,
BARIS, COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
mm
•h:v*
Wk
%
mm
m
*7% '
m.y.
m*
9
1
<■<£?
T ET’S be “ common - sensible ” about
saving. We don’t save money for the
mere pleasure of stacking coins one upon
another, for after all, money is only valu-
able for what it will buy. Usually we save
money because that is the? 9 only way we
can get what we want.
What you want is your business—helping
you to get it is our business.
After all it is up to you whether to spend
the easy way or save the—comparatively —
hard way. Our part is to provide that
simple, efficient vehicle for your savings,
the Savings Bank Account. Whether yours
is a special objective or just the sound
practice of thrift, the Savings Account will
provide every facility you need.
And the Commonwealth Savings Bank
service is as wide-spread as Australia itself.
#
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
&
O F A O STRAIIA
THERE'S A BRANCH OR AGENCY IN YOUR DISTRICT
S 3
CSB 16-82
for the rush he felt sure must come. Salem’s bed
creaked. I wonder if he has a knife, George thought
swiftly. But at that moment he didn’t care. There
was a rushing sound in the darkness, but no Salem.
I know a trick or two myself, George was thinking,
half-crouchihg. The door opened, slammed and shud-
dered. Salem had gone into the night.
“ ’E’s gorn to the lav.,” Alf
said into the silence. The Eng-
lish-speaking portion of the
ward laughed, a howl relieved
and delighted.
“He’s imad,” George said
loudly and confidently. The re-
mark eased him. In a way it
was an explanation of his own
temporary insanity. That feeling
had ebbed now.
And yet, what had happened
to Salem? There was no saying
what he might do, rushing off like that. Nor,
if he passed beyond the hospital compound, what
would be done to him. George stared from the win-
dow. There was silence in the ward, broken by breath-
ing. A painful, macabre listening. There would be a
challenge, loud and sharp, then, instantly,'the sound
of a shot. Two shots, perhaps more, and very prob-
ably a machine-gun would roll and stammer. George
could not remember a case where there had been only
one shot.
But there were no shots; nor, as he stared into
the night, any sign of Salem.
The moon had come out, and the night was calm.
The wind had dwindled to a faint stirring of the small
trees around the ankles of the Adlersberg, breathing
coldly into the Stalag; but whereas it had been dank
with leaf-mould before, now it was sweet, as though
drawn from an upper layer; damp, but sweet with
the essence of living pine. The snow sparkled on the
mountain. The clocktower was black.
Once the balance is upset... George was thinking.
THE room was alight suddenly, and George blinked
his eyes to see the tall white-coated figure of
Juvot, the French doctor, standing at the door, his
hand on the switch. Behind him, grinning triumphantly
and idiotically, was Salem.
Juvot had a long sallow face, sleek hair, eyebrows
like a circumflex, and, in a spotted kind of way, he
was a dandy. His long white coat was soiled, and he
had a stethoscope which was always dangling or pro-
truding somewhere about him. His brown double-
tasseled forage cap had tarnished gold bars of rank
and a red-and-blue-and-white fasces emblem, the
badge of the Petain organisation.
Juvot ran a languid professional eye over the
situation, symbolised by George, brown beard awry,
greatcoat flapping and mouth open like the window.
Paul, the astute Hebrew, was the first to recover.
Grasping an allegedly diseased stomach, he began to
moan piteously.
A tall man, this Juvot, and every inch an actor.
Dangling his stethoscope, he came striding across the
room, long, raking, soldierly strides. He brushed past
before George had time to replace his lower jaw in its
customary position and closed the windows firmly,
professionally, with a gentleness that was emphatic.
Salem smirked behind him. A pity he hadn’t been
shot, after all, George was thinking.
Juvot rolled his weary dark eyes, more in sorrow
than anger. “You Englishmen,” he said with hardly a
trace of accent, “must realise that the Frenchmen ’ere
are very, very sick.”
“Well, Moosoor,” said Alf foreignly, “so are we.
To be short and to the point, we want a .lot of air
’ere. Because,” Be was really angry now, thin cheeks
flushed, “your precious Froggies stink. Compree
stink, Moosoor? Pong —morvo odo.”
“Draught is bad, vairy bad,” Juvot said firmly.
“Vindows mus’ remain closed.” With a wave and a
flourish he darted for the door. Salem yanked it open
deferentially just in time.
“Well, I’ll be ” Alf said fervently as the last
white comer of coat whisked through the door.
“Better put the light out, I s’pose,” George said.
He crossed the floor with heavy steps. He was tired
and all the defiance had gone out of him. A few
minutes before he had been prepared to fight the en-
tire French nation, but there was nothing he could do
now ; nothing. If he opened the shutters Juvot would
be back. And this time he would bring German guards.
“Have a smoke, George?” It was Paddy Maher
holding out a blue packet of French cigarettes.
“Thanks, Paddy.” George leant over the bed and
took one. He needed it; decent of Paddy, he thought,
glancing down at the black bullet head and darting
dark eyes. Strange how soft they were, now he knew
their secret. After all, he couldn’t justly complain of
Paddy selling his soap.
Passing by Salem’s bed he inspected the French-
man with detachment.
Click went the switch, and the ward was dark,
and all George’s whirling thoughts took concrete,
illuminated form. He went to bed, closed his eyes
tightly, but the illuminations kept dancing and retreat-
ing and whirling round him. Himself and Paddy and
Old Tim and the narednik with the fierce curling black
moustache —they were all in the same boat. And they
were all mysteries. Old Tim and his glossy bulging
forehead and laborious bushy eyebrows and his deep,
permanent duskiness which the pink cheeks and the
pinkness of his fine-veined pug nose only accented ; he
and his great background, the fathomless salty sea.
You always had the feeling something profound was
coming from old Paddy, but it never did.
Salem and Paddy Maher. He felt
quite fond of Paddy Maher now;
even Salem, after all, was only a queer
Frenchman with a hot temper.
It was that bland golden tower
which had started it all, George
thought, opening his eyes. That and
the same faces and the acres of barbed
wire. But it was all trivial now, un-
important, dissolved in laughter. Or
would be. Laughter, after all, was the
true philosophy.
Paddy Maher was talking,
grumbling in the darkness. “Wait till
we tell Captain Whittaker about that
stoopid cow of a Froggie doctor. Doc-
tor ’e calls ’imself. Gawd! ’E
wouldn’t make a slushy in an English ’orspital.”
“I’ve seen them sort before,” Old Tim said.
“Whittaker’ll fix ’im,” Alf, the iconoclast, said
gleefully. “The ’ide of . these Froggies, ’Oo do they
think they are, anyway?”
George, dropping off to sleep, thought of the
passion-fruit and chuckled softly. The balance was
right. And tomorrow, perhaps, there would be
mail....
Orchestra.
We meet upon the waves that sound their death,
Their studied curve and final, swift collapse,
Upon our ears. A sobbing breath
Drawn slowly in; a catch, a sigh perhaps,
Says that we see at last across the years.
You had not faith; and I, as one who nears
The thought made real, had too much faith to see
That I was death to you, and you to me.
But faith of that kind kills no one, it seems.
Certain we live, and rustle with the harp
Here in the shadow of our dreams.
Caught in the woodwinds’ seagull cry, a sharp
Spike of sound that pierces through the storm.
We hover, float and sheer; held in the form
Of tempest till the wind’s shrill cry of things
Vivid in nightmare passes in the strings.
Attend this lover’s air played by the flute.
The menace of betrayal in the brass
Renders our sorrow still and mute.
But it has life within, and will not pass
Becausg a brazen throat says “You are not.”
So we must shadow-spar with words; a lot
Of sounds that live their little life, and fade.
Treading the rising notes the flute has played.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.


■XL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
. K"
m
W:
VJ I
-1 I
mm
mm
mm
m
" S
Over Fifty Years of Leadership in
FINE ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH, TO-DAY,
architects and builders are preparing for the designing and construction
of monumental’buildings; structures that will grace the sky-line, and
enchance the architectural beauty of our cities.
THE PLANNERS look to Wunderlich Limited (as leaders
in the fabrication of fine metal-work, for over 50 years) to provide the
decorative features, in metal, which embellish and impart individuality
in all types of building construction.
Your enquiries are invited.
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN, SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
You are cordially minted to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
IT IS SO DISHEARTENING
By LES ROBINSON
11 1 \OU must reform,” said the .secretary of the
.\ j Citizens’ Reform League with gravity and
y gloom. “Although you may not believe me,
having taken no cognisance of them what-
ever probably, you have many faults, the worst being,
perhaps, that you are self-centred.” He paused.
“Have you ever done anything?”
“No,” I faltered with apprehension. “I assure you,
sir, that my life has always been blameless.”
“I mean have you ever done anything for your
fellow-fnen?” he asked.
“I have lent them books and things from time to
time,” I said; “some of which were never returned
to me.”
“Perhaps you were not worthy of having them
returned to you,” he said. “Did it never strike you
that perchance you have the hoarding instinct?”
“Well, no,” I replied. “It didn’t.”
“We most certainly cannot bestow our bronze*'
medallion upon you,” he continued, frowning, “and I
must tell you that we not only marvelled at your
temerity in applying for it but were astonished that you
seemed to imagine you were likely to be a recipient.”
“Well, the only reason-1 applied for it was,” I
said, “that I had nothing to hang on my watch-chain
and that bauble of yours happened to be the size and
shape I coveted. It could be made to glitter more, of
course,” I added, “by being soaked for a day or two
in metal polish.”
“You will never have our bronze medallion to
hang on your watch-chain unless you become entirely
different,” he said sternly, “You must alter, and to
such an extent as to be unrecognisable.”
“Yes, of course, by next Monday morning if that
would do?” I replied. '*
“Well, perhaps it might,” he said with dubiety,
“but if I were ypu I wouldn’t wait a single moment.
I’d begin my reformation by trying to be helpful this
very day. Persist in saying to yourself over and over
again, day and night: 7 must try to be helpful.’ ”
j\l OTHING, of course, can be accomplished without
1 * zeal. Instead of going fishing, as was my inten-
tion before being urged to reform, I decided instantly,
when I learned next morning that an aunt of mine was
about to visit friends in a distant suburb and would be
heavily laden, to accompany her.
All went well until we were nearing the end of
our journey. The tram was almost empty, and the
conductor, having collected all the fares, was up in
front of it chatting with the driver when we reached
the street in which my aunt’s friends lived. My aunt
—very active for her age—quickly alighted, and I, hav-
ing lifted out her two cases —both of them enormous
and weighty—was attempting to leave the tram, too,
when the sole of one boot, the other being already on
the ground, caught in the footboard.
The tram started. There was nobody sitting in
the end compartment. I yelled. My aunt shrieked.
Fortunately, qfter being dragged along for a few yards
only, I managed to wrench my boot free. If I had
not been able to do so I shudder to imagine what, as
the tram was gathering momentum, might have
happened.
My zeal undiminished, I reached out and
grabbed, a few days later, an infant being pushed by
its mother into the compartment of a tram that was
overcrowded. There was no room for the child, let
alone her, but she kept on pushing it whilst I pulled
nevertheless. The tram started before we had made
any headway. Presence of mind enabled me, for a
wonder, to release my end of the infant without delay.
If it had not, I again shudder to think what might
have happened. '
BUILDERS, too, are discouraging. They are always
shouting out “Under below!” and, before you
have time to ask them under which or below what,
bricks, tiles, lumps of masonry, nuts, bolts and boards
begin hurtling down all around you.
Or else, while wandering about measuring the
building and, perchance, gazing at the upper stories,
you step suddenly into a deep trench containing slush,
stumble into a slough of wet cement or find yourself
floundering in a quagmire of bubbling lime placed there
on purpose, you, having a mind that is warped per-
haps, almost suspect.
All such misadventures are likely to incur the
enmity of mixers, who, not being in the habit of con-
cealing it perhaps, will ask you in a tone of voice that
is bleak and peevish why the blazes you don’t* look
where you are going.
If, having too much or regarding any at all as
being valueless, you are desirous of impairing your
self-esteem there is no better way of doing it, I have
found, than by trying to be helpful to furniture-
removers. They are a cynical, pessimistic, gloomy
race unaware of the splendor of life, allergic to*
romance and joy.
They appear to regard helpers, furthermore,
especially if diminutive and by no means muscular,
who persist, nevertheless, in doing their best, with pity-
ing tolerance tinged faintly now and then perhaps by
amusement which they never try very hard to hide. If
the helpers, through excess of willingness or zeal, keep
on getting in their way the removers restrain them-
selves with difficulty from being impolite. ’ Their
attempts to get a helper into a comer somewhere and
to keep him in it by piling furniture that is insur-
mountable all round him until they decide later, just
before going home perhaps, that he might as well be
extricated are often successful. •
Striving to be helpful with the housework is
enervating as a rule, disheartening more often than
not, and sometimes mortifying. Such questions, uttered
in a tone of voice that is often acidulous, as: “What
do you think you are doing?” “Would you mind
moving out of the way, please?” “Will you beat the
carpets with vigor instead of gently, or else leave them
alone altogether?” “Will you kindly refrain from
sweeping the dust into the corners of the room and
under the sofa like that?” “What have you done with
this, that or the other?” (probably you’ve never even
seen the utensil mentioned let alone done anything
with it), “Would you mind putting things back where
you fo.und them?” you can fully expect to be asked
every few minutes or so throughout the day.
It is never a good idea to answer them. Remarks
made by you will only tend to lower instead of raise
your prestige.
ONE night I tried to be helpful to a sailor who
seemed lost and not to know what to do with him-
self. He was singing lustily a song called “Show Me
the Way To Go Home” in the hope, no doubt, of
alleviating the despair which threatened to overwhelm
him.
“Where is your home?” I asked him with solici-
tude.
“On the rolling deep,” he replied.
“Go down Seaview-street, then, which ends in a
precipice overhanging it,” I suggested. “The third on
the right from here.”
“No,” he exclaimed in a tone of voice that was
aggrieved and with an amount of emphasis that startled
me, whereupon, brushing me aside and muttering to
himself, he wandered away in a different direction
altogether.
Trying, by making suggestions, to be helpful to
the driver when the motor-car or tram has broken
down ends, more often than not, by him asking me
pointedly what makes me think I know anything at all
about motor-cars or trams.
Asmy attempts to be of assistance seem fated so
often not to succeed, I have come to the conclusion,
though I shall, I suppose, from force of habit now
keep on trying to be one, that helpers are born and
not made.
, There is still, I notice, nothing dangling from my
watch-chain. I must write again to the secretary of the
Citizens’ Reform League and tell him so.


A MAN AROUND THE
HOUSE
BY
DOUGLAS
STEWART
/~| LONG, a hairy man is Mr. Hinge, with a
f ' I bushy grey moustache and a remarkable growth
L I of whiskers in his, ears. His shoulders are
square, his nose is a broad arrow, and proudly
he stands in the back of his dray among the immense
and muddy roots from the Matai Swamp.
Lickera-lockera goes Mr. Hinge’s dray along the
asphalt road; lickera-lockera through the green farm-
lands and the high-green boxthorn hedges, the wheels
rattling and the harness creaking and jingling behind
the old red clip-clopping mare. Of all these pleasant
sounds Mr. Hinge is unaware, unless in memory, for
he lost his hearing longer ago than anyone can recall.
And yet, as he comes into the out-
skirts of the town, can he not see
the white toi-tois waving their
plumes above an ornamental pond,
and willows and poplars rippling
'with new leaves and buds of leaves
among the evergreen pines, and
many green shoots in the black
earth of gardens, and the sunlight
on picket fences, and, beyond the
red roofs, the lofty peak of Egmont,
its snow faintly blue with distance? And who is to
say, as, clapping the reins oh the mare’s broad back,
he swings into the street where Mrs. Bastion lives, that
Mr, Hinge is not happy?
He tugs at the reins, the chariot halts, he leaves the
old red mare to mutter and curse to herself with her
hairy and trembling underlip ; he opens the white gate,
he clumps along the gravelled path through the lawn
and the shrubbery, he mounts the steps of the neat,
cream-painted weatherboard bungalow, and mightily
he buffets the door. When a whacking and a pounding
and even a gentle kick that seems to shake the whole
house bring no response, he wrings the neck * of the
doorbell.
Fie cannot hear the patter of footsteps, but
through the green glass he sees a hand, a delicate green
hand, reach up to the doorknob; and before him,
framed in the doorway, a beautiful maiden stands.
Miss Bastion is tall and severe. Her blonde hair,
though turning grey, shines golden in the sunlight;
her eyelids blink rapidly two or three times over large,
greenish-blue eyes, rather like the eggs of blackbirds.
Whether or not he is happy on this fine spring
morning, whether or not the apparition of Miss
Bastion reminds him that something is missing on his
swampy farm, in his vast ramshackle house and his
dilapidated cowshed, Mr. Hinge cannot but express
himself in his customary gruff roaring. “Is it Mrs.
Bastion’s house?” he thunders.
Miss Bastion (for she has been making scones for
lunch) lifts to her floury head a floury hand. “Yes,
of course,” she"says with some asperity.
“Is it Mrs. Bastion’s house?” roars Mr. Hinge.
Miss Bastion remembers. “Yes!” she screams,
violently nodding her head.
Mr. Hinge seems mollified. “Is it Mrs. Bastion?”
he asks in a comparatively delicate bellow.
Miss Bastion shakes her head and smiles forgiv-
ingly.
Mr. Hinge is perturbed. She nods t her head ; now
she shakes it; next she will spin it. “Is it Mrs.
Bastion?” he cries in a terrible voice.
Miss Bastion backs into the doorway and thinks
she will slam the door, run through the house and
clamber over the back fence. Mr, Hinge is rummaging
in the hip-pocket of his faded blue dungarees for a
pistol to shoot her dead.
She does not know, she does not know ; in the
mad world where wheels turn silently and horses pad
noiselessly as leopards, people gape and caper like
monkeys. Even the beautiful maidens have no intel-
ligence whatever. Mr. Hinge thrusts at Miss Bastion
a tattered notebook, which, gingerly as if it were a
bomb, she accepts,
“I said I thought it would rain,” she reads,
scrawled large upon the page. “Not pigs, fowls,” on
the next. And then “Yesterday there was a mouse in
the milk.” The communication of Mr. Hinge with
his fellows. From the vast silent gibbering of the
world, the enormous and unceasing torrent of con-
versation, these mute and fragmentary messages.
“Write!” growls the' man through his whiskers.
“Oh, I see! ” cries Miss Bastion gladly. She takes
from the large grimy hand the small grimy pencil
and, feeling somehow that she has conferred a favor
on him —like a film-star signing her autograph—she
writes in the notebook “Miss Bastion,” underlining her
maidenly condition. «
Undoubtedly conveying approval of this display
of intelligence, Mr. Hinge grunts like a boar. “Is she
home?” he demands.
“Who? Mother?” asks Miss Bastion. “No, she’s
in town, shopping.”
“Is she home?” roars Mr. Hinge, ferociously
eating his moustache.
“Yes!” writes Miss Bastion in the notebook in a
flurry of panic.
“Ugh!” says Mr, Hinge, apparently gratified be-
yond measure. “I want to see her.”
Miss Bastion screams. “You can’t!”
Like fish, like silly fish in a glass tank, they open
their mouths without sound ; even a goldfish as elegant
as Miss Bastion. “I want to see Mrs. Bastion! ” Mr.
Hinge, trembling with passion, joggles the notebook
in Miss Bastion’s hand.
Whatever to say! Why doesn’t she come home?
Why doesn’t he go? What on earth will happen
next? Miss Bastion loses her wits and feverishly
writes in the notebook “Mother is in the bath.”
Mr. Hinge’s reaction to this disclosure will never
be known ; for at this moment Mrs. Bastion, fully-
clothed, comes in the front gate and steps briskly
up the garden path. “Ah!” she cries. “It’s Mr. Hinge
with the wood.”
“For goodness’ sake come here. Mother! ” exclaims
Miss Bastion furiously. “What right have you got to
go out when you know this raving lunatic’s coming
to the house? I was just going to slam the door in
his face and ring up the police.” She meets her mother
at the foot of the steps and, hisses in her ear, “He’s
mad as a meat-axe. I’ve been writing things in a
book.”
“You have?”
“I had to. It’s the only way you can talk to the
animal.”
“He can hear well enough, Dora, when he wants
to.” v Mrs. Bastion —a short, thickset woman with a
long fleshy nose, a canine jaw and many furrows in
her forehead —raises her voice in a deep explosive
boom: “You, Hinge, open the side gate and cart
that wood round the back. And don’t you go throw-
ing it all over my flower-beds.”
Alas, alas, who is this stocky witch who con-
fronts him now, pointing and grimacing and wagging
that hatful of flowers? Is it not she, the dam of the
beautiful maiden? And does not the book declare
she sports and wallows in the bath? Now a white
cat emerges from the house and rubs its head on her
stocking.
“Well, then, my little man,” says Mrs. Bastion
in a kindly bass rumble to her demon.
Was it the cat in the bath? Mr. Hinge is sur-
rounded by miracles. Or lies. In any case by the
utter incomprehensibility of the universe. He snatches
the notebook from Miss Bastion and thrusts it at the
mother of the cat.
“Mother is in the
bath” Mrs. Bastion reads.
“Write!” thunders
Mr, Hinge.
“Oh, stuff and non-
sense, you old fool!” says
Mrs. Bastion in the tones
of <a benevolent bull.
“Here! ” Reaching up, she
grasps Mr. Hinge by the
braces reposing on his very
dingy shirt and tugs him
down the steps ; and along
the path and across to the
double side-gate of the
property. “Open it, you
blithering old goat!”
Mr. Hinge, to his sur-
prise, does so. One may
not dance, one may not
sing ; yet, deep within, it is
surely pleasing to feel that
the world is behaving in a
logical, and intelligible
manner. Gates shall be
opened for the world. The
old red mare, still patiently
swearing to herself, shall
be awakened with the trumpeting of “Hup!” and the
dray shall be steered crashing against the gate-post.
Far down below him, where the creatures of the
earth abide, a beautiful maiden is pressing her hand
to her forehead and the grey dwarf her mother is
hopping and gesticulating. The white cat, in the centre
of the lawn, is staring at him with a wild reproach.
“He’ll knock the whole gate down!” Miss
Bastion is saying, tight-lipped.
Surrounded by so much confusion, how one longs
to be led by the braces! Why should the gnome be
hopping? He cannot tell, he cannot tell. But stay, she
has seized the old mare by the ear and seems to be
pushing the beast backwards.
“All right!” roars Mr. Hinge, and hurls a great
root of firewood on to the flower-bed.
The white cat streaks across the lawn, leaps the
fence and vanishes. Judging by the behavior of (Mrs.
Bastion there is no doubt that the world is coming to
an end.
SOOTHING is the company of cows for those
afflicted by the race of man. And even the milk-
ing-machine, though some would say that as it spits
and chugs and coughs in its deep male voice it re-
minds them of Mrs. Bastion, runs silently for Mr.
Hinge.
And mutely the great bull bellows in the yard.
Soundlessly barks the lean red-and-brown cattle-dog.
And gliding with the grace of phantoms the Jerseys
take their stations in the bails. Not a scratch does the
broom of ti-tree make on the concrete floor as Mr.
Hinge sweeps into a corner that which would make
still softer their tread. The morning sunlight, peeping
through the chinks of the door which Mr, Hinge has
shut against the bull, makes all things warm and
mild; though frost still lies between the tussocks out-
side, and on the lower sides of the cowyard rails, and
the bull’s breath is silver.
Warm, mild, gentle; and when Mr. Hinge growls
“Hup!” and butts his boot against a hoof the
sagacious cow neither kicks back nor gesticulates, but
modestly offers her leg to the legrope. Mr. Hinge and
t his beasts are very good at this kind of conversation,
and the notebook lies forgotten in his hip-pocket. He
leans his head against the warm, fawn-colored flank,
and the white milk bubbles silently into the bucket.
Upon this scene of pastoral tranquillity steals the
devil in the shape of a white fowl; a Leghorn who
raises her red comb above a pile of manure-sacks in
a partition of the cowshed used for storing such odd-
ments. Cautiously and delicately steps the hen to the
top of the pile and there begins to sing.. Mr, Hinge
milks steadily on; the cows chew their cuds; but in
the lean and evil cattle-dog there burns a desire to
chew the white hen. And he rushes at her, and she
flies and flops and flaps about the shed, and Mr. Hinge
starts up in a hurry, and the cow begins to kick, and
all is flurry and commotion. And when the devil
runs in circles round and round the concrete floor,
and the dog runs madly after, and all the cows are
upset, Mr. Hinge seizes the ti-tree broom and rushes to
the door and opens it and then charges whacking at his
enemies. And he gives a great cry of “Hoo!” which
alarms even the bull in the yard.
The fowl, fearing that murder will be done, which
is likely enough, races for the yard with neck astrain
and wings outspread and quivering; and the dog,
after a short pursuit to make the moral perfectly clear,
returns to Mr. Hinge to receive his commendation on
“How flash he is—barking when he s coming out of the anaesthetic !”
a noble deed well done and to concur with him on
the damned cheek of white Leghorns coming into
our cowshed.
But Mr. Hinge, behind the pile of sacks, has
found something. An object rare and precious. Large
and white and oval, a very jewel. In fact —holding it
against the light, touching it with the broad arrow
of his nose, staring at it in the palm of his hand —
an egg. The waves of commotion ran high, but they
left rich flotsam on the beach.
Mr. Hinge places the egg in the breast-pocket of
his dingy shirt and, as he seats himself at the cow
again, thoughtfully sucks his moustache. And, stimu-
lated by this nourishing substance, punches the cow
on the rump.
At the white-painted dairy-factory where cheerful
farmers take their leisure for five or ten minutes in their
drays and lorries Mr. Hinge seems his usual taciturn
(Continued on page 58.)


Grinnell
Fire Prote
s*% ZK s
m
B
in
1
,
• J.
*
ill
IPSiii-t:?
m
S :■ •■-, •
|l|i|n^M
I
mmmmmmm.
‘ |
»
sms
m
mmm
m
■»•
■
H
m
m
...
V vX;
m
111
5WA<v:
»i
Planned by Wormald Brothers
as a blended part of your
building’s design
To-day’s architect makes provision for
Sprinkler fire protection whilst your build-
ing is still ‘on the board’. Only this way
can it become a blended part of a new
building’s functional design.
Wormald Brothers’ Engineers are
thoroughly familiar with fire protection
problems in modern buildings. With the
Wormald background of 60 years’ experi-
ence in fire protection, they are in a position
to solve the difficulties that may arise in all
types of building layout.
“Grinned” Automatic Sprinkler System
is designed to meet every building
requirement . . . industrial, commercial and
institutional.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete
Fire Protection Engineering Service at all
branches in Australia and New Zealand.
7:
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD. (i nc . in N.s.w.)
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Darwin, Adelaide,- Perth, Hobart, Wellington, Christchurch, Auckland.


DC
°oi BM£
•M 53
W»MS«
“ITS PEST-KILLING POWER LASTS LONGER
A longer period of active protection is one of the outstanding advantages of RUCIDE
... the best means yet discovered of applying the amazing benefits ot UUI .
tf
m "
AS A CATTLE DIP Rucide gives a protective period of
from 9 to I 8 days. The young ticks are killed before they can
become attached. This is extremely .important because the
cattle remain as poison baits, killing the young ticks in the
pastures as fast as they crawl on to the beasts. Subsequent
dippings lengthen this protective period. Rucide does not scald,
and is completely non-irritant.
ON VEGETABLES, FRUIT TREES, PLANTS, Rucide
applies a rainproof, windproof film that s harmless to foliage,
covers more surface and is unsurpassed for long-lasting, pest-
killing efficiency and economy. Rucide may be combined as
needed with other insecticides and fungicides. It overcomes
the rapid “settling-out” experienced with wettable powders.
IN DAIRIES, STABLES AND IN THE HOME Rudde
kills flies, mosquitoes, etc., and affords the same measure of
increased protection that saves spraying and saves expense.
Advice and technical
information gladly supplied
on request.
mm
MSI
S'
50% P P : ISO*MER DDT
Obtainable from storekeepers
and pastoral suppliers
everywhere.
TAUBMAN'S
LIMITED, CHEMICAL
PETERS, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rates of Stocking.
“Atlanta”: Experiments in pasture
management conducted by the C.S.I.R.
at Gilruth Plains, Cunnamulla (Q.), have
now entered their fourth year. On
Mitchell-grass pastures three rates of
stocking have been investigated: one
sheep to acres, one sheep to five acres
and one sheep to acres. During the
first three years monetary returns per
unit of land were greater from the
heaviest rate of stocking, but in the fol-
lowing drought year the advantage was
more than offset by the expense of sup-
plementary feeding. Pasture stocked at
the heaviest rate has deteriorated badly,
with possibly serious decrease in carry-
ing capacity for several years to come.
No appreciable difference in liveweight
of sheep or in wool returns has been
recorded as between continuous and ro-
tational grazing, although results so far
indicate that continuous grazing at the
rate of one sheep to five acres ip the most
profitable. Stocking at this rate allows
regrowth of natural grasses, while five-
weight and wool production of individual
sheep is maintained almost as well as
under light grazing at one sheep to
acres. Rainfall in this area averages
about 15in., but recent drought years
have yielded considerably less.
In the St. George district, where in 20
years annual rainfall has decreased from
22in. to about 16in., overstocking has
proved disastrous. Resumption of the
A.P. Co.’s huge leases in this area during
the 1930’s resulted in closer-settlement,
with subsequently numerous instances of
overstocking. Country once used almost
exclusively for cattle has been converted
to sheep. Indiscriminate ring-barking,
including the destruction of much edible
wilga and doolan, has contributed greatly
to pasture deterioration. Sheep lambing
during the dry summer months are most
affected by lack of adequate shade trees,
and losses in ewes and lambs are fre-
quently heavy. Particularly in fighter
sandalwood and wilga country the effect
of overstocking is apparent. Top-soil is
swept away, and on the ever-increasing
man-made plains, once-fertile pasturage
is converted to wind-swept claypans
where even the übiquitous galvanised
burr refuses to grow.
The once-plentiful Mitchell grasses
have decreased noticeably both in density
and scope. To some extent this may be
due to the removal of seed during flush
seasons by the countless galahs and other
ground-feeding parrots. At Gilruth
Plains the C.S.I.R. proposes to investi-
gate the possible effect on the regenera-
tion of annual and perennial grasses
through bird diminution of the natural
seed supply. Up to 28,000 seeds of grass
species common to the Mitchell grass
plains have been found in the crops of
galahs examined.
Apart from sheep losses and the de-
terioration of pasture, the main effect of
overstocking is a considerable decrease
in wool yield. With absence of dust and
vegetable fault, drought wool of good
length frequently realises high prices.
Many graziers lose sight of the fact that
the profit in wool is determined by return
per sheep and not by price per lb. of
wool. \
The Dairy Layout.
“E. 2”: Milking-sheds should be built to
last, and a solid concrete floor with raised
concrete bases for the walls and bail divi-
sions is specified in some districts by
dairying authorities. The floor should
slope back slightly to a gutter which
carries the drainings away to a ground
tank. Water should be laid on if possible
for washing off the floor after each milk-
ing, as this necessary operation entails a
lot of water cartage otherwise. Crush
bails, which let the cows through as
milked, are a big advantage.
A section of the shed may be walled
off as the separator-room, and, if the
engine is set up there, the exhaust should
be taken well clear of the building. The
small steam-boiler and the wash-up sink
may be fixed up on a verandah extension.
The inside of the building should be
whitewashed frequently, and the exterior
is better for a coat of paint.
The cream-dairy should be well apart
from the shed, well-ventilated and fly-
“Hang on , Ma —he'll soon get tired and drop it.”
proof and painted a cool white. Under
a shady tree is the best position. Pig-
yards and calf-runs should be a fair dis-
tance off, and a lot of carrying of skim-
milk will be saved if a pipeline or trolley-
track is installed. ,
Mallee Pastures.
“Boinka Bert”: Tests in the * Vic.
Mallee with a variety of plants selected
for their drought-resistant ability showed
the best three to be barrel medick, Wim-
mera rye-grass and, of course, lucerne.
The first, often called barrel clover,, has
done well over seven years and, being a
legume, assists in restoring soil fertility.
What’s more, there’s a good chance of a
local strain being developed which will
be almost ideal for the Mallee.
Barrel clover and Wimmera rye go well
together. A good sowing rate is lib. to
21b. of clover and 21b. to 41b. of W. rye,
either through the grass-seed attachment
on the drill or mixed with super, and
sown through the ordinary box at a
shallower depth than usual. It can be
established with wheat as a cover crop.
Wimmera rye-grass has established it-
self naturally in parts of the Mallee, and
the experts at Walpeup research farm
believe it does extra well in any seed
mixture for a short-term pasture. Walpeup
seems to have fixed an early maturii|g
strain which, though not as leafy as
others, gives more feed.
Lucerne, so long as it gets a good start
and gets a fall of summer rain, is hard
to beat. A stand set up in 1939 carried
a sheep an acre all the year round until
the 1944 drought settled it. Best seeding
rate for lucerne seems to be about 21b.
an acre with a cover crop on fallow.
When there is a cover crop, the stubble
must be grazed very leniently in the first
season or two.
About the best of other grasses tried
was South African veldt, a tussocky
perennial which the stock like and which
spreads slowly by seed, but it needs
about Min, of rain a year.
Linseed Wanted.
“C.S.”: A world shortage of linseed
has seriously affected many Australian
industries connected with paint, linoleum,
oiled silk, waterproofing, stock-feed
manufacture, etc. Seeing no immediate
prospect of improvement, Meggitts,
the Sydney linseed-oil and stock-feed
people, have decided to make a big-scale
effort to promote the growing of linseed.
With the co-operation of Federal and
State Departments of Agriculture, which
have already done much preliminary wort
in selecting suitable localities for linseed
cultivation, Meggitts seek sufficient
farmers in good linseed-growing areas to
take part in the initial cropping. They
will be issued free with seed of a rust-
resistant variety for sowing, complying
with the requirements of the Federal
Agricultural Seeds Act, and specially
cultured to suit Australian growing con-
ditions by N.S.W. Dept, of Agric.
The first crops will be bought at a
guaranteed price which will amply.cover
costs, and the seed thus obtained will
probably be used for further distribution
in the following season. To this end Meg-
gitts will spend up to £15,000 as an initial
outlay.
Stock in Summer.
“W. Court”: Pigs, horses and poultry
need careful handling during hot periods.
They should not be bustled or excited
and should have ample shade. Corru-
gated-iron are very hot and have
brought death and sickness to thousands
of pigs. When working horses, remember
that one working steadily in the open
may not be affected by heat so severely
as another tied to a fence and unable to
move about. Leave the “change horse”
in a shady place until required. Sacri-
ficing care in a shade temperature of 104
deg. last summer, a neighbor lost his
reserve horse through sunstroke because
he tied it to a fence in the full sunlight.
The horse he was working showed no
ill-effects.
Poultry noticed lying in full sunlight
during hot weather should be promptly
moved to a cool place. Unless the hen-
house is breeze-swept, avoid spraying the
interior with cold water in the hope of
lowering the temperature, because in the
absence of free air circulation a humid
atmosphere is created and this may be
more injurious to the birds than the
ordinary heat.
Tetanus.
“Billjim”: Characteristic symptoms in
horses are spasms during which the
muscles of the body, legs and neck be-
come stiff. If the head is lifted the fleshy
eyelid moves across the eye. Jaws be-
come stiff and normal feeding is impos-
sible. There is great nervousness and
excitability and approach to the animal
will cause convulsions. Mortality is
usually high.
Victorian Department of Agriculture
says the animal should be placed in a
darkened straw-bedded horse-box and
kept quiet. All wounds should be
thoroughly opened up, preferably by a
competent vet., and disinfected with per-
oxide and iodine. Fresh water, to which
has been added 2o!L of Epsom salts,
should be within reach and soft, easily
digestible foods or gruels given.
To minimise the risk of the disease
stables should be cleaned regularly, in-
cluding removal of manure at least once
weekly and special care given to all
wounds.
New Issue.
The first edition of The Bulletin’s
Handy Hints for the Farm, reprinted
from “The Man on the Land” pages and
published in 1933, went out of print
during the war, but demand for copies
was so insistent that a second edition,
revised from cover to cover, brought up
to date and containing many new features,
is now on sale.
It contains over 1000 hints embrac-
ing wheat, sheep, cattle, pigs, poultry,
horses, fruit- and vegetable-growing, the
apiary and general farm activities,
grouped in convenient sections and with
a full index. The experienced farmer
already knows much of the information
it contains. It is what he doesn’t know
or has forgotten that will make it worth
buying. The price is unaltered, Is. per
copy from any newsagent; or by post
Is. 2£d. from The Bulletin, 252 Georgs-
street, Sydney, or any branch office.
Yellow Com.
“E.H.S.”: The discovery that yellow
corn is of considerably greater value
than white corn as a food for stock is
important to maize areas. Exhaustive
experiments in the United States revealed
that yellow corn supplies considerable
vitamin A, while white corn provides
little or none. It was found that white


THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
The Only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
• Excellent climate.
a Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
• Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
• Matrons are trained Sisters.
• Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
Entrance Scholarships.
Four Entrance Scholarships, valued at
£5O per annum (to become £6O when the
boy reaches the age of 14), are available
for 1947. These are tenable for five years.
Entry forms and scholarship conditions
may be obtained from the Headmaster.
Candidates may sit at approved centres.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc., Headmaster.
FD
F
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if be is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course'
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAithu
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotloi
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/**
SKIN' EOTION 8/P
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!>
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts 'ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort ahd in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23K) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
“MMLMNDFCO Y”
is the condensation of a distinguished long name. It is
the telegraphic address of Australian, Mercantile, Land &
Finance Coy. Ltd, Whether it's the sale of Wool; Produce;
Fat, Store or Stud Stock; or Property the purchase of
Station and other requirements—or personal services, etc.,
telegraph ''AMLANDFCOY" Sydney, or write to
iustralian.
land & finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 186 S
. 4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, More®, Henty and Hay A 1 .22.7$
VT
J
(Regd.)
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
- BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY„ LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
7
11
. .
mmm*.
m.
rl V/V\ |
?/ // <r /'.A*. n
'W&U
la
S \ ■
r &*
PORTABLE —FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES
ON STANDS
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray
system is extremely adaptable and
stailation Is individually designed
and built to fit your particular
needs. Cost per acre is
very attractive, and some
purchasers have reported
recovering their full out-
toy in one season.
THE "MAXIMUM" PATENTED OUTLET
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented "MAXIMUM”
Coupling is the only one on the market possessing its all-round flexibility
and ease of connection. It can be coupled by a simple movement to
any inclination up to 13 degrees in any direction and remain watertight.
Agents : Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 164-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
?£°- MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7838.
irrigation
each in-
Unt
ss
i
»
?S»5
iMiyiVii;
Eveiitually, for your health’s sake, you must fit
fly wire to your doors, windows and fireplaces so
do it while you are building, and save the heed
for makeshift additions later on.
Specify flywire screens and frames your builder
will be glad to include them in your plans. Flywire
is the only adequate
protection against
flies, mosquitos and
other insects keep
them OUTSIDE, and
safeguard food and
health at all times.
Cyclone flywire
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
jtw i/m
REMEMBER, TOO ...
a woman feels much
safer if, when she opens
the door to an unwel-
come stranger, she is
protected against intru-
sion by a flywire door.
corn produced poor results when fed for
any extended period to animals not on
pasture, unless care was tsken to include
in the ration some supplement that pro-
vided an adequate amount of vitamin A.
Animals fed on yellow corn made de-
cidedly faster and more economical gains
than those on white corn, and on the
latter many became runts. On the other
hand, when animals were on good pas-
ture there was no difference in the value
of the two kinds of corn because the
green forage supplied an abundance of
vitamin A. Adding a small quantity of
leafy, well-cured legume hay to the
ration corrects deficiency of vitamin A
in white corn.
A Pig Yoke.
“E.H.S.”: Pigs allowed to run loose
require constant supervision, otherwise
they will push through fences and raid
crops. The type of yoke used on goats
or cattle is not suited for pigs, but- this
will stop them: Take a piece of hard-
wood batten as long as the full width of
the pig’s jowl and bore a hole lin. in
diameter at each end. Cut and bark a
couple of wattle or other tough saplings
of suitable diameter, each piece about 3ft.
long, and butt them into the holes and
wedge up. Straddle the animal and, with
the batten under his jowl, give a slight
lift to ensure a close fit. Then, with the
sticks close behind his ears, cross them
over and lash them together close to his
neck. No hog can get rid of this yoke
as long as his ears remain in position.
Concrete Troughs.
“K.W.R.”: Drinking troughs are fre-
quently half-round iron of small size,
giving an inadequate water supply. Con-
crete troughs at Berry Training Farm
(N.S.W.) were cast by using the body of
an old 2000 gal. corrugated-iron tank for
moulds. With an internal diameter of
7ft., the troughs hold almost 600gai of
water. The mixture comprised four parts
of small metal, 24- parts of sand, and
one part cement, well mixed in a dry
state and, after wetting, thoroughly ram-
med into the moulds, which had been well
greased with sump oil to prevent ad-
herence of the concrete. Five bags of
cement were required*for* each trough.
Barbed wire provided * horizontal
and vertical reinforcements and the
moulds remained in position for two
days, after which the concrete was
firm enough for floating with two
parts of sand and one part of cem-
ent. A concrete trough of this type
is porous enough to keep water cool even
in hot weather, thus eliminating one great
disadvantage of sheet-iron troughs.
Another innovation, introduced from
N.Z., is the attachment of the ball-cock
near the bottom of the trough instead
of at water level. The ball is fastened to
the lever by a three-foot length of chain,
which enables it to float to the surface,
thus avoiding damage to the lever by
cattle
A New Pest.
“Gip”: N.Q. graziers have been called
upon to combat yet another pest — Har-
risia cactus. It is already firmly estab-
lished near Rockhampton, Gatton, Goon-
diwindi and Collinsville, and has now
appeared in the Charters Towers district.
The pest grows in clumps of single Sin.
thick stems to heights of six and eight
feet. The stems sprout numerous razor-
sharp spines, and, when the stems fall, the
spines take root upon contact with the
ground. Thus enormous clumps of the
plant become established in a single
season. It bears a bright red fruit, the
white pulp of which is thick with small
black seeds which are relished by birds,
who thus help to spread it. A definite
menace, it is as hard to eradicate as
prickly pear. Whether it is a native or
yet another imported curse, authority has
not divulged.
Bloat.
“Myrrhee”: Victorian “Journal of
Agriculture” points out that it’s risky to
turn hungry stock on to a soft, lush
pasture. Take the edge off the appetite
with a feed of chaff, meadow-hay or
some other dry stuff, and at first allow
only short grazing periods. As the stock
are better able to deal with the pasture
the time could be lengthened.
In mild cases of bloat the first objec-
tive should be removal of the gases.
Forcibly exercise the animal, kneading
the distended abdomen with the clenched
fist, using a wooden gag in the mouth tied
to the horri at each side. Advanced cases
require the trocar and cannula. Insert
at the highest point of the distended left
flank about halfway between the haunch
and the last rib. Then withdraw’the tro-
car, holding the cannula in position to
permit the escape of gases through the
tube. In less extreme cases a drench of
2oz. to soz. of sodium hyposulphite in a
pint of water, or 2drms. of formalin to a
pint of water, or 2oz. of pure turps with
15 to 20 drops of oil of peppermint in a
pint of raw linseed-oil could be used.
Follow with a stimulant—carbonate of
ammonia loz. and nux vomica Idrm. —
repeated in four hours.
Hints (or the Farm.
“Prof”: To tell how long a sheep has
been blown gauge the length of the mag-
gots. Up to half a day old the wrigglies
are very small, less than a sixth of an inch
long. By the end of a day they begin to
grow and are over iin. long; maturity
and full size (about iin.) is reached by
the end of the second; day.
“Outback”: The Animal Health
Station, Yeerongpilly, Brisbane, is now
manufacturing a vaccine to immunise
sheep against scabby mouth, which has
caused a lot of trouble in shearing. The
vaccine will give immunity for at least
two yearss It is considered that if lambs
are immunised at marking Time, very
little extra work will be involved, but
graziers are the best judge of this.
“Will C.”: Go over the roofs of farm
buildings when it appears that rain is
about to fall. Water-spouts become
choked with leaves, or rust through, caus-
ing rainwater to run away to waste.
Make sure the strainers of the tanks are
clear of debris. Unless the strainers are
efficient, frogs will get into the tanks and
die therein, tainting the water.
“Bill C.”; A long drought, as yet
largely unbroken, has prevented the plant-
ing of a normal cane-crop on parts of
the C.Q. coast. Farmers are reluctant to
use artificial fertilisers on their parched
plant and ratoon paddocks lest the heat-
ing chemicals finish off the already half-
dead cane. But every effort should be
made to put unplanted areas under green
manure in readiness for the coming rainy
season. Heavy rains on the bare worked-
up areas in late summer would be certain
to wash half the topsoil out of the pad-
docks,
“Sundowner”: Potatoes will fatten pigs
but should be used only with a flesh-
forming diet such as skim milk, meat-
meal or peas, at the rate of 401 b. to a
kerosene bucket of skim milk,, and boiled.
Green potatoes should not be given unless
cooked and drained of the cooking
water.
“Homo”: Where crops of tomatoes
have failed through disease a late crop
will sometimes escape it. New sowings
grow more quickly and come to fruit
in half the time necessary for early crops.
“Steve”: Take-all in wheat was a pro-
blem in our south Victorian district
until the farmers learned to fallow and
sow Tate, the latter even as late as early
August, whereas May was at one time
favored. Quadrant wheat is the most
popular variety at the moment,
“C.A.A.”; In non-irrigated orchards
cultivation should be planned to guard
against dry periods. If the soil is not
in the best condition to retain moisture,
cover crops should be used. When the
crop has been turned in and decayed,
summer cultivating prevents weeds com-
peting with the trees.
“Myrrhee”: To check brown and
black scale on citrus during summer, spray
with a white oil emulsion (2 gallons in 80
of water) and if black aphis is present,
add a pint of nicotine sulphate.


- ■ J
DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country. i
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes of British, American and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
“Py VOX DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
DF
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
fiuilr entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- ' ■■■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE n 'i ■ I
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
!All men s-wear shopp
6 and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.B.W.
I* V
' s
That is one gift a man is bound to
appreciate. He may be embarrassed
at your taste in ties, but give him a
Gillette razor and blades . . . pre-
cision-built for each other . . . and
you present him with the ideal
shaving outfit, a gift he hasn’t seen
in years.
m
'xS?
m
m
1
m
Give HIM a New
Gillette Razor for Christmas!
And you’ll give him something he
will really be grateful for . . .
economical, efficient, luxurious
shaving every day of his life. No
other method of shaving, regardless
of price, gives such smooth com-
fortable shaves as Gillette. That is
why men from eighteen to eighty
will bless your thoughtfulness.
Now being displayed
by your local Retailer
RAZORS and BLADES
>w V. ,
’Good mornings’ begin with Gillette
SSS
INfo* 44 Pocket Edition. Genuine
Gillette razor with 3 blades housed in
leatherette-covered metal case plush
lined.
tfilll
No. 77 Genuine Gillette razor, 3
blades and 2 moulded blade containers
all in black moulded case.
"ette
No. 25 Genuine Gillette razor and
2 Blue Gillette blades in mottled brown
moulded case.
D
FD
No. 26 Genuine Gillette razor with
telescopic handle and 2 blades all
housed in compact moulded stand with
receptacle for used blades.
recep
Every poini
guaranteed—
do not’experiment with imitations,
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy, Ferguson’s Bibliography of Aus-
tralia, Vol. 1, 1784-1838, and Memoirs of a
Stockman, by H. Peek. —3907.
Words of the verse “The Wreck of the
Brukenkrungerknob.”—39oB.
To buy Phantom Paradise, by J. H. Niau. —
3909.
To purchase 1066 and AU That and And
Now All This.— 39lo.
To buy The Promotion of the Admiral and
Other Stories, by Morley Roberts. —3911.
To obtain Harrington Mann’s Portrait Paint-
ing and Dry Fly Fishing, by Earl Grey.—39l2.
To buy Chunuma, All About, Son of Djaro
and The Way of the Whirlwind, by Mary and
Elizabeth Durack.-—3913.
To buy Zittel’s Textbook of Palaeontology,
Vol. 1, and David’s Geological Map of Aus-
tralia. —3914.
Information Sought.
What is nardoo, and how do the abos pre-
pare it for food?
Nardoo is the abo. name for the spore-
cases of a small plant, Marsilea drummondi,
a mud-loving or aquatic fern. In summer the
swamps in which it abounds dry up, and the
plants wither away, leaving the fruit-cases
on the ground; these are collected by the
aborigines, ground between two stones and
made into a paste for use as a food. It con-
tains little nutritive matter and is generally
liberally mixed with finely-ground stone.
* * # ♦
Who was “The man they could not hang/’
and what were the circumstances of his re-
prieve ?
John Lee, convicted of murder at Babba-
combe, England, was reprieved because the
drop refused to act on three occasions when
he was placed on the scaffold. According to
Ernest Bowen-Rowlands, it was the work of
a convict, a carpenter by trade, employed on
the scatfold, who slipped in a small wedge.
After the first failure he withdrew the wedge,
showing that the drop worked perfectly, but
twice he put the wedge back. Lee’s sentence
was commuted to life imprisonment, and he
was released after 25 years. Bowen-Rowlands,
a barrister, asserted that the convict confessed
to the trick on his deathbed.
* * * *
A corner of my garden is wet, very low-
lying and unsightly. What din I grow in it
to improve it?
First put a drainage trench through it to
carry oft surplus water; this will sweeten the
soil. Then build on it a rockery, which, when
filled with light loam, will grow any of the
beautiful flowering annuals. If a rockery is
unsuitable, plant arum lilies, pussy willow and
hibiscus shrubs, cannas, geraniums and pelar-
goniums. Vegetables suitable for the position
are rhubarb, celery and beetroot.
* * * *
(1) What are the best Australian native song-
birds? (2) Are any other birds capable of
mimicking sounds as the lyre-bird does?
(1) Opinion varies considerably. Many of
our warblers have a very pleasing song, also
some of the song-shrikes, such as the olive
whistler. The crested bellbird and the butcher-
bird also have melodious voices. (2) All the
bower-birds are great mimics, while among the
smaller species the noisy scrub-bird and the
scrub-wrens are perhaps the best'. The ground-
lark and even the silver-eye are also good
mimics.
* * * *
Origin of the phrase “Tweedledum and
Tweedledee” ?
The phrase occurred about 1720, in lines
by John Byrom, referring to the feud between
Handel and Bononcini, rival musicians at the
time:
Some say, compared to Bononcini,
That Mynheer Handel’s but a ninny; v
Others aver that he to Handel
Is scarcely fit to hold a candle.
Strange all this difference should be
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
* * * *
(1) Why is the President of the Common-
wealth Senate, unlike the Speaker of the House
of Reps., allowed an ordinary vote, and why
is he not allowed a casting vote? (2) What
happens in the case of equal voting in the
Senate? ~ , .
. (1) So that the State which he represents
may not be deprived of his vote. To confer
on him a casting vote as well would give his
State more than .its equitable representation.
(2) The “noes” have it.
Brief Answers.
G.S.G.: The mud skipper or climbing fish
is a small amphibious fash ( Periophthalmina ),
whose breast- and abdominal-fins form armhke
limbs with which he clambers over mudflats
and climbs mangrove-roots. His eyes, which
he can elevate upon short stalks, see as well
out of as in water. 6 .. .M.W.P.: Burning is
preferable to. burying for all sorts of prunings,
since it gets rid of aphis, pests, etc., and the
residue is rich in potash... .F.R.: To make
oil of lavender, almost fill a large bottle with
lavender tops, add enough spirits of wine to
fill the bottle; cork and leave in a warm place
six to eight weeks. Strain the oil, which will
float on top of the spirit, into a clean bottle.
One tablespoon of this oil in 4oz. of water
makes a good perfume A.S.; As far as is
known the Phoenician was the first vessel to
carry gold from the Australian diggings to
England. She arrived in Plymouth from Sydney
in February, 1852, with £Bl,OOO-worth of gold.
....G.L.: Heat a kerosene-tin three-quarters
full of tar to nearly boiling point, then stir
in gradually enough air-slaked lime tq make
a creamy mixture. When it froths it is ready
to app1y....E.8.: The word “bushranger
apparently had its birth in Tasmania. Fopd
was supplied to the first Tasmanian convict
settlements from Sydney. Floods and droughts
periodically interrupted supplies, and convicts
in these times of famine were released to range
the bush and procure food for themselves—
H.S.: The Paul Revere of Longfellow s poem
took part in the “Boston tea-party (1773)
and became a member of the Boston Anti-
British Society. His midnight ride to Lexington
and Concord (April, 1775) was to warn the
people of the approach of the British troops.
T...N.R.8.: (1) Sir Charles Fitzroy was the
first Governor-General of Australia and was
appointed July 1, 1851. (2) There is a distinc-
tion between Australia and the Commonwealth
of Australia. Lord Hopetpun was the nrs
Governor-General of the Commonwealth (19tH;.
C.A.: To restore faded ink damp me
writing with very weak vinegar and leave it
for an hour or two. Then, wash the paper
over with a solution of prussiate ot potasn.
If the writing does not appear clear at once,
expose the paper to the air for a Rw h°urs,
keeping it slightly damp... .M.H.J.: (1) bman
cuttings of snapdragons will root quickly in
sandy soil under glass. Water very h|htty °r
they will die from “wet feet.” (2) From
cuttings the same colors can be obtained, wnue
the seed is always likely to be affected by
pollenisation... .W.N.: Australian official w
artists during World War 1 were George Lam-
bert, James Quinn, Arthur Streeton, H. o.
Power, Henry Fullwood, Will Dyson, Frea
Leist, Charles Bryant, F. R. Crozier, J. Scott,
James Macdonald and George Benson... •
C.J.A.; The principal point is to leave no
food where the cockroaches can get at it. Keep
all food in proper containers and burn au
scraps. Mix 4oz. powdered borax, 2oz. starch
and loz. cocoa; place in likely spots. Pain
crevices with hot turpentine. ...J.R.: vvimei
begins in Australia astronomically on June ZA
when the sun eaters the zodiacal sign Lancer,
meteorologically on June 1 ... .D-R-S- • , .
Making, by Walter Mason, and Violin Making
as It Was and Is, by Herman Allen.


FACING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the 'Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park , . . yet
it is merely "round the comer
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent
lu
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
IRE
WENTWORTH
Missing Friend.
KENNETH HUGH GARTRELL.
WOULD the abovenamed, who left South Australia
in November, 1929, seen in Melbourne shortly after,
or any person having knowledge of him, please com-
municate with his father, ARTHUR H. GARTRELL,
8 Kitchener Avenue, Dulwich, South Australia?
MR46
b/18
-i-"'
. . . A HIGHER-THAN
GENERAL STANDARD
By an Act of 1696-7, the familiar figure
of Britannia became a special hallmark
—a hallmark to denote a higher-than-
general standard. OLD GOLD, the
finest dark eating chocolate ever made
also carries a proud mark that pro-
claims a higher-than-general standard.
Upon every pack is imprinted a symbol
found only upon confectionery of the
highest grade, the signature
9
"OLD GOLD"
CHOCOLATE
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
F
DF
•A
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
Abreks trousers & sovereign hats
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
to the
C.J.R.: Not bad, but no great insight into
character shown, and ending obvious... .E.G..
Humanitarian feelings, however commendable,
don’t make a story; the proper medium is an
article... .O.McA.: A realistic lover:
.. .A.8.L.: Rejected stories and verse are criti-
cised in this column. We cannot undertake to
furnish criticisms by post J.C.T.: The
Black Eagle” is winging its way back
E.A.K.: Excusable only because of your ex-
treme youth... .T.L.W.; If you must use
archaic language set the plot in a correspond-
ing period .D.R.: Stories about mad scien-
tists planning to conquer the world with super
atom-bombs are outnumbered only by dying-
swaggie tales... .K.S.R.: Refuse to believe that
it is your “own original story”... .F.W.:
Getting nearer the mark; but there is still too
much unnecessary and unimportant dialogue.
Bellerive: Punch in every line of it:
How Jack Dempsey, Former Champion Heavy-
weight Pugilist of the World, Won the Great
Title.
Of strong physical build, with a stern countenance,
at a youthful age Jack Dempsey began his arena
career and was admired by leading judges of boxing
contests, who predicted he was the makings of a
world’s champion. And after great speculation he
was matched against the gladiator of the ring, the
formidable Jess Willard, which evoked a sensation
among the American ringsiders, etc., of the time.
I.J.M.: You win this week’s prize for the
contributor with the most illegible handwriting;
type it out and we’ll have another go at it.
L.T.S.: “High Hopes” was dashed to the
ground C.A.R.: It is nothing short of
amazing that you could write for so long about
so ' little S.T.G.: We have always firmly
believed that a humorous story, to be a suc-
cess, must be humorous... .S.E.K.: “With a
lion-like roar he charged his adversary like a
savage bull, and with the ferocity of a wounded
tiger he fell upon him!” Send him to Wirth’s.
. ...P.L.N.: Threw cold water on drought-
stricken farmer... .K.D.M.: Let the traveller
rest; —
... .L.F.: Unfortunately a sixteenth-century poet
already described Shakspeare’s “dust-becoming
bones” in terms of Bacon powder... .P.L.:
We think your handwriting is nice, too
A.W.: Try reading what a paper prints and
write accordingly... .T.S.: Editors infrequently
surround themselves with “innumerable tele-
phones, ringing in rapid succession.” Cigar
smoke? Sometimes... .T.G.P.: “Never” was
an appropriate title F.R.: Bill’s “old grey
mlver” does rhyme with “shiver,” but “her
hair of silver” doesn’t with “bill for”
T.L.: “Old Father William’s” got whiskers
on him W.L.: Why do all your characters
talk like soapbox orators? R.N.; Bush
maiden who sang as if she had “a casket of
diamonds in her throat” didn’t capture our
fancy P.W.: Despite all your detailed de-
scription Old Bill never came to life J.H.:
What are you trying to sell us—a story or a
second-hand car? N.S.: Any sensible police
force would send your detective back to pave-
ment pounding L.F.: That young woman
again—rescued from a life of shame by an old
boy friend. Third in a week P.M.: We
don’t want stories about “fluffy little kittens”;
nor do we want them about “lovely little
woolly puppies” S.G.: Evidence of scholar-
ship, but no evidence that you’ll ever make a
short-story writer A.J.M.: You beat about
the bush too much.... F.H.: The wicked land-
lord and the noble young tenant can fight it
out elsewhere N.P.: Your female spy would
have been detected in 24 hours in real life
P.C.: Too gushing and twittery for this mas-
culine journal... .G.K.; The corporal might
have been a superb marksman, but he misses
the target as a yarn-spinner.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.J.D.: Are frogs the only things you can
draw? J.S.McK.: Lopsided cricketer was
sent back to the pavilion E.K.M.; Sorry,
but you’ll need to use a more tempting brand
of bait..'. .C.H.W.: We seem to remember
sending that ancient derelict home a few months
back H.R.F.: The cricket stumps look all
right; can’t say the same for the rest....
W.R.: “Are they comical enough?” No, they
are not S.A.: As an artist you’re on a
par with the people who try to write the Lord s
Prayer on a threepenny-bit H.B.: We left
the wrestlers to grapple it out in the w.p.b.....
G.N.: Don’t draw from photographs; study
from life J.B.C.: You’re better with the
pen than the brush R.M.E.: A clumsy-
handed effort A.F.P.: A little better than
the last batch; keep on trying T.M.; We
should like to know why the two chorus girls
are perched on the roof of the faxi... .D.G.:
If wasn’t even a starter P.W.; Take more
pains with your sketches and smarten up your
humor L.F.: Couldn’t see anything to laugh
about in “Canberra Curiosities.” Was it meant
to be humorous? T.D.T.: We fully expected
that the shortage of soap would bring forth
a crop of jokes about unwashed deadbeats
A.McD.: You have a foggy notion as to what
is happening in Palestine... .N.C.; “Would
you call it a poor beginning?” Well, we
wouldn’t call it a bright one J.L.: It’s time
that drunk ate the crayfish and got home to
his missus V.S.: Sorry, not' in the market
for Christmas cards F.W.B.: They caused
an epidemic of yawning at 252 George-street.
Languidly she walks along,
Lovely and lissom and gay,
Every movement an amorous song,
And with a truly devastating sway.
Her hair is black and lustrous and silky,
The kind I like to touch;
Her complexion is rosy and milky,
But I don’t like her much.
She is always perfectly charming, and I feel absurdly
proud
When even, the waiters turn round and look
As she sweeps through a night-club crowd:
But all this is superficial, and beauty is only skin-
deep, '• _ , „ .
There are finer things to consider, and so I shall lose
no sleep
For a woman however lovely—when the woman re-
fuses to cook.
He won the big title.
Fame’s flag was unfurled.
He vanquished Jess Willard,
Champion of the world.
To his cyclone force
The gladiator went down;
Jack shone ’neath the
Light of arena renown.
He stood upon the hill and gazed down,
Unable to believe his eyes.
Shimmering in the heat stood a town,
A haven from the heat and flies.
His tired eyes saw the sign afar,
And he stumbled thankfully towards the bar.


For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance,
Head
Office:
117 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
In the
CARE OF
(^VplrmaJence
ESTATES
—it is impossible for any one individual to be versed
in all the complexities of estate administration.
However, the Permanent Trustee Co. has, for over
fifty years, been successfully managing country
estates with pastoral, grazing and mixed farming
interests. The Company receives, from its Pastoral
Inspector, regular and unbiassed reports on all pro-
perties under its control, based on many years of
practical experience.
In the management of your estate, why not appoint
a co-trustee with the Company and combine the first-
hand personal knowledge of your son or a friend with
the security and guaranteed permanence of the
Company?
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. BOND, CHAIRMAN
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON
JOHN EWING
F. H. WAY
E. V. T. WHITTLE
(MGR.)
N. L. SHAW
(ASST. MGR.)
COUNTRY REP.:
BRUCE MACDONALD
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
keeps his tender skin
heal thy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
»W- If
' ” k
ir
D
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY.
The so-called revolt of a group of
British Labor Ms.P. against their Gov-
ernment’s foreign policy was expressed in
an amendment to the Address-in-Reply.
Even before the amendment was debated
the “revolutionaries” had announced
their intention not to seek a division, and
to refrain from voting if a division was
forced. The vote when taken resulted
353 to nil against the amendment. The
debate afforded Mr. Attlee an opportunity
to state the reasons behind British policy.
Mr. Crossman, in moving the amend-
ment, declared, according to the London
“Times,” that “Britain’s gradual drift into
the American camp had occurred with-
out any clear Government statement.
The time had come,for plain speaking on
this drift into two ideological blocs. An
important cause of the drift was the
diplomatic and propaganda offensive
launched by the Russians against the
British Empire. It had been calculated
by the Russians upon the basis that
Britain was weak and that America was
powerful and hated the British Empire,
and that there might be a chance of dis-
rupting the British Empire and so
securing Russian frontiers and Rus-
sian safety for ever. Exactly the
reverse happened to what the Russians
hoped. The British Government suc-
cumbed to that pressure to the extent of
lining up very closely with the U.S. That
was a tragic mistake. If it consolidated
this alliance and bloc there would be a
perpetual armistice and no peace.
“The real issue was whether it was right
to assume the methods of collec-
tive security—the methods of caging the
wild beast. Such methods were wholly
justifiable in dealing with Germany be-
cause Nazi Germany was bound to make
war. Was that assumption to be made
about a country which only 18 months
ago was our ally in war?
“It was already clear that under the
present arrangements Britain was being
saddled with military commitments far
too heavy to bear. He suggested that
Britain should assume that there was
not going to be a war for some time,
should desist from staff conversations
outside the Commonwealth, should not
subordinate policy to strategy, and should
put everything into building up and
strengthening Socialism wherever possible.
It should co-operate freely with both
Russia and the U.S., while refusing ex-
clusive commitments to either side. It
should remain independent. A Socialist
Britain which put into effect an independ-
ent British policy and refused to join in
any ideological bloc was the only power
which could break the present deadlock.
Britain could not survive in a world either
of American free enterprise or Russian
Communism. Britain could not seek to
dominate, but could seek to lead if the
Government were bold and independent.”
Mr. J. Reeves seconded the amend-
ment. He said that “Britain stood
between an all-pervading America and re-
born ’Russia. Whoever could bring these
nations together in amity would render
mankind a service. Russia wanted peace
more than any other nation, and the
Prime Minister should declare that Britain
was not prepared to go to war against
Russia in any circumstances.”
Mr. Nally (Labor) was of the opinion
that “when it came to deciding what the
working men and women felt about
foreign policy it would be better if
some Labor member spent more time in
working-class pubs than at gatherings
of Bloomsbury Bolshevists. They would
then find that the average man and
woman believed that the whole root of
the trouble was that the Soviet did not
play the game, Russia was the only
countfy in the world that had people in
other countries who were prepared with-
out any reward to die for her afnd not
only to die but to cheat and twist until
they died if it suited the official line.
Members of the Communist party con-
ceived it to be their holy duty in what-
ever office they held in the working-class
movement to fake and twist in order to
secure the given result. Where Social
Democrats were weak in their relations
with the Communist party was that they
had out-dated ideas about personal rela-
tionship and honor and the keeping of
their word.”
Mr. Attlee found' the amendment “mis-
conceived, mistimed and based on mis-
conception. It was entirely untrue that
Britain had been subservient to the U.S.
and equally untrue that it showed an in-
sufficient readiness to collaborate with
Russia. The fundamental misconception
was of the nature and problem of inter-
national relations. In foreign affairs,
however perfect, the policy could be
carried out only in conjunction with
other nations.
“There were points of policy that
arose from the geographical position of
Britain and the British Commonwealth.
Geography, of course, was not altered by
a general election. There had been com-
plaints of collaboration with the U.S. on
economic matters. The whole qf Europe
was in great distress, and who were the
people who could help Europe? Was it
not natural that Britain should co-operate
with the U.S. in this? Help came from
the country that could give it, and
yet that help was called American
imperialism- A large part of Europe
had been succored by U.N.R.R.A., to
which America had contributed 72 per
cent, of the funds. Britain had con-
tributed £150,000,000, and a large amount
of that had been spent in Eastern Europe,
for which he had no doubt the people
were grateful, though it was a fact that
their representatives in Paris showed very
little gratitude.
“Over and over again Mr. Bevin had
denied that the Government was trying
to form an exclusive Anglo-American
alliance. Regarding collaboration with
the American general staff, Britain was
still in occupation, jointly with America,
of parts of Europe. Was it very strange
that Britain continued to collaborate with
the American general staff? If it was
asked why not a similar one with the
U.S.S.R., the answer was that the
British Government would be very glad
to have it It had tried hard to get it.
The Government tried to get a military
committee of the Security Council going.
It had invited the U.S.S.R. again and
again to come in. It had not been able to
do so. That was not the British Gov-
ernment’s fault.
“The Government had taken a lead in
positive world planning, and while Russia
had come into some of the organisations
it had not yet come into all. He would
like to see Russia taking part in the Food
and Agriculture Organisation, the Interna-
tional Trade Organisation, the Interna-
tional Bank and Mohetary Fund and the
provisions for an International Civil Avia-
tion Organisation. The Soviet was
warmly invited to come in, but had not
thought fit to do so. Was the British
Government thereby precluded in going
on with other nations?”
Writing in the N.Y. “Times,” Herbert
L. Matthews had already reached much
the same conclusions as Attlee in regard
to the reasons? behind Britain’s policy.
He declared it impossible, “at least for
the democracies,” to “chart safe and
steady courses for foreign policies these
days,” but he found that “in so far as
relative standards are concerned, it is the
British who can claim the most consis-
tency.
“This does not mean that British
foreign policy is static. If one studies
particulars of this policy one can see
some changes from Tory days and also
many carryovers, but at any rate noth-
ing startling appears to be developing.
One factor remains constant. This is the
struggle against the totalitarian nations
led by the Soviet, and in this respect
British policy exactly parallels American
policy, even though neither Government
gives expression to this opposition in the
form, of a declaration of policy. It is im-
portant to keep another factor in mind,
and that is the necessity for British policy
to parallel the Dominions’ policy when it
comes to imperial defence and stmegy.
South Africa fears Russian expansion to-
ward the Mediterranean. Australia fears
Russian expansion in the Pacific. Canada
has just got some vivid feelings about
Soviet espionage off her chest.
“All this leads to a simple conclusion.
The ideal and hope is friendly, trustful
co-operation between the Soviet and the
Western democracies. Since this does not
yet exist, the fundamental problem is one
which no British statesman, Laborite,
Liberal or Tory, denies:, whether the
world is to go Communist or democratic
or there is to be an armed truce between
the two.
“Granting, as is obvious, that Britain is
and will be on the democratic side, then
it follows that Anglo-American relations
must remain close. The British lion is
used to having his tail twisted by Ameri-
cans, but what Britons resent bitterly is
Moscow’s war of nerves against them. It
is not that the average Britisher is anti-
Russian. It is merely that British policy
clashes ideologically and practically all
along the iron curtain. Britain’s is a der
fensive policy—to hold Iranian oil, hold
Greece, hold Palestine, keep the Russians
out of the Mediterranean.
“It is British policy, and the British
deny they are either leading or follow-
ing the U.S. Certainly there is no ques-
tion of mediating between the Soviet
and the U.S. Essentially, it is the middle
of the road, the muddling through, the
adaptation to the necessary, the making
the best of changing circumstances as
they change and without previous plan or
preparation simple, practical, open
diplomacy on the whole.”
AUSTRIA FACES RUIN.
A Parliamentary Select Committee on
Estimates which visited Austria to in-
vestigate the cost to Britain of the occu-
pation and maintenance of the country
has issued a warning that “Austria is
approaching an extremely critical situa-
tion.”
Famine is not the least of the troubles
to be expected. The committee found
that the diet “may be characterised as
slow starvation,” and that when it was
bolstered up by U.N.R.R.A. imports,
which are to cease in February. Lon-
don “Times” commented:
With an unbalanced no foreign
exchange, four occupying armies to main-
tain and little practical experience of in-
ternational supply difficulties, the Austrian
Government has somehow to compete in
the world market for food to avert a
famine. Inevitably credits or a loan will
have to be granted by the Allies, and unless
the four occupying Powers can agree on
this quickly there will be a food crisis in
Austria lasting several months, with reduced
production, lassitude and bitterness among
the population, and a grave delay in
economic recovery.
The committee further reported in re-
gard to Austria’s economic position that
“for every £BO of imports in the period
June, 1945, to May, 1946, Austria ex-
ported goods of a value that scarcely
exceeded £6.” There is £4 million owing
for coal supplied from the British zone
in Germany, and £4| million for sup-
plies sent through the control office,
mainly by the Ministry of Food. As the
“Times”* saw it, the whole burden of the
report was “to make plain that the one
major step towards Austrian recovery
will be the withdrawal of the four armies
whose maintenance now costs the country
a third of her budget.”
This had been obvious for a long time,
William Henry Chamberlin had earlier
expressed the belief in the “Wall-street
Journal” that “the earliest possible ter-
mination of the occupation and the
restoration to the Austrian Government
of full freedom in managing its own
sadly depleted economy are indispensable
conditions for even a modest degree of
economic recovery.” And Henry C.
Fleisher and Dyno Lowenstein, writing
in “Harper’s Magazine,” had explained
that “out of the curious disparity be-
tween the people’s expectation of full
acceptance as a democratic sovereignty
and the doubts and reservations of the
Big Four as to the exact degree of libera-
tion which Austria had earned for itself,
there has developed a crazy-quilt pattern
of occupation policy. Austria, like Ger-
many, is divided into four almost air-
tight occupation zo'nes. The occupational
Powers maintain a high degree of super-
vision over every phase of life and over
every branch of government, and
Austria, like Germany, has discovered
that its four occupying armies have many
—and basic —differences over their role
in Austria and the country’s future
orientation.
“Austria has been officially recognised
as a liberated nation. It has held
national elections, it has a Parliament
and a central Government, it has sent
abroad political representatives with
varying degrees of diplomatic authority.
Yet its Government cannot truly call its
soul its own. Austria is like a headstrong
child with an indecisive governess.
Despite previous illness, the child wants
to go out and play ball with the other
kids. The governess is afraid that her
protege may be picked upon by the local
bully, have a case of tantrums if the
team mates play, too rough or die of
heart attack. While the governess
ponders the child daily becomes a more
complex problem.”
Fleisher and Lowenstein say that
“under the impact ,of a mottled set of
occupation policies, the Government has
settled naturally and quickly into a state
of lethargy. Under the circumstances it
can make little headway toward estab-
lishing a sound fiscal policy, because the
largest single factor in the country’s
financial burden —the cost of occupation
—constitutes a complete unknown. With
upwards of 100,000 Russian soldiers (a
proportion of 1 to 15 of the civilian popu-
lation) and a roughly equal number
divided among the French, British and
American armies, the Austrian Govern-
ment knows for certain only that one
day it will receive a whopping bill.
“The establishment of tight zone
boundaries which severely limit travel
throughout the country has helped keep
trade and industry at a fraction of
normal. In some sections, cattle and
horses have all but disappeared. The
food shortage typical of all Europe has
been accentuated by the live-off-the-land
policies of the French and Russians to
the point where hundreds of thousands
of Austrians are suffering from mal-
nutrition and, actual starvation. There
is a tremendous job of reconstruction;
in Vienna alone, an estimated 100,000
apartments have been either totally de-
stroyed or rendered unfit for occupancy.
These are major problems facing any
Austrian Government.”
Whatever the problems for "She Aus-
trian Government Chamberlin, discussing
the suggestion that there might be a
permanent division of Austria, sees an
even greater problem facing the Allied
peacemakers: “It is a challenge to world
statesmanship to make of Austria a
neutralised demilitarised area, with


DAILY IRREGULARITY
Don't Wait Too Long For Action
If you suffer from nausea, biliousness, headache or other
symptoms of daily irregularity or, in other words, constipation,
do something positive about it now. Delay may aggravate
the symptoms. To-night, take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
the gentle-acting vegetable laxative. This household remedy
usually relieves constipation quickly and thoroughly, without
griping or unpleasant after-effects. Get an economical bottle of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and keep handy,
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
■
Hi
w
hi
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available.'Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
" METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
opportunities for peaceful economic and
cultural development, instead of tearing v
the Country asunder in a fierce struggle
of power politics. Permanent division
of Austria, like permanent division of
Germany, would be more than a disaster
to these countries themselves. It would
be an unmistakable omen of world
division, and of future world conflict.”
The U.S. and the Pacific.
The United States has as yet given no
very clear official statement of its real in-
tentions as regards the future of the
Japanese mandated islands. There have
been suggestions that they will not be
offered under the United Nations trustee-
ship plan ; other suggestions that even if
they are they will be fortified as bases by
the U.S. The administration seems not to
have fully formulated its policy.
The “World Report” believes that “the
U.S. position will be a compromise be-
tween the policy advocated by the mili-
tary departments and that put forward
by the State Department. The War and
Navy Departments want outright annexa-
tion of the islands formerly mandated
to Japan. By annexing them any potential
limitations on the U.S. right to construct
bases would be forestalled. There would
be no possibility that at some future date
they might come under another Power.
“Military authorities would take the
Ryukyus and Bonins from Japan and
place them under U.S. control through
a strategic trusteeship in U.N.O. In this
manner, the U.S. could retain complete
control over Okinawa and other im-
portant islands near Japan. State Depart-
ment officials urge that the U.S. take the
lead in placing trust in U.N.O. They
desire that the Atlantic Charter declara-
tion against territorial annexations be
strictly adhered to. Under this policy, the
Ryukyus and Bonins would remain in
Japanese possession. The Marianas,
Marshalls and Carolines would be held
by the U.S., but under a U.N.O. trustee-
ship.
“To a certain extent, the decision will
be based on what other Pacific Powers
are willing to do with territories now
under their control. The U.S. desire for
island bases near the mainland of Asia
is also affected by the decision of the
Potsdam conference giving the Kurile
Islands to the Soviet Union.
“The U.S. Congress also can play an
important role in the future of the Pacific
bases. Unless Congress appropriates
sufficient funds for the development and
maintenance of the bases, the defence
plan cannot be put into effect. In 1936
Congress refused to grant sufficient money
for the development of the base at Guam.
This attitude once again may be a factor
in the situation in the Pacific.”
The matter may be discussed at the
New York meeting of U.N.0., but the
“World Report” considers that whatever
happens “it is reasonably certain that the
islands now occupied by U.S. forces will
remain under American control until
acceptable agreements as to their future
status have been reached. If the islands
are placed under trusteeship, they un-
doubtedly will be classed as strategic
areas, making them available for forti-
fication.”
Roscoe Drummond, writing in the
“Christian Science Monitor,” says that
“the issue will not be settled for some
time.”
He points out that “the former Japanese
islands which the U.S. expects to control
have not been legally placed in American
hands. Therefore, the U.S. is not in a
position to propose a trusteeship agree-
ment with U.N.O, over former enemy
territory which has not been ceded to it.
“While President Truman has said that
the U.S. will obtain the Japanese Pacific
islands by agreement, that is easier and
more quickly said than done. What
islands? All of the ex-enemy islands, in-
cluding Okinawa? By agreement with
whom? By agreement, of course, with
the nations which will write the Japanese
peace settlement: in the first instance, the
Big Five —the United States, France,
Britain, China and Russia. Remember
the veto? It applies to the decisions of
the Big Five Foreign Ministers on the
peace treaties as well as to the decisions
of the Security Council. Obviously, the
U.S. is not going to toss the Pacific
islands to artother Power. Obviously, the
U.S. will continue to sit in these islands
if agreement cannot be reached on their
disposition. But the legal basis for an
American United Nations trusteeship for
them can be laid only within the terms of
the future . Japanese peace settlement.
Looking at Paris, one can believe a
Japanese peace treaty won’t be ready very
soon.”
Drummond further declares that while
“the U.S. already has before it the pro-
posals of three of the Allies —New
Zealand, Australia and Britain —for con-
verting some of their mandated territories
into U.N.O. trusteeships, none of them
contemplates permitting U.N.O. jurisdic-
tion over the military defence of the trust
Chicago "Sun.”
“BUT I DON’T FEEL A BIT BETTER! ”
territories. Furthermore, Russia, in addi-
tion to its vast land acquisitions in
Eastern Europe and Asia, has obtained
by outright acquisition a cluster of Pacific
islands—the Kuriles —without any refer-
ence to trusteeship responsibilities or in-
tentions. There can be no U.N.O. trustee-
ship jurisdiction over any part of the
Kuriles, strategic or otherwise, because
these islands already have been incorpo-
rated into Soviet territory as one of the
quid pro quos given at Yalta as a con-
dition of Russia’s joining the war against
Japan.”
Agreement in Indonesia.
A draft agreement on a new status for
Indonesia has been initialled by Dutch
and Indonesian representatives. It states
that “the Netherlands Government recog-
nises the Government of the Republic of
Indonesia as exercising de facto authority
over Java, Madoera and Sumatra,” and
declares: —
The two Governments will co-operate in
the rapid formation of a sovereign demo-
cratic State on a Federal basis to be called
the United States of Indonesia. .The com-
ponent parts will be the Republic, Borneo
and the Great East, without prejudice to
the right of the population of any territory
to decide that their position should be
arranged otherwise. The constitution will
be determined by a constituent assembly
composed of representatives of the Republic
and of the other future partners of the
United States.
The two Governments will co-operate in
the establishment of a Netherlands Indo-
nesian Union consisting, on the one hand,
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, com-
prising the Netherlands, Surinam and
Curasao, and, on the other hand, the
United States of Indonesia. The Nether-
lands Indonesian Union will have its own
organs to promote the joint interests of the
Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United
States. Such joint interests will be foreign
relations, defence and finance, as well as
subjects of an economic or cultural nature.
The Ruler of the Netherlands will be at the
head' of the Union.
The Governments will try to establish the
United States and the Union before Janu-
ary 1, 1949. The Netherlands Government
will forthwith take the necessary steps to
obtain admission of the United States of
Indonesia to the United Nations.
The agreement was in a very large
measure the result of the mediation of
the British representative, Lord Killearn,
and his work has been praised by both
sides to the dispute, but there were other
more urgent reasons leading to agree-
ment. Economic considerations and loss
of trade persuaded both the Dutch and
the Indonesians to a more conciliatory
approach to the .negotiations.
The “World Report” saw “important
concessions made by both sides.
“The Indonesians want their war-born
Republic to be recognised and assisted
by the Dutch. Sutan Sjahrir, Premier and
chief negotiator for the Indonesians, with-
drew his opposition to the Dutch
strengthening their garrisons in the East
Indies. He has assurance that the troops
won’t be used against the interests of
the new Indonesian Government. Sjahrir
also has been convinced he may heed
the Dutch troops to prevent extremist
elements from overthrowing the still un-
stable Republican Government.,
“The Dutch want to remain in the
Indies, keep a firqj grip on their portion
of Borneo and the copra-producing
islands known as the ‘Greater East’ and
retain at least limited economic and mili-
tary control over the islands of Java and
Sumatra. Holland needs raw materials
from the Indies to carry out her recon-
struction aims. Losses in commerce
with other countries, as a result of 14
months of spasmodic civil war, already
have exceeded $1,000,000,000. During
the fighting in the Indies other countries
of South-east Asia have placed on the
market, at premium prices, the vital raw
materials that Japanese occupation had
long shut off from the outside world.”
“World Report” says further that “the
world wants the raw materials of the
Indies. Java and Sumatra produce such
scarce items as sugar, spices, drugs, vege-
table oils, tea, tapioca, petroleum and
rubber. Sugar, in huge quantities, is in
the interior of Java. Dutch authorities
are confident they can provide at least
600,000 tons of surplus sugar stocks for
export once law and order is restored.
Cinchona bark, which is processed into
quinine, is in growing demand. Oil was
the No. 2 pre-war export of the Indies,
and 70 per cent, of it came from the
island of Sumatra, Oilfields and re-
fineries on Sumatra are in fair condition,
but there has been no production.”
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Austrians are inclined to concentrate on all
the discomforts resulting from the presence of
foreign troops and the subordination of their
Government under the Allied Council. They
have got into the habit of making the occu-
pation responsible for each of the unpleasant
aspects of their life. In that they are wrong.
Though the occupation casts its shadow over
almost every sphere of public life, there are
many grievances that are of purely Austrian
making and others which stem from the years
under Nazi rule. Denazification of Austria
is a sorry failure. The initial responsibility for
this fact rests with the Allies, but the majority
of the population were extremely quick to avail
themselves of the opportunity to confuse the
issue and block positive anti-Nazi action. —
Ernest S. Pisko in the “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
One of the most striking facts of European
life today is the considerable number of Rus-
sians who are markedly unwilling to return to
their native country. They hide out under all
kinds of disguises, with all kinds of false papers.
If many Russians who were more or less con-
ditioned to the Soviet system took the first
opportunity to escape from it there is no cause
for surprise in the unwillingness of many natives
of the countries which have been subjugated
by the Soviet to return to their homes. This
is especially true as regards the Poles, of whom
there are almost 400,000 in the western zones
of Germany. William Henry Chamberlin in
the "Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Afghanistan is becoming a potential point
of conflict between Russia and the U.S. Russia
is trying to draw Afghanistan into its protective
border of satellite Powers. Plans for develop-
ment of the country bring the U.S. into the
situation. The Kabul Government recently
signed a contract with an American firm for
the construction of roads, bridges and irriga-
tion projects. As a result, Russia is charging
that U.S. activities are part of a plan to
encircle the Soviet with military bases.
Afghanistan occupies a position of major im-
portance in the Middle East. It is the buffer
between India and Russia. The passes com-
mand the routes' into India from the north-
west. Both Russia and India consider the
Hindu Kush Mountains as the natural line of
defence for their countries. Only the inacces-
sibility of Afghanistan has saved it from be-
coming more involved in the conflicts of the
big Powers. The predominant voice in Kabul
has been that of Britain. Today Britain is
losing influence as the possibility of her leaving
India increases. Afghanistan wants to develop
relations with other nations to prevent Russia
moving in as the British move out. Russia
wants from Afghanistan the assurance that no
other Power can use it as a base to attack
Russia. Russia would like to improve the
roads leading into Afghanistan. The Afghans
fear the importance of these highways as pos-
sible routes for an attack on India. American
engineers have been ordered to improve 1800
miles of highway in Afghanistan, but not the
roads leading to the Russian frontier. The
British regard any Russian gain in Afghanistan
as a direct threat to India. Strong defensive
fortifications protect the frontier, and a major
Indian military base at Quetta provides troops
for the area. The Afghans do not want to
be caught between Russia and the U.S. They
realise that, as the British move out of India,
the assistance that the U.S. is giving Afghanistan
may draw it into the position of a counter-
balance to Russia. To avoid such a position
Afghanistan is counting on the collective
security of the U.N. rather than a close
alliance with any great Power. — "World Report.”


DF
Why not Draw
on the Experience
of Others?
To secure the greatest benefit
with the least trouble in the
administration of an estate is an
achievement within the reach of
all, irrespective of the size or
nature of the estate or the
domestic difficulties involved.
With the growing pressure of their own
business affairs, and the added diffi-
culties of war-time conditions, the task
confronting the private executor has
been enormously increased.
Officers of Trustee Companies are
trained and experienced in the adminis-
trative management of all classes of.
estates. This specialised knowledge is
, reinforced by that of directors who are
all men of mature experience, .and who
bring a balanced judgment to bear upon
the problems of estates committed to
their care.
The Trustee Company thus provides
experience, permanency, impartiality
and sound administrative capacity, at
charges that are fixed and reasonable.
The Union Trustee, with sixty years of
service behind it, is the ideal executor
and trustee for appointment under any
Will.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS: <
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J, Carson.
Advisor; Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt,
Manager ; J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
*2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; L, K. Stephens,
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman);
J, W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager ; C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, A.I.C.A. (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
“80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
GLEtfR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
i
Filter
Cylinder
iSi
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
, Dividends , To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.serves.f
1937 .. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938. . 24,871 6 „ 12* „ 19,384 5.487 32,379
1939.. 29,001 6 „ 12* „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton And Subsidiaries.*
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190.. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. TO p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. .. 207,028
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 23,962 265,623
1945.. 106,483 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 23,109 288,732
1946.. 100,659 6 „ 10 . „ 83,374 17,285 306,017
* Including outside interests. t Reduced here by
value of intangibles ( £2868).
Underproduction, not unemployment, is
the real peril now and in the future. Yet
the Government and the unions, more
intent upon industrial politics than in-
dustrial policies, are content to roll along
on the tide of “planned” economy
merrily ignoring the fact. Talk of pro-
duction there has. been in plenty, but no
policy to secure it. The efforts of in-
dustrialists, concerned with such mun-
dane affairs as getting things produced
and finding the labor to do it, are every-
where being hindered by an adolescent
bureaucracy, which still has its head in
the clouds speculating about the virtues
of labor shortages, bulk buying, controls
and other high matters.
This co. and its half-dozen subsidiaries
are the backbone of Australia’s infant
cotton-textile industry ; and they made
encouraging progress under the shelter
and stimulus of war conditions. Paid
capital shot up from £202,742 in 1938
to £894,993 four years later. The figure
remained steady until shortly before the
close of last accounts, when 370,945 new
£1 ords. were offered and snapped, one
for four at par ; this to help buy plant to
expand and widen the range of produc-
tion. Only 2s. 6d. has been called on each
of the new shares; the balance will be
asked for as required. When all the
money on the new issue is in, paid capital
will be £1,265,938 in 60,000 first and
93,104 second prefs., both 6 p.c. cumu-
lative, and 1,112,834 ords. On that lot
pref. requirements plus 10 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £120,469, or £19,810 more
than was netted last term, and there
would be £370,945 of fresh share capital
at work.
Some of the new equipment is
scheduled for delivery during the current
term. Owing to rising prices (now up to
200 p.c. above pre-war levels), and pos-
sible .delay of three years or more in
delivery, prudence imposes limitations on
the extent to which further orders should
be placed at the moment. With an eye
on the co.’-s future competitive power and
net earning capacity the cautious board
is “carefully watching the position.”
Turnover shrank last term, owing to
shortage of coal and labor, and the
hampering effects of price-control upon
production. Also., intermittent stoppages
and use of substitute fuel bumped up
costs, which were further affected by a
high rate of labor turnover. The Mel-
bourne subsidiaries have received no coal
for some months, and their steam,plants
are being converted to use of brown
coal and/or oil. As for price-control, the
co. cannot market its products until the
authorities fix the maximum selling price.
Here is the chairman’s account of what
occurs: —
It frequently happens that prices re-
quested are so reduced as to make pro-
duction unpayable. It then becomes neces
sary to dismantle throughout the mill the
set-up of such a fabric, and to change over
to other cloths —frequently with similar
results.
Constant changes and switches in quality
and patterns are necessary to meet trade
needs, and because of limitations in the
supply of yarn. When will bureaucracy
develop the middle-age habit of second
thought?
After allowing £46,465 less for taxation
(£52,816) and £10,282 less for deprecia-
tion (£68,646); the slip in the net result
was £5824. The £100,659 of profit
covered the pref. div, and 12.3 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 13.1, 13.2, 12.7,
12.9, 10.8, 16.1 and 16.2 p.c. back to 1939.
The 10 p.c. div. was repeated for the
seventh year in succession.
The financial position improved, partly
on account of £40,358 application money
received on the new share issue:
, Consolidated Figures. ■*
1941. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital £674,482 £894,976 £894,993 £935,351*
Outside inter-
ests . . 153 152 158 156
Sund. creditors 356,133 377,844 365,315 462,264
reserve
etc. ..’ 45,940 120,373 113,668 90,585
Freehold . . 348,928 395,188 405,543 401,296
Plant, etc. . . 558,565 722,069 696,827 687,228
Stock, etc. . , 310,029 400,288 451,740 521,946
Sundry debtors 102,242 161,730 129,057 204,209
etc. .. 1,903 21,382 21,382 21,382
* Includes £40,358 of application money on new
issue.
To carry an extra £70,206 of stocks and
add £75,152 to debtors’ balances the co,
leant upon trade creditors for an extra
£96,949. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£194,688) was
£71,387.
At 51s. 9d. (ceiling price) the f.-p. ords.
return 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis.
On the same basis the contribs. at 335. 6d.
give an immediate return of 0.74 p.c.,
rising to 3.8 p.c: when fully paid. The
cover is 255. 6d. in net tangibles. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come on, to
the market.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
r ■ Dividends v
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves.serves.*
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 6,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 2* p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31,668 10,500 4 ~ ~12,962 8,206 29,540
Reserves disappear, £7498 .. .. 22,042
1939. . 27,421 10,500 4 p.c.=12,962 3,959 26,001
1940.. 27,860 10,500 4 ~ ~12,962 4,398 30,399
To staff pension fund, £3OOO .. .. 27,399
1941.. 29,258 10,500 5* p.c.=17,822 936 28,335
1942.. 38,230 10,500 5*,, ~ 17,822 9,908 38,243
To staff pension fund, £4OOO .. .. 34,243
1943.. 40,874 10,500 17,822 12,552 46,795
1944.. 45,127 10,500 5* „ ',,17,822 16,805 63,600
1945.. 56,048 10,500 5*,, ~17,822 27,726 91,326
To staff pension fund, £5OOO .. .. 86,326
1946.. 70,717 10,500 Bp.c.= 25,923 34,294 120,620
To staff pension fund, £6OOO .. - .. 114,620
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. ..104,620
* After deducting book-value of goodwill ( £60,741),
Not since the palmy 1920’s has this old-
established retailer, whose shop is in
Bourke-street, alongside Myer’s, in the
centre of Melbourne’s shopping area,
made a better showing. In between the
co. ran into some heavy weather, but the
business is now in good trim, and share-
holders’ prospects are brighter than for
many years. The ords. averaged a shade
over 13 p.c., sweetened with £133,221 of
bonus scrip, for the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930. For the next half-
dozen years declared trading profits ex-
ceeded declared trading losses by only
£3665, and divs, averaged 1.8 p.c. Since
then the business has shown consistent
improvement, and the board has followed
a cautious policy, keeping the div.
moderate and strengthening the prop for
capital. \
The mischief occurred mainly in con-
nection with stocks. The- co. used to
specialise in high-grade imported fashion
goods, the most difficult of all drapery
lines. Slump caused attention to be
turned to the medium-priced and more
competitive field, in which profit margins
were finer. However, a system of budget-
ing made for better buying and stopped
many outlets, and earnings responded as
turnover advanced.
Last term more goods became avail-
able and sales were bumped up by the
heavy demand from demobilised service
personnel, and the rest of the public, also
with plenty of money in its pocket and
hungry for goods, was, and still is, eager
to buy. Much of the spending, however,
has been on non-rationed lines in the
luxury and semi-luxury classes; a re-
minder of the urgent need to stimulate
production and abolish rationing of
essential clothing.
Net earnings shot up £14,669, reaching
£70,717. That was after setting aside an
extra £29,000 for the taxgatherer (£79,000)
and an additional £1998 for depreciation
(£12,752). After paying the pref. diV.
enough remained to show 18.5 p.c. on the
£324,041 of ord. capital, as against 14,
10.6, 9.3, 8.5, 5.7, 5.3 and 5.2 p.c. back to
1939. A 2\ p.c. bonus, not to be taken
as a precedent, the board says, went out
with the p.c. div., making 8 p.c. for the
year. After sending £6OOO to the staff
fund, and writing £lO,OOO off fittings, etc.,
in addition to ordinary depreciation,
£18,294 remained, lifting reserves
£104,620 in excess of goodwill (£60,741),
not treated as an asset herein.
Financially the co. is well-equipped to
take advantage of any buying opportunity
that offers:
1940. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Ord. capital £474,041 )
Pref. capital 150,000 ) £474,041 £474,041 £474,041
Liabilities.. 386,868 328,967 296,936 304,431
Premises, etc. 501,309 492,666 485,285 481,437
Plant, etc. 113,328 95,957 82,190 65,086
Book debts 63,471 20,109 16,457 25,374
Stock . . 237,346 188,291 188,091 218,411
Cash, etc. . . 8,335 - 118,544 182,770 231,636
Over the last six years £223,301 has been
added to cash, etc. When the books last
closed, more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £170,990, an improvement
of £248,706 since 1940.
On the market the ords. are jammed
at the ceiling price of 245. 6d., at which
figure the return would be 6.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div, basis, or 4.5 p.c. on a 5£ p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 30s. 6d. yield
4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is £3 17s. Id.
prefs. and 265. sd. ords.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1937. . 42.67,4 12* 1 16 i .457
Pension fund. £4OOO- J
1988.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 '628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO .. . 162,489
1940.. 31,863 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 . . .. 162,502
1941.. 35,021 10 p.c. = 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO . . . . 162,523
1942.. 29,899 10 p.c. = 29,000 899 163,422
To staff funds, £3769 . . .. 159,653
1943.. 24,042' 8 p.c. = 23,200 842 160,495
To staff funds, £3BOO .. .. 156,695
1944.. 26,975 8 p.c. = 23,200 3,775 160,470
To staff -funds, £3OOO .. .. 157,470
1945.. 22,388 7 p.c. = 20;623 1,765 159,235
To staff funds, £l2OO .. .. 158,035
1946.. 26,749 7 p.c. = . 20,650. 6,099 164,134
To staff funds, £6,500 .. . .. 157,634
Last accounts closed when the war-time
wool contract with the British Govern-
ment ran out. It had been the sheet-
anchor of the trade since 1939, eliminat-
ing instability in both demand and price.
The latter was fixed on the basis of a flat
rate of 13.4 d. per pound until mid-1942,
when the figure was lifted to 15.4 d,
Variations in the quantity of wool and
livestock handled were due mainly to
seasonal conditions: and high prices
obtained for livestock. Earnings were
also affected by the upswing of costs, and
by shearers’ strikes and other labor
troubles.
Drought, which cut into the 1945
figures, continued for most of the last
term, when operations were extended by
purchase of S. G. Keene and Co., stock
and station agents, Scone (N.S.W.), now
Pitt, Son and Keene Pty. At its Sydney
and Newcastle stores the co. sold an
extra 2661 bales wool, and in the fat-
stock markets disposed of 21,846 fewer
sheep, 2662 fewer pigs and an extra 1949
head of cattle;
Year to Wool
June 30, Bales. Sheep. Cattle Pigs.
1940.. 134,253 317,177 32,522
1941.. 141,507 375,530 19,551
1942.. 141,704 411,000 24,690 7609
1943.. 125,317 411,00.0 24,690 7609
1944.. 128,816 551,624 23,067 5239
1945.. 109,283 302,848 21,856 8402
1946.. 111,944 281,002 23,805 5740
Still, after setting aside an extra £3400
for taxation (£10,800), net earnings
sprang £4361, reaching £26,749, equal to
9 p.c. on capital as against 7.5,V9.3, 8,
10.2, 11.9, 10.9 and 10 p.c. back to 1939.
The Jliv. was kept at 7 p.c., the lowest
rate paid for the last 40 years.
On the market buyers offer 425. 3d.
and sellers ask 475. for the pound shares.
At the middle price (445. lid.) the return
w'ould be 3.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
or 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c: distribution. Visibly
the cover is 30s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Prospects of a lift in both earnings and
the div. are encouraging. Recent rains
have brightened the seasonal outlook, and
better lambing and a heavier clip of
improved quality are in sight. At auction
the staple has fetched record prices, the
average being above reserve limits fixed
by the Realisation Commission on the
flat-rate basis of 18.14 d. per pound, from
which a contributing charge of 5 p.c. is
deducted.. Though prices are not likely
to remain at their present high levels
indefinitely, they are likely to remain
strong until the heavy, accumulated war-
time demand, plus current requirements,
for textiles is satisfied. Meanwhile,
growers are assured of orderly marketing
at minimum prices, thus removing the
worst of the dangers from pressure of
accumulated stocks. The fight ahead of
growers will be largely one against
seasons and costs, especially the. latter.
To carry an extra £91,118 of advances
and add £49,348 to liquids the co. went
outside for a further £145,843 last term:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital;. £290,000 £290,000 £295,000 £295,000
Overdraft .. 230,435 207,695 130,183 256,662
Creditors* .. 32,611 41,636 91,648 110,912
Freeholds .. 154,421 236,126 235,350 236,317
Advances, etc. 282,480 247,778 2X6,379 307,497
Liquid assets 301,103 249,113 241,963 291,311
* Including tax reserve.
When the books were ruled off more or
less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£231,234 (down £2377). Since balancing
date the stock-and-station business of
George Thompson and Co., Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.), has been bought.


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Uoinns
Austra-
—Advt.
PA.TENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH. HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
BW 4931
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
■jAOCSONT
BRISBANE
Telegrams and Cables
“ JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
' LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STKEE TS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Its
"good taste” to serve
FESQ LIQUEURS
Your discrimination in serving fine Fesq liqueurs
will be appreciated by your guests.
Ask for FESQ . , . Advocaat, Cherry Brandy,
Creme de Menthe, Orange Curacao, Curacao
Blanc, Apricot Brandy, Creme de Cacao,
Maraschino, Kummel, Dominic ... at all hotels.
FESQ, C'SSON & Co. Pty. Lt 1.
D
{Distributors of fine wines
and spirits since 1848.)
MOTOR SPIRIT
A
%
m
l/A
S/
ce
09
W
*.
&Sk
:
Product of the Neptune Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
-marketers of quality petroleum products
throughout Australia since 1909 . . .
Neptune Oil Co. Pty. Ltd. (Incorporated in New South Wales)
During the wat the U. S. Navy De-
partment and Geological Survey success-
fully developed a new airborne magneto-
meter instrument for spotting deeply sub-
merged enemy submarines. Now the new
device has been applied to geophysical
surveys of potential iron- and petroleum-
bearing areas in the U.S., and is reported
“unsurpassed as a means of making rapid
magnetic reconnaissance surveys.” The
instrument, it is claimed, is not affected
by steel rails, pipelines and other artificial
installations. It can be used over land
or water, and surveys can be completed
over 100 times as fast as on the ground
and at much less cost. The development
is interesting because of its possible use
in aerial prospecting in Australia.
* * * *
Reserves of sub-bituminous coal at
Leigh Creek, near Telford (S. Aus.), were
recently recalculated by the Department
of Mines at 380,000,000 tons. A major
portion of . this can be won by
opencut mining, the ratio of overburden
to coal being 2\ to 1. The seams are
thick and continuous. For the year to
June 30, 1945, output of the field was
37,100 tons.
* * * *
Some Lake View and Star figures for
year ended June 30 last; Mill through-
put, 383,081 tons; yield, 92,9610 z. of
fine gold. Tailings retreated, 669,167
tons; extraction, 11,715 fine oz. Work-
ing expenditure, excluding cost of tail-
ings retreatment, was 235. 5.35 d. stg. a
ton. Profit was £311,817. Mill through-
put shows an increase of 72,160 tons,
gold production an expansion of
17,6340 z., working costs a rise of a shade
over Bd. a ton, and profit is up £35,268
compared with the previous year’s figures.
Current assets total £809,261. Ore re-
serves at 3,949,100 tons, averaging
4.93dwt., show a shrinkage of 72,100 tons
and a slight recession in grade. Curtail-
ment of development, owing to , shortage
of labor, probably accounts for the small
quantity of fresh ore opened up, Co.’s
holdings include the greater part of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile. They comprise
mines formerly worked by the dead and
gone Associated, Lake View, Golden
Links, Boulder Main Reef, Hannans
Star, Chaffers, Boulder Deep Levels,
Golden Horseshoe and Ivanhoe cos.
Four of them Lake View, Ivanhoe,
Associated and Golden Horseshoe —in-
dividually produced millions of ounces
of gold before being acquired by Lake
View and Star, The Lake View yielded
a ton of gold a month for six months,
and for a time Golden Horseshoe was
billed as the richest goldmine in the
world.
« * « «
For the year to June 30 last Hill 50
(W.A.) treated 46,724 tons of ore for
11,0090 z. fine gold, worth £108,787, after
deducting gold tax (£9701). After allow-
ing for depreciation (£6577), profit was
£14,996, of which a 6d..div. took £9375.
Working costs fell from 50s. 3d. to
445. lljd. Reorganisation of treatment
plant is expected to improve extraction,
and effect further savings in costs. Ore
reserves are estimated at 109,400 tons
of s.7dwt. average. Results from dia-
mond-drilling are tipped to increase re-
serves and locate new bodies. Like a
number of other goldmining concerns
in the West, the co. has been trying,
without success, to get a new property.
To date it has taken £850,000 out of the
mine and paid nearly £50,000 in gold-
profits tax.
* * * *
From London: Shareholders were told
by the chairman at South Kalgurli meet-
ing that, as a result of the treatment
changeover from the Perseverance to the
Croesus mill, there would probably be a
diminution of profits for the year to end
March, 1947. The board had, therefore,
decided to set aside £5OOO as a dividend-
equalisation reserve. Last term’s develop-
ment included completion of the main
shaft on the South Kalgurli block to No.
20 level, and extension of the main cross-
cut at that depth to 468 ft. Looking ahead
the management hoped for the best.
* * * <«
As a sideline Gold Mines of Kalgooi-
lie, Ltd., recently did some exploratory
drilling on a hitherto unproductive
auriferous area, extending south from
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile in the direc-
tion of Hannans Lake and Mt, Robinson,
It is now making -a geological survey
preparatory to doing further boring.
Several holes put down years ago by
other cos. and syndicates in this area
drew blanks.
* * ♦ •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) reports con-
tinued high gold values in both the north
and south drives on the main (North
Kalgurli) No, 7 level. Assays range from
35.5dwt. to 40dwt. a ton. Values around
6dwt. have been encountered at Nos. 2
and 14 levels of the adjoining Kalgurli
block.
Boulder Perseverance’s chairman, Dr.
K. B. Edwards, says a certain ambunt
of capital expenditure will have to be
incurred to make up deferred replace-
ments, and that on the adjoining block
worked by Kalgoorlie Enterprise, in
which Perseverance holds a 65 p.c. in-
terest, prospects are brightening and
efficiency improving.
♦ * * ♦
Westralia’s latest gold patch is at
Christmas Gift, a prospect about 15 miles
from Southern Cross on the Yilgarn field.
About 850 tons of ore, obtained in a few
days, yielded 9850 z., valued at £lO,OOO.
Several parties of diggers have given
the Gift a trial during the last 35 years,
and it has had its ups and downs. Present
owners are Peter Massa and Son. There
is a bit more rich stuff in sight.
♦ * * *
Six no-liability goldmining cos., which
have tried and failed to make fortunes
in Westralia, recently issued their annual
accounts. Their aggregate cash re-
sources barely exceeded £lOOO. Liabili-
ties chipped about a third off this
amount. Concerns were Enterprise Gold
Mines, Hopetoun Mines, Australian De-
velopment, Midas Gold Blocks, Radio
South and South Mighty Atom. All
hope to get a turn up in the future, but
it takes many more pounds than they
have pence in the till at the moment to
thoroughly prove a mine. •


No. 3 of a Series
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
English
lDhccl-£ock
Dagger-Pistol
In the hey-day of cut-purse and assassin, when life
was counted cheap, there was many a sinister
use made of this deadly wheel-lock dagger-
pistol. Ingeniously constructed with a finely
tooled steel blade, and barrel of Damascus
iron, this fine example shows all the
traditional English pride in skilled
craftsmanship.
So today, to the keen sportsman,
the I.C.L brand on sporting
ammunition is a hallmark of
consistent high quality and
excellence.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
The racing boom of recent years reached its
peak probably in the spring of 1945, since
when there has been a steady decline in both
attendance and betting. Noting • the same
tendency in England, a London “Times” racing
writer suggests a tew reasons; “The desire
for relaxation after the war years was becoming
satiated. The enclosures at the racecourses
were uncomfortable, for unfortunately none of
them was built to accommodate attendances
of those dimensions. Money became scarcer
and those recently in the services went back
to civilian work. It seems probable that next
season will see the decrease continuing.” To
that might be added for local conditions the
cancellation, at the end of last season, of
free admission for servicemen. A year or so
back the paddock at Randwick was always
a mass of uniforms, at times seeming to out-
number the civilians; today they are so rare
that a small patrol of service police is a con-
spicuous sight.
On the whole, the decline is an all-round
benefit. Attendances are still large enough to
satisfy the clubs, without the overcrowding that
made a day at the races merely an unpleasant
experience 18 months ago.' And the dwindling
of excessive betting is something that even
bookmakers won’t regret—quite a few “levia-
than” punters have taken the knock.
In Australia, as in England, owners have
benefited from the boom by way of increased
prizemoney. The amount distributed in Aus-
tralia in the 1945-46 season was, in round
figures, £1,422,000; for the 1942-43 season it
was roughly one-third of that. The AJ.C.
has already announced further increases for
the coming year, with the Doncaster going
from £3OOO to £3500, the Sydney Cup from
£5OOO to £6OOO, the Sires’ Produce Stakes from
£3500 to £4OOO, and an all-round rise in the
minimum for minor races.
Even so, Australian owners must cast an
envious eye on the prizes given these days in
the U.S.A., where there are several races worth
100,000 dollars or more, and quite numerous
events carrying bigger prizes than the Mel-
bourne Cup. The champion American three-
year-old Assault was able to win 441,000 dollars
in one season —roughly £A137,600. His last win
of the season, the Three-year-old Westchester
Handicap, brought him in a stake of 38,000
dollars (£A 12,856). That is not by a long
chalk the richest three-year-old race in America,
but it’s about three times as much as the
winner of an AJ.C. or Victoria Derby collects.
Bigger prizemoney theoretically increases the
value of horseflesh, consequently breeders have
had a great year. In yearling sales at Brisbane,
Sydney and Melbourne aggregates and average
prices were records, the best part of half a
million pounds changing hands at the three
centres. Buyers had a wide range of choice,
over 80 sires being represented at the Sydney
sales alone. With transport difficulties re-
moved, a good deal of new blood has been
imported, two promising new sires from Eng-
land being High Peak (Hyperion-Leger Day)
and Flare Path (Fairway-Chincona).
As for many years past, the Bend Or sire
line has predominated in Australia in the past
season, accounting for over £420,000 Of prize-
money distributed. The Bend Or line is chiefly
represented in Australia through two grand-
sons, Phalaris and Valais. Sires representing
the Phalaris line are Manitoba, Law Maker,
Brueghel, Piccadilly, Brazen, Kinderscout and
Hellespont. Going to Valais (sire of Heroic)
are the progeny of Ajax, Hua, Royal Step,
Valiant Chief, Hebrus and others. Also very
successful was the Hampton line, from which
comes Gainsborough-Emborough-Bernborough.
Even a Nat Gould could scarcely have in-
vented a yarn with the dramatic quality of the
story of Bemborough, which reached its climax
and unfortunate anticlimax in the past year.
The horse from the bush with a mysterious
past, coming to the city to string up 15 con-
secutive wins against the best in three States
and lifting his sire from comparative obscurity
to leading sire of the season; his grand attempt
to do the impossible in the Caulfield Cup,
and then the breakdown. Bemborough has
given the experts food for argument for years
to come. How did he compare with cham-
pions of the past, or, for that matter, with
Shannon, whom he overshadowed but never
met?
It was a cold, damp-looking afternoon for
Mentone on Saturday, which may have
accounted for the light attendance, though
clubs in Melbourne, as elsewhere, are becoming
aware that crowds are dwindling. The main
event —a good one for this time of the year—
the Ascot Cup of £lOOO, went to Arduli, who
hadn’t won for more than a year, but made a
good job of winning when she did. After play-
ing up and being sent to the outside, Apropos
secured a flying start and, crossing the field
very sharply, settled down in front. At the
five, with Apropos still showing the way, Arduli
was last, but had started to move up. Preston
brought her along to be fourth round the turn,
and, continuing her run down the centre of the
track, she finished on a shade better than
Mokan, with New Yorker third. The favorite,
Rose Bay, gave supporters a poor run for
their cash.
The Dhoti breed didn’t quite run up to what
has come to be expected of them; the two
who filled minor places were expensive failures
for punters. Though he ran last at his only
previous outing, Double Trouble (Dhoti-
Judith O’Shea) was sent out at odds on for
the Macauley Handicap, a five-furlongs dash
for two-year-olds. He may have been un-
lucky to lose. Badger had him in front as
they turned for home, but Royal Mark joined
in and went on to win by 1) lengths, with
Leros third. No protest was entered, but the
“Lucky it didn't get you in a vulnerable spot."
stewards expressed an opinion by giving Royal
Mark’s rider, R. Heather, three months’ suspen-
sion. He crossed Double Trouble in the
straight; there was nearly a fall. Also by Dhoti,
ridden by Badger and well-backed, Delecto,
with no excuses to offer, ran a poor third
behind Glendinning and Rareone in the Cot-
tenham Handicap.
Confirming the promise shown when he ran
second to La Patrice not long back, Regal
Coin (J. Crilley) won the six-furlongs Holyrood
Handicap. He was favorite and his backers
were relieved when the numbers went up,
Edward John having run him to a half-head.
One to keep in mind, Nepal, finished very well
for the, minor money.
In the Durham Trial Hurdle about one-third
of the starters failed to complete the course —
not such a bad average for that class of jump-
ing event. The public’s fancy, Sequence, was
first to go, falling at the hurdle in front of
the stand and bringing Bumie down with him.
Three others met varied mishap en route,
Quiamong Gift winning eventually from Ration
and Tralee.
The mile Yarborough Handicap enabled O.
Porter to take a trick with his Felcrag gelding
Morbell and gave Badger’s followers a chance
to get square. Previously Badger had missed
out on two favorites and two secpnd favorites.
Morbell accounted for- Sun King and Flash
of Fire. A "very open race, the Norfolk Handi-
cap saw Brenden (S. Ralph) outstay Kitbag
and Calbrae over 13 furlongs.
* * * *
Always likely to cause an upset in any type
of race, Murray Stream, allowed to go out
at 25 to 1, registered a sound win in the
Varroville Handicap at Randwick on Satur-
day. Six-furlongs was held to be too short
for him: he had previously won over seven,
but his recent runs had been at 11 and 10
furlongs, suggesting that he was being prepared
for the Summer Cup. Now connections are
faced with a poser—the Villiers or the Cup?
Evidently one of those horses a trifle
choosy as to who rides' them, Murray Stream
has been ridden in his three recent wins by
apprentice J. Eaves, claiming 71b. Allowances,
of course, can’t be claimed for the Villiers
or Cup, but it would be a pity if the lad were
deposed on that account. He rode a first-class
race in the Varroville, jumping the Midstream
horse smartly out, finding a run through in the
straight, and timing his finish nicely. Murray
Stream smothered them at the end, winning
from Gay King, with Puffham and Native Son
deadheating for third.
Another junior apprentice responsible for
some good riding on Saturday was T. Mullane,
who won’t be claiming 71b. much longer. He
rode a double for the J. W. McCurley stable,
winning the Greystanes Juvenile for fillies on
the favorite, Nizam’s Ring, and the 12-furlongs
Homebush Handicap on Invictus, also well
supported. Nizam’s Ring led all the way to
very easily defeat Karraba and My Miss, a
Manitoba filly. Mullane rode a slightly dif-
ferent race on Invictus, dropping him into
second place behind Sun King, who made all
the running. Sun King turned it in at the leger,
leaving Invictus in front. Panetic challenged,
but found the 161 b. disadvantage too great,
and Prince Verity, after striking some trouble
near the turn, finished only moderately into
third place.
Agile, a particularly light grey by Adulator,
finished much better than anything else in the
first division of the Welter, but Mulley left
the run too late and only managed third place,
Gay Talk winning by three lengths from Town
Gossip. G. Podmore rode the winner, and
gave his followers a very good day. Gay Talk
was a 33-to-l chance, and Podmore followed
up by winning the Novice on Regal
Step at 16 to 1. Taken to the front half a
mile from home, Regal Step just lasted it out,
Haymarket and Haxton running him very close
at the finish.
Though others appeared to have better cre-
dentials, Rotten Row was made favorite for
the Three-year-old Handicap and justified the
confidence W. Cook adopted a change of
riding tactics, faking the colt smartly to the
front and stealing a lead of eight or nine
lengths along the back of the course. Nearing
the turn the others seemed to be pegging him
back, but Cook was just kidding them along.
Into the straight he kicked away again, to an
untroubled win from Tengur and Son of Persia.
By Midstream from the Rossendale mare
Recede, Rotten Row was an expensive yearling
at 1350 guineas and hadn’t previously won
a race. He looks now, however, likely to brmg
•his trainer T. J. Smith some compensation for
the recent loss of his grand old galloper Bragger.
Bragger was badly burned when a fire occurred
in his float some weeks back, and, after pro-
longed efforts to save him, had to be destroyed.
The Strathfield Nursery for colts and geldings
went to the Beau Son colt Chersqn, a good
type of youngster who has won at his only two
starts. Barita and Harfleur, both by Agincourt,
were in the places. The second division of the
Welter went to the ex-Westralian Peter Con,
who downed Melgoda and Highgate, and gave
his rider some anxious moments, Doon return-
ing to scale with one boot ripped and smeared
with paint from the running rail.
* * * *
The W.A.T.C, had to abandon its meeting
on Saturday when the jockeys went on strike
after being refused what seemed a pretty reason-
able request—that an ambulance should follow
the races round. An ambulance trailing the
field is regular practice on metropolitan courses
in the Eastern States,
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Maiden: Chanson Gai, 1; Parfait, 2; Busiris,
3. Two-year-old: Barita, 1; Harfieur, 2;
Robyn Lynette, 3. Flying: Puffham, 1; Hall
Stand, 2; Gay King, 3. Canterbury Handicap:
Prince Verity, 1; Le Fusil, 2; Open Air, 3.
Three-year-old: Count Cosmo, 1; Son of
Persia, 2; Tengur, 3. Welter: Air Flare, 1;
Souvenir, 2; Kuvera’s Double, 3.
* * ♦ *
Hammond on cricket (from his book
Cricket My Destiny):
To win an opening Test by an overwhelming
margin is as good as half a rubber gained.
How often it happens that selectors do not
give enough thought to fielding. A batsman
may collect 50 or 70 runs in two innings,
which looks quite good, but he may give away
just as many by a single dropped catch.
The barracking habit, even when there is no
malice in it, is disturbing and wearying, and
though I have never had cause to resent it
I do not think it is a good thing for the game.
To hear 30,000 or 40,000 people all yell to-
gether: “Get a bag!” is a shattering experience.
On tour the best bowlers and batsmen must
be religiously preserved for the big games. If
advisable, new “stars” are kept more or less
in cold storage, so as to be able to shine
in devastating glory in the Tests. On the other
hand, it is customary practice to flatter, in
preliminary games, a batsman or bowler whose
selection is desired and who is already a
probable for the opposing Test side; and in
the same way touring batsmen and bowlers
are sometimes given instructions to “slaughter,”
before his first Test appearance that year, an
opponent whose inclusion is feared.
No one was killed by bodyline, but that
was good luck rather than a normal average.
There is nothing in the rules against such
bowling. But I may as well confess that 1
am one batsman who does not care to face
it. I have never made any official complaint,
but I would get out of the game if this sort
of bowling were persistently allowed.
Grace made cricket into England’s national
game, and how much that has created the
English character would be hard to say, but
certainly we owe some of our national virtues
to it.
On the whole I do not think that any altera-
tion in the rules can much benefit the game
as it now stands. The only addition I should
like to see is something to the effect that
chemical dope may not be used on pitches.
* * * *
First Test: —
Rain having taken a hand after holding off
for the Australian innings, it was only a matter
of getting enough fine time for the home side
to win. There was enough, with a day to
spare: Australia, 645; England 141 and 172.
With that colossal total on the board against
them, the best Hammond and Co. could have
hoped to do, even if there’d been no rain,
was to make a draw of it. Yet reading the
army of ex-cricketers and others engaged in
filling acres of newspaper space anyone might
have gathered that it was, at least, a technical
Australian defeat. The plain fact of the thing
was that rain made a win certain, and there
might have been a win without it.
A good deal of the moaning was directed
at Toshack. As a very mild sample, one ex-
bowler said of him that “he bowled only one
good ball all day.” Toshack had that day
bowled 12 overs, nine of which were maidens,


New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Stops Perspiration
i
dM!D
Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
2 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmlcM
to any fabrics.
Arrid I* the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
2/-a jar At all chemists & stores
Alsoinfijd. jars *« llin 9 ‘oilef goods
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You U Jump on
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ’’up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
e'«e 3/ & 1/3.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- !b., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Co mm****'ms* I Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
We Regret ..;
that due to unusual conditions our stock
of Guns, Rifles, Ammunition and High-
grade Fishing Tackle is practically
depleted, but we trust that in the near
future we will be in the position to fill
the full requirements of our many valued
clients.
MEANWHILE
we take this opportunity of wishing a
Happy Xmas and Prosperous New Year.
COWLES 6? DUNN
7 1 KING STREET
SYDNEY
II
'
immM
ss mm
i
O'
CHERRY BRANDY • ORANGE CURACAO
WHITE CURACAO • EAU de VIE
CREME de MENTHE
Sole N.S.W. Agents:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD PTY. LTD.
11 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY
only one good ball all day’’
really amounted to was a severe criticism of
the English batting, which was scarcely as bad
as ah fi at, there was much eating of words
when next day loshack bagged nine English
wickets and at that got Hammond out twice,
1 bfw in the first innings and clean-bowled m
the second. .
Lindwall sent down only 12 overs before
having to go to hospital; a case of chicken-
nox nutting him out of the second Test, which
Ss “his week at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Quite the best bowling of the Brisbane match
was Miller’s; in all, 9 wickets for 77. He twice
iust missed the hat-trick, and he always looked
a decided threat. Miller also batted brilliantly,
and stands out as a grand all-rounder.
Bradman, of course, also came in for his
share in the moaning. All that needs to be
said about him is that he set up his usual
quota of records. ...
Australia’s 645 was the highest innings total
in Australia; it eclipsed England’s 636 at Syd-
ney in December, 1928 (Hammond got 251
of that English total). Australia's previous
best was 604 at Melbourne m Feb ,1936. Of
the 645 in Brisbane, Bradman got 187, Hassett
128 McCool 95 and Miller 79. Chiefly through
the Australians failing to play spin bowling
correctly, Wright got four l.b.w. decisions m
his 5 for 167; Bedser took 2 for 159, and
Edrich 3 for 107. Voce’s left-handers were
hit for 92 without a wicket.
Hammond played a fine captain’s knock,
scoring 32 (top) and 23 (second top). He hit
two sixers off Toshack.
The win, by an innings and 332 runs, was
a record in Australia, and next to England’s
victory by an innings and 579 runs at the Oval
(Eng.) in 1938. It was the 23rd win in the
series by an innings margin. In 144 jnatches
Australia has now 58 wins, England 55 and
31 have been drawn.
Fred Freer (Vic.), selected to replace Lind-
wall, is a right-hand medium spin bowler who
in inter-State matches last season took 22
wickets, av. 15.18, including a fine 7 for 29
off 14 overs v. Queensland at Melbourne, and
5 for 62 v. N.S.W. at Sydney.
* * * *
Davis Cup prelims:
Bromwich has been the centre of an argument
which seems unimportant. Other piayeis drop
the spare ball, but it’s particularly necessary for
Bromwich, since he uses both hands. Nobody
has ever questioned it before, for the simple
reason that it has about as much effect on the
game as the color of a player’s shoelaces. When
Talbert and Mulloy complained Bromwich ap-
pealed to the umpire, who ruled that he was
breaking no law, and Bromwich and Long pro-
ceeded to take the match 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3.
In the Victorian doubles matches the Ameri-
cans entered their three best combinations.
Parker and Tom Brown were eliminated by
Quist and Geoff Brown. Called on to play
again a couple of hours later, Quist-Brown
were beaten by Talbert-Mulloy, but Bromwich-
Long beat Talbert-Mulloy as well as the next-
best U.S. pair, Kramer-Schroeder. In his pre-
sent form Bromwich could most likely win the
doubles if paired with any other member of the
Cup squad, but the Victorian Cohn Long has
made the strongest claim.
The position regarding the second singles
player is not so happy. Pails had seemed the
obvious choice, but he was beaten in five sets
by Schroeder, and once again showed that lack
of fight which spoils his play in important
matches. By comparison, Bromwich cleaned
Schroeder up in three straight sets in the final.
In the singles, as in the doubles, Colin Long
showed a determination which made up for his
shortcomings. He surprisingly defeated Talbert
before being himself eliminated by Bromwich.
* * « *
A champion golfer with a dislocated
neck must be something new, yet an
X-ray proved that it happened to Von
Nida at the week-end and he believes
it explains a soreness he felt whilst in
Ireland earlier this year. But what caused
it? Von Nida must keep his head still
while making strokes; there is no ques-
tion of jerking the thing up as most of
us do. Was it too much rigidity, or is
the man so finely articulated that, with
every nerve tense and every tendon hum-
ming like a plucked harp wire, the shock
of clubhead on ball went straight to that
most finely adjusted part, the spinal
column? Those who’ve yvatched him play
confess to suffering overstretched necks
following the flight of his long drives.
* * * *
From Jimmy Wilde’s country:
The larger of the two pugnacious characters
here depicted by Scorfield, British Empire light-
weight champion Ronnie James takes his title
into the ring against Vic Patrick in Sydney on
Saturday, rhe little ’un witn the spikes is a
sort of Welsh counterpart of the bunyip.
Patrick might have lost all confidence
from the start had he been present to hear
James welcomed on arrival by B. E. Price, of
RONNIE JAMES.
the Sydney Cymmrodorian Society (and of The
Bulletin), speaking the native tongue—an awe-
some thing.
James first saw light in the Welsh village of
Bonymaen 29 years ago, and had'started fight-
ing, officially, before he was 15; he had to ad-
vance his age two years to get a professional
fighter’s licence. Since then he’s had 194 fights,
mostly at The Ring in London, ana won iod
of them, including a string of 63 in a row;
only once has he taken the count. England not
being afflicted with a Government that made it
easy for pugs and others to avoid war service,
Ron did six and a half years in the army, start-
ing as a gunner in the artillery and eventually
becoming a sar-major in the Physical Training
Corps. Though giving the impression that he’s
not a good gym. worker, he showed in a public
workout last week that he knows the game, and
he bears one sure mark of a good fighter— no
marks.
* * * *
For nearly all of 10 rounds Ted
Sprouster got all over Ray Cohman at
Leichhardt, having the comparative
novice apparently settled in the fifth. But
in the 10th Sprouster’s left eyebrow was
gashed and he surrendered at “corners.”
* * * *
Hailed as another Vic Patrick —he
shapes southpaw—Tommy Watts (9st.
81b.) outpointed Billy Rainsbury (lOst.)
in one of two 12-rounders at Sydney
Stadium. In the other scrap Roy Treasure
(9st. 7ilb.) and Bill Foley (9st. 9Tlb.) each
shed plenty of gore from gashed eyebrows
before Treasure let loose a k.o. in round ten.


Renowned
as a
healthful
stimulant
On referendum day , mark your
ballot paper, 3,2, 1 from the
top for 10 o’clock closing.
W. 5.177
\\ SsSfc
\\ *p>»‘.W;- > V
% V> *- , w ft '“ C**** 0 - l\V® -f
v'*
iWsl&
fftOMAT/p
LET
f ATLAS i
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
W
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Bretton Woods and the Narks
The essential requisite of the Bretton
Woods Agreement is sincere co-operation
by its. signatories in the aim of building
up production and trade by all countries
to the maximum, and thus ending the
economic frustration that has been the
root of economic, and sometimes actual,
warfare during many past generations.
Without sincere and energetic efforts to-
wards establishing reciprocal prosperity,
especially by the major Powers, the plan
is bound to fail. Contributions of en-
thusiasm and faith as well as of money
are required from each country in order
that success may be achieved.
In the Australian field of domestic
politics the Labor party taught its ad-
herents to take but not to give: to ac-
cept privileges and power, but not to
carry responsibility. This attitude has
spread from the industrial field to the
financial scene, thence to international
affairs. In the latter sphere it became
most prominent in the example of the
Militia Act, and there was evidence of it
in the “Anzac Pact.” But, so far as the
Bretton Woods Agreement is concerned,
in delaying possible entry to the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and World
Bank until it will be too late to have
original membership rights the Labor
party has revealed a definite line of
cleavage, with the out-and-out narks,
“easy-money” addicts, former repudia-
tionists and industrial firebrands mostly
against entry to the scheme, and with
Mr. Chifley arid Dr. Evatt leading those
in favor of co-operating.
There are obligations as well as bene-
fits laid down in the Bretton Woods
Agreement, and they have been men-
tioned here before. But one obligation
in particular which Eddie Ward and his
followers oppose is the condition by
which members of the fund are not
allowed to alter their exchange rates
without consent of the directors of the
fund. This power is obviously neces-
sary if currency stability and smooth
world trade are to be achieved. But in
currency stability the likes of Ward and
Calwell see a ceiling placed on produc-
tion costs —which means that there
could be no free exchange manipulation
to offset, even if only temporarily, pro-
hibitive costs of production that arose
through go-slow and deliberate trade-
union inefficiency. Such inefficiency
would ultimately bring unemployment as
its own natural—and usually effective —
corrective under stable currency condi-
tions.
Likewise, among the narks, Com-
munists aiming at industrial breakdown
and currency depreciation as a means to
revolution see a brake implied in the
controls imposed by Bretton Woods,
To those who have in the past been dis-
mayed by chaotic or anomalous world
trade conditions, and who sincerely wish
to see prosperity under democratic forms
of government throughout the world,
there is only one course to follow; to
co-operate in the Bretton Woods plan
wholeheartedly, and to withdraw later
on only if it is shown that the big Powers,
such as U.S.A., are not playing the game.
There is no longsightedness in the Ward-
Calwell attitude ; it is simply the embodi-
ment of the wishes of a set of narrow
vested interests that have been obstruct-
ing progress in this country for the
past 20 years. Provincialism, selfish
trade-unionism. Communism and larrikin-
ism are combined in the Caucus majority
decision to “defer” further co-operation
“I’m not going to touch you for drawing on the Wall—just tell me
where you live!"
in world plans to prevent economic war-
fare. In some respects Australia stands
in a similar r6le to that traditionally oc-
cupied by Italy and Turkey during
European wars—an attitude of “wait and
see.” First result we are likely to see is
discrimination against us by Bretton
Woods members in respect of trade agree-
ments and tariff readjustments.
Finance and Industry
Banking figures suggest that, as it be-
comes possible for industry to re-equip
and restock, overdrafts larger than before
the war will be asked because of the high
cost of new plant, merchandise, etc.
During the war trading-bank accom-
modation provided for Australian in-
dustry shrank markedly notwithstanding
that funds of the banks grew to record
size. In illustration, in June, 1939, total
deposits of the banks were £3lB million
and advances £292 million. By Septem-
ber, 1945, deposits were £5BO million and
advances £2OB million. In 1939, in other
words, advances represented 92 p.c. ot
deposits, whereas in 1945 the ratio had
fallen to 36 p.c.
There has been, over the past year, a
slight post-war change in the trend of
trading-bank figures. Advances at Sep-
tember 30 last had risen to 40 p.c. of de-
posits standing at £622 million. Finance
provided to the Government and the
central bank showed a small contraction.
At the annual meeting of the National
Bank of Australasia chairman H. D.
Giddy commented on the increasing de-
mand for finance by industry, a check
to the long-continued rise in deposits,
and a reduction in holdings of Govern-
ment securities. He told, in particular,
the experience of his own bank so far
as calls for financial accommodation
were concerned.
Heavy demands have been made by
manufacturing industries. Reconversion
is thought to be partly responsible, but
a determination to enlarge substantially
their scope is indicated. Average loan
per borrower is now larger than before
the war, reflecting, presumably, the
higher cost of plant and buildings.
Loans to commercial undertakings
have expanded in number rather than in
individual amounts. Average loans,
though increasing, are below pre-war
levels, apparently because of the diffi-
culty of obtaining merchandise stocks.
Transport services are requiring heavier
accommodation, apparently because of
high cost of new vehicles.
Over the past year, the bank reports,
increases in lendings in property trans-
actions and to aid homebuilding were
relatively low, adding, “the inability of
the public to make much headway to-
ward satisfying its housing demands is
strikingly clear.” Among the land in-
dustries there has also been slow growth
in advances. But what loans have been
made, especially in the pastoral, dairying
and farmyard groups, have been well
above pre-war average levels—apparently
a result of higher costs and prices. Diffi-
culty of getting farm machinery is
thought to account for the small number
of applications for assistance from the
rural industry, but the possibility that
high prices are bringing at least tem-
porary independence is not overlooked.
Referring to the growth in deposits,
which continued until the middle of 1946
(after which a recession took place), Mr.
Giddy points out that this did not arise
so much from the expansion of central-
bank credit, as was the case in war-time,
as from the heavy investment on Govern-
ment securities by the savings banks and a
substantial excess in value of exports
over imports. He added that the obvious
powers which the Treasury and Com-
monwealth Bank now exercise over the
volume of credit called for great skill
in the interest of monetary stability.
The bank’s chairman went on to say;
The strong upward movement in bank ad-
vances is, of course, only to be expected as
reconversion of industry to peace-time activity
takes place and as the way is opened up for a
return to peace-time pursuits by individuals.
This period should be characterised by declin-
ing Government expenditure and rising private
investment and spending. There is reason to
believe that lending by the banking system for
industrial and commercial purposes or to
finance useful activities by individuals is, in
the long run, less inflationary than lending
to support an unwarranted high level of Gpv-
ernment expenditure." Both forms of lending
tend to expand deposits and currency to much
the same extent, but the vital difference is that
loans to private industry and individuals are
accompanied by production of the goods or
services so urgently wanted, whereas much of
the spending by Governments does not bring
this desirable result. .
The adequate supply of goods and services
at reasonable prices in relation to income must
ever be the means of maintaining the monetary
health of any community. In shaping, at
present, a practical policy to meet this inialiioie
criterion, private finance must avoid the sbrnu-
latkm of speculative or uneconomic activity,
and Governments should restrain their spend-
ings and reduce the competition with the re-
mainder of the community for the use ot tne
limited supplies of labor and materials.
Mr. Giddy commented on a phase of our
national administration that was touched
upon recently in these pages under the
heading “Financial ‘Control’ Not
Enough.” Referring to the “exaggerated
faith in the efficacy of monetary man-
agement” he commented:
We are treading dangerous ground when in
the minds of the people the power of money
is given precedence over physical factors and
spiritual values. Already our brief post-war
experience has. made it abundantly clear that,
though we may know how to keep monetary
incomes at a high level, we are far from
knowing how to sustain the real value of these
incomes, let alone increase it. Monetary man-
agement may be able to produce the incomes,
but it cannot of itself produce the things which
we want to spend them on. For this we have
no alternative but to rely upon what we pro-
duce at home and what we can purchase from
other nations. Admittedly, incomes and prices
cannot be kept static for ever, and to my mind
no real threat to our standard of life is likely
to arise from permitting some reasonable move-
ment, provided we avoid sudden, wide swings.
At any time the real criterion is what the
pound notes in our pockets will buy.
In concluding Mr. Giddy said, “I go so
far as to suggest that in the shortages of
goods, at reasonable prices, upon which
wage- and salary-earners can spend their
incomes lies the cause of much of present
industrial strife. I again emphasise this
bank’s conviction that increased produc-
tion and effective distribution are the
keys to improved living standards, and
that at the same time they supply the
answer to fears of inflation.”
After nearly five years of close Com-
monwealth Treasury control the Stock
Exchanges are to be freed when the
National Security Regulations run out
on December 31. That “controls” were
not to be carried forward under the terms
of the Defence (Transitional Provisions)
Bill was announced by Dr. Evatt last
Thursday. The sharemarkets (subject to
decisions of ’Change committees) in 1947
will be free to establish their own prices,
and it will not be necessary to hold
newly-purchased shares for five months,
as has been the case under “control.”
The “readjustment” in prices that fol-
lowed the crash in B.H.P. shares at the
end of August last has opened up the
market for many stocks previously
pressed against the Treasury ceiling.
There has been a great deal of trading
in 8.H.P., A.C.I. and Colonial Sugar
shares, for example, over the past three
months. But prices in these cases have
been firming (B.H.P. returning to its ceil-
ing price); whilst all through the
market setback somfe stocks have not
changed hands below the ceiling price.
Among the firmest have been Masonite,
Tooth, Bank of N. S. Wales, Bradford
Cotton, Morris Hedstrom, Huddart
Parker, F. T. Wimble and New Brpken
Hill Consolidated.


For Sale.
Model Steam Power Plant.
Mounted on base 2ft. x 2ft., running
circular saw, jig saws, irrigation pump,
wheat hopper. Boiler pressure 501b5., engine
stroke inches. Exhibition job in per-
fect order, £4O cash. Box 629 FF, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
A PRESENT
WITH A FUTURE!
This Christmas—among other gifts—why not give
your wife and children
SELECTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which—in one simple transaction—provide an investment in 20
of Australia’s leading companies? The income from the invest-
ment is paid twice yearly.
Even as little as £2O invested in SELECTED SECURITIES UNIT
TRUST provides security of capital in the hands of the Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton Ltd. (an old
established British Company).
ALL THE INFORMATION you desire will be found in the
explanatory Booklet No. BL. Write for your copy now to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
(Established over 10 years)
Managers for
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
and
SELECTED SECURITIES UNIT TRUST
8-14 BOND ST., SYDNEY
Tel.: B 5294. G.P.O. Box 4028.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ANNUAL REPORT
The Annual Meeting of the Bank of New South was held in Sydney
on Friday, November 29. The following is a summary of the address of
Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., President of the Bank.
Deposits increased £19,287,000 in the year ended September
SO, to a new record total of £219,828,000. The momentum
arising from the credit expansion associated with war finance
was partly responsible for this increase, but rising bank
deposits do not indicate increasing real wealth unless they
are accompanied by the creation of additional national assets.
Liquid assets represent 67 per cent, of total assets, indi-
cating a sound financial position but a relatively low earning
capacity. Loans and advances rose £7,099,000 to £74,528,000,
which is an encouraging growth in the use of bank accommoda-
tion for restocking and deferred maintenance and for business
expansion. But this total is still only 80 per cent, of advances in
1939. In granting new loans and advances the Bank has acted
in accordance with the policy laid down by the Central Bank.
The balance of the year’s profit, £569,385, is £16,478 higher
than last year, and the amount to be carried forward is £31,610
higher at £348,721. This somewhat higher profit should not
necessarily be regarded as the beginning of a new era of
higher net earnings. Operations of the banks are subject to
restrictions and controls, and future earnings will be related
to the method of operation of those controls.
Despite criticism of the trading banks, it is a fact that
their net earnings in relation to shareholders’ funds have been
among the lowest of any industry for many years. Unless they
are permitted to earn reasonable profits, they will experience
difficulty in maintaining and improving their services in the
face of rising operating costs and steadily increasing volume of
work handled.
THE RESTORATION OF PRODUCTIVITY
After the sacrifices of six years of war, there is naturally
a strong desire to relax and enjoy an improving standard of
living But this reaction conflicts with the urgent need to
refashion the whole structure of the world to fit profoundly
changed conditions. A higher standard of living is not earned
merely by winning the war; it is dependent on our labours
and will not endure without continuous effort.
The greatest single problem today is how to increase pro-
duction of consumption goods, and we shall delude ourselves
if we suppose there is some other way of improving welfare
than by additional output
Production is lagging far behind demand for many reasons,
shortage of raw materials, lack of manpower, decreased effi-
ciency intermittent strikes and stoppages in key industries.
A further cause of the lag in production arises from the reluc-
tance of both workers and managers to put forward additional
effort or take additional risks because of the stultifying effects
of penal taxation and strict control of profits. The full scope
of technical progress will be brought into play only when new
and probably heavy capital investment receives a fair chance
of adequate reward. . ~
Similar problems exist in every country in the world.
There is no reason why we should not have every faith in
Australia’s ability to surmount the difficulties ahead. We have
possibly a better opportunity than most nations to return
ouickly to a sound peacetime economy. Indeed, we can have
a great industrial future if we only work together with the
common sense on which the average Australian prides himself.
THE EXTERNAL POSITION
There was an encouraging revival of Australian oversea
trade in the first post-war year. The serious world shortage
of food and raw materials assured a market at profitable prices
for most of our primary production. The inability of Great
Britain and America to satisfy requirements of consumers
throughout the world for manufactures has enabled the Com-
monwealth to build up valuable connections in other countries,
and Australia has at least a temporary advantage over other
industrial countries in her slower rise in prices over the war
period. Nevertheless, while the immediate external position is
satisfactory, it would be unwise to suppose that no-difficulties
may arise later. Restoration of world agriculture will confront
■ primary producers In a few years with the old problems of
surplus production and falling prices, and Australian manu-
facturers will have to face intense competition from the mass
production methods of larger industrial countries.
TRADE POLICY AND PRIMARY PRODUCTION
Australia's actions may to some extent be circumscribed by
decisions of the United Nations at forthcoming trade con -
ferences. Apart from this possibility Australia cannot long
defer consideration of the question of where a policy of high
tariffs is likely to lead. There is no question of sweeping
away tariffs, but, on the other hand, efficient industry and
healthy trade will do more to maintain employment and raise
living standards than a narrow- policy of economic insularity.
At the same time it should be remembered that tariffs
are not the only problem. Exchange control and import licens-
ing are far more restrictive to trade than high tariffs, and
leave determination of the course of trade largely in the hands
of Government officials.
The future of the primary Industries is likewise linked with
oversea developments and tariff policy. For a few years long-
term contracts with the United Kingdom will assure markets
for some commodities. But these and the various stabilization
schemes should not be regarded entirely as unmixed blessings.
They are usually more concerned with maintaining prices than
in promoting economies; any benefits of stabilization may have
to be paid for in regimented production and thus in the
loss of freedom.
PUBLIC FINANCE
Production is also directly affected by budgetary policy.
It was expected that Government expenditure in the first post-
war year would be high. But budgetary policy has not been
very closely related to current economic requirements, with
the result that the switch over to the production of consump-
tion goods has been severely hampered. There has been a
regrettable reluctance to prune unnecessary expenditure, and
this, combined with high rates of taxation, has enabled the
Government to retain control over more resources than justifi-
able in a free economy in times of peace.
Taxation remains the most crucial item. The argument
that high rates of taxation are necessary to prevent further
inflation is not valid as long as the level of taxation itself
bolds back the recovery of production. Existing .taxation is
stifling the enterprise of employers and employees alike despite
some moderate reductions from the peak wartime levels, if a
larger proportion of the community’s resources were used by
free enterprise, taxable capacity would increase' substantially,
thus allowing a lowering of the general rates of taxation
without necessarily reducing total tax revenue.
The size and nature of Government expenditure has
resulted in further public borrowing, and bound up with loan
policy and control over private borrowing is the continued
official policy of low interest rates. Cheap money has obvious
advantages for the budget and for potential borrowers, but it
offers the ordinary citizen little incentive to save. Low returns
from investment after taxation serve only to encourage spend-
ing and add a further complication to the problem of matching
demand with the supply of goods.
Another feature of the financial system which has attracted
some attention recently is stock market activity. Investors are
now exercising greater caution in their dealings. To a marked
degree this hesitancy is a reaction against the prolonged
pressure on ceilings for the past few years and to existing low
yields. The general fluctuations in the United States have
added to prevailing caution. We are not warranted in deducing
from these trends any indication of a major business recession
while the demand for goods throughout the world is greatly
in excess of supplies, despite the complicating factors of
industrial unrest and political instability.
Savings-bank deposits have ceased
climbing, and trading-bank funds are not
expanding like they were. Average
\yages, including overtime, paid in the
manufacturing industries have fallen
since the war-time peak was reached, and
there has been a progressive decline—
not steep—in all wages, salaries and ser-
vice pay since 1943-44. The general
result of these developments has been a
slackening 'in luxury spending in many
quarters, though, on the whole, spend-
ing on essentials is higher than during
the war years, and would be higher still
if desirable homes, motor-cars and living
essentials were available in quantity,
and at a reasonable price. During
the whole period of accumulating war-
time spending-power —£1516 million had
been built up by June, 1946, compared
with £613 million in June, 1939-
production on civil account was far
below the level of wages and other pay
distributed, and, unfortunately, because
of industrial disorder and reduced
rates of production per man there has
been a wholly inadequate recovery in
the peace. The result is that we still are
menaced by inflation whilst suffering
acutely from underproduction: we still,
collectively, have a great deal more
paper' or paper-backed money than goods.
The position, ordinarily, is one which
would encourage a boom. But the Labor
production attitude is one which denies
us reasonable prosperity and activity, let
alone a boom. In addition, taxes are
discouraging enterprise as well as specu-
lation, and prices are controlled officially.
Even though wages concessions may
force a rise in prices—higher wages seem
likely in many industries eventually, with
prices up, too —there may be a lag
between spending-power and production
for some years to come, and this reserve
of spending-power is likely to keep the
demand alive for output from most key
industries. We are years behind with
housing, city building, water-supply,
other needed public works, transport re-
habilitation, industrial and rural re-
equipment. Our main danger at'pre-
sent is continued inadequate industrial
production forcing an inflation of prices
that robs war-time savings of their values
and leaving us with the necessity for
further credit expansion in order to get
on with direly-needed national work. But
clearly our prospect is one of production
depression rather than a boom that pre-
cedes a slump.
G. L. Schwartz, writing in London
“Sunday Times,” has commented on the
economic position in Britain. After men-
tioning the labor stoppages and the
“serious, almost fatalistic view of the
international situation” in the /United
States, he says:
Over here we are less apprehensive on
the last point, but domestically there are
the serious coal situation, the uncertainties
of the Socialist policy, and the realisation
of strained national finances. We are
bound, too, to take, account of American
economic developments.
Now the important thing to note is that
these are factors preventing a boom, not
ending a boom. The peace-time boom has
not ended because it hasn’t begun. It is
quite misleading to argue from the rise in
the security markets over the past four
years, and to deduce that a turn was
logically or historically warranted. That
rise was from a war-time nadir. Security
prices in 1940-42 registered the lowest for-
tunes of the Allies. The movement since
then marks a political not an economic
cycle, overstimulated in the last .phase by
an undiscriminating cheap-money policy.
As well argue that the rise in London
property values since 1940 represents a
real-estate boom which has run its pre-
scribed course and now heralds a decline
in building activity. Why,' physically, the
thing hasn’t even begun!
If the parallel with the 1920 post-war
boom does not'hold, the analogy with 1929
can be ruled out altogether. The industrial
arid financial circumstances are so anti-
thetical as to render the comparative
analysis almost ludicrous. The market is
entitled to discount the difficulties in the
way of speedy recovery; it is not justified
in discounting the end of the phase of
recovery, either on a crude or on an over-
sophisticated interpretation of presumed
depression symptoms.
Mentioning that Britain has enormous
arrears to overtake, and that France, “in
a similar but less 1 serious plight after the
first war, rode on full activity well into
the depression,” Mr. Schwartz con-
cludes :
There is no prospect of a large decline
in the money value of the British national
income, in money earnings or in money
profits. Our chief concern should be with
their real value, reflecting productivity and
determining the standard of living.
* * * *
In its Budget the Chifley Government
makes it quite clear that it is taking
£7,200,000 of “Wool Committee opera-
tions surplus” into Consolidated Revenue,
and only in a general way—“wool in-
dustry assistance (Act No. 52 of 1946)” —
suggests that woolgrowers are going to
get any of it back. The “wool contri-
butory” charge, in addition, is expected
to yield £3,500,000, to be spent on a
“wool-use promotion and disposals
plan.” The flour tax is expected to re-
turn £1,800,000, and the wheat export
charge £7,500,000 —the first sum it is pro-
posed to devote as assistance to the in-
dustry, and the export charge to “stabilis-
ation.” Altogether the Government aims
to handle £2O million of primary pro-
ducers’ money, apart from butter levies,
in 1946-47. Apparently all an attempt
to make political dependants of another
section of the community.
* # * *
Certain U.S. political and financial
critics have objected to the terms of
Britain’s trade and financial agreement
with the Argentine, contending that it
violates the conditions of the U.S. loan to
Britain covering convertibility pf blocked
sterling balances; but in London it is
"claimed that the £l3O million sterling debt
owed to Argentina accrued in the normal
way for food purchases, and is not the
result of direct war expenditure. The
only reason why it was not liquidated as
it accrued was that Britain was restricted
in its own exporting activities during
the war, and the usual credits were thus
not available, pf the £l3O million, £lO
million is to be offered to Brazil. Over
each of the next four years £5 million will
be made available for conversion into
other currencies. The remaining £lOO
million will carry interest at \ p.c. for
four years, when the position will be re-
considered. Meantime part of the £lOO
million may be used to repatriate sterling
debts and to purchase British investments
in Argentina, including British-owned
railways. Negotiations are now in pro-
gress to sell the railways to a “mixed
company,” in which the present com-
panies will get shares in payment for their
assets, Argentina will subscribe addi-
tional capital. On the trade side of the
agreement, Britain over the next four
years will take 80 p.c. of the Argentine’s
exportable surplus of meat, and the
sterling proceeds will be freely disposable
as they accrue. «
* * * *
Silk and Textile Printers Pty., capital
£60,000, is issuing 45,000 new £1 shares,
and will then convert into a public co.
Formed about the beginning of the war,
the co. has a factory in Sydney, and is
extending operations to Hobart, where
part of a munitions factory is being taken
over. The co. prints patterns on to plain
cloth, and it has had a successful career,
a w v ■ J r n jr jV. **
A. W. Keighley, of Bradford Cotton,
and A. B. Wenzel, another textile man
are on the board of Westminster Carpets
Ltd., registered in Melbourne with a
nominal capital of £250,000. Motor-car
carpets, as well as the household variety,
will be made, the first, it is hoped, in
about 12 months. No shares are being
publicly offered. / }
A warning that the Dominion had
reached a critical period has been given
by Sir James Gunson, chairman of N.Z.
insurance Co. If divisions between em-
ployer and employee continued to widen
f. • ’j , a
CO “ ,ry " ould be ln for , se , no f us dls '
order ’ he sa,d - Government interference
>" trade ™ s a B reat hindrance. There
should be an ent,re overhaul of State
controls imposed in war-time, and import
licensing should be superseded by skilful
and full use of the only sound instrument
for such a purpose—the Customs tariff.


m
OEM's Tip on
Conserving
Blades.
Cut down
beard resist-
ance ! Wash
face thorough-
ly with soap
and hot water
before lather-
ing.
Do you need a
S"”” 1 Son?
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our e.cpsrienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
• LOAN
incl. disc.
• Weekly
instalment
• Fortnightly
instalment
• Four-weekly
instalment
Repayment o! loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS
PRISON CAMP PAINTINGS.
V. Murray Griffin, Official War Artist
with the Eighth Division, has an exhibi-
tion of paintings and drawings at the
N. S. Wales National Art Gallery. They
are not great art; paintings are smeary anJ
greasy, drawings are often anatomically
incorrect, the jungle is unconvincing,
figures sometimes become symbols and
some of the work —“H.M.A.S. Perth
Fights to the Last,” for instance —is both
crude and trite. But the exhibition as a
whole is a clear, though limited, state-
ment on the daily lives of Australians
under difficult and bizarre conditions,
and I found it impossible to stomach
the judgment of “S. M. Herald”: “It is
not too much to say that Murray Griffin’s
records of war and camp life are quite
nauseating in the falsity of their concep-
tions... .Dewdrops of sentiment thicken
and coagulate, and death, in fancy dress,
almost becomes a pretty creature.”
Death, in or out of fancy dress, is sel-
dom pretty, but there is no lack of grim-
ness in the exhibition. There is, at times,
a casual treatment of war-time realities
which is psychologically sound; but there
is no such deliberate playing-up of
horrors as modernist painters are fond
of, probably from ignorance of what they
seek to portray. As for “falsity of con-
ception,” the only people who could be
dogmatic on the subject are men who
shared Griffin’s experiences. Those parts
of Griffin’s work which dovetailed with
my own experiences I found convincing.
“Ambush at the Bridge Over the Gemen-
cheh River,” for instance, lacks the full
force of illusion mainly through the
artist’s technical deficiencies, and is a
greasy painting, but it has drama and
movement, and the huddle of Japanese
wreckage, human and material, the blast
in the background and the frantic life
all make for realism. Nor can the head-
less trunk, squirting blood, fairly be Des-
cribed as pretty, even by the most exact-
ing of Civilian critics.
Griffin found it “very difficult to get
interested in anything but men —men
sweating, men toiling, men cursing and
men suffering. To me they are the sym-
bol of the whole war —die symbol of
life.” With this overriding interest tie
would have done well to concentrate on
men and leave sinking warships severely
alone. He draws and paints men well—
with faults, of course—-and the emphasis
on character is seen time and time again.
Some of his figures may be symbols, but
many of them are as good specimens of
character study as I have seen for a long
time. That, in relation to the Australian
Army and Australian art generally, is im-
portant.
Much of Griffin’s work is of a frankly
documentary nature. Except for a slow-
starvation ration, the Japanese gave
prisoners practically nothing at Changi.
Consequently every method of keeping
alive and reasonably fit had to be de-
vised, Griffin shows as simply and
clearly as possible how this was done.
There are prisoners cutting grass,
prisoners crushing it to make anti-beri-
beri extract, prisoners abwork on shoes,
malaria-control measures and all kinds
of similar necessary activities. But these
records, valuable as they are, are hardly
the measure of a map as an artist. The
smaller black-and-white work is more in-
teresting—sketches of working parties
sitting around, waiting to be detailed,
staggering under a load of wood or push-
ing and dragging a trailer. There is
another working party, lean and clad in
rags, boots, scraps of boots, sandals and
no footwear at all, with ragged hats and
no hats, and with odds and ends of
equipment; some are exhausted, all are
sweating* and one small man in the front
is striding out with a kind of determined
jauntiness. As a p.-0.-w. in Greece,
Yugoslavia and Germany during the
earliest and worst times I have seen scenes
similar to these, and I know they are
faithful records. And, incidentally, 1 have
never seen the detail, the improvisation,
the drama and humor of these experiences
put into visual form before.
It is a pity, perhaps, that Griffin was
not a nature painter. The jungle itself
must have been worth painting, and
p.-0.-w, must have seen animals, although
none appears in the exhibition. But
jungles and animals have been painted
before and will be painted again. Griffin’s
contribution as it stands is arresting and
valuable. It must be remembered that
he painted often with crude, improvised
materials. Also, the full test of any artist
canned be taken from work done in a
p.-0.-w. camp. There should be a gesta-
tion period of reflection during which
impressions can be sorted out and the
superfluous rejected. Also, for purely
physical reasons, no man can do his best
work under prison-camp conditions.
Unk White’s'impressions of Pedro Arm[?]ndariz, Dolores Del Rio and Miguel
Inclan in “Portrait of Maria,” at Sydney Liberty.
There is, for instance, the question of
nutrition —with its effect on the color
sense and on the orderly processes of the
mind —of boredom and, under some
guise or another, of the inhibiting cloud
of anxiety.
J. F.
"Portrait of Marla."
Possibly because films as a whole have
been so poor —in the last 12 months,
anyway—this one at Sydney Liberty
seems even better than it is. Possibly,
too, it seems better still because its con-
tent is as different from average film fare
as wine is from lolly-water. Even with-
out those concessions, however, it is still
an uncommonly fine drama, beautiful
and intensely moving and better than
anything that has been in Sydney
for ages.
Except for an English sound track
dubbed in by M.-G.-M. to replace the
original Spanish’ 1 , the film is a complete
Mexican production set in the floating
gardens of ..Lake Xochimilco. Its main
characters aire an Indian, Lorenzo Rafael,
and his woman, Maria Candelaria,
Ostracised by the rest of the villagers,
they are patiently waiting until they can
buy the wedding gown necessary for them
to be married. Maria is stricken with
malaria, and Lorenzo breaks into the
store and steals quinine and a dress for
her. He is arrested as they are about to
be married and thrown into jail without
trial. To earn money to pay for his re-
lease Maria poses for an artist, but, when
he wants her to strip, runs from his studio
like a wild thing. The artist gets another
model to pose for him, adding her body
to Maria’s head ; a prying villager sees
the completed painting, and the whole
village takes after Maria by torchlight
and stones her to death outside the jail.
Lorenzo breaks out of his cell and carries
her body to his boat and paddles away
into the jungle.
It is a simple story, simply and beauti-
fully told. A tragedy, it has none of the
modern heavy pessimism. Except for
one minor artifice it has the essential de-
gree of inevitability, but it has also a
quiet, lyrical beauty, flecked with touches
of humor —such as “the Day of the
Blessing of the Little Animals”—and
mounting to a drama of almost Biblical
quality in the strength and passions of its
final scenes. The dialogue, from a love
scene of only a dozen words to Maria’s
final and poignant “I’ve done nothing
wrong,” is remarkable for its economy
and accuracy, and some of it —such as
Maria’s “I feel I ought to scream and
cry out until my throat is torn and the
sound reaches up to God in heaven”—
approaches poetry so naturally that it
doesn’t even ripple the flow of the
narrative.
Most of the story is told in a setting
of flower-fringed waterways and against
a background of tall poplar - like
trees and cloud-swept skies, and the
photography is a constant study in tone
and composition. One extraordinary
scene of Maria running from door to
door down the light and shade of the jail
corridor, with the voices and clamor of
the prisoners rising as she pauses in-
quiringly at each grille,* is a striking,
dramatic story on its own.
Maria, described by the artist as “an
Indian of the purest strain —delicate,
emotional, marvellous,” is played by
Dolores Del Rio. It needs no imagination
whatever to appreciate the painter’s des-
cription, and she and Pedro Armendariz,
as Lorenzo, add to it a quality of im-
penetrable pride well in keeping with the
story of the race they represent. A hand-
ful of minor characters, including the
artist (Alberto Galan), a priest (Rafael
Icardo) and a slightly overvillainous vil-
lain (M : guel Inclan), are played with a
similar fine, emotional appreciation of
the story.
"Gay Rosalinda."
Johann Strauss’s “Die Fledermaus” has
had a reincarnation at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, under the title of “Gay
Rosalinda” and turns out to be the best
of the Firm’s long series of revivals.
There is nothing serious concealed
behind the rococo fafade of the farce-
operetta, and its facile music flows easily
enough from a cast mainly recruited from
the ranks of Gilbert and Sullivan and
modern musicomedy.
Max Oldaker is Viennese gaiety in-
carnate as the affluent Gabriel Eisenstein,
who is sentenced to eight days for a
breach of the Vienna traffic regulations
and is allowed, with surprising latitude,
to go home before his sentence for a
farewell dinner with his wife Rosalinda
(Tara Barry). She happens to be enter-
taining one Alfred, a philandering
operatic tenor, who has just climbed
through the window. After a series of
misunderstandings which it would be un-
just to relate without Mr. Strauss’s music,
Eisenstein goes off to a party and Alfred
is removed singing to jail. A further set
of coincidences with music lands the
entire cast at Prince Anthony Orlofsky
Strange’s party.
Just as the confection threatens to be-
come boring, despite the inevitably tune-
ful Johann, the Borovansky ballet turns
up and puts on a wild, whirling display
of gipsy girls, gipsy boys, columbines,
harlequins and can-can girls—easily the
most exciting part of the show. The
grace, litheness and charm of Edna Busse
seem to grow with every fresh appearance
of the lady. The cast, melody and action
then adjourn to the local lock-up, a
gloomy building worthy of “La Tosca,”
where there is a drunk scene to music
between jailer Frosch (Campbell Gray)
and Governor Richard Watson which is
uproariously funny. Alfred is released,
still singing, and Eisenstein is reunited
singing to his spouse, and the inexhaus-
tible muse of Mr. Strauss rises to a grand
finale.
It is a gay and lightsome business if
a trifle noisy. Miss Barry is a hand-
some, robust Rosalinda with a voice of
satisfactory sweetness, though of .not
great compass, and a personality which
gets over the footlights without effort.
Muriel Howard, an Albert-street Con-
servatorium product, made a striking first
appearance as Adele.
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
Joseph Post was figuratively on its toes
on Saturday night when the chief offer-
ing was the Beethoven Second Piano
Concerto, to which soloist Eunice
Gardiner brought a bell-like clarity and
the necessary light touch. Three move-
ments from “The Planets” suite of Gustav
Holst were given a virile reading, with
the Mars theme a torrent of martial vigor.
Handel’s “Royal Fireworks” music and
Butterworth’s “A Shropshire Lad” —the
latter revealing ingenious orchestration
—were other nicely-played works.
* ♦ * 0
Paul Hindemith’s music has, like a
great deal of modernist art, a touch of
effeminacy and often shows the result
of fuzzy thinking. If the creation of
music which has no melodic beauty is
to be the hallmark of a great composer,
then assuredly Hindemith makes Beet-
hoven and Mozart, Tschaikowsky and
Schubert pathetic creatures by com-
parison. A programme of Hindemith’s
chamber-music, most of it heard for the
first time in Australia, was given by the
Collegium Musicum at the Sydney Con-
servatorium, and a considerable array of
first-rate talent —including Lionel Lawson,
Neville Amadio, Leonore Gotsch,
Maureen Jones, Eileen Price and Gordon
Watson*—was assembled. It was a pity
that they had such poor material on
which to bite.
* * * *
The Australian Art Society’s exhibition
at Murdoch’s, Sydney, is very flat. Alan
R. Grieve’s “Narrabeen Shallows” is
pleasant, but smeary. Reuben Gibson’s
“Javanese Kampong, Tarakan, Borneo,”
has a sculptural .quality about it, yet
suffers from the allied disability of being
altogether too rigid. Garrett Kingsley’s
“The Wave” is a conventional little
piece; his “Nude,” though slight, has a
vivid touch of color and is a decided im-
provement.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The War Widows’ Guild will benefit
from the meeting called by Mrs. F. H.
Berryman, wife of Lieut.-General Berry-
man, G.O.C. Eastern Command, at
Victoria Barracks last Thursday. Mrs.
Berryman, who is not long up from
Melbourne, where the War Widows’
Guild is making good headway, had en-
thusiastic support from the wife of Col.
J. Mann, also a new arrival from the
south.
The meeting was called to launch an
Eastern Command women’s auxiliary,
the office-bearers elected being: president,
Mrs. Berryman ; hon. secretary, Mrs. J.
Mann ; hon. treasurer, the wife of Lieut.-
Col. P. L, Moore.
Mrs. J. O’Neill, president of the guild
in N.S.W., outlined the work being done
in this State and stressed the necessity
of a baby-training centre so that mothers
might be free to take advantage of the
arts and crafts classes already started by
the guild. A trained nursery instructor
will be engaged to look after the centre
at a salary of £250 a year, and the equip-
ment of the room will cost approximately
another £250. Plans for an American
Tea were discussed by the auxiliary as a
first effort for raising funds for this
objective. Date of the tea is fixed for
February 22, and it will be at the
barracks. There were about 50 women
present, among them Major Joyce
Snelling, Major Constance Falls and
Major Muriel Aspinall. There was a
general air of keen and practical interest
throughout the meeting. Later there was
a tea-party served to the music of the
Eastern Command band.
There was a crowded hour of interest at
the Overseas Club last week when Air
Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Longmore was
the lunch-hour guest of honor.
Quietly spoken, this man in a grey
lounge suit painted for his Sydney lis-
teners a vivid word picture of an England
ravished and somewhat desolate, but yet
a determined England. He told of the
shops now gone underground" in such
bombed-out cities as Plymouth and
Southampton.
He referred to the British as an obsti-
nate, a stubborn and a curious people,
and these characteristics he said would
carry them through. Of course he spoke
of the food parcels for Britain, and said
“thank you” on Britain's behalf. He
stressed the importance of dripping or
cooking fats in the gift parcels. He told
a story of a young relation of his own
who begged his mother: “Please don’t
give me any more fish, my stomach is
going in and out like the tide.” Even the
best of fish, served three or four times a
week “without garnishings,” gets mono-
tonous.
The Legacy Shop at 168 Elizabeth-
street (and that is halfway between
Market- and Park-streets) is showing
toys that will fill the heart of small girl
and small boy with joy. Here are soft,
cuddlesome animals in brightly-colored
wool and felt, and dolls brown-haired
and fair. At the moment Queen of the
Window is a large flaxen-haired beauty,
her long plaits tied with pale-blue rib-
bons. Small girls will find the dolls’
clothes irresistible (frocks, sunbonnets
and playsuits are as daintily-fashioned
as are those for small daughter). All
children’s clothes are moderately priced
and coupon-free. They are gifts from
friends of Legacy. Here, too, the Christ'
mas-cake and -pudding problem is solved,
thanks to the Country Women’s Associ-
ation.
The Arts and Crafts Centre and the
various torchbearers for Legacy Groups
keep the shelves filled. In demand at the
moment are the large meat and food
covers. These are long, oblong affairs
made in white papier-mache and net.
The Navy lent a hand at the Christ-
mas Fair arranged by the Young Con-
tingent of the Victoria League last
Saturday. Knight Thomas Gordon, Aus-
tralia’s war-time Director of Shipping,
spoke crisp and appreciative words into
the sunshine of the day that lay warm
and soft over the gardens of Elaine,
Double Bay. Over 1000 contestants sent
in photographs seeking to win fame in
the baby competition. The Fair was one
of the week-end successes. The stalls
were well stocked. Country members of
the Young Contingent contributed cakes,
jams and so on. President Lois Graham
was responsible for quantities of home-
made candy.
In spite of the storm the Conserva-
torium was filled on Thursday night. The
occasion was a concert given as a tribute
to singing teacher Nevill-Smith by his
pupils, many of whom have already
gained,recognition as concert and radio
vocalists. Instead of its usual bleak
appearance the stage had a highly-deco-
rative effect from the masses of hydrangea
and the bright shawl thrown across the
piano. Three cheers and loud applause
for Mr. Smith, who appeared surrounded
by his pupils at the end of the programme.
Sales were so brisk on the opening day
of Klytie Pate’s pottery exhibition at the
Grosvenor Galleries that the little red
“sold” disks had to be halved. Among
her exhibits Mrs. Pate featured cocktail
shakers, beer mugs and lemonade sets in
rich and glowing glazes. These were
neighbors to the more ornamental fruit
and rose bowls. These rose bowls have,
instead of the usual mesh top, a sort of
lattice pottery top of flower and foliage.
On the greeny-pink surface of one
tall vase mermaids float, and two
of those 'sirens form the beautifully-
ourved handles. The potter was a grace-
ful figure at the opening of her show—the
amethyst tones of her frock being as
stirring as her own glazes.
The highlight of the Royal North Shore
Hospital’s voluntary auxiliaries’ Christ-
mas party was the presentation of life-
membership badges to about 40 of the
Hospital helpers for long and meritorious
service. The State Governor’s daughter,
Elizabeth, made the psesentation, and
Norman Nock’s lady pinned the brooches
on. Mrs. Edmond* Gates, M.8.F., who
is president of the Auxiliary Service
League and a member of the Hospital
Board, received the guests, and during
the party outlined the plans that are in
hand for extensions to the hospital.
“Yes,” said the lady in the tram to her
neighbor. “My friend came down from
the country and bought herself a. new
fur coat —a beauty. It cost £BO. Then
the rains came, and she had to rush in
and buy a raincoat at £7 10s. She couldn’t
let her fur coat get sodden.”
Helen Blaxland’s Flower Pieces deals
with the flowers of all the months, their
mingling and arrangement, and' is as frag-
rant as a posy fresh picked from the
garden. The flowers of each season,
commencing with spring, are shown in
graceful, tender or highly decorative
grouping. Very clear and beautifully-
lighted photographs are on every page,
with concise description of blooms and
vase. The vases in this book are rare
and costly, it is true. But if you have
an eye for such things you will find sub-
stitutes for the Spode and Belleek and
alabaster mentioned, and get the effects
with something in glass and pottery.
Helen is Mrs. Gregory Blaxland, and this
photograph of her is by John Lee.
Helen’s advice is to mix your flowers,
and there are pictured many examples.
To quote one; “A tall white-and-gold
French vase is filled with late hydrangeas
of green rose-bronze, palest pink-bronze
and white tuber roses both single and
double, white tiger-lilies and cream and
white gladioli,” And how’s this for bring-
ing the breath of golden autumn indoors?
It is a tall arrangement; “A highly-
glazed white urn holds strelitzias,
yellow pokers, lime-green and lemon-
yellow berries, mixed grasses and seed-
pods, and clusters of cumquots.” The
photographs in the book are by Max
Dupain, Olive Cotton and Russell
Roberts. Birds and butterflies, snails,
caterpillars and Cupids meander happily
along by the printed word. These decora-
tions are by Elaine Haxton.
One oF the cool and smart at the
Warwick Farm meeting at Randwick last
Saturday was Mrs. Bob Skene—blue and
white her color combination. She and
her husband are off on their travels again
before New Year’s Eve. Singapore is
their destination and they go by flying-
boat. White in suits and frocks and
wide-brimmed hats were popular; Mrs.
Jim Barnes and Mrs. Paddy Griffin were
two of the afternoon’s smart punters.
From Melbourne
With the Gold Room at the Australia
for setting, Mrs. Charles Allum, presi-
dent of the Victorian War Nurses Com-
forts Fund, and her committee enter-
tained Melbourne women journalists at
luncheon as a gesture of appreciation for
help given the comforts fund during the
war. Luncheon was served at a long
table, set with low bowls of pale-pink
carnations, sweet-peas and larkspurs. In
a short summary of the work of past
years Mrs. Allum said the War Nurses
Comforts Fund was the only one of its
kind in Australia. When it was in-
augurated five and a half years ago there
were 73 nurses on the list and only five
pounds in the bank. But under the guid-
ance of an energetic committee all that
was changed. The money rolled in, and
with it 20,000 parcels, each valued at
around fifteen shillings, were dispatched
by the twelve women who made up the
committee. Also a next-of-kin auxiliary
was formed which did yeoman service.
When all war activities ceased £1199 was
handed over to Sir Thomas Nettlefold
for the Florence Nightingale Victorian
Nurses Trust Fund, Mrs. Hugh Mars-
land, secretary, and Mrs. Rita Drew,
treasurer, of the Victorian War Nurses
Comforts Fund, who were present at the
luncheon, held office all through the years
this fund was in existence.
This charming portrait is of Lorna
Crawford, younger daughter of Mrs.
E. L. Dudfield, Toorak, whose marriage
to Colonel John Manby, 0.8. E., of the
Seventh Gurkha Rifles, Indian Army,
was recently celebrated. For her wedding
Lorna chose a slim-fitting frock of pinky-
beige crepe and matching draped sou'-
wester hat. Her gloves were in the same
soft shade, and on one shoulder she
pinned a purple orchid.
After the ceremony friends gathered at
the home of Group-Captain and Mrs.
Lees Forsyth for cocktails. Mrs. Forsyth
wore a copy of a frock modelled recently
in Melbourne by Carole, one of the
French mannequins. To a short navy-
blue taffetta skirt was allied an off-the-
shoulder blouse of white crepe; in the
centre of the neckline a bunch of pink
roses was pinned. The Dudley Gordons
(she was the former Jean Wallace
Mitchell) were there; also Lelie
Potter, who wore a short cocktail
frock of black lace, and the Fred
Dennett couple, who expect to visit
daughter Sue and her babies in
England early next year. General Caw-
thorne, of the British Army, who was
best man at the wedding, proposed the
health of the bride and ’groom. The cake
was cut with a fearsome-looking Gurkha
knife. The bridegroom, who has been
doing a lecture tour here describing
life in Japan with the occupation forces,
leaves shortly for England. Lorna will
follow him as soon as he can secure
accommodation in London.
A band of hard-working women, with
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday as organiser, is plan-
ning a monster Christmas party which
will aid the Totally and Permanently
Incapacitated Servicemen’s and Service-
women’s Association Funds, and will be
held on Saturday, December 21, in the
spacious grounds of Ripponlea, the
lovely home of Mr. and Mrs. T. G. Jones,
Lois Savage is secretary. Sylvia Green
will be in charge o| the big Christmas-
tree laden with gifts, one of which will
go to each of an entry ticket. A
dance floor will be set on the lawn, and
there are many other attractions.
Situated on the Mornington Peninsula,
at Mt. Eliza, and set in 250 acres, the
house that Thomas Fulton owned 90
years ago as Modndah has now become
a holiday home for the staff of the. Myer
Emporium and has been renamed
Norman Lodge. In the extensive altera-
tions and refitting that has been done
great care has been taken to preserve its
historic features and old-world charm.
This holiday home not only caters for
members of the staff, but has opened its
doors to their families as well. It is also
a place where sick employees may re-
cuperate. There are smoking-rooms,
lounges, a ballroom, tennis courts, and,
as the property has its own beach front-
age, bathing. One of the most important
features of Norman Lodge will be the
opportunity to learn various hobbies
which many have had no opportunity to
acquire. Included in the hobbies are
poultry-raising, gardening and the grow-
ing of fruit and vegetables. When Nor-
man Lodge was opened by Norman Myer,
chairman of directors, a gold key was
handed to him as a memento from the
Myer staff. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu, Myer
flew from America to be present at the
opening.
In 1943 some ex-pupils of Clyde
Girls’ School at Mount Macedon formed
themselves into the Isabel Henderson
Kindergarten Group' to work for a free
kindergarten, which, they hoped, would
be a fitting memorial to Miss Isabel
Henderson, the founder of Clyde. Their
objective was a minimum of £250 a year
for its equipment and maintenance. Owing
to war-time restrictions on building their
new kindergarten has not yet come into
being, but they have, by the production
of plays and other money-raising efforts,
achieved their financial target each year.
They now have over £lOOO in hand. The
Clyde Old Girls’ Association has also a
Red Cross branch, which sends parcels of
food to families in England. Latest
endeavor of the Association is a dramatic
group, which, under Terence Crisp, pro-
duced “Quiet Week-end” at the Union
Theatre. A flower stall and well-stocked
sweets stall were set in the foyer, and
society turned up in force to support
the project. Among prominent workers
and supporters were Mrs. Douglas
Faulkner, Mrs. A. L. Walters,' Mrs.
Geoffrey Haggard, Mrs. Essington Lewis,
Flora Whitton, Mrs. Jim Buchanan and
Veronica Syme.
With Mrs. Wallace Mitchell in the
chair, the Australian-American Friendship
League held its monthly meeting, fol-
lowed by afternoon-tea in the banquet
hall of the Victoria. Each month the
membership of this women’s group
grows. Mrs. Helen Wessells, of “the
U.S.A. Government Information Library,
spoke fluently on the “American Way of
Life.” Among the many American
women present were Mrs. Rene Holt and
Margaret Minert, recently returned from'
the States, and Mrs. John Rhodes and
Mrs. R. B. Bradley.
Great excitement reigned at Dutch
Naval Headquarters on the afternoon of
December 5, and little Dutch children and
their parents lined the drive to see “Sin-
terklaas” arrive. Garbed in traditional
dress and riding a white horse, he came
accompanied by his servant, “Black
Peter.” Originally celebrated in Amster-
dam on the “Name Day’* of St. Nicholas,
the festival of St. Nicholas is now ob-
served all over the Netherlands. The
story is that the holy man arrives from
Spain in a ship, accompanied by his
horse and servant. The horse is able to
trot over the rooftops and the children’s
presents are dropped down the chimney.
Dutch children place their shoes, filled
with hay and carrots for the horse, in the
fireplaces. But naughty children are
afraid, for Black Peter carries a rod,
with which they are punished. On this
day, Dr. Cornelis J. Doetz was Sinterklaas
and Black Peter was portrayed by Dr.
Pieter J. van der Sande. Host at the
party was Commander Bart J. C. Schok-
king, senior officer of the R.N.N. in
Australia. Among -the guests who
listened delightedly to the children’s sing-
ing of Christmas carols were Rear-
Admiral F. W, Coster and Mrs. Coster,
and Mrs. Henri Moquette, who brought
her small daughter Gabrielle.
The cabaret dinner dance held in aid of
the St. Vincent Hospital Party Drive
St. Kilda Town Hall was certainly a suc-
cess. Commencing at 7.30 with drinks
and savories, guests danced between
courses until supper was served in the
early hours of the morning. Pat Green,
who worked hard as ticket secretary, with
some publicity on the side, chose an old-
world frock of pink-and-white-patterned
crepe.- Cecile Newing, another ticket
secretary, wore a floral gown. The
former Joan Moss (now Mrs. “Bunny”
Lindsay) came in a black taffetta skirt
with a blouse of emerald-and-green-
striped taffetta. Mrs. J. Reynolds, secre-
tary of the dance committee, wore a
gown of white crepe with a flared
peplum.
Daphne Campbell, star of “The Over-
landers,” was entertained at a small
afternoon-party in the Marina room at
the Australia, joint hosts being Bert
Snelling and Vic Webb, of British United
Films. Daphne was definite that
her entry into movies was quite by
chance, and that appearing in one
picture was quite enough ; she much pre-
fers to live quietly as wife of Sam Calder,
ex-R.A.A.F., and mother of ten-weeks-
old daughter Erika. Living at Alice
Springs she finds life there very interest-
ing. Her husband operates an all-purpose
air-service to station-dwellers in the
Northern Territory.


self. It is a world almost as satisfactory as his cow-
shed, for farmers have settled ways, yet he has known
it to break into unaccountable frenzy when his dray
bumps into another. So he says nothing at the factory,
but “Hup!”—and this to the old red mare —and drives
home among bounding cans that leave a trail of
whey behind him. And shares a normal breakfast of
cold corned beef with the dog that lies • under the
table. Feeds his calves and his pigs, then drives round
his tussocky paddocks hurling turnips and ensilage at
his cows —a perfectly normal morning.
And yet, not quite; it is noon, and the red mare
knows ; hitched in the shade of the tall pine-tr ees
beside the house, she is still in the shafts of the dray.
And her hairy underlip quivers. Long ago she should
have been unharnessed. “ Mr. Hinge!” she
mutters.
A sentiment shortly to be
repeated, though with consider-
ably more refinement, by the
beautiful and elegant Miss
Bastion. She is in her bed-
room, completing her toilet be-
fore setting out for the Croquet
Club, when she hears on the
front door a furious and familiar
cannonade. Yet he is not ex-
pected today. Shall she? It
might be the postman. She will.
She tiptoes to the front door,
opens it and swiftly closes it.
Aha! So doors open and close themselves, do
they? Doors have gone mad. Very well then. Doors
shall be shown. “Hinge! ” roars Mr. Hinge in a voice
that would blow down the walls of Jericho.
Which, coupled with a mighty thudding of the
fist, very soon brings that door to its senses. It opens
and reveals Mrs. Bastion, a vision of sturdiness and
vigor, standing, it appears, on three feet; one of which,
detaching itself and walking in a circle round the
others, is established as the white cat.
Mr. Hinge is pleased. He snarls,
“You, Hinge!” cries Mrs. Bastion in that deep
male voice which, as always, causes the cat to stare at
her in mild astonishment. “What do you mean com-
ing here and roaring the house down? I never thought
I’d see you again, anyhow, after dragging you by the
scruff of the neck last week, and making you put that
wood in its right place. If you’ve got any more fire-
wood today I don’t want it, so that’s enough about
that, and goodday to you! ”
“It’s a good egg,” says Mr. Hinge, fumbling in
the breast-pocket of that dingy shirt. “I found it.”
In his greasy and faded dungarees, with his iron
grey hair and his bushy grey moustache, with his dank
thicket of eyebrows, his large nose, stubbly chin and
hairy ears —from his bald patch to his muddy boots,
indeed —Mr. Hinge is a somewhat earthy-looking per-
son. There travels with him, too, having some con-
nection with ensilage and the cowshed, a distinctly
pastoral aroma. And that white and glittering object
he now exhibits in the seamed palm of his hand looks,
by contrast, as if it had fallen from the heavens.
“Tuppence!” he trumpets.
“Ho, get along with you, you great yob!” exclaims
Mrs. Bastion. She bends down and tweaks the white
cat by the scruff of the neck. “Did you ever see such
a yob in all your life, my little man?”
What is this? What is this? The witch mutters
spells to her demon.
“I do wish. Mother,” says Miss Bastion, tall, golden
and shadowy in the corridor, “you would stop calling
Rumbold your little man.”
“He is a little man,” says Mrs, Bastion, gently
hoisting the white devil with her foot. “Aren’t you,
my little man?”
For all Mr. Hinge knows, Rumbold says yes he
is. Mysteries are being performed. The golden ghost
towers in the shadows ; the witch stirs the cat with
her foot; the egg is still in his hand, and nobody has
paid him his money. Is it not a fair offer? Is the
price not right? Is the egg not good?
He begins to thunder. “Tuppence for the egg,
tuppence for the egg, the egg!” Surely that is clear
and plain.
“Did you ever see such a yob? I do believe he’s
come all the way into town just to sell us one egg.”
“Perhaps you’d better buy it.”
“Stuff and nonsense, Dora. It’s probably as
addled as he is.”
“Buy it and let him go away! ”
“There are dozens of eggs in the pantry. And
the hens are all laying. Besides, tuppence is too dear.”
“But I’m sure he’s dangerous, Mother. He knows
we’re alone. That’s why he keeps calling.”
The beautiful maiden is pleading, pleading with
the witch. Agony on the fair, straight face beneath
the golden hair. And the other wagging and wagging
her head, screwing up her face like a monkey. They
are talking in their silent language. Plotting. Do they
not approve of the bargain—this white and wonderful
egg? Will they steal the egg? What now?
“If you don’t send him away this instant I am
going to ring for the police. Mother.”
“Write!” thunders Mr. Hinge, replacing the egg
in his pocket and producing his notebook and pencil.
And now she leaps upon him; and in fury seizes
him by the braces; and drags him off the verandah
and down the steps: and vain would it be for Mr.
Hinge to attempt to understand the frenzy which that
notebook arouses in Mrs. Bastion ; one of the simple
causes of which is that she hates writing because she
cannot spell. There would be other causes, too* for
as she pushes the monster to the gate she chuckles
and splutters and waves her fist in the air with a wild
delight that sends the white cat bounding over the lawn
and even draws after her, fascinated, the cold and
beautiful daughter. But these matters are quite
beyond human understanding; except that, one may
say, there is a certain pleasure in being pulled and
pushed out the gate, for it is quite clear that, even if
the egg has not been changed into money, one is ful-
filling the desires of others; one is doing the correct
thing, what the ladies The ladies.
And if the ladies What, only one of them?
Must one leave the beautiful maiden? —if, waving her
short arms about and clamping her flower-garden
firmly on her head, Mjs, Bastion climbs aboard his
dray and seats herself comfortably at the rear, dangling
her sturdy legs, then well and good! She wishes to
come and live at his farm. She shall help with the
milking. And when the spring is a little further
advanced and frost no longer lies till noon in the
shade of the tussocks, when the green shoots grow tall
in the bedraggled garden, then, swaying like a daffodil,
no doubt the beautiful daughter shall also be seen
on that desolate cultivation in the swamp. In his own
kitchen that evening the witch shall cook the egg.
And now she takes a loving farewell of the daffodil.
“Oh, don’t be such a goose, Dora! If he can
waste his time coming into town with an egg he can
jolly well drive me to the Croquet Club. We tnight
as well make some use of him now we’ve got a man
about the house.”
“Mother, if you don’t get down this instant I’ll
never speak to you again! ” •
“Hup!”
By what miracle Mr. Hinge is induced at the
corner of the street to wheel his chariot to the left,
towards the Croquet Club, instead of to the right and
his empty farmhouse, Miss Bastion and Rumbold —
watching the event in equal indignation—are unable
to say, for they are already too far away to perceive
that the sturdy old lady simply punches the driver
vigorously on the back of the leg and points the
proper direction. Nor, though she is following with .
remorseless dignity, is Miss Bastion able to look round
the corner and see Mrs. Bastion punch Mr. Hinge
again at the gate of the croquet lawns, and spring
lightly from the dray and then, as Mr. Hinge discon-
solately proffers his egg, snatch the same and, with-
out making payment, wave and vanish.
All that Miss Bastion knows is that, after stand-
ing thunder-struck in his dray for a prolonged interval
while she peeps round the corner, a hundred yards
away, Mr. Hinge drives off lickera-lockera into town ;
and that, at the Croquet Club, Mrs. Bastion’s conduct
is the subject of much animated discussion amongst
Mrs. Horton, Mrs. Mclntosh, Lady Beeton, Mrs.
Crackqn and many others of those fair dames who
daily with mallet and tongue do deadly work on those
green lawns.
“Mother, I simply will not have it. You’ve made
yourself a laughing-stock to the whole town.”
“Pooh! Who cares if I have?”
Miss Bastion cares. And, stimulating
as Mrs. Bastion’s eccentricities are, it may yet be-
fall that Mrs. Horton, Mrs. Mclntosh, Ladv Beeton,
Mrs. Cracken and all the others will care.
For croquet is a game of dignity and grace;
secluded, cloistral, sacred to the tribe of females. Mrs.
Horton weighs seventeen stone; Mrs. Mclntosh, also
stout, is formidable with corsets and piety; Lady
Beeton is immensely tall, thin and snobbish; Mrs.
Cracken, grey and round shouldered, gabbles unceas-
ingly about her two pasty offspring: greatly the ladies
differ in appearance and character, and sometimes,
when Mrs. Horton has her ball beautifully in position
to drive through the hoop and Mrs. Cracken smites
it far across the lawn, there are minor differences of
opinion: Ankles are even damaged, not quite acci-
dentally, by carelessly swung mallets. But upon one
point there is a unanimous, if unspoken, agreement:
that here (save for a decrepit groundsman, the father
of eleven children, and hardly as noticeable as a worm-
cast) no male boot shall tread.
And here, after two days of profound cogitation,
Mr, Hinge does tread. And views, stooping as she
plays her shot, bended in gigantic curves, the back
portion of Mrs. Horton ; while, waiting for her turn,
towering above the stake of her mallet like some
miraculous beanstalk, stands to one side Lady Beet On.
Whose bony shoulder, reaching high in the air, Mr.
Hinge taps.
“Oh!” cries Lady Beeton.
“Mrs. Bastion or Miss Bastion!” roars Mr. Hinge
with great distinctness.
If, after a preliminary flurry, the entire popula-
tion of the Croquet Club stands frozen in postures of
astonishment, that is no doubt a normal part of their
ritual. For all goes as it should. In the ramshackle
cowshed the white Leghorn has laid again. And Mrs.
Bastion and her beautiful daughter have a devouring
passion for eggs; so much so that the sturdy witch
snatches them without payment. They starve, per-
haps. And they demand gifts. And in the sunny
afternoons they are to be found at the Croquet Club.
And he, Hinge, the rich; he, the generous
All is most wonderfully as it should be when Miss
Bastion; after a glance at the far side of the lawn
where her mother is wheezing and booming, strides
swiftly across to him, snatches the egg without pay-
ment, and, straight of figure, severe of face yet flushed
with maidenly modesty, points commandingly in the
direction of the road.
“Egg free!” roars Mr, Hinge, What looks like a
crack in sun-dried mud cuts across his face under the
bushy moustache and, as he departs, there is wafted to
the lofty ears of Lady Beeton a strange, jaunty
grunting.
v “Fancy! He gives them eggs! ” says Mrs. Horton
to Lady Beeton. “Hinge is a miser, you know.”
Clearly something has happened to Mr. Hinge. It
is one thing to come into town for the profit of selling
firewood, or an egg, or a sack of swedes or some of
those enormous white carrots that are usually offered
only to the cows ; one thing to come in for the pleasure
of engaging for a while, like a swimmer diving into
surf, in the frenzy of human conversation; but reck-
lessly to squander one’s produce in gifts is inex-
plicable.
“I do believe, Dora, he’s got his eye on you,”
Mrs. Bastion says at the Croquet Club one day when
Mr, Hinge, after much preliminary bellowing, has
handed her a grimy jam-jar of cream.
Tittering, the ladies of the club agree.
For here, too, something has happened. Male
though he is, and large and clumping and
clamorous and whiskery and reeking of many
things besides milk, Mr. Hinge’s visits have
come to be accepted at the green lawns;
even eagerly awaited, with nods and winks
and nudgings, and with gurglings and trillings
as of birds.
And the golden-haired Miss Bastion, lest
the thrush sing more loudly in the trees, the
blackbird whistle and the sparrows chirp and
twitter, must compress her thin lips into a
hard straight line and wait till they are at
home to hiss and snap her opinions on Mr.
Hinge, and her mother-, and the dames of the
mallet, and the wide and monstrous world.
“Ah, you’re a little demond, I never saw
such a little demond in all my life! ” nightly cries Mrs.
Bastion —not to her daughter, whom she scorns, but
to the white cat, Rumbold. Who will not come into the
house, but, early and late, plays under the lamp in the
street, catching the silver moths.
Sturdy is Rumbold, as befits the familiar demon
of Mrs. Bastion; short of legs and fur, thick in the
body, pink in the insides of the ears and at the tip of
the nose, bright and blue of eye. And if the younger
of his mistresses goes to call him
he rushes across the road and
climbs a blossoming pear-tree;
but if Mrs. Bastion comes he
hides from her in the gutter,
then leaps up and pounces at her
shoe. This he will do over and
over again, and he will chase and
kill any leafy twig she may
choose to waggle at him over
the edge of the gutter —all night
long would Rumbold sport with
the witch under the lamplight and
the soft spring moon, but when
she stoops to pick him up he bounds away offended
and, rearing on his short hind legs, dances around the
telegraph pole after the softly fluttering moths.
“Ah, you little demond, you’re moonstruck!”
v And then, very late at night, Rumbold yowls.
Moonstruck ; springstruck ; lovestruck. “He’s as bad
as Mr. Hinge, Dora!”
o Continued on page 60.)


...delightful to live in
H
; i -
■ ■
m
iIM
,- ' H
ilii*
;
:<:- : -
i
f m
M I
•••
h#r-y* *o*3
B •- •
i*|.
N
.: &
gS HH
1
1
V
rv
M ■
: m
:
m
m
m
/
/
liiii
wMm
: B
I
■
u
Build with these advuntages of
STRUCTURAL STEEL TURING
If any climate demands steel tubing in the
construction of homes, it is our Australian climate.
Structural Steel Tubing gives . . .
Greater strength and stability.
Greater protection against fire.
Framework _ that cannot warp or shrink.
Complete freedom from attack by white ants
and borers.
When you use Structural Steel Tubing you build
your home faster, easier. Steel Tubular members
can also be used for Roof Framing with brick or
concrete construction.
£3
rj~rz gzgg^l
BED.
DINING
LDY.
W.C
LIVING
BATH
TEr.K
A 71
BED
>
D
NOTE: We regret it is not possible to
answer personal enquiries relating to
individual home-building problems.
Structural Steel Tubing is a development by
Stewarts and Lloyds (Anst.) Pty. Ltd.
HOUSING DIVISION, 75 PITT STREET, SYDNEY


HIRES THE SECRET!
OF
ML-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
//itmtmt
Insulation with
Write for full facfs and
particulars to-day. They
vill be freely given.
Hi
ins
PTY.
LTD.
■
s
I
m
HEAD OFFICE; 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES; 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell-House,
)Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives; P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; ,Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
Published in the Interests of Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of: "C.O.R Plus" Motor Spirit • “ C.O.R ” Power Kerosene • “ CORALITE ” Lamp
Kerosene • “ C.O.R Light Diesoleum ” • "C.O.R ' Diesel Oils 0 "C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils
“I just want to tell you this. Mother. I will not
tolerate that man coming pestering me at the Croquet
Club any longer. It humiliates me beyond words. If
he keeps on coming I shall just have to give up croquet,
I really feel so ashamed I could leave the district.”
"Don't let ’em smash, Lil — there's forty quids'
Worth there!"
“He’ll probably follow you.”
“Don’t you dare make a joke of it.”
“Oh, goodness me, Dora, it’s only old Hinge.
He’s harmless as a guineapig. Besides, why don’t
you take it as a compliment? It’s something to have
an admirer, even if it is only old whisker-ears. He’s
rich, too.”
“There is such a thing as dignity.” f
“Well, how can I help it? You’ve absolutely fas-
cinated the man. He’s as bad as Rumbold.”
“I’m not so sure that I have fascinated him. He’s
never said so, has he? I believe it’s you he’s after,”
“Oh, Dora, what poppycock! I never heard of
such poppycock!”
“You needn’t look so pleased about it, Mother. It
might be true. It’s usually you he asks for. You mark
my words, now you’ve encouraged him you’re going
to have a nice job to shake him off. He’s mad, and
he’s dangerous, and he’s in love with you. If you can
call it love!”
“Old Hinge! Hinge! No, it’s you, Dora. Oh,
my goodness, I don’t know which of us it is! ”
“There’s nothing to laugh about. Mother.”
OVE? Of course it is love. Or something very
much like it. Certainly the green springtime has
something to do with Mr. Hinge’s condition: a white
cat dances in his brain.
And certainly he is affected, too, by the beautiful
Miss Bastion, or her sturdy and capable mother ; or
both. When the morepork hoots around that large
and lonely farmhouse whence years and years ago his
wife and children departed—the wife to a better world,
the children to their careers—something in Mr. Hinge
hoots, too. When the great bull trumpets in the pad-
dock and the neighbors’ bulls reply, something in Mr,
Hinge assuredly jbins in that wild and passionate
chorus. Though whether or not he knows what his
soul is bellowing about is very much to be doubted.
Even when the lean dog one morning seizes the
white Leghorn by the throat Mr. Hinge is hardly
aware of what he does ; hardly aware, even, that he
is bellowing loud enough to blow the iron roof off.
The ti-tree broom is in his hand; there is commotion
in the cowshed ; and murder is being done. It is
enough. Mr. Hinge will be in it. Whack goes the ti-
tree broom and, howling but still alive, the lean dog
wisely vanishes. The white Leghorn flops about the
floor in a foolish way that tempts Mr. Hinge to repri-
mand it, on the head, with the ti-tree broom again.
Insofar as she is still capable of thought, the white
hen agrees with Miss Bastion that there is nothing to
laugh about in Mr. Hinge.
Nevertheless, as he descends from his dray outside
the Croquet Club on the afternoon of this great day,
Mr. Hinge is greeted with very much laughter. It is
late, and the ladies are leaving for their homes. Mrs.
Mclntosh, who is first out the gate, points. And the
other large lady also pauses and points,
Mr. Hinge, looking around him in some astonish-
ment, observes in his left hand as he Itands beside the
dray a white Leghorn, deceased; low dangles her
head with its crimson comb, and wide spread her
snowy wings.' No wonder the ladies point! Mr.
Hinge, in a tone of triumph and discovery, begins to
thunder. “Hey! Miss Bastion! A fowl!”
And, ah, she comes, she comes. The beautiful
maiden bursting through the gate-and running to seize
his gift. Her white skirt flares in the silken light of
the evening, her golden hair is glowing, her modest
flush is a deep rich red on her face and slender neck.
Her blue eyes gleam with her hunger. She waves her
arms, she points, she dances with joy this day. She
wobbles on the edge of the gutter.
“Will you stop roaring out my name in the public
street, you filthy, disgusting old beast! I’ve had
enough, enough! Get to the devil out of here and
take your dead fowl with you! ”
Ah, the spectacle of ecstasy.
But what is this? She goes!
“For you!” says Mr. Hinge, snorting like a wild
boar through his whiskers as he leaps to the footpath
and intercepts the departing maiden.
“Will you get out of my road!”
Mr. Hinge bounds on the asphalt, violently oscil-
lating the white Leghorn. “Stop! A fowl! ”
She stops not. Does she not understand the Eng-
lish language? A fowl; for her! “Look!” He
«
thrusts the snowy corpse under her nose, swings it in
a circle, thenjnadly waves it to and fro like the wig-
wag at a railway crossing. And cries, with a terrible
booming sound, “Hoo! ”
“Oh, my God,” says Mrs. Horton, “he’s mad! ”
Ha, this commotion. The enormous fat lady;
and the short, stout, bulgy one ; and now, stepping like
a giraffe, her head high above the crowd, Lady Beeton
herself.
“It’s a shame!”
“Call the police!”
“Pestering the Bastions!”
“Really, I could brain him! ” Mrs. Cracken raises
her mallet and edges for a position behind Mr. Hinge’s
skull.
So, they goad him! This fury and this frenzy,
the capering of female monkeys. A terrible thing it
is to be surrounded by many women, all mad and
armed with mallets. Break through! Mr. Hinge
mows a path for himself,, to nowhere in particular,
with the body of the white Leghorn.
“Watch him!”
“Don’t let him go! ”
“Will I hit him? Will I hit him on the head with
my mallet?”
“You just mind yourself, Mrs. Cracken! Dora,
if you made this scene you should be ashamed of
yourself. Hinge, you great yob, what do you think
you’re doing?” Mrs. Bastion, breathless, had arrived
late on the scene. Competent, glad to be pushing Mr.
(<Continued on page 65.)
Man of Science.
The eagle is vaguely aware of his talon twisted awry
Or a plume haply reversed in the great fan of his
wing;
Trifles like those don’t trouble the soul of a born
king —
What are they to the proud lord of the crystal sky ?
He scatters about him the blood and the fur and bones
of the hare,
Standing on earth, in the rushy field, or the crest of
the steep
Headlong hill, where the slothful cows and the
trickling sheep
Lift up a foolish face for a moment idly to stare.
Lordly and lonely, rigid he stands among bushes and
grasses,
Ten short minutes within that horizon pinched and
narrow.
He who can rival in speed the fleet-flying arrow
Feeds among cumbrous fowls and humbly browsing
asses.
The galling bonds of the home and the state upon him
sit lightly ;
He votes, he discusses money with but the skin of his
mind ;
He stands his trick at the wheel, he marches along
with his kind:
While his inmost eye seeks his own star gleaming
brightly.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


Here's a case that will stand the rough and
tumble of school use . . . that weighs and costs less than leather
. . . that is weatherproof and smart-looking! The Globite School
Case is a convenient size ... 16 inches long , . . and it keeps
school books in bettor condition. Ask to see one ~. . feel how
light it is! Globifes are bd!ng manufactured as fast as materials
, and manpower permit.
school
CASES
Manufacturers: FORD SHERINGTON LTD, (Wholesale only)
DF
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and fconscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both' can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy f Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E, R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET) SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydnsy.
BP 4-M.
Murga
Hall
By J.A.M.ABBOTT
. T.
MURGA HALL stood on the rising ground
westward of where the Prospect Dam fills a
shallow valley today a few miles out of Parra-
matta, It is just possible to make out the line
of its foundations in the grass.
A milk vendor runs his cows on the side of Murga-
troyd’s Hill, and all remaining of the place as it was
over 130 years ago is one very ancient and distorted
English oak, obviously on its last legs, which will be
gone for ever before very long. It is as if all memory
of Captain Charles Murgatroyd, of the Corps of
Veterans, and before that of the New South Wales
Corps, had been purposely wiped out and removed
from all natural records, Much as if the countryside
had wished to free itself of all remembrance of the
man.
IT is interesting to note how similar were the plans
f and how similar their fruition of many of the
officers of the first garrisons of New South Wales,
With a few creditable exceptions, the men who
officered the New South Wales Corps had made other
regimental messes too hot for themselves or had fallen
into the hands of the financial chieftains.
The other side of the world from was a
place that most admirably suited them.
They early recognised that their army pay could be
augmented. New Holland was a vast territory that was
almost anyone’s for the asking of land grants. And
before long it revealed itself to be exceptionally well
suited to huckstering. A man might do splendidly,
for example, by buying up a shipment of hats, or tin
pots, or shirts, and reselling them at almost any price
he chose to ask. Goods of any kind —or rum.
Growing rich by such means, they built mansions
and laid out estates and reckoned themselves to be
rapidly becoming the founders of families that would
one day be something like county families at Home.
There are scores of these old country homes in
the districts of Parramatta, Emu Plains, Windsor and
the Lower Hunter —but many of them today are roof-
less and abandoned, and hardly ever will the name
of the present tenant correspond with that of the
original grantee.
Captain Charles Murgatroyd, of Murga House,
near to Prospect Hill, was quite a good sample of
these gentlemen—and as his country seat is today so
are many others. But in the year of our Lord 1813
this wasn’t a prospect that gave any exercise to the
anxieties of Captain Charles Murgatroyd. And'on
the morning Captain Murgatroyd set off for Sydney to
interview Governor Macquarie he was, if anything,
over-confident.
“Flo, my sweet angel,” he observed, addressing
the lady who shared his domestic felicity under the
assignment system then in vogue in New South Wales,
“I regard his Excellency as being an easy mark ; a
very easy mark. I haven’t the slightest doubt that I
shall succeed in my application. The position of
Naval Officer is one of the best appointments in the
colony—’tis a position with the very greatest possi-
bilities. A man may grow rich in it if he behaves
judiciously.”
I MMEDIATELY after breakfast Captain Murgatroyd
* set off for Sydney, and arrived there the same even-
ing.
At ten o’clock on the following morning, dressed
in his uniform as an officer of the Corps of Veterans
—that undependable organisation which had been
formed from the officers and men who didn’t want to
go home with the Rum Corps —Captain Murgatroyd
walked over the bridge spanning the Tank Stream with
its single arch and up the slope to Government House.
On his arrival in Sydney he had sent a note to Mr.
J. T. Campbell, the Governor’s secretary, asking for
an interview with General Macquarie at 10.30 a.m.
SYDNEY was a queer little place in 1813. With a
bit of hardship to people who had camped as they
thought best suited them along the valley of the Tank
• Stream behind Sydney Cove, Governor Macquarie had
rearranged its twisting streets on as rectangular a plan
as he could.
Sydney Cove ran far up into the town. Govern-
ment House, where Phillip and Bridge Streets inter-
sect today, looked down at the blue and sparkling
waters of the little bay that gave shelter to the meagre
shipping. Along the hollow, gleaming with White-
washed walls in the sunlight and with dark, shingled
roofs, cottages straggled irregularly.
Over on the western hillside —“the Rocks”—a few
of the better sort of dwellings had been erected —
occupied, for the most part, by civil and military
officers and a few of the businessmen who were be-
ginning to feel their feet under them in Sydney.
“The Rocks” was fashionable in T 3, and Wool-
loomooloo was almost a farming district. Brickfield
Hill was an unsightly wilderness of clay-pits. Darling
Harbor was called Cockle Bay, and its western side
was all wild bush.
The little isle of Mattewai, in the middle of the
Harbor, where Fort Denison was planted in the
eighteen-fifties —the convicts’ “Pinchgut”—was covered
with scrub and trees and was perhaps a little higher
than the top of the martello tower at the northern end
of the old fort as we know it. At the beginning of the
century it had supported a gibbet. Over on the North
Shore everywhere, save about Milson’s Point, the
wildest bush covered all the country.
This was the Sydney Captain Murgatroyd saw as
he looked back from the verandah of the big cottage
on the hill that was Government House before ring-
ing the bell.
MR. JOHN THOMAS CAMPBELL, a cousin of
Mrs. Macquarie, was a North of Ireland* man,
dry, precise and not without a sort of aggressive
humor of his own. He rose to his feet and bowed as
Captain Murgatroyd came into the room.
“Good day to ye, Captain Murgatroyd,” he wel-
comed his visitor. “His Excellency won’t keep you
waiting long. And how are ye, sir?”
“Well, I thank you, Mr. Campbell,” answered
Captain Murgatroyd, bowing in turn and seating him-
self upon the chair the secretary had indicated.
“And perhaps I may ask. Captain Murgatroyd,
what your business with his Excellency may be?”
“I trust that you will excuse me, Mr, Campbell
—my business is for his Excellency’s ears alone. I
hope you will forgive me.”
“Oh, of course —sairtainly,” smiled Mr. Campbell
blandly. “The Governor’s not in a very pleasant mood
this morning, Captain Murgatroyd. Ye may find him
a little short in his manner. I juist thocht I’d mention
it.”
A bell rang in the next room and the secretary
hurried to answer it.
“Your Excellency?” Murgatroyd heard him speak
as he held the door open. “The gentleman’s here now.
Will ye please step this way, Captain Murgatroyd?”
He threw the door wide open. “His Excellency will
see ye now.”
Captain Murgatroyd got up and marched stiffly
across to the door of the Governor’s office.
ACQUARIE sat behind his office table and
acknowledged his visitor’s somewhat elaborate
bow by a slight inclination of the head. He did not
stand up.
{Continued on page 62.)
Escaped Convict.
His desert was not stocked with golden lions ;
His loins not tangled with brass serpents:
Nor pinpointed by fire-hot scorpions,
His burning flesh knew torments
Nevertheless as merciless. And waterless
Horizons closed in and puzzled him on every side.
With taste for a mirage, in rage he died
Running towards the sun’s red wilderness:
And waves of sand closed over him ;
Rose waters covered him. Under earth’s lake
He could take umbrage; walking the brim
When fiery sunsets blazed so it was like
A bronze medallion, Australia-shaped —
Not, as the convict-bushranger had hoped,
Thronged by swart Legionnaires and Arab bands
And flesh-choked caravans, but blazing sands.
This was the threshold of that very hell
Talked of in rat-run holds. He’d be that same
Soul, Beelzebub, again, decked out in flame —
Word-perfect, as he died, he played Him well.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


Arc
> wr e$ /**
SAYS
WELt KNOWN XONTRACTOft/
For all power and industrial
undertakings—for housewiring
and all household appliances—
specify . • •
D
for your
Second
Security Loan
Best place
savings
WIRES anJ
CABLES
OLYMPIC
TYRES
A Product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER GO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
ft
**
oo
illy ict
Hair
TO
■
h off
as soon as you like. ??
We’re ready when you are. No
weary waiting around for weeks
and months. No delaying priority
restrictions. We’ll help you plan
a speedy, comfortable air journey
to suit your convenience.
Freedom.. no cares or travel worries
... excellent meals and steward
service . . all the advantages that
make FLYING so fascinating.
And the time you save when you
go by Air,
is time you
can spend as
you wish,
elsewhere.
F
QantaA Smftfaj4i/uwuf4
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL airline
in association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
BOAT
“Will you kindly find a seat, Captain Murga-
troyd?” The Governor indicated a chair, and his
visitor seated himself, a little uneasily.
Macquarie’s dark-brown eyes seemed to take in his
caller comprehensively —seriously. His rugged features
did not reassure Captain Murgatroyd or lessen his
nervousness. His was a face that could be hard as
iron or graciously benevolent, but it did not indicate
much capacity for humor. There was an insistence
upon the dignity-of its owner that was strikingly im-
pressive and never seemed to desert it.
“And to what, Captain Murgatroyd, if I may ask,
do I owe the honor of your visit?” his Excellency
opened.
The visitor cleared his throat. A good deal of
his confidence had oozed away by now. He hemmed
and hawed a little before he began.
“I have learned, your Excellency, that there is
soon to be a vacancy in the position of Naval Officer?”
He tried to make his manner one of polite curiosity.
' “Yes,” Macquarie assented. “And supposing there
is, sir?”
“I —er —thought that perhaps your Excellency
might be inclined to regard my application with —er —
some slight consideration of my previous service in the
Corps and —er —because my efforts as a settler have
not been wholly without result. I have a very full
knowledge of the commercial affairs of the colony,
sir.”
Macquarie played a tattoo with his fingers on the
surface of the desk in front of him. At last he spoke
—a little raspingly, a little after the style of the cross-
examiner.
“You were in the Guards at the beginning of your
army service, Mr. Murgatroyd?”
“Yes, your Excellency—the Coldstreams.”
“And you exchanged from that regiment into the
New South Wales Corps?”
“Yes, your Excellency.”
“Why, then, sir—why did you leave the Guards
for the Corps?”
“For the reason, your Excellency, that I wished to
assist in the development of this country.”
“Quite worthily, Captain Murgatroyd. You left,
also, I have been informed, because you were deeply
in debt. And also, my information instructs me, you
ran away with the daughter of a worthy man —
formerly a non-commissioned officer in one of the
Household regiments—who wished to have no dealings
with you.”
The bright eyes had hardened and narrowed a
little, and Macquarie leaned across the table, picked
up a- pencil and shook the butt of it at the somewhat
perturbed gentleman facing him.
He continued without mercy.
“And where is your wife. Captain Murgatroyd?”
“Well, I —er —I don’t know, your Excellency. She
abandoned me soon after we came to Sydney.”
Contempt came into Macquarie’s homely counten-
ance. He shook the pencil at Murgatroyd.
“No!” he cried. “You abandoned her, sir—
wickedly, wantonly. Your record of service with the
102nd Regiment, the New South Wales Corps—l know
that record, sir ; I am not deceived in it. You took a
principal part, with Mr. Macarthur and the others, in
the deposition of my predecessor, Captain Bligh—
and that in spite of the fact that Captain Bligh had
given you the grant of land near Prospect Hill which
was the foundation of your present prosperity. You
were a leader amongst the rebels who invaded this
house apd forcibly removed the Governor from office.
The representative of his Majesty.”
Captain Murga-
troyd wilted visibly
under the fierce attack.
Macquarie continued.
“You have traf-
ficked and traded, sir,
after a that does
you little credit. You
Jive in flagrant sin with
a woman who is serv-
ing a sentence of trans-
portation. And why
was she sent here? For
murder, Captain
Murgatroyd—murder !
Ah —you are about to
take your leave? Very
good, sir. ’Twould
have been decent of
you not to have come
here with such a re-
quest. But let me
assure you, Captain Murgatroyd, that I have my eye
upon you and your doings. l am watchful of you, sir.”
Struck dumb with rage, Captain Murgatroyd
stood up and glared across the table at the Governor.
The Governor glared back at Captain Murgatroyd.
There was no trace of benevolence in the deep brown
eyes now. They were angry and hostile. He rang his
table bell and Mr. Campbell opened the door.
“Your Excellency?” he inquired.
“Be pleased to show Captain Murgatroyd out,
Mr, Campbell,” said Macquarie.
11.
AS Captain Murgatroyd rode back to his house at
Prospect Hill his reflections were extremely bitter
and altogether untinged with affection for his Excel-
lency.
He had supped at James Larra’s inn at Parra-
matta, watered and fed his horse at the inn stables
and then continued his journey westward towards his
home.
“The damned pompous old martinet! ” he growled
to himself as he rode though the moonlit bush, “I
thought I’d been reasonably discreet, too. You can’t
be sure, though—convict servants spread gossip and
slander always. Oh, well —Flo won’t last much longer.
I must send her back to the factory, I suppose, and
become a respectable burgher of this God-forsaken
community. Hullo! Good Lord —what’S that?”
A fiery glare had come into the sky a mile or so
ahead. He reined in his horse and sat watching for a
minute or so —when his ominous reflections were pre-
sently interrupted by an exhausted man who came
running, staggering and breathless, down the road.
“Stop—stop—for Gawd’s sake, Cap’n Murga-
troyd. They’re after you —’tis your life they’re seek-
ing. Go back —for Gawd’s sake. Go back to Parra-
matty,”
“Who’s after me —and what’s that fire?”
“ Tis Black Mullins and his gang o’ runaway
bushrangers. There’s more’n a dozen of ’em, an’
they’re fighting drunk. They’ve set afire to Murga
House —after robbing the place—and they’re await-
ing your return from Sydney, But I beg y’ to go back
to Parramatty an’ get th’ sojers. An’ for Gawd’s sake,
Cap’n, tell no one ’twas me who informed y’. I’m a
dead man if y’ do.”
“Damn you—you’d be better dead! ” spat Murga-
troyd at the cowering creature who had saved his life
—not, of course, without hope of due reward. “Out
of my way and go to hell!”
He wheeled his horse round and presently was
galloping back to Parramatta, racing into the quiet
little town about 11 o’clock with a thudding of shod
hooves that brought many of the inhabitants to their
doors. At the gates of the barracks'he jumped down
from his panting horse, flung the reins to the sentry
with an oath and ran across the square to the officers’
quarters.
A COMPANY of the 73rd —the Black Watch —
formed the garrison of Parramatta, commanded
by Captain McNab, a dour, narrow man, but a good
soldier; slow in speech but swift in action. Murga-
troyd found him preparing for bed when the door
was opened to his loud knocking.
“Eh,^aoo —’tis Captain Murgatroyd, is it not?
What’s the trouble, then, Murgatroyd, that ye come
clamoring at the door, and it getting on to midnight?”
“Bushrangers! ” barked Murgatroyd hoarsely,
“Bushrangers, blast their souls! Damn them to hell!
They’ve fired my place at Prospect Hill.”
(|Continued on page 64.)


Waygood - Otis
M%S Vs’:" . ’ ■ •’’ ’ '|V ■ , '||| •
Would Have
Saved
These
Shafts!
Maintenance
r-"
The engineer ol a certain building thought he was taking good care of his
lifts by lubricating them regularly. He was extremely fussy about oil leaks
around the machines and, to prevent this occurrence, kept the glands
packed excessively tight at all times.
Inevitably, the shafts became worn to such an extent that they could not
hold oil. The engineer then made extension heads of hardwood and moved
the shafts forward to allow the packing to run on unworn parts of the shafts.
When the breakdown occurred, Waygood-Otis Maintenance Engineers
were called in. They promptly installed new worm shafts, correctly packed.
The cost to the owner would have paid for proper Waygood-Otis Mainten-
ance for many, many months.
wareooD-oTis maint offers
W U] One single responsibility OURS for peak lift and escalator
performance.
g The elimination or considerable reduction of inconvenient shut-down
periods.
EST JJIJ Regular routine inspection—DAY AND NIGHT SERVICE throughout
the year.
W [J] Replacement of all wearing parts with genuine Waygood-Otis
components.
Wtr fg] A flat monthly, all-inclusive service charge for consistent budgeting.
Telephone your nearest Waygood-Otis office or write for details.
' % No obligation, of course.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.I PT Y. LTD. INCORPORAT ED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE - PERTH . HOBART , NEWCASTLE
headquarters for vertical- transportation
rm
, TODAY
ii- m
I
rias
'A'--:-'-.-
* “Our knowledge is tbe amassed thought and experience of
innumerable minds. /--Emerson.
A salient definition of knowledge in
principle, and especially true of the
particular knowledge resulting from
our seventy-five years experience in
the design and development of steam
generating equipment.
The history of Babcock & Wilcox
is largely the story of the successive
generations of engineers, metal-
lurgists, chemists and research
workers in Babcock factories and
laboratories throughout the world
whose co-ordinated efforts have pro-
duced the modern high temperature
and pressure boiler and established
the leadership of Babcock & Wilcox
in the field of thermal engineering.
Steam users in Australia may relap
the benefit of the synthesised know-
ledge of these “innumerable minds
by seeking the freely-rendered advice
of Babcock engineers in every State
on all matters relating to steam in
industry.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in ail States.
Looking to tomorrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
liki y aA 5 l' w » It® fH * s». n I rc: K,
niim/rh uon.ktt
Constable Gillick
By F. L. COMBS
CONSTABLE GILLICK had a system, and when
you arrived in Paka Puki he eyed you intently
to see whether you would fit into that system.
Its central tenet was to let things be.
Call this system live and let live and you would
not do full justice to it. It was quite as much die and
let die. You went your own way, and when, perhaps
following upon the D.Ts., you landed up in the
cemetery alongside Stitch and a number of other jolly
good fellows, well, that was that. If, on the other
hand, you were an exemplary citizen, Constable Gii-
lick did not mind so long as you did not bother him.
He rather preferred you, though, to loosen up a
bit in your intervals of leisure. Constable Giilick was
not at his ease with entirely virtuous men.
I got my cue to him at the time when, on the one
hand, Gil, the licensee of the Criterion, was taking a
line in regard to drinking after hours that exceeded
even the latitude normal to Paka Puki, and when, on
the other, the Rev. Conroy started in to preach some
good old-fashioned sermons against the liquor trade
and its ways. In spite of his liking for rhetoric, the
Rev. Conroy said some things so exquisitely true to
the facts of what was going on in the borough that
Constable Giilick squirmed with resentment.
Needless to say, he detested the pulpiteer in Con-
roy, but he was equally exasperated with the licensee
of the Criterion. “It wasn’t the first pub Gil had run ;
surely he could realise he was over the edge.” He,
Giilick, would have to act. And Gil knew that he,
Giilick, was not a busybody and was presuming on
it. Gil, by the bye, knew a good deal more than that
about Constable Giilick.
Generally, though, Constable Giilick was a past-
master in the art of preventing affairs from going be-
yond a certain point. In a small place everybody
knows .everybody, and the repercussions of a legal
difference are only too apt to upset an idealist whose
high aim it is to let things be.
To look at Gillick’s empurpled capillaries you
might not have regarded him as an idealist. Even in
court, where, close-shaven and burly in a closely-
buttoned tunic, he was not lacking in a sort of stolid
official dignity, you did not feel that his silent sessions
were devoted to lofty thought, and nothing he told you
about his early experiences on point duty on King’s
Wharf caused you to regard him as a purist; but he
did devote energy and assiduity to preventing things
from being taken into court.
CONSTABLE GILLICK was not ambitious. His
official residence was commodious; he had a large
garden and kept a couple of cows, and the pickings
attached to his post were not inconsiderable. In a
town that “let things be” he settled down to a com-
fortable routine and did not seek promotion.
It was a subtle web he wove with the passage of
time. He was a poor penman, and had a distaste for
the documentary side of his duties, which, neverthe-
less, was considerable, but he was eager for informa-
tion, and his mental dossier of everyone in the district
and their doings was unrivalled.
I think it was excusable in him not to take an
elevated view of his species. Policemen are like journa-
lists in that they get to know so much of what is going
on behind the scenes, and find this inside knowledge
so often and so completely at variance with what is
publicly known. Constable Giilick did not undervalue
respectability, but I doubt whether he thought such a
thing as genuine respectability really existed.
Nor do I think that he wanted it to exist. Elis
uneasiness upon the coming of a new arrival to the
township was not morally motivated. Suppose this
newcomer should prove to be the one just man un-
impugnable in his righteousness that was bound to
turn up some day. Would he not inevitably, by carrying
many matters beyond the certain point, make a ruin of
the great system of letting things be, or fixing them?
Strange as it may seem, Constable Giilick died
an heroic death. The explanation of this lies in the
fact that though a coward when it came to standing
up to public opinion he was, as a constable, a most
courageous man. His death occured under the follow-
ing circumstances.
Harmless, dissolute old Sol Britland, odd-job
man at the doctor’s,' went on a terrific burst. More
than one citizen remarked during its course that
Giilick ought to have intervened to prevent the then
licensee of the Criterion making his profit out of a
man who wak drinking himself to death. Giilick knew
these remarks were beng made, and, with the bluster-
ing timidity characteristic of him, fumed against a pub-
lie opinion that expected him to wet-nurse evqry old
deadbeat and also against the licensee of the Cri., a self-
ish hound who wouldn’t study those who studied him.
When, however, poor old Sol turned up in front
of the post office with the doctor’s old South African
six-shooter and declared in bloodshot earnest that he
was going to rid the town of a lot of reptiles Constable
Giilick became a different man. He employed forcible
language to send bystanders into cover and, with wise
guile, used what cover he could get himself as he
edged in on Britland.
Utterly insignificant as he might be on 364 days
of the year, old Sol on this 365th day spoke with a
cold homicidal malice that inspired conviction. He
let fly at Arn Mills and drove a spurt of pebbles into
that worthy’s face, and next he made for the Criterion
to deal with its licensee.
It was then that Constable Giilick, using surpris-
ing speed for a man of his plethoric habit of body,
made straight for the demented alcoholic and it was
then, too, that with deliberate and coldblooded cun-
ning the latter, waiting for him to get within two yards,
whipped round and shot him twice in the abdomen.
Tip McNickle prevented more’casualties by flat-
tening out poor old Sol with a hefty lump of road
metal, whereupon men who had known the constable
for nigh on a gerferation gathered round him. His
last words were not remarkable.
“I’m cooked. Tip,” he said as that lusty farmer
bent over him. “To think of passing out in a brawl
with a harmless old fool like Sol! ”
“De mortuis nil nisi bonjum” was a hard and fast
rule in Paka Puki. The obsequies of Constable
Giilick were splendid, and every excess of rhetoric
that bad taste could suggest was aired at his expense.
I find that I cannot add him up. He was a fellow
being, generous with his early tomatoes and with
terakihi when a miraculous draught of them impaled
themselves on the lines he so expertly set. He was
also a conscientious bowler, and he was endlessly
patient with youngsters scrambling over his fence to
retrieve the school punt-about.
On the other hand he did not, in a town that
drank both as a regular and an irregular habit, en-
force the licensing laws with, fearless rigor. When
the aura of his heroism had faded out he was dis-
passionately discussed and then, as George Hopkins
remarked, you were for or against him accordingly
as you wanted a new heaven and a new earth or were
content to let things be. A clear majority in Paka
Puki favored the latter course.


HIM
S':-
■
£=*
-.V
Bip
*w.am\ Ul\ m
VrnS'ioev
U
»£*f. ?
IP
:
11
Is
1
~ W
■ WSi#
mmm
m
F >Sp
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
WORLD BOOKS
m'X
YEARS' I
OF ,
victor
1802-18^
Arthur
bkxant
*
YOURS FOR ONLY 5/6 EACH
Join “World Books” and build your own library of famous titles In beautifully
bound buckram editions. . , , . .. , , ....
“World Books*’ is a club which despatches to members each month a fresh title
which then becomes the member’s own property. (See programme of releases below.)
Past releases enjoyed by "World Books” members Include “Valley of Decision,
“Random Harvest,” “How Green Was My Valley/’ “Razor’s Edge,” and many
others. By joining “World Books” for six or twelve months, you are receiving
these excellent books for the amazingly low price of only 5/6 each,
T.oriee vour order early as only a limited number of new subscribers can be enrolled
each month. THE INITIAL SUBSCRIPTION COVERS ALE COSTS.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED.
“Left Hand, Right Hand” Sir Osbert Sitwell
“The Ballad and the Source” .... Rosamond Lehmann
“The Commodore” S. 1 orester
“Elizabeth and Leicester” Milton Waldman
“Collected Kipling Stories” R " < ? y , ard , Rip i. in . s
“Fanny by Gaslight” Michael Sadleir
Subscription Rates:
6 Months . . £l/16/
12 Months . . £3/12/
(inclusive!
Kindly add exchange to
Country or Inter-State Cheques •
TO MORGAN’S ■ BOOK SHOP,
9 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephone: BW 3107.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.”
I enclose & / /
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 11/12/’46
“Tut, tut, Captain Murgatroyd. The Lord will
provide for their souls in his ane guid time. Ye want
my help, and that of my men?”
“Oh, yes, indeed, McNab. And quickly. We
may catch the devils and take ’em by surprise if we
hurry.”
“I’ll be witljj ye directly, when I’ve put on some
clothes. Do ye go into my sitting-room. Help your-
self to whisky —on the sideboard.” He came on to the
verandah and lifted up his voice. “Ser-r-geant
Blair,” he shouted loudly, and repeated the call. Soon
it had an answer from across the small parade-ground.
“Aye, sir—coming,” was the response, and pre-
sently the sergeant came running into the candle-light,
buttoning his tunic as he ran.
“Sergeant, turn out twenty-five men in light march-
ing order and fully armed. Thirty rounds of ball-
cartridge and a ration of biscuits for every man. Tell
my groom to harness the horses in the forage cart
immediately. Be as quick as possible. I want ye, too
—and detail two corporals and a drummer. Bring all
the handcuffs we have here —there may be prisoners.
Hurry, sergeant, hurry—’tis verra ur-r-gent!”
Within half an hour the energetic Scot had in-
spected his little force, starkly drawn up on the parade-
ground, the red jackets, white cross-belts and high
shakos dimly lit by a couple of stable lanterns. A
light cart, with two horses harnessed to it, was close
at hand.
“Fall out ten men on the right,” he ordered, “and
get into the car-rt. Corporal Campbell, ye’re in
charge. Tak’ the drummer wi’ ye. Ser-r-geant Blair,
I want you to march —at your verra best pace, shor-rt
of the double —along the road to Prospect Hill. Ye’ll
have Corporal Muir wi’ ye. When we’ve reconnoitred
the poseetion, ser-r-geant. I’ll send the drummer back
to tell you how to bring your men up to the front.
Now we’re quite ready. Move off at once, Campbell.
Come on, Murgatroyd—we’ll soon lay the rascals by
the heels. ’Tis a fine night for our leetle job o’ wor-rk.”
They got into the saddles, and the drummer,
mounted upon an ancient steed, rode awkwardly after
them through the barrack-gates.
“Nae doot th’ villains will ha’ bur-r-nt ye oot,
Captain Murgatroyd,” observed McNab as they
ascended the higher ground west of Parramatta. “I
misdoot ye’ll find little of your hoose left to ye. But
there’s one thing—they can’t destroy your land.”
“Damme, no! ’Tis one small comfort. Damn
them, I say—damn them to hell!”
“Captain Murgatroyd, ye’Jl oblige me greatly by
not swearing. Bad language is of no use whatever.”
They advanced at a trot, and the cart kept up
with them well. Mostly they rode in silence.
When Captain McNab’s force had come within
about half a mile of Murga House he halted it, and,
leaving ten men who had accompanied Corporal
Campbell in the cart, stole forward on foot with his
brother officer to* spy out the land. The drummer ac-
companied them. They went round through the bush,
coming out of the timber on the edge of the cleared
lands somewhere to the back of the establishment.
And then they realised the harm the bushrangers had
managed to do.
ONLY the stone walls of the fine house were stand-
ing, empty doors and windows framing glowing
oblongs of incandescence. The roof had collapsed,
and the interior woodwork was still burning fiercely,
sending showers of sparks up into the black sky.
The cornfields had been burnt out and all the
wooden out-buildings had disappeared,
“By God, I’ll get even with them for this!” Cap-
tain Murgatroyd raved. “I’ll bring that fellow Mul-
lins to the gallows if I have to spend years in chase
of the ruffian.”
“We must put a stop to this lawlessness,” said
McNab icily. “What are your suggestions, Captain
Murgatroyd? Ye know the place—’tis but proper we
should hear what ye have to say.”
“I’m for attacking, sir—immediately. For taking
the ruffians by surprise and permitting none to get
away. The dozen of us, with our superior armament,
should be more than a match for this crowd.”
McNab shook his head in dissent.
“Ye’re dootless right. Such a drunken riff-raff
can’t make much of a stand against disciplined troops.
But they could escape to the bush unless we throw a
cordon round them. Sergeant Blair’s detachifient would
“Take her off and put me on in the same attitude!"
give us enough men to do that. We want to catch as
many of them as is possible to make an example of
them.”
“Maybe you’re right. Captain McNab,” assented
Murgatroyd grudgingly. “Yes, I think you are.”
“Very well, then. Drummer, get back to your
horse and ride as fast as ye can along the Parra-
matta-road until ye run into Sergeant Blair’s party.
Tell him to come on at the double. Now be off with
ye—and hurry. There’s no time to waste.”
The two officers set out on a cautious reconnais-
sance. Keeping well outside the clearing, they went
rapidly right round the burning house, and when they
returned to the point whence the drummer had gone
back they found Sergeant Blair awaiting them with
his panting men.
“This is what I want” began Captain Mc-
Nab, when he was checked by Murgatroyd.
“Just a moment, Captain McNab—-please allow
me to make a suggestion.”
“Well, sir?” demanded McNab a little impatiently.
“What is it, then?”
“Here it is, sir. Suppose that we send Sergeant
Blair with his main body so spread out as to cover
three sides of the position whilst you and I remain
here with half a dozen men. When all is ready I’ll
ride out from the trees near the road as if I was just
come back from Sydney. ’Tis myself they’re waiting
for. I’ll attract their attention and no doubt they’ll
try to rush me. When they’re within easy range your
party should open fire and the sergeant can close in on
their rear.”
McNab listened with interesf, but it was clear he
had a distaste for such a plan. It was a bold one —
but to the straightforward Scot there was something
a little treacherous about it. Murgatroyd divined the
nature of his doubts, but urged his point.
“They won’t surrender if We summon them to do
so, and it won’t be hard for them to break our line
and escape into the forest. Be
pleased to remember we can’t
pursue them.”
Captain McNab considered for
a little while and then made a re-
signed sign of assent.
“Yes, I believe ye’re right.
Captain Murgatroyd though I
hate such bloodshed. However, ,
let’s busy ourselves. Blair, take all
but six men and spread yourselves
round amongst the trees as close to
the clearing as ye can get without
being seen. When my party opens
fire close in. Try to block any
escapes and drive them into the
firelight. Get into position now. I
will give ye half an hour.”
They moved back together to
the waiting soldiers, to whom their
commanding officer sketched the
plan of operations they were about
to put into force. He made sure
that they wejre all familiar with the
routine he proposed to employ, and
ordered them to fix bayonets as
soon as the first shots sounded —
but on no account any earlier lest
the gleam of the naked steel might
show them to the enemies.
It was a long half-hour for the little party waiting
amidst the trees not far from where the road from
Parramatta sorted Captain Murgatroyd’s estate. The
minutes went slowly, but at last McNab snapped his
watch-case and waved his hand to Murgatroyd, who
sat on his horse close beside the crouching men, a
pistol in his right hand and a look of eager expectancy
in his face. It struck McNab that however profane
and ungodly he might be Murgatroyd wasn’t a coward.
“Good luck to ye, Murgatroyd,” he whispered,
“Go ahead —we are all ready.”
THE glowing furnace in the fire-gutted house had
burned low by this time, but its embers still gave
out a fair amount of light. And overhead, in a cloud-
less sky, the moon was full, so that the clearing was as
well lit up, almost, as if it had been noon.
Out of the forest rode Captain Murgatroyd, sitting
stiffly upright in the saddle. At once the knot of
(Continued on page 65.)


The Ideal form of
ROOFING.
V
tl
tt
s
U^l
33*
I
LYSHCHTS
GALVANIZED
WON
QQ
• Steel-strong,
longer lasting!
9 Essential for water
ponservation! _
_ _
• Fife proof, per-
manent!
@ Goes up faster
cuts costs!
• Because of its low first cost and the
speed with which it can be erected*
Lysaght's RED ORB Galvanised Iron
is the ideal form of roofing. Essential
for water conservation, 100% fire proof
and possessing great tensile strength
it also makes a stronger, safer and
more permanent roof. More than
100.000 tons specified in building con-
tracts annually . . .
L141a—5049
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply lid.
R 8 Me
I often wonder what the Vintners bug
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
Omar Khayyam.
TH46
“Wines, that heaven knows
when
Had sucked the (ire
of some forgotten sun,
And kept it through a
hundred years of gloom”
TENNYSON.
It takes a poet to clothe plain facts
in beautiful words, and
expressed no more than truth. All
the goodness of sun-ripened grapes
is preserved in the Wines of Tin-
tara. From century old vineyards
in sundrenched valleys come Tintara
Gold Label Port, Gold Label Mus-
catel, Amontillado Sherry, the
Tintara Sparkling Wines—Cham-
pagne, Hock, Moselle and Burgundy
—and Tintara Old Brandy.
Hinge hither and thither once again, she takes com-
mand. “Come on, now, you get into that cart and
drive me home. And don’t let me see you hanging
around the Croquet Club ever again.”
“Mother!”
It is too late for protest, Mrs. Bastion is already
seated in the back of the dray, swinging her legs over
the end. And Hinge, erect, trembling and snorting, is
gathering up the reins. And the old red mare has
lifted her held and is silently swearing at Lady
Beeton. The ladies are beginning to titter. -
Miss Bastion runs at her mother and seizes her
by the legs. The ladies jostle and flutter. “Dora, let
go of me, you numbskull!”
Ha, they struggle and fight, do they? Then
“Hup! ” And “Hup! Hup! Hup! ”
And the cart lurches over the grass and swiftly
rattles away down the road with Mrs, Bastion com-
fortable at the rear, playfully shaking her fist at her
daughter. Away, away! Back to the cows and the
morepork. Back to the lean brown dog. Back to the
mighty bull. Away, away, away!
“Whoa! ” says Mrs. Bastion. “My corner, Hinge.
Whoa!”
“Hup!” says Mr. Hinge.
“Whoa!”
“Hup!”
“Look! ” cries Mrs. Mclntosh.
“Good heavens, she’s struggling with him. Oh,
Lady Beeton, look!” Mrs. Horton will probably burst
with excitement.
“Mother is punching him! He won’t stop. Oh,
goodness, I knew something terrible would happen.
They’re away past the corner. He’s kidnapped her.
Oh! Oh!”
While the ladies gape, Miss Bastion begins to run
futilely after the dray. Then she stops.
Far down the road all the
ladies see a small, sturdy figure,
who does not, after all, actually
appear to be grappled by - Mr.
Hinge, give her charioteer a final
punch on his broad back, then
scramble on the floor of the dray,
drop from the rear and run a few
very rapid paces after it on her
short legs. And while she stumbles,
and recovers, and begins to. run for
her life back to the corner of her street, Mr. Hinge,
without a backward glance, disappears in his dray
round a bend.
And, as it happens, out of Mrs. Bastion’s life. For
even if, as she somewhat cryptically puts it, “the poor
man only forgot himself,” Mrs. Bastion will be well
content with the company of Rumbold in future; as
will Mr. Hinge with his cows.
drinkers gathered round the barrel perceived him, and
for a few moments there was silence, whilst the bush-
rangers failed to grasp who the daring horseman was.
Then one of them yelled “Tis that Charley the
Devil! After him, lads! Catch him alive.”
There was a medley of yells, shouts and oaths,
and two or three shots were fired. Murgatroyd reined
in his horse and sat erect and motionless in the saddle
as though he waited a welcome from the men who
had begun to stumble towards him. Almost simul-
taneously they were in motion, some scrambling and
lurching forward and some advancing drunkenly over
the ploughed ground of the cultivated clearing. One
or two fell down and were too drunk to get up again.
Slowly, as-the leaders of the mob came closer.
Captain Murgatroyd raised his right arm until his
pistol was levelled at them. A man dropped to one
knee and fired at him. He never moved, but sat there
like an equestrian statue in the moonlight waiting his
time. Captain McNab, in the shadows, muttered his
admiration:
“Gad! He’s a cool customer.”
The running men were within a few yards of him
when his pistol crashed, and with the spit of flame
from its barrel he spurred his horse round and rode
slowly towards where the soldiers lay under cover, but
out of their line of fire. One of the convicts had
dropped to his hands and knees and a torrent of blood
poured from his mouth ere he collapsed, struggling
spasmodically, on the soft soil of the ploughed field.
The remainder checked for a moment and then —with
hoarse cries and hideous, obscene threats —came on
again.
Blindly they rushed on in a bunch —perhaps too
drunken to reason about it —utterly unsuspicious of the
trap prepared for them. Closer and closer they came
to where the kneeling soldiers, with levelled musket
barrels, awaited McNab’s command. He held their
fire until there was no chance to miss.
“Fire!”
A SHEET of flame leapt from the scrub at the edge
of the field—and the mob recoiled in terror. Five
of them lay quite still or struggled on the ground. The
remainder turned to run.
“Fix bayonet's!” yelled McNab.
From the trees all about the burning house red-
jacketed soldiers came running—shooting and stab-
bing. Many more of the convicts went down. They
huddled together in a frightened mob. Only one man
—their big, black-bearded leader —broke through the
ring of bayonets., and, running magnificently, with a
dozen soldiers shooting at him, gained the shelter of
the timber. The rest howled and screamed for mercy
as they saw the inexorable ring of steel tightening
about them. Some threw themselves on their knees
and shrieked to Murgatroyd to spare them—-crying
out that they had been forced into mutiny.
At length, cornered and cowed, they allowed the
soldiers to urge them towards the light of the burning
house. Some of them wept and others cursed des-
pondently. They knew, many of them, that they were
as good as dead already. The battle of Murgatroyd
Hall was finished.
Eight or ten of the convicts had been killed out-
right and ten lay wounded in the flickering light from
the burning house. The dour Scots soldiers, infuri-
ated by the savage vandalism that had destroyed one
of the colony’s show places, had struck hard and
spared not. More than one of their victims had been
caught with the bayonet.
McNab’s hard face wore a grim smile as he sur-
veyed the battlefield.
“This will teach yon wastrels to take the name of
the Lord in vain,” he murmured half to himself.
But Murgatroyd was silent, Murga, that proud
house, was only a skeleton, smoke-blackened stone
walls and heaps of ashes.
The Willows.
QUEENSLAND.
Dawn, and the stars yet there.
Like revellers overstayed,
And I watch the shadowy twilight
Vaguely the dark invade ;
I see slowly emerging
The river willow-lined,
And a strange winter daybreak
Looms the hills behind.
The kingfisher head-heavy
His first patrol has tried
Along the falling willows
That love the river-side.
You poets, city-weary,
I’ll tell you a lovely thing :
Shadows of trees on water
At the day’s first wakening.
The misty breath of morning
Like a cool hand on the brow ;
The sky begins to opal.
The day is here now.
Poets, I know a poem
Shall not be ever old:
Willows along a water,
And their green hair going gold.
JAMES DEVANEY.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Army Equipment
Today, setting off for a weekend trip
with a pack weighing 181 b., although it
includes tent, groundsheet, bedding, cook-
ing and eating gear and food for six or
seven meals, I thought of the heavy loads
we used to carry in the Army. Bush-
walkers design their gear to be as light
as possible, not by leaving out a few big
and weighty things, but by scrupulous
attention to detail. The Army could do
the same.
The pack could be replaced by one
made like a rucksack, with an alloy-tube
frame to keep it clear of the wearer’s
back. Webbing shoulder-straps, which
get hard and chafe when wet, should be
swapped for greenhide, which always re-
mains soft. Heavy brass buckles should
be changed for a lightweight alloy, and
water-bottles and mess-kit for aluminium.
Lightness does not mean loss of efficiency
or lasting qualities. When I was lent
>to the U.S. Army it issued to me a
water-bottle, mug, dixie and knife, fork
and spoon—all aluminium and all
feather-light. I carried that outfit through
the rest of the war, and I’m still using
it when I go bushwalking today.
Experiments in the U.S.A. with army
boots confirmed what mountain-climbers
already knew—that to take a single pound
off the weight of a man’s boots is equal
to taking 51b, to 61b. off his pack. If
our men ever go on active service again
they should have boots with uppers of
kangaroo hide, and rubber soles with the
boofnerang-pattern tread. A pair of such
boots weighs only a trifle more than a
single army boot and the sole won’t slip
on any surface save greasy tropical moss
—where nothing grips, even football
sprigs.
Our rifle has changed little since the
Boer War and weighs about 91b. The
American’s carbine weighs little more
than 51b., and its ammunition is half the
weight of our .303 in. stuff.
Our useless, cumbersome greatcoat
could be replaced by a waterproof with
a detachable woollen lining.
It is possible to turn out a soldier’s kit
so light that an infantryman in full!
marching order would carry no more
than 301 b., yet be fully armed and
accoutred.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
The Better Australia
“Jindivick’s” indictment of trade-union
and Communist economics (B. 6/11/ ’46)
has only one weakness —it doesn’t explain
how the worker is to be better educated.
Elementary economics is not a subject
which schoolboys can understand, and
most popular writings on it are affected
by the political beliefs of the writer —
Professor G, D. H. Cole, for instance,
can’t forget that he regards socialism
as the remedy for all our economic
troubles.
What is required now is the prepara-
tion of a course in fundamental principles
and terms; an explanation that wealth is
the possession of something which has
barter or exchange value, whether it be
a house to let, a vase for sale, or a voice
to listen to ; that production is the source
of all wealth ; that wages and profits are
the rewards for productivity; that prices
are the manner in which wealth is
rationed to those who by their produc-
tivity can afford to buy ; and that money
is only an aid to the easy exchange of
wanted goods. Having learned the funda-
mentals, the students should then be free
to accept or reject the economic ideas and
plans of the day. That is the stage at
which “the inherent commonsense of the
masses” must assert itself.
The course in fundamentals having
been prepared, its dissemination is the
next problem. The press is a possible
medium, but most teachers now agree that
discussion groups are a better method of
instruction than the cold, printed word.
In any case it is doubtful whether the
average worker would voluntarily give
up his study of “form” in order to settle
down to thoughtful reading of a series of
articles on economics. Some measure of,
compulsion would be necessary, just as
it is to get children to school.
Perhaps educating people to work for
peace and prosperity can best be linked
with their preparation against war. If
coihpulsory military training were in-
stituted it could include education on
economics, politics and ethics, current
affairs and civics generally. One year of
such training would give the young Aus-
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
tralian a 1 start in life as beneficial to him-
self as it would be to his country.
Here is a great opportunity for the
R.S.L. to do in peace what its members
have done in war. Diggers would surely
respond eagerly if the League were to
prepare and sponsor a course on “the
better Australia.” It should not be run
exclusively for R.S.L. members, but
should be open to the general public, with
a special effort made to gain the active
interest of workers generally. The R.S.L.
has the funds, the influence and the
meeting-places—three important factors
in the efficient consummation of the idea.
And because it is 'non-political it is the
ideal organisation to prepare a course of
study which would be free from political
doctrines and ideologies.— Peter Mike
(W.A.).
“Australian” Territory
Recently recorded experiences of a
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” staff writer
should put the final kibosh on exploded
ideas about Papua of today being Aus-
tralian territory. On application to the
Commonwealth Migration Office in Bris-
bane for a permit to visit Papua the
“C.-M.” man was referred to the External
Territories Department in Canberra as the
only authority in the matter. A letter ex-
plaining reasons for the desired visit
elicited instructions to apply again to the
Brisbane Migration Office. There he was
“Naughty boy , spoiling your lovely din-din !”
told that it could not issue a permit
until he produced a clearance from the
Taxation Department.
Because of his absence on war service,
the reporter found that the Taxation
Department had not made out any assess-
ments for him for the previous three
years. He finally managed to get that
job done and paid for. After taking his
money the taxation people wanted further
details of bank balances, war-savings cer-
tificates, war loans, personal effects and
dejbts for himself, his wife and their chil-
dren before a clearance would be granted.
At weary last the clearance was obtained
and a permit received to depart.
When the plane landed at Cairns, Cus-
toms officers examined the permit and in-
quired about the reporter’s ration book.
Between Cairns and Port Moresby more
forms were handed out on the plane for
descriptions of all luggage, declaration of
any alcoholic liquors carried and lists of
all dutiable articles. After these and
various other documents had been offi-
cially checked at Port Moresby landing
ground the allegedly free Australian citi-
zen was let loose in an allegedly Aus-
tralian territory for whose support and
development he is taxed, in common with
the rest of us. — Colbun (Q.).
Thursday Island
I first saw the place shortly after the
troops moved in. We were billeted in
the houses which civilians had left, and,
beyond burning down a few verminous
“Chinatown” shacks, there was no de-
struction, except that the Bishop’s shell
collection was looted by a few louts who
smashed everything too big to post home.
The rot had started by the time I paid
a second visit, and when I saw the place
for the last time the destruction was
appalling. It was not the work of the
Torres Straits Native Infantry, but was
done wholly and solely by white Aus-
tralians. A thoughtful U.S. Naval officer
gave me what seems to be the most plaus-
ible explanation. “I work in one of our
big jails in peace-time,” he told me, “and
we get this sort of thing among our long-
term prisoners. We call it ‘smashing
up.’ They wreck everything in their cells
—even their wife’s photo, or those of
their children —and no punishment will
deter them.”
That was what Thursday Island was to
many of our men who were put there and
then forgotten—a jail. Doing voluntary
work at the 105 A.G.H. (S.A.) after my
discharge from the Army I struck one
of the deplorable results—a fine chap
whom I had known on T.I. Today he is
a borderline mental case, the result of
17 months there without leave.
One of my self-imposed tasks in the
Army was to suggest schemes for reliev-
ing the boredom of men who had been
dumped in places like T. 1., and many of
my ideas were adopted, but at T.I. I
drew a complete blank. I suggested that
one of the pearling luggers, peacefully
rotting at their moorings, could sail
across to Badu or some other place where
fruit was rotting on the ground and bring
back bananas or pawpaws for the troops,
Tfie idea was turned down. I had no
better luck when I suggested that bodies
of men be taken across to Cape York
for a week or so as hunting parties to
clean up some of the crocodiles which
used to destroy hundreds of cattle every
year.
The troops on T.I. cannot be blapied
for the wholesale thieving. It was not in
their power to ship away furniture, refrig-
erators, pictures and other valuables;
they couldn’t have pulled the necessary
strings. It is probably too late now, but
a year ago it would have been possible to
obtain the home address of every person
who had fallen under rea-
sonable suspicion and to
make a house-to-house
search on the main-
land.
The least that can be
done for the people of
T.I. is to meet their claims
in full and to do it now.
But in future we should
see that men are never left
at places like Point Misery,
near Derby (W.A.), T.I.
or any of the small and
isolated islands for more
than two or three months
without being relieved. —
L. A. H. (S.A.).
School Leaving Age
Would it not be better
to set an educational
standard instead of an age
limit to our compulsory
education? I found at
school that some of my
classmen refused to study
further when they knew
their time was nearly up.
Instead, they “mucked up”
and infected other pupils
with their don’t-care-a-
hoot attitude.
If those precocious types had found it
necessary to reach a certain standard be-
fore leaving school, they would have
worked harder, and others would not have
been induced to loaf.
It may sound silly, but there is little
difference between requiring a isan to be
a B.A. before he dies, and declaring that
he is. schooled at 15. — Teret (N.S.W.).
Farm Workers
“W.P.T.” (B. 30/10/’46) is a little out
of date. What with thumping income
tax and the like, farmers nowadays pay their
children award rates or arrange .a family
partnership to avoid crippling taxation.
Farmers are short-handed because they
can’t observe any 40-hour week or permit
a ban on overtime, and because no sen-
sible individual will take up seasonal
work when good jobs are to be picked
up in the city.— West Riding (Vic.).
Cancer
The second annual report of the
Queensland Radium Institute tells a grim
story. Deaths from the disease for the
year numbered 1094 —half as many again
as were caused in the same year by tuber-
culosis, diabetes, appendicitis, cirrhosis of
the liver, alcoholism and motor-car acci-
dents combined. There were 1876 new
patients under treatment for the first
time, as well as 3140 others who had
previously undergone treatment.
The most prevalent types affected the
skin, lips, mouth, tongue and larynx. Of
new cases men outnumbered women in
the proportion of 1178 to 698, the excess
being ascribed to the effect of skin irri-
tation, mainly by sunlight or heat, in
causing skin cancer. Fifty-one persons
died from skin cancers during the year,
although modern treatment undertaken
in the early stage effects nearly 100 p.c. of
cures, except in the melanotic type origi-
nating in certain kinds of pigmented moles.
Centralised treatment is regarded by
the institute as most desirable wherever
possible, as the necessary equipment is of
a heavy and complicated nature. The
main Queensland centre is at the Bris-
bane General Hospital. The institute’s
radiotherapists and physicists, however,
visit sub-branches at Mackay, Rockhamp-
ton, Townsville and Cairns at regular
intervals. •
A disturbing feature of the incidence
amongst Queenslanders is the fact that
one person in every four may expect to
suffer from skin cancer at some time
during adult life. There is no reason to
believe that this rate differs from that in
other parts of tropical and sub-tropical
Australia where similar climatic condi-
tions prevail. It suggests, however, an
urgent need for careful and systematic
medical supervision of the settlements for
ex-servicemen now proposed for North
Queensland and the N.T. Many of those
men will have already undergone heavy
sun exposure during their tropical ser-
vice.—Puyyaka (Q.).
The Press
Recent Sundays at the local beach
were notable for the army of policemen
patrolling the promenade in pairs and the
fleet of police vans, wireless cars and
cycle outfits cruising around. The men
in blue were —quite rightly—out to crush
beach hooliganism.
The trouble is that the hooligans are
hard to find. The first “raid” produced
only two arrests, a small return for the
number of police on the job. The fact is
that, apart from the few “lairs” that have
always haunted the beach, the hooligans
sprang into being from the imaginative
pens of sensation-hungry daily pressmen.
These “journalists” whipped up the
“French” swimsuit idea in the first place,
giving picture space and publicity to
hussies who were almost dared to wear
the scanty things in public. Then they
completed the job b\ turning a few beach
evictions and resultant crowds into stories
of mob violence and beach inspectors
fighting off the rioters.
Perhaps we are reconciled to being
fooled by the press, but it’s past a joke
when our overworked police are taken in,
—Bondi Beachcomber (N.S.W.).
The published photograph of a 14-
year-old boy trying to hide his face from
press photographers outside a children’s
court in Sydney brings to a head the
question of this form of pictorial
“journalism.”
If a person is deemed to be innocent
unless and until proven guilty it follows
that pending determination of his case
he should not be called on to suffer the
consequences of guilt. Probably the
worst such consequence is the disgrace
which must weigh heavily upon any nor-
mal person who has run foul of the law,
■ and to inflict it unnecessarily upon an
accused person is virtually to anticipate
part of the punishment with which he is
faced. Even subsequent acquittal will do
little to overcome the handicap of being
readily recognisable as “the chap who
got out of that charge.”
There would be no infringement in the
proper freedom of the press in vesting in
any living person full copyright in his own
photographic likeness —I. M. (N.S.W.). '
Fodder Conservation
Once more the fear of impending
drought has been dispelled, and once
more our farmers, with wonderful opti-
mism, will go on as before, hoping that
adverse conditions will not recur. Yet
without any shadow of doubt the dry
spells will come again and again, as they
have done right through the ages.
No business organisation could expect
to survive without having a reserve fund
for unexpected contingencies, yet in Aus-
tralia the industries of wool-grow-
ing, cattle-raising, dairying and poultry-
farming—all,of them subject to the de-
vastation of droughts—make little or no
provision to cope with bad times.
Farmers appear to be hardened to lean
periods, or perhaps they can satisfy them-
selves with bumper returns in the good
seasons, but the nation has to suffer the
consequences.
The whole matter requires organisa-
tion on a very large scale. Spasmodic
attempts made by a few individuals
to store a meagre supply of fodder
are not enough. A system must
be instituted to counsel every landowner
to hold reserve supplies of feed. Records
of rainfall and details regarding the
number of stock and carrying capacity
of land under normal conditions should
be carefully analysed. On these figures
it should be possible to ensure that at least
a year’s supply of fodder is harvested and
stored to maintain stock during drought
conditions.
Although fodder conservation is a
matter for Government direction and offi-
cial supervision, the onus would be on
the landowners to give effect to any
scheme devised. If acreage is too great
for adequate control, the obvious remedy
is to subdivide the holdings. No man
should be allowed to carry more stock
than he can feed, and continue to feed
when drought conditions prevail. Over-
stocking when feed is plentiful is simply
gambling on the weather conditions. —
C. E. T. (N.S.W.).


“The World Within Us ’
A great deal of nonsense has been
written about the 800,000 citizens who
voted informally at the Referendum poll
but the gingerbread cap and bells mus
go to “B.Ec.” (B. 6/11/ ’46) for his thesis
that the teaching of Latin, in schools
contributed to the fiasco. It is, of course
impossible ,to classify the delinquent
voters, but if it could be shown that even
one-eighth of one per cent, of them had
so much as a nodding acquaintance with
the Latin tongue I would cheerfully eat a
bundle of Latin grammars.
“The time spent on Latin in schools
could profitably be halved,” says “B.Ec.”
What would it profit? Another subject
might be taught in the periods taken from
Latin, but it is certain that Latin couldn’t
be taught successfully in the time re-
maining. There are arguments for cut-
ting Latin out of the curriculum entirely,
but there can be none for halving the
time allotted to it.
Apparently “B.Ec.” is under the impres-
sion that Latin is taught to all pupils in
all N. S. Wales schools. In fact, it is
taught only in certain secondary schools
to certain pupils —those thought likely to
pursue an academic career. These are not
at all likely to be involuntary “informal”
voters when they reach maturity.
“B.Ec.” believes that “Latin has re-
tained its hold partly by the intransigent
attitude of the University authorities.”
Apart from the fact that “intransigent” is
an odd adjective to apply to a University
Senate’s determination to retain control
over the academic standards of the
schools it governs, the statement is non-
sense. The University of Sydney does not
“require” Latin as a general matricula-
tion subject, even in Arts.
“The snobbish attitude toward the more
utilitarian aspects of education” that
“B.Ec,” condemns is worthy of con-
demnation —if it can be found. If Jones
wants his son to learn Latin simply be-
cause Brown’s boy is learning it, then I
agree that Jones is a snob. But if Jones
is one of that diminishing band who be-
lieve that a liberal education is worth
more than a preliminary smattering in
several sciences or alleged “sciences,”
and that a knowledge of at least one of
the classical languages is an aid to getting
such an education, he is no snob but a
bulwark of true culture in an age of
crass materialism.
The trick of marking a ballot-paper
formally can be taught in a matter of
minutes to any literate person with the
native ability to grasp the significance of
numerical order. Many of our fellow-
citizens do not have that ability. Many
more lack the ability to think clearly
about problems of human behavior and
government, and will always follow a
leader. As we cannot inject intelligence
into the mass it should be our concern
to ensure that the potential leaders of the
Commonwealth shall at least have an
opportunity to absorb the lessons that
can be learned from a study of the
thoughts and actions of the truly great.
I don’t suggest that a knowledge of
Latin or Greek is necessary for the train-
ing or selection of adequate leaders. But
modern education does stress the world
around and neglects the world within us.
We are concerned too much with skills
and too little with ideals. — Ichabod
Crane (N.S.W.).
Ceramics
There is a boom in ceramics in Mel-
bourne, and even schools are being pro-
vided with elaborate apparatus for mak-
ing pots and kilns for firing them. It
would be an excellent movement if the
people who are so enthusiastic about it
hadfi’t started at the wrong end.
Artistry is the real quality of modelling,
and if children are taught the technique
of firing and the like before they have
anything to express all the teachers will
do is to destroy their interest. The chil-
dren should first be taught to draw, to
feel and observe. After that they may
be able to model a pot with some quality
in it.
The best examples in the ceramics sec-
tion of the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne are the earliest. Then the tech-
nique was at its crudest. Later pots and
jars were brought to a perfect finish, but
they are comparatively lifeless, except
where the hand of some genius has done
them.—F. S. (Vic.).
Living Standards
Is there no one to whom workers will
give a considered hearing who will
point out to them that higher wages,
except in return for greater output, can-
not possibly bring them lasting benefits?
Most people sympathise with the efforts
of those who try to improve their lot by
honest means, but the honesty of labor’s
demands for ever-increasing wages with-
out correspondingly-increased output is
open to question. They are essentially
demands for a larger share in the exist-
ing pool of commodities, to comply with
which the shares of other less-fortunate
or articulate individuals must of necessity
be reduced.
Pensioners, annuitants and those who
depend on incomes from interest and
rents will be unjustly penalised by the
higher prices of commodities resulting
from increased wages granted to favored
sections. The purchasing power of sav-
ings and life-assurance benefits will also
be reduced, and many thousands of
workers who have pinched and scraped
to provide for their old age will finally
see the results of their ill-advised assaults
on economic laws.
Hardships suffered by workers are due
not to shortage of money but to scarcity
of the goods for which they exchange
their wages. Only by increased produc-
tion of commodities can the position be
eased, not by increasing the supply and
circulation of money. Those old enough
to remember can testify that, in the old
days, lower wages bought much more
than today’s inflated pay envelopes.
Practically all peace-time commodities
are in short supply throughout the world
today. This means intense competition
by all peoples for a share in the com-
paratively few goods available. Those
who can afford to do so raise their bids
against others less fortunate, thus forc-
ing up prices. Raising the wages of a
few sections of the community will merely
stimulate the competition among bidders
and force prices higher still.
The one sure way to bring increased
prosperity to all is to increase the pool
of commodities for which wages may be
exchanged. The simplest way of doing
this is for the workers themselves to in-
crease their output against present wages
“I worked in this yur mine before she Were mechanised."
to the pqint where commodities will be
so plentiful that prices must be reduced
to encourage people to buy and use more
of them. . .
When man depended for his liveli-
hood on his speed and skill as a hunter
he needed no reminding that his best
efforts were needed to keep his stomach
happy. At a later stage, when he de-
pended on domesticated herds of sheep
or goats or cattle to supply his family
with food an<i clothes, he knew that
shortage of supplies would inevitably fol-
low if he neglected to protect his flocks
from wolves and thieves. Those relying
on agriculture for their needs knew that
only by hard and constant work could
they hope to make a living for themselves
and their dependants. In each case en-
joyment of the necessities of life was
directly related to the effort and skill
given to their production. The same con-
dition applies today, and no monetary
system can change it.
The real problem today seems to be
to sell this idea to the workers concerned.
—F. G. H. (Vic.).
Peace and “Planning”
A contrast is drawn in a recent press
item between Argentina’s generosity to
Spain and harshness to Britain in trade
pacts witli those countries. Franco, it is
reported, will be relieved of “nearly all
his present economic anxieties” with a
large credit, while Britain has to pay
higher prices for Argentine meat.
Such discrimination is only to be ex-
pected when commercial relations are
handled by Governments rather than
private concerns. International trade,
once regulated mainly by considerations
such as profit and risk, is now increas-
ingly an affair of politics and ideologies.
It is often said capitalism leads to war.
If capitalism means unrestricted private
enterprise, the charge is ludicrous. Since
wars are made by Governments, then
obviously economic rivalry cannot cause
wars unless Governments themselves as-
sume an interest in the course of trade.
And this is precisely what they are all
doing, more and more, cheered on by
Leftist gentry who profess to believe that
“planning” and other forms of socialist
policy will preserve peace.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of
socialism, it is clear that this particular
belief is false. Under socialism, Govern-
ments instead of individuals will deal with
each other in all trade matters and the
occasions for international friction will
be infinitely multiplied.— Arc (N.S.W.).
Rome and the Present
While excessive taxation contributed
largely to Rome’s decline (B. 23/10/’46),
there was another important factor —mis?
use of the land after Rome became a
powerful State. The peasant farmers of
the early Republic practised sound hus-
bandry. They even knew what modern
farmers.havg learned only within recent
years—that in ploughing hilly land one
should follow the contour and not go
straight over the hill."
When Rome conquered an extensive
empire, Romans with “influence” grabbed
huge estates in North Africa, Spain, and
elsewhere. These latifundia, as they were
called, were worked by slave labor and
were devoted mainly to wheat production
for export. T ht agricultural methods fol-
lowed were not calculated to keep the
land in good heart and North Africa was
a particular sufferer. When Roman con-
trol ended there the desert had advanced
considerably.
Unfortunately the cheaply - produced
output of the latifundia worked havoc
among the Roman peasantry. They were
forced to exploit their land, then drifted
increasingly to Rome to join the dole-
fed proletariat. Italy, too, became pre-
dominately a country of slave-worked
latifundia.
The modern world is showing a tend-
ency to fpllow Rome, and Australia is a
notorious offender. Machinery takes the
place of the slave on the latifundia of
today, but with the same disregard for
soun.d farming practice.
Another characteristic our 20th-century
world shares with the Roman is that of
vast city populations completely divorced
from the land. There is also a steady
movement of countryfolk to metropolitan
areas, and the proportion of the com-
munity employed in non-productive enter-
prises rises steadily—another phenomenon
Rome also experienced.— Clio (N.S.W.).
A Fair Day’s Work
Most of Australia’s troubles today can
be attributed, to the fact that few men
seem to be willing to do a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay.
On the waterfront you have the spec-
tacle of men filling in time —and
drawing big wages for doing so. In
the building trade you can see brick-
layers laying fewer than half the
number of bricks they used, to lay be-
fore the war and carpenters taking twice
as long to do simple little jobs. On trams
the conductors move about in a lazy
manner, missing a percentage of fares.
Shop assistants seem to spend half their
time gossiping while customers wait to
be served. Finally, politicians seem to
set everyone a fine example by working
precious little at the job for which the
people elect them.
And despite it all the country is echo-
ing with a concerted yell for a 40-hour
week— Eureka (N.S.W.).
The N.S.W.. Liquor Referendum
It is interesting to note the “tickets”
already being run for the forthcoming
referendum on hotel trading hours. The
ballot-paper gives three options—6 p.m.,
9 p.m, or 10 p.m.—for “closing time,”
and the referees are required to give
numerical preferences for all three.
The Trade is going all out for 10 o’clock
closing, and already large and expensive
newspaper advertisements are pleading
for a three-two-one vote, while the radio
blares the three-two-one slogan from
dewy-morn to whisky-eve. Other, and
much smaller, advertisement* pleading for
a cash donation to help further advertis-
ing advise a one-two-three vote.
Apart from the fact that it is mani-
festly unfair to give two options for ex-
tension of hours, and none for their
reduction, there appears to be no point in
asking (sorry, compelling) people to ypte
for trading hours that no one seems to
want. The only result will be to com-
plicate the ballot and make informal
votes more numerous. But, perhaps, that
is the point.—C. G. Salis (N.S.W.).
“Pshaw” ancf Shaw
“Pshaw” avers (B. 23/10/’46) that Shaw
was maundering when he said that, be-
cause the Nazi leaders stripped of their
uniforms were commonplace mortals,
they should have been set free and
punished only with silent contempt.
Then “Pshaw” says: “The true lesson
[of the Nuremberg trials] is that never
again should any man, good or bad, hand-
some or ugly, be given unlimited power
over his fellow men of any race, religion
or political color.” These two statements
don’t fit together.
If Goring and company had been given
a small pension, deprived of citizen
rights apd let go, nobody would have
taken the slightest notice of them. In-
stead the Nuremberg trials made martyrs
of them.
Faiths have always been built on the
blood of martyrs, and 10 or 20 years
hence these commonplace men will be re-
garded as having been done to death by
a lot of scoundrels.
The Germans will no doubt come to
the conclusion that they are a noble race
predestined to persecution, and will build
up a legend about themselves in which
these commonplace men will appear as
saints. They will be given the very thing
“Pshaw” wants to prevent them having
—unlimited power over their fellow-
Germans. — Pawang (Vic.). ,
Housing
Having the opportunity of buying a
new house I saw War Service Homes
people in Sydney about financial assist-
ance. Among other things I was'told
that the minimum dimensions for a build-
ing block were 40ft. by 120 ft, The
house I wanted stood on land 48ft. by 92ft.
When I explained this, pointing out that
the Valuer-General’s valuation was £300,1
was told that I could make an application
but it would have to be submitted to Can-
berra for special approval. On hearing
that that would take about two months
I departed. It seemed amazing that there
was no competent authority in a capital
city who could give a decision on a case
such as mine. And it’s not hard to im-
agine the confusion that must prevail at
H.Q. if all applications for special cases
are sent there.
I tried various building societies, an
insurance society, the Rural Bank and
the Commonwealth Bank, to discover
which would finance the purchase of the
house under terms that suited me. All
these organisations assured me I would
have no difficulty in obtaining a loan. I
eventually got it through a trading bank.
— Tidak Makan (N.S.W.).
“Absurd”
If, as a primary producer, I were sure
of working very limited hours and mak-
ing about £l9 a fortnight irrespective of
the state of the market, I would reckon
I was home on the pig’s back.
Were I a suburban storekeeper with
the same conditions, able to dictate to
my customers instead of having to run
at their beck and call, I’d pinch myself to
make sure I was awake.
There are a dozen other callings which
come under the same heading. They
would be dreams come true. The only
trouble about the thing would be that,
once the rest of the world knew what a
good wicket we were on, competition
would come in and cruel the pitch.
Say competition was not allowed. That
would be too good to be true. My only
regrets, until X became case-hardened,
would be of sorrow for the poor cows
who weren’t allowed in on the ramp.
There is a wealth of coal in this
country and there are thousands capable
and willing to work it. Those who do
have the monopoly to work it have the
conditions which I drew up as a fantastic
dream.
The thing is absurd. —Crook (Q.).


. : rr
.HP
~ ! oT
.
; :
;.:>. , . ..
u
i
■
a®
Notable M
7pT3l
thTnation
industries <
The “MARS”
RADIAL DRILL
Produced in response to the demand for a
high efficiency Radial Drill for Australian
conditions at a price within the reach of the
average' Engineering: Shop. The “Mars”
Radial Drill has 8 speeds forward and 8
speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm. Weight,
approximately 3 tons.
r The “MARS”
No. 3
Full Universal
Milling Machine
Fully automatic—Rapid Traverse
in Vertical, Horizontal and Cross
Traverse—lB Spindle Speeds—
-16 Feed's—Table 64in. x 13|in.
—Automatic 4-speed Lubrication.
For Forward Delivery.
D
Licensed Manufacturers
in Queensland of
\ "MEEHANITE" Metals
- I!- I- *s-
lr< >~J f f t
'■T'W'
‘ N.
r^s
7i
7 /
<>
■ TL
—y
CT-,
h '
S'
~, -~|7^
qMp^
' x l _•< X
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 a Sydney Road,
Brunswick, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND; Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann Street,
Brisbane.
W.A.; The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland.
CALCUTTA: Ross Neil dc Sons, Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Alii Chambers,
Medows Street, Fort Bombay.
m
vwm
,
7MI
IK
.. ' ' .. * M
ti
: &
▼Jig » 1 '»
SI fill
TlX.Viy.y^,
u_-=
: —r ujl!
VVA- I
l9
5 \4r'://^F^\l
■>T
\ ' h
d'
I'M i v
A
/ ■
tt^n
1/ .>
/ ' 'll 7
in. y\i
s I
VKT
*
5:
I &
V <;
as
/3
E
; j
vs
HK
w
i
I :
:
m
'■A&L*.
m
t
.
- ■ : V_
All “Mars” Machine Tools possess these outstanding
features:—ACCUßACY—Built to recognised and
certified standards of Accuracy. BALANCE—AII
necessary revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced.
FINISH—-All Surfaces are Machine Ground.
MATERIALS—Finest Matur'd High Test Alloy
Castings throughout. SMOOTH RUNNING—AII
Gear Teeth are Generated. VERSATILITY—AII
Lathes have generous Detachable Gap Bridge. t
:
M
m
m I
m
mmt
■ .
Hi
■ ■;;,;
The “MARS” New lOin. Lathe
The “Mars” 10-inch High Speed Engine Lathe is a
masterly example of fine lathe building. Available in
two models, Gap or Straight Bed, the “Mars” 10-inch
Lathe is built specially for accurate and efficient service
and may be used for all Sliding, Surfacing and Screw
Cutting operations.
Sole Queensland Agents for SERVIAN MACHINE TOOLS
J. & O S. Advt.
