

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3452
Wednsday, April 10, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
ADDINGTON PALACE.
pROBABLY from the days of the Norman Conquest the town
of Croydon, ten miles south-east of London, has had a close
association with the archbishops of Canterbury. Here they had
their palace until 1758, and in modern times part of the old build-
ing was used as a girl’s school. In 1808, Archbishop Sutton
purchased Addington Palace, near Croydon, and from then until
1902 this became the official country residence of the archbishops.
The chapel and library of Addington Palace were added in 1830
by Archbishop Howley, who liberally improved the house and
grounds. Unpretentious itself, Addington is commandingly situated
on rising ground, and its Park, which extends over five hundred
acres, is one of the most delightful in all Surrey. In the grave-
yard of the village Church at Addington lies Archbishop Tait
as well as other primates of the Church of England.


fiitti
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, wilhovt obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red Page
IN SEARCH OF CANNIBALS .
The yearning of Osa and Martir
Johnson to take a photograph of a canni-
bal feast imparts an almost religious
fervor to Osa’s Bride in the Solomons
(Harrap ; Moore’s Bookshop). The open-
ing chapter announces:
Everyone knew that there was cannibal-
ism in the Solomons. But no one had any
real proof. Those who had seen a cannibal
feast had nothing but their own words to
prove the story, and most of the witnesses •
never came back. We were determined to
prove cannibalism on film, with still and
motion pictures. We would make pictures
of everything the natives did and, if we
were lucky, pictures of a real cannibal
feast.
“All I want is one good shot of them,”
Martin said over and over again. “Just
one good scene of cannibals actually eat-
ing flesh.”
It proves difficult to fulfil this laud-
able ambition. Aged 17 and wearing a
white cockatoo on each shoulder, Mrs.
Johnson lands on Malaita and “hopes to
find the real thing at any moment, from
this time forward.” The Solomons —
this is long before the war; in fact, some
time before 1927—reward the intrepid
photographers with a plenitude of snakes,
orchids, insects and fish:
A few feet away a green snake was
inching up the trunk of a tree towards a
bird’s nest. And on the leaves of a bush
lizards were catching mosquitoes and moths
on their long tongues. Large caterpillars
and centipedes crawled about the ground.
A horned frog leaped over a tree-root and
a mouse scuttled away. In a giant web a
hornet struggled helplessly as a black spider
darted out to tie him down. 1 became
aware of an enormous forest population of
small creatures, busily at work devouring
each other or trying to keep from being
devoured.
But, even in a scene so active as that,
there were no cannibals —not even small
ones —busily devouring one another.
The present commentator, not having
visited the islands, asked John Brennan,
The Bulletin’s war correspondent,
whether he had ever seen gathered to-
gether at any one time in the Solomons
a snake, lizards, mosquitoes, moths,
caterpillars, centipedes, a horned frog
leaping over a tree-root, a mouse, a
hornet and a spider. Mr. Brennan said
he had not.
All things are possible ; but it seems
likely that Mrs. Johnson’s memories of
the Solothons have been, if not nourished
and invigorated over the years, at least
coalesced. There is, too, in her book
something of that American enthusiasm
for numbers: on page 83, for instance,
she records “The moment we entered the
forest we were surrounded once more
by thousands of birds on the wing.”
“They seemed to have multiplied,” she
adds.
A little further down on the same
page it transpires that the authoress is
surrounded not only by “thousands of
birds” but by “millions of butterflies.”
But not a solitary cannibal —actually
engaged, that is, in the eating of human
flesh. The cameras recorded a gigantic
“fish drive” in which the natives, sound-
ing clappers of shells under the water,
drove their prey into the shallows to be
speared ; and a tribal marriage ceremony
on Leueneua when the witch-doctor,
selecting suitable youths, presented to
them the eligible maidens ; Mrs. John-
son ate a fried grasshopper ; they were
told the story:
Several little boys, just coming of age
and learning to fish, had caught and landed
a grunter fish, which often grunts for hours
after it is taken ashore. One of the boys
was carrying the fish in a net over his
back, and as they frolicked along towards
home the fish began to grunt. The boys
listened and thought the sound came from
the forest. Probably a devil-devil. They
began to run, but the sound of the grunt-
ing continued and grew louder and louder.
The boys were now certain they were being
pursued by a ghost. They detoured
through the woods to lose it. Finally, un-
able to get rid of it and petrified with
fear, they plunged into the sea, which
was then running strong, and were dashed
against the sharp coral rocks.
But still the Johnsons couldn’t find
anybody actually eating anybody. On
page 194 they are “tired and discouraged
and beginning to feel a sense of frustra-
tion.”
This is distressing news; for, if the
story is perhaps a little heightened in
color, there is no reason to doubt its
general accuracy ; and it was a genuine
adventure; and the book, though it
could have done with a preface about the
Solomons today by some more recent
visitor, has all the charm of pre-war
travel literature —pleasantly written and
splendidly illustrated; and Mrs. John-
son is such likeable company that one
wants her to find a cannibal and be
happy.
As, eventually, she does. It is in the
New Hebrides ; deep in the forest: —
Then I saw, hanging from a spit, a
human leg-bone and spleen. That is what
Martin had seen, and, as always, he knew
what he was doing. “I want that',”'' - he
whispered. “They have no guns. You
cover me. I’m going after it.”
He got it.
A New Somerset de Chair.
After The Golden Carpet —Somerset
de Chair’s narrative of warfare in Iraq
which was greeted as a minor Seven
Pillars of Wisdom —the British M.P.’s
new book A Mind on the March (Faber)
seems hardly more than a collection of
mats. The material—a group of his-
torical sketches, some pictures of desert
warfare, and reflections in the Holy Land
—is scrappy and disjointed, and a touch
of self-consciousness mars the prose.
When, coming to a military hospital in
England with a wounded ankle, the
author writes, “I had arrived, thus, foot-
sore from much wandering, to a place of
great kindness and consideration,” the
style is obviously affected ; echoing either
the Bible or Doughty.
However, A Mind on the March is
far from being an uninteresting book.
There is a curious short story imagining
what would have happened if Napoleon
had escaped from St. Helena and had
lived in retirement in England. Also, a
glimpse of Kipling, who told the author
in a letter that his novel Enter Napoleon
was “pretty bad” and advised him to cut
and condense his work ; a pen-picture of
Cromwell; a dramatisation of the Cruci-
fixion as witnessed by an ordinary Roman
soldier ; and an account of a Christian
Arab child, Helena of Abu Snan, who,
protected by the Russian Orthodox
Church in Gethsemane, is reported to
have performed “miracles” of the faith-
healing variety. The Abbess of that
church, incidentally, is—“by a curious
chain of circumstances” —a Scotswoman,
born in Glasgow, by the name of Mary
Robinson.
Two Historical Novels.
Both Red O’Shaughnessy (Currawong)
and Wild Cat Branning (Harrap) are red-
blooded novels, with no lack of deeds
of derring-do. Their authors, J. H. M.
Abbott and Robert Sturgis, have this in
common, too, that they both have an
eye for the past; Abbott describing (with
remarkable clearness) the New South
Wales of Macquarie’s day, and Sturgis
attempting a more limited historical
sketch of the Oklahoma oilfields of 1906
and onwards.
Mr. Abbott’s hero is a redheadqfl
young Irishman, with a deplorable dialect,
who comes out as a convict and eventu-
ally wins his freedom and a wife.
Although a marriage is not specifically
mentioned, nothing less is clearly indi-
cated in the concluding chapter, when
the lady practically woos him. For, al-
though Red O’Shaughnessy is a real fight-
ing Irishman, he is excessively shy.
Bill (Wild Cat) Branning suffers from
no such handicap, and marries compara-
tively early, going from success to success
until he is an oil-king of the first rank,
and suffering a few matrimonial upsets in
the process.
Both characters fought (literally) for
their brides. Red has a bare-knuckle con-
test with a sporting bushranger for his
lady, whereas Bill downs his rival in a
saloon brawl and then, by dint of a little
caveman-like wooing, persuades his reluc-
tant sweetheart to consent.
Sturgis’s book is interesting as an ex-
ample of the healthy American habit of
writing a novel about one specific aspect
of the life of the country ; the oil indus-
try, mining, lumbering, and so on. To
write an historical novel it is not neces-
sary to bring in redskins and covered
wagons. But otherwise it is remarkably
like a Western, particularly in its descrip-
tions of the dynamic Bill, and there is a
certain monotony about the style. For
instance, Bill, in his many Homeric en-
counters, is for ever inflicting “splatter-
ing” blows on his opponents.
Both writers fall back on the expedi-
ent of promising things to come. But on
the whole both books are pleasant and in-
teresting reading, and Mr. Abbott’s book,
by its faithful “atmosphere,” and detailed
explanation of Old Sydney, and of the
Blaxlarfd route over the mountains in
modern terms, is likely to appeal to Aus-
tralian readers. Mr. Abbott’s leisurely
style is well suited to the novel, helping
to build up a picture of the persons and
scenes.
Australian Reference Books.
According to my experience some Aus-
tralian reference books that are sorely
needed are: —
(1) A new Australian encyclopaedia.
The one put out by Angus and Robert-
son is now 20 years old and incomplete
in many respects. It needs revision and
bringing up to date, should carry a greater
array of illustrations and be provided
with a detailed index. It could be kept
up to date with annual supplements.
(2) An Australian gazetteer and atlas
that will list in one alphabet all centres
of population and geographical place-
names (rivers, mountains, lakes, islands,
headlands and bays), with information
as to locality, sizes, numbers of inhabi-
tants, and in the case of towns a brief
list of principal industries. The accom-
panying maps should be up to date and
easy to consult.
(3) An Australian biographical dic-
tionary concerning the more important
living and dead, somewhat in the fashion
of the English Dictionary of National
Biography.
(4) An unofficial year book or almanack
—the Commonwealth Official Year Book
and those issued by various State Gov-
ernments are excellent, but contain only
official statistics and information. What
is needed is something along the lines of
Whitaker’s Almanack and the “Daily
Mail’’ Year Book, designed for Austra-
lian use, and containing some of the
features of a popular compendium or
desk book.
(5) An Australian sporting annual that
would include full records and details of
all sports. Miller’s Sporting Annual is
good within its range, but many users
find its scope too limited.
(6) An Australian dictionary of dates
after the manner of Haydn’s well-known
work. Henniker Heaton attempted one
70 years ago, but made a fearful hash
of the job. Such a work could be an
accessible repository of a multitude of
minor facts not ordinarily recorded but
often required, i.e., the dates of Anthony
Hordern’s fire and the execution of
Colin Ross.
(7) A selective bibliography of Aus-
tralian books on all subjects without the
elaborate documentation which usually
characterises works by librarians. E.
Morris Miller’s Australian Literature
deals only with poetry, drama, fiction,
criticism and anthologies, while John A.
Ferguson’s works, as excellent as they
are, interest mainly the specialist.
(8) A literary year book on the lines
of Fitz Henry’s Australian Authors’ and
Artists’ Handbook, with added features,
such as information concerning Aus-
tralian books of the past year and a
literary Who’s Who.
(9) Specialised reference books relat-
ing to education, agriculture, religion,
medicine, science and so forth.
For nearly 30 years, except for over
five years in the Army, I have wasted
hours chasing some elusive fact through
a host of files and documents when in
any civilised community it would be
found quickly in a ready-reference book.
Some such body as the Australian In-
stitute of Librarians, the patience of
whose members must be frayed by the
absence of these Australian reference
books, might care to do some organis-
ing and agitation about the matter ; per-
haps with a view to securing the support
of the Commonwealth Fund.
MOREHEAD.
Reviewed Briefly.
Homes in the Sun : Walter Bunning
(W. J. Nesbit, Sydney); sub-titled “the
past, present and future of Australian
housing,” it surveys the housing problem
from the days when the first colonists
slept in “tents and hollow logs” ; dis-
cusses Greenway and the Colonial Style ;
slums, overcrowding and planning ; and.
with illustrations, modern and ultra-
modern types of homes.
Good Fun Crossword Puzzle Book:
“Guillaume” (D. W. Paterson, Ltd., Mel-
bourne ; Robertson and Mullens). Fifty
puzzles, with solutions ; which, being of
the ingeniously witty variety, should
intrigue the higher type of addict.
Atomic Energy : J. N. Briton (Frank
Johnson). Pamphlet, covering much the
same ground as David Dietz’s Atomic
Energy dn the Coming Era. Intended,
though it contains some formidable tech-
nicalities, as “a handbook for every man.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Fifty paintings by Noel Wood at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries all deal wit
scenes from the Barrier Reef islands,
is a pleasant change from Sydney slum
and the paintings themselves are intere
ing documentaries. There is plenty 01
light and color in Noel Wood’s wor
which is roughly divided into two classe
heavy, fairly powerful composition
as in some of his jungle scenes ; anc
quieter, subdued studies—as though
were experimenting with form,' and
yet was uncertain. Both methods sho
promise.
The catalogue of Bernard Lawson’s e
hibition at Sydney Macquarie Galleri
introduces the artist as “prominent amon
the more intelligent artists of Melbourn
who realise that Art is expression and no
nature imitation.” It may be agreec
that none of his work bears the fainte
resemblance to nature in any form, wit
the possible exception of “Easter Lane
scape,” which is rather like a bed
luminous fungi. As it is supposed to 1
a landscape, it is difficult to say what th
artist is trying to “express.” The rest ol
the work is in the same class. M
Lawson’s characteristic treatment ol
figures is to give them vague white bodie
and queer de-humanised heads wit
dashes of vivid color here and ther
making them look like devil-dancers wit
masks; or, to vary the procedure, he ma
paint an orthodox head and give it
grotesque body, as in some of his rihde
An exhibition by Frank S. Rodrigue
at Anthony Hordern’s gallery, Sydney
contained a marathon number of pain
ings. Many should not have been in
eluded, but all bore the artist’s distin
guishing mark —a preoccupation wit
form which leads him to seek geometrica
patterns in nature, often at nature’s ex
pense. He is at his best in unpretentiou
studies of hills and valleys and farm
lands, with light-blue skies and light-green
fields, relieved by a few furrows of rid
brown soil.
“They chew the betelnut continuously
which in time ferments ,and sets up
slow intoxicating form of narcotic, but
the later stages a drunken form of frenzy
becomes very apparent, and it is then
quite dangerous to interfere with the
dance or in any way interrupt, even wit!
a solicitous inquiry”—the footnote to
one of E. S. Bailey’s pictures at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, of island and Aus
tralian Navy life in the South-west
Pacific. If is unnecessary to state that the
bacchanalia described with pen and brush
is not in the fo’c’sle but on the Admiralty
Islands. Mr. Bailey casts an ethnologist’s
rather than an artist’s eye on sailors'anc
Buka maidens, but he states his facts in
a lively and vigorous fashion.
At the talkies:
“The Gay Sisters” (Sydney Tatler): Three
sisters wrangling in the Probate Court and then
sorting out their tangled love affairs. Excellent
dialogue and some shrewd characterisation
chiefly by Barbara Stanwyck as the imperious
and fiery elder sister. George Brerit is as vita
as a blob of putty. The Hate-thaCwas-Love-
dissembled ending seems to have been pushec
in as a desperate last resort.
“The Great John L.” (Sydney Empire): A
biography of the old-time world-champion pug
The opus, a sermon in celluloid, unfolds
story of the Evils of Alcohol and a sinner who
see-eth the light. The fight scenes, particularly
the one with Jim Corbett, are strong and con-
vincing. Greg. McClure, in the title role, is
a magnificent physical specimen, though his
histrionics in the amorous sequences are slightly
muscle-bound.
“Because of Him” (Sydney Lyceum): Light-
weight back-stager about a waitress who im-
agines herself to be a second Mrs. Brough.
Charles Laughton brings in humor and Deanna
Durbin uses her flexible soprano very nicely.
“Her Highness and the Bellboy” (Sydney
Capitol): A poor little lonely princess from
Bulgaria, a romantically-minded bellhop, a
lordly N’York columnist, and a crippled girl
who yearns for the bellhop passionately but
dumbly. An ancient and lugubrious set-up, but
there are touches of comedy.
“Junior Miss” (Sydney Mayfair): Humorous
family sketch of an ambitious lawyer handi-
capped by precocious daughters. Peggy Ann
Garner is the imaginative offspring whose con-
spiracies land her parents into embarrassing
situations. As the patient father Allyn Joslyn
is refreshingly human; which is more than can
be said for Peggy Ann Garner.
“Christmas Holiday” (Majestic, Melb.):
Somerset Maugham sacrificed on Deanna Dur-
bin’s altar. What is left of Maugham could be
removed on an ash-tray.
“You Can’t Take It With You,” the
hilarious commentary on the futility of
riches by Moss Hart and George S.
Kaufman, had a successful handling by
the M.U.D.C. at Melbourne University’s
Union Theatre. Its undergrad humor
suited very nicely the undergrads as-
sembled. The least convincing character
was Colin Williams’s Mr. Kirby, who,
after a lifetime on Wall-street, finds that
money won’t buy a song, a symphony, a
girl or the appreciation of a picture, and
has a miraculous conversion when his son
takes a fancy to a damsel whose family
has retained its interest in firewor
and other childlike occupations.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'’
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
o-
CmH.
%
m
\
*te
\
SS>
5x
m
& l
\\
mm
V,
n
i'M
■
PI
is®
is
S /» '
■
:-?:;v : ':, ;:i::v?::::':; : -^:-;;s:S|;; : -^
.Wmmsm
m
smm.
*
, .•
Wi-MSMX-;v-
-waw^Rwrai
/
//
//,
V
1
/A
/
A
•;//
is well known for its variety of antique furniture:
Dining and Occasional Tables Chairs in many period styles
Sideboards and Sidetables for Hall, Lounge or Dining Room.
Carpets from the mysterious East with names that recall the Arabian Nights; and Rugs
in a great variety, with prices ranging from a few pounds to hundreds.
Lovers of Old China, Bronzes, Ivories, Antique Silver and Sheffield Plate will delight
in our collection.
We have a fine range of Oil Paintings and Water Colours by well known artists.
Many things you desire for your "Home Beautiful" may be found in our Fine Art
Gallery; so when next in town, call and spend a little time with us. You will be sure
to find something that appeals to you.
Here are just a few items picked at random-.
Antique design Oak Hall Chair £l4/147-
Antique Empire Gilt Mirror. 32 ins. x
18 ins £l4/14/-
Alabaster Marble Statuary Lamp fitted
for electric light. 3 ft. 7 ins. high, base,
11 ins. x 9 ins £59/107-
Queen Anne design Walnut Chair with
handwoven needlework seats, period
style. Set of ten £285 set
Settee to match, double chair back with
arms £73
Antique design Oak Court Cupboard.
Length, 43 ins.; depth, 19 ins.; height,
32 ins £3l/10/-
• Fine Art Gallery—Fourth Floor.
(INTOON/ WCRDERNS
THE SENIOR STORE
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
SYDNEY


m
mm
i «„ y<
■mm
- - r~ - ,m,
msmxmm&r «s» ..,
|/SWW
«<-
MS
&6J&
■
:
ft
ay
...
■
S2fa&&as(&k
• ■ - ■ •.
6720 feet of CLAUDE Fluorescent Tubing we §
used in this new factory for Burlington.
Mills (Aust.) Ltd,, at Rutherford , N,S,W,
on a rental basis
Practically every large commercial and industrial
organisation has installed, or is about to instal, flu-
orescent lighting. The majority of Claude (Cold
Cathode) fluorescent installations are made on the
rental basis. Although users can buy a Claude instal-
lation for cash, they mostly prefer the rental plan.
Why? Because, on this basis, Claude Neon contracts
to deliver a fixed quantity of high-grade light to your
working surfaces, day in day out for a predeter-
mined low cost per month. You have no maintenance
worries. No lamps to replace. Over the term of the
contract —usually five years—you can budget your
lighting costs in advance. There is no appreciable
first cost. And, when all cost factors are taken into
account, the Claude rental basis can prove to you a
lower cost per lumen, than any other type of lighting.
Enjoy these Advantages of
Claude Fluorescent Lighting
• More light per watt • Greater
lamp life ® Higher lighting efficiency
• More natural light 9 Easier see-
ing • Better light distribution • Less
fatigue • Less spoilage ® Lower
lighting costs ® Reduced shadows
• Heat cut to one quarter ® Re-
duced reflected glare • Improved
employee morale • Costs charged
against running expenses, not capi-
tal expenditure.
!
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING * NEON SIGNS
Join these Notable Users of
Claude Fluorescent Lighting
Australian Glass Mfrs. Co. Pty.,Ltd.;
Aircraft Production Commision;
Allied Works Council; Bradford
Cotton Mills; Dunlop Rubber
(Aust.) Ltd.; Ford Motor Co.;
Globe Worsted Mills Pty., Ltd.;
Kelvinator (Aust.) Ltd.; Modern
Printing Co. Pty., Ltd.; N.S.W.
Government Railways; Queensland
Textile Pty., Ltd.; John Vicars &
Co. Pty., Ltd.; Waygood Otis;
Yarra Falls Ltd.
.
THE ONLY NEON ORGANISATION WITH BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
* ' -


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3452
Wednesday, April 10, 1946
INDEPENDENCE FOR EVER!
“Well, nobody can say this Indian problem isn’t knotty.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H, Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {ppp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE SOVIET SKIN GAME.
Many of the journalists who, in Britain,
the U.S.A., Canada and these Dominions,
let the Moscow Propaganda Department
have the loan of their legs for years and
years, and contrived to make multitudes
of their readers as credulous as them-
selves, are now in a dreadful state of
perturbation. Not all, for some are not
only impenitent but brazen, notably a
lot of the newspapermen who became
British Ms.P. at the landslide election and
who are now sullenly objecting to Mr.
Bevin’s foreign policy. Others in these
parts who associated themselves with the
Communist agitation for a Second Front
when Britain was in a bad way and Aus-
tralia itself had been heavily defeated
and was in peril of invasion are giving
very little space in their newspapers to
the ghastly post-war record of their
miracle-men. Others, again, while admit-
ing that Russians have made them-
selves hated in occupied Europe, try to
find excuses for them.
“S. M. Herald” had an article, the work
of a Mr. Rex North, on the behavior of
the Red Army in Austria, which is
living off that unhappy little country.
He didn’t tell a tithe of what has hap-
pened, which adds up to a frightful story
of wholesale rape, looting, organised
seizure of plants and other forms of prop-
erty regardless of ownership (in some
cases, British and American) and
cruel condemnation of helpless people
to death by cold and hunger;
but his better instincts revolted against
“the inhuman, horrible and damning
suffering” imposed on “nearly 3000 men
and women, Germans, deported from
Yugoslavia through Russian channels, to
a final unknown destination.”
Seventy were hurled into a locked truck
opened once every 24 hours to allow the
poor wretches, at pistol point, to relieve
themselves. Everything they possessed was
looted by the Yugoslav guards, and two
people who refused to open their bundles
were taken out of the car. They did not
come back. There was almost no food;
from the third to the sixth day of this
journey into hell, none at all. To drink
they melted snow.
At least eight babies died and were
tossed out on the line. At least 30 are
having limbs amputated in Red Cross hos-
pitals because of frostbite. The British
attempted to remove 200 more sick into
hospitals, but the Russians said it was none
of our business. Of course many died en
route. It is impossible to give an accurate
estimate of the numbers.
The excuses were interspersed. For one
thing the gentleman said he was “de-
liberately ignoring the whispering cam-
paign carried put by the Austrians against
the Russians we are proud to call our
allies.” The wonder is that the “whis-
pering” Austrians are not shouting their
agony to the English-speaking world. The
latest barbarity of which they have been
the victims is the seizure of more than
100,000 acres of what is left of their
country to grow food for the Russians,
who boast that they are sending vast
quantities to France and Czechoslovakia
while cadging at a great rate from
U.N.R.R.A. and refusing that organisa-
tion’s request for pertinent information.
Describing the seizure and destruction
by exposure of 150 cases of telephones,
looted from a factory by Russians who
“possibly had never seen a telephone be-
fore,” and the stripping of the workers’
flats for which Vienna was famed, Mr.
Rex North found the robbers’ reply to
the protesting workers “perfectly under-
standable” :
You have radios, therefore you must be
capitalists; and this is a war against capi-
talists.
Much more “understandable” and infi-
nitely more courageous was the workers’
retaliation —at the Austrian elections,
daring Red Army reprisals, they turned
down the Communists hard, as, similarly
menaced, did the workers and peasants of
neighboring Hungary, But Mr. Rex North
allows that “the behavior” of the Russian
soldiers is never explained, and intimates
that if he were a Russian general he would
“explain” at a press conference —in these
words:
We have had a tremendous job since the
Revolution because the legacy of suffering
and illiteracy we were left by the Tsarist
regime was appalling. It has been impos-
sible to give people modern flats, with
lavatories, bathrooms and wireless sets,
because there is so much else to do first.
In time we will do all this, but meantime it
is not difficult to see why we have 18,000
deserters in this area and why the more
uneducated type of peasant grabs at every
attractive thing he sees.
There has been no Tsarist regime since
1917. All the 18,000 deserters in Austria
and their mates and the other barbarians
in the other stricken countries which
have to support the Red Army must
have grown up under the Communist
rdgime; and the story with which the
English-speaking world was stuffed was
that all Stalin’s subjects, the whole
190.000. or 200,000,000 of them, were
educated, the Communist system of edu-
cation being all-embracing and, of course,
marvellous.
Rightly taken, education is a prepara-
tion not merely for callings but for
civilised thinking and behavior. Tried
by this test, thp Communist system has
failed abominably. “Educated” or un-
educated, the Communist soldiery has
committed worse excesses in Europe than
were ever charged against the Tsarist
troops who followed Napoleon’s armies
to Paris, though many of these were
uncouth barbarians, Cossacks and Tartars,
the Bashkirs armed with bows and arrows.
The yarn that the Communist wonder-
workers raised the peoples of all the
Russias from illiteracy to literacy has
been one of the most effective weapons
in the Communist armory of lies, and still
is. It never had a leg to stand on. Any-
one who cares to examine any issue of
the Statesman’s Year-Book between
the turn of the century and the beginning
of the first World War can see for him-
self how it is in its application to
Tsarist Russia, assailable as Tsarist
Russia was on many scores.
At the beginning of 1912, when the
population of the Russias, exclusive of
Poland and Finland, was about
165.000. there were universities with
34,000 students at Petrograd, Moscow,
Kharkov, Kiev, Kazan, Odessa, Dorpat,
Tomsk and Saratov, and there were
others at Warsaw and Helsingfors. There
were also “institutions for special educa-
tion —theological, medical, technical and
Oriental languages—distributed among
the large towns of the Empire.” And “ex-
cluding the cities of Petrograd, Kron-
stadt and Baku, the governments of
Warsaw and Tiflis and the province of
Kamchatka” there were in European and
Asiatic Russia 122,524 schools, high,
middle, special and primary, with
7,266,694 students or pupils, most of the
Polish figures (7022 schools and 339,003
pupils) lumped in. Adding private
schools, lay or religious (the latter non-
Christian as well as Christian), and
schools for the blind, deaf and dumb,
there were 8,038,109 persons attending
Russian schools, Finns excluded. Per
1000 inhabitants (both sexes and all ages),
the proportion of male pupils in European
Russia was 75.3.
Of greater significance than statistics
is the fact that all the great Russian
writers and composers worked and made
their reputations in Tsarist times, chiefly
in the century before the Revolution.
They did not write or compose for illite-
rates, and the inspiration could scarcely
have come to them had illiteracy been
the state of all except a small leisured
class. A note on Gorki, who in 1917
was on the verge of 50 and had written
himself out, mentions that “towards 1906
his popularity with the intelligentsia began
to decline, but it increased among the
working class, who came to regard him
as their literary spokesman.” This left-
over excepted, none of the Soviet writers
can be compared with Pushkin, Gogol,
Chekov, Dostoievsky, Tolstoy or Tur-
genev, nor any of the Soviet composers
with Tschaikovsky, Moussorgsky or
Rimsky-Korsakov.
Of a piece with the pre-Revolution-
illiteracy lie are another lie and a half-
truth, still doing service in a bad cause.
The lie is that the Germans walked
through the forces of the last Tsar where-
as the Red Army knocked the stuffing
out of them from the beginning.
The last Tsar’s army began its war
in poor shape. In no respect had it re-
covered from the defeats inflicted on it
by the Japanese in 1905, or from the
civil disorders and the change in the
Balkans situation which followed. And
it went into the war without one tre-
mendous asset which the Reds had from
the beginning, assurance of American
help. The Americans did not come in,
and then only with a token force, until
the middle of 1917, by which time the
Russians, a prey to all manner of dis-
orders, had degenerated into mobs. But
despite immense losses, almost the worst
of which were incurred in the invasion
of East Prussia —gallantly undertaken to
relieve the pressure on the French and
British, as it did notably, when it seemed
almost certain that the Germans would
cross the Marne and take Paris —they had
held off Germans, Austro-Hungarians and
Turks, in campaign after campaign,
bringing a fresh army into the field after
almost every defeat.
In the Kaiser’s war it took the Ger-
mans three years to reach Riga. In
Hitler’s war, with legions mustered,
trained, organised and armed in much
less than half the period which the Red
Army commanders had had at their dis-
posal, inferior in numbers and with com-
paratively poor internal supplies of war
materials —the Russians had everything—
the enemy in four months dashed through
• Poland and the Baltic States, reached the
outskirts of Leningrad and came in sight
of Moscow, besides thrusting deeply into
South Russia. Winter stopped Hitler, as
it did Napoleon, and with winter came
the American declaration of war, making
ultimate triumph certain. But 15 months
were to elapse before the Russians gained
any resounding success, and Alexander
and Montgomery had shown them the way
at El Alamein, not only driving the Ger-
mans and Italians before them but forcing
an Italian retreat from Russia and com-
pelling Hiller to draw in his own forces.
The half-truth is that the Communists
succeeded where “the capitalists” failed ;
succeeded in finding work for everyone.
So they did, but only as Hitler and Mus-
solini did —by taking all the fit young
men into the army and using the rejects
and older men for making everything the
army required. Because of bad general-
ship (the civil-war commanders proved
dunces) and inferior equipment, the results
were dreadfully disappointing until “the
capitalist nations” came in with their
prodigies of improvisation and produc-
tion, as well as their magnificent fighting
quality. And concentration on the Red
Army to the exclusion of civilian require-
ments, together with the Tibetan isolation
imposed on the inhabitants by their sus-
picious rulers, has had consequences
which are almost “counter-revolutionary”
already, evidenced by Stalin’s promise to
provide obviously dissatisfied elements
with consumer goods.
Going into Hitler’s, dominions, bomb-
wrecked as they were, the soldiers from
the steppes found themselves in a world
which must have seemed as strange
to them as Elizabethan England
was to the Red Indians who cast up
there, and to whom Shakspeare has a
reference. They found themselves in a
world in which the masses were much
better housed than they themselves had
ever dreamed of being; a world in which
they discovered watches, wireless sets,
electric-light switches, bathrooms in
which the turning of a tap could bring
hot water, other resources of capitalist
plumbing and shops stocked with goods
of a quality and variety which they had
never visioned. To the inhabitants of
the occupied countries, friends and foes
alike, the Red Army soldier seemed a
creature from another age, half-savage
and half-child. To him and to his com-
panions the term “Mongol hordes” has
been applied by an English archbishop,
for which the archbishop has been offi-
cially reprimanded— not too severely.
To imagine that these Muscovites and
.Tartars could impose their system and
what passes for their culture on Europe,
much less any of the English-speaking
democracies, is to imagine the impossible.
The bluff of their leaders, whose militant
foreign policy can be construed as a
diversion from a threatening internal
situation, has been called at last, and
Communist imperialism, implemented
everywhere by Fifth Columns, has
been checked almost everywhere. To
Moscow Australia may figure as a
pleasing exception. Knowing what
was coming out in Canada, Mos-
cow supported Australia against the
senior Dominion for a seat on the
Security Council. Moreover, Australia
has a “Government” which is so kind to
Communists or so dead scared of them
that it lets them do anything they please,
even to involving the country in support
for Moscow’s Indonesian policy; and a
Minister of External Affairs who has
persuaded himself and his mob that it ad-
vances Australia’s interests to dissociate
it stridently from Britain at U.N.O.
conferences.
At Nuremberg.
The trials have been going on since
November, with months of preparatory
work before that. Reports are colored
by the reporters’ own views, but, despite
that, at least one striking character among
the Nazi hierarchy has come into clear
view—Hermann Goring, the bemedalled
fat man of the caricatures.
Leaving aside whatever culpability for
the war and all its horrors that the
tribunal may finally sheet home to the fat
man, he has most evidently been far and
away the dominant figure among those
arraigned before it. He is as good as
certain to be found guilty, proved so not
only on the testimony of others and the
evidence brought against him by the
prosecution, but most conclusively out of
his own mouth.
No doubt Goring realises that. Hence
his attitude before the tribunal has been
one of defiance. Simply, he has taken the
stand of a soldier loyal to his country.
This stand or pose has been in striking
contrast to the showing of some of the
other accused, notably Ribbentrop, who
has been trying to save his own
neck at all costs. In that, the politician
might even succeed, but for the present
the main effect of his defence- —apart
from its revelations of Soviet guilt —has
been to put the soldier Goring into still
stronger relief as a dramatic character ;
all the more so because Ribbentrop’s
defence has followed closely on Goring’s.
Chiefly, Ribbentrop’s neck-saving
efforts have been based on claims to his
having tried to influence the sickly
fanatic Hitler to a moderate course. Evi-
dence on his behalf has gone so far as
to declare that on Goebbels-’s advice
Hitler ordered the execution of 10,000
British and American airmen in retalia-
tion for the bombing of Dresden, and was
dissuaded from this massacre only by
Ribbentrop’s intervention. Further, it
has been put in for the politician that he
was not an exponent of Nazi-Socialism ;
that he knew extraordinarily little about
Nazi doctrines, but that he was under a
certain hypnotic dependence on Hitler.
In contrast with all that, Goring has
accepted full responsibility for all his own
actions; for the building up of the Luft-
waffe, the persecution of the Jews, the an-
nexation of Austria ; for plans he tried
to have Hitler adopt for carrying the war
even further than it went. He has admit-
ted that he pressed Hitler to aid Franco
at all costs in the civil war in
order to improve German pilots and air-
craft. He ordered the bombing of Coven-
try, actually against the opinion of Hitler,
who had wished to have the bombings
concentrated on London. Goring de-
clared that, after his fighting experiences
in the other world war, he knew that the
people of London could “take it” ; that
Britain’s military resistance could not be
broken by terror raiding. He declared
that he had selected Coventry for its
industrial targets, and had “waited for a
moonlit night.” More, he had given
orders for the attacks to be repeated, with
Birmingham and Bristol as switch targets.
One form of responsibility Goring has
refused to be associated with —that for the
shooting of R.A.F. officers after a mass
escape from a prison camp. He had
opposed also the execution of “terror
fliers.” Said Hitler, “1 see that both air
forces have come to a pact of cowardice,”
to which Goring answered that airmen
were comrades eien if they fought one
another.
That answer to Hitler would seem to
provide the main key to the character of
the fat man as presented to the tribunal
through the whole course of his 12-hours’
address and the testimony of others.
Questioned as to why, since he had
opposed the unwisdom of the Russian
campaign, he had not warned the Ger-
man people and also protected his name
by resigning. Goring replied “with heat”
that his country was at war, which made
it impossible to bring opposing views on
strategy before the public, and that as an
officer he was serving his country and the
man to whom he had given an oath of
loyalty. The same basic character of the
man was further evident in his statements
on the Allied “unconditional surrender”
decision. Goring said that it had served
to stiffen German resistance, and that had
he himself succeeded Hitler, as he would
have done if Hitler had been murdered,
and had been faced with the same demand
for unconditional surrender, he “would
have gone on fighting to the last breath.”
Goring explained, “with a tone of con-
tempt,” that his opposition to the Rus-
sian campaign had nothing to do with
international law, but had been based
purely on military considerations. On
the other hand, he took the responsibility
for having strongly advocated a different
extension of the war. He regretted the
Russian campaign chiefly because it meant
the abandonment of his plans to attack
Gibraltar and Suez. The descent of his
parachutists on the Rock, he said, must
have been a success, and at the same time
they would have been able to push
through to Casablanca and Dakar, which
would have foiled the American invasion
of North Africa. Aircraft and U-boats
could then have harassed the Ameri-
can convoys and closed the Mediter-
ranean, putting the long Italian coastline
out of danger.
Above all, whatever the tribunal’s
findings may be, the historical find-
ing on the fat man can hardly
be other than that he was loyal to
his leader and, in his fashion, a patriot.
That is not, of course, a dissociation from
criminality. Loyalty and patriotism are
not necessarily the prerogatives of the
otherwise lilywhite and virtuous. But
they are virtues of their kind, and nothing
seems to have been more clearly estab-
lished by the Nuremberg tribunal’s pro-
ceedings so far than that at least this one
man in the dock has possessed at any
rate those qualities to a striking degree.
With all war-making established as a
crime against humanity —as it had not
been until these trials, but as it ought to
be —there is not much doubt that Goring
has implicated himself at the probable
cost of his neck; but there would also
seem to be little doubt that the future
historian or other writer, for his outstand-
ing dramatic character of the Heiling hier-
archy, will have to look no further than
the figure of the fat man of the medtuSi^M


PLAIN ENGLISH
Let There Be Light!
Arthur Roden Cutler, V.C., is to be
transferred from the Repatriation Depart-
ment (he has been Assistant Commis-
sioner) to the High Commissioner’s chair
at Wellington (M L.) in succession to the
Hon. Thomas George de Largie D’Alton ;
and thereby hangs a tale which should be
told at Canberra.
Mr, D’Alton received his appointment
in 1943 from the “Labor” Government.
He had been Tasmanian Minister of Agri-
culture and Forests, Commerce and In-
dustry for four years. A Melbourne
“Argus” account of the impending
change stated that the V.C. “will take
up his appointment within a month or
two in view of Mr, D’Alton’s expressed
desire to return to Australia.” Mr. Lang’s
“Century” had another version: “Tom
D’Alton’s exit” was sudden —“he sud-
denly returned to Australia and is now
officially reported out.”
At the necessarily long-drawn-out Tas-
manian inquiry into Forestry Department
irregularities alleged by the late Joe
Darling, K.C., it was stated on February
25 by Mr. D’Alton’s legal representative
that “his present intention” was “not to
come to Tasmania to give evidence, be-
cause of the expense involved,” and be-
cause he had been “unjustly burdened on
two occasions in the past.”
In the matter of expenses, the Appropria-
tion Act provided for other persons but
not for Mr. D’Alton.
The Royal Commissioner (N.S.W.
District Court Judge Kirby) said “I have
no power to compel Mr. D’Alton to give
evidence, and the matter remains there.”
But that very day D’Alton trans-
actions as Minister were questioned by
Mr. Fagan, counsel assisting the Commis-
sioner. In the matter of applications for
“an exclusive permit over the Upper
Mersey forest, one of the largest and best
in Tasmania not under lease,” Mr. Fagan
mentioned an application that had “never
got on the Forestry Department’s file, but
had apparently been kept bn the Mini-
ster’s own file, since destroyed”; men-
tioned also “the sudden dropping of the
matter when a question was asked in the
House,” and inquired why “Mr. D’Alton
was so insistent that a permit should be
granted against the strongest opposition
of the conservator.” Mr. Fagan referred
to and witnesses gave evidence of other
matters concerning Mr. D’Alton:
R. J. Howard, a Zeehan sawmiller, said
he had supplied timber to D’Alton’s order
in February, 1943, and received £94 14s. 3d.
as a cash payment. Howard’s private secre-
tary said she had sent the account month
after month to the Minister until her
employer looking through the ledger re-
marked “I am sorry —that account has been
paid.” Asked whether it was not extra-
ordinary that “you should have indexed the
account twice in the ledger after it had
been disposed of,” witness did not reply.
Another witness said that the Howard
timber was for the building of a D’Alton
yacht; another —manager of the Govern-
ment shipbuilding yards—said there was no
record of the Minister having paid rail-
freight or carting charges.
A Smithton publican admitted having
seen “Tom,” not the conservator, about a
forest permit, and been told it had “gone
on.” He also admitted having told a
Government audit officer he had paid the
Minister £2OO in notes and distributed
£3OOO among Forestry Department officers,
but “there was not an atom of truth
in it —it was said only as a joke.”
There has been a great deal more evidence
touching alleged hankypanky in the
Forestry Department. Since the “Gov-
ernment” at Canberra cannot possibly
have been ignorant of the proceedings,
its duty was clear —it should have ordered
Mr. D’Alton to choose between returning
to Tasmania to defend and justify his
administration on oath and being im-
mediately relieved of his duties at Wel-
lington. A full and precise statement of
what it actually did is called for.
Salvage and Smells.
- «
A miracle has happened at Canberra.
The “Government” has not only con-
sented to read the Commonwealth
Auditor-General’s annual report, but has
been driven to say something about part
of it —the part concerning the Salvage
Commission. Of this outfit the faithful
Abercrombie wrote in his report for the
year to June 30, 1944:
The Commission was established in July,
1943, to deal with the collection, treat-
ment, disposal and use of salvage materials
and the provision and use of salvage ser-
vices. The Commission controls depart-
mental salvage, the most important items of
which are partly-worn obsolete military
clothing, unserviceable clothing and other
related items. The expenditure by the
Commission for the year was £27,165. Re-
ceipts were £23,284.
The deficit of nearly £4OOO is character-
istic of “ ‘Labor’ operations.” If “Labor”
took over a goldmine crisscrossed with
lOoz. reefs there would be heavy betting
on a litter of annual losses.
On September 6, 1945, Mr. Harri-
son, deputy-leader of the Liberals, made
damaging allegations. “With the full con-
currence of the Materials Officer of the
Salvage Commission,” Mr. Morrison, he
asserted that “two senior officers of the
Commission” had sold to a “refugee firm
practically everything in the Commission
store at Redfern,” Sydney, for “£2O a ton
—a few pence for individual garments
that had already been sold or offered to
other firms at much higher prices.”
There were “270 pairs of riding breeches
at 12s. 6d. a pair; 500 blue R.A.A.F.
jackets at Bs. sd. each; 3000 R.A.A.F.
drill jackets at 6s. Bd. each; 300
R.A.N. jumpers at ss. each; four
tons of blanket ends at per pound ;
woollen socks at Is. Id. per pound ; sing-
lets and underpants at 7|d. per pound ; all
were sold as ‘rag’ to the refugee firm: the
Materials Officer was over-ruled.”
In addition, 47-} tons of garments that
had not been inspected were sold as “old
wool” for £2O a ton. And 18 tons of
clothing from Brisbane, which Morrison
states contained a large quantity of
American overcoats, was also sold at £2O
a ton.... After some questioning, Mor-
rison and another man were dismissed, but
were reinstated by the Minister.
The Minister is Mr. Lazzarini (No-
Works, No-Housing and No-Home
Security). He said he had “obtained a cer-
tain report from a Treasury official,” and
had “then asked whether officers of the
Auditor-General’s Department could in-
vestigate the matter.” That was “as far
as I am prepared to go at the moment,”
but Mr. Harrison could “have a dozen
royal commissions if necessary.” ’
There were further exchanges during
the debate on the estimates, Mr. Harrison
declaring that the Royal Navy was
willing to buy “wearable R.A.A.F. jackets
as wipers at £l4O a ton —seven times as
much as the refugee firm paid.” The
NO DONNYBROOK—AS YET.
“Though Mr. Maloney, the late Minister to Moscow, is known to have condemned the
Soviet system and methods at private gatherings, he has not replicd to bitter Moscow
radio and press attacks on him.”
“Come awn an’ foightsky! Oi dawn’t belave you’re Oirish at all, at all.”
No-Works, No-Housing and No-Home
Security Minister intimated that he
was “waiting on a report from the
Auditor-General.”
If the Auditor-General’s report for
1944-45 was in his mind, he has it. It
states that “the profit-and-loss account
and balance-sheet of the Salvage Commis-
sion could not be certified as a true and
complete reflex of the Commission’s busi-
ness,” and gave reasons in detail:
In many cases new stores ledgers were
started without reconciliation with previous
records, and discrepancies were not deter-
mined for proper adjusting. Authorised
requisitions were not held for all stores
issued, and often stores were issued in ex-
cess of authorised quantities. The depart-
ment failed to obtain receipted issue
vouchers from Army store depots and units
for large quantities of stores. Stocktaking
at some depots was suspended for long
periods. Many comparisons of stock ledger
balances with stocks on hand disclosed
large discrepancies.
Unsatisfactory features were associated
with the loss of 29,340 blankets, valued at
£24,817. Audit concurrence in writing off
this Ibss was withheld. A court of inquiry
found that the loss of these blankets arose
from irfedequate housing (resulting in
dampness and mildew), failure of officers
to appreciate the effects, lack of regular-
inspection, lack of laundry facilities and
accumulations of blankets through large-
scale troop movements.
As for the mixing of clothing with rag
for bulk sale this was flatly condemned,
as also were “serious weaknesses in con-
trol and supervision”:
Records of stock movements to treaters
were unreliable, and the percentage loss
in weight in treatment of fabrics showed
marked differences in various States for
apparently similar materials. There could
be grounds for strong suspicion that some
treaters were in a position to take advan-
tage of the Commission by transferring
better-class fabrics to their own stocks and
returning to the Commission fabrics of a'
lesser value. “Discrepancies in stock” [a
member of the Auditor-General’s staff re-
ported] “might amount to nothing more
than loose control and absence of method,”
but admitted of the interpretation that
“goods which were in stock have somehow
been removed before delivery was due to
be made to the purchaser.”
And there were “features of a contract
with salvage distributors which, in nor-
mal circumstances, would be considered
far from satisfactory” :
No tenders were apparently called.
Dealings were made with a Melbourne
syndicate not registered as a firm in re-
spect of materials in Sydney and Brisbane.
Terms which appeared unusually easy were
made for use of the Commission’s stores
and delivery of materials at the Commis-
sion’s expense.
Presently Mr. Harrison read a letter from
the head of an Alexandria (Sydney) firm
giving particulars of a transaction which
“stinks.” He said he had offered £ll2 a
ton for material which was held in “our
store” and inspected by a Salvage Com-
mission man and two refugees. The
refugees got it for £2O a ton.
As before, a torrent of verbiage burst
from Mr. Lazzarini, whose infinite con-
tempt for those duds of “capitalists” has
featured his undistinguished political
career, but there has been no renewal of
the offer of “a dozen royal commissions,
if necessary.” One would be suffi-
cient for this salvage show; others may
be required in other fields.
Union Tyranny in Queensland.
In May, 1945, the Japanese war being
then raging, Queensland bosses of the
Federated Ironworkers and Boilermakers,
discovering that some, shipyard workers
were receiving bonus payments, invited
the firm concerned to increase the wages
of all hands up to an equivalent of the
bonus payments. When the firm refused
(apart from anything else it'was restrained
by the “Government’s” Nat. Sec, Regs,
fixing wages) the union bosses fixed a
riveting “tally” of 171 rivets a day “of a
certain size,” which had the effect of re-
ducing a day’s normal work by two-thirds.
A boilermaker and three ironworkers,
who said the rate was “ridiculous” and
they believed in a fair day’s work,
ignored the edict. The union bosses fined
them £lO each, and served demands for
dismissal on their employers when they
refused to pay. Not easily cowed, and
remembering that their country was at
war, the four appealed successfully to
the Industrial Court. They had an able
legal representative, J. F. Fitz Gerald.
In finding for the four men the Indus-
trial Court said:
No evidence was taken at the [union ex-
ecutive] meetings. Apparently the accused
were not informed of the source of the
unions’ information and no one appeared
in support of the charge In the follow-
ing week, after discussing Day’s case with
the Boilermakers’ executive, a fine of £lO
was decided upon. All this further informa-
tion and discussion with another union
about the charges took place in the absence
of the persons charged The members’
who were fined and whose dismissals were
sought on this kind of evidence had long
been members of their unions [two for 20
years, one for nine years, one for eight
years].
And “the employer was advised that they
had ceased to be financial members of
the union, and under the preference
clause could not be continued in employ-
ment for a longer period than one
month.”
Of the “tally system” introduced by
union bosses to defeat the bonus system,
the Court said:
Under this system the men would do
about one-third of a day’s work for a full
day’s pay until the management agreed
to increase wages by the amount that had
been paid as a bonus... .spread out - over
everybody. This is the unions’ own evi-
dence and the go-slow policy has been
operating since last May [1945], It was
introduced during the war and has con-
tinued regardless of the urgency of re-
pairs to warships. It would appear that
nothing counted against the unions’ desire
to enforce excess payments which, they
protested under another system, were
illegal and dishonest The reason for the
high cost of ship construction in Australia
is very obvious If, as desired by the
unions, more money was paid as a result
of this go-slow policy, it would be just as
much a breach of National Security Regula-
tions as was the bonus system, and the
method of enforcing it was just as dis-
honest.
It shows how unionism has run mad
in this country ; it shows, too, that the
great production drive which this country
needs to regain its economic equilibrium
has no chance whatever unless these
power-drunk fellows are brought under
the law. Unionists themselves, apparently
liable to be punished without knowing
who are their accusers or being allowed a
word in their own defence, ought to be
insisting on that as loudly as anybody
else.
And it was characteristic of the spirit
which animates the Thornton variety of
unionism that local bosses of the Iron-
workers, Boilermakers, Miners’ Federa-
tion, Waterside Workers’ Federation and
Federated Engine-drivers and Firemen
should have boycotted the reception
arranged for the Governor-General and
his wife when they visited Port Kembla
(N.S.W.).
Preference fo "Sporfs."
Nowadays Mr, Calwell conveys his great
thoughts to the world through the Norton
papers, and to the , “Daily Mirror” he
confided that he was “having an im-
mediate investigation made as to how
Mr. Derek Prentice, his wife and two
children got to Australia,” Mr. Prentice
having been “given a job on Sir Keith
Murdoch’s Melbourne radio station.”
I am going to see if any influence was
used to get these English people out here.
We will find out how they got here and
whether any wives and children of Aus-
tralian servicemen had to be put off ships
for them to make the trip.
It is characteristic of this Minister,
who has so much to do with overseas
transport and passports, to threaten an
inquiry after the event. But it should
not be supposed that the reference
to “these English people” expresses
a prejudice against all English people.
While the words were being noted
other “English people,” 26 profes-
sional footballers (with two man-
agers), began a privileged voyage to Aus-
tralia aboard the aircraft-carrier Indomit-
able. They were Consigned on the hoof
to the N.S.W. Rugby League, of which
Dr. Evalt is patron, and were personally
farewelled by Mr. Beasley, who is an
other Rugby League enthusiast.
When these professional footballers
entered upon the enjoyment of the privi-
lege secured for them, and no explanation
given, “the wives and children of Aus-
tralian servicemen” and the stranded
Australians who are their companions in
misfortune —reckoned altogether at 6000
by Mr. Calwell himself —made a sudden
disappearance from the cable news. They
shared this singular obscurity with 2000
New Zealanders who remained stranded
in Sydney when the steamer Katoomba,
under charter to Mr. Calwell’s “Govern-
ment,” carried about 570 home after the
Seamen’s Union had held the vessel in
port for three weeks— i.e., until the “Gov-
ernment” had conceded its “demands” in
pursuance of the “policy,” laid down by
Mr. Beasley when Minister of Shipping,
of “giving the workers everything they
ask lor.” In the present situation it is
useless for any of the 2000 still-stranded
New Zealanders or for any ordinary Aus-
tralian who would like to visit New
Zealand to look for transport by ship or
’plane. But again a special privilege has
been conferred on a party of “sports,”
in this case pugilists:
Vic Patrick, 'the Australian dual cham-
pion, with his wife and two children, his
manager Mr. Ern McQuillan, Mrs. Ern
McQuillan and lightweight Bobby Fuller
have left by ’plane for New Zealand.
Of course, with passports and an assur-
ance of passports and accommodation for
the return journey.
Mr. Vic Patrick was one of the many
pugilists who spent the war on the home
front within easy distance of Sydney and
its stadium. He was in “salvage” or
something. Most of his companions in
the bruising business were in “munitions”
or something. It was their pride and
glory to entertain Mr. Ward, who was
Minister of Labor and National Service
and then Minister of Transport, Mr.
Ward being a Stadium “regular.” When
these young gentlemen yearned to box
in cities other than Sydney they were
never at a loss for transport.
In the same column in which the travels
of Mr. Vic Patrick and entourage were
mentioned it was stated, on Stadium
authority, that there was no chance of
getting pugilists from'Britain to meet
home-keeping Australians, for “England’s
leading boxers are still in the services.”
But surely they could get in touch with
“Labor,” which in these matters, though
in no others, conquers all things.


m a
: ■
.
m
■
CRAVEN "A
.• *• < % ■*
• .* A '• < / o j
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
OSnalxxaiile In lO*s & 2#^
MADE SPECIALLY TO PHfcVfcNT SOKE THROATS
m
POLITICAL POINTS
According to one account, Australia’s
part or poses in the Security Council pro-
ceedings at New York “again forcibly
demonstrated that Australia’s foreign
policy is not tied to that of .Britain.”
Another way of putting it is that Dr.
Evatt contrived to show once more, when
the need for British Commonwealth unity
is recognised by every other British Com-
monwealth Government, that they are all
out of step but Bert.
On the proposal of U.S. State Secretary
Byrnes, the Security Council agreed to
accept a Russo-Persian agreement for the
complete evacuation of Russian troops
by May 6, the matter to remain on the
business paper till that date in case there
should be double-crossing on one side
or both —as there may be concerning
Azerbaijan and oil. The lone dissentient
was the Australian representative, who
refused to vote. Having gone to New York
dead against the Soviet delaying move
(“Why should we have another postpone-
ment? —the sooner we deal with it the
better”), the gentleman tried to “block
the oral statement of Persia’s case” and
ended up by demanding a “methodical
examination” of said case —which, as
the N.Y. “Times” gently informed
him and his Canberra boss, “could
only have prolonged and aggravated
the crisis.” Friends and critics of
Russia alike found the unfortunate
colonel’s manoeuvres bewildering, hailing
them first as pro-Soviet and then as anti-
Soviet. Australian students of Dr. Evatt’s
“self-protection and security against
future attack” speech will have no
illusions.
With a belated interest in servicemen
of the 1939-1945 wars, sharpened by
study of recent by-election results, the
“Government” at Canberra has appointed
two of them to most desirable positions
—A. R. Driver as N.T. Administrator and
Cutler, V.C., as High Commissioner at
Wellington (M.L.). Both were public ser-
vants before they enlisted; Driver in
Westralia, Cutler in N. S. W'ales.
Driver, the new N.T. man, succeeds
C. L. A. Abbott, who was Scully’s pre-
decessor as M.H.R. for Gwydir (N.S.W.).
Abbott, a Digger of the first German war,
learned of his supercession over the radio,
and said so. With the Chesferfieldian
courtesy which distinguishes the “Govern-
ment” where opponents are concerned,
Johnson, the Minister for the Interior,
protested that this shouldn’t have
occurred, since “an airmail letter inform-
ing Mr. Abbott of his dismissal” had been
“posted to him ten days before.”
Having driven Lord Nuffield away from
Sydney, “Labor” is having another stab
at pensions for politicians and has intro-
duced the Liquor “Reform” Bill, pro-
mised for five years. McKell must have
had a hand in the pensions measure, and
will be among the beneficiaries if it goes
through; but, whatever appearances
may suggest, the Liquor “Reform” Bill
was not drafted by (1) the biggest share-
holder in Tooth’s brewery; (2) Romano,
of the dinner-dance joint, who did so
well during the war; and (3) the president
of the Leagues Club.
The three alleged proposals for “re-
form” of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion, reduced from 14 in 1944, are blat-
antly political. One is designed to per-
suade the credulous that unless they come
to fight with the required majorities they
will have no guarantee of child endow-
ment, widows’ pensions, unemployed-
relief, maternity benefits (paid since 1912-
13 and never challenged) and the like, and
may be deprived of the blessings of
“nationalised” medicine and dentistry.
Another is aimed at giving Parliament
power to fix —and increase—the basic
wage and reduce the working week to 40
hours—or 36, if the spirit moves “Labor”
that way. A third goes for “organised
marketing” with a difference which has
moved Fadden to suggest that conscrip-
tion of farmers is part of the plan, and
with virtual nullification of Section 92
.... Trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.” That section,
when ratified by the Australian people,
brought a grand increase of freedom to
them; but it is now despised as old-
fashioned by politicians who claim to be
democrats.
Ward, who has introduced the Sydney-
larrikin mentality into Australian affairs,
has already explained that the object of
the referendum questions is to put the
High Court Judges in their place. The
Sydney larrikin always did hate Judges.
Bruce has left Australia, perhaps to re-
turn no more. When last seen he was
sitting alone, reading, on an otherwise
empty deck. The “Government” which
he served faithfully wouldn’t even offer
him the Ministry to Moscow, a post for
which the first favorite at the week-end
was an ill-informed groveller to the
Soviet and a furious 1942-43 Second
Fronter, a Dr, Dark.
Oakleigh, a comparative recent addi-
tion to Henty and its most populous sub-
division —there are eight others —has had
a Labor M.L.A., S. H. Reid, since 1937.
Reid, polled a substantial majority at
each of four Assembly elections. When
67,100 effective Henty votes had been
counted there were 21,013 from Oakleigh,
and the Oakleigh figures were very close
—10,812 for the “Labor” man, Doube,
and 10,201 for Gullett, In Bentleigh, the
No. 2 division in point of numbers, which
had been confidently expected by the
swarm of visiting Canberra Ministers to
go “Labor,” Gullett headed Doube, 4900
to 4614. With some service votes to
come in Gullett was 6134 ahead. Yet
“Labor” and alleged non-“ Labor” news-
papers which allow “Labor” boys to do
their political comments persist in assert-
ing that there was no perceptible swing
from “Labor.”
The “A.B.C. .Weekly” has been a sink
for listeners’ money from the beginning.
Losses for the last three years recorded
by the Auditor-General were £21,108 in
1942-43, £7553 in 1946-44 and £8933 in
1944-45 ; so naturally the commission has
decided to lose more on a monthly maga-
zine, “Talk.” The “Government” and its
commissions have one thing in common
—a hang-the-expense complex.
In deciding to move from Sydney to
Adelaide, Lord Nuffield was no doubt
influenced by the craze for betting, as
evidenced in the dailies, which all make
racing their principal feature and publish
vast s.-p. supplements. He won’t find
nearly so much racing in Adelaide, but
betting is overdone there as elsewhere,
though betting shops no longer make
shopping centres hideous as they did.
Addressing the Presbyterian Assembly,
Rev. J. R. Blanchard gave the figures for
“eight years of betting-shop, activities”:
turnover, upwards of £38,000,000, of
which “over £3,400,000 was lost by
bettors.” His conclusion was that “betting
is ‘a mugs’ game’ ” and is undermining
the public interest in healthy sport.” The
Bulletin agrees with Mr. Blanchard.
One of the public men for whom this
paper has a weakness is Fiorello la
Guardia. Taking control of U.N.R.R.A.
from ex-Governor Lehman, who did his
best, though his best wasn’t good enough,
“the Little Flower” basketed “a batch
of resolutions passed by the Council in
the last fortnight,” saying “people want
bread, not advice,” and (for himself) “I
want ploughs, not typewriters; fast-
moving ships, not slow-reading resolu-
tions.” He added that “wheat has no
political complexion ; I will buy it wher-
ever I can,” mentioning Peron of Argen-
tina, According to T. H. Bath, the
Westralian authority on wheat, Argentina
claimed an export surplus of 69,000,000
bushels on January 15.
Goulburn (N.S.W.) is losing its Squire
Tully, and is not to have the deficiency
made up by Squire McKell as early as he
gave it reason to expect Squire told
dinner party of the Co-operative Build-
ing Societies that ee didden un’ercon-
stumble how crool hard it were to tear
himself away from Macquarie-street, un
having discovered “difficulties which 1
never contemplated when I announced
my decision to retire.” Cheer up, Mc-
Kell ; the electors may solve it for you!
A Lang man has been seen bearing down
on Redfern with blood in his eye,
Chifley was constrained to announce on
Friday that the seven Dutch shjps which
have lain idle in Australian ports for
seven months on Red Fascist orders were
still idle and likely to remain idle because
“something” had “gone wrong with the
negotiations.” In other words, the Red
Fascists—a bit subdued in the presence
of Admiral Mountbatten—have told
Chifley—they are never subdued in his
presence—that they’re still running the
country’s foreign policy as it concerns
the N.E.I. and he’d better like it —or else.
“Norther” discovers a celebrity:
While Parliament was in session in Canberra
haggis-like noises and the prevalence of a burr
around the Queensland holiday resort of South-
port led to the discovery there of a Mr. Ded-
man, Minister for Post-War Reconstruction,
complete with secretary ’xi’ everything. In-
vested by newspaper reporters, Mr. Dedman
fretfully _ remarked that he was snatching a
brief holiday, had no intention of visiting Bris-
bane or answering questions, and was not
“officially known to be in Queensland” by die
State Government. Whereupon the reporters
went angrily back to town, and the “Courier-
Mail” wrote a leader saying that it was a
‘“furtive” visit and it was “most discreditable
that public servants and others should have
been called upon to cover up his movements.”
Meantime Mr. Dedman entertained at dinner
the State Director of Post-war Reconstruction,
the Regional Reconstruction Training Commit-
tee and the president of the Demobilised
Soldiers and Sailors. Next he officially opened
the annual conference of the Amalgamated
Clothing and Allied Trades at Surfers’ Para-
dise. Then, wiping the crumbs of haggis from
his waistcoat, he fled back to that haven of the
south Canberra, doubtless refreshed by the
holiday and ready for anything or anybody.
The Nuffield affair draws attention to
the position of “Lou” (Lucien Lawrence)
Cunningham, “Labor” M.L.A. for
Coogee. As a “Labor” member “Lou”
helped to set up the Sydney Turf Club
and give it very remarkable land-grab
powers. As a shareholder in and a direc-
tor of the Victoria Park Racing Club, he
was a party to the sale of the course to
Lord Nuffield. The change of Nuffield
plans brought about by his Lordship’s
insuperable objection to the Sydney Turf
Club’s overriding resumption calls for a
clear statement of “Lou’s” views. Per-
haps “Lou’s” views will be expounded
when or if Treatt’s censure motion is de-
bated ; but so far “Lou” has been as
dumb as a drum with a hole in it.
“Keen young men” are being invited in
advertisements to “join the A.I.F. for
service abroad,” said service being in
Japan and the Islands. There’d be a
rush of volunteers if the footnote,
“Plenty of spare pagodas and vacant
native-huts available,” were added, ex-
A.I.F. men being tired of having no
homes.
If anyone imagined that N.S.W.
“Labor’s” zeal for an Australian-born
Governor sprang from a yearning to
lessen the drain on the public purse, he
was soon disillusioned. The news was
broken immediately that the outlay on
Government House would necessarily
exceed the cost of the Wakehurst regime
(£12,000 to £13,000 a year), since liberal
entertainment allowances and the like
would have to be provided. Ontario,
which has a population equal to that of
N. S. Wales and Queensland combined,
gets its gubernatorial work done for about
£2OOO a year. It also rubs along with
10 Ministers. N. S. Wales had 15 till
Tally was named Agent-General; there-
upon a sixteenth Minister was elected by
Caucus. Cynics are now prepared for
a statement that the bottom will fall out
of the State unless a Ministry of 16 is
made a permanency.
According to a plan of settlement Dr.
Van Mook is taking to The Hague, Java
is to be a self-governing State, probably
a republic, within the Indonesian con-
federation, co-operating with the Dutch
Commonwealth. After a short transition
period the island is to have the power of
making its own treaties, financial arrange-
ments and economic conditions and
building its own navy and army, so it
can’t be said that Holland has been nig-
gardly in its concessions. Whether more
than one per cent, of Java’s 45,000,000
knows what a republic is is another ques-
tion. Whatever else the plan produces
it will certainly produce a large number
of white-collar workers and hordes of
politicians.
To Chifley “the great task facing Aus-
tralia today is to see that everyone who
wants to work has a job. It will first
be necessary to see that everyone who
wants to provide work will not be pre-
vented from doing so by the unwhipped
mobs of Communist ruffianism.
From an article on Belgium, which,
having put its Corns, in their place, is
working hard and sees prosperity return-
ing:
The Belgians have a surprising con-
tempt for the French, whom they regard as
querulous, neurotic and too proud t'o work.
There’s an uncomfortable local applica-
tion about the last seven words.
“Wheat-acreage restriction” persists in
Westralia, in the spirit if not in the
letter. Towards the end of March the
State Under-Secretary of Agriculture
complained that “quota-holders” had been
lax in Weighing-in with super, forms —of
6740 farmers “notified” in the middle of
February “3100 had not replied.” They
were warned that they might not be able
to “secure their requirements after July
1” —and that will be too late for sound
farming. Apparently the evils of restrict-
ing production, that crime against nature
and humanity, are apt to survive the
abandonment of the “policy.”
From a man in the business:
The “wheat-acreage-restriction” expenditure
items shown in Mr. Chifley’s Budget papers
(B. 13/3/’46) omitted the expenditure during
the 1942-43 season.
The wheat acreage in Westralia was compul-
sorily reduced one-third for the 1942-43, 1943-44
and 1944-45 seasons. Twelve shillings an
acre was paid to farmers for the area compul-
sorily reduced. Acreage involved and expendi-
ture each year:—
Acres. Compensation.
1942- .. 973,840 £584,304
1943- .. 941,736 565,041
1944- .. 940,000 564,000
1945- (est.) 475,000 285,000
Totals .. 3,330,576 £1,998,345
During those years the “Labor” Government
was also enforcing “wheat-acreage restriction”
(the Scully “plan”) in the Eastern States. At
the same time it spent £1,678,000 in building
and equipping wheat power-alcohol distilleries at
Cowra (N.S.W.), at Warracknabeal (Victoria), at
Wallaroo (S.A.) and at Collie (W.A.). The dis-
tilleries at Warracknabeal, Wallaroo and Collie
never operated, because the Government com-
pelled the farmers to reduce the acreage planted
with wheat, and in Westralia paid them for re-
ducing it. The world has not enough wheat
now to feed the people. For want Ofit many
millions of poor creatures may die.
Wheat for feeding poultry and pigs has been,
and still is, rationed in Australia. There is none
for the power-alcohol distilleries, which stand
as idle monuments'to the Scully “plan.” There
is plenty for the biscuits which, with raw steak
—rump for preference, are standard diet for
greyhounds which have to be kept fit for the
pursuit of the tin hare.


dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
"ALAS! REGARDLESS OF THEIR DOOM, THE LITTLE VICTIMS PLAY.”
“Funny about those tidal waves in the Pacific. Good thing they can’t happen here.”


Could you
afford the time
to act as your friend's
EXECUTOR?
J7VEN if you have the necess-
ary experience to manage a
friend’s Estate could you
afford the time necessary to dis-
charge this duty efficiently?
The answer is almost cer-
tainly “NO”. It is the time-
factor alone in these difficult
days that so often obliges a man
to decline additional burdens
and responsibilities.
How much more satisfactory
to all concerned is the appoint-
ment of Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany Limited as Executor.
Hero is an organisation especially
built up over the course of 60
years to handle Estates of many
different kinds. Here is a group
of highly trained officers, each a
specialist in his pwn sphere, to
whom Estate Management is a
full time job. These officers
work under the constant super-
vision of the Management, and
a Board of Directors of wide
experience.
Write for a copy of the Com-
pany’s booklet “Your Executor
and Trustee” which will be
gladly sent upon request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T - S’ ?® LLY ( Cl >airnian) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.: E. R. KNOX •
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT M.H.R. ’
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGe’ Manager.
UNDEB ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Connack,
Ourwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: P. T. B. Thomas
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth
Safe and Profitable*—
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
® Old age or untimely death terminates a man s earning-power, but matures
the life policy, .
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A, whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
•, Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to ‘‘The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/ 43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LiXD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P, J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.OsA. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.O.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane. ,
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States,
Busineś, Rollery, Etc.
Fools’ Sanctuary
The Federal Labor Government is
now, by advertisement and by word of
mouth, warning the people against infla-
tion. Mr. Clarey, president of the
A.C.T.U., says that “inflation is the
workers’ greatest enemy. During a period
of inflation the worker constantly finds
himself in a losing position because, as
fast as prices rise, purchasing-power of
his money declines.” Strange that those
who have, by themselves or through asso-
ciates, done so much to create the
ominous inflation danger in Australia
should suddenly become apostles of anti-
inflation.
The truth is that the Government,
which takes its orders from the trade-
union movement, is in a bad financial
jam. It is faced with all the grim reali-
ties of inflation, and, besides, it is getting
very poor support in its borrowing opera-
tions. The inflation menace is given as a
reason why the Security Loan should be
supported. That is the chief purpose be-
hind the present inflation talk, though
there is also similar chatter when con-
tinuation of price and other controls is
urged on behalf of the Government.
When the greatest portion of the pre-
sent inflationary menace was being
created the Federal Lazzarini objected to
criticism of it, alleging that inflation talk
was designed to “stampede the Labor
people against the Government.” Ap-
parently Mr. Lazzarini considered that
there was as little substance or sincerity
in the criticism of experts as there is in
his own nonsensical financial disserta-
tions. If there is any capacity for learn-
ing in this egregious humbug he should
by now have learned how wise the critics
really were and what a palpable fool his
own utterances have proved him to be.
At the moment he has enough sense—
political only—to remain mute.
Inflation has arisen in Australia from
several causes. In the first place, the
Government has spent (to Feb. 28) £2415
million on war since 1939, of which an
average of only 35 p.c. has been met
from taxation. Over £1565 million has
been paid for by borrowed money,
borrowings including £4OO million of
bank credit and probably an equally
large amount of savings-bank credit. The
people themselves have contributed,
directly, only a minor part of our war
loans.
The Government handed to the
people, on the other hand, most
of the £2415 million spent on war.
As one indication of this, all wages
and salaries, pay and allowances
to servicemen, etc., rose from £437 mil-
lion in 1938-39 to £790 million in 1943-
44, declining slightly to £774 million in
1944-45. Money was handed out to the
people in other ways also. But while this
huge flow of money was going to the
public the production that the Govern-
ment was paying for was not available
for sale back to the people, as it is in the
case of ordinary commercial production.
Most of the Government’s £2415 million
defence effort was spent in the direction
of destruction of the Japanese military
machine —munitions were shot away, men
were employed in purely military pur-
suits at great cost, and the expensive
weapons made were of little or no com-
mercial value.
In normal times an expenditure of
£2415 million on production would
have resulted in the availability of
goods to that value for civilian
or other purchase. In our present
case the outlay has left only a
small proportion of available goods, and,
as taxation has brought back to the Gov-
ernment no more than £B5O million,
there is a surplus of about £1565
million in notes, bank deposits and war-
loan securities floating round with no
corresponding surplus of production on
which it may be spent. At least £BOO mil-
lion of the £1565 million is in easily-
spendable form.
With so much money available, and
with a production depression now on our
hands, the temptation both to seek and
to offer high prices for goods in short
supply is very great. Thus we have in-
flated prices arising out of an inflation in
our money supply and an insufficiency of
goods and services. This insufficiency
partly arises because of arrears due to
the already-mentioned war-time concen-
tration on the making of munitions and
other non-civilian goods, the diversion of
manpower to military uses, etc., and
partly because of the preseht production
depression.
To some extent this primary cause of
war-time inflation has been unavoidable.
Every country involved in a major war
in every age has had a simildr problem
—this last war has been the daddy of all
wars from the point of view of economic
dislocation. But, as always, a central
Government, by administrative ability
and wisdom, could reduce the war-time
effect and post-war aftermath of this in-
flation, In Australia the policy of the
Government has really increased greatly
the inflationary dangers faced by the
public.
To begin with, the Labor Government
did not tax the wage-earners enough,
though they, in the mass, were really
making hay. Then it gave way to the
mobster element in trade-unionism ; labor
costs rose and production per man fell.
This increased the cost of the war effort
and the cost of living. Authority of
employers was next taken away. In
order to check rising costs and prices an
excess of legalistic “controls” was im-
posed on the population, especially on
the management side of industry, while
little attempt was made to deal with the
real causes of falling production and ris-
ing costs. The Government now had to
spend more money to finance the war
effort, pay expenses of policing its
“controls” and to subsidise various in-
dustries so as to* keep living costs down.
But in spite of all these expedients, or
partly because of them, production de-
clined while the expenses of government
mounted.
The Government at length brought in
taxation that touched incomes down to
£2 a week. The incidence of taxation be-
came very heavy indeed. It discouraged
both wage-earners and other income-
earners from working hard largely be-
cause it was unscientific. They also be-
came industrially lethargic because there
were few things (such as homes) on which
earnings could be well spent. And
the largesse of the Government handed
to wage-earners, while accepted over-
readily, created, with other signs and
portents, doubts in the minds of sections
of the community about the financial
stability of the Government, and thus
caused a withholding from investing in
war loans and even blunted the desire to
save.
“Modem” Labor has consistently
treated the thrifty and the investing class
with contempt. It has placed no national
value on these people. It has encouraged
dependence on the State, and, during war-
time, it has carried its “social security”
planning to the most fantastic lengths,
loading the national Budget with “free-
bottle-of-medicine” and similar costs, the
total “social’* charges alone now exceed-
ing a full pre-war Federal Budget! The
result of all these factors has been a
falling production rate, deadening taxa-
tion, a reluctance on the part of the
people to invest in Government loans.
The Government has virtually national-
ised banking—another part of its tradi-
tional platform. The banks in other days
were a buttress against unsound Govern-
ment finance—their powers of competi-
tion alone were of great value to the
community. But under Labor all the
checks to the offensive by mob
elements against thrift, against hard
work, against industrial discipline, against
monetary stability and against rising
production, as represented by free-
enterprise institutions and traditions,
have been frustrated by actual legis-
lation or by lack of Government sup-
port. Though the vested interests of
Labor are now stronger than at any other
time in this country’s history, the Gov-
ernment at all times tries to save Labor
from the results of its own folly and mis-
chief regardless of how much other sec-
tions of the community have had to suffer
as a result, and regardless of how this
Government protection has encouraged
other Labor folly and mischief. The ship-
ping and waterside industries are in a
parlous position because of Government
patronage and indulgence of rebellious,
loafing and greedy sections in the mari-
time and waterside unions. The effective
work rendered by these unions has fallen
heavily during the war, while wages and
other costs have risen enormously.
With money losing its value, as reflected
in rising costs and prices, with produc-
tion stiff failing to come up to anything
like the pre-war level (it is discouraged,
very often, by official “controls”), with
shortages of essential goods as well
as luxuries stiff obviously the order
of things, with Government spend-
ing still going on extravagantly and
politically, with nationalisation of air-
lines and other socialistic imbecility
stiff forming a large part of the Govern-
ment’s contribution towards “solving”
our national r problems, and with Com-
munism and trade-union lawlessness every
day tying up further the productive efforts
of right-minded people, confidence and
credit in Australia are in danger of going
to the dogs.
The Government seeks to hide its
failure to administer the affairs of
the nation properly by continuing
many of its legalistic “controls” after
December 31. The plain dangers
in this are that “controls,” as well
as tending to defer the effects of past
stresses and strains, can be used to cover
up the effects of present abuses; and
abuses ultimately may do as much
damage to our economy as the actual
cost and dislocation caused by war itself.
It is certain now, for instance, that, but for
“regulated” interest rates, the Govern-
ment could not borrow on the open
market for as little as it pays, and that it
therefore could not go on spending money
so lavishly and in a manner so obstruc-
tive to production. It would have equal
difficulty in subsidising the trade-union
“bludging” that is now going on in, and
to the detriment of, most parts of the
Commonwealth.
Australia is faced with a threatening
inflation problem. The inflationary force
will release itself some time or other, but
it is best that we try to control the
release to suit our economic circum-
stances. “Controls,” however, must not
continue to be used simply to disguise
the inflation danger while it is still being
added to by concessions to the forces of
social and economic evil and by national
expenditure having an essentially political
basis. Australia, before very long, will
have to face the chill wind of economic
realities. Ail our weaknesses will then
be exposed. We should now be trying
to overcome those weaknesses, not trying
to crawl further into a fools’ sanctuary
fenced round by “controls,” subsidies and
“appeasement” of lawless and revolution-
ary elements. That sort of fence will not
resist any chill wind.
The Victorian Government proposes to
make the State Insurance Office the sole
workers’ compensation underwriter. Last
week the debate on the bill was adjourned
for a month. It is also intended to raise
the maximum death benefit under the law
from £750 to £lOOO, plus £25 for each
dependent child. Incapacity payments
are also to be raised. Workers’ compen-
sation insurance is not generally a profit-
able business from the private insurance
co.’s point of view, though it perhaps
helps to spread overhead expenses. It
will be interesting to see what effect the
knowledge that the Government pays all
compensation claims has on Victorian
juries in contested cases.
* * * m
For the eight months to February 28
Australia’s excess of merchandise im-
ports over exports was £22 million. The
adverse trade balance increases to £23
million when an adverse bullion balance
of £1,026,000 is taken in. Imports were:
merchandise £134 million (£153 million
same period of last year), bullion
£1,388,000 (£2,565,000). Exports were:
merchandise £ll2 million (£lO4 million),
bullion £362,000 (£8000). During the
month of February there was a favorable
merchandise balance of £3,310,000. In
the period in which Australia had an
adverse balance of trade amounting to
£23 million our gold holding and sterling
funds rose by nearly £5O million. The •
reason for this is that lend-lease, reverse
1.-l. and mutual aid come into our im-
port and export figures, but not into the
question of balance of payments. Also,
inter-Governmental commitments, such
as the provisioning, etc., of British forces
in Australia, establish credits for Aus-
tralia in London without any visible ex-
port being necessary. Some Australian
production is being sold to overseas
buyers on the basis of delivery this end,
and this, too, adds to our funds regard-
less of whether the goods have left the
Commonwealth or not.


Only a
to fill
few days
the loan
The Security Loan, on the
success of which YOUR
future as well as Australia’s
depends, closes Tuesday, 16th
April. The Security Loan has a double
purpose. All the money you subscribe
will be applied to meeting commitments
arising directly out of the war—partic-
ularly the rehabilitation of service men
and women. So it is, first, a patriotic
duty to buy all the Bonds you can.
Second, the Australian people have far
more money (in their banks and their
pockets) than is necessary
to buy the goods at present
available. To spend that
money simply for the sake of
spending it —before there are enough
goods to buy for value —will help to
force prices higher and thus reduce the
value of present savings and future
earnings. It means inflation.
So in your individual self-interest, buy
all the Bonds you can. You have a
few days to do it.
FACTS ABODT THE £70,000,000 SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used to
meet commitments arising pot of
the War, particularly the rehabiH-
tation of Australian service men
and women.
2. Bonds foe £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO
and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock,
may be purchased for cash or by
instalments through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker. Interest is
payable each six months, at 3i%
per annum for 12 years, or 2%
per annum for 3 years. The 2%
short-term interest rate should ap-
peal to companies and individuals
with money temporarily available
for investment.
3. Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. Bonds and Inscribed
Stock are readily saleable to meet
an emergency.
4* On your application form
credit your subscription to your
district to help its quota.
Sign your name for Security • . . Invest in the
SECURITY LOAN
Security for Service Men . . Security for You!
SI. .33.113.36
The Exchange Rate
It is not easy at the present time to get
a clear picture of Australia’s external
trading and credit position. During the
war our imports included “gift”
items —lend-lease and Canadian mutual
aid, and exports embraced some of
our reverse lend-lease. Furthermore,
the wool clip, though sold, has
not always been shipped away promptly.
These facts help to explain why,
on an apparently adverse balance of
trade, Australian funds in London have
continued to grow. Another contributor
to funds has been the British Govern-
ment’s payments for the servicing of its
forces in this and other Pacific areas.
During the current year, for instance, the
Treasurer estimates that £2O million more
will be received from the British and
Allied Governments than we shall spend
in their countries under our defence obli-
gations. There have been sales of arms
to the Dutch, too, and capital has been
coming to Australia in substantial lumps,
with the prospect of more, even if there
have been changes in the plans of the
Nuffield and other enterprises.
On March 25 the Commonwealth Bank
recorded that its holding of gold coin
and balances abroad totalled £197 million.
This represents an increase of £39 million
in six months. Before the war there were
times when our total London funds, ex-
cluding the sterling backing for the note
issue, were no more than the increase that
has taken place in a half-year. Although
the £197 million now held does not pre-
cisely represent our net London funds
and gold holdings, the buoyant condition
indicated is genuine enough. An un-
revealed proportion of the total is in
gold, which is good money anywhere
in ffie world, including the United States.
As overseas manufactures, including
machinery, motor-cars, etc., become avail-
able they are likely to be bought by Aus-
tralia at high prices in an increasing
volume. New motor-cars coming to the
Commonwealth are very much dearer
than before the war. There are large
arrears of this kind of buying to be made
up, and when trade between Australia
and Britain and America gets into stride
again there may be an adverse balance
against the Commonwealth that will eat
into our exchange reserves. It is true
that, at the moment, this merchandise
hunger is two-way: that Australia, on
its side, has no difficulty in getting over
10s. a bushel at ports for all the wheat
it can deliver at the wharf and find ships
for, and that other foodstuffs, metals,
etc,, are in keen demand.
But cost of imports has risen higher
than prices received for exports. And
prices for primary products have a habit
of adjusting themselves rather quickly by
supply rising to meet the demand. Whilst
good prices should be in sight for rural
exports for another couple of years at
least, there is no clear indication that our
export income will continue to run away
from the cost of our imports. It is likely,
indeed, that overseas manufacturing coun-
tries, whose economic deficiencies are
mainly of raw materials, will catch up with
their shortages more quickly than coun-
tries importing overseas manufactures.
Once a country that has been short of
food for years is getting a full annual
supply its food shortage is overcome
at that point ;; but the first year’s normal
imports of machinery, motor-cars, etc.,
into Australia will still leave several years'*
deficiency to be made up. Machinery-
manufacturing countries will overtake
similar arrears by internal effort, not by
importing, except for whatever raw
materials are necessary. Australia will
continue to get high prices for lead, etc.,
so long as arrears of capital goods are
being made up overseas, but will be
charged fully for raw materials in manu-
factures that make the return trip.
The position, therefore, does not appear
to be one in which the present seemingly
comfortable state of our gold and ster-
ling reserves should indicate a reduction
in the exchange rate on either London
or New York, unless, say, New
York chose to take the initiative.
There is no guarantee that our funds
are more than adequate to meet
various emergencies that may arise in
the near future. During the war it was
rather irksome to know that the U.S.
dollar would buy so much more in this
country than it would in the United
States, especially when lend-lease account-
ing took no notice of the lower ‘"price”
at which Australian goods were given to
America, But now, except for the fact that
the low value placed on the Australian
pound in overseas countries makes im-
ports (and transmission of remittances)
more costly to us, the low external value
of our pound is not a disadvantage so
long as it doesn’t encourage rising costs.
True, continued depreciation is not a
thing to be recommended. What we
®ant, if posable, is stability. The battle
of the 25 p.c. discount was fought over
10 years ago. We don’t want any more
exchange battles unless economic condi-
tions really force them upon us.
Minister Eddie Ward is opposed to the
Bretton Woods currency plans because he
thinks he sees sinister hands (not those of
Russia, of course) aiming to cause depres-
sions in countries like Australia through
rigidly controlling their exchange rates.
It is true that entry into the Bretton
Woods plan involves a pledge to maintain
stable exchange rates except in certain
circumstances and after consultation with
the fund. Conducted in other circum-
stances, of course, the fund would be
valueless as a contribution to the ending
of economic warfare. As it is, if Aus-
tralia became a member of the fund and
found it to be valueless for any reason
it could withdraw immediately if it so
desired.
Koitaki Rubber, Papua, reporting on
the labor and merchant-shipping position
in New Guinea:
Until a regular coastal shipping service, such
as was operated by private enterprise before
the war, is established, no improvement can
be expected in the labor position. Such a ser-
vice is absolutely essential for the welfare of
the territory and of the natives generally.
Under recent regulations ships of under 25
tons capacity only can be privately owned on
the Papuan coast, and then solely for the
private use of the owners. Ships of greater
capacity are to be owned and operated by the
Government, and, until such snips are pro-
vided, "the natives, as well as the small and trig
interests in the territory, must all suffer. The
trader cannot transport stores for the require-
ments of the natives or the plantations, the
natives cannot travel to seek employment, and
the continued resulting cessation of produc-
tion and employment means a big loss in
revenue to the Administration.
In view of the uncertain outlook, the in-
creased working costs, and the necessity of
having to spend a substantial amount to re-
habilitate the plantations, your directors are
not declaring an interim dividend.
On October 15 last nearly all native
labor, which had been manpowered by
the military authorities for a period
during the war, had its indentures can-
celled by the Department of External
Territories, the Minister (E. J. Ward)
having toured the territory. There was
immediately an exodus from the planta-
tions, and today Koitaki has only about
a seventh of its normal native-labor force.
It is not expected that there will be a full
labor complement until the end of 1946.
Koitaki has an excellent plantation, pro-
ducing a vital commodity, and it is sad
to see its efforts frustrated by wanton
interference with labor and transport
arrangements. No one can blame the
natives for wanting to go home after an
extensive period of Government con-
scription. But great blame lies at Can-
berra’s door for prohibiting private ship-
ping services from doing their job, the
Government not providing even a
“nationalised” substitute in the meantime,
» * * «
Australians during the period July 1,
1939, and September 30, 1945, paid in in-
come tax. Commonwealth and State, just
on £844 million. By far the greater part
of the collections was used to meet
war expenditure. Since the war ended
there has been very little reduction in the
rate of taxation. There was a cut of
12i p.c. from January 1, but it applies
only to personal income tax. The rate
of collection is still very close to the
highest war-time level.
* * * *
In reply to a question asked by Archie
Cameron, Minister Dedman has supplied
the following information:
Prices at which utilities are allotted to
Commonwealth and State departments or
instrumentalities are as under:
Austin (10h.p.) ]
Morris (10h.p.) f £484 ss.
Hillman (10h.p.) ]
Standard (12h.p.) £5lO 15s.
plus, where applicable, sales tax of 12£ p.c.
Prices at which saloon models of the same
horsepower and make will be sold to the
public are likely to be much higher.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“NX65381”; Some Army quarter-
masters could always manage to balance
their “rations received” with their
“rations entitlement”: others were often
faced with an accumulation of unwanted
food or an empty larder. Our Q.M.
could never get the hang of the game,
and with us it was either a feast or a
threatened famine, averted only by some
mysterious conspiracy on the part of the
Q.M. and the sergeant-cook. Came the
day when the local A.S.C. distributing
centre informed the unit that it could
draw no more rations until it had con-
sumed the surplus received during the
month. Q.M. and sergeant-cook hurriedly
went into a huddle, and to the irate
C. 0., who had got wind of the situa-
tion, blandly announced that they had
plenty of flour and jam and a few kero-
sene-tins of dripping on hand. “And,”
thundered the old man, “do you propose
feeding 500 hungry men on jam-tarts for
the rest of the week?” “Well,” countered
the Q.M. feebly, “we could send the unit
on unofficial leave until the matter
straightens itself out.” Thus it came to
pass that the boys of the second-ump-
teenth were given two days’ leave that
never went into the records.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: One result of the floods
in Victoria’s Western District may be an
alteration to the map of Australia. At the
height of the floods the Yambuk Lake,
12 miles from Port Fairy, burst its
bounds, and a huge bar of sand, half a
mile long, 100 yards wide and 75 feet
above sea level, was swept into the ocean,
one awestruck observer estimating the
quantity of Australia that disappeared in
the gigantic tumult at 500,000,000 tons.
The lake is now an inlet and a potential
fishing-ground for snapper and kingflsh.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson, a Saturday-after-
noon golfer, suddenly took to playing the
game on Sunday mornings as well, a
development that disturbed his spouse,
who had heard mysterious rumors of
drinking and gambling orgies that lasted
throughout the Sabbath at that club. The
first couple of times that Jephson arrived
home late for Sunday dinner, she accepted
his explanation about being held up on
the course, but after the fifth time she
decided upon action. On the next Sun-
day morning, she took herself and the
offspring out, hoping that the shock of
coming home to an empty house and no
dinner would straighten Jephson up.
When he got home Jephson, wondering
but calm, opened the gas stove, expecting
to see a dinner being kept warm. There
was none; and, as he bent, a florin fell
from his pocket and bounced from the
floor into the bowels of the oven. He had
to shove his head into the dark place to
look for the coin. Just then his lady,
having repented and hurried back,
entered. She took one look at the figure
with its head in the stove and collapsed,
sure that her cruelty had driven the poor
man to his end. Sunday golf is now an
established practice in Jephson’s life.
♦ * * *
“Little Gunda”: One of the noticeable
things about the Russian Legation staff
in Ballotaria is that most of the officials
are small in build, whereas the servants
(yes, they have servants) are mostly out-
size physical specimens. This, of course,
bears out the general experience that
brains dominate brawn, and it should
prove to those big, beefy proponents of
revolution —whose attitude is caused by
subconscious resentment at the power of
little blokes in offices —that the little
bloke is just as likely to be boss under
a Communist as under a capitalist
regime. Boss is right—one of the Lega-
tion menials, involved in a minor argu-
ment over the payment of telegraph fees,
asserted that “De boss, he say dat vay.
I moost do it dat vay.”
* * * *
“Macnell”: Flinders Naval Depot
sports some interesting relics of the
scrap up north: a 20mm. cannon
with a burst barrel recovered from
"It's quite simple , miss. T urn it this way an' you get water; turn it that
way an' you don't."
the bomber which crashdived on
H.M.A.S. Australia ; a Jap senior naval
officer’s pendant, conspicuous with red
ball, scrounged somewhere in Yoko-
hama when the Australian destroyers
sailed in; a light machine-gun the Nip
used in the jungle, with 14 notches cut in
the butt. Most interesting relic of all
was exhibited in the Petty Officers’ Club
the other night—a boat’s foresail, torn
and dirty. Several of Perth’s survivors,
struggling in the water, were fortunate
enough in that shark-ridden sea to bump
in the dark a sunken merchantman’s life-
boat. Clambering aboard they found
the only rigging she carried was this sail.
They set it and headed in the general
direction of Australia. The boat proved
unmanageable, and when a Jap warship
overtook them one carried the sail into
the p.-0.-w. camp with them. It stayed
with him throughout all their vicissitudes,
shelter, blanket, overcoat in turn, ending
up laid across the ba*r in the Petty Officers’
Club while the last member of that boat-
load added his name to those of the
others still alive scrawled across its foot.
* * » *
“Craiser”: A tin of garfish has turned
up in Melbourne as a convincing demon-
stration of the excellence of an Australian
industry which has almost gone into the
discard. The fish were canned by a firm
which set out to prove that local pre-
served products were as good as the im-
ported. It was bought by a shopkeeper
in Footscray, who went out of business
and sold his stock. The tin of garfish
remained forgotten on the shelves. The
business was sold again in 1941, and this
time the tin, now much the worse for
wear, was thrown out on the rubbish
heap. The other day, in the middle of
the meat shortage, the latest owner of
the shop spotted the rusty-looking
object and opened it in a spirit of curio-
sity. He found the garfish in perfect
condition and smelling as sweetly as a
bunch of roses. He is drawing the atten-
tion of the C.S.I.R. to the matter.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The nooks and crannies
among the ornamental work on most
public buildings provide the answer to
“Findy’s” question (B. 13/3/’46) about
why pigeons show a preference for Gov-
ernment buildings. What I would like
to find out is where the hawks which
regard the pigeon flocks as their meal
providers make their nests. There are
three hawks in Sydney, which, each
observing the others’ territorial rights,
operate regularly. People who eat
lunches in public parks leave scraps for
the birds; although some pigeons don’t
mind the presence of the humans, the
mass of the skybirds wait until they have
gone and then, timing matters perfectly,
the hawks arrive for their dinners. An
article of. mine about the Wynyard-
square marauder some years ago aroused
a feeling of vendetta against the hawk in
the breasts of citizens ; one who brought
along a gun was caught by the police
and fined. There are still citizens who,
if they could find the eyries of the bird
murderers, would deal out justice to them,
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The King having graci-
ously given his consent, Melbourne Phil-
. harmonic Society is now “The Royal,”
Founded in 1853 in response to a letter
from 20 musical enthusiasts to John
Russell, a conductor with a local repu-
tation, it held its inaugural meeting at the
old Athenaeum, one of those present be-
ing David Mitchell, Melba’s father. It
was on the rocks by 1868 and had to sell
its piano, organ and surplus music to
pay its creditors 6s. Bd. in the pound;
even in 1903 its finances were so unrosy
that it was nearly wrecked by Ada Cross-
ley, who 12 years previously had been
ready to take three guineas for a per-
formance, but on her return from Europe
asked and got 300 guineas. A year later
the Phil, often had the unfortunate experi-
ence of singing to audiences smaller than
the chorus. It was not till 1936, when
Paul Fiddian took charge of its affairs,
that it began to look up. The number of
subscribers has risen in 10 years, from
120 to 1000 and the tenacious body
deserves it. It has sung an amazing
number of important works, given a hear-
ing to an impressive array of overseas
and local singers and has made its annual
performance of “The Messiah” as im-
portant an institution as Christmas dinner.
Since 1936 the membership of the chorus
has doubled. There are 260 of them.
* * * *
“Galenus”: I cordially agree that a
fine job of curative work on certain
forms of cancer is being carried out
by the Queensland Radium Institute (B.
27/3/’46). Its scientific officers make
regular visits to clinical centres and sub-
centres as far north as Cairns, and sup-
plies of radon, a radio-active gas manu-
factured from radium at the Queensland
University, are distributed as required.
Use of radon on patients does not neces-
sitate their detention in hospital during
continuous treatment, as is the case with
radium, and during last year some 5000
in-patient days were saved by its means.
Radon ointment, for treatment of chronic
ulcers and radio-active phosphorus, a
valuable agent in the treatment of certain
dangerous blood conditions, are also pro-
vided by the Institute. The incidence of
skin-cancers on exposed surfaces is higher
in Queensland than in any other State,
but with present-day treatment by radium,
radon and X-ray cure is practically cer-
tain if the condition is not too far ad-
vanced when treatment is begun. A
recent addition to the Institute’s stock of
radium —weighing one-ninetieth part of
an ounce and costing £2400 —has now
enabled Queensland’s radon output to be
increased to a record figure among the
States.
**. * *
“Junius Jr,”: The customer beside me
was buying a tube for his fountain-pen,
and the shop assistant was explaining
how to attach it to the nib-holder. “Get
a bobby-pin from your wife,” she ex-
plained, “put it in the opening and open
it out; then you will be able to slide the
holder into it.” The customer considered
this gravely for a few moments. Then
he spoke. “That’s not much good to
me,” he said. “I’m not married.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Bill, recognised as
one of the most capable agriculturists in
our district, where he was managing a
prosperous farm for years prior to the
war, amazed us on his discharge by
announcing his intention of going into
partnership with Ted Towney. “Good
Lord,” Tom pointed out, “he’ll ruin you.
He’s had three farms in ten years, and
went broke on all of them. You couldn’t
teach that bloke to farm.” “That’s so,”
sighed Bill. “But he’s a returned man,
too, and having'once owned a farm he’s
eligible for one under the rehabilitation
scheme. I’ve never owned a farm, so
I’m not. My only chance is to carry
him until I can buy him out.” We finished
our drinks in silence, pondering the
wisdom of the bureaucrat to whom a
farmer is one whom accident once cast in
the role of landowner.
* * * *
“Wash”: Yes, it’s fairly easy to run
into Australians anywhere from Tierra
del JFuego to the Sea of Okhotsk and areas
east and west (B. 3/4/’46), but there’s
one place still that is fairly free of ’em.
Bellevue Hill (Sydney).
“Trooper 0.W.W.”: Shafto, who ran
the picture shows in Egyptian camps (B.
13/3/ ’46), was certainly an Australian. He
sold his chain of camp cinemas (about
450) to Ensa about 18 months ago, and
has since gone into the racing game,
having nags in the money in Cairo
and Alexandria. Known far and wide
as Shufti Shafto, he must have made a
fortune from his picture shows, mere
canvas-covered skeletons, but he often
suffered losses at the hands of dissatisfied
patrons. I’ve seen chairs set on fire Jby
Kiwis, disgusted with frequent break-
downs caused by careless Gyppo opera-
tors. Reels were apt to be shown
in wrong sequence* and the result
was often a rain of chairs, with
nasty results to the screen. Those Gyppo
employees must have caused Shufti
many grey hairs. But his Arab jockeys
may worry him more in the long run.
♦ * * *
“Findy”; During the Spanish Civil
War much was heard of the activities
of guerrillas, and when the Nazis
swarmed into Russia the word was at first
used to designate the unofficial bands
that operated behind the German lines in
captured territory. Before long the word
“partisans” was resurrected. It is a color-
less word, meaning originally no more
than an adherent or member of a party,
but it was immediately seized with de-
light by the popular press, and particu-
larly by the boys of the Left. Towards
the end of the war “partisans” were
credited in the cables with military
achievements out of all proportion to the
part irregular forces could possibly play
in the liberation of Europe: the im-
pression given by some writers was that
the main task of the Anglo-American
armies was to take charge of the
prisoners captured by the partisans. In
whatever country the partisan was photo-
graphed he always gave the clenched-
fist salute and managed to work a
hammer-and-sickle flag into the picture.
Stalky Dunsterville, who died the other
day, must have grinned every time he
read the word. In 1918 when he was in
Baku the “partisanski” were the Russian
soldiers who refused to accept the Bol-
shevik invitation to lay down their arms,
and continued to fight on the Allied side
after the Reds had accepted the humiliat-
ing terms of Brest-Litovsk.
HORSE AND HOUND.
“I must confess that I know very little about
horseracing, nor have I any profound understanding
of the influence it exerts, to the national advantage,
on the improvement of the horse as an animal.”
—Lord Nuffield.
When homeward from the racing game’s mis-
chances
You just a bit disconsolately go,
With whatsoever gap in your finances
Attests the handiwork of Ikey Mo;
When fickle prads you’d confidently taken
For certain winners have upset your plans,
Not only failing to bring home the bacon
But ending up among the also rans;
Here’s something that should lighten your de-
jection
And serve to take the sting from your re-
morse :
The solace to be found in the reflectioh
You’re helping to improve the breed of Horse.
’Tis through your aid, and that of countless
others,
Worthy successors may be found perhaps
For great Eclipse himself, and sires and mothers
For future Carbines and unfoaled Phar Laps.
Each humble dollar staked, each ticket toted,
Whate’er return it promises or brings,
Means something for the business denoted
Among it's votaries the Sport of Kings.
Whether you watch the bookie who dispenses
Cash, or the punter heading for the knock,
Never forget that both are influences
For the improvement of our equine stock.
And should you seek a canine exhibition
Of pace and skill, and do your good brass in
Where the long dogs, in frantic competition,
Tear like tornadoes after hares of tin,
There’s little point in grumbling or repining;
Keep in remembrance, as you surely should,
The darkest cloud may have a silver lining,
It’s an ill wind that blows to no-one’s good.
Take heart from the legitimate conclusion
Whatever sum you’re out, in bobs or pounds,
May be regarded as a contribution
Towards the speed and stamina of hounds.
How many smug reformers one might mention,
Whose zeal for human welfare never ends,
Are apt to give inadequate attention
To man’s most firm and tried and trusted
friends 1
I drink confusion to the base detractors
Who never think to look behind the scenes
To gauge the motives of the benefactors
Of our four-footed galloping machines.
And here’s a health to those who throng our
courses
And hazard monetary jolts and jogs
To help improve the calibre of horses
And stimulate the speeediness of dogs!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Running a business on a
very short allowance of English has
its difficulties. Three foreigners have
brought about a reformation in a small
cafe where now good food, cheap prices,
cleanliness and courtesy are working up
popularity. Gus, the waiter, said as I
seated myself “The ros’ biff is ros’ feal,”
and, as I like veal, I ordered some. Gus,
a bit embarrassed by a question why
the joint had been wrongly programmed,
admitted with a shamefaced laugh “Feal?
I cannot spell heem.” He dragged from
his pocket another crumpled menu which
was headed by “Feal.” A customer had
laughed, and Gus had provided a sub-
stitute menu. It wasn’t much better. The
main joint was “Rost Biff.”
* * * ♦
“C.Q.”: Very few politicians ever give
the impression that they are really inter-
ested in what they are saying, but ex-
Premier Albert Dunstan, of Victoria, is
an exception. In the course of a long
speech on his pet aversion, uniform taxa-
tion, there was a tinkle, and it was
noticed that the spectacles he had recently
adopted were absent from his massive
visage. Albert continued speaking. A
few minutes later he bent down, picked
up the two pieces and placed them on the
table without noticing they were broken.
“T. McN”: When Ashfield (Sydney)
Council found that a bunch of people
had invaded a property which it had ac-
quired for use as a baby clinic it promptly
dispatched its own officials and police
to retake the place. The “squatters”
took one look at the approaching forces
of law and fled incontinently, leaving
behind three children, the eldest aged
four, whose mother had left them there
while she went away for some clothing.
The Law, finding the children, could
think of nothing better than to hand
them over to the Child Welfare Depart-
ment, which necessitated the distracted
mother having to make application for
their recovery the next day. She got
them, of course, but she’s unlikely to be
misled into such adventures again or to
trust the bold words of people brave
enough in the abstract but likely to bolt
at the first sight of a uniform.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The penchant of petty offi-
cials for ordering people to do things
without even a “Please” certainly seems
to be increasing, but Melbourne Board
of Works- is an exception. The other
day I received an epistle anent arrears of
tates wkigh \yas so politely, pleasantly
“I’m dying for the next coal strike so I can use them!"
and touchingly worded that my cheque-
book was out before I finished. The
board says that I’m not the only customer
its new policy has thus affected. Bureau-
crats please note!
¥ * V *
“Sixenate”: It happened in a suburban
Court. Three times the charge had been
read with the finish “Howjer plead, guilty
or not guilty?” and three times the
defendant had started off with “You see,
yT Honor, it’s this way.” On the third
occasion he was cut short with a sharp
“Shurrup!” The irritated magistrate
may have been dozing—the atmosphere
was heavy and hot—or he may have
thought momentarily that he was at
home, having an argument with his
missus ; a sort of shudder ran through
the Court and it collectively held its
breath. Then his Worship remembered
himself, mumbled an apology and actually
got the required brief answer from the
defendant, apparently shocked by the sen-
sation in the Court. In the Court pre-
cincts the Bench’s outburst was discussed
with the suggestion that it might be re-
ported to the Department of Justice.
“He’s a good bloke,” remarked a rough
character who comes regularly to be fined
for civic breaches ; “if anybody reports
him, he cops a punch on the nose
from me.” I’m prepared to bet that there
is no report.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: “T.P.” asks if there
is a gag that is newly minted (B.
27/3/ ’46). Many years ago I thought I
really was on to one at Melbourne Tiv.-
I have heard it often since—when a pie-
faced comedian gave the one about the
English suffragette telling an audience
that there was very little difference be-
tween men and women. “Hurrah for the
little difference,” shouted a male voice.
When I got home I happened to take
down a first edition of Maupassant’s Sur
Mer and read the same story in a foot-
note solemnly introduced to show the
"Tell my dear public this is just another police frame-up."
quality of English humor. And the
Frenchman himself was quoting.
« * * *
“Bo”: He was obviously a philistine:
he didn’t have long, dank hair to throw
back in a theatrical gesture; he didn't
wear brown suede shoes without socks,
nor velveteen trousers with a yellow shirt;
he carried no ostentatious satchel. In
short, he was an ordinary bloke, who had
wandered into the latest modem “art”
exhibition. As he stood back, gazing at
one polychromatic mess on the wall, his
grin roused the resentment of a group who
were discussing the various interpretations
of the masterpiece. It was the perpe-
trator of the nightmare who demanded
to know what the onlooker didn’t like
about his picture. “Well,” said the phil-
istine pointing, “what are those two
objects in the middle distance supposed
to be?” The artist took a look. “Why!”
he declaimed scornfully.,- “Anyone can
see they’re emus.” “Well, they look more
like eagles to me,” retorted the philistine.
“Well, eagles then,” said the artist un-
abashed. “Is that all you can find to
cavil at?”
* * * *
“Arpeos”; In July, ’42, our convoy left
Brisbane for New Guinea. With the
Aussie coast rapidly becoming a hazy
line in the distance, our “loot” thought
this as good a time as any for demon-
stration of his reckless, rollicking nature.
“Take a good look at the Queensland
coast, lads,” he boomed dramatically;
“it’ll be a blanky long time before you
see it again.” Gunner Smith, a tough
M.E. veteran, completely spoilt the effect.
“I don’t care if I never see it again,” he
said, spitting contemptuously; “I’m a)
West Australian.”
* * * *
“Donald Mac”: Youth’s latest diver-
sion is multi-colored neckties, and seeing
them for the first time is a bewildering
experience. Red meteors flash across
yellow-starred blue heavens; a brown
eagle dives relentlessly upon a black
rabbit crouching beside a yellow cactus
growing in a bright yellow desert, and
reds, yellows, greens, blues and whites
combine to form a pattern seemingly de-
signed by a madman. One sample features
dusky maidens, clad in grass skirts and
leis, leaning seductively against palm-
trees, while another shows wineglasses,
beermugs, dice and playing cards: “The
Road to Ruin.” For punters there is
a tie on which riding whips, jockeys’
caps and horses’ heads are worked. I
have managed to tolerate the “modernis-
ing” of the classics and all the rest, but
this — W ell, maybe I’m getting old.
* * * *
“Weff”: My adjutant, an unconven-
tional chap, hearing I had worked on a
newspaper summoned me into his pres-
ence and remarked “You re the man I
need: I want you to brighten up our
routine orders. They’re too dull. Avoid
military jargon and put some pep in
them.” He tossed me a folder of papers
and ordered me to go ahead. I proceeded
to churn out something new in the way
of R.Os. and handed the result to the
orderly-room sergeant for passing to the
adjutant. Instead the zebra handed them
to the C.O. for the old chap’s signature.
Next I heard the adjutant being carpeted.
“Mr, Mulligatawny,” roared the boss,
“what on earth is this tomfoolery?” “To-
morrow’s routine orders, sir,” responded
Capt. M. “X got a newspaper chap work-
ing in the Q. store to give them a jour-
nalistic flavor.” “But, confound it, Mr.
M-,” stormed back the C. 0., “we don’t
have to sell our R.Os. Tell the R.S.M.
to put your man on fatigue duties.” Mul-
ligatawny consoled me with a volume
of Yeats from his own library, but I
still had to peel the spuds.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Not one horse but a
dozen were transported by air long before
the date mentioned by “Chevroford” (B.
20/3/’46). For' the first picnic races at
Wau the neddies were flown from Lae.
It was a great day for Wau, and there
were a fancy-dress ball and pictures
at night. Highlight of the picture pro-
gramme was an advertisement flashed on
the screen prior to the main feature. The
central figure was a movie actor who had
sojourned briefly on the Wau field and
had left a trail of debts there as in other
places ; the advertiser was an indignant
dentist who invited the populace to note
the teeth displayed by the hero —made
for him by Fangs and never paid for.
* V * *
“C. G. Salis”: It is true, as “Jasby”
writes (B. 20/3/’46), that Hitler and
Mussolini remained in power in spite of
the satiric efforts of the world’s press,
but that doesn’t mean that the attacks
had no effect on the victims. The effects
of ridicule depend upon the sensitivity of
the person aimed at, and megalomaniacs
seem to be more sensitive to ridicule
than ordinary folk, Napoleon was par-
ticularly thin-skinned. After the Treaty
of Amiens he made repeated efforts to
have British critics brought to book. In-
formed that English law did not permit
the suppression of newspapers, he invoked
what he called the “law of nations” to
give him protection against inky barbs.
Apparently it didn’t occur to him to re-
frain from reading the things. De-
tailed histories of the last decade will
probably record that Napoleon’s latest
imitator was likewise stung almost to
frenzy by the ridicule of foreign
journals.
* * * *
“Seaforth”: Before the war one of my
many acquaintances was a well-dressed
chap in the mid-forties, an Anzac who
would spin one incredible yarn after
another regarding happenings on Gal-
lipoli and in France. He had the air of
an actor, a superb voice and a flair for
putting together a well-constructed story
with a smooth surprise ending. My drink-
ing crowd grew a little weary of his narra-
tives, and he drifted into another circle.
Day after day we would catch snatches of
the old yarns with which he had monopo-
lised the time between drinks at our end
of the bar. Then he disappeared, and it
was not until weeks after that Mavis, the
barmaid, told us that he had died sud-
denly. She produced a newspaper clip-
ping, which, quoting an authoritative
source, informed us that he had a dis-
tinguished war record and was entitled to
wear two decorations for bravery. Yet,
strangely, never once had he mentioned
to us any act of gallantry on his part,
and none of us knew of his medals.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Many an old hemp-and-
canvas seaman will heave a sigh for the
passing of the Huia, now on what will
probably be her last voyage between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand ports. A top-
sail schooner, built in New Zealand over
50 years ago and owned by Imperial
Chemical Industries, she has been carry-
ing timber and explosives between Aus-
tralian ports since 1930, with occasional
visits to her native waters. Her graceful
lines and beautifully-balanced spread of
well-cut canvas reveal the exceptional
speed which, in 1913, brought her the
record run of four days and six hours
from Sydney to Maoriland.
“Pawang”: A former Sydney police
inspector, who had several years experi-
ence of sailing ships, was on to a good
thing when he said that delinquent boys
should be sent to sea instead of to refor-
matories. The State, he added, could
finance the ships with some of the money
wasted on schools, where boys learnt
more about vice than they knew when
they went there. Captain Cook himself
said that he discovered Australia with as
bad a pack of ruffians as could be picked
up anywhere; but those wild and drunken
seamen always rose to the occasion in a
crisis. Still, all commanders aren’t Cap-
tain Cooks.
THE BORDERLINE LABOR REP.
(After Masefield.)
I must go down to the polls again when a few
short months go by, . . , .
And all I ask is an open go and a stirring hust-
And?Idck like a mule’s and a voice that’s
strong to set Big Business quaking
When I shake my fist at the capitalist—arrived
or in the making.
I must so down to the polls again, but the seat
where I fain would bide
Is a rickety borderline affair, it cannot be
denied. , , ,
So all I ask to help the task that 111 be soon
rehearsing ...
Is not to be blamed too much for Ward’s wild
words or Calwell’s cursing.
I’ve got to face the music again, to shoulder
my share of the strife
With the crowd that’s out for Dedman’s gore
and in Evatt has got its knife,
And all I pray is not to be scrapped, tossed out
for a foot-loose rover,
Damned for the company I keep, when the day
of reckoning’s over.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
“Fitz”; In his story of the Red
Page “Redfem” (B. 3 / 4/ ’46) overlooked
the fact that its foundation in 1896 coin-
cided with the removal of The Bulletin
from 24 Pitt-street, occupied for 15
years, to 214 George-street. The
paper’s new quarters had housed a
N.S.W. Postal Department store, and the
ground floor was given over to the then
George-street North post office. Next
door on the southern side was the Royal
Albert Hotel, but it was mostly at the
Queen’s Arms, conducted by Lawrence
McGrath, at the corner of George and
Dailey streets, that the staff foregathered
at the end of the day’s work. The Queen’s
Arras later changed its name to The Star,
and under the management of William
Snudden was the most popular rendezvous
in town for writers and black-and-white
artists. In the ’nineties George-street
North was thickly populated with
Chinese merchants, and J. F. Archi-
bald and James Edmond could gaze
out of their windows at an almost
Oriental scene between the Naval Brigade
(now Newcastle) and Royal Palace (now
Brooklyn) hotels on the other side of the
street. Louis Esson write a memorable
verse about the surroundings wherein he
spoke of “This crooked street of motley
things, where, day and night, with colored
smells, the aliens take their saunterings.”
The Bulletin vacated its old six-storey
home at 214 for its present headquarters
at 252 George-street in November, 1931.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Gumsucker”: I remember in my
youth the Ferbers and the Burgesses giv-
ing exhibitions of riding bullocks and
steers. They always used a rope harness ;
a loop around the horns or the neck that
linked with a tight girthstrap. But even
with this those riders, professional horse-
breakers though they were, did not get
very far on the maddened, plunging kine.
So I take my hat off to “Rodeo’s” Mt.
Gambier cocky (B. 6/3/ ’46), who not only
rode his bull without controlling harness
of any kind, but also forced the lumber-
ing animal, by putting in the spurs, to
jump some half-dozen fences.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Possibly that wasp that
attacked “M.U.R.’s” “bottle-green beetle”
(B. 6/3/’46) was a pioneer in search of
new prey. For beetles to date have not
been listed among the living, but mori-
bund, contents of the wasp’s nursery
larder. Also, it is hardly likely that
once the wasp got any sort of a grip
on an accustomed prey it would let go.
It is one of Nature’s marvels that
the wasp should possess that accu-
rate knowledge of insect anatomy
which enables her, without relax-
ing her first grip, to bring the tip of her
abdomen forward between her legs and
insert the sting in exactly the right spot,
the main nerve ganglion, the insect’s
equivalent to the spinal cord. Equally
curious is the development of the wasp’s
own body which enables her so swiftly to
perform the operation—the threadlike
wasp waist, which allows of the flexible
abdomen performing a feat impossible to
any other species of insect.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The gins of the W.A.
Kimberleys had a better technique for
robbing the lady croc.’s nest than calling
in the local fire brigade (B. 6/ 3 / ’46).
On guard continuously, the lady croc, gets
so hungry that it doesn’t take much of a
prospect of a feed to lure her away tem-
porarily. So about a hundred yards
downstream a couple of old gins set up
a terrific yelling, at the same time beating
the water with their sticks. As soon as
the croc, disappeared to investigate, three
or four of the nimblest of the younger
married gins would slip in, and, uncover-
ing the eggs with their digging sticks,
start bagging them with all possible speed.
For it did not take overlong for the croc,
to realise that she was being fooled. Her
quick return might have been dangerous
to the nest-despoilers but for the line
of watchers posted all down the bank, the
little girls, safe up in the mangrove trees.
Sometimes the despoilers lingered scrap-
ing for eggs until the infuriated nest-
owner was quite close; but, fast as the
crocodile is held to be, she never had a
chance with those long, skinny bipeds,
who thought it rather a good joke to be
chased by an angry saurian.
* * * •
“Alpine Willie”: A native cat devas-
tated our chookhouse. Though fowls
roosting a couple of feet above the
ground were not taken, the duckies
and a lot of chickens went off
in a couple of nights. A few nights
later the culprit was caught in the yard.
Instead of retreating he advanced boldly
in the beam of the torch. He was
no larger than a rabbit. Usually a native-
cat will kill far more poultry in a night
than it can eat, continuing the killing
on successive nights till lack of chooks
or a trap ends the nonsense.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Captain Starlight
(B. 13/3/’46) never was in short trousers
or any other sort of trousers except in the
imagination of his creator, Boldrewood.
If my bushranging personalities are not
also mixed, Moonlight was the leading
character in the big'duffing venture that
was successful to the extent of the sale
of the cattle in Adelaide, but through the
rash inclusion of a white stud bull
brought disaster to the duffers in a case
which was tried in Roma (Q.). This
incident was attributed to the fictitious
Starlight and Marstons in Robbery Under
Arms. Incidentally, I have been repeat-
edly assured that one or another moun-
tain-wall-enclosed valley was the original
“Hollow” of Boldrewood’s yarn. Their
number is legion.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Scotty and I were walk-
ing with rifles tucked under our arms be-
cause the third party’s improving conver-
sation made the chance of a shot as likely
as modesty in a politician. “You fellows
are accustomed to hunting kangaroos,
which are large and conspicuous animals,
he was sayirfg, stumbling on the naked
rock and receiving a lusty quota of stabs
from a porcupine bush. “Now if you
were down south I could show you some
hunting that’d really try you. Hares, 1
mean. You’ve really no idea how per-
fectly they match their surroundings.
You’d walk past ten for every one you
saw. Why, one day I saw a chap—in an
open paddock, mind you—pass a hare in
the squat without seeing it, although it
was as near as that rock there” —-— With
an evident dislike of being pointed at
the rock got up and hopped away, and
the cove had learned that, although he s
considerably larger, a buck euro is mighty
inconspicuous unless you’re used to look-
ing for and recognising him.
“B. A. Ker”: Beyond noting that the
hare appeared to kick himself along with
his back legs when accelerating, I had
never, until recently, had the chance
to study its action. The opportunity
came after I’d disturbed one on the sand
dunes near Towradgie, South Coast
(N.S.W.). The loose sand recorded
the spoor perfectly, showing a gap of
four feet between each set of prints. While
I was marvelling that the animal could
travel in a series of four-feet jumps, a
closer examination revealed that the
bounds actually covered seven feet —
from fore feet to fore feet or hind to hind.
Where some fallen barbed wire made a
barrier the hare had cleared nine feet —
and that on loose sand! Back-tracking,
I discovered that although his normal
cruising gait is the familiar bunny hop—
both front legs going out together and
the back ones landing as a trotter’s would
—when racing the furred flier moves in
the aforesaid leaps but with legs moving
like a pacer: the only difference being
that three legs leave prints in a perfectly
straight line while the rear hind foot
(which alternates every bound) kicks an
inch or so outwards. Further tracking
showed that his Nibs had frisked down
to the surf during the night, apparently
gone into the water and come out some
yards further along the beach. About
a mile further along I found rabbit tracks
telling the same story. Obvious conclu-
sion is that the rodents enjoy a paddle,
because ieven bunny wouldn’t be silly
enough to try to drink sea water.
****
“W.E.N.”: At the close of the first
day of harvesting on old Charlie’s place
the men had washed the dust of the pad-
dock off with a swim in the dam. Charlie
seemed very quiet through the evening
meal, and his wife was beginning to won-
der what was troubling him, when he
suddenly burst out: “Youse blokes will
have to knock orf swimmin’ in that dam ;
the ’orses have to drink that water.” The
men protested that it would do the horses
no harm, and Mrs. Charlie upheld them
Just before breakfast next morning Mrs.
Charlie’s attention was attracted by loud
splashing outside the house. She went out
to find Charlie splashing around in the
house watertank. “If swimmin’ in the
dam won’t ’urt the ’orses,” he said belli-
gerently, “this won’t ’urt youse.”
**- * *
“GToper”: I can’t subscribe to
“Gravelsnatcher’s” idea (B. 27/2/’46) that
a passion for unremitting toil led to the
construction of those ancient wood-block
roads around Perth. They were laid by
convicts round about the middle of last
century, the material being the lopped
branches of big jarrahs; the trunks went
to build bridges and the roof-beams of
Perth’s venerable Town Hall. Mt. Eliza,
now King’s Park, is pockmarked with the
old saw pits, on which hundreds of such
logs were sliced into beams, scantling and
planks, which slid down the slopes to
the river below, to be floated down to
Fremantle, where, today, one may still
see the old traffic bridge, built by Gov,
John Stephen Hampton in the ’sixties.
The same constructive mind saw possi-
bilities in the fine boughs and branches
that otherwise would have been left to
rot. And reallv those Crown prisoners
didn’t have such a bad time sawing away
leisurely amid sylvan surroundings which
the present generation regards as one of
Australia’s choicest beauty spots. The
first woodblock road was laid around
the foot of the mount, merely a matter
of digging out about 9in. of sand and
laying the blocks side by side. The
Wanneroo-road came into being the same
way ; much of the timber used in the
construction of the Causeway across the
Swan also came from that direction.
* * * *
“Zake”: Know a fellow who, when-
ever his foxie has a litter, co-opts the
pups’ mother in selecting the best one.
He takes the litter some distance away
and lets the mother return them to the
kennel, noting the one she selects first.
He repeats this three or four times. She
will select the same one again for first
carry, and this, the one he chooses, proves
always the pick of the bunch. Dunno
whether this applies to other breeds.
* * * *
“C.E.”: When Sam discovered one of.
Kidson’s cows in his paddock he began
to roar, but ceased when he noticed a
big unbranded calf following along. In-
stead of dogging away the strays, he
allowed them to run in the paddock week
after week, even shepherding them back
when they got on to the road. With the
big vealer weaned and safely out of sight,
Sam sent word to the cattleman to come
and collect his cow. Accompanying the
request went an account for uncouple of
months’ grass and some minor damages.
Kidson arrived, listened sympathetically
to Sam’s tale of hardship and untiring
effort, paid up, and tried to drive his
animal homeward. The cow had fixed
ideas of her own. Kidson was losing out
badly when Sam came to the rescue with
the loan of a dog that would return
when the job was over. “Yair, an’ it jus’
shows y’ what some blokes’ll stoop t’,’
Sam told Bill the following week. “Me
lendin’ him old Rover like that f’r nothin ,
an’ yet, d’ y’ know?” —his eyes narrowed
suspiciously— ‘‘that dorg come back with-
out ’is collar.”
**' * *
“Dronestung”: Salt logs are always
interesting landmarks along a bush cattle-
track, and for the reader of tracks there
is news of the latest visits of cattle,
kangaroos and numerous animals which
make these their meeting places. Bees
are frequent callers, and, if the log holds
water after rain, it is relished as a water-
ing place for all hives within a mile or
so. What use Apis has for salt I don’t
know, making it available to an
apiary, with water, discourages the bees
from seeking the stuff in undesirable
places.
» » * *
“Dicky Beach”: Sceptics may scoff
about mere coincidence, but long experi-
ence has convinced me of the existence
of a definitely related sequence in the
autumnal sea-life of these S.Q. waters, for
which any rational explanation is still
lacking. Weather was normal during the
mackerel season from the New Year to
the end of February, but fishing for them
was largely a failure. What came along
remained mostly on the bottom,
and in very few instances were
the shoals of south-going
tiddlers, on which they feed,
even sighted. To the old hands
indicated that the hump-
back whales would be late in
their northward migration from
Antarctic to tropic waters, and
they are. When they are late
cyclonic blows may be expected
in late March, and the expecta-
tion has been fulfilled. The
fourth factor in the sequence is
a good season for sea-mullet
from April, and judging from
the flowering activity of the ti-
trees and the gathering mobs of
parrakeets coming to feed on
their honey this ought to be a
particularly good one. The abos.
knew these things for countless
centuries before white men ever
came to these shores, but why
should the sequence occur at
quite irregular intervals? A pos-
sible explanation might be the
intermittent absence of some
forms of marine animalcule which attract
the tiddlers, which attract the mackerel
and which might also attract the hump-
backs. But why mullet migration should
be affected by the degree of flowering
among ti-trees and how that is connected
with tiddlers, mackerel and whales has
me beaten,
* * * *
“James W.”: That tawny red hair on
-island natives doesn’t take much explain-
ing. If “H.A.L.” (B. 6/3/’46) can get
some natives to let him examine their
skull fungus he’ll find there never was
a Melanesian or any other darkie from
Tahiti to Tarakan whose hair was any-
thing but black. The red tinge is all on
the outside of the fuzzy mop and results
from the bleaching effect of the powerful
tropic sun. Natives who spend a lot of
time in salt water show more ginger tint
than others. Samuel, a lugger skipper
from Boigu, Torres Strait, had a huge
bronze thatch and a moustache as black
as pitch.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Creel” (B. 27/3/’46) is
right about seasnakes being lethal. All
of the nine or more species recorded
from Australian waters possess poison
glands and the kind of special teeth which
go with them. The outfit is used for
paralysing and killing the fish on which
they mainly feed. In most species the
mouth is too small to allow the fangs to
penetrate any wide surface, and when
taken out of the water the smallness of
their eye-pupils renders them blind, so
that they are unable to direct a fang-
strike. All recorded cases of bites by
them seem to have occurred in the
water. Yet in many of the Pacific
Islands native children catch seasnakes
L when bathing and use them as armlets or
necklaces without being bitten, although
specimens collected in this manner have
been identified as belonging to a proyenly
poisonous species. The largest species in
Australian waters is Distira (Astrotia )
grandis, recorded as ranging up to 7ft.
Sin. long. Gunther has, however, re-
corded a West Indian seasnake measur-
ing over 12ft.
THE TWO WHARVES.
Like old men yarning on a hotel verandah
The piles of the up-stream wharf lounge on the
tide.
They have all the leisure of the sea —time
To talk of parasite crabs, bright medals pinned
On their coat's to hide where cobra holes need
mending.
The splintered planking hurls the sunlight down
In shafts of green flame through the shaded sea
Where bream make home and north-bound
salmon rest.
A new construction of blueprints, concrete,
• steel,
Commands the deeper water to the south.
The rip of the tide slips cleanly through its
piles,
For no weeds dare to make such sleekness
home;
And it’s hard to tell where the road from the
city ends
Or the bitumen surface laid upon the decking
Of the pier begins, so subtle its - engineering.
Webbed fast in hawsers, ships from overseas
Lie, impotent, against its massive throat
And see their cargo greedily devoured
By trains and trucks, with only a drift of dust
From the city road to thank them for their ser-
vice.
They remember, the old men, knee-deep at low
water.
The day (was it sixty years ago?) they assembled
Raw ironbark recruits, an impressive company
The bullock teams conscripted from the hills;
And the years when wooden ships jostled be-
side them—
How they would watch the sails like a lost cloud
moving
Up-harbor before the wind. How long ago
That the barnacles came to stay and blinded
their eyes,
Those old men reeling on the water’s edge?
Though they; were wild in their youth, and the
town
Year by year shunned them and moved away
To the south, preferring the structure of con-
crete and steel,
They will loiter till death in the path of tides
unborn;
For there’s much of life to recall —the last sail
Like a seagull flying out of time for ever,
And the coming of coaling ships, a crow re-
turning.
Leaning above the flood, sunset and slag
Brimming the cupola of the western hills,
Those darkened pillars, looming on the flame,
Rise with the grandeur born of being old
As beacons charted on the course of time
To mark where men once paused to shape their
dreams.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


“Old-timer”: Old King Carter, a one-
time Victorian police sergeant at Mil-
dura, has been long gathered to his
fathers, but there are tales of him wher-
ever Murray men meet, notably about his
understanding of the bushmen. One of
them, McGinty, came down from the
Anabranch country one summer, chequed
up and bent on booze. He got the latter,
cheap wine from a saloon, and being
full of it and the things it induces, climbed
to the top of the iron water tower by
the railway bridge and walked round the
rim of the thing, with a 50ft. drop to the
ground on one side and 10ft. of water on
the other, chanting “Well hang King
Carter to a sour apple-tree.” Apprised of
the intention, King gathered a couple of
his constables and a tarpaulin, four fire-
men and sundry small boys and dogs,
mounted the tower and pushed McGinty
off into the tarp. Two days later, when
McGinty was sobered. King took him to
the tower and made him climb the ladder
and view the 4in. rim around which he’d
been performing. McGinty came thought-
fully down the ladder and said “Listen,
King, what was I fined?” “Ten bob,”
replied King. McGinty looked up at the
tower again, turned slightly pale and said
“Did I have any money on me?” “Yes,
seven-pound-fourteen. It’s at the station.”
“You keep it there,” begged McGinty,
“till I get back to Tolpra; then send it
on. I’ll be safe then.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”; A fiercer gust of the
cyclonic blow roared above Old Joe’s
sheltered hut just after I looked in to see
that he was all right. “Forgot to look at
the barometer,” I said. “It must be get-
ting somewhere near the turn now.” “Bur-
rummiters?” snapped the old chap.
“Wouldn’t ’ave one o’ them there fakeuses
about jthe place. Dangerous damn’ IlhingS)
—oughter be forbid by law. Look wot
’appened ter me brother ’Enry. One day
’e sees a picture o’ one o’ them in a
catalogue an’ writes down ter Brisbane
an’ gets it sent up. Cost ’im near two
quid. Cornin’ back with it in the jinker
it starts ter rain, and o’ course ’Enry
takes a squint at the thing. It’s pointin’
ter Fair, an’ ’Enry gets so mad that ’e
’olds the dinkus out an’ ses ‘Look, yer
“There it is, Mumma. Nice and handy to
the 'bus!”
blanky fool, an’ see fer yerself.’ ’E gets
it ’ome an’ sticks it up on the wall, an’ it
still keeps at Fair, though it’s rainin’ cats
an’ dogs. Next day it clears up, but the
flamin’ burrummiter goes round ter
Stormy, so ’Enry writes ter the place ’e
bought it from and
tells ’em wot crooks
they are ter sell ’im
a thing like that.
Just as ’e’s goin’ out
ter put the mare in
the jinker ter go in
an’ post it ’e takes
another screw at it,
an’ the flamin’ thing’s
pointin’ ter ’Eavy
Gales. ’Enry calls it
a lyin’ blankard,
drives the ten mile
inter the township,
posts the letter, ’as a
few beers an’ drives
back. Wot’s ’e find?
Why, a flamin’ willy-
willy ’ad bin an’
blowed the flamin’
’ouse down, burrummiter an’ all. That
shows yer wot them thingsll do.”
« * * *
“Munja”: Can understand the Island
boongs knowing how to “top” their pro-
duce (B. 20/3/ ’46), but who taught the
wild Kimberley (W.A.) abos. the gentle
art of the itinerant city fruit barrow-
men? Watching Binghi bowl over man-
grove crabs of dinner-plate size, some of
our mob, by signs, gesticulation and a
brief peep at 2oz. tins of tobacco, indi-
cated they wanted a swag of the big
crustaceans. The tribe weny into a huddle,
sent two of their number into -the scrub
for a paper-bark basket and started put-
ting crabs into the container. 'As the abos.
milled around, we were prevented from
getting a close look, but counted 22 of
the monsters into the basket. The boss
coon then modestly demanded six tins
of tobacco, eventually accepting two after
exhausting arm-waving on both sides.
Returning triumphantly to camp, we
quickly boiled a kero.-tin of water and
gingerly levered the top two big fellows
into the tin. Further levering produced
blobs of foetid swamp mud but no crabs.
Examination of the basket revealed how
the stunt had been worked. A hollow
cylinder only, the bottom had been
blocked with a stone, filled up with smelly
mud and “topped” with two crabs. When
the patrol returned, breathing battle,
murder and sudden death, Binghi had left
for parts unknown.
♦ * * *
“B 4”: We were loafing scallies past
the sugar-experiment station near Mackay
(N.Q.). One side of this plantation was
flanked by reedy lagoons from which
swarms of ’coots issued at night and
played havoc with the young cane. To
reduce their depredations a battue was
arranged, cartridges provided. Cabs, carts,
buggies and sulkies spilled sports, dogs,
guns and lunch bottles, so we stopped to
see the circus. A whistle and heavy firing,
intermingled with shouts and yells,
roared from opposite sides of the dense
reed brakes, while bewildered duck and
teal whizzed, circled and plopped into
their hitherto placid sanctum. Fronting
a portly publican lay a dozen duck which
he averred were cane ’coots ; however,
he offered my mate and me a dollar to
retrieve and carry them up to a yellow
cab. In the back were a dozen bottles
of the best, but these my mate diagnosed
as cold tea; so, as we were thirsty, we
fairly exchanged six prime
ducks for half a dozen of
elixir and moved on. As
the only ’coots shot that
day wore trousers, we later
felt no misgivings as we
absorbed ambrosia and
downed roast duck.
* * *
“Bo”: Parker had taken
a job with Draper, of
Boobook, for the harvest-
ing. A rough idea of
Draper’s outlook on life
may be gauged by his in-
variable daily habit of
taking a long pole just be-
fore daylight and pushing
the fowls off the ridge-
capping of the harness-
shed where Parker slept—
it sent the hens betimes
about their legitimate busi-
ness for the day, while
the hr squawking and
scratching as they slid
down the roof served to
waken the inmate, who
might otherwise have
lazily snoozed on till
dawn. The first dinner
Parker had was a frugal
meal of a small bit of
mutton flap and pumpkin.
When he asked for more
Draper grabbed up his
plate, took it across to the
stove and said in his rasping voice:
“Here, missus, our boarder wants to
blow himself out and have to take
the afternoon off to digest it.” . On
the evening of the fourth day Parker
told Draper he was leaving and wanted
“This is the last o’ the ironbark, Joe. Next trip'll be eas y-on'y
bluegum left."
his four-days’ pay. “I couldn’t pay y’
for four days even if I wanted to—
National Security Regulations wouldn’t
let me,” said Draper surlily, “because y’
haven’t worked for me for four whole
days.” Parker said emphatically that he
had. “No, y’ haven’t,” maintained the
cocky. “Y’ ain’t done no corn huskin’
tonight, have y’? I’ll on’y pay y’ for
three days, thirteen hours —that’s all y’re
entitled to!”
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: Along the coastal plains
of the W.A. south-west the big wedge-
tail eagle is regarded as an interloper by
other members of the bird tribe. Should
one appear, animated with the idea of
picking up a cheap meal, all the other
birds of the air rise with such a clamor
and a squabbling, such a foray of diving
and pecking, that the wedgie is glad
to take the shortest cut back to the hinter-
land which seems to be regarded as its
rightful pastures. Yet the coastal birds
tolerate another eaglehawk which in
ferocity far surpasses the lumbering
wedgie. Streamlined and implacable, the
larger fishhawk will go for anything,
smaller birds, rodents, flying fish, though
its choicest mark is the new-born lamb.
Let the mother ewe wander but a few
yards from her tottery offspring, and the
dun-colored demon will swoop down,
apparently from an empty sky, and with
two savage rips with its hooked beak
tear out its victim’s eyes. If left
undisturbed it will rip open the skull and
feast daintily on the tender brain. It
makes no attempt to carry its quarry off.
* * « • ,
“B 4”; Located on the flat Saxby River
country, N.Q., are a couple of shallow
depressions which often intrigued me.
Each contains a circular patch of water
about a furlong in diameter. Reeds and
water weeds do not flourish, and both
depressions are margined by dead timber
for about 100 yards. The limpid water
has a peculiar sweetish yet insipid taste.
Submerged trunks of gidyea present a
blackened and charred appearance, and
particles of sulphur may be seen adhering
to them. If one thrusts a pole down
through the porous fringe for about ten
feet and withdraws it after an hour’s
interval, the end inserted has been made
so hot by subterranean heat as to be
unbearable to the touch. Strangely
enough, ducks swarm on the surface dur-
ing “the wet,” but mosquitoes attack as
you try for a shot, their orchestra drown-
ing your curses as you gallop for the
shelter of a smudge fire previously built
to protect your prads.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: As part of the price of a
good season in this S.A. district there
are grasshoppers everywhere. Nearly
every crabhole has a swarm of tiny, big-
headed ’hoppers recently hatched from
eggs laid in the cracked ground. Else-
where you find them in every stage of
development and in every conceivable
mode of camouflage. There are velvety-
green chaps—their color and texture iden-
tical with those of the native spinach—
with a three-lobed hump that simulates
a leaf edge behind their heads. There
are green nymphs with terra-cotta
diamonds down their sides—just sufficient
color variety to break up the green mass
and make recognition by a bird difficult
from above. There are spotted and
streaked coves of various patterns ; the
usual colors are greens, yellows and
browns, jumbled up to make the
’hopper, when resting under the
foliage of a plant, just a part of the
leaves, stems and shadows. Then there are
winged and wingless forms that imitate
a piece of ferruginous sandstone or a
lump of the soft-purple slate so well that
only their movements render them visible.
Their instinctive reaction to danger seems
to be, in the case of adults, a leap into
the air and a short flight downwind, termi-
dating in a quick turn that allows thern
to land into the wind facing the
source of peril—that is, if the flight is
not interrupted by impingement against
a human face. Against the blighters is
ranged a valiant but too scanty army of
birds. The crows seem to take a
gloomy view of the swarming tucker.
Full-fed by mid-morning, Kelly sits on
a post and watches the ground without
making any attempt to feed, and, pre-
sumably, giving thanks that he wasn’t
born with green feathers.
« * * *
“Munja”: No matter how far “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 27 / 3 / ’46) asks “GToper” to
travel up the Swan River “hundreds of
black swans” are not to be seen —except
on the labels of the dead marines from
the Ascot Inn. I, too, was prepared once
to caper with joy when I saw a wide sec-
tion of the river below Guildford black
with moving specks. Swans? No, just
algae. The only place “swarming with
ducks” near the wilds of Belmont is the
duckpond at W.A.T.C. headquarters.
Though shooting is strictly verboten,
the mob had quite a few feeds of duck
eggs —and ducks —when the racecourse
was a military camp in the 1940 rookie
days. Duck-catching was simple ; gut
lines, hooks baited with bacon fat, a
quick jerk before the astounded duck
could quack and the fell deed was done.
'** * *
“Shamuseen”: Anent aids to voice
melody (B. 27/2/’46). Torres Strait island
Binghi credits the aubo, a species of native
fruit, with the ability to render him
miraculously tuneful. Before a “sing-
sing” bucks will devour a half-dozen
auboes and thereafter become vocal with
a Sinatra-esque frightfulness. The aubo
has an egglike shell; in odor, too, it re-
sembles henfruit of a six-months’ vintage.
Facing a quartet of aubo-inspired Binghis
is an ordeal to be avoided.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Surely there can be no
more generally useful plant than the bam-
boo. In the lands where it is most com-
mon it is the chief material for rural
buildings ; poles of varying thicknesses
are used for uprights, joists and beams
and, cracked at intervals an inch or so
apart, are flattened out like sheets of bark
for walls qnd flooring. Hollowed out, it
makes perfect piping, for it can be cut so
the thin end of one pole fits snug into the
butt of the next; and thus it will carry
a stream from a dam or a creek or a well
where the water was probably drawn
by a bucket on a long bamboo
lever. In the same way bamboo
makes endless fence rails, threaded
through heavy bamboo posts with
holes chopped between joints and
bound with thinner strips. The joint itself
is a wonderful arrangement. Besides its.
immense strength, it is the perfect plug
wherever you need it. Cut a section from
a thick pole, leaving a joint at one end,
and you have a bucket; do the same with
a slimmer piece and you have a vase ;
should you prefer a double-decker, cut
above the next joint and slice a piece out
of each side of the lower cylinder. With
the aid of a lathe such cylinders become
anything from chopstick cases to
canisters, according to width, with
neat lids. Bamboo is used for
carts, furniture and ladders —these
light and strong, but sportingly
springy. The young shoots are food,
and exquisite carvings are made on
seasoned, polished strips. For its weight
when dry no other vegetable approaches
bamboo for strength and resilience ; and
it flourishes on any waste or on banks,
which it will bind against erosion while
forming a breakwind for crops near by.
Usually associated with the tropics, it
still thrives among the snow-clad pines
of'Japan, so it could be grown in most
parts of habitable Australia. We doiflt
seem to have awakened to the potentiali-
ties of this hardy stranger. Anyone who
knows the East better than I do could
probably double my list of uses.
FOUNDATIONS.
[When I was a child no mother ever thought of
go ng to bed without turning all the smaller children
Elder ones got the order ‘‘Turn on your other
side,” and did it almost without waking.]
All life is one;
It knows nor high nor low.
So like the mother hen
That turns the eggs it site upon,
Before my pillow I uncover,
Into the children’s room I go,
And turn my babies over.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


s . : i ' /
i
Oj
A
<3^
■4M
/'
** 6 * c * ON CIVVV
'After six years’ total mobilisation in the fighting
services, it's yours again . . . that creamy COOLNESS,
that lingering, tingling freshness, and the same wilting
action on tough, wiry customers. There's a "spring
morning" in every Ingram shavel
I ''
M 1 St~~^
INGRAM’S
' SHAVING CREAM
At all Chemists
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
: i||
i
1!
mm
m
m
r **
»■ f 1
m
NON-FERROUS CASTINGS
WHERE ACCURACY IS ESSENTIAL
in the production of castings of Aluminium Alloy, Bronze,
Brass or Zinc, Wunderlich Limited are equipped to meet all
requirements. Aluminium Alloy Castings heat-treated to
specification, as required. Prompt delivery is guaranteed.
Architects and Builders will find the
craftsmen of Wunderlich Limited ready to employ their skill
in the fabrication of fine architectural metal-work—cast,
wrought or stamped—for the distinctive embellishment of
buildings now being planned.
c/cr/ir/i itec/,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Atom Bomb Still Secret.
(From “United States News.”)
U.S. officials are convinced that the
U.S. still holds exclusively the following
atom bomb secrets: The industrial pro-
cesses for mass production ; all the com-
ponents of the bomb, together with the
“trigger” to detonate it, and specific in-
formation on pressures, radioactivity, heat
and other data on the explosion which, if
known generally, might reveal the bomb’s
construction.
The theories necessary for releasing
atomic energy are known internationally.
In fact, practically all essential informa-
tion was supplied to the world by the
U.S, Army through release of the report
compiled by Dr. Henry DeWolf Smyth,
who was consultant for the Manhattan
district. But the Smyth report does not
tell how to make a bomb and explode it.
Meanwhile the atomic-bomb plants in
the U.S. are as tightly closed to visitors
now as they were in war-time.
Atomic scientists Scoff at the idea of
anybody’s stealing plans for the bomb. A
full set of plans would fill the hold of a
ship. They say that, if the Russian in-
formants were after information on tech-
nical processes in Canada, they were
wrong there, too. Only 12 Canadians
have knowledge of the technicalities, and
no one of them has all the information.
Church v. Communism.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” Rome
correspondent, Herbert L. Matthews.)
The greatest of all Consistories to name
new Cardinals, which ended on February
22, was an extraordinary religious mani-
festation, but its political repercussions
may well prove of greater historic im-
portance to the world than its religious.
In his allocution Pope Pius XII issued
a call to action ; he had done so last
December, to all practical purposes, when
he named enough Cardinals from all
parts of the world far to outnumber the
Italian Cardinals in the College of Car-
dinals. It was noticed that the Catholic
Church was going to call upon its univer-
sality to strengthen it in the critical strug-
gle which lies ahead.
Cardinals are like generals of the
Church Militant directing the faithful,
who, in the Pontiff’s words, “are in the
frontline of the Church’s life.” Now
there is Cardinal Agagianian, the Arme-
nian Patriarch, placed at the key point
where Russian pressure upon the Middle
East is strongest. Kars and Ardahan,
Syria and Lebanon—names which figure
prominently in the news these days—are
under his religious command. Cardinal
Mindszenty, in Hungary, has already be-
come a focal centre of resistance against
Communism.
Cardinal Sapieha of Poland, newly
created, like Cardinal Hlond, previously
created, will live and work in a nation
controlled by Communists and subser-
vient to the Soviet Union, but one whose
people are profoundly Catholic. Many
of those Polish Catholics now find them-
selves Soviet citizens, for they live east
of the Curzon Line,
Everywhere in Europe new and old
Cardinals will represent social and
religious forces contrary to Communism.
One must not either overemphasise or
underestimate the relationship between
the rapidly strengthening Catholic politi-
cal parties of Europe and the Vatican,
but it is highly significant that the
Catholic party made such great gains in
the Belgian elections. It means much
that Italy has a Christian Democrat
Premier with a party behind him that
would undoubtedly today come out
strongest if elections were held. The
Foreign Minister of France is a member
of the Catholic party, and everywhere in
central Europe Catholic political forces
are increasing in power.
It is worth noting carefully that the
Pope in his allocution particularly con-
demned “modern imperialism” and
policies of “unbridled expansion” based
upon demands for security. This was un-
doubtedly aimed at the Soviet Union, and
one should note also how it places the
Catholic Church in line with the majority
of Western thought, which is seeking in
the U.N.O. and outside to stem this out-
ward pressure of the Soviet Union.
The Pontiff also condemned the theory
that the Big Three or any such small
group of big Powers should dominate the
smaller nations. This, too, was pre-
dominantly aimed at Moscow, although
quite possibly also at Washington and
** i ' . ■ . T j
possibly to a lesser extent at London.
There were strictures against forced
repatriations and deportations which
On his visit to Canada Herbert
Morrison, Lord President of the
Council, was talking very freely at
a press interview when a cautionary
note was passed to him reminding
him that there were Russian news-
papermen present. Undisturbed, the
London Cabinet Minister con-
tinued to develop his thought and
ended it with the crisp statement:
“The English people will not stand
for regimentation. A democracy
is not a democracy when a man
cannot stand up at the corner of
the street and tell his Government
to go-to hell.” —Ottawa correspon-
dent, N.Y. “Times.”
could only have been directed against
the policies of the Soviet Union, Yugo-
slavia and the Warsaw Government, who
all demanded that their political oppo-
nents either be forced to return home or
be allowed to fend for themselves without
help.
So you have there two great forces
lined up against each other, and this Con-
sistory was the most striking visible sym-
bol of opposition that has been seen
since the Communist Manifesto led Pius
IX to issue his first condemnation of.
Marxism.
The Soviet Union now directly controls
millions of Catholics in Lithuania, Latvia,
eastern Poland and Ruthenia. According
to the Vatican, there is active persecution
of Roman Catholics in Croatia, Ruthenia
and perhaps elsewhere.
It is w&r and open war, and this Con-
sistory is a formal mobilisation for the
struggle. But one must remember that
the Church is for peace on earth and
reconciliation. If there should be a
change in international Communist policy
that would make some political and diplo-
matic relationship or truce possible, it
would be wrong to think that the Vatican
would reject a friendly advance from
Moscow.
The Holy See cannot be expected, how-
ever, to make those advances herself. It
would mean derogation of her principles,
and there is always that comfortable feel-
ing which the Catholic Church has that
empires and political movements come
and go but the Church goes on for ever.
However, can one imagine Stalin going
to Canossa?
Hopeless Palestine Job.
(From a report by London “Times" Jerusalem
correspondent.)
Unless there is a great change of heart
on one or both sides, there is little pros-
pect of peace in the Holy Land.
That is the depressing but inescapable
conclusion after hearing the uncompro-
mising, indeed bellicose, addresses of the
principal Arab and Jewish speakers be-
fore the Anglo-American Committee of
Inquiry. The solitary voice of Dr.
Magnes, pleading for moderation and co-
operation, friendship and abnegation,
heard with suspicion by the Arabs and
with derision by too many Jews, was in
such contrast that one must hope he was
right in claiming that he echoed the view
of a great number of the people of Pales-
tine.
The committee, in spite of some attacks
on its ability and impartiality, seemed
both able and fair. That its members
have penetrated beneath the propaganda,
the emotion and the too-frequent evasion
of difficult questions has been obvious.
They are not to be envied in their task


!m
18-vi
rill
im
Mi
»W
''V
IMW--
%
'fo^mss^Sm
-SLr* H
m
'
“Knowledge is of two kinds, we eitKer Kave it ourselves or we
know wliere to find it from others.”/—Dr. Samuel Johnson.
A shrewd analysis from the lips of
the immortal Doctor^—true enough
in tKe calm of pre-industrial England
and of greater significance in tKese
days of specialised knowledge.
We at Babcock are specialists in our
knowledge of thermal engineering.
Our beginnings were rooted in tKe
pioneering days of tKe simple Kand-
fed, low temperature and pressure
boiler. In tKe passing decades, our
engineers followed tKe path of world
industrial expansion, studied tKe
behaviour of foreign fuels, climates
and operating conditions, installed
Babcock boilers throughout the
world and, supported by the research
of chemists, metallurgists and en-
gineers in Babcock laboratories,
amassed the knowledge which en-
abled us to develop the modern high
temperature and pressure boiler to
an unprecedented peak of economy
and efficiency.
Tbis knowledge is available to solve
your specific steam problems; we
shall be happy to co-operate with
you.
BABCOCK k WILCOX
iinmiii
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies In all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . ,
work to common purpose with our
British organisation , . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
s /•, hi i< i. or nI u o. iic a Hon.r.R M T ■.
mi/nm
0)
is
oO
*0
Vt!
min
4 QtA
HIVB
*Good Mornings 9 begin
with Gillette
You emerge from the bathroom
With schoolboy complexion
All smiling and sunny
And shaved to perfection.
4/126
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents:
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
of trying to dissect the stuff that dreams
are made on.
Both sides have announced that they
cannot be bound by any decision un-
favorable to them. They have defied
each other. The stress under which they
labor is tremendous. Feelings are intense,
and diametrically opposed claims are
being urged uncompromisingly.
Any conceivable solution must seem
unacceptable to one if not to both parties,
and will probably be bound to result in
the emergence of irreconcilable groups,
who will direct all their energies to up-
setting the solution and trying to force a
readjustment in their favor. It might be
wondered if this is the time for a solu-
tion” which, it seems clear, would have
to be imposed by the firm and relentless
use of force.
Headaches for Soviet
Planners.
(From a “ Harper’s Magazine” article by Peter
F. Drucker .)
Even if Russia should try in the five
years ahead merely to restore her
economy to the pre-war level, the task,
would be prodigious. But the latest Five-
year Plan provides for a considerably
expanded production—and not of con-
sumer goods but of capital goods. This
makes the task herculean. For the war
has not only largely undone her previous
achievements but has confronted her with
new and pressing difficulties. She is now
forced to solve her labor problem all
over again, under circumstances in which
her former methods either will not work
at all or else will be much harder to
app!y.
To begin with, the war has decimated
the Russian industrial labor force which
had been built up so painfully during the
previous 15 years. The industrial workers
were the largest single group of military
age in Russia, most of them being be-
tween 25 and 35 years of age; they were
also the physically fittest and the best-
trained group. Hence they furnished the
bulk of Russia’s combat troops and ac-
People in U.S. aren’t to sacrifice to
aid starving people abroad. After relief
commitments are met U.S. civilians will
have left: Meat enough to supply 150 lb.
per capita, against 126 before the war;
wheat-flour amounting to 157 lb. per
capita, against 153 in pre-war; whole
milk in amount of 810/6.,’ against 801
before the war; eggs numbering 365 per
person for the year, against 300 before
the war; butter will be scarce at around
10 lb., but it isn’t being shipped; fats
and oils will amount to 42.5/6. per per-
son, against 48 in pre-war. U.S. con-
sumers. on an average, will have 3360
calories of food per person, while hun-
dreds of millions abroad will be lucky
to get 1500. The idea that U.S. is to
skimp to feed others is promoted to
make people abroad think that some-
thing realty is being done for them; is
to promote self-satisfaction at home.
Actually, U.S. people will sacrifice to the
extent of a tinge of color in their bread.
—"United Stales News."
counted for a very large proportion of
Russia’s staggering battle casualties.
In addition, the Nazis, in their deporta-
tion of Russians to forced labor in Ger-
many, singled out industrial workers and
farm mechanics, partly because they
needed trained men for their factories,
partly because they wanted to weaken
Russia permanently. And even those
workers who survived the horrors of the
Nazi labor camps will not be fit physi-
cally and nervously for sustained indus-
trial work for a long time to come. Ac-
cording to Russian estimates which seem
fairly reliable, no more than 10 or 12
million out of a pre-war total of close
to 20 million workers are available im-
mediately for employment in industry,
transportation and public utilities.
The new Five-year Plan needs an in-
dustrial force considerably larger than
that of pre-war days. t Much of the work
to be done is construction work, which is
labor-consuming even with the most
modern equipment—and the Russians
lack this. Also, a good deal of the work
is to be carried on in new regions, such
as the central and far east, where living
and transportation facilities have to be
provided before actual construction can
start. To offset the war losses and to
provide for the new expansion as many
as 15 or 20 million new workers may be
needed.
But there is no longer any surplus
labor on the farms. On the contrary,
Russian agriculture suffers from a man-
power shortage just as much as Russian
industry. It is not so much the loss of
life which is responsible as the almost
complete destruction of mechanised
equipment, especially tractors, which
cannot be replaced for several years at
the earliest. Manual labor will have to
take its place to produce the absolute
minimum of food. Hence returning Rus-
sian prisoners-of-war have been put to
work on the farms even if they had been
industrial workers before the war. We
also know that Russia postponed the be-
ginning of the demobilisation of her
armed forces until October, 1945, because
the men were needed for the harvest.
Where then will the millions of new
workers come from who are needed in
non-agricultural employment if Russia is
to expand industrially?
The war has also largely destroyed the
consumer goods industries which supplied
the pre-war population with the essen-
tials of life. As most of these industries
were located in western Russia, especi-
ally around Moscow, Odessa and Kiev,
the main industrial centres of Tsarist
Russia, they have been razed twice —first
by the retreating Russians in 1941, then
by the retreating Germans in 1943 and
1944.
But the question—a big question-
regarding the latest Five-year Plan is
this: Will the Russian people be satisfied
with minimum subsistence supplies, or
will they demand a higher standard of
living? All through the pre-war years
the incredible sacrifices which the people
were asked to make were justified by the
promise of abundance and plenty once
Russia had become strong enough to
withstand a war. Now that this war has
been won at the price of even greater
sacrifices, the new Five-year Plan pro-
poses again to subordinate the satisfac-
tion of consumer demands to the expan-
sion of the capital-goods industries. Will
the people be willing to accept another
indefinite postponement of the promise
of a more abundant life to make the
Soviet Union a “super-Power”?
There are many indications that the
Russians are not only unwilling to con-
tinue to live in a war economy but that
they are physically and mentally unable
to do so. They have been living, after
all, for 30 years under conditions of ex-
treme strain. The past five years have
been a nightmare which it took every
ounce of physical and nervous strength
to survive. They probably realise that
they will have to live under a regimen
of severe austerity until the country is
rehabilitated. But it does not seem likely
that they can accept continued privation.
And now, for the first time in 25 years,
they have an organisation which the Gov-
ernment cannot suppress, and through,
which they can voice their demands : a
victorious army. And, as all reports
agree, this army has been deeply im-
pressed by its first contact with the higher
living standards of the outside world,
especially those of the American and
British soldiers.
Announcements and actions of the
Soviet Government clearly reflect mount-
ing pressure for a speedy increase in the
supply of consumer goods. Indeed, there
have been unconfirmed reports of riots
in textile and food-processing plants
whose output was destined for shipment
to the big cities of Western Russia.
While not conclusive, the evidence cer-
tainly suggests that Russia cannot put the
new Five-year Plan into effect with her
own resources alone. She lacks the man-
power to produce both the capital goods
(including armaments) that she is resolved
to produce in rising quantities, and the
consumer goods which her people will
demand. She can put the plan into effect
only if she obtains from abroad con-
siderable amounts of consumer goods
or, at least, of raw material and equip-
ment to producer consumer goods; or if
she can import workers to meet her
shortage of labor.
There has been no public discussion in
Russia of how the problems of labor and
consumer-goods supplies are to be solved.
But there are not many ways to solve
them. Indeed, there is only one real solu-
tion to the consumer-goods problem: a
large American loan.
Hitler Was Lucky.
(This account of how the plot to kill Hitler
misfired, and the grim consequences, was re-
constructed by a London “Times” special
correspondent from statements by survivors
who were in the plot.)
Shortly after 3 o’clock in the afternoon
of July 20, 1944, there arrived on the
Berlin airfield of Rangsdorf an aircraft
carrying Colonel Count von Stauffenberg,
Chief of Staff to General Fromm. Withir
a few minutes of landing Stauffenberg
was speaking on the telephone to the War
Ministry in the Bendlerstrasse, where a
small group of senior officers was await-
ing the news that the attempt to kill Hitler
had succeeded. He assured them that all
was well, and told them to carry out the
agreed plans for the putsch.
Stauffenberg had every reason to
believe that Hitler was dead. Less than
three hours earlier he had entered the hut
in the Flihrer’s headquarters at Rasten-
burg, in East Prussia, where Hitler dis-
cussed Situation reports with his staff;
placing a briefcase containing a plastic
bomb against a table leg six feet from
Hitler, he had made an excuse to leave
the hut, and, as he reached the outer


View
>5
LYSMGHTS
H/q UALITY
Because it combines the dura-
bility of steel with the rust-re-
sisting properties of a zinc
annealed protective coating—a
surface that takes paint per-
fectly without priming—Lysaght's
Zincanneal cuts roofing costs and
reduces upkeep. Specify it on
all future building contracts.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SIDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE .
Z 134a—4611
f EDWARD LUMIEVASONS PTY LTD '
The oldest and largest Insurance
Brokers in the Southern Hemisphere
effecting insurances at—
The focal point of
International Insurance
Lloyd’s leadership in the broad field of
Insurance has been won and maintained
through the confidence of millions of
policy-holders throughout the world. To-
day, it is the focal point for organisations
and individuals in every civilised country
seeking the protection of insurance. In
Australia, Lloyd’s has, for the past 50
years, written hundreds of thousands of
policies through Bennie S. Cohen & Son,
now known as Edward Lumley & Sons
Pty. Ltd., the oldest and largest brokers
in the Southern Hemisphere. Avail your-
self of the unquestionable security of
a Lloyd’s policy through —
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle:
33 Watt Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide:
T. & G. Building. Brisbane; A.M.P. Building. Perth; 156 St.
George’s Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins Street; also Wellington]
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, new Zealand, and
EDWARD LUMLEY, INC*, LONDON, NEW YORK,
PARIS, COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
compound on his way back to his wait-
ing car, heard an explosion “as though a
15cm. shell had scored a direct hit.” Not
till five hours later was it generally known
outside Rastenburg that Hitler had
escaped. A movement away from the
table just before the explosion had saved
his life.
That afternoon the long-discussed plot
to seize power from the party and set
up a provisional Government that would
sue for peace was in motion. At the
head of the small group in the Bendler-
strasse was Colonel-General Beck, dis-
missed by Hitler as Chief of Staff in 1938,
now an old and sick but still dauntless
man. With him were the retired Field-
Marshal von Witzleben, who was to
take command of the armed forces,
and General Olbricht, Chief of Inspec-
torates and Troop Movements, as well as
a small number of colonels and junior
officers. Working with _them that day,
inside and outside Berlin, were other
active and retired officers of the General
Staff, who, though unacquainted with the
details of the plot, knew what to do when
they heard of Hitler’s death.
Plans for action to be taken by army
commanders in the event of Hitler’s death
lay ready in sealed envelopes in head-
quarters all over Germany and Occupied
Europe. On receipt from Berlin of the
code word “Valkyrie Two” the envelopes
would be opened and measures would be
taken against the party and the S.S. in
the name of the High Command of the
Army. Among those in the Bendler-
strasse brought in at the last minute by
Beck was General Fromm, who as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Home Army
held the key military position in the
Reich.
By 3.30 Olbricht was sending to all
army and army-district commanders in
Germany and Occupied Europe the code
word and the news of Hitler’s death.
The group around Beck and Olbricht
in the Bendlerstrasse had now grown.
With them was Dr. Otto John, legal
adviser to the Lufthansa, who was to fly
to Madrid with a message to General
Eisenhower when the plot had succeeded.
Just before 6.30 the Reich wireless, which
they believed by then to be under army
control, announced that there had been
an attempt on Hitler’s life, but that he
had received only “slight burns and con-
cussion but no injuries.” This news
caused consternation among those officers
who had co-operated with the plotters
because they believed Hitler dead, not
because they knew there was a plot. Beck
and Olbricht argued that the announce-
ment was a bluff by Goebbels, and that
anyhow the Army was now on the move
and could not be stopped.
Incoming calls from headquarters all
over the Reich began to reflect bewilder-
ment and dismay. Callers reported that
they were receiving instructions from the
Fiihrer’s headquarters to ignore all orders
from the War Ministry, to make contact
with Himmler —to whom Hitler had given
command of the Home Army—and to
suppress disobedience and disorder. For
over two hours Olbricht and his colleagues
argued and pleaded with the callers, assur-
ing them that the Army had assumed
authority, that Himmler was bluffing.
There was still time to save the conspiracy
by bold and swift action. But general
after general was taking his time, waiting
to make certain that Hitler was dead, and
justifying delay by recalling the oath of
loyalty to the Fiihrer.
By 8.30 in the evening the hopes of
the plotters had begun to fail. Von
Witzleben had given up hope and driven
home in his car. Beck and Olbricht and
one or two of the younger officers alone
kept calm. But it was clear that there
would soon be trouble with the doubters
in the Bendlerstrasse. Shortly before 10
o’clock Lieutenant von Haeften, one of
the original plotters, ordered a major to
prepare rooms in which to sequester “un-
reliable officers,” Puzzled and unwilling,
the major reported his orders to members
of General Fromm’s staff, already made
suspicious by the rumor that Himmler
had taken over authority from their chief.
Led by Colonel von der Heydte, a number
of officers went to the room where Beck
and his group were sitting and demanded
an explanation. Threatened with arrest,
they drew their revolvers, shots were ex-
changed and Stauffenberg fell, wounded
in the back.
The sound of shooting brought Fromm
to the room. He, too, had heard the
report that Himmler had taken command
of the Home Army. He was convinced
by now that Hitler was not dead and that
Beck had deceived him. He might yet
save the situation and suppress the evi-
dence against himself by ruthless action.
He had Olbricht, Stauffenberg* Haeften
and others immediately shot in the court-
yard of the War Ministry. He took Beck
to his own room and gave him a revolver
with which to shoot himself. It is be-
lieved that Beck refused and that Fromm
shot him behind closed doors.
The plot fizzled out. Failure to keep
cut the communications of the Fiihrer’s
headquarters and to gain control of the
main wireless stations had been fatal to
it. But there was still a lingering doubt
whether Hitler was dead or alive. Then
at 1 o’clock in the morning of July 21
Hitler came to the microphone to tell the
German people how Providence had saved
him from “a small circle of ambitious,
irresponsible and at the same time crimi-
nally and senselessly stupid officers.”
Many of the generals who could have
made the plot succeed, and on whom
Beck and his friends had counted, lost no
time in making their peace with the
Fuhrer. From those who were impli-
cated, like Kluge, and from those who
were were not, like Kesselring, messages
of loyalty came pouring in on July 21.
Some covered their tracks successfully;
others, like Stuelpnagel, anticipated Ges-
tapo vengeance by suicide, while others,
like Von Witzleben and Lindemann, Chief
Artillery Officer, went unrepentant to the
hangman.
Hitler had, in fact, little to fear once
the few men in the Bendlerstrasse had
been shot by Fromm. But he could not
know that, reckless though the talk had
been in Army circles of how to get rid of
the Fiihfer and end the war, it had been
mostly talk. Nor did he know that his
own Adjutant-General, Stumpf, when
approached by the conspirators, had
refused to co-operate but had done noth-
ing to warn his master; or that Rund-
stedt, Rommel and other trusted generals
had chosen the same middle path between
opposition and loyalty.
Factors in Battle-winning.
(From an article by London “Times” military
correspondent.)
Popular war terms, like “pushing
back,” “crushing resistance,” obscure the
fact that battles are won by moral
ascendancy, largely gained by material
superiority, but rarely by the material
superiority alone.
Scientific investigation of battles in the
recent war shows that the defeated army is
virtually always beaten not because it
has been deprived of the power to con-
tinue fighting but because its will to do so
has been broken,
Napoleon’s saying that the moral is to
the material as three to one has been
questioned and even derided. But it is a
profound truth. Scientific study of the
effects of heavy bombardment more than
confirms the dictum in figures. The pro-
portion of the defenders whose will to
resist is fatally weakened to those who are
physically put out of action is more
nearly six to one than three to one,
though estimates must vary, since much
depends on the quality of the troops and
the nature of the country.
From the Ardennes fighting some
astonishing figures were discovered by the
British scientific investigators about the
results of the duel between the tank and
the gun. Where towed anti-tank guns,
unsupported by infantry, were engaged,
one tank was destroyed to three guns
lost; but where the guns were self-
propelled two tanks were accounted for
for each gun put out of action. Where
the anti-tank artillery was supported by
infantry the ratio was one and a half to
one for towed guns, but with self-pro-
pelled guns six tanks were knocked out
for each gun. Another subject investi-
gated was what loss in tanks the Germans
would accept before breaking off an
attack. It was found to be about 50
per cent. That is a high figure, but the
Fifth and Sixth Panzer S.S. Armies were
exceptionally good troops.
Too-Clever Stalin.
(From N.Y. “World-Telegram.”)
Stalin promised that the three Powers
together would protect democratic elec-
tions and rights in the eastern European
countries. So Stalin got his troops all
over eastern Europe and set up his puppet
Governments. Then he broke his bar-
gains.
He not only violated all his agreements
for representative government in eastern
Europe but barred Britain and the United
States from protecting democratic pro-
cesses in those areas. He also moved in
to take over the British sphere in the
Mediterranean and Near East. And then
he got tough with the United States in
the Far East,
Well, why not? He got away with it
in eastern Europe ; why can’t he repeat it
in the Mediterranean-Near East and in
the Far East? If the bluff worked once,
why not again and again?
But that is where Stalin is wrong. So
wrong that his latest moves, if continued,
can have the opposite effect he expects.
His bluff worked in eastern Europe, It


K
mm
'SieSL. DODGE
nwautL
DeSotd
dodge
TRUCKS
FA/iconum
The United Quest goes on
The quest for better performance, more and
smoother power, longer engine life, greater safety
and comfort is a ceaseless task for the united en-
gineering genius of the plants that produce Chrys-
ler, Dodge, Plymouth and De Soto cars and Dodge
and Fargo trucks.
This united quest has already pioneered such great
developments as four-wheel hydraulic brakes, all-
steel bodies, high-compression engines, tough
fluid drive, super finish and Oilite bearings. The
united quest is even now perfecting startling, revo-
lutionary ideas which will give a new meaning to
Australian motoring.
Through Australian-owned and controlled Chrysler
Dodge Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Aus-
tralia will soon be informed of the giant strides
made in the engineering of vehicles of war and
applicable to the transport of peace by the cease-
less, united Chrysler Dodge quest.
tmkrysler Tbodge \bkirhbutors'
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. 'Ltd., Harden & Johnston Ltd., York Motors Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Stradbroke Motors Pty. Ltd., Austral Motors Pty. Ltd. £ ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
• PERTH: Wentworth Motors Ltd., Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd. £ HOBART: H, C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.
Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-operative Motors Ltd,
R & Me
D 45
will not work in the Mediterranean or
in the Far East.
The reason is simple —so simple that
only a too-clever operator could forget
it for a moment. The British Empire
cannot survive without its Mediterranean-
Near East lifeline; and Britain means
to survive. The United States’ security
in the Pacific requires a free China; and
the United States will not compromise
on that.
If there is any doubt in Stalin’s mind
about this, let him remember some very
recent history. When England seemed
on the verge of defeat, with so few armed
forces left that she probably could not
withstand a Hitler invasion of her home
island, she grimly sent her main force
to protect her Mediterranean lifeline.
And when Japan offered the United States
every conceivable compromise if only it
would sacrifice a free China, the United
States refused knowing that it would
mean war, which it did.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
No country is more vulnerable to atomic-
bomb attack than Britain, with its large urban
population and its dependence on ports, which
atomic bombs could smash. The days when
Britain could serve as an aircraft-carrier
anchored off the Continent and from which
counter-attacks could be launched first by air
and then by sea are over. The essence of de-
fence in an atomic war would necessarily be
dispersal and depth. For its dispersal and
its depth Britain must hereafter depend on
the Empire and on sea and air routes that link
the British Isles to the Dominions. These
things are not written or spoken very much
yet. Brut they are in the back of the people’s
mind and very much to the fore in the minds
of at least some of the strategic leaders respons-
ible for replanning British security.— London
correspondent. N. Y. “Times.”
* * * c
The prospect that Japan would receive re-
habilitation loans from the United States
appears fantastic at the moment. Yet it has
been done before, there are indications
that officials in Washington have not over-
looked the possibility. Last autumn President
Truman made public a general policy statement
on Japan. In all early drafts, it has now been
learned, this statement declared that no loans
or credits would be extended to Japan. How-
ever, before the statement' was finally made
public, this paragraph was reconsidered and
eliminated. — Staff correspondent, “Wall-street
Journals ’*
* * * *
What does Moscow consider the essential
minimum needed for Russian security? It is
already plain that a dominant' Russian influence
in Finland, Poland, Hungary and all of the
Balkan countries, including Greece, represents
a part of that minimum. It is equally certain
that* control of the Dardanelles and of the
Dodecanese and a decisive voice in the Eastern
Mediterranean and in the Red Sea represent
another part. It is also obvious that other
essentials include a perpetual “veto right” in
the determination of the destinies of the Ger-
man people and those of Czechoslovakia and
Austria; a similar “veto right” in Japan; com-
plete authority over the territorial and sea
approaches to Russia’s Siberian provinces; and
a preponderant influence in China and in Iran.
No world order of the kind which the Ameri-
can people seek can be established upon a foun-
dation constructed of all of these elements. —
Former U.S. Under-Secretary of State Sumner
Welles .
* * * *
In Canada the full and free communication
of useful information to Soviet representatives
during and since the war, in contrast to Rus-
sian secrecy, has been indeed outstanding [up
to the time of the discovery of the Soviet spies].
Members of Russian purchasing missions have
been permitted to enter factories and labora-
tories without restriction. Their diplomatic and
press representatives have had free access to
Government offices and all sources of infor-
mation.—Ottawa correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
We are all accustomed to the kind of war
that is associated with armies and navies, with
airplanes, submarines and bombs. But most
of us do not recognise the insidious and pro-
longed warfare [of Communism] that under-
mines a country as termites eat away the sills
of a farm-house. It is warfare that goes into
the schools and colleges, that makes labor un-
productive, that dissipates national energy in
internecine strife, that cultivates bitterness be-
tween majority and minority groups, that breaks
down national unity by making the entire
nation class- and group-conscious. It is a war-
fare that goes on day and night, enlisting senti-
mental people as aids over particular issues,
but soon engulfing them in its destructive pro-
gramme. It is a warfare that corrupted
France before the Nazis conquered her, that
has resulted in puppetising a large number of
nations in Europe. A nation should protect
itself from this warfare as from foreign armies
and navies. It should fight it by every means
at its disposal. Only a cowardly people avoid
this fight. Only a cowardly people refuse to
see it °when it is so apparent and obvious. —
George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * ♦
Indiana juries have awarded a man and
woman damages totalling $50,500 against the
CIO. United Steel Workers’ Union, its Gary
local, and 10 of its officers and members. The
two ’plaintiffs were dragged off a public ’bus
near the Gary steel mills, where they worked,
in 1941, and given beatings by union goons
which injured them permanently. There was
no strike in progress at the time. The beatings
were administered for the purpose of making
the plaintiffs join the union and pay dues.
These verdicts indicate that public opinion is
determined to punish violence and hoodlumism
in the conduct of union affairs. There has
been a good deal of talk of making unions
financially responsible for lawless action. The
successful prosecution of these civil suits shows
that unions can be penalised financially for the
more flagrant sort of violence at least. —
Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
While Goebbels stuffed the German masses
with blood-curdling tales of foreign enemies
on all sides and told them they’d have to pro-
duce cannon instead of butter an impenetrable
curtain of censorship prevented them from
hearing any but the Nazi story. Today the
Russian masses are being subjected to the same
dangerous indoctrination behind an even
thicker barrier of censorship. Like Nazi Ger-
many, the Soviet Union is expanding her own
lebensraum while fostering a Communist Fifth
Column in every country in the world. Already
she has taken over half of Poland, eastern
Germany and Prussia, the three Baltic States,
a portion of Czechoslovakia, Bessarabia, Mol-
davia, Outer Mongolia, Dairen, Port Arthur
and the Kuriles and extended her control over
Finland, most of the Balkans and parts of
the Middle East, Manchuria, Korea and other
areas. And she has drawn up a blueprint to
make herself as superior, militarily, to the rest
of the world as 1939 Germany was to Poland,
the Low Countries and France. All this before
a single t>eace treaty has been signed.—Wash-
ington correspondent, N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Our [U.S.] officers and troops in Germany
have lost most of their bitterness. Many now
can feel the emotion of pity, despite what they
went through to bring Germany to this just
status. Americans, especially, hunger for no
more revenge. Indeed, they have little time
for anything except the enormous job of gov-
erning their share of a chaotic and desperate
remnant of a nation. N.Y. “Journal-
American”- staff correspondent.
v * * #
The ruins of Dresden are more depressing to
behold than those of any other German city I
have seen. There is a completeness to the
devastation in the heart of this city, which was
counted among the most beautiful in Germany,
that is not matched even in Berlin. It would
be difficult to find any non-German who would
argue that it was not necessary to destroy Ber-
lin, the capital and nerve centre of Adolf
Hitler’s Reich. In Dresden the case is different.
It would be hard to demonstrate that the Allies
shortened the war by rubbing out this city. It
held no important industries which could have
bolstered the fading German war effort. The
Reich Government was at one time believed to
be moving to Dresden, but it is now known
that the main Ministries either remained in
Berlin or fled to Bavaria. Against whatever
dubious military advantages that may have
been gained by the Allied raids must be set
the destruction of irreplaceable artistic and
cultural monuments and the civilian death toll,
estimated by the Germans at up to 300,000; It
will never be known exactly how many persons
died in Dresden, but it may be said confidently
that from' the point of view of the civilian
population the bombings that were concen-
trated into the two days from February 13 to
15, 1945, were the most destructive that
occurred anywhere at any time during the war
in Europe.— Russell Hill; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” correspondent in Germany.
* * * *
It seemed to be a Russian maxim that there
was no security for Russia anywhere except in
the propagation of Communism. If that was
the Russian view it was aggression against
other States in a form which it was plain would
in the end lead to the very kind of struggle
Russia wished to avoid. — Lord Altrincham, in
the House of Lords; London “Times” report.
* * * *
The one matter on which the United States
should speak with a firm and consistent voice
—the atom bomb—has been reduced to a
welter' of hair-splitting confusion in which, it
has been suggested, the fate of international
society turns upon the precise meaning to be
attached to seven words in the Moscow com-
munique. The Truman-Attlee-King text pro-
vided that “the [atom bomb] commission
should be instructed to proceed with the ut-
most dispatch and should be authorised to sub-
mit recommendations from time to time deal-
ing with separate phases of its work.” In the
Moscow text this had become “the commis-
sion shall proceed with the utmost dispatch and
inquire into all phases of the problem and
make such, recommendations from time to time
with respect to them as it finds possible.”
Doesn’t “all phases of the problem” mean the
famous “secrets”? Alarms and excursions and
long columns of speculation as to whether Mr.
Byrnes will force the Russians to revise the
text or the Russians will force Mr. Byrnes to
eat his words. This is not statesmanship; it is
the; kind of near-insanity which results when
too many different and usually obstreperous
minds are all concerned in the manufacture
and furtherance of a policy which none of them
understands too well to begin with. It is un-
happily characteristic of our [U.S.] ways of
doing things. It is not, however, adequate to
the problems of foreign policy. in', the inter-
related world of the atom bomb. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The United States, which never officially in-
dulged in espionage in the past, now is going
into the business openly. The new National
Intelligence Authority (N.1.A.) is being set up
to keep up-to-date account of the political,
economic, industrial and military developments
of all nations. N.I.A. men will evaluate data
gathered by agents of' the Army, Navy and
State departments with the acknowledged pur-
pose of preventing any potential enemy from
sneaking up on the United States. Information
such as the Russians got in Canada is to be
sought in all countries by the U.S. — “United
States News.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
DVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOBEE,
OUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES. LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
_ / y\JL* Sterilised •
BONE FLOUR
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
s:^
«
A
ww
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CYANOCAS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No Are problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort malo
•support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e Buffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
_ CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN EOXION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
■
estate tit an
II FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
\Ventworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
<Si
Inejf
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT GRAZCOS."
Farm Management.
“Infanteer”: On this property in the
Gympie (Q.) district we never burn.
Green crops, stubble, weeds and grass on
the cultivations are all ploughed in. Sur-
plus grass in the pastures is mown or
left to rot. Results speak for themselves.
While it is no easy job to plough in
satisfactorily a heavy crop of summer-
grass, cowpeas or green corn, the effect
over several years has been to turn a
heavy, packed soil that became water-
logged after every shower into a light,
friable soil that will stand a lot of tramp-
ing by stock grazing off green feed in
wet weather. Last t winter we had one
paddock of oats irilo which we turned
the cows after every rain, packing the
one paddock hard to save tramping the
others while wet. In the spring the first
ploughing broke this paddock into big,
hard lumps, but after half an inch of
rain the second ploughing broke it into
soil as loose as flour.
Our soil, now full of humus, may be
worked much sooner after rain, but at
the same time retains its moisture longer,
during a dry spell—a valuable asset for
this district, where rainfall is erratic and
if you have to wait too long to take
advantage of a storm or passing showers
you are likely to miss a crop.
The “no-burning” policy paid hand-
some dividends during the past spring
and early summer. During the war,
owing to labor shortages, the mowing
programme slipped badly. About 50
acres of good land on the flat, where pas-
palurn is still fighting its way through
blady grass and foxtail, became badly
overgrown and was not mown for several
years. With a power mower we got it
mown during last winter. Now that
ground had actually been resting through
those years because, after the first year,
the cattle would hardly even walk through
the long grass, let alone eat any of it. So
all the grass remained there to rot and
enrich the ground with humus, and when
the mower did go through there was a
very heavy body of grass to lie on the
ground as a mulch.
This spring and summer were dry
enough to reach drought conditions, but
what rain we did get was well spaced
out. Now here is the point; While all
the rest of the grass was burnt brown
to the roots, the cattle could get enough
good green picking over that mown
ground to keep them milking fairly well.
This was because the ground was damp
under the heavy body of grass to start
with, and the thick layer of mulch sucked
up every drop of moisture that fell and
“O’ course y' can take the short cut, only that way y' miss the best
o' the scenery."
prevented the slightest evaporation. Had
that ground been burnt during those
years, it would have been solid blady
grass by now, and during the dry spell we
would not have got a bite off it, because
it would have been just as dry as the
rest of the paddocks.
The House Cow.
“Bugaldie”: The best breed is a Jersey,
and it’s worth paying a quid or two extra
for a good one. Jerseys, as a rule, don’t
give a great quantity of milk, bu? you
get the quality. Their teats are often
small, but rarely tough to milk, and
when broken in Jerseys become very
docile.
Old-time beef-cattle men abhor the
thought of a Jersey, but crossed with a
well-bred Aberdeen-Angus or Shorthorn
bull a Jersey cow produces the best kind
of vealer, one making rapid growth and
bringing a good price at all times.
Many people, when milking, leave a
drop for the calf. This is downright
foolishness, as the last few squirts are
nearly pure cream. If you want the calf
to have a feed let it have a good go first,
as the first milk, even from a good cow,
is very watery, containing little or no
butter fat. Put in that extra minute or
so getting the last drop from the cow.
Don’t get the habit of hitting cow or
calf, as it upsets both, and the cow
won’t give her best. It’s a godd idea,
when the calf is very young, to chain it
up in front of the mother before begin-
ning to milk; this quietens the calf and
makes the cow contented.
The value of a patch of lucerne ad-
joining the house paddock cannot be
estimated in terms of cash; it is better
than oats or barley for the simple reason
that it has not to be sown every year. It’s
there all the time, and it’s surprising what
even a daily “pick” will do for the cow’s
yield.
The Artesian Flow.
“Outback”: The first interim report by
the Queensland Government committee
which investigated the artesian water sup-
ply states that the total quantity of water
drawn from the artesian basin since 1887
was equivalent to a depth of only about
one inch over the Queensland portion of
the basin. Pressure tests at Blackall No.
1 bore, the first deep bore -commenced in
Queensland, which has been flowing
for 55 years, indicated that, provided
there was no interference by the closing
or opening of other bores in the district,
the flow would continue to decline at a
lessening rate for some - 20 years before
becoming approximately constant. If it
were shut off and remained closed, in
about 55 years the pressure might be ex-
pected to reach a steady flow approxi-
mately that which existed when the bore
was put down.
Over 700 bores in Queensland have
ceased to flow, these being situated in
the relatively high marginal portions of
the artesian basin, but the cost of pump-
ing facilities at such bores is not pro-
hibitive, The histories of 70 Trust bores
disclosed that the artesian position is
far more serious in the south than in
the north. In the north the artesian sys-
tem is approaching a steady flow rate,
but in the south there is a serious diminu-
tion, from Cunnamulla to St. George.
With the exception of the St. George dis-
trict, however, the history of the pressure
diminution suggests that this area would
eventually reach a steady flow rate, with
a total discharge equal to about half the
present flow.
Peak flow of all bores in Queensland
was 355 million gallons per day in 1914
(1229 bores drilled), and this has
diminished until it is now less than two-
thirds. In 1943 2008 bores had a total
flow of 229 million gallons daily. Avail-
able data supported the view that diminu-
tion of flow resulted almost entirely from
diminution of pressure in the water-beds,
any loss of flow due to choking of the
beds at the bore intakes, deterioration of
casing (except in corrosive areas) or
lateral leakage being relatively unim-
portant.
It has been established that the tem-
perature of the water in a bore increases
in proportion to the depth of the bore,
but the increase varies from district to
district. In the Roma district an increase
of Ideg. Fah. was registered for every
60ft. of depth, but in the Julia Creek
district the increase was as much as
Ideg. for every lift. There are far too
little data available yet to say whether
or not the intake today is sufficient to
recharge .the basin adequately for future
generations. It is clear that the basin has
been in existence for about 100 million
years, and presumably water has been
coming into the basin during that period,
but, owing to geological changes, the in-
takes are probably considerably less effec-
tive now than formerly.
There are, however, regions that, owing
to porosity of the beds at the surface and
their elevation above sea-level, must still
function as important aquifers (porous
layers of sand or rock) to the basin. The
present flow per annum of all bores is
equivalent to a depth of about one-fifth
of an inch over the area of the intake
beds, and the average annual rainfall over
that area is some 25 inches.
Organic Farming.
“W.D.”; It is very doubtful whether
there exist, except in the imagination of
the extreme exponents of organic farm-
ing, any agricultural scientists who ad-
vocate, or many farmers who practise,
the application of chemical fertilisers
without the addition of organic matter
to the soil in some form or other.
Fertiliser advocates know well that
organic matter is necessary to maintain
good tilth and to hold in the soil mois-
ture without which the plant could not
make use of the food material in the
fertiliser. The farmer has to make a
living, and if he finds by experience that
fertilisers pay a handsome dividend (as
they do in most cases) if the organic
matter of the soil is maintained he won’t
be dissuaded from their use. Elimination
of concentrated fertilisers requires that
practically an equivalent amount of plant
food must be supplied in bulky organic
matter from a source outside the farm,
an absurd proceeding.
Most Australian soils are notoriously
deficient in phosphates, and the outside
source of this essential ingredient has
been the Pacific islands. Loss of phos-
phate during the war was one of the
biggest blows directed at Australia.
Would extreme organic farming advocates
be willing to make a present of these
islands to Japan after the war?
These people who would abolish ferti-
lisers have to demonstrate a similar sub-
stantial increase in crops and a similar
high value in animal and human nutri-
tion by their methods before they will be
regarded very seriously; all the same,
they may be doing a good service in


TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
I
3?
n
ti
«,.r.~ mi.««r/«l
k'z~ —" «
!X | B r»i"'’ '"’"T v»l
p.«3T *
X ■■—rr- .
t x
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING!
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the Public
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not be misled by specious statements. Buy only that which has
an unsullied reputation.
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more In other States,
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY,
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Est. 1927
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 83 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Wooiworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Viet.: Victorian Producers Co-op. Co. Ltd., 578 Little Flind&s St., Melbourne.
S. Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia; R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
mm
L ;
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
McCORMICK
■ □
:|li
11
A size and type of
tractor for every
farm . . and a com-
plete system of
power equipment
for every farming
need
m mmm
■
\
OLTB9-24
1. HERE is an Increasing demand for modern
farm equipment. During the war years, you made
your old equipment do. Now is the time for new
and better tools. Implements and machines . . .
Place your order well ahead with your nearest
International Harvester agent for that new
McCormiek-Dcering tractor. Ask him, too, about
the wide range of latest types of McCormick-
Deering power farming equipment—which Include
complete systems for potato and vegetable
production, fruit culture, pasture Improvement and
fodder conservation, as well as for dairy and
mixed farming. Keep in touch with your
International Harvester agent. Month by month
he’ll be in a more favourable position to satisfy
the heavy demands for McCormick-Deering
tractors, and for the improved equipment now
being built for postwar farming needs . . .
When it comes to your postwar truck, remember
that It’s only INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
that outfits the farmer for both production and
transportation. For nearly 40 years of its 115-year
history. International Harvester has built
International trucks. For several long years new
Internationals went off to war by the tens of
thousands. To-day, Internationals are AGAIN
being built for commercial needs—light, medium-
dutyT and heavy-duty sizes. All these types will
soon be available.
Haul with
INTERNATIONALS
m
i I
See Your Nearest International Harvester Agent
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN Vie.) BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
Agents everywhere to serve the farmer
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
drawing attention to the need for main-
taining a relatively good content of
organic matter-in the soil.
Pine-tree Rockeries.
“Pat O’Day”: Gundagai (N.S.W.) has
some lovely old country homestead gar-
dens, part of whose beauty is the use
made of the stately pine-tree, not
only for its height and greenness but
also for shade value.
Gravelly soil, where pines thrive, is
no deterrent to the growing of a success-
ful country garden, highlighted with a
circular (or terraced —if on high ground)
rockery around each pine. Before plac-
ing rocks in position round the tree, and
prior to cementing, build up the bed with
soil to a foot deep and press small pebbles
between the rocks to help bind the cement
when it is applied. A mixture of one of
cement to two of sand will do for joining
the rocks and shaping the rockery.
If a terraced design is adopted grow
geraniums as a hardy background, then
next a terrace of petunias, next and
lowest rockery plants and borders.
Rockeries need plenty of moisture, there-
fore water daily if possible.
Chicken-pox.
“Bennie”: The symptoms are pustules
on the unfeathered parts of the wattles,
face and comb. At first they resemble
small, greyish pimples, and the beginner
often mistakenly assumes his birds have
been fighting. The pustules spread
rapidly, growing larger, and in a short
time head and comb are masses of
pimples. If not stopped, these sores
spread down to the eyelids, causing the
bird to keep its eyes closed. As chicken-
pox is highly contagious, affected fowls
should be penned off from the others and
given treatment.
When the outbreak is* discovered early,
glycerine and 2 p.c. carbolic acid applied
to the affected parts are very good. Should
the disease not be identified until it has
spread, paint affected parts with liniment
of iodine and sponge the entire head with
a 5 p.c. solution of sulphate of copper.
Repeat at frequent intervals until the
pustules start to disappear. Meantime,
add sulphur to the morning mash at the
rate of half a teaspoon to 10 sick birds
and add a little Epsom salts to the water
every second day. Keep sick birds penned
off until there is no trace of the disease
and then for at least another week, just
to make sure; this will give them a
chance to pick up the weight they will
probably lose.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”: It is doubtful if the aver-
age lambing percentage throughout Aus-
tralia exceeds 60 p.c., and the obvious
reason is sterile ewes in flocks. Not many
stations try to find out the non-breeders
among the ewes ; hence they’re allowed to
remain until culled for age or dead. In
England, any ewe that is sterile goes to
the butcher. In spite of greater areas
and many more thousands of ewes in
Australia, we should do the same.
“Mr.”: To keep off hydatids, dose
dogs with arecoline hydrobromide every
eight weeks. Prepare enough to treat
all the dogs, using a half-grain tablet to
two tablespoons of water. Puppies and
small dogs require one teaspoonful, large
dogs two to four tablespoons. Starve
overnight before dosing and chain the
dogs after treatment and until the effects
of the drug wear off—usually an hour or
two. Collect and burn all the faeces. An-
other control measure is to boil all dogs’
meat for 10 minutes.
“W. Court”: Silt that collects in
cuttings, roadways and on temporarily-
flooded land contains valuable soil-
enriching properties. It should be
shovelled into a dray and carted to the
nearest cultivation paddock. Every farm
has at least one paddock in need of
plant food. If the silt is veiy heavy it
will decrease markedly in weight after a
few days in the sun.
“E.H.S.”: It would save time and hard
work if posts were bored before, instead
of after, erection. Boring with an ordi-
nary brace and bit is slow and laborious,
and where the workman is inexperienced
or careless the holes rarely coincide in
direction, thus adding to the difficulty of
pulling the wires through. By substitut-
ing a “jigger” of the type used for boring
sleepers, the job can be better done all
round. When using the “jigger” the post
should be raised on chocks to stop the
bit plunging into the ground.
“Sarina”: A neighbor improvised a
copper boilerstand by cutting a sound
44-gal. drum in half, upending it, and
cutting a hole in the bottom large enough
to hold the boiler snugly. He then cut a
round hole to take a chimney pipe in the
back of the drum. In the front of the
drum he cut a square firehole and the
stand was complete. It holds the heat
almost as well as an affair of bricks.
“Bill C.”: Dairyfarmers and others
would do well to watch out for strange
plants in their N.Q. pastures during the
next few months. High winds and record
floods play a big part in weed distribu-
tion. Unusual plants should be regarded
with suspicion until proved non-toxic*
The lush green growth from recently-
brushed lantana is deadly enough to kill
stock which persist in eating it.
“H.W.”: A green manure crop not
relished by rabbits is broad beans. Have
grown them without protection of netting
for three years; and rabbits are plentiful
in the district.
“Sarina”: In the high, summer-rain
areas of Queensland, summer brushing
results in heavy suekering. Practise
winter brushing followed by poisoning.
Knock the vegetation down with a
brusher close to the ground. Spray or
dab the stumps with poisonous solution
—large stumps need a stronger solution.
The sap is heading downwards from April
to July, and it carries the dope right into
the roots. Brushing in winter is useless
without poisoning.
“Sarina”: Where summers are dry and
hot, brush scrub during the warm months.
Burn the felled stuff when dry. If suckers
follow, swab or spray ’em with an arseni-
cal compound made of one pound of
arsenic pentoxide to one gallon of water.
The pentoxide penetrates the leaves and
reaches the roots with annihilating results.
“Billjim”: A 2 p.c. nicotine dust,
properly applied, will kill aphis or blight.
Make it by adding a quart of commercial
nicotine sulphate to 501 b. of lime—2lb.
of sulphate of ammonia added will in-
crease its potency. Apply when the air
is still; a dewy morning is ideal.


ffiiW'w
m*
1
Wmm
W wvww
m
Hi
B
\!
u)i:i |!llil |
%
mssz.
iuujih
itss
Sunshine and Calm Seas
The Netherlands Merchant Navy, throughout the dark
and stormy years of war, wrote stirring pages into its
history, carrying munitions, supplies and comforts to
our troops in the S.W. Pacific and serving the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas.
Now, they are discarding the drab grey.
Soon the Great White Yachts of the
K.P.M. Line will be here again, and
then regular sailings to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore will be resumed.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
incorporated In
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD., SYDNEY.
HI LIMAN MltyX
YEARS AHEAP IN DESIGN
V" Increased Fuel Economy.
, i \
K Swifter Cruising Speed.
|/ Smoother Running.
Quieter and More Restful.
Balanced Clutch Control.
Additional Safety and Roadability.
wS Higher B.H.P.
A Product of the
Rootes Group.
7
9
See your Distributor
Now for particulars.
/
JOHN McGBATH LTD.,
lie Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
(Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD., 222 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGBATH, LTD. .. 324-340
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTORS CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY., LTD., Cr. York & St. Joh^ 9 st9 *»
LAUNCESTON.
Bootes Groop Regional Representative: 472 Bourke St., Melbonrne.
SMOkE-OH!
“Wanted to sell single bed and wife, 5 golf
sticks and bag, part toilet set.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser .”
He must have been hard-pressed to
part with his golf sticks.
*l* -I 4
“Found Turramurra, 4th top set dentures.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
Return already made in triplicate,
•F *F *F *F
‘lt was well known that the general had
numerous affairs with women of doubtful repu-
tation.” —Biographical item.
So the general wasn’t too particular.
*F *F *F *F
“ Mosquitoes are to be used for research
by the C.S.I.R. in the etymological laboratory
at Canberra.” — N.Q. “Register.”
Probably another mean trick for pre-
venting our gifted legislators from getting
their proper sleep during sittings.
“Crooning won’t get you anywhere.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
But your efforts, however poor, will go
on record.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Only a madman would believe that a life-
long relationship can be b'uilt on the febrile
flame of passion.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
There’s bound to be a flare-up sooner
or later.
“Ah measured it, ye ken. It's sax inches shor-r-t."
Then there was the 19-year-old gold-
digger who wanted to take out a minor’s
licence.
4* 4* 4*
Gent s top-coat as new, 3iin.cchess. Sin.”t —s.Sin.”
—Suburban paper.
Owner prefers a down-pipe.
+ 4* •J 1 4*
‘‘Wallet, tan pigskin, great sentimental value,
marked S.M.H.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Fretting, Granny?,
“Ice-carrying bags, strong waterproof
material, roped bottoms, large size, ideal for
ice-man.” — '“S.M.H.”
Steamroller conductors and barley-
sugar twisters, however, might have some
use for them.
Mental Cruelty.
“Diners in a Sydney cafe objected to being
watched by goldfish swimming in the caf 6
aquarium.”—' "Daily Telegraph."
Although a chap will often dine
With every mouthful counted by
The coldly calculating eye
Of someone waiting next in line,
Some sense of gastronomic fitness,
Perhaps, would blunt the diner’s teeth
If he were served with fish beneath
The gaze of a more kindred witness.
You’d reckon, though, that one or two
Of that discriminating crew
Would raise protesting voices, pleading
A fairer go for goldfish who
Are forced three times a day to view
A mob of Sydneysiders feeding.
P. M. LUSK.
Washed Up.
“The man in the case took out his hand-
kerchief and mopped his forehead.” — “D.T.”
The reason for his perspiration
Was laziness, his missus swore.
He mopped his brow without elation
Because she’d made him mop the floor.
YAIR.
The Sacrifice.
“A Tottenham beauty, who promised to
kiss and dance with 400 liberated prisoners-
of-war, found her lips and feet too sore to
continue after the 84th.”
My cousin Ermyntrude, when she vol-
unteered to sell kisses in a charitable
cause, avoided any such mischance.
She was up early on the big day, and
spent an hour doing lip exercises in front
of her mirror. A small second cousin
who had the misfortune to wander into
the line of fire, had to be removed, gib-
bering horribly. Shortly afterwards the
mirror turned a nasty mottled color, and
she had to give up,
Ermyntrude next set about toughen-
ing her lips with a mixture of methylated
spirit and tannin bark, taking an occa-
sional gargle of the mixture to discour-
age any wogs she might pick up. By
the time she sat down to her usual hearty
breakfast of cheese sandwiches and
pickled onions her breath, my uncle said,
put him in mind of the reception-room
at the Inebriates’ Home on a hot Satur-
day night.
There was some discussion about the
price; Ermyntrude was in favor of a
modest ninepence a time, but after some
persuasion she agreed on two bob, as
it was for charity. She then removed her
new teeth, in case they should be damaged
in the rush, and set off with her heart
full of the spirit of sacrifice, and her
handbag full of lipstick refills.
She reported later that her tally for
the day was 1-7 kisses. Under pressure
she admitted that it cost her over £2O
to get them, but she thought it was worth
it.
PLUM.
Sanctification.
The pious editor, who had
A halo newly-polished,
Snuffled ‘‘Divorce reports are bad;
They ought to be abolished.
We yearn to keep such turpitude
Out of our rubbish-wrappers;
The space would serve us to include
More photographs of nearly-nude,
Suggestively-posed flappers.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Our Exciting Feature.
The Beach “Man of the Week.”
A “Daily Dillyguff” special reporter
and photographer toured Sydney beaches
at the week-end in a search for a man
who would, in their expert opinion, most
worthily represent the vast army of
bronzed surf gods who grace our golden
sands.
The “Dillyguff” regards the selection
of such a man each week as of vital
national importance. Not only does it
have a tremendous bearing on the morale
of the community in general and of our
beach girls in particular, but, more im-
portant, on our circulation. Teen-age
bobbysoxers, whose special interests the
“Dillyguff” has ever fostered, are finding
in this new feature a mental pabulum far
more stimulating and elevating than even
the astrological guide or the Hollywood
studio gossip.
This week’s Beach Man is Gus Gar-
goill, 37, milliner’s laborer. Gus tips the
beam at 1601 b, while carrying a couple
of filled suitcases, has a nicely dropped
chest with hair on it like a silver entree
dish. He used to have eight hairs on each
leg, but these were worn off prematurely
by the action of his sock suspenders. He
has ears shaped like a bat in flight,
freckles that go 28 to the square inch,
carrotty hair that sticks up like the fibre
on a Chinaman’s scalp, especially when
he comes out of the water. His nose has
a pronounced list to starboard, paused
through his once speaking out of his turn
while one foot was elevated on a brass
rail,
Gus boasts two prominent varicose
veins, and has a perfectly ducky vacci-
nation mark where his biceps ought to
be. His measurements are; Neck, 14£,
chest 32, waist 38, calf 6, ankles 6, head
measurement Mon. to Fri. afternoon 20,
Fri. night to Sun. from 22 to 24, Adam’s
apple 11 up and down movements per
minute, Gus’s eyes are putty-colored.
• Man’s Angle: Has to do washing
up every night, and afterwards take Peke
for exercise. Kids assist him with home
work. Hates gardening, but carries out
orders. Can make a safety-razor blade
last 14 shaves by sharpening it in a
tumbler. Is a “fefed” for any itinerant
salesman whenever his wife isn’t there
to protect him. Has his nails chewed
down to the quick due to excitement
of riding his two-bob bets home on the
flat at the Saturday races. Presses his
trousers by putting them under the tick-
ing on his wife’s side of the bed. When-
ever the cat comes purring round his feet
and he considers it safe to do so, always
gets in a surreptitious boot. Never
brushes his hat from the time it is first
selected for him until it is finally rele-
gated to garden use. Thinks wireless
broadcasts should be strictly limited to
turf-form talks and race, fight, football
and wrestling descriptions.
• Woman’s Angle: Thinks women
are hopeless managers, and is confident
he could keep house and save £3 out' of
his £6 wages. Only ever answers his wife
back when he is ten minutes on his way
to work. Burns his fingers on an average
five times a week through lifting pot lids
to see what’s cooking. Now takes no
notice of his wife’s eternal complaint that
when he eats an apple he makes a noise
like a horse chewing carrots. Whenever
his wife, hungering for a comforting nega-
tive, asks him does he think she’s getting
any fatter he says yes. Can’t understand
why women tolerate lace-up corsets when
they could demand a simple button-up
type, and why they don’t wear flat-heeled
shoes and hats that look like hats. Has
never said anything over the past 12 years
but “O’ course I do —why d’ya keep ask-
in’?” to his wife’s periodical question as
to whether he still loves her. Is not above
ratting the kids’ moneybox or the wife’s
“plant” if he hears of a special cert.
Always brings the Sunday-morning cup
of tea in with the cup nearly afloat in the
saucer. Has never been known to cut
his toenails on the bedroom carpet except
immediately after his wife has put the
vacuum-cleaner over it.
Bo.


Missing Friend.
IF THOMAS ARNOLD GREENHALGH son of Mary
Elizabeth Greenhalgh deceased late of Blundellsands,
Lancashire, England, or if he has died any of his
children, will communicate with the undersigned they
•will hear of something to their advantage. LIGHT-
BOUNDS, JONES & CO., Solicitors, 18 Water
Street, Liverpool, England.
• Short story writers . . .
• Radio script writers . . .
• Poets . . . Novelists . . .
We will market your material for
you in Australia or overseas. Regi-
stration fee of 5/- per item required.
Special rates for novels. If manu-
script unsuitable it will be returned
with criticisms.
NATIONAL LITERARY RESEARCH
AGENCY,
443 Little ColUns Street, Melbourne, Yic.
BRANDAUERg
..PENS
riinH%y Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
TVM>
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. X. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—®. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
company Limited
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 , 5.P.0., Sydney.
UP ?-«4.
INVEST IN THE COMMONWEALTH SECURITY LOAN
TOMORROWS O\L-TODAY:
r
m
:
m
Vi
*r
©!•
•aaas-x-
-pi Mtfh #
DETERGENTS/
To the finest Motor Oil ever introduced into Australia CALTEX now
adds . . . “DETERGENTS”. . . supplementing the unrivalled
protective quality of “TOMORROW’S OIL TODAY’’ with a new
characteristic that frees moving parts of carbon and varnish .
CLEANS YOUR ENGINE AS IT LUBRICATES
The “Detergents” now in CALTEX
“R.P.M.” Motor Oil soften, loosen and
reduce to, minute particles the unwanted
impurities left in your engine by ordinary
oils. As you use your car or truck
CALTEX “R.P.M.” holds these particles
in fine suspension until the time comes
to drain your crankcase, then . . . OUT
THEY GO! Carbon deposits, varnish,
gums and other impurities that used to
slow up moving parts and made your
engine sluggish. Your engine is cleaner,
more virile, more responsive.
SEE THE PROOF YOURSELF
Put CALTEX “R.P.M.” in your crank-
case today. Run your car or truck a
thousand miles . . . then drain the oil.
CALTEX “R.P.M.” will drain discoloured
and dark, proving beyond doubt that it
is doing its job.
Here is the finest oil available. It pro-
tects ... it cleanses ... it makes your
engine more responsive and it costs no
more than ordinary oils!
USE IT! You’ll be really pleased with the results.
CALTEX
MW
m
m
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
RPMi
o
o
o
08/336
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy When We Were Very Young and
Now We Are Six, by A. A. Milne—3723.
To buy “Etudes Opus 25,” by Chopin, and
“Preludes and Fugues, Book 2, by men.
To buy etchings and books written or illus-
trated by Norman Lindsay. —3725.
Words of “The Ringer.” 3726.
To buy An Introduction to Botany, ny
Priestly and Scott. —3727.
To buy September ,23, 1942, copy of The
Bulletin. —3728.
Information Sought.
Weekly award wage-rates for N.S.W. trainee
nurses ?
Sydney,
Newcastle,
Port Kembla,
General. Wollongong. Elsewhere.
Four-year course — £ s. d. £ s. d.
First year .. 2 8 6 2 7 U
Second year .. 2 12 6 2 110
Third year .. 2 17 6 2 16 1 0
Fourth year .. 3 7 6 3 6 0
Five-year course —
First and second _ _
years .. 2 8 6 2 7 0
Third year .. 2 12 6 2 11 0
Fourth year .. 2 17 6 2 16 0
Fifth year .. 3 7 6 3 6 0
Midwifery — „ „ _
First year .. 2 8 6 2 7 0
Second year .. 2 13 6 2 12 0
Infants — „ _ .
First year .. 2 8 6 2 7 0
Second year .. 2 12 6 2 11 0
Hours are 44 per week for both night and day
nurses, and overtime is paid at the rate of
time and a quarter.
A method of destroying blackberry-bush ?
Mix either sodium chlorate at the rate of
11b. to Igal. water or atlacide at Igal. to 2gals.,
using a spreader in both cases. The first spray-
ing should take place in the flowering period,
and on a dull or humid day. Burn the growth
some six to eight weeks after this spraying. If
a second growth occurs it should be allowed
to develop until the canes commence to harden,
and then the plant, particularly the base, should
be sprayed. If other growths occur continue
the treatment. Under field. conditions, remove
the top growth by slashing, spraying or
burning, and take steps to build up a pasture
over the area. Continual cutting plus casual
grazing by sheep will eradicate the blackberry.
On land that cannot be grazed, continual
cutting, provided the top growth is never
allowed to develop more than a few weeks,
will eventually starve out the root system.
(1) Some methods of making fly-paper ? (2)
To repair a “weeping” water-tank?
(1) Mix ( a ) 32oz. resin, 20oz. resin-oil and
8oz. castor-oil by heating until the resin is
dissolved. Apply to previously soap-water-
brushed paper while hot; (b) 50 parts resin,
35 parts resin-oil and 5 parts Venice turpen-
tine or honey; (c) heat 5oz. resin, 4oz. stearin
and 4oz. lard, thinning, if necessary, with
methylated spirits after the mixture has been
removed from the fire. (2) Plug the holes with
matches and cut them off flush with the tank.
Apply rubber patches, using, preferably, Bostick
cement. Cover patches with a bitumistic paint.
(1) Cost of an English or American light
{two- or three-seater) ’plane? (2) Some suit-
able Australian types? (3) Could the rigging
and maintenance of such a ’plane be carried
out by an owner who has no licence to do so?
(1) Impossible to ascertain exact price, but
for a Taylorcraft or Auster and Piper Cub
£900 would be an approximate figure. (2)
Ryan T.S.M., Wackett Trainer, D.H. 82, D.H.
60. (3) Only when a licensed ground engineer
is not available and when the owner can pass
an oral examination on his type of ’plane.
Brief Answers.
H.F.H.: Unless the magistrate made an
order reducing the application to pay
your costs you have no chance of recovering
those costs. Magistrates do not usually make
orders for costs in such cases Z.X.Z.: (1)
If the work done by them comes within the
ambit of any industrial award they would be
entitled to receive award wages, despite any
agreement to the contrary. (2) In the absence
of any form of tenancy, they could be made
to vacate at any time A.M.B.: The War
Service Homes Commission provides homes for
eligible applicants, but combined home and
business premises are outside the general scope
of the War Service Homes Act... .P.S.: Walter
de la Mare was born at Charlton, Kent, Eng-
land, in 1873 W.N.: Write Mrs. N. Hand-
ford, Secretary, Australian Book Society, 5th
Floor, 61 Market-street, Sydney J.O.G.:
Since 1935 articles relating to Joseph Furphy
(“Tom Collins”) have appeared in the Red
Page as follows: Jan. 16, ’35; May 26, ’37;
June 9, ’37; June 23, ’37; June 30, ’37; June
15, ’38; Dec. 17, ’41; July 26, ’44; Dec. 13,
’44.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.G.: What does “the gelatinous inconsis-
tency of the soul’s integrity” mean? E.R.:
“The Cheque” is valueless P.L.: Try some-
thing a little more orthodox 8.F.: Make a
story of it....F.R.: Come again....
Pleasant, but h0110w.,. .R. 8.: Constant repe-
tition of one word may help to drive it home,
but it also bores the reader... .S.A.: A loose
sheaf of incidents, which could be improved;
cull the characters... .F. 1.: Your Queensland
drover converses like an Oklahoman druggist.
G.O’D.: Convert your Edwardian Miss into
a Bondi Beach Girl, and try a daily C.S.:
A peasant partisan girl from Croatia, with a
passion for analysing the philosophy of Hegel,
is an interesting but unlikely phenomenon
T.A.K.: Borrow a typewriter R.W.P.:
Aldous Huxley also described Bach’s music in
terms of the tympani—but not in a short story.


*SsS
Sa.
ayf^.irrrmrni
M
Tmmm
: :*J» <
52
: ;?•■ 5
fi
\
m.
! r..-- „
m
W ff MM-
»’ h
Mi
Phe Pudor- CjotLic Period
ROM the crude chattels of the
Norman design was evolved the
Oak Furniture of the Gothic
Period. Heavy with fittings and
austere in ornamentation, the fur-
niture blended perfectly with the
carved, panelled walls and massive
oak beam ceilings of the time.
T O-DAT, fine furniture is fashioned
by cabinet makers steeped in the
skill and tradition of generations
. . . but what floor covering could
so subtly enhance such furniture
as FELTEX . . . created by skilled
craftsmen from the Nation’s finest
wool. Always insist on genuine .. •
As the demand for Feltex is so great, it is regretted
that intending purchasers may have to wait for de-
livery of orders placed with their furnishing store.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
felt & textiles of Australia ltd,. Manufacturers of Marbled, Plain and Patterned Feltex
if The above illustration, suitable for framing and reproduced on art paper, will be sent to you post free on application
to the Advertising Manager, Feltex, 261 George St., Sydney. When writing, please ask for Reproduction No. 1.
AROUND THE TRAPS
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
EARLY in the morning there was a
succession of crashes as Molly
passed through the long house from
her bedroom to the kitchen. She
had come home late from the dance the
night before, and she felt it necessary to
bang the doors even more loudly than
usual
While she took the ashes from the stove
and laid the fire, still making an inordi-
nate amount of noise, her eyes, brown,
intent and very revealing, kept turning to
the window, to the beginning of the day
outside. There was a light frost on the
shady side of the fence posts and other
bits of wood, but an early peach-tree was
covered with pink blossoms, just opening.
Molly had grown up in the open air,
living most of the time in a tent, follow-
ing her father’s contracting jobs. She
hated being kept indoors. She was still
very young.
She saw the Italian prisoner-of-war
get the milk buckets from the separator
room, and when he stopped, looking long-
ingly and mournfully at the kitchen win-
dow, she went to it and called out in a
loud, hearty voice;
“Hello, Leonardo, Buon giorno.”
Leonardo’s face changed magically. It
lit up, as only a Latin’s can, becoming
instantly happy and attractive.
“Good morning, good morning, Mees,”
he said. “You good this morning?”
“Oh, I’m all right,” she said, with a
slightly desperate air.
“You returno plenti late las’ night?”
Leonardo asked. “No returno with
meester and madame?”
“Huh, they left before the fun started.”
The man did not fully understand her,
but he felt discouraged. His face clouded
over, as quickly as it had lightened up,
and he went off, carrying the empty milk
buckets as heavily as if each weighed a
hundredweight.
THE Fosters got up late. They found
Molly fidgeting rather offensively be-
cause she’d had trouble keeping the
breakfast. Mrs. Foster was not in the
best of tempers, and she found the
demonstration hard to bear, though she
was prepared to put up with a good deal
rather than lose Molly.
She said in a voice carefully controlled
to exclude any sound of reprimand “What
time did you come home this morning?”
“I got up early enough, didn’t I?”
Molly did not try to control her voice
at all.
“Yes, you certainly did, and we knew
all about it,” said Mrs. Foster; then
added placatingly “It must be wonderful
to be so young.”
Molly did not say “It must be terrible
to be old,” but the thought was so appar-
ent on her face that Mrs. Foster almost
protested indignantly that she wasn’t.
While she was still trying to think of
something crushing yet not obviously
offensive, the Italian came in, said good
morning and sat down at the breakfast
table so unobtrusively that no one took
any notice of him.
“I suppose,” said Foster, who knew
how to conciliate Molly, “that we couldn’t
guess who brought you home?”
To his surprise, Molly’s scowl deep-
ened. Usually she was far too eager
to relay to them every word of her con-
versation with her boy friend. For a
minute she looked desperately unhappy,
then she said defiantly:
“He was looking too much at that red-
head from town, so I slapped his face.”
She gave a hard laugh. “Right in the
middle of the dance floor, too, $o that
everybody saw it.”
“That wasn’t a very clever thing to
do,” said Mrs. Foster.
Molly jumped up and looked so much
like making a scene that Foster inter-
posed. “I’ll bet you didn’t have much
trouble in getting hold of another young
fellow to bring you home.”
Molly subsided. “Ugh! It’s not hard
to get them. But what’s the good of them?
They’re all alike. Men make me mad.”
She looked around fiercely and en-
countered the eyes of the Italian, who
was looking on, bewildered and per-
plexed. She began to laugh mirthlessly.
To create a diversion Foster said: “Stan-
ley Burrows is coming today.”
“For goodness sake! ” Mrs. Foster said,
“don’t get Molly interested in him; that
old devil! He’s old enough to be her
father, anyhow.”
“Last time he was here,” Molly com-
plained, “he didn’t take any notice of
me; thought I was only a little school-
girl, I suppose.”
She put back her shoulders and raised
her arms so that the Italian gazed at
her fascinated.
Suddenly they heard the loud report
of a high-powered rifle, and a rolling of
echoes from the hills. Molly jumped
up excitedly.
“It’s him,” she said, and ran outside.
THE Italian finished his huge break-
fast and excused himself. In the yard
he saw Molly, listening and peering in
the direction of the shots. He didn’t like
them, and winced when a ricochet
whined at some distance past them. He
pointed and said “What this man?”
Molly frowned, then, understanding,
said “That’s Stan Burrows. Shooting
foxes,”
The Italian’s face brightened. “Mee-
ster Stanli? That man catcha rabbit?
Ah, Meester Stanli verry good man. Las’
time give me one bottil vino.”
Molly swung round at him and placed
her hands on her hips, “Mean to say,”
she demanded, “that you had a whole
bottle of wine and drank it all yourself?
What about me?”
The man looked startled and apolo-
getic, “Me no unnerstan’ you like vino.”
Then, as if he realised what an oppor-
tunity he had missed, he said in miserable
self-reproach “Me no unnerstan’; me
very sorry,”
Molly continued to frown silently at
him. He shuffled abjectly, but then his
face lit up again. “Ma! posseeble one
day me one more vino.”
He brightened at the thought of hither-
to undreamed-of possibilities. “Me one
vino ; you, me, go outside in night?” He
looked at her in an ecstasy of entreaty.
She gave him a rather grim smile.
“You get the bottle of wine first.”
At ten o’clock the Fosters were dally-
ing over a cup of tea on the verandah
while Molly rattled at her work inside.
They relaxed luxuriously in the first warm
sun of the season, and watched
some of their sheep moving in that
affluent, leisurely way they have when
the grass is plentiful and good. Mrs.
Foster suddenly smiled.
“Can you see what I can see?” she
asked her husband.
Though she had spoken quietly, Molly
immediately rushed out and stared across
the grass paddocks, too. Coming along
the creek was a short, sturdy man with
a great bundle of rabbit-traps on his back.
He walked with quick, springy steps de-
spite his burden, peering left and right.
Occasionally he tossed his traps down,
knelt on the ground and swung his set-
ting-hoe ; made a few quick movements
with his hands, and then up and away
with his load again.
Near the house he left his traps and
came through the garden gate, stepping
silently in his sandshoes. He wore a knee-
length fireman’s coat with red-braided
edges and big, bright brass buttons. It
was a showy coat for a trapper to wear,
and many people had laughed on first
seeing him in it, but he liked it because it
protected him from the weather without
robbing him of freedom of movement.
Foster asked him to have a drink of
tea. He looked surprised, but stepped on
to the verandah. He took off his cap
with earflaps to protect him from the
frost, exposing streaks of grey in
his hair. He had a cheerful face and
lively grey eyes ; his chin and jaw showed
that he could take care of himself in
any of the encounters his deplorable
habits inevitably brought upon him.
Molly brought him a cup of tea, then
hovered about undecisively, listening to
the talk with great interest and curiosity.
She knew that she was not to join into
conversation with guests, but she refused
to regard Stanley Burrows as a guest.
At length she said boldly “What was
all the shooting about this morning?”
Stanley looked at her as if he hadn’t
seen her before. A broad grin spread
over his face.
“Gad! ” he exclaimed in an exag-
gerated, awestricken voice. “It’s growed
up!” After a pause he added “I fright-
ened a fox into coming close enough to
shoot by firing bullets in front of it every
time it tried to run away.”
Mrs. Foster made a wry face. She sent
Molly to her work and left Stanley to
conclude his business with Foster.
Leonardo was working in the garden,
and on his way out Stanley stopped to
talk to him. Leonardo was immensely
pleased. Stanley was proficient in the
use of the vernacular which the prisoners
and their employers had developed, and
they had an agreeable conversation.
When Stanley was about to leave the
Italian glanced quickly round, then asked
urgently “How much prezzo one bottil
vino?”
“Four, five shilling,”
The man pondered on his little store
of Australian money acquired quite
honestly but in contravention of p.-0.-w.
regulations. “Posseeble you bringa me
one bottil?” he asked, pathetically eager.
“Me look,” said Stanley, nodding en-
couragingly.
Leonardo smiled blissfully. “Oh, verry
good me one bottil vino,”
“Oh, vino good,” said Stanley. He
picked up the bundle of traps, which
would have crushed the Italian, and, hold-
ing them over his shoulder, moved off
with his quick, light step, looking about
for signs of rabbits as intently as if no-
thing else whatever interested him.
When Foster went out again Leonardo
was singing lustily and thrusting his
shovel into the earth with grsat vigor.
“Me plenty work today,” he called out
cheerfully.
AT intervals all the day the sheepdogs
barked at Stanley moving about the
place. When he ceased carrying traps he
drove about on mysterious errands in his
utility truck,
Molly was as interested as the dogs,
and spent an unconscionable amount of
time dodging from room to room and
looking out of windows. At nightfall he
came to the kitchen door with a hare he
had caught. He knew that Mrs. Foster
liked hare
Molly came to the door and talked to
him. Mrs. Foster heard her telling how
the local youths were always running
after her, never leaving her alone, and
how much she loathed them. She did not
go back to her work when Mrs. Foster
came to thank him, but clung to the
door. Mrs. Foster looked at them, then
said meaningly to Stanley, “How’s your
wife?”
“Oh, her,” said Stanley. “She’s just the
same as usual, I think. I haven’t seen
her for ages.”


SEE HOW
THEY RUN.
5*
3k
WHEN WA Y
TAKES OVER YOUR
LIFT MAINTENANCE
Time. Wear and Tear never let up. Your lifts.need not surrender
to the combined operations of this terrible trio, however. Trie
way to put them to rout in your building is to mount an offensive
... an intelligently planned and systematically executed offensive
of "lift maintenance under Waygood-Otis orders.
Preventive engineering would be a more descriptive term for
maintenance as carried out by Waygood-Otis. Minor faults are
sought and caught before they can develop into major overhauls
involving dislocation of service. Defects are anticipated and
remedied before they happen. Parts are replaced before they can
cause a breakdown.
It will pay you to place your lifts under Waygood-Otis care r~>
and if your installation is a Waygood-Otis, who but the manu-
facturer is better qualified to do the job?
Use your telephone now to ask for facts you won’t, o£ course,
be obligated in any way.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. - incorporated IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE * PERTH ♦ HOBART • NEWCASTLE
Sft
:»yi>
SZX
VERTICAL TRANSPORTATIO
“WORLD BOOKS” ( )
WfMsmm
vpwsv«siv>
»Mm
CAN BE
AT THE AMAZINGLY LOW PRICE
OF ONLY 5(5 I
JOIN “World Books” and enjoy a
unique reading experience. Each
month members receive the club’s
choice in a special buckram bound
edition finished with a gold stamped
panel as illustrated. Irrespective of
the regular selling price of the book,
members receive the W.B. editions
for only 5/6 each.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
Jan.: “So Many Loves” ..,
Feb.: “Oat of West Land,
Mar.: “The Razor’s Edge,”
Apr.: “Years of Victory”
May: “The Outnumbered
June; “Indigo”
July: “Henry the Eighth,
Aug.: “Valley of Decision,”
L. Walmsley
” L. Dickson
S. Maugham
.. A. Bryant
,” C. Hutter
.. C. Weston
” F. Hackett
M. Davenport
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MONTHS, £l/16/- 12 MONTHS, £3/12/- (inc.).
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” I enclose £ / /
My name is
Address
Rodners M
Then he went off into the darkness,
whistling cheerfully.
After tea, when the Fosters were settling
down to read in front of a great og
fire, the dogs began to bark agam, more
excitedly than during the day. Molly
looked out of the windows and dis-
covered Stanley’s lantern as he set out
for his late round. She stared for a long
time until she was sure that there were
two pairs of legs crossing and recrossing
the light. ...
“He’s gone and taken Leonardo with
him,” she said.
Neither of the Fosters spoke.
“I must say,” Molly persisted, “that it s
decent of him to take pity on the poor
fellow. Lots of people wouldn’t care
how lonely he is,”
The Fosters said nothing and Molly
sat down in a hostile silence. After a
few minutes she jumped up suddenly and
rushed out of the room. The Fosters
were just beginning to look at each other
questioningly when she returned with
some of Foster’s socks which needed
mending. .
“Oh, you are a good girl,” said Mrs.
Foster.
“No, I’m not,” Molly contradicted
curtly, “but I’ve got to do something or
I’ll go barmy.”
There was silence in the room for a
while, then Mrs. Foster put down her
book and said to Molly in a sympathetic
voice, “Why don’t you telephone Merv
and tell him you’re sorry?”
“Because I’m not,” said Molly sulkily.
“He’s too good a boy to lose over a
silly quarrel,” Mrs. Foster continued.
“You won’t find another like him.”
Molly did not reply, but after a time,
when the Fosters were immersed in their
reading again, she left the room quietly.
They heard her at the telephone. When
she had finished she went straight to her
bedroom.
THE next day Molly did not follow
Stanley’s movements so closely, but
she wore a desperate look all day. When-
ever she could, she dashed outside and
hoed furiously in the garden, generally
within talking distance of Leonardo.
He told her all about his walk with
Stanley, described with a wealth of
graphic gestures how the rabbits crouched
when they were caught in the traps, how
Stanley took them out and broke their
necks, and how he reset the traps. He
indicated to her the astonishing number
of rabbits Stanley caught.
“Oh, plenti money Meester Stanli; las’
night two sterling. Meester Stanli plenti
intelligent.”
Molly encouraged him to talk. She
had never listened to him so attentively
before, and he was deliriously happy.
►That night, when the lantern wertt
swinging past the window again, Molly
jumped up and said “I’m going with
them.”
The Fosters looked at her astonished.
“Out in the cold! ”
“That’s nothing,” said Molly. “Do me
good after being shut up all day.”
It was several hours before she re-
turned. She had a high color from the
frosty air and looked excited and attrac-
tive.
“Ah, it was great outside,” she said.
She satin front of the fire warming
her shoes, which were damp from the
frosty grass. She kept smiling to herself.
The next three nights Molly went out
for the round of the traps, coming home
later each time. Mrs. Foster thought it
necessary to remonstrate with her.
“If you want to keep your reputation,
you’d better stop going out with that
man.” She added “I don’t think having
Leonardo along helps much. You’re cer-
tainly not going the right way about mak-
ing it up with Merv.”
Mrs. Foster half-expected a display of
temper, but Molly merely gave a con-
temptuous laugh.
“What that poor mutt thinks doesn’t
matter a damn to me.”
Mrs. Foster was worried. She urged
her husband to have a word with Stanley,
at least to find out when he would be
finished his trapping. Foster didn’t like
it, but he went next morning. Stanley
was at his tent. He was looking at some
fox’s footprints nearby, and was excited.
“Just look,” he said. “Last night I
was making a fox decoy-whistle out of a
tobacco-tin lid, and giving a few practise
blasts. And see, one came within five
yards of the tent, fire and everything.”
Foster saw the fox’s footprints, and
then the marks of a girl’s shoes.
“You’ve decoyed more than foxes,” he
said.
Stanley laughed, but stopped when he
saw the severity on Foster’s face.
“She and Leonardo came in for a drink
of tea after the round last night,” he
said.
“I think it would be a good idea to
leave her alone,” said Foster. “How long
will it take you to finish the rabbits?”
“I can say I’m finished now,” said
Stanley, on his dignity.
“I want you to clean them up pro-
perly,” said Foster.
“There are plenty more on other
places,” Stanley asserted.
“Finish them here first,” Foster said,
more mildly, but feeling very savage with
Molly for putting him into an absurd
position.
“I’ll see what’s left,” Stanley said
doubtfully.
At midday they saw Stanley’s truck,
piled high with bags of skins, drive away.
“Thank goodness he’s gone,” said Mrs.
Foster at the dinner table.
But Foster was angry. “He didn’t
finish the rabbits.”
“He might just be going to town to sell
his skins,” said Molly,
The Italian glanced from one to the
other, trying to understand from their
voices what they were saying. The atmo-
sphere troubled him, and he was depressed
on his own account.
THE place seemed very quiet without
Stanley. The dogs missed him and
barked occasionally as if to encourage
him to reappear. Molly looked out each
time, but then went on dully with her
work.
At night there was no lantern dancing
round the paddocks. Foster grieved
about the untrapped rabbits, and Mrs.
Foster was inclined to admit that she had
probably been too suspicious.
But after breakfast next morning the
truck drove up to the house. The dogs
rushed at it as wildly as if they were
going to tear the tyres off.
Stanley brought mail and parcels for
the Fosters; he greeted Molly heartily
and pretended that he was going to crush
her in his arms and that he refrained only
out of modesty. The whole place became
lively again. Only Leonardo was dis-
appointed.
He stopped Stanley on his way out
and asked eagerly “You go town yes-
terdi?”
Stanley nodded “Yes” and went on as
if it was merely an idle question.
All that day Stanley strode about the
paddocks in his tireless way.
At night Mrs. Foster tried hard to stop
Molly going round the traps. She warned
her, then tried to dissuade her; finally
she ordered her not to go, but having
no threat she could employ except that
of dismissal she felt futile.
She was not surprised when Molly dis-
appeared soon after they saw the lantern
pass their window. But Mrs. Foster was
not prepared to leave it at that. She
telephoned young Merv.
He was very shy of discussing his in-
terrupted love affair with her, but Mrs.
Foster made unscrupulous use of her
advantage of age and experience. In the
end she extracted a promise from him
that he would come and see Molly soon.
Then she went to her husband and
told him he would have to do something
immediately. But Foster was not dis-
posed to worry.
“It’ll be all right,” he said. “Stanley
will soon have all the rabbits cleaned up,
and then he’ll go away.”
Molly stayed out so late that the Fosters
went to bed before she returned. They
heard her come in after what seemed to
be a very long time.
In the morning she was absentminded
and irritable, Leonardo was miserable,
and annoyed Foster by his slackness.
“You too much walk about in night,”
Foster told him. “No sufficient sleep.”
The Italian looked at him, surprised.
“Me no walk about in night. Me go
bed. Me walk one night con Meester
Stanli, ma too much fatigue. Meester
Stanli go solo.”
Foster said no more, but as soon as
he arrived home he talked the situation
over with his wife. They decided that
the only thing to do was to tell Stanley
to leave immediately and permanently.
r "p HE next morning Foster woks at the
1 time he was usually disturbed by
Molly’s din, and wondered what was
wrong. The kitchen was empty and cold.
He went to knock on Molly’s door and
found it open. Her room was empty, too.
There was a note on the dressingtable
to say that she had gone away with
Stanley. „ ,
“I couldn’t stand it any more, she
said, rather obscurely.
Foster told his wife the astounding
news, and for fully half an hour they mar-
velled that either of the couple could have
acted in such an incomprehensible
manner. Foster eventually lit the fire
himself, making nearly as much noise as
Molly and taking twice as long. Then
he walked outside, hoping that breakfast
might arrive in due course.
The Italian was all washed, combed
and waiting for the bell to ring. He
looked very excited. He hesitated, half
turned a couple of times, then rushed
into his room. He came out with a bottle
of wine in his hand.
“Look, Meester,” he said, with his eyes
shining, “Meester Stanli go away. Ma
give me one bottil vino. Oh, Meester
Stanli very good. Vino very good.”
He looked at the bright label on the
bottle and smiled happily to himself.


dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
Are You a Business
or Professional
Man?
If so, yout days are possibly s& fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its ggth year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if y OU will call or write at
your convenience.
1 SUCH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
S “ A '“ MS., R» C S , E„ e '
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M, Hughes.
c . NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
K. T. Hilderj John Cadwallader. *
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
4L;.
——-I _
m
- ■ ■>
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealknd; Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
The WILDCAL COUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends, To
Aug., Profit. 5 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
Bi p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.
1937.. 254,383 235,333* 1
To special centenary fund, 1 4,995,914
£20,000 .. ~ J
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939'.. 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,468 5,009,809
1941.. 188,129 191,333 5,006,605
6 p.c.
1942.. 174,068 5,068 5,011,673
1943.. 173,144 171,479 1,665 5,013,338
1944.. 177,274 174,125 3,149 5,016,487
1945.. 179,425 175,416 4,009 5,020,496
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
Headquarters are in London, and have
been ever since the co. was formed 109
years ago ; but the business, or all but a
small fraction of it, is done in Australia
(the co. is strongest in Vic. and N. S.
Wales) and Maoriland. The co. was the
first bank to become established in the
Dominion, and now gathers roughly one-
quarter of its deposits there.
The board’s policy of issuing scrip at
a high premium has been partly respon-
sible for some misapprehensions about
bank profits. Of the £4,000,000 of share
capital, £2,500,000 was gathered during
the 15 years to close of accounts in 1928.
It brought with it a like amount of share
premiums, thus making divs. on five-
eighths of the capital worth only half the
declared rate. The declared rate is thus
an exaggerated statement of the actual
return to shareholders on the money put
up by them. And they are entitled to a
fair return on their money, whether part
of it is called share premium or not.
Moreover, if the business was capitalised
on the basis of the present declared rate
of dividend, and paid for in 3 p.c.
securities, as recently happened in con-
nection with the Bank of New Zealand
and the Bank of England, shareholders
would receive less than the net tangible
book value of their holdings. These facts
are not generally understood and apprec-
iated, and the position lends itself to easy
misrepresentation by Communists and
Socialists,
The Government’s method of war
finance shackled banking practice and dis-
torted the banking structure; and many
of the shackles and much of the distortion
will remain. The fact must be faced that
the trading banks in Australia no longer
enjoy the freedom in financing trade that
was theirs pre-war, and that their asset
structure will in future be dominated
largely by the Government’s interest-rate
and employment policy. Among other
things, recent banking legislation is de-
signed to shape and control the nature
and direction of capital and other ex-
penditure.
To make sure that the public’s money
will be spent largely as the Govern-
ment requires, the class and purpose
of trading-bank advances have been made
subject to direction and control of the
Commonwealth Bank the newly-em-
bellished agency for policing Govern-
ment economic policy on the money side.
The bank’s special war-time deposits with
the Government bank—broadly the in-
crease in their deposits since war began—
remain frozen, together with such further
amounts as the Government bank may
direct. And the interest paid on deposits
and charged for advances as well as the
buying and selling of Government and
other securities are also controlled.
Doubtless the Government powers will,
at the outset, be used with caution and
discretion. How they will be used in the
more distant future will largely depend
upon political trends and the circum-
stances of the moment. All that is certain
is that the initiative to direction rests with
the Government through the Common-
wealth Bank.
The rate of profit that can be earned
by the trading banks is not specifically
limited by legislation, but Government
control of investment policy means con-
trol of earning capacity. Consider these
figures:
- ~ ... * 939 - 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Notes, etc. . . 7,556 7,523 7,472
Deposits 0 ' } 69 ,466, 710 75,874,044
Liquid assets 13,530,269 51,737,687 56,146 650
Advances .. 35,483,941 26,176,827 28,181,062
Premises . . 538,546 678,873 676,383
Last term there was a welcome addition
of £2,004,235 to advances. But deposits,
etc., increased by £6,407,334 and there
was an expansion of £4,408,963 in low-
and non-interest-bearing liquids. The last-
mentioned includes special deposit with
the Commonwealth Bank (£19,383,000,
up £3,244,000), carrying interest at
15s. p.c. p.a. The holding of Government
securities was reduced by £4,021,090, and
cash and Treasury bills increased by
£2,592,327 and £2,035,000 respectively.
It is an exceptionally strong position,
but it means low earning power.
After allowing for taxation (£413,042,
f?ir?2,780), the year’s net earnings were
£2151 stronger at £179,425, equal to 4.4
P- c - capital, or a shade under 2 p.c. on
shareholders funds (capital and reserves
combined). The div. was kept at 6, p.c.,
subject to English income tax 4d.
and ss. sd. in the £ on interim and final
respectively). The rate actually received
by shareholders was thus 4.38 p T c., equal
to approx. 5.5 p.c. in Australian currency
after allowing for exchange.
The market prices the £l5 shares paid
ii a reserve liability
callable only in event of liquidation) at
£/ 175., at which figure the return is 3.5
p.c. on the basis of a 5.5 p.c. distribution.
Wool worths, Ltd.
r Dividends
Ist 2nd
Jan Pref ' Pref - or <£ To Re- Re-
Ixoflt. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. p.c. serves, serves.f
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844? &
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j 56,311 122,397
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 106^492"?
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO | 13,310 198,360
Share premiums, £126,591 .. 324,951
1938.. 217,717 7500 14,000 ?
Staff fund and charities, £5500 J 63,155 378,106
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 ~ 192,439
insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 184,939
1939. 271,693 7500 14,000 194,95 C 0 ?
fund and charities, £5OOO ( 60,243 235,182
1940 272 922 7500 14.000 194,950 | aoo
To chanties, £5OOO ~ .. f “1,472 286,654
■. n ., Tax reserv e taken in, £120,095 406 740
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472’865
1942. .253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
1943. .148,303 7500 14,000 4,263 570,168
1944 a'JJ^,’ 574 ■ 7500 1 1, 000 21.394 591 562
1945 £1,725.. 593,287
J Addld 7500 74,000 133,680 16.893 610,180
1946 IRS , fnn™! '/T AA eSen ' e ’ £7,5 °0-. 617,680
Twif/ 3 ® 7500 . 14, . 00 ° 138 ,855 33,475 651 155
f Excluding depreciation reserve, £345 107 at
31/1/M6.
This big variety chain-store organisa-
tlo/I’.s:on.slsting °I the parent and seven
subsidiaries, one of which is a property
co., operates a chain of over 100 stores
scattered throughout all the Australian
States and Maoriland. Its extraordinary
financial success during the between-wars
period and very satisfactory, though less
spectacular, performance under war-time
restrictions and handicaps have attracted
a . t , t< r” t . 10n to tlie post-war investment pos-
sibilities of the scrip.
Since the public became interested in
1928 the parent’s paid capital has ad-
vanced from £63,264 to £1,391,499 in
75,000 10 p.c. and 200,000 7 p.c. cum
prefs., all of £1 each, and 4,465,996 ords.
of ss. each. Of the £1,116,499 of ord.
capital no less than £944,712 (nearly 17s.
in the £) is bonus scrip, scattered during
the immediate pre-war decade. Over the
same period cash issues brought with
them £199,977 of share premiums. Still,
these issues were in the nature of bonuses
to shareholders, because the scrip com-
manded a substantial premium in the
market.
During the war disappearance of many
old lines from the market, clothes ration-
ing, mobilisation and difficulty in obtain-
ing goods from abroad brought a con-
traction in turnover, while costs, especi-
ally taxation, continued to rise. Net earn-
ings fell sharply from a peak of £282,566
for the 12 rponths to the close of accounts
in 1942 to ,£148,303 two years later. Last
term a fev£ more goods became available,
turnover' improved, and net earnings
up £16,757, reaching £188,830.
That was after allowing £24,442 (down
£337) for depreciation and paying the
previous year’s tax bill (£72,204, up
£37,196), but making no specific allow-
ance to meet the next bill when it arrives.
The £188,830 covered the pref. divs. and
14.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
13.5, 13.9, 11.3, 20.8, 23.4 and 22.5 p.c.
back to 1940. The div. was kept at
12 p.c., making the average over the last
six years 12.8 p.c. as against an average
of 16 p.c. for the preceding quinquen-
nium.
Turnover can be expected to benefit as
the labor problem eases and more goods
become available, and, for a while, nor-
mal demand will be reinforced by de-
ferred buying. Costs, especially taxation,
will be the troublesome factor. Much
will depend upon the Government’s
policy in relation to the wage and price
structure. Although there is still room
for further expansion of the business, the
rate of growth is likely to be less pro-
nounced in the future than it has been in
the past.
The market heavily discounts the future
by pricing the ords, at 245. 6d. (official
high limit), at which figure the return is
only 2.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The
investor at 245. 6d. who looks for a shade
over 4 p.c. on his money counts on a
20 p.c, distribution, or other benefits. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come on to
the market.
Financially the co. is well equipped to
take advantage of whatever opportunity
offers:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,391,499
Liabilities. . 316,798 626,390 375,815 503,888
Freeholds, etc. 36,717 41,148 41,148 41,148
Leaseholds.. 82,506 82,065 107,309 100,553
Plant .. 282,531 350,928 346,546 346,925
Shares other
cos., etc.. .1,226,263 1,376,263 1,376,261 1,376,261
Stocks .. 465,024 767,109 613,022 656,694
Debtors .. *344,625 *298,600 *137,450 *266,068
Cash .. 6,479 8,627 202,846 235,906
♦lncludes advances to associated cos.' —£317,321,
1940; £287,624, 1942 ; £122,973, 1945 ; £243,952,
1946.
Liabilities and debtors’ balances are
largely interrelated by inclusion of current
accounts with subsidiaries. Including
shareholdings, the more or less liquid sur-
plus amounted to £2,031,041 (up £77,277).
The year’s growth of £2500 in paid capital
was on account of allotment of 10,000
ords. at a premium of 15s. each to manag-
ing director W. T. Kelly.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- * Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.'
£ £ £ £
1935 ~ 4,247 5 p.c.= 3965 282 17,072
1956 . . 5,957 7i „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 . , 7,126 8„ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 .. 6,592 7} „ „ 5947 645 18,509
1939 .. 5,627 7„ „ 5551 76 18,585
1940 . . 8,272 8„ „ 6344 1928 20,513
1941 . . 12,644 8 „ „ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
1942 . . 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 7548 30,709
1943 .. 10,513 8 „ „ 6344 4169 34,878
1944 . . 12,280 11 „ „ 8723 3557 38,435
194 a .. 8,453 10 „ „ 7930 523 38,958
The sharp drop (£3827) in last year’s
net earnings was due partly to the indus-
trial hold-up which interrupted the power
supply and caused the co. loss of its
December output, partly to a falling off
in demand owing to the lag in transition
from war-time to peace-time activities,
and partly to shortage of suitable labor.
The £8453 of profit was 10.6 p.c. on
capital as against 15.4, 13.2, 17.5, 15.9,
10.4, 7, 8.3 and 9 p.c. back to 1937. A
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 10 p.c. Only once (in 1944) during
the last 16 years have shareholders re-
ceived more.
The co. turns out a wide range of
leather belting and industrial leathers,
and does a substantial business as power-
transmission engineers as well. War re-
duced demand for leather in the uphol-
stery and fancy- and travel-goods trades,
and cut off 4 the growing export business
the management had developed with Asia
and near-by islands. Still, additions had
to be made to the tannery, belt-making
factories and power-transmission engi-
neering plant in order to cope with in-
creased war-time local demand. Before


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ * »
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Awt.
your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and U days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
v R KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager.
i
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
See and hear this outstanding Broadcast
Receiver (Model 456) at your nearest “His
Master’s Voice” Retailer.
For homes without electric supply there is a
dual-wave vibrator operated receiver (Model
326).
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
B. 12/46
MANTEL RECEIVER
Radio
aided
and
Protected
A.MP
the
by
fHkS farmer is typical of tens of thousands of
farmers throughout the Commonwealth. He
is a member of the A.M.P. Society.
Through his A.M.P. policies he protects his
family against the risk of his death, and he
provides security for his own old age.
But more than that! His A.M.P. policies give
him a financial backing in any time of stress
or trouble. He knows that at any time he wants
money to buy sheep, or for seed wheat and
superphosphate, the fund he has built up with
the A.M.P. will provide it without question or
favour. His policies can aid as well as protect.
Any representative or office of the A.M.P.
will be glad to discuss the provision of this kind
of security with any farmer or grazier. Appoint-
ments gladly made.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfleld, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker,* Manager, New South Wales Brandi.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, NJ3.W.
the war over three-fifths of all Australian
raw hides were treated locally. After the
conflict got into full swing the lot, plus
whatever could be had from Maoriland,
was handled by Australian tanneries. The
co.’s war-time performances, therefore,
cannot be accepted as a reliable guide to
the future earning capacity of the busi-
ness. For the five years to the close ot
accounts in-1944 profits averaged £12,276
as against an average of £5910 for the
preceding quinquennium.
As the transition period merges into
the post-war era there should be a strong
deferred demand for leather for uphol-
stery of cars, furniture, etc,, and for fancy
and travel goods, as well as the normal
demand for industrial belting. The danger
lies in the possibility of strikes and other
tactics that interfere with production
bringing about industrial dislocation, thus
sapping the strength of demand by mak-
ing the cost structure topheavy before
recovery is complete. The trade which
the co. had built up pre-war with the
N.E.I. has already been lost, or largely
so, to Canada and U.S.A., owing to Com-
munist-inspired shipping hold-ups. If
Australia is to sustain its enlarged manu-
facturing capacity, maintain the volume
of employment and raise the standard of
living, broadened export markets and pro-
duction at less-than-war-time costs are
essential.
There is nothing uneasy about the co.’s
finances:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. ~ £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 27,929 71,951 48,100 41,056
Freeholds .. .. 58,978 62,519 66,984 68,310
Plant, etc 10,391 16,653 13,153 12,942
Stocks .. .. 38,956 57,675 45,121 44,883
Book debts .. 17,918 38,516 36,762 30,700
Cash, etc 5,584 10,683 8,695 7,360
To clip £7044 off the outside debt and
add £1326 to the book value of freeholds
last term, debtors’ balances were reduced
by £6062, and cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £1335. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£41,887) was £591 less than at the
previous balance.
On the market 28s. 9d. (ceiling price)
is offered for the f.-p. pound shares with-
out attracting sellers. The return at this
figure is 6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.5 p.c. should the distribution drop
to 8 p.c. The net tangible cover is
295. lOd.
Maoriland’s Scientific and Industrial
Research Department is investigating
possible occurrences of radio-active
minerals in the Dominion. Identification
of some of these minerals, chiefly urano-
thorite and monazite, in dredge tailing on
the West Coast has suggested the possi-
bility of their existence in sufficient
quantity to be of economic importance.
In the hope of making such a discovery,
a party of seven Government scientists,
equipped with special instruments for de-
tection and measurement of radio-active
materials, has set out in a 90-ton ketch
to explore the South Westland sounds.
Gold production in Australia and its
value since 1939 compare as follows:
Ounces. Value.
1939 .. 1,645,697 £A16,002,000
1940 .. 1,643,999 17,520,000
1941 .. 1,496,698 15,991,000
1942 1,153,787 12,060,000
1943 .. 751,279 7,851,000
1944 .. 656,866 6,901,000
1945 .. 655,000* 7,000,000*
* Approximate figure.
In round figures employment in the in-
dustry has fallen since the outbreak of
war from 30,000 to 6000, Peak year for
production was 1903, when 3,836,0950 z.
.was recovered, worth £A16,303,000, with
gold at £4 ss. an ounce. So far as value
is concerned, 1940 was the peak. The
yellow metal was then worth approx.
£AIO 13s. an ounce. The figure is now
£lO 15s. 3d. Since 1939 the price has
been subject to a special tax of 50 p.c. of
the amount by which it exceeds £9.
*** ♦ ’
Small mineowners and prospectors in
Westralia are complaining that, despite
the Federal Government’s announcement
that it would assist with rehabilitation
loans, nothing has been done to assist
them, or seems likely to be done for some
time. A number of producing shows
which had to close down owing to war
conditions could be reopened, and would
provide work for ex-servicemen and
others, if such loans were available.
Why, it is asked, can’t the State Govern-
ment, because of its closer touch with the
industry, be made responsible for grant-
ing assistance instead of what is described
as a chloroformed Federal committee?
* * * *
The six De Bernales Westralian gold-
mining cos. compulsorily wound up by
order of the court in London on March
18 are Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance, Murchison Gold Development,
Beryl Gold Corporation, North Kalgurli
United and Meekatharra Gold Mines,
Ltd. First five were registered in England
in 1934, and the sixth a year later. In
1941 it was resolved to wind up the lot
voluntarily, and transfer'the assets to a
Westralian co., to be known as Aus-
tralian Gold Production ; but the British
Treasury refused its consent. Australian
Gold Production, however, carries on
mining operations on the properties be-
longing to the six cos. mentioned. Its
directors are all De Bernales nominees.
Action is still pending against De Ber-
nales and 34 others for alleged breaches
of the English Companies Act, including
flotation misrepresentation.
* * * *
“O.B.”: North Kalgurli, Ltd. (W.A.),
in its latest progress report, mentions
exposure of ore, assaying from 25dwt. to
150dwt., in stripping the south drive at
No. 6 level of North Kalgurli block.
Assays averaging 22dwt., over a width of
13ft., are also reported from No. 2 level,
and over an unstated width, at
the No. 7 level in the adjoining block.
Judged on the basis of ore reserves and
prospects. North Kalgurli ranks next after
Lake View and Great Boulder among
Kalgoorlie Golden Milers.
* * ... *
Mt. Malcolm Gold, Ltd., a London co.
with Westralian and other mining in-
terests, netted £3123 for the 12 months of
1945, mostly from dividends. Share-
holders were handed 15 p.c. Some
months ago the co. seemed keen on
acquiring options on Block 59, Hampton
Plains (W.A.), but since De Bernales
interests abandoned two of its options
there Mt. Malcolm does not appear to be
so anxious.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward ceased operations at
its mine near Coolgardie (W.A.) about
two years ago, owing to shortage of
labor. Now it wants to borrow £20,000
on security of its assets to finance further
development and reorganise old and buy
new plant. Directors recall that, when
operations were suspended, “development
had reached an interesting stage,” and
think that it will become more interesting
still when work is resumed. Cash hold-
ing is approximately £4OOO.
* * * *
Free beer followed the recent discovery
of a 60oz. nugget at Peak Hill, north of
Murchison (W.A.). It was on the old
Peak Hill mine that London chairman
Darlington Simpson banqueted a State
Governor and a few politicians at a table
laid with roughcast gold plates and
goblets. Golden toothpicks and spittoons
were also provided, and the toilet set in
the Governor’s bedroom was gilded.
Simpson, his guests and the mine have
since passed on.
* * * •
Three Adelaide cos. which have been
unlucky so far recently issued their
accounts for 1945, They are White Hope
West, Slavin’s Block 8 and Durbar. At
balancing dates their liquid assets
totalled £9OO, £490 and £2OB respectively
—not enough to test anything vfcrth call-
ing a mine.


m
.
■
fi ■ Sh
<r '**#<
m
m
X.
. '' ,3 fp
.■ . . ■ .
Solid Beauty
. With the tenfold advantage of Structural Steel Tubing
There is no question Australian homes will be
better built. In England, America and Aus-
tralia the tenfold advantages and supreme
qualities of Steel Tubing for structural pur-
poses have been proven beyond doubt.
Structural Steel Tubing means greater
strength and greater stability, greater fire
safety, no warping or shrinking of framework,
freedom from attack by white ants and borers.
Framework prefabricated at the factory,
transported to the building site ready for
erection, also means precision building . . *
speed in erection.
Steel Tubular members can also be used for
Roof Framing and as Floor Joists with brick
or concrete construction.
r
\
BED ROOM *
¥
IHI j.
BATH Q.
. »
D“ BED ROOM .
J °ooo
i ■— •—*
BAR. AGE
n r-\ v Tt-RUftCE | |LAUNDRY
! V I CLOAKS
■i
I KIT.
DINING
J
T- 4 j
it
Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
HOUSING DIVISION, 75 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
NOTE: — We regret it is not possible to answer personal enquiries relating to individual home-building problems.


%
*
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
In your choice of a car battery be guided
by the Air Forces. They and the world’s leading
passenger, air lines depend on Exide. They
still keep going when the rest have stopped.
♦
WHEN
ITS
iMrSTART
PERSONAL ITEMS
No Australian has seen more of the
inside of the diplomatic circle than Frank
Keith Officer, 0.&.E., M.C., LL.B,, ap-
pointed Australian Minister to Holland.
His appointment was probably influenced
by his wide experience in China, Japan
and Russia, all countries the Dutch are
particularly interested in through their
interest in the N.E.I. But previous to
that he was British Political Officer in
Northern Nigeria and private secretary to
its Governor, Sir Hugh Clifford, the
great Administrator of Malaya. Officer
was Adviser to Commonwealth External
Affairs and its representative in London,
Australian Counsellor to the British Em-
bassy, Washington, Australian Charge
d’Affaires at Chungking, Counsellor to
Australian Legation in Tokyo and Mos-
cow, lately Australian Minister in South-
East Asia and now the same thing in
Siam. He was borg in Toorak, educated
at Melbourne Grammar and the Uni-
versity, was associate to Justice Hig-
gins before collecting an M.C. in the
last war. He was in Tokyo when the
Japs struck, but returned to Australia
under diplomatic exchange 10 -months
later.
In 1935 James Valentine Connolly, with
a Sydney Uni. civil engineering degree
and a Sulman Memorial Prize behind
him, went to England to join the tech-
nical staff engaged in designing the Hur-
ricane fighter ’plane. He’s gone a long
way since then, and has had a big hand
in Britain’s war-time aircraft production
programme. Since 1942 he has been
Assistant Director of Aircraft Production,
in which capacity he faced engineering
problems involved in the production of
aircraft, armaments, bombs, materials,
engines and equipment. Harold Clapp
tried to snatch him back to assist in Aus-
tralia’s own production problems, but the
British Air Ministry held him tight. Con-
nolly, now in India leading a mis-
sion to advise the Indian Government on
the local production of aircraft, expects
to visit Australia soon.
Appointment of Arthur Roden Cutler,
V.C., as Australian High Commissioner
to New Zealand should be popular on
the other side of the Tasman where war
heroes are always sure of a warm wel-
come. Cutler, a Bachelor qf Economics
of Sydney Uni., won his V.C. as an ob-
servation-post officer with the 2/5 Regi-
ment in Syria. In a later action he lost
a leg, thus putting an end to his Army
career. After his return to Australia he
became N.S.W. secretary of R.S.L., and
is at the present time Assistant Commis-
sioner of Repatriation.
Back in Australia after six years in
America, Elizabeth Kenny has received
more acclaim abroad than any Australian
woman since Melba. Although a Queens-
land Royal Commission of doctors re-
jected Sister Kenny’s method of treat-
ment of infantile paralysis in 1938, when
she went to America two years later she
carried with her a letter of introduction
from the Queensland Government, and
she was warmly received in the States. In
1941 the U.S. Medical Association ap-
proved her methods ; she was appointed
guest instructor at the Minnesota Uni-
versity Medical School; Rochester Uni-
versity made her an honorary Doctor of
Science; the University of New York
gave her its Doctorate of Human Letters ;
in Chicago the American Congress of
Physical Therapy awarded, her the Dis-
tinguished Service Gold Key. Her life
story has been published in the States
and —Melba never achieved this —has
been made into a feature-length film on
the grand scale in her own lifetime.
Despite Sister Kenny’s success abroad it
is probable that when this film is screened
in this country thousands of young people
will be hearing of this famous Australian
for the first time.
The last wish of a New Zealand film
actor, Francis Shayle-Gardner, was grati-
fied recently when, from one of the ferries
running across Auckland Harbor, his
ashes were scattered in the waters laving
the city of his birth. A native of Auck-
land, Shayle-Gardner, aged 55, died in
England in May last. He made his first
appearance in London in 1913, and had
played opposite Irene Vanbrugh by 1915,
when he went to France with the N.Z.
division, finishing the war as captain.
Resuming his stage career, he played with
Henry Ainley’s and Matheson Lang’s
companies in Shakspearean and other
plays, and could always be relied on for
a sound performance. Later he switched
to films, and was seen in movies with
George Arliss in “Disraeli” and Warner
Oland in the Fu Manchu series.
Warwick Gregory, lately appointed
director of the Port Line of Steamers,
whose red and black funnels are known
all over the world, is a member of the
famous family of cricketing Gregorys, of
whom eight played for N.S.W. and four
for Australia. Warwick himself repre-
sented his State at Rugby Union in 1910
and 1911 ; in cricket he got as far as the
N.S.W. Second Eleven, but left it to his
brother Jack to carry on the family tradi-
tion, while he turned his mind to ships
and shipping. Both brothers went off
to the Kaiser’s war ; Warwick finished up
in command of 113th Howitzer Battery,
with a Military Cross on his tunic. Re-
turning to the shipping game, he spent
a few years in Australia before going to
Maoriland to look after the Line’s in-
terests there. After 12 years on the other
side of the Tasman he was sent to Lon-
don, where he spent the full period of
MERCHANT SHIPS.
World War II in the dual capacity of
London director of the firm and O.C. of
a company of Home Guards.
“Old Mat”: David Low put in a few
days at the Nuremberg trial, and on his
return to Britain had this to say:— _
Sketchbook in hand, I was examining
Goring meticulously when he turned his
gaze and hooked my eye. After about
twenty seconds of mutual glaring it dawned
• on me that he was trying to stare me
down. The childish vanity of it! How
silly! (I won, by the way.)
Those who knew Low well don’t wonder
that he outglared Goring. His dark,
never-blinking peepers missed little as he,
with a full 36in. gait and hands dug deep
in pockets, strolled about. I never knew
a person with so few words to say as
Low ; but his work spoke for him in Aus-
tralia, and took him into the top rank
of world cartoonists. His cartoon impres-
sions at Nuremberg for the Manchester
“Guardian,” true to Low label, are ex-
ceedingly clever.
R. C. Wheeler, selected by the Liberals
to stand against Labor’s T. F. Williams
in Robertson (N.S.W.), spent most of his
youth in Gosford, where his father was
a real-estate agent. When 27 he joined
the staff of a Sydney Stock Exchange
firm, and later bought a seat on ’Change.
He enlisted in June, 1940, went to the
Middle East as a private, and rose to
captain, meantime marrying an A.I.F.
nurse. Now 37, Wheeler returns to bis
Stock Exchange and other business
affairs, but retains family and other in-
terests in Gosford, of which town an
uncle, H. C. Wheeler, was the second
Mayor. The same relative represented
Northumberland as M.L.A. 1895-98, suc-
ceeding the rhetorical Tommy Walker,
afterwards Attorney-General and Speaker
in Westralia,
Ernest Buckmaster is artistically a quick
worker. Given a three-months’ com-
mission by War History to paint post-war
Singapore he landed in that steaming
seaport two days after the surrender
ceremony. Part of his commission was
to record that historic occasion, but he
refused to paint something of which he
had had no visual acquaintance. Sixteen
days after his arrival he lobbed in with
16 pictures and requested a return pas-
sage. The rest of his contract was ful-
filled in Victoria painting relics of the
State’s preparations to oppose the
Japanese invasion.
It is natural that Lord Louis Mount-
batten’s Deputy Chief of Staff should
know a little about combined operations,
but Rear-Admiral C. Douglas-Pennant
knows much more than a little on the
subject. He was Chief of Staff to Admiral
Ramsay during the landings in North
Africa and Sicily, and was recalled from
India to command one of the three main
assault forces for the biggest of all com-
bined ops., the invasion of Normandy.
For this job he was awarded the D.S.O.
and the American Legion of Merit. In
the First World War he gained the D.S.C.
at the Battle of Jutland as a sub-lieu-
tenant. During the 20 years’ peace he
served in most parts of the world —in the
Mediterranean, on the North American
and West Indies stations and at the Cape.
At the time of the Abyssinian crisis he
was in command of Exeter, later to cover
herself with glory in the Battle of the
River Plate and to go down fighting in
the Bay of Bengal. In addition to his job
as Deputy Chief of Staff the admiral is
also the representative of the C.-in-C.
East Indies Fleet.
Another R.A.A.F. old-timer to go into
retirement is Air Commodore F. W-
Lukis, C.B.E. At first a Lighthorseman
who gained his commission in the field
and transferred to the No. 1 Squadron
as an observer towards the end of 1916,
“Luke” completed 200 hours in the back
seat before being sent down to secure his
pilot’s wings. This took only about 10
hours’ flying before he was back at the
front flying Bristol Fighters. When the
R.A.A.F. was formed in 1923 he was one
of the first pilots selected and was first
Commanding Officer of Richmond in
1925 with the rank of Flight-Lieut. He
was the only pilot of a batch that left
Melbourne for Richmond to reach there
without a forced landing; later in a
flight from Richmond to Brisbane he was
the only one who arrived and he landed
in a wheat paddock en route. All the
others fell by the wayside. “Luke,” dur-
ing his service with the R.A.A.F., has
been everything ; after a period as Air
Member for Personnel he commanded
SKY SHIPS.
North Eastern Area, 10 Operational
Group, No. 2 Training Group and finally
Eastern Area. Possessed of an unruffled
temper and a human understanding be-
yond the average, he was one of the most
successful and popular senior officers in
the R.A.A.F. and one who was tops with
the Yanks.
The intent look in the eye of Com-
mander N. R. Read, drawn here by
Coventry, is no accident; it is the trade-
mark of the man who has spent six years
of war at sea. New District Naval
Officer in S.A., Commander Read has
WAR SHIPS.
been 29 years in the Navy, and has
served in every type of ship from mine-
sweeper to battleship, with a tour of
duty in subs, to round off his experience.
Among the ships he commanded was the
sweeper Whyalla, named after the town
that built her and several other R.A.N.
vessels. When he got news of his pre-
sent job he was senior officer of 21st
Mine-sweeping Flotilla with the British
Pacific Fleet. In that capacity he was in
Tokyo Bay when the Jap surrender was
signed aboard U.S.S. Missouri.
“T. the R." with a little correction:
Permit me to correct “Morehead” (B.
13/3/’46) in one detail; I had no connection
with the Murchison “Times” in my varied ex-
periences with the Wesfralian goldfields press
of the ’nineties. That particular organ of pub-
lic opinion, published in Cue, was founded by
Jimmy Thomson, a well-known and well-publi-
cised Melbourne journalist, Irish, I think, by
birth. He founded it in 1894, so that, if it
still pursues the even tenor of its way, which I
have no reason to doubt, it must be quite the
oldest goldfields newspaper, if not die only
survivor from the “roaring days.” But it
wasn’t the first in point of time. ■ The Murchi-
son “Miner” had a precarious existence for two
or three years before that, but its utility was,
unfortunately, terminated by its editor-pro-
prietor (who was also the local postmaster)
being removed to a place where —as Vosper
phrased it—he was debarred from surveying
the “House on the Hill” at Fremantle from the
outside, thus leaving a clear field for Thomson.
Nothing daunted or dashed by his period of
enforced seclusion, the “Miner” man presently
reappeared and started another newspaper at
Mount Magnet in 1896. Materials for such a
venture, in the matter of newsprint, printing
ink, compositors and even, it appeared, dic-
tionaries, were even more limited here than at
Cue, causing a morose writer- on a reptile con-
temporary to stigmatise the new effort as bear-
ing every sign of being “run try a cranky
costermonger, set up in a blind asylum, inked
with inferior cartgrease and printed on a
mangle.” We journalists in the early days of
the goldfields, even before “Smiler” Hales
arrived at Coolgardie, hadn’t much to learn
from Pott or Slurk.
Into the silence:
Lost at sea off Fraser Island (Q.) from his
40ft. motor launch Crescent, Harold Henrick-
son Hoel, aged 44, one of Queensland’s best-
known deepsea fishermen. Norwegian-born,
he came to Australia as a youngster on one
of Eriksen’s square-riggers and liked it so much
that he returned for good a year later.
In Adelaide, suddenly at 66, J. E. Maycock,
founder and president of the Wheatgrowers’
Association, its secretary since 1933, and lat-
terly its representative on the Australian Wheat
Board.
At 101, at Derby, Tas., Mrs. Grace Williams,
native of St. Ives, Cornwall. She had 14
children, 87 grandchildren, 41 great-grand-
children and 22 great-great-grandchildren.
At 71, in Melbourne, Walter Magnus Catlin,
assistant secretary of the M.C.C. since 1927
and an official of the club for 30 years.
At Glen Davis, Leslie James Griffiths, manag-
ing-director of National Oil for the past five
years and a former manager of the B.H.P. steel-
works at Newcastle.


#1
1
wim.
/■/«
7 7
1
k\V
>. -.
9Z* T»Vjs
S®*
/ff-
X
«i
•.V.-_ _j«c,—
fif'rt
n
k?r
\
m
\
i
A SIGN..TO
5*:V(
%Y£
>*
WuREMEMBER
\
V'
J\
iiS I
, u
jg^BSPI
■■
ia
«|i I
ffii
PP«
tvs
%
M
Uwl,lT »S
\,W
i>ii
wM
mt
Ell
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of: “C.O.R. Plus” Motor Spirit • “C.0.R.” Power Kerosene • “CORALITE” Kerosene
“C.O.R. Light Diesoleum” • “C.0.R.” Diesel Oils • “C.0.R.” Fuel and Bunker Oils
CIO-27
THE SERVICE MAN
The Army's Peace March.
The organisation of the London Peace
March contingent is now nearly com-
plete. The Army section is representative
of the Pacific as well as Middle East
campaigns.
The G.O.C. of all forces in the march,
Major-General K. W. Bather (N.S.W.),
is a soldier of remarkable physique, fit
to succeed in the tradition of Charlie
Cox’s Lancers, who formed the first Aus-
tralian ceremonial detachment in Lon-
don at Queen Victoria’s golden jubilee in
1897.
Major-General Bather is of this genera-
tion of warriors—4s years old; first
commissioned in 1923 ; lieutenant-colonel
of the 56th Batt. in 1933 ; with the 2/1
Batt., A.1.F., in 1939. Though he won
his D.S.O. at Bardia, the Owen Stanley
was his campaign. All his higher pro-
motion was achieved in action, and most
of his work was done in command of
the 25th Brigade.
With Brigadier Murray Moten lead-
ing the march, the leadership is histori-
cally complete from Libya onwards.
Brigadier Moten was commander of
the Kanga force which hopped into Wau
early in ’43, made the Japs hop out
and pushed them down through the
moss-forests to the Salamaua environs,
wiping out 2500 of them in the process.
Before that he had been with the 7th
Division in Syria, where he won the
D.S.O. He hails from Hawker, far out
in the north of S.A., is 46. He was made
C.O. of the 43 / 48th Battalion in 1936.
In the war his name will always be
associated with the 17th Brigade, which
was his right through from the desert to
Wewak.
Australia’s representative in London in
June will be Major-General Allan Boase,
who comes from Gympie (Q.), and is one
of the galaxy of Brisbane Grammar
School generals, A Duntroon man, he
served through the last war from the
Landing onwards. After all-route inter-
wars service, much of it on exchange in
India, he graduated from command of
the 16th Brigade to M.G.G.S. First Aus-
tralian Army, and then to the command
of the 11th Division in the New Guinea
fighting area.
Three V.Cs., Kelliher, of the Lae
approaches, Rattey and Partridge, of
Bougainville, have been selected. It is a
pity that all the V.Cs. are not in the party.
The Westralians have a particular claim
to inclusion, apart from the splendid
record of Westralian battalions. They
have among them the only living Middle
East ranker V.C. of the A.I.F. —James
Heather Gordon, who is also the senior
living outside A. R. Cutler, among this
war’s Victoria Cross Australians. Cutler
earned his Cross in Syria at Merdjayoun
on June 19, 1941 ; Gordon at the attack
on Green'Hill, north of Djezzine, July 10,
1941. .
Incidentally, the march into Damascus
was led by Arthur Seaforth Blackburn,
a V.C. of the last war, .who was taken
prisoner in Java at the head of a force
that was doomed from the beginning.
Colonel A. M. Sage, R.R.C., Matron-
in-Chief of the Army Nursing Service,
who hails from S. Australia, is to be
senior officer of the Women’s Services.
Plans for a march through Melbourne
are in train. It will be a pity if marches
through the other capitals cannot be
arranged, either before or after the im-
pressive contingent has done its job.
General Dobbie's Crusade.
The surprising reception given to Sir
William Dobbie is a curious instance of
the latent enthusiasms of the population
which do not find vent in frothy news-
papers.
“Old Dob Dob,” as he was affection-
ately known to his armies, held Malta
through all its direst perils and with it
preserved the African forces and all the
elements of an offensive area from which
a strike was to be made into Italy. He
had little publicity, perhaps because he
is a Cromwellian character, more given
to prayer than to photographic modelling
for the newsreels. But he held on, and,
since Malta communications meant so
much to the Commonwealth and its
troops, it is surprising that the Inter-
’Varsity Fellowship of Evangelical Unions
beat the Commonwealth Government
with its invitation to him to come to Aus-
tralia.
His visit is something in the nature of
a religious crusade.
It must have astonished the reporters
of a Sydney press which carries on on
the assumption that the public is in-
terested only in racing, nakedness and
murders, to see a crowd large enough to
do honor to Vic Patrick drawn to the
Stadium by a religious general who
described how Malta was saved by a
miracle and the mercy of God, after
starting its siege with an air force of four
old Gloster Gladiators in crates, 16
ack-ack guns, four battalions and 30
miles of beaches to be guarded against
landings.
Malta survived 2300 air-raid warnings
and was an effective roadblock along
the enemy’s routes to North Africa be-
fore it changed its role to that of an
offensive base.
More Japs Executed.
“Ek Dum”: There were three import-
ant executions of Jap war criminals dur-
ing the week.
General Homma, the original com-
mander of the Philippines campaign, who
permitted the horrible American death
march after the fall of Bataan, was shot
by a firing squad with scant ceremony.
At Rabaul two callous ruffians. Cap-
tains Takuo Takakuwo and Susume Hos-
hijima, who were mainly responsible for
the deaths of the hundreds of Australians
who formed the large residue of the
A.I.F. inmates of Sandakan less than a
year ago, were given their quietus.
The Army decided to admit only a
single reporter to the last ceremonies, but
the Sunday papers served up tales of
how some blunderer tried to send the men
to their deaths clothed in A.I.F. uniforms ;
of how one of the culprits died with the
pictures of merry little children in his
pocket; of assaults on both men by the
executioner when they gave vent to
patriotic cries at the end; also, of the
retaliatory biting of the executioner by
one of the condemned men.
In the face of these reports, which, true
or not, are likely to defeat the ends for
which the men were hanged, there is a
lot to be said for having those under sen-
tence brought to Australian jails and
given the ordinary sordid send-off of com-
mon criminals—Hoshijima was one of
the most brutal bashers of Sandakan.
Shooting might altogether be aban-
doned. If a Jap is bad enough to kill
barbarously he is bad enough to hang;
and jails understand how to organise
these things.
There are still a number of Japanese
under sentence of death for whose dis-
patch arrangements have not yet been
made.
World Defence and Australia.
“Ek Dum”: As a sequel to the Security
Council proceedings concerning Russian
aggression in Persia, Mr. Truman de-
livered an important speech.
The President said that the Americans
had disarmed Japan, which they hoped to
“transform into a peaceful democratic
nation.” They were “working with their
Soviet allies and Korean leaders to create
a provisional democratic Government in
Korea.” At present it seems that the first
essential is to teach the Russians the
meaning of the word democracy.
“We are supporting the free democratic
Government of China,” the President
continued. The free democratic Govern-
ment of China is using American-armed
and -trained divisions to burst a road
through Russian-supported Communist
troops who are barring the way 75 miles
from Changchun, capital of Manchuria,
from which those eager workers for de-
mocracy the Russians have not retired.
They are supposed to leave on April 14.
Next from President Truman:
We recognise that the Soviet Union, the
British Commonwealth and other nations
have important interests in the Far East.
In return we expect recognition by them
that we also have an interest in maintain-
ing peace and security in that area.
At present the position appears to be
that the United States has all the interests,
save those which Russia has acquired, and
the rest have the rest. Hitherto Japan
has been entirely under American rule,
which is as it should be, since divided
controls of conquered countries are
odious and bring about dreadful results,
as shown by the example of Germany.
Russia has secured a lot of lost posses-
sions without having to fight for their re-
turn. Britain, so far, has been rewarded
for fighting the earliest and most crucial
stages of the European war alone by
having to give up her stake in Shang-
hai and by having thrust on her the tasks
of settling the Indonesian and Indo-China
questions.
The Russian Problem
Finally, Mr. Truman turned to the
Middle East. There his remarks (though
he included Britain, presumably for dip-
lomatic reasons) were directed obviously
at Russia, They were timed for the
moment at which the new American
battleship Missouri and squadron were
at Istanbul showing the flag, while Rus-
sian troops remained massed on the
Turkish north-eastern border and Mos-
cow Radio had begun working up to a
campaign which is vaguely interlocked
into two parts.
One part involves a virtuous recogni-
tion of the principle that foreign troops
should not occupy other peoples’
sovereign States. Russian troops are
being meekly removed from such areas
in Europe to which they can be returned
easily, while Moscow prepares to press
upon U.N.O. the need to remove British
and American troops from areas which
stand in the way of Russia’s ambitions—
Palestine, Greece, the Middle East in
general; especially the areas covering


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELLEN ESME MAGUIRE.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH ARTHUR MAGUIRE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4890 of 1945 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 12th June 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MR. W. R. THOMSON Solicitor 14 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRUCE ALBERT ARNDELL late of South
Grafton.—TAKE NOTICE that WINIFRED ARNDELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3401 of 1943 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
13th May next and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. BIDDULPH &
SALENGER Solicitors Selborne Chambers 174 Phillip
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDGAR TACON.—TAKE NOTICE that
LILIAN KATHLEEN TACON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 130 of 1946 on the grounds of your
adultery If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 29th April 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from W. D. SCHRADER
& DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRY JAMES CONVERY late of Merewether
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that IVY MAY CONVERY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4575 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before the 12th day of June 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from ERIC A. T.
ARMSTRONG Solicitor 57 Hunter Street Newcastle
or his Agents MESSRS. BRAYE & MALOOMSON
Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.), C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT' OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE BLACKFORD late of New Lambton in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA MAY BLACKFORD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4414 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before the 12th day of June 1946 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from ERIC A. T.
ARMSTRONG Solicitor 57 Hunter, Street Newcastle
or his Agents MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON
Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT CRIGHTON late of Newcastle in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
OLGA IRENE CRIGHTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2688 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before the 12th day of July 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from ERIC A. T.
ARMSTRONG Solicitor 57 Hunter Street Newcastle
or his agents MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON
Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
T.O CYNTHIA BORZELL late of Marrickville in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN ELIZABETH MANNING has filed her Petition
No. 62 of 1946 praying for a divorce from John
Watson Manning on the grounds of his adultery
with you You may apply to the Court to be allowed
to defend A copy of the petition may be obtained
free of charge from ADRIAN 0. R. TWIGG Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TIRED KIDNEYS
OFTEN BRING
SLEEPLESS NIGHTS
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes or filters which help to purify the blood and
keep you healthy. When they get tired and don’t
work right in the daytime, many people have disturbed
nights. Frequent or poor kidney action sometimes
shows there is something wrong with your kidneys
or bladder. Don’t neglect this condition and lose
valuable restful sleep.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may also cause
nagging backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss
of pep and energy, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
c or 50 years a
pohst
NP4S/40 "A daily dose of ‘NUGGET ’ will
fix those wrin-
kles. A perfect
preserver of shoe
beauty my dear”.
MOIST IMO TRAOI MARK
mmm
HATtRRROQF • >■»«
The Finest Leather
X Preservative >
NUGGET
POLISH
SHOE
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Cpurse
Approved by the War Office.
A. gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, ’42; ‘lt Is Rati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life.... as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER —22nd May, '42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to tnis
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, '42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.
CIEKK —7th April, '42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency 1 have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, '42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the ppplication
of the Pelman principles of living."
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
air FORCE—IBth May, '42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
p ar t I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years... .1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
1 applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER— Ist May, '42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
c
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
Approved by War Office London and
under Commonwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viztj
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne,
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note- Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that
JNO ’ Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
‘The Pelman Institute,
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet' the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy ol “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’*
Name
A ddrest
167
Suez and British-Amencan oil interests
and Greece, Trieste and its hinterland.
Italy is the most vital stage which the
Russians desire to set for t he commums-
ing of the Mediterranean. And Greece is
its stepping-stone.
The Dardanelles are the mouth through
which Russia must make the world swal-
low her ingress to the eastern Mediter-
ranean. Greece is a vital strategic base
in relation to the Dardanelles. With
Greece added to Russian conquests by
“affiliation,” the Dardanelles under con-
trol and the French and British out of
Palestine and Lebanon, Turkey would be
a lone island which would soon be forced
into the position of a Russian colony.
There is a key to the gravity of the
position in the President’s statement that
“it is easy to see that this area might be-
come an arena of intense rivalry between
outside Powers, which might suddenly
erupt into conflict”; and that “the
United Nations have the right to insist
that the sovereignty and integrity of such
countries are not threatened by coercion
and penetration.” . .
There is only one country which is
threatening coercion and penetration in
the Middle East, and that country is not
Britain, Turkey or France.
U.S. Defence Measures
The President remarked that he was
“not pessimistic,” but he proposes unifi-
cation of armed forces, extension of the
Selective Service Act and universal train-
ing.
His country is pushing its defence mea-
sures to the point of sending a naval
mission round the Pacific to inspect
islands for bases, whether those islands
are American property or not. There is
a strong campaign in progress to
secure some Pacific islands in the south,
on the ground mainly that they are places
from which an attack could be launched
on the Philippines.
Manus, in particular, is among these,
and, of course, there are Australian ele-
ments like the Sydney “D.T.” which are
quite ready to oblige. The campaign
has been launched just as Mr. Chifley
and Dr. Evatt are going abroad, the
Americans no doubt having heard of the
notorious “firmness” of both when under
pressure.
One of the excuses put forward for
U.S. occupation of Manus is that Aus-
tralia cannot afford to maintain an
£80,000,000 naval base.
The fact is that Australia can main-
tain a £10,000,000 harbor bridge in one
city. The proposal that it should maintain
£240,000,000 worth of dust-bowl rail-
ways and reconstructed gauges to feed
the vanity of Comrade Ward has brought
no protest worth the name from any area
save those affected by the choice of
routes.
Manus and Strength
And if Manus is the key to the South
Pacific area it is Australia’s concern to
recognise that what is good business for
Uncle Sam is better business for us.
American anxiety cannot be dictated by
any fear that Australia will invade the
Philippines. Its insistence on the con-
tinued basic defence of Manus rests on
the feeling that Australia is weak. Manus
would be of little use to an invader of
the Philippines unless Australia were sub-
dued and occupied.
The defence of the territories of which
Manus is a part should be a joint British-
Australian-Maoriland affair. It should be
Australia’s particular task to provide the
advance base, which has the same rela-
tion to the control of the eastern Aus-
tralian area as Gibraltar has to the Medi-
terranean.
It is little realised that, when the British
Pacific Fleet came to these waters towards
the end of the Japanese war, its effect! ve-
ness was reduced to a minimum because
we had not a base of our own to offer it
in the equatorial Pacific.
The R.N. was forced to depend on
Sydney, thousands of miles south of
where the base should have been, and on
American hospitality, which, at that stage,
ran mainly to the atoll harbor of Ulithi.
It should be a primary concept of Aus-
tralian defence that we control our own
territories and look after them. With
distance from attackers on our side for
some years at least, we should be able
to do that, even if it means the abandon-
ment of some of the expensive vote-
buying in which the Canberra Govern-
ment is involved.
Serfs of Marshal Tito, that hero of
the picture - press, reported jubilantly
that General Mihailovich had been
arrested and was about to be tried.
Tito’s old enemy had, it seemed, been
tracked to his lair in a smithy, where he
was found covered with filth and
whiskers and surrounded by only 11 dirty
followers. On March 31, however, at
which time the captive was supposed to
be in a Belgrade dungeon, a voice was
heard over the secret Yugoslavian radio
claiming that it belonged to Mihailo.
himself and that Tito had been spoofed
by an impostor. Over the past four
days there has been a curious silence on
the subject in Communist circles.
» * * *
Nearly 200 refugees who arrived from
the N.E.jL at the week-end, women among
them, dould have been here long ago had
it not been for the attitude of “Austra-
lian” Communist unions which still hold
up Dutch shipping. Many were scarred by
torture,- of which a sample was described
by a Netherlander from a Sumatran
camp, who told how he was made to stand
in one position for nine days and beaten
with iron rods. The victim and his wife
(also tortured) belonged to an “under-
ground” group in Sumatra which was
betrayed by an “Indernesian comrade.”
Six of those caught were executed.
* * * *
If any trade-union leader wants the
truth about the Indonesian “freedom”
movement and its Australian - trained
supporters, he should meet a few of those
Australian soldiers who came on the
Manoora from Timor. Some began their
experiences with some sympathy for the
Indonesians, but contact with the batch
sent to Java from Australia effected a cure.
The homing soldiers declared that there
was plenty of evidence that Australian
Commos are rich in funds. They saw
postbags fat with airmail parcels,
sometimes carrying a couple of pounds’
worth of stamps and full of “Tribunes”
and other Red Fascist literature.


dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
An easy way. to solve
the “Easter”’ Holiday
accommodation prob-
lem is to be independ-
ent of guest houses or
hotels—have your own
camping outfit. Here
are most of the things
you’ll need. Remem-
ber, it’s well to order
EARLY.
ZIM
and Others
CANVAS
BUCKETS
Handy size, 12
in. diameter x 9
in. deep. Strong-
ly made of
heavy - we Ight
canvas. Sultabla
for motorists,
campers, fisher-
men, &c.
2/6
R.A.A.F.
KITBAGS
5/6, 8/6,
10/6
ARMY
KHAKI
WOOLLEN
TUNICS
15/-
RUBBER
OVERSHOES
with high fabri-
cated tops (gol-
osh type).
7/6 pr.
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
STRONG QUALITY 12' x 14*
TENTS £7-0-0
Similar tents, but with
small tear or tears.
CAMPING HAMMOCKS .. .. 12/6 ea.
Good quality heavy white 'canvas, with ropes
BLUE-GREY BLANKETS (Sale, bed) 20/- ea.
£5-0-0
(Plus Freight)
MILITARY
BOTTLES.
Handy not
only for camp-
ers, but for
hikers, motor-
ists and for
home use, too.
Felt covered.
3/6
WATER
MILITARY
OILSKIN
RAINPROOF
OVERCOATS
15/
Seconds 10/
KHAKI
DRILL
JACKETS
Small Sizes.
10/6
R.A.A.F.
BLUE
SERGE
TUNICS
Small Sizes.
15/-
MOSQUITO
NETS .. 10/-
LEATHER
LEGGINGS,
10/- . . pair
MILITARY
WATERPROOF
COMBINATION
GROUND SHEET-
CAPES .. .. 7/6
Send measurements where necessary.
SPECIAL PRICE CONCESSION OPPBB includes £7 Tent, Hammock.
Blanket, Bucket, Water Bottle, Mosquito Net, Ground Sheet-Cape and Kit
Bag—-£9 (plus freight). Postage single articles 1/6, Interstate 2/6.
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
IS McKILLOP STREET (Dept. 5.W.8.), MELBOURNE.
J>o-tA€- -u*-CX?lv
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Gaobltes will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globitel
Made by
FORD SHEHINGTON LTD. .
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
HARVARD DICTIONARY OF MUSIC
By DR. WILLI APEL
Large Handsome Volume, 839 pages, 35/- (post. //-)
Here is a Dictionary of Music which all intelligent musical amateurs will thoroughly
enjoy, and which the scholar in music will find to be the first reference book in
English to satisfy his needs. The product of exceptional scholarship, the Harvard
Dictionary of Music provides accurate information on all musical subjects. It is
written with clarity, directness and explicitness. The arrangement of the material
permits the quick reference that makes a dictionary most valuable.
This volume, published by the Harvard University Press, contains a comprehensive
list of definitions and many articles on technical subjects. Short musical illustrations
are used to a greater extent than in any other dictionary.
BOSTON HERALD SAYS: “ONE OF THE FINEST BOOKS ON MUSIC EVER
TO REACH PRINT. I don’t see how any person seriously interested in music can
afford to let this finest musical reference book in generations go by.”
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
(AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE)
SATURDAY, 13th APRIL, 1946
The Saturday preceding the Autumn Meeting
The Chipping Norton Stakes (Weight for Age). £lOOO added. One mile and a quarter.
The Liverpool Handicap. £lOOO added. Jurlongs.
The Warwick Farm Autumn Cup. £lOOO added. One Mile and a Half.
AUTUMN MEETING, 1946 20th, 22nd and 27th APRIL
First Day: Saturday, 20th April
The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. £3500 added. Seven Furlongs.
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP. £3OOO added. One Mile.
The A.J.C. SL Leger. £2OOO added. One Mile and Three-quarters.
Second Day: Monday, 22nd April
THE SYDNEY CUP. £5OOO added and a Gold Cup valued at £2OO. Two Miles.
The All Aged Stakes (Weight for Age). £l5OO added. One Mile.
Third Day: Saturday, 271 h April
The Champagne Stakes. One
Si i,"".) ffioo «.dod. o„ u. «d
City at me GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
At two successive Sydney suburban meetings
severe blows have been dealt to the hopes of
fancied Doncaster candidates. At Canterbury
Puffham (not nominated for the mile) downed a
field considered above his class, and at Rose-
hill on Saturday, in the seven-furlongs Railway
Handicap, old Bragger (G. Moore), starting at
25 to 1, wrecked another field of Doncaster
hopes, including Immediate and Murray Stream,
the ruling favorites for the big Randwick
cvent
The promising three-year-old Native Son
started favorbe for the Railway but didn’t
flatter his supporters. Bragger was never far
from the front, and, taking over in the straight,
the old Windbag gelding had a comfortable win
from Wellington and Cragsman. On a slowish
track the seven furlongs was cut out in 1.25.
. . .
T ’A- . ’ „ lln j- r hie
Immediate ran a modera ite race “"“ff H d
9.7; he looked fit enough, but may ha e s
the run. No excuse, b ? t
Murray Stream, finished neariy 1 ,
having also been one of those a
rear view of Puffham s win at Canterbury.
But if looking for a Doncaster pointer in the
result of this race why go past the winner?
Rising 11, he is seemingly evergreen, and with
only 7.12 to carry, the ability to get a mile
comfortably, sufficient speed to keep clear of
early trouble and more than a passing familiarity
with Randwick, the old fellow would not be
without prospects.
’'*. ‘ ‘ ‘ .
However, the one thing hardest to beat in
races like the Doncaster is sheer class, and one
who definitely has that quality is the Mel-
bourne three-year-old Royal Gem. He has
proved himself among the best milers in the
country, and the handicapper has rated him
accordingly, but not excessively, with 8.11. If
Royal Gem takes kindly to the clockwise Sydney
way of running he will be a very tough nut to
crack.
• • • • • *
While the big autumn handicaps bear a fairly
open aspect, there is little doubt about the
w.f.a. events, which Bernborough seems to have
at his mercy, with Flight, whom he has not yet
encountered, the only possible obstacle in sight,
• • ■ • • •
In the Rosehill Rawson Stakes (which tra-
ditional w.f.a. event the S.T.C. has adopted
part and parcel with the track) Bernborough
met, except for Flight, about the best w.f.a.
field Sydney could muster at the moment 1 —
Russia, Craigie, Magnificent, Accession and
Moorland. Against that bunch he registered
one of his easiest wins to date. Held in re-
straint most of the way, if given his head he
could have trebled the couple of lengths margin
he had over Craigie and Accession at the
finish. Bernborough started at 3 to 1 on after
it had .been possible to lay the books 5 to 2,
thanks largely to those who bear in mind
always the dreadful day of another Rawson
Stakes, when Ajax started at 40 to 1 on and
was downed by the 33-to-l pop Spear Chief.
, „ , ’ , ’ , ' ,
Some Sydney Cup hopes and no-hopers met
over 10 furlongs in the S.T.C. Autumn Handi-
cap, even-money favorite being Silver Link,
Securing a lucky mn on the rails after seeming
right out of it, Silver Link came through for
a sound win from Modulation and Open Air
-quite good enough to justify his Cup fayorit-
ism. Open Air should prove a good thing
when next given a nin in the Novice company
f° r which he is eligible and better suited,
* ’ , * ", , ', *.
If Bragger can be conceded a chance in the
Doncaster so should Blue Legend, who, i
wmmng the Thrce-yean-old Handicap from
Titanic and Sajakeda, equalled Bragger’s time
for the seven furlongs, but carried half a stone
more weight. Blue Legend was another winning
favorite, and, like Bernborough and Silver Link,
was ridden by Mulley, who had a field
day with four winners and one minor placing
J r n
. °
xhe old adage that when a man goes to a
racecourse off comes his head and on goes a
p um pkin seemed to be borne out by the betting
on the MacArthur Quality Handicap for two-
year.olds_ with four consecutive wins to her
credit; the Golden Sovereign filly Royal Court
was easily the best-performed candidate, was
ridden by stable jockey Mulley, and had the
advantage at the barrier and in the weights, yet
sbe was allowed to start at 10 to 1, while her
stablemate, Vigaro, was made an odds-on favor-
j te Royal Court led or shared the lead all
the W ay and was running away from them at
t fi o finish; Beau Pebble at 50 to 1 and Sweep
(100 to 1) followed her home.
......
Hijacker, Fairness and Rose Glory were fan-
cied in that order, but all three failed to fill
a place in the Novice first division, in which
Hemisphere followed up his recent Maiden
w in by downing Skymaster and Sancourt. For
the second division punters stuck to the pre-
C ept “top-weight in a second division,” and the
top-weight, Courier, duly accounted for Quad-
rant and Gay Style after being presented with
a gift run on the rails round the home turn.
Adding a last bitter drop to the bookies’ woe
Marlume just got up to win the Parramatta
Handicap from Philgita and Lady Marie—Mar-
lume being the fifth successful favorite on the
day.
* * * * .
Having her first run in a race, the Dhoti
filly Caste very easily won the first division of
the six-futlongs Avon Handicap for two-year-
olds at Mentone on Saturday) beating Pam s
Dream two and a half lengths, with three more
lengths to Siesta, another Dhoti. As well as
being by the leading sire, Caste is sound and
well-named on the dam’s side, too, being from
the Oaks winner Lineage, and hence related to
a host of current good performers.
......
_ . _ .
Though Caste started at tens, some of the
shrewd profited by another hint beside her ex-
cellent breeding. Her dam was raced by D. D.
Mackinnon of the Mac-
kmnon and Co., bloodstock auctioneers.
When Caste came to them to be sold as a year-
ling one of the firm did the auctioneering and
another the buying, and the filly is raced by
Mackinnon and Cox. Caste won despite run-
nine about a bit in the race, and should do
even better next start.
, . . , .
In a somewhat stronger field, the Law Maker-
Rokell colt Bray Law won the Avon second
division in nearly a second faster time than
Caste had taken, but the colt was much more
experienced, and also was favored by one of
those inside runs that so often reward A.
Breasley’s patience. Princess Sion and Burka,
in the places, should be early winners in this
sort of company, and Leading Role also went
promisingly to finish fourth after being well out
of it in the early stages. There was good back-
ing for Leading Role.
• • • • • •
Breasley’s rails-run luck was out in the mile
Stratford Handicap for three-year-olds, in which
he appeared to miss getting Kinderson through
at a vital stage. Still, Noble Prince won it
very easily, with Kinderson next, and third half
a head away Meriuale, which sounds more like
a printer’s error than the, name of a horse,
Noble Prince is a gelding by Greenwich, the
other horse brought out with Dhoti to have
carried the late Duke of Kent’s colors. Green-
wich died soon after being retired to the stud,
Though Bannerette finished a long way back in
the Stratford, she led them up well to the
tum.
• ■ • * • *
The Breasley luck was out again in the 13-
furlongs Powerscourt Handicap, his mount Bal-
moral failing by half a head to down the
maiden performer Philip in a dirigdong finish,
Evade, about ready to win one of these distance
events on the outer tracks, was a fair third,
Rimfire, who is either not quite in form or else
greatly overrated, was once more a costly false
favorite.
• • • • • •
An even more severe battering came to
Breasley followers when they made his mount
Buzharme a 6-to-4-on favorite for the mile
Macalister Welter first division, the placings
going to the four-year-old Portofino gelding
Henty (Badger); half a head to Doughboy, with
Harwarden next. “Brease” made some amends,
in what must generally have been a torrid day
for those who back all his mounts, when he got
aged Tea Cake home nicely from Greens-
borough and Nullabung in the six-furlongs Tin-
amba Stakes. By Bernborough’s sire, Em-
borough, the three-year-old Greensborough must
have his consistency rewarded soon. He looks
the makings of a very useful sprinter. Nulla-
bung should go better over a bit further dis-
tance.
• • • * * *
The Macalister second division went to Bas-
dell, a four-year-old Enfield gelding, three-
quarters of a length too good for Voltaire
(another Breasley second), with Savona next.
. ...
. ± Borisdalc Hurdle,
* th inc else a eood example
f picking * p easy money by sensible placing
T v s , £,. ' cantered home with
> t hs to snare Halea and Attorney,
ten Jen^ hs to s P ar ® trom ™ ,ga anQ *
’ . . ,
For Randwick (before acceptance ).
Fairfield Handicap: Chaperone, 1; Bom
Beau, 2; Vigaro, 3. Cobbitty Handicap: Don
Pedro, 1; Magnificent, 2; Chayfor, 3. Chip-
Stakes: I ? Abbe-
-2^ P Tahmoor 3 P Warwick
1 ’ Link 1- Swan
Farm Autumn Cup. Silver ,
fQ. 2 \:2 mS War 3
Titanic, 1, Puffham, 2, Man o s.
Displaying an extra strong dash of its cus-
tomary betting hardihood, the English (and
Irish) ’chasing fraternity backed the Grand
National favorite, Prince Regent, down to 3 to
I—generally considered somewhat cramped
odds about the chance of any starter finishing
the stiff 4j-miles course. Prince Regent finished
third to the 25-to-l chance Lovely Cottage
(third in the Irish Grand National) and the
100-to-l chance Jack Finlay. Even so, it was
a good performance by the favorite. He
carried topweight (12.5), giving 281 b. and 301 b.
respectively to first and second. The betting
hardihood is further pointed by the fact that,
of the field of 34, only three others besides the
piacegetters finished the course. In the final
acceptances Prince Regent was one of an in-
V asion of nine from Ireland; the two that
finished ahead of him were both Engjish-
trained; and the winner’s rider was Captain R.
Petre.
* * * ♦
Speaking of betting aberration, a year or so
back Pavot was rated best' American colt of
the year. Then he developed leg trouble, and
j n the recent U.S. season was beaten seven
times in succession. Despite that, they made
him a 6to 4 favorite at his eighth start! He
finished tenth in the field of 11. But then,
Sydney crowds, whom present writer has heard
described—by an s.p. bookmaker!—as the
shrewdest horse punters in the world, had for
years been regularly making favorite in re-
stneted events a gelding now rising seven who
was still a maiden when he was taken to Mel-
bourne, where he’s yet still to win.
* * * *
Mention was lately made here of the Belmont
Futurity Stakes (U.S.A.), for which entries have
to be in before the foals are born. The latest
for which nominations have been taken, that of
1948, will be worth oyer $lOO,OOO. The
Futurity fees are $lO paid in January; an-
other $65 due next January; an added $135
due by July, 1948, and on top of that lot
a starting fee of $lOOO. Nominations total


Missing Friend.
OXLEY. Would EUNICE MAUD OXLEY, formerly
of Drouin, or anyone knowing her whereabouts, please
communicate with J. V. Shallard, Solicitor, 34 Queen
Street, Melbourne?
Do you need a /
(fykJxrtud
£cm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, caU
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
mfmlEmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation.
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
INVEST IN THE SECURITY LOAN
m
t||E RIGHT SP IR/f
for drinks in
m t
v I I
l
:•: - 1 ®;
m.
* chP
GL.J3O
G serve
ILBEYS
Gin
and
WATER
SQUASH
GINGER BEER
PEPPERMINT
LEMONADE
BITTERS
LIME
ORANGE
GINGER ALE
FRUIT JUICES
VERMOUTH
TONIC
SODA
OTART your parties off in the right spirit with
Gilbey’s the purest of all gins. Served with
water or your favourite cordials or fruit juices
Gilbey’s provides a drink to delight every palate.
ioi nut' in by 228 breeders, the nominators
SStf second and third getting three, two and
one thousand dollars respectively.
An American sports writer says of the Bel-
National’ sSSS'tn’
is Moected to become the richest turf event of
nv kind in the world within a few yeais,
reaching a gross value of. $150,000 or more
A Srious ‘‘double event” is associated with .
The race is open to both colts and fillies, but
Sen the foJls turn out to be fillies the pay-
ment of an additional $2OO makes them also
eligible for the Matron Stakes, one of the his-
tone events of the American turf The Futurity
itself has been going since 1888.
Another of the richer American races, the
Belmont Stakes, is this year expected to be
worth $125,000; a further indication that the
huge money-winning records credited to Ameri-
can horses cannot fairly be set up against
those of horses elsewhere. The Stakes, which
has been going for 78 years, is straight w.f.a.,
without allowances or penalties, for three-year-
old colts and fillies, and is run over a mile
and a half, making it the American counterpart
of the English Derby.
« * * •
America claims to have a white racehorse in
the making, and he could be an extra good one.
Now a yearling, he is a colt by imported Mah-
moud (1936 English Derby winner) from the
great American mare Top Flight. The colt
goes into the record books as a grey, but ex-
perts say there’s no question about his being
white. His sire, imported to America in 1940,
raced as a grey, but is now himself almost white
and getting more so. Mahmoud’s progeny last
year won 60 races.
« * • •
About the oldest and one of the best
events of the N.S.W. rowing season, the
Riverview Gold Cup, was rowed over the
Lane Cove course on Saturday. It went
to Haberfield, represented by the crew
which won the N.S.W. title on the Nepean
a week earlier, except that J. Eddie re-
placed the stroke. Leading G.P.S. crews
Shore, High, Joeys and Grammar did not
compete, possibly thinking the fixture too
close to their primary target, the G.P.S.
Head of the River, to be rowed at Pen-
rith next week-end. The best pointer to
G.P.S. prospects seen at Riverview was
the Joeys’ first four’s defeat of Haber-
field and Drummoyne in the Junior
Fours, suggesting that it will be hard to
beat in the Yaralla Cup.
S.A.’s crew for the King’s Cup race
(May 11 at Penrith, N.S.W.) are all
city men, from the Torrens, Mercantile,
Railway, Adelaide and Port clubs.
N.S.W. is to be represented by the Haber-
field crew, recent easy winner over the
course.
* * * *
Gordon, which hadn’t been at the top
for over 20 years, won the Sydney cricket
premiership. With a first-innings 337 on
the board, Gordon caught Balmain on a
bad wicket at Chatswood and went
through the visitors for 78, Hynes start-
ing the rot by bagging the’ first four
wickets for 18. He looks rather like an
alderman these days, but he can still bowl.
* * * *
Holman, of Port Adelaide, with 61.2,
topped the batting averages in the Adel-
aide season’s club cricket, and O’Neill,
of Kensington, with 11.7, the bowling.
Neither had been chosen for the State
team. Holman had the highest aggregate
in batting, too, and the veteran McLean,
also of Port Adelaide, had the best bowl-
ing total.
* * « ♦
“Clooter”: When a new batsman went
to the crease in a match at Pearl, Cape
Province (S.A.), in bare feet, swung his
bat half the time and scored 57, with
three sixes and a four off four balls, it
got into the cable news with the
addendum that his skipper will try to
make him wear boots and hit with both
hands next time. I hope he sticks to his
guns, for I have long suspected that
there’s a heap of tosh printed and
spoken about these ball games and the
necessity for so-called orthodox dress and
performance. Cricket and golf must run
each other pretty close in this respect,
yet I’ve seen players of both games who
began much in the manner of the South
African hopelessly defeated when “taken
in hand” and all their natural aptitude
destroyed by orthodoxy. It’s something
like the angler with the elaborate gear
and the kid with the bent pin.
♦ He H< *
With the aim of opening up Rugby
Union play, the experiment of not allow-
ing any forward to detach himself from
a scrum until the ball is out was given
a trial in a match at Richmond (Eng.).
It certainly opened up play, the sides
(United Services and Richmond-Black-
heath) respectively scoring 29 and 23
points. The experiment gave scrum halves
freedom to make deliberate passes, and
. .. , , „ , , nnn . r ; 0 T, t
several times the ball had g g
across the threequarter hne before the
scrum began to break up. tie *
were scored in the match and eig
them converted ,
Final of the world’s snooker cham-
pionship, in which Australian Horace
Lindrum meets England’s Joe Davis, who
has held the title since 1927. {» to be
played at the Horticultural Hall Wes -
minster , London, from May 6 to 18. It s
to be fQr {he best of 145 games . The hall
holds 1250 and tickets range from 5s
to £2 2s London “Times” states that
“ the PoP ularit y of cooker has never been
more pronounced in England than it is
today.”
# * * *
When they meet for the world’s heavy-
weight championship on June 19 Joe
Louis will be 32 and Billy Conn 28, and
neither will have had an actual .fight tor
over four years. When Jeffries tried to
make a comeback he was 35 and had not
had a fight for six years. Jeffries, how-
ever, had retired, whereas Louis and
Conn have kept in some sort of trim in
U.S. Army exhibition matches.
* * * *
Avenging a January defeat, Ted
Sprouster stopped Eric Macready at
Leichhardt in seven rounds. A short
right swing damaged the Macready nose
in the sixth, and it hied so much in the
next round that Macready heard the
shade of Tennyson or someone intone
“Farewell, Macready, for this night we
part .” Anyway, he turned it up. _
Narvo, the Rugby League forward who
became heavyweight champion at a time
when heavyweight form was the poorest
in history, loj afl clai™ to the titk-
disputed-on Saturday night, when he wa^
knocked out at Sydney Stadium by Jack
Johnson. The affair went five rounds, but
it looked as if Johnson could have ended
it earlier. Narvo will now concentrate on
footbrawl.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Great was the delight of the president
and committee of the Children’s Hospital
Appeal when they learned that the State
Government had passed a grant of
£50,000 towards the rebuilding of the
hospital. The public has already sub-
scribed almost £150,000 to the appeal,
but much more is needed. Recent func-
tions aimed at aiding the rebuilding fund
were the bridge party and cafe
chantant held during the afternoon and
evening at Government House. Bridge
was played in the State drawing-room
and the cafe chantant in the ballroom
at night. Lady Dugan was unable to be
present, being convalescent after a severe
bout of influenza. Bridge was played in
a veritable floral paradise, dark roses,
gladioli, golden marguerites, pastel-toned
hydrangeas, a riot of dahlias and white
Easter daisies having been admirably
arranged by Mrs. Mcßeath.
The cafe chantant was arranged by
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson and the Murdoch
lady. After the interval the Governor,
Sir Winston Dugan, attended by Captain
Murray Fairbairn, came in and joined the
Lord Mayor, Cr. R. Connelly, and the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze, at
the official table. Large circular tables
covered by ivory lace cloths were placed
from one end of the ballroom to the
other. These were centred by silver
candelabra, and arranged at their base
were groupings of many-hued flowers.
The buffet supper-tables were also set
with bowls of glorious flowers and silver
candelabra.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell came gowned
in black, with the shoulders of her jacket
heavily encrusted with colored sequins.
Worthy of note was the black velvet cape
worn by Mrs. J. Phillips. It was full and
flowing, and the deep white ermine collar
made it a cape. With her were Mr, and
Mrs. L. Green, the latter in white crepe
embroidered in silver beads. Raymond
Lambert, whose artistic piano solos were
a feature of the evening, had wife Jill
with him. Her new sculptured hair-do
was greatly admired. Mrs. Edgar Rouse,
member of the committee, who was in
charge of catering for both afternoon and
evening functions, was with her hus-
band. Her frock of deep apple-green
was cut on slim lines, and the front of
the bodice was trimmed with moonlight
sequins.
Isobel Green, highly delighted because
of the success of her sweet stall, wore a
long red velvet evening coat over her
pale pastel-pink evening gown. Kathleen
Grant Hay, one of the ticket secretaries
for the bridge party, was in black taffeta.
The Fraser lady chose a black dinner
gown, and highlighted it with a small
black osprey-trimmed hat. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, general secretary for both func-
tions, looked attractive in aqua-green
silk velvet. After thanking His Excel-
lency the Governor for the use of Gov-
ernment House, the Latham lady, presi-
dent of the Children’s Hospital, paid
graceful tribute to the various artists who
had made the function so great a success.
Melbourne Town Hall was packed
when Hungarian pianist Lili Kraus
appeared with the Symphony Orchestra
under the baton of Prof. Bernard Heinze.
Lili chose a wide-skirted, low-bosomed
frock of black chiffon. Among the
applauders of the soloist for her bril-
liant work in the Mozart Concerto and
for the orchestra in the Tschaikowsky
Fifth Symphony were Lieut.-Colonel D.
McKenzie and his wife, smart in a royal-
blue suit with a small flower hat for
contrast; Hilda Corbett, whose teal-blue
suit was trimmed lavishly with sequins ;
and Margaret Saker, wearing a black
gold-trimmed jacket with her black
skirt. Knight Keith Murdoch and his
wife were in a party with the J. D. G.
Medleys. Back in Melbourne after a
stay in W.A. for ten months, Rosemary
Kenny, now Mrs. Hugh Mulcahy, was
there with her sister Mrs. Bill McGregor.
Mrs. Cecil Rowe, of New Norfolk, Tas-
mania, was another eager listener.
Under the auspices of the Fine Arts
Society Dr. L. Hirschfeld-Mack held an
exhibition of his paintings in the Rowden
White Library of the University. Dr.
Hirschfeld-Mack was born at Frankfurt
and studied art at Munich. He is now
art master at Geelong Grammar. Pic-
tures in two dimensions with space sug-
gestions eliminated and other pictures
listed as “Abstract” gave the many
people present at the opening day lots
to talk about. Two artists interested in
the exhibition were sisters Yvonne and
Valerie Cohen, who spend many months
of each year on their island home,
Timana, near Dunk Island. With them
was Lena Bryans, who will soon hold her
own exhibition of paintings and port-
raits. Others in this group were Mrs.
K. Norris, Gelda Pyke and Barbara
Newman, who just graduated from the
National Art Gallery, where she won ex-
hibitions for her work.
Not only did Major H. B. Gullett, M.C.,
win the Henty seat for the Liberal party ;
he also won Ruth Colman, for announce-
ment was made of the engagement shortly
after the declaring of the poll. Ruth,
who is one of this city’s prettiest girls, is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. S.
Colman, of Gordon Grove, South Yarra.
She served in the A.W.A.S. during the
war. Her first big job after leaving this
branch of the Services was to act as joint
ticket secretary, with her friend Felicity
Harrison, for the recent ball in aid of the
Children’s Hospital. Ruth, with Felicity,
is holidaying with Mrs. Frick Bell, at
Kooroomba station, Queensland, and
from there is going to Southport, return-
ing to Melbourne for Easter.
Attractive lass pictured here by Noel
Rubie is Elaine Foster, a pupil of
Doris Fitton and a member of the
“Mourning Becomes Electra” cast. The
play has created a great deal of
interest in this city. The theatre has
been entirely booked out for the season,
which is 12 nights. This city’s theatre-
goers are indulging in a new sensation,
but one which is not new to Sydney
lovers of the theatre. Play begins at
6.30 and continues until 8 p.m. Then
there is a break of 20 minutes and a dash
to the nearest cafe foq food. The Direc-
tors of the Comedy Theatre wisely made
arrangements with the cafes and supplies
are good, so no member of the audience
need go hungry.'
In the foyer of the Comedy Theatre
members of the cast of “Dear Ruth” held
a cocktail party in aid of the Children’s
Hospital. The organisers had no idea
there would be* such a response to the
invitations issued, for it seemed as though
all Melbourne had turned up. But every
guest was good-tempered and gave freely,
so that the coffers, at the end of the
party, were full, Mrs. L. Green and Mrs.
A. Phillips struggled nobly' through the
crowd with their raffle books, and Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, assisted by son Robert
and Bunny Campbell Grey, worked over-
time serving cocktails. Noticed in the
madding throng were Mrs. W. Horsfall,
proudly , telling of her first grandson ;
Mrs. F. Watts, who happily discussed
plans for the Victory Gymkhana, which
would help the funds of the Northcote
and Preston Community Hospitals ; Gladis
Griswold, American member of the cast
of “Dear Ruth,” and her compatriot, Ann
Lincoln, who is with her in the play,
presenting an unruffled front in the milling
crowd, even when the party took on the
appearance of a football final; and Claude
Fleming, Everett Ball and Gwenda Wilson
handed out cocktails.
After six years of wonderful work Air
Force House has closed its doors. Many
thousands of airmen all over Australia
will remember gratefully how they were
cared for in this, one of the best-run
hostels which came into being during the
war. Men from every State of the Com-
monwealth found a home there while in
Melbourne on leave or passing through to
their home towns. The Victoria League,
with its Hospitality Bureau, sent thou-
sands of men out to hostesses for meals
and parties and arranged theatre seats,
picture seats and dances, all gifts from
the managements of theatres and amuse-
ment centres. The women journalists also
did a grand job, for they installed a
library and were instrumental in placing
on the library tables newspapers from
almost every town and city in the Com-
monwealth so that airmen might have
contact with home. Out of their busy
lives they found a few hours each day to
staff the library, and worked in shifts all
through the six years Air Force House
was in action.
From Sydney
Rain in the morning and a sulky,
threatening sky through the afternoon
took the blithe spirit out of the Royalties’
garden party. It is safe to say that
radios were turned on in every Sydney
suburb at 12.30 waiting for word as to
whether the garden party was to go for-
ward or to halt. At 12.30 listeners were
told to hearken again at 1.30. And at
the end of the news session the party
was proclaimed still on. But there was
no rushing into light and airy frock
and giddy sandals. In sober garb, often
top-coated, umbrella aswing, women
guests walked up the long avenue —for
cars could go no further than the lodge
gates.
There was a big tea marquee on the
lawn almost opposite the front doors of
Government House, and just inside the
garden entrance there was a band on the
grass in front of the terrace. The guests
walked down the path to the fountain,
which they circled. And presently the
band played a few bars of the National
Anthem, and the Duke and Duchess, with
military and naval attendants, came out
of the house. The Duchess walked down
the path on one side of the fountain, the
Duke walked down the other. They
talked to guests presented by the aides.
The Duchess’s frock was a delicate blue-
grey, and her small hat had a ruffle of
net in the same toning about the crown.
There were about 2000 guests on
Thursday, and pretty well the same num-
ber on Friday. The Frederick Jordans
had tea within doors with the Royal
Highnesses, and later the Duke and
Duchess again joined their guests on the
lawns. Premier McKell and his wife,
Lord Mayor Bartley and Mrs. Bartley,
the Dobbies of Malta, General and Mrs.
Morshead, knight Thomas Gordon and
his lady, Bishop Pilcher and the educa-
tional Miss Jobson, Mrs. H. Twigden,
Mrs. Lennox Bode and Margaret Fyvie-
Watt, her grey squirrel bolero much
admired, were some of -the many
grouped about the paths. Mrs. Walter
Burfitt was there, blue feathers on her
hat. Mrs. Florence Taylor, too, wore
feathers in her large black antelope hat.
Mrs. David Roper flashed sapphire-blues,
Mrs. Bouverie Anderson Stuart was an-
other of the feather-hatted. Miss Eileen
Phipps, in a pale tan frock and hat, was
in attendance on the Duchess.
The men, on the whole, were a shabby
lot. But then that is to their credit. It
just proved that most of them are good
husbands, fathers and brothers who
haven’t been selfish with their clothing
coupons! Toppers were very few, but
John Pye wore one of them.
Dark-haired, dark-eyed Mavis Lorenz
and Dr. Errol Trevor King are among
the newly-engaged. Her parents are the
C. T. Lorenz couple of Woollahfa, and
his are the Oliver Kings, of Rose Bay,
Dr, Errol’s father is the Oliver King who
started off all the music clubs and is now
busy letting loose Singers of Australia
over the land. Falk photo.
The day of the second Ducal garden
party was bright and clear with a nice
astringent touch of autumn in the air.
Women guests of the first day who had
had to forgo their finery sighed a trifle
enviously over the lot of the Friday
brigade. These went clad in their finest.
One young woman even went the length
of buying her next summer hat in honor
of the occasion. She declares virtuously
she will put it away carefully till the
drums of the cicada herald another sum-
mer. The Duchess’s frock and three-
quarter coat of fine chiffon in coral tones
were greatly admired. Her hat was of
shiny black straw and wore white and
rosy flowers beneath the brim. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Rivett-Carnac were
notables of the afternoon. The Bertie
Kellys were seen, she in a ground-length
lilac frock. Members of the University
Senate were there, and many Fairfaxes,
Knoxes and Macarthur-Onslows leavened
the two afternoons. The Tom Batemans
were among several who admitted being
half-way to the party when they found
they hadn’t their entrance cards and had
to rush back home for them. The Colonel
Spains were first-day guests. Country
Mayors and Mayoresses and shire presi-
dents and clerks and their wives were
among the 2000 or so who walked the
garden ways on the sunny day..
Beethoven and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra made happy partnership last
Saturday night. It was the first orchestral
concert of the season, and Czecho-
slovakian conductor Walter Susskind
wedded composer and players with be-
nignant brilliance. The Town Hall could
have held no more, and all the old
adherents of the Sydney Symphony turned
up again. The night’s pianist was
Gualtiero Volterra. The concerto was
Beethoven’s third in C Minor. This was
playing to stir the imagination. The
Bertie Kellys and the Charley Lloyd
Jones couple were in the audience. The
Lashmars were there, too, and vivid Mrs.
Fawsitt and her professor husband. The
Rupert Scammells and Lute Drummond
and pretty Mrs. Rex Bennett, Mrs. Claude
Plowman, Miss Ruby Wilkinson, Ryder
Swinson and former Parliamentary
librarian John Quinn were all in their
allotted places.
The Dixsons at Elwatan, Castle Hill,
had their own bit of family excitement
recently when only daughter Mary
married Ivan Black, barrister, ex-p.-0.-w.
and new Liberal member for Neutral Bay.
St. Paul’s, at Castle Hill, 90 years’ hoary,
blessed the vows. Mary’s frock was white
and silver lame, her veil a cloud of tulle
that billowed into a long train. Two
hundred and fifty guests were at the recep-
tion at Elwatan.
President Margaret Graham and her
fellow-workers on the junior committee
of the Presbyterian Hospitality Centre at
the Haymarket want service lads to know
that the Centre will be serving midday
dinner and an evening meal on Saturdays
and Sundays and all public holidays. This
will be happy news for all who have pre-
viously sampled the hospitality at this
address.
The Bulletin’s managing director,
Ken Prior, made his debut as a grand-
father last week. Daughter Joan, Mrs.
Peter Vesper, is now the happy mother
of a nines pound babe. Husband S/Sgt.
Peter Vesper got week-end leave and
came down from Hay to make the new
arrival’s acquaintance.
“The Joshua of Malta” the Girl in the
Flat Opposite has named Lieut.-General
Sir William Dobbie. The defender of
those seemingly defenceless islands gleam-
ing in a wide expanse of sea is indeed a
member of the church militant. But that
seems to have been the way of it from
the beginning of things in Malta. The
Grand Masters of the Order of St. John
could, and did, lay about them with
hefty sword. When they hadn’t a bit of
a scrap on with the Turks they set about
repairing the housing problem. There
was none left for the Dobbies when he
was Governor-General of the heroic spot
in 1940-1942. Lady Dobbie told at the
Lord Mayor’s reception last week that
they had three palaces. The one they
lived in was at San Anton. It has” walls
about seven feet thick. There was
another residence at Valetta, and there
was the lovely old hunting lodge up and
down the great staircase of which it is
said the Grand Masters rode their horses.
When one of the convents on the island
had been badly bombed the Governor-
General and his lady handed over the
lodge to the Order. The complete de-
struction of the hospital for merchant
seamen was one of the horrors Lady
Dobbie still grieves over. Fortunately,
though the Germans and Italians had left
not a stone upon a stone, there were few
casualties.
This Town Hall reception was a happy
affair. It brought out many padres and
reverends as well as chiefs of all the ser-
vices. Sir William is touring all the
States, as he did Maoriland, under the
direction of the Inter-Varsity Fellowship
of Evangelical Unions. Archbishop
Mowll and his wife, who are the Sydney
hosts of the visitors, and Bishop Pilcher
were at the party. Bishop Pilcher and
Sir William were boys together at the
Charterhouse School, London. The
afternoon was another success for Lord
Mayor Bartley and his Mayoress.
During the electricity restrictions this
Letter published a recipe for washing
clothes without boiling them. This is a
cold-water wash. From Auckland, in
Maoriland, some readers who tried it have
written a letter of eulogy of the method.
They further state it is very kind to the
hands.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others per line.
Preparedness
I agree that this country must never
be caught unprepared, but conscription in
peace by no means guarantees effective
defence. Russia, France and Italy were
conscript nations. There was nothing out-
standing about their preparedness for war
when it came. Germany and Japan were
effective while they had mechanical
superiority, but were outclassed when the
Allies made up their earlier deficiencies
in equipment.
Britain and America, both non-con-
script nations pre-war, manned most of
their shock troops and’ their entire air
forces with volunteers. The Battle of
Britain and subsequent operations showed
the tremendous superiority of their sys-
tem in battle conditions.
Probably the most efficient defence sys-
tem was that used by the R.A.F. in the
years before the war. This was based
on a voluntary short - service plan
whereby men joined the colors for a
period of five years. During this time
they received a specialised mechanical
engineering training which was of great
value to them in civil aviation. Their
qualifications were recognised by the
Board of Trade.
Abie men were attracted to the com-
missioned ranks, as pay was good and
prospects for promotion (owing to the
rapid turnover of personnel) excellent.
Further, the Air Force offered a life of
adventure. It turned out well-trained
pilots who were absorbed by civil avia-
tion at excellent rates of pay.
After a period of five years, a reserve
of 100 p.c. was built up, which increased
every year by 20 p.c. Auxiliary squadrons,
manned by men who spent their spare
time in training for air-force service,
formed another substantial reserve. The
only criticism of the system is that it was
conceived on too small a scale ; but it
was a perfect miniature. It gave a magni-
ficent account of itself in its hour of
trial.
The principle could be applied to the
other arms of the service, though it is
hardly necessary in the case of the Navy.
A modern army could be easily planned on
the same basis. Increased pay and oppor-
tunities are necessary to attract the best
brains to the Army, otherwise they
will go elsewhere for employment.
The modern army is so highly mechanised
that it affords excellent training ground
for youth in most mechanical and electri-
cal trades, though such training must be
recognised by the educational authorities,
which, of course, are as much part of
the nation’s public services as is the
Army. Auxiliary forces could likewise
be encouraged and men receive valuable
spare-time instruction in specialised
trades.
To augment this, the entire youth of
the nation could be adequately trained
by annual compulsory camps of one
month’s duration from the ages of 16
years to 21 years. This would prove less
expensive than conscription for a year —
it would not interfere with the education
of youth, nor with the economy of
families on the basic-wage level. —C. G.
C. Olive (Federal Vice-President, Service
Party of Australia),
No-Badge Boys
Further to “Junius Jr.” (B. 6/ 3 / ’46)
and “C.S.” (B. 20/3/’46), what about
the Air Force boys in North Westralia
and the Northern Territory?
Most of this very large crowd came
straight from training-schools in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales. The first batch
left in mid-1942, the last early in 1944 ;
after that there was a constant dribble
right up to the cessation of hostilities.
All these lads enlisted for overseas ser-
vice. Well over 90 per cent, of them re-
mained in those two hated areas for the
whole of their active-service careers.
As the battle moved north there was
no reduction of establishments nor any
replacement of experienced and seasoned
technicians ; but raw trainees were sent
from schools in the south-east direct to
active commands in the islands.
With the' war’s end these boys who
were sidetracked in the north-west are
without badges of service or (unless they
served in bombed areas) R.S.L. member-
ship.—J. M.G. R. (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Milk
In 1943 Melbourne lived in terror.
There was an epidemic of typhoid, 436
cases and 23 deaths, and there was talk
of isolating the Moorabbin district, where
the epidemic started. The disease was
discovered to have started in a dairy, but
the disturbing thing about it was that
carriers were found to be distributed over
almost the whole metropolitan district and
a lot of the country. One carrier was
found handling food in a cafe and an-
other was found to be an assistant in
a hospital for children.
The Dunstans passed a measure for the
pasteurisation of all milk sold in the
metropolitan area. Vested interests
bitterly opposed the measure, and the
change from the Dunstans to the Cains
has done a lot to help them. Mr. Cain
has now announced that the Gov-
ernment’s plan has been “deferred” be-
cause of the materials shortage—the usual
political formula.
In the meantime Dr. Featonby, chair-
man of the Health Commission, has issued
a solemn warning that so long as Mel-
bourne continues to drink unpasteurised
milk it is under the threat of another
typhoid epidemic.—L. L. (Vic.).
In Ward’s Principality
Is it realised in Australia that while
the people of Britain are needing fats
so desperately the copra plantations of
Papua are not producing a ton of copra?
The position is precisely the same with
rubber. All estates are closed down.
“Well, Bertha made me dispose of my white mice!”
Industry is dead throughout the country.
And all to gratify the desire of Mr. Ward
to be another Abraham Lincoln, freeing
“Fuzzywuzzy” slaves.
During the four years of the war with
Japan the natives were conscripted for
work, as also were almost all male adults
all over the world for the battlefield.
Papuan natives were freed from their
army contracts on October 15, 1945. Our
Australian lads cast longing eyes on
each ship as she leaves Port Moresby,
but there is no wholesale freedom for
them.
Under the present administrative set-up
expenditure in Papua and New Guinea
is estimated at £200,000 to £250,000 p.a.
With no exports and little in the way of
imports, it means another burden on the
Australian taxpayers.— Over-taxedpayer
(Papua).
Overcrowded University
The downtown press has made some
mention of the matter, but one has to be
really attending Sydney University to
appreciate the inconveniences students
are suffering this year.
As in 1919, but to a much greater de-
gree, the Uni. has had an enormous en-
rolment of ex-servicemen and -women,
and the relaxation of the quota system
has brought a huge number of students
from high schools. Provision of financial
assistance has given many more the
opportunity of a university course.
Quite appropriately, the centre of con-
fusion is in the Union building, where
facilities to feed and seat 8000 students—
or even half that number —are totally in-
adequate. Ninety-two new chairs have
been provided in the refectory, but “Honi
Soit,” the students’ newspaper, asks
whether “the 3000-odd new freshers are
going to draw lots to see who occupies
them.”
Most disconcerting of all is the crowd-
ing in lectures—so severe that many lec-
tures have to be repeated. There has
been hasty erection of temporary build-
ings, sections of which are at present in
use; but even the Union Hall has to be
used at certain times for Arts lectures.
Medical students are informed that
anatomy will not commence until June,
and will last only one term instead of the
usual two terms. There will be about
30 students to each corpse. Some medi-
cal students have been cut from the nor-
mal 35 lecture-hours per week to 18
hours. Other faculties have had their
timetables similarly reduced.
Despite staff assurances to the con-
trary, most students feel that only a re-
stricted number will be allowed to pass
first-year exams. If anything like the
number at present in first year passes
into second year I shudder to think of
the consequences. — Undergrad (N.S.W.).
Legions
As a result of some years of modest
service during the late scrap, I find that
1 may join, if I desire, the R.S.L., the Air
Force Association, the Air Crew Club and
the Ex-Servicemen’s and Women’s Asso-
ciation.
All these legions are founded with
much the same ideals in mind to foster
war-time comradeship and to help those
who need it: the wives and children of
deceased members and members who
find their rehabilitation not going to plan.
These ideals are fine, but they could be
more efficiently converted into realities if
there was only one association for all who
served in the Australian armed forces.
As it is, all these miscellaneous legions
will be consciously or unconsciously
competing with each other, and, as far
as the politicians are concerned, the ex-
servicemen will merely be many small
voices crying in the wilderness. - The
setup smacks too reminiscently of the
disunity and discord prevalent in our
national political life. Surely that is
example enough.— Squizz (Vic.).
False Parallel ?
“R.K.0.,” in his righteous indignation
over the transportation of troops (B.
27/3/’46), seems to have lost sight of the
essential part of the Yoizuki affair.
After all, troops O.A.S. do not —or at
least should not —expect saloon passage
when travelling in combat areas (having
completed nine years of service commenc-
ing in 1915,1 can speak from experience).
We know hardship will be our lot, and
philosophically leave it at that, reserving
only the right to grouse among ourselves.
The sole cause for the resentment en-
gendered in the minds of most people was
the manner in which the women were
herded together on the Yoizuki, some of
them pregnant, others nursing mothers.
After all, a woman is a woman, whatever
her creed or color, and the British race
has a reputation for its treatment of
women and children. Sans Changer,
(S.A.).
New State for N.Q.
The people of the Gulf country and all
the country north of Townsville intend
to do everything possible to bring about
the establishment of a new State north of
latitude 19.
Encouraged by the Brisbane Govern-
ment’s reiteration of its “decentralisation
policy,” Gulf country people decided to
urge construction of meatworks about
30 miles from Georgetown. With the use
of aerial transport it would be possible to
deliver fresh meat at any of the northern
coastal towns in about two hours, and
with it fruit and vegetables. When the
Royal Commission on Abattoirs visited
Georgetown the residents staged an ex-
hibition of fruit, vegetables and farm
produce in the hall where it took evidence.
Their efforts were of no avail. The
Commission reported that the Gulf was
breeding-country only, and that recon-
ditioning of the only railway serving the
district would be unwarranted.
In 1927 bridges were washed away on
the Almaden-Forsayth railway. Instead
of the line being reconditioned to make
it again available for the use of heavy
stock trains, it was merely reconditioned
sufficiently to carry a railmotor. The
Abattoir Commission reported that the
railmotor could haul four trucks of goods
or livestock. Georgetown replies that the
railmotor will haul only two trucks, and
the only livestock allowed to be trans-
ported over the line ,is an occasional
truckload of bulls. Even conveyance of
bulls was refused until pastoralists pointed
out that they were being urged to improve
their herds, yet when they purchased ex-
pensive bulls railway transport of them
over the railway was refused.
The State Government recently an-
nounced its road construction policy for
the far North. Gulf residents were dis-
gusted to find that no big works were
contemplated nprth of the railway from
Townsville to Cloncurry. A glance at
the map will show how isolated the Gulf
country is, denied road and rail communi-
cation. The Abattoir Commission esti-
mated that the Gulf country proper de-
pastured 750,000 head of cattle. A 10
per cent, annual turnoff would give 75,000
head. Fat cattle lose 1001 b. per head
when they have to be transported by
road and rail from the Daintree River to
Cairns.—P. C. (Q.).
“Utilitarian Memorials”
The - Blue Mountains District Anzac
Memorial Hospital is the Great War
memorial in that locality. The secretary
asked me to become a subscriber. I told
him that, being wholly dependent upon my
pension as a totally and permanently in-
capacated soldier of the 1914-18 war, I
couldn’t afford it, and added “But I sup-
pose I could get treatment in the hospital,
couldn’t I?” The reply was that civilian
subscribers would invariably have first
consideration!
I recall that the Wollongong District
Hospital was originally erected as a
memorial to the Prince Consort, though
a statue would have fulfilled the inten-
tion of the original subscribers.
This “utilitarian memorial” racket is
just a device to get hospitals, parks,
swimming pools or what-have-you on the
cheap. The particular district cashes-
in on the desire of relatives of the fallen
to show that they have not forgotten their
dead. Give me a column or a statue
which can become a perpetual memorial
and a shrine where “civilian subscribers”
do not come first. — 510, 4th Batt.
(N.S.W.).
“Our Indemesian Comrades”
I suppose there are ex-p.-0.-w. from
N.E.I. in the unions involved in the
holding-up of mercy ships for Java. I’ll
warrant they are worried men.
They would know at first hand the
“form” of “our Indemesian comrades,”
who robbed them in cold blood. They
have experienced the discomforts and
dangers of “kampong” habits in p.-0.-w.
camps. Against all this, they all admired
the high courage of the Dutch women
and their kindness to Allied p.-0.-w. dur-
ing the Jap occupation.
Do you remember, chaps, the V-for-
Victory signs as our trucks were speed-
ing past (always worth a bashing if spotted
by the Japs)? Remember the tobacco,
food and clothing these good people tried
to get to us? They had no incomes
either —it was all paid for out of their
capital, money left behind by their hus-
bands before they were interned.
The Indonesians won’t gain a thing by
the holdup, but those women and their
children must have suffered by it.— Simon
Scrawler (W.A.).
Socialism and Competition
N.S.W. railway authorities are getting
worried about the “menace” of airline
competition, showing the same attitude
as they did years ago towards motor
transport. They claim solicitude in the
public interest in both cases, as losses
substained by the railways must be
borne by the people.
While this contention is true, it gives
away the case for State ownership. 1
have heard it argued repeatedly that
capitalism strangles progress. It is
alleged that wealthy concerns buy up
patents and suppress new processes solely
in order to protect the value of existing
investments. Clearly, however, a policy
of this sort, if it is ever indulged in,
can only have brief success. For when
free enterprise is allowed sooner or later
the prospect of profit will attract enough
capital to start the new service or use the
improved method. The limited section
of the community which is interested in
the old firms has to bear the losses.
Capitalism, then, puts the burden of
risk on the shoulders of the few who
are willing to bear it. But State-owned
industries are trustees of everybody’s
money. If they make losses the taxpayers
want to know why. Is it any wonder
that their managers try to stop com-
petition? Thus it is socialism, not cap-
italism, that is the foe to progress.—
Arc (N.S.W.).


Back in Civvies
war record
- : ■■■■
■I
iii
mm
■■■■>; '■
ilii
iii
m
m
i
m.
:
mm
ill
H
i«i
mm
m
item.
m
V'i
wmm
\ < •. > <S-yy ... •< ‘
.■i
■■. ,
1H
Ml
mMm
'■so-
The first Radioplayer
from the production
line—-Philips brilliant
3052 A, 5-valve dual
wave.
After five years of untiring service in sweating jungles and dust-choked
deserts; after five years of bomb-pitted trails, spine-bashing tank travel,
of monsoons, mud, of every kind of climate and weather ever devised by
Nature, the Philips Radioplayer is coming back to civilian life . . . with
a thousand honorable mentions “on its war record. 5 ’
The same qualities, features and engineering designs which enabled
Philips Radioplayers to stand up to the gruelling ordeals of war service
are being built into the peace-time models now starting to come off the
Philips production line. Soon, very soon, they will be released in limited
quantities to accredited Philips retailers.
PHILIPS
dfsdfsdfdsfsdfs
radioptym
PHBLBPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH BRISBANE
Incandescent and Fluorescent Lamps, Lighting Equipment and Fittings, Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves, Radioplayers,
Radio Transmitters, Sound Systems, Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro - Medical Equipment, Industrial and Medical
Infra-Red Apparatus, Electronic Devices, Radio Accessories, Electrical Measuring Instruments, Metal Pressings and Stampings.
