

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
'The Bulletin,” Vol. 67-No. 3473
Wednesday, September 4, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
St. Clement Danes’.
CT. CLEMENT DANES’ during the Queen’s reign was com-
mandingly situated near the eastern end of the Strand. It was
built in 1680, under the direction of Wren, but the tower was not
added until 1719 ; and it was restored in 1839. The tower stood
115 feet high, and consisted of lonic, Corinthian and Composite
tiers. In the tower was a peal of ten bells, eight of them dating
from 1693, associated with the lines “Oranges and lemons say the
bells of St Clements,” chimed daily, and the children of the parish
received oranges and lemons on the 31st of March every year.
This view of the church in the Queen’s time was taken from the
front of the Royal Palace of Justice and showed the east end of
•the building. It was at St. Clement Danes’ that Dr. Johnson regu-
larly attended divine service, and his seat in the gallery was
distinguished by a brass plate. Baptised here were Sir Charles
Sedley, the dramatist, and the Earl of Shaftesbury.


Journalism
at FfOMF
ihis Book FREE to YOU'
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street. Melbourne ‘
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fr r <-
Hoolclet explaining how to Write tor Profit a,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin," * '
Uy Name ..
My Address
S 3. 146
AOE
Th Red Page
STORY AND SONG.
r
Browning the greatest English poet since
Shakspeare.
Only in the lyric, where one looks
primarily for the flash of vision, and
listens primarily for melody, will you find
that the great poetry of tradition is with-
out a story. And even here, in a neces-
sarily limited way, there will generally be
a measure of narrative interest. Besides
the charming music of “Cornin’ Through
the Rye” there is also that enchanting
glimpse of a draggling petticoat; besides
that visionary dancing of “The Daffodils”
we have also the information that Words-
worth was wandering lonely as a cloud
when he saw them. Lyrical poems as well
as epics and dramas are “about” some-
thing, something happens in them ; they
move from point to point. We do not
have to wonder, perhaps admiring a
phrase hen; and there, what a lyric is all
about: we are told in clear song.
Those Australians who cherish Pater-
son above all other rhymers have perhaps
found the qualities of lyric as well as
narrative poetry in his ballads. If there
is not vision of the highest order, there
are at least clear pictures ; there is melody
—not like Hugh McCrae’s, but still a
music both pleasant and impetuous ; and
you certainly do not have to wonder what
a Paterson ballad is all about.
McCrae, it may be, is beginning to
come into his own; his Poems —practi-
cally a Collected Works—sold out during
the war. But if he is not yet as widely
read as Paterson—assuming there is a
reasonably large audience in this country
for a great lyric poet—his work may be
handicapped by the fact that it is not (on
the surface) distinctively Australian. Mc-
Crae writes about satyrs, Paterson about
horsemen; and, though it is high time
we realised that McCrae made the one
essentially as Australian as the other, a
certain hesitation is understandable. For
the greatest appeal of Paterson is that,
however limited his powers, he spoke for
Australia as Shakspeare had spoken for
England. The man from Snowy River
was not Hamlet, nor Falstaff: but he was
“fair dinkum.”
It would be no use telling Australians
they shouldn’t like “Banjo” Paterson,
they do like him; and that is all about
it. And, moreover, because he has these
qualities-—narrative excitement, melody,
clarity and “Australianness”—anybody is
entitled, on unexceptionable critical
grounds, to approve of him.
Our poetry, of course, cannot stop at
Banjo” Paterson. As well ask English
poetry to stop at Skelton. There was a
whole universe of thought, music and
passion quite beyond Paterson’s range.
But if, now that the abnormal times are
past, Australians are going to continue
to read poetry, it is likely enough they
will ask for a kind of verse that embodies
the best qualities of Paterson’s. And that,
it seems, from some of the contributions
to Australian Poetry 1945 (Angus and
Robertson) is precisely what the best of
our writers are offering. There is song,
there is clarity, there is a distinctively
Australian imagery, there is at least the
beginning of the long overdue return to
narrative.
It is true that this rediscovery of the
proper functions of poetry —to sing a song,
to tell a story—is as yet hesitant. The
fashion of the age, which has been to
mutter gloomily to oneself in a private
language, is not easy to cast off. And
so, though his “Flame the Cat” is a pleas-
ant piece of work, W. Hart-Smith’s
“Candle on a Stump” sheds only a great
darkness; and F. John Blight, a good
if somewhat grim writer when he takes
the trouble to express himself clearly,
does not succeed in making plain what,
if anything, happened at “Mary River
Camp”:
Dream naturally—do not go back, I begged,
To the floorless land, where for an age the flood
Tipped us from pit to sky. Bow-legged
You squat, and dream, and take no food
But of your thoughts upon that black banjo
Which sounds the rain’s return. Time soaked
us so
With that same sound, the season’s ceaseless
wet —
Living in Queensland, we could not forget.
M But if you look at David Campbell’s
‘Summer” you find something very close
indeed to Paterson:
When heat-swamps on the dusty plain
Recede to mock the travelling sheep
And weather-prophets’ words are vain
And crows delight while cockies weep;
When kelpies tongue though Clancy calls
And loungers shoulder hotel walls:
Oh, tramps and fat commercial men
Call barmaid Nell their sweetheart then.
And David Campbell, it might be said,
has brought Paterson and Shakspeare
into a surprisingly direct contact: for he
has used “Banjo’s” Clancy as a name for
a drover, and the whole of the light, gay
lyric (like its companion-piece “Winter”)
is a kind of parody of Shakspeare’s song
of winter that has the line “When greasy
Joan doth keel the plates.” Here, in
short, you may see the primitive Aus-
tralian ballad made into poetry and re-
lated to the great English tradition ; and
that without losing any of the qualities
(except narrative) that gave Paterson his
enduring popularity.
Though Campoebell, who writes as if he
really knows the land, not merely as if
he thought it his duty to make it his
theme, is more directly in the Paterson
tradition than any other contemporary
Australian poet, “Summer” is too slight
a piece to “make a great song about.”
But if a sign and a portent is sought for,
a stronger melody, a greater measure of
narrative interest, with an equal clarity
and an equally sensitive response to
the Australian tradition, one may turn to
Judith Wright’s “South of My Days,”
which deserves quoting in full;
South of my days’ circle, part of my blood’s
country,
le tableland, high delicate outline
of bony slopes wincing under the winter,
low trees, blue-leaved and olive, out-cropping
granite— • *
clean, lean, hungry country. The creek leaf-
silenced,
willow-choked; the slope a tangle of medlar and
crab-apple,
branched under and over, bearded with a green
lichen,
and the old cottage lurching in for shelter.
Oh, cold the blackfrost night. The walls draw
in to the fire
and the old roof cracks its joints, the slung
kettle
hisses a leak on the fire. Hardly to be be-
lieved that summer
will turn up some time again in a wave of
rambler roses,
thrust its hot face in here, give us another yarn;
another story he can spin into a blanket against
the winter.
Seventy years of stories he clutches round his
bones.
Seventy years of summers hive in him like old
honey.
“Droving that year, Charleville to the Hunter,
nmeteen-one it was and the drought beginning-
left sixty head in the Mclntyre, the mud round
them
hardened like iron; and the yellow boy died
in the sulky ahead with the gear, but the horse
went on;
stopped at the Sandy Camp and waited in the
evening.
It was the flies we seen first, swarming like bees.
Came to the Hunter, three hundred head of a
thousand,
cruel to keep them alive; and the river was dust.
Mustering up the Bogongs in the autumn
when the blizzards came early. Brought them
down; we brought them
down, what aren’t there still. Driving for
Cobb’s on the run
up from Tamworth. Thunderbolt at the Hungry
Hill;
and I gave him a wink. T wouldn’t wait long,
Fred,
not if I was you: the troopers are just behind,
coming for that job at the Hillgrove.’ He
went like a loony,
him and his big black horse.,”
Oh they slide and they vanish,
as he shuffles the years like a pack of con-
juror’s cards.
True or not, it’s all the same; and the frost
on the roof
cracks like a whip, and the back-log breaks into
ash.
Wake, old man. This is winter and the yarns
are ended.
No one is listening.
South of my days’ circle
I know it dark against the stars, the high
lean country
full of old stories that still go walking in my
sleep.
How rich this is! How lovely and how
Australian! “Seventy years of summers
hive in him like old honey” ... the high,
beautiful music. This is as Australian as
anything Paterson wrote, it is expressed
with a perfect clarity, and it soars far
above his balladry into the wild and
magic realm of poetry.
But before we claim that Judith Wright
has “improved” on Paterson let us admit
that, interesting though its glimpses of
narrative are, “South of My Days” does
not tell a story with the effectiveness of
the balladists. Though a less excitihg
poem, Judith Wright’s second contribu-
tion “Brothers and Sisters”—a picture of
the decay of a family, rather like Brian
James’s short-story of “The Casey
Country”—is closer to true narrative ;
and it shows, too, how effectively and
economically poetry can tell a story, for
here, in 29 lines of verse, Judith Wright
achieves quite as effective an impression
as Brian James did in about 3000 words
of prose. Since Judith Wright’s talent
seems essentially lyrical one should prob-
ably not ask from her a more factual and
detailed kind of narrative; within this
form—-and it is a delightful one—the full
projection of character and openly
dramatised action might. not be possible:
though, considering the possibilities of
lyrical narrative, one should not forget
what Coleridge did in “The Ancient
Mariner.”
The frank and open dramatisation of
character —effected in its most elementary
way in “The Man from Snowy River”
and in its grandest way in the Elizabethan
dfama —is what Australian poetry will
have to practise if it is to take its place
not merely among the fashions of the
day, but in the great universal tradition.
What one sees in Australian Poetry 1945
is not so much narrative as a movement
towards it: most significantly in Rose-
mary Dobson’s “The Devil and the
Angel,” Robert FitzGerald’s “Said the
Don, Dorothy Hewett’s “Testament”
and Val Vallis’s “East Coast ReSd ’
FitzGerald’s poem—the most distin-
guished piece of writing in the book if
South of My Days” is the most excit-
ing—demonstrates how cautious, how
tentative is the return to storytelling.
For exactly who the Don is, and what
he looks like, and where he is, and who
he is talking to and what, indeed, he is
talking about is never really made clear.
Sometimes one womders whether it was
not the detective novelists rather than
Pound and Eliot —and after them Auden;
and after him the Apocalypts (or Apo-
plectics, or whatever they call themselves)
—who led modern poetry into the
marshes of obscurantism. One way or
another, puzzles have certainly been the
delight of our mad century ; and the uni-
versity men, who rejoice in unravelling
the most abstruse versification, are also
notoriously addicted to detective novels.
And Eliot, one recalls, borrowed from
Conan Doyle in Murder in the Cathedral
• . . FitzGerald, of course, has never sur-
rendered to the cult of obscurantism; in
thought and expression “Said the Don” is
beautifully clear; but he does seem to
suffer from a curious reluctance to state
fully and openly the circumstances sur-
rounding his historical poems. A short
explanatory note in prose would do no
harm to “Said the Don,” and much good,
for without it one loses a good deal of
the narrative value.
Though it is clear enough that the
poem—perhaps an extract from a longer
work—deals with the great Spanish ad-
venturers, one must read it chiefly for
its thought, which is a continuation of
that profound analysis of the soul of man
FitzGerald began in his poem on Tasman,
“Heemskirck Shoals”; —
It may be that in Robert FitzGerald’s
poetry we shall have to be satisfied with
that “truth and seriousness” which
Matthew Arnold said was the essence of
high art. But Arnold himself, though he
did write some more or less static philo-
sophical poems, is chiefly remembered
for “The Forsaken Merman” and “The
Scholar Gipsy,” essentially lyrical narra-
tives, and he should be remembered
for that noble drama “Empedocles
on Etna”—a play that has probably
been neglected because of its unin-
teresting title. Undoubtedly Matthew
Arnold had truth and seriousness: he also
sang and told stories.
And FitzGerald clearly moves towards
narrative. One must go beyond the con-
fines of this year’s A ustralian' Poetry —
to “Heemskirck Shoals”—for evidence
on this point; and beyond the anthology
again for evidence as to the general trend
of Australian poetry: going back some
years to Kenneth Slessor’s “Captain
Dobbin” and “Five Visions of Captain
Cook,” and forward from the poetry of
1945 to Francis Webb’s immensely signi-
ficant poem on Ben Boyd recently pub-
lished in The Bulletin ; where, inciden-
tally, “Heemskirck Shoals” was also first
published, as were “South of My Days,”
David Campbell’s, Val Vallis’s and Rose-
mary Dobson’s poems and a good many
other lyrical or narrative pieces from
Australian Poetry 1945.
Kenneth Slessor, who has edited this
issue of the anthology, has included two
or three obscurantist poems ; a few others
far below the general standard ; and three
poems too obviously derivative —Ken
Barratt’s “To an Unborn Reader,” which
is no improvement on Flecker’s “To a
Poet a Thousand Years Hence,” Kevin
Collopy’s “Centralia” with its echoes of
Keats; and Paul Grano’s “A Word for
the Innkeeper,” an attractive poem, and
a narrative, but too close to Eliot’s
“Journey of the Magi.” But, taking the
book as a whole, it has certainly, as well
as the high note of poetry, those qualities
one claims for Paterson —narrative and
pictorial interest, melody, clarity, Austra-
lianism.
The poets, one may say, are doing their
part to maintain the war-time interest in
poetry: and not by making any conces-
sions to cheap popularity, not by aban-
doning the best principles of the modern
movement, but by moulding modernism
into its proper place in the tradition of
poetry. You will find, as you should, a
living contemporary language and a living
rhythm in Australian verse today; also,
increasingly, you will find the narrative
and the lyric, the eternal stuff of poetry:
story and song, passion and delight.
It is not enough
that life should be lived justly, death met quietly,
though that’s nobility also. But man’s essence
is not nobility, it is man, unrest,
a rushing of wind, distance....
Man is these things;
and life’s like a wave breaking— not good or
ill,
or right or wrong, but “action and pressing for-
ward ;
a thing tested in the heart', which hears and
answers;
as when we have men, near-naked and ill-armed,
thirteen, half-starved, setting out to conquer
kingdoms.


0
0
//■; ■
O
d
QW
%
vX
S o\
...j
\o
'/i&m ~ *
' < ' 4 'jess
i x
': S ■:
•*■ t-'' SSpSS
» v 'v -
i r '' z *> ■
'* ' ' «&
Kg8$j#s:;:;;?v::s
iiigniippf 1 1 ' i 11 ii ' ■
, , ?' h
%SB&1
aas.» .
m
>KS#>
mmmm
iW-8
S 13c
68x88"
■T' ■■ ■■ • ■
|pii®£! 'rh
'' x* jjft v-\, ;
°'
■»:v,
Si: *%■
■r *****■■
: aiiifc-i
H
v ' !
-v.
19 Coupons
1
Now that Spring is practically upon us, every
wise housewife will consider the possibility of
new furnishings. A visit to our Furnishings
Department will surprise and delight you. Let
us help you choose furnishings that will be in
complete harmony with the rest of your room.
ART SERGE TABLE COVERS
An attractive 68in. x 88in. Art Serge Table Cover,
trimmed with best quality Art Silk Braid, in Green,
Blue, Brown, Red, Green and Rust. No coupons.
Price, each 65/-
COLOURED TAPESTRY CURTAINS
Curtains to catch Spring breezes. 6ft. Bin. long
Tapestry Curtains with pleated beading and
pocket for rod, obtainable in Beige, Rose, Blue,
Primrose, Burgundy and Rust. No coupons.
Price, pair 67/6
CHENILLE BEDSPREADS
Tailored to fit your Bed are these Chenille Bed-
spreads in heavy quality kilting, obtainable in
Green, Rose, Blue, Gold, Beige and Off-White. In
double bed sizes. 19 coupons. Price, each .. 105/-
• Furnishings —Third Floor, Pitt Street.
(A
the senior store
• TELEPHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
• POST TO BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
B RICHT FELT CUSHIONS
Light and bright cushions to give a lift to your *
lounge/made of best quality Australian all-wool
felt, and filled with new garneted wool, available
in 'Rust, Green and Burgundy. No coupons.
Price, each 30/-
COLOURED DUCK CUSHIONS
Gay and attractive multi-coloured Duck Cushions
that laze on your verandah or in your sunroom.
Obtainable in smart colours . . . filled with best
» quality kapok. No coupons. Price, each .. 11/6


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or !■ out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
aim on a course*
of BARED Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKED
Condition Powders and apply BARED Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARED lodine Dog Soap.
ŕ
ŗ
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!)
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
pei item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
HAEMOVIT
(A Nordstrom-Dellorte Scientific Tablet Medication.)
THE WELCOME MESSAGE to Sufferers of. . ..
RHEUMATISM
Medical Research by discovering HAEMOVIT has at last found effective treatment
for the uncomfortable and irritating pain endured by so many sufferers of
RHEUMATISM. NEURITIS, LUMBAGO
Already thousands of people have been relieved of the stiffness in joints and
muscles: natural flexibility has been restored, and good health now radiates
through their whole body.
WE KNOW THAT HAEMOVIT CAN DO THE SAME FOB TOP
HAEMOVIT is a Special Treatment, and IS ONLY SO El) DIRECT TO USERS.
The full Treatment costs 20/-, and will be sent post paid tp your address
If you need RELIEF from RHEUMATISM send 20/- to-day, and enjoy good
health from HAEMOVIT.
BRIDEKIRK LABORATORIES
POSTAL, ADDRESS: 36 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY,
or BOX 658 E G.P.0., MELBOURNE, C.l.
wim
blew
tkeP r 0
/
every
overcome*
enm
m
PALMOLIVE’S
5 POINTS FOR A
BETTER SHAVE
1. Moist, rich, soothing lather
2. Softens even the toughest
beard
3. Makes the work of a
razor much easier
4 . Gives a close, long-lasting
s/iave
5. And it's very economical
r
PS6/936
m
E
&
C
G
A
A man's best friend is his Palmolive
Shaving Cream! He can depend on its
kindly help each morning as the rich
olive-oil lather softens up his beard and
helps his razor make the grade over
creases and wrinkles and awkward curves.
Palmolive Shaving Cream offers you five
distinct advantages that make for a better,
cleaner and more comfortable shave.
★ For a
closer, cleaner,
smoother shave.
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS
dye to colds
Don’t suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, applv Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 53S
OIWTMiMT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
buy “Art in Australia,” issues after March,
1938.—3796.
To buy A Man of Sympathy, The Spell of
the Bush and any copies of “The Lone Hand.”
—3797.
Board for discharged serviceman, wife and
three children, for several weeks on a farm—
preferably in the N.S.W. South Coast area. —
3798.
To buy Dutch Vet, by Roothaert.—3799.
Information Sought.
What is the Australian typewriting record?
Aust. record speed conducted under examina-
tion by the Incorporated Phonographic Society
is 107 words per minute, typing for Ten minutes
from unfamiliar matter. It is held by Albert
A. Nelson (Oct,, 1945). He gave a demon-
stration at the society’s annual conference in
May last and typed at the rate of 114 w.p.ra.
(based on international rules—five taps to the
word).
* * * *
(1) Purchasing power of the £A since 1900 ?
(2) Prices of wheat and gold since 1900 ? (3)
Cost of living for same period ?
(1) Compared with 20s. in 1901, the following
amounts were required to purchase same quan-
tity and quality of goods: 1904, 19s. 6d.; 1911,
225. 9d.; 1914, 255. lid.; 1918, 345. Id.; 1920,
all-time peak of 435. lid.; 1922,. 365. lOd.;
1929, 395.; 1933, 30s. 4d.; 1935, 31s. 5d.; 1939,
345. 9d.; 1943, war-time peak of 425. Bd.; June
quarter 1946, 435. 3d. (2) The prices of wheat
per bushel and gold per line ounce respectively
were: 1900, 2s. 9d„ £4 55.; 1906, 3s. 2d.,
£4 55.; 1916, 4s. Bid„ £4 55.; 1926, 6s. 2fd„
£4 55.; 1936, 4s. l£d., £8 13s. 2d.; 1946 (16th
August), 11s. 2|d., £lO 15s. 3d. (3) For 1901
an index figure of 530 may be taken; 1911,
603; 1914, 687; 1920, 1166; 1930, 975; 1939,
920; 1940, 975; 1943, 1131: 1945, 1126; 1946
(June quarter), 1145. While the figures from
1914 are worked from the “C” series index
(retail price index numbers: cost of food,
groceries, housing—four' and five rooms—
clothing and miscellaneous household require-
ments) the figures prior to that year are arrived
at by using a different index.
* * * *
(1) Habits of the white-tailed water-rat? (2)
Methods of trapping and skinning? (3) What
are present marketing conditions?
(1) It inhabits the banks of streams and lakes,
the foreshores of harbors and estuaries, and
burrows up to 17ft. long are occupied by
breeding pairs with an average of five young.
They are relatively slow breeders, and do not
form colonies in the usual sense. Diet con-
sists of mussels, snails, crayfish or yabbies,
frogs and small reptiles, fishes and small water-
birds and their eggs. (2) They may be trapped
with break-back traps baited with meat and
vegetable, or by rabbit traps suitably placed.
The skin is opened down the belly; surplus
flesh and fatty tissues are removed and pegged
out fiat for drying. Because of less prolific
breeding compared with other rats, the water-
rat is totally protected in Victoria during
the summer, as breeding time is regarded
as the beginning of August and the young are
not fully developed until April. The killing
of the young is wasteful and endangers the
survival of the animal. (3) According to a
leading furrier, demand by the trade is weaken-
ing, as the handling of skins of variable and
inferior quality at an average of Bs. to 9s. is
unsatisfactory, as are the temporary high prices
of up to 30s. for exceptional skins.
* * * *
Method of poisoning green trees ?
Arsenic pcntoxide has been found to be the
best poisoning agent. It is usually sold in a
granulated form ready to mix with cold water
and is "used at the rate of three pounds to five
gallons of water. Arsenite of soda can also
be purchased ready to mix with cold water,
and is used at the rate of 11b. (of 80 p.c.
strength) to two gallons of water. The best
time to apply is when the trees are passing
Through the dormant stage—this varies in different
districts, but usually commences about Febru-
ary. “Frill” the trees (making a circle of
oblique downward cuts into the trunk) and pour
in the poison at the rate of about one quart to a
tree of four feet diameter. Keep children and
stock away from the trees.
* * * *
What were the scores of Hammond and Brad•
man in the 1936-37 Test matches in Australia,
and how long were they at the wickets?
First Test, Hammond scored 25 runs in 95
min., Bradman 38 runs in 73 min.; second
Test, Hammond 231 runs in 460 min., Bradman
82 runs in 171 min.; third Test, Hammond 83
runs in 159 min., Bradman 283 runs in 486
min.; fourth Test, Hammond 59 runs in 183
min., Bradman 238 runs in 507 min.; fifth Test,
Hammond 70 runs in 157 min., Bradman 169
runs in 223 min. . Total, Hammond 468 runs
in 1054 min., Bradman 810 runs in 1460 min.
* * * v
in the triangular international tennis tourna-
ment at Melbourne in 1938, who were the Aus-
tralian players, and what was the result of the
matches ?
Australia (T rubber, 2 sets, 23 games) de-
feated U.S.A. (1 rubber, 2 sets, 22 games) in
the singles; the doubles were not played. Ger-
many (2 rubbers, 4 sets, 35 games) defeated
Australia (1 rubber, 3 sets, 36 games). Quist
and Bromwich represented Australia in both
matches.
Brief Answers.
H.S.: Information from Elastics Department,
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney. Your
doctor can arrange, and for private treatment
names of hon. surgeons will be supplied....
R.M.A.: It is a simple matter with no compli-
cations, but preliminary blood tests are neces-
sary. There is no clinic in Australia, but in
U.S.A. the treatment is beyond the experi-
mental stage. Gynaecologists in larger M.L.
hospitals will advise... .E.H.: The translations
are correct. Some others are Karinga, peaceful
home; Kob'badah, place on a hill; and Gub-
banoo, on a rise... .E.W.: Cripps knocked out
Griffin (10 rounds) at Sydney Stadium on Dec.
23, 1908 Bireei He has no official say in
the proceedings, but his suggestions would be
considered E.N.: Write to the Registrar,
Chancery Division, High Court of Justice, Lon-
don P. 8.: (1) All loans since 1/1 / ’4O are
taxable. (2) The tenant is not legally able to
do it... .Inquirer: You are entitled to a re-
bate of £42 S.A.M.: (1) Application cannot
be made through the Court. (2) The priority
would not hamper the applicant should another
opportunity arise. (3) It would ■be entirely a
matter for the Court’s discretion A.E.S.: (1)
George Farwell edits the “Australian Book
News.” (2) Gandhi, by Heath, and Mahatma
Gandhi, by Radhakrishnan, are both obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Ltd
H.V.N.: Douglas Stewart’s sonnet, sequence
“The Dreaming World” appeared in the Red
Page of The Bulletin of Dec. 18, 1940....
H.G.: Write W. O’Neill, hon. sec. Alcoholics
Anonymous, Box 3923, G.P.0., Sydney....
K.J.: Australian National Research Council,
Science House, 157 Gloucester-street, Sydney.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANTONINO NATOLI late of 20 Rickard Street
Auburn—TAKE NOTICE that AGNES HARRISON
NATOLI has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 585 of
1946 on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on or before the
25th day of September 1946 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors of 39 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN BARRY O’KEEFE.—TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA MARIE O’KEEFE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3715 of 1946 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 4th day of November 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. PIKE & PIKE Solicitors 141 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.-— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO LYELL CLIFFORD LEWIS last heard of in
Launceston in Tasmania but whose present where-
abouts are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of LILLIAN LEWIS of 79 Queen Street
Sandy Bay in Tasmania Married Woman praying for
a dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within thirty days after the date
of this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.— (l.s.) F. N.
PRINGLE, Acting Registrar.
N.B.—Will any friend of the abovenamed LYELL
CLIFFORD LEWIS who may see this advertisement
bring it under his notice?—JOHNSON, MITCHELL &
LAUGHTON, of 38 Elizabeth Street, Hobart,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
YOIJUL TRAVEL
\V
G
WITH A
GLOBIT
Just pick up a Globite and you'll see how much weight you can
save. Globite Travel Cases are sturdy, smart-looking, and
weatherproof. They give extra years of service and are being
made available as fast as materials and manpower permit.
Illustrated is a Globite One-Suiter, which makes packing easiei
and prevents creasing and crushing.
Manufacturers:
FORD SHEHENGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
ONLY
£l7/10/-
(Built entirely in Australia by
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing#
Plans, Music, etc.
i. - SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
if" , , SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
ESPERANTO
THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
World Friendship for Correspondents,
World Literature for Readers,
World Contact for Travellers.
Aunt, Esp. Assoc. “Popular” Correspondence
Course, 10/- complete.
F. A. Pitt (Course Sec.),
3 Rupert St., Elsternwtck, Victoria.
*
m
m
11
s
14/3Xb
C ars and Trucks and Tractors
give service by the mile *
They’re important factors that
make your life worth while!
Uont neglect to care for them -
> think of'em this Spring,
IJouve gotabob to spare for ‘em*
Vo this little thing!
Hee your Caltex Service man *
Tell him ‘Spring is here! ”
Drain the crank-'case, check
the tyres, fix thebrakes*
renew the wires, grease and oil
andlubricate,makethatengine sing!
!But doit please, the Caltex way*
Its Spring! Spring!! Spring!!!
CALTEX
QUQLITV PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
S
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
P.V.: Come again, with unmixed metaphors.
... .8.K.R.: It would need to b'e very much
crisper... .8.F.: Why not write about Aus-
tralia? ... .G.R.McC.: Slight....G.M.L.: Come
in here and get it off your chest:—
R.Y.: “The Return” was a prophetic title.
Arch: Arch J.0.G.: You might do
better in prose Rhys: “Give me the open
spaces.” You’re welcome; but space in these
columns is another matter... .E. 8.:
Dame Nature then embraced the gladsome weather,
The dainty bluebell kissed the blooming heather.
Not a blooming chance M.L.: More words
than snow 1.P.: Inflated B.B.: Only
deep in alcohol does “mouse” rhyme with
“stoush”... .S.A.: Can’t be done A.A.D.:
“Life Is Odd.” So, on the whole, is poetry....
J. : Ah! So the wattle’s out up your way,
too 8.E.: The improvement's have made it
worse D.R.: Beware of sentimental per-
sonifications .... Nod: You’ve nodded
C.R.C.: Cripes... .N. 8.: Tenth-rate imita-
tion of Steele Rudd... .E.J.C.; The trick end-
ing, neat as it is, didn’t carry it through....
W.G.: There’s no room in a short story for a
detailed physical description of every character.
L.T.: You might make a living as a
writer of tourist guides P.J.: “The Perfect
Murder” was in fact a clumsy piece of butchep'.
M.F.: We cannot believe that a mere police
cadet would be commissioned to round up
single-handed a gang of international crooks.
.. ..E.D.: Why not make it a straightout poli-
tical tract? .. . .A.R.H.: Boiled down it might
make a passable “Aboriginalities” paragraph.
....E.P.P.: The lion-tamer who was scared of
his missus is a stock character... .0.C.: After
describing sundry sunsets and sunrises you’ve
left yourself with very little to say A.F.:
Says nothing new in a long-winded fashion
K. : You’ve been reading Edgar Allan Poe
lately, haven’t you? 8.M.; And you, we
suspect, are an admirer of Rudyard Kipling.
L.D.; Wouldn’t print it, not even if you
presented us with a dozen cartons of cigarettes.
A.L.W.: Characters belong to Texas, not
to the Kimberleys C.F.: Write about some-
thing you have observed or experienced....
T.R.: ,There is a market for that class of
material, but not at 252 George-street V.S.:
We seem to remember a “Kodak” yarn along
the same lines H. 8.; “Breaking of the
Drought” is like a thousand other breaking-of-
the-drought yarns that have come our way
L. : Reasonably well written; but there’s
nothing really stirring about it....C.5.: What,
you again? :
D.A.F.: We’ll forgive you for that opus
seeing that you’re “young and acted on an im-
pulse” K.R.: “Froth and Bubble” is froth
and bubble S.C.: Half-hearted attempt to
emulate G. B. Shaw F.G.: Cut in half and
try a woman’s paper N.M.; “I understand
it’s much easier to make a living as a free-
lance these days.” Well, the cost of living in
a tent hasn’t risen much W.K.L.: Dreary
hack stuff T.1.H.: You appear to have
mixed your centuries a little in that period
yarn K.O’C.: Your pirates are as tame as
ferry deckhands P.M.: Apparently you
obtain your perspective of racecourse charac-
ters from outside the course I.McD.: “Con-
fessions of a Miser” is entertaining but dingy.
C.N.G.: Your faithful hound picked up the
scent of the homeward track... .P.S.: “In
Grandma’s Day” it might have been interesting.
S.E.H.; Such language! E. 1.: Much too
long for these pages R.P.P.: Good plot —
can’t you make more of it? T.N.8.; Not
even a grin F.Y.T.: An interesting example
of a ghost story that was popular 30 years
ago G.O’N.: Begone T.H.: “I intend
to carve out a literary career.” You’re hack-
ing it about painfully at present.. .-.D.C.5.:
Try it from a soap-box in the Domain
D.McJ.: It would be impossible to write an-
other as bad as or worse than that, so you
must “improve with practice”... .H.L.C.: Call
again P.D.M.: Not here —try a daily
C.H.C.: O. Henry beat you to it K.C.:
“The Sins of a Billiard Marker” was rejected
by both the Religious and the Sporting Editors.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.F.: Sorry, but it is not “for The Bulle-
tin” D.F.: Tin-hare gag is at least 25 years
behind the times M.C.: Well enough drawn,
b'ut couldn’t see anything to laugh at in it....
J.W.B.: None of them got very close....
R.J.: Not half as much need to apologise for
the drawing as for the gag A.S.: Wash draw-
ings too muddy for reproduction... .H.A.:
Study harder and take more pains with your
work V.P.: Linework too scratchy and the
humor verges on the inane G.H.K.; No
saucer of milk for your tomcat R.J.B.:
Cumbered with unnecessary detail LG.:
No punch in it, and drawings of that kind
need punch H.S.T.: If you will call, you’ll
find your swagman snoring off his bender wait-
ing for you to collect him P.K.: Because
a man is a good ticket-writer it doesn’t follow
that he’s a good humorous black-and-white
artist C.L.R.; Idea is good, but tpo slight
as served C.H.: Your bagman has wandered
our way before V.F.: Snake joke hasn’t as
much bite as you seem to think it has N.T.:
Those mangled and mutilated corpses found
repose in the w.p.b H.C.M.: None of
them got within cooee of the pay,, desk....
A.M.: You were evidently too intent upon de-
signing an ornate signature to worry about
the drawing F.M.: Can’t believe that the
finished articles are the impressions you had
in your mind A.K.: No place here for the
lady with two left hands E.L.: Neither quite
good enough E.A.H.: That sort of thing
needs to be done much better than you do it.
. ...F.W.: Gone where all bad drawings go.
C.D.A.: Sketch that requires half a column
of letterpress to explain it is not for us.
Behold the dappled meadows. Let us stand and
Contemplate the art of Nature’s hand;
Behold also the classic work of Flannery
Who hath adorned the landscape with a tannery.
Swaggie Sam wandered at large through the Cross
Looking for a drink and somewhere to doss;
He ran into a nest of blackmarketeers
And finished up paying two bob each for beers.


[ADVERTISEMENT]
LET'S WORK FOR
INDUSTRIAL PEACE
MEN want to work.
Management wants to produce.
The public wants to buy.
The country wants prosperity.
Yet good times have been held up by an
agony of strikes.
Strikes breed bitterness ... hunger .. , and
economic stagnation.
For the sake of our country, let’s change
this! Change it fast. Time is running out!
Let’s work out a way to get—and keep—
industrial peace and prosperity.
THE FIRST STEP
The first step towards that peace is a sound
national policy... one that treats workers
and management exactly alike and above
all one that is fair to the public.
Sincerely believing this to be
so, we offer this programme
for peace and production
and prosperity.
1 • Make employers and unions equal in
responsibility under the law.
2* Let the Government set up adequate
Arbitration facilities with sufficient indus-
trial tribunals—and then insist that the law
be enforced with strict impartiality.
3. Provide safeguards for the public
against strikes or boycotts arising from dis-
putes between unions.
4. Take all possible steps to prevent strikes
until all orderly procedures for settling
disputes have been exhausted.
Your representatives in Parliament have
had the power to establish this pattern for
an enduring and fair labor peace. They
have not done so. Return a Party to power
that will introduce legislation to include
these four points.
Time alone won’t bring industrial peace.
Doing nothing won’t bring it. Positive
action is the only way. For
your own sake and for the
future of our country, let your
voice be heard!
THE LIBERAL PARTY is com-
prised of men of ability and vigor,
united under the leadership of
Robert Gordon Menzies, a man of
proved courage and administrative
force.
r
IF YOU BELIEVE that the pur-
pose of a Government is to
GOVERN — wisely, constructively,
for a prosperous and productive
Australia —elect a LIBERAL Gov-
ernment.
Vote LIBERAL ... It Means
A Good Deal For You!
THE ROAD TV FREEDOM tS THROW#
LIBERAL PARTY
or ROSYRRUR
I Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney,
for The Federal Secretariat of The Liberal Party of Australia.


WOOD AND WATER
No. 5 of "TKe C ookabunChronicles”
BY BRIAN TANIES
ON the western side of Summerlea,
on an acre or two of good land
that sloped into a dip or hollow,
no doubt once the course of the
Cookabundy, lived Charlie Wendt, In
winter he carted wood in his and in
summer he delivered water frbm the river.
Such necessary and inevitable occupa-
tions might well pass unnoticed; yet
Charlie, in a mild way, was known to
fame, for it was generally held that he
was hero of a neat little poem by Mrs.
Thompson-Watts —signed “Melisande” —
in the “Argus”;
When Summer strides across the Range
I long for water clear and cool;
He takes his bucket in his hand
And dips it in the hidden pool.
When Winter bites a frozen thumb
I long to sit by cosy fire ;
He brings us wood from distant' hills
And proves him Worthy of his hire.
There was a lot more of it —equally
beautiful and touching. If it didn’t add
greatly to Charlie’s credit, it did certainly
to the fame of Mrs. Thompson-Watts.
Yet, in spite of the absence of dis-
tinction, Charlie was a feature of the life
of Summerlea. Not in his
personal appearance per-
haps, for no one yet has
ever succeeded in doing
much in the world with
bow-legs. Charlie’s handi-
ness took nearly a foot
from his considerable
height. He had a big,
round face that looked like
a placid desert, made even
more extensive by the re-
cession of the black curly
hair from his forehead.
There were touches of
grey in the remaining
hair.
Charlie’s hair was mostly on view, for
he had a habit of holding his hat in
his two hands when he was being spoken
to by anyone “above him.” Since most
people were “above him,” he was very
frequently put to a slow revolution of his
large black hat in front of him.
In the hot, dry summers, and the sum-
mers were always hot and dry, Charlie,
as “Melisande” so beautifully noticed,
carted water from the Cookabundy. He
was the most industrious of the town’s
three water-carriers, and there was a
popular prejudice against Dirty Looey —
he was supposed to contaminate the
water. Dinny Regan was constitution-
ally lazy, and he lacked the foresight to
keep his empty casks out of the sun. As
a result, Dinny gave the dusty streets a
free watering, and he seldom arrived any-
where with a cask more than half-full.
Which might have disturbed no one very
greatly if Dinny hadn’t been so obsti-
nate in charging for a full cask. “She was
full and overflowing whin I would be
leaving the river,” Dinny would repeat
with insistent regularity.
Also, Charlie had a pump, and in all
ways was prompt and regular. It was
just unthinkable that “Melisande” could
ever have had Dirty Looey or Dinny in
mind when she wrote her poem.
When the year turned to April, water-
carting was done and people thought of
fires and a wood supply ; and as likely as
not the two bakers would be needing
some extra loads of mountain-oak for
their ovens. There were a number of
wood carters, some of them in an inter-
mittent sort of business, Charlie was the
most constant and reliable of them all.
“\ \ / HERE will you be going for wood
VV today, Charlie?” Mrs. Wendt asked
as Charlie was stowing away a very hand-
some quantity of bacon and eggs. It
was as always a very early breakfast, and
the April sun was just level with the wisps
of mist over the Cookabundy. A fresh
morning in the most pleasant time of the
whole year, and with it the promise of a
beautiful day.
Charlie gave a fried egg three very
pronounced chews and swallowed it with
evident relish. Then he pondered the
question. Charlie was not a man given
to unreflecting answers.
“To the Grey Box,” he said at last:
“Sid Baker’s. Noonan’s Gully. Why?”
“I was just wondering.”
Mrs. Charlie spent much of her life in
wondering ; and she often mentioned that
she was wondering. But it never an-
noyed Charlie; he was very fond of his
wife, though he made no special fuss
about her. She was a big stout woman
much given to shapelessness, and she
waddled like a duck when she walked.
“It’s the weight of me as does it,” she
often explained very cheerfully if she
thought anyone was observing her peculi-
arities of locomotion. “It’s the weight,
and the verycose veins.”
Certainly the Wendts were unfortunate
as to their legs. Mrs. Wendt was also
unfortunate in her hair—it was rebel-
lious and just refused to conform ; so she
brushed it back in a severe and monoton-
ous level and anchored it in a huge knob
with steel hairpins. It didn’t make her
look any the more attractive, but her
wide face was pleasant enough, too,
after the initial shock of first gazing on
it. She wasn’t old, probably not yet
thirty-five, though she looked at least ten
years older than that.
Evidently she had now overcome her
wondering, for she began to reveal what
was in or on her mind. But she was
very tentative about it. “I was thinking,
Charlie, that perhaps it wouldn’t be a
bad idea, and perhaps you might like it
—the company and all that —and Pete
would be delighted, I’m sure, and as
you’re going to Noonan’s Gully, as you
said, that Pete might go with you.”
Pete was the son of the house and the
sole survivor of a family of seven. The
other six had all died in infancy one
after the other. Mrs. Charlie still hoped
“the tide must turn at last,” but Peter
was five, and there had been no new
arrivals since he came, A thin, white-
haired, chalky-faced little fellow, with
big blue eyes, a sharp nose and a tight
little mouth. Shy and sensitive, mentally
alert and strangely correct in his speech.
No child was ever more unlike his
parents than Peter. Mrs. Pullen, wife of
the grave-digger and reputed a wise
woman —she often had trances and “saw
things”—said that Peter had been given
all the minds and souls of his little
brothers and sisters. She said this in a
dreamy way that was very convincing.
Then she peered more dreamily still into
the future and stated:
“ She’ll never rear that boy. He’s past
his time already if you ask me. She’ll
never rear him. Just mark my word.”
The invitation to mark hef words was
sheer vanity, common to seers and sooth-
sayers. And perhaps it was unfortunate
that Mrs. Pullen should have been so-
closely associated with grave-digging. It
made her great powers seem far more
terrible.
Charlie devoured another egg and
clamped down hard on a slabby piece of
bacon. After its disposition he announced
that he would welcome Peter’s company.
“In that case,” said Mrs. Wendt, “I’ll
get him ready.” Peter was at the other
end of the table,' and had said nothing
so far, though he looked pleased.
Soon the dray was ready
in front, and Nugget,
Charlie’s stout black
draught, was anxious to be
off. His small ears were
very erect, very alert, very
pointed; his massive neck
beautifully arched.
Peter kissed his mother, and she told
him to look after father. “You really
will, now, won’t you, Pete?” She told
him this several times in her slow way ;
and it was only her way of telling Charlie
to look after Peter. There was really no
need to tell Charlie to look after Peter,
but a warning was some sort of relief
to the mind.
“Now, you’ll see, Pete, won’t you, that
your father is real careful with his axe
and doesn’t cut himself?”
Peter said he would take every care of
father.
The dray moved off, and Nugget
stepped it out in fine style. And at last
arrived at Noonan’s Gully.
P'fEAD and desolate looked the big
paddock of white- and grey-box and
brown-gum, for every tree of it had been
sapped or rung. All dead now, and some
of the trees had already dropped their
bark, to look like ghosts or skeletons.
All leaves and twigs had gone long ago,
even some of the larger limbs, and all
that remained was gaunt and pathetic in
the reminder of the vanished slaty-green
foliage. Among the fallen dead stuff
that had so enriched the ground with
all the decay and jiumus that those
trees would ever give, the grass was
springing lush and green after the early
autumn rains. That touch of bright green
redeemed something of the ravage that
had been committed. Sleek, frisky,
happy was the small mob of young
steers Sid Baker had lately bought.
A great place for wood —no hunting
for it —thousands of trees to pick and
choose; and, where the first of the ring-
barking had been done years ago, many
of the trees were down, good solid trees
still, for box doesn’t rot very readily.
Nugget was unharnessed and let go for
some green picking, and later he would
have his chaff and cracked corn. Charlie
and Peter set to work. However slow
Charlie might be in speech and thought,
he was a quick worker and a very fair
axeman. He had to be to fill that dray
with hard wood in two and a half foot
lengths. No thin wood at all, but good
big trees and split with the axe after
cutting into lengths.
Peter really didn’t cut much wood with
his tomahawk —a few sticks inexpertly
hacked through. These Charlie would,
of course, put into the dray later and
bestow upon them their right meed of
praise. Then Peter went over to inspect
the steers —he was not afraid of cattle,
and he was shrewd enough to know when
steers were vicious and dangerous. These
were a fine bunch of young Devons,
dark red and glossy, with their short
'straight horns not yet half-grown. They
were good to look at. Charlie called out
not to go too near the steers. But no
fear of Peter going into unnecessary
danger. Otherwise, the big paddock was
safe enough, not pitted and pocked
with holes as the gully was lower down.
Only a small mound here and there, and
a grassy dimple near it to show where
old-time prospectors had tried the shal-
low and hungry ground.
Before noon Peter joined his father at
the dray. Nugget was munching his chaff
with proper enjoyment, Charlie was
making the fire and Peter put on the
finishing touches and lit the match.
Water came "from a clear little pool near
the fence. Charlie had more than a load
of wood cut ready, but would keep
cutting for an hour or so after dinner
and have a load ready for next time.
They had dinner in the shade of the dray,
for the autumn sun had still a good deal
of sting in it. Peter loved these meals
with his father —his father was such a
wonderful man. At least, Peter was able
to appreciate how wonderful he was.
Peter got a billy of water to wash the
mugs and the milk bottle, and Charlie
started on a tall, straight tree —very tall
and straight with only short sticks of
branches left on it. A big sapling really,
but with a power of wood in it. When it
came near to falling he looked round
as he always did to make sure Peter was
safe. He was a good forty yards away;
and at right angles nearly to the direc-
tion of fall.
Charlie called out just the same, “Mind,
Peter, she’s going in a minute. Keep right
back.” Peter retired a little for extra
safety. The tree crashed and Peter
watched for the excitement of its
long swish through the air and the crash
on the ground. Not as spectacular as a
tall, green tree, but not bad either.
The tree didn’t fall where Charlie antici-
pated—it crossed to the right to about
twenty degrees away from the line, and
crashed into another tall sapling, a
forked sapling. It smashed out one half
of the fork, hesitated a second, and then
scraped along the trunk to the ground.
The section of the sapling it smashed off
was the thinner and taller half. It went
out a further angle still, from the origin-
ally intended line of fall, and its top
broke and scattered before it hit the
ground. All this a matter of a second—
or very little more.
Charlie watched
the fall in some little
surprise the direc-
tion was so unexpec-
ted. The collision
with the second tree
was likewise out of
all reckoning, and a
matter of surprise,
too. Then there was
the vagary of the
snapping of the forked sapling. In all,
Charlie was much relieved that the fork
had broken and his tree had reached the
ground, and not hung on the other one.
He never liked falling the second tree with
another caught in it.
Then he remembered in a subconscious
way that Peter hadn’t cheered the fall —
{Continued on page 32.)
BUSH IDYLL
He calls down the cliffs and a thousand
mouths answer —
The hard rock visages, eyes on a dancer;
Stone men of the precipice, massed in a
crowd,
Watching “Les Sylphides” danced by
white cloud.
Here crannies are eyesockets, gaping rock-
mouths ;
Barely a place for a toehold, 4hough
youths
Have scaled down those galleries into the
gorge
To see the white dancer in stockings
emerge.
He remembered her, once, green-gowned
v in the valley ;
Not so gorgeous, it’s true, as in mist of
the ballet:
More worldly, though — tempting, inviting
to fish;
It was life that presented her then as he’d
wish.
On the plateau, cool, dignified, prince in
a box,
He could wave a white handkerchief.
Nobody looks
QUEENSLAND,
Disapproving a lover who’s lost in the
skies;
It’s angels alone who make love with the
eyes.
So, feet hanging over, he dangles his toes,
And feels for the bridge of some gentle-
man’s nose:
But precarious footholds are eyes in a
cliff,
The beards of the rock-orchids fragile and
stiff.
It was certainly head-over-heels that he
fell
In love with this dancer. Cliff pebbles
pell-mell.
Like eyes from the rock-faces, followed
him down
To see how he’d fare with this girl in a
gown.
Some months tliere he lay, bones drowned
in brown silk :
Silent the rock-faces, stilted their talk,
Upturned now their noses. How lowly
he’d fallen!
The crude rocks were jeering, the creek's
bosom was swollen.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners* and Householders*,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
H^rsonal
SLoah?
Do you need a
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
• LOAN • Weekly • Fortnightly • Four-weekly
incl. disc. instalment instalment instalment
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
@ural Sank
MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
TOWARDS A FREE INDIA.
“This time the British mean business,”
said Gandhi in March this year, hailing
the promise of complete freedom for
India made by Mr. Attlee. In May the
Cabinet Mission produced its plan for
putting that promise into effect. Promise
and plan have been followed by bickering
and recrimination, and there is no pre-
sent likelihood of any great further pro-
gress towards the realisation of the ideal
of an independent India despite the fact
that the leader of the Congress party
has now accepted an invitation to form
an Interim Government and, with the
Moslem League abstaining, its constitu-
tion has been announced.
London “Times” finds that the “Con-
gress party has thus taken the first de-
cisive steps along the difficult path that
must be followed by every political group
which abandons the irresponsibility of
opposition to assume the obligations of
constructive statesmanship,” but is less
than hopeful of the outcome:
The Congress party stands now upon the
threshold of power and holds the destiny
/•of India in its hands. If it can face the
sacrifices of purely party advantage which
such a course entails, it may yet succeed
in securing the peaceful evolution of an
undivided India. But the process will de-
mand infinite care.
There have been strikes and riots
throughout India and, in Calcutta in par-
ticular, violent clashes between Moslem
and Hindu. The announcement of the
names of the new Cabinet members was
quickly followed by one of its members
being attacked and stabbed. Frank Owen
reported on some of the Calcutta riots
for the “Trans-Atlantic Daily Mail”;
“There is an immense ferment going
on among the people. It is both social
and political in its form and origins.
“How could it be otherwise? For a
land of 400,000,000 people has come to
the edge of the greatest decision in all
the centuries of its crowded history.
“Calcutta is peculiarly sensitive to
these seismic tremors which today make
all the Indian earth shiver. For four
years Calcutta had been the giant base
of the Burma war. From here the jungle
army of 1,000,000 men derived every
round of ammunition which it fired, every
gallon of petrol which it used, its stores,
equipment, food, even its rum and
cigarettes. And for scores of thousands
of soldiers Calcutta was the leave town.
In September last year it all came to an
end, and Calcutta suddenly lost £1,000,000
of ready money every week. Wages
toppled, while prices as usual lagged on
the shelf, along with rents and every other
fixed charge.”
Owen made up a balance-sheet of
British rule. He found that “there is a
lot on the credit side. For well over a
century we have given the Indian people
an unbroken peace. We have given them
justice, according to our lights. We have
given them honest and, in some ways,
highly efficient administration. We have
given them the only unity they have
known, if only, the cynical might say,
by uniting them against us. It would be
hard to think of any conquering nation
in history which has-behaved with half
the same tolerance.” Left-Winger, too!
Outside India the British proposals
met with almost universal approval,
though the “Atlantic Monthly” thought
it necessary to rebuke some critics:
American commentators who denounced
the survival of Victorian imperialism are
now gloating over what they describe as
“the Empire in retreat.” Is it the poor
memory of the American public on which
these critics are relying when one day they
cried “Quit India” and the next day, after
Britain has offered to withdraw, declare
“We told you so. The British are scuttling
the Empire.” Are they blind to the mean-
ing of the changes occurring before their
eyes? Or is it just that any old stick is
good enough to thump the lion’s rump?
The N.Y. “World-Telegram” was
frankly complimentary:
“Rarely has British statesmanship shown
higher purpose and greater skill than in
its proposal for a free federated union of
India. Britain has proved her good faith
to the utmost. She has gone much
further than was expected, further indeed
than any other imperial Power in history.
She is not the first to offer independence
to a dependency, but she is the first, so
far as we can recall, to insist on action,
even after the dependency failed to grasp
the opportunity,
“Anyone who has favored Indian free-
dom must be impressed by the fairness
and constructive realism of the British
plan. There are no strings on the free-
dom of the proposed nation and no par-
titioning to weaken it. There is a maxi-
mum of provincial autonomy, with Fed-
eral authority limited to the essential
functions of foreign affairs, defence and
communications, and revenues for these.
And special protection is provided the
Moslem minority by giving it a veto on
any disputed communal decision.”
Inside India there has been no dearth
of critics. Writing in the “American
Mercury,” H. N. Brailsford examined the
basis of some of the criticism and the
differing views which are preventing the
formation of a “Government” which
might unite the country.
He found that “the explicit prerogative
of the provinces to form semi-autono-
mous groups provides a considerable
lever for disunity. The Moslem dream
of Pakistan has met a strong rebuff, but
in modified form it will surely survive to
plague the hopes of real unity in India,
“Hindus and Moslems have always
had their rivalries, but on the whole,
up to the early twenties of this
century, they worked together for the
nationalist cause. No sharp dividing lines
of race or language separate them: the
immense mass of the Moslems are the
descendants of Hindus converted to
Islam. The doctrine which Mr. Jinnah,
the formidable leader of the Moslem
League, now proclaims, that these peoples
constitute two distinct nations, is as novel
as it is unscientific. Before the war no
one had heard of this theory, and in his
middle years Mr. Jinnah was himself an
Indian nationalist and a leading member
of Congress.”
In Brailsford’s view the division along
religious lines is false and artificial.
“In India, as elsewhere, men are pea-
sants and industrial workers, land-owners
and capitalists, liberals, conservatives and
socialists. What the peasant asks from
the Government is a better system of
land tenure, water for irrigation, schools
and a hospital for his impoverished vil-
lage. Whether he be a Hindu or a Mos-
lem is in all these vital matters of daily
life completely irrelevant. Congress, to
be sure, which always had and still has
its adherents among the Moslems,
struggled hard to maintain its original
stand as a nationalist party, embracing
Indians of all creeds. But the effect of
separate electorates was that the Moslem
League gradually drew into its own ranks
the great mass of the Mohammedan
population, while Congress became, what
it is not in principle, predominantly a
Hindu organisation.
“The result of the recent elections was
to show India divided irrevocably into
two camps. The minor parties and the
finer shades of opinion were blotted out.
Congress swept the predominantly Hindu
provinces and retained here and there,
notably in the frontier provinces, the
support of a remnant of nationalist Mos-
lems, But over the peninsula as a whole
the Moslem League, with its doctrine of
two nations and its programme of Paki-
stan, won the immense majority of Mos-
lem seats. In its public speeches the Mos-
lem League is truculent and defiant. In
•private conversation it is easy to detect
the sense of inferiority that has now
mastered it. The Moslem faces, first of
all, the overwhelming numbers of the
Hindu population. If it comes to count-
ing heads he is outnumbered by three to
one.”
Brailsford does not think the artificial
division between Hindu and Moslem can
last. “When independence is won Congress
will certainly break up along class lines,
and combinations will be formed that
take no account of creed. But the habit
of thinking in communal units is now so
fixed that it seems hopeless to try to lay
this spectre of the Hindu majority.
“There is another source of this
Moslem consciousness of inferiority. The
Hindu community is much the more
adaptable and advanced. It was the
first to welcome Western education.
In finance and big business, the
supremacy of the Hindus amounts
almost to a monopoly. With few
exceptions, the banks and insurance
corporations are in their hands, and so
are the chief pioneering industries. This
is true not merely of the executive heads ;
it applies in great part to the technicians
also and even to the clerical staffs.
“Moslems assume that there is a Hindu
conspiracy to oppress them. The fact is,
rather, that well-to-do Moslems retain
the habits of thought of an old-world,
feudal aristocracy. When they do in-
vest, it is in land and not in industry.
Commerce does not attract them. The
result is that, though there are many
wealthy land-owning families among the
Moslems, their community is relatively
much the poorer of the two.
“The movement for separation is,
therefore, a struggle for economic emanci-
pation. In Pakistan the Moslems mean
to throw off the yoke of the Hindu finan-
cier and industrialist. They talk of social-
ising his banks and his mills. This does
not mean that they have adopted social-
ism ; they will be slow to throw their own
feudal estates into the common pool.
The offence of these bankers and mill-
owners is not that they are capitalists, but
rather that they are Hindus. They are
for the Moslems what the Jews were for
the Nazis.”
Brailsford is of the opinion that “these
ideological differences, painful and genu-
ine as they are, could not have availed
to break India into two today, were it
not for-the alarmed sense of inferiority
that overtook the Moslems when they
realised that British rule is nearing its end.
“From these tangled roots sprang the
solution to which the great mass of Indian
Moslems became committed. By Paki-
stan they mean the creation in the north-
west and the north-east of a sovereign
and independent State, Moslem in its
composition and culture. Its population
might number some seventy or eighty mil-
lions. It would face Hindustan as an
entirely alien unit, and it might link itself
in its external policy with the other
Moslem States of the Middle East. It is
easy to understand the appeal of such an
ideal to an electorate inflamed by fanati-
cal propaganda.
“The first criticism to which this scheme
is open is that it offers no security to the
only part of the Moslem population
which could be exposed to Hindu oppres-
sion. The Moslems of the north are in
a majority and have nothing to fear. But
outside Pakistan there is a scattered
Moslem minority of nearly thirty millions
which would have to depend on the good-
will of the Hindu majority. Should it
suffer from any species of inequality, the
Hindu minority in Pakistan would serve
as hostages on whom the Moslems could
retaliate. This is not a reassuring pros-
pect.
“Grave difficulties would also arise in
defining the territorial extent of Pakistan.
There are two solidly Moslem areas in
India, the north-west and the extreme
north-east, but between them lies an im-
mense stretch of Hindu country. Should
these form two States or only one, and
must we seriously consider the fantastic
suggestion of a corridor which Mr. Jinnah
occasionally favors? How, for purposes
of defence and trade, these two separated
regions are to form a single, integrated
unit is a puzzle which no one has yet
solved.
“From the wider standpoint of India’s
safety and welfare, Pakistan has nothing
to commend it. It is a step backward
toward Balkanisation. To cut this penin-
sula into three isolated zones makes non-
sense as a strategical proposition. No
responsible soldier would undertake the
defence of India with any assurance,
unless he could rely on a united army
under a single command.”
Brailsford can see little hope of the
whole of India being united in a genuine
federation.
“The Indian Union which the British
proposals envisage would have juris-
diction over three subjects only —
foreign affairs, defence and communica-
tions. Control over everything else would
be vested in the provinces, which would
also be free to join in regional groupings.
“The Union would be exposed to the
dangers that beset all confederacies. The
loyalty of its citizens would be dissipated
between three focal centres, and it might
prove to be a weak and unstable struc-
ture. Its chances, however, would be
brighter if Ceylon, Burma and perhaps
Malaya could eventually be brought with-
in the Indian Union. Two of these three
States are Buddhist, e and their presence
might soften the acute tension between
Moslems and Hindus.”
As Brailsford sees it “the rest of the
prospect is happy. An empire has freely
surrendered what an earlier century won
by the sword. The gain to India’s self-
respect will be immeasurable and the
stimulus to her creative energies im-
mense.”
If Brailsford’s view of the situation
places the greater share of the blame for
the hold-up in negotiations on the shoul-
ders of the leaders of the Moslem League,
the Congress party is not without its
critics. “World Report” apportions the
blame between both groups, with a
special word of censure for the Hindu
leaders.
“Tightfisted bargaining, largely by
veteran, professional politicians, is troub-
ling India and obscuring her desire for
food and freedom. Underneath the threat
of violence is increasing.
“The firm intention of the Congress
party is to use its bargaining power to the
utmost. More specifically, to make cer-
tain that the British proposals offer the
largest opportunities for shaping the
future of India to its liking. It is being
influenced more and more by its practical
politicians, of whom Vallabhbhai Patel,
aged 70, is typical. [Patel is among the
five caste Hindus in the new Cabinet.]
He realistically foresees that, once
an Interim Government is formed with
Indians holding all portfolios, there will
be a common responsibility for decisions
which may be necessary but unpopular.”
Overshadowing even the political tur-
moil in India is the spectre of famine
which has made one of its periodical
appearances. No ordinary famine this,
but “one of the most dreadful in recorded
history [in which, says a writer in
“Harper’s Magazine”] some fifteen mil-
lion people will die of starvation
All in all it leads to the “World
Report’s” conclusion: “A showdown is
approaching when, with political bicker-
ing continuing, the strain of hunger and
the growing nationalist agitation could be
a violent spark, likely, at a minimum, to
provoke civil war between Hindus and
Moslems, or, at a maximum, a rebellion
of a sub-continent against Britain.”


Soothe (tolling
Haemorrhoids
Thai* Is to suffer the tormenting
irritation of Itching plies when you can get
Quick relief by beginning at once to use
DOAN’S OINTMENT. It quiets the Itching and
protects and lubricates the tender tissues with
Its soothing antiseptic Ingredients. Don't continue
to let the itching and misery of piles torment
end worry you, get DOAN'S OINTMENT to-
day and tea what long lasting happy relief
it gives used successfully for over 40 years.
Ask your Chemist or Store for
Doan’s
OINTMENT
mini II I. -
" DOIO
Who will manage
YOUR ESTATE?
You are at the helm now. You know how to manage
your business to the best advantage. Your years of
experience have taught how to safeguard your assets
against varying industrial conditions and the ever-changing economic situation.
BUT
Have you appointed an Executor qualified to carry on your expert management
and to ensure for your dependants their rightful heritage?
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
has had over fifty years’ experience in the management of all types of Estates,
the assets of which include businesses and manufacturing concerns.’
If you appoint the Company as Executor and Trustee of your Will, it will- ensure
for your Estate the benefit of this experience backed by integrity and financial
stability and, through its permanence, uninterrupted administration until the
completion of the Trust.
E. V. T. Whittle ( Manager) N. L. Shaw ( Assist. Manager)
Write to-day for free Booklet.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PERMANENCE
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia's
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Trouble Over Trieste.
Relations between the U.S. and Yugo-
slavia had long been deteriorating before
the Communist Government’s orders to
fighter pilots to shoot down American
transport ’planes flying above its territory
culminated in the incidents which forced
the U.S. to issue its ultimatum. The major
problem of conflict has been the future of
Trieste and Venezia Giulia, where Ameri-
can troops have formed the greater part
of the occupying force. Marshal Tito
has made no secret of the fact that his
Government’s orders were related to the
ill-feeling over Trieste, and the shooting
occurred in the week in which the ques-
tion of that city came up for discussion
by the Paris peace parleyers.
Earlier Tito, with his customary air of
cocksure superiority, had declared .“Yugo-
slavia cannot abandon her sovereign
rights in Trieste,” though that country
has no such rights, nor has had. And
Tito’s vice-premier, Edward Kardelj, said
in Paris that “Yugoslavia will never sign
a treaty that gives the sovereignty over
Trieste to any other State or organisa-
tion,”
Writing from Trieste for the “World
Report” George Bookman thought it
possible that the Yugoslavs might “make
a large-scale attempt to seize the area by
force, and see what the world would do
about it.” And the “World Report” be-
lieves that “Trieste will be internation-
alised or there will be no peace terms for
Europe.”
A Loudon “Times” correspondent in
Trieste found the plan which was dis-
cussed at the Peace Conference dis-
appointing :
If gives most of the province of Venezia
Giulia to the Yugoslavs, retains a small
western strip inside Italy, and turns Trieste
with a diminutive area round it into an
international State. It is the kind of com-
promise bound to result from an effort
to please everybody. It has pleased no-
body, and it will work only if everyone,
especially the Yugoslavs, is ready to make
it work.
He thinks “it will be long before the
Slovenes cease to covet this gleaming port
with its docks, rich buildings, and great
ships moored in deep water, alongside the
main streets. In their minds, still less in
their propaganda, the thousands of their
brothers to remain under Italy are not
cancelled out by the thousands of Italians
sacrificed to them. ‘Trst’ has been
officially inscribed on the heart of Yugo-
slavia. The Italian Government, too, is
inconsolable. Trieste came to them as the
prize for the Italians killed in the first
world war on the right side, whose spirit
they invoke, forgetting the Italians killed
in the second world war on the wrong
side. Both sides of the Adriatic, it seems,
are bleeding for the city.
“America and Great Britain, hav-
ing satisfied their quest for com-
promise, ■ are consequently attacked
from all directions; as the Powers
who, through Allied Military Gov-
ernment, have been trying to admin-
ister Trieste impartially for a year, they
are now unpopular with both Italians and
Slovenes. To the Slovenes they are the
connivers at Fascism, to the Italians the
upholders of the mob.
“The Russians, too, are said to have
suffered a diplomatic defeat, becahse
they seemed to have dropped the Yugo-
slav claims to Trieste. Tactically this may
seem a defeat; strategically it is not.
Russia’s long-term interests do not de-
mand that Trieste should go to Yugo-
slavia ; there is no further point in court-
ing the Yugoslavs, since the marriage is
already achieved, the Communist Gov-
ernment established. Italy, however, has
still to be won, and anyone favoring the
Yugoslav solution to Trieste is bound to
lose ground in Italy. One even hears it
said that Trieste in the hands of Yugo-
slavia would have become the terminus
of Russian progress from south-eastern
towards south-western Europe, and a
banner and rallying-cry for the Italian
right-wing politicians. An international
Trieste is not a terminus but a stepping-
stone.”
The “Times” man thinks the question
of nationality less important than the
economic problem. “In the city of Trieste
there are more than 30,000 unemployed.
The cost of living is high and wages low.
If the projected international Government
does not give the workers of Trieste em-
ployment, it will not succeed ; and it will
be difficult to do this if the conditions
from which the city’s greatness developed
are not restored.
“Trieste was the Golden Gate of the
Habsburg Empire. The emperors have
gone, but the territories are still there,
and the railways; and the Adriatic is
still a unique highway thrust into the
import and export market of Central
Europe. What people fear now is that
Yugoslavia, out of pique or policy, might
set out to boycott Trieste and develop
Fiume instead. The important railway
through Ljubljana branches to Fiume be-
fore it reaches Trieste, and a good deal of
important traffic could ultimately be
diverted, particularly if it was the Com-
munist direction in Hungry and (more im-
portant) Czechoslovakia to assist such a
strategy. Italy, too, might give up interest
in Trieste, shift all she could out of the
new State, and develop Venice in its
—Washington “Post”
“BEAUTIFUL, BE A UTIFUL!"
stead. The convinced pessimists see these
three ports competing at the head of the
Adriatic and Trieste in thfc end left dere-
lict. Unemployment would increase and
the time approach rapidly for another
crisis. The Yugoslavs would be in a
strong position to exploit such a situa-
tion.”
There are considerations other than of
prestige which would lead Russia to sup-
port any claim Yugoslavia makes to
Venezia Giulia. As the “World Report”
sees it:
The large Italian shipyards at Monfal-
cone and Trieste are a great inducement
to the Russians to seek Venezia Giulia for
Yugoslavia. They produced 54 per cent, or
Italy’s entire merchant marine and naval
fleets before World War II and built such
luxury liners as the Conte di Savoia.
•About 25,000 ship-workers normally earn
wages that support one-eighth of the popu-
lation of 800,000 Italians and Yugoslavs
who live in the region.
George Morison in NY. “Times”:
“How vital Trieste is to Moscow
for achievement of economic and
political aims is shown by the fact
that the new Czechoslovak-Yugoslav
treaty contains a clause requiring
Czechoslovakia to use her political influ-
ence in favor of the cession of Trieste to
Yugoslavia,”
He also points out that “Within the
framework of the Kremlin system of an
eastern economic bloc, a large part of
the overseas trade of the Danubian coun-
tries could be advantageously directed
through Trieste, while still vaster areas
would be incorporated into the same
system once the Rhine-Main-Danu be
canal that Germany strove to finish be-
fore the war was completed. Thus cargo
vessels of 1200 tons could pass direct
from Black Sea to North Sea.
“What businessmen fear is that the
Kremlin would then use Trieste’s pros-
perity as a weapon to extend Russian
political and economic influence over
Egypt, North Africa and the Near East
by offering friendly countries transit
through Trieste on far more advantage-
ous terms than could be obtained in
Venice or Genoa and threatening to
withdraw them whenever Russian de-
mands were not complied with.”
British Labor Failures.
Some of the failures of the British
Labor Government outlined in this ex-
tract from a speech in Edinburgh by Mr.
Churchill have a
familiar ring;
“It astonishes me
that a body of men,
charged with such
awful responsibility
and coming into so
grand and noble an
estate as our country,
shining with all the
glories of its victory,
should fall so far
short, alike of their
duty and of their
opportunity, in so
many fields and on
so many occasions. I
shall now give you
some examples of
wrong treatment of
the nation and ad-
ministrative failures
which have already
darkened the path
we have trodden
since the general
election:
“Firstly, tardy
demobilisation and
delay in fixing and
reaching the stan-
dards of defence
which we must for
the present maintain.
“ S e c 6 n d 1 y, in-
creased lush and
lavish expenditure
resulting from this
tardy demobilisa-
tion, and also from
the desire to hold
and create a vast
horde of officials of
all kinds as a burden upon the public.
“Thirdly, the failure to allow the pro-
duction of consumer goods in sufficient
quantities which arises from the misuse
or waste of manpower and the mainten-
ance of war-time taxation and restriction.
“Fourthly, the failure of the rehousing
programme, both in repairs and in new
building.
“Fifthly, the disturbance and enfeeble-
ment of industry and enterprise through
the launching of vague, ill-thought-out
schemes of nationalisation, and by the
ceaseless outpouring of threats and abuse
on all. employers of labor and on all forms
of wealth, however honorably acquired,
and upon every form of private enter-
prise, upon which even the Socialist Mini-
sters admit we must depend for our live-
lihood to the extent of 80 per cent, for
many years to come.
“And, sixthly, the campaign of hatred
and vilification carried out on the part
of one half of the nation against the other
half at the very time when, above all
others, the unity of the nation is vital not
only to our prosperity but even to our
pyicteff''’ ”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The Partisans plan to make Yugoslavia
a one-party State. The Communists are in
full control of the country. The Finance
Ministers of all six republics and of the Federal
Government are Communists. So are the
Premiers and the Ministers of the Interior.
In the Federal Cabinet Communists also hold
the key portfolios of National Defence, Labor,
Industry, Transportation and Foreign Com-
merce ; a Communist Vide-Premier heads the
all-powerful Control Commission newly created
to supervise all Government agencies and enter-
prises; a Communist Minister without Port-
folio directs education and culture. The
“Big Seven” in this system —Tito, Rankovic,
Kardelj, Djilas, Juevic, Hebrang and Pijado —
all are Communists. Russia is a land of com-
missars and soviets; Yugoslavia is a land of
secretaries and committees ( odhor ). There is a
governing odbor for every community, from the
hamlet up. The secretary of every odbor is also
the secretary of the local People’s Front and
of the Communist party. This identity of
secretaries is what the Partisans call “unity
of power.” It is a basic principle of the con-
stitution. Its purpose is to concentrate the
executive and legislative power in Communist
hands. As for the judicial power, it resides, by
a special refinement of the new constitution, in
the public prosecutors rather than the. magis-
trates. Needless to say, the prosecutors are
Communist's. “Where did you study law?” I
asked a prosecutor. “I didn’t,” said he, “I’m
a surveyor by trade. Being a lawyer wouldn’t
matter, because we have different laws now.”
This man has the power to reverse ail Court
decisions affecting the 200,000 persons in his
jurisdiction.— Hal Lehrman in “The Nation.”
•** * *
Allied occupation of Japan has developed
so successfully that a final peace treaty may be
signed next spring [March-May, 19471, and the
original occupation estimate of from five to
15 years radically reduced. The chief remain-
ing bar to signature of a final peace treaty is
the question of reparations. There might bo
differences of opinion with Rusisa on repara-
tions which might block efforts to sign an early
peace treaty. One stumbling block on the
reparations issues is said to be the status of
machinery and other materials removed by
Russia from Manchuria and Korea. Russia
regards these supplies —valued at hundreds of
millions of yen—as war booty rather than
reparations. Once the peace treaty is signed
the matter of further occupation of Japan
might be settled much more rapidly than origi-
nally supposed.— American United Press corre-
spondent.
* * * »
In the fight for the control of Manchuria
between the National Government and Com-
munist troops, the economic motivation is of
such decisive importance to the whole of
China that neither side can afford to lose.
Without Manchuria, China’s very life is
jeopardised. The Japanese knew this well.
That is why they took Manchuria six years
before attacking the rest of China. At stake
are: control over 45,000,000 inhabitants and
an area three times the size of Germany; de-
posits of coal amounting to 11,500,000,000
tons; iron deposits of 1,400,000,000 tons; oil
shale deposits of 5,600,000,000 tons; rich gold
deposits; surplus food products. — “free
World.” *
* * * *
In India the Communist party is completely
divorced from, and is ignorant of, the national
traditions that fill the minds of the people. It
believes that Communism necessarily implies
a contempt for the past. So far as it is con-
cerned, the history of the world began in
November, 1917. Normally speaking, in a
country like India with large numbers of people
on the verge of starvation and the economic
structure cracking up, Communism should have
a wide appeal, but the Communist party cannot
take advantage of it because it has cut itself
off from the springs of national sentiment and
speaks in a language which finds no echo in
the hearts of the people. It remains an
energetic but small group with no real roots.
—Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Indian Congress
patty leader in his> forthcoming book. “The
Discovery of India.”
* * * *
In books, in articles in the press, and in
speeches by public persons, it is still con-
stantly stated that Britain was in imminent
danger of invasion in 1940 after the fall 9!
France. This matter should be considered in
its true light. It is a principle, indeed a rule,
of war that invasion across the sea cannot
take place without command of that sea.
This rule has had no exceptions in our history
(invasion, not raids, being under considera-
tion). The same principle now holds good in
the air. The state of the German Navy
between July and October, 1940, after which
the weather was unfit for the landing of an
invasion force, was that in July the Germans
had available only the Nurnberg and 12
destroyers; by mid-August the Admiral
Scheer and Koln were also ready; and by
mid-September the Emden. We had two
battleships, one battlecruiser, at least eight
cruisers, and 27 destroyers available in home
waters, and thus had an overwhelming
superiority at sea, so that an invasion by sea,
far from being imminent, was an impossi-
bility.—Charles M. Forbes, London “Times”
letter. >


HELPING 4USTIMU/I ACHIEVE
MAXIMUM PRODUCTION
r
PRECISION
MACHINE TOOLS
.r--
ll m
men
mmXmkmsi
The “MARS”
Radial Drill
Produced in response to the
demand for a high efficiency
Radial Drill for Australian
conditions at a price within
reach of the average Engi-
neering Shop. The “Mars”
Radial Drill has 8 speeds
forward and 8 speeds reverse.
4ft. 6in. arm. Weight, ap-
proximately 3 tons.
All Mars’ ’ Machine Tools possess these outstanding
features:
ACCURACY—BuiIt to recognized and certified
standards of Accuracy. . . BALANCE—AII necessary
revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced.. . FINISH
•—All surfaces are Machine Ground. . . MATERIALS
Finest Matured High Test Alloy Castings through-
out. . . SMOOTH RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are
Generated. . . VERSATILITY—AII Lathes have
Detachable Gap Bridge.
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANER
Designed for the precision workshop,
the “Mars ’ Planer is of a proved
design and capable of obtaining
maximum output from high-speed
cutting tools.
. - ■
~ : ' ■'■■;
Ss®f
He
i ' *
Iff T
XJ .*.
c isa.-sv
■H
HMI
Other machine tools manufactured by “Mars”
are: s|, 7,8, and lOin. Lathes, Shapers, Millers
and Boring Mills. Special machines built to
required specifications.
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139
Clarence St., Sydney.
VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 a
Sydney Road, Brunswick, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd., 450
Ann St., Brisbane.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—Motor Specialities Ltd., Anzac
Avenue, Auckland.
CALCUTTA-—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
Sole Queensland Distributors for
SERVIAN MACHINE TOOLS
The “MARS”
6in. Lathe
Enables you to carry out a
host of small jobs and so
save your bigger lathe for
the bigger work. The
“Mars” 6-inch lathe is
capable of fine work at
high speed.
ŕ
ETA
Licensed
Manufacturers
in
Queensland
of
MEEHANITE
METALS
ŗ
30 V
pjf
«!
I uO. Vv
my*
ft
S’
1
c
Mar*
mmooL
mfc CO.PTUW.
ř
J. & O’S.^Advt.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3473
Wednesday, September 4, 1946
THE DOCTORS WHO DIFFER.
“Hold on there, Dr. Chifley—this is a blood-transfusion case.”
“Not a bit of it! We’ve been bleeding him for five years and we’re sticking to the treatment.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’'
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD, OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" PUT TO SHAME.
To Friday of last week the Opposition-
leader’s undertaking that, if given a man-
date to form a Government, he would
take 20 p.c. off income tax from January
1 and pay endowment for the first child
in a family had brought only hysterical
replies from the crowd in office when
replies were attempted.
One hysterical cry was that payment
on the first child would mean a reduction
in the basic wage. There would be no
such effect, as the carpers well know.
There was no such effect after child en-
dowment was introduced by the Menzies
Government, and there has been none
on the other side of the Tasman where
endowment is paid on the first child.
On Friday Mr. Chifley, in the spirit
and language of crusty old conservatism,
asserted that the Menzies plan would
cost £99,000,000 in the first year and must
be rejected on that account.
In the second of the “statements”
with which “Labor” fobbed off the
legitimate demand for a Budget such
as Mr. Nash has introduced so that N.Z.
electors may arrive at a fair judgment,
Mr. Chifley admitted that “persons with
incomes of £l5OO a year or more are
more highly taxed in Australia than in
New Zealand,” but asserted that Aus-
tralians on small and middle incomes
fared better than New Zealanders in the
same groups.
In his sketchy calculations Mr. Chifley
ignored endowment payments. In New
Zealand, as Mr. Nash pointed out in his
Budget speech, “the married man with a
dependent wife and children is paid 10s.
a week for each child, regardless of in-
come.”
Mr. Nash went on to say that there
would be substantial income-tax cuts for
all taxpayers, married men especially,
comprising in the case of individuals a
reduction of war surcharge from 33| p.c.
to 15 p.c. and an increase of £5O (to £100)
i the exemption for a wife. In the result,
iuinily men with gross incomes of £4OO
and £5OO would have a surplus “after
paying all income taxation during the
financial year which ends on March 31,
1947.” The £5OO man with a wife and
three children would be £lOO better off
than in 1945-46, and the £4OO man with
a wife and two children £7O better off.
Nor would there be any denial of “adjust-
ments” to people in the “higher
brackets”; for example another £126
would be left in the hands of a £2OOO
man and another £430 in those of a five-
thousand-pounder.
With his first “financial statement” Mr.
Chifley presented figures showing how his
income tax would work out in the case
of family men on £4OO, £5OO, £6OO
and £BOO. So did Mr. Nash, with
the difference that Mr. Nash took endow-
ment payments into account. Deducting
from Mr. Chifley’s calculations £l9 10s.
for the second child in a family of four,
this table shows (shillings omitted) how
family men in both Dominions will fare
in the current financial year, which, it
must be emphasised, closes on March 31
in N.Z. and June 30 in Australia:
Family of Three.
Gross
Income. Tax (Aust.). Tax (N.Z.).
£4OO .. £3B £22
£5OO .. £63 £46
£6OO .. £92 £72
£BOO .. £154 £l3O
Family of Four.
£4OO .. £l4 Nil (Surplus of £l2]
£5OO .. £39 £l2
£6OO .. £66 £3B
£BOO .. £126 £94
The Maoriland Labor Government has
never been light-handed with taxpayers,
nor has it ever been a paragon of
economy in expenditure. But its Mr.
Nash, like Mr. Menzies (but unlike Mr.
Chifley), perceives the paramount impor-
tance of production, “the encourage-
ment” of which, he said in his Budget
speech, is “our guiding principle.” For
that reason he had decided “to reduce or
abolish those taxes which tend to dis-
courage work and enterprise and reduce
those which are reflected in production
costs and the cost of living,” thereby
providing “a new stimulus to industry.”
So that employers, as well as workers,
might “assist in the restoration of peace-
time industry to the maximum extent pos-
sible,” excess-profits tax would be
abolished and the rate of income tax on
companies would be “restored to that
which applied up to March, 1942”:
Companies will thus pay the basic rate
of income tax, plus 15 per cent., and will
also pay social and national-security tax at
the reduced rate of 2s. in the pound.
In the brazen Canberra substitute for a
Budget, Mr, Chifley had nothing for com-
panies. By his silence he indicated that
he would maintain the war-time rates of
tax and the excess-profits tax and con-
tinue to tax company dividends not only
at the source but in the hands of share-
holders, there added to their other in-
come so to extort from these people the
highest maximum rate of tax applicable
to them.
New Zealanders who pay income tax
will be even better off than the foregoing
comparison suggests. For Mr. Nash is
removing sales tax from all articles of
furniture, upholstery and bedding ; from
“clothing and apparel of all kinds (in-
cluding hosiery, footwear and head-
wear),” from all building materials and
fittings for outside and inside use (hun-
dreds of items are enumerated), and from
a host of miscellaneous goods: —*
School chalk and 'school paper;
stationery; music manuscript and books;
surgical and dental instruments, materials
and electrical appliances; ambulances;
batteries for hearing aids; envelopes espe-
cially printed for voluntary donations;
chemicals; spreaders and wetting-out agents
for sprays; perambulators “and similar
vehicles”; concrete poles; saddle-trees;
circular saws and machine saw-blades;
foods for diabetics; dry or dehydrated
fruits; gluten flour; puddings.
The effect of these concessions will be
felt in every New Zealand home. The
reduction in the cost of building alone is
expected to work out at £lOO on a five-
roomed cottage. This will benefit re-
turned servicemen in particular, and so
will the freeing of furniture from sales
tax. In Australia sales tax on furniture is
p.c, on the manufacturer’s price, and
it has been made a hard and fast rule
that the retailer must add 55 p.c. to the
wholesale price plus . the 12i p.c. tax ; so
those who have to furnish or refurnish
are denied the benefits of competition.
“Concessions” is one of Mr. Chifley’s
favorite words, but he has not used it in
the case of sales tax. From this impost
he got the huge revenue of £33,600,150
during the year to June 30, £5,600,150 in
excess of his estimate and nearly
£5,000,000 in excess of Customs revenue,
which used to be the Commonwealth’s
great standby. In income tax he received
£214,593,500 (£3,593,500 more than his
estimate) and it would have been at least
£300,000,000 had all assessments been
issued and all overdue taxes collected:
many taxpayers, professional men in par-
ticular, have not received assessments for
years. Yet Mr. Chifley had the face to
apply the term “substantial cut” to in-
come-tax remissions self-calculated at
£17,500,000. Maoriland Labor’s reduc-
tions are expected to total £18,000,000 in
six months.
Maoriland, Maoris reckoned in, has
quarter of a million fewer people than
Victoria and 5Jr millions fewer than
Australia. In proportion to popu-
lation, Its war expenditure (£640,000,000)
was higher than that of the Com-
monwealth and its losses in killed
and wounded were much greater; in the
Middle East its army casualties were
32,500, Australia’s 19,500. • Maoriland
Labor, of course, left Freyberg’s grand
division to fight the Germans and the
Italians from Egypt to the Austrian
border, whereas —to the chagrin of Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt, who were
concerned not so much with the military
aspect as with the withdrawal of urgently-
needed merchantmen and warships,
although the last A.I.F. division was
highly valued by Alexander and Mont-
gomery—Australian “Labor” recalled the
Ninth Division after El Alamein. And
Mr. Frazer made it his business to visit
the Maoriland troops wherever they were
fighting, in the Western Desert, the Pacific
and Italy. His opposite number in Aus-
tralia was never seen in a battle area, even
on Australian territory, where many
thousands of American conscripts who
would not have been there had the U.S.
conscription measure been a counterpart
of “Labor’s” were among the casualties.
Maoriland Labor has made immea-
surably greater provision than Australian
“Labor” for servicemen home from the
wars. Its Minister of Rehabilitation,
himself an ex-serviceman, recently told a
meeting of his old comrades that “more
than 2000 ex-servicemen have been settled
on farms, and 16,000 have been provided
with houses ; more than 50 p.c. who have
applied.” In N. S. Wales, which has up-
wards of a million more people than
Maoriland and three times its area, the
best that the 69-year-old Mr. Dunn, who
has taken over from the 61-year-old Mr.
Tully, could say on August 20 to the
R.S.L. delegates was that 50 ex-service-
men had been placed on farms, and it is
improbable that the six (6) “Labor”
Governments could prove that they
have housed a thousand ex-service-
men among them. Maoriland has
its Communists and its waterfront hood-
lums, and the Government has been
accused of dealing with them in a lily-
fingered fashion; but it has not allowed
them to take charge of foreign policy or
export trade. That ignoble abdication of
responsibility, that white-livered surrender
to unwhipped mobs, has been reserved
for Australia.
Doctor in the Doghouse.
If he achieved nothing else during his
latest overseas tour Dr. Evatt, at
least qualified for membership of that
not excessively exclusive club the
Spurned Friends of the Soviet Union.
America teems with them —“liberals,”
Leftist advocates (or ex-advocates) of
the doctrine that Russia is (or was)
always right, or always means (or meant)
well —but as far as is known Dr.
Evatt is the first Australian to qualify.
The unsuspectingly prospective mem-
bers of the Spurned Friends go along
blissfully singing hosannas on their
favored theme. They stand up in Town
Halls and in even more august auditor-
iums in .their own lands trumpeting the
praises of the Great Country they have
not even set eyes on, except on a map.
They pile praise on sickly praise. More-
over, they denounce anyone who may
venture to ask for a look at the patent
rights of their hyperbole ; who may dare
to suggest that the hosanna business is
overdone. They brush these aside as
ignoramuses or worse, and sing on,
pealing out their paeans of the Great
Land, the paradise on earth.
And then —whack!
They wonder what has hit them. When
they come to they find that the whack
came from Moscow, over the radio ; a
vituperative outburst in the familiar Com-
munist vocabulary of abuse for all the
world to hear. Why; nobody knows;
least of all the victim. From then on the
victim is one to be shunned as a leper by
the faithful fifth-columnists in all lands.
He has incurred the wrath of the Krem-
lin. It has fallen upon him. He is
taboo. His name is mud. In brief, he is
in the doghouse, along with the crowd-
ing company of other members of the
Spurned Friends of the Soviet Union.
The Wrath fell on Australia’s Minister
for External Affairs on or about August
26. Over the Moscow Radio it shouted
that “what is important is not Evatt
himself” —that was the most unkindest
cut of all —“but the forces whose com-,
missions he carries out.” Instead of the
doughty lonehand fighting Dr. Evatt,
champion of the “little peoples,” Moscow
presented him as being “pushed into the
limelight” by the “forces” aforesaid.
The Voice of Wrath further went on
to allege that “the Australian Minister
has close connections with monopoly
concerns” (8.H.P.?), and “has estab-
lished a considerable notoriety as one
who is always prepared to serve solely
certain big countries, even if it upsets the
equality of co-operation between States
in accordance with the United Nations’
ruling.” It was further asserted that
“certain sections of the British, French
and American press spare no effort to
raise Evatt to the top” ; and then: “Evatt
is also doing his very best [to hog the
limelight] by making long speeches at
the conference on the slightest pretext or
even without a pretext.”
It seems only yesterday, but surely
must have been in some other era alto-
gether, that Dr. Evatt was releasing
servants of Moscow who had been im-
prisoned for sabotaging Australia’s war
effort and then, being still dangerous and
wholly impenitent, transferred to an in-
ternment camp, the sabotaging done, of
course, before Russia had been forced
by invasion into the conflict. And not
only releasing the saboteurs, but also
lifting the ban that had been placed on
the conspiracy to which they belonged,
the Communist party in Australia, after
his Government had interned and held
without trial anti-Communists —among
them two returned soldiers, wounded in
the first German war —whose “offence”
was that they had been members, or sup-
posed members, of the Australia First
organisation. This to the boisterous
delight of Communists, who boasted that
they had put the Government up to it.
The number of times -Dr. Evatt
has raised his voice in laudation of the
Great Land could not be counted on the
toes of a centipede. He was never more
laudatory than in March, when, it having
been pointed out that Russia had grabbed
territories with an area of 273,947 square
miles and a population of 24,355,000 in
14 foreign countries, all in flat repudia-
tion of the Atlantic Charter, he said in
Parliament that “having no clear evidence
to the contrary, and having during the last
four years come to know some, of Russia s
greatest statesmen, I take the view that
the Soviet Union’s policy is directed to-
wards self-protection and security against
future attack.”
Of the scores of other instances that
spring to mind, certainly the most historic
was that at Canberra on June 11, 1942;
the occasion, the announcement of the
Anglo-Soviet Treaty (booked up for 20
years; and there was Mr. Bevin only
the other day tearing his hair and crying
aloud that he’d cheerfully extend it for
50 years if that would have any meaning
in Moscow, but no takers).
At Canberra on that historic occasion
Dr. Evatt spoke for more than himself.
He declaimed: “The Australian Prime
Minister and his colleagues rejoice in the
fact that so important an agreement has
been reached between His Majesty’s Gov-
ernment and Russia.” Dr. Evatt said of
that celebrated treaty: “There are no
catches or secret clauses involved. It is
a straight, open agreement securing
alliance in the war and —what is equally
important —securing full co-operation
with Russia in the better world which
must follow the victory of the United
Nations over the aggressors.”
Dr. Evatt said “better world,” not
“bitter world.” He might feel inclined
to make the amendment now, particularly
if he turns up that agreement he lauded
as “an important milestone” (he did not
say “millstone”). In Article V of the
agreement he will find the High Contract-
ing Parties agreeing “to work together in
close and friendly collaboration after
the re-establishment of peace for the
organisation of security and economic
prosperity in Europe.” If the iron of
that is not bitter enough—every single
word of it mocking, and made tragic by,
the Europe of today —the same Article of
that “milestone” will be found to present
the same High Contracting Parties
solemnly agreeing “to act in accordance
with the two principles of not seeking
territorial aggrandisement for themselves
and of non-interference in the affairs of
other States.” And if anything more
ironic than that —on the Russian side—
is to be found anywhere in the documents
of history, it must have been written on
iron with an iron nib gripped in an iron
fist.
Dr. Evatt, along with the assortment of
other Spurned Friends, can, of course,
point to the prior utterances of Stalin in
some sort of excuse for being so widely
misled and now so sadly disappointed.
On November 6, 1941, Stalin stuck
his tongue thickly into his cheek and
came out with these pious professions
purporting to be war aims:
We have not nor can we have such war
aims as the seizure of foreign territories or
the conquest of other peoples, irrespective
of whether European peoples and territories
or Asiatic peoples and territories, including
Iran, are concerned We have not - nor
can we have such war aims as the imposi-
tion of our will and our regime on the
Slavic and other enslaved peoples of Europe
who are waiting for our help. Our aim is
to help these peoples in their struggle for
liberation from Hitler’s tyranny, and then to
accord them the possibility of arranging
their lives on their own land as they think
fit, with absolute freedom. No interfer-
ence of any kind with the domestic affairs
of other nations!
Naturally, after that and so much more
of the same (as it has turned out) revolt-
ing kind, the members of the Spurned
Friends of the Soviet Union are today
the most surprised people in the world.
In common justice it must be allowed
that Dr. Evatt showed courage in facing
up to the Communist Slav gang in Paris,
and he will need a full issue during the
election campaign if Communist mobs
pursue him as they have pursued Mr.
Menzies. Mr. Beasley’s contribution is
in a different category. Mr. Beasley is
out of the election hurlyburly and com-
fortably provided for.
No sooner had Dr. Evatt left the
“Peace” Conference than Mr. Beasley was
in his place, posing as an indignant
champion of Rumania (he might have
waited for the ferocious attack on
Greece), and bellowing anathema at
Russia and Communism just as he bel-
lowed anathema at Italy and Fascism as
a delegate to Geneva in 1926:
To hear him [M. Vishinsky] you would
think .Communist newspapers throughout
the world were the only representative
organs. Well, in Australia nobody reads
the Communist newspapers; and 1 repre-
sent the people of Australia.
Mr. Beasley was a Minister in the
Government that lifted the ban on Com-
munists and interned the Australia
Firsters, eight of whom were pronounced
innocent (one after his death in a military
hospital) and recommended for compen-
sation by a Judge who received his royal
commission from Dr. Evatt. The erst-
while leader of the anti-Communist
Labor party knows, and Dr. Evatt should
know, that one ounce of action against
Communists in Sydney would be more
effective than the maximum of bellowing
in Paris. Mr. Beasley and his associates
went along with the Communists freely
enough when sentimentalism towards
Russia made that a profitable thing to
do in the constituencies. It is different
now.
On August 15 Mr. Beasley ceased to be
Resident Minister in London and be-
came High Commissioner. He may not
yet be conscious of the change. Certainly
his sudden resumption of the role of anU-
Communist leader, suspended from the
moment he joined the “Labor” Mmistn
on October 7, 1941, suggests to the
cynical that he was more concerned witn
electioneering than with anything else.


(For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams and Cecil Mann, all of
252 George-street, Sydney, are responsible.)
PLAIN ENGLISH
Ward v. Chifley.
Although Mr. Menzies has put the
Prime Minister in a jam by pledging the
Opposition to cut taxes substantially and
pay endowment on the first child, he is
not Mr, Chifley’s only campaign em-
barrassment. Mr. Ward has extended to
the hustings his character of being a
chronic headache in Caucus and Cabinet.
He has even blurted out his belief that
his party is going to lose How
many he did not say, but, speaking in
Sydney at a meeting of blind pensioners,
he declared himself “confident” that
“those who want a change in our
financial policy”—that is, a change from
the Chifley financial policy to his own—
“will be in the majority.”
Since Labor has not a million-to-one
chance of adding to its 49 seats in the
House, the greatest number it has ever
had, and not a thousand-to-one chknce
of adding to its 21 seats in the Senate (it
was in a hopeless minority in that
Chamber between 1917 and 1944, and at
four elections lost all the contested seats,
as it may do this year), this can mean
only that Mr. Ward expects a sufficient
number of Mr. Chifley’s supporters to be
defeated.
Among these Chifley men, going from
west to east, are Comrades Burke (Perth),
Lemmon (Swan), Sheehy (Boothby),
Smith (Wakefield), McLeod (Wannon),
Langtry (Riverina), Breen (Calare),
Fraser (Eden-Monaro), Daly (Martin),
Hadley (Lilley), Lawson (Brisbane) and
Conelan (Griffith). All these gentlemen
are being hard pressed in their electorates,
and at least two of Mr. Chifley’s col-
leagues and confidants, Mr. Scully
(Gwydir) and Forde (Capricornia), are
also in danger. So is Dr. Gaha (Deni-
son), whose views on financial policy are
unknown. Dr. Gaha has been very silent
on most topics since, in a moment of dis-
concerting candor, he issued the warning
that a new Japan was in the making in
Indonesia—obviously as an effect of the
cowardly “Labor” surrender to the Com-
munist conspiracy as it affects those
islands, though the doctor did not say
that.
On Mr. Ward’s side are Comrades Cal-
well (Melbourne), Falstein (Watson),
Haylen (Parkes), Mountjoy (Swan) and
perhaps Fuller (Hume) and one or
two other Ms.H.R. —possibly Mr. Hollo-
way, if the wind blows hard against Mr.
Chifley—and a few Senators, among them
the author of Through Six Gaols, now
doing something or other in Paris. But
Comrades Falstein, Haylen and Mount-
joy are also shaky. In effect a Ward
majority can be brought about only by
the loss of the party majority, as Mr.
Chifley must realise bitterly.
To add to Mr.. Chifley’s chagrin the
Ward financial policy was outlined when
the Prime Minister had completed his
arrangements for the launching of the
Second Security Loan of £90,000,000.
The Ward financial policy provides for
vast interest-free loans from the Com-
monwealth Bank, with £230,000,000 for
“rail standardisation” as a beginning. In
itself a threat to everyone who has a bank
balance or a life or endowment assur-
ance policy, it was accompanied by a
vaguely expressed though sinister Ward
menace to all holders of Commonwealth
bonds and stock and war-savings certi-
ficates.
The country is called upon to pay an
interest bill that has increased 100 per cent,
since the outbreak of war. I believe that
unless we do something in regard to the
national debt and the amount of interest we
have to pay, there can be no effective ex-
tension of social services, and neither can
there be any substantial reduction of taxa-
tion.
The “something” he did not specify,
but, it can be divined from his past per-
formances, his poisonous hatred of
Britain and his enthusiasm for Soviet
Russia and all its works. Fifteen years
ago he came out for interest-default and
for the rest of the crazy expedients which
led to the smashing of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank. Now, as then, he
is a political incarnation of the envy and
hate which set the cutter stamp on the
Sydney-larrikin mina.
Foretaste of Communism.
For the time being, at least, maritime
unions, dominated by Reds, control the
selection of crews for U.S. ships coming
this way, and they seem to know that
Sydney is infested with Communists and
appalling young women who are all for
miscegenation. Also that it has news-
papers which don’t object to a bit of
color.
The arrival of the Marine Falcon
brought shoals of complaints from pas-
sengers concerning the behavior of negro
seamen, among other things. To one of
these negroes the “Sun” devoted an article
under three-column headings, complete
with picture. The coon was “a jitterbug
specialist,” wearing “the first Seattle-
constructed zoot suit seen in Sydney.” A
description of the suit and of the jungle
dances in which the coon is “a special-
ist” followed; and some of his remarks
were quoted:
“Ain’t nothin’ I like better than to grab
a slick chick and 'cut a rug or knock
myself out on the roundabout. I got a
little partner back in Harlem, Noo Yark,
who gets dressed up in her two-toned
moccasins and her sloppy Joe sweater,
and, bruther, then we really go to town.”
To that the addendum that the “speci-
alist” would “really like to go to town in
Sydney if he could find himself a part-
ner.” “Give him a slick chick,” the
“Sun” told its readers, “and he’ll do the
Stringy Beans and cut a rug.”
For “slick chick” read “Australian
girl,” and it should have been enough to
make any decent reader sick.
The next picture associated with the
ship was somewhat different. Close on
sailing time (it was a Sunday night): —-
A dispute between negroes developed on
the wharf when one negro refused to leave
a white girl. He struggled with two of his
shipmates as they dragged him to the ship’s
side. The gangways were raised, so the
men tied a rope round the negro’s waist and
hauled him on board. The negro then
began to fight among passengers at the rail-
ing of the lower deck. His mates dragged
him from view. Fifteen minutes later a
negro, stripped to the waist, appeared on
deck. He picked up a passenger’s child
and kissed it. A male passenger remon-
strated with the negro, and another fight
broke out. Seven negro members of the
crew fought for five minutes.
The day after the Marine Falcon sailed
a negro member of the crew was still in
Sydney—being sentenced as a “prohibited
immigrant” to six months’ hard labor,
term to be shortened by deportation if
a ship is available in the meantime. The
SEPTEMBER 28 IS FATHER’S DAY, TOO.
“I’ve brought you a couple of cushions to sit on for a change.”
negro told the Court that he “had got
drunk and stayed with a friend.”
He “wore a bright red shirt and a
green zoot suit.”
"Lying Propaganda."
Called to task for his blithe announce-
ment during the debate on his Coal In-
dustry Bill, now bullocked through the
Assembly, that he had not read Justice
Davidson’s report, N.S.W. Premier Mc-
Kell fell back on the old “Labor” howl
of “misreported.” On Thursday, in an
attack on Sydney dailies he stated:
Members know from my speech that I
had examined a summary of the report and
all the recommendations in detail. I said
I had not seen a copy of the report. I
do not know anyone who has, because it
has never been printed.
While the statement refutes the sugges-
tion that Mr. McKell had had the
temerity to introduce a Bill to control the
coal industry without attempting to study
the most recent and most important evi-
dence on the subject if highlights the fact
that both the Federal and his own State
“Labor” Governments have hastened to
push through a most important piece of
legislation without giving members a
chance to study that evidence. And
whether Mr. McKell has read the full
report or merely a summary matters
little, since his Bill, like the enactment of
his colleagues at Canberra, ignores its
recommendations.
But no one is any longer surprised when
“Labor” shuts its ears and eyes to un-
palatable advice, however competent the
advisor. Nor is there any reason for
amazement when under cover of Parlia-
mentary privilege a “Labor” member
slanders or traduces someone outside the
House! But when a “Labor” member —
more than that, a “Labor” Premier —
associates himself with a description of
a Judge’s report as “lying propaganda,”
even those hardened to the brazen in-
decencies of “Labor” politics are entitled
to raise an eyebrow.
In the course of the debate in reply
to questions by Opposition-leader Treatt,
Mr. McKell averred that “the Bill was
not dependent on a report by Mr. Justice
Davidson or anyone else.” Then up stood
Mr. Booth, the “Labor” Chairman of
Committees, who represents Kurri, a coal-
mining electorate. Mr. Booth wanted to
know whether the coalowners were spend-
ing thousands of pounds on “lying propa-
ganda.” With a “certainly, yes” the
McKelly agreed that they were. On the
face of it this seemed to be merely an
attack on the owners, but when it is con-
sidered in light of the fact that the
colliery proprietors have been sponsoring
big advertisements in the daily papers,
consisting almost entirely of extracts from
the Davidson report, it is clear that the
“lying propaganda” label must be in-
tended for the report.
The office of State Premier is one of
power and responsibility. Under “Labor”
the power is often used to evade the re-
spgnsibility or is surrendered to the irre-
sponsible elements that dictate policy
within and without Australia. The Coal
Industry Bill itself is an example of a
surrender to the champions of mob law—
the loud-mouthed Communist element
that is out to smash industrial arbitra-
tion, to oppose' all attempts at peace in
industry and to bring the country to the
state of chaos it believes favorable to
its seizure of absolute power. Abuse
of the judiciary is part and parcel of
Communists’ stock-in-trade. The N.S.W.
attack on Justice Davidson, made under
cover of Parliamentary privilege, shows
that it is impossible to associate with
Communist larrikins without picking up
their mud-slinging habits.
The Middle CIaSS.
From a mem ber of it:—
Estimating the Australian population in 1941
at a little more than 7,000,000 the Common-
wealth Year-Book places about 4,000,0000 in
the age-group between infancy and 34 years,
about 1,500,000 in the group between 35 and
50 > and the balance in the over-50 group. Any
su of national i ncome and responsibility
would reveal that in the middle group lies the
great majority of men earning between £5OO and
£lOOO a year.
By the very nature of their social standing
and tbrou B h . experience they have under-
gone m attaining it, such men are the solid
core of the community. Generally thrifty and
car fj ul to provide for their own and their
children s future as far as they can, they are
insurance companies, small businesses and
farms. They keep colleges going. They fear
debt and avoid it, own or are in process of
owning their own homes, live moderately, take
pride in - their own and their family’s appear-
ance > are g° od and patriotic citizens. They
h h | w i n “ s
pompous about it; steadily saving and steadily
seeing through the blatant clamor of party
P olit ics and one-eyed advocates of one-eyed
re fee do they stand under “Labor" Gov-
eminent and “Labor” policy?
The closest examination of “Labor” policy
reveals no thought for them at all. On the
of most Slk"s P S
pl a y with its plans for youth, for the aged,
for the future unemployed, even for loafers and
pay fo/iL
Middle-aged mep in the middle class are
deeply committed before they begin paying taxes.
? n ~f ixed , salari es they work out a system of
aSSttlrS
for pleasure, savings and to meet the unex-
pc “Labor” taxation for “Labor” still
a few ferefof
farm land he must necessarily be wealthy—
soaks them so heavily that many now find it
necessary 1° nibble at their savings in order
to TT r , k- i • i a
That isn t all. Under Labor legislation and
“Labor” truckling to Communist wreckers, the
middle class is the greatest sufferer. Blackouts,
closed factories, lack of supplies, blackmarkets,
idle ships and trains, open talk of socialisation
and attempts to impose it—all hit the middle
ages hard and hurtfully. Plainly, it looks as
though “Labor” is determined to wipe them
out as a preliminary to abolishing the “capital-
ist” and turning Australia into a socialist
despotism tempered by the anarchy of the
union boss. The middle class doesn’t want
that any more than do wage-payers or steady-
going wage-earners. People of the middle
class can thank their lucky stars that Australia
still has its Parliamentary election system and
that that system will give them their chance next
month.
These Bureaucrats!
What socialistic bureaucracy is capable
of once it gets entrenched could not be
better illustrated than by its mishandling
of the Food for Britain appeal. It has
blundered beyond belief —and that goes
for Britain as well as Australia,
The Australian response when Britain’s
meagre and monotonous regimen became
known was what was to have been ex-
pected—a rush to help to the fullest ex-
tent that supplies, ration coupons and
money permitted. Strong enough as it
was, public enthusiasm with official en-
couragement would have become some-
thing for the country to be proud of,
and the result would have surprised even
those in Britain who already knew the
generous Australian spirit.
Instead Food Controller Murphy—as
representing Australia’s variety of social-
istic bureaucracy broadcast through
A.B.C. a condemnation of the whole idea.
Another of the Australian socialistic
hierarchy. Post - war Reconstruction
Minister Dedman, came out with a flat-
tening discouragement of the eager indi-
vidual response.
They had some effect, naturally; but
even they could not subdue the wave of
enthusiasm altogether, especially as, at
that time, representatives of Britain in
Australia kept to the subject of their
country’s sorry food position; one criti-
cising the failure to use all the shipping
space available. Despite the Murphy-
Dedman official discouragement contri-
butions continued to pour into funds,
and, as well, individuals continued send-
ing such parcels as officialdom per-
mitted.
Now published letters from those on
both the receiving and the sending ends
insist that there has been just as bad
blundering by Britain’s own brand
of socialistic bureaucracy. It has to do
with individual efforts. Here it was laid
down that any person could send only
one food parcel per month to anyone in
Britain. That was understood by the
generous enthusiasts, to a great many of
whom one parcel a month was as much
as they could manage. Costs could total
roughly 18s. —ss. lOd. of which could
go into Australian postal revenue.
Coming in on the tail of a furious
outburst of newspaper correspondence—
in which it was declared, from Britain,
that that was the position, and by senders
here that their parcels over a stretch of
mouths were not being delivered —the
British public relations officer at Can-
berra, Mr. Mcßride, came out with a
statement to the general effect that a per-
son in Britain could receive more than
one parcel a month provided it was not
from the one sender.
This was directly contrary both to the
first letter from Britain which began the
newspaper correspondence and to the ex-
perience of many senders. Mn Mcßride
did admit that 125 parcels had been con-
fiscated and handed to charitable organi-
sations. The contention of senders is that
parcels have been confiscated in thou-
sands. At any rate, they have not arrived,
and if Mr. Mcßride should happen to be
correctly informed, then the only explana-
tion is that pilfering must be going on
on a vast scale.
Anyway, whatever the number confi-
scated, it is bad business. There has been
no compensation for the sender. She —it
is usually she —has contributed, over, say,
three months, anything up to 17s. 6d,
to postal revenue and has outlaid alto-
gether up to £2 14s. ; not at all grudg-
ingly, but very willingly, as a matter of
sentiment. This last is the one thing
that could not be considered for a
moment by socialistic bureaucracy —any-
where. Yet it is the main force backing
all the great urge to help.
No doubt Britain’s socialistic bureau-
cracy has some carried-over war-time
regulation making confiscations legal;
certainly interference with anything ac-
cepted for postal distribution is an extra-
ordinary departure from traditional
British practice.
A result is that now Australians are
being discouraged from sending Christ-
mas parcels to friends in Britain or to
those who may have been good to their
airmen sons. It will be shameful if there
is not a quick stop to the confiscation of
what is personal property.


BSS7
You can
always rely on
CRAVEN~A~
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
pi
Hi
i.i
POLITICAL POINTS
During a week which saw Molotov 'and
co. throw off the mask of friendship and
deliver bitter attacks on Britain, the
U.S.A., Greece and —yes —Australia, the
two remaining Dutch ships in Australian
waters were refused tug service in Mel-
bourne at the instance of the Communist
bosses of the Seamen’s Union. The ape-
like malignity of Communists and the
pigeon-livered quality of Federal “Labor”
are too well known. It is astonishing that
decent Australian unionists should be
parties to the imperilling of ships of a
friendly nation, as happened in each in-
stance. Fadden comes in here:
The Country party regards the “Aus-
tralian” Communist in the same category
as a venomous snake —to be killed before
it kills. Therefore it stands four-square
for declaring the Communist party an
illegal organisation.
Go it, Artie! Democracy must defend
itself against the agents of a hostile
foreign Power.
Old Sydneians recall that after the Mt.
Rennie hangings there was no case of
rape in company for many years. During
the periods when hangings ceased there
were several of these frightful outrages,
and one of the victims committed
suicide. Similarly, the‘wild beast who
follows sweethearts with ferocious intent
ceased to be heard of after Moxley was
hanged in 1932. With capital punishment
abolished and aphrodisiac photographs all
the rage in alleged newspapers, he has
loomed up again to terrify decent women
and girls. There has been an awful
case of the kind in Thirroul, a South
Coast watering place. It occurred only
a few days after the accused in a boy-
killing case was reported to have said
“Anyway, they can’t hang me because
there’s a Labor Government in.”
Our wandering Foreign Minister had
barely landed at Mascot to resume the
electioneering begun at Paris when an
A.B.C. interviewer had him before a mike.
There followed a long statement about
Rumania, Trieste, the Italian colonies and
Japan. The wanderer was particularly
emphatic about the Pacific and the need
for trade relations there. He didn’t men-
tion the Netherlands East Indies,
Estimates of the losses suffered by
Queensland in the 1946 drought
place them between £16,000,000 and
£20,000,000. Brisbane “Courier-Mail” re-
marks sorrowfully that “it is hardly likely
the present Federal Government will find
much time to give to practical drought
relief until the general election is over.”
Still, Forde can be trusted to call for a
report.
Though McKell (N.S.W.), Cain (Vic.)
and Wise (W.A.) are Premiers of wheat-
growing States, none of them gave Play-
ford (S.A.) a word of support when he
tried to get 1945 wheat freed from Scully
“stabilisation.” And Chifley, who can
be firm enough when he isn’t facing a
Commo union boss, curtly told Playford
that the crop was in for keeps. A week
later Scully had to open his election cam-
paign in Gwydir and, in his usually in-
volved fashion, he told an Inverell crowd
that deductions from 1945-46 wheat for
the “stabilisation” fund would stop at
9s. 6d.; the rest of whatever price it
brought would go to the pool and the
growers could expect over 7s. 6d. a
bushel. After which that Inverell crowd,
remembering that his previous estimate
was 6s. Bd., went out and looked grimly
over the wheatless north-west and thought
hard.
“Labor” has made much of the fact
that Dr. Nott has offered to help the
press-boomed Fraser in Eden-Monaro.
The other side will wish it joy of the
doctor, who has been a champion bus-
misser. In 18 years, sporting different
labels, he has offered lus services to a
diversity of electorates in Queensland
(Herbert) and N. S. Wales (in North
Sydney against Hughes, in East Sydney
against Ward and in Calare against
Thorby), and has been turned down cold
every time.
On page 84 of the Queensland Parlia-
mentary reports it is noted that eight
Opposition members (Chandler, Decker,
Hiley, Kerr, Luckins, Bruce Pie, Morris
and Wanstall) “have not drawn any por-
tion of the salary increase which came
into effect during the first session of this
Parliament, now in its last session.” On
page 85 appears the text of a question
asked by Wanstall, for Hiley, concerning
the antecedents of “the person named
Michael Healy, who is secretary of the
Trades and Labor Council of this State.”
The reply (Minister Foley’s) was: “It is
not permissible for the Police Department
to divulge the record of any individual
except in accordance with law to a court
of competent jurisdiction.”
Tasmanian “Labor” has lost some of its
old faithfuls since the A.L.P. bosses put
one Morrow on the ticket. First
to scratch for all engagements was E. D.
Pinkard, who was a good second to Guy
in Wilmot three years ago. Then E. W.
Sayer turned in his resignation as presi-
dent of the Launceston No. 1 branch with
some distinctly cutting remarks. Ho
said that “the Labor party has resolved
itself into a party for Communists and
opportunists,” and that while Morrow “is
not actually a signed-up member of the
Communist party he can accomplish much
more by working for it with the double-
barrelled gun.” The Sayer communique
closed with a denunciation of “the prac-
tice of sending many private Federal
members overseas as first and second
advisers.”
Attorney-General Slater has announced
that County Court Judge Book is to
arbitrate on the price at which the Vic-
torian Housing Commission will acquire
the 77-acre Ascot racecourse for housing.
Negotiations have been going on for 12
months between the owners —John Wren
and others —and the Commission, the
Commission’s valuers recommending
£117,000 as a fair price, the owners
seeking upwards of £172,000. No such
fuss has been made when the Commission
wanted the quarter-acre block of some
widow or ex-serviceman. Whole suburbs
have been sequestrated overnight by
applying the regulations.
Maoriland has a Mountjoy, but its
Mount joy has no connection' with the
Mountjoy who is a hero to Communist
Yugoslavs in Swan (W.A.). The M.L.
Mountjoy is secretary of the Federated
Builders and Contractors, and when sales
tax was removed from all building
materials he said it would mean a reduc-
tion of £lOO in the cost of building “the
average five-roomed house.” He also
referred appreciatively to the removal
of sales tax on all articles of furniture
and clothing. Chifley’s idea, poles apart
from that of his opposite number Nash,
is that it is necessary for building and
furniture to be dear to “prevent infla-
tion,” though sales tax itself is an infla-
tionary impost.
Going to Capricornia, a Melbourne
“Herald” man learned from “Mr. Forde’s
supporters” that “he will hold the seat
with a good majority.”
He won it by a majority of just under
7000 votes in 1943 compared with his
majority of 10,000 in 1940.
The wandering reporter did not dwell
on the significance of the fall in 1943,
where in every straightout contest each
of Forde’s colleagues. Ministers and
members, had greatly increased major-
ities, Curtin’s going from 641 in 1940
to 22,910, Chifley’s from 8198 to 17,007,
and Evatt’s from 9187 to 33,463. Actu-
ally with 56,541 effective votes in 1940
and 57,993 in 1943 Forde’s majorities
were 9881 and 6799 respectively. Even in
1931, “Labor’s” worst year, his majority
was 8497 out of 48,393 effective votes.
It would need only another transfer like
that of 1943, with a small addition—and
in 1943 “Labor” put over the claim that
it had Saved the Country—to relegate
Forde to private life.
Australian “Labor” taxes company
dividends at the source and in the hands
of shareholders, and exacts excess-profits
tax from companies as well. In the
“statement” which was Chifley’s poor sub-
stitute for a Budget it was indicated that
“Labor” would maintain this triple taxa-
tion. N.Z. Labor has removed the excess-
profits tax, restored “the rate of in-
come tax on companies to that which
applied up to March, 1942,” and reduced
income tax on individuals with the de-
clared object of “giving a much more
favorable incentive to increased produc-
tion than existed under war rates of
tax”; of “providing that measure of en-
couragement for workers and employers
alike to assist in the restoration of peace-
time industry to the maximum extent
possible.” These were Nash’s words in
his Budget, and, however chagrined they
may feel, it is impossible for Australian
“Labor” ministers and members to de-
nounce Nash as a “Tory.”
As a change from the current pre-
occupation with irrigation schemes to
water the marginal lands of the Mallee
and similar places, the Cains have
hatched a million-pound plan for big
dams in the Macedon watershed area 50
miles from Melbourne. Annually 108,000
acre-feet of water runs off the ranges
into Port Phillip. Ten times that amount
must run off the Dandenongs nearer Mel-
bourne. The Werribee district is one of
the richest in the State, and half the food
consumed in Melbourne comes from its
irrigated fields and pastures. It is claimed
that the proposed scheme would serve
110,000 acres.
A poignant feature of the horror in
which a Port Kembla fitter was done to
death and his sweetheart left for dead,
after suffering unspeakable outrages and
agony of mind, is that they had been en-
gaged for 18 months and had planned to
marry six months ago but couldn’t get
a house. Married and in their own cot-
tage they would be alive today ; certainly
they would not have been where they
were that dreadful night. Apropos,
Police Chief Mac Kay has been pluming
himself on his prowess as a housebuilder,
and to the always-admiring “Daily Tele-
graph” has “proved you can build houses
today, quickly and cheaply, if you com-
bine initiative with hard work.” If you
don’t believe it. Digger, read on:
On his small Hawkesbury River property
[five acres, with an old house* “modernised,
even equipped with a radio telephone”!
the Commissioner has built, with the spare-
time assistance of his police friends and
others [no mention of Romano, of income-
tax notoriety], four three-roomed cottages,
with shower room and verandah.
“I thought I might be able to do some
small thing to ease the housing shortage
and to provide a future investment for my
son,” Mr. Mackay said. “I call my place
Sunny Corner but intend changing the
name to Mackay Town. I’m seriously
thinking of standing for Parliament and
being appointed Minister for Housing.”
Admittedly, police and housing results
could scarcely be worse Jf Mac Kay and
McGirr swapped jobs.
In all the belated arguments with
Molotov, Vishinsky and Gromyko one
voice hasn’t got a mention in the cables.
Evatt, Beasley, Hodgson, Walker and
Hasluck have all been quoted saying their
piece, but there’s been no mention of
Donald Grant. Fresh from speaking on
the same platform as the Communist
Sharkey in Sydney Domain on May Day,
the ex-I.W.W. Senator must have felt
dazed as he listened to his colleagues
attacking Soviet foreign “policy,” which
obviously proceeds from a bad internal
situation —so bad that another purge is
beginning. The “observations” of this
“observer” would have made interesting
reading if anyone had troubled to cable
them. That is, if he got any nearer to
Paris than his home-town in Scotland.
Wool sales were resumed in Sydney on
Monday for the first time since 1939, an
event of some historic importance to
a country whose main source of wealth
is sheep. Resumption began with two
advantages —there is a “price floor” of
slightly more than 18d. a lb., and there
is a strong world demand for wool —but
drought in Queensland and N. S. Wales,
restricted rail transport through coal
“troubles” and “Labor” preference to
Sydney and scarcity of shipping, together
with the repeated tying-up of ships by
wharfies, mean loss, difficulty and vexa-
tion. Nobody can be blamed for the
drought, but the graziers would have been
in a better position to meet it if “Labor”
had not left drought out of its muzzy
calculations, and if they had not been de-
prived by “Labor” of £7,000,000 to
£10,000,000 of profits on dealings in their
wool. And the hold-ups and the breakdown
of Government-monopoly transport are
brands of guilt on the record of “Labor”
Governments which kowtow to Com-
munists and their fellow-conspirators
where they don’t actually shiver with
fright.
“Labor” affects to believe that shifting
Ward from the East Sydney seat is an
impossible contract, and more than a
little mad. It doesn’t look that way to
Ivan Dougherty, who, dismissing Ward's
sullen objections to the A.1.F., left Sydney
with the first contingent in January,
1940, fought in Libya, Greece, Crete, New
Guinea and Borneo and came out at 37
with the D.S.O. and bar. East Sydney
is a peculiar electorate with a preponder-
ant female vote. J. J. Clasby, an Old
Digger, unseated Ward in 1931, having a
majority of 1282, but died before Parlia-
ment met. At the by-election Ward
scrambled in 173 votes to the good from
the not-then-exploded McCall.
Concerning a Hobart (Tas.) trial:
Absorbed in horseracing and near-nudity,
the mainland press spared only a few lines for
the trial, in the Criminal Court at Hobart, of
Thomas George de Largie D’Alton, sometime
Tasmanian Minister of Forests and Australian
High Commissioner at Wellington (N.Z.), and
R. J. Howard, a Tasmanian sawmiller, who
were charged with corruption. People who are
not particularly interested in betting or in
photographs of minxes who parade in the
minimum of “costumes” with the maximum
of brazenness —egged on by drapers and news-
paper proprietors who apparently never con-
sider the effect of these exhibitions on the sub-
normal with criminal tendencies —would con-
sider the trial important. D’Alton was in-
dicted on the score of having (1) “corruptly
solicited or received or obtained from Howard
timber valued at £94 l’4s. 3d. as an induce-
ment or reward for showing favor to Howard
in relation to the affairs or business of the
Crown,” and (2) “having shown or agreed
to show favor to Howard in the granting ot
permits and other rights under the Forestry
Act.” Howard was charged, first, with “cor-
ruption in relation to business in that he gave
to D’Alton timber valued at £94 14s. 3d. as
inducement or reward,” and (2) with “having
bribed a public officer.” Both pleaded not
guilty.
Justice Clark rejected a motion by defend-
ing counsel for the quashing of the indict-
ment on grounds of wrongful joinder of the
parties and improper joinder of the counts.
Having heard argument, he directed that there
be separate trials for the two offences alleged.
The charge of official corruption against D’Alton
and one of bribing a public officer against
Howard were postponed. Among the wit-
nesses were Malcolm Alexander McKay, ot
Devonport, formerly chief shipbuilder for the
Tasmanian Wooden Shipbuilding Board he
deposed that in 1942, before the board began
operating, he agreed to build a yacht for
D’Alton, to whom he gave a list of tne
materials required, and who said he would try to
get the timber from Howard —Walter George
Ford, Forestry Department stores officer, Mabel
Davidson, an Agricultural Department typiste,
and Joseph Memory Frith, a Forestry Depart-
ment chief inspector. Counsel for the defence
was moving for the withdrawal of the case
from the jury when this report had to end.


HANDING ON THE TORCH.
“Now, Beasley, go your hardest, but only till the twenty-eighth of September.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“R. Swiveller”: Income - tax forms
puzzle some of our reffo friends. Point-
ing to the column which provides for
“Rebate for spouse of taxpayer” one
whose return I was preparing whispered
to me “Does that mean I can claim for
her, as well as for the old woman?”
He was disappointed when I explained
that “spouse” meant the old woman.
* * n *
“Findy”: Those Army beans (“Five-
by-two,” B, 28/8/’46)! In pre-war days
I liked baked beans on toast, and when in
early 1943 I arrived in New Guinea as a
reo I was a little amused to see the old
hands turn up their noses at beans for
breakfast. They tasted all right to me,
and I was inclined to regard the attitude
of the others as an old soldier pose or a
Middle East complex. After a week or
so on the diet I gradually took less and
less as my portion and left more and
more on my plate. Soon the time came
when I couldn’t look at ’em. It’s the
monotony that is the killer with tinned
food. You line up for breakfast with a
good appetite and shuffle along the line
till you come to the serving point. A
glance at the provender—beans
and your appetite vanishes. You pull
your dixie away to avoid the server’s
ladle and spread yourself a slab of bread
and golden syrup. That was one thing
that was relished in the tropics by men
who would have scorned it at home.
♦ * * *
“McGlum”: The absurdity of Jap dis-
cipline is simply illustrated. At Haisho,
Hainan Island, a Jap private was lumping
a 100-kilo bag of rice up a steep sandy
slope leading to the kitchen of an ack-ack
unit, where we were working. On a tour
of inspection, the youthful commandant,
known to us as The Boy Wonder,
appeared out of the blue. The “komi-
carrier” tried not to see him until he felt
the weight of a dog-walloper across his
skull. Before hitting the ground the
“taijo’s” jackboots found his teeth and
nose. Sick and streaming blood, he
staggered to his feet, saluted, caught an-
other kick amidships, retrieved his load
and just made the kitchen before collap-
sing. When we asked a Jap “sojo” why
the man had been bashed he told us that
the dog had not saluted the officer. We
pointed out that in the circumstances a
salute was impossible. The answer?
“Nothing is impossible to a true warrior-
god of Nippon.”
* * * *
“Shep”: The Bellchambers wild-life
sanctuary (S.A.), recently featured by Fox
, Movietone," recalls to mind my school
days, when the “Children’s Hour” kept
the activities of this sanctuary very much
before S.A. school-children. T, P.. Bell-
chambers died in 1929 after = achieving
fame for breeding the timid mallee fowl
in captivity. He distributed many pairs
to aviculturists, including a pair to King
George V. Since the founder’s death, the
work has been carried on by his son.
After a lapse of six war years the sanc-
tuary is coming into its own again. Sun-
day afternoons generally mean a busy
time for F. Bellchambers as he shows
visitors the rounds.
» * * ' *
“W.J.T.”; Filmgoers should be inter-
ested in a decision given in Adelaide
Local Court. A youth claimed £l5O from
the house-manager of a suburban theatre
for assault, having been forcibly removed
after refusing to give up a seat he occu-
pied. Manager contended that plaintiff
occupied the middle of three vacant seats,
and was asked to move along so as to
leave two together for a couple seeking
seats. Plaintiff three times refused, and
was encouraged in this by other lads near
by. Refusing a request to leave the theatre
with refund of admission money, he re-
sisted the manager’s attempt to eject
him, but was removed with the assistance
of other ushers. In a reserved judgment
the S.M. dismissed the claim, and ruled
that a ticket for an unreserved seat gives
the purchaser a revocable licence to
view the show, but no proprietary right to
a specific seat or part of the floor of the
house. Plaintiff could be regarded as a
trespasser when he refused the manager’s
request to leave, made when other patrons
began to show signs of something more
than curiosity. S.M. further found that
plaintiff was removed in order to preserve
order and good conduct, and that no un-
necessary force was used by theatre staff.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Reading the cables I some-
times wonder why the Russians are with-
out any courtesy prefix to go with their
surnames, something to correspond to
the Mr. or Monsieur or Herr, or Senor
or Signor of Western Europe. And not
only the Russians; the omission seems
equally noticeable in the case of the
Poles, the Czechs, the Greeks find all the
Balkan nations. Of course if a man
“Move over, Strawb, an make room for mum."
happens to be a general or an admiral or
even a doctor of some sort, it doesn’t
matter, but if he has no such rank the
cable interpreters, perhaps out of mere
politeness, have acquired the habit of
putting an “M.” before his name, the
accepted abbreviation for “Monsieur.”
So we get M, Molotov and M. Litvinov,
who are presumably civilians, as against
Marshal Stalin. Even Japanese notables
were accorded the same courtesy in pre-
war days, but in their case it hasn’t sur-
vived.
* * * *
“X.S.”; Russell-street, Melbourne, had
an unusual call recently. In the wee
small hours an agitated voice announced
on the ’phone that the owner had just
heard two violent explosions and that
his house had been wrecked as if an
atomic bomb had struck it. The patrol
car reached the suburb in a *few minutes,
to find the house all in one piece and
everything calm and quiet. Knocking
on the door, the John Hops were greeted
by a citizen wearing pyjamas and an
apologetic expression. His call had been
made in good faith. The explosions and
the destruction had occurred in a dream,
and he had rushed straight to the ’phone
in that state half between waking and
sleeping which gives reality to nightmares.
♦ * * *
“Craiser”: The burning down of the
Punt-road Government School, in South
Yarra, one of the earliest State seminaries
built in Melbourne, provided some inter-
esting commentary on the, attitude of the
present generation towards the educational
system. The biggest roll-call the school
ever had accompanied the conflagration,
400 boys and girls turning up to see it.
One boy, aged 10, who missed the happy
spectacle, said “Nobody told me. Gee, is
she good?” “It’s the first time they’ve all
been early,” remarked one of the
teachers. Another lad vouchsafed the
opinion that it was the best blaze he had
ever seen, and better than fireworks, the
fact that all his textbooks were in one of
the classrooms adding fuel to his plea-
sure. The headmaster was greeted
with cries of “Everything’s all right—
we’ve saved the footy!” Only a girl
aged eight took the conventional view-
point. “We think it’s very sad,” she said ;
but women were always like that. After
all, there was a grain of truth in the old
wisecrack about the boy who was seen
walking to school crying, not because the
school had been burnt down, but because
it hadn’t been.
“M.H.”: The fire alarm outside a Mel-
bourne department store was ringing
loudly. After a while the manager of an
adjoining emporium grabbed his telephone
and rang up the offending store. “That
bell of yours is driving me crazy!” he
shouted. “When are you going to turn
it off?” “When the fire’s out!” was the
heated reply. “Our whole top floor’s
ablaze!”
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: I was mildly surprised
to see, in a string of short features that
usually make up the first half of picture
programmes these days, a presentation of
the Forum scene from “Julius Ctesar.”
It wasn’t badly done —the speeches were
rather declamatory, but Antony’s schem-
ing was brought out very well —and while
watching it I thought it would benefit a
rising generation if more scenes from
Shakspeare were similarly presented. But
my hopes were rudely dashed. No sooner
had Antony told mischief to “take what
course thou wilt,” than the scene faded
and was replaced by a brilliant techni-
color introduction to Donald Duck,
When the antics of that peculiar bird had
concluded a feminine voice behind me
remarked, dubiously, “I think I like
Donald Duck better than Shakspeare.”
* * * *
“Simple Simon”: I recently had occa-
sion to complete an application form for
a widow’s pension for an old lady of 86,
and I was amazed at the questions asked
by the department. Among the most in-
teresting was “Mother’s Maiden Name.”
The applicant’s mother was born over
110 years ago. Just what use the informa-
tion would be to the department and
what means they would have of checking
;+c arrnrarv the Goddess of Red Taoe
its accuracy the Goddess ot Kea rape
alone coul te .
“Clooter”: The attitude ot the
modem art critic baffles me. I believe I
can. tell when a person is well-dressed, a
house well-built, a garden nicely laid out.
I know a handsome car or a precious
Klt“aLEnll^ecma^Toom 80 an
poem in a sunset or the quiet beauty of
the night sky. But, according to the
m.a.c., I can’t tell a good picture from a
bad one because I persist in refusing to
believe that a splurge of angular daubs,
with a black spot in the middle and a
yellow streak darting off at a tangent, is
a Hawkesbury River scene. But then l
daresay I’m one with artists themselves
in this, a belief confirmed when I came
across this by the art critic of my daily
paper:— #
To discover unexpected relationships in
familiar scenes is surely one of the mam
functions of art. Anyone can see unaided
the charm of a scene as Pratt saw it. It is
pretty as a theme, despite its taxidennic
[cripes! ] treatment. But far more beautiful
might have been the relation between the
bend of the river, the curling branches,
and the undulating hills beyond, to speak
only of the horizontal movements —more
beautiful because it is generally unlooked
for, and free of the more evident associative
ideas.
Obviously, of course, and this should not
be unnecessarily dissipated by any taxi-
metric calculation of the imponderable.
Seeing that the above periphrasis is not
counteracted by the relation of the bends,
the curls, or the ululations, we can only
conclude that the whicheverness of the
absolute is inevitable.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”; “Youanmi” (B.
28/8/’46) has only skimmed the surface
of the tobacco problem. One cove I
know delivers a weekly bunch of blossoms
from his garden to the girl in the-kiosk
and receives a moderately generous
handout in return. Another hands over
a couple of theatre tickets every week
and gets enough cigarettes to keep him
happy. Yet another trades his weekly
beer ration plus a small monetary con-
sideration for a weekly ration of gaspers.
But the idea has its pitfalls. One genial
laddie started taking the girl from
the kiosk to lunch once a week, and con-
vinced his missus it was a necessary duty
to keep them both in smokes. The wench
left the kiosk about a month ago, but
he’s still taking her to lunch.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: If Parliamentary candidates
needed evidence of the shortage of offices
and shops for returned servicemen
anxious to start in business for themselves
they’ve got it. Getting hold of an empty
place for the establish-
ment of committee rooms
entails all sorts of hard
work and diplomacy, to
say nothing of the rents
charged when someone is
persuaded to let even a
portion of a shop or room.
Whereas in previous elec-
tions it was common to see
the various committee
rooms, complete with huge
signs, planked fairly in
the middle of shopping
centres, you now find them
in side-streets, up long
flights of stairs, even in
backyard garages. When
the sitting candidate in one
Sydney electorate dis-
covered that his opponent
had run up a fibro shack
on a vacant allotment, he
hired a motor caravan and
backed it in next door. If
Diogenes appeared with
his tub in Sydney just now
he could get a couple of
quid a week rent for it
between now and Septem-
ber 28.
* »
“K.G.C.”: Erection of
a textile factory in Church-
street, Hawthorn (Vic.),
where once stood the Red
Lion Hotel, provides an
opportunity for the affixing
of a plaque to mark an historic site. It
was at the Red Lion Hotel on June 18,
1860, that a public meeting was held to
form the Municipality of Hawthorn. At
this old hotel, too, Adam Lindsay Gordon
and his clansman, George Gordon Mc-
Crae, met on occasions. The locality has
many historic associations. Near by is the
first substantial house built south of the
Yarra; dating from 1845, it is still the
best in the area. Within almost a stone
throw Jeannie Gunn wrote her two books
in a house that has been replaced by a
block of flats.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I object to actors opening
art shows, the result generally being that
the painter, who tries to advertise his
wares by getting some leading stage figure
to utter the usual claptrap, endows the
actor, not his pictures, with importance.
Cyril Ritchard was a notable exception
in performing the ceremony at a recent
exhibition in Melbourne. He made a
reasoned attack on the notion that art
can be protected by politicians. Having
himself been successful abroad, the
dancer-actor has no time for the policy
of imposing restrictions on overseas
artists. Cyril Ritchard has developed.
* * * *
“Barkly”: Ballarat is puzzling over the
problem of how four freshly-skinned
Too carcasses came to be at a busy street
intersection. Normally Ballarat is not
Too country and the council i s
puzzled by their presence in the town. A
hurried roll call at the zoo revealed no
absentees. The City Fathers will never
know that the animals made a long
journey in the boot of a business-
man’s car, died from suffocation, shea
their pelts by the wayside, and were
abandoned. Dogs probably* dragged
them to the scene of bewilderment.
A BALLAD OF SLACKS.
“Regardless of what men may think, slacks for
women are definitely here to stay.’’
—Fashion note in “Sunday Sun,” Sydney.
Most of such fashions, as you’re well aware,
Come unexpectedly and lightly go,
Provoking first of all a curious stare
Or reprimanded as malapropos;
And then they disappear like last year’s snow,
Or flitting bats and owls at break of day,
Or crooks when coppers’ whistles shrilly blow.
But slacks are definitely here to stay.
Some hold them unbecoming to the fair,
So fierce a light they obviously throw
On sections touching which one wouldn’t dare
To speak—a gentle hint’s enough, you know.
Few doubt the wearers make a goodly show
When from ahead they chance to come your
way
But not —the Latin phrase is a ter go.
Yet slacks are definitely here to stay.
Parsons from pulpits have been heard declare
Church is no place for maids who manlike
grow
In garb, and Beaks have fixed an angry glare
On female witnesses aftir-ed so.
But these are points for belles and not for
beaux.
Whatever Church or Law may think or say,
As long as women hold them comine il jaut
Slacks will be definitely here to stay.
Where is the crinoline? The bustle, where?
Gone with the wind. Dead as the dodo, eh?
Problems like these are no mere man’s affair,
But slacks are definitely here to stay.
N.S.W.
Midford.


“Rooster”: During a bout of ’flu my
doctor prescribed a mixture which had
some, if not all, of the ingredients con-
tained in the Army’s popular “cure-all,”
Mist. Tussi, whose popularity as a cough
mixture never waned. Winter and
summer troops queued up outside the
R.A.Ps. as regularly as civvies for their
smokes. Full Latin nomenclature is
Mistura Ad Tussim, but to all and sundry
it was known as “Miss Tussi.” The
reason for its popularity is obscure ; it
tastes like senna tea impregnated with
ammonia. One frosty morning at Kilcoy
(Q.) the R.A.P. was more than usually
crowded. Orderlies were flat out treating
every complaint in the book. After-an
hour had elapsed the queue suddenly
dissolved. A small chap, one of the un-
lucky last, inquired what was wrong. “Aw
—y’ can never git anythin’ at these
blarsted R.A.Ps.,” said a burly corporal.
“Here’s me with a thirst like a steam-
engine—an’ they’ve flamin’ well run out
of Missus Tussi!”
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: A peculiar accompaniment
of the unprecedented spell of dry weather
in South Queensland has been a
notable increase in skin troubles, par-
ticularly on the face and scalp among
middle-aged and elderly people. They
vary from marked swelling and redness,
with painful enlargement of lymph glands
at the back of the neck, to a rash some-
what resembling that of German measles,
with coughing, sore throat and running
eyes. Both are accompanied by a rise of
body temperature, muscular stiffness and
general malaise. Skin and eye clinics
are also experiencing substantial in-
creases in cases of boils and styes. Most
cases clear up quickly under routine
treatment, but the whole business consti-
tutes an uncomfortable reminder of con-
tinued dependence for health and com-
fort on natural conditions over which H.
sapiens has no control.
ft % ft
“Uco”: Like “K.8.L.” (B. 28/8/’46) I
deplore the tendency to regard the law-
breaker as a man of more than usual
(though misapplied) intelligence. The
petty thief, the confidence man, the em-
bezzler, all start with the advantage that
they are assumed to be honest. This,
rather than any great degree of intelli-
gence, gives them the edge on the average
citizen, and once caught the professional
criminal often shows a decided lack of
brains in the way he sticks to one parti-
cular method of illegality. Thus a house-
breaker often leaves behind him signs
which to an experienced detective are as
damning as a signed confession ; a con-
victed share-peddler after serving his sen-
tence tries the same racket in some other
State or country; even chain murderers
have betrayed themselves by a too faithful
adherence to a technique they have once
found successful—George Smith of Brides
in the Bath fame was a case in point.
His plan was an ingenious one, but if he’d
really been intelligent he would have
evolved others equally clever. Fortun-
ately for society most criminals are just
a little more stupid than the rest of the
community.
* * * c
“X.S.”: Revival of week-end motoring
in Melbourne has found local crobkdom
fully prepared with a new technique. A
suburbanite out in the country with his
family was trying to patch up his elderly
crate when a handsome limousine drew
up and three well-dressed gents got out
and asked if they could be of any assist-
ance. They were helpful, quick and
efficient, and in a few minutes the
broken-down crock was going nicely. In
the course of conversation it turned out
that they lived in the same suburb, and
one of them in the very same street as
the owner of the old car. “I live at num-
“Poor old George Went sleep-walking last night.”
ber forty-three,” die said. “What’s your
number?” “Seventy-two,” said the other.
“Living so close, it’s funny I’ve never
met you,” murmured the good Samaritan.
The limousine slid off smoothly and the
thankful suburbanite started stuttering
after. When he got home he found his
home had been burgled.
#
“Bondi Beachcomber”: It was refresh-
ing to find an isolated case of truth in
advertising. A city milkbar displays a sign
which is so undeniably true that one sus-
pects the presence of a legal mind in the
framing of it. It reads: We can say that
our milk drinks are the best in the city.
* * * *
“Eve”: I’ve. often wondered what
response one would get for saying to a
glamorous young thing “My dear, you’re
so artificial! ” Yet when you say “You’re
so sophisticated,” she takes it as a com-
pliment. Every dictionary I’ve seen gives
“artificial” as at least one of the mean-
ings of the word. Where did the idea of
“sophisticated” being a compliment start?
* * * *
“Jindivick”: In my old mob, prior to
the appointment of selection boards,
a screed came through from Divvy
inviting the major to nominate six
n.c.os. for an O.C.T.U. He picked six
corporals who had been in his hair for
some time. An hour later he wandered
out to the bullring, where he stood watch-
ing a corporal putting a squad through
its paces with more vim than the lads
“Are you aware your filthy rag doesn't even
mention my divorce?"
cared for. Pointing his stick at the
corporal he said to the sar’-major, “Who’s
that chap?” “Oh, that’s Corporal G.,
sir, from H.Q. platoon. Good fellow!
Knows his work and can get the fellows
to do theirs. He’s on that list you’ve
just nominated for 0.C.T.U.,” he added.
“What?” snorted the major. “Who put
him on?. Scrub him then, sar’-major.
Scrub him immediately. D’you think I
can afford to let the only n.c.o. who
knows his job get away to an 0.C.T.U.!
Pick me some other blanky fool and get
the bunch of ’em out of my sight to-
night.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Rumored in-
tention of the British Government to
abolish capital punishment for a trial
period of five years from the end of
1948 raises some interesting points. For
example, if it is decided to resume it at
the end of 1953 will the accumulated five-
year crop of murderers be bumped off
for a start? If not it will be grossly un-
fair to those who qualify for the opera-
tion later on. And won’t it encourage in-
tending murderers to defer the actual
deed until they are sure capital punish-
ment will be avoided for at least five
years, and with luck and a good active
politician-backer probably for good? One
reason ascribed for the experiment has
beerPa difficulty in finding suitable exe-
cutioners, but no details are forthcom-
ing as to what constitutes suitability for
this very restricted occupation.
* * * *
“Yair”: Calmest cove I know is old
George. George was knocked down by
a car, and, while lying injured on
the roadway, was run over by three
vehicles following too quickly to avoid
him. We visited him in hospital, where
he’ll be for the next six months, and ex-
pressed sympathy. He was fairly cheer-
ful. “There was one good thing about it,”
he said. “The missus is superstitious,
and she’s always saying how misfortunes
come in threes. I copped four. That’ll
keep her quiet for a while.”
* * * - *
“Beebee”: In a city-bound train last
Sunday I was surprised to see a fellow-
traveller give his seat to a woman —sur-
prised, as during the week I had seen
him ignore a woman standing next to him
loaded with parcels. Later I nailed him
about it. His explana-
tion: “On Sunday, the
lass who got my seat was
travelling on the same
basis as myself and had
every right to common
courtesy. But that week-
day woman was different.
She’d been in town
squandering her old
man’s hard-earned dough
on great armfuls of stuff,
half of which was bound
to be unnecessary. She’d
all day to do her shop-
ping, and if she’d been a
good and efficient wife
she’d have been at home
long before, cooking the
dinner. If she didn’t
have enough sense to
dodge the peak - hour
trains, she had it coming
to her.”
* *
“Jobber”: Many years
ago a Bulletin bard
sang that “the soldiers
ought to shoot the brutes
who wear elastic-sided
boots.” I have never got
over what amounted to a
threat to me and, I ven-
ture to say, many other old-timers. I
have just returned from one of my rare
visits to the Big Smoke, where I
searched in vain for a pair of the good
old sort. At one smart store which sup-
plied me with the despised footwear for
many years before the war I was told they
could readily sell 50 pairs—if they had
them. I’m not in the bush now, but
notwithstanding satirical remarks passed
by my sparring partner I still maintain
that for comfort and appearance you
can’t beat a well-tailored pair of elastic-
sided boots.
* * * *
“Olla”; “Seaforth’s” par (B. 21/8/’46)
reminds me of young Russ’s effort. The
wharf was crowded as he fought his way
through to the water’s edge, churned white
as the ferry’s propellors revolved. Ignor-
ing the yells of the gangway crew he
made a mighty effort, leapt the interven-
ing space and landed ungracefully at the
feet of the deckhand hauling in the moor-
ing cable. The seaman glared at him.
“Not bad for a youngster, mate. You
oughta ti*y it some time when we’re goin’
out.”
* * * *
“Plum”: A pretty problem for philate-
lists is presented by an unusual overprint
on stamps from Belgium. In an effort
to beat inflation, Prime Minister Van
Aecker issued a decree reducing many
prices by ten per cent. Postage rates
were included, but as there was no time
to have new stamps printed those already
on issue were overprinted 10%.’,’
Each post office had to make its own
arrangements and do the overprinting by
hand. As there are over 2000 post offices
in Belgium, the number of varieties, done
in everything from printers’ type to the
postmaster’s own fair round hand,
should be enough to keep collectors
busily, if not happily, occupied for some
time.
* * * *
“Blue”; I agree with “Yokel” (B.
7/8/’46) that Esperanto is a fad with
some Esperantists, and this is reflected
in those Esperanto magazines where
space is devoted mainly to news of
Esperanto groups, Esperanto propaganda
and language lessons. An exception is a
magazine published in Chungking, which
contains informative articles on the
political and social life of China —a good
example of the effective use of Esper-
anto. “Yokel” hints at the commercial
possibilities of the language. Idealists in
the movement consider it infra dig. to
commercialise Esperanto, but there are
sordid mercenaries, as instanced by this
advertisement translated from a recent
Esperanto magazine:
Those who seek commercial relations with
Hungary, especially those who will invest
capital, communicate with P. Balkanyi,
Credit Bank, 507 Budapest.
» * * •
“V. Cluse”: A victim of the cigarette-
paper shortage, Jephson had tried a num-
ber of substitutes and suffered in turn a
sore throat, stomach trouble and eye irri-
tation, so he was mighty pleased when
he struck up an acquaintanceship with a
newspaper worker and learned of a thin
paper used in the making of matrices
which was, except for not being gummed,
ideal for cigarette papers. The acquain-
tance passed about a dozen sheets of the
stuff over to Jephson, who took it home,
put it in a drawer and cut the first sheet
into the required lengths. That kept him
going for a few days, whereupon he went
to the drawer for more. It was empty.
Jephson made anxious inquiries and he
nearly blew the roof off when his spouse
explained, “Oh, that. I saw it there and
it seemed just beautiful for lunch
wrappers.” The ensuing storm lasted a
full 20 minutes and recurred every now
and then for days. It died out only when
Jephson discovered that his offspring were
talking about him as a man who thought
more of his bad habits than of his family's
comfort. He knows where that idea ori-
ginated, but there’s nothing he can do
about it.
* * * *'
“Ah Gee”: Two pals from the city
had joined me in a noggin. The lass be-
hind the bar inveigled us into taking
tickets in a sweep on the main race next
day. “But I’ll be back in the city when
this is run,” one said. “Never mind,”
replied Hebe, “your friend can collect
if you win.” Next evening the friend
and I were again at the corner bar and
were greeted with the news that the de-
parted one had landed a quid prize. We
proceeded to liquidate the windfall. The
chit was posted to the absent one next
day, and bore the endorsement “Paid —
and full.”
* * * *
“Wong^jong”: For years I was
compelled to listen without retalia-
tion to hordes of one-track mind, hot-air
merchants—l was the backstop for an
editor who declined to be buttonholed
by readers. I have been lectured until
my head seemed as if it was stuffed with i
cottonwool by zealots intent on interest-
ing the editor in tung-oil, helicopters,
homeopathy, bimetallism and the Bacon
controversy. The only time I ever saw
any of them vanquished in a verbal battle
was one day when three nuisances of
long standing together entered the anti-
quated automatic lift to the editorial
floor. It stuck between floors, and, with
the connivance of the manager, 1 let it
stay there for 90 minutes. When released
the three earbashers cast looks of enmity
at one another and tottered off in differ-
ent directions.
OLD FATHER WILLIAM.
“You are old, Father William,” the young man
said,
“And a State M.L.A., I’m aware,
Say, isn’t the burden upon you that’s laid
Thereby a bit heavy to bear?”
“In my youth,” replied Pop, “I put sternly aside
All callings whose object is pelf;
To work has been ever my joy and my pride
For my fellows, but not for myself."
“You are old,” said the youth, “and well versed
in debates,
I doubt not, for framing our laws,
But surely you draw Arbitration Court rates.
If only for wagging your jaws.”
“We fix them ourselves,” said the old pot-and-
pan,
“Not asking or needing advice,
A matter of eight or nine hundred per ann.
Dirt-cheap for New South at the price."
‘The figure seems high,” said the youth, “I sup-
pose
Because of the doubt and the fear,
And the saddening fact no Assemblyman knows
When he mayn’t be shot' out on his ear."
“As to that,” said the ancient, “the chap who's
endured
Three spans of political strife
At the fall of the axe is expressly assured
Of five quid a week for his life.”
“You are old,” said the youth, “as I’ve men-
tioned before;
Are there any more ways to be shown,
More methods of keeping the wolf from the
door —
At least when the door is your own?”
“My view,” said the ancient, “I’ve clearly
expressed;
Conviction it surely secures
That those who can manage their own affairs
best
Are the best to be trusted with yours.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


LIMITED. ENGLAND
RAY ON
m
m
m
m
I
m
TV7hen you are consid-
'' ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yarns provide
quality and service as
veil as beauty.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS :
MELBOURNE - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office - Ltd.,QualetaHouse, 175FlindersLane.
Sydney - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., BroughtonHouse, 181 Clarence St.
Brisbane - Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
Adelaide K. T. Flint, 178 Rundle Street.
perth , - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
m
IN ENGLAND
TO-DAY
m
mm 1
L
If you could see the queues that daily
line up to buy shoes in this country
we know you wouldn’t complain because
we can send so few overseas. We have been making
ladies’ and children’s shoes for over 120 years,
we turn out over a million pairs a year and yet
there is still a scarcity. But conditions will
improve and we hope our shipments abroad
will grow considerably larger.
5 SHOES
MADE BY C. & J. CLARK LTD., STREET, SOMERSET
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent Street ,
London , W.l
r
THE MAN
The Diggers ' Lot.
Complaints about conditions at Kure
cause no surprise among ex-servicemen.
“Out of sight, out of mind” was always
the Diggers’ lot.
The food situation was poor through-
out the war in the islands. Bully beef,
m. and v., baked beans, tinned bacon,
dehydrated potato, rice and prunes
constituted the general menu. Field
bakeries supplied excellent bread to base
areas, but even here fresh meat and fruit
supplies were months apart. Army cooks
did the best with what they had —and
there was a trail of dehydrated mutton,
dumped unopened, from Milne Bay to
Tarakan.
Stretchers made a belated appearance
a few months before hostilities ended.
As Brigadier Fairley has recorded, refer-
ring particularly to the campaign in
Papua, our “mosquito nets were scarce
and of inferior quality, with such a poor
air-flow that troops experienced great
difficulty in sleeping under them.” They
were , inferior in every way to those
“It's ten fathoms, sir.”
“Yes, yes—but what's that in feet?”
issued to the Americans. And only
men who have slept on groundsheets
laid on jungle mud know how the Yanks
were envied their issue “cot.” True, if
Diggers stayed in one place long enough
they built rickety beds of saplings
or scrounged stretchers from American
camps.
Amenities, other than mobile cinemas,
were sadly lacking. Troops turned to
“swy,” and men who had never gambled
before played the dice rather than go
nuts with nothing to do. At Moresby,
and later at Lae, two-up became a
colossal business, and a shrewd ring of
organisers made huge profits. Australian
concert parties did good work, but their
visits were few and far between. When
the Americans organised boxing nights
and threw them open to Australians the
huge attendances showed how hungry for
entertainment the troops were. At base
areas all business stood still on a fight
night.
Canteen supplies on the islands were
always inadequate, but returning troops
were astounded at the splendid array of
goods available at mainland canteens. If
only some of these lines had been shipped
north, what a difference it would have
made to life in the jungle! And now
we are told by Mr. Forde that service
canteen profits, amounting to £4,560,000,
are to go towards educating servicemen’s
children (no McCaughey Trust this
time!) and towards relieving the necessi-
ties of dependants “in poor circum-
stances.” Fair charges on the nation,
but not on those who contributed the
immense profits.
If officialdom had admitted the truth of
troops’ complaints and explained that
lack of shipping or something was the
cause, Australians would have taken it
cheerfully. It was Canberra phrases like
“grossly exaggerated” and “troops getting
fresh meat twice a week” that turned the
N.G, atmosphere blue.
Battle-class Destroyers.
“Macnell”: Announced by the Navy
that two Battle-class destroyers are build-
ing in Australia. Later marks than the
Tribals, in these 300 ft., 50,000-h.p., 36-knot
craft the accent will be on gunnery, radar
sets and A.A. defence. From a radar
control room below waterline a radar
operator will peer into a fluorescent
screen, sight a “pip” which represents
the reflected radar echo from an enemy
’plane perhaps 40 miles away, turn a
wooden wheel (wooden to allow his
fingers greater sensitivity) and train the
director above the bridge on to the
target.
The twin dual-purpose guns in
their gas-proof turrets follow the director
instantly—all this by remote power con-
trol, with no man but the radar operator
so far concerned. In the turrets a load-
ing number will drop a 4.5-inch shell and
cordite charge on the loading tray. He
pulls a lever. The tray swings over in
rear of the open breech, a rammer power
rams shell and cordite, withdraws, the
tray comes back clear and the breech
shuts —all in one lever movement.
Down aft near the quarterdeck will
be mounted a viper’s nest of close-range
A.A. weapons—four sets of twin Bofors,
staggered to allow a six-gun broadside
from each side. A destroyer cavorts like
a thing possessed in a bit of a sea, so the
whole of each heavy mounting will be
stabilised by gyros operating powerful
oil rfecentring motors, regardless of the
weather the guns remaining mathemati-
cally steady. Backing up this nasty lot
a multi-barrelled pom-pom will be
fitted amidships—in addition to pom-
poms forrard each side of the bridge.
More depth charges, quintuple torpedo
tubes and increased range of operation
will make the old “Vs” and “Ws” of the
Scrap Iron Flotilla, staunch though they
were, coracles by comparison.
Case of Major Coy sens.
In the second week of the proceedings
at Central Police Court, Sydney, another
Japanese, Hiroshi Niino, followed Foumy
Saisho into the witness-box. Honolulu-
born, of Japanese parents, with a B.Sc.
from a Tokyo university, Niino said he
had fought against Australians at Rabaul
“in a civilian capacity,” and had worn a
sword. He was working as a translater
for announcers at the Tokyo broadcasting
station when Major Cousens arrived.
Major Cousens, the witness said, had
helped in rewriting some scripts and had
subsequently begun to broadcast. He
had been ordered to do so by Major
Tsuneishi, who said that the instruction
was a command of the Japanese Imperial
Army. Cousens had bowed and said no-
thing. After the broadcast Major Cousens
left the studio “with tears in his eyes,”
saying “I would rather be a janitor and
mop the floors than read this damnable
commentary.”
Major Cousens, the witness continued,
had instructed him in broadcast technique
and they had listened to one another’s
broadcasts. Under Major Cousens’s
tuition four other announcers had “im-
proved somewhat.”
To Mr. Dovey, K.C. (for the Crown),
Niino said that he had read nothing
against the Japanese Government in


A %
** v
* ~
m
m
Treat your hands to the luxury of a daily
manicure*—the keynote to perfect grooming.
Or, as a gift, what could be more delight-
*ful than this:—
*■. 7*
a iT l
MANICURE SET
IH
:*L SxS
m •*
THE FIRST IN YEARS!
A really beautiful set in folding rich leatherette and silverplate case.
Instruments are silverplated and include—large chamois nail buffer,
cuticle knife, nail pusher, file and white pencil, emery board and
tweezers. Cases in choice i ■ MBBSa—Mßßi—^——ißB
of 4 colours —cherry red,
brown, beige and blue.
7-FLOOR GIFT STORE p 5
Cnr. KING & PITT STS. SYDNEY. 8W2727
EA. ,
I
Mail Orders.
mm.
How to be a chocolate
Expert in one
Lesson
\
\
m
1:
m
& W 'U
.-sl&mSSikSssr
m
:>
m
| *
Question: d° you know
how chocolate experts can tell
the best quality chocolate?
Answer: They break the
block and listen to hear if it
snaps. If you can heat the SNAP
it’s good chocolate. The louder the snap the better the chocolate.
Small’s Club Chocolate gives you the loudest of snaps every time.
ŕ
Do you like a chocolate that’s
NOT SO SWEET? That’s how
Small’s Club Chocolate is Not
So Sweet. We made it espec-
ially for men. That’s why we
called it “Club” Chocolate. But
wives, sweethearts and daugh-
ters took one taste and said
“This chocolate goes for us
too.” So if you like that
purest-of-pure chocolate
taste that’s not so sweet
always ask for SmalVs
Club Chocolate.
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
Major Cousens’s commentaries ; to Mr.
Shand, that he regarded the major
as “a brave officer and a gentleman.”
Although he did not believe Major
Cousens was acting under compulsion,
he had heard him threatened, though
not with death. “Most probably”
Major Cousens would have been tortured
had he not obeyed the orders of the Im-
perial Japanese Army.
Next to be examined was Lieutenant-
Colonel J. M. Prentice, of Sydney, G.S.O.
I (Intelligence) at Eastern Command
since 1942. A radio announcer before the
war, he enlisted on December 6, 1939,
with the rank of lieutenant. He was
attached to Military Security.
“Listening-in” at home in his official
capacity in August, 1942, he had heard a
series of news commentaries by Major
Cousens, whom he knew personally.
Witness said he remembered two
specific occasions. On the first Major
Cousens had suggested that Australia quit
the Empire, make peace with Japan and
join the “Greater East Asia Co-prosperity
Sphere,” About a week later he had heard
Major Cousens describe Mr. Churchill as
a warmonger whose leadership would be
disastrous to the British Empire, and Mr,
Roosevelt as a Jewish-financed and
Masonic-inspired leader who would bring
about the downfall of the U.S.A.
To Mr. Chambers (for the Crown)
Lieut.-Colonel Prentice stated that he was
unable “to detect any hidden message or
attempt to convey information.” To Mr,
Shand he said it had occurred to him
that Major Cousens might have had a
message, but the first broadcast was not
recorded ; of the second he had had a
record made. He attributed evidence of
strain to strange surroundings, and not
to the fact that Major Cousens was speak-
ing against his will.
Mr. Shand produced a document de-
scribed as an Army order directing Ausr
tralians in Japanese hands not to refrain
from broadcasting if ordered to do so on
pain of death. The witness said he had
not seen such an order. He remembered
hearing on the record of an alleged
Major Cousens broadcast the statement
that “the soldiers arq quartered in the
original palatial barracks built by the
British.”
Mr. Shand ; : That could only mean Changi?
—Superficially, yes.
To you as an Intelligence officer that sentence
I read would convey nothing?—Nothing.
If you had given it a thought it could have
meant Changi?—Yes,.
And might have been of value?—Yes,
Yet you as an Intelligence officer would see
nothing of importance?—lt was not within my
province to examine these broadcasts to dis-
cover anything in them.
Statement Produced
On the sixth day of the hearing the
Crown produced a statement which was
identified by Captain G. S. Guysi, of
U.S, Counter-Intelligence, as having been
dictated and signed by Major Cousens in
his presence at Yokohama. In the third
person, it was to the following effect:
After he had refused to broadcast from Singa-
pore or go to Tokyo, his C. 0,, Lieut.-Colonel
Anderson, had agreed that the matter was dan-
gerous, The lieut.-colonel arranged for Major
Cousens to go to hospital and feign illness if
the Japs sent for him again. Major Cousens
left Singapore with “A” force. At Keppel
Harbor they met working parties who warned
them of the Kempei Tai organisation, which
had already murdered British, Australian and
Indian troops and hundreds of Chinese. Later
an Australian soldier was beaten unconscious
in the Kempei Tai guardhouse, attempts being
made to break his kneecaps and ankles as he
lay on the floor.
Major Cousens then went with Colonel
Ramsay’s men to Merguy, south Burma. There
he was struck over the face when he protested
to a Jap sentry ; the sentry was about to
bayonet two men who had picked up a food
parcel thrown over the wire by friendly Bur-
mese, Ten days after his arrival at Merguy
he was told that he must go to Tokyo or lose
his life. He asked Colonel Ramsay to note
that he was going under protest. Taken to Fort
Canning and then to Changi, he met and asked
a British general to advise A.I.F. headquarters
of the whereabouts of “A” force and of the
conditions of roads and bridges and harbor
defences at Penang. The following day he was
told he was going to Tokyo.
At Kempei Tai’s headquarters in Tokyo he
stated that there were orders he could not obey.
He was struck in the face, punched in the chest,
beaten on either side of the head and kicked in
the stomach. Later, when Major Tsuneishi
told him he must broadcast, he replied that it
was against his oath. He suggested that he
should broadcast a list of the men at Merguy,
together with the information that they were
alive and well six weeks previously. Tsuneishi
replied “You must broadcast everything or be
shot.” Major Cousens then said that if he were
left alone for five minutes with a pistol and
a round of ammunition he would save everyone
a lot of trouble. He continually refused to
broadcast, and his life was threatened.
After repeated refusals he realised that the
Japanese were “determined to have me broad-
cast, and if I refused I should be handed over
to the Kempei Tai until they reduced me to
the stage where I would accept. I was de-
termined not to submit to Kempei Tai tor-
turing, as I felt that my Government would not
require it of me in view of my previous ex-
perience at Changi. There minor concessions
were made when it was realised that these con-
cessions would save men’s lives. The alterna-
tive was to see whether, as an expert broad-
caster, I could do some sabotaging, and, if not,
take my own way out.”
Later, when he was made to broadcast a
script, he did so “in such a way that it was
completely killed and evident to anyone what
going on.” He wrote four short scripts “to see
how much I could get away with. I* l
programmes he wrote in references that wou
make Australian listeners alert for any further
information he might be able to convey. Musi-
cal programmes he made as bright as possible,
while “droning out” his commentaries to con-
vince the Japs of the futility of making him
“fight their radio battles.”
In the training of Japanese announcers he
had been able to do some active sabotage, in
short-wave broadcasts, where clarity of dic-
tion was essential, he had persuaded announcers
that diction was unimportant and that they
should try to project their personalities on the
air. For the ‘ T Zero Hour” programme he had
selected Iva Toguri because he believed her
rough voice and masculine style would be least
likely to infect Allied troops with home-sickness.
By winning the confidence of an anti-mm-
tarist element at the broadcasting station he
was able to convince them of the horrifying
conditions in prison camps. Whether or not
as the result of these efforts, in March or
April, 1944, an Imperial rescript made all
prison-camp commanders personally responsible
to the Emperor for the lives of the prisoners.
In June, 1944, collapse from a heart attack
ended his association with “Zero Hour” pro-
grammes, and he knew nothing about pro-
grammes between then and the end of the war.
Captain Guysi testified that the fore-
going statement had been made at Yoko-
hama, and that inquiries by special agents
had supported specific instances of duress
mentioned by Major Cousens.
Prima-Facie Case ,
When Captain Guysi was out of the
box the Crown case was declared closed.
Mr. Shand asked for an adjournment
to enable Lt.-Commander Henshaw, of
U.S, Navy Intelligence, to be called for
the defence, He submitted that “this is
a case in which no reasonable jury could
be expected to convict, and one, I sug-
gest, in which a prosecution should never
have been sought,”
Said Mr, Farrington, S.M,*
At the outset of this case there were, I recall,
five grounds outlined by the prosecution in sup-
port of the charge. Evidence has been given in
support of those grounds. It is not 'for me to
decide whether or not a jury would convict.
My duty is simply to decide whether a prima
facie has been made out, which I so decide.
Thereupon Major Cousens said “I am
not guilty under this charge. I have as
yet no opportunity to make any answer,
but I do declare at this stage that the
statement made by me at Yokohama and
submitted to your Worship in evidence is
a trpe statement.” He then asked that
judgment be suspended “until such time
as I have had a proper opportunity to
make a statement in defence,” and to
call evidence.
The hearing was adjourned until Sep-
tember 9.
Leadership in War.
“Three Wars” discusses it;
In my experience outward appearance, re-
gardless of personality, character and powers of
leadership, frequently governed the selection
of officers. Admittedly, an officer should set
a pattern in smartness and’ look the part.
Leadership in war is vital. Commanders must
know and study their troops, their fitness and
welfare. With large modern armies it is physi-
cally impossible for a high commander to know
his men as intimately as did Napoleon and
Marlborough.
A junior leader, however, must know the
characteristics and personal qualities of each
man, A C.O. should similarly know everything
about his officers and n.c.os. The troops, too,
are entitled to know that an operation has been
thoroughly worked out, the ground recon-
noitred, every precaution against failure taken.
A commander must be able to handle air
forces, tanks, A.A., wireless and other com-
munications, camouflage, propaganda, engineer-
ing and the rest as well as the normal re-
quirements of his trade. He must have imagi-
nation, but must, above all, possess a know-
ledge of humanity, on which the whole prac-
tice of war depends.
Man is the first weapon of battle. There-
fore a commander must study the soldier in
battle.
Napoleon, young ,and unknown, inspired a
ragged, mutinous, half-starved army, gave it
energy and momentum to march and fight,
dominated and controlled generals older and
more experienced than himself. He studied
human nature. War is a flesh-and-blood matter.
Troops won’t be bluffed. 1
And no method of education, no system of
promotion, no amount of commonsense is of
value, unless the leader has the fighting spirit,
the will to win.
“Philp”: The mills of God have
nothing on Army and Air Force finance
offices (B. 14/8/’46). A few years ago I
transferred from the A.I.F. to the
R.A.A.F., taking with me my khaki shirts'
and shorts and other odds and ends that
I reckoned would be useful in the Air
Force. Some months later I received
a bulky envelope from the Army. In it
were a lengthy statement of account debit-
ing me with every item of clothing I’d
retained and a postal note to cover the
balance of my deferred pay. The p.n. was
for Is.
♦ * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: In our Jap hell-
camp we had regular Saturday-aftemoon
football matches. Most of us were Vic-
torians, so we played Australian rules, a
full round of Melbourne League teams
once a week. Six throws of camp-made
dice decided each game. Collingwood
won the ’42 premiership, Sowth the ’43.
In ’44 Hawthorn went into the finals
without losing a game, only to be downed
by North. It was then that we realised
the absurdity of our substitute sport and
abandoned the competition.


(yilcut^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Second Australian soldier within recent
months to be appointed a State Governor,
John Dudley Lavarack leaves the Army
after 40 years of outstanding service to
his country. He finished World War I
as G.S.O. I to Major-General Glasgow,
Fourth Division, with a C.M.G., D.S.O.
and the French Croix de Guerre. During
the Twenty Years’ Armistice he held im-
portant posts in Australia’s defence plan
—Director of Training and Operations,
Commandant at Duntroon, and C.G.S.
GOVERNOR.
When war was resumed ,he became
G.O.C. Seventh Division, led First Aust.
Corps in Syria, planned the defence of
Tobruk, was right-hand man to Wavell
in N.E.1., commanded First Aust. Army
during the early New Guinea campaigns
and became chief of the Australian Mili-
tary Mission in Washington—from which
post he has just returned. The sketch
shows Queensland’s new Governor as
Frith pictured him in the Middle East.
Lavarack was born in Queensland, the
camel in Frith’s private menagerie.
Back in Sydney last week by Lan-
castrian from Britain with a casual call
at Palestine on the way, External Affairs
Minister Evatt showed no outward signs
of wear from his round of conferences.
Physically he seems to thrive on argument
and debate; he’s a lot heavier than
when he left Australia. Although the
doctor has covered more mileage by air
in the last 12 months than many an early
airman managed in a whole lifetime, he
admits he’s not keen on flying. Mrs.
Evatt is the real flight-addict of the
family.
Retiring from active flying after 26
years with Qantas, Captain H. B. Hussey
is the last of the Old Brigade of that
company to take on ground work. He
obtained his ground engineer’s ticket in
June, 1919, his pilot’s licence five months
later at Cambridge Flying School in
England. He served with the R.A.A.F.
for six years, and gained his first com-
mercial flying experience on the Mel-
bourne -Hay-Coolamundra - Broken Hill
service, followed by a stretch on the
Camooweal-Daly Waters run. He flew
the first Mackay expedition into Central
Australia. Joined Qantas in 1934, and
after a term in England studying flying-
boat work he took command of the
Sydney-Singapore section. His total of
flying hours for Qantas alone reached
11,000.
A link with S.A.’s early days .breaks
with the death in Adelaide of Violet de
Mole, a granddaughter of George Step-
henson, Governor Hindmarsh’s secretary,
who read the proclamation of the foun-
dation of the Colony at Glenelg in 1836.
She was well-known as a French teacher
and scholar.
Professor James Park, dead in Oamaru
(M.L.) at 91, was an Aberdonian who
arrived in M.L. over 70 years ago to
embark on sheep-raising, but eventually
gravitated into the profession of mining
geologist. He reported on propositions
in all parts of the world, including a tour
through Northern Australia, New Cale-
donia and the Isle of Pines during the
First World War in search of minerals
for war purposes. He joined the Otago
School of Mines in 1901 and became pro-
fessor of mining and dean of the mining
faculty, retiring in 1931. Park’s works
on geology and mining engineering are
standard in many colleges throughout the
world. Sixf years ago his portrait was
hung in the Permanent Scottish National
Portrait Gallery at Edinburgh as one of
the most distinguished living Scotsmen.
Air Chief-Marshal Sir Keith Park, who
visited these parts a short time ago, is a
son.
One of the outstanding figures at the
Science Congress in Adelaide was a Vic-
torian, Dr. Frank Victor Gordon Scholes,
C.M.G., superintendent of the Infectious
Diseases Hospital at Fairfield, Melbourne.
Dr. Scholes is an enthusiastic child-lover
and has been heard to say that it is safer
for a child to get scarlet fever and be in-
carcerated in his institution than to be
at large where motor speed-hogs abound.
He has been at Fairfield for 36 years,
getting the position after gaining a degree
at Cambridge, and his heart is in the
work. He has weathered successive crises
in infant epidemics and has seen a sen-
sational improvement in the vital stalls--
tics for children. Scholes has been’ a
member of every important committee
on child diseases and is the author of
numerous publications on diphtheria, i.p.
and the nursing of acute infectious dis-
eases.
Lud Mayor Connelly, at Melbourne
Town Hall for another year, is a big
jovial man who has made enemies as well
as friends during his first year of office.
His humorous advocacy of a Brighter
Melbourne, with beer gardens, open-air
cafes and an annual festival, has earned
him the abhorrence of one section, which
sees a tail sticking through the bunny
skins of his office, and gained the grati-
tude of another. He rather spoilt his
beer-garden propaganda with his notion
of a national dress for Australians, most
of the designs submitted being nonsen-
sical —the most nonsensical being those
based on abo. motifs. You might as well
make a national music based on the
gumleaf band or a national dish
from Too steak and with witchetty
grub stew; but the First Citizen had
the best intentions.
K. McLeod Bolton, R.S.L. president
for N.S.W., sketched here by Prior, was
elected to the job in May when J. C.
Neagle moved to Melbourne to become
Federal secretary, and was re-elected at
the annual meeting last month. At the
League’s annual conference he was asked
to accept a motion declaring Communists
ineligible for membership, but he rejected
it on the ground that the League, being
non-political, could not debar any man
purely on account of his political color.
Bolton was born in India, but came to
Australia as a boy. He has service in
two wars to his credit. In the first Ger-
man war he went away with 9th Field
Ambulance and later transferred to 35th
PRESIDENT.
Battalion —he claims to be one of the
few men who can say that they left Aus-
tralia as a corporal and came back as a
private. In Round Two he was with the
Army Transport Column. Somewhere
in between the wars he joined the Can-
adian Government Merchant Marine,
spent some time in their Montreal office,
worked his way through U.S. and re-
turned to Australia to start his own manu-
facturing business. Bolton brackets
housing and full-time training as the
League’s most immediate problems and
hopes for good results from the co-op.
building societies the N.S.W. branch has
already started and the building construc-
tion company about to be launched.
W. C. Groves, who returns to New
Guinea as Director of Education, was
well known there before and during the
war. Groves went to Moresby on the
Aquitania in the new year of 1942, when
troops were being rushed to the islands.
He immediately became interested in the
welfare of the troops and published a
weekly sheet, the Moresby “News,” from
Fleet-street,” up towards Koitaki. The
sheet was printed at the Government
Printing Office, Moresby, and was the
forerunner of “Guinea Gold.” Groves’s
knowledge of N.G. and the Solomons is
considerable. In pre-war days he learnt
how to handle natives with tact and
dignity and was a highly-esteemed figure
among them.
Adelaide pianist Philip Hargrave, at
24, plans to go to Europe for further
study for three or four years. He began
public performance as a prodigy of 10,
had a six-years’ break during the war,
when he played to men and women of the
services in the Islands, and has since been
making a lot of money for charities in
Adelaide with his lately-resumed recitals.
It was in 1896 that Becquerel dis-
covered that salts of uranium emitted
photographically-active rays independent
of previous exposure to light. In the same
year a young Australian student who had
been studying medicine and surgery at
Edinburgh returned to Melbourne and in-
stalled the first X-ray outfit at the Chil-
dren’s Hospital. He was Herbert Maun-
sell Hewlett, so he has celebrated the
jubilee of his active acquaintance with
radiological practice. The first doctor in
the Empire, and probably the first in the
world, to do it, he continued to use it
even after some of its early dangers be-
came apparent in alarming stories of sick-
ness and dermatitis amongst operators
For a long time Dr. Hewlett conducted a
general practice in Fitzroy, and he still
has rooms in Collins-street.
In Dunedin (MX.) for the Otago Medi-
cal Research School is Dr. L. Kirschner,
a noted Dutchman, for 30 years a bac-
teriologist under the Netherlands Gov-
ernment. Kirschner joined the Pasteur
Institute in Java in 1921, and spent the
three years after the fall of Java in a
concentration camp.
If every other Australian producer
vanished like the stage devil down his own
trapdoor, the flag of legitimate drama
would still be kept flying by Beresford
Fowler at the Playgoers’ Hall in Mel-
bourne. That veteran producer, whose
mother was well-known to past genera-
tions of theatregoers, has regularly put
on two plays a week for as far back as
anyone can remember and has only once
strayed from the accepted classics. That
was when he staged one of his own plays,
written round the exploits of an A.I.F.
division and invited Monash to be the
guest of honor, much to the general’s
embarrassment, as the division in
question was his favorite, and the
stage presentation didn’t altogether
fit in with his memories of it.
There is hardly a leading role in Shak-
speare, Shaw, Ibsen, Galsworthy and Noel
Coward that Fowler doesn’t know back-
wards; and'not only the leading roles —
when a super, forgets his lines it’s only
by a superhuman effort that Fowler is
prevented from saying them for him. He
has probably drilled more Australians
into being actors .than any other producer.
He recently got a message from Broad-
way: “It is most encouraging for the
living theatre that organisations such as
the Art Theatre Players are working for
its improvement. Good luck! Cedric
Hardwicke.”
Wing-Commander E. W. Tacon, a
much-decorated aviator, selected to com-
mand the four Viking aircraft for the
Royal Family’s tour of South Africa, is
a native of Hastings (MX.). Tacon com-
menced flying with the R.A.F. in 1939,
and saw considerable war service in anti-
submarine work, bombing over Scandi-
navian bases, and as instructor of young
airmen. He won the D. 5.0., D.F.C. and
bar and the A.F.C., on one occasion be-
ing shot down in a burning ’plane over
Holland.
In these days of Australian super-film
production most theatregoers would be
surprised to know that two early Aus-
tralian films are still touring the suburban
circuits and recently drew bigger houses
than the Hollywood pictures in the outer
Melbourne theatres. They are Pat Hanna’s
“Diggers in Blighty” and George Wal-
lace’s “A Ticket in Tatt.’s.” A Digger of
the First World War, Hanna toured Eng-
land and Australia after hostilities with
his Digger show and subsequently, when
His Majesty’s was burned down, he
helped the late F. W. Thring to film the
show in the charred shell of the ruined
building. Thring sat in the dilapidated
circle doing the directing from under an
umbrella. His daughter Lola did the
continuity and cutting in a studio at St.
Kilda. The other day Hanna and Lola
dropped into a suburban theatre and saw
“Diggers in Blighty” still going strong
and still as full of interest for an atomic-
age audience as it was when first screened.
Eric Osborne Willoughby, professor of
Electrical Engineering at Adelaide
’Varsity, is no academic lecturer. For
over 10 years he has been one of the
higher-ups on the technical staff of
Standard Telephones and Cables, Lon-
don, In pre-war days he helped to install
Singapore Radio, and during the war he
was engaged in aircraft radio develop-
mental work and other branches of re-
PROFESSOR.
search. Born in Bendigo, Willoughby
graduated in engineering, civil and elec-
trical, at Melbourne Uni. in 1931, added
a B.A. degree with honors in maths, and
went to Britain on a Bage scholarship
in 1933. He proposes an extension of
Adelaide’s electrical course to include
electronic engineering; the new subject
to meet the needs of broadcasting, post
office communications and industrial elec-
tronics. At 39, he is one of the youngest
of Adelaide’s profs.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 58, A. W. Lacey, M.HA. for
Port Pirie. He started in the Pirie smelters,
worked up as organiser for the A.W.U., and
in 1922 entered the Federal Parliament as
member for Grey; since 1933 he had been
in S.A. Assembly. A humorous debater, popu-
lar with his party and opponents, member of
the Public Works Committee, one-time Leader
of the Opposition, and in private life an enthusi-
astic owner of trotters.
James Marshall, dead in Adelaide at 65,
was a director of the drapeiy firm founded
by his father and namesake in Rundle-street.
Since Myer’s took it over he had been a
station owner in the south-east, and a promi-
nent breeder and owner of racehorses.
In Melbourne, at 84, Robert Campbell
Edwards, creator of the Burwood Boys’ Home,
the Edwards Foundation of N.S.W., the
Edwards Family trust and the Campbell
Edwards trust. He helped to build many
Churches of Christ in Australia. A tea in-
denter, the hard times he had in London as a
boy determined him to devote himself to the
welfare of orphans.
In Sydney, at 75, Katie Towers, an actress
well-loved by a previous generation. She came
of an acting family, married an actor and saw
two of her sons take to the stage. Her last
stage appearances were about six years ago.
Carrie Moore was among the veterans at the
funeral.


Woman's Letters
From Sydney
The Lady Mayoress’s dance tomorrow
night is going to make the Town Hall
feel young again. Over 1400 dancers will
swing it to the A.B.C. dance band
directed by Jim Gussey. Tickets are
2s. 6d. each, and the takings go to the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund.
There is only one sort of girl in Aus-
tralia who likes a silverfish. To the
ordinary girl the silverfish is anathema.
But to the Girl Guide the Silver Fish
means something very noble and sym-
bolic, for this is the highest award that
the movement can bestow. The Duchess
of Gloucester will present this deco-
ration to the Julius lady, who is Chief
Commissioner of the Girl Guide Associa-
tion of N.S.W., on September 15. This
ceremony will be held at Glengarry,
Turramurra.
The triangle on the gate of Gowan
Brae, Manly, has no relation at all to the
eternal triangle, but just signifies that the
place is now a Y.W.C.A. stronghold.
Gowan Brae is right on the ocean front
with only a stretch of road between it
and the pines bordering the Pacific. It is
a door or two away from the hotel of
that name. It is an old three-storey
home and it has been painted, scrubbed
and polished to a shining perfection.
The Mayoress of Manly and the
Y.W. local committee deserved all
the compliments they received on the
opening day, for it was they who had seen
to the hangings and furnishings. Buff and
burgundy are the colors of curtains, up-
holstery and bedspreads. The hostel is
for the use of young business girls and
students living away from home. The
Butters lady did the opening with the
neat dispatch gained by experience.
A brave and public-spirited woman
died recently at her brother’s home near
Grafton (N.S.W.). She was Matron
Bessie Pocock, one of the first Australian
women war nurses. As a young nurse
she served throughout the Boer war. She
was mentioned several times in dispatches,
twice by Kitchener. In the early stages
of the 1914-18 war she was in charge of
the hospital ship Assaye carrying the
wounded from Gallipoli to Lemnos. For
devoted service on the Western Front she
was awarded the Royal Red Cross.
After Matron Pocock returned to Aus-
tralia she was for many years matron of
Gladesville Mental Hospital.
Sweet peas and swim suits, harbingers
of summer, were bn parade last Thursday.
The swim suits, a very brief appearance
indeed, were on show in David Jones’s
auditorium. The mermaids concerned
had male escorts, all in beach attire,
too. The sweet peas, with which
mingled daffodils of distinction, displayed
their beauties in the new Legacy Torch-
bearers’ headquarters in Elizabeth-street.
This is at No. 169, and is next door to
the Women’s Club. The Morshead lady
opened the show during the lunch-hour,
but long before that the judges prowled
among the garden beauties like so many
devil’s advocates, peering into blemish
and stain, and tossing out from their
prize-list all but the perfect blooms.
A curious thing about the Iceland
poppies is that they appeared under such
general titles as Vase of Iceland Poppies,
whereas the daffodils revelled in separate
names. So did the carnations. And why
should carnations, the bloom above all
suitable for the well-tailored man’s lapel,
almost all be Marias, Marys, Graces,
Yvonnes? True, there was one Don
Bradman and one Crusader in this show,
but for the main the ladies had it. Inci-
dentally, if these carnations continue to
grow in dimension it will soon be easier
for the well-dressed man to pin a cauli-
flower in his button-hole.
Don’t forget to watch the windows in
the Legacy Shop at 169 Elizabeth-street.
In a few weeks’ time they will carry a
gay stock of children’s toys, dolls as well
as felt cuddlies. These are already being
made and moulded by the craft group in
a special corner of the rooms. The craft-
workers with the clever hands are also
making papier-mache gifts, baby gar-
ments and weaving gay little accessories.
In another part of the upper floor the
W.A.N.S. are running a canteen. In fact,
everything is launched and should result
in rich cargoes to Legacy. There was
nothing shy about the opening of the
rooms themselves. This consisted of a
gala party festooned with thousands of
palm fronds, sausage rolls and savories.
It started at five o’clock and bounded
merrily along till eleven.
Cars by the hundred slid up to the
Town Hall steps last Saturday night
emptying out passengers who hurried in
a flurry of expectancy into the hall
for the Georges Thill concert. Trams
brought their loads equally eager to
hear the great French tenor. Just as
at his first concert in Sydney the old, the
young and the middle-aged were m the
hall packed even to the organ seat.
Georges, who sings in the grand manner,
didn’t disappoint. To the listener of
imagination he is electrifying. His are
the voice and style to portray the big
emotions. Verdi, Gluck, Massenet and
Wagner were sung with power and sensi-
bility. His singing of the “Aida” aria
made his hearers glad to think there is
another concert on September 14.
Governor Northcott doesn’t intend to
be a wallflower. He showed himself quite
a dancer at the Novelty BalL This was
one of last week’s attractions, and filled
the Trocadero with friends of the Police
Boys’ Clubs. The wife of Police Commis-
sioner Mac Kay organised the success.
Reminiscent of Waterloo were the red-
and white uniforms worn by the Guard of
Honor which was lined up for the Gover-
nor’s inspection. The lads represented
“wooden soldiers,” and looked very smart
—uniforms, shakos, wooden guns and all.
The 30 boys taking part were from the
Balmain Police Boys’ Club. There was a
very large official party. Miss Beth
Northcott accompanied her father. The
Anti-T.B. Association’s Youth Campaign
shares the shekels.
Mrs. Flo Seddon is the newly-appointed
president of the Red Cross Headquarters
Younger Set. Mrs. Seddon has been a
member of the group for some years, and
has become noted for her work with the
dramatic circle. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Sydney writers have decided that it is
time they had their Victory Ball. The
State Ballroom has been notified to that
effect, and everything points to the
jocund round of mirth galley slaves in-
dulge in when freed of their leaden chains.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers has
set this Authors’ Victory Ball rolling.
And how it will roll on October 11, from
eight-thirty till 12, more particularly
about 12!
Sydney still remembers its laughter
over the film “Call It a Day.” Last week
the Dodie Smith comedy was played to a
full muster at the Mosman Town Hall.
This is another of the Mosman Theatre
Guild’s ventures, and the production was
a worthy successor to that of “Sheppey.”
The mother of the play, Dorothy Hilton,
was played by Frances Heilman, a one-
time Cheer-oh girl. “Call It” will be pre-
sented again tomorrow night, September
5. The Guild has put up a splendid
record both on the acting and the pro-
duction side, and it has earned the sup-
port of its north-of-the-harbor audiences.
Sheena Bunning is production secretary.
Works by Australian composers were
played when members of the Musical
Association had a night of melody at
the Lyceum Club last Friday. There was'
a new violin sonata by Raymond Han-
son. Applause also greeted compositions
by Miriam Hyde, Mirrie Hill and Annette
Scammell. The programme was arranged
by the Guild of Australian Composers.
Now comes the turn of the orchid to
do its bit for the humanities. At Mark
Foy’s there’s a magnificent display
arranged by John Bissett, to which orchid
growers from far and wide have sent their
prize blooms for the benefit of the
Rachel Forster hospital. This show
closes on Friday. On September 11 and
two days following, orchids will be on
show in David Jones’s. From this the
Kindergarten Union gets the gate money.
Congratulations to John Farnsworth
Hall for leading the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra in fine style through a varied
programme in which Arthur Bliss’s
“Music for Strings” and Four Interludes
from “Peter Grimes” —Benjamin Britten’s
opera —made deep first impression. Rich
and gracious sounded Edmund Kurtz’s
’cello in the “Lalo” concerto.
From Melbourne
Cr. Ray Connelly has been elected
Lord Mayor for a second term, and both
Cr. Connelly and Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
who acts as his Lady Mayoress, have re-
ceived many messages of congratulations.
Although Mrs. Heinze has to care for a
house, her professor husband and two
children, she has not spared herself in
attending to her public duties. During
the past 12 months many famous person-
ages have received the hospitality of this
city; among them the Gloucester and
the Mountbattens, To all Mrs. Bernard
Heinze has been a gracious hostess. She
has also had to cope with the Victory
celebrations and the hundred and one
meetings at which a Lady Mayoress is
expected to preside. Mrs. Heinze is
counted as one of this city’s best-dressed
women. She and the professor have a
home at Mornington, a delightful bayside
spot, and in the summer they manage to
spend a good deal of time relaxing on
the beach. The Lady Mayoress’s first
official duty of the new term is to preside
at a Town Hall meeting to discuss plans
for a Market Fair, which will help the
funds of the Gallipoli Legion of Anzacs.
Breaking all tradition, the Chapter of
St. Paul’s Cathedral has allowed
A.B.C. to present the Symphony
Orchestra in the Bach-Handel Festival.
At the first recital there were 1400 people
in the Cathedral; members of the
orchestra were in ordinary dress and
women members wore hats. It was the
first time a Dean of Melbourne had pre-
sided at a recital. He opened it with
prayers. It was a reverent audience, but
an incongruous note was the sight of
many men reading the evening paper as
they waited for the recital to begin. There
were the chatterers, but they kept their
voices down. No applause broke the
sequence of sound, and the music of
Handel and Bach rose to the vaulted roof
in glorious melody. The No. 4 Organ
Concerto in F. Major, with Dr. A. E.
Floyd, the Cathedral organist, as soloist,
was a thrilling performance. Great
sympathy exists between the conductor,
Prof. Heinze, and his orchestra, and they
as usual, responded to every movement
of his hands.
Holy Trinity Church, East Melbourne,
was beautifuly decorated with pink and
white blossoms for the marriage of Petera
Emma, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
H. A. M. Campbell, Cliveden Mansions,
East Melbourne, and Peter Wouter,
younger son of Madame de Wolf, of
Macedon, and the late Mr. H. A. I.
de Wolf. Rev. G. Gilder performed the
wedding ceremony. The bride, who is
pictured here in her bridal finery, wore
a gracefully-trained heavy cream satin
frock, with a belt of pearls and diamente
matching the shimmering embroidery on
the shirred bodice. A veil of old lace
mounted on tulle fell from a heart-
shaped headdress of pearls and dia-
mente. A trail of cream orchids fell
from the ivory Prayer Book she carried.
The matron of honor, Mrs. Dennison
Deasey, and the bridesmaids, Mary Fraser,
daughter of Canada’s Trade Commis-
sioner, and Maris Tullis Dunn, were
frocked alike in turquoise corded-silk.
Their frocks were padded at the waistline
to give a crinoline effect. Their tiny hats
of gardenias matched the bouquets they
carried, and were caught to the hair by
ribands of turquoise silk. William Pitcher
was best man ; James Govett and Peter
Richards were groomsmen. Reception
was held at Cliveden Mansions, where the
bride’s parents were assisted in receiving
the guests by Madame de Wolf and her
son Hans. Mrs. Campbell chose a beaded
gown of soft-blue romaine, with a match-
ing finger-tip length jacket, while Madame
de Wolf wore a silver-fox cape over her
formal gown of black crepe. Among the
guests were ex-Premier Dunstan and his
wife, she in a white satin patterned gown
and full-length fur coat; Commander
and Mrs. Eardley Wilmot, the latter most
attractive in a beaded gown of hyacinth-
blue crepe ; and Dr. and Mrs. Douglas
Stephens’. Mrs. Stephens wore a trained
gown of black lame and covered it with
a stunning cape of black Arctic fox.
Pianist Viva Holgate Clarke for her
recent recital in the Assembly Hall wore
a lovely gown fashioned of gleaming
gold-toned satin, the skirt long and fall-
ing in graceful folds. The short-sleeved
bodice was draped in front, and shim-
mering gold beads, forming a flower pat-
tern, ornamented the waistline. The
audience was delighted to hear a bracket
of Eugene Goossens’s works in a pro-
gramme which included works by Mozart,
Beethoven and Chopin. Viva gave a
beautiful rendition of Goossens’s Four
Conceits, and The Gargoyle, with the
impish tune broken by a solemn hymn
passage, fascinated those who heard it.
Before leaving Melbourne Goossens pre-
sented a copy of his concerto to the
pianist, and this will be heard later, when
she broadcasts for A.B.C. Noticed in
the audience was Mrs. Guy Hutchinson ;
her beaded black georgette frock covered
by a full-length Persian lamb coat; her
two sons Guy and Jay accompanied their
mother. Mrs. Robert Hamilton, smart in
tailored black suit trimmed with fur, was
with Biddy Allan and Dr. Doris Officer.
A trio enjoying the music were Vi Dunn,
a musquash coat covering her trim black
frock, sister Ethel and violinist Joyce
Walker.
With happy informality, Dutch resi-
dents in this city and their friends cele-
brated the birthday of Queen Wilhelmina.
Colonel Wright, Consul for the Nether-
lands, was host at a party, held at the
Dutch Legation, and his son. Major
Wright, who has returned from abroad,
assisted his father as host. Those who
popped in for a few minutes included
General Blarney, who in a few words ex-
pressed his admiration for the Dutch
Merchant Navy. Air-Commodore Knox
Knight, R.A.A.F., was with Captain
Tompkins, U.S.A. Naval Attache, and
with Lieut.-Col. H. Moquette, Royal
Netherlands Army, was wife Gloria, in a
smart tailored black suit and black velvet
beret. With Pat Hoogveld,. smart as usual
in black, were Casolyn Douglass and Isla
Williams, wearing a grey corded jacket
over a matching tweed skirt. Dutch
women present wore bows of ribbons,
yellow for the House of Orange, and men
pinned tiny yellow flowers in their button-
hole.
Lynette Dickenson stole a march on
her many friends when she was quietly
wedded on August 31. Lynette is the only
child of the George Dickensons, Hope-
toun-road, Toorak, and her new husband
is Erl, second son of Mr. and Mrs. A. J.
Gray, Burke-road, East Malvern. Lynette
has had her finger in many a charitable
pie, and by her personal efforts she has
raised a great deal of money for patriotic
funds. She was at the Campbell-De Wolf
wedding, but nary a word did she say of
her own intentions. On this occasion,
Lynette was wearing a lovely gown in
pastel blue covered with a three-quarter
length white ermine coat. Lynette, who
is very popular in this part of the world
and in Sydney, will receive many belated
congratulations.
It’s hard to surprise the energetic
president of the Queen Victoria Hospital,
the Brookes lady, but she confesses that
she got the surprise of her life when told
that she and her committee could move
the Queen Victoria, lock, stock and barrel,
to the Central Hospital. This hospital
was formerly the Melbourne, but when
the new building in Parkville was com-
pleted the old one was kept as a sort of
clearing house. A lot of money will be
needed to modernise the old hospital, and
at a late-afternoon party held at Elm
Cottage the hostess disclosed plans for
the first function to raise money. French
mannequins lately arrived in Aus-
tralia will appear at Myer’s in a Parisian
Parade —all the gowns will be Parisian
models from the most exclusive houses in
France. The compere, who accompanies
the mannequins, is also French. There
will be 20 sessions, with a gala night in
October. With the Brookes lady at the
party was Mrs. Norman Myer, smart in a
cinnamon-brown wool-tailored frock and
small veiled matching hat. She carried
one of the new box bags in brown alliga-
tor skin. The Queen Victoria committee
will take over the Central Hospital on
September 1. Plans include an up-to-date
midwifery department. Twenty-five thou-
sand pounds is needed to modernise the
hospital, and the Parisian Parade is the
first of many functions to raise money
for the reconstruction fund. A public
appeal will be launched early in 1947.
The Menzies family are in the news!
While Bob is busy campaigning for the
elections his nephew, Dr. James Stuart
Menzies, the only son of Mr. J. L.
Menzies, Aberdeen-street, Geelong, and
the late Mrs. Menzies, has become en-
gaged to a woman medico, Dr. Dorothy
Beatrice Hurley, third daughter of Dr.
L. E. Hurley, of Wahroongarcrescent,
Murrumbeena, and the late Mrs. Hurley.
After graduation, Dr. Hurley was a resi-
dent for 12 months at the Prince Henry
Hospital. \


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŕ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE. |
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Olympic Yearly Sales
will exceed £3,000,000
Sales will soon exceed £3,000,000 yearly, it was expected. Sir
Frank Beaurepaire, Chairman and Managing Director, said at the
Annual Meeting ol the Olympic Tyre & Rubber Co. Ltd.
Other points discussed by the Chairman were:—
Development of new lines of
manufacture
tAt Early relaxation of tyre control
Re-opening of inter-State branches
-jAr Huge tax toll
•fa Possibility of increased capital
Development of export markets
Sir Frank Beaurepaire
Sir Frank said. “We have now been
S reducing for more than 12 years,
ave more than 1,500 employees, and
it- is expected our sales will soon
exceed £3,000,000 per annum."
“In this respect, we are within a
reasonable distance of our largest
competitor, which has the support of
United Kingdom interests, and whose
many and diverse lines of manufacture
give it the lead in turnover. Olympic
is about equal second with the other
company, which also has oversea
affiliations."
He cited many factors retarding the
expansion into the more general lines
of manufacture. These included: —
Tremendous demand for tyres and
electric cables.
Shortage of labour.
Uncertainty of supplies of basic
materials.
Coal shortage.
Lag in production of plant and
equipment.
Effect of quotas, restrictions and
transport problems upon overseas
trades.
Oversea Inquiries:
Shareholders were lold_ that many in-
quiries were being received from over-
sea countries for the Company's pro-
ducts, and recognising that those
markets would not remain indefinitely,
the directors were endeavouring to ful-
fil orders. Greater production was the
important factor. There had been an
extraordinary demand for products of
the cable division and the Company's
products generally. A steady increase
in output was expected.
Sir Frank concluded. “I am leased
to be able to tell you that practically
all our employees who have returned
from the Services have settled down
remarkably well, and relatively few
are suffering ill-effects at present."
"However, experience of the First
World War reminds us that as time
passes, latent disabilities may become
manifest."
"Therefore, we are grateful to share-
holders that a repatriation reserve of
£B.OOO has been established to enable
the board to render assistance if the
need arises."
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 6 p.c. = 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
1937.. 342,041 64 „ ~ 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
1938.. 365,975 7 „ „ 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 7 „ „ 331,730 35,000 4,429,200
1940.. 389,492 74 „ ~ 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
1941.. 384,589 74 „ „ 355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942. j 377,162 74 „ ~ 355,426 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 74 „ „ 355,426 15,000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 74 „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
1946 . . 387,755 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,433,914
War brought big changes in the banking
structure and in banking practice. Dur-
ing the early months the banks’ contri-
bution to industrial conversion to war-
time needs took the traditional form of
loans and advances. Then the Govern-
ment’s war-finance policy and controls
changed the asset structure. A decline in
advances set in, and continued without in-
terruption for about five years. By that
time, this once biggest of the earning
assets was relegated to third place in the
structure. That was because trade con-
centrated largely in official hands, the
Government acquired privately-owned
stocks of vital materials, all forms of
speculative buying were forbidden, and
public expenditure on defence account
was associated partly with industrial ex-
pansion and partly with financing trans-
actions for which bank loans would have
been used pre-war.
Furthermore, the trading banks were
obliged to lodge on special account with
the Commonwealth Bank, which is the
Government’s bank, all increases in their
deposits since war began. And the price
paid by the Commonwealth Bank for
these deposits is now only 15s. p.c.,
whereas the trading bank overdraft rate
is 4f p.c., and Treasury bills are dis-
counted at 1 p.c. So the trading banks
have been obliged to indirectly extend
use of their depositors’ money to the
Government, and through the Govern-
ment to trade and industry, at very low
rates of interest. And in its desire to
cheapen money the Government has
sacrificed the incentive to thrift by forcing
down rates payable on fixed deposits with
the trading banks to an unattractive maxi-
mum li p.c. p.a. for 24 months and a
mere \ p.c. p.a. for three months.
Most welcome feature of banking
statistics today is the up-turn in advances.
This and other matters just referred to
are illustrated in the following compari-
son of C.B.S.’s balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid Capital £4,739,013 £4,739,013 £4,739,013
Notes . . . . 13,602 13,526 13,519
Deposits* sinSSj B7 ’ l2l ’ 29s 95,428,233
Liqu.ids .. 20,895,574 65,383,772 71,803,627
Advances . . 42,114,246 29,395,792 31,545,293
Premises, etc. 1,206,620 1,076,576 1,055,376.
Other assets.. 621,992 388,094
including provision for contingencies.
The increase in advances last term was
£2,149,501 ; but they were only 33 p.c.
of deposits as against 76 p.c. in 1939.
Continued growth of deposits (up
£8,306,938) reflects still heavy spending by
the Government. Liquids (up £6,419,855)
include £34,106,000 (up £4,790,000) on
special deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank. Add to this the holding of Federal
Government securities (£19,467,234) and
Treasury bills (£7,070,000) and you get
a total of £60,643,234 —equal to 57.8 p.c.
of total assets —which the co. has made
available to the Government. The altered
structure is noteworthy by reason of its
association with official policy.
The improvement of £2978 in last term's
net earnings was due mainly to the
growth in advances. The £387,755 of
profit was 8.1 p.c. on the £4,739,413 of
capital alone, or 4.2 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
which is a very moderate return for the
services rendered. The div. was kept at
p.c., and £25,000 was used to reduce
the book value of premises.
What of the future? The banks have
been brought within the framework of
official control by legislation designed to
direct the volume and nature of capital
and other expenditure. The role they will
play in the future financing of trade and
industry is more than ever to be deter-
mined by forces outside their control.
The whole problem is tied up with the
tricky and complex subject of the mone-
tary policy of the Government, which
now awaits the choice of the electors on
September 28. Handicapped by industrial
hold-ups, punitive co. taxation and official
inhibitions, Australia has made a slow
get-away in the transition race, and is
now in danger of seeing its prospects of
“full” employment and a high and rising
standard of living being whittled away by
advancing industrial costs, unless some-
thing is done in time to remedy the posi-
tion. Those likely to be hit hardest are
the pastoral, dairying and agricultural in-
dustries.
The co.’s £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. —
the other £l2 10s. is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation
—are at the ceiling price of £24 9s, in
the market. At this figure the return is
3.8 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is £24 3s. lOd. in net tangibles.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, —7 Dividends Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves!
£ £ £ £
1936 .. 29,318 1980 64 p.c. = 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 ~ 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 .. 35,802 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,206
1940 . . 35,080 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,616
1941 .. 37,497 1980 7* „ „ 35,025 155,108
1942 .. 37,008 1980 7* „ „ 35,025 155,111
1943 .. 49,852 1980 8 ~',, 37,360 165,623
1944 . . 59,637 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 185,920
1945 .. 62,360 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 208,940
1946 .. 54,441 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 ' 224,041
t Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding
depreciation reserve (£llO,OOO as at June 30, ’46).
It has been a mixed kettle of fish since
1939. War cut off the flow of interna-
tional visitors for which the Australia
one of the largest and most fashionable
hotels in the Commonwealth —specially
caters, interrupted inter-State and other
travel, bumped up costs, especially the
tax bill, complicated the staffing problem,
and brought the rationing of beer and
spirits and “austerity” meals at ceiling
prices. Still, there were compensating fac-
tors ; chiefly a heavy influx of temporary
war-time population, including U.S. and
British service personnel, and liberal
spending, which was assisted by heavy
Government outlay on war account.
Hence the sudden leap in earnings in
1944, and further improvement in the
figure for 1945.
Last term saw the ‘beginning of the
transition period, which was marked by
an efflux of service personnel, both U.S.
and British, tapering of war contracts,
and demobilisation of the forces. Beer
rationing ceased in March last, but owing
to shortage of raw materials (barley and
hops) the breweries continue to adhere
to the official quota until their output can
be stepped up. Though there was still
plenty of money about, and demand con-
tinued to run ahead of capacity for ac-
commodation, the volume of turnover
eased.
So, after allowing an extra £5OO
for taxation (£37,500) and a steady
£lO,OOO for depreciation, the board
figured the net result £7919 lighter than
the previous year’s at £54,441. That in-
cludes £lO,OOO (leaking £60,000 in all)
specifically earmarked for renewals, al-
ways a hungry animal in a fashionable
hotel. The £54,441 was enough to pay
the prefs. their 6 p.c. and show 11.3 p.c.
on the £467,003 of ord. capital, compared
with 12.9, 12.3, 10.2, 7.5, 7.6, 7 and 7.2
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
8 p.c., and it is doubtful whether better
need be expected until the outlook be-
comes less clouded. The £15,101 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £224,041. That
excludes provision for depreciation
(£110,000), but is subject to goodwill
(£25,000). ,
As for the outlook, the shortage of
housing accommodation has made the
public more hotel-minded, and the
domestic-labor problem promises to foster
hotel patronage. But travel is still re-
stricted, and costs remain on the up-
grade, with no immediate signs of a re-
cession. The question of tax relief will
depend upon election results. As soon
as materials and labor become available,
the co. is faced with considerable outlay
on renovations and renewals, to meet
which a substantial holding of cash, etc.,
has been accumulated:
1939. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Stock .. £8,499 £23,172 £5,122 £6,182
Book debts,
etc. .. 6,399 5,982 6,799 6,655
Cash, etc. . . 22,663 15,626 100,405 86,368
Liquid assets £37,561 £44,780 £112,326 £99,205
Mortgage . . 275,000 250,000 200,000 150,000
Creditors* . . 28,534 37,517 71,231 83,010
Excess
liabilities . . £265,973 £242,737 £158,905 £133,805
Property and
equipment.. 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital.. 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
Last term £50,000 was clipped off the
mortgage, and cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £14,037. The excess of liabilities
over more or less liquids was reduced
by £25,100 over the twelvemonth.
The ords. are jammed at the ceiling
price of 31s. on the market, at which
figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Excluding the depreciation re-
serve (4s, Bd. per share) the net tangible
cover'is 275. The prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 54 p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
°6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
1945. .121,063 10,958 73,320 36,785 232,438
1946. .115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
The effects of on the brewing
industry will be regional rather than
general. Queensland brewers —this one
and Castlemaine Perkins are the two big-
gest—gathered more on the war-time
swings than they lost on the taxation
and other roundabouts. Net earnings of
the Queensland, which is well entrenched
in the dairying south and pastoral west,
averaged £100,756 for the half-dozen
years to the close of last accounts, com-
pared with an average of £56,985 for the
preceding quinquennium. Certainly there
was an increase of about 28 p.c. in
average capital at work during the two
periods. The other and most important
factor in stimulating the growth in earn-
ings was the demand of our own and
Allied forces in the s.-w. Pacific area.
Last term this demand tapered sharply.
It was largely offset by a steady return
of civilian population, following demobi-
lisation. Although beer rationing ceased
in March last, the breweries were unable
to fully meet local demand, owing to
shortage of raw materials (barley and
hops). So they have continued to adhere
to the official quota until output can be
stepped up, which ought to be possible by
the time the thirsty summer months
arrive. After providing for contingencies,
which include £14,996 (down £1336) for
depreciation, the board figured the net
result £5195 short of the pr6vious year’s
at £115,868. That covered the pref. div.
and 10 p.c. on the £1,047,432 of ord.
capital, as against 10.5, 9.9, 7.9, 6,7, and
6.5 p.c. back to 1940. The div. was kept
at 7 p.c., leaving £31,590 to strengthen
the prop (now £264,028) for capital.
Though turnover may shrink a little
yet, there is still plenty of money about,
and employment is at a high level, which
augurs well for brewery earnings. The
Government grabs the biggest whack of
takings, excise (4s. 7d. a gallon) account-
ing for about 73 p.c. of brewers’ gross
receipts from bulk beer. The other 27
p.c., approx. ss. sd. in the £, has to cover
production, distribution and other costs
(including co. tax) as well as profit. There
is no sign of any near reduction in the
cost of barley, hops, brewing sugar or
power, the cost of transport and distribu-
tion is likely to remain high, and com-
petitive advertising can be expected to
increase. However, the wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions gives the
7 p.c. div. a comfortable appearance.
The remarkable expansion of the busi-
ness over the last decade is further


4S&
bffia
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts AIS
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney,
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
11l
m
m
fj®. 'S.i\
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
P. V, MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general - engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
BW 4931
r
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codidl to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
SP 5-44.
Making Australia
a supply centre
of the PACIFIC
' , y
-
•■a-;
m
m
m
■s
A
mm
fSTA^ A
m
mw n '
« . ~ ;.
1; M^ PJE I
1 * »N <
j Australia
' *. ,m i ,
hAPSTRALIA
9*
«#8
MAtpg
&
m
vm
♦. •• ■
We Australians have the
opportunity to make
our country a main sup-
ply centre of the whole
Pacific region.
We must not let that
opportunity go unem-
ployed. Seizing it fully
will call for all that we
have of wisdom, enter-
prise, initiative, hard
work and Capital.
This Bank has adequate
resources for the financ-
ing of worthy enterprises
big and little, and a long
experience in helping its
customers to make the
most of their opportun-
ities.
The Bank’s officers in
Head Office and in 308
Branches will be glad to
discuss the question of
credit with those desir-
ing it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
\
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
IKE BANK Of VIM LTD.
reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
Paid 1937. 1942. 1945. 1946.
capital £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 514,478 540,485 528,414 450,443
Fixed
assets 1,181,013 1,670,789 1,730,947 1,726,367
Stocks .. 104,567 143,960 159,848 140,260
Kook debts 132,175 125,611 86,574 94,861
Cash, etc. 7,672 28,672 72,788 41,788
Last term £77,971 was clipped off the
outside debt, cash being drawn upon for
£31,000 and stocks reduced by £19,088
for the purpose. When the books closed
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £173,534, an improvement of £36,170
over the twelvemonth. Presently the co.
will be faced with heavy expenditure on
reconditioning of plant and licensed pro-
perties. But money is cheap, which makes
it doubtful whether shareholders will be
asked for more.
On the market buyers offer 295. 6d.
(ceiling price) for the ords., visibly covered
by 235. 1 Id. in net tangibles. The return
at 295. 6d. is 4.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 265. 9d. yield 4.1 p.c.
They are covered by £7 10s. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Victoria Gold Dredging (paid capital
£129,500 in 10s. shares), working the
shallow alluvials on the Loddon River
at Newstead (Vic.), recorded a loss of
£3324 for the year to end March last.
Last div. was Is. a share in December,
1944. The dredge closed down from
January 8 to March 18 last, while the
Loddon was being diverted from its old
course to the new one, which had been
in preparation for it over the pre-
ceding four years. The idea is to en-
able the dredge to effectively dig along
the old course of the stream. Last term
it operated in marginal-grade wash on
the edge of the property. Hence the drop
in yardage and grade of ground treated
and rise in costs. Here are operating re-
sults since mid-1938;
Year. Treated, Gr., Costs, Net ( Divs.— —>,
Mar., c.y. c.y. Pence. Profit. Share. Amt.
’OOO.
1939*.. 1,2X8 4.27 4.08 £73,410 4/- £50,000
1940 . . 2.286 4.34 3.68 157,591 11/- 137,500
1941 2,570 3.70 3.28 150,808 11/- 137,500
1942 .. 2,670 2.81 3.30 107,210 7/6 93,750
1943 .. 2,061 3.16 4.27 88,468 6/- 75,000
1944 . . 2,116 2.67 4.08 70,752 6/- 75,000
1945 .. 1,807 1.54 4.86 12,053 1/- 12,500
1946 . . 1,190 1.21 5.95 3,342 f Nil Nil
Total 15,915 3.05 £656,950 46/6 £581,250
* 8 months. t Loss.
Including overhaul of the dredge during
the shut-down, construction of earth-
works, compensation paid to land-
owners and purchase of land, total costs
last term were 7.15 d. per c.y. as against
6.06 d. for the previous year. There is
still about 4,200,000 c.y. of “profitable”
ground to treat, probably averaging about
2gr. In addition there are the adjoining
Guildford lease upstream, jointly held by
Gold Mines of Australia and Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance. Here boring, not
yet complete, suggests some 6,000,000 c.y.
of 2.2 gr, dirt, similar in character to the
ground downstream. No details con-
cerning sale of this property to Victoria
Dredging have yet been announced.
When the books closed cash, debtors’ bal-
ances, etc., totalled £17,275, and stores
£19,979. Creditors figured for £6128.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s. shares at
13s. 9d., or thereabouts,
# * * ♦
Ora Banda United, a London-controlled
co. with goldmining interests on the
Broad Arrow field (W.A.), wants £40,000
from the Federal Government to reach
production. It claims to have exposed
£1,000,000-worth of oxidised ore above
the 250 ft. horizon, and says there is more
wealth, not taken into account, in the
sulphide zone. A mining man who was
one of the originals at 0.8. A. says that,
like the near-by Wentworth, Ora Banda
United is a large low-grade proposition,
which might prove difficult to work at a
profit with the price of gold and costs
as they are. The present co. took over
the property from B.A.N.Z. Mines in
1934. Before the war estimated positive
ore was put at 727,600 tons, averaging
4.3dwt. i
* * * He '
May development report of North
Kalgurli (W.A.) mentions that on the
No. 3 level of the North Kalgurli shaft
values reached 50dwt. a ton. On the
No. 5 level a cut of 17ft. averaged
45.2dwt., while at the No. 7 level of the
same workings assays exceeded 48dwt.
In the Kalgurli shaft workings 50dwt.
values were exposed in the south drive
Of the No. 6 level. The June report
records a falling off in these high values,
but states that 21dwt. and 28dwt. ore
was exposed during that month in the
North Kalgurli shaft, and that on the
Kalgurli block 34dwt. ore was struck in
a winze 80ft. below the surface, and con-
tinued down to 152 ft., the deepest point
reached.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) gleefully announces
that borehole No. 3 on the 962 ft. level
has penetrated on the western boundary
4ft. of ore of an average value of
18.83dwt. a ton. This strike, it says, con-
firms that of No. 65 borehole, which dis-
closed a core length of 1 lift, of 9.l7dwt.
ore at a vertical depth of 920 ft.
# * * *
Laterite Gold Mines, an Adelaide co.
with little in hand, is asking shareholders
for £3OOO to pay for a five-head mill
which it proposes to install on the New
Golden Pole at Davyhurst (W.A.), over
which it holds an option. Davyhurst has
been producing gold for over 50 years,
but so far the payable stuff has been con-
fined to shallow depths.
* * * *
“Goldie”: Hammer and tap, the old-
fashioned means of flogging drills into
rock, is still used to advantage by pros-
pectors on small shows ; but hand-steel
has given way to the jackhammer on jobs
of any permanence or importance. Plant
is a bit expensive ; a suitable compressor
may cost about £lOO secondhand. This
will require an engine of 15 h.p. or
thereabouts to work one jackhammer
satisfactorily. Some prospectors have
succeeded in converting an old car en-
gine into a compressor at the cost of a few
pounds. The engine is converted to two-
stroke by altering the ratio of tappet shaft
drive, A steel plate replaces the ordinary
cylinder head, and the tappets to inlet
valves are taken off. Intake is through
independent valves with weak springs
fitted in the plate over each cylinder,
and air is taken off at some pressure
through the exhaust. Another car en-
gine is usually coupled as the driving
medium, running on kerosene if a device
for preheating the fuel is added. Old
T-model engines are favored, and I’ve
seen a pair mounted on wheels as a
staunch portable unit with small receiver.
Stationary jobs won’t require air receiver
if 200-300 feet of 2in. piping is used ;
the rest of the pipes may be l^in.


Is*
m
Mm
is t/te
Inserted on Behalf
of the Brands of
The United
Distillers Pty. Ltd.
The Distillers Cor-
poration Pty. Ltd.
Federal Distilleries
Pty. Ltd.
Successful men in all walks of life know the value of those
pleasant moments at the close of the day when a small quantity
of whisky helps taut nerves relax.
There are reasons for preferring whisky. First, it aids instead
of taxing the digestion, because its composition is particularly
pure.
Second, the quantity needed for healthful stimulation is small.
Moderate use is wise use . . . and also, it is wise to insist on
an acknowledged quality brand.
The best Australian brands are never less than five years old,
ensuring the wholesomeness of really mellow whisky.
Wll/24
SUN DRY SHOWS
"A DREAM PLAY."
Shelley claimed that the song is more
important than the meaning—supported
to some extent by the emotional satis-
faction derived from the beauty of ballet
even when its symbolism eludes the in-
telligence. Which dictum, applied to
Strindberg’s “A Dream Play” at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Sydney, should
console those who come out from it in a
cloud of bewilderment. There is, in the
conception and construction of the play,
an elusive beauty or fascination that
arrests the attention and holds it long
after the occasional incoherency and dull
pessimism of its content are forgotten.
The fascination is in the real, dramatic
presentation of the unreality of a dream,
and then again in the manipulation of a
real plot or story until it seems to take
on the unreality of an illusion. The
story—of the god Indra’s daughter des-
cending to earth to see if men have a right
to complain of their lot—is substantial
and coherent, yet it is told in an accurate
depiction of the unconscious and uncon-
trolled wandering of the mind., The play
has neither time nor space; it is “a
medley of memories, experiences, free
fancies, absurdities and improvisation;
the characters split, double, multiply,
vanish, solidify, blur, clarify”; people
and ideas seem to hover maddeningly just
beyond the edge of thought; sequences
break and change inexplicably. And yet
the whole retains the tenuous continuity
of a dream.
As a purely subjective thinker Strind-
berg is unable to comprehend other
people’s thought and, therefore, unable
to create other people. Anything outside
his own experience is beyond him, and
he is capable only of recreating himself
and his experiences, or dummies to
mouth his ideas and sentiments. Even
with those limitations he could possibly
have run close to greatness. But, lacking
the essential quality, the strength to take
him through and above his own misfor-
tunes and suffering to the tranquil de-
tachment of true philosophy, he sees
only his own misery and despair. And,
in frantic attempts at self-justification, he
magnifies his personal story into the
complete human tragedy, excusing his
own failure as part of the inescapable
fate of mankind.
That is the essence of what the
Daughter of the Gods finds on earth—
Strindberg’s personal misery and failure
served in several different guises to
represent the broad human tragedy. Her
repeated wailing refrain “Men are to be
pitied” is the author saying “I am to be
pitied.” If the gloomy Norwegian had
shown her his own story only as such,
shown her human greatness, human
frailty and human comedy, “A Dream
Play” would have had both strength and
beauty.
Whatever can be said about the play,
two things are obvious: it is interesting,
and, with its cast of nearly 40 players,
its frequent changes of scene and its
mystic symbolism, a potential headache
for producers and players. A slip either
way could shatter its dreamlike quality
or carry it into complete incoherence.
Guided by Dr. Raoul Cardamatis,
Doris Fitton’s Independents are giving
it an excellent performance. Pamela
Bromley-Smith, as the inquiring visitor
to earth, is never off the stage, and,
in both speech and action, gives an
extremely arduous role beauty, in-
telligence and mysticism. At times
her feeling overcomes her enuncia-
tion and, in the final scenes, her con-
trolled intensity seems occasionally to run
into uncontrolled enthusiasm, but her
performance, like the play, has qualities
beyond its faults. The majority of a big
cast show surprising sureness and
accuracy in handling characters that are
the unhuman distortions of a dream, and
have to be maintained as such.
Lighting and staging are remarkably
skilful, the latter contributing largely to
the atmosphere of illusion. A further un-
intentional contribution to the same
atmosphere was the lifting of the curtain
three times to show the Poet kneeling at
the empty altar after the Daughter had
ascended. Lifting it once to show she
had gone aloft was sufficient —raising it
a second and third time on the same
scene was rather like a conjuror turning
the bag inside out and shaking it to
show that the rabbit really had vanished.
Music in the Cathedral.
The Bach-Handel festival in St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, was inaugurated
for the first time in Australia by Pro-
fessor He’inze, Dr. Floyd and the A.B.C.
string orchestra. The audience could
listen to a concerto grosso by Handel or
a suite by Bach and at the same time
look at the architecture with which it
was surrounded.
There were melodies, harmonies and
phrases around them, architecturally
speaking, and the way in which the elec-
tric lights fell on a wall or cornice, a
shrine or a piece of carving was just as
exciting as the music. The choruses,
solos, arias and trumpet obligatos in the
Gothic columns were just as stimulating
as the faultless fluting of Richard Chugg
in a Bach piece or the sensitive perform-
ance of a Handel opus by Dr. Floyd on
the finest organ in Australia.
Their environment may have infected
the musicians, or it may have been the
acoustics, but they gave one of the alert-
est performances provided in Melbourne
for a long time. Professor Heinze’s con-
ducting seemed more than usually exalted.
Bach wrote his music to be performed
in churches, and Handel wrote his con-
certos for concert halls and theatres, but
the works of both were pre-eminently
adapted for performance in a cathedral.
St. Paul’s proved an ideal place, and what
was lost in volume in the vast spaces
between the arches was returned in
lucidity and clearness.
•i* •!*
Melbourne’s musical frenzy has ex-
tended to the suburbs, and now no self-
respecting council is complete without its
organisation. No fewer than 12 choral or
orchestral societies have been fbrmed in
the last three years, and most of them
are of no mean musical standard. South
Melbourne has its Philharmonic Society,
conducted by Oscar Mendelsohn, who
organised the musical potentialities of the
Air Force when he was in it. Under the
baton of Otto Grobbecker, Footscray is
now better known for its symphony
orchestra of 43 members than for the
aroma that has been subject of a million
Tiv. jokes. Marcus White, the young
English conductor, runs St. Kilda’s col-
lection, which is already touring more
musically benighted suburbs, and Dr.
Herman Schildberger runs Brighton and
Camberwell Philharmonics. Footscray is
contemplating a concert bowl in one of
its parks. Caulfield and Kew will be in
the race soon.
* * * *
Patrick’s “Hasty Heart,” at Adelaide
Royal, is set in a convalescent ward of
a Burma hospital. It is finely acted by
the varied types, but the author has left
his main idea —01 a Scot who has but a
few weeks to live and doesn’t realise it—
for the cheap humor of his kilt, so that
the tragedy ends in a roar of laughter.
Gwenda Wilson is the only woman. John
Wood the Scot, Peter French the Ameri-
can and Conabere the Digger have the
best chances.
Sumner Locke-Elliot’s “Invisible Cir-
cus,” at Adelaide Tivoli, is a savage
satire on commercial radio stations. It
is set in Australia, but clearly modelled
on the U.S.A. conventions. Jack Ham
produces, with a large and clever cast,
and rarely has the Repertory known such
uncontrolled laughter.
Artbursts.
“F.S.”: The first thing that strikes the
eye at Rah Fizelle’s show at Myer’s Art
Gallery in Melbourne is the sculpture.
It is carved in teak, is smooth and shiny,
and appears to have received a coating
of French polish. Some of it is priced as
high as 120 guineas and it is all curves
and knobs and unlike; anything in Nature.
Some of the landscapes, showing the
artist’s characteristic fineness of percep-
tions, are very much better work.
¥ * .1! *
Opening Charles Bush’s show in Mel-
bourne, Frank Clarke said that Mr. Bush
was one of the young men who, in a few
years, would be on the crest of a new
wave of artists. There is no need to
cavil at this judgment. Mr. Bush is a
26-year-old painter -who, after serving
with the artillery in the last war, became
an official artist. His technical equip-
ment has enabled him to make a running
commentary on military events in Timor.
His portrait of a girl looking out from
under a hat has something arresting about
it, and “The Fish Buyers,” a landscape,
has a touch of freshness in it. He has
made a beginning and has something to
build on.
At the Talkies.
The causes of the argument between
British and American censors about the
acreage of nakedness displayed by the
low-cut dresses of Rita Hayworth and
Margaret Lockwood can be witnessed in
“Gilda” (Sydney State) and “The
Wicked Lady” (Esquire) respectively.
Miss Hayworth, in the course of a melo-
drama of spies and romance in an ex-
travagant South American gambling joint,
performs a dance in keeping with the
joint and wears a dress at little more than
half mast. Miss Lockwood, in an equally
melodramatic piece about a Lady of the
Restoration who took time off from her
Lordship to indulge in highway robbery
and a love affair with spirited highway-
man (James Mason), wears an appropri-
ate Restoration costume. The dresses or
both are equally revealing, but, since the
intention of Miss Hayworth’s is display,
while Miss Lockwood’s is simply the
appropriate costume to go with the period,
the latter is the least offensive.
* * * *
“Lover Come Back” (Lyceum) is light,
bedroom comedy about a wife (Lucille
Ball) who waited dutifully while her hus-
band (George Brent) spent two years
overseas as a correspondent and a kind
of modern Don Juan. The reconcilia-
tion is inevitable after she hands him a
few doses of the same medicine. V era
Zorina figures in a minor role why a
ballet dancer of her ability has to be
coqtent with bit parts in odd films is a
minor mystery.
«*♦ • •
Anyone who has not been touched b}
the suffering of a cow deprived of its
calf can witness a passable representa-
tion of the situation in “To Each His
Own” at Sydney Prince Edward. Olivia
de Havilland is the girl who bears the
illegitimate child of an aviator killed in
the 1914-18 war and, to have the child
without the stigma of illegitimacy, she
arranges for it to be parked on someone
else’s doorstep with the intention o
adopting it herself after it is found, un-
fortunately, the owners of the doorstep
give the child to someone else and its
mother spends the next 20-odd years in
bovine suffering. When a reunion is
finally arranged Miss de Havilland d
everything short of mooing and the cans
—pardon—son’s bellow of ‘Mother
should delight anyone who owns a cotv,
or any cow that owns a calf.


m
This may look like
a fancy costume to
you hut these pants
are the very best
owned by a Chinese
peasant who came to
town humbly hoping to
receive something from
the last clothes parcels.
MAKE IT YOUR JOB TO SEND A
REPLACEMENT FROM YOUR
WARDROBE
In the war-devastated areas of our Allies overseas
particularly in China, men, women and children desperately
need clothing to keep them warm during the bitter Winter
weather ahead. Their inadequate food makes warm clothing
even more important. We must spare all we can from this
fortunate, well-fed country and you are asked to give all
you can in the way of spare clothing. Hunt through your
cast-offs. Clothes needn’t be smart, just warm and clean
and you can have the satisfaction of knowing that some-
where in the world someone is wrapped in a garment
of yours and is thankful for its protection.
t
WHAT CAN YOU SPARE THAT THEY CAN WEAR?
give your spare clothing to
7'he 1946 Australian National
Clothing Collection for Over-
seas Relief is a combined effort
on the part of the forty-eight
relief agencies which comprise
U.NRR.A.
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED
NATIONS BELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION
RING YOUR LOCAL COUNCIL NOW.. . THtY’U T(U YOU WHAT TO DO
U 4.52.76
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
There couldn’t be a more pleasant day for
racing than the A.J.C. had for its meeting at
Randwick on Saturday. A striking change
these days is the scarcity of uniforms: a covey
of seven military cops in the Paddock stood
out like an army.
Bernborough made it 11 in a row by beating
Magnificent in the w.f.a. Warwick Stakes, with
Abbeville third. There’s no doubt about Bern-
borough—he’s all horse. He had to be to win.
Magnificent broke away to a good lead, and
was still in front when they turned for home,
with Abbeville close on the outside. It made
a perfect pocket that a Gum Flat jockey would
have avoided. A. Mulley rode Bernborough
straight into it. Abbeville moved slightly in,
and if he could have stayed there Bernborough
would have been properly boxed. Presently
Abbeville shifted out, and with no effort Bern-
borough went through and, his rider easing him
on the post, won by a neck.
Mulley’s explanation of the easing up, when
hailed before the stewards, was that it was
Bernborough’s first run for some time, and he
wanted to give him as easy a race as possible;
which could, perhaps, have its points. But it
looked plainly bad.
When they came in, Magnificent had had
enough. Normally a placid horse, he was
nervous, circling about and nibbling at the
grass. Bernborough, with his head in the air,
looked as if he could have gone out at once
and done it again. < A real horse. For the
benefit of any who haven’t seen him, he’s an alert
big fellow with wonderful shoulders; a deep
bay color, with a lavish amount of. black tail
and mane, and a loosely spread, silky black
forelock fringe coming down over his eyes.
Very straight forelegs, which he keeps straight
in walking, like goosestepping. But the most
striking thing about him is his head. In con-
trast to the rich bay of the rest of him, his
face is a light-tan bay; very wide above the
eyes, long-nosed, and the whole face extra-
ordinarily bony. Not a good head for a
champion, but certainly a striking one.
A most remarkable thing, especially con-
sidering Magnificent’s pacemaking effort, was
that it took Bernborough 1.26? for the shade
over seven furlongs, whereas, in winning the
Hobartville Stakes (three-year-olds) from Two
Grand and Flying Duke, the Mr. Standfast
colt Prince Standard (W. Briscoe) cut out the
distance in 1.26. It was an easy win by over
two lengths, Prince Standard coming with a
splendid run down midfield in the straight. The
winner, benefitted by recent racing, was per-
fectly turned out by the D. Lewis stable. Flying
Duke looked well enough, but should benefit
greatly by the run.
An interesting runner in the Hobartville was
the New Zealander Barwon, who races here as
Lord Barwon to permit of the books roaring
such familiar battlecries as “Three to one bar
one” without punters being misled by the pun.
Lord Barwon merits on appearance his eleva-
tion to the peerage. By Foxbridge, he’s a most
stately black colt, who looks as if he’d be
right in his element in a showring. He put in
some fair galloping in the middle stages.
Another Enzedder, Hiraji, failed in the same
race, so perhaps N.Z. form isn’t what it used
to be. Incidentally, away back in the carefree
’sixties there was an Australian Barwon who
was pretty good: winner of the Victoria Derby
and St. Leger, the first Australian Cup and a
three-miles event of those days which bore the
expansive title the Victorian, New Zealand and
Tasmanian Champion Stakes.
Shannon (D. Munro) had a high-class win
in the Campbelltown Handicap. Carrying 9.11,
the Midstream five-year-old covered the six fur-
longs 19 yards in I.IIL swooping on them over
the last bit to down Puffham (most honest of
horses) by half a length, with the Victorian
sprinter Felstar next. Sent from No. I possie
to the outside of the field of 18, Gay King
was raced at once to a several-lengths lead —
and they can’t go at both ends. Felstar also
started from wide out, and looks an early
winner.
Anything that can beat Shannon should win
the Epsom. At the weights and the distance
Puffham might do it. He’s smart enough to
be well up all the way—highly important in
a big Epsom field. It will be a remarkable
double if Shannon brings it off: he won both
the Campbelltown and the Epsom last year.
Grafton Cup winner Spearex (W. Cook) won
the 12-furlongs Spring Handicap from Buzz Off
and Cisco. It was a stout win, though he got
there by only a head; but the Metropolitan
will be harder. Spearex’s ownership is worth
setting down: he is raced by Schwinghammer,
Malouf and Yarad.
The Three-year-old Handicap, won by the
Royal Step colt Monogram (G. Moore) from
Concerto and Decorate, might have had a
different result if the Golden Sovereign colt
Prince Consort, from Newcastle, had had a
better spin. Extra-big for a just-turned three-
year-old, Prince Consort was going nicely well
up in the field when he appeared to take a
bad bump that knocked him back to last. Yet,
sustaining a long run, he got to fourth place
in the field of 17.
Divisions of the mile Glenlee Handicap were
respectively won by Crusader (A. Mulley), from
Huamight and High Tide, and Debenture (W.
Cook), who downed Native Son and Laudus.
The Westralian Air Flare turned out in the first
division, and was close on the heels of a
bunched half-dozen at the end. Air Flare has
the cut of a good hard stayer, A four-year-old
bay gelding, more should be heard of him when
he faces up to a bit of distance.
* * * *
Mentone on Saturday was a sad day for
punters. Black Law, hot favorite in the Park-
dale Welter first division, stumbled soon after
the start, and H. Badger went over his head,
with a bit of broken bridle. The race was won
by Suthron, from Mountjoy and Orthodox —
all three of them at 50 to 1.
In the Epsom Cup, won by the good Tas-
manian performer Night Fighter from Rose Bay
and Contact, the favorite, Eagle Flight, broke
down badly, while Lunar Lynx fell ana m
doing so brought down Gala Chief. In other
events, too, punters were buffeted. Priority, at
25 to 1, landed the Murray Hurdle by half a
head from the 100-to-l shot Mac David, with
the favorite, Prince Danilo, third. The even-
money favorite Pero wasn’t in the.hunt in the
Manumbar Handicap, won by Amelia from
Royal Tan and Wandilow; another favorite,
Noble Prince, was downed by River Hero, with
Grand Legend third, in the Mqrdiallic Stakes
second division, the first division of which
“Maybe I Was a bit hasty sacking that caddy.”
had seen the well-supported second favorite,
Kind Link, b'eat the favorite, Invasion Chief,
with Raboa next, while the final event —the
13-furlongs Cheltenham Handicap—saw_ Latani
land the money from Dan Fox, with the
favorite, Irate, third.
Only in one event the Parkdale Welter
second division —did the favorite come home;
the South Australian On Target getting there
from Lynmouth and Chief Pilot. A Spearfelt.
five-year-old horse, On Target put. up an out-
standing performance, with real Cup promise
in it. ' 1
* * * *
Son of this page’s former writer “Pilot”
(J. F. Dexter), Cliff Dexter has now also
passed on in Sydney. A Digger of the present
war, wearing a w.o’s. crown when last seen in
uniform, Cliff, like Alan, Harry and others of
the clan, was a first-rate writer on horses.
* ♦ * •
At Newcastle on Saturday a punter collected
a dividend of £BB-13 on a beastie called
Eurimey, second in a Maiden Handicap. Home-
leigh Dick won the seven-furlongs Cameron
Thousand.
* * * *
With leading jockey W. Briscoe riding in
Sydney, R. Maddock brought off a hat trick in
Brisbane—the first three Albion Park winners,
Myopia, Royal Master and Noble Queen. Be-
fore the day was out he was also home on
Stand Easy.
* * * •
For Canterbury (before acceptances);
Three-year-old Maiden (colts and geldings):
Man at Arms, 1; Tamasha, 2; Regal Light, 3.
Three-year-old Maiden (fillies); Timoana, 1;
Chanson Gai, 2; Shining Vision, 3. Canter-
bury Stakes (in the absence of Shannon):
Flight, 1; Magnificent, 2; Abbeville, 3. Can-
terbury Guineas: Prince Standard, J; Flying
Duke, 2; Prince Consort, 3. S.T.C. Handicap:
Sir Neith, 1; Codicil, 2; Cisco, 3.
* * * *
Mighty forward clashes have been
witnessed by enthusiastic crowds in
Maoriland, where strong provincial teams
have been flat out to beat the Australian
Rugby Union side. In four matches the
Australian vanguard has learnt a lot
about Maoriland forward tactics and has
held its own in the gruelling rucks. A
last-minute try by centre Mcßride gave
the Aussies a 17-15 win over Manawata-
Wanganui. Against Hawkes Bay-Poverty
Bay they found the fast ground to their
liking and, with the backs displaying their
best form so far, the visitors scored six
tries to two to win 19-11. With skipper
McLean, vice-captain Keith Windon and
Hodda still crocks, the Rugby Union has
had two players, Furness, the Randwick
hooker, and Hamilton, a utility forward
from Armidale, flown across the Tasman.
Randwick trounced Parramatta 30-11
on Saturday to be first past the post in
the Rugby Union competition. East
routed Gordon 38-3 and Drummoyne
downed University 21-15. Next Saturday
Randwick will meet East, and Parramatta
will oppose Drummoyne in the semi-
finals.
* * * *
Except at M.C.G., where Melbourne
had to beat North Melbourne —it made
no bones about it, leading all the way to
win by 17.11 to 11.10 —the V.F.L.
matches on Saturday meant nothing to
“the four,” whose points score left them
clear of the rest. So it’s to be Melbourne
against Footscray next Saturday in the
first semi-final, Essendon and Colling-
wood to follow. Footscray, as in other
years, began this one like champions,
downing team after team. Then, as in
other years, probably because other teams
ran themselves into form while Footscray
ran themselves ragged, a slight rot set in.
At Geelong on Saturday ’Scray looked
like a lot of Mallee juniors, and was
trounced 17.18 to 12.5. Best game of the
day was between Essendon and Richmond
—a point the difference at three-quarter
time and a point the difference at the
finish ; Essendon 16.18, Richmond 18.5.
Other games: South Melbourne 14.10,
St. Kilda 6.13; Carlton 15.11, Colling-
wood 14.12; Fitzroy 12.22, Hawthorn
9.15.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association has de-
cided to clean up ’the residential qualifi-
cation trouble. Henceforth grade players
must fill attestation forms before they
can put on flannels for clubs.
« * * ' •
Yorkshire’s victory over Sussex last
week gave the county its 22nd English
cricket championship. Although the title
began in 1873, Yorkshire didn’t get a
victory until 1893, but since 1919 the
county has had 13 wins in 22 seasons.
Yorkshire has Yardley, Hutton and. Gibb
in the M.C.C. team for Australia.
* * ' * *
Sad is the fate of C. P. Mead, who has
been stricken with blindness. For up-
wards of 20 years a front-rank batsman,
he twice made over 1000 runs in a month
(June, 1921, and July, 1923). In 1921 his
aggregate was 3170 and his average
54.65 ; in 1928, 3027 and 75.67. In four
other years he topped 2500. He was in
two teams that visited Australia. In
1911-12 he made 659 runs, av. 34.68, and
in 1928-29 460, av. 41.81, in 14 innings.
He was a polished batsman, but slow, as
so many English professionals are.
*'* * *
In the Australian hardcourt tennis
matches at Burwood (N.S. W.), several of the
Davis Cup training squad met unexpected
opposition. Colin Long (Vic.) kept Geoff
Brown hard at it before Brown won, 6-1,
4-6, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4, and W. Sidwell had a
hard tussle to down W. Skillicorn 4-6,
8-6, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3. Brown, after taking the
first set, looked a certain loser when Long
began to tie him in knots with perfect
placements, nice spinners over the net
and high lob shots which left Brown
standing at the net. Pails had an effort-
less 6-3, 6-2, 6-1 Win over May, while
Brodie (Vic.) beat Dart 6-4, 7-5, 6-1. In
the doubles Jack Crawford and Brodie,
after a scratchy start in which double
faults were frequent, beat O’Brien and
Brogan 11-9, 6-1, 6-2. The quarter-finals
will be played this week.
* * * *
Matched again with the N.Z. welter-
weight Clarrie Gordon, at Sydney
Stadium, “Tommy Burns” Murphy atoned
for his slovenly performance on the first
occasion. Instead of boxing defensively and
with little effect, “Burns” attacked from
the first bell, and, though taking delivery
of a few punches, had his opponent very
sick at “corners.” Gordon tried to take
the aggressive himself in the second
round, but took punishment instead, and
early in the third round his chin was an
open target for a short left swing that
had him out on his feet. Another left
knocked him under the ropes for more
than 10 seconds.
* * * *
For six rounds at Leichhardt Jimmy
Dundee put it all over George Sand£,
who was slow as treacle. In the seventh,
however, Dundee faded away all of a
sudden, and Sands had him down several
times before the affair was stopped in
the ninth, with Sands the winner. The
crowd didn’t like the look of it, and said
so with gibes, flouts and sneers. Jimmy
Hogg stopped Pat Tierney in the sixth
round of their contest for the N.S.W.
flyweight championship.


An A.M.P. Plan
for Family Security
Every married man needs a plan to care for his wife
and family when he will not be there to shield them.
The A.M.P. plan can provide : Money to pay debts,
including any mortgage that may be on his home
when he dies ; and Money to enable his widow to
carry on the family life.
Seize on the opportunity while you ore in good
health. Don’t delay until you cannot be accepted as a
member.
An A.M.P. plan is the safest, surest and quickest way
for a man to create an immediate Estate for the benefit
of his family.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office or representative
to-day for a plan to meet your particular needs.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
• AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through co-operation
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
and Canberra, A.C.T.
ff
SPREAD" OF INVESTMENT PROVIDES
SAFETY FOR YOUR SAVINGS
Even if- you wish to invest only £2O of your Capital you can obtain an
; interest in 20 leading Australian Companies by investing m
SELECTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
W Certificates. Booklet No. 23 explains it; your copy
post free on application to the Managers of the r
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
Ph r rsr - its
Business, Rollery. Etc
This Financial Year
The financial year now current is one in
which war does not actually figure but in
which the aftermath of war is clearly
evident. The hangover from war in-
cludes, mainly, production depression,
monetary inflation, high taxation. Aus-
tralia is not unaffected, either, by the
threat of starvation that hangs over many
countries, or by the lack of agreement by
major Powers on vital international
matters. We» are also interested in
Britain’s economic relations with the
United States and with the progress or
otherwise of the world bank and cur-
rency-fund proposals, generally referred
to as “Bretton Woods.” All these matters
tie up with the devastation and uncer-
tainty caused by six years, of war.
It is not the way of human nature to
readjust itself immediately to peace-time
circumstances after such an international
upheaval. Many young people know
more of war-time economic, political and
other arrangements than they do of peace-,
time conditions. In addition, some
burden of debt apd taxation in every
country that went to war is to a large
extent unavoidable, and is not to be dis-
missed with a wave of the hand now that
the conflict has ended. Also, production
systems deranged by war-time demands
cannot be reconverted to peace-time re-
quirements in a matter of weeks. In Aus-
tralia, nevertheless, a great deal more
progress towards rehabilitation of in-
dustry could have been made by now if
trade-unionists had shown a reasonable
readiness to co-operate in restoring our
former productive capacity in the matter
of civilian goods.
Coal is an outstanding case in point.
In 1942-43 the monthly average produc-
tion of black coal was 1,201,000 tons. In
1944.45 it fell to an average of 1,064,000
tons, and during the 1945-46 fiscal year
the average was well below a million tons.
Yet- there is no reconversion problem
here ; all that is necessary to get a record
quantity of coal is for miners to work
a reasonable amount of time each week.
It is not even asked that they necessarily
do more for their money—though that
would not hurt many of them. What is
urgently required on all sides is more
coal regardless of the increase in mining
costs that has taken place. With more
coal assured to industry all kinds of pro-
duction would get moving more quickly
than is now possible.
Another basic commodity that has very
little in the way of reconversion problems
is steel. Here is a product of which we
turned out, in 1941-42, 49 p.c. more than
the average for 1937-39, yet. the output
of which fell to an average of only 12 p.c.
higher in 1944-45, and to under the 1937-
39 average during 1945-46. For a time
during the war with Japan the loss of
ore-carriers (the ore comes from Iron
Knob, S.A.) affected steel and pig-iron
output. That problem is over, yet
production is a third less than it was
when Japan was invading New Guinea.
The reason for this fall is trace-
able to the lower coal production and to
labor troubles in the steel industry itself,
more particularly during the last Christ-
mas season. Irresponsible trade-union
behavior can be blamed for the whole
coal-steel impasse. The coal and steel
wanted in peace-time are identical with
the products turned out in larger quantities
during the war, so that there is no hold-
up merely because of technical or mech-
anical difficulties. The trouble is one for
which labor must answer.
Transport, and sea transport in par-
ticular, remains a big problem in the new
financial year. The railways are short of
coal, with services curtailed in propor-
tion. On the wharves and at sea there
has been a slowing down in service ren-
dered by waterside workers and seamen,
with a steep rise in costs. The “war”-risk
bonus is still being paid to many coastal
seamen, and the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is charterer of most of the
vessels, apparently running them at a
large loss. The Government will rarely
admit that its maritime employees are in
the wrong, and the more recalcitrant they
are the more it gives way to them. The
result of all this has been to reduce the
service rendered in the shipping industry
and to raise transport costs and taxes.
In other industries many war-time
“loadings” and concessions appear to be
“sticking” without anything in the way
of reciprocity by wage-earners. This is
not universally so, but it applies particu
larly in unions with large memberships.
Summarised, the coal, steel and ship-
ping position amounts to one of smaller
output or reduced service, higher costs,
with the tying-down of the. production
rate of other goods to the rate set in these
essential industries. workers in basic
industries hold the key to a return by the
whole Australian population to a better
standard of living and a more secure
economic and defence position. Without
a doubt the entire nation is now being
held back by less-than-normal coal
supplies, and all that is clear as to the
“reason” is a vague demand for “nation-
alisation” that seems to emanate from
Communist factions that are allowed free
rein by the Chifley Government.
Lower production and/or accumulated
demand, rising costs and war-time credit
expansion are responsible mainly for in-
creases in the price of a number of raw
materials recently, including wool. Wheat
is also at a high price, whilst the principal
base metals have shown steep rises since
the end of the war. Whatever export
surplus Australia may have of these
materials will bring in an increased
income during 1946-47, which will tend
to offset increasing production costs. At
the same time the rises are indicative of
depreciated currency levels, and there are
many people who will feel the burden
of increasing costs without. gaining any
benefits from rising prices. Monetary
savings will also be the worse for the
inflation, and price-control appears to
have very little value so far as home-
building costs are concerned.
During 1945-46 Australian “war” ex-
penditure was vastly in excess of
estimates, even though there was
only two months of actual war
in the period. As a result, borrowing and
taxation remained at a high level, while
credit expansion was a consequence of
high Government spending. Again some-
thing like £lOO million was added to
savings-bank deposits, which were used
largely to fill Government loans.
The Labor Government is contracting
its huge spendings very reluctantly be-
cause of the political pull it believes these
spendings bring to it. It is using not only
taxation, public borrowing and bank
credit to finance its outgoings; it is em-
ploying various sums recovered from pre-
vious years’ expenditure to keep the
stream going, including many millions re-
ceiyed from disposals and £2B million
from the British Government. It appar-
ently is giving little thought to the idea
. of a balanced Budget and debt reduction,
though such things are essential in the
present state of affairs.
Labor’s tax cuts during the current
year, such as they are, add to spending
forces rather than to production incen-
tives. Investors and industry get the least
relief of all, though they continue to
carry the heaviest burden. At both the
£5OO and £lOOO income levels the re-
ceiver of investment income pays
p.c. more tax than does the wage- or
salary-earner. And dividends are taxed
in the company’s hafids already.
Among the many artificialities common
to the Australian scene today are ficti-
tious interest rates and anomalous share
prices. Because all ordinary shares above
par are subject to a prices ceiling, which
in many cases is below what can be got
for the scrip outside Australia, good
, stocks are being tightly held by investors,
which has meant an increased demand for
inferior scrip. Good stuff, on the whole,
is undervalued, while lower-quality shares
are often overvalued. Low arbitrary in-
terest rates set by the Government are
also having an effect upon the investment
market and upon the earnings of life-
assurance concerns. The low cost of
borrowing, even if it be bank-credit bor-
rowing rather than genuine public invest-
ment, has also been an encouragement to
excessive Government spending.
In 1946-47 Australia should get a
sharp taste of what post-war economic
conditions are going to be like. Inevit-
ably a great deal will depend upon the
result of the Federal elections, and upon
whether the Menzies policy is to be
allowed its opportunity or not. Aus-
tralians are urgently in need of economic
as well as political leadership. They
have been without either for close on
five years.
The Newcastle steelworks of B.H.P.
have been operating at only about 66 p.c.
capacity, chairman H. G. Darling told
shareholders in Melbourne last week.
“This untenable position,” said Mr. Darl-
ing, “is directly attributable to industrial
instability and lack of discipline within
the coalmining industry itself, and until
this problem is solved neither the steel
industry nor any other industry depen-
dent on coal can give of its best, and the
community will continue to suffer short-
ages in goods and dislocation of services.”
Shareholders were also told that it took
about a third longer than before the war
for a B.H.P. vessel to complete a round
trip from Newcastle and Whyalla and
return, the extra time taken being due to
stevedoring conditions in port. The co.’s
financial year was one of coal shortage,
strikes in the steel industry itself, rising
costs and pegged prices. There was a
slump of nearly 40 p.c. in the working
surplus. Profit on trading, after provid-
ing £432,327 less for depreciation and
£450,000 less for taxation, was £266,211
lower at £162,408. A larger income from
investments —Australian Iron and Steel
paid its first ord. div. during the term—
was responsible for .the net profit being
shown at £779,291, against £759,367 in
the preceding year. The div. was kept at
5 p.c. Net profit of the co. and sub-
sidiaries was £775,543 for the year, com-
pared with £1,030,266 in 1945.
On the day of B.H.P.’s annual meet-
ing there were scrip sales in Sydney
and Melbourne at 3d. and 6d. below the
ceiling price (485.. 9d.). It should be
plain to most investors, however, that
B.H.P. shares are essentially a holding
proposition. The enterprise has enor-
mous work ahead of it, and the industrial
and economic set-up cannot remain for
ever in its present obstructive condition.
*' * * *
Heavy selling at prices well below the
rather imaginative quotations established
during the initial five-months holding
period was a feature of the first unre-
stricted sales of shares in Bitumen and
Oil Refineries. During the enforced
holding period there were “buyer” quotes
of 11s. and more in the unlisted section
on Sydney ’Change, but when full-scale
dealings opened on August 29 there was
a quick slump to Bs. 6d., strengthening
to 9s. 3d. later; The shares are paid to ss.
The sharemarket history of Bitumen
and Oil draws attention to the unrelia-
bility of “buyer” quotations for new
stocks inside the period in which holders
are forbidden by the Treasury to sell.
Bruck Mills ss. scrip is quoted at 12s. 6d.,
buyer, for instance. This is no guide
whatever to the market value of the
shares, which might be higher or lower.
Unless special Treasury permission to sell
is granted to a holder of these shares,
there can be no transactions in them for
many weeks yet.
* * * *
One of the two vessels to resume inter-
state passenger carriage after war-time
disruption, the Ormiston was speedily
tied up through action by the Cooks
Union. The Ormiston resumed with the
same number of galley staff (nine, in-
cluding two scullerymen) as before the
war, though the vessel now carries only
104 passengers, against 120 in 1939, when
the union considered the staff in the
galley to be adequate. During the vessel s
service as a troopship, carrying 673
people, there were 14 in the galley, in-
cluding a cooks’ attendant. The cooks
are now demanding the retention or the
attendant, though a manning committee
appointed by the Navigation Department
decided that the present manning was
adequate. The union refused to attend
the hearing of the inquiry. The cooks
waited till the Ormiston reached its home
port of Sydney and then walked off me
ship. The ship sailed on Saturday on
the cooks’ terms, subject to review of the
case in the meantime.


For
Fine
Food
well served
RESTAURANTS
OF DISTINCTION
MAXSEASE
the perfect comfort malo
support for everyiuan’a
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
PLAN FOR HIS
PUT
W
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing fgr a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available!
equitable probate
£■ general insurance CO.LTD.
food off/ce.37Z-373 tfveenft, £nst>one
WINOEUO HOUS*, ANOEL PLACE,SYDNEY
COLLINS' HOUSE,‘COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ŗ
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
300 C.P.
Model Ex 100
STORM LANTERNS
TABLE LAMPS
SUSPENSION LAMPS
RADIATORS
INSPECTION LAMPS
WALL LAMPS .
FLOODLIGHT PROJECTORS
Be sure you buy a
TILLEY
\ Look for the name!
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
Be sure you buy a TILLEY
Look for the name!
Floodlight Projector
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
Australian Representatives:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Lower Taxes Essential
In his platform speech Mr. Menzies
said of the Liberals; “We are a tax-
reduction party.” The Bulletin main-
tained right through the war that the
end of the conflict, allowing a period for
post-war cleaning-up, should bring sub-
stantial reductions in taxation. And this
was wholly in accord with the policy
which was enunciated on these pages
simultaneously, namely, that while hos-
tilities were v in progress the greatest
possible amount of war expenditure
should be paid for, as we went along,
out of taxes, and that the mass of
consumers should be called upon to bear
their share as well as the investing classes,
which have been taxed often to excess.
This war-time high-taxation policy was
necessary to restrict credit inflation.
As recently as within the last couple
of years there were doubts in many
quarters that taxation could be reduced.
Mr. Calwell told a Victorian audience
that the people should expect very little
in the way of tax reductions from his
Government when the war ended, his
reason for continuing this financial
oppression being that the interest on the
1939-45 war debt would make it neces-
sary. As The Bulletin pointed out at
the time, the increased interest bill arising
from the growth in the war debt was a
trifle alongside the expansion in Com-
monwealth taxation levies since Sep-
tember, 1939. The real desire of the
Labor party in keeping post-war taxation
rates high is to have within its own power
the spending of a large part of the
people’s money, thus dictating the econo-
mic life of the nation to a great extent
and exercising a big financial influence
over voters at election time. Wrapped
up with heavy taxation are matters of
“social security,” pensions and a swollen
Government payroll.
It was clear enough from the powers
asked for by the Labor Government at
the 1944 referendum that it was sought to
impose extreme socialistic controls upon
the people by alteration of legal aspects
of the constitution. Failing to get public
approval of its plans, the Government
(the opinion was expressed on these
pages) would try to achieve its purposes
by financial means —that is, through the
control of credit by a Treasury-managed
Commonwealth Bank, and through a
wide redistribution and re-direction of
incomes by means of heavy taxation. And
that has proved to be the fundamental
reason for the stubborn refusal of the
Chifley Government to give enthusiastic
attention to the matter of tax-reduction
now that hostilities have been ended for
more than a year. Its concern about
the inflation problem is shown to be half-
hearted when one considers the continued
inflationary incidence of indirect taxes —
such as sales tax —on the cost of living.
Certainly it is right enough that spend-
ing power should be restrained, by sub-
stantial taxation and other means, dur-
ing a period in which goods are in short
supply for civilians. But the taxation
revenue so derived should be used in a
way that will hold, and subsequently re-
duce, the inflation menace, not add to it.
Excessive Government expenditure such
as we have been seeing for years past
has been one of the prime causes of our
inflation problem, and the Government
has shown no energy whatsoever in aiding
the anti-inflation forces —those which
contend that extravagant and waste-
ful public expenditure should be cut to
the bone and that the factions opposing
a bountiful production of goods and ser-
vices should be treated as outlaws.
That the Labor Government was, in
practice, lukewarm on the question of
combating inflation, however noisy it may
have been vocally, was demonstrated
when it amended the Financial Agree-
ment with the States in 1945, and gave
them 39 years more in which to pay off
their “special deficit loans” incurred
during 1927 to 1935. There were some
huge State surpluses during 1939-45. It
has at no time shown any desire to reduce
the national debt, preferring always to
use its revenue, however huge and ex-
tracted from the citizen at whatever cost,
in politically-directed expenditure. It
even appropriates income from disposals
of war-time stores to meet its excessive
spendings, often deducting them from an
item of expenditure before putting the
net figure before the taxpayer.
The question of whether we are to have
high or low taxation resolves itself very
largely into the problem of whether we.
are to have socialism or democratic free
enterprise. It is impossible for Aus-
tralians to live other than under social-
istic restraint whilst taxation remains at
its present level and the flow of credit is
directed by the Treasury in the prevailing
manner. If the free wishes of the people
are to be met, and outlets for their ener-
gies and enterprise allowed to the full,
then the individual must be permitted
much wider latitude in his earning
power, his spending power and in the em-
ployment of his savings. He cannot have
this latitude while he is subject to con-
fiscatory taxation and restrictive financial
control.
Paradoxically, the greater amount of
debt a Government owes to the people
the stronger are the shackles by which
the State holds the individual. So it is
with the taxation scale —the heavier the
exactions the greater the control over
the taxpayer. With the very taxation it
levies a Government may set up institu-
tions competing with private enterprise,
by their inefficiency requiring still heavier
tax levies upon private enterprise and the
wage-earning taxpayer as the years go on.
If we demand lower taxation we turn
away from socialism towards free and
individual enterprise. If we demand a
renunciation of socialism in favor of
democratic self-government and self-
determination we must ask for a reduc-
tion of taxation to a point where it ceases
to be a controlling factor in our economic
existence and becomes merely the cost
of a well-administered Government. It
would appear, on this analysis, that the
majority of Australians want a big re-
duction in taxation from whichever end
you approach the question.
It is believed here that a large reduc-
tion in taxation rates over the next three
years is not only possible, but essential.
The reductions must be made with full
regard to the inflation danger, and for
that reason indirect taxes, which enter into
the cost of living, should be given special
attention. Taxes that are holding back
the forces of production should also be
revised, while in general the problem
will be one of adjusting the whole taxa-
tion scale so that production and real
investment in new industry are en-
couraged and excessive consumption and
spending discouraged. It would be better,
indeed, if a certain amount of taxation
were levied for the purpose of redeeming
the war debt instead of being levied
merely for the purpose of political spend-
ing. This would increase the financial
security of the taxpayer and reduce future
interest burdens.
The whole'key to this taxation-reduc-
tion problem will be found in production
itself. The greater the national produc-
tion becomes the greater will the scope
for tax-relief be and the less likelihood
will there then exist of an inflationary
reaction. It does not appear that the
present Federal (“Labor”) Government
has the slightest hope, in the first in-
stance, of getting the coal production that
is essential to a big increase in the out-
put of consumer goods and capital
assets, including more homes and bigger
factories.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Seaforth”: “Queer cove, that new
bloke who took over Scotty’s old place at
the Six Mile Crossin’,” remarked Dan
Riley. “Talks to himself all day and as
full of crazy ideas as a dog is of fleas.
Now, take snakes, for instance. He
reckons the way we knock ’em off around
here isn’t sporting. ‘Man,’ he said to me
the other day, ‘is unfair. He has too
much advantage over the snake. He
doesn’t meet the reptile on his own level.’
Do you know what he says he does?
Well, when he wants to lay one out he
goes down on his belly with a waddy in
his hand and crawls up to the snake. I
said to him, sarcastic - like, ‘That’s
orright, but don’t y’ think you’ve still got
the advantage? After all, the snake can’t
have a smack back at you with a waddy.’
That knocked him off his perch for a
bit, and after he puzzled things out he
said t’ me, quiet-like, T see, so y’ think I
don’t give ’em a jonnick go? Well, do y’
think it would be better if I chucked the
waddy away and went for ’em with me
teeth like me dawg does?’ ”
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”: Sorry to have offended
“G’roper” (B. 14/8/’46) by miscalling his
Westralian fish, but what gave him the
bright idea of mis-spelling our tailor by
reason of an alleged habit of grabbing
little fish by the tail? If such authorities
as Ogilby, McCulloch and Roughley all
unite in spelling it “tailor” on account of
the shearing action of its blade-like jaws,
their combined authority is enough for a
simple t’othersider like me. Anyhow,
tailor don’t tackle little fish only, but will
tear ravenously into anything of their
size, be it of their own kind or not.
And, in going for such victims, they
deliver the shearing bite on the side as
often as not. Evidently “G.” has never
witnessed a tailor raid on a shoal of sea
mullet or he would know it. As for his
mythical Oriental with the feather-
decorated hook, the universal artificial
bait for tailor in Asiatic waters is a strip
of bright shell, pearl for preference, tied
a few inches above the hook to take the
attacker in the gills. Feathers would
need renewal too often for the Oriental
temperament, but the shell resists even
those tailor-shear jaws should they hap-
pen to reach it.
♦ * * *
“Kellyswinger”: “S.G.’s” Leghorn
rooster which extracted the piece of shell
from its hen’s gizzard (B. 7/8/’46) is only
a first-year med. student compared with
my Indian gamecock. Noticing one of
the pullets in trouble on the nest one
day, he investigated. His diagnosis was
short; then with a deft snick with a
spur, a little pressure with beak and other
foot he extracted a very much oversize
double-yolker by means of the neatest
Caesarean operation imaginable. Both
doing well,
# ♦ *
“Frank Mauri”: One of the strange
results of missionary good works in the
South Seas is the queer spelling given to
transcriptions of the native languages.
The first printers had limited fonts of
type and languages with many double
consonant sounds; g and d are usually
pronounced ng and nd, b has the sound
mb. Correct printing would have used up
all the ms and ns available so they were
omitted as being understood. The very
common sound ng was given the other-
wise rare q. The th sound was more
common than the font allowed and the
letter c was used to denote it. The
result is that we find Cacabau instead of
Thakambau and Ngingo is printed Qiqo.
The system became fixed and spread
throughout Melanesia. Even today it
has not been entirely replaced by the
international system of phonetic spelling.
V 5*5 * #
“Propalong”: The boss sent Skinny off
with a packhorse on a week’s cruise
round the netting, so we weren’t surprised
when he returned to the homestead two
months later, having had tacked on to
his original job, by ’phone at huts he
passed, a fortnight seeing a drover
through, a week riding the party-line,
three weeks out at the Kopi tank settling
a mob of weaners down and a final week
riding back along the netting. That
night Skinny unrolled his bindi-eye-
studded swag on the old wooden
stretcher with the wire mattress and pres-
ently we all turned in. There was the
usual glow of cigarette-butts around the
interior of the men’s hut and then the
snoring began. Suddenly a wild scream
tore through the darkness and jerked us
all out of bed, reaching for our hats.
Somebody struck a match, “Sorry, you
blokes,” came a sheepish mumble from
Skinny’s bunk. “What the lurid some-
thing’s the matter?” demanded Dan.
“Aw, me flamin’ bunk,” apologised
Skinny. “I was just orf t’ sleep an’ I
muster turned over. The flamin’ mattress
gave under me weight.” So we all went
back to the nap again. You see, we too
had done our long stretches of sleeping
“ Shush-h-h!"
° n “M ?arth-the kind of mattress that
doesnt » ve under a man when he turns
oven * * * *
„ N weVe baking bread
üb'lhu b 'lh (B- 31/7/’46) can any of the Council give
l knocking dowQ .. o£
tb dougb y Shearers’ cooks of my ac-
intan K ce haven - t been ab | e to throw
« blinding mumina tion on the subject,
, he dough . thumping
to dis tri b ute evenly through-
t tbe sponge lbe carbon dioxide gas.
Left toQ *j on | be£ore putting it in the
oven it becomes, in bakers’ lingo, “over-
proved » and tbc j oaV es are full of those
f arge ho , es tha , le[ , he cockies , joy trickle
tbrougb oa j Q y our sb irt. By which it
seem = that the has had time t 0 accu .
“ An V otller
9 r ,
„ T , . .... „
an § : city cousin was s'ttmo
on ‘ h f b i ank .. r^ b ;? B SOme iw
a bai , ted b ?° a ’ ..T’ bat ( r , c you d a 11 ? f
lor3I or3 a asked. Aw, it s some fish iu
{ Pmcbed from Joes locker, he told
? inspected the .lure. When I told.him
it was nitro-glycennc the angler dropped
it and turned gre en around the gills.
“That bloomin’ Joe’s havin’ me on agen,”
fic said. “He told me he never goes short
of fish while he’s got some of this f’r
enticement.”
•. * * *
“Old-timer”: It was a drought winter
and the nights dashed cold when “Little
Curl” was ordered out to Gulthul tank
to mount guard against the weak sheep
bogging for a couples of days until the
musterers could gather them up. “Curl
took a load of blankets and woolpacks
and made a camp in the scrub just above
the tank. He’d got everything cosy on
his first afternoon when the boss arrived
per car and took “Curl” off to Moonlight,
where they performed some necessary and
urgent work and spent the night in the
hut before a roaring fire. Next day,
finishing the Moonlight job, they got
back to the Gulthul tank about 4 p.m.
“Little Curl” was ejected there and the boss
went on. The cold was bitter and insis-
tent and “Curl,” after a glance to see that
his nap was still snug in the thick bower
of scrub he’d built, scarpered round and
gathered up a pile of firewood for the
night. He was huddled over his fire at
nightfall, thoughtfully eating, when he
became aware of slight movement, small
sounds and minor disturbances behind
him. He glanced backward once or twice,
but could see nothing alive and concluded
it was the wind. Presently, with the cold
like a knife on exposed parts of the body,
he made for his bunk, and was just in
time to see a couple of gaunt old wethers
sneaking off into the scrub with his last
blanket. Dumb with astonishment, for
never heard of sheep helping them-
selves to blankets before, “Little Curl”
looked at the ruins of his cosy camp and
then, sniffing, looked closer. A couple of
tins of golden syrup had been knocked
over and their contents had seeped over
the bunk all day. “Curl” spent the night
by the fire.
♦ * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Edjudina’s” desert
perisher (B. 31/7/’46) who saw “the
illusion of cool clear water” may be
typical, but the reverse also happens.
One poor devil out from Marree, S.A.,
was found walking, quartpot in hand,
along the edge of a waterhole, quite un-
aware of the drink alongside him —a fact
that probably saved his life. If the
rescue party hadn’t turned up the chances
are that he’d have blundered into the
water and died from a paradoxical com-
bination of perishing and drowning.
“Salmon Gums”: Unintentionally,
“Edjudina” has confirmed my impression
that men perishing from thirst die happy.
If a man thinks, or, rather, is convinced,
that he is drinking water, then he is
~, . , ,
drinking water; and the fact that the
water may be dry desert sand in no
way detracts from his enjoyment of it.
The mind, or at least that part of it by
which a man dying in such circumstances
is governed, can move mountains-
conjure up water in the desert, transform
Hades to Paradise and make an agonising
# #
“Blime”: Pete watched the heavily-
laden utility chug along the road and
turn into Morrison’s gate. Half an hour
later he scowled as it reappeared empty,
and rattled back towards town. Followed
several hours of peace ; then as the chug
of its laboring engine heralded another
load Pete threw down his hoe and stalked,
to the roadway. “Hey, that’s the fourth
trip y’ve made t’day, Morrie,” he yelled
to the man in the utility, “an’ each time
y’ve brought back all she’ll take.” “That’s
right, his neighbor. “Good
little bus y’ sold me. Carted me spud
crop in yest’d’y with her.” “I seen y’,”
replied Pete. “Worked till after dark,
too. An’ the day before, y’ was gettin’
posts f’ y’ noo* shed. Lashin’ ’em behind
the truck ’n’ draggin’ ’em up that long
hill. Heard y’ goin’ inta town at night,
too, an’ las’ night.” “Yair,” yawned
Morrison. “The transports can’t bring
me super., so I been gettin’ it meself.
Go again after tea, prob’ly.” “What, don’t
y’ never know when t’ stop?” snapped
Pete. “Why, I got t’ get me stuff home,
haven’t I?” protested Morrison. “Well,
can’t y’ borrer a big wagon or some-
thin’,” roared Pete. “I bet if I’d knowed
y’d go on day after day with no spell,
workin’ the insides out o’ poor old Liz,
I wouldn't never 'a' sold her to yf
“Bo”: “Mafeking Jack,” a whiskered
old-timer who spent most of his days
fossicking in the gullies, used to come in
at intervals to Murray’s, the last farm
out along the road, to pick up stores and
infrequent mail. One afternoon he
arrived to find a letter waiting for him.
It was from the solicitor in the town-
ship, informing him that a small legacy
had been left to him by a brother, lately
deceased, and that his early attendance
at the man of law’s office was required.
At first Jack was inclined to be suspicious
of the affair, but after the meaning of
the word “legacy” had been explained to
him he evinced an eagerness to see about
it. About half past four next morn-
ing Murray was getting his cows in when
he saw Jack trudging down the road to-
wards the township. As his camp was
about three miles from Murray’s, Jack
must have been up at about three o’clock.
“Cripes, y’re early enough, ain’t y’?”
Murray called out. “Y’ll be in town in
another hour an’ a half an’ y’ll have to
wait three hours till he opens his office.
I’ll be runnin’ in in the utility around nine
o’clock if y’ like to wait.” “Mafeking”
kept walking. “Thanks, Jim, but I want
to be there in plenty o’ time. Y’ see,
down Araluen way once I missed out
stakin’ a claim through bein’ late. I
ain’t takin’ a risk now!”
* * * *
“Alpine Willie”; Nick Barber, a moun-
tain cattleman, heaved the dilapidated
saddle on to the fence and pointed to the
flaps hanging disconsolately from the
broken tree. “Crook job them saddlers
do nowadays,” he said. “Had that saddle
done up five years ago, an’ jist look at it
now. Shortened its life by a dozen years
that bloke did. An’ he stung me two
quid f’r that bit of stitchin’ an’ fixin’ after
me nag rolled on it. It ain’t honest
chargin’ so much f’r a job that hasnt
stood up t’ the weather an’ scrub better’n
that. Y’d wonder at the cow havin’ the
hide t’ be still sendin’ in his bill.”
♦ * * *
“Zake”; I can understand your true
outbacker’s invariable reference to real
estate as “a bit o’ country” instead of the
more orthodox “block of land” of
suburban usage; even though the bit o’
country be no more than 40 acres or so
in area. Also that when he refers to
“meat” he means only beef —mutton is
never included in the category of “meat.”
• But I have yet to leam why a bullock is
referred to as such only when he has the
yoke across his neck toiling in company
with his fellows. At all other times he
will be known as a “beast.”
« * * *
. “Lub”: Visiting the Blake brothers, I
remarked to Alf that it seemed damn
silly the way he’d hacked off his new pair
of gumboots at the ankles. “Not on y r
life,” he said, glancing at his feet. “I got
a pair of ankle-boots out of it, didn’t I?
An’ I gave the tops t’ Charlie f’r leggin’s.
He’s goin’ t’ git a pair of gummies in
town t’morrer an’ give me the leggin’s
orf them. Trouble with you, Lub, is that
y’ ain’t got the intelligence t’ see how
we’re making a hunnerd per cent, on the
deal,”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I’ll back the
satin bower-birds of the mid-Murray
for mimicking. On Tammit station you
couldn’t better their of most
noises about the homestead: “me-ows,
the clank of a smith’s hammer, the purr
of a car-engine, and so forth. One
day, with police after sheep-stealers,
we were riding a thickly suckered bend
when we heard the “chop chop” of an
axe. We all chased that “axeman” for
an hour before we woke up. And one
time the Invincible was due* to load our
wool. As each morning for days we
heard a “chug-chug, clatter-clatter, bang-
bang” in that way you hear steamers
rounding distant bends, we hung about
the homestead waiting. But no steamer
arrived. When eventually she did tie up
at the woolshed the first we knew of it
was her whistle, so we told this to old
Cap’n Foster. “Well,” he said, “you
either heard us all the blinking way from
Echuca or it was a bower-bird. Taking
off steamers is their star turn.”
» * ♦* *
“Lower Tops’l”: Hobart fishermen
who took to shark fishing during the war
report dwindling numbers inshore, and
a C.S.I.R. officer is investigating. It is no
unusual experience. When Victorian
fishermen pioneered sharking for the Mel-
bourne market 17 years ago the
Queenscliff boats, and later the boats at
Port Fairy, Port Albert and elsewhere,
used to set their huge long-lines a mile
or so*out. -Soon it was found that it a
set was made on ground that had been
worked once the catch was nil. So, as the
seabed was fished offshore, bigger boats,
built expressly for the lucrative trade,
engaged in deeper waters until today, u
these hookers are to fill holds, they are
forced to go 80 miles off Port Phdlip
Heads and corresponding distances else-
where. The only thing that has pre-
vented them reaching the northern Tassie
grounds is the bad weather. Often they
don’t get out for 10 weeks at a time, bm
one haul is usually worth around £2WV
gross. The Victorians have found that,
even years afterwards, sharks do not re-
appear in old grounds to any appreciable
extent; in landlocked Western Po fl
“snapper sharks,” once the bane of fisher-
men in summer months, show no sign oi
returning. \
OLD FRIENDS.
I know so many dead men*
I pause to write their names.
For we were boys together,
Together lit the flames
Of torches that would lead us
To life’s remotest ends —
I know so many dead men
And they are all old friends.
These dead men never fret me:
’Tis I who call them back,
Remembering the good days
By ship or pub or track;
In churches, too, as choir boys
We made a merry row...
If dead men can remember,
Do they remember now?
Some of them took the sea-road,
And some went overland;
Whene’er an engine whistles
I feel a gripping hand.
And some stayed in the township
Or street where they were raised,
And these were gallant dead men
And greatly to be praised.
For they foreswore adventure
To be dull Duty’s slaves:
The kind winds surely love them
So silent in their graves.
And sojne were killed in battle —
How bravely they went out I
Why must they be so quiet
While we still walk about?
I think of all the dead mei>
Who played with me as boys;
The jokes and shouts and laughter,
The heedless, happy noise;
The good times and the bad times
All through life’s eager games...
I know so many dead men,
I fear to write their names.
N.S.W.
Will Lawson.


“Low-pointer”: When Long Charlie
joined Sam and me we began to get dia-
lectical materialism for breakfast, and
“War and the Working Class” for dinner,
and in between pretty verbal pictures of
Jovial Joe and satellites. I managed to
stay with him for a while but finished up
lost in the maze of Commo contradictions
and inaccuracies. All strikes, Charlie said,
were justified and he knew 100 different
things the worker just wouldn’t stand for.
Then one day when he was at the top of
his form in conies Tom-billy, his wash-
boy. “Master Charlie,” says Tom-billy.
“Me catchem plenty wash-wash belong
you this week, you pay me five bob?” The
washboy award was four bob a week;
Charlie stuck to his guns, and we were
treated to a miniature dialogue between
the flinty employer and the underpaid
wageplug. After a good deal of haggling
Sam says, “Look here, pay him the extra
deener to get rid of him.” “Like ’ell!”
said Charlie the Comrade —“give ’em
five bob one week and they’ll want it
every week. Strike me flamin’ roan, be-
fore we know where we are the swines’ll
be on strike!”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan said nothing when I took
the rifle and announced my intention of
trying for one of the mob of kangaroos
that came down off the range at dusk to
feed on the clover flats. I put in an hour
vainly stalking the lower belts of timber
and caught a momentary glimpse of the
tail-enders of the mob lighting out for
places east. When I got back I found
Dan pegging out a fine skin. “I’m hanged
if I know how y’ do it,” I growled.
“Easy when y’ know how,” explained the
bushman. “All y’ve got t’ do is wait fT
the right conditions an’ then park y’rself
along one of the main tracks. YTe bound
t’ git a shot.” “Square up, Dan,” I said.
“How c’n y’ tell when conditions are
right?” “Well,” he grinned, “y’ wait till
y’ git the office there’ll be a noochum
racin’ round with a gun t’ head ’em orf
the flats.”
“ Wait till I find the joker who put up this barbed-wire!”
“Edjudina”; It was weeks since we
had used our very last match; but the
problem of fire lighting presented no difli-
culty, since a couple of logs of salmon
gum kept burning day and night right
to the last ember and ash. But an un-
expected thunderstorm, with everybody
absent from camp, put matters right in
the blue. “Not even a light for a man’s
pipe,” groaned Smithy. And it was hun-
dreds of miles from the nearest store,
From a near-by clump of canewood
Long Ned cut two stems, one bone-dry,
the c iher green and springy. From inside
the tent he brought a scrap of hardwood
case. Chopping this into two short lengths
be bored a countersink in the centre of
each though with the larger he bored a
tiny hole right through. Next ne snar
pened the dry cane at both ends. By this
ti Smit hy was a “wake-up.” “Y’ going
to try fire-making blackfella style--I
never yet seen the white man that could
do it!” “No more have I,” Ned ad-
mitted. With a length of cord he turned
the green cane into a bow with a barely
loose string. Then taking a loop around
the dry cane he placed one pointed end
in the lower board, using the smaller
piece as a pivot board at the top. oO
with a sawing motion of the bow he set
the dry cane whirling In a few seconds
the bottom countersink was smoking ; in-
side a minute the dry grass tinder was
_i: o bt
° ♦ * * ♦
Lights ». “Wonk’s” down-
country buyer with the toffee-stuck jaw
(B. 24/7/’46) must have been a tyro. As
an habitue of the auction mart I am
moved to constant admiration by the
way in which professional bidders refrain
from using the voice. One spoken bid
may start the sale going, but after that,
around the circle of the professionals, the
faintest nod, the slightest elevation of an
eyebrow or even of an eyelid, is con-
sidered sufficient. Obviously these experts
consider it an abrogation of their shrewd-
ness to make any demonstrative bid. On
my first introduction to the poultry mart
and this classic style I found myself
landed with no fewer than 50 dozen day-
old chicks merely because of the persis-
tency with which a stray fly attempted to
enter my eye and my efforts to blink ill
away.
* * • •
“Esk D.”: Horrie, the station rouse-
about, is happily contemplating a half-
hour of skilfully-contrived leisure when
Wally comes along. “Hey, Pompey
wants y’ down at the blacksmith’s at the
gallop,’.’ he says. Horrie finds Pompey
leaning against the slab wall eyeing off a
sleepy, rawboned grey gelding in solemn
thought. “Y’ want me?” Horrie asks
with a show of irritation. “Aw, yairs,”
Pompey says, and goes on leaning.
“Whaffor?” Horrie asks, an octave
higher. “Aw,” Pompey says slowly,
“What about makin’ me a set of horse
crutches?” “Horse crutches !” Horrie
screams. “Aw, yairs,” Pompey says
dreamily. “Ev’ry time I lift one of ’is
legs t’ nail a shoe on this ’ere blankard
leans on me an’ goes t’ sleep. Funny,
ain’t it, Horrie, no one ever thought o’
that before?”
* * * ♦
“Gryllus”: As the evenings lengthen
towards spring those quaint little people
the crickets lift their voices in song and
begin to go about their courting. Strictly
speaking, they haven’t any real voices,
but manage to make up for the depriva-
tion quite effectively by rubbing their
wing cases together. Different mechan-
isms produce a wide variety of sounds.
The shrill note of the ground cricket is
familiar to everyone, but that stout fel-
low the mole cricket achieves a liquid
rolling melody resembling somewhat a
miniature bassoon, utterly unlike that of
an insect. In all of the 50-odd kinds of
Australian crickets they are primarily
love calls, the serenaded lady usually re-
maining modestly silent and alternately
advancing or withdrawing as rival swains
take up the chorus. Sometimes the rivals
will fight for her, but it is generally a
poor scrap. The shrub-haunting ghost
cricket is a delicate-looking chap with a
thin and hesitating chirp, but he can
offer his lady love something better than
mere sound. At the base of his wings,
where they join the thorax, he wears a
shallow cup containing a sweet fluid
which has an irresistible attraction for
the female of the species. As she wires
into the wedding breakfast he grabs her
and the honeymoon begins.
ss * * *
“Hanko”; With Jolliffe’s Ma flounder-
ing in the smoke from a hefty log and
Andy perturbed at the hardship caused
to city folk by the restrictions on gas and
electricity (B. 31/7/’46), I find myself, in
a firewood-denuded city, envying him
the possession of the lone tree that seems
so everlastingly indestructible and withal
the one apparent source of a fuel supply.
But I coddle the thought that perhaps
“Hold this while I get the styptic pencil !”
there’s a stand of timber somewhere over
the boundaries of Andy’s selection; a
patch of bush from where Ma regularly
drags in a branchy back-log.
* * * ♦
“Dronestung”; There’s a hoary jest
about the fellow who had royal blood
in his veins having once been stung by
a queen bee. The implication is unlikely,
for, though a queen is supplied with the
regular armament, she is quite unwilling
to use it when handled. Queens have a
specific use for their stings in destroying
rivals, and many are destroyed this way
in the queen cells. The queen, if allowed
by the bees, gnaws a hole in the cell, in-
serts the tip of her sting in the soft abdo-
men of a potential rival and leaves the
corpse to be cleared away by the
workers. The survival of the fittest is the
rule when two queens battle for
supremacy in a colony. And a bee stung
by another dies quickly. I’ve watched
drones, “bulldogged” out of a hive by
the workers and stung, topple over after
being lightly pricked in the abdomen.
* * * *
“Goldie”: Old Mobbs, a fossicker
from a lonely camp at Lost Gully, arrived
with his black-and-tan dog in the town-
ship for the first time for months. He
bought the butcher’s entire stock of
sausages before proceeding to the pub.
Late that afternoon on the verandah he
began feeding the hound with the snags.
After it had gulped the last one down in
exquisite discomfort the pair, sated with
the joys of civilisation, tottered down the
road leading to another long spell in the
bush.
* ♦ <c »
“Jimri”: The new schoolie made his
bow to the Stumpjump Creek Parents’
Association when its several factions
were engaging in bitter backchat, and the
visitor might have been a fly on the ceil-
ing for all the notice he received. He
was not dashed, however, braving
another meeting to show those cockies
the stout stuff of which the department’s
newest recruits were made. Then it was
that the Creek made amends. Mr.
President took the floor, hurled a few
more remarks at the opposition, then
said, “We will now stand and observe the
usual two-minutes silence out of respect
for the new schoolmaster.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Just tall enough to make
police standard, my pal George stripped
much heavier than he looked in civvies;
and he wasn’t wearing uniform on his
arrival to take up duties. Bags left at
the police station, he was looking the
town over when the behavior of an amor-
ous lout drew his attention. “Wake
up to yourself, mate,” he said quietly.
“Haven’t you got sisters of your
own?” The Lothario looked George
over and made a remark that George
wouldn’t have taken, from Joe Louis.
With his face smarting from the open-
handed slap the flash hoodlum made a
bad error of judgment. George caught the
swing on his forearm, and set to work in
earnest. News of the massacre spread
quickly. At the station a worried-looking
sergeant greeted his new assistant with
“I know that larrikin was looking for it,
but his father’s the mayor.” George
was giving his characteristic forthright
reply when a pompous-looking, short
fat man hustled into the station. He
came straight to the point. “So you’re
the new constable? H’mm. Not in uni-
form. Well, that’s a bit of good luck. I
don’t want any arrests in my family, but
—put it here, son! He’s been wanting a
lesson for a long time; this’ll perhaps
be the making of him.”
* * * *
“Dronestung”; After drought comes
plenty and the parched eucalypts take a
new lease of life. Growth since the
drought broke in Victoria has been little
short of amazing, and the budding of
gums in season profuse. The candlebark
{E. rubidd), which usually bears in clusters
of threes shaped like a Maltese cross, is
laden with umbels carrying mostly seven
buds. The new arrangement is in the
shape of a six-pointed star with a central
bud. The freakish condition is probably
a seasonal throwback to the common an-
cestor of all gums.
* * * *
“Solitude”; Riding through town I
spotted Seventyfiver’s torn oiler disap-
pearing into the crowd round an auction
sale; following in, I was in time to hear
the man with the hammer knock down to
him an ancient and dejected-looking arm-
chair, “Aw, well, Sol,” he defended
valiantly as soon as he clapped eyes on
me, “y’ know the karasene-box broke
last week an’, anyway, it don’t hurt a
man t’ go in f’r a few fal-dals once in a
lifetime.” He mooched off to arrange
transport for his junk, and I didn’t see
him again for several weeks. “How’s
the chair?” I asked on my return from
down country. “Comfortable?” “S’pose
it’s awright,” he growled. “I got t’ feed
them mongs at the yards soon’s I get
home, ain’t I? Then I got t’ light the
fire an’ dig meself up a bit o’ packin’.
Takes a fair while, Sol, time the billy
boils an’ y’ git the ants out o’ the damper.
Yair,” he concluded, “I still reckon that
chair’d be awright if only that cow uv
a Blue didn’t beat me f’r the flamin’
thing ev’ry night.”
* * * *
“Potrero”: The bush schoolmistress
directed her class to “draw something out
of your heads.” The serious-minded
daughter of a rabbiter immediately drew
a six-legged insect.
* * * *
“Hanko”: We were settling to a Sun-
day after-dinner snooze when “Little Joe”
bounced into the hut. “Two bob I can
head ’em,” he yelped. “Snowflake” got
on his hind legs in an instant. “Y* set,”
he said, “Little Joe” headed them, did it
again—and that got us all in. Inter-
spersed with a few two-ones, the little
chap went steadily into a trot of seven
heads. He just about had us bankrupt
on the eighth spin when a strange thing
happened; pennies striking the ground
turned suddenly into three separate coins.
As one man we froze rigid, but our
eyes should have burned holes in “Little
Joe.” “That ain’t the way ter make a
double-header,” “Big Joe” began. “They
gotter be split, filed an’ brazed together
with” Unheedful of the big fellow’s
diatribe, we sailed into “Little Joe.” When
we’d got our money back there was a
florin left. “Little Joe” grabbed it. “Y*
little runt,” snarled Bailey—“y’ on’y
had two bob ter kick orf with.” “That’s
all I needed,” flared “Little Joe.” “An’
if me double-header had held together fer
another coupler spins I’d have had youse
cows saddle-floggin’ yer pants orf for me
fer munce ter come.” There was no
shame in that little squirt.
CUCKOO IN SEPTEMBER.
In the green and gracious weather of. Septem-
ber, when the birds,
When the singing of the birds has come again;
When the apple-tree is burdened with loveliness
no words
Can capture, and the cape-weed on the plain
Is a shallow golden river, there’s an echo on
the wind,
A summons old when still the world was
new —
Then my heart is out a-seeking that which 1
shall never find
And the cuckoo all day long is looking, too.
All day long among the timber, down the tawny
bracken slopes,
Where the valley holds the haze as in a cup,
The ghosts of olden gladnesses, and’ madnesses,
and hopes—
The little winged enchanter calls them up.
Till I feel that close beside me is a joy that
yet might be,
And I long to keep a tryst long overdue,
Where the seas of being break upon the shores
of ecstasy,
And the wild Australian cuckoo goes there,
too.
VICTORIA.
K. DAIZIEL.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ont
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘‘up and up;" Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
EVERY FRACTION OF A PENNY per lb. COUNTS
Whether you get that extra fraction of a penny per lb.
for your wool depends ultimately upon the standard of
appraisal and the auctioneering technique. Unchallenged
in both respects is the staff of Australian, Mercantile, Land
& Finance Coy. Ltd., whose outstanding ability is one of
the main characteristics of the company. To be sure
of that extra fraction of a penny per lb., write now to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England ISG3
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A 2.22.76
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere bn g
to rupture sufferers an entirely new metnoa o
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practirt
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletelv successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts '.ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold tne
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere distribution CO.
Dept. 280), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
LYSAQHTTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
'^l:^WM**<W« .'.(WWi:;>>V<«.: :•:■:■:••■•?.■ •:£:■: • ?>;■■• <
m
wm
te»
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSASHT'S* WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
TH E MA N ON TH E LAND
"DON'T W ORRY. I'M SE NDING IT OT GRAZCOS."
Fodder and Lambs.
“R. Ney”: Men outside irrigation/ areas
shouldn’t believe that drought can’t affect
irrigated areas. It can. Despite all that
has been done in improving pastures for
those areas, it is still very doubtful
whether an irrigated pasture would carry
sheep through a long drought. Given
stored fodder it’s a different story—the
man with water and stored fodder can
laugh at drought.
When seasons are dry in non-irrigated
sheep areas the man on an irrigated area
can do well by buying stores from out-
side and fattening them. In summer and
early autumn the irrigated pasture comes
into its own and a bit of careful manage-
ment means the turning off of young
sheep that will draw big money from
home and export buyers.
With lambs the whole business depends
upon continuity of supply and where a
man can sandwich in the fattening of
stores between his ordinary lamb drops
he is in a fair way to become popular
among buyers. To some extent, with the
advantage of water and controlled pas-
tures, he can control mating and breeding
to fit a programme of continuous supply,
but if he relies on his' pastures alone to
do it he may fail. Behind the irrigated
pasture should stand enough conserved
fodder to carry him on over a bad break,
either of dry summer weather with hot
winds or dry winter weather with grass-
bleaching frosts.
In those parts of Riverina where irriga-
tion is limited to only part of the holding
the necessity for stored fodder is even
more imperative, and the man who doesn’t
use portion of his irrigated land to grow
material for conservation is either a blind
optimist or a short-sighted chump. He
is certainly not a farmer.
Dehorning.
“Five by Two”: The prejudice against
dehorning is hard to understand.
Occasionally outbackers declare that
horns are a help to a beast in breaking
down edible foliage, but the average beast
doesn’t seem to think of that. Others de-
clare that dehorning grown cattle is cruel.
So it is, but so are docking lambs and
the Mules operation. I never saw an
animal look as if it really enjoyed drench-
ing, but it is true that the temporary pain
suffered is greatly outweighed by the in-
creased comfort following those opera-
tions, apart from any benefit to their
owners.
Anyone who has ever suffered a severe
burn will agree that it is difficult to
imagine anything more painful than fire
branding, yet the practice is virtually uni-
versal amongst cattle owners. Done by
an expert using the correct instruments
under hygienic conditions dehorning in-
flicts surprisingly little pain, and milking
cows’ production falls off only for one
milking subsequent to dehorning. The
difference in the contentment of cows
before and after the operation has to be
seen to be believed and the saving in
spoiled quarters, ripped flanks, etc., is an
eye-opener. With calves the horns are
prevented from growing by an application
of caustic potash a few days after birth- -
a painless operation.
Some breeders argue that lack of horns
detracts from value, but that is mostly
prejudice, and polled cattle are usually
snapped up just as quickly as horned
specimens of the same breed.
Lucerne and Wheat.
“C.H.”: When lucerne is introduced
in the wheat-rotation programme, soil fer-
“For the last time —are y gittin me dinner
or not?”
tility, grain yields and health of stock
are built up. Lucerne gives choice hay
in good seasons and will supply fair graz-
ing in bad ones. Too many wheat men
wait till the soil is wheat sick, and then
sow lucerne. This may halt the march
of erosion, but it’s not a square deal to the
lucerne. With wheat, a well-prepared
fallow and low seeding rate are called for.
Care should be taken in maintaining the
stand. Eating it out and trampling it to
death by overstocking are bad.
In drought the farmer who has lucerne
has all the protein needed in his lucerne
hay to keep the stock from going back.
Well-managed lucerne grown solely for
grazing provides a paddock in which to
keep sheep and lambs free from grass
seeds. It’s valuable in any rotation aim-
ing at maintenance of soil fertility.
Mature paddocks of it adjacent to stand-
ing crops or stubble areas are efficient
fire breaks. What’s more, lucerne enables
a change to mixed farming without a fall
in income"
Garden Ornamentation.
“Pat. O’Day”; Large earthenware pots,
painted red or green to match the roof
of a homestead, and planted with dwarf
ornamental trees and hardy flowers, en-
hance the country garden and the plants
thrive well through severe winters or
summers.
In south-eastern Australia homestead
gardeners may avail themselves of the
ornamentation of the pomegranate
(dwarf); beautiful azalea (keep them be-
neath shade trees in summer); Euonymus
japonicus aurea —a very beautiful shrub ;
Genista fragrans ; and the well-known
Ligustrum (privet), which may be shaped
to unique designs.
A very exotic type (also
for flower-pot culture) is
the brilliantly-colored hi-
biscus, very suitable for the
warm districts. Vivid red
geraniums, if mixed with
a pink type, are an excel-
lent subject. Pelagoniums,
the trailing varieties, also
lend themselves to effec-
tive treatment.
Before planting prepare
the earthenware pots by
placing small pebbles and
charcoal in the bottom for
drainage. Then add good
dark loam soil, topped up
with the more solid red
loam and a little gravel
soil mixed. Sand njay be
added.
Plant Hormones.
“X. Aust”: An enter-
prising Sydney business-
man has secured the Aus-
tralasian rights to the
secrets of an American
who came to Australia
during the war to advise
the Australian Govern-
ment on the use of plant
hormones on olive slips.
By the use of the appro-
priate hormone, the de-
velopment of roots, leaves,
fruit or flowers can be
hastened and encouraged.
and it is hoped to bring olives in full
bearing within five years. He now pro-
poses to use hormones in striking cuttings
of the thin-shelled varieties of Queens-
land nut ( Macadamia ternifolia), which
have proved hard to grow true to type
from seed.
The use of plant hormones on cuttings
is, of course, by no means a new idea.
The principle has been known to science
for over 30 years, and the writer did
some work with cuttings of olive, fig,
citrus, Queensland nuts and privet in
1940 at Gatton College (Q.) with some
success, but this is the first time that it
has been proposed to use hormones in
commercial orchards in Australia. The
experiment will be watched with interest
by orchardists, who had hitherto been re-
signed to the inevitability of the long
time lag between planting and the first
return and to the fact that varieties which
did not grow true "to type from seed had
to be worked over with scions from
proven trees.
Fertilisers and Compost.
H. F. White: “Bill C.” (B. 24/7/’46)
ignores three vital factors —health, fer-
tility (reproduction) and soil structure.
Sykes, in England, May, in N.Z., and
King, in England, all record disasters in
these avenues under conditions of forcing
production by applications of fertilisers;
but when they changed over to wholly
organic methods of culture these dis-
abilities disappeared and production was
kept up or improved. My own experi-
ences bear this out; organic' farming
methods will give maximum yields for all
time, and added fertilisers will not in-
crease them. I acknowledge that ferti-
lisers are useful to help build up the
organic balance to the maximum point,
but from then on they add nothing but
costs.
All up and down the dairying districts
there are abundant ocular demonstra-
tions of unpalatability of growth forced
by big dressings of nitrogen in the form
of urine and dung. If these are distri-
buted so as to bring a better balance be-
tween the decaying grass roots and nitro-
genous matter the results are incom-
parably better in all phases of plant and
animal growth and health. I have not
found anywhere authentic records to
show continued health and reproduction
of plant, animal and man under con-
tinued fertiliser practices, and that in-
cludes Rothamsted, in England.
Planting Citrus.
“Myrrhee”: In Victoria September is
the best month to plant citrus. Young
growth will begin at once and is unlikely
to suffer frost damage at this time of the
year. Dig over the planting site and drain
if well. Trim off broken roots cleanly be-
fore planting ; the clean cuts will callus
readily and provide a better starting-point
for new rootlets than broken ends. Then
cut back the top of the tree severely to
give the depleted root system a chance to
recover.
If the trees are “balled,” place in a
hole big enough to accommodate the ball,
but don’t remove the hessian, which will
quickly rot, although the twine should be
loosened or removed. For bare-rooted
trees make the hole large enough to con-
tain the roots without twisting them.
One person holds the tree upright while
another puts the soil back into the hole.
Shake the tree gently up and down so
that the soil will fall closely around the
roots. Press firmly but not too tightly,
particularly if the soil is heavy. Set the
trees higher than when they were in the
nursery. After planting thoroughly water
and keep watered as required during the
summer. Apply a light dressing of sul-
phate of ammonia or nitrate of soda in
November or December.
wad Pigs.
“Atlanta”: Wild pigs are on the in-
crease in Queensland. They’re most
destructive in dry times when sheep are
weak or lambing and water is scarce.


OnogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You juA pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“ It’s the Gas
That Kills Them ”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas "A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
rjma
W«ll
v-: v. •• ■■'u, m w.
i¥rns />P
PORTABLE —FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES
ON STANDS
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each in-
stallation is individually designed
and built to fit your particular
needs. Cost per acre is
very attractive, and some
purchasers have reported
recovering their full out-
lay in one season.
THE "MAXIMUM" PATENTED OUTLET
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented “MAXIMUM
Coupling is the only one on the market possessing Its all-round flexibility
and ease of connection. It can be coupled by a simple movement to
any inclination up to 15 degrees in any direction and remain watertight.
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
Tmemf' MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
3
80/462
1$
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIC&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns)
CONDITION YD UN CAN
MOTONIND
•Jn
FOR
K
m
•4'
\k**J^T n r
p?
%
.v\
ran
Spring Clean your car. Get
f Mobilubrication Service Now! This
service replaces winter worn oil
and greases with correct grades of
»Mobiloil and Mobilgrease; ensures
'a full check-up on your car's con-
dition. Mobiloil is fluid in winter,
and keeps its body at summer
heat, so it protects fully against the
sudden changes of Spring.
Mobiloil
vmr 3 '
m
L
V/O
m
M 4617
■ 5? VACUUM
117 Moouci/
VACUUM Oil COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(Ine. In Aust.)
Strychnine isn’t always effective, but
phosphorus will do the job. Use S.A.P.
or one of the prepared rabbit poisons
with aniseed as a decoy. Kill an old or
diseased sheep and treat the carcass liber-
ally, near water. Pollard baits dropped
from the poison-cart are also attractive.
We’ve stiffened several lone boars while
poisoning rabbits. Carry the rifle when
riding about, but beware of the wounded
tusker ; he’s dangerous to horse and man.
You’ll get a few shots at sundown when
the pigs come to water. Wallowing boars
make a mess of dams and tanks; sows
and their litters are sudden death on
lambs or bogged sheep.
If cheap feed is available there’s money
in wild pigs. The local butcher is always
interested, and on occasions they’ve been
railed from s.-w. Queensland and sold in
Brisbane. A fencing contractor here
averaged up to 20 a week, sold promptly
at from 7s. 6d. to 255. each*, while in the
watercourse country around Moree (n.-w.
N.S.W.) professional catchers with dogs
have made good money railing them to
southern markets. Fatten them in a sty
with skim milk, kitchen scraps -and green
stuff. Boiled rabbits and Wheat will top
off condition.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Continued intake of ex-
cessive copper may produce in sheep
severe jaundice and death. However, if
the quantity of copper included in the
lick is restricted so that the average con-
sumption by .the flock is soz. of copper
sulphate per 1000 each week, there is
nothing to worry about.
“E. 2”: Subcutaneous injections are
now recognised treatment for milk fever
and grass tetany. A lOc.c. hypodermic
syringe is used for making an injection
at any suitable point, but preferably
where the skin is thin and loose. Injec-
tion for milk fever is 240 z. calcium boro-
gluconate dissolved in lOoz. water; for
tetany 2oz. Epsom salts in Boz. water.
The syringe should be thoroughly steril-
ised. Preventive treatment is providing
supplementary supplies of minerals,
calcium, magnesium and phosphorus, m
licks. Molasses is a useful source of
extra minerals for high-producing cows.
“S.G.”: All this talk about dingoes
being cunning leaves me cold. I mix the
poison in golden syrup and then spread
the stuff here and there on sheep pads.
Friend dingo trots along, gets the sticky
stuff on his paws, sits down, licks it off
and a few minutes later has turned up
his toes.
“Bob H.”: Where long weeds around
fruit-trees hinder the digging, use a scythe
if the ground is level and free from
stones ; otherwise lightly sharpen the edge
of the digging-fork and mow them down
with swinging strokes. With either tool
it’s better to leave a few weeds around
the butt than to risk bruising the bark.
Digging should be very shallow near the
tree and deeper further out. If digging
before ploughing, do a good big square
so that the ploughman can keep well out.
Modern cultivators which work well in
under the branches save a great deal of
labor but should be used with great care
to avoid damage to roots.
“Girrawheen”: When pullets begin to
lay, their oviducts are frequently not
sufficiently developed. This causes a
rupture of some blood vessels in that
organ and the result is blood-stained eggs.
This usually stops with the development
of the oviduct, but an addition of 2 p.c.
of linseed meal to the morning mash will
help considerably.
“Lub”: Carrots and parsnips, sown
thickly in drills, usually germinate well if
the seed is fresh. But the first month of
growth is critical and the plants should
not be overgrown with weeds or starved
for water. Frequent watering is necev-
sary in drying, windy weather and shoul
be continued till the plants are well-
rooted, A light application of nitrate of
soda watered in occasionally is geneially
of advantage in forcing growth,
“E. 2”; A claw-bar is a handy tool for
removing nails from corrugated iron, and
one having plenty of bend is best. Never
j ever a g a i ns t the iron. Ease the nails
f rom beneath and pull them from above,
using a small block of wood as a f u i_
crum. Before using the iron again, tap
the burred edges of the holes together
and solder Spirits of sa i ts , diluted with
£ , rts of water and killed wit h zinc,
tbe dux
„. n f ran „ e 2 00 fowls mav
. On He J y
breeds are best under conditkms
and a good strain of Australorpsi takes
beating. Fences of one height of netting
will keep them m £d u^ id
Feeding once a day, wheat preferred, will
suffice, but the fowls should have access
to greenstuff and cool, clean water at all
times. They are handled easier if there
are proper sheds where they may be
penned at night and other necessary
times.
“Parakeet”: Apart from the orthodox
uses to which the farm hacksaw may be
put here are others; Keep a new blade
solely for brass and woodwork in the
absence of a tenon-saw. The back of a
broken or wornout blade makes an ex-
cellent scraper for axe handles and such
like ; and to sharpen those exasperating
stainless steel tableknives, a few scrapes
along their edges with the back of a
blade does the trick without spoiling the
appearance of the knife,
“Sundowner”: The nasal botfly attacks
sheep during summer and early autumn
and deposits the small bots about the
nostrils. Presence of the fly is indicated
by the sheep burrowing the nose into the
ground. The fly uses the sheep as a
means of surviving the cold weather, and
in the form of a bot spends the winter
in the air spaces of a sheep’s head and
does not become an adult fly until the
spring. Methods of control are provi-
sion of shade trees and small furrows of
ploughed earth. Tar preparations on the
nostrils may prevent the fly depositing the
hots. Apply by hand or by bagging
about feeding troughs placed in such a
way that the sheep will smear some of the
preparation on its nose when about to eat.
“Mac”: Tell “Bungaree” (B. 19/6/’46)
that the Argentines are resuming buying
rams in ML, Two shipments left Wel-
lington recently and there’d be more if
shipping could be arranged. Sheep sold
included Corriedales, Lincolns and R.
Marsh. Top prices were round 600 gns.
and, omitting the top-priced sheep, the
average was well over 100 gns. a head.
Latest consignment would represent about
20,000 gns. to M.L. studmasters, and total
transactions with South American buyers
would probably be several times that
amount.


thrives under
NON-LABOR
Government
That is why the Communist
‘underground’ is hoping ior
a Liberal-Country Party
Victory in the elections.
Under Labor Government, communism meets witK
checks and rebuffs from Labor. Under Labor
Government the workers’ conditions are such that
communism cannot make headway. Communism
thrives on low wages, sub-standard living conditions,
repressive and provocative government all those
factors which have inevitably emerged when Australia
is led by men who, like Menzies and Fadden, are out
of touch with the real needs
and problems of the people.
The Communists know this.
That is why they are subtly
working for a Liberal vic-
tory on September 28th.
MB
IF VOU FEAR
COMMUNISM
YOU SHOULD FEAR
A LIBERAL
I GOVERNMENT.
VOTE FOR YOUR
LABOR CANDIDATE
END RETURN THE
CHIFLEY GOVERNMENT
Authorised by P. J. Kennelly, M.L.C., Parliament Mouse, Melbourne.
Ut
Reds Drive Ships
out of
Australian Trade
Six ships have had to sail from Australia
with empty holds; ships that could have
been crammed with Australian merchan-
dise for sale in Malaya, China and the
Netherlands Indies.
Although Australia is tragically short of
shipping, these Dutch ships have been
driven out of the Australian trade. Before
the war, they carried Australian exports
to Malaya and China and the great bulk
of the cargoes to the Netherlands Indies.
The Communist inspired banning of
these ships has destroyed Australia 9 s
trade with the Netherlands Indies and
now threatens the development of
markets in Malaya, India and China •
The main sufferers from these disruptive
tactic? are, in this, as always, the workers
of this country. Full employment depends,
more than ever before, upon a healthy
export trade.
CEIGOA PTY. LTB.
Consolidated Export and Impart Group oj
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
Authorised by T. ©. Dole, 54 Oxford St., Sydney
ii 7
he always shouted out when a tree fell.
And then he couldn’t see Peter at all.
Must have run back, of course ... He
looked round, and there was no sign of
him anywhere.
That’s funny, thought Charlie ; he was
in such plain view out there to the right
only a minute before —less than that
really. Must have hidden ; though there
was little real hiding place—only stumps
and dead trees. And Peter was not given
to practical jokes. Charlie called out
again—and there was no answer.
He felt a thrill of alarm run through
him. He looked round, but there was
nothing in sight, nothing alive but Nug~
get at his nose-bag, and the steers in the
dead timber staring in his direction, won-
dering, no doubt, at the crash of the dead
sapling. Charlie, axe still in hand, walked
to where he had last seen Peter. He
didn’t run, his mind was pondering over
it all too much for that , . . And there was
Peter, right at that spot, and nearly 50
yards from the stump of the fallen tree.
Peter was lying on his face in a little
depression in the ground. He just fitted
into it. He was very still, and one arm
was stretched beyond his head and just
out of the depression. And Charlie knew
as soon as he saw him . . . How or why
—he didn’t know that. Near Peter was
the thin top of that second sapling—
smooth, grey and free of bark. Very
thin —only as thick as Peter’s wrist, but
heavy and hard, and only five feet of it.
Charlie saw it —but only remembered it
after,
Peter was gone. He knew that. He
knelt down beside him, hardly daring at
first to touch him.
THERE was much stir over Peter’s
death. Much sympathy, very genuine
too, for the silent distress of Charlie ; for
he had nothing to say—he was quite
numbed. Perhaps he prayed—or even
cursed—they say the Lord understands
both perfectly.
Mrs. Charlie forgot to wonder, and
was voluble and tearful in her grief—
which helped her greatly. Mrs. Pullen,
who never had any children, took it very
hard. She told an old friend, “You see
—what did I say?” and then seemed terri-
fied at her secret vision.
Dirty Looey, as a professional rival,
came to see Charlie in a spirit of purs
fellow-feeling. It might have been more
fitting if Looey had washed himself, but
Charlie didn’t notice particularly,
At the cemetery all the regulars were
there, and many others. Billy Homett, as
always, picked up a handful of the
mound, gritty, gravelly stuff it was, and
let it run through his fingers appraisingly,
it looked fair wash dirt, and people really
expected that Billy would bring along a
dish some time to try a prospect. Billy
knew that cemetery well, and liked
Catholic and Methodist funerals best—
the Church of England had hardly any
likely-looking gravel,
old Terry Moon (“Days-of-the-week”
t h e y called him) was there, and enjoying
the occas ] on- He never missed a funeral,
and extracte d from each a sad pleasure,
He was a kij?d of living mortality, and a
constant reminder that man is but dust,
He a i ways wept copiously as he peered
trough glazed eyes into the narrow
grave Then he would announce in a
broken voice “Me next!” He had been
issuing pro phecy for 20 years and
mor e—ever since he followed funerals
as a career> n 0 dou bt at last the prophecy
Woldd come true. In the meantime it
lent added awfulness to the service,
when not attending funerals, Terry was
ce i e brating anniversaries of funerals and
bving in a perfect welter of sorrow—and
hence his n i c kname.
over at last b ut the talking about
{ and the weighing of it> and t he sum-
ming up A][ things end at last _. . though
life goes on. Charlie carted no more
WQod Qr water> He sold everything-
eveQ Nugget Got over 30 notes for
him. Charlie and his wife left the district,
and went down Sydney way to live. It
didn t make much difference to Summer-
lea. Someone else carted the wood and
water not so well as Charlie perhaps,
Years after, someone ran into Charlie
—very old-looking, very slow, very cheer-
ful; a trifle deaf and more bandy than
ever. He hadn’t noticed the black hat.
Charlie may have overcome the habit,
just as children get over biting their
finger-nails. But he said there were two
children—a boy and a girl—at Charlies
place ; a happy home it was ... Evi-
dently the tide had turned. It is to be
hoped that Mrs. Pullen never hears 01
those children.


“His Master’s Voice”
the Symbol of all
that is best in Radio
Ask your nearest “H.M.V.” Retail er to demon-
strate these outstanding new Mantel and Table
Model Receivers.
• MANTEL MODEL 456 A.C. BROADCAST RECEIVER
• TABLE MODEL 886 ...... A.C. DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
And for homes without electric supply —
• TABLE MODEL 326 .. . VIBRATOR DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (iMTfcattd im England),
HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
__________ Rl6/48
nip
m
vivx';-
s-&^Sf*S4Ss
i r»
SSS
I
■
mm
rvw*
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDT
“Don’t discard your sense of comradeship
with your uniform.” —Daily paper.
Remember how it stuck to you in New
Guinea.
4* *i* 4*
“Lost, felt wallet containing bank coupon
books, identity card, etc.” —Suburban paper.
So they’ve rationed money as well
now!
•i • 4 1 4*
“It is a pity that the majority of children
these days are paid for running errands and
doing little jobs about the home.” —“New Idea."
V V *P «i*
“Plaintiff said his wife was so obsessed with
knitting and fancywork that she wouldn’t give
attention to the meals.” — “Sun.”
He went about with knitted brow, feel-
ing darned fed up.
•F
“We have Mothers’ and Fathers’ Day. Why
not an Old Maids’ or Spinsters’ Day?”
—“New Idea."
They have probably had their day
already.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Banbury (Oxfordshire) will have no Darts
League next winter because of the beer
shortage.”— “Sun.”
They can’t throw straight without their
glasses,
■F *l* 4*
“For sale, twin stroller, nearly new; two
young goats.”
—“Area News,” Griffith ( N.S.W.).
They’re not kidding!
h
“Why do women persist in wearing slacks?
Iney are abominable.” —“New Idea.”
-cG
dding?
turning out,
uper.
>ourse, ejected by
-v maternity frock (32in.),
mr.” —Suburban paper.
.y the young shaver turned
y a girl.
•h 4. 4* .
.y husband is a child in most things, but
man when it comes to swearing at me.”
—Divorce report.
™ •
Ex-army cook says he finds civil life dis-
gusting.”
He’s now in exactly the same mess as
the rest of us.
•J* *J* ❖
In the race for houses, many ex-
Diggers find themselves outsiders.
~, • * ■* ~ T
A.W.L/ six canaries.”
—Suburban paper Lost ad.
Owner will probably have to whistle
for them.
“My husband is simply helpless without me.
When he wants to darn his socks I have to
thread the needle for him.”— “Sun.”
That’s one in the eye for him
Traffic Problem.
“Two Englishmen are trying to persuade the
British Government to equip all policemen on
the beat with petrol-driven roller skates.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The chap who tries to put a stopper
Upon the schemes that crooks devise
Has frequently, no one denies.
The type of foot you’d term a whopper;
So, on the boots of every copper
Whom they elect to mechanise
A power-plant of tidy size
Would be pre-eminently proper.
The dodge, you will admit, is neat,
And yet, in a congested street,
No cop could handle the convulsion
Caused by the monumental feet
Of minions of the law, complete
With something new in jet-propulsion.
P. M. LUSK.
"In my day we would errands run,”
I said, “for thanks or just a smile” ;
“We’re charging now” replied my son,
*J‘A shilling down, a zack a mile.”
D. H. E.
Though grandma hearkens back to
starches.
All modern fal-de-lals derides.
All unconcerned milady marches
Towards her goal with swinging strides.
BERT.
Willing Spirit.
Am I too ancient for romance ?
Are all my loves behind me ?
Must 1 then quit this merry dance,
A quiet place to find me ?
Must rheumatism now be mine.
My ageing muscles paining ?
By heavens, no! There’s still some wine
In yonder flask remaining !
T. W. NATHAN.
To prove his manhood round the house
With axe or hammer he was loath,
But when he cursed his trembling spouse
Was he a man ? My flamin’ oath !
BERT.
Pet Aversion.
Give me the gnawing of rats
Or the yowling of amorous cats,
Batter my ears in a crowd
With political promises loud.
But save me, I pray, from the aunt
Who thinks she can sing when she can’t!
T. W. Nathan.
“The Workers' Friends."
In his policy speech, Mr. Menzies announced
that if returned at the pofls he Xvould reduce,
as from Jan. 1 next, taxes by an all-round
cut' of 20 p.c. Up to five weeks before the
elections the most important announcement
made by the Chifley ‘Government’ was that pork
would shortly be available to the public. It
has been objected, however, that, owing to
its scarcity, most of it will find its way to the
blackmarket at exorbitant prices.”
es >” sa his face beaming with
self-satisfaction, “this concession will
tickle ’em pink. I’ll bet. I can just
imagine the basic-wage-earner’s wife com-
ing home triumphantly with a small leg
of pork, the first change to luxury eating
from monotonous mutton and a bit of
beef that the family has enjoyed for
over four years—and, mind you, being
able to get it for as little as fifteen bob or
thereabouts. Menzies could never have
thought of anything like that. Now”
“Trouble with Bob,” interrupted
Frankie, “is that he’s completely out of
touch with the needs of the people—it’s
always been his weakness. As if the
public’s interested in such trifling sub-
jects as income tax and increased produc-
tion of household goods that are un-
procurable! After all, things like that are
only beneficial to the big man. I get
around my electorate with one ear to the
ground, and I maintain that if we always
go along quietly, as Billy McKell’s
crowd when assisting the war effort,
and make an appeal to the masses by
lowering import duty and sales tax on
champagne and liqueurs, Old Masters,
shooting sticks, polo outfits, pearls and
Russian sables, we”
“Especially them last things,” put in the
idol of Sydney’s larrikins. “Not that
"Mind, I'll belt you if you take the edge
off that razor”
I’m anglin’ for the Commo vote, mind,
but it’d be a nice ges-cher of internash’-
nal goodwill towards a gallant ally who
never had a square deal from the capi-
talistic warmongerin’ octopuses of
Threadneedle-street.”
“Another thing,” quavered Don.
“There’s no better way of reaching the
hearts of the people than by letting them
know in detail what Ministers and
members have accomplished during
their trips abroad. And instead of
trying to hush up what the Auditor-
General’s been saying we should pub-
lish itemised lists of expenditure. It
would show the workers that their
faithful representatives aren’t afraid
to splash money about like water, all to
Australia’s benefit at some time in the
future, and might even lend greater point
to our ‘Spend As Little as Possible’ cam-
paign. It would certainly have a much
better effect on the workers, I’m sure,
than a silly thing like trying to reduce
the cost of And speaking of trips
abroad, Ben, don’t you think it’s just
about time I had”
“Well,” put in Ben hurriedly, “we’ll —
er —see about that later on, Don. Now,
what other suggestions are there for
ameliorating the wageplug’s lot?”
“Hoots, but I ken a guid way, mon,”
spoke up Deddie. “Some o’ yon wor-r-
-rkers fash theirselves ower muckle wi’
worries aboot the scarcity o’ the bairns’
boots an’ the terreefic cost o’ their puir-.
quality breeks. Losh! We ha’e nae mair
steemulatin’ appeal to the doontrodden
victims o’ the blood-suckin’ captains o’
eendustry than to nationalise pr-roduction
o’ striped lolly pigs, bull’s-eyes and hum-
bugs.”
“There ain’t enough ’phones available
for dinkum sports,” complained the
paragon from Lithgow. “It’s a shime
that hon-e st workers are ’andicapped by
lack o’ facilities to git their quids on. We
oughta promise ’em more ’phones in-
stead of muckin’ about with the ’ousin’
problem. I see be the papers”
After they had undone Arthur’s col-
lar and he had stopped grinding
his teeth, the Master of Misinformation
spoke, “I can’t support my colleague in
his remarks on housing,” he said. “And
I’m sure the homeless workers’ll appreci-
ate that, high as their priority is, there’s
a higher one. What about the 5000 dis-
placed persons I’m bringing out from
Central Europe? We’ve already estab-
lished the principle that they
come before these English
people, and we’ll have to edu-
cate the workers here to
recognise that the refugee
must enjoy a privileged posi-
tion.”
“And don’t forget,” said
Frankie, “there is a tragic
shortage of patty de foy grass,
caviare, essence of Danish
chickens, chocolate eclairs,
Peche Melba and quail. The
workers have suffered far too
long by being deprived of
these essentials. The restora-
tion of these to the humble
tables of our homy-handed supporters
is of far greater importance than
getting more coal so that rail services
can be restored to normal and various
restrictions on light and heat removed.
The working housewife, after all, can
find it no great burden to walk home
with her shopping parcels or wait an
hour for a midday train. But I know that
she is like an enraged tigress because of
the scarcity of Peche Melba. I told you
I always keep my ear to the Capricornian
ground. If we take steps to satisfy our
constituents regarding the items I have
mentioned I feel sure the election is as
good as won!”
Then it was that, as one man, Frankie’s
Cabinet colleagues leaped to their feet,
clutched their hair and roared: “Why
bring that up!”
S. W. Keough, 252 George-street, Sydney.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Other Fellows
Before the war the New History
Society of America planned a world-wide
essay competition on the subject of Uni-
versal Peace. There were 2600 entries
representing every written language and
every country except Japan, where dan-
gerous thoughts were banned. Each
essayist was supplied with a full list of
the other fellows’ names, with details of
social standing, religion, hobbies and
ambitions, the idea being to encourage
pen-friendships.
Being one of the prize-winners I re-
ceived unsolicited letters, with . relative
literature, from eight different countries,
advocating methods that clashed violently,
though penned by men having one
common ideal. Almost every one of these
other fellows has been affected by the
struggle, and his mind has been changed
by the conditions.
I know that some conscientious objec-
tors won high military honors, that some
of the poor and oppressed became tyrants
and terrorists, and that others who called
for the elimination of all' monetary
systems became profiteers. And so on.
Incidentally I have changed my own
mind considerably.
There is no obvious moral to this tale,
but if would be interesting to know,
through another essay competition, how
many militarists, including the Japanese,
have become pacifists by the logic of
events, — Open Mind (S.A.).
A Supreme Services Commander
“Screwball’s” advocacy of a supreme
commander for all three services (B.
14/8/’46) is admirable in theory, but it
overlooks the practical difficulty of find-
ing the right man.
Blarney was such a commander, but
they do not grow on every bush. — Proc-
tor (S.A.).
A supreme commander for the Aus-
tralian services is a necessity if we are
to have anything like efficiency in
R.A.A.F. administration. During the
war this section of a keystone service
was manned largely by “five-week-
wonders” —men who entered the service
direct from civilian life and, after a five-
weeks’ course on R.A.A.F. administra-
tion, were sent to units as adjutants and
the like.
Many of these “wonders” gravitated
to the Air Board staff for the rest of the
war. Some of the orders promulgated
by them caused endless confusion in the
units which had to implement them.
The unnecessary movement of men
from one State to another throughout
the war cost the country hundreds of
thousands of pounds and needlessly
cluttered the overburdened railways. I
remember one instance typical of thou-
sands. An airman arrived at Richmond
(N.S.W.) on posting from Adelaide
3 p.m. one day, and at 10 a.m. the next
a signal came posting him to Melbourne.
As his mustering was an unskilled one,
there was no rhyme or reason for the
double move.
I’m all for an Empire Air Force, but
until that is possible a supreme service
commander would very promptly put a
cleaner through the R.A.A.F, The dis-
charge section was a nightmare in July,
1945, and recent dischargees tell me it is
not much better now. —C. G. I, (N.S.W.).
Brown Brother
A few years ago Australia rang with
praise of the New Guinea native. People
who would not have touched the genuine
article with a 40-foot pole spoke unctu-*
ously of “Fuzzy-wuzzy Angels” and
bought commemorative buttons on
“Natives’ Day.”
Today, New Guinea planters and busi-
nessmen complain that “the Army
spoiled the natives” and that the spoiling
continues. Under the new employment
regulations native workmen can resign
on a month’s notice; the native has too
much money; public servants have to
provide separate quarters for their boys
with amenities —and so on.
If treating the stretcher-bearers, porters,
N.G.1.8. and P. 1.8. as brothers in arms
was “spoiling the natives,” then units in
the line were guilty of the charge. In re-
turn they received such genuine devotion
and affection that it is hard to see why
similar treatment today would not yield
equally beneficial results. Units in action
alongside natives never wielded the big
stick or indulged in the gentle art of
“boong bashing,” these practices being
confined to back-area wallahs who
allegedly knew “how to handle natives.”
No one in his right senses advocates
that natives should get the award condi-
tions of coalminers and wharfies. But
forced labor, low standards and poverty
—no! — Don 5 (Q.).
Whaling
Allied Headquarters in Tokyo has
authorised the Japs to send a fleet of 12
whalers, two factory ships and seven car-
rier vessels to the Antarctic in the 1946-47
whaling season.
By way of showing how impdftant and
valuable such an industry could be to
Australia, knight Douglas Mawson
pointed out that the approximate value of
the Antarctic catch by only nine Nor-
wegian and British ships for the short
1945-46 season was more than £10,000,000.
We should at least insist on the exclu-
sion of the Japanese from Antarctic seas
for the next 10 years, or until the Aus-
tralian whaling industry, formerly so
prosperous, has re-established itself. —
T. C. A. (A.C.T.).
Imagine a little man bustling to the
head of a tobacco queue and addressing
the tobacconist thus: “Listen, you! Send
all these other people home and reserve
all your stock for me. I’m practically
a non-smoker and I can’t take the stuff
today, but I want to be sure that I can
take it if and when I feel so disposed.”
Australia is a small community in the
Pacific, and has taken very little in-
terest in whaling. There are millions of
starving people queueing up for the har-
vest of the sea and they are willing and
/ILiLs, . V . •
"Quiet, you kids—if I have to come in there'll be trouble."
able to start immediately. Yet some Aus-
trahans are demanding that the whales be
kept alive for us to catch if and when it
suits our convenience.
On land we have allowed our coal to
remain underground. We have paid
farmers to leave their ploughs idle. We
have allowed vast quantities of fruit and
vegetables to rot. Well, we own the land,
But it may be difficult to convince
General MacArthur that we own the
ocean, or that our national policy of
wilful waste is likely to preserve peace
or promote prosperity in the Pacific,—
Samson (S.A.).
ei .
Roo Shooters
The press is giving much publicity, to
the price of kangaroo skins, the number
of ’roos destroyed and the shrieks of
old maids of both sexes who deplore
the extinction of our native fauna.
As long as we have the “wide-open
spaces” there is no danger of extinction
for the ’roo. Very close settlement is
the only thing which will wipe it out —
that means anything under 5000-acre
blocks. The Too is a commercial pro-
position—value of its hide against feed
destroyed. A bit of a setback does it
no harm. A doe can have two births a
year, and the bucks are polygamous.
When ’roos get thick, and only then,
it pays a shooter to get among them,
The best shooting is always the first
shooting, before they get shot-wise, shy
and cunning. After they’ve been shot a
bit they scatter, take alarm and auto-
matically put a price on their skins which
the market won’t meet. The shooter
makes a business of his job. When the
’roos are hard to get he leaves them
alone, shifts camp, takes another job.
The ’roos are safe, in spite of poli-
ticians. Drought does more to them in
one season than 100 shooters in 100
years. And the ’roos, in their turn,
advance the ravages of that drought a
good three months if they happen to be
thick in sheep country.—32/40 (Q.).
’Possum Farms
The record price for ’possum skins —
tops touched £36 a dozen this winter —
indicates that Australia is losing millions
of pounds annually through not legalis-
ing ’possum-farming.
In the last 20 years reputable men and
companies have sought Government per-
mission to farm these marsupials, and in
particular the fine Tassie mountain-black
variety. Except in the Speck, the scheme
has not received serious consideration.
.In 1926 an open season in Victoria
yielded 460,000 skins valued at about £1
each. The value of skins taken “under
the lap,”- from Wilson’s Promontory to
Cape York Peninsula, must have been
great.
If ’possums were farmed scientifically
all bucks and does would be culled as
with sheep, and only the best of sires
used. All skin-bearing bucks would be
wethered and kept apart from does.
Damaged, out-of-condition and badly-
dried skins would be eliminated. Annual
increase could only be reckoned at 150
per cent. Unlike most marsupials, ’pos-
sums are cheap to feed, thriving in cap-
tivity on anything from discarded apples
and spuds to pollard and leaves. By
legalising and establishing these farms
skin-dealers and brokers could stabilise
an overseas market with regular grades.
If Australia does not take advantage
of the increasing overseas demand for
’possum skins and establish fur farms,
other countries may do so. — Horseless
Horseman (Vic.).
The Right
Commo union bosses in Sydney will
chew their cigars when they hear how an
industrial dispute was settled in W.A.,
where unionism is strong and healthy.
The dispute was over the dismissal of a
foreman fitter on a mine, and involved a
number of fitters who downed tools in
sympathy with him.
State Arbitration Court president
Dunphy agreed to adjudicate, and when
the men accepted his condition that they
return to work he acted. Did a round
trip of a thousand miles and gave a
decision within 48 hours.
The union’s acceptance of that deci-
sion, which was that the men were en-
tirely wrong and that the mine manage-
ment had acted lawfully at all times,
would be construed by Commo bosses as
deplorable weakness. Actually, it left
the way open for the management to im-
plement president Dunphy’s recommen-
dation that, “in view of the long and
faithful service of the men concerned,”
the foreman and the fitters be reinstated.
An example of the harmony that can
exist when both sides are prepared to
honor their agreements. Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.),
The Farmer’s Lot
“Sol Brass” (B. 21/8/ ’46) paints a de-
pressing picture of the farmer’s lot, but
he does not mention the kind of farming.
The word “farmer” could be applied to
a man running 1000 head of poultry
on an acre or to a man with 800 acres of
wheat crop, sheep and various sidelines.
Wide and sweeping generalities prove
nothing.
“5.8.” says that his farmers worked
60 to 70 hours a week and also had the
assistance of their families and children.
Very few farmers work such hours. At
certain times of the year long hours are
worked, but what about all the enforced
holidays? Whatever the weather, factory
workers must go to their jobs while the
farmer potters about or sits in front of
his fire. And what about “cockies’ day,”
a weekly feature of Australian country
towns, when the farmer and his wife and
family all come into town for the day?
And what about the many sale days
which the farmer spends perched on the
fence at the saleyards?
The factory worker, to whom “5.8.”
refers, clocks on and thereafter has his
nose down for the rest of the day. The
cocky, left to his own devices, is a notori-
ous time-waster. And if there is anything
in the world more untidy than a large
percentage of Australian farms I have
yet to see it.
In conclusion, I wonder whether
“5.8.,” in arriving at the income of £350
or less, considered all the cheques for
cream, eggs, poultry, wood, pigs and
skins, which are cashed at the store or
bank and which do not find their way
into the farmer’s passbook. Such items
are frequently “overlooked.” The Aus-
tralian farmer is a good chap, but a lot
of misplaced sympathy is often extended
to him. — Adam (Vic.).
Sex Education
A scandalised City Council recently ex-
pressed shocked amazement at reports of
obscene inscriptions and drawings in lip-
stick on the walls of the women’s dressing
rooms and lavatories at the Brisbane
Valley Baths. A very brief inspection of
the walls of sanitary accommodation for
girls in a large Government school would
convince the city dads that this is no
isolated occurrence.
Until school instruction in sex matters,
particularly for girls, is put on the same
matter-of-fact, everyday lines as are arith-
metic and English composition, the
majority of Australian children will con-
tinue into adolescent and adult life with
warped ideas that everything pertaining
to sex is necessarily furtive, secret and
shameful. Just as secret self-relief against
school discipline is expressed in carica-
tures and abusive descriptions of teachers,
so does this other development serve to
relieve repressions created by ignorance of
elementary physiological facts and
their meaning.
Throughout life sex plays a far
greater part in the average female
mind, conscious and sub-conscious
alike, than it does in the average male
mind. Particularly does it make it-
self dominant, consciously or other-
wise, during the emergence from
childhood into physiologically adult
existence. Any psychological or other
preparation for this tremendous
change is totally lacking in our present
educational system. It cannot be supplied
by home instruction because four-fifths of
parents are unable or unwilling to attempt
it. Until systematic sex-teaching on a
plain,' commonsense basis becomes a
regular part of the curriculum of all Aus-
tralian schools, particularly for girls, the
present perverted and unnatural outlook
upon the most vital phase of adolescence
and young adult life will continue to exer-
cise its evil effects unchecked. — Galenus
(Q-).
Doing Good by Stealth
A friend who was in Sydney last year
sent us parcels of foodstuffs of the kinds
that have long been very scarce here or
even unobtainable. This friend has now
been in England for nine months, but
similar parcels continue to arrive in his
name, from Sydney.
We have no clue as to the sender.
Will you allow *us, through your
columns, to express our appreciation ot
the luxuries, and our warm thanks for
the most kind and generous gesture
Dorothea Kingsley (Bournemouth,
England).
“Little Capitalists” -
An interesting afid unrehearsed effort
in self-help and co-operation has grown
up at Ulverstone (Tas.), where a large,
recently-cleared block of land has been
subdivided to accommodate a number cl
home-seekers, most of them returned ser-
vicemen. All are busy over
evenings and other holidays in building
their own homes. Several families are
already living in their future garage-c«m-
workshop, until a permanent house can
be built. f
Some of these temporary homes are oi
weatherboard, usually moved from some-
where else and rebuilt, but others are m
concrete blocks made on the spot by the
inhabitants. With windows and a fire-
place, new paint and bright curtains
temporary garage homes are
comfortable. Some of the men have
fessional knowledge and experience. AU
are handy and take great pride in the
rapidly-developing homes and gardens
When the municipal authorities ha'
been unable to supply water to all
householders temporary pipes have bee-
laid along the surface by the men their
selves. In addition to owning their o
homes these “little capitalists” are also
working overtime to create them.-"
E. & O.E. (Tas.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
77w'^ulletm.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ~£l4 0
6 „ ~ .... 12 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 .. 8 0
« „ .. .... 40
”1 By «lr . ail to members of the forces In the
s—3 months .. - 0 0
Immigrants
“Guildford* lacks vision when he
argues that migrants must have capita
(B. 7/8/’46). Far more important than
a traveller’s cheque for a hundred or
thousand pounds is the fact that every
newcomer, irrespective of whether he en-
gages in productive labor, develops our
national resources by increasing the
market, not only for home products, but
for the imports we have to accept in
order to balance our exports.
Further, we learned during the war
that we’re hopelessly underpopulated for
national defence. It would be a good
thing if migrants did have capital, but
a more valuable asset is their willingness
to work and in emergency to die for this
country.
Which leads me to “Guildford’s” other
comment —that Jews are undesirable be-
cause they tend to form separate com-
munities. . It’s a feature of Man’s gre-
garious instinct that he does tend to form
communities in the way of clubs for
tennis-players, golfers, returned soldiers,
business executives, counter-jumpers and
lovers of Bobbie Burns, Surely the in-
stinct to want to stick together until they
have assimilated the ways, customs and
language of their adopted country is un-
derstandable amongst foreigners.
But Jews never assimilate? Well, I’m a
son of a European Jew who came out
here 59 years ago with not one word of
English at his command. I’ve been
brought up with a belief in the principles
of Judaism, but I can’t speak one word
of Yiddish, and I don’t think of myself
as.anything except an Australian citizen—
until people like “Guildford” try to tell
me that my religion makes me an un-
assimilable foreigner. And I’m only one
of thousands of Jewish Australians who
have been educated by “foreign” parents
and from the Jewish pulpit to regard men
such as Disraeli, Reading* Isaac Isaacs
and Monash as a pattern and an inspira-
tion. The prejudice persists because so
many critics keep looking at
to go into the melting-pot instead of at
those who have emerged therefrom. After
all, the best English migrant does not
easily and readily lose his national indivi-
duality.
Australia should be able to absorb
thousands of Jews of selected type; but
a lessening of the prejudice that all Jews
are unassimilable, money-grasping and
ostentatious must precede the granting of
permits. This prejudice causes many
Jews to seek protection in their own
religious communities from outside criti-
cism and sneers. There is nothing new or
strange about their attitude. Herzl, the
founder of the Zionist movement, was
thoroughly assimilated Austrian Jew
who was shocked by a virulent outbrea c
of anti-Semitism into propounding hi s
ideas. On the other hand, men such
Disraeli and Isaac Isaacs are the produces
of tolerance and broad-mindedness.
Admittedly there must be safeguard s
against the undesirable type of immigrar ;
—whether he be Jew or Gentile. So fa
as Jews are concerned, the best safeguarc
might be the establishment in London o '
a. selection committee of Jewish Austra
bans, well able to assess the sincerity
character and aspirations of prospectiw
migrants. Approved migrants shoulc
then be allowed to land, not as refugee
or foreigners, but as men and women who
are eager to accept the obligations o :
citizenship. Their assimilability shoulc
not be handicapped by our holding them
collectively responsible for the inevitable
proportion of individual failures.
If they are given such a fair start —anc
that was the start my father was given—
-111 back nine out of 10 Jewish migrants
of approved type to produce good Aus-
tralian families.—Buou (W.A.).
The Australian Voice
One thing which emerges from the
Parliamentary broadcasts is that there is
an Australian voice, and that it has come
to stay.
It is not a “refined” voice to the ear of
the old-style “educated man,” and it
grates. But then the old-style “educated
man is himself part of a minority. To-
day a man’s status is fixed by his achieve-
ments, not his speech. We have an Aus-
tralian voice, part and parcel of our-
selves, and in the* course of a generation
? r so . us W *U use high and low.
We might as well accept and be proud of
Yanks and Canadians are not humble
about their “accent.”
But that is no reason why we should
not deliberately try to improve our
speech. It could be pleasantly modified
by teaching our school-children to speak
properly, by making elocution at least as
im P°[ tant a s grammar in the schools.
What really jarred in the Parliamentary
broadcasts was not the tone of voice, but
sheer carelessness in speech—ignorance
or neg ect of elementary grammar, and
the cult of the dropped “h.” This is
largely a kind of inverted snobbery. Jack,
here, is as good as his master, and neither
he nor his master will risk being mistake:
for a snob by speaking careful precis
Australian English.— Hist (N.S.W.).
Squealers?
“Hope and Glory’s” letter to his Eng
lish friend telling him how miserable anc
unhappy Australia is (B. 14/8/’46) i
symptomatic of the change that has come
over the Australian character in the las
few years. A nation of squealers is
fair description of Australia today.
The first man had hardly been en
listed before the squeals came—com-
plaints against the pay, the food, the con-
ditions, the equipment, the leadership and
every possible aspect of our war effort
Sometimes the complaints were genuine
and rightly made public, but often they
were trifling or groundless and were ob-
viously fostered by the willingness of the
press to allow every disgruntled service-
man free use of its columns.
On the home front squealing became a
national industry, every war-time mea-
sure being accompanied by screams
about “hardship,” “anomalies” and “un-
fairness.” Since the war ended rehabili-
tation has been the main target of the
squealers. Significantly, the least com-
plaints have come from the most deserving
—the wounded and incapacitated.
The main characteristic of the squealer
is that, apart from squealing, he never
does anything to remedy the cause of
complaint. All of the miseries from
which Australia is suffering today can be
remedied by an energetic and resolute
people with their collective shoulders to
the wheel. Industrial strife will vanish if
unionists bestir themselves to take an in-
terest in union affairs ; blackmarkets will
collapse when there are no -customers ;
high prices will fall when luxury goods
stop in shop windows ; shortages will dis-
"I wish he Wouldn't swing that M endelssohn' s ‘Spring Song'!"
appear if we work a little harder. Squeal-
ing won’t remove any of them. —
W. K. D. (Q.).
Sydney and the Country
Our Civic Fathers have at last realised
the necessity of limiting the population
of Sydney to 2,000,000, and those who
have noted the abnormal increase in the
last decade, and the consequent conges-
tion in housing and transport, will
readily agree.
The topographical boundaries of Syd-
ney preclude further spreading, as there
are so many peninsular formations. From
South Head to the heart of the city is
just one long peninsula. The northern
suburbs, from Milson’s Point to Middle
Head, form another. Balmain, Green-
wich, Ryde, Druramoyne and other
places along the rivers are all surrounded
by water and are all closely settled. The
topography of Sydney picturesque
enough—also contributed to transport
congestion. The main avenue of Oxford-
street has to cater for all the thickly
populated eastern suburbs, with the ex-
ception of the subsidiary route for Belle-
vue Hill and Watsons Bay. Likewise on
the northern side, all trams for Cremorne,
Mosman, Taronga, Balmoral, The Spit
and Manly have to use Military-road.
Motor transport has similar limitations.
Any increase in population will mean
further transport congestion, but there is
an even greater menace in the supply of
amenities. Already there have been re-
strictions on use of gas, electricity and
water. Even milk and meat have been
inadequate on several occasions, and fuel
of any kind has become a luxury.
Scarcity of homes, hotel accommodation
or board of any kind-is, of course, com-
mon knowledge, and is the natural’ result
of over-population.
The only logical solution lies in the
development of country industries, not
necessarily wheat and wool, but factories
and business houses. Young people
should be made to realise that there ar?
golden opportunities away from Sydney,
and that many of the places can provide
grater comfort and better chances of
ad ;ncement Most of our larger inland
towns have more amenities than can be
obtained in the city.
It is essential that the attractions of the
country should be freely advertised. You
cannot drive people away from the cities,
but they would gladly go if conditions
attracted them. Rents are lower in the
country, food is more plentiful and
cheaper and there are no queues. Trans-
port is not needed to and from work,
and that alone means a saving in time
and money—some men spend up to 10
hours a week travelling, which brings
their 40-hour week to 50. It is also
possible to have the midday meals at
home —in fact, this is usual in country
towns. There is no surf, of course, but
many country towns have good rivers or
well-equipped baths.
These points, and many others, should
be brought home to city-dwellers. A
migration to country towns is the only
hope for them —and for Sydney.—
C, E. T. (N.S.W.).
Trees
Prize pigs, giant pumpkins, champion
milkers and super-woolly sheep notwith-
standing, the most valuable exhibit in a
national sense at Brisbane’s recent Show
was the “Save the Trees” display and
appeal. Should its warning go unheeded
in the future there will eventually be no
more Agricultural Shows. On the day
on which it attracted most visitors a
strong south-west wind was carrying
thousands of tons of drought-dried fer-
tile surface soil overhead and out to sea.
The same thing is steadily going on all
over Australia and for the same reason—
insensate and uncontrolled destruction of
trees which for centuries have held the
surface soil together and protected it from
erosion by wind and rain. For the same
reason, too, watercourses are silting up,
flood dangers are being created and in-
creased, surface and subterranean water-
sources are steadily deteriorating. We
are heading blindly for the same disas-
trous man-made condition which the
U.S. is now striving to remedy.
Queensland has a statute requir-
ing landholders to obtain official
sanction before ringbarking trees on their
holdings. It has never been brought
into force. The Forestry Department has
accepted association with the tree-saving
campaign inaugurated in Brisbane last
April, but its staff is far too small and
too scattered to carry out the job with
any real efficiency. Even in reported
cases of illegal ringbarking, burning or
poisoning, it has .no effective means of
identifying and punishing the individuals
responsible.
A beginning has been made in the edu-
cation of Queensland school children to-
wards appreciation of trees as objects
of beauty and of practical value, but long
before those children are old enough to
apply such teachings, irreparable damage
will have been done. The people who
need instruction are their elders, who are
doing the sorry job all over Australia.
Every State should lose no time in in-
augurating a thorough survey of its
erosion problems and educating the
people most concerned. — Atrax (Q.).
In Maoriland
Maoriland complacency was disturbed
recently by a leading article entitled “In-
dolence in New Zealand” in the “Mer-
cantile Gazette,” one of the best of M.L.
financial papers. The writer of the article
said that because of social security, the
high standard of living, shorter hours
and higher wages, the average M.L.
worker was slacking on his job. It was
possible that the time was coming when
people in other countries would refer to
M.L. as a land of indolence and that the
phrase would become current “as lazy as
a New Zealander,”
Hard words, but not an overstatement
when one views the falling production,
the recurring strikes and the difficulty in
securing workers for hard-work occupa-
Coal and timber production has
1.0 s'icll V'Ci. CXtCnt tfl&t A \ i
eminent is being forced to import. Wages
are so high m the “genteel” occupations
that many girls will not work in factories
and hospitals. They ignore the alluring
and pleading appeals by radio of short
hours, high wages and recreational
amenities.
Many highly-paid workers are making
a habit of taking extra holidays without
pay; unionists strike because of luxury
shortages ; middle-aged people retire and
m a few weeks of extravagance, “balance
the ledger,’ and qualify for social
security.
One or two Labor heads have been
game enough to demand greater produc-
tion, but they have not mentioned the
alarming facts. “Controls” dole out
limited table supplies, but a five- or ten-
mile trip by motor-car to near-by farms
will secure butter and eggs in plenty— at a
price. So many forms have to be filled
in that many declarations, if not falsified,
are only half-truths. To secure the benefits
of free health service, many with im-
agined ailments are rushing doctors and
chemists as they would a bargain sale.
Finally, there is too much government
by regulation and administration of “jus-
tice” by tribunals. This danger was
mentioned by Sir Michael Myers on his
recent retirement from the M.L. Chief
Justiceship, when he said that the Courts
of Justice were the only remaining bul-
wark of liberty and freedom of the
subject.
This is not a political outburst de-
signed for election year. Many would
prefer a continuance of Labor rule as
against the somewhat nebulous policy of
a most uninteresting National party, but
Labor must stop its pampering of the
worker, reduce its multitudinous controls
and revitalise the average Maorilander.
If it does this it will not only save its
own skin, but save the country morally
and financially. — P. I. Corry (MX.).
Sport and Conduct
Australians are supposed to have a
world reputation as sportsmen, and for
our population we seem to do very well
in all competitive sports.
But turn to the sporting pages in any
daily paper and it’s a moral that you’ll
read of some dispute or bad-tempered
squabbling. And this seems to be getting
worse. I’m wondering if there are any
advantages in being a “great sporting
nation.” — Nomug (N.S.W.).
The R.S.L.
The League was formed to care for
the dependants of those who did not
return, to help those who were incapa-
citated by war service, and to brighten
the lot of those who were confined to*
hospitals. League officials have been
mainly occupied by this work, for which
payment is neither made nor expected.
In fact all that the League offers to its
members is an opportunity to serve their
less fortunate comrades.
Another of the League’s objectives is
the adequate defence of Australia. Year
after year before the war the Common-
wealth Government was approached with
resolutions passed by the annual confer-
ence calling for the strengthening of the
defence forces. Promises were made, but
not fulfilled. Perhaps The Bulletin had
this Government inaction in mind when
it appealed to the R.S.L. to admit volun-
teers, assuming that a bigger membership
would mean greater pressure on the Gov-
ernment. But one point was overlooked.
Only those who have had actual experi-
ence of the horrors of war are likely to
fight hard in times of peace to keep it
from Australia.
There is another almost insuperable
difficulty to overcome. Where is the line
to be drawn between volunteer and non-
volunteer? In the 1914-18 war there
were men in camp ready to embark for
overseas when the armistice was signed,
but they were not permitted to join the
League. Volunteers have been turned
down in both wars because of physical
disabilities and, in the last war, key men
in industry were refused permission to
volunteer. It’s hard to draw the line.
In matters such as rehabilitation and
housing all servicemen have an interest.
Surely the various organisations can
present a united front on these questions
without causing members of the First
A.I.F. to leave the League and fall back
on their Old Battalion Association. —
J. W. R. (Vic.).


■
%
■ ' '
■ \ f
k . V
Wmmr
I «&i
3 1
mm
vV
O'
*
S-
\o
\V
A'
*
m
And no wonder, for in addition to being the
product of a great wireless organisation,
the new Radiola brings you outstanding
tonal reproduction and performance.
The Company’s laboratories are the finest
equipped and staffed in Australia. The
A.W. A. Radio-Electric Works, greatly
increased in size, met the demands of the
Services for radio equipment of the highest
technical design. Its output was larger than
that of any other wireless organisation in
Australia.
The post-war A.W.A. Radiola has gained
immeasurably by the higher technical skill
of A.W.A. scientists and engineers devel-
oped during war time. It is a superb
instrument of Radio entertainment unpa-
ralleled for tone and performance one
whiph you will be proud to own.
Although large production is being maintained, your
nearest authorised Radiola distributor may have
difficulty in making early delivery due to the big
demand from all parts of Australia. He will, however,
gladly advise you and give details of models which
will be available.
ŕ
RAD I OLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A/SI A) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Models: A.C. electric power-: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
d»di» l 8
Ava'C
Vi'
iv» vC
»h« rl
itU
-d •
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
bl®
a®®
«jico» l V
O
s 11
SaSffi-S!
SSS
W&M
A.W.A. Radiolette
