

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 67 No. 3482
Wednesday, November 6, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
CARSHALTON CHURCH.
TN this series of views presented by the House of Seppelt is
* illustrated the picturesque Church of All Saints in the village
of Carshalton. The oldest part of the church was built in the
reign of Richard 11, and within its grounds is the grave of Sir
Edward Whitaker. Carshalton stands on the river Waridle; in
the reign of the Queen was a favorite fishing-place for London
anglers. In place of the customary English village green Carshalton
possesses its well-known Ruskin’s Pool, and another interesting
feature of the village is Anne Boleyn’s Well. There are several
old houses in the district, one being Carshalton House, which
was built by Sir John Fellowes, one ofHhe authors of the South
Sea Scheme. Carshalton once proudly claimed to be “warmer
and healthier than any other place in England.”


JLearn 1
at home
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
Ily Name
Mg Address
S.B. 246 AQE
The Red Page
"BETWEEN WICKETS."
Mr. Pickwick was reading so feelingly
from Ray Robinson’s Between Wickets
(Collins), and Mr. Wardle was listening
so intently, that both were surprised and
startled by the hearty rapping on the
door. The features they observed sil-
houetted on the glass pane were faintly
familiar, but there was something quite
unfamiliar about the rest of the figure.
The knob was already turning before Mr.
Pickwick called “Come in.”
The visitor was, as they half-expected,
the stranger, but he had undergone a re-
markable change in one particular since
the day they had watched All-Muggleton
defeat Dingley Dell. Indeed he might
have come straight from the scene of his
great triumph in the scorching heat of
the West Indies. A white pith helmet
rested on the back of his head ; immacu-
late white linen suit, with a pink rosebud
in the buttonhole; pale-blue tie, with
white dots; white leather shoes ; malacca.
“Mr. Jingle?” said Mr. Pickwick, a
little doubtfully.
“Jingle’s the name,” declared that
cheerful gentleman, shaking hands with
both of them. “Alfred Jingle, Esq., of
No Hall, Nowhere.”
“If I may with propriety refer to them,”
said Mr. Pickwick, “the—er—clothes and
topee were a little puzzling.”
“Borrowed plumes,” Mr. Jingle ex-
plained. “Friend of mine—you may know
him —Mr. Percy Lindsay—staying at
home painting a sunbeam —suggested
—take these —go to the cricket —greater
love—no man than this —lend all his
clothes to a friend.”
“Most suitable for this Sydney weather,
sir,” said Mr. “I suppose, Mr.
Jingle, it was a day like this when you
played Colonel Blazo.”
“Ah—poor Blazo—sweltering day—
roaster —couldn’t bowl me out —tried
everything fast medium-pace
googlies—yorkers—leg - breaks —bodyline.
Great bowler—Blazo. Grimmett —Lar-
wood—O’Reilly—Tate—not in the hunt
—pikers. Very sore point with Blazo —
Dickens forgot dying words —strange
oversight—very.”
“Could it be possible,” said Mr Pick-
wick, “that Mr. Charles Dickens would
have nodded to the extraordinary extent
of overlooking a dying speech? This is
something, Wardle, I must report to the
next annual meeting of the Club. It is
a literary revelation of the highest import-
ance. Are you quite sure, Mr. Jingle?”
“No shadow of doubt —positive. Faith-
ful attendant —Quanko Samba—told me
afterwards. Blazo’s last ball—double
hopper—whack—knocked out policeman
on his beat in Paddington. Too much—
Blazo—broken heart —collapsed. Quanko
bent over fallen master —caught his last
words —‘Tell Jingle—gasp—couldn’t wait
—gasp —heard voice from the Hill—gasp
—“Hey, Blazo —gasp —you’re wanted on
the telephone! ” ’ Exit Blazo—like Lar-
wood —hero’s end—glorious.”
Both Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Wardle
looked at Mr. Jingle with some signs of
amazement in their faces.
“Mr. Robinson,” said Mr. Pickwick,
taking up the small, green-covered book
he had been reading to Mr. Wardle, “be-
lieves that the terror of Australian bats-
men is still alive. ‘On his retirement to
his poultry-run at the Notts village of
Annesley Woodhouse,’ .Mr. Robinson
writes, T didn’t hear anyone repeat the
playful curse, “May his chooks die.”
Rather, Australians wished him hard
shells and good hatchings.’ ”
“Robinson —good old Ray—know him
well —fine fellow —nice writer—knows
cricket endways. Very subtle—you miss
the point—anyone—not playing Test
cricket—not alive. Larwood’s end—blaze
of glory. Jardine —should have been in
the West Indies—job for him there —
slave driver. In Brisbane —hard ground
—kept putting Larwood on. Larwood
limping—no sympathy—no flowers—no
tears. Jardine never cried —even as a
baby. Larwood on again—set jaw—kept
bowling—game as Blazo. Favoring left
foot —speed slackens —no wickets. Verity
bags Bradman. Robinson—quote—‘Fol-
lowing Bradman from the field Larwood
limped out of Test cricket.’ —unquote.
Left big toe done in—small bones broken
—glorious end —great career. Retired--
relives the past- —Annesley Woodhouse
—reminds him of Woodfull —goes out by
twilight—throws eggs at it—goes back to
poultry farm —counts the ducks —happy
man —very.”
“You like Mr. Robinson’s book?”
asked Mr. Wardle, who had been greatly
amused at Mr. Jingle’s loquacious addi-
tions.
“Spiffing book,” Mr. Jingle pro-
nounced. “Bright—rocks along—ball to
ball —humor —capital stories—reads like
fiction —very.”
“Do I understand,” said Mr. Pickwick,
“that you find Mr. Robinson’s book re-
sembles a work of fiction?”
“Quite,” declared Mr. Jingle. “Brad-
man’s scores —McCabe’s innings—Sut-
cliffe and Hobbs—wonderful —Dickens
couldn’t have invented them. Everything
required—best critics—any novel —except
heroine. Jardine —wonderful villain —
reminds Robinson —appointment with
dentist. Dozens of heroes —not flannelled
fools —Kipling’s liver —all wrong—human
beings. McCabe’s feet —different sizes—
reminds me of a poem—never mind —
human touch —size five, size six. Tate’s
heart—big as Phar Lap’s—tireless bowler
—Blazo’s class—seven-league boots —
soles studded like harrows —finishing run
to wicket Tate came down with left leg
straight and braced —thud —jar made
support needed for abdominal wall —no
wonder—Quanko Samba burst G-string
same way—Tate wiser—wore stays
canvas with elastic sides —sensible pre-
caution —very. O’Reilly—never guess
watching him bowl —sociable —good
fellow' off field. On field —disguises fair
nature with hard-favored, rage —snarls
curses under breath at himself and ball —
no tail to lash in fury—pity. Richardson
—whacking Larwood —Woodfull goes
down —advises caution. Says Richardson
—-quote —Til show the beggar he can’t
bowl!’ —unquote. Robinson admits pure
fiction—didn’t say ‘beggar’.”
“Mr. Robinson certainly makes it
sound a most fascinating game,” Mr.
Wardle commented at the close of Mr.
Jingle’s lengthy exposition.
“Captivating—absorbing,” declared Mr.
Jingle most enthusiastically. “Robinson’s
style—praised by Mr. Neville Cardu? —
quote—‘Not that his language is ever
banal and fulsome after the manner of an
overdone English school of cricket writ-
ing.’—unquote. High praise—authorita-
tive —very.”
“Between yourself, sir, and what I have
read of Mr. Robinson,” said ‘Mr. Pick-
wick, “I am strongly inclined to witness
another mighty engagement on the green
sward myself. I am sure Mr. Wardle”
“I shall be most happy,” Mr. Wardle
evinced his agreement. “I have read
that Hammond’s men are playing this
week-end in Adelaide. We could journey
there by Skymaster”
“Capital,” shouted Mr. Jingle. “Gentle-
men —after —own heart. Few extra days
—confined to painting—no harm—my
good friend Percy. To aid journey—
read —inwardly digest—profit by—Robin-
son on O’Reilly—quote—‘Like Tate, Lar-
wood and many another bowler, after a
day of sweat and gtrain he knew the re-
storative and relaxational value of the
Empire’s best-selling beverage long before
scientists began to extol its riboflavin
content.’—unquote.”
As they made their way down the stairs
and along the street towards Adelaide,
via the Euston Hotel, Mr. Jingle burst
into song:
They’re changing the turf in Adelaide
paddock,
Douglas Jardine is swinging a maddock ...
The Feminine Touch.
Margaret Trist’s What Else Is There ?
(Angus and Robertson) is a collection of
short-stories divided into three sections,
each containing loosely-related sketches.
The first section is aevoted to “Grand-
mother” —a charming and vital old lady:
....a tall woman, thin and straight and
spry for her seventy-five years. She had
bright, dark eyes under tanned lids, criss-
crossed with little fine lines, a straight nose,
a provocative mouth, crimson in color, and
a firm, brown chin with a cleft in it.
There were lines round her mouth and
under her eyes and across her forehead.
Her forehead was high. Her white hair
had a wide part down the middle and went
softly qver her ears to fold in at the back.
The winter had certainly been a nuisance,
all winds and sneezes and hot-water bags,
and steaming lemon drinks administered
with a very bad grace by Grandmother her-
self. Annette, her six-year-old grand-
daughter, whom she was rearing despite the
protests of the parents of the child, had
had measles. Henry, her son and Maudie’s
husband, had “had the neuralgia bad.”
Maudie had had rheumatics, lumbago, in-
fluenza, bronchitis, mumps and laryngitis.
Grandmother had had nothing, but other
people having things had made her irritable.
She was always certain that people became
ill just to spite her. But it had all passed
at last.
Grey winter hath gone, like a wearisome guest,
And, behold,. for repayment,
September comes in with the winds of the West
nith Spring in her raiment! •
had quoted Grandmother only that morn-
ing, Industrie usi'y stitching red herring-
bone round the hem of a frilly pink frock
Annette’s mother had sent her from town.
All her own daughters as small girls had
worn dresses trimmed with red herringbone.
That holland and blue galatea had been
more suitable fabrics than pink sheer for
such . embellishments did not trouble her
one bit.
“Mr. Kendall,” Aunt Maudie had said,
plying her needle so as to produce two
frivolous blue butterflies on the front of
her camisole, “had some very beautiful
thoughts.”
And there is a fine little sketch of
Annette; —
The grape-leaves were so thick that they
shut out the sky, but they could not quite
shut out the sunshine. In places it pierced
the leaves and shone down on to the cool,
black earth making Of brightness.
Sometimes it shone on to the plants. Some-
times it shone on to Annette, down on her
haunches with her light frock stretched
over her knees and her fine, fair hair shim-
mering on each side of her intent face.
She sang softly to herself as she played,
“Upped and died, he did! Upped and
died —upped and died.” They were curious
words. She had a vague memory of having
heard them somewhere long ago. They
had got into her mind and stayed there,
and whenever she became engrossed in
anything she sang them.
pie picture, a rich setting, and the
child sitting in “blotches of brightness,”
is so good, so full of that rich fruitfulness
which is one of Margaret Trist’s major
gifts, that it seems ungracious to mention
that Katherine Mansfield, for instance,
would have probably got more out of it.
More poetry.
The feminine touch in writing, one
may say, has two aspects: the limited
but searching light which Margaret Trist
throws on those characters which she does
well, in her case a kind of richness; and
the other, the added delicacy, the softer
touch —which, to be successful, must be
soft as thistledown, as when Katherine
Mansfield describes children: —
Children!, Children!
They are being called by the cold servant
girls.
But they simply can’t get up. They
simply must have one more little sleep—
the best sleep of all —the warm, soft,
darling little rabbit of a sleep Just let
me hug it one minute before it bounds
away.
Not many women could describe sleep
as a “soft, darling little rabbit” without
falling into sentimentality. And not many
men would attempt it. Except, perhaps,
Barrie. But then, in a literary sense,
Barrie is not very masculine..
In her way, the other, limited way,
Margaret Trist has thq advantage of
femininity in her writing. Take “Grand-
mother” : it would be difficult for a
mere male to wax learned about holland
and herringbone and blue galatea. And,
in their place, there can be no doubt they
add reality and color.
But beyond these two attributes of
searching observation and softness of
touch, which may be called typically
feminine, these is also to be found in the
finest women writers a passionate aware-
ness of life of a peculiarly delicate kind.
It is hard to describe; but you will find
it in Katherine Mansfield and Virginia
Woolf and Sylvia Townsend Warner and
Christina Stead —a kind of slender flame ;
which becomes richer in Eve Langley, and
harsher —closer to a masculine genius
in Henry Handel Richardson. You find
a warmth in MargarejUTrist’s writing* but
you do not find much of this special kind
of flame.
The title story “What Else Is There?”
is her strongest and her best. It
concerns Dan Gerahty, a Rabelaisian
undertaker, his extremely domesticated
wife, and their rebellious daughter Kath-
leen. There are other, younger Gerahtys,
of no importance to the story, and the
“lady-help,” Miss Lacey, who is an amus-
ing sideline.
With a carnival setting, it is a story
about the urgency of love under the ever-
present threat of death. It is typical of
this book that “love,” for all the
characters, should be synonymous with
“babies”:
“You all make me sick,” muttered Kath-
leen .... “It’s all he ever thinks of —
babies, and people dying.”
“What else is there?” asked Dan blithely.
Read as a separate unit the story is
more impressive than it appears in the
book, for Margaret Trist repeats herself.
“Moonlight Carnival” deals with u similar
situation, and throughout the book there
are many Kathleens. And Mrs. Gerahty
keeps popping up almost on every page.
In Mrs. Potter, for instance, who says on
page 127, “I wish I hadn’t worn my new
corsets” ; and Mrs. Bryant, busily wrap-
ping pink corsets round herself in the very
first paragraph of “Monday’s Washing
Day.” Significantly, there are no more
Dan Gerahtys. The men generally are
unconvincing. And Dan, for all his charm
and vitality and naturalness, is something
of a humbug. Despite his jocular lewd-
ness he is really a respectable fellow, and
has no improper designs on Miss Lacey,
as some of his conversation might lead
one to believe. Similarly, when he asks,
in effect, what else there is in life besides
death and babies he is only half in
earnest. Indeed he betrays himself by
asking the question “blithely.” No reason-
able man could be cheerful at such a
dismal prospect. But in elaborating that
theme (probably unconsciously) in story
after story Margaret Trist has done her
art wrong, unnecessarily restraining it to
a merely domestic level, faithful enough
in its way, rich in comedy, but, as a total
philosophy of life, false.
J.F.
Night After Bushfire.
There is no more silence on the plains
of the moon
and time is no more alien there, than
here.
Sun thrust his warm hand down at the
high noon
but all that stirred was the faint dust
of fear.
Charred death upon the rock leans his
charred bone
and stares at death from sockets black
with flame.
Man, if he come to brave that glance
alone
must leave behind his human home and
name.
Carry like a threatened thing your soul
away,
and do not look too long to left or right;
for he whose soul wears the strict chains
of day
will lose it in this landscape of charcoal
and moonlight.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Politics and Literature.
Politics and literature seldom go to-
gether in our southern Parliaments. Aus-
tralia in the past has known two Prime
Ministers who had leanings towards
poetry. Sir Henry Parkes (N.S.W.) pub-
lished half a dozen small volumes of
verse, which for some time had a de-
clining vogue with anthologists. He did
better —or he would have done so but
for the poet’s health —when he found a
Government position for Kendall.
Alfred Deakin, when he was 18, wrote
a verse-play in five acts. He suppressed
it almost immediately after its appearance,
but it is remembered as the first recorded
volume of verse published by a native-
born Victorian. Browning’s friend Alfred
Domett, who was Premier of New Zea-
land, wrote a discursive idyll of epic size,
described by him as “A South Sea Day
Dream,” which it is the fashion now to
disparage, but which can be read still
with pleasure by anyone whose poetical
tastes are not too exclusively modern.
The latest of those productions was 50
years ago. The gulf between literature
and politics has steadily widened since
then ; perhaps more so in New Zealand
than in Australia, for Mr. Menzies is
known to be a reader of poetry, John
Curtin was reported hy a gossip-writer to
be reading a verse-play on a visit to
Sydney during the war, and Dr. Evatt has
written two good historical works, Rum
Rebellion and a life of Holman. Mr.
Menzies published a volume of his
speeches and Dr. Evatt has recently fol-
lowed suit with Australia in World
Affairs (Angus and Robertson).
Maoriland’s present Prime Minister,
Peter Fraser, seems to be doing some-
thing to restore the balance on this side
of the Tasman. Cables reported during
his recent visit to England that he had
gone out of his way to visit the grave of
the novelist Mrs. Gaskell at Knutsford.
Mr. Fraser is a Scotchman; and serious
Scotchmen have a habit of reading. Two
of Mrs. Gaskell’s novels are about the
first days of trade unions, the ethics of
striking, and so forth. But Mr. Fraser
may just as well have admired Sylvia’s
Lovers —no sentimental tale, as its name
might suggest, but a grim little story of
a northern port, a classic by every test —
or the excellent village comedy of Cran-
ford.
Mr. Fraser adapted Christina Rossetti’s
line “Does the road wind uphill all the
way?” in a speech to Parliament on the
first meeting of U.N.O.—not a remark-
able thing to do, except that in my ex-
perience of 40 years I cannot remember
any Prime Minister or Minister —hardly
any member of Parliament in New Zea-
land—quoting verse that was much better
than doggerel. It has been the rarest
thing for verse to be quoted at all.
W.F.A.


MODERN TRAVEL
demands Luggage
that has Lightness
and Compactness
m
0^
G 6?
V'i
»
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'm m
m
m
w
V £
******
ns : '. s
r,
smm
■m f
m
SsSsssssassSS®
« n
'*l
..gr
■aT
„ J?S MMIII
*
V
OVERNIGHT BAG IN PEBBLE GRAIN
So very up-to-the-minute! Made from pebble grained hide, the size is 21 ins. x
7 ins. x 14 ins. high, and has an outside pocket securely held with two metal
turn-button fasteners. Triflex twin zipper fastener, it is cloth lined, has two
secure ringed handles and is available in colours of Brown with Fawn piping.
Price 93/9
MADE FROM SELECTED 1 PIG-GRAIN HIDE
This Overnight Bag is cloth lined and has two secure ringed handles. It features
Lightning zipper fastener for convenience and greater room. The size of the
bag is 18 ins. x 9 ins. x 10 ins. high, and is obtainable in colours of Blue or Black.
Price * 64/6
* HERE’S A THOUGHT FOR CHRISTMAS—-WHY MOT BUY SEVERAL BAGS MOW OM THE D.P.S. FOR GIFTS? *
CEOTH-LINED OVERNIGHT BAG
Featuring a roomy, inside pocket, two secure reinforced handles and
zipper fastener. The size of this bag is 20 ins. x 8 ins. x 1 1 ins. high,
available in such attractive colours as Fawn, Beige, Navy or Brown,
would make an ideal Christmas gift. The price is
a strong
and it is
This Bag
. 94/6
GRAINED HIDE TOILET SETS
Give him one "for Christmas. Contains everything a man desires to complete his
toilet, such as a Hairbrush, Safety Razor, Soap Box, Shaving Soap Container,
Mirror, Comb and Nail File. Attractively arranged, this toilet kit would please
any man. The price is 53/3
Travel Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free within our Delivery Area
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'PHONE: M 2401, EXT. 181, OR WRITE TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANS EASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drutumoyne, N.S.W.
HARTS
Circular Charts Jot all typei oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gal our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. Q'LDv
_
W
HAVE TOW
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—L. S. Parker, Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 ~ G.P.0.. Sydney.
SP f-,1.
PAIMOUVf
SHAVING
CREAM
/
t m m
W
/
m
w
I
PALMOLIVE’S \
5 POINTS FOR A
BETTER SHAVE I
w
1. Moist, rich, soothing lather §
2. Softens even the tougest g
beard |
3. Makes the work of a razor |
much easier H
4. Gives a clean, close long
lasting shave
5. And it’s very econo- g
When a man looks in the mirror he sees
an individual shaving problem facing him.
Laughter creases, a wrinkle, a really tough
beard on a sensitive skin. So he turns
gratefully to Palmolive Shaving Cream
and lets that rich olive oil lather ensure
a close, cool, comfortable shave.
mica!
H ’ WHAT A
makes
\
I
UM'.m
'N
C
C
\
*
Fora
closer, cleaner,
smoother shave
PSB/336
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of LESLIE
McLEAN and ALAN McLEAN (nephews of RUBY
and JAMES McLEAN), formerly of Lake Cargclligo,
near luuee New South Wales, please contact HUGHES
& BROCKMAN, of 201-204 C.M.L. Buildings, 53 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia, Legal
Practitioners.
MIiRIELL PHYLLIS DAWE.—WOULD MurieU
Phvllis Dawe, daughter of Alfred Ernest Dawe and
Annie Dawe, born at Warracknabeal, Victoria, on
the 24th day of May, 1896, at one time known to
reside at 408 Church Street, Richmond, Victoria, and
who is a niece of John Golding, late of 50 St.
George's Terrace, Hobart, Tasmania, or any person
able to give information which might lead to her
r,resent whereabouts, please communicate immedi-
K with the undersigned solicitors ?—TATCHELL,
DUNLOP, SMALLEY & BALMER, 290 Williamson
Street. Bendigo, Victoria. ,
Tii iuVvS AMY MARY AGNES FARNSWORTH and
FREDERICK JOHN OLIVER.—Any person know-
w of the present or past whereabouts of Gladys
a™v Mary Agnes Farnsworth (formerly Oliver) or
Frederick John Oliver is requested kindly to com-
municate with MESSRS. NICHOLL & HICKS, Solici-
tors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of “A Bird’s Nest,” by Elizabeth
Allen.—3B9B.
Information Sought.
(1) Some facts about the parcel postal ser-
vice to Poland? (2) Address of the Polish
Consul ?
This service has now been resumed and
parcels not exceeding 111 b. in weight are
accepted for transmission. Postage is 11b. to
31b., 3s. lid.; over 31b. and up to 71b., ss. 9d.;
over 71b. and up to 111 b., Bs. 9d. Insurance
and prepayment of the duty by the sender are
services not yet available. A large number of
articles are either prohibited altogether from
importation info Poland or may be imported
only on licences issued by the Polish authorities.
If the sender of the parcel is uncertain whether
the contents of the parcel will be admitted by
the authorities, he should obtain information
from the addressee beforehand. In addition
to the particulars provided on the form of the
Customs Declaration, the address of the
addressee and that of the sender must be
given. (2) 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
* * * •
Biographical details of Sir John O’Shanassy?
Born in County Tipperary, Ireland, in 1818,
he migrated to Melbourne in July, 1839, and
opened a draper’s shop in 1846 which became
the source of a substantial income. He helped
to found the Anti-transportation League,
ardently advocated the separation of Port
Phillip from N.S.W., and became, on Sept.
11, 1851, one of the three elected represen-
tatives of Melbourne in the new Leg. Council.
Sir Charles Hotham placed him on commissions
to inquire into the state of the goldfields (after
the Eureka Stockade), to report on the pro-
posed constitution (1853) and to investigate the
state of the Crown lands (1855). When the
colony obtained self-government in 1856
O’Shanassy was elected to the Assembly by
both Melbourne and Kilmore and chose the
latter. He led the official Opposition—in co-
operation with C. G. Duffy—and in March,
1857, defeated the Haines Ministry and formed
one of his own; this lasted only six weeks.
Ten months later O’Shanassy came back for
20 months. On Nov. 14, 1861, he again took
office but was defeated in June, 1863. Remain-
ing in the Assembly until 1866, he visited
Europe and was knighted by Pope Pius IX
for his services to Roman Catholics in Aus-
tralia; he returned in 1868 and was elected
to the Council, only to resign in 1874. Finally
he secured election to the Assembly as member
for Belfast in 1877 but was rejected by that
constituency in 1883. He died on May 7 9I
that year. O’Shanassy was made C.M.G. in
1870 and K.C.M.G. in 1874.
* * * *
Do country users of electricity in N.S.W.,
Vic. and Tas. pay more than city consumers?
The Sydney County Council supplies elec-
tricity directly to its customers in an area of
approximately 150 square miles, with a popu-
lation of about 960,000. The rates for elec-
tricity are uniform, irrespective of distance from
the power-stations. At distances from 20 to
40 miles from the power-stations electricity
is sold to municipal bodies, who in turn sell
to their customers in more or less sparsely-
populated areas. Owing to the increased length
of mains, extra sub-stations and decreased
revenue per mile of mains, the price charged
to these customers is slightly higher than that
applying in the city area. The customers in
the city and the long-distance areas are paying
approximately the cost of providing the service.
Under recent legislation, financial assistance is
to be given to country-town suppliers to enable
them to sell electricity—particularly to primary-
industry users in the country areas surrounding
country towns —at the same rates which apply
in the country town. These rates are slightly
higher than those applying in the large cities.
In Victorian country districts the Victorian
Electricity Commission is practically the sole
supplier. Zones have been set up, and while
the rates differ from zone to zone they are
uniform within the zones. In Tasmania, where
there is only qne supplier, namely, the State,
the ratfes applying in the country also apply
in the city.
Information Supplied.
Re rustless steel as a substitute for gun-
metal fittings in boat construction (B. 9/10/’46).
Metals such as rustless steel, chromium and
aluminium owe their non-corrodibility to the
formation of a thin, invisible oxide coating
which prevents any further corrosion. This
forms almost instantaneously and immediately
covers and protects scratches, etc. If the metal
is subjected to conditions which remove and
inhibit - the formation of the protective coating,
corrosion other than oxidation may take place.
Saw an example in a badly-corroded rustless
steel shackle from a flying-Jboat. The corrosion
had taken place on parts covered by marine
growth, which had presumably removed the
protective oxide film. Many parts fastened to
hulls could be corroded and would be out of
sight. I prefer copper-based alloys which
depend for their non-corrodibility on chemical
stability.—D.M.T.
Brief Answers.
F.H.M.: Invincible Motors Pty., Ltd., 53
George-street, Sydney, have a variety of
governors suitable for automobile work
W.C.G.R.: (1) The tide differences arise from
the gravitational action of the moon. The
moon does not reach the same position relative
to different places —e.g., in the tropics it will
pass straight overhead, but elsewhere it does
not do so. The contour of the bed of the sea
is also a contributing factor R.S.G.B. : The
first person who really adopted the open-type
enclosure method of exhibiting animals was
Carl Hagenbeck, of Stelligen, Germany. Some
of his ideas have been adopted by Taronga
Zoo, Sydney, but the layout of the aviaries,
the botanical section and most other parts
were originated by local authorities E.M.8.:
Most cases of feather-plucking in galahs are
due to wrong feeding. Sunflower seed is
a very heating food, and although a small
portion of this is quite suitable in the more
temperate climates it is far too heating
for N. Queensland, particularly when the bird
gets little exercise and is kept in an aviary
where it does not have enough space to fly.
Birds dp much better in the warmer regions
if given a mixture of cracked corn, wheat and
a little oats. If the bird will eat a little fruit
(apple or pear) and greens it would prove
beneficial.. . .A.H.; (1) Matter involves such
a substantial sum and raises such a number
of questions of estate and other duties that
you should have the deed properly prepared
by a solicitor. (2) Yes. A return would have
to be made and duty would be payable at that
rate. (3) Yes, 3 p.c. is the tax rate. (4) If
the value of all gifts including the gift ot
£245 made either at the same time or within
the previous or subsequent 18 months exceeds
£5OO, duty is payable. The rates are: up to
£5OO, nil; £5OO to £lO,OOO, £3 p.c.; thereafter
on a sliding scale up to £27 18s. p.c... . .N. 8.:
Lambert’s Cake Decorating, obtainable from the
Oceanic Publishing Co., Bond-street, Sydney.


Divorce Notices.
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
(CHRISTCHURCH REGISTRY).
No. 4147 In . Divorce.
TO JOHN HARLEY GILL formerly of Wellington
Commercial Traveller the husband of SARAH IRWIN
GILL of Christchurch Married Woman. —TAKE
XOTICE that a petition by your wife for dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of desertion
has been filed in the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Christchurch with a notice to you annexed that
unless you file an answer to the petition in the said
Court at Christchurch within Thirty (30) days from
the last publication of this advertisement (which will
occur on the 6th day of December 1946) the Court
may hear the petition and pronounce judgment with-
out your being heard, and that until you have given
an address for service in manner provided by the
Rules of Court you will not be entitled to receive
any further notice or documents in connection with
the proceedings A copy of the petition and notice
’"’ill be supplied to you on your applying for the
same at the Supreme Court Office at Christchurch.
Dated at Christchurch this 18th day of October,
1946.— (l.s.) J. R. SANSOM, Deputy Registrar.
GEORGE PROCTOR PURNELL is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
office of the said George Proctor Purnell, 96 Hereford
Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the ’foregoing advertise-
ment
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WALTER CHARLES TOOVEY.—TAKE NOTICE
that LUCY TOOVEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4485 of 1946 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
fid upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 2nd day of December
1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— '(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM HENRY ATKINSON OR HIS CHILDREN
OR LEGAL PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES.
CHARLOTTE SKALDA, late of 11 Caroline Street,
Clifton Hill, in the State of Victoria, widow, de-
ceased, died on the Eighteenth day of November,
1940, and the Public Trustee for Victoria is the
administrator of her estate. If WILLIAM HENRY
ATKINSON, who was born at East Collingwood in
the State of Victoria on the Ninth day of October,
1859, and whose parents were William Atkinson and
Charlotte Atkinson (whose maiden surname was
Gray), survived the said Charlotte Skalda, deceased,
he would have been entitled to share in the estate
of the said Charlotte Skaldd. If the said William
Henry Atkinson predeceased the said Charlotte Skalda,
leaving a child or children who survived the said Char-
lotte Skalda, such child or children would have been
entitled to share in the estate of the said Charlotte
Skalda. NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Public
Trustee receives on or before the Thirty-first day of
January, 1947, a claim to share in the said estate
from the said William Henry Atkinson, or from some
person claiming through him or as one of his issue,
the said Public Trustee will, after the said Thirty-
first day of January, 1947, distribute the said estate
as if the said William Henry Atkinson had prede-
ceased the said Charlotte Skalda, deceased, with-
out issue.-—PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA, 412
Collins Street, Melbourne.
lIM
Z
just jug h t top firms
mm
; USH'fWijSBT LUMP Si
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airway!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
HatHihcktreK at CLO 8 1 TE Travel.'- Cose*.'-. •"$
Z
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING PARTS
ARE DYNAMICALLY BALANCED - - -
ALL GEAR TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
Victoria: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 a Sydney Road, Brunswick. Queensland;
Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann St., Brisbane. W.A.: Western Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Perth. New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
Harvest SoH
\Ve proved,
ii
//
it aqam
;:wwc*v
.. it pays to farm,
wIthCALTEX!
“I’ve got a lot of machinery and I work it hard, but I’ve never
had a breakdown due to lubrication failure. My machines stand
up because I lubricate regularly with the particular CALTEX oil
or grease my equipment needs. I use CALTEX products because,
no matter what kind of lubrication job, there’s a CALTEX quality
* product that will do that job better. I’m sticking to CALTEX again
this harvest.”
it CALTEX MARFAK for bearings,
it CALTEX THUBAN for gears,
it CALTEX 747 HARVESTER OIL.
it CALTEX R.P.M.MOTOR OIL.
it CALTEX RUSTPROOF COMPOUND.
44
m
M
13/336
CALTEX
QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
N.N.: N-n-no J.G.G.: Tell some specific
incident if you want to write about the past;
those generalised summaries have been over-
done... .J.N.C.: “I stood there boldly, my
heart in my eyes.” A peculiar sight A.L.8.:
It must be the first time in history a column
of smoke has been observed to give a “Salomic
wriggle” S.J.: Leave it to Ogden M.M.:
“The tea-tree sways in September breeze, Makes
quite a pretty scene.” So it does, so it does....
F.G.; “I daresay I could do worse.’.’ Well,
maybe:—
M.U.: Neither escapes from conventionality.
J.H.F.: Have you ever really seen a rose
“bowing in gratitude for latitude”?... .R.C.G.:
Hackneyed M.P.T.: Why use that archaic
vocabulary? Smike; “Great store is set
on a sensible horse.” True; but there was
never one that had the sense to win at the
right time J.O’G.: Come again Aldo :
Literary and unconvincing Lockie: The
bureaucrats have driven you incoherent
R.MacD.: No reality in those “fanfares” and
“roseate auroras” R.R.; It may be true
but the telling makes it melodramatic....
Bellerive: Indeed a fiery particle; —
M.W.P.: “The Prisoner” owes a good deal
to Schlunke’s stories; for all that, the love
scene in the kitchen is delightful—but utterly
ruined by “She stood for a moment re-
membering the sound of a mandolin
Prisoner-of-war. Some day he would be free.
But she —she was a prisoner for life, a prisoner
cf fate” T.U.: Tedious D. 8.: Gay, but
slight M.V.N.: Come again... .Z.W.: Sur-
prise ending not surprising; scrap such ex-
pedients and rely on observation and humor.
—W.T.: A museum piece J.N.C.; Con-
dense it, and if Maud still insists on “gazing
starry-eyed at the heavenly moon,” incinerate
it J.G.: Cold-eyed gamblers, hot-eyed cops
and murderers won’t do, even if they didn’t
converse in rasps and snaps G.C.S.: “Cow-
puncher” would be much happier back home
in Texas T.A.: “Typical Digger” as suspect
as typical sundowners, publicans, drovers and
foreigners who wander in here at times
G.H.McC.: Interesting history, but dry as dust,
owing to too much detail and a retrospective
style 8.L.: You’ve taken great pains with
their souls, but what did they look like?
Y.R.: Sentimental E.I.: A border-liner;
but more drama needed to redeem a technically
well-written, hut dull, story... .H.McM.:
Something in it M.R.: “Purple patches”
excessive J.F.Y.; Too many adjectives cancel
themselves I.C.: It has all been said before.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.J.E.: Those artistic corpses should have
been dispatched to us in a hearse... .A.B.W.:
Interesting as decorations, but not a laugh in
any of them K.T.: Received sketch of man
driving reaper and binder. Where is the gag?
L.W.: Heard the wheeze over the air not
so many nights ago R.C.: Dialogue be-
tween greyhound and poodle did not impress
us as being funny E.P.F.: Study hard,
develop a style of your own and strive for
snappier jokes... .M.D.D.: Cricket drawing
was clean-bowled in the first over G.B.:
Jolliffe has first claim to those characters.—
S.R.: Shouted the drunk a drink for the road
and sent him home W.F.T.: A feeble effort
even for one so young L.K.: You can call
and collect them at your leisure A.M.:
Not bad enough for brickbats, not good enough
for bouquets CJ.R.: Your tramway con-
ductor will collect no fares in our pages
E.M.U.: .Try us again in another 10 years’
time J.B.W.: “This is my first and, if
rejected, last attempt.” Afraid it’s your last.
S.G.F.: An untidy tangle of blots, scratchy
lines and erasions V.P.; There are some
shapely curves in the drawing, but no humor
in the gag... .A.S.B.; Sketch of Chifley riding
a buckjumper came a cropper into the basket.
W.A.: A thing of shreds and patches
G.S.T.: Caricatures need to be of persons in
the public eye... .A.P.G.: You were beaten to
the post with that gag.
Boom, boom, boom! “Haste and mount your horses,”
says Mr. William Caldwell, “and then accompany
me.
For it’s going to be a wild ride from here to the sea.
Signals of distress are flying high in the air,
Skyrockets are booming and throwing out fire-sparks
everywhere. 1 "
The horses then they went the pace,
The wind it was screaking right in their face.
Arriving at Troubridge Hill and coming up on the
scene
The remains of a large beaconfire was what the horse-
backs had seen.
The steamer Clanranald she has disappeared and has
gone down out of sight,
And the sailors down below us in the breakers calling
for help in their plight.
Round about Troubridge Hill a most sad disaster
For forty poor souls were called to their Master.
THE BURNING OF THE OLD THEATRE ROYAL,
Melbourne, 1872.
As burning spars fell
And flames surged higher
Shrill cries rang out —
“The theatre’s afire!”'
Brave firemen battled
To subdue the flare
Which shed o’er the
City a ruddy glare.
Smart mounted police
Did canter along
Prepared to cope with
The excited throng.
A smouldering mass
In the morning light
Were the timbers of
The fire of the night.


ft
r
/mm
t 1';
§8
j v
7ry|
/
/
I V,
tT
10 o’clock
closing
means
m
nm
W (
(c
c^-
//
!W
&
\
•j?
m
ft
i
V~?
MORE CONVENIENT HOARS
/VPT
iOMGe*" oU * S
The Liquor Act provides that with 10 o’clock
closing hotels will be open between 10 a.m.
and 6.30 p.m., and between 7.30 p.m. and
10 p.m. —serving of liquor being prohibited
in either lounges or bars between 6.30 p.m.
and 7.30 p.m. This means that liquor will be
sold for eleven hours each day, or one hour
less than the twelve hours allowed under the
previous 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. regulations.
Thus 10 o’clock closing is not a move for
longer trading hours, but for hours that will
better serve the requirements of the general
public. Ten o’clock closing will mean that it
will be possible to enjoy a drink in comfort at
whatever reasonable time suits you best; it
will mean the provision of conditions con-
ducive to moderate, leisurely and civilised
drinking; it will bring N.S.W. into line with
conditions enjoyed in almost every other
country and several Australian States; and it
will remove an outdated, unpopular and
unnecessary restriction on our freedom.
FOR MORE CONVENIENT HOURS, VOTE 10 O'CLOCK
Inserted by Liquor Trade Council of N.S.W., 23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
LT.II.M


"Here lad!
By BRIAN JAMES
No. 7 of "The Cookabundy Chronicles .”
IT had been hot all day, a breathless
sort of heat, “sticky” or “muggy”
being the terms generally used to
describe it. The flies were legion;
sleepy but persistent, they burrowed into
your eyes and were removed with diffi-
culty. Only the ants were alert and
active.
All the signs were there for a big storm
—a ‘Tegular snorter,” as Big Jack Ryan
used to call it.
And there were other “signs” even
more pointed—over the long, low dark
ridges towards Tipperary, dim and hazy
now in the summer heat, were great
clouds, glinting white or dark-shaded, as
solid and substantial as the peaks and
valleys of an Alpine range.
Of all days it was the worst possible
for hunting, which, after all, demands
that bite and nip of cold to make those
concerned, hunter and hunted alike, savor
to the full the grim excitement of the
chase.
But it had to be today for Horry
Bolton and Georgie Ryan, and they had
made their plans accordingly. “She’s
going out this afternoon,” said Horry,
referring to his mother, “and that old
Charlie Box can’t stop me — he’s not my
father.” Horry—Horace Robert in the
maternal pride of high-sounding names
—was Mrs. Bolton’s only child. He was
twelve-and-a-half; tall, thin, discon-
tented ; and filial love was scant within
him. His discourteous allusion to Charlie
Box was a whole long page of family
history, and a whole big volume of local
scandal. For old Charlie resided at
Boltons’, ostensibly as star boarder, but
the district hated to think that the
arrangement was quite as innocent as
that.
“All right, Horry, I can sneak off
almost any time. Where are we going?”
Georgie had already made up his mind
where they were going. Georgie was a
squat-looking boy with sharp, bright eyes
and lots of freckles. He was nearly as old
as Horry, but looked a lot younger.
“Aw, up the top end of the Grey Box,
near Wenn’s wheat paddock. There are
hares there. And, besides, we can have
a look at Wenn’s dead horse.”
“Saw him yesterday,” said Georgie,
“and he pongs. You can hardly get
near enough to have a good look at him.”
“Well, where?”
“Up the gully.”
“No hares there.”
“Sometimes. Saw one last week in
O’Meara’s. Besides, we can go on to the
ti-tree scrub for wallabies.”
This airy talk of hares and wallabies
was no fiction, really, as far as the exist-
ence of these fleet creatures went. But
it entered the region of the far-fetched
and fantastic when it contemplated
Horry’s dogs catching them.
Horry had two dogs. Apart from
eating, especially sugar and sausages,
these dogs were Horry’s chief interest in
life. He was proud of his dogs and
bestowed on them an affection that he
denied his mother, forgot to give his
father, who was absent on a sort of
extended leave, and which he .certainly
did not give old Charlie Box, whom he
hated over the matter of gross unfair-
ness in the distribution of sausages.
Horry’s pride in his dogs was blind
and unreasoning. In the canine world
they were beneath notice, and they were
perfectly useless and amazingly lacking
as ornament. There was Spot, whose
breeding was vague and disgraceful. To
the eye of tolerance slight signs of foxie
could at times be discerned. No other
known breed could be detected. Had her
tail been docked she might have looked
a little more like a foxie, but it hadn’t
been, and it mostly waved like a flag.
She had a black patch on her back,
something like a saddle, a black ear and
a black paw. Her only redeeming
features were a habit of cocking her head
on one side, which gave her the appear-
ance of thinking hard, and her adora-
tion of Horry.
The other dog was Laddie, and he was
Spot’s only surviving son, and the apple
of Horry’s eye. He had no virtues at
all. He was yellow (in every way), some-
thing the color of a dingo—a very de-
generate dingo. He was supposed to
have been fathered by a dog belonging to
a most disreputable family named the
Twines. That was probably a libel on
Twines’ dog.
THE two hunters and the two dogs
set out. They went up the gully,
famous once for its rich gold-diggings,
but desolate and deserted now, and left
Wenn’s horse out of their reckoning.
Spot and Laddie dissipated their ener-
gies in short chases after the rabbits
they started up from the foot of trees or
from rocks and logs. There were lots
of rabbits, but Spot and Laddie didn’t
catch any.
They made a lot of noise—sharp yaps
that were a distant echo of the primi-
tive packs. Every now and then they
came back to Horry for approval and
words of praise. They panted and
wagged their tails and Horry commended
them highly. He was as excited over
the hunting as they were ; they’d catch
something yet if they had “half a chance.”
They were near the head of the long
gully now. Spot and Laddie were in a
shallow pool of very muddy water, lav-
ing their hot, red tongues. Horry was
complaining that it wasn’t fair at all;
the rabbits had too many burrows, and
they knew where these burrows were,
and they didn’t give a straight run:
“That’s what I like about hares—
no tricks at all.”
“We’ll go on to the ti-tree,” said
Georgie,
“Yes, and give a wallaby a go for it.”
A distant rumble of thunder made
them look to the west. A storm was
growing out of those great wool-packs
over the Tipperary ridges. They hadn’t
noticed its rapid development. It was
going to be a big storm. Anyone could
see that. The clouds were black as night,
low down, and ragged dirty grey higher
up, near the zenith. The sun no longer
shone, and the air was stiller and deader
than ever. While they looked, a wicked
streak of lightning, sharp and blue,
stabbed viciously through the black mass
and momentarily showed the several
banks of cloud. Georgie started to count,
and reached twenty.
“That’s four miles away,” he an-
nounced, as the thunder, much louder this
time, reached them. He had counted
quickly, so he was overstating the
distance.
“We’d better go
home,” said Horry,
who was much
afraid of storms.
Georgie didn’t think
they could get there
in time. He was an
expert on storms.
“Look at that! ”
he invited. “That
was a beaut streak! ”
It was, too, and
the thunder came
quicker and was not so rumbling—sharp
and explosive. They were undecided.
The dogs were sprawled on the dusty
ground, tongues lolling, and panting
hard.
A puff of wind struck them, cold, icy
and reviving, and then they heard the
roar of wind in the distance, and could
see the pine- and box-trees on Ryan’s
Hill bend and shake their "boughs. A
drop of rain fell on the dust. It splotched
out, big as a half-crown. Then another
drop. The dogs looked at the sky. An-
other clap of thunder —and it shook the
ground. Horry was terrified.
“What about that yellow-box?” He
pointed to a huge tree with a burnt-out
hole in its trunk, room enough for them
all.
“Never get under a tree in a storm,”
advised Georgie.
“Well, where?”
“We’ll make for the tunnel.”
“Is it safe?” Strangely enough Horry
didn’t know the tunnel; this part of the
world was outside his regular beat. The
tunnel was half-way up O’Meara’s hill,
and represented one of the many fruit-
less attempts to “cut the reef” which
everyone knew was thereabouts, but
nobody had found.
“Come on!” called Georgie, and they
started up the steep slope. It was a
quarter of a mile to the tunnel.
“Here, Lad! Here, Spot!” At the
invitation the two dogs raced ahead. The
cold wind had revived them.
A huge yellow dump marked the
tunnel. They skirted this and ran along
the deepening opencut that led to the
mouth. The big drops of rain were fall-
ing thickly now, and the thunder was
above them and all round them. The
mouth of the tunnel was grim, dark and
forbidding, but it was refuge. They had
reached it just in time.
Puffing and panting they flopped down
a few yards inside the entrance. And
then the storm broke in a fury of wind
and a lashing of rain—like a madly-
swaying curtain, grey-white. They could
scarcely see to the end of the cutting.
Above the wind and swish of rain
snapped the thunder. It was good to be
out of a storm like that, even though
they had got nearly wet through coming
up the hill. Georgie was proud of his
bright thought in suggesting the tunnel:
“You see, Horry, this is better than that
tree —it might get struck or blown over.”
Horry was much inclined to agree.
“It won’t last long,” Georgie went on
in his wisdom. “Storms like that never
do yi the summer. You’ll see,”
Horry shivered slightly at the thought
of the inadequacy of a tree in such a
storm. But it was good, too, to watch
the rain and lightning, and listen to the
wind and thunder, in this safety.,
SPOT and Laddie had been sitting on
their tails and looking out at the
driving rain. They were out of occupa-
tion now, for there were no more flies to
be snapped at. What they thought of
the storm cannot be recorded, but they
seemed glad enough of the shelter. Then
new interests came to them.
They sniffed the dusty floor and started
cruising into the depths of the tunnel.
Suddenly the pair of them commenced
their absurd hunting yap.
“They’ll get him! ” said Horry ex-
citedly, forgetting his awe of the storm.
“He can’t get away, whatever he is! ”
In his excitement, Horry stood up.
Sounds of chase came back from the
darkness. It stopped suddenly, followed
by a queer scuffling noise, and then a
dull bump, right down in the earth some-
where. A long second later there was
another dull bump. They could hear
these above all the storm.
Georgie’s mind translated the sounds.
He stared into the darkness, and looked
interested.
“What was that?” asked Horry, in
vague alarm.
“I’m afraid, Horry, they’ve done it.”
“Done what?”
“Missed the track.”
“What track?”
“That narrow track round the hole,
you know.”
“What hole?” But Horry by now was
realising something of the tragedy.
The long-since dead-and-gone diggers
of that tunnel had punched down a shaft
near the end of it, in the hope that they
might “cut the reef” that way. It was
a deep shaft —fully fifty feet. But
Georgie, in his charity, broke it gently
to Horry, “A bit of a shaft near the
end, Horry. They might have fallen
down it.” »
Horry’s unattractive face worked into
terror and tears. He started into the
tunnel wildly, calling out, “Here, Lad!
Here, Lad! Here, Spot!”
“Don’t —you’ll go down, too.”
“Here, Lad! Here, Lad!” The call
was sadly mixed with blubbering.
“Don’t —it’s dangerous!”
“Here, Lad! Here, Lad!” But no
sounds at all came from the tunnel.
“Is it is it deep?”
“F-air-ly.”
Georgie had matches.
They were wax vestas in
a round tin-box. Georgie
mostly had matches as
became a heavy smoker —
he had an old pipe of his
father’s, and sometimes
he managed to pinch
tobacco for it. When he
couldn’t get tobacco he
smoked quince leaves.
Now he advanced till the
light from the entrance
was largely obscured by a bend in the
tunnel.
Horry was quiet, except for the snivel-
ling that accompanied his breathing.
About forty yards in was the shaft,
boarded but unlogged round the top, and
with crossed poles for the windlass. The
windlass was taken away, of course, when
the mine had been abandoned. Beyond
the shaft the tunnel ran on for ten or
twelve yards, and was choked with broken
rock —dumped there from the shaft.
All this they took in by the flickering
light of several matches. It was weird
and eerie—one might have been miles
down in the earth, an unnatural place for
humans to be, silent and musty. But the
air was pure, for the matches burned.
“That’s her!” said Georgie, holding
the match towards the shaft. He was a
little vain in his acting as showman, and
his feelings about the dogs, or about
Horry, were not over-disturbed. Per-
haps the fact that the dogs were snuffed
out like that did affect him a trifle.
Horry’s nose was giving trouble, and
he wiped it on his sleeve, with a see-saw
motion of the arm. He raised his voice
in tones of hope, encouragement—and
despair:
“Here, Lad! Here, Lad! Here, Lad! ”
They listened, and the match went out.
Georgie swore as it befitted one who
smoked a pipe—and real tobacco, when
he could get it. To Horry the swearing
sounded like defiance of the Deity. But
there was sHence profound from the shaft.
Georgie lit another match. Horry tried
Spot this time:
“Here, Spot! Here, Spot! Here,
Spot!”
The results were the same.
“They’re dead, Horry. The old man
says that shaft is fifty-feet deep.”
A sob, like a big bubble coming to the
surface, shook Horry badly. Again his
sleeve attended to his nose. He invoked
the silence of the pit once more. He
knew his dogs were dead, but he couldn’t
believe it.
“Come on,” said Georgie. “This is the
last match.”
“Listen! I heard something.”
Some vague sound came from below —
miles down it seemed.
“They’re alive!”
“Garn! ”
The sound resolved itself into the
whimper of a dog. Horry renewed his
“Here, Lad!” There was a feeble reply.
He called on Spot, but the same whinge-
ing came back.
“You can’t do anything,” said Georgie.
“The old man says”
But Horry was already making plans
for rescue. “We’ll get someone to help.”
He became a man of action.
OUTSIDE, the storm was over, and the
sun was shining through a break in the
clouds upon a wet world, sweet-smelling
after the sudden deluge. A few belated
drops were falling, and they might have
been pearls.
Over the Cookabundy Ranges, and be-
yond them, was the storm, growling in a
kind of defeat. There was an immense
bow —a double rainbow. Horry stood
a few moments on the wet dump, though
he wasn’t admiring that most refreshing
of all scenes —the bright world after a
summer storm. But he did note that the
gully was “down” like a shallow broad
river, swishing and yellow.
(Continued on page 32.)
Broom.
You could match flames for candles from
this shrub —
Bright yellow broom. You would not
need to rub
Eyes in the gloom; by this plant’s light
you’d see
Enough to read stories. Surely there
would be —
Reading by such rare light—valorous
deeds
Which make for ghastly, too. For, where
man treads.
Some swords are broken, even though
they be
Of sullen stabbing grass; and, it must be,
Murder seeks such strange light, a yellow
gleam
That stains the evil faces in a room.
Therefore, this broom, without a leaf to
fly,
A wingless tree that never takes the sky
On a windy day, bright though its yellow
light.
Has something lacked of life. Men place
it right
Beside a prison wall, a charnel house.
For, when its flowering’s over, as men
dowse
A city’s lamps, the yellow broom blacks
out,
And is a plant of darkness, casting doubt;
If this be maidens’ locks, these wind-
etched leaves . . .
Worse, in the darker hours, this lean bush
grieves,
Can clap no leaf-wide hands applauding
winds,
But sends the poet wandering in two
minds.
QUEENSLAND. .
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


4}
KJ.
I
TS
jaCeorjaclV
06JIScotch Wkisluj
A little King George IV
Scotch Whisky has to go
a long way at present.
However, the mellowness
and quality of that
"little” makes it a whisky
that’s always well worth
waiting for.
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.
Head Office: Edinburgh
WHEN BELOW PAR
Try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
Even those folk who usually enjoy good health do not
always feel right up to the mark. At times they have
their bouts of perhaps Biliousness, Constipation, or
Rheumatism. When these attacks do occur, a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found helpful.
They stir the Liver, aid the Digestion, and regulate
the bowels, thus helpings the system back to normal.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHAT IS AMERICA’S MOOD?
The growing doubt as to whether or
no America may revert to a policy of
isolationism in world affairs has been
agitating statesmen of many countries,
and agitating observers in the U.S. itself.
The indications were otherwise until the
“appeasement” speech of the then U.S,
Secretary of Commerce, Henry Wallace,
showed a cleavage on the principles of
foreign policy even amongst the members
of President Truman’s Cabinet. The
President’s shilly-shallying attitude .im-
mediately before and after the speech,
and his frenzied hurry later to repudiate
Wallace, did little to alleviate the un-
certainty.
In a review of public opinion for the
N.Y. “Times” James Reston had previ-
ously arrived at the conclusion that there
was no opposition likely to prove em-
barrassing to the Administration’s policy
as enunciated by the Secretary of State,
James F. Byrnes, He believed “the ques-
tion at Paris was not what do the Soviet
people want, or what do the British
people want, but what will the
American people support. The Gov-
ernments of the world, which re-
member another Paris peace conference,
are asking their missions in Washington a
number of fundamental questions: Are
the American people behind the foreign
policy of their Government? Could
their plenipotentiaries at Paris speak for
them with assurance in an election year,
or would they, like Woodrow Wilson, be
repudiated at the polls? In short, re-
membering 1918-20, what is the mood of
the American people on world affairs?”
Reston believed “the mood of the
people vastly different fro'm that which
prevailed after the last war. The fervent
idealism inspired by Wilson is missing.
The sharp conflict between those who
believed in world organisation and those
who did not is absent. The overwhelm-
ing confidence of the American people in
their own security and self-sufficiency
has been shaken. One senses a feeling
of frustration at the immensity and com-
plexity of the problems that confront
them. Russia, the atom bomb, the U.N.,
and the endless opinions about them, be-
wilder the people. That wonderful figure,
the buoyant, happy American who knew
all the answers or blithely assumed that
they would turn up, has finally come
up against realities. Fear for the
security of America and doubt about the
ability of America to solve its own prob-
lems seem stronger than ever in
memory. The people seem to feel less
secure than they did, even when the
tide of war was running strongest against
them. They have come out of the war
with a greater fear of the Russians than
they ever felt for either the Germans or
the Japanese.”
He had found “a greater realisation
now that the essential political conflict in
the world is not between Left and Right,
but a conflict over the rights of the indi-
vidual. For the first twenty years of
the Soviet Revolution the American
people approached the U.S.S.R. emotion-
ally. They were vaguely hostile to
Moscow, but their hostility was passive
because they did not feel themselves
menaced. During the war the people of
America were trying to think about the
Soviet with their heads, and a policy of
mutual collaboration based on respect
seemed possible. Now they are be-
coming openly hostile to the Soviet, not
primarily because it is Left, but because
it seems alien in almost every move, and
because it seems menacing. Few people
profess to understand a single major move
made by Moscow since the end of the
war, and what men do not understand
they fear.
“At the heart of this fear are the
atomic-bomb and the development of the
self-propelled weapon. If the develop-
ment of this feeling of conflict with the
Soviet had not coincided with the develop-
ment of these two weapons, the chances
are that the retreat into isolationism of
1920 would have been repeated. The
desire to retreat is certainly present. The
people are profoundly tired of the com-
plications, the machinations and the ex-
pense of their new role as a leader of
world affairs. They would gladly turn
it over to the British or the Russians or
anybody else who would take it over,
pay for it, and leave them alone. But
while they do not understand many things
about the atomic-bomb, they do under-
stand the possibilities of its use by a
hostile Power against the U.S., and this
realisation has had a profound effect on
their thinking.”
In Reston’s view “the basis of what has
come to be called isolationism was the
sincere belief, held
by perhaps a
majority of Ameri-
cans, that a military
conquest of the
country was impos-
sible, Now, for the
first time, the pos-
sibility of such a
conquest is widely
recognised. As a re-
sult, the idea that the
U.S. can live alone
and like it is no
longer popular. The
break with the past,
of course, is by no
means complete.
Though all but a
very few small
groups have aban-
doned the idea that
we can stay within
our own frontiers
and avoid any com-
mitments to other
nations, strong
elements still hope
to strike a balance
somewhere between
the old isolationism
and all-out collabo-
ration with other
nations. The old
Detroit ( U.S .) “Free Press.”
“HOPING HELL BREAK THE LEASE.”
hard core of the America First group
is advocating a kind of militant
imperialism. Championed by the Chicago
“Tribune,” it would have the U.S. extend
its bases deep in the Atlantic and
Pacific and rely on its own defences
for security. Others, disillusioned by the
record of U.N.O. and fearing the Soviet,
favor a kind of Anglo-Saxon defence
bloc in which the U.S. and the British
Commonwealth would police the world.
“There is probably more discussion
of international affairs today than has
ever existed, and this active debate may
eventually lead to political action affect-
ing American policy. The attitude of the
people seems to be, ‘We don’t under-
stand these things, but we realise changes
are necessary and we are willing to go
along with any reasonable programme
that will protect us in the future.’ ”
So, thought Reston, “while the poli-
tical trend in the country is running
strongly against the party which speaks
for the U.S. in international conferences
and while it is more than a possibility
that President Truman’s party will lose
control of the House of Representatives
in 1946, as President Wilson lost control
of it in the off-year elections of 1918,
the policy of the American negotiators
this time seems safe.”
The Wallace incident made that last
seem something more than doubtful. The
speech raised a storm of protest, though
Wallace had some voluble supporters, and
notably the N.Y. “Daily Worker.” David
Lawrence, editor of the authoritative
United States News,” put the case against
Wallace and the harm his theories might
do clearly and pointedly. “American
foreign policy since V.J. Day,” he said,
“has been a consistent effort, supported
by both political parties, to banish the
idea of spheres of influence and to avoid
if possible ‘two worlds’ in which Russia
would be left to dominate a vast area of
the earth’s surface. That effort has been
splendidly carried out by Secretary of
State Byrnes. Now another member of
the Cabinet sets forth a different concep-
tion of what our policy should be. Henry
Wallace proposes in effect a surrender to
the Russian demand for complete free-
dom of action within a ‘sphere of influ-
ence’ she calls her own.
“Mr. Wallace denied that his speech
was one of appeasement of Russia. The
denial itself reads like a confession of
guilt. If that speech had been made by
a Republican it would have been called
a speech of an ‘isolationist.’ It reeks
with condemnation of Britain, questions
the motives of our closest ally and, in
effect, repudiates what Secretary Byrnes
has tried to do in dealing with Russia.
What makes the situation tragic is that
President Truman told his press confer-
ence that he had approved the speech in
advance and that he saw,no deviation in
it from the Byrnes policy. Either Mr.
Truman didn’t read it carefully, or he
was shown only an outline which didn’t
spell out the details, or else Mr. Tru-
man did read the speech and simply
doesn’t know what his Secretary of State
has been doing or saying,
“What Wallace proposed is that Russia
be given a free hand in her sphere of in-
fluence and that the Russians keep out
of Latin America. This originally was
Hitler’s proposal, only he wanted Ger-
many to dominate the European sphere
and the U.S. to confine her influence to
this hemisphere. Today the Stalin-
Molotov policy is to harass and annoy
the American Government, either through
manipulating Yugoslav incidents or
through controls imposed over the
countries in Eastern Europe. Moscow
wants the U.S. out of Europe so Russia
can dominate the Continent.”
Lawrence stated his own ideas of what
was needed yi American foreign policy:
“It is only by our being in on the
ground floor in European affairs every
minute of the time that a third world war
can be prevented. The moment America
withdraws from Europe America will be
quickly involved in a third world war
growing out of Russian aggression, for
it inevitably will bring a conflict with our
interests in this hemisphere. Mr. Wal-
lace is naive if he thinks a Government
bent on aggression can be confined to a
sharply delineated ‘sphere of influence.’
Once Russia sees America retreating the
Soviets will press their advantage to the
extreme. They will take over the Near
East and the Far East and challenge us
in both the Atlantic and the Pacific.
“Mr. Wallace is a sincere but mis-
guided individual blind to the facts of
international life. While he talks of
spiritual needs and freedom he ignores
the fact that a totalitarian Government
sits in Moscow which deals ruthlessly
and brutally with human rights. He
would have us believe that Communism
and democracy are just two rival
philosophies which should be re-
garded with academic interest. He
thinks the world can go along with
these two ideas in conflict and in
the end Russia will get better of her
own accord and allow more freedom,, but
he doesn’t say what is to bring about
such a reformation. Mr. Wallace im-
plies that when we propagandise for de-
mocracy in the countries where our in-
fluence is greatest we are doing the same
thing as when Russia propagandises for
Communism. Surely this is to overlook
the totalitarian force of Communistic be-
havior which throws innocent people
into jail without trial,, suppresses free-
dom of speech and of the press and kdeps
whole Governments in smaller countries
terrorised by the machine-gun. Where
does America do any one of those things
in the cause of democracy?
“The appeasement policy which Mr.
Wallace advocates has been tried and
found wanting. President Roosevelt felt
obliged to appease Russia to ensure her
participation in the war against Japan.
After hostilities ended Russia grabbed
territory in violation of the Atlantic
Charter. American officials have tried
to get along with Russia and have made
concession after concession, only to dis-
cover that Moscow interpreted this as a
sign of weakness or a craven spirit. Then
came the get-tough policy. It was not a
policy that meant swashbuckling or
aggressiveness. It meant simple firmness.
The American Government served notice
on Russia that it would not be imposed
upon any longer and that written agree-
ments meant what they said and not what
some expansionist Government inter-
preted them to mean for reasons of ex-
pediency.”
Lawrence declared it his conviction that
“World War II would have been pre-
vented if political solidarity in the
’twenties had been followed by prepared-
ness in the ’thirties and by an announce-
ment in 1936 that the United States
would use physical force, if necessary, to
join any nation which was the victim of
aggression. But the Nazis and the
Japanese militarists thought America was
surcharged with pacifism. Goring thought
America wouldn’t have a chance to build
an air force and that our armament
couldn’t be enlarged in time to ward off
a Nazi victory. Had America been mili-
tarily prepared in the ’thirties and an-
nounced her purposes to the world as
clearly as they are proclaimed today in
our ratification of the United Nations
Charter the 300,000 American boys who
gave their lives to the cause of freedom
might have been spared. The issue is not
different from what it has been hereto-
fore. The way to peace is through a
prepared and undivided America. Unity
of purpose and unity of planning for de-
fence are essential to the preservation of
peace in this world today.
“To proclaim that we will not fight
means only to announce that we are will-
ing to accept peace at any price. That
course leads to aggression against us and
ultimately war.”


A REVOLUTIONARY NEW COMPOUND RELEASES FULL PEST-KILLING POWER OF DDT
Harmless to foliage . . . covers more surface . . . doesn't wash off in the rain
For the first time DDT is available in convenient, water-soluble form. RUCIDE is DDT in this new agent. It
is micro-fine, goes further, forms a pest-killing film insoluble in rain or cold water, ensuring a longer-lasting
effect. It overcomes the disadvantage of rapid “settling out” experienced with wettable powders.
100 p.C. Kill of Buffalo Fly ... and Unequalled Destruction of Ticks. Never before has cattle-dipping brought such amazing
results. Rigorously tested, Rucide eradicated Buffalo Fly and killed cattle ticks on a scale hitherto unheard of. With subsequent dippings, immunity increased.
Rucide Dip may be topped up and re-used for several months without loss of efficacy.
Banishes Insect Pests from Dairies, Stables. Poultry Runs and keeps the house free of flies, fleas, moths, silverfish, cockroaches,
etc., as well. For these purposes, Rucide is ideally economical and easy to use, guaranteeing maximum results with a minimum of spraying.
Advice and technical information
gladly supplied on request.
aajeaaa
50% P. P : ISOMER DDT
Obtainable from storekeepers and
pastoral suppliers everywhere.
TAUBMANS LIMITED
CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
ST. PETERS, N.S.W.
Little Peace From Paris.
The Paris “Peace”, Conference pre-
tended to very little —to no discussion of
treaties for Germany or Austria and
achieved practically nothing. It ended
unhappily with the vacant seats set aside
for the Yugoslav delegation, which had
walked out during the discussion on the
treaty for Italy, a clear reminder of the
problems it had failed to solve, and with
the gulf between the greater Powers
wider, if anything, than before.
London “Times” anticipated its closure
with the sorry summation: “The confer-
ence will have lasted 11 weeks. All will
hope this may prove to have been the
longest stage in the long process of peace-
making. Yet it is neither the most import-
ant stage nor the last. The most import-
ant stage—before the crucial test which
will come when the task of making peace
with Germany and Austria is faced —was
the one in which the Council of Foreign
Ministers worked out the drafts sub-
mitted to the conference. The phase now
ending was both necessary and unavoid-
able. During the last few days many
delegates assured the conference that it
has not done so badly after all, and
pointed with satisfaction to the volume of
business transacted. The sense of impend-
ing release, the desire to put the best face
on things, even some satisfaction that at
least the conference did not break down
—all these justify and excuse some of the
optimism. But they will not avail to dis-
sipate the view that the work done has
been as unimpressive as the manner of
its accomplishment has been disturbing.
Many weeks of intense effort have
produced little result. Much of the detail
has been altered ; some of the gaps have
been filled in ; but the general pattern
remains the same.”
When it was over the “Times” found
that the conference had “ a larger volume
of achievement than pessimists were dis-
posed to predict,” but itself, still pessi-
mistic, was of the opinion that “it cannot
be said to have made more than a modest
beginning in the work of peace-making.”
Among the few “services” the “Times”
found to the credit of the conference was
that it had been “a sort of dress-rehearsal
for the major negotiations to come.”
The procedure had seemed unwieldy.
“When difficulties arose in the Council
of Foreign Ministers many people argued
that the way to surmount them was to
refer them to a larger and more widely-
representative body. This view has not
been justified. Broadly speaking, agree-
ment at Paris was confined to points on
which agreement had been reached by the
Foreign Ministers. The questions which
they failed to solve remained unsolved ;
any progress made towards their solution
resulted not from the debates, but
from further discussions between the
Foreign Ministers themselves. Some diffi-
culties were made more acute, and some
breaches widened by their ventila-
tion at the conference. The smaller
countries did little or nothing to
mediate between the Big Four; on
the contrary they tended to range them-
selves firmly on one side br the other, and
to reproduce the same differences, some-
times even in a more extreme form.
Attempts by some of the smaller countries
to reopen issues on which the Foreign
Ministers had already reached agreement
have sown fresh seeds of suspicion and
mistrust.
“Nor can it be said that the innova-
tion of putting contentious issues to a
vote has justified itself. When a majority
of the delegates voted down the minority,
it decided nothing if the minority included
one of the major Powers ; it did no more
than register a deadlock and make it all
the harder to resolve it by other methods.
There is no evidence that any major
Power is yet prepared to have what it
regards as its vital interests overruled by
a majority vote.”
The manner in which the conference
was conducted gave little help towards a
calm and realistic approach to the prob-
♦lems under discussion. In the “Times’s”
view “the result of the fierce blaze of
publicity which beat down on every stage
of the negotiations was not only to make
compromise and accommodation more
difficult, but to invite a flood of oratory
palpably designed to impress opinion, or
sometimes to influence votes, in the
country of the orators rather than to pro-
mote the success of the conference. The
more successful these appeals are in
evoking the appropriate emotions on the
home front, the more difficult becomes the
way of timely mutual concession. The
rigidity imposed on the proceedings by
premature publicity is its worst feature.
The analogy of Parliaments sometimes in-
voked to justify publicity at international
conferences is illusory. Parliaments meet
not to negotiate but to legislate; and
—London “Daily Express.
“ IT’S BRITAIN THIS AND BRITAIN THAI."
where negotiations between parties in fact
occur, they are invariably conducted in
private. No party leader, no business
director, no trade-union secretary would
consent to negotiate on vital and delicate
issues under the rules which the Paris con-
ference was misguided enough to impose
upon itself.”
The “Times” thought thht “before the
final peace conference can be usefully
assembled, important decisions regarding
procedure will have to be taken by the
major Powers. The precise role of the
minor countries will require reconsidera-
tion ; while their legitimate claims deserve
the fullest recognition, both precedent
and commonsense speak strongly against
a diplomatic conference whose proceed-
ings are rendered unmanageable by the
continuous participation of a score or
more of delegations.”
There were other, and less charitably
critical, views of the overall result of the
conference. George E. Sokolsky, writing
in the N.Y. “Sun,” thought that “Russia
won a significant victory at Paris in the
single fact that no conclusions have been
reached, no treaties signed, no agreements
arranged, no peace achieved.”
In Sokolsky’s opinion “the political ob-
jective of Russia since V.E. day has been
to delay the peace. From the Russian
standpoint nothing could have been more
disastrous than a quick peace, the setting-
up of quasi-socialistic, factually bourgeois
Governments, tied into some form of free-
trade, private-enterprise mercantilism,
supported by American loans and British
trade. Such an outcome would have
marked a Russian defeat, because in an
orderly, peaceful world, with mounting
employment and a restoring standard of
living, Russia would be reduced to an
outside, militant force, seeking with
malignance and malice to upset a settled
order. The Russian emissaries in each
country, the Communists and their fellow-
travellers, would again everywhere be
regarded as subversive.”
Sokolsky thinks that “it was Russia’s
objective to prevent the restoration of the
status quo. Its desire was to reduce
Europe outside Russia to an economi-
cally debased area of partly-starved
people, seeking a modern existence with-
out tools, raw materials or even the food
that they themselves raised. To all this,
Mr. Roosevelt agreed at Yalta. All that
was to have been made as permanent as
human things can be at the Paris ‘Peace’
Conference. All this was to be legislated
at U.N. and enforced by a Veto.
“From the Arctic to the Adriatic,
Russia was successful. But then there
was Greece. Had Greece gone the way
of Bulgaria, Albania, Yugoslavia and
Czechoslovakia, Russia would have
reached the Mediterranean through her
satellites; Turkey
and Egypt would
have come ’ under
her sway; the
Middle East would
have been lost to
Britain. As it is, the
Greeks chose inde-
pendence rather than
appeasement and
Turkey chose self-
respect with the
danger of war rather
than a secure sub-
servience. Greece
was the lock to fur-
ther Soviet conquests
—and the key could
not be found.”
For that reason
Sokolsky finds
“Russia has left to it
only the role of a
constant disturber of
the peace. She can
keep Europe in a
state of chaos as
long as she pleases.
The power to create
disturbance is any-
one’s ; the will for
reconstruction and peace is a hard choice.
Therefore, the peace-loving nations at
Paris have been defeated. But it is a
defeat with honor and dignity. It is a
defeat that can still save Europe from
Genghis Khan. It is a defeat that will
be celebrated some day with the triumph
that Paris was no Munich.”
Russia’s Violation of Treaties.
Quoting the chief American prosecutor
at'the Nuremberg Trials, Justice Jackson,
and his denunciation of the German
criminals, for the breaking of “twenty-six
international treaties, agreements and
assurances,”
The ultimate step in avoiding wars is to
make statesmen responsible to law. Let
me make it clear that while this law is
first applied against German aggressors,
the law includes, and if it is to serve a
useful purpose it must condemn, aggres-
sion by any other nation, including those
which now sit here in judgment,
Julius Epstein in a letter to the N.Y.
“Sun” claimed that “according to this
principle Messrs. Stalin and Molotov”
were even more blameworthy and “would
have to be indicted.”
Epstein listed 27 Russian “violations of
treaties, agreements and assurances since
1939.”
1. Soviet-Polish Treaty of Peace, Riga,
March 18, 1921.
2. Treaty for Renunciation of Wars as
an Instrument Of National Policy (Briand-
Kellogg Pact), Paris, February 9, 1929.
3. Treaty of Non-aggression between the
Soviet and Poland, Moscow, July 25, 1932.
4. U.S.S.R. Convention for the Definition
of Aggression, London,. July 3, 1933.
5. Covenant of the League of Nations,
GeneVa, September 18, 1934.
6. Soviet-Finnish Treaty of Peace,
Dorpat, October 14, 1920.
7. Soviet-Finnish Non-aggression Pact,
Helsinki, January 21, 1932.
8. Soviet-Estonian Treaty of Peace, Tartu,
February 20, 1920.
9. Soviet-Estonian Non-aggression Pact,
Moscow, May 4, 1932.
10. Soviet-Estonian Pact of Mutual
Assistance, Moscow, September 28, 1939.
11. Soviet-Latvian Treaty of Peace, Riga,
August 11, 1920.
12. Soviet-Lafvian Non-aggression Pact,
Riga, February 5, 1932.
13. Soviet-Latvian Mutual Assistance
Pact, Moscow, October 5, 1939.
14. Soviet-Lithuanian Treaty of Peace,
Moscow, July 12, 1920.
15. Soviet-Lithuanian Treaty of Neu-
trality and Non-aggression, Moscow,
September 28, 1926.
16. Soviet-Lithuanian Mutual Assistance
Pact, Moscow, October 10, 1939.
17. Atlantic Charter, Washington, Janu-
ary 1, 1942.
18. Soviet-Polish Friendship Pact, Lon-
don, July 30, 1941.
19. Joint Four-nation Declaration, Mos-
cow, October 30, 1943.
20. Three-Power Declaration, Teheran,
December 1, 1943.
21. Yalta Declaration, Yalta, February
12, 1945.
22. San Francisco Chartef, San Fran-
cisco, June 26, 1945.
23. Potsdam Declaration, Potsdam,
August 2, 1945.
'24. Soviet-Japanese Neutrality Pact,
Moscow, April 13, 1941.
25. Frontier Declaration between U.S.S.R.
and Japan, ’ Moscow, April 14, 1941.
26. Treaty of Alliance between the U.K.,
the Soviet and Iran, Teheran, January 29,
1942.
27. Chinese-Russian Treaty of Alliance
and Friendship, Moscow, August 14, 1945.
Epstein admitted his list was incomplete.
“It omits lesser violations, as, for instance,
the various breaches of U.N.R.R.A.
agreements to which the Soviet sub-
scribed.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
What’s Joe up to now? We line up three
utterances of the Russian dictator: From a
speech at Moscow, Feb. 9, 1946; “The war
arose as the inevitable result of the world
economic and political forces on the basis of
monopoly capitalism Perhaps the catas-
trophe of war could have been avoided
But this is impossible under the present capi-
talist development of world economy.” From
his book Problems of Leninism : “It is incon-
ceivable that the Soviet should continue to exist
side by side with imperialist States —ultimately
one or the other must conquer.” From an
interview with London “Sunday Times” cor-
respondent, Sept. 24, 1946: “(Question): Do
you believe in the possibility of friendly and
lasting co-operation of the Soviet and the
Western Democracies, and in peaceful com-
petition between the two systems? (Answer):
Undoubtedly, yes.” In these three passages
we have the Red Generalissimo talking out of
both sides of his mouth. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
After a year of peace, this is the way the
Big Three line up in combat strength: The
U.S. has about three million men under arms.
Britain has approximately 1£ million. How-
ever, Britain is stronger than the U.S. because
most regular units have been kept at combat
strength. Russia has the world’s biggest force
— 4j million under arms and another two in
training. On land the strength of Britain
and the U.S. has dropped most rapidly. From
a total of more than six million men dur-
ing the war, the U.S. now has only slightly
more than II million. The British Army at
its peak comprised 3,400,000 men. By the
end of this year the British will have an
Army of approximately 600,000 men. At
the summit of its power the U.S. had 89
Army and six Marine divisions for ground
combat. Today units capable of immediate
combat include about 10 divisions in Europe
and approximately the same number in the
Pacific. Training divisions could not be spared
for immediate use without jeopardising the
entire remobilisation programme. In the air
U.S. strength has dropped to less than a third.
During the war the U.S.A.A.F. put 243 groups,
aggregating more than 64,000 aircraft, into
the sky. Today, the A.A.F. is organised on
a basis of 36,000 ’planes, assigned to 70
groups. The allotted strength of 400,000
men is not sufficient to maintain them at
combat efficiency. Britain has been slower in
demobilising the R.A.F. During the war the
British produced 102,000 aircraft, of which
approximately 38,000 were fighters and 28,000
bombers; while about three-quarters of these
were lost in action or are obsolete, the British
still retain an air force of considerable combat
strength. At sea U.S. and Britain have undis-
puted supremacy. At the end of the war the
U.S. had 1167 warships, plus approximately
60,000 other vessels. The British Navy con-
sisted, of 491 warships and several thousand
other vessels. The U.S. will keep 661 warships,
251 of them in full commission. The balance
will be preserved in two reserve fleets.
Four battleships will be on active status, two
more will be in reserve fleets and can be put
into action in 10 days, 10 more will be in
“mothball” fleets and can be reactivated in
three months. Britain had 14 battleships at
the end of the war. Some of these will be
scrapped, but new construction will keep her
strength near this figure. Only in submarines
will any other Power have strength comparable
to that of Britain and the U.S. Russia has 140
submarines. U.S. plans call for 80 on active
duty and 106 laid up. Britain has 115. All
other Powers combined have 39. “World
Report


Grinnell gives
more than
m.
m
m
etc c
By outlawing fire, Grinnell protects the intangibles of your business
as well. It is your guard against cancelled contracts . . . lost profits
. . . lost goodwill . . . destruction of vital records . . . customers
forced to turn to other sources never to return .. . trained employees
obliged to seek work elsewhere.
Every Grinnell protected building is fireproof. Fireproof
because it kills fire at its source, automatically, at any time during
the day or night.
The name “Grinnell” is a registered trademark and applies
only to the “Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete Fire Protection
Engineering Service at all branches in Australia and New Zealand.
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889.
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,'
ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART, DARWIN, AUCKLAND,
WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH.'
/
if.
$
C^.
X
X
*>
*b
X


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3482
Wednesday, November 6, 1946
EXORCISING HIM.
“Marshal Stalin, who recently protested Russia’s peaceable Intentions in the world but who has admitted to the presence of 60 Soviet divisions In occupied Europe, has
described Mr. Churchill as the ‘foremost incendiary of the new war’.”
“Eeny, meeny, miney, mo,
War incendiary, out you go!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ANOTHER DEPRESSION?
Americans 'have been warned from
various quarters that they are drifting
into another depression, and “a slump
psychology” is reported by S. M.
“Herald’s” able Washington correspon-
dent, A. D. Rothman.
There is general agreement- as to the
causes of this “psychology,” the chief of
which is “price uncertainty.” Production
is high, the nation-wide strikes for in-
creased wages (and, in some cases, shorter
hours) notwithstanding ; but these strikes,
though all nominally successful, have
failed in the establishment of equilibrium
between wages and prices. Doubt as to
“grain futures,” plus heavy selling of
bonds to pay taxes, brought about a
stunning fall in Wall-street, and the cot-
ton market collapsed because of over-
speculation when the staple was too dear.
So it is taken for granted that there will
be “a moderate recession in the first half
of 1947,” followed by “a fairly swift
recovery” ; but the recovery will not be
sufficient to prevent “a serious and ex-
tremely dangerous break within three to
ten years.”
After the moderate recession, Labor and
the banks think, prices will drop to a
realistic level; but somewhere between 1950
and 1957, they say, America’s enormous
production will overtake all the demand
that can reasonably be expected. Then
the real depression will come.
Before Mr. Rothman’s summary of the
situation and prospects appeared his
paper had published the substance of
sobering statements issued by the U.S.
Department of Labor (“Food prices rose
19.6 p.c. during the three months to Sep-
tember 15”); the Federal Works Ad-
ministrator (“Because of inflated costs
the existing $5,000,000,000 construction
programme will not provide sufficient
jobs”); the chairman of the Federal Re-
serve Board (“Urban real-estate and
farm-property prices in many areas have
reached levels which cannot be main-
tained”) ; and the chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“The banks should dispose of all real-
estate, their premises, of course, excepted,
and should exercise caution in granting
loans, particularly loans with real-estate
as security”). Professor Bland, of' Sydney
University, was thereupon moved to de-
clare that “a depression in America
would not have a major effect on Aus-
tralia,” giving as his main reasons that
“Australia does not now depend on im-
ports as it did in 1929,” has a great un-
satisfied demand for primary produce
which would survive any check to Ameri-
can prosperity, and in any case is “insu-
lated” against any such “major effect”
by “controls.”
This Professor of Public Adminis-
tration is not a man who arrives
at conclusions idly or without knowledge,
and he rightly sees in the American posi-
tion a warning to our • own workers;
“They must realise that they cannot ob-
tain a new world by a refusal to produce
goods,” And he would not deny that an
American depression had “a major effect”
in Australia in 1892-93, and again in 1929
and subsequent years, if it did not
actually start the rot in each case.
This 1946 Australia is certainly “in-
sulated” against some of the weaknesses
and follies which led up to those
calamitous periods. Control of land
values, though harshly felt in individual
cases, has prevented a boom like that of
the ’nineties, the bursting of which was
signalised by the suspension of payments
by 21 building societies, land “banks,”
mortgage and investment companies and
the like, and, after a dizzy twelvemonth,
by 12 trading banks. And the last de-
pression ended the crazy business of float-
ing long-term overseas loans to meet in-
terest requirements and pay for a chronic
excess of imports over exports. As a
result of the vast British purchases, there
are, or should be, ample funds in Lon-
don for all possible necessities in that
quarter. Nor is it conceivable that any
bank will go bung, though the pressure
applied to Commonwealth and State Sav-
ings Banks to secure full subscriptions to
Commonwealth Government loans, which
fail so dismally to compete with the
meretricious attractions offered by lot-
teries, bookmakers and totes, unpleasantly
recalls the last Lang Government’s
methods of getting “accommodation”
from the last N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank, which had so sticky a finish.
But one of “the elements of the situa-
tion” in 1929-30, as analysed in a Com-
mon wealth Year-Book article on “The
Financial Crisis,” is an “element” of the
present situation: “Government de-
ficits” :
Government deficits, about £1 15s. per
head in 1929-30, rose to nearly £5 per head
[5 per cent, of the national income in
1928-29] in 1930-31, and threatened to be
£7 per head in 1931-32.
On June 30, 1930, the national debt
was £1,100,597,100. By June 30, 1946,
it had reached £2,794,407,000. There was
naturally a rash of Commonwealth war
deficits, swelled by “Labor’s” extrava-
gance and maintenance of huge unem-
ployed forces on the mainland, and
though 1945-46 was not a full post-war
year, there having been six weeks of
hostilities with Japan, it brought a Com-
monwealth deficit of £153,000,000. It
brought also agonised demands from the
Governments at Hobart, Adelaide and
Perth, always heavily subsidised by Can-
berra, for grants sufficient to bridge
widened gaps between their revenue and
expenditure.
The other State Governments are not
on the Commonwealth-grants list (though
Mr. McKell had the face to ask Mr.
Chifley to meet £400,000 of the losses on
the Sydney and Newcastle trams and
buses, reckoned at £900,000 for two years),
but with the ending of the war boom in
fares and freight charges and with in-
creased road and air competition—in part
an effect of crazy strikes —their railways,
as well as those of the other three State
Governments, are fast reverting to their
normal condition —insolvency. This, of
course, means a continuous drain on con-
solidated revenue, and it will increase
with every concession made in appease-
ment. of the general demand of the
unions: more pay for less work. Obliged
to use oil-burning locomotives because
N. S. Wales coal is so scarce, poor and
dear, and forced into a “settlement” of
the nine-days’ railway strike on some of
the terms demanded by the strike leaders,
the Victorian Railway Department is
gloomily adding a million to its estimated
loss of £349,000 on operations for 1946-
47, and if the N.S.W. and Queensland
Railway Departments are not now in so
a case they soon will be.
There are other “elements” of the pre-
sent situation that are individually
serious and thrice serious in the mass.
For instance, the following comment
on the U.S, situation taken from the New
York National City Bank’s October cir-
cular might have been written of condi-
tions in this country:
Instead of relying upon work and co-
operation to improve economic conditions,
people have turned increasingly to the
Federal Government, but Government
efforts to help have been in many cases
not only abortive but harmful. In the
effort to prevent runaway prices, ceilings
are maintained at points where they sup-
\ press production and create bottlenecks
blocking other production.. . .In the effort
to cushion unemployment the Government
put subsidies on not working.
The feeling has gained ground that these
difficulties are basic, and that a sound and
lasting prosperity is unattainable until
somehow these conditions change and all
groups of the population accept the truism
that economic progress is achieved only .
through work and co-operation.
We are seeing a great lag in building
and in the production of coal and con-
sumer-goods. Taxation has reached satura-
tion point. Drought has ruined two of the
last three N.S.W. wheat harvests and
caused immense losses of stock —through-
out the continent 30,000,000 to 40,000,000
sheep alone in four years. Always in the
past a drought which spared no mainland
State was regarded as a most serious
matter, and the effects of the current
calamity are discernible even in the huge
wens.
If the city “Labor” politician were
moved to study these effects he
could find them in ragshops, in hotels
and food-and-dance joints, even on his
beloved racecourse, from which the sport-
ing pastoralist, who raced many horses
between the wars, has disappeared before
a flood of new owners —publicans,
restaurateurs, bookmakers, jewellers,
taximen, clothiers, shoemakers and the
like who must have done very well during
the wars. But the “Labor” politician is
blind to the plight of the grazier and the
wheatgrower, and he is supine in the sight
of the many outrages committed against
the producers and the people in general
by gangs of lawbreaking Communists —
gangs who strangled Australia’s trade
with the Dutch East Indies and who stop
transport and hold up deliveries of
wool, perishable foodstuffs, fertiliser and
other essential commodities whenever the
caprice seizes them, being capable of any
degree of foulness and bound by no law.
Communists want a depression. It is
what their leaders—and Moscow’s agents
—are working for in their vile way. And
unless their criminal practices are
scotched once and for all, they will get
the desire of their black hearts. If their
stranglehold on ports, coal production
and Government transport remains un-
challenged, and if they are allowed to
proceed to the destruction of confidence,
already shaken, another depression—
probably of a type that will be without
precedent in our memory, and therefore
harder to deal with —is a moral
certainty; and the guilt of it will
be on “Labor’s” head. And a roar of
derision will go up from an indignant
people if “Labor,” which has been placed
in a position to do everything in the
legislative and administrative lines except
“make a man a woman, or a woman a
man,” trots out its old scapegoat, “the
banks.”
The Peacemaking.
From Paris —where the results were, to
say the most, meagre—the scene of the
difficult peacemaking shifts to New York,
and the password given out for the
U.N.O. Assembly deliberations there is
“patience.” The preamble for the latest
meeting was the same as for the others;
on all sides expressions of hope and
confidence ; after which to settle down to
the serious business of wrangling.
Mr. Bevin sees virtue in the protracted
manoeuvring. He is not disappointed that
“the peace discussions have not moved
faster.” Letting difficulties emerge and
facing them honestly “will result in a
peace which one hopes will last for ever.”
At least, Mr. Bevin qualified, “it should
last for years; I do not despair of that.”
But everybody might as well settle dawn
to' a very long wait before a recognisable
peace will be achieved: “Many years of
hard work will be needed to solve the
world’s difficulties.”
“If,” Mr. Bevin contended, soundly
enough, “we had done things too quickly
before the difficulties emerged we might
have made a bad peace.” That was the
charge subsequently levelled at the cut-
and-dried peacemaking at Versailles. A
good deal would seem to depend, how-
ever, on what may otherwise be happen-
ing to the world and in it during those
“many years of hard work” arranging a
peace. Versailles, for all that might be
said against its batching, did at least get
the world going again reasonably
quickly; and if the Nureniberg verdict
has any meaning it is surely that a fair
enough peace was arranged, but was
broken by a conspiracy of ambitious
criminals. It can’t at the same time be
right that it was a bad peace and that it
was criminal to break it.
Bad or good, the peace then arranged
did set the world moving again. That
cannot be said to have happened since
the worse war ended. At the best the
world is marking dine; looking to the
peacemakers with what patience and hope
it can muster in the face of strong justi-
fication for doubt and fear. Mr. Truman
did not contradict that in telling those
gathered for the opening of the General
Assembly at Flushing, N.Y.:
I have been reading reports from many
parts of the world. These all agree on
one major point the people of every
nation are sick of war. They know its
agony and futility. No responsible Gov-
ernment can ignore this universal feeling.
I am sure that every delegate in this hall
will join me in rejecting talk of war. No
nation wants war. Every nation needs
peace.
Nothing could be truer than that regard-
ing the ordinary run of people, and
unfortunately nothing could be less to
the point regarding the actual unleashing
of war. The mistaken assumption is that
war is ever the real will of people. For
all the years of propaganda conditioning
the Germans and Italians into approving
the war-like policies of their dictator
despots, even those people, given a free
vote on it in August, 1939, would have
returned majorities for peace. In all the
countries drawn into opposing them the
feelings against war could not have been
deeper or, at the same time, more appa-
rent. It was so evident, in fact —in all
British countries ; in France and the rest
of Europe; in America —that the dicta-
tors counted greatly on it alone, and in
many instances not wrongly, to aid their
designs. For well over a decade the
pacifist feeling—in the best sense of the
word —was stronger than any other prac-
tically all over the civilised world.
Yet war came; spread to the remote
corners of the earth; was waged with a
totality of ruthlessness never before
approached ; and left the whole globe the
crippled wreckage it looks today. It is
a vastly different world from that en-
visaged in high hope and trust when the
war was in its early stages of 1940, when
the then chairman of the Polish National
Council, Ignace Paderewski, could de-
clare ; . ,
The ultimate victory of the Allies will
open the portals of a new era in history,
will re-establish the rule of Right and
Justice in international life, will make per-
manent the deathless values of the human
heart and , mind, that alone can raise man-
kind to a worthier and happier life,
And when Lord Privy Seal, Mr. Attlee
had high hopes of “a world of peace and
of free people” ; not the kind of peace “in
which everybody is subdued to the will of
one man or one nation” but “an ordered
peace... .a world of liberty giving the
individual in every nation the opportunity
of realising to the full his or her person-
ality.” “No party to such an association
as we picture,” Lord Halifax said hope-
fully, “will be ambitious to dominate its
partners.” At that time Mr. Roosevelt,
too, was more hopeful than perhaps he
would have remained had he lived: “When
we have helped to end the curse of
Hitlerism we shall help to establish a
new peace, which will give to decent
people everywhere a better chance to live
and prosper in security and in freedom
and in faith.” Even Mr. Stalin (of his
neighbors):
to help these peoples in their struggle
for liberation from Hitler’s tyranny, and
then to accord them the possibility of
arranging their lives on their own land
as they think fit, with absolute freedom.
No interference of any kind with the
domestic affairs of other nations!
There was indeed great trust in those
days, when the Chinese Ambassador to
the United States was able to say;
From the British pledges to Poland and
Greece in 1939 to the Atlantic Charter of
1941 and the United Nations Declaration
of 1942 there seem to have been no secret
treaties of bribery or territdrial aggrandise-
ment concluded among the countries which
now form the United Nations. The absence
of secret treaties and the existence of such
open and idealistic declarations as the
Atlantic Charter are two factors which, I
believe, will greatly enhance the chances
of success of idealistic statesmanship in
constructive peacemaking after the war.
There were more realistic voices: Mr.
Cordell Hull declaring that “those nations
that are making resistance are primarily
peeking to save themselves, their homes
and their liberties ; Great Britain and the
United States are acting primarily for
their own safety” ; and Mr. Eden admit-
ting that “the world’s destiny is inscru-
table ; we cannot determine it.” But Mr.
Eden expressed the prevalent trust when
he also said that “we can help to direct
[the world’s destiny] in vigilance and with
humility.”
At least that trust survives. It must
be faint in the unsettled parts of Europe
that are the actual victims of the tardy
peacemaking, but it is a shade stronger
elsewhere, and it is what sustains hope in
some small advance, at least, being made
in the latest U.N.O. meeting. It cannot
last indefinitely; and patience begins to
wear thin at the spectacle of the repre-
sentatives of nations each apparently per-
sonally intent on enacting a part in a
grim comedy for the entertainment of his
particular country and to ehsure himself
a pedestalled place in history.
An element, overlooked by Mr. Truman
in his diagnosis of general anti-war feel-
ing is the power of personalities in the
making of history. It is futile to talk of
nobody wanting war when immediately
afterwards the representative of a vast
nation which remains substantially on a
war basis will arise, as Mr. Molotov did,
and discourage the eager hopes of peace
in a violent outburst of bitter words. Mr.
Stalin might appear conciliatory, but Mr.
Molotov gives a public display of pos-
sessing a savage mind, and in the un-
certain state of Russia today, locked be-
hind its iron curtain, what is the relative
strength of the two men?
Also, what acts are there from Russia
conducive to hopeful thinking? Mr.
Molotov makes proposals for disarma-
ment and for the outlawing of the atom-
bomb ; excellent, declares U.S. delega-
tion-leader Mr. Austin, “so long as safe-
guards are provided.” It is known for
certain that, unless an extraordinary
change takes place, Mr. Molotov will
never agree to the “safeguards.” By his
prescription America and Britain, which
by the nature of their democratic free-
doms are constantly open to inspection
and report, would actually disarm, or
the whole world would know if they did
not. On the other hand, Russia, closed
to inspection and report, would say it
had disarmed to such and such extent,
and the world could either believe or dis-
believe. Russia’s record of broken
pledges makes belief in such circum-
stances a choice of fools, and the Russian
failure in anything resembling acts of
co-operation completes the deadlock.
The one thing comforting is that while
the wordy name-calling and bickering
go on, actual world conflict is held off.
There are nasty rumblings off-stage, but
while the conflict on-stage is restricted
to words there can still be the spark of
hope. It is not anything like the world of
those trusting days of war-time, but any
world is preferable to a world of war,
which is solid enough ground for having
patience with the peacemakers, even when
some of them are acting the part of
criminal clowns.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Who'd Like a Sinecure?
Australia began the war against the
Central Powers with 10 Commonwealth
Ministers, of whom two were honoraries.
At the beginning of the second German
war there were 16 Commonwealth Minis-
ters, four of them “assistants.” In 1941
Mr. Menzies, then Prime Minister,
advanced the number to 19 as a war
measure, and “Labor” eagerly availed
itself of the precedent when it came in.
During the war against the Japanese
at least two Ministers were away from
Australia most of the time and tnree or
four Ministers some of the time. It thus
became evident that no more than 16
Ministers were required. In other days
democratic Parliamentarians made it a
point of honor to protect the public
purse against unnecessary expenditure.
“Labor” has other views, and so the
overburdened taxpayer has to go on
bearing the expense of supporting 19
Ministers each with a personal staff and
a fluid-drive Chrysler car, when 16 Minis-
ters, even 15, would suffice.
The transfer to overseas posts of Mr.
Beasley (Defence) and Mr. Makin (Navy,
Munitions and Aircraft Production), the
defeat of Mr. Forde (Army), and Mr.
Frost (Repatriation), and the retirement
(though not from Parliament) of the
octogenarian Senator Collings (Vice-
President of the Executive Council)
rendered changes necessary. Two of
their colleajgues. Comrades Lazzarim
(Works and Housing) and Fraser (Trade
and Customs, and Mr. Forde’s deputy
for a time), failed to weather the storm
of Caucus election —in “Labor” parlance,
“the spill.” Mr. Lazzarini is succeeded
by Mr. Lemmon, Mr. Frost by Mr.
Barnard, Senator Fraser by Senator
Courtice, Mr. Forde by Mr. Chambers,
Mr. Makin by (1) Senator Armstrong
(Munitions) and (2) Mr. Riordan (Navy).
Mr. Pollard goes in as Minister of Com-
merce and Agriculture in succession, to
Mr. Scully, though that exploded Minister
remains in the octogenarian Senator’s
ornamental post of Vice-President of the
Executive Council.
Mr. Dedman becomes Minister of
Defence as well as Minister of Post-War
Reconstruction and “in charge of
C.5.1.R.” Presumably he is senior to the
Army, Navy and Munitions Ministers
and equal in all things to the Air Minister
—still Mr. Drakeford. Five service
Ministers for peace-time shadow forces!
It amounts to a rank swindle on the tax-
payer ; and so does the sinecure handed
to Mr. Scully.
In other cases the pre-election arrange-
ments remain; Mr. Chifley, P.M. and
Treasurer; Dr. Evatt, External Affairs
and Attorney-General; Mr. Holloway,
Labor and National Service ; Mr. Ashley,
Supply and Shipping and Leader of tne
Senate; Senator Cameron, Postmaster-
General ; Senator McKenna, Health and
Social Services; .Mr. Johnson, Interior;
Mr. Ward, Transport and External Terri-
tories ; and Mr. Calwell, Misinformation
and Jewish Immigration. With the with-
drawal of Senator Collings and the ele-
vation of Comrades Lemmon, Armstrong
and Riordan, the average age has been
reduced but the Ministry remains old in
years, though not in wisdom.
Dr. Evatt becomes Deputy-Prime
Minister in place of Mr. Forde, who, it
appears, is to go to Ottawa and Mr. Frost
to Moscow. Dr. Evatt had four oppo-
nents for the No. 2 position, which he
had justly earned by his services to the
party, and in the final ballot his margin
over Mr. Ward was a mere 10 votes:
43-33. This strong vote for the leader
of the so-called industrial wing, which
objects to Mr. Chifley’s lingering though
apparently vanishing prejudice in favor
of wage-pegging and whose leader has
wild ideas about “pegging” the National
debt and extorting interest-free loans
from the Commonwealth Bank, regardless
of the purchasing-power of the Australian
pound, advances the date when the party
will fly into hostile fragments, as it did
in 1917 and (with Mr. Ward’s stormy
approval) in 1931.
R.S.L. and Volunteers.
On the motion of W.A. —a State with a
notably high overseas fighting record in
both wars —the R.S.L. constitution is to
be altered to extend membership eligi-
bility to all who volunteered to serve any-
where, were accepted for active service,
served for not less than six months and
were honorably discharged. “Returned”
is no longer an essential qualification.
On logical grounds, about the only
sound criticism that can be made is that
the decision is belated. Because it
seemed plainly fair, and out of admira-
tion for the R.S.L. as one of the finest of
Australian institutions, the extension of
membership to volunteers was advocated
here some years back, when it was pointed
out that otherwise new Digger organisa-
tions were sure to spring up, to the satis-
faction of nobody except those who had
political reasons for hoping to see the
Diggers not one great and influential
force in the land but divided and
quarrelling among themselves.
Shelved whenever it was previously
brought up, the move was at last con-
sidered in camera, so all that can be said
of it is that it was supported by four
States; Victoria and S.A. opposing.
Whether it can now have the result that
it might have had if made earlier looks
doubtful. The expected rival organisa-
tions have been formed and are well
established; also, there are signs of
trouble in the R.S.L. itself, one N.S.W.
sub-branch having decided immediately
to secede.
The sub-branch —Liverpool—reached
its decision with some heat. Its secretary,
Mr. R. Caterson, declared that “there
are thousands of so-called soldiers who
fought only one fight—a fight to avoid
being sent overseas.” That is true
enough, just as it is true that there are
thousands of returned soldiers who went
away to do base and suchlike jobs; and
true also that there were many thousands
who failed to get away through no fault
of their own. The further objection of
Mr. Caterson that many of the reluctant
dragons he had in mind “had been in
and out of detention barracks because
they dodged drafts” would be more valid
if the R.S.L. retained no power to ex-
clude unwanted applicants for member-
ship, and if no returned man had ever
done detention.
The Liverpool sub-branch has gone not
only against the decision of the congress
COMMUNIST OBJECTIVE.
“Just a little further the way you’re going, Comrade, and we’re all set!”
but against the decision of its own State.
Its secession, or any other of the kind,
will do no good to the sub-branch
members or Diggers in general. It will
suit only those who have always wanted
to see the Diggers split up. That way
they are easier to push around, and
enough has happened already to indicate
what pushing-around there would be if
many sub-branches followed the Liver-
pool lead towards destruction.
"Foolish and Mendacious."
The Victorian transport strike began,
like all Communist-inspired strikes, with
misrepresentation and larrikin disregard
for the law of the land, and ended in an
atmosphere equally unwholesome. The
necessity for air-conditioning in A.R.U.
circles is best exemplified in the behavior
of Comrade Jack Brown, secretary of
the union, whose advice to the delegates
at the strike conference on the basic-wage
and hours question has been described
by Acting Chief-Judge Drake-Brockman
as “foolish and mendacious statements,
made deliberately for the purpose of
deceiving not only the A.R.U. but mem-
bers of the public and other unions, for
whom, according to the press, he appeared
to be spokesman.”
“This gentleman,” the Judge went on,
“will have the public believe that he and
others between them have usurped and
exercised the functions which lie in the
hands of the Court exclusively—that is,
matters which concern the basic wage and
affect standard hours.” With regard to
the settlement of the strike the A.C.-J.
added: “I am given to understand that
there is a growing impression that the
Court must have been privy, and indeed
party, to the arrangements which are
alleged to have been made. This is, of
course, quite wrong and utterly ridicu-
lous.”
Comrade Brown, in his resolution put
before the strike delegates, referred to
“assurances received on the speedy finali-
sation of the claims relating to the basic
wage and the 40-hour week.”
Mr. Chifley, for his part, flatly
denied that he had promised to amend
the wage-pegging regulations to permit a
rise of “from 10s. to 155.” in the basic
wage. Premier Cain was not so specific.
This latest “Labor” Premier cut an in-
glorious figure throughout the strike, and
the Assembly vote that saved his “Gov-
ernment” after a furious no-confidence
debate was ill-deserved.
Comrade Brown’s cheeky reply to Judge
Drake-Brockman’s censure was that the
“workers” had twice chosen him as a
responsible person to represent them, and
withdrew nothing. But, speaking the
day before at a mass meeting of trans-
port workers, he may have uttered more
than he realised when he said; “I don’t
think I know of any strike which has
brought so many results as quickly as
this one.”
If the Chifley Government had any
moral backbone one result of this strike
would be its intervention in trade-union
affairs so as to give rational-minded trade-
unionists a chance to protect themselves
from the domination of unscrupulous
demagogues like Comrade Brown. With-
out the secret ballot they are dumb-
driven cattle, unable to accept responsi-
bility for their own behavior. It should
be quite clear even to Mr. Chifley that
responsibility cannot be left in hands or
to tongues like those of Comrade Brown.
Joe's Interest in Uncle.
For what it may be worth —an important
qualification —Mr. Stalin has taken to
cooing softly as a dove, or at any rate
roaring as gently as Bottom the Lion ; in
either case a remarkable role, all things
considered.
On September 24 Mr. Stalin made his
statement that he did not believe there
was real danger of war. This was hailed
in some quarters as most heartening, but
those more hardened to Soviet ways de-
cided it would be safer to await acts.
Mr. Stalin spoke again on October 28
on an even softer note. He was replying
to questions fired at him by the president
of the. American United Press ; but in the
meantime there had been one or two
statements made elsewhere which must
have got to his ears and influenced his
answers.
Mr. Stalin was particularly peeved at
his old chum of the “Big” palavers, Mr.
Churchill. The old chum had asked in
the Commons if it was true that the
Soviet was keeping 200 divisions in its
occupied countries. Mr. Churchill re-
ceived no satisfactory reply, and the im-
pression was that he was probably right.
Borrowing the extreme resort of Mr.
Speaker, Mr. Stalin “named” Mr,
Churchill; the only one he did name in a
lumping of “war incendiaries,” who
should be “unmasked” and “bridled”;
ballroom horses apparently.
Instead of 200 divisions, the Soviet —
according to Mr. Stalin—had only 60
spread over Germany, Austria, Hungary
and Bulgaria, and these would be down
to 40 “when the Supreme Soviet decree
of October 22 on the last demobilisation
classes is implemented within two
months.” Hopeful news, if true. Mr.
Churchill retains his doubts, pointing out
that Mr. Stalin’s “60 divisions” does not
include “heavy Russian concentrations at
Leningrad and Odessa.”
Another of the interim statements was
made by Mr. Attlee, who told the Trades
Union Congress: “It is one of the
tragedies of the world situation that the
Soviet Government appears deliberately
to prevent intercourse between the Rus-
sian people and the outside world,” and
that "democracy is becoming a mucn-
abused word”;
If, in any part of the world,'the Com-
munist party is in power, no matter by
what means, it is called a democracy. If,
anywhere, the Communists fail, it is re-
garded as Fascism.
There were also statements by Ameri-
can “Peace” Conference delegates Mr,
Byrnes and Senator Vandenberg, to the
general effect that, if Mr. Stalin wanted
peace, he had only to act the part and
America was as willing as Britain to be
with him, but that there would be no
more appeasement. With Mr. Attlee
they, in short, put the blame for the dis-
ordered state of things where it belonged.
Still more directly to the point, Mr.
Byrnes, explaining why a requested loan
of some 18,000,000 dollars was not going
to Czechoslovakia, was reported to have
said that henceforth American loans
would go only to countries showing proof
of friendliness in acts and speech.
"Is Russia still interested in obtaining
a loan from the United States?” Mr.
Stalin was asked by the United Press
man. “Yes,” Mr. Stalin said, “Russia is
still interested.”
Quite evidently Mr. Byrnes’s loans
statement had "cut sharply through the
iron curtain. There might be ground for
some hope in this and Mr. Stalin’s
response, for one good reason: that
Russia will need to show very strong
proof indeed of a complete change of
heart before there will be the faintest
chance of Congress granting a loan of
one cent, let alone an amount of the huge
size that holds Mr. Stalin’s interest. It
depends on what priority rating Mr.
Stalin gives to the loan. That could
possibly be high: Mr. Stalin said it
would take Russia “six to seven years, if
not more,” rebuilding its devastated areas,
and Russia is having internal troubles as
well.
Secret Ballot.
From Newcastle, in the past too often a
source of trouble and industrial unrest,
came encouraging news last week. The
local branch of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union resolved that in future
proposals to hold stop-work meetings
would be decided by secret ballot, and
at the same time lifted the ban on over-
time. The move towards sanity did not
go unchallenged. Immediately there were
suggestions that the Federal Council of
the union might veto the decision —there
seems to be an echo of Moscow here.
Also, the Sydney branch informed the
press that it had no intention of lifting
the ban, and that it intended to hold more
stop-work meetings if necessary in sup-
port of demands for a wage increase.
Adelaide branch decided to impose the
overtime ban from November 11
and to hold a stop-work meeting
some time in January if a wage
increase of £1 per week had not been
granted by then. In neither Sydney nor
Adelaide will secret ballots precede the
threatened stoppages, secret ballots be-
ing now held out by militant "Labor”
as undemocratic —a cunning trap designed
by the "bosses” to make the “worker”
bring about his own enslavement.
In many trade-unions today the
rank and file are enslaved; they are
under the tyranny of the “bosses.”
But the Simon Legrees are not the
employers; the “bosses” who rule
the workers with a Red rod are
union leaders who boast of making
strikes their business and who use
the grievances, real or imaginary, of the
“workers” as a means of increasing their
own power. These are the men who,
fearing the effect a secret ballot on all
work stoppages would have on their own
power and prestige—and upon their
wider plans for dislocation of industry—
oppose it tooth and nail. Their stooges
amongst the rank and file condemn it
in whispering campaigns and raise their
voices loudly at open meetings. The
same voices that swing waverers towards
the union bosses’ point of view with
“Stick your hand up, Bill. You’re , in
this” combat any speaker who urges
reason and sanity with the raucous mob-
cry of “Pull y’r ’ead in, mug!”
A strong Government really intent on
peace in industry could straighten-out
much of the present industrial chaos by
enforcing the principle of a secret
ballot, under Government supervision.
Strength is the last thing to ex-
pect from our present rulers; but if the
Chifley Government finds compulsion in
this matter, as in national defence, repug-
nant, it could go a long way towards
achieving the same result by suggestion
and approval. Such a course should
meet with a good response from the mass
of trade-unionists, who at present, lack-
ing any signs of leadership in those from
whom they are entitled to expect it, turn
to the loud-mouthed minority that offers
“leadership” but gives only the sort that
is conceded to a bull with a ring through
its nose.


>7
MvmSSmiii
fa CRAVEN A
it HUimfhltf tuutwoittuf
CARRERAS LTD. V- OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
6576
Points
“S. M. Herald” and the “Daily Mirror”
both certify that the new Chifley
Administration is “a well-balanced team,”
In the distribution of duties it is dashed
ill-balanced. Chifley himself will have
his hands full as P.M. and Treasurer, and
Dr. Evatt as Attorney-General and
Minister of External Affairs; but Arm-
strong (Munitions), Riordan (Navy)—
Makin had both portfolios and Aircraft
Production as well —and Scully (Vice-
President of the Executive Council) will
have little more to do than sign papers
and draw their salaries. Fancy appoint-
ing a Minister of Munitions nearjy 15
months after the end of the Japanese
war! .
Sydney “D.T.” has discovered that
“Army Minister Mr. Cyril Chambers
fought with the Second A.1.F.” He
fought only Diggers’ decayed “crockery”
—as Old Brig. Rankin once said in a
moment of asperity. Chambers was a
“tooth-tugger.” Even so, his service in
Moresby and thereabouts was so brief
that it is questionable whether he ever
saw a Jap, except perhaps a dead one,
coffined in or spilt out of a wrecked
plane. He has taken “Stand Up” Bryson
for his secretary. Survivors of the New
Guinea Rifles will note the conjunction
with morbid interest.
The British Labor Ministry and party
are plentifully supplied with men from
all the fighting services. There is even
a major-general Mason-Macfarlane.
Combat service as an Australian is appar-
ently a disqualification for any high
“Labor” position in Australia. Though
three of the new Commonwealth Minis-
ters were 31 when the second German
war broke out, none of the three got out
of civvies.
When Federal “Labor” members were
gathering for “the spill, as they call it,”
S. M. “Herald,” in a friendly spirit (its
general-manager had just accused a C.P.
critic of being concerned in “anti-
‘Labor’ ” radio utterances), reminded the
gentlemen of Chifley’s statement that he
had never seen so many promising young
“Labor” Ms.H.R. and Senators as were
elected in 1943. Only one of these
geniuses got into the reconstructed
Ministry; Lemmon, the member for
Forrest, W.A. Lemmon owed some of
his votes to the high esteem in which his
father, still an M.L.A., is held by the
Victorian delegation. He lacks what Dad
has had for upwards of 40 years—a safe
seat.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” Special
Representative at Canberra, in tipping
ex-M.H.R. Breen for the job of Minister
to Moscow, quoted “Labor” members as
saying that Breen was particularly anxious
to study the Soviet collective-farming
system. The report -that kulaks in the
Calare electorate are making plans for a
mass exodus to escape the Wrath to
come is probably exaggerated.
People who exhibited no particular
concern at the horrors of the Sandakan
march and the Siam-Burma railway were
reduced to tears when Bernborough
broke down. Among the weepers was
Mr. Romano Azzalin (or Azzalin
Romano) of income-tax notoriety, who
had caused the faithful steed —a
heavy-bodied stallion, rising eight— to be
raced in the Caulfield Cup with 10.10,
and no doubt horse-reporters were
similarly affected. They had turned on
Roraazzo (“Rom” previously) on dis-
covering that the animal had been backed
for the Caulfield Cup after their “authori-
tative” announcement that he was to be
kept for the King’s Cup at Randwick
and then for w.f.a. races ; but they are
a sentimental as well as a gullible breed.
After the Caulfield Cup fiasco one was
innocent enough to assert that book-
makers, who had snapped up every pound
for Bernborough in the Caulfield Cup
wagering, had the poor brute at 4 to 1
for the Melbourne Cup, in which he had
10.9, and that a member of the fraternity
wanted to back him at that price and
couldn’t get on. There are vast multitudes
of mugs at large in Australia, horse-
reporters among them.
Miserable beyond expression was the
behaviour of the Victorian “ ‘Labor’
Government” throughout the strike that
stopped transport and gave Melbourne
the feeling that it was under siege by
Communist militia to which its elected
defenders had sold out. During the nine-
days’ disaster, one effect of which will
appear when the colossal year’s deficit
on the railways is disclosed, it didn’t show
the pluck of a frilled lizard. Yet this
shadow and mockery of an Administra-
tion is to go on drawing its salaries a
while longer, an attempt to scrape it off
the Treasury benches having failed. The
electors will do the scraping when they
get the chance.
For 13 hours the Victorian Assembly
debated Opposition-leader McDonald’s
indictment of the “ ‘Labor’ Government”
on the score of “its weak and impotent
attitude in dealing with the strike posi-
tion and its complete failure to take firm
and appropriate action to protect the
rights and interests of the people.” Mc-
Donald realised that the division would
go against him, two Opposition mem-
bers being* unavoidably absent and a
third in the Speaker’s chair, but one of
the Independents, McLaren, was with
him, and that gave the “Government” a
shock. Its remaining existence will be
precarious as well as ignoble.
For five weeks up to 25/10/’46, re-
ports N.Q. “Register,” there has been
no clearance of sugar from the port of
Mackay, and by then about 26,000 tons
was in wharf stores and another 50,000
tons stored at adjacent mills. Multiply
that by similar hold-ups of all sorts of
goods at every Australian port, most of
the bigger railway stations and city
storage-depots and you have one explana-
tion for the creeping paralysis afflicting
the nation. The other explanation is a
mixture of Communist' obstructionism
and the pipe-dreams of Socialist “Labor.”
Queensland sugar-farmers suffered
heavily in the recent drought, and with-
out sulphate of ammonia they can’t raise
another sugar crop. When Mackay
growers learned that wharfies had refused
to unload a cargo of fertiliser they
decided to do it themselves. Whereupon
the wharfies’ union, of whom Comrade
Healy is Queensland secretary and an-
other Comrade Healy is Federal secre-
tary, threatened to tie up every Queens-
land port. This went to the printer with
the wharfies being “warned” by the
Stevedoring Commission to work or
others would be called in. At that stage
the ship had been idle over a week. Bris-
bane and Canberra were silent. Brown,
Healy, Wells, Thornton, Elliott —learn
the names of your masters, Australians!
Though there are just on 5000 regis-
tered wharflaborers in Sydney and many
a scientist would envy their hourly rates
of pay—3s. 9d. ordinary time, ss. 7£d.
for night-work, 7s. 6d. between midnight
and 7 a.m. and 9s. 4£d. on Sunday—
they average less than £8 a week. This
is wholly because many of them choose
to absent themselves when there is ample
work for all, hundreds of them disdain-
ing to toil 10 hours a week. It is different
on the other side of the Tasman. N.Z.
ports are by no means world models ;
nevertheless for the year to March 31
wharfies averaged £ll 3s. Id. a week at
New Plymouth, £ll os. 9d. at Welling-
ton, £lO 16s. 6d. at Napier, and
£lO Is. Id. at Nelson. Including Wan-
ganui and Westport, which are little more
than half-time ports, the average worked
out at £lO 6s. 7d. in 1945-46 and
£lO 7s. 4d, over 1940-46, Time lost for
six years was 0.41 per cent, of hours
worked. These figures, which put the
Communist-controlled port of Sydney to
shame, have been published by the
Waterfront Control Commission.
Lang’s son is standing for Auburn,
from which his father has gone to Can-
berra via the Reid electorate. There is
no Liberal candidate, and it should count
in the young man’s favor with Libs, that
the old man voted against the Parlia-
mentary Pensions Act. That legalised
piratical raid on the public purse, pro-
viding as it does for a never-ending divi-
sion of the spoils, should be a main issue
in Auburn, and in Ashfield, Albury and
Corowa as well; but in Albury and
Corowa it may be obscured by the Lib.-
C.P. dogfights raging in both constitu-
encies, It will be a lively issue at the
general elections, whatever happens in
the four preliminary contests.
At Wellington (N.Z.) as well as Can-
berra there will be new Labor Ministers
if their party comes back. Webb (Post-
master-General) and Roberts (Minister of
Agriculture) are not going up for re-
election as members, and retiring also are
Hamilton, the Nationalist, “a faithful and
loyal member of the War Cabinet”
(Prime Minister Fraser) and five other
members. They were all farewelled at
the last sitting of Parliament, which was
like a gathering of old friends, the
National Anthem being sung at the close.
Said Fraser before they trooped out to
the refreshment-room: “The feeling that
animates all members is to serve their
country to the best of their ability and in
good faith according to their beliefs,”
the members of the Opposition no less
than the members of his party.
Since Scully has had to give way to
Pollard in the Commonwealth Ministry
of Agriculture, the mantle of his optimism
seems to have fallen upon the Queensland
Minister for Agriculture, a Mr. Collins,
who told his Parliament that farmers had
got more in subsidies than they ever
paid in taxation and that the outlook
for land products was never better. To
which sundry Opposition voices replied
that Queenslanders would be eating
mincemeat before long, the dairy industry
was failing and a record drought had hit
everybody from peanut-growers to cattle-
men. Still, you can’t convince a Labor
Minister with that sort of talk.
In September savings-bank deposits
over all the Comonwealth declined by
£2,056,000, this being the first occasion
since the bombing of Darwin and a
Liberty Loan coincided' in 1942
that a month has passed without an in-
crease, usually large, in total s.-b. deposits.
The savings position has been slipping
since the beginning of 1946 in spite of
large sums of deferred pay distributed
during the initial six months. In the first
three quarters of 1944 £75 million was
added to s.-b. deposits, 1945 £6B million,
1946 £29 million. It shouldn’t be
assumed that the money is nowadays go-
ing more into Government loans. Civil
production and civil wages are more in
keeping with each other, and the people
are trying to restock—at higher prices.
Refurnishing, etc., though now easier
than it was, is much costlier. Sydney
“night clubs” are noticing the pinching-
off of aimless spending, and many people
are grimly pleased with that.
Back in Victoria from the land of his
ancestors, Governor Dugan reports a
great volume of gratitude for the food
parcels from Australia, and a still-great
need, consequence in part of a cruelly
disappointing harvest. It was not, for his
Excellency to point out that Food for
Britain is wholly a voluntary movement
to which “Labor” was at first hostile and
has since been indifferent, nor did he
mention, as he could have done, that the
Britons have been ordered to cut their
consumption of gas and electricity as well
as continue on their monotonous rations.
The fuel shortage, now admitted by Shin-
well, so perky a year ago,* is the first
result of “nationalising” the coalmines.
“Nationalisation” of industries is always
going to do wonderful things but never
does.
Though theoretically the British Labor
party is opposed to capital punishment, it
still hangs murders because the law says
murderers shall be hanged. Not so
Australian “Labor” Governments, which
flout the will of Patliament. All that is
happening to the bloodthirsty ruffian who
murdered Sergeant Eric Bailey at Blayney
on Jan. 12—now given a George Cross,
which “ranks with the V.C.” —is that he
is to be housed in jail for life. Had he
been in Britain or South Australia, where
constitutional government still exists, he
would have been executed without demur,
as he deserved to be.
Queensland’s Miss Rankin had to wait
a month after polling-day before being
declared elected as its first Federal re-
presentative of her sex, and it must have
been a month of immense strain. Though
other States had feminine candidates for
the Senate as far back as 1903 —-in that
year Vida Goldstein came out in Vic-
toria, Nellie Martell and Mary Ann
Bentley in N; S. Wales —Miss Rankin was
Queensland’s pioneer in this field, as
Miss Tangney was Westralia’s. The ladies
will have very interesting campaign
reminiscences to exchange.
The great “back-Saturday” idea—
whereby N.S.W. coalies work every
second Saturday in order to “increase
coal production so industry will have
enough to see it through the miners’
Christmas holidays” —has gone the way
of all ideas which sidestep the main
trouble on the coalfields. Last week
alone there were 46,000 tons of coal lost
through strikes, and this, as the Coal
Commissioner puts it, has “nullified” the
“back-Saturday” production. So now the
miners, having proved that the “back-
Saturday” won’t work, will probably
strike against it.
As a warning of what might be ex-
pected if they feel inclined to repeat their
activities, five Communist leaders of
“squatters” in London were bound over
for two years when found guilty of “con-
spiring together and with other persons
to incite persons to trespass on property,
and aiding, abetting and directing such
trespass against the peace.” In Australia
Communists fear no legal punishment,
though they “trespass” against the peace,
order and good government of the com-
munity every day.
In Queensland, Federal Labor’s total of
primaries was 82,599 fewer than the
combined total of its opponents, and its
1943 Senate majority became a deficit of
84,209, Labor lost the Senate but won
five of the 10 Representatives seats,
though whether this will console it for
the loss of Capricornia is another matter.
Early this year, when the Queensland
meat-mine-wharf strikes were on, an
attempt to hold a secret ballot of unionists
concerned broke down when it was found
that the M.I.E.U. lists of members were
faulty. Mr. Pie, the Q.P.P. leader, has
since been asking the Government about
the State electoral rolls, alleging that they
are “not in a healthy condition,” that
far too many papers sent to addresses
taken from electoral rolls return en-
dorsed “addressee not known,” and that
the police have been unable to locate
some people from their electoral-roll
addresses. To all of which the Govern-
ment airily replied that it was simply be-
cause so many people moved about and
forgot to notify change of address.
A memory of Canning must have
stirred Churchill when he described the
British Communist party as “a venomous
thing, creeping and crawling around.” In
his Poetry of the Anti-Jacobin, Canning
dismissed “all” the English admirers of
the ruffians of the French Revolution as
“creeping creatures, venomous and low.”


NOT EVEN ON THE WICKET.
“Mr. J. T. Lang, one-time Labor Premier of N. S. Wales, now an avowed anti-Communist, is expected! to be a vocal addition to the number of members critical of tbq
Government during the new session of the Federal Parliament.”
“You’ll never get ’em out!”


SHOWS
Society
"AND IT'S pRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: By the post there came in
the morning one small booklet, green-
and-white. Like sea-foam on green
water it tossed among the driftwood on
my desk, old bills and records of ills and
things not done, until I rescued it.
Rescued, •it spawned a fleck of foam,
which was a message “cordially inviting”
me to “contribute to Poetry.” Since I
am no poet and the price of the booklet
is prominently shown at 25., I can only
assume that a cash contribution is wanted.
Well, it won’t be forthcoming. No man
is going to shove this before me —
Lounging from luxury coaches
to pace the earth that was theirs,
we stared, at the smiling reproaches,
worn with travellers’ cares —
call it poetry and expect me to pay. Not
can he reach into America, retrieve
The light on the Palmolive Building
Shines like a star in the East
As nurses turn glass doorknobs
Opening into corridors
and get two bob from me in the same
breath. There’s a lot more ,of it, mostly
disjointed, verses in which everybody is
sad or dying or bowed down witn care.
Of course, it’s just another angle on the
overworked theory that poets ought to be
downed in gloom by the misery ail round
—as though a flower never grew in muck
—and heap more misery on the poor old
world. No, when these fellows can sing
I’ll buy their work —what wouldn’t I give
for a singing line? —and I’ll buy more of
it when they stop posing. As for what
they call poetry, I can do it myself. Take
the first sentences of this par.:
By the post
There came in the morning
one small booklet,
green-and-white.
Like sea foam on green water
.it tossed, etc.
Anybody who reckons that’s worth two
deeners please forward a deposit at once.
* * * *
“Dong”: “Bo” was in honest company
on his tram ride (B. 30/10/’46). On
mine there were four damsels who should
have known better; for six stops gave
an intriguing display of financial chi-
canery. Said the first, rummaging fren-
ziedly in a bulging handbag, “I’ve only
got a two-shilling piece. Somebody else
pay for me, and I’ll pay when 1 get
change.” “Well,” said the second, “I’ve
only got a ten-shilling note. Someone
pay for me, and I’ll owe her twopence.”
The third, after an exhaustive search, re-
luctantly produced a shilling. “I’ll pay
for Margie’s, and you can pay for Elsie’s,”
she said to the fourth. The latter, with
a smirk of relief, produced two pennies.
“It’s all the change I have,” she said.
Number Two stepped into the breach
with a generous offer to pay for all four
(with Number One’s two shillings) and
set. out to explain the extent of each one’s
liabilities. They were still arguing when
the tram reached the shopping centre and
they hurriedly disembarked without pay-
ing.
* * * *
“Metax”: “When are you going to
abolish child-endowment?” demanded
the hefty baldheaded gentleman of the
lady candidate. She gave a spirited reply
that the intention was to increase rather
than abolish it. The baldheaded one re-
fused to be flattened. “I didn’t get paid
for being born,” he bawled, “and unless
I can get mine now it should be abolished
altogether.”’
* * * *
“O-t.”; Haven’t “Fitz’s” memory for
these things, but there was another
humorous “political footnote” (B.
30/10/’46) about 30 years ago. The
occasion was trouble in the mines—yes,
there’s always trouble in the mines—
and Harrison Owen, then a frequent con-
tributor who later migrated to London
and did fairly well for himself,
had apparently been invited to do
a bit of topical verse on the matter. As
near as I can remember it was reported
in The Bulletin that, turning to the
editor, Owen said frigidly, “Sir, 1 am
not a minor poet.” The footnote ran:
[Written, after hurried consultation, to
express the views of the literary corridor.]
But I disremember whose name followed.
♦ * *
“H.A.L.”: I have quite a lot of sym-
pathy with the City Fathers in any city
who “want to chop down trees” (B.
16/10/’46). Years ago Adelaide City
Council desired to 'turn North-terrace
into “one of the most beautiful boule-
vards in Australia.” To do this the
whole of the long park-garden strip on
the northern side had to be remodelled,
which meant the removal of a line of elm-
trees. A fearful outcry arose and
the trees were retained. Today North-
terrace is one of the most beauti-
ful boulevards in Australia, but the
whole effect is spoiled by a line of sickly
old elms along Government House wall,
not yet in leaf although the graceful
Mediterranean ash-trees along the rest of
the garden strip have been in full foliage
for over two months. Some species of
trees will not allow lawns and gardens to
grow anywhere near them ; others have
roots which break up the pavements near
by. Others again have a brief period of
ornamental life, but grow ugly, lose their
shape and become full of deadwood or
riddled with termites. The logical thing
is to replace them with trees which have
none of those faults. Any sensible man
does it in his own garden. Yet if the
same thing is done in a public place
there is always a howl of protest.
* * * *
“Smouge”; A knock-out blow has been
dealt to the old fallacy that sailors can’t
swim. The crew of 19 of R.A.N. tug
Waree, wrecked at the mouth of Clarence
River, arrived in Sydney by train, none
the worse for a three-quarter mile swim
to shore. It would be interesting to
know if there are any other cases of
a ship’s company who could all swim
the distance. These men performed the
feat in a 70-mile-an-hour gale.
* * * z
“Hist”: Concerning the “Mitchell”
stamps, two values, 2£d. and 3id., can
pass as genuine commemoratives, but the
Is. value is just another dip into the
philatelist’s pocket. Commemorative
issues are a form of national advertising
(or boosting) and maximum coverage is
obtained by using low-value stamps with
the widest circulation. But the authori-
ties have discovered the collector angle.
Collectors buy wads of these fancy stamps
just to stick in their albums, so why not
add a pricey stamp to each set and gather
in a bit of unearned increment? Aus-
tralian postal authorities first tried it with
the Sydney Bridge stamps in 1932, but
overreached themselves by making the
high value ss. Collectors, like everyone
else, were still depression-broke at the
time, and sales were disappointing. Still,
the principle was sound and since then
we have had a number of 9d., Is. and 2s.
commemoratives out of which the Trea-
sury has done quite nicely, thank you.
* * * *
“Macnell”: That report from Cairo of
a hashish haul worth £125,000 reminds me
of a similarly satisfying catch engineered
before the war by Russel Pasha, then
head of the International Anti-Narcotic
organisation in Cairo. Few men knew
more about the world’s dope traffic, and,
acting on his information, a convoy of
camels was intercepted west of Alexan-
dria. They were “wearing” the stuff.
The smugglers had shaved the beasts on
belly and back, gummed packets of drugs
to the bare skin, then glued the hair on
again to the outside. The drug must
have been grown somewhere handy, and
from our anchorage we watched three
R.A.F. ’planes rise in a sand cloud and
head west. Later that day they reported
a wheatfield with what appeared to be
an acreage of flowers in its centre. In-
vestigation proved them right, and opium-
poppies worth thousands were ploughed
into the dirt.
He Jfc Jfc
“Becks”: Mention of Whitakers
Almanack in connection with Schneider
Cup records (B. 30/10/’46) set me brows-
ing through back volumes, and I was
surprised to see how little importance the
editors placed upon aviation during the
early years of the century. The first
flight of the Wright Brothers was made
on Dec. 19, 1903 ; Whitaker’s did not
even include it in their “principal events
of the year.” As far as the Almanack
was concerned the many flights made in
Europe and America during the years
1904-06 simply did not occur. Into the
1908 edition a small paragraph on “aerial
navigation” forced its way, but it was
devoted entirely to balloons and dirigibles.
By 1909 it had grown to a couple of
pages; aeroplanes were mentioned for
the first time, but the Almanack’s aero-
nautical authority made no bones about
his feeling that they were secondary •in
importance to airships. From that time
on a fair coverage of aviation activity
was given each year, with a complete
record of all fatal accidents. As a com-
mentary on the structural weakness of
early planes it is common to read of a
machine “collapsing” in flight and one
plane is solemnly recorded as “busting in
mid-air.” By the time the 1915 Whitaker s
appeared the aeroplane had proved it-
self in war, and that year’s edition quotes
Sir John French on the gallantry of the
R.F.C. “Fired at constantly by both
friend foe..,.they have remained
undaunted throughout.”
* * * *
“Eve”: He may have been right, in
a sense, but still he was gonged in a
hurry. The quizmaster asked for the
origin of the quotation “Better to have
loved and lost than never to have loved
at all.” Like a shot the competitor re-
plied “Sunday Truth.”
* * ♦ ♦
“A.G.P.”: Montacute Centenary cele-
brants who claimed that the first dis-
covery of Australian gold was in their
area were exaggerating, but the Aus-
tralian Encyclopcedia concedes the dis-
trict the honor of having what is believed
to have been the first authentic discovery
of gold in Australia from which actual
mining operations resulted. The S.A.
Official Mining Record notes that a com-
pany, “The Victoria Goldmining Com-
pany,” began work in January, 1846,
and raised about 240 z. of gold which
soon adorned the cabinets of the curious!
Two-pound shares rapidly soared to
£3O, and as quickly receded to £3. The
discovery was not, however, the first in
Australia. James Mcßrien’s discovery
on the Fish River near Bathurst in 1823,
and Strzelecki’s discovery near Hartley,
just beyond the Blue Mountains, are
officially recognised, not to mention the
convict who also found gold on the Fish
River in 1823, and was promptly flogged
on suspicion of theft. In South Australia,
as a free colony, prospecting was, on the
contrary, encouraged, and silver-lead and
copper mines were already in operation
when the Victoria Company began work.
* * *
“Berry”: “Glad to see the church
people are gettin’ more up to date,” said
my friend Hobjob, producing a' card of
invitation to a Sunday-evening affair at
a suburban Bethel. As Hob job’s religious
proclivities have hitherto not been’ very
pronounced, I studied the card with in-
terest. It read, “You are invited to a
series of addresses on The Temple to be
given with the use of a Beautiful Model.”
“Reckon this beaut model will get all the
boys in,” he continued, with a dreamy
look. When I pointed out that the
“beautiful model” was more likely to be
of the architectural variety than some-
thing snappy from the Art School, he
cooled visibly, ~>
* * * *
“Yarrasider”: Life’s uncertainties in
Chifs Golden Age have almost beaten
the spirit out of me. In fact, in these
days—when my wife cooks on a fire in
a kerosene-tin in the backyard, and toils
like a Clydesdale doing the shopping;
when I squint at the evening paper by
candlelight, and walk 10 miles to work
and back every; when I haven’t had a
decent smoke or my wife a pair of silk
stockings for years; when she dresses in
1939 left-overs, and I in my old Army
clothes; when both of us are wornout,
round-shouldered, broken-hearted, over*
worked wretches —there is only one thing
that can put me in an old-fashioned,
screaming, frothing, furniture-smashing
rage—and that is when some politician
says: “What this country needs is more
of the pioneering spirit.”
* * * *
“McGlum”: The notorious Captain
Andor, known to the Ambon boys as
Handlebars, paid us one surprising com-
pliment which we are not likely to for-
get. It was in October, 1942, when those
chosen for a transfer to Hainan Island
were ordered to parade carrying only
personal belongings. We had the idea
that it would be wise to take everything
that we could lay our hands on, and
some individual burdens must have been
over the hundredweight mark. Surveyed
by the snaky eyes of Handlebars,
mounted on an old palm stump, we
staggered around in a circle for almost
an hour, not one man from the major
down game to admit his load too heavy.
The longer we plodded on the more
Handlebars seemed determined to view
our downfall. At last his moustache
twitched with joy as one Aussie heeled
over. He halted the grand parade and
informed us that “the afternoon’s per-
formance had been worthy of Nippon’s
best soldiers.” That night most of us
who had overestimated our carrying
capacity dumped the surplus in prepara-
tion for a gruelling hike to the wharf.
We cursed our luck next morning when
the Japs rolled up with motor transport
to take us to the Taiko Maru.
* * * *
“Sun-gazer”: People returning to
Milne Bay will be astonished at the num-
ber of natives riding rusty old bicycles.
The troopship Cremer left Brisbane in
August, 1942, carrying troops, stores,
ammo, and a hundred bikes. Nobody
knew for what purpose the latter were
intended, and on arrival at the Bay they
were dumped with stores at Gilli Gilli.
In a tropical downpour which lasted for
six days the area became a swamp. Stores
were claimed and collected, but nobody
“owned” the bikes, and they remained in
the mud, rusting, and looked at with in-
creasing curiosity by the boongs. The
heap dwindled, slowly at first, then faster,
until* not a grid remained. We never
found out why they had been shipped—
perhaps they were intended tor the
natives.
* * * *
“Passun”: During the early days of
our captivity the Japs ordered us to
shave our heads. The order did not
unduly worry the men on work-parties;
for the sake of cleanliness some of us
had already adopted the Jap hair-do.
But with the officers it was different,
so the Old Man trotted off with a pro-
test, telling the English-speaking com-
mandant that it was contrary to Christian
belief for men to shave their skulls. He
produced a Bible to prove it and read
Judges xvi: 15 to 20. In answer to the
Jap’s query as to why some Australians
were already shaven-pated he replied
that those men were heathens like the
Japanese. The next day the order was
cancelled.
BEER AND SMOKES.
“It is expected that strong pressure will be exer-
cised by Caucus on Jir. Chilley lor a cut in Customs
and excise duties in the forthcoming Budget, especi-
ally one which will enable the price of beer and
tobacco to be reduced.”
Let acrimonious wowsers snarl and sneer
About “the muddy ecstasies of beer”
(A pungent dictum that invites a grab
From that neglected poet, Parson Crabtre),
Or quote the terms in which the weed was cursed
By rigid moralists like James the First,
Who shuddered at the blows it came to strike
At eye and nose and brain and lungs alike.
They talfe a broader view, these Caucus blokes.
On such amenities as beer and smokes.
They hold by Shakspeare in “The Winter’s Tale,”
Who boldly designates a quart of ale
“Dish for a king”—though in their reckonings
They set scant score on Shakspeare’s view of
kings.
They find the weed, like Byron, rich and ripe
And mellow in a fag or in a pipe;
And deem, *with Calverley, its thoughtful use
Nothing for anybody to traduce,
But rather to be ranked a solace rare
In times of trial, of worry and of care.
They know, like you and me, the power that lives
In homely stimulants and sedatives,
The charm in comforts such as these you find
To calm the sense and soothe the troubled mind.
They know how once a British Government,
Battered by storms of public discontent,
Went out incontinently on its ear
For interfering with the poor man’s beer,
And seeking to increase the price of what
Was then but twopence-halfpenny a pot.
No Caesar dared resist the Romans’ claims
For panem et circenses —bread and games.
In this so-favored country, Heaven knows,
There’s no necessity to ask for those,
But many an honest soul the costs perturb
Of brown October and of Raleigh’s herb.
List to your Caucus, Chifley. I’ll engage
’Twill be a step towards your Golden Age
When on tobacco and oft malt-and-hops
The present devastating impost drops.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bozo”: A business friend of mine
prides himself on his organising ability,
and the Melbourne transport strike gave
him a chance to show it off. At first
wind of trouble he had the whole staff
organised into groups according to
locality and arranged for pick-ups at
various points. After a day of frantic
rushing round with pencil and paper,
threatening &nd cajoling car-owners and
carriers,'he relaxed knowing that every-
thing was under control. Sure enough
on the Monday morning the whole staff
rolled up on the dot and proceeded to
look busy ; but where was the boss? A
couple of hours later he tottered in and
slunk into his office —he’d forgotten to
organise himself!
♦ * * #
“Wrong Un”: While waiting, for play
to resume in the Sheffield Shield match at
Brisbane I listened to the conversation of
spectators around me. They found fault
with most things. They stoutly upheld
the rights of the “worker” in rain;
stressed the danger to a strong man get-
ting wet. They roundly abused slave-
driving tactics, upheld go-slow methods.
Then came the announcement that the
rain would delay resumption of play.
They loudly demanded that play should
continue: they had paid their money ;
they wanted full value. When the rain
cleared and groundsmen came out to
roll up the tarpaulins, my entertainers
called for haste: “Get a move on. We’re
waitin* for play to start. What’s keepin’
yer?” Apparently in these matters it
makes all the difference on which side of
the fence you sib
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Heard two reasons,
one from each side of the bar, for the
attraction of the pewter pot (B.
9/10/’46). “I’ll have a beeah,” said the
flash cove, “in a pewtah, because it’s
coolah.” “Also,” snarled host, as he
reached under the bar, “because it’s a
darn sight longah.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson is realising that
humor has its disadvantages. He was
phoning a friend when the wires became
crossed and a female voice with a strong
Palestinian accent was heard in small-talk
with another voice of similar - quality.
Twice Jephson courteously informed
them that they had an outside listener,
but he was ignored and, yielding to an
impulse, he said, “Yes, but vot about
der vatch?” A shocked pause, then a
puzzled, “Der vatch?” “Yes,” intoned
Jephson, “it’s a fine vatch. All with
“Don't bother dressing. Miss —l'll carry you down the back stairs !”
timonts an’ in gold case, yes. Fine vatch.
T’irty-seven pun ten.” Silence. Then the
other female voice. “Vhat is dot apout a
vatch?” “Dere iss a man vith a vatch—
a timont vatch.” Silence. Jephson waited
in intense enjoyment. Then one of the
ladies asked slowly, “You. Der man vith
der vatch, vhere are you?” Then Jeph-
son thought the joke had gone far enough,
hung up and got back to his friend. But
now his wife is growing desperate trying
to convince importunate gentlemen of
suave and Semitic aspect that neither she
nor her husband ever owned a “timont”
watch. Jephson can only conclude that
his number was traced, and he’s thinking
of taking out an injunction or something
against the telephone people. Meantime,
he intends to avoid being funny on the
phone to strangers.
* * * *
“Shiblt”: The M.L. Government has
approved of the proposals of the N.Z.
Centre of the P.E.N. for the establish-
ment of a State Literary Grant to be run
on lines similar to the one operating in
Australia. The annual grant commences
at £2OOO. If there is no political inter-
ference, and this is improbable as long
as it has P.M. Peter Fraser’s sincere in-
terest in literature, the new fund should
be of great benefit.
* * * *
“NX65381”: Books belonging to the
A.E.S. circulating box libraries vanished
in the field like cicadas in the winter. On
the other hand books supplied by A.E.S.
headquarters to individuals in operational
areas in response to special requests were
invariably returned to Sydney or Mel-
bourne at the expiration of the loan
period. The Public Library of N.S.W.,
which supplied thousands of books to
soldiers out of its country reference
section, lost very few volumes. It was
not an uncommon happening for a
Digger to stroll into the A.E.S. libraries
secretariat in Sydney to return a parcel
of books borrowed by a cobber who had
been wounded. “Bill told me before they
took him to hospital to be sure to get
these back to you,” the visitor would say
as he hoisted the books from a jungle-
stained haversack. A.E.S. made it known
to the troops that it would furnish so far
as possible books on any subject required
for study or self-improvement. Thou-
sands of young fellows took A.E.S. at its
word, and in a great majority of cases
their demands were satisfied. They
showed their appreciation of this indi-
vidual reading service by looking after the
works sent and returning them for further
circulation.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Those who argue the
existence of a Digger type might study
with profit Velasquez’s “Los
The original, hanging in the Prado Gal-
leries, Madrid, was painted in 1628. Yet
the central figure in a mixed bacchanalian
group of humans and satyrs is as Aus-
tralian in feature as is Bungaawoggera.
He is complete even to a wide-brimmed
floppy hat. As he accepts a glass of wine
from a satyr, he might pass for any
Australian cocky after a hot morning
at the pig sales, taking his first pot from
Moloney at the Cowville Arms.
* * * *
“Bo”: I’m not intolerant, but I hate
being submitted to high-pres§ure sales-
talk when I’m choosing something that
demands concentration and contempla-
tion —as, for instance, a hat. I know I
look rather fatuous in any hat. It has
long been a dream of mine to acquire a
snap-brim felt that will sit on my head
just like they do in the ads., instead of
appearing to have been rung on hoopla
fashion. Perhaps my bean is encrusted
with bumps and nodules onty the prun-
ing of which could render my top piece
fit for a hat to sit on. But to have a sales-
man tell me, as I gaze disgustedly at the
apparition in the mirror, that it suits me
beautifully renders it more trying. Worse
still, he knows I’ll take it, for apparently
I have “weak sales-resistance” written all
over my face. Something must have come
over me the other day when I went to
replace the greasy veteran my wife had
at last condemned as uninhabitable, and,
greatly daring, I knocked back the first
one offered and asked to be shown
another. The salesman gave me a look
almost of respect, but when he had put
the hat on me he stood back and shook
his head, then the flood of his disappro-
“Mrs. de Belvedere—suite No. 10.”
val burst forth at around 180 w.p.m. “It
doesn’t suit me?” I asked. “Definitely
not! ”he said firmly. “Then wrap it up!”
I roared, slapping down the 25 bob. “If
you say it looks crook on me it must be
the closest I’ll ever get to being satisfied.”
I’ve felt happy ever since, although the
wife thinks I look a drip in the new tile.
» * * «
“South Steyne”: A scholarly little
fellow in a corner of the smoking saloon
of the ferry was trying to concentrate on
Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy. All
around him were racing fans heatedly dis-
cussing Melbourne Cup certainties and
.performances of past champions of the
turf. One loud-voiced, beefy cove was
airing his knowledge of famous nags at
great length. The scholar leaned forward.
“Excuse me,” he said in a mild tone:
“I’m prepared to wager one pound to
nothing that you’ve never heard of A 1
Borak, Bucephalus ■or Xanthus.” The
beefy bloke stared at him suspiciously,
then grunted, “Never heard of ’em. What
races did they win?” “Try looking them
up in a turf guide,” said the scholar with
a chuckle as he returned to his book.
The “sport” was still racking his brains
when the ferry arrived at the wharf. Had
someone told him that, the three , horses
belonged respectively to Mohammed,
Alexander the Great and Achilles, the
scholar, who was still smiling to himself
as he walked off the gangway, would, I
feel sure, have ended up in the drink.
# * * *
“Zake”: The four German adminis-
trators in Berlin’s Russian zone recently
resigned as a protest against the deporta-
tion of German technicians to Russia.
One of them was the departmental chief
of industry, Leo Skrzypczynski. Yes, a
German. lam now waiting to hear of a
Pole named O’Shaughnessy or a Gilbert
Island buck who signs himself Llewellyn
McVoltaire. Leo, who was said to be a
pronounced success in his job—though
perhaps “pronounced” isn’t quite an apt
word —was, it is understood, not very
popular ; he insisted on being addressed
always by his surname.
* * * *
“Findy”: As part of its publicity
campaign the Security Loan Committee
launched into space 50 small balloons
each with a tag attached stating that any-
one returning it to the Loans Office in
Sydney would receive a couple of free
tickets to a fireworks display. When a
week had gone by only one tag had been
returned and meteorological authorities’
opinions as to the probable destination
of the other 49 covered all points from
Tierra del Fuego to Spitzbergen. But the
Loan Committee’s mailbag wasn’t empty.
Emile Mercier, Sydney “Sun” arist, had
seized on the idea for a joke-block in
which he depicted an abo in Central
Australia reading the tag. As a caption
to the drawing he quoted the wording
to the committee’s offer. Next morning
a steady stream of envelopes began to
flow into the Loans Office, each contain-
ing a copy of the Mercier cartoon. The
senders are probably still wondering why
no tickets were forthcoming.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I don’t doubt that the
senior service does do things nicely (B.
2/10/’46), but I hand the palm for diplo-
macy to the then G.O.C. in Darwin —
Major-General Murray. The occasion
was an inter-service boxing tournament
and the audience was large, restive and
very noisy. A Commonwealth Loan re-
presentative who tried to address the
crowd from the ring was effectively
howled, hooted and counted out. It
looked as though the same fate would
overtake Major-General Murray —there
was no let-up in the hubbub when he
climbed into the ring to say a few pre-
liminary words. As soon as the rather
bulky G.O.C. could get a word in edge-
ways, however, he declared his readiness
to “fight anyone present of my own rank
and weight.” It won the mob over com-
pletely.
* * * *
“Reo Gunner”; To the record of
B.S.Ms., quaint sayings of, let me add a
few. There was the W.O. who, when the
regiment arranged a sports meeting, an-
nounced on parade that a “galah” day
would be held. And the T.S.M. who was
wont to inform the parade that such and
such would be done “irregardless of cir-
cumstances.” To him is credited the
brightest effort. There was some doubt
about a proposed move ; he gave it out
on parade that while not certain, “osten-
tatiously” the move would take place as
scheduled. We never quite worked that
one out.
# * * ♦
“Camsa”: S.A. police are making a
name for themselves by sticking to the
trail and bringing criminals to book
months and years after the crime. Latest
exploit is getting a man who stole a
rifle eight years ago. He was rabbit-
shooting in 1938 and went to a house to
shelter from the rain. There was no one
home. He saw the rifle, took it. He
sold it two months ago for a quid; was
fined £lO.
# * * *
“Coongan”: Pin-ups? One small unit
with which I spent some time had around
30 members accommodated under about
eight tents. One chap, who was taking
a correspondence course in mathematics,
had sundry trig, formulae carefully
printed on the roof of his tent so that he
could spine-bash and memorise the equa-
tions at the same time. Another tent
with rather serious-minded occupants had
its internal canvas inscribed with selected
quotations from their reading ; another
permanently-homesick young fellow, who
anticipated a year’s service on that par-
ticular unit, marked 365 strokes on the
roof of his tent and crossed off one for
each day that passed. But the medical
orderly had the best pictorial array —
down from one side of the ridge-pole was
spread a generous array of scantily-clad
young women ; on the other side were
arranged about 50 colorful pictures of
appetising meals from the illustrated
recipes of women’s magazines. The m.o.
used to lie on his bed for hours on end
gazing at the ceiling of his tent, his ex-
pression graphically recording his con-
flicting interests.
* * * *
“Pab D.”: “C.R.O.’s” ungrammatical
corporal (B. 9/10/’46) recalls my first
C.O. in the army. His command of the
language was limited at any time, and in
moments of anger or excitement his
enthusiasm invariably wrecked his
vocabulary. His best effort, I think, was
after one Monday-morning parade when
he raged at the silent ranks: “The march-
ing was bloody awful this morning and
there’ll be; trouble if I don’t see a vast
indifference in it tomorrow.”
IN OTHER WORDS.
Bill Blowhard was a doughty politician,
One of those fluently discursive birds
Whose habit is to stress a proposition
By duplicating it in other words.
He'd leave no stone unturned, he’d make oration,
No avenue untouched, you’d hear him snort.
To iron out some baffling complication,
In other words he’d “call for a report.
You’d think he feared some platitude he’d stated
In weighty periods about this or that
Required to be colloquially translated
Before it reached the proletariat.
He’d give assurance that the hated rival
Scheduled to meet him in a hustings clash
Hadn’t the faintest prospect of survival, ..
In other words that Jim had “done his dash.
He'd tell you roundly how some rash dispwner
Of party ties would reap a reckoning rich
In retribution. “Jack has ‘pulled a boner
In other words,” he’d add, “and ‘queered his
pitch.’ ”
It hurts me to record so deft a master
Of English, high and low, should face a check,
Yet, one short month ago, Bill met disaster.
In other words he “got it in the neck.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


SYDNEY-LONDON
Easy to take—a skyway tour of days from
Sydney Bridge to Westminster !
Relax in your comfortable chair, stretch out your
legs and enjoy the 24-hour steward service, the
varied and excellent meals ; or take a turn along
the promenade and look down on the world that
rolls away far below the mighty wing-span of
your Flying-Boat; take in a glimpse of the
colourful East during over-night stops. And for
an even quicker trip, those who take the
Lancastrian Express can make it in less than
63 hours !
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
Your reservation is waiting for you
now ! No priority is necessary.
Book now for early departure!
n association with
BOM
OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World FcUHOUS Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
„ * . , w ' COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
The "Defence" Ministries.
“Ek D.”; Oh the face of it, onlookers
overseas must believe that Australia is
a fierce, warlike country since, in the new
Cabinet, it has sprouted nearly as many
War Ministers as Russia. The reason is,
however, not in any moody preoccupation
on the part of the Government wnn the
defence of its country. It is more con-
cerned with the problem of its own de-
fence in the Caucus.
The position is that one-fourth of the
Caucus are Ministers. On top of this,
the Government has been able to bestow
gratuities in the form of the Speakership,
Presidency of the Senate and Chairman-
ship of the Committee of the Reps, on
followers, and begin another distribution
of trips abroad for members who failed
of Ministerial election.
The difficulty seems to have been to
place Ministers in niches in which too
great a strain will not be put upon their
capacities.
Since the Prime Minister has a distaste
for Defence and Dr, Evatt appears to
“Stop pointing that thing. It might be loaded !”
feel the same way the Defence Ministry
goes to Mr. Dedman, who is the only
fighting soldier in the bunch, but he
brackets the job with Post-War Recon-
struction and the C.S.I.R.
Senator Armstrong has been appointed
Munitions Minister, the munitions in-
dustry beqjg virtually dead or at least
moribund owing to continual strikes
in the coal, metal and transport industries.
Mr. C. Chambers, from Adelaide, gets
the Army in place of Mr. Forde. Mr.
Chambers was an Army dentist in Central
Australia, the Northern Territory and —
for no long period—in island territory:
“Owing to breakdown of health, placed
on Reserve, March, 1943.”
The “Army” which the member for
Adelaide is to manage consists theoreti-
cally at present of 39,000 men, including
those who are in occupation in Japan,
and a number of clerks in uniform. To
bring the force into line with the Govern-
ment’s ambitions —which are to provide
almost a fighting division including super-
numeraries for the whole continent —the
Army authorities now have to go down
on their bended knees to prospective re-
cruits and that without much success.
Officers’ schools are drifting into the
doldrums. Mr. Chambers will have none
of the worries about compulsory training
which beset Ministers in most other
countries.
Mr. Drakeford remains Minister for
the Air and Civil Aviation. As he and
his colleagues have already killed the
R.A.A.F. and buried everything about its
organisation of considerable use, the
Minister will now be able to devote him-
self to his self-imposed task of killing the
private airlines which were the backbone
of defence communication during the war,
and without which battles might have
been lost.
Mr. W. J. Riordan, however, will have
the choicest plum. Mr. Riordan hails
from North Queensland. He is 38, in the
six-foot class, and inherited the electorate
of his uncle, another W. J. Riordan —who
was a large young man in the more-than-
six-foot class when he arrived in the
Queensland Parliament in 1918 after
making a classic campaign speech; “I
don’t know much about these politics.
All I can tell you is that if you vote for
Darby you’re home on the pig’s back.”
The Navy Ministry has hitherto been
brigaded with some other job.. Archie
Cameron, while Commerce Minister and
Deputy Prime Minister, held it early in
the war when the R.A.N. was in its most
active and expanding state. It occupied
two hours of his day and in normal times
it ran so smoothly that there was scarcely
call for a Minister at all. Since then the
R.A.N. has fallen in status. It includes
two 20-year-old battered eight-inch
cruisers, with glorious records in the past,
but now veterans beyond the main ambit
of modern fighting. In a new war they
would be obsolete within six months and,
of course, then irreplaceable. One of
them has had her fire-power reduced by
the removal of two of her eight eight-
inch guns,
Hobart is not much better, and, with
the exception of the three Tribal de-
stroyers, there is little left of active-ser-
vice use and everything there is has been
run off its legs.
No suggestion has been made that there
will be replacements to meet the con-
ditions of an age in which new battleships
are being constructed to meet all the
conditions of rocket and jet-propelled
naval air war.
What there is, however, of the Navy
can take comfort in the news that Mr.
Riordan is certain to know a battleship
from a canoe. There are lots of canoes in
the Gulf of Carpentaria.
"Onlv Sixty Divisions."
“Ek Dum”: The debate in the House
of Commons on European military
strength and subsequent admissions
showed the peculiarly uneven conditions
which are accepted in a world which
seems content to allow its mind and
opinion to be distorted by a press and
radio with a strong internal tolerance of
Communism.
The Soviet Union for months has been
protesting bitterly against the mainten-
ance of the troops of its allies in areas
which are not enemy countries. Those
troops have been very few in number
by Russian standards, and their numbers
and actual presence have not been real
issues. The protests have been inspired
solely by the fact that if the troops were
removed the areas concerned would be
an easy prey to Communist domination,
even though the Communists in them
are in a marked minority.
The protests mainly affected Greece
and the Middle East, where Russia is
bent upon obtaining control of the eastern
bottleneck of Mediterranean communica-
tions —the narrow pathway which con-
tains the Suez Canal, the half-way house
of the East African and East Asiatic
routes, and the road on which fall the
shadows of all the commercial air services


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO THEO DUFF whose present whereabouts are
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the petition of
GEORGE WILLIAM MACDONALD of 153 Main
Road Moonah in Tasmania Machinist praying for a
dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.— (l.s.)
F. N. PRINGLE, Acting Principal Registrar.
N. 8.: Will any friend of the abovenamed THEO
DUFF who mav see this advertisement bring it
under his notice?—JOHNSON, MITCHELL &
LAUGHTON, 38 Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
WHEN THINGS SEEM TOO
: ’ : v ' *'* ‘^
■: : . , ■■•■;■<:. \ v ';
;. S'" ' , \W '
|.* ?. " ,
•i*M-x . Sx : : >;’:<i-
. ,;m
.v •-;'
W-SS-W '• *<
FOR YOU
fJSW
!>?>;;;<A
* :>&:¥
m
m
I
«i
% '
AW.V/./XvX
fea-gpis
IT'S
FOR A
CAPSTAN
"THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE"
*6BD 8 46
IN ENGLAND
TO-DAY
3 m
If you could see the queues that daily
line up to buy shoes in this country
we know you wouldn’t complain because
we can send so few overseas. We have been making
ladies’ and children’s shoes for over 120 years,
we turn out over a million pairs a year and yet
there is still a scarcity. But conditions will
improve and we hope our shipments abroad
will grow considerably larger.
SHOES
will grow considerabl
C^LoaMs
MADE BY C. & J. CLARK LTD., STREET, SOMERSET
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent Street ,
London , W.l
from Europe to Southern Asia and Aus-
tralasia.
The presence of a few brigades of
British troops to see fair play in Greece,
they being there by consent of the con-
stitutionally-established Government, was
represented as direct aggression and a
threat to world peace.
The British have in Germany today
not much more than a corps of troops,
those largely consisting of penmen. The
presence of them and of the Americans
is a constant subject of hostile discussion
in Communist circles, as the handful
of American troops clearing up war
prisoners in China was in the Far East.
Mr. Churchill was not, of course, the
first to raise the matter of Soviet strength
in Europe. The United States State De-
partment had shown concern some
months ago at the presence of 650,000
Russians in Hungary alone, and at the
continued mobilisation of Tito’s army.
And Mr. Attlee had given an opening by
speaking of the “total mobilised forces
which may constitute a danger to peace.”
The full text of Mr. Churchill’s speech
shows how explicit he was and how in-
explicit the reply that could be made.
He said:
To make it easier for the Government to
give a monosyllabic answer, I will put my
question in a constructive form: “Is it or
is it not true that there are today more
than 200 Soviet divisions on a war footing
in the occupied countries in Europe from
the Balkans to Vienna and Vienna to the
Black Sea?”
He made it clear that he was not re-
ferring to “the armies of the satellite
Powers in Poland which were numerous
and reluctant or to those in Bulgaria
and Yugoslavia where the forces were
less numerous but more ardent.” Neither
did he refer to the “great concentration
at Odessa.”
Mr. McNeil replied;
I must, of course, reply in measured
terms. I am unable to say whether his
[Mr. Churchill’s] information about the
number of divisions from the Baltic to the
Black Sea is correct or what proportion
of these divisions is on a war footing.
But it is, of course, known that there are
very considerable Russian forces in these
countries. I cannot share the pessimism
of the hon. member. The Governments of
Britain, the United States and the Soviet
Union have recently made it plain that they
all want peace.
Voices interrupted: “So did Hitler.”
Mr. Churchill repeated his question,
but no further answer was forthcoming.
Mr. McNeil added—and the British Gov-
ernment has since officially protested—
that politics in Rumania were dominated
by a “reign of terror exercised by the
Government-controlled militia” —the real
Government, of course, being in Moscow ;
also that in Bulgaria, now under the
Secretary-General of the Comintern
(Dmitrov), from whom for long the Aus-
tralian Communist party took its orders,
the Government had admitted that as
many as 40,000 people had been in poli-
tical imprisonment at one and the same
time. Even socialists, he said, were being
sentenced for attacks which “would be
like billing and cooing beside attacks on
the British Government from the Govern-
ment benches.”
Brigadier Maclean, formerly Mr.
Churchill’s emissary in Yugoslavia, and
who had been in the Far East, added a
pendant to the debate by remarking that
he had found conditions in Korea
“singularly disquieting even by present
standards,” and that the country was
again “becoming a powder-magazine
which the slightest spark would set off.”
The “Americans were having a lot of
trouble in South Korea with the Com-
munists.”
Marshal Stalin’s Technique
Marshal Stalin replied to Mr. Churchill
in the usual Communist manner —not
through medium of an official statement,
but in an “interview” (conducted at a
safe distance) with an American news-
paper-agency man. His method was one
outlined already by Mr. Churchill: “An
armed Communist advances upon you.
You react to him. Thus you become a
reactionary.”
He said that the only threats to peace
at the present were “the incendiaries of
a new war—foremost Mr. Churchill and
those thinking like him in Britain and
America.-” And he called for the “un-
masking” and “bridling” of these people.
This is Communist technique to a t.
The Communist policy and preaching is
that there is no need for violence in the
world. All the world needs to do to
assure absolute quietude is to allow the
Communist policy to rule and the Com-
munists to take over control. Anybody
who resists this policy and opposes the
Communists and their fountainhead,
Moscow, becomes a “reactionary,” an
incendiary of the new war,” and is due
for extermination as a Fascist and dis-
turber of tranquillity.
M. Stalin, however, did not categori-
cally and satisfactorily answer Mr. Chur-
chill s challenge as to military strength.
He said that “in the west, that is, in
Germany, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria,
Rumania and Poland, there are 60 divi-
sions, rifle and armored. The majority
of these divisions are not at full strength.
There are no Soviet troops in Yugoslavia,
In two months Soviet troops in occupier’
countries would be reduced to 40 divi-
sions.”
The statement is an incomplete
answer, since there is no reference to
divisions in the Baltic States. It takes
no account of the fact that Rumanian,
Bulgarian and many Polish divisions are
officered by Red Army officers and are,
to all intents and purposes, part of the
Red Army. But put the best face on it,
however, and the admissions are startling
enough.
If the Russian Red Army is as modern
as it says it is, there must be added to
the 60 divisions ( a ) artillery forces* (b)
lines-of-communication services which in
modern war are capable of fighting just
as much as front-line infantry, and (c)
an air force of considerable proportions.
Thus Russian forces in what is diplo-
matically known as Western Europe,
where enemies are disarmed, must be
somewhere in the region of 3,000,000
men, including ancillaries and transport
and air cover.
The British and American forces which
finished the war in Europe in Germany
consisted of 56 American and 21 British,
French and Polish divisions. Therefore
Stalin is keeping in Western Europe four
more divisions than the Americans used
on the Western Front in 1945, and three
times the British-Canadian forces at the
height of the fighting on the Rhine.
British Strength
British forces for all theatres —that is,
for all the continents and seas —are in pro-
cess of reduction to the following
strength by December: Royal Navy,
175,000 ; Army, 650,000 ; R.A.F., 275,000.
The Army will not represent much more
than 14 divisions.
Yet anybody who calls attention to
Russia’s armed and menacing might be-
comes “an incendiary of the new war”!
Mr. Churchill says: “Of course. Mar-
shal Stalin’s figures do not include heavy
concentrations in Leningrad and Odessa.”
In the latter centre, Marshal Zhukov is
in command. And they do not include
millions of troops in Russia and the Far
East who would become readily available
in case of war or the million or so who
are being taken into training every year.
Flare-up in China.
“Ek Dum”: Any chance of peace in
China seems’ to have evaporated with the
latest moves of Chiang, who has com-
pletely lost patience with the Communist
forces and determined to make capital
moves against them.
One of his drives is already in pro-
gress in the Yellow Sea area, where the
Communists have established themselves
as near as possible to Dairen, where they
can expect succor and sanctuary from
Russians in occupation.
Chefoo, which is in Communist hands,
has been attacked fiercely by landing
parties supported by Chinese naval ships.
At the week-end the Communists were
endeavoring to land reinforcements from
a fleet of junks. The Nationalist troops
took Antung on the left bank of the
Yalu River on October 25.
Meanwhile plans are being made for
a full-scale assault on Harbin, in central
Manchuria, which was left in the hands
of the Reds by the Russians and which
is now the only city remaining in Com-
munist hands.
The fact that the best of the new armies
—the First and the Sixth —are armed
with U.S. weapons and led by officers
trained by the Americans in India and
China shows that Chiang is taking no
chances.
The capture of Harbin, however, will
not settle the matter. With so many bolt-
holes provided in Soviet Union territory,
and with Russian arms always at the
disposal of the insurgent forces, they will
be hard to eradicate.
Britain recently has made loans of
small naval ships to China. About 600
Chinese naval officers sail for Britain
shortly in H.M.A.S. Australia for training
preparatory to taking over H.M.S.
Aurora, an Arethusa-class cruiser.


Every day In some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
Our Navy and Merchant fleets depend on Exide
Batteries. Exides are serving the public daily in
over a hundred ways. In your choice of a
battery for your car, be guided by those
who have learned to depend on Exide.
*hen
IT
e
TO
.H
iC-
-8s?
$S£
IS.
Hi
Hi
Hi
H*{i
PERSONAL ITEMS
When an Australian barrister is
appointed to the High Court he is usually
considered to have reached the summit
of possible ambition in this country.
H. V. Evatt, new deputy-leader of
Federal Labor and thereby Deputy-Prime
Minister, was only 36 when he was ele-
vated to the High Court Bench in 1930.
That may account for why he had tasted
enough of its glory by 1940 and stepped
down to return to politics as member for
Barton. Into the years since 1941, as
Attorney-General (slightly) and Minister
for External Affairs (without limit), he
has crammed enough work, travel, speech-
making, arguing and planning to last
half-a-dozen High Court Judges a life-
time, His election as deputy-leader of
his party was well-earned ; no man in the
party has a better press and none a higher
vote-winning value.
Early last year Eric George Bailey, a
constable in the N.S.W. Police Force,
was shot while attempting to arrest a
gunman at Blayney (N.S.W.). Despite
fatal wounds he grappled with his assail-
ant and held him until help arrived. His
action has now been recognised by the
award of the George Cross, which is
given for “acts of the greatest heroism or
of the most conspicuous courage in cir-
cumstances of extreme danger.” Bailey,
who was 39 and had been in the Force
for 18 years, had already been post-
humously promoted sergeant and awarded
the George Lewis Trophy, which goes to
the member of the N.S.W. Police Force
responsible for the most courageous act
of the year.
Ray Parer, seriously injured in a petrol
explosion near Townsville, is one of the
band of pioneer fliers who immediately
after World War I took the air in all
sorts of crazy kites and set out to show
Australia that air travel had come to stay.
With Mclntosh he flew from England to
Australia in 1920 in an old DH9 biplane
that amazed everyone who saw it, not so
much by its ability to stay in the air as
by its ability to stay together. From 1926
until war put an end to civil aviation
in the Islands he was a prime mover in
the aerial development of New Guinea,
and when the Japs came he was one of
the pilots who performed deeds of valor
in evacuating civilians from the threatened
areas.
Three of Federal Cabinet’s seven new-
comers will help to bring down the
average age of the team. At 38 Senator
J. Armstrong, ex-hotel manager, now in
his ninth year in the Senate, becomes
Minister for Munitions —if any. William
James Riordan, also 38, who takes over
the Navy, is a lawyer who won the Labor
succession to the Kennedy seat on the
death of his uncle in 1936 ; he was chair-
man of committees in the last Parlia-
ment. At the same age as the first two
Nelson Lemmon, a Westralian farmer
with a degree in agricultural science, em-
barks on his second term as member for
Forrest, and gets the portfolio of Works
and Housing with all the kicks that go
with it. He’s the son of a Victorian
M.L.A. Another farmer is Senator B.
Courtice, who has been connected with
the sugar industry—first as a refinery
chemist and then as a canegrower—all
his life. Like Armstrong, he has been
in the Senate since 1937, but was not
chosen on the score of youth—the Cus-
toms job comes to him at 60. H. C.
Barnard, who will be responsible for
Repat.—formerly the headache of his fel-
low-Tasmanian Frost —has represented
Bass at Canberra since 1934. Two years
ago he went to Philadelphia with. the
Australian delegation to 1.L.0. He’s 56.
Cyril Chambers, 49, only South Aus-
tralian in the team, is a dentist who won
the Adelaide seat in 1943. He has been
mayor of Henley and Grange (S.A.) and
president of- the S.A. branch of the
A.L.P, During the war he was, for a
while, with a dental unit in Northern
Australia and Port Moresby. He suc-
ceeds F. M. Forde as Army Minister.
Horace Grose, the S.A. delegate of the
Australian and Indian Government-spon-
sored trade mission to India, was presi-
dent of Adelaide Chamber of Commerce,
1943-44. Formerly vice-president and
chairman of its corn-trade section, and
of the Federal Council of Flour Millers
of Australia, he has had also considerable
interests in the flour industry of W.A.,
was chairman of several milling com-
panies in S.A., and a member of the
State Advisory Committee of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board.
When Heth took sketch-book and
pencil and set out in search of Charles
Chauvel he ran him to earth at Cinesound
FILM-MAKER.
Studios suffering from severe casting-
pains—an occupational complaint which
affects film-producers after they have
chosen their story, prepared their script
and finished all the other preliminary
work necessary before a film unit is sent
into action, “Sons of Matthew” is the
film, and various aspiring sons, daughters,
cousins, friends and acquaintances are
being put through their paces at a talent
school in an effort to get the best pos-
sible cast for the picture. Chauvel has
the knack of recognising star material in
the raw. His first picture, “In the Wake
of the Bounty,” gave Errol Flynn his
start in films; “Heritage” did the same
for Mary Maguire, and in “Forty Thou-
sand Horsemen” he discovered “Chips”
Rafferty. The film at present in hand is
based on “Green Mountains” and “Cul-
lenbenbong,” two books by Bernard
O’Reilly, who discovered and rescued the
survivors of the Stinson airliner in 1937.
Most of the outdoor scenes of the picture
will be filmed in the O’Reilly country—
on the Lamington Plateau in Southern
Queensland.
Fifty years ago Jeanne Young, of Adel-
aide, became associated with Catherine
Helen Spence, protagonist of proportional
representation, and she has ever since
made that cause her main interest. The
flight of years and failing Sight have now
forced her to retire from the presidency
of the P.R. Society—she had chaired it
since 1930. Mrs. Young is a woman who
has led a very active life in public
affairs. During the First World War she
was on the Central Committee of the
Red Cross ; in 1922 she became adminis-
trator of the S.A. Soldiers’ Fund and she
is the only woman to have-held office
on the Board of Governors of the S.A.
Public Library, Museum and Art Gal-
lery. She has Written a life of her mentor,
Catherine Helen Spence, and also added
the final chapters to the latter’s auto-
biography.
Back in 1889 Philip Henry Morton was
elected to the 14th N.S.W. Parliament as
member for Shoalhaven, the first of three
brothers who were to tot up a long record
of service in the House. From that time
until Mark Fairies Morton died in 1938,
during the life of the 32nd Parliament,
there were only three elections that did
not see a Morton returned. P.H. held
the Shoalhaven seat until 1898 ; Mark
took it over in 1901 and represented the
district, variously styled Shoalhaven,
Allowrie and Wollondilly, for most of
the years down to 1938, The third
brother, H.D., joined him in 1910 as
member for Hastings and Macleay; he
was 10 years in the Assembly and for a
short time in 1913 occupied the Speaker’s
chair. A nephew of the Morton brothers,
another Philip Henry, hopes to carry on
the family tradition. “Pat” is Mayor of
Mosman and has nominated for selection
as Liberal candidate for the Mosman seat
in next vear’s State elections At 36 he
m nexi years Mate elections. At ?o ne
is the youngest Mayor the municipality
has had, and he was elected to office
after only 12 months on the council.
tjt u . . j
He has brought energy a nd enthusiasm
to the job and has helped to awaken
residents of his district to a greater aware-
ness of the imnnrtance of local noli tics
ness oi me importance or local ponti .
Charles Duguid, of Adelaide, is among
those who have been protesting against
rocket tests being carried out in Ocn-
tralian abo. reserves —he wrote to the
London “Times” on the subject. Irres-
o ,1 • . .
pective of the rights and wrongs of t e
case, few men are better qualified to
speak on behalf of dusky Australians,
A Scottish-born surgeon who served with
, u j- . * T r-i j . , A/r
the first A.I.F. and has been Moderator
of the Presbyterian Church in S.A.,
Duguid is the founder of the Ernabella
v,
Mission, which operates m the Musgraye
Ranges m the Far North of S.A. He is
president of the Aborigines Protection
League, life member of the Association
c „ , ~ c XT *• r>
for the Protection of Native Races,
member of the Anti-Slavery and Abo-
rigines Protection Society, London, and
of the Government-appointed Aborigines
Protection Board of S.A.
After half a century as poet and jour-
nalist, Charles A. Marris has retired from
the Wellington (MX.) “Post.” He was
editor of die N.Z. “Times” when that
paper went out some 20 years back ; then
he joined the “Post,” and for many years
as “Percy Plage” ran a column of witty
prose and verse. Marris’s best work was
as editor of Art in N.Z. and of
N.Z. Best Poems. His own story of
adventures in ink. held up for many
years while he has been helping other
writers, may now be completed. Marris
was born in Melbourne, and in the long
ago was sports master at Ballarat College
and Ipswich Grammar.
The Verco Medal, awarded by the
Royal Society of S.A. from time to time
for outstanding contributions to science,
goes this year to a former president of
the society, Herbert Matthew Hale,
Director °f the S.A. Museum. Hale
joined the Museum staff as a cadet m
1914, became Director in 1931, and
studied overseas museum methods while
abroad on a Carnegie grant in 1939. He’s
a foundation member and former presi-
dent of the Anthropological and
Aquarium Societies in S.A., patron and
life-member of the S.A. Fish Protection
and Anglers’ Association, and a Fellow
of the Linnean Society of N.S.W. At
51 his publications include Crustaceans
of S.A . and 70 papers dealing with
whales crustaceans and aquatic hemip-
tera and, by way of variety from marine
i e, a os. .
A.C.2 on “an intrepid type”;
cS
year ago, was better known as Group-captain
Walker, D. 5.0., and who was even better
known during the war as “Blackjack” Walker.
Although that sobriquet was bestowed upon
BEAUFIGHTER.
him well before the Japs started trouble it
•became particularly appropriate in succeeding
years—a fine pilot with no love for the Nips,
he hit them as energetically and as lethally
as that handy little weapon ever hit anyone.
Walker went to Darwin early in the war with
Wirraways —the “Terrors of the Timor” —and
when he heard that Beaufighters were to be
added to the R.A.A.F. (as nightfighters, it was
then mooted) he plagued headquarters to post
him to them, supporting his claims with asser-
tions that he and his squadron were eating
carrots by the bagful. He got the Beaufighters,
formed No. 30 Squadron, took it to New
Guinea in September, ’42, and went to work
in such businesslike fashion that the squadron
earned a D.S.O. and six D.F.Cs. in its first
six months’ operations. The Beaus did most
of their work at somewhere around 50ft., often
coming home with bits of treetops, earth, scraps
of metal and other terrestrial impedimenta on
their wings; their low, fast and comparatively
silent approach earned them the nickname of
“whispering death.” Their four cannons and
six m.-gs. played havoc with Jap shipping,
airstrips, aircraft and troops; in the Bismarck
Sea show 12 of them preceded the low-level
bombers and raked the Jap’s anti-aircraft guns
and fired two of his ships, after which they
cleaned up the barges and lifeboats —an un-
pleasant but necessary job. Walker left
N.G. and the Beaufighters late in ’43 to go
to Mosquitoes; later he went to Dar Win again
to command No. 1 Fighter Wing, consisting
of three squadrons of Spits, and was there when
the war ended. He left the R.A.A.F. early this
year with rather mixed feelings after 11 years’-
service and took on the job of test pilot with
De Havilland. He has just returned from
England, where he spent three months picking
up pointers on D.H.’s Dove and on jets.
Opening of the new plastic-surgery
block of Queen Victoria Hospital at East
Grinstead, Surrey, by Queen Elizabeth
recently, projected into the limelight
Archie H. Mclndoe, a talented M.L.
plastic surgeon. Her Majesty paid tribute
to Mclndoe, who is in charge of the unit.
He is a son of Mrs. J. Mclndoe, Dune-
din, one of N.Z.’s leading landscape
artists. She paints under her maiden
name “Mabel Hill.” The miracles of
surgery by Mclndoe are embalmed in
the pages of The Last Enemy, by Flight-
Lieut. Richard Hilary, one of his patients.
Mclndoe is a cousin of Harold Gillies, a
' plastic surgeon famous in two wars.
Dead in Melbourne at 65, Harold
E. Cohen served his country well in
war and peace. A lawyer and son of a
lawyer, he became a volunteer soldier in
1901. In World War I he was given
command of Sixth Artillery Brigade,
which he led with distinction in Egypt
and France, collecting two wounds, a
brace of ms.i.d., a C.M.G. and a D.S.O.
After the Armistice he returned to law
and business, including seats on Carlton
and other boards. In 1929 he became a
Victorian M.L.C., and six years later
won the Caulfield seat in the Assembly.
Becoming Solicitor-General and Minister
for Education, he held the seat till 1943,
by which time he was again caught up
in the web of war. He went to the Middle
East as Honorary Commissioner for the
Red Cross, and in 1942 came back to
Australia to become director of Amenities
and later Deputy Adjutant-General
A.M-F. For these war-time jobs he took
not a penny in salary. Outside business,
the Army and the Law, Cohen had many
public and other interests. A keen racing
man, his Northwind won the 1936 Caul-
field Cup. When he found the time
he wrote well and had several plays
to his credit as well as a considerable
output of verse. The Bulletin’s John
Dailey was an officer in Cohen’s brigade
in France, and the two had a warm regard
for each other. When Dailey died Cohen
wrote in The Bulletin a very feeling
memoir of their association.
Into the' silence;
In New York, at 78, Sewell Ford, author
of the “Torchy” and “Shorty McCabe” yarns.
At Gunnedah (N.S.W.), Walter William Clift,
grazier and breeder of racehorses. A fine judge
of livestock, he judged at many shows through-
out the State.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 85, John Rankine
Brown, one of the four foundation professors
of Victoria University College, Wellington,
opened in 1899. Educated at St. Andrew s
and Oxford, in recognition of editing several
editions of Latin authors he was . awarded an
honorary doctorate by the former. He filled
the job of prof, of classics at Wellington
Victoria College till his retirement last year.
In Brisbane, at 75, George Arthur Carter,
Under-Secretary of the State Department for
Justice for 20 years before his retirement in
1937. A fine all-round athlete in his younger
days, he was for many years one of Queens-
land’s leading cricket umpires.
In Adelaide, Albert Selmar Conrad, retired
architect and one-time representative of the
S.A. Institute of Architects at an international
conference in London. He was a Fellow of
the Royal Institute of British Architects, and
member of the S.A. Town-planning Asso-
ciation.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The civic reception given by the Lord
Mayor, Cr. Ray Connelly, to the Gover-
nor, Sir Winston Dugan, and Lady
Dugan, on their return to Melbourne
was a happily informal affair, with the
speeches short and amusing—especially
the stories told by his Ex. Lady Dugan’s
sage green wool jacket suit was worn
with blue fox furs and a coq-feather-
trimmed green felt hat. Accompanying
Lady Dugan were Miss Penelope Nettle-
fold, whose suit of parma-violet wool
was highlighted by a small halo hat
trimmed with white flowers, and Mrs.
J. Haselden, whose double-breasted black
coat featured four large buttons. Premier
Cain’s wife chose a leaf-green suit and
brown fur coat, her off-the-face hat of
brown felt being garnished with brown
velvet ribbons. Madge Elliott and Cyril
Ritchard were there. Cr. L. Coleman,
M.L.A., ■ came with his wife, whose
pastel-pink floral hat was worn with a
smartly-cut dark blue wool coat. Mrs,
Wallace Mitchell was smart in black
suit and tailored white blouse with a
small black hat.
Flemington’s lush lawns and beds of
brilliantly-colored flowers provided a per-
fect background for the gay frocks of
racegoers on Derby Day. Floral prints
and cool pastel linens dominated the riot
of color, with some all-white ensembles
outstanding. Contrasting her all-white
outfit, one smart woman carried a tiny
Victorian parasol of pale-green silk with
a narrow ruffled edge. Skirts are shorter
and hats are larger. Young girls are still
attracted to the off-the-face model, but
older women prefer hats with brims.
The State Governor, Sir Winston Dugan,
and Lady Dugan, and the Governor of
Tasmania, Admiral Sir Hugh Binney, and
Lady Binney, accompanied by their re-
spective suites, arrived at the course be-
fore luncheon. Lady Dugan’s leaf-green
wool suit featured blue fox lapels and
a matching hat trimmed with soft-green
ostrich-feather plumes at one siide. Lady
Binney’s aqua-blue frock patterned in
white was worn with a coat of aqua-
blue ; her brown lacquered straw hat was
trimmed with brown ostrich feathers.
Other guests in the vice-regal party in-
cluded Mrs. J. O. Haselden, who favored
grey with touches of white and a small
white hat; Eileen Phipps, wearing a cool
navy-blue-and-white-patterned silk frock
and navy-blue hat, Penelope Nettlefold in
black silk braided coat and black velvet
beret and Virginia Heath, who wore a
primrose silk frock and a small natural
straw hat banded in black.
Anne Turnbull, daughter of V.R.C.
chairman Richard Turnbull and Mrs.
Turnbull, chose a black coat and cart-
wheel white straw hat finished with a
chenille dotted black veil. Sitting with
her in the committee-box was Hazel
Leonard, whose similar hat was banded
in brown with brown veiling finish.
Daughter of S.A.’s Governor, Rosemary
Nome, wore a pale-blue coat with a
matching straw halo hat. Her cousin,
Eleanor Kerans, covered a printed crepe
frock with a scarlet coat, her scarlet
crownless hat being wreathed with field-
flowers. Mrs. Russell Coldham’s large
white straw hat had multi-colored flowers
set round the edge of the brim. Mrs.
A. G. Silk was in beige., Daughter Joan’s
pillar-box-red wool suit had the lapels
edged with grey Persian lamb, Sydney
visitor, Mrs. Norman Hill, wore one of
the latest blue-and-white-striped ribbon
toppers banded in cherry-red with her
navy-blue crepe jacket suit. -With Mrs.
Everard Baillieu, whose jacket suit was
of pale-green sheer wool, was Mrs. Blake
Pelly, of Sydney, who allied a beige crepe
frock with a natural straw hat. Mrs.
John McGrath, of Albury, contrasted her
all-white outfit with an apple-green straw
boater trimmed with white flowers and
veiled in white.
That curtain-raiser to the Cup festivi-
ties, the Victoria League Ball, was a
brilliant affair. The foyer of St. Kilda
Town Hall was a blaze of lilies, tulips,
lilac, roses, pink rhododendrons and
wistaria as, to the roll of drums, Sir
Winston and Lady Dugan and Sir Hugh
and Lady Binney entered and were wel-
comed by Lady Murdoch, president of
the Ball Committee, and Mrs. Guy Bake-
well, senior vice-president of the Victoria
League. Lady Dugan wore a striking
frock of flame-toned crepe, the fitting
skirt finished at the back with a waterfall
drape, with sleeves and waist sewn with
flame-colored sequins. The bouquet of
roses presented by Lady Murdoch was
an excellent foil. On the other hand,
the lily-of-the-valley posy, presented by
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, matched the pale
sea-green brocaded frock and matching
jacquette worn by Lady Binney.
Many cocktail and dinner parties were
given before the ball. Kathleen Lascelles
was one of the many hostesses ; she came
to the ball wearing a turquoise-blue and
silver lame frock. French chiffon m aqua-
blue tonings fashioned the frock worn by
Lady Murdoch, whilst Mrs. Guy Bake-
well’s ivory satin frock was patterned in
pastel tonings. Felicity Harrison, hon.
sec. of the ball, was frocked in black net
with a panel of black sequins outlined in
blue running down the centre-front, with
a similar treatment finishing the shoulder-
line. Mrs. A. A. Lord’s ice-blue draped
frock was set off by the bracelet and ear-
ring of French marcasite, a present from
Lady Dugan. Mrs. Edgar Rouse, who
was in charge of the table bookings, was
in ice-blue crepe, the skirt draped and the
yoke and shoulders sewn with colored
stones. Mrs. Edric.Henty was in oyster-
grey satin, the skirt and bodice finished
with bands of floral satin. An arresting
frock of black net was worn by Mrs. M.
L. Baillieu ; the front, from the low neck-
line to the hem, was decorated with multi-
colored butterflies. The wife of Air Vice-
Marshal Jones was in a bouffant frock
of white lace.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was the
venue for the wedding of attractive
Barbara Baillieu, elder daughter of Mrs.
H. T. Coldham, of Echuca, and the late
Mr. H. L. Baillieu, to Desmond Deasey,
second son of Mrs. Deasey, of Toorak,
and the late Rev. D. M. Deasey. The
bride’s lovely frock of off-white ninon
was fashioned on simple, flowing lines
with the high neckline of the bodice
ruffled across the shoulders and finished
with long sleeves. From a bow at the
back of the flowing skirt flowed a long
train. Two rows of pearls across her
hair held in place her short tulle veil,
Anne Baillieu, in pale mauve taffeta,
attended her sister. Tim Moran was best
man. Reception was held at the Toorak
home of Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Baillieu;
guests were received in a large marquee
on the lawn beside the swimming-pool.
Mrs. Coldham received the guests in a
beige georgette ensemble embellished
with a corsage of mauve orchids. Mrs.
Guy Bake Well, sister of the ’groom, was
in raspberry-red satin romaine, Mrs.
M. L. Baillieu chose a two-piece maize
crepe suit. With H. B. Gullett was his
wife, cherry-red her coat and small
matching_ hat. Felicity Harrison, one of
the ticket secretaries for the Victoria
League Ball, chose a gay tartan hat to
contrast her navy-blue frock and coat.
The bride left for the honeymoon in a
turquoise-blue ensemble trimmed with
silver buttons, with a floral hat in pastel-
pink tonings.
One of Melbourne’s most popular
hostesses is Mrs. Martin Wang, pictured
here by Antoine Kershaw, Wife of the
Chinese Consul, she is seen at all impor-
tant functions beautifully gowned in
national costume. Mrs. Wang was edu-
cated in an American school in China ;
she takes a keen interest in international
affairs and is a central figure in all affairs
arranged to help the children of China.
For relaxation she loves racegoing. Mr.
and Mrs. Wang’s 11-years-old son Wai
is a student at Scotch College.
On Derby Night a big party was given
by the South Yarra Club at Ripponlea,
the lovely home of Mr, and Mrs. Tim
Jones. Receiving the guests were Colin
Norman, president of the club, and Mrs.
Norman, Tom Ramsay, vice-president,
and Mrs. Ramsay. During the war years
members of the South Yarra Club raised
more than £17,000 for patriotic funds,
and are now seeking to raise money to
establish funds for scholarships which
will be available for the children of dis-
abled servicemen. Mrs. Fred Owen, wife
of a committeeman, wore an ice-blue
brocade coat and a corsage of deep-red
roses. Mrs. Tim Jones’s white km'6 frock
was patterned in pink and white flowem ;
her daugter Betty was decorative in an
old-world frock of larkspur-blue taffetta.
Mrs, Lionel Newton’s ice-blue siiver-em-
broidered satin gown was covered with a
white-fox cape. Mrs. Edgar Noble high-
lighted black crepes with gardenias. En-
lish cricketers Compton, Yardley and
Edrich received a great welcome.
From Sydney
The State’s new Governor, General
John Northcott, is untiring in doing the
rounds of all the organisations. He is
by now getting to know the Sydney that
lives and goes about its public-spirited or
kindly ways, as apart from the scenic and
social Sydney, the commercial and profes-
sional Sydney. Last Monday he went out
to Darlington to the institution for the
deaf and dumb and the blind children,
and addressed this 85th annual general
meeting. The president, Ebenezer Minnis,
and directors of the institution welcomed
the Governor.
This photograph of attractive Margaret
Fyvie-Watt has interest for Tasmania as
well as Sydney. Margaret, who is a
science student at Sydney University,
started her science course at Hobart’s
University, switching over early this year.
Margaret’s parents are the L. Fyvie-Watts,
of Killara.
Melbourne had the Cup, but Sydney
had its Health Week. The Town Hall,
where the big Health Exhibition was
staged, enticed young and old, and the
heroic bronzed figure bearing the caption
“Fitness” in hero-size letters set the pace.
The urge to be fit swept away all other
thought, and the visitor struggled around
the exhibits with hundreds of others
eager to learn about the correct way to
keep food from deteriorating, to view a
thoroughly hygienic kitchen, to shudder
delicately away from cracked cup and
utensil. But the uneasy thought con-
tinued to ruffle the mind that a Town
Hall set close with exhibits and thronged
with seekers after the truth might not
exactly be the healthiest place to seek
health.
The displays were strikingly arranged,
and the T.B. X-ray was obviously popular
with the men and youths from 15 up-
wards. They positively queued-up from
the morning hours at the anti-T.B. sec-
tion, It was a grand piece of publicity
for the movement. There was still
another queue: it stretched before the
health-luncheon counter. Here there
were piles of cut sandwiches simply
loaded with vitamins waiting for the
peckish. The blood-transfusion section
drew the thoughtful. There was a corner
in apples where the luscious fruit made
handsome showing. One lanky youth
grinned at his companion as he said
lazily “Well, U.N.O. must be eating its
apple every day—so far the Doctor has
been kept away.” The kindergarten dis-
play out in the vestibule taught its lesson
with charm. One harassed mother was
fingering the kiddies’ books: “I’m look-
ing for one that tells more about God!
You know the questions children ask.”
General Northcott, Governor of New
South Wales, declared the exhibition open.
Evidently authority thinks there is
some link between a golden shower of
fireworks and gold showering into the
Second Security Loan. So Saturday’s
calm and starry night was a back-
cloth for gold-, green- and geranium-
cascading puffs, with ribbons of light.
Critics were disappointed in the display,
but simple dwellers around the Harbor
front applauded, thrilled to see some of
the drifting gold caught amid the leaves
of camphor-laurel or willow-tree. Farm
Cove was, of course, the fascinating spot.
Here aquatic carnival was highlighted
with brilliant fireworks, and here on 'illu-
minated barges ballets were danced to
the joy of those in vantage spots about
the Cove and Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair.
Congratulations (and this writer adds
hers) are pouring into Rosina Raisbeck
and teacher Nevile Smith, on her winning
the grand-opera aria contest in the
Eisteddfod. This carries with it a cheque
for £250 from the “Sun.” Rosina has
a soprano voice of great range and rich-
ness of tone. She is already widely-known
as one of our most gifted singers. Last
year she won the A.B.C. National Vocal
contesf, Her work is noted for interpre-
tation and delicate modulation of tone.
She is slim, good-looking, has a warm
smile and charm of manner. In private
life she is Mrs. James Laurie, and she
wore her wedding dress for the big sing-
off on Saturday. Tenor Raymond Nils-
son (a close runner-up) was second-prize-
winner. Both are singing in “Pique-
Dame,” the next Con. opera.
Fun for the sevenses to the under
twelves! Ella McFadyen’s Pegmen Tales
is being published for Christmas by Angus
and Robertson. This was a publication
that the war in the Pacific pushed into the
background. Now it is being brought out
with a bright cover and plenty of illustra-
tions. The drawings are by Edwina Bell.
The Tales, which are the charmingly
fanciful children of Ella’s poetic. brain,
started life as radio entertainment.
Glen Mervyn, within coo-ee of Coogee,
has since last Thursday opened its doors
wide to wards of Legacy. Glen Mervyn
was the home of the late T. A. Field,
and during the war he gave it to the
Red Cross as a convalescent home for
service personnel. Now the Red Cross
has leased it to Sydney Legacy at a
“peppercorn” rental for use as a residence
for Legacy girls and boys from about
nine to 19. Here girls and boys who
come to the city to continue their studies
may stay, surrounded by all the care
Legacy gives to its charges. The house
is a very pleasant place indeed, and the
N.S.W. Bowling Association has under-
taken to provide for its annual mainten-
ance. Altogether it will be a happy
home for 24 girls and boys. The
Governor, Lieut.-General John Northcott,
declared this home open to loud applause.
The U.S. Ambassador, Mr. Butler, and
his wife, paid their first official visit to
Sydney last week, and from half-past nine
last Friday morning to six o’clock yester-
day it was a non-stop spin for the diplo-
mat, There were official calls on the
Lieut.-Governor and the Premier, Rose-
hill races, a dinner dance by the American
Society in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Butler
at the Elanora Golf Club. There were
a press conference, a civic reception, a
reception at the Australia by Chief Public
Affairs Officer of U.S. Embassy, Robert
Burlingame, and Mrs. Burlingame, and a
reception by America’s Consul-General
Derry and his wife in their Point Piper
home.
When the Lucy Gullett Convalescent
Home is opened next Saturday it will be
the fulfilment of a long-dreamed plan of
the Rachel Forster Hospital for Women
and Children. Dr. Lucy Gullett, whose
name is given to this home, was chairman
for many years of the honorary medical
staff of Rachel Forster (the hospital
founded and run by women for women
and children), and when she resigned from
this office it was decided to honor her
by naming the hospital’s first convalescent
home after her. That good friend to
Australia, the Walter and Eliza Hall
Trust, comes into the picture, too. It
dropped a grant for £5OO into the hat.
The home was formerly Wanslea, a
rest home for the W.A.N.S., and it
stands in an old Bexley garden sur-
rounded by trees and lawns. All the
lower rooms are bright with cream
lacquer, and each of the bedrooms is gay
with cretonnes in different color-schemes.
Dr. Kathleen Cuningham, the present
chairman of the honorary medical staff,
will make the opening speech next Satur-
day at half-past two. After that visitors
may inspect the home, and there will be
tea in the grounds.
Tschaikowsky’s rather grisly “Pique-
Dame” (“The Queen of Spades” to you)
will be served with the usual dexterity
and good singing by the State Conserva-
torium Opera School for a season of six
nights commencing next Saturday. The
story revolves around an inveterate young
gambler, Herman, who falls in love while
walking in the Summer Garden in St.
Petersburg away back in the eighteenth
century. The girl Lisa’s aunt is also a
gambler and a very successful one, who
is said to have a system. How Herman,
in trying to win Pique-Dame’s secret,
loses his true love, Lisa, is embellished
with all Tschaikowsky’s creative fervor.
The music is vivid and romantic. The
cast includes several of the Eisteddfod
finalists in the operatic section.
Here’s the latest Paris news on the sort
of woollens fashionable for suits. But
even if Sydney women get the materials
where will they get the tailors?* Anyway,
grey is the French capital’s leading color,
notably in soft herringbone weaves of
slightly varying tones. There are many
bird’s-eye tweeds for coats, as well as
grey jersey weaves, all of pure wool, which
are used for two-piece suits and frocks.
After grey, yellow is the favorite overseas
color. For his soft woollen coats Moly-
neux uses corn or straw yellows. But
Jeanne Lafauris favors vivid canary for
her frocks, and adds belts of brilliant
violet.


mjm
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED ?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 68
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated la Victoria in 1878.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Rawi, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones,
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T, Hilder (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cedwaflader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Letlie Monhead.
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O. y
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Runell French. jMa
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine. Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all j* Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Net , To Ro- Rfr-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1937.. 109,466 10 p.c. = 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 •• •• 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115.433 10 „ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940.. 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
1941.. 153,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 432,939
To staff fund, £5OOO 427,939
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 450,861
To staff fund, £5OOO 445,861
1943;. 126,287 8J p.c. = 87,500 38,787 484,648
To staff fund, £6OOO 479,648
1944.. 111,289 p.c. = 95,000 16,289 495,937
To staff fund, £5OOO 490,937
Plant replacement reserve, £21,000 .. 469,937
1945.. 111,451 9i p.c. = 95,000 16,451 486,388
Plant replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,388
To outside interests, £lB .. .. 476,370
1946.. 97,524 9 p.c. 90,000 7,524 483,894
Staff fund, £4OOO 479,894
* After eliminating outside interests.
Australia’s economic future will largely
depend upon the production effort of to-
day. The three main factors involved
are (1) adequate and efficient plant, (2)
enough raw materials and freedom to
use them to the best advantage, and (3)
a sufficient supply of suitable labor.
Yarra Falls, Australia’s biggest textile
manufacturer, has the plant and raw
materials, but chiefly owing to shortage
of labor, especially in the younger age-
groups, it is unable to deliver the goods.
And that at a time when increased out-
put is urgently needed to redress the lack
of balance between demand and produc-
tion and so eliminate the inflation poten-
tial and provide a sound basis for “full”
employment and a rising standard of liv-
ing. Other factors contributing to loss of
turnover have been industrial disputes,
coal shortage and the incidence of price-
control.
The drop in last term’s "turnover
(£1,841,813) was £238,183, compared
with a shrinkage of £71,434 in the previ-
ous year. There was, of course, an in-
evitable rise in unit costs, which were
further increased by a lift in wage rates
for female operatives, without an in-
crease in either selling prices or subsidy.
Salaries and wages took 29.69 p.c. of
the year’s turnover, as against 26.07 p.c.
in 1945. A little of the sting was taken
out of the blow by export of some high-
grade cloth to Maoriland and by token
shipments of both wool tops and cloth
to other countries.
The drop in profit was less pronounced
than the figures in the table suggest, be-
cause the 1945 result included a wind-
fall of approximately £35,000 from re-
valuation of stock. Last year’s £97,524 —
written after allowing £52,581 less for
taxation (£70,958) and £4602 less for de-
preciation (£62,062) —was 9.7 p.c. on capi-
tal, as against 11.1, 11.1, 12.6, 12.2 and
15.3 p.c. back to 1941. Half a point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 9 p.c,,
and £4OOO was sent to the staff fund.
The co.’s prospects, and those of the in-
dustry as a whole, largely depend upon
how soon production can be stepped up.
In an effort to temporarily overcome the
labor problem male is being substituted
for female and adult for junior labor;
but with what effect upon costs remains
to be seen. Maybe not until changing
conditions bring about a new psychologi-
cal approach in which the worker once
more “calls for the job,” instead of vice
versa, will the position right itself.
Meanwhile, Australia is losing the
opportunity of laying the foundations of a
permanent export trade in textiles, and
there is a danger of imports growing to
dimensions that might prove detrimental
to local industry and those engaged in it.
Once the transition period is passed and
the abnormal demand for goods abates
it is price and quality that will hold the
market rather than ability to supply. If
working hours are reduced and at the
same time money wages rise without an
adequate increase in production to offset
the inevitable lift in costs, then real
wages and the standard of living will
contract proportionately to the rise in
prices and everybody will be worse off.
No Government can give its people pros-
perity. What it can do is help bring
about conditions that will enable more
goods to be produced at lower prices,
without any reduction in wages, whereby
everyone would be better off. And
highly-geared co. taxation is drying up
one of the most fruitful sources of risk
capital, namely, surplus earnings, thus
checking enterprise and economic pro-
gress.
Finances are comfortable:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
_ 1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests*.. ll 1,092
Overdraft . . .. 14,275
Sundry creditors! .. 212,275 416,342 387,062
Staff funds .. .. 5,000 25,000 28,300
Freeholds .. .. 369,031 418,742 422,957
Want, etc 420,447 260,590 286,875
stocks 591,936 931,633 978,746
Oebtors ~ . . 170,327 204,054 165,451
Shares .. 60,174 37,905 36,707
* r e }- C 26,841 212,208 180,188
Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision.
Last term £29,280 was clipped off the
trade debt, etc., £30,500 was added to the
book value of fixed assets and £47,113
to stocks. To do this cash, etc., and
debtors’ balances were reduced by
£32,020 and £38,603 respectively. The
more or less liquid surplus was £1272
stronger at £945,730.
On the market the pound shares re-
cently sold at 495. 3d. as against 545. 9d.
a few months back. The return at
495, 3d. is 3.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis,
or 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. Visibly
the cover is 295. 7d. in net tangibles.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
r Dividends .
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 5.4 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, fieit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 26.850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,195 1627 3255 19,084 5,229 26,973
1941.. 32,439 1627 3255 19,084 8,473 36,446
1942.. 31,592 1627 3255 19,084 7,626 43,072
1943.. 23,971 1627 3255 19,084 5 43,077
2i p.c.
1944.. 11,697 1627 3255 9,542 40,350
1945.. 18,567 1627 3255 9,542 4,143 44,493
5 p.c.
1946.. 36,464 1627 3255 19,084 12,498 56,991
* Including arrears.
The co. enjoys a prominent position in
the high-grade furniture, furnishing-
drapery and china business. Only once
since the borrow-and-bust boom of the
late 1920’s has it made a better showing
than last term. That was in 1937, when
£39,030 was netted and the ords. got
6 p.c. The sudden leap in the year’s
profit—the figure (up £17,897) nearly
doubled—reflects the hunger of a market
starved of furniture, furnishings, etc.,
for the last half-dozen years.
The .co.’s own output has been re-
stricted by shortage of skilled labor and
materials, and there has been a sub-
stantial increase over pre-war levels in
costs, and therefore in selling prices.
Furnishing draperies are in short supply,
and likely to remain so for some time,
owing to the cotton position. Some Aus-
tralian manufacturers have already
grasped the opportunity to step in here,
though the range and volume of their
output are limited. China is coming for-
ward in better volume, but its quality is
below pre-war standard.
The £36,464 of profit claimed was
written after allowing £27,409 (up
£12,982) for taxation and £3652 (down
£292) for depreciation. It was sufficient
to cover the full contract rate of both
lots of prefs. and 7.7 p.c. on the £381,687
of ord. capital. The ord. div., which was
cut in half in 1944, was lifted to 5 p.c,
again. The £12,498 that remained raised
the lay-by £56,991 in excess of goodwill
(£67,660),,n0t treated as an asset herein.
The prefs.—3o,ooo first 7 p.c. and 52,500
second 8 p.c—have been rationed since
the early 1930’5, when the long-since-out-
moded N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act
imposed a cut of 12\ p.c,, lowering the
minimum rates to 5.4 p.c. and 6,2 p.c. re-
spectively. They are entitled to advance
with the ords, beyond these points to
their full contract rates.
Prospects of further, but much less-
pronounced, improvement in net earnings
are encouraging, subject, of course, to
what happens in connection with costs
and prices—the latter are still subject to
Government control. Despite official
bungling and delays, the big home and
other, construction programme now
gathering momentum, and the deferred
replacement requirements for hotels,
flats, etc., augur well for demand as man-
power and materials become available.
When this will be depends largely upon
more, settled industrial conditions. Mean-
while, the agitation for a lift in wages and
shorter hours threatens to bump up costs.
Until the fog clears it is difficult to say
whether the prefs. are likely to go to their
full contract rates, which would mean
8 p.c. to the ords.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 99,981 93,456 31,902 57,406
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Plant, etc. .. 26,586 15,185 7,590 4,732
Stocks . . 181,718 193,357 146,336 175,195
Book debts, etc. 117,088 131,658 120,135 141,677
Cash .. . . 250 250 6,250 6,250
* Including provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £28,859 of stock and
add £21,542 to debtors’ balances the co.
increased outside liabilities, etc., by
£25,504 last term. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£265,716)
was £24,917.
The pound ords. at 225. 3d. (19s. 6d.
a year ago) return 4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 225. lid. in net
tangibles. The prefs. seldom appear on
the market.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1936.. 8,220 *4£p.c.= 7,200 1020 62,309
Transferred to rebate account, £2000.. 60,309
1937.. 10,854 6 p.c. = 9,600 1254 61,563
1938.. 9,776 5 „ „ 8,000 1776 63,339
1939.. 9,211 5 ~ „ 8,000 1211 64,550
1940.. 10,781 5i „ ~ 8,800 1981 66,531
1941.. 10,509 6 „ „ 9,600' 909 67,440
1942.. 11,026 6 „ „ 9,600 1426 68,866
1943.. 17,616 7 „ „ 11,200 6416 75,282
1944.. 15,808 7 „ „ 11,200 4608 79,890
1945.. 14,849 7 „ „ 11,200 3649 83,539
1946.. 14,887 8 „ „ 12,800 2087 85,626
* £3 17s. Id. p.c. p.a.
t Excluding goodwill ( £30,000).
The improvement in war-time earnings
of this woolbroking, pastoral-finance,
agency and merchandising business re-
flects the effects of seasons and prices.
Under the British wool contract, which
ran out at end June last, the flat-rate
price was 13.4 d. per pound (2.6 d. above
open-market average for last pre-war
season) until mid-1942. The figure was
then lifted to 15.4 d. to help offset rising
costs. A run of good seasons reached
their peak in 1943,* since when drought
has annually taken a heavy toll of sheep
population in the northern State. Still,
the co.’s wool receipts have held remark-
ably well: \
Wool Received,
June, Bales. Cattle.* Sheep.*
1939 28,274 15,054 27,826
1940 34,774 14,348 31,161
1941 34,825 15,184 86,678
1942 38,996 13,963 24,480
1943 36,531 16,716 26,552
1944 37,242 9,555 36,326
1945 31,279 9,525 32,748
1946 33,836 4,999 10,133
. * Cannon Hill sales.
Last term seasonal conditions improved
a trifle ; the strike in the meat trade was
largely responsible for the slump in sales
of livestock.
With the help of better produce and
merchandise sales gross earnings ad-
vanced £l5lB. Exes, took all but £3B
of the gain:
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Gross earnings .. £54,481 £61,449 £53,615 £55,196
Exes 45,270 43,833 88,766 40,309
Net profit .. £9,211,£17,616 £14,849 £14,887
The £14,887 of profit was 9.3 p.c. on
capital as against 9.2, 9.8, 11, 6.9 and
6.6 p.c. back to 1941. A victory bonus
of 1 p.c. was added to the 7 p.c. div.,
making 8 p.c. for the year. Prospects of
the co. earning sufficient to maintain 7
p.c. are encouraging, despite the seasonal
outlook.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £160,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities .. 154,064 237,417 211,812 198,308
Properties ~ 84,414 78,618 73,965 73,354
Plant, etc. .. 4,500 4,372 8,307 3,773
Advances .. 297,194 417,232 285,283 287,955
Stock . . 1,025 2,637 657 1,416
Cash, etc. .. 1,106 3,598 98,589 85,436
Last term £13,504 was snipped off the
outside debt, cash, etc., being drawn
upon for the purpose. When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities by £176,497 (up £3830).
For sheep- and cattle-growers immedi-
ate seasonal prospects are anything but
bright. Excepting the Darling Downs
and south-east corner, most of the pas-
toral areas of the State are in poor con-
dition, and have been for several months.
Brightest spot in the picture is the price
being realised for wool at auctions —first
since 1939. For the most part bids have
been well in advance of the Realisation
Commission’s reserve limits. These
limits are based on a flat rate of 18.14 d.
per pound, less a contributory charge of
5 p.c. Appearances are that prices for
the staple will remain strong for some


Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
« * * •
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt
GOLD MINING.
OWNERS wishing dispose genuine gold proposition
North Queensland. Invite enquiries interested Com-
panies view grant working option to purchase. For
full particulars apply BARRY & BARRY, Solicitors,
Proserpine, N.Q.
h
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
. Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
Wadi *
fanned
Making provision for the
family’s future welfare is a
big responsibility. It can be
so easilyand definitely fulfilled
by taking out a suitable life
assurance policy with the
Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice on all insurance
matters on request.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD
//eafOffiop.-37/~37fQueer ft, Brisbane
A
L
WIHOIUO MOUSE*. ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COIUMS MOUSE- COLLINS ST., Mil BOURNE
EDUCATIONAL
BOOKS
“Practical Knotoledge
For All”
(6 volumes)
This magnificent set of well-bound
Books contains six volumes, almost
4000 pages and over 2000 Illus-
trations. A great help to the
studious-minded person of any age.
Some of the subjects covered by
this magnificent work are Biology,
Botany, Chemistry, Drawing, Eco-
nomics, Geography, Geology,
Mathematics, Philosophy, Physics
and Zoology.
This set of books provides a won-
derful opportunity for increasing
your store of general knowledge as
well as providing a wealth of inter-
esting and informative reading.
The matter is set out in simple
language and consequently is just
as valuable to the studious child
as to the man or woman of any age.
The price complete is only £3/10/-
Postage: Z/- South Aust.
S/6 other States.
M. S. McLEOD
Pulteney St., Adelaide, S. Aust.
THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL—SPRINGWOOD.
THE TRUSTEES announce that the above
Hospital for Women only has now been re-
opened for the admission of convalescent'
patients and mothers with young babies, for
which a separate wing has been provided.
Applications for admission to be made in
the first place on the prescribed form, obtain-
able from the Matron (or Secretary to the
Trustees, Box 1646JJ, G.P.0., Sydney). A
doctor’s certificate stating that the applicant is
free from T.B. or infectious disease is required
with the completed application form.
Fees, £4/4/- per week.
HARINGTON B. COWPER, Secretary.
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns)
STOKoupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHon.
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPL.IANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOB
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOB
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the
discretion of the Trustees,
OB
(b) HAWKESBCBY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the
Will of the late James Murphy, of Como. .
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the
requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than
the 6th January, 1947, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and not later than the 10th February, 1947, in the case of
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TBUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
RPMc
Vs * »£”
°< *• 4u '
, ° aS one 4 M g«tve
d«« u ® : des c« **'* s „ 0 4 « tot -
hed td tb. >* t*M- ’' on '
»<* T “ TUW
*1 .ad ' ri “
T>taf» av
’ * *°
/ often wonder what the Vintners buy
One half so precious as the goods they sell. ,
Omar Khayyam.
TH36
time. The test of prices for wool, as for
other products, will be the end of post-
war sellers’ market conditions. Growers,
however, are assured of orderly market-
ing at minimum prices, thus removing
the worst of the danger from pressure of
accumulated stocks on income. Chief
fight will be against seasons and costs,
especially the latter.
On ’Change the pound shares are
jammed at the ceiling price of 245. 6d.,
at which figure the return would be 6.5
р. on the basis of last term’s distribu-
tion, or 5.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 30s. Bd.
“Khills”: The authority in charge of
tin prices does not impart any infor-
mation to the small producers. From
March last two increases in the London
metal price have brought tin to £S3BO
per ton metal (=£A475) as against the
Australian fixed price of £A376 per ton.
During this period there has been no
variation in local prices, and no state-
ment of the local position. With the pre-
sent price there is not a great deal of
small-scale production. Even so, these
producers are entitled to some under-
standing as to. what local authorities pro-
pose to do when overseas prices rise or
fall above or below Australian levels.
* * * *
A road is being pushed through from
Portland Roads to Coen (N.Q.), and
trucks loaded with machinery are fol-
lowing it in an effort to get houses up
and men working on dewatering and re-
timbering the old Great Northern, idle
these 30 years. Other shows are stirring
since the war-time developments in road
transport give hopes of handling ore and
supplies.
♦ * * *
An Innisfail (N.Q.) syndicate is about
to begin dredging on a 100-acre lease in
the North Johnstone River area, using a
20-h.p. tractor engine and a gravel-pump.
The river-bed was worked by Chinese in
the old days, under primitive methods.
* * * *
The big gold' dredge of Harrietville
(Tronoh), Ltd., operating in the Ovens
Valley (Vic.), resumed productive
operations on May 25 last, after being
idle since the end of 1942. For the five
weeks to end June it treated 138,300
с. for 240.70 z. smelted gold, valued at
£2216. Average value was 3.84 d. per
c.y., and mine costs 6.56 d. per c.y.
Digging was limited to 70ft. below the
surface, and mechanical adjustments and
shortage of suitable labor affected re-
sults. When the machine gets fully into
its stride and is digging at maximum
depth improved results can be expected.
The 4600-ton electrically-driven dredge,
built in 1941, is among the largest of its
kind in the world. It is equipped with
20 c.-f. buckets, can dig to 130 ft. below
water-level, and can handle 350,000 c.y.
a month. The area to be worked
was estimated originally to contain
96,000,000 c.y., averaging 1.92 gr. gold.
Ground to be handled for next six years
is expected to average about 3.2 gr. gold.
Paid capital is £375,000 in ss. shares. At
end June the dredge, property, etc., figured
at £548,518, current assets £10,586, in-
tangibles £18,710. There was £202,814
coming to outsiders.
For the 12 months of 1945 London-
controlled Sons of Gwalia, Ltd., operat-
ing near Mt. Leonora, North Coolgardie
field (W.A.), treated 76,014 tons (down
5362 tons) ore for 20,7920 z. (down
18650 z.) fine gold, worth £163,438 (down
£12,856). After allowing for taxation
(£15,500) and depreciation (£5000), net
profit was £13,589, of which a Is. 3d.
div. ( less 9s. in the £ income-tax) took
£11,587. During the year development
disclosed 33,000 tons of s.sdwt. ore in
the s.-w. branch ore body on Nos. 30
and 31 levels (5000-odd ft. down), and in-
dications are that the south Gwalia series
may again contribute substantially to
mill feed. The drill also showed encour-
aging results, yet to be tested, on No.
28 level. When the books closed stores,
debtors, bullion, cash, etc., totalled
£120,706. Outside liabilities, including
the div., amounted to £34,818, leaving a
more or 16ss liquid surplus of £85,888.
Paid capital is £162,500 in 10s, shares, for
which buyers offer 38s. 6d. in Australia.
* * ♦ *
Norseman Gold Corp. (W.A.) claims
that boring at the north end of the
Mararoa ore channel has disclosed new
sources of wealth extending the life of its
mine from three to 10 years. To get at this
wealth a new shaft will have to be sunk a
considerable distance from the present
main workings. Co. also claims that the
Lady Miller mine, four miles away from
the Mararoa, is worth reopening, and
proposes to prepare the mill for a
throughput of 2000 tons a month.
Further shaft-sinking is contemplated.
» * * *
Spargo’s Reward goldmine, Coolgardie
field (W.A.), is to be worked again.
Operations ceased late in 1942, owing to
shortage of capital and other causes. At
that time mining had been carried to a
depth of between 400 ft. and 500 ft. A
loan offered by the Government was re-
fused because the board considered the
terms too hard. Further mining and re-
sumption of crushing is now proposed, but
where funds are coming from is not stated.
♦ * * *
Reports of rich returns from West-
ralian privately-owned smaller goldmines
have been made lately. Here are a few:
Mountain View, Day Dawn, 570 tons,
16470 z.; Pegasus, Peak Hill, 150 tons,
3950 z.; Democrat, Linden, 150 tons,
3060 z.; Radio, Manxman, 290 tons,
3200 z. Mountain View, from which
£BO,OOO was taken last year, and Pegasus
are on the Murchison field, and Radio,
a consistently valuable producer for a
number of years, is on the Yilgarn field.
A number of other Westralian gold
shows, principally worked by prospectors,
have been credited with three-figure yields
during the past few months.
* * * *
Westralia wants a marketing organisa-
tion to dispose of its economic minerals.
Someone has pointed out that it is one
thing to discover a mineral and quite
another thing to find a buyer. A mar-
keting organisation, it is argued, could
hunt up prospective buyers and provide
information about stocks, assays, trans-
port, etc. The Mines Department is
looking into the matter.
* * ♦ «
Following table shows production,
yield, costs, etc., for the Rand (S. Africa)
goldmining industry for the first half of
1945 and 1946 respectively;
Jan.-June, Jan.-June,
1945. 1946.
Ore milled, tons .. ..' 29,863,800 28,139,300
Gold yield, fine oz. .. 6,115,726 5,903,210
Yield, dwt., per ton .. 4.015 4.033
Revenue, per ton .. 345. Od. 345. lid.
Working cost,*per ton .. 235. 2d. 255. sd.
Working profit, per ton .. 10s. lOd. 9s. 6d.
Dividends, total .. .. £6,389,843 £6,466,628
The 1946 output was affected by a strike
in March, and by shortage of labor, while
a lift in the native wage-rate further
bumped up costs.


Erasmus, 1466-1536
The Dutch scholar and theologian. DESIDERIUS ERASMUS
of Rotterdam, was perhaps the greatest and most brilliant
star of his century. For 6 years he was an Augustinlan
monk, and in 1496 he visited England where he later
taught the Greek language at Cambridge. His greatest
work was his edition of the New Testament in 1516.
HERITAGE FROM THE PAST
. . . Brewing is a craft which
dates back many centuries. Ever since
our Saxon forefathers first made ale in
very early times, men have worked
with skill and care and knowledge to
perfect the art of brewing. The very
high degree of perfection to which this
art has been developed is nowhere more
suitably reflected than in the fine range
of Beer, Ale, Lager and Stout manu-
factured by Tooth and Co. Limited.
Since 1835 the name “Tooth” has been
associated with fine quality beers in
Australia.
TOOTH AND CO. LIMITED - SYDNEY
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
T. 2.24
SUNDRY SHOWS
WIRTH'S.
The Greatest Show on Earth is back
at its old stamping-ground, Olympia,
Melbourne, in time for the Cup, as
usual, and Mr. Phil Wirth, after six
years’ war service as Chief Big Top to
the American Army, is at his post again,
this time mainly the microphone through
which he announces a bewildering succes-
sion of new acts.
There is less of the traditional sawdust
about the organisation and, when the
present commentator was present, the
elephants and lions didn’t seem to be
roaring and trumpeting as heartily as
usual. Mr. Wirth has modernised their
surroundings, and the old-fashioned small
ring has been fitted with a glass front
with blue, yellow and red lights winking
inside it; although this may give a
glamorous effect to the act of the per-
forming lions presented by Mr. Stephen
Boyes, it takes away from the horror of
their natural and unaffected appetite for
their trainer.
The rest of the arena has been boarded
over for the convenience of the acrobats,
balancers and tumblers, so when the eight
clowns —as funny as ever —want to throw
dust in each others’ eyes, they have to
bring it on in a bucket. The elephants
still swing their bulk around and allow
the crisp young man who calls himself
De Soto to vault over their massive
shoulders; Alice, who was nine years
old when Bernard Shaw was born, looks
wiser even than that playwright. But
there seemed to be some slight embarrass-
ment among the pachyderms and the big
cats—as though they felt they were be-
ing asked to do their stuff in a suburban
drawing-room.
Another innovation is a brass band of
Diggers which replaces the old canned
music, and it is much more sensitive to
the moods of the feral population ; but
habit is a hard thing to get out of, for
animals as well as human beings, and
the slips the animals made could be put
down to the fact that they are as un-
familiar with man-made music as a movie
audience. But the mistakes in a circus
always make it seem more human.
The most popular feature was a single
little local girl, a sonsy lass with nothing
international about her, who broke her
own record of 25 consecutive somer-
saults by whirling her plump body round
31 times without pause. Miss Gladys
Wirth put her high-school horse,
Monte Cristo, through its paces, and
“Overlander” Arch Speirs, who looks
like a poet, put his six Liberty ponies
from Timor Island through some grace-
ful manoeuvres. lap Westbrook gave a
staggering display with a variety of stock-
whips, one of which looked like an out-
size in pythons. The grand finale was a
breathtaking rush of motorbike and girls
in red habits.
Borovansky Ballet.
Coming fresh from its excursion into
comic opera, the Borovansky Australian
Ballet might have been expected to show
some traces of aesthetical bad manners.
On the contrary, it appeared (at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne) stronger and more
virile than ever, with “Coppelia”—music
by Delibes and choreography by Boro-
vansky—added to its collection.
Although the story of the doll-maker
who transfers the life force of an
allegedly dead youth to one of his auto-
matons is infantile, it doesn’t lack humor,
and gives abundant opportunities for
miming ; and whether or not the Boro-
vanskys are in the first flight of dancers
—they are pretty near it, anyway—they
are certainly consummate actors. As
Swanilda, the maiden who tricks her
lover by assuming the role of a clock-
work figure, Edna Busse was the centre
of the picture. A personable young lady,
her crisp and sparkling performance
never flagged for an instant.
“Swan Lake” and “Capriccio Italien”
joined the programme later and made it
the most alert and exciting that Borovan-
sky has yet presented. With Tschaikow-
sky’s music and the complicated inter-
weavings of the corps de ballet in the
avian fantasy, with the hard-bitten bril-
liance and giddiness of Mr. Borovansky’s
choreography in the Riviera fairy story,
and with the miming of Edna Busse in
the Delibes opus, there was enough
variety and contrast in the evening to
satisfy the most gluttonous balletomane
in creation.
The lissomeness and vigor of Tamara
Tchinarova, Helen Ffranee and Strelsa
Heckelman were foils for the pirouetting
of Serge Bousloff, Martin Rubinstein and
other male cavorters. Gabriel Joffre’s
conducting deserves a mention. With
the limited orchestral paiette at his com-
mand he painted a fuller musical back-
ground than might have been expected.
"Lover's Leap."
O. Henry’s character who shed the
shackles of matrimony by simply taking
the dog out for a walk never made the
mistake of returning, even to ask for a
divorce. The husband in “Lover’s Leap”
(Radio Players at Bryant’s Playhouse,
Sydney), after walking out with the
pooch and spending seven years investi-
gating mummies, hieroglyphs and other
aspects of Egyptology, does eventually
return to ask his wife for a dissolution
of the bonds. His arrival coincides with
that of his wife’s sister and a young man
come to the country for a week-end to
decide whether they will marry or simply
depart for Paris together without the
formality of wedlock.
It’s all very light, trite and bright, with
situations and dialogue that are a faint
echo of Coward at his best. Muriel
Steinbeck and Atholl Fleming as the
husband and wife, and Irene Harpur and
Allan Cuthbertson as the dubious lovers,
toss the confection off gracefully and
effortlessly. It is the Radio Players’ third
presentation since they started —their
acting and staging have been so good in
all three that one wishes they would dig
their teeth into something really sub-
stantial.
"The Overlanders."
“Cauboy”; The fact that it reached
Melbourne when the huge wen had been
reduced by the transport hold-up to a
state of primitivism unequalled in its
history gave an added piquancy to Harry
Watt’s stark description of a 2000-mile
trek across Australia in “The Over-
landers” (Majestic). Knowing as much
about cattle as the average city-dweller,
I found myself completely absorbed in
the production. Drovers may get hearty
laughs at the spectacle of four dis-
mounted men holding up a stampeding
mob of thirst-crazed cattle, and there
may be other factual discrepancies in the
opus observable only to the expert, but
by and large it was an impressive picture
of outback Australia, and the absence of
Hollywooden sentimentalism about it was
positively refreshing.
That Mr. Watt was able to resist the
temptation of giving his typically unpre-
tentious hero the heroine as a playmate
puts him in the class of the unusual. Chips
Rafferty may be a consummate actor who
can put himself inside the skin of an
Australian drover, or he may be a drover
who simply lived his part naturally, as
did most of the others, including the abos.
In either case, it was a remarkable
achievement.
All the same, the panegyrics of some
of the critics need modification. The
film is not a work of art; it is a docu-
mentary, and its enthralling interest comes
from the interest of the subject. But
few people would want to see it twice.
The psychological element is lacking.
On the evidence of this film Mr. Watt
is an out-of-the-ordinary producer, and
Australia could do with more of his kind
of production. His ability to let the stock-
men, the cattle and even the country tell
their own story is artistic, and it should
stand him in good stead if he ever gets
it into his head to film the work of an
Australian author instead of the uncom-
plex lives of individuals going about their
ordinary avocations. There is plenty of
material available Henry Handel
Richardson’s Richard Mahony and
the same writer’s extraordinarily complex
Maurice'. Guest, though that isn’t specifi-
cally Australian. And there are dozens
of others.
* * * *
“The Strange Love of Martha Ivers”
(Prince Edward): Wealthy and rebellious
child who murders her aunt is eventually
forced to marry the son of her tutor and
guardian ; her ambition forces him up to
the job of District Attorney, and the
brooding situation between them is ex-
ploded by the reappearance of a child-
hood playmate, now an easy-living
gambler, and his girl, lately released from
jail. Melodrama, but \yell made and
acted within that limit. Barbara Stan-
wyck and Van Heflin (the gambler) are
both good; Lizabeth Scott decorative,
and Kirk Douglas (the D.A.) excellent-
reminiscent of Rathbone.
* * * *
“Centennial Summer” (Mayfair);
Musical froth in technicolor about the
reactions caused by the visit of a wealthy
and glamorous aunt (Constance Bennett)
to a Philadelphia family in 1876. Jeanne
Grain and Cornel Wilde just make the
fadeout clinch ; ditties by Jerome Kern.
* * * *
“The Bandit of Sherwood Forest”
(State): Derring-do about the son of
Robin Hood and all in technicolor. It’s
to be hoped that R.H. had no grand-
children.
Arfbursts.
An exhibition by “21 painters,” at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has a
flower-piece, “Spring Study,” by Joy
Ewart, in which red, white, yellow and
blue paint are thickly and brightly blended.
The whole is rather “painty,” but vivid.
For the rest, there is a “Flower Piece” by
Geoffrey Anderson, “Flowers” by S.
Herman, and “Spring Flowers” by Alison
Rehfisch, none of which has the com-
pensating directness of Joy Ewart’s paint-
ing. John Nash’s “Meadle,” a cold,
formalised pattern of countryside, is
something like a design for needlework;
“Indian Myth,” by Jamini Roy, is suit-
ably Indian and mysterious; “Grey Sea
Piece,” by Lloyd Rees, is dull, glum and
rather empty. There is nothing remark-
able about the rest except, perhaps, a
slight beach scene by Arthur Murch.
* * * $
An exhibition at David Jones’ Art
Gallery, Sydney, by Jeff Smart and
Jacqueline Hicks consists of oils and
watercolors by Smart, and oils, a pastel,
watercolors and etchings by Miss Hicks.
The lady has a liking for genre subjects,
cafe scenes—something with a touch, of
satire in it—but, although her humor
may be flawless, her painting is undistin-
guished. Her drawing is competent—
when it is not deliberately sprawling—
but small, in each sense of the word.
Smart goes in for the stark and spectacu-
lar —g r i m trees and expanses of brown
plain, grim brown slums and so on —all
with more than a faint reflection of Drys-
dale. The grimness is pitched to a quieter
key than Drysdale’s paintings, but the
brown plains are just as empty.


IG JOB
S loo% W
Olympic are making determined efforts to
overtake demands for tyres. Outlying
districts are now securing quotas. Keep
in touch with your local dealer.
it's worth waiting for Australia's best tyres!
11
i
1
I
m
s
■
ss
;
OLYMPIC
WIRES
AND
CABLES
A Product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUt!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Cup meeting (at time of writing the
big event was still to be run) began on
Saturday in perfect spring weather; the long
Flemington stretches looking very bright. A
sparkling day; and a sensational one it turned
out, even before Bernborough, just when he
was bounding forward to fake Flight’s measure,
broke down and ended bis brilliant racing
career.
The first of the minor sensations was Darby
Munro having over again the worst of the
experience he had on Shannon in the Epsom.
This time he was on the Golden Sovereign
filly Royal Court in the Wakeful Stakes. As
in the Epsom, his mount was nowhere near
in line when the starter sent them off ; and,
as also with the Epsom, the starter took the
blame, saying he hadn’t noticed that Royal
Court wasn’t in line. Darby rode discon-
solately home the other way round, no doubt
conversing to himself.
Sweet Chime (by Le Grand Due from Kori-
mako) won the Wakeful like a really good
filly. She carried 9.4. (including the full, pos-
sible penalty; conceding weight all- round),
started from the outside (a disadvantage in
the Flemington mile), and came through the
centre of the field with a powerful finishing
run to defeat the Manitoba filly Amelia, the
Ajax filly Laurette and a fair lot of otf
picked fillies. It was a fine performance, but
whether the winner could give Royal Court
91b. and a beating present writer very much
doubts. After the Epsom fiasco it was de-
cided to station a flagman a furlong or so
from the start, to send fields back on a no-
start signal from the starter. Such bad starts
as the Epsom and the Wakeful don’t often
happen, but the precaution seems a good idea.
Saturday’s second race also had its minor
sensation, the very costly Le Grand Due colt
Caruso presaging the bad day it was for the
Bernborough stable by racing wildly to the
outside fence and looking like going over it.
When the colt did much the same thing a
few weeks earlier it was said that’ he’d “proved
too much of a handful for A. Mullcy,” but
as a matter of fact that recently-underrated
good rider at least controlled him well enough
to fill a place. W. Briscoe, also a good horse-
man, could do nothing with the wild colt, the
places going to the Midstream filly Moonbeam,
and the Dhoti products Jalna and Dhotrium.
When they break him in, Caruso will be a
first-rate galloper.
Those sensations faded out when Bern-
borough’s mishap occurred in the next race,
the L, K. S. Mackinnon Stakes (w.f.a.). When
this page went to the printer the champion’s
injured near foreleg—sesamoid bone dislocated
and ligament damage—looked like mending: it
was definite he would never race again, but
there was good hope of saving him for the
stud. There would be high bidding for his
stock. Pretty well every champion sires a
champion, and however the great bay may be
held to compare with past champions there
can be no question about his claims to the
title.
Apart from his splendid record during his
15 successive wins—at w.f .a. he made every-
thing he met look easy, and a grand handi-
capper, too Bernborough had more natural
character than any other horse present writer
ever had the pleasure of seeing on a race-
course. He did not dominate his fields only
in the events; he was the most striking there
at any time. He was a noble and an impres-
sive-looking animal, always outstanding. He
was that without any advantage of showy color
—like, say, Ajax or Peter Pan. Nor was it
only his massive size; High Caste was massive
enough. Bay-bodied, with black legs and
abundant loose black tail and mane, the latest
champion looked a king of horses. His head
—broad and long-nosed and remarkably bony
—was anything but classical, but, like the rest
of him, there was strength in every inch of it.
To present writer Bernborough always sug-
gested power rather than speed, in that re-
sembling High Caste. Phar Lap, Peter Pan
and Ajax all looked like racing machines,
especially the first two. Phar Lap always gave
the impression of bounding along on springs,
and was so often bounding along out in front
that comparison with Bernborough is out. of
the question. Bernborough was only once seen
in that role; in a race at Rand wick, where
he was taken to the front about seven furlongs
from home and kept there. Usually he did
not seem to be galloping at all until three
furlongs from the winning-post, and some of
his times over that last bit of distance must
have been freakish.
As for Bernborough’s record, in his 15 suc-
cessive wins he never carried less than 9.1,
and he won handicaps with 9.13 (Newmarket),
10.5 (Ahem Memorial) and 10.11 (Doomben
Cup). That is the record of a genuine cham-
pion.
With Bernborough broken down, Flight won
the Mackinnon very easily ; Tea Cake and
Spam in the places. The Mr. Standfast-Golden S
colt Prince Standard defeated Tribunal and
Proctor in the Derby, the D. Lewis stable
thus bagging both Derbies, having won at
Rand wick with Concerto, unplaced on Saturday.
* * * *
The *U.S.A. could be a wonderful export
market if more of its racing folk shared the
enthusiasm for Australian bloodstock shown
by the film-man Louis B. Mayer. At the
1946 yearling sales Mayer’s representative went
to 4300 guineas for a handsome chestnut filly
by Ajax from the Tippler mare La Rasade.
Mayer tried very hard to secure Ajax at the
end of his racing career; denied that, he is
evidently determined to have one or two Ajax
mares for his model stud, the Mayer Stock
Farm. Incidentally the leading sire at this
beautiful Californian stud farm is Beau Pere,
sire of Beau Vite, Beaulivre and other good
performers hereabouts. Beau Pere must be
one of the most travelled horses in the world.
He was sold originally to a New Zealand
breeder at the Newmarket sales in England,
and for a very small sum at that.
The Ajax-La Rasade filly, named Hytest, had
her first outing in the Nursery Stakes at Rose?
hul on Saturday. With McGrowdie in the
saddle, she carried the colors of her breeder,
W. J. Smith, and, despite running greenly,
finished too well for the odds-on favorite
Courtesy. Rhapsody was next. Courtesy (by
Agincourt from Cleopatra) must be costing
connections a good deal more than her feed-
bill, having filled second place at her only three
starts—twice when a hot favorite. Mayer
shouldn’t regret the high price paid for Hytest,
even if she doesn’t return quite the 334,000
dollars woo by his U.S. champion filly Rusher,
for whom he parted with 50,000 dollars.
Pearler, with nothing on his back, tried to
lead all the way in the Flying, but was swamped
in the rush at the leger. Brought along nicely
from the rear by~ A. Podmore, Deed led the
rush to the judge, followed home by Golden
Warrah and Brazier. Since his last win was
as a two-year-old and he’s now four. Deed
“ Don't worry about the bunkers. They're just a little fad of our
spin-bowler."
was fancied only by the stable, Brazier being
the popular choice.
For his last start win Murray Stream was
bumped up 51b. in the weights, but, again
claiming 71b. for apprentice J. Eaves, carried
only 8.12 in the 10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap.
At that, a shade better than evens seemed a
fair price about a Metrop. winner in a held
of four, with the other three second-raters.
Eaves had an armchair ride, the Midstream
horse running home to an easy three-lengths
win from Silent and The Champion, while
Turn Again was fourth or, less politely, last.
Thompson and McGrowdie, who -rode the
Nursery" winners Deep Sea and Hytest, bom
had further success. On Le Fusil in a 10-
furlongs Novice Thompson nicely timed the
Enfield colt’s solid finishing run to gather in
Tengur right on the post. Nigeria was third,
after striking more than a fair share of trouble.
McGrowdie scored on the Talking
Count Cosmo, a maiden performer who downed
Star Vife and Tynedale m the Three-year-old.
In the Welter High Flight beat Prince Verity
and Rouge d’Or, giving Mulley a slight change
of luck. * *
* * * *
Raced in Sydney as a two-year-old without
setting the grass on fire, the Mr. Standfast
New S Girl colt Te Tana won the Queensland
Derby Stakes, defeating Bon Vite and Lord
Papyrus. The first leg of the spring double, the
mile Brisbane Handicap, went jo Noble Hero
who downed Guiding Light and France. Bu
Off—these days a model of consistency is
there for next Saturday’s Cup, topweight with
8.7, and must be hard to beat. As a Cup out-
sider who will be at a very fancy price, Black
Pearl looks an improving lightweight.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Two-year-old Stakes: Courtesy, 1; Skip
Court, 2; Willie’s Choice, 3. Hying:. Ear!
Pentheus, 1; Craftsman, 2; Hall Stand, ?.
Canterbury Handicap: Questing, 1, Bon lerre,
2; Homeleigh Dick, 3
Chanson Gai, 1; Le Fusil, 2, Hiraji, 3>. W 1 *.
High Flight, 1; Fort Denison, 2; Lady Mane,
3 ‘ * * * *
Hammond and co.:
They can’t be said to have been tested yet,
but so far the more that’s been seen of the
Englishmen the better they have looked. It
they keep on at this rate there 11 be no ques-
tion of them drawing huge Test crowds, the
trouble will be to get in.
Against S.A., Hammond declared with five
down for 506; the State side hit up 266 and
had lost eight for 276 in the second knock
when play ended. Bradman not looking hi
old compact self by a fair number of ounces
scored 76 in the first innings (after being missed
at the wicket when 18) before being caught
and bowled by Smith, and went for 3 (c.
Edrich, b. Pollard) in the second. A passable
effort; anyway, it passed, him into the Aus-
tralian XI side for the match beginning to-
morrow (Thursday), S.A. opener Craig hit
up 111 in the second innings. .
Against Victoria the invaders were dismissed
for the comparatively modest total of 358, out
the wicket was on the moody side and Wngnt
showed what he might do when there s any-
thing there to exploit by bagging six Vic.
wickets for 48. Voce took three for the same
total, and Victoria was out for 189. Hassett
made easily the best showmg from a Test
noint of view, scoring an excellent 57 before
Bedser caught him off Ikin. Compton scored
143 of the English first-innings total; in.the
second innings it was Hutton’s, turn—a first-
rate 151 not out, both innings right up to top
English standard. Yardley (giving Hammond
a rest) declared with England’s score seven
for 279• safe enough, the Victorians going
rapidly, though Hassett hit up another 57.
* v * * *
The high percentage of l.b.w. decisions
against them suggests that the EngUsh bats-
men will have to alter their play. Up to the
match v. Vic. 13 players had gone that way,
Hardstaff’s dismissal every time has been
under the rule made m 1937 to cut to a
minimum the monotonous practice of beating
bowlers with pad-play. The M.C.C. instruc-
tion to umpires notifies that “a striker would
be out to a ball which, pitching on the off-
side of the wicket, would have hit the wicket
had it not been intercepted by the striker.”
* * * *
Queensland left-hander Rex Rogers’s 55 and
Ilk against N.S.W. bowlers Lindwall and
Toshack raised his Test chances. In 49 innings
since he started in Sheffield Shield Rogers
has scored 1680 (no not outs), averaging 34.29.
His best knock was 181 v. S.A. at Adelaide in
1937.
* * * *
Davis Cup prospects:
With the usual American thoroughness—and
hang the expense —the U.S.A, is sending a
Davis Cup team of six, with non-playing Walter
Pate in charge. Doing the trip by plane and
calling in at Auckland, they’re expected here
on November 23. The team is built round
Jack Kramer, who, as a lad of 17, in 1939
played against Bromwich and Quist in the
Davis Cup doubles. The others are Frank
Parker, Tom Brown, Ted Schroeder, Billy
Talbert and Gardner Mulloy. Parker, Brown
or Schroeder should be the other singles player
with Kramer, and Schroeder could be paired
with Kramer for the doubles. Kramer and
Schroeder might even take on the whole job,
as did Quist and Bromwich, but Talbert and
Mulloy are a recognised doubles pair who
may be entrusted with that match in the Chal-
lenge round. Good tennis should be seen in
preliminary matches with the Americans all
striving for a place in the team.
At present being played on the White City
(N.S.W.) courts, the N.S.W. championships and
a series of inter-State matches are showing what
sort of headache is facing the Australian Davis
Cup selectors. As entertainment, it’s a feast
of good tennis. The best seen was the singles
match Brodie v. Bromwich, the pair brought
to a common level by Brodie pl .ying the
game of his life and Bromwich, playing his
first singles match for almost a year, not quite
at his top. Every point except the last was
hard-fought in long rallies. With one set each
and the games 10-9 in the last, Brodie, holding
match point, sent down what looked a beautiful
ace, but the umpire called fault. Bromwich
thought it close enough to an ace for his
liking and presented Brodie with the point pn
the second ball. Sidwell v. Brown was a dif-
ferent brand of tennis, but no less entertaining,
Brown setting his usual furious pace and Sidwell
playing him at his own game. By throwing
a little science into the melee now and again
Sidwell won it, 5-7, 7-5, 6-3, Another fine
match was provided by the ladies, N.S.W.
champion Joyce Fitch beating the Vic. and
Australian title-holder Mrs. Bolton 7-5, 6-3.
It’s some years since anyone beat Mrs. Bolton
—the former Nancy Wynne.
On current form the only Davis Cup team
which could be selected with any confidence
would be Bromwich and Pails, who would have
to carry the whole show. Bromwich is improv-
ing rapidly towards his best and Pails is play-
ing almost faultless tennis. Pails seems entirely
a class above Brown, and it’s difficult to under-'
stand their relative form at Wimbledon, but
No. 1 American player Kramer had much the
same experience in England as Pails. The
biggest disappointment of the . Davis Cup squad
is Quist, playing much below his pre-war form.
In a singles match with Bromwich he took one
game in the first set and four points in the
second. He has a long way to go to the form
that made Bromwich-Quist an unbeatable
doubles pair before the war,
* * * *
In the third round of a queer feather-
weight bout at Leichhardt (Sydney), Alan
Hall dropped Ken Hatcher with a left
body punch. The round ended before a
count was begun, and seconds carried
Hatcher to his corner. The punch that
had floored him appeared to be per-
fectly legitimate, but when Hatcher failed
to come up for the fourth round the
referee declared him the winner on a
foul. An amazed crowd stormed out into
the night.
* * * ♦
Kevin McCarthy (lOst. 121 b.) clearly
defeated Frank Taylor (lOst. 3ylb.) in the
tenth round at Sydney Stadium, but cus-
tomers are still wondering how he won.
Taylor seemed to fall from sheer
exhaustion. Wallis counted up to
“three,” then declared for McCarthy, but
no announcement was made as to
whether McCarthy had Won by technical
k.o. or Taylor had been disqualified for
going down without being hit.


Plan your Will as
you would your
business
'T'IME works changes in a
family’s circumstances. It
creates problems that only the
experienced may be able to
foresee. 4
For that reason it is wise to
appoint in your Will an ex-
perienced and level-headed
Executor and Trustee.
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) offers you the per-
manence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many
trained minds, and an under-
standing of family financial
and business problems born of
60 years’ experience with thou-
sands of Estates.
Send for a copy of a book,
“Your Executor and Trustee.”
It explains the Company’s
service in detail, and tells what
it costs. Write now while you
think of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. EELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C. • E. R KNOX •
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £lO 000)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga,
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
BOOKS OF PRACTICAL INTEREST
THE GARDENER'S BUG BOOK, by C.
Westcott. A manual for the home gar-
dener on insect-pest control. Illus-
trated. 35/- (post 1/-).
ADVENTURES IN HARDY BUEBS, by
L. B. Wilder. A book to encourage
a wider use of bulbous plants. Non-
technical and stimulating. Illustrated.
15/6 (post 1/-).
GARDENING IN THE SHADE, by
H. K. Morse. Shade conditions are ana-
lysed and classified according to relative
density and other factors enabling the
garden-maker to proceed intelligently.
21/- (post 10d.).
A EITTEE BOOK OF FRENCH COOK-
ING, by D. de Bethel. Recipes that
truly represent the French cuisine.
10/6 (post 4d.).
THE FIBED AND STREAM READER.
A collection of bunting, fishing and
other outdoor stories, 18/- (post 6d.).
ICE CREAM DESSERTS FOR EVERT
OCCASION, by L. P. de Gouy. 470
tested recipes for both the hand freezer
and refrigerator. 12/3 (post 6d.).
HOW TO GROW BOSES, by J. H. Mc-
Farland and R. Pyle. Concise and prac-
tical advice: lavishly Illustrated with
many coloured photographs. 12/6 (post
5d.).
FISH AND SEA FOOD COOK BOOK,
by C. Rose and B. Brown. More than
400 tempting recipes, with ample notes
and explanations. 14/- (post 6d.).
YOUR PUPPY—AND HOW TO TRAIN
HIM. By H. V. Beamish. Traverses
the whole gamut of educating and dis-
ciplining your puppy. 14/- (post 4d.).
CATS AND ALL ABOUT THEM, by
L H. and H. Fairchild. The successful
methods of selecting, breeding, manage-
ment and training and habits of cats.
14/-* (post 5d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc
Studied Double-dealing
It is futile to imagine that a country
can become more prosperous by produc-
ing less. Yet it is upon slower work and
lower production per worker that trade-
unionism, or “militant unionism,” seems
to be basing its plans for “increased pros-
perity” of the people.
It is hard to comprehend that anyone
so cunning as the average militant trade-
union secretary appears to be could be
quite so stupid as to believe that the con-
tinued demand for a shorter working
week, for higher money wages and for
the restriction of output by individuals
engaged in industry can improve the lot
of the average wage-earner. There are
ample official figures available to show
that wage-earners collectively receive by
far the greatest share of the national in-
come (for which their efforts are only
partly responsible), and that the reduction
of incomes of the “tall poppies” to the
level of the average wage-earner’s would
bring those citizens anything appreciable
in the way of a rise in real income ;
nevertheless the object of nearly every
strike seen in the Commonwealth since
the end of the war (and some that
occurred before it ended) has been to in-
crease the wage-earner’s income on a
smaller output produced in shorter work-
ing time. A purely monetary readjust-
ment of wages—a robbing of Peter to
pay Paul —will only do wage-earners
harm in the long run.
A reasonable student of current poli-
tical and economic affairs can only
assume from the demonstrably vicious
behavior of militant unionists that there
is some deep, unhealthy motive behind
their strikes. The secret ballot, through
which the free wishes of the workers them-
selves might be ascertained, is abhorrent
to the trade-union boss, which makes his
sinister purpose doubly clear. To the
trade-union boss it is not the worker’s
duty to reason why; it is the worker’s
job to do as he’s told, and to die poli-
tically. He must defy his employing
boss, but bow the knee humbly to his
trade-union boss.
The sinister motive behind Communist-
run unionism seems to be, undoubtedly,
the destruction of law and order as we
know it under democracy, the overthrow
of the existing social set-up (in which
organising and productive ability carry
authority), the disruption of the financial
system and the breakdown of produc-
tion, In such a mess and muddle anar-
chists hope to rise to the top. In the
meantime, Communist disruption' in Aus-
tralia, as well as in America and other
farts of the world, is unquestionably
strengthening the hand of Soviet Russia
in its intrusion into the government of
non-Russian countries.
Marxism implies a belief in the class
struggle. Australianism at its best has
■ested on a belief in the “fair go”—a fair
leal for everybody, with impartial
referees. Marxists in the Commonwealth,
whether carrying the Communist banner
or not, seem determined at present to see
that industrial strife is unending, and-that
the harmony out. of which high economic
production springs shall not be allowed
to settle upon the land.
The confusion in the present situation
is undoubtedly great. The cost of war
itself and the nature of its economic
burden are puzzling to the majority of
people. Add to that the deliberate cur-
tailment, by Corn-run unions, of coal and
steel production, to name only two vital
commodities, and the slowing-down of all
shipping and stevedoring services, and
the increased cost-of-living resulting
“I think he'll be sorry he traded-in his comptometer for that device."
therefrom inevitably becomes exasperat-
ing to other unionists working for
pegged wages. Even so, many of these
other unionists have been dragged out
on strike only under duress imposed by
organised militant minorities.
There is still a poor understanding of
the crux of our present problems in places
away from the precincts of trade-
unionism. Many people are still unaware
that you cannot improve the lot of
workers merely by lifting their wages.
They don’t perhaps realise that the
national production level has to be raised
before higher wages are justifiable, since,
without this higher output, available for
the people generally, increases in paper-
money wages become an inflationary
mockery. And, whilst production is lag-
•ging so badly—so badly as to represent
a danger to all our political and economic
stability—demands for a 40-hour week
represent a request for an exotic luxury.
Australia, like other countries, finds
itself in a very dangerous post-war situa-
tion. During the war many self-seeking
non-combatants became entrenched in
trade-union politics on the home front,
and the Curtin and Chifley Governments
were never game to check their activities
aimed at destroying democratic 'govern-
ment, first in the trade-union field and
next in the sphere of national politics.
The country has not been able to slough-
off the hangover of war like the skin of
a snake, and it has been the plan of
Communists and the like to hamper the
nation even more in its difficulties. It
should be realised by everyone that the
production depression in which we find
ourselves is likely to have the greatest
political and social consequences unless
a bold lead is taken by Australians who
believe in democracy.
There are wage-earners today in Aus-
tralia who are on a poor income relative
to the cost-of-living. This is not the fault
of their employers, as a rule; it is the
result of the squeeze being exerted by
powerful unions on the cost structure of
the whole national economy. The Federal
Government, from Menzies to Chifley,
has endeavored to prevent prices from
rising unduly during the war, and the
result as a whole has been valuable,
especially to the wage-earner. But if,
under pressure of militant unionism, the
wages ceiling bursts, then the prices ceil-
ing will be the next to go, and after that
the value of the national currency.
Whichever way you look at it, Aus-
tralia’s present problem comes back to
one of a crying need for increased output
of goods and services. And the satis-
faction of that need is something which
militants in our midst are determined to
deny the nation.
In Britain Dr, Dalton, Chancellor of
the Exchequer, continues with his con-
troversial cheap-money policy. Rates
offered on some Government stocks are
now lower than during the war. One re-
sult of Dr. Dalton’s blitz on interest
rates has been to divert attention from
gilt-edged securities and to push up prices
of industrial shares, thus reversing the
trend put in motion by the Wall-street
collapse. Cheap-money policy in Aus-
tralia may again bring a strengthening in
prices of ord. shares listed in Common-
wealth Stock Exchanges.
The United States has revised its
Budget figures for 1946-47. A prelimi-
nary estimate in January this year put
projected outgo at $36,000 million and
revenue at $31,500 million. Now the
figures have grown to $41,500 million
and $39,600 million respectively. It will
be seen that, in the recast estimates, the
amount to be raised by borrowing has
fallen from $4500 million to $l9OO mil-
lion; a balanced Budget is expected in
the 1947-48' term. Defence costs are re-
sponsible for about half of the increased
expenditure now forecast for the current
year, and a large sum has recently been
voted as “terminal pay” for demobilised
enlisted men. Revenue estimates have
increased because of a maintained high-
level of taxable sales and incomes. If
the tax revenue now forecast for 1946-47
is realised it would have covered all the
1946-47 expenditure as estimated in
January, with a surplus of $3600 million.
The President is offering no prospects of
tax reductions “until the inflationary situ-
ation is pa.ssed.” ;
» * ♦ *
Australia’s surplus of merchandise ex-
ports over imports for the three months
to September 30 was £24.5 million ster-
ling. Imports (£40.1 million) were actually
£4.1 million lower than for the corres-
ponding period of the previous year,
whilst exports were more than double at
£64.6 million. Most recent figure for
“gold and London balances” in the
central-bank return was £2lB million Aus-
tralian. The quarter’s external-trade
figures show a very strong position, and
the position would be much better still if
post-war trade with the Netherland Indies
had not been nipped in the bud by the
Communist wharfies usurping Dr. Evatt’s
role in external affairs. In Australian
manufacturing industries, too, we are not
seeing the production of which expanded
plant should now be capable. Now is
the time when Australia should be build-
ing up post-war credits in order to pay
for the overseas products which are so
necessary to this country when they again
become freely available in Britain, the
United States, the Continent and in
southern Asia and Malaya.
« * * •
Flax-production in Australia, as in New
Zealand, cost the Government a great deal
of money during the war. Britain’s war-
time demands for its aircraft industry
prompted the offer of a bounty of £2 an
acre on grassland ploughed and sown
with flax in Britain, and in Australia £4
an acre, plus free seed, was promised by
the Federal Government. In 1941 the
Australian crop totalled'. 66,000 tons, with
48,000 tons in 1942. By 1944 Britain
was receiving more than adequate sup-
plies of flax from the Northern Hemis-
phere, and the Australian and Maoriland
industries received a jolt. Production
losses in M.L. totalled £334,000 during
the three years to June, 1944. In the
Commonwealth the Federal Government
was also up for large sums, part of the
losses to be shared by the British Govern-
ment. Recently Mr. W. L. Greenhill, of
the C.5.1.R., returning from a tour of
Britain, the Continent and N. America,
said he believes the flax industry in Aus
tralia has a future. He suggests that we
should be able to produce linen and other
flax products on competitive terras with
overseas articles. Development in growing
and processing rather than any radical
change in methods was needed in this
country, Mr. Greenhill believes. He
found research into the flax industry go-
ing on in all the countries he visited.
* * # •
On Sept. 30 the Treasury-bill debt of
the Commonwealth stood at £313 mil-
lion, a reduction of £3O million compared
with the total at June 30. “War” spend-
ing, apparently shown after deducting
revenue from disposals and similar in-
come, totalled £56 million net during July,
August and September. Because of ac-
counting methods this figure is probably
a great deal less than the real gross out-
lay for the two months.


RedJtiii
RUM
BOTTLED OVERPROOF IN BOND
T\
K 2
IN TUBI
■SE. M
§8
NW^I/SS.
f i
■ I
fortALlr
W HIT E
s #<£SA
tm
FOB EACH OTHER
GILLETTE
RAZORS and BLADES
PRECISION BUILT Gillette
blade and razor fit per*
fectly to give a natural
shaving angle and absolute
rigidity. They are 'made
v>
o
Q>\
I
SHOULDERED EDGE
means greater strength,
therefore the cutting-edge
lasts longer; you get more
shaves per blade.
fWO TEMPERS. Blue
Gillette blades are flexible
in centre, diamond-hard on
the cutting - edge. The
sharpest edges ever honed!
One good thing deserves another; so, for closer, smoother, cleaner shaves, use
a Gillette Razor with a Gillette Blade. Together they form a fine precision
instrument ... the greatest shaving system the world has known. Fifty years
of research and experience built this grand Gillette Razor, and the famous Gillette
Blades that are even sharper than a surgeon’s scalpel. Precisely, beautifully
balanced, they are priced to make the finest shave the most economical. Use them
together. Discover that 'Good Mornings’ begin with Gillette.
h
‘GOOD MORNINGS 5 BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
12/336.
The announcement of an interim div.
at the rate of p.c. p.a. from B.H.P.
came as a surprise to the sharemarket,
especially in view of the fact that it was
B.H.P. scrip that led the break in the
market about the end of August. At the
co.’s annual meeting the chairman pointed
out that the Newcastle steelworks were
operating at only 66 p.c. capacity be-
cause of the “industrial instability and
lack of discipline in the coal industry it-
self.” He also mentioned that the net
profit from all sources amounted to only
4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. The div.
for 1945-46 was at the unchanged rate of
5 p.c. In B. 11/9/’46 the extent of the
fall in B.H.P.’s 1945-46 profits was ana-
lysed, and the opinion was expressed
that, granted a return to adequate produc-
tion at reasonable price-levels, the co.
could become a 10 p.c. proposition over-
night. It was also contended that the
scrip, in present circumstances, was in-
herently a holding proposition, and that
unless the B.H.P. organisation was per-
mitted to produce adequately it would be
a pretty poor outlook for every other
industry in the Commonwealth. The in-
crease in the latest div. rate is probably
covered by current profits in spite of the
poor showing last year. In that period
there was the disrupting strike at Christ-
mas, which cost all parties to the dispute
a great deal of money. It is unlikely that
the call for depreciation at the present
time is as heavy as it was during the war,
when large sums were set aside because
of the heavy outlay on plant that might
have little value in peace-time. Wear
and tear were also excessive under war-
time conditions. B.H.P. products are now
selling more to the civilian market than
during war-time, when the Government
was supplied with steel at cost price. The
shares, following the August break, fell
from the ceiling of 48s. 9d. to under 435.
at one stage. They have recovered since
the increased-div. announcement to
445, 9d, The yield to the investor at that
price is 3.4 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
♦ * * *
Marriner Eccles, chairman of the
Federal Reserve Board, has issued a
warning to Americans that prices of both
urban real estate and farm property have
reached levels that cannot be maintained.
In the United States control of prices
has not extended to these things, and pro-
ducers of meat and wheat have been
making so much money in present condi-
tions of food shortage that values -of
their properties have risen sharply,
especially as there has been the addi-
tional influence of excessive spending —
and investing power accumulating
among other sections of the community.
It has been one of the big problems in
getting food to Britain and the Continent
that the U.S. Federal Government has
been subsidising the feeding of grain to
pigs and cattle, and thus it has been more
profitable to use wheat in this way than
to ship it to Europe, even though wheat
is worth nearly 10s. sterling on the
European side of the Atlantic. Infla-
tionary forces have had their head in
the United States to a much greater
extent than in Britain, Canada or
Australia ; a “boom” basis of things was
established in America during the two
and a quarter years in which it remained
out of World War 11, and there has not,
until this year, been any check to
gambling on the Stock Exchange or
speculation in real estate. Since price-
control was watered-down from July 1
onwards food prices, according to De-
partment of Labor statistics, rose nearly
20 p.c. in three months, and since August,
1939, it is reckoned that U.S. food prices
have gone up 86 p.c. It was claimed
recently also that the higher cost of nearly
everything has reduced the value of the
apparently large savings of the people
generally, and that there will no longer
be the same fancy prices offering for
luxuries. The Stock Exchange has
already had a heavy fall, and T. M. Harle,
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corp., has now advised its insured
banks to get out of real estate except
bank premises. It is possible, as a result
of this, that there will be considerable
alarm in interested American circles. But
Australians, whatever happens, should
not follow the U.S. lead precipitately.
Although it wouldn’t hurt prospective
home-owners if the real-estate market be-
came a great deal freer here, there is little
doubt that pegged prices for land are
generally on the conservative side, to say
the least. The blackmarket, both for
house property and rural lands, may be
another matter.
* * * »
By a majority of five to four the Full
High Court has held valid the National
Security Regulation giving the Common-
wealth Treasurer power to fix ceiling
prices for stocks, shares and debentures
listed on the Stock Exchange, Starke and
Williams, Is., dissented. The case was
brought to Court by C. K. Miller, a
member of Sydney ’Change, the Com-
monwealth Government demurring. In
the opinion of Chief Justice Latham his
Majesty was still at war until peace had
been arranged with the Allied enemies,
and, therefore, the regulations were valid.
Rich, J., had doubts regarding specific
regulations dealing with price-control, but
decided, in general, that the regulations
were “on the right side.” Starke, J., con-
sidered that the Treasurer, without any-
thing to guide him, was not justified under
the defence powers, Mr. Justice Williams
contended that ordinary civil rights could
be affected under the defence sections of
the Constitution only so far as an inter-
ference with those rights was capable of
aiding defence. He observed anomalies
between the regulation of “controlled
securities and those not covered by the
regulation.
* * * *
Post-war gold production in Victoria
is getting a move on. Output for the nine
months to Sept. 30 (61,631 fine oz.) ran
very close to total output for 1945. Re-
vived interest in the State’s goldmining is
extending to the Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Total expenditure by the Department
of Munitions during the war (to June 30,
1945) was £467 million. Greatest ex-
penditure was in 1942-43, when £152
million was spent. Cost of munitions
turned out in this year was £B2 million.
These figures are given in “Manufactur-
ing and Management,” a new monthly
journal put out by the Tait Publishing
Co. It specialises in articles aiming to
increase manufacturing scope and man-
agement efficiency.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; Constable Minogue was sitting
with his feet up on the desk of his little
police-station reflecting on the utterly
crimeless condition of Muttagrubba and
surrounding parts, turning over the com-
fortable thought that no constabulary duty
necessitated his venturing out into the
drumming rain, when there came a squeal
of brakes outside. Just as he got to his
feet a wild-eyed figure burst into the
station. Minogue recognised the visitor
as “Lanky” Sid, the rather dopey hand
from Mashman’s out at Spiker’s Ridge.
He was soaking wet, having come the
four miles in Mashman’s ancient open
car. From his incoherent speech the con-
stable gathered something about an argu-
ment that Sid’s employer had had with
Chubb, his neighbor, a bloodstained axe
and Mrs. Mashman’s exhortation for him
to go and get the constable. Minogue
didn’t wait to hear any more. Grabbing
gun and handcuffs, he tore outside, got
out his motor-bike, instructed Sid to fol-
low him out as quickly as he could with
the car, and roared off. It was a night-
mare ride, with the bike skidding danger-
ously /over the badly-rutted roads and
the driving rain pelting into his eyes.
Arriving at last at the Mashman home-
stead he propped his bike against the
verandah and knocked urgently on the
door. It was Mrs. Mashman who opened
it. “Oh, come in, Mr. Minogue,” she
said. “We thought you’d be able to
settle this thing for us. You see, one
of Chubb’s roosters had been over again
scratching up my kitchen garden. It’s
been a nuisance all the week and Jack’s
warned Chubb about it. He got real
wild today when he saw the uprooted
young lettuce, grabbed the chook and
chopped its head off. Chubb, who hap-
pened to see it, threatened to have the
law on us and demanded the fowl back.
We reckon it’s trespass and we’re entitled
to it. We want your advice before I
go to the trouble of plucking it!”
* * * «
“Camsa”; Game-fishers will soon be
out in S.A. waters trying to eclipse the
world record held by G. R. Cowell,
president of S.A.’s Game Fishing Club,
for landing a 19001 b. shark, also Don
Taylor’s tunny record for a 135-pounder
taken on 12-thread off Port Lincoln seven
years ago. The late Zane Grey expressed
the opinion that the big sharks in abun-
dance out from Port Lincoln and off
Kangaroo Island , provided opportunities
for sport unequalled anywhere else in
the world.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Muckalong held a meeting
the other night to decide on fielding a
cricket team in the district competition.
A suitable ground being sought, Charlie
Kelley was called in to be asked if he’d
grant the use of one of his paddocks.
“Well, now, that’s awkward,” said Charlie
slowly. “Y’ see, I got nearly all me land
sown down in clover this year, an’ youse
blokes might tramp it down a fair bit.
But I’ll tell youse wot —if y’ like t’ use
that bit o’ flat road near me win’mill f’r a
pitch I wouldn’t object t’ y’ fieldin’ in
me paddick, ’s long as y’ don’t leave the
sliprails down an’ let the bull out.”
“Square up, Charlie,” said Tom Regan.
“There’s a five-wire fence an’ the wind-
mill on one side an’ the creek an’ a
clump o’ trees on the other. Howinell
do y’ expect us t’ play cricket there?”
“Youse young blokes are too bloomin’
fussy,” growled Charlie. “A man offers
y’ a ground in the hope of promotin’ a
bit o’ sport an’ y’ turn him down flat.
Y’ don’t deserve no encouragement.”
An<j, muttering in his whiskers, he
stalked off.
* * $ #
“Moya”: “Ricketty Dick” (B.
23/10/’46) overlooked one outstanding
defect in the filming of “The Over-
landers” ; the absence of cattle-dogs.
“Chips” Rafferty might be able to bring
a mob of cattle 1500 miles without the
aid of dogs, but I think Bundoo Mc-
Crackan and the others would un-
doubtedly have their heelers with them.
“Naturala”: Tell “Chook” (B.
2/10/’46) that the fowl tastes wheat just
as he does, with its tongue. Its digestive
processes are so strong and rapid" that
even the momentary passing of a grain of
wheat over its tongue releases a flavor.
How rapid a fowl’s digestion is may be
judged by the length of time required to
soften hard wheat by soaking in water —
a matter of at least 12 hours —and the
“One thing, Joe, this queue DOES keep moving”
short time in which the same wheat will
be softened in the fowl’s crop and assimi-
lated into its organs, a matter with a
healthy fowl of about four hours. And,
of course, fowls have a very keen sense
of taste; anyone who has reared incu-
bator-chicks will know how quickly they
acquire the taste for blood. The accidental
nipping of one youngster’s tender toe,
with the drawing of blood will, unless
checked by the hen-man, lead to all hands
having a taste and the literal eating alive
of the unfortunate blood-donor.
* * * ♦
“Esk D.”: Approaching George’s hut
at Alluvial Creek the hack cocked an
ear forward and stepped like a cat, while
Brownie’s neck bristled and he growled
tentatively. Then I became aware of
strange, tinny noises mingled with static
issuing from the old bloke’s domicile.
I found George sitting with his ears
cocked to what must have been the grand-
parent of all wireless-sets, and a swing
session was in full blast. George “ssh-ed”
me till the record was played ; then he
sat back contentedly, drew noisily on his
pipe and waved a hand in the direction
of his new possession. “Marv’llous
things, ain’t they?” he said. “Us blokes
in the bush’d never git any opportuni-
ties for culture without ’em.”
* * * »
“C.E.”: “Coin’ along to work f’r
Mathers, are you?” asked the new settler
as Dick swung back on his nag. “Well,
don’t you b’lieve all they say about that
bloke bein’ lousy,” he advised. “Strikes
me he’s pretty decent. Now here’s me,
poor’s a crow an’ laid up with a poisoned
foot and me big neighbor Mathers
grassin’ me sheep for me.” Dick blinked
his surprise. “Yair,” championed the
newchum, “nineteen of those big ewes o’
mine branded with a black Y got into his
paddock, an’ when I sent young Tommy
round yesterday, sayin’ the kid’d try an’
get ’em home, Mathers wouldn’t hear of
it. ‘You tell y’r dad,’ ’e sez t’ Tommy,
‘not t’ worry. I’ll be dosin’ mine in a
day or two,’ ’e sez, ‘an’ I’ll do ’is at the
same time. Then Til put ’em on the road
an’ they c’n poke home,’ Darned good, if
y’ ask me,” he concluded. Dick was still
pondering the incident as he dropped off
at the Mathers homestead. “Got a few
thousand woollies for you to dose first
off,” announced Mathers when Dick had
dumped his belongings. “Fluke drench
it is, and a man can’t be too careful with
it. Good, but liable to lay ’em out whole-
sale for no apparent reason —that’s why
y’ve got to do a few and watch how they
go before risking the mob. Awright, y’ll
find nineteen Y-branded ewes shut in the
yard. Let ’em have it.”
* * * *
“Higher Highway”: In his par (B.
2/10/’46) re John Horrocks being killed
back in 1840 by the accidental explosion
of a loaded gun due to a camel blunder-
ing into it, “S.T.S.” imparts some unique
historical information. The generally-
accepted belief is that oonts were first
brought to Australia in 1860 for the
fitting-out of the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion. Seeing that S.A. was only colonised
in 1836, and even by 1840 was only a
very primitive place, it speaks volumes for
the enterprise of its earliest settlers that
they had so soon procured the services
of the ship of the desert. If Eyre had
availed himself of the services of only one
of those camels the story of his march
from Fowler’s Bay to Albany (1840)
might have been less filled with suffering.
H? Jfc *
“Colbun”: That flexible sandstone
mentioned by “8.A.” (B. 16/10/’46) is a
familiar article in parts of India and
Japan. From the upper waters of the
Ravi, one of the five main streams which
make up the Punjab river system, de-
posits of it extend for miles and provide
material for an industry in the manufac-
ture of carvings and curios, as well as
hand-size and larger slabs which are an
excellent substitute for sandpaper in
wood-working. Large beds of it occur
also in the mountain country of north-
western Honshu, the main island of
Japan, where it has for centuries been
used in the construction of earthquake-
proof temples and other buildings. The
big Imperial Hotel in Tokyo was largely
built of it for this reason, and the suit-
ability of the queer material was proved
by survival of the massive structure,
though the disastrous earthquake of 1923
wrecked nearly every other big building
in the city.
* * * *
“Bozo”: I always thought herons, cor-
morants and their ilk had a monopoly of
the feeding rights on yabbies, but Tve
discovered our feathered friends have a
rival. Going the rounds on a Riverina
sheep property we found a water-tank
had evaporated almost dry. A closer in-
spection showed the tail and hind legs of
a goanna sticking up out of the mud, and
soon the rest of the Binghi’s breakfast
emerged clutching in its jaws a large
yabby. Blinking the mud out of its eyes,
the go. waded out of the tank with his
wriggling prize and waddled hastily out
of sight. Somebody must have told him
that yabbies in open tanks grow to far
primer proportions than their creek-bred
brothers.
* * * #
“B. A. Ker”: If “Narrin” squandered
all that energy in order to reach Ben’s
humpy (B. 2/10/’46), he could hardly
be called a sluggard; nevertheless he
might well go to the ant, consider her
ways and be wise—well, at least wise
enough to refrain from comparing the
roundabout track he was compelled to
take with the needless zigzagging of a
meat-ant, A foraging ant, in attempting
to reach a position comparative to Ben’s
humpy, would dash madly across the
miniature equivalent of those stony flats,
travelling in a series of tangents, at least
three times the distance necessary. Tear-
ing up the side of those red cliffs the little
imbecile would abruptly change his (or
is it her?) mind, come halfway down, sud-
denly about-face and charge the heights
so violently that a fall down the rocky
bluff would be inevitable. If the breeze
were not adverse, “walking” on the water
would eventually bring the adventurer to
land. A few more aimless dashings
might follow before another madcap rush
carried the little creature to the summit,
whence he would finally arrive at his
parallel to Ben’s humpy—-having got
there with the most expenditure of energy
possible. Yet, with all the twistings and
turnings the ant would not have made one
detour to avoid an obstacle. And, in fact,
I know only one obstacle that will check
the tiny marauder; the bushwife uses
it to protect the meat-safe —a small tin
full of water placed under each leg.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The tendency towards
digital duplication (B. 16/10/’46) certainly
is hereditary and isn’t confined to our
abos. In the Brisbane p.-0.-w. camp the
fingerprinting of Nips by the civilian
police disclosed a remarkable incidence
of two-thumbed Japs. Each of two
Korean brothers possessed an extra
thumb. In nearly every case the owners
of the surplus members told of parents
or brothers and sisters with the same
manual conformation. The extra thumbs
were less prehensile than the ordinary
digits, and accordingly they proved an
impediment rather than an aid to manual
dexterity.
“Malo”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
16/10/’46), envisaging the far-distant time
when mountains will have been laid flat
by the eroding forces of wind, rain and
soil acids (and the greatest of these are
the acids), mentions that white pipeclay
(once granite) is often seen in close
proximity to rich red loam (once diorite),
The line of demarcation is sometimes as
distinct as if drawn with a rule. Such a
phenomenon may be seen where a reef
of quartz seemingly makes
its way in a direct line
over hill and valley whilst
going deep into the earth
and often carrying veins
of pure gold. Between
Walgett and White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) the gibbers come
to an abrupt halt and a
stretch of “white” country
begins in a similar straight
line. Farther on the grass plains make
their appearance, and the mirage of cairns,
monuments, pyramids and cubic moun-
tains of bottled beer affords proof that
this part was once pure sand. Further on
is the well-defined area of alkali where
the sunbeam chased the moonbeam, and
by their combined alchemy the red and
violet light produced the elusive opal
When the earth is eventually levelled, “G.”
predicts, all land creatures will become
aquatic. Well, whales, porpoises, seals
and turtles were once land animals and
still bear the remnants of their limbs.
Auks and penguins, too, are well on the
way to becoming seafishes; certain
goannas are as happy under water as on
the trunk of a tree; and probably man,
the supreme animal, will be ready for the
sea-change when the times comes.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: “Plankton” presumes
that I rated a beeV“working range” at up
to 10 miles (B. 9 /10/’46). The U.S.
Department of Agriculture has it that
bees will search for nectar at that dis-
tance, and I assume that tests were made
during a shortage of nectariferous flora
in the closer proximity to the hives.
Working range, quite a different matter,
is up to two or three miles from the
hives, at which distances the workers can
bring in payloads. Better still if the
harvest can be taken within a radius of
half a mile of the hives, when the sweet
stuff almost pours in. Bees have the nous
to gather supplies as near home as circum-
stances permit, a trait I’ve observed on
numerous occasions when with bees in
dense forest country,
» * * ♦
“E. 2”: Dan, on the track of dingoes
worth a fiver a pair, shot a wallaby and
loaded the carcass with strychnine. On
visiting the spot three days later and
finding only Murphy’s blueheeler lying
stiff near by he took the honest course
of going at once to inform his quarrel-
some neighbor. Murphy took the news
bleakly, and a hard look came in his eyes.
“That’ll cost y’ twenty quid,” he growled.
“Blue was the makin’s of a champeen.”
“But I warned y’ I had baits out,” pro-
tested Dan. “An’, anyway, y’ said your-
self that dawg hadn’t bin a bit of use
since he was given t’ y’ five years ago.
What about the time y’ was gom’t’ shoot
him?” “Aw, that was diff’rent,” argued
Murphy. “It’s one thing a bloke goin’
f shoot his own dawg an’ another havin’
someone else poison it. An the fact that
I didn’t shoot him must count, too ; prov-
in’ he was too valuable. < I’ll have the
law on y’.” “Yair; well, I ain’t payin’ a
brass razoo,” said Dan, getting flustered.
“Y’r dawg pinchin’ a bait wot might’ve
scored a fifty-bob dingo’d convince any
jury an’ y’ not shootin’ him when y’
should of ’ll count as evidence against
v’ Now, c’mon, hop through the fence
ari’ let’s have it out man t’ man with
our dooks.”
BLACK COCKATOOS.
The tuneful magpie and the thrush
—Authentic voices of the bush —
Intrigue our southern rhymers;
An asset to the Austral scene,
The kookaburra’s laugh has been
Much featured by old-timers.
Blue warblers enter in the chant
Of many bards we freely grant;
And other b’irds, for reasons
Of color, flight or melody,
Have been poetic property
Throughout the singing seasons.
But few, or none, for treatment choose
The wizard-wise black cockatoos
—Grave birds of mourning feather —
Which slowly o’er the treetops fly
And, when the days are hot and dry,
Predict a turn of weather.
Barometers of welcome change,
Dark prophets from the frowning range,
Their great heads seem invested
With some foreknowledge foreign to
Officials of a State Bureau
With instruments congested.
The settler does not care two hoots
If, in their solemn Sunday suits,
They move like undertakers;
Nor curse when from their iron beaks
Come sounds as when a mill-saw shrieks
Fierce hatred for its makers.
That harsh “Ah-whee-yah! ” is to him
As musical as any hymn,
. That, as their journey ended,
Tired pilgrims sang when slowly grew
Across the sands in distant view
Jerusalem the splendid.
“Ah-whee-yah! ” left, “Ah-whee-yah! ”
right,
They wail in either rest or flight.
New hope that weird call carries
When dryly blows the warm monsoon
And no dull circle rings the moon
And drought the lean flock harries.
The bush-folk wish them ample store
Of tough gUmnuts and seeds galore —
Their mates Of mourning feather
Who bear to them from God-knows-where
When dams are dry and paddocks bare
A promise of wet weather.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Mat’s Mate”; “Well,” Mat said, as
we studied the advertisement, “I never
worked for a chook-farmer, but we got
t’ get a few quid somewhere.” Presently
we were mixing mashes and gathering
eggs and cleaning ’em and drafting
chooks and so forth, with a bit of grass-
cutting and painting and bush carpenter-
ing thrown in. The change in diet was
welcome for a few days—eggs for break-
fast, boiled fowl for lunch, cold fowl or
fried eggs for tea—but it began to pall,
and on the tenth day Mat said, “Hey,
how about slippin’ into the town t’night
an’ wrappin’ ourselves around a bit o’
steak or sumpin’?” “Do me,” I replied,
“But we better not skite about it. The
boss mightn’t like t’ think we don’t like
his tucker.” I suppose our air of con-
spiracy attracted attention ; anyway, we
noticed both the boss and his missus eye-
ing us suspiciously, and the missus be-
came very curious when both of us pre-
tended we weren’t very hungry. Just after
dark we got quietly out of our hut,
through the fence on to the road and
headed for the town. At the corner was
an apparition which resolved itself into
the boss. “Where y’ goin’, boys?” he
demanded, with false casualness. Mat,
always frank, told him. “Into town f’r a
feed o’ steak or fish or tripe—anythin’
but chook or cackle-berries. Gripes, a
man’ll start moultin’ if he don’t get a
change.” Silence; then the boss said,
"You’ll do me. I feel the same way, but
I always had t’ go on me own before,
But keep it dark from the missus, won’t
you?”
* s * * *
“D.R.H.”: Was having lunch the other
day when a vehement insect took charge
of the hut. It turned out to be an
ordinary honey-bee, an exotic species in
these parts, and had evidently got itself
bushed and was very cross about it.
After ducking away from the thing half-
a-dozen times I remembered that 1 could
use a bee, and knocked the beggar down
with a towel. He was still alive and to
all appearance unharmed, so I picked
him up with a pair of forceps and placed
him on a leather roll containing instru-
ments. When I was ready, in half-a-
minute’s time, to attend to him, I again
picked him up with the forceps, only to
find that he’d driven his sting deep into
the leather, where, with its local complex
of muscles and glands, it remained when
I removed the insect. Although com-
pletely separated from the bee, the tiny
muscles attached to the sting continued to
drive the miniature harpoon deeper and
deeper into the leather with perfectly vis-
ible ferocity. After witnessing that little
bit of purely reflex action I’m darned
glad no one’s likely to bequeath me a
share in an apiary,
“It’ll be safe for Alfie to go in the deep end now."
.. Wippegong”: It is now evident that
“ had a few drums of
D f ) T - he could have stalled Moses off
E hd longer. As soon as the stuff was
used in the Islands we heard the frequent
remark, Whacko the grasshoppers back
nome and now that a radio commen-
tator has climbed aboard a mighty Beau-
lort and gone on ’opperations— pardon—
me practice of spraying from aircraft
may be said to have arrived. Personally,
I’m waiting for the boomerang to flutter
back to earth. On Morotai the first
raptures at relief from mossies were still
being sung when it was obsetwed that
pawpaw flowers were falling unfertilised.
Fruit already set continued growing, but
t unt q ano ther insect generation arose
„ f
did any flower form fruit. In a place
where prime pawpaw could usually be
gathered by the ton, this visible approach
of a fruit-famine was matched with mixed
feelings, and when at last a lone butter-
fly or carpenter-bee showed up it was
news. The area was a couple of months
... ~u , .
Without -pawpaws, and that in a hothouse
climate, where reproduction is rapid. In
our latitudes the repercussions may be
more protracted,
* * * » *
“W.J.W.”: Eucla, from where it is pro-
posed to start rockets on their trans-
continental trip to the Ninety-mile Beach
meant life to Eyre when he discovered it
in March, 1841, and struck water for the
first time in 130-odd miles. It was an
important place for all the early even-
landers, but literally drifted into obscurity
when, its water no longer needed, it was
left to the mercy of the shifting sands,
The erection of the overland telegraph
line from Adelaide to Albany gave it a
new lease of life—it became a repeating
station in 1877—which lasted until the
opening of the transcontinental railway.
The name is generally considered to be
the Anglicised rendering of the native
name Yercla, from the native words “yer”
(bright) and “caloya” (fire), and is taken
to indicate the natives’ association of
the fresh water with the planet Venus,
whose appearance over the sandhills may
have had some mystical significance for
them.
* * * *
“Goldie”: Jerry Timms had the only
quartz-crushing battery on the Dolly
Creek diggings, and his dishonesty was
of the proverbial kind. There was talk
of holes bored in the amalgamation plates,
a leaky “shammy” through which Jerry
squeezed the quicksilver from the amal-
gam, and various other dodges by which
he scored off the miners. The fact that
he got good crushings from his own little
show explained a means for disposal of
the stolen gold. Jerry’s unpopularity
mounted as fossickers continued to bring
in sdwt. ore that wouldn’t go an ounce
to the ton through the battery, and he
finally got so annoyed by the insinuations
that he wouldn’t oblige by crushing any
more stone besides his own. His own
show being then on the verge of petering
out, Jerry left the field under a cloud of
suspicion and mutters of a lynching-party.
He’s convinced that you can’t reconcile
a miner’s optimism with machinery in-
capable of impregnating crushed ore with
heavy yellow metal,
* * * *
“O’Took”: We were out at a paper-
bark swamp about 30 miles from Adelaide
River getting logs for telegraph-poles,
One night some abos who were camped
in the vicinity put on a corroboree for
our benefit. By way of returning the
compliment we decided to show them
some white-man entertainment, and tuned
up the transmitter-receiver set we used
for wireless communications back to
H.Q. I doubt if anyone in the Mel-
bourne Town Hall that night imagined
that a mob of natives sitting on a sand-
rise in the middle of the N.T. were
listening to the same Beethoven Sym-
phony. Prof, Bernard Heinze might be
interested to know that they voted it
“good music but not so good blackfella
music.” We twirled the dial and picked
up a Jap broadcast. The abos accepted
it philosophically enough, merely remark-
ing “Japanman, him bad fella.” Later on
we explained that “we talk longa box,
boy savvy talk longa Adelaide River.”
They didn’t believe that at first, but by
perseverance we eventually managed to
convince them. The result was better
entertainment than the corroboree, the
symphony concert and Tojo’s propaganda
all put together. They chattered and
waved their arms at each other in a
hubbub of astonishment. As each one
discovered what all the fuss was about
his eyes widened and he broke out in a
flood of excited'gibberish. One old chap
thought it so good he even went over to
the gins, who were sitting about 20yds.
“Sorry, no more phone bets for the Lunar Derby. Weather's too crook."
away, and told them about it. When
the noise had all died down they sat
silently gazing into the fire, and then one
by one walked off to their miamias
shaking their heads with wonder and
incredulity. Talking to Adelaide River
was too much for them. I don’t know
where they thought the Japs were.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Tell “Notaden” (B.
2/10/’46) the muffled explosion that
heralded the gradual disappearance of
Lake Nooga Nooga was due to the break-
ing of a bar of rock deep under the lake-
bed, probably giving way under the weight
of the accumulated water. The crack
which resulted may then have provided
a way by which the water seeped away to
deep underground. Some 20 years ago
Kalgoorlie and Boulder (W.A.) were
alarmed one midnight by a similar ex-
plosion. Investigation later revealed that
this was caused by the breaking of a
massive bar of rock which divided the
Great Boulder line of lode from the
parallel line of lode which ran through
the Ivanhoe and the Horseshoe mines.
These lodes lay on a slight incline, so
that when millions of tons of ore had
been removed to the depth of 2000 ft. over
a length of about half a mile, this bar
of rock, a couple of hundred feet through
and weighing millions of tons, hung sus-
pended. Finally it broke of - its own
weight, fractured right through near the
bottom, slipping about an inch. So an
explosion and local earth tremor, man-
made, was produced.
» # * ♦
“Bozo”: “Old-timer’s” myopic old
boy of the shearing-shed (B. 23/10/’46)
reminds me of the two oldest inhabitants
of Shunters’ Crossing. Both were well over
the three-score-and-ten, but wouldn’t
admit any deterioration of the senses.
“My eyes are as good as they were sixty
year ago,” squeaked Ned, pointing to the
end of the bar-room. “Why, I can see a
fly walkin’ on the face o’ that there
clock.” Dad Davis cupped a gnarled
hand over an ear and listened intently.
“Yair, that’s right,” he agreed, “and
draggin’ a hind-leg by the sound of it.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Some of us were rather
uneasy about, the bagman camped down
by the lake. He’d rejected our offers of
a bunk in the hut, had little or nothing
to say and there was a rather furtive air
about him. The average bagman would
have been in the hut and kept us awake
half the night yarning. Some time in
the small hours we heard the chained
dogs clamoring, and into the hut slipped
the boss’s son. “Come on,” he mur-
mured, “there’s somebody rooting about
in the garage.” With visions of stolen
cars we arose, armed ourselves with what
the police call “heavy, blunt instruments,”
and sneaked forth. There was a flicker-
ing light in the garage and noises issued
therefrom as we crept near. The boss’s
son let out a yell and charged through
the door, us following. A dim figure
yelled back and waved its arms, but
Harry got a grip and brought the
marauder down; for a few seconds
there was a wild flurry in the dust, grease
and rubbish on the garage-floor. Then
Harry arose, holding his captive,
and somebody switched on the car head-
lights—to reveal the old boss, his pyjamas
streaked with dirt, his mouth roaring at
us. “Can’t a flamin’ man come out t’
look for his pipe without a lot of rag-
time bushwhackers kickin’ him t’
death!” he howled. “By cripes, I’ll
sack every” But by that time the
only person left was his son, and we never
accurately knew what else the old man
said.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Despite his thinning locks,
Bunny had the mental age of a larrikin,
and his pranks were often as irksome.
Because he trusted his owner implicitly
and could be ridden anywhere Blackout,
Bunny’s poor sightless pony, was
generally an unwitting accomplice. When
his master said “Up, Blackout! ” the poor
misguided animal dutifully stepped up
or jumped, according to the gait. Only
strangers questioned the brew when a
horse and rider lined up at the bar in the
local pub. And but for an unexpected
peal from the organ, which caused Black-
out to shy and bang the rider’s head
against the doorway of the School of
Arts, a travelling evangelist would have
had to reconsider his slogan: “All Wel-
come.” Passing Lofty Wilson’s late one
night Bunny thought it would be a rare
joke to jump the pony up on to the
verandah and gallop right round the
house. At a canter he called “Up, Black-
out!” Dutifully Blackout jumped. The
next second things were happening to
Bunny. He wasn’t to know that
the moke had flung his head back
suddenly ; nor did he realise the explana-
tion of the scores of stinging scratches
on his face and hands. The solution
came after Lofty had come charging from
his bed and declared Bunny “on” for
bashing a “whackin’ great hole in the
skeeter-wire before it’s been up a week!”
* * * *
“Zake”; The yarn used to be told of a
Dorrigo (N.S.W.) axeman who toted a
tame goanna around with him. To save
himself the trouble of felling a tree which
might afterwards prove to be “short” he
would tie a string measure around the
saurian’s neck and shoo him up the trunk
and over the first limb, thus being easily
able accurately to measure the distance.
The yam, true or not, is itself a libel on
any axeman from that heavily-timbered
area who calls himself one. Every Kelly-
wielder I ever met in those parts could,
with amazing expertness, not only gauge
the height and girth of a tree after a few
seconds of cogitation but could deter-
mine whether it carried a “pipe,”
would be sound in heart, if it carried gum
veins or would be “ringy,” how it would
split, and be able to forecast the approxi-
mate number of palings, slabs, sleepers,
etc. —according to the type of tree —that
would be forthcoming at the end of his
labor.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “Ain’t got a nag you don’t
want, have you?” asked the new inspec-
tor. Then, as Bill shook his head; “Old
Thompson wants a fiver for this one I’ve
borrowed,” he went on. “And just look
at the thing, will you?” He indicated
something between a goat and a tin trank
that drooped dejectedly against the gate-
post. Several pounds of surplus horse-
hair followed the animal, its hoofs were
hidden and a Father Christmas beard
straggled under its jaws. “He’s getting
the horror back today,” sniggered the in-
spector, “I’ll wait for the next sale.”
That night Bill dropped in at Thomp-
son’s, slipped the old chap a fiver and
collected the nag. A liberal daily ration
of oats commenced the treatment; then
Bill got to work on the hoofs with oil,
patience and a few tools. Soon the long
hairs had all been plucked from the legs,
the tail pulled, mane clipped short, then,
hair after hair, the beard was extracted.
Well-groomed and wearing a wide
colored halter the horse appeared in the
yards at the next sale. “I got a hack all
right,” greeted the inspector, running into
Bill after the sale. “Not a bad cut of a
horse, either,” he added standing back
to admire the renovated moke, “and I
only paid nineteen-ten for him.”
NIGHT SCENE.
(Off Muschu Island, 1945.)
Hum of the half-heard diesels,
Flit of £ form through the night;
Glow from the shaded compass
The only glimmer of light.
Loom of the slim, grim Oerlikon,
Sardonic hiss of the seas;
Straddle-leg stance of the helmsman.
Stiffening whine of the breeze.
Looming of land to the south of her,
Clank from the galley below;
Flap of the after-awning,
Shimmering wake aglow.
Peace on the tumbling water;
But look astern and you’ll find
Three Army barges of wounded
Wallowing slow behind.
queenslaniS.
BILL SCOTT.


“MMLMNDFCO Y”
is the condensation of a distinguished long name. It is
the telegraphic address of Australian, Mercantile, Land &
Finance Coy. Ltd. Whether it's the sale of Wool; Produce;
Fat, Store or Stud Stock; or Property the purchase of
Station and other requirements—or personal services, etc.,
telegraph "AMLANDFCOY" Sydney, or write to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England 186 S
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, W»gga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A1.22.7t
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
~ J y\JU Sterilised
To Remedy BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
, i.,—. All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0, Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
M6RINO
WOOL
JWLFEGAH
JUST .PUBLISHED!
Written a T well-known Queensland wool'
expert, deals in simple language
Wool Jrom the foundations^©!,thejßbre,cells)
withinjthe follicle to the weaving of.the spun>
wool yarn.
MERINO WOOL. A Study: of/itt Charac-
teristics and Classing by J. M.|FEGAN
Illustrated, 180 pages, 1946. 18/3 post paid.
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
39 Martin Place, SYDNEY
sjm
%
w
y
rz>£<K
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented “iIoIXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each insta
lation is individually designed and built to nc
your particular needs. Cost per acre is ve y
attractive, and some purchasers have reporteu
recovering their full outlay in one season.
"MAXIMUM" COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented
“MAXIMUM” Coupling is the only one on the market possessing Its
all-round flexibility and ease of connection. It can be coupled by
a simple movement to any inclination up to lo degrees in any
ħ
direction and remain watertight. ■ m9Q77
A n „ n ,„. CMTTH Hr GLUYAS Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. /'•
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane. J 1456.
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
h
39-41 DIXON STREET,
39 SYDNEY. MA7BS8 fii
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs in Queensland.
“S.R.W.”; In this State the industry
is chiefly confined to the Darling Downs,
although several other areas lend them-
selves to production of a suitable class of
lamb. Compared with the southern
States the Downs is unsuited climatically
for lambs. Most of the rain falls in the
hot months from November to February,
the variation in the seasons being very
marked ; average rainfall for November-
February is 1112 points, average for May-
August 664. Main growing period of
natural pasture is summer, making it
necessary for crops to be grown for
winter feed. With this summer rainfall
and feed growth comes worm infestation,
making it practically a necessity to market
lambs before October.
Size of Downs holdings varies from
about 300 acres in the Allora region to
1000 or more in the Pittsworth and Dal by
areas. Main industry is wheatgrowing
with fat lambs as a sideline. Types of
sheep and the crosses vary considerably
from one area to another, owing to the
scarcity of crossbred lines. Standardisa-
tion would be very difficult. Without
suitable fattening and feeding crops the
milk supply of ewes will be retarded, re-
sulting in a stunted and slow-maturing
lamb; and without careful selection of
breeding stock export lambs cannot be
produced. A ewe that gives a good wool
and a good lamb costs no more to run
than one giving a good lamb and an
inferior wool.
Probably the merino crossed with one
of the English long-wools would produce
the required type of breeding ewe, hav-
ing a fairly large, roomy frame for the
growth of the lamb and feeding room
in order to provide ample milk. These
factors are essential to ensure a growthy,
well-set and early-matured lamb.
The crossbred inherits the fertility of
the merino and will mate much earlier
than the pure English breed from which
it inherits prepotency. The value of
crossbred wool should not be over-
looked, and a Border Leicester-merino
cross cutting an average of about 71b.
adds to the farmer’s revenue.
The 8.L.-merino cross is a large-
framed ewe having good milking qualities,
clean legged and clean faced, desirable
for country with lush growth of feed in
summer and subsequent grass-seeds.
The Romney Marsh-merino cross has
been found satisfactory, the wool having
a slightly higher value than the 8.L.-
merino cross. The Corriedale has been
used successfully on the Downs, although
it may be slightly in maturing.
The small landholder is at a disadvantage
if he tries to breed his own crossbred
ewes; it is generally easier to buy them
from one of the larger holdings.
Branding Fluids.
“R.N.”: Two Australian Wool Board
investigators, M. Lipson and M. R.
Freney, embarked on branding fluid ex-
periments four years ago. Eventually
they compounded “130 Branding Fluid,”
the result of their 130th experiment.
Tests indicate that the results, while en-
couraging, are not yet conclusive. Freney
has said that he had no actual knowledge
of the three fluids stated to be in com-
mercial use in New Zealand, but pointed
out that N.Z. and Australian conditions
were different. N.Z. had more crossbred
sheep than Australia, and brands which
would remain on our dense merino sheep
and not scour-out might easily scour-out
in N.Z. because of disintegration caused
“You’re sure it’s THIS one the bird’s-nest’s in?”
by the climate and the nature of the
sheep.
Tests to determine the permanency and
legibility of the “130” fluid were con-
ducted on a number of N.S.W. stations.
On one station a 12-months’ test with
Corriedales was riot satisfactory, as in 80
per cent, of the cases the markings were
barely discernible. In other cases, how-
ever, when the tests were made with
merinos, gratifying results were obtained.
On two stations in different localities the
markings remained after 12 months quite
legible in 80 per cent, of cases and reason-
ably identifiable in 10 per cent. Satis-
factory results were obtained at another
station, where more than 2000 sheep were
tested. The color used was scarlet; blues
were unsatisfactory.
As to scouring, two small-scale tests
(one with a fluid prepared from a slightly
different formula) were satisfactory, but
scouring-out on a much larger scale
must be undertaken before a definite con-
clusion can be reached. Freney believes
the fluid will be satisfactory when used
on merinos under dry conditions.
The Arab Horse.
“Haute Ecole”: Regarding the state-
ment (B. 23/10/’46) that the Arab is
“somewhat light in barrel and his quarters
are seldom well turned,” some confusion
is likely amongst those who, whilst claim-
ing ownership of Arab stock, appear un-
aware that the true Arab is seldom seen
in this country. The horse which
all too frequently passes for Arab-
bred is but a common product of
nature in comparison with the true strain,
and is in reality the Arab Barb; an
animal which, though showing the main
points desirable in the forequarters, falls
away behind to decidedly goose-rumped
propensities.
An attractive cross which has met with
success in Australia is the Wefsh-Arab
one. Edward Hirst, the breeder who has
done much towards improving the
hackney strain here, says “the Arab-
Welsh has the clever adaptability of the
Arab and Welsh. It has the docility of
both, and the infusion of Arab blood has
increased the height 'of the horse,
narrowed its wither for riding and main-
tained the beautiful eyes and ears so
characteristic of both breeds. It is suit-
able for cattle ponies and polo mounts.”
I’ve seen them in show-ring and polo-
field, and there’s no doubt of their speed
and handiness. They are seldom more
than 15J. hands high.
America in just under 100 years has
perfected a “saddle-bred,” which sprang
from an English thoroughbred mated
with the pick of the Kentucky mares.
Only animals embodying all desirable
points were permitted to carry on the
line, and eventually the American Saddle
Horse Association was formed to govern
all matters relating to the breed. All
show horses belonging to this strain are
registered. Something of this nature is
badly needed in Australia, where both
local demands and the plums of the over-
seas market would justify its existence.
Progeny Testing.
“Mac”: Every working farmer knows
that show-ring standards are not true
guides to production, and even the test-
ing of an individual animal gives little
clue as to whether it will transmit its
desirable characteristics to its offspring.
Progeny-testing is the surest method.
The original sire is carefully tested and
his male offspring tested in their turn.
If their progeny are equal to or superior
to those of the original sire then the
original sire can be said to be progeny-
proved. That is to say, the characteristics
that make for high production are domi-
nant in him and he is able to transmit
them to his progeny. Clearly, a large
number of sires must be tested before
quite a small number of progeny-tested,
high-producing sires are arrived at.
Only 10 per cent, of welf-bred bulls
normally come through the full pro-
gramme, which, of course, takes a number
of years.
In U.S.A. the testing is speeded up by
research stations breeding as high-grade
sires as possible. These young, unproved
animals are loaned to farmers and other
co-operators, who agree to keep produc-
tion records, say, on the daughters of a
bull. In this way the original sire of the
young animals is tested. When sires of
very high-producing progeny are thus
discovered they are used to obtain the
best results.
For example, 17 young unproved
Jersey bulls which were loaned and used
in farm herds near a research station
produced 300 daughters with butterfat
records over 301 b. higher than their
dams. Twenty-five yoiing unproved Hol-
stein bulls raised the production of their
280 daughters by 451 b. on average. This
meant about 10001 b. of butterfat per
herd without additional cost to the
farmer. Better still, it showed that the
sire of these young bulls passed on his
high-producing characteristics to his
progeny.
Veterinary Tools.
“J.W.R.”; Heartily agree with “W.
Court” (B. 25/9/’46) that some well-
chosen veterinary instruments are indis-
pensable to the farmer, but I would not
include either a probang or a wound
syringe. The gullet, lying, as it does, loose
in the neck, is muph too fragile to stand
the force of a probang pressing hard
against a tightly-jammed obstruction. I
have seen several cows thus killed.
For a choked cow, as a rule, first use
the trochar and cannula to release the
stomach gases which are pressing from
below against the obstruction and thus
tending to keep it from passing on. Next
feel for the obstruction. If it is found
high up, try to get it back through the
mouth. If the obstruction is too far
down, fashion a short, thick piece of
stick and some stout cord like a bit and
poll-strap, and fit it like a bridle to the
cow so that she will constantly chew
upon the stick and salivate. Then turn
the cow into a yard and wait till next
day.
In most instances the obstruction, if
vegetable, will have cooked ,in the heat
of the body and be gone in the morning.
If the cow will drink, then the obstruction
is gone. If not, try to get veterinary
assistance. The wound syringe is never
necessary and may be dangerous. A
safer way to dress a deep wound is to get
a clean wing-feather, dip it in an anti-
septic oily liniment, and thrust it to the
bottom of the wound. Better still, where


CAROB BEAN TREE
Try growing this valuable Bean-bearing Tree
for shade and stock fodder in your district.
Lives over 100 years.
Seed, 2/- per oz. Includes illustrated booklet
and sample pods with order. Post free.
P. CLEGG,
190 Nicholson Road, Subiaco, W.A.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out' two pounds
Of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
Sfe na 3/ le s jy3 U kk° rn ly refuse anything
WtM
m
a
*
id
Gukr**?:
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONE'S SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., l>td. f the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
i Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
" 578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty,Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
(Regd.)
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“ It’s the Gas
That Kills Them
Cyanogas destroys all vermin—Rats,
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas “A” Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: MA 6311
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL" PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland-
y
V\»°
i
■
m
mt
i j
:
SYDNEY
A T
AND
I
HOBART
PERTH
MM
SWC
■
mm
... for everi|
re Enforcement need
—FROM TINY PARCELS
TO 2-TON PACKAGES
Gerrard representatives
are freely available in all
States to render expert
advice on your package
reinforcement problems.
Also Corrugated Fas-
teners, Bag Ties and
Packing Room Supplies,
GERRARD
WIRE TYING MACHINES CO.
* PTY. ITD.
Head Office:
18*24 Ireland St.. Melbourne West
iaPlPif
mm
m
BRISBANE —ADELAIDE
TOWNSVILLE — CAIRNS
* ffßMi
possible, irrigate gently for a few minutes
by means of a hose-pipe.
Poultry Feeding.
“Agro”: During the last couple of
years I have made experiments with auto-
matic poultry-feeding. I made a hopper
large enough to hold a week’s supply of
food for my 50 birds. It is an enlarged
idea of the ordinary chicken hopper,
having a feeding-trough on each side.
The troughs automatically fill as the food
is eaten away.
A food mixture used largely is simply
whole or crushed wheat mixed with one
part in ten of eggolene, which is meat-
meal fortified with salts and various
health-giving spices. Leave the hopper
open to the fowls 24 hours a day. From
this the birds eat the same, or even less,
than they do when a given quantity of
food is allowed them each day.
As for egg production, the flock was
tested with mashes, etc., each morning,
but the returns were no greater than
with the automatic dry-feeding method.
Had equally good results in substituting
bran, wholemeal, laying pellets, etc., for
wheat in the hopper.
I feed-up only once a week, and with
the automatic watering-service work is
reduced to a bare minimum.
Vegetables and Seasons.
“W. Court”: Before setting out vege-
table seedlings consider what kind of
weather they’ll have to face. Seasons
change, but it’s a good dodge to reckon
on the season ahead being normal, and
to act accordingly. A common blunder
of new gardeners is to rush plants in with-
out giving a thought to tomorrow.
It may, for instance, be quite in order
to start a garden anywhere at the be-
ginning of a season, but long before the
end of the season your plants may be
thirsting in a miniature desert. Or you
may sow the seed on dry country and
have the growing crop swamped.
The amateur also should beware of
overcrowding. Cabbage seedlings look
all right put in 6in, apart, but when they
become sizable plants it’s too- late
to give ’em the 12in. to 18in. space
even the smallest kinds demand. You
cannot possibly get satisfactory results
from any vegetable without adequate
space. Visualise the garden as it should
be eight to 12 weeks from seeding and
work accordingly.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Dusting with a mixture
containing 50 p.c. of lead arsenate stops
moths and butterflies which attack young
cabbages, cauliflowers and Brussels
sprouts. Dust may be prepared by mix-
ing equal parts of lead arsenate and’ a
filler such as kaolin, talc or hydrate of
lime. As a spray ioz. of arsenate of
lead to Igal. of water mixed with white
oil at the rate of 1 in 40 is also satisfac-
tory. Addition of nicotine sulphate (loz.
to sgal.) will control aphis.
“Veg-peg”: Make your own nicotine
sulphate spray (Black Leaf 40). Take
21b. tobacco dust, 3gal. cold water, 7oz.
quicklime. Slake lime with small
quantity of water in kero.-tin. Add
tobacco and make Water up to two gal-
lons. Stir well and allow to soak for 36
hours, with occasional stirrings. Finally
strain through medium hessian. Then
with rest of the water wash all residues
and strain again. Leave solution to
settle, then decant off, which leaves a
brown fluid. Add any lost water to make
up three gallons. Before using as a spray
dilute with equal quantity of water.
“Billjim”: Earmarking of cattle is
usually dope in cool weather and at the
same time as branding and castrating.
Either or both ears may bear a mark
and render identification easy from the
direct front or rear, it often being diffi-
cult to get a side view of cattle in pad-
docks. A short knife is the best instru-
ment, as the cartilage of the ear is tough,
and clean cuts should be made. Tattooing,
a more permanent method, is done with
a special instrument which places
character letters or numerals in and under
the skin by a series of needlelike points
dipped in an indelible ink. The opera-
tion is simple and does not make an
open wound, but it is advisable to apply
additional ink to the ear after the per-
forations have been made, to ensure
permanence.
“Sundowner”: Sudden changes in feed,
overfeeding, idleness on a full diet,
fatigue, excessive drinking, defective
teeth, greedy feeding and bad feedstulfs
may all give a horse colic. A useful
drench is 1 to li pints of raw linseed
oil, 2oz. oil of turpentine, 2oz. aromatic
spirits of ammonia, loz. tincture of nux
vomica. This should be followed at two-
hourly intervals by a second drench of
2oz. of ammonia, loz. of sweet spirits
of nitre and \ pint of water. When
drenching raise the animal’s head slightly
above the horizontal, using a rope around
the jaw only, and allow the tongue com-
plete freedom,
“Xob33”: Apply poultry manure at
the rate of lib. per square yard. It can
be regarded as a general fertiliser for all
crops, and contains approximately 201 b.
of nitrate, 201 b. of phosphates and 121 b.
of potash per ton.
“Seas Sning”: Mint will thrive in a
wet, soggy hollow where other vegetables
rot, and parsley does well on the edges
of a bordered plot. Both are almost pest-
free ; sprinkling a little lime about them
occasionally will stop snails and slugs.
“Bogan J”: Whilst in the R.A.A.F. I
was interested in the planting of lawns
on stations, and- at Cootamundra kikuyu
was thoroughly established and did
better than any other lawn grass. Denili-
quin, Wagga, Parkes, Narromine, Can-
berra and Tam worth all got roots from
Coota., and in every case it was a suc-
cess ; required less water than buffalo or
couch and stood up to hot weather and
frosts better than either. Its magnificent
root system makes it the answer to the
farmer’s prayer as a protection against
soil erosion, particularly on hillsides.


New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Stops Perspiration
1 Does not Irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
2 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid ic the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
Also in 9id. jars selling toilet oods
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
At all chemists & stores
“wav buck m
1 Bought Bonds for Security'
1946...
I’m Sitting Pretty Now”
Twelve years from now, 1946 will be a
part of the dim and distant, almost for-
gotten past. . . . But what you do with
those years as they slip so swiftly by will
make the difference between comfort,
peace of mind, lifelong security . . . and
unnecessary worry, want and uncertainty
A programme of planned saving and
wise investment will leave you “sitting
pretty” later on. . . . Start to-day by
buying bonds in the Second Security
Loan. Your investment will return you
better than bank interest as a regulai
income. ... It will be safe—gift-edged—
backed by the Commonwealth’s entire
resources.
TO HOLDERS OF i\% COMMONWEALTH IN-
SCRIBED STOCK OR TREASURY BONDS WHICH
MATURE ON 15th NOVEMBER NEXT
CONVERT YOUR HOLDINGS
exchange them for equal amounts In the
Second Security Loan. By doing so you will:
1. Continue to draw better than bank interest
on your money.
2. Make the most effective counter you can
make, as an individual, against the threat
of inflation.
Remember, too, that your investment in
the Second Security Loan will help to
provide the money needed for important
national works, vital to Australia’s pros-
perity ; that it will assist in the rehabili-
tation of Australia’s ex-service men and
women; and that it will help to main-
tain a sound financial structure for the
Commonwealth and thereby ward off the
danger of inflation.
Make sure YOU will be able to look back
on 1946 without regrets. . . . Start Sav-
ing for Security ... invest in the Second
Security Loan to-day.
FACTS ABOUT THE
£90,000,000 SECOND SECURITY LOAN
1, All you lend will be used to finance continuing
war commitments, important national public works,
and the continued rehabilitation of ex-service men
and women.
2. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, or
Inscribed Stock, may be purchased for cash or by
instalments through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office, or Stockbroker. Interest is payable
each six months at 3£% per annum for 12 years or
2% per annum for 3 years.
3, Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by
the Commonwealth. Bonds and Inscribed Stock are
readily saleable to meet an emergency.
4. On your application form credit your subscrip-
tion to your district to help its quota
SAVE FOE SECURITY ... INVEST IN THE SECOND
SECURITY
LOAN
o;- : :
ms
m
mi
25L9.113
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courses
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotior
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dos’ Soan.
h
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDEKS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
o'smxiVAv
: % vrcivx
1-RADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors ;: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“ JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
There was no one in sight. Over the
gully was old Joe Waite’s hut. Horry ran
towards it, after telling Georgie to get
his old man. He hailed Joe across the
flood, swallowing his pride to do so, for
Joe greatly hated, with full and good
reason, the whole generation of boys.
Joe came to the open doorway of his
big hessian hut. He made Horry repeat
a number of times:
“in the tunnel hole”
Joe simply threw away the chance of
making at least one friend among the
boys. When he understood what had
happened he roared, “Hell sweat them! ”
Joe was a nasty old man, and had great
faith in the benefits of hell sweating
anything he didn’t like.
Horry raced home to try Charlie Box.
Again he swallowed his pride and be-
sought Charlie’s help. It wasn’t forth-
coming ;
“Begawd—you ought to be glad of
being rid of those useless dogs.”
“They’re alive, Mr. Box.”
“In which case,” said Charlie, “throw
rocks down till they ain’t, begawd!”
Georgie had splashed through the gully,
and found his father and his brother
Curly at home. The old plan grumbled
a bit, and said “Well, well! ” Curly was
mildly amused. He saw something comic
in those dogs chasing a rabbit and not
knowing that the shaft was there. How-
ever, the old man and Curly came along
after collecting ropes and candles.
The old man said, “We’ll have a look
first, but I don’t think it’s any use trying
to put a windlass over the shaft.”
Horry was back at the tunnel when
they got there. He wasn’t blubbering
now. They lit their way into the dark-
ness, and Laddie could be heard down
below. At least, Horry was sure it was
Laddie.
“You keep back, Horry,” said the old
man. “We don’t want you falling down,
too.”'
Curly rigged a candle with one of the
ropes and a piece of wire, and lowered it.
Halfway down the candle fell off, and a
dog yelped—quite loudly—down below.
Another candle was set more securely.
Then Curly announced, with unneces-
sary cheerfulness, “Laddie’s dead!”
Horry howled in despair and Curly in
sheer pity gave the right information—
“No, it’s Spot! Laddie looks all right.”
The old man blew out his cheeks and
said, “Well! Well! It’s marvellous
after a fall like that!”
A loop, or running noose, was made
in the second rope, and then followed an
age of manoeuvring to drop it over
Laddie’s head. The old man and Curly
lay flat on their stomachs on the board-
ing, and Harry and Georgie held candies.
It seemed that Laddie didn’t fully appre-
ciate the technique of rescue, and thought
it proper to dodge the loop. He was very
successful in this.
“He’s a stupid cow, if ever there was
one,” said Curly, who was working the
looped rope.
“C-could you 1-lower me
d-down on the r-rope?” sobbed Horry.
“We’re not and we couldn’t.” The
old man was very final about it.
“Ah!” Curly exclaimed, and jerked
hard on the rope. There was a gurgling
down the shaft. “Got him! ” Curly kept
the rope taut.
“It won’t slip—will it?” Horry had
new fears.
Curly thought it might. They’d see.
I—l E and the old man got stiffly up, and
*■ ' pulled on the rope slowly. At long
last a bedraggled yellow form came into
the candle-light.
Curly heaved it clear, and Horry had it
in his arms all in a instant. He wept and
blubbered and just let his nose take care
of itself. He fondled and felt the useless
mong all over for breaks and injuries.
There didn’t seem, by some miraculous
chance, to be any.
“See if he can walk,” advised the old
man, who considered a dog’s ability to
walk as a good sign. But Horry didn’t
hear. He carried Laddie out of the
tunnel, and forgot to thank the rescuers.
The old man seemed to understand and
said, “Well! Well!” Curly was much
amused.
Horry carried Laddie right home. Old
Charlie glared at the stupid spectacle:
“Begawd—so you’ve got that bloody
mong again ? Begawd! ”
But Horry didn’t hear him. He put
Laddie down on a corn bag, and Laddie
jumped up, and licked his face. Laddie
was all right. It didn’t matter so much
about Spot. Laddie was safe. “Here,
Lad! ” in the softest tones of Horry’s un-
lovely voice, and Laddie sprang up again.
In this moment of pure exaltation there
is not the slightest doubt that Horry
would have given Laddie his own allot-
ment of sausages—if there had been
sausages just then.


Tike Cjreal VUliite IJackh
The “Great White Yachts” of the K.P.M. Line re-
kindle happy pre-war memories — glamourous, cruises
— sunny days — tropical nights.
Soon, it is hoped, these big luxurious liners will be
again sailing from Australian ports on their regular
schedules to the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated in the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD SYDNEY.
ĥ
sUUays>jb»tc
RONALDSON-
TIPPETT
THE fight on the battle-fronts has ended
but the struggle to make up the leeway
of six years of war goes on. Factory
wheels are gaining momentum but the task
of satisfying civilian markets starved by
war’s demands is a gigantic job.
Here, in the RonaldsonrTippett works,
craftsmen who performed production
miracles for the armies in the field find
themselves hampered by scarcities in vital
raw materials. Production must keep step
with the slowly moving train of supply. But
the future is bright. Men are back at work
producing for the betterment of mankind
and the energy of employee and employer
alike is aimed at satisfying every need in
the shortest possible time.
The Primary Producer has the backing
of the Ronaldson-Tippett Organisation and
he will not be kept waiting one moment
longer than necessary for the equipment he
needs.
Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett
PT¥. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, VICTORIA
Showrooms; 628 Roark© Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors;
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors;
RONALDSON TIPPETT (O’ld.) Vty. Ltd
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
SMOKE-OH!
To the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“The 8.8. C. is modernising ‘As You Like
It,’ which will be retitled ‘Little Miss Rosalind.
It is placed in the Ardennes, instead of Arden,
has a chauffeur and a barman designed
to be very gay and impertinent.” — “Sun.
No doubt, too, there will be a wolf in
the forest.
•J* *
“Somerset Maugham he has only two
novels left in him.” — “Sun:’’
A literary digest, eh?
»!• *l* •& *i* js
“Keep a clothes-brush in your office drawer.”
—Sunday paper.
Thus extending its life indefinitely.
“Your kiss is your trade-mark.’
— Woman’s paper.
With which your admirers get branded.
•5* *s*
“I ran pp with a No. 6 iron and the ball
finished 6ft. from the hole.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.
The language was FF.
•J* *l* *i* *l*
“Wanted, boys, mechanically inclined, 17 or
18 years.”—
Are those with a natural bent excluded?
“A woman cannot both work and care for a
home successfully.” —“New Idea:"
Unless she cares to work at home.
4* 4* 4*
“Should I apply for a decree of nullity,
agree to my husband’s suggestion of a separa-
tion, apply for a divorce, or just carry on? ’
—Correspondent in “Sun.
Just carry on, dear, and it will all come
to the same thing.
“Lost, Saturday morning, baby blanket,
crocheted around edge and pink lady
corner.” —“Daily Telegraph. _
To hell with the blanket—let’s find
that bottle of pink lady.
Dyspeptic’s Dirge.
Even a date
That I ate
Repate.
E.
Dangerous Curves.
“According to a New York judge, the modern
glamor girl is an accident hazard to herseli ana
fellow human beings.”
When, in the realm of lathes and presses,
. Amid the tiers of whirring gears
A sweater-girl at work appears,
You might approve the way she dresses;
But while your eye a moment lingers
Upon the vision from afar,
It gives you quite a nasty jar
To find you’ve lost a brace of fingers.
And yet the risk to life and limb
Occasioned by a figure trim
Is practically nothing to
The damage any girl can do
Behind the wheel of something nifty
In sports jobs, on the road at fifty.
P. M. LUSK.
Probable Reaction.
“How would our grandmothers react to
these new swimsuits? ’’—Woman’s paper.
Oh, what would Grandma say if she
Could see the curving Nerolie
In that new swimsuit so appealing
To men who like a garb revealing —
So small of Vs, so scant of bra,
So very, very hot-cha-cha!
Methinks that poor old Gran would say
Nothing. She’d simply faint away.
T. W. NATHAN.
Design for Living.
“A New England man sought a divorce
because his wife, a radar worker, had installed
electronic eyes in his honie • and office to
report his movements.”
My third wife, a graduate in Applied
Invention at the Chattanooga Ladies’
College, had similar tendencies.
Her first job was to fill my office with
dictaphones, television scanners and elec-
tronic devices. The apparatus was so
designed that whenever I cast an approv-
ing glance at my photogenic secretary it
would emit a disapproving noise. If this
failed to deter me, a burglar-alarm would
ring, followed by a portentous voice re-
citing the Ten Commandments with
thunder and lightning effects.
Our home was run on the automatic
principle. The kitchen was a tangled
mass of machinery which received sup-
plies through a chute at the back door
and delivered meals through a servery-
hatch. The layout included a machine
for instantaneously ejecting me when I
went in to look for a bottle
in the pantry. The only
hitch occurred when the
baker’s boy fell into the de-
livery-chute, which put us
off rissoles for several weeks.
Visitors were inspected
in a television screen, and
if welcome were whisked in-
side, divested of overcoats
and delivered to the lounge
in 12 seconds flat. Unwel-
come ones went down a
hatch into the fertiliser-
factory in the cellar.
Our marriage broke up
suddenly when, after detect-
ing a look of deep dis-
taste in my wife’s eye, I
found a set of plans for
a model husband, all-electric automatic
type. My departure, 10 yards ahead of
a new design in mantraps, was equally
automatic.
PLUM.
Modern Pilgrim’s Progress.
The “Evening Whinger” :
“On his departure from London yester-
day by air for the Mediterranean, Sir
Miles Anmyles, temporary Permanent
Parliamentary Under - Secretary for
Foreign Affairs, and one of the really
big men upon whose judgment the Prime
Minister is said to rely heavily, said, in
reply to a pressman’s question, that he
was not going to Egypt regarding the
Sudan or any other matter. ‘Egypt will
not see me this trip,’ he remarked, smil-
ingly pointing to an array of sporting
guns among his luggage. ‘I am go-
ing on an exclusively sporting holiday
along the littoral of the Middle
Sea.’ Sir Miles had a twinkle in his eye
as he said it. Elis remark is regarded as
highly significant in diplomatic quarters,
where it is thought that Sir Miles’s visit
will speed important negotiations now be-
ing conducted in Cairo which will bring
into sharp relief the whole vital question
of Britain’s relations with the Arab
world.”
The “Morning Yelper” :
“The fact that not a word has been
breathed officially about Sir Miles An-
myles’s movements since his ’plane
touched down at some Mediterranean air-
port a few days ago heightens a mystery
which lends color to the belief current in
circles close to Whitehall that his visit
to Egypt is connected with yet another
humiliating appeasement —in this case the
‘Is this Devil's Island?”
Minister for Baksheesh, Parslee Bey,
whose strong anti-British views have so
often proved embarrassing not only to
Downing-street but to his own Cabinet
colleagues. It is disgraceful that a diplo-
mat of Sir Miles’s calibre should be used
by the Prime Minister to lower further the
Empire’s prestige by such an abject sur-
render to a Nationalist fanatic.”
The “Daily Wail”:
“Consensus of authoritative Whitehall
opinion is that the remark made by Sir
Miles Anmyles about his visiting ‘the
Middle Sea’ may have been more cryptic
than whimsical. It is known that the
Egyptian Assistant Foreign Minister,
Korio Bey, who is strongly pro-British,
is passionately fond of the piano, one of
the notes of which is, of course, Middle
C. The fact that Sir Miles himself at-
tended a Schnabel recital at Queen’s Hall
early this year lends added significance
to the remark. Although not a hunter
in the English sense, one of Korio Bey’s
favorite sports is picking flies off the wall
with a catapult —a sport in which he has
attained a remarkable degree of accuracy.
That the two thus have tastes and in-
terests in common bodes well for the
success of negotiations which, it is under-
stood, involve Britain’s entire strategic
position in the Middle East for the next
50 years.”
The “Morning Sensation”:
“From sources whose authenticity is
usually reliable it is learned that an
attempt was made by a Wafdist student
to assassinate Sir Miles Anmyles, Britain s
Plenipotentiary-Extraordinary, who is in
Egypt to conduct negotiations for fishing
rights on the Upper Nile, in Cairo yester-
day while he was inspecting a guard-of-
honor of the Ist Egyptian Dug-Out Bat-
talion while in the company of the
Minister for Getting Britain to Defend
Egypt, Mudgut Pasha. Grave repercus-
sions are feared, and the whole Arab
world may quickly be aflame unless
strong action is taken immediately. It
was noticed that the Foreign Secretary s
face looked preternaturally grim this
morning as he was taking his poodle for
its early-morning constitutional through
St. James’s Park. It is.understood that
the Prime Minister has been privately
castigated by his colleagues for exposing
so valuable a diplomat as
Sir Miles to such unneces-
sary risks.”
The “Evening Whinger”:
“Diplomatic circles are
agog over the reported
fierce anti-British outburst
in Cairo yesterday of the
Egyptian Minister for
Baksheesh, Parslee Bey,
which is said to have fol-
lowed a breakdown of
negotiations between Sir
Miles Anmyles and the
Assistant Foreign Minister,
Korio Bey, on the ques-
tion of British primus-
pricker, bobby-pin and
merry-go-round conces-
sions in the Upper Sudan.
It is believed a strongly-worded protest
is being dispatched to the Egyptian Gov-
ernment and that Sir Miles is being re-
called.”
The London “Chimes”:
“Sir Miles Anmyles, temporary Per-
manent Parliamentary Under-Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, returned to London
by air yesterday from Syria, where he
has been on a quail-shooting holiday. He
is looking fit and sun-tanned, and expects
later in the week to join in talks which
the Egyptian delegation consisting of
Parslee Bey, Korio Bey and Mudgut
Pasha, who have been in England for the
past fortnight, is having with the Foreign
Secretary.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line..
New Economics
The present effort to attain a 40-hour
week and another pound added on the
basic wage leaves me wondering if I
have missed a substitution tii the old
system of economics for something new
that I cannot understand.
I always understood that one could
reduce costs (and selling prices) by pro-
ducing more in the same or less time. I
also understood that the worker who
produced more for less in due course
bought his product at the lower selling
price and thus secured to his wage a
greater buying power. In other words,
by producing more he reduced his cost-
of-living and in effect increased his
wages. I understood that such a prin-
ciple accounted for the fact that, before
the war, a large percentage of workers
possessed cars .or motor-cycles, homes
fitted with modern appliances, had holi-
days and spent money freely at race-
courses and sundry other places.
Now, it seems, someone has introduced
a system whereby one works shorter
hours, does less during the time one is
working, demands more for the time
spent working and contributes to the
betterment of the conditions of his fellow-
men —he hopes.
If general conditions are not to be im-
proved, what is the use in fighting for
fewer hours and more pay? I can’t see
how the present trend can lead to any-
thing other than chaos and economic
disaster. Higher wages are not the anti-
dote to rising prices—they can lead only
to still higher prices,' then higher wages
and then higher prices ad infinitum.
When men get back to the idea that
if they do not produce they cannot
possess we may see some sign of Mr.
Chifley’s Golden Age. If our leaders
would realise that we are now suffering
from years of loafing on high wages and
sought to educate the workers in simple
economics we might even get somewhere.
As it is, the Government is content to
leave all education to an element whose
sole interest is to create strife and disrupt
the social stricture of our country.
All countries experience difficult phases
in their social organisation at some time
or other. Some of them, like France,
Russia and the Latin States of America,
reorganise themselves by violent methods.
In the English-speaking countries the in-
herent commonsense of the masses usually
brings forth the solution to the difficulties.
It is to be hoped that that inherent com-
monsense will shortly reduce the dis-
rupters of our economy to a position
commensurate to the support they were
accorded at the recent polls.— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Nurses’ Pay
To encourage nurses to volunteer for
duty in N. S. Wales mental hospitals,
Department of Health graciously con-
sented to grant one pound per week to
each nurse employed in the various hos-
pitals while they were understaffed to
the extent of 60 per cent, of their normal
strength. That sounds magnanimous,
but, instead of the nurses receiving the
four pounds per month in addition to
their normal meagre salaries, they re-
ceive only £2 35., the remaining £1 17s.
being the tax deducted from the four
pounds.
Is it any wonder that the hospitals
cannot induce trainees to enter the ser-
vice?— Kasl (N.S.W.). -
“The King Can Do No Wrong”
If the judgment of the High Court in
the “No Preference” case (B. 23/10/’46)
is to stand it surely represents a consti-
tutional revolution of the first magnitude,
and one of immense importance in these
days of increasing governmental power
and demands. It will take us back to the
days when the Crown and its representa-
tives claimed to be above the law, to an
absolutism that has been fought and
broken in the earlier centuries of British
history at tremendous cost.
When we did “Political Science” in
England a quarter-century ago we were
taught that the principle “The King Can
Do No Wrong” was a legal fiction —a
statement true only in certain well-defined
circumstances and by no means of general
application. In this case it was intended
to apply to the Crown as a part of the
machinery of the Constitution, its signi-
ficance being that the King, as a constitu-
tional monarch bound to follow the
advice of his Ministers (representing the
electorate), could not be held personally
responsible for any consequences that
might be the result of the actions of the
Government. But with the principle
“The King Can Do No Wrong” went
that of Ministerial Responsibility, which
placed responsibility for being bound by
the laws they made fairly and squarely
upon the Government and State, against
whom an action could truly lie in the
event of any illegal action on their part
against the rights of the individual.
The importance of the principle at
stake can hardly be exaggerated, not only
in the greatly-increasing field of Govern-
ment employment, but in every sphere
where State demands conflict with indivi-
dual rights and integrity. For if the
King and his Ministers can do no wrong,
what protection have the people against
any arbitrary action by any Government
department?
Mr. Justice Williams’s phrase about
the “Re-establishment Act” —that it was
intended “to involve the Crown up to
the hMt” —must surely be applied to the
Government in this matter. Not only
the Diggers, but the whole community, are
involved, and it would be a sound scheme
for the whole community to back the
Diggers in taking this matter to the utter-
most Court of Appeal. (Jpagum
(N.S.W.).
Waste
The average person who wants to re-
paint a house which has been neglected
during the war is not in the race to get
the necessary materials, and even the
professional painter has often to wait
months for supplies. On the other hand
the Housing Commission is painting
“fibro”-sheet cottages by the hundreds.
These cottages do not actually need
paint and the sheets improve with ex-
posure to the weather. It probably costs
£3O or more to paint the “fibro,” and
if it were left in its natural state that
amount of paint would be available for
the urgently-needed painting of wooden
houses. If the owner or tenant wanted
to paint the “fibro” it could easily be
done in a few years’ time when sup-
plies become more plentiful. In the
meantime the sheets would improve.—
Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
Speed and Accidents
• Contrary to expectations, the huge in-
crease in motor traffic along Melbourne’s
streets during the transport strike did
not result in a bumper crop of accidents.
Statistics for the first few days of the
stoppage showed a sudden decrease in
road accidents.
The explanation given by police and
ambulance officers was that the large
volume of traffic reduced the speed of
individual vehicles to such an extent that
serious collisions were avoided. The
danger of speed in relation to road
traffic was further illustrated by the fact
that the most serious accidents occurred
not in the congested areas in or close to
the city, but further out, where motorists
had and took opportunities to travel at
an excessive pace.
There are always some motorists ready
to maintain, with every indication of
sincerity, that fast driving is not danger-
ous driving and that slow motorists are
a greater menace to road safety. The
foregoing facts should change their
minds. —D. J. G. (Vic,).
Loyalty
As the war proceeded whispers turned
to open criticism that Army administra-
tion was rotten, that officers were receiv-
ing too many privileges, that troops were
sent into battle with insufficient equip-
ment, or that General Blarney sometimes
went fishing or to the races. A Govern-
ment devoid of military background and
itself usually the most captious critic of
the Army fell between the stools of fear
of public opinion and the need for a
semblance of outward loyalty to the
Army. Because confidence in the com-
mand is one of the essential ingredients
of esprit de corps, morale within the
Army suffered.
The war is over, but the ill-effects of
that drop in morale are still apparent.
The lag in recruiting; the complaints
from Japan ; the sneers at the Army way
of life —these are all proof that pride in
the Army’s war-time achievements is
diminishing and that soldiering is regarded
as a career fdr the unemployed. Few
thoughtful people can fail to be dis-
mayed at such evidence of the national
outlook towards an historic war-time in-
stitution and an honorable peace-tifne
vocation.
It is not suggested that the freedom of
Parliament and the press to criticise the
Army should be restricted, nor is it sug-
gested that all the criticism was un-
founded. The truth is that in every in-
stance the attempt during the war to find
a cure proved more harmful than the
complaint.
Perhaps the complaint would not have
developed if; (1) there had been Minis-
terial control by men who understood
the Army system ; (2) the Opposition had
not tried to make political capital out of
the equipment issues ; (3) the so-called
popular press had recognised that the
morale of the Army as a whole is of
greater importance than the rights of an
individual member —somebody once said
something about the greatest good for
the greatest number; (4) the Army had
ruthlessly pruned itself of the misfits who
had gravitated into various administra-
tive appointments ; (5) the private soldier
had been better educated in the correct
way of seeking redress for alleged
“This cant be the job, Jim —it distinctly says the busted mains in
Simpson-street.”
wrongs ; (6) the public had not regarded
the Army as a monster which eats one
hapless private a day.
In short, everybody—by lack either of
confidence or loyalty—contributed in
some degree to the decline in morale.
It is now not sufficient that each ele-
ment should admit to its mistake ; our
obligation is to rebuild morale. Firstly
we must restore confidence by a
thoroughly constructive investigation into
all the criticisms that were levelled;
secondly we must satisfy ourselves that
the external and internal control of the
Army is in safe and strong hands. Above
all, the investigation must be free from
political bias.
Then, with confidence and high morale
restored, our guiding principle might best
be found in the words reputedly spoken
to his staff by General Monash:
“Gentlemen, I don’t need your loyalty
when you know I’m right. I need it
when you think I’m wrong.”— Peter
Mike (W.A.).
“Full Employment”
As the buyer for a large country busi-
ness I have just finished a round of city
warehouses. There are miles and miles
of empty shelves and dozens of reinstated
staff standing around doing nothing.
Some concerns have arranged a roster
system whereby the employees take it in
turns to go to the pictures. Few, if any,
businesshouses have sufficient work to
keep even half their staff fully occupied,
yet the law prevents retrenchment.
Of course we have full employment in
the sense that everyone has or can easily
obtain a job, but, significantly enough,
although we have more people employed
today than ever before, our production
figures are hopelessly behind.
Not until full employment means more
than just collecting a weekly pay-envelope
will conditions improve in industry and
business, and not until then will the
present blackmarketing, unrest and
rationing cease. — Buyer (N.S.W.).
Amenities in Japan
Reports by Lieut.-General Robertson
and other 8.C.0.F. commanders on the
lack of amenities among British and Aus-
tralian troops come as a shock to thou-
sands of people who contributed liberally
to the Comforts Fund and other ameni-
ties during the war. No Ministerial
statement has been made as to the
amount of money still remaining and
available for occupation forces in Japan,
N.G. and elsewhere in these funds.
When fighting ceases, special measures
are necessary to keep troops physically
and mentally occupied, to combat bore-
dom, homesickness and the “had-it” feel-
ing. After World War I Armistice this
was a major problem; some of the
Empire’s finest troops in France, Belgium
and England got out of hand, chiefly
because of embarkation delays. With
8.C.0.F. the troops are volunteers who
went into it with eyes open, but if reports
are correct they are now sadly dis-
illusioned.
The fact that Americans alongside get
their amenities shows that the problem
can be solved, if tackled vigorously.
Some critics suggest that troops today
require too much coddling and wet-
nursing—“Their fathers and uncles at
Gallipoli, Passchendaele and the Somme
lived and fought on less than half the
present-day ration. There were no wire-
less-sets, libraries, etc.” That may be
true, but in each successive war, from the
Crimea onwards, food, clothing and con-
ditions generally have gradually 'im-
proved, and troops expect it to continue.
The Americans flew icecream and other
delicacies into forward' combat areas,
realising that the comfort and wellbeing
of the fighting troops were important
factors in maintaining morale.
In Japan no attempt appears to have
been made to train men in the various
trades which would help to reduce bore-
dom and help them to become more use-
ful citizens on discharge. In a large force
like 8.C.0.F. there must be considerable
talent which, if properly organised, could
improve social, recreational, educational
and cultural conditions materially.
Official statements that enlistments in
the Interim Army are less than a trickle,
and that only 1500 out of 10,000 men
serving with the force have volunteered
for another term, are giving the Govern-
ment a headache. It should know by
now that something has to be done if we
are to have an efficient and contented
force. Comforts Fund and other volun-
tary contributions are not enough;
money must be allotted from revenue to
provide amenities in the same way as
training and fighting equipment and
clothing are paid for. Otherwise our
prestige in a land where “face” is all im-
portant will suffer badly. T. W.
(N.S.W.).
Women’s Services
Mention by “Jindivick” of A.W.A.S.
camps in New Guinea (B. 2/10/ ’46) re-
calls the question of why our women’s
services, with the exception of nursing
sisters, were never allowed out of Aus-
tralia until very near the end of the war.
Corresponding women’s organisations of
other British, Dominion and Allied Forces
went wherever the service to which they
were attached was posted. Those women
relieved thousands of men from routine
base jobs for more active service. On
the other hand, when our women were at
last allowed as far as New Guinea, the
manpower needed to build the new
camps and guard and service them was
far in excess of that relieved for forward
action.
No one can deny that our women took
kindly to training, were well disciplined,
smart and full of enthusiasm to go any-
where and take any risks. Many said
that they would never have volunteered
had they known the geographical limita-
tions of their service.
Why was it necessary to treat our
women rather like the more delicate
members of a school for naughty girls?
I can hardly believe the official mind
could have decided that our women are
less capable of looking after themselves
than those of other countries. Could
it have been that it was a vote-catch-
ing stunt on the lines of the “Please
don’t send our Georgie far away” idea? —
Screwball (W.A.).


Voices of the Past
One Australian tragedy is that our
great men of the past and their utter-
ances are unknown to the present
generation. Time and again Aus-
tralian leaders have taken their stand
by principles dear to them, prefer-
ring loss of office or resignation to
the abandonment of what they have be-
lieved to be right. The march of events
has generally vindicated their judgment.
Yet we give little honor to such men.
Our schools do not teach what we owe
to them, our newspapers never quote
their speeches or writings—often apposite
to our own problems—and our politicians
rarely refer to them.
A dozen names could be men-
tioned —Forrest, Deakin, Parkes, the
late lustice Higgins, to start with
—whose biographies would be of
value for young Australians. One
example only, met with in casual read-
ing, will serve to show the value of pre-
serving and publishing what our great
men have said in the past.
In 1891 Parkes gave up office for the
last time as head of the N. S. Wales
Government rather than enact a Coal
Mines Regulation Bill into which his
Labor allies had inserted a clause making
eight hours the legal day’s work under-
ground. In opposing the proposed re-
striction Parkes said:
Civilisation would lose its charm and
value if it did not lighten the burden of
the masses of humanity. But I distinguish
very broadly between eight hours being
sufficient for a man to labor and Parlia-
ment presuming to say how many hours
he shall labor. The working classes of this
country are sufficiently strong to make
good—indeed they have made good—their
right to work eight hours without asking
Parliament to exercise a power which in
all moral justice it does not possess....
Tyranny is an arbitrary interference with
your fellow-men, and whether it is in the
guise of a trade-union or the edict of an
autocrat it is tyranny just the same.
Parkes spoke before the days of arbi-
tration, but there is much to ponder in
his remarks. What a pity we have not
paid more attention to his views and less
to those of the peddlers of a foreign
political and economic creed. — Wusslean
(Vic.). '
Informal Votes
The average Australian displays rea-
sonable initiative and ingenuity, and I
suspect that two main contributing fac-
tors to informal voting are the over-
whelming deluge of party propaganda in
the last few days before the poll and the
unethical activities of party adherents
outside the booths on polling day.
The Federal electoral laws should be
amended to forbid any form of election-
eering three clear days before the poll.
“How-to-vote” cards should be declared
illegal. Divisional returning officers arfe
against any form of activity outside the
booths on polling-day, and they claim it
would assist them tremendously if these
things were abolished.
Such an amendment to the electoral
laws would at least ensure that electors
would have to think for themselves, a
most essential quality in a democracy.
The average Australian has more than
a modicum of commonsense and native
shrewdness if he is left alone to make
his own decisions. After all, freedom is
the power to choose or refuse, and man
is free when his judgment precedes his
choice. —A. A. C. (Q.).
ißritish Workmanship
At the Holborn Exchange in London
they have had for the past ten years a
speaking-clock installation. A subscriber
merely dials the number and listens to
the time. It’s an interesting reflection on
British workmanship that in ten years of
operation no major overhaul or detailed
inspection has ever been carried out —
not even during the worst of the blitz.
Visitors of every nationality have ad-
mired the reliability, design and accuracy
of the system. Over 325,000,000 calls
have been made, and the accuracy of the
service is constant at about 0.1 second.
Calls are now made at the rate of
1,000,000 weekly, and plans are afoot to
extend the service to other British cities.
A similar service in Sydney might
eliminate the need for and the con-
troversy over the placing of a clock in
Martin-place.— Tock (N.S.W.).
Standardisation
Let me add another argument in favor
of standardisation (B. 9/10/’46). Unless
tremendous improvements are made to
railway services, the rapidly-expanding
airways will put them hopelessly out of
the race. With uniform gauge throughout
the Commonwealth more and more
sleeping cars could be used, and more
people would use them knowing they
wouldn’t have to get out of bed and
change cars in the middle of the night.
One reason why rail travel between
Melbourne and Adelaide is popular is
because sleepers are undisturbed through-
out the 600-mile journey. If this were
possible all over the country, greater
inter-State travel would result with con-
sequent benefit to railway cash-books. —
Shavia (Vic.).
This Modern Age
The average man of today is educated
to a standard comparable with the fore-
most culture of 200 years ago. Or, in
other words, there is a lag of 200 years
between the time new truths are dis-
covered and the time those truths be-
come the property of the man in the
street. The figure is, of course, arbitrary;
in some cases —art and geography, for
instance —the alert observer is able to
keep abreast with modern development,
whereas with astronomy, architecture,
engineering, mechanics —in fact, with the
majority of sciences—there are. few men
outside universities who are not at least
three centuries behind the times. In the
case of mathematics, a surveyor could
carry out his work with books written
before the birth of Christ.
This lapse-rate has been increasing
since the Renaissance and the gap be-
tween the leading brains of the world
and the education of the masses has been
gradually widening. Until recently, how-
ever, the gap has not been so great that
an intelligent man was unable to make
up the lost ground and overtake the
most advanced learning of his day. But
during the war the gap widened im-
measurably and science made strides
which few of us have the mental equip-
ment to appreciate in a lifetime of study.
This means that progress is becoming
the possession of a small group.
Such a situation is disastrous. In a
small way our own daily lives can show
us the exploitation to which it gives
effect. By the specialist nature of his
work any tradesman or technician is in
a position to profit by his client’s ignor-
ance. The practice is not uncommon
and is checked only by the fact that
all such knowledge is available to every-
body. If that knowledge were not avail-
able there would be no check. Such is
the position with atomic power.
A few men have gained new
knowledge and advanced beyond the rest
of the world. By suppressing that
knowledge they intend to maintain their
advantage. This policy is identical with
that practised by the priests and witch-
doctors of antiquity.
By some means these men had learnt
certain facts unknown to their fellows.
That was the basis and secret of their
profession. They guarded their know-
ledge closely and, by reputation and
bluff, wielded power all out of propor-
tion to their ability. The masses re-
spected them, for in their ignorance they
could not help but be gullible. In fact,
they unwittingly encouraged the deceit
by making gods of the things beyond
their understanding. The tricks of the
magicians were invested with super-
natural significance.
That was the structure of primitive
society. It would seem that civilisation
is doubling back on itself. O’Took
(N.T.).
Free Speech
Recently a radio debate on the coal
shortage was broadcast from Adelaide.
The two Labor men had an uninterrupted
broadcast, but when the opposing speakers
took the floor they were subjected to hos-
tile interruption. Such tactics proved the
weakness of the miners’ case and made a
very unfavorable impression on listeners.
Even the most ardent Labor supporter
must have felt humiliated. The spectacle
of a compere appealing for a “fair go”
for speakers is a rarity, but it was
necessary on this occasion. Doubtless
this is a sample of “free speech” that is
so often advocated from soapboxes.—
A. D. (S.A.).
Latin
“Kennis” (B. 16/10/’46) castigates his
education department for failing to pro-
vide him with a business education, but
at the same time plumps for the reten-
tion of Latin in the curriculum because
of its alleged usefulness in the study of
Spanish and Italian.
The truth is that Latin has long out-
lived its usefulness and has retained its
hold partly because of the intransigent
attitude of the University authorities and
partly because of the survival of a snobbish
attitude toward the more utilitarian
aspects of education. Its usefulness in
learning foreign languages is much over-
rated, as modern conversational methods
give speedy fluency to anyone with suffi-
cient incentive and intelligence to under-
take the study. Thanks to inspired trans-
lation, none of the beauties of its litera-
ture is lost if read in English; its
history can be studied similarly and law
students can learn the jargon of ca re
and habeas corpus without serving a
wearying five-years-long apprenticeship at
high school.
The time spent on Latin in schools
could profitably be halved and study
given to our rights, privileges and duties
as citizens of this country and the world,
and the origins and scope of our govern-
ments. To the average citizen the word
“Constitution” conveys little or nothing,
yet he was asked to voice an intelligent,
informed opinion on the desirability or
otherwise of making important amend-
ments to the basis of our Federal system,
Eight hundred thousand of his fellows
couldn’t, or wouldn’t, fill in a ballot-
paper correctly, and a large proportion
of the formal votes were cast blindly on
party lines.
It’s high time that we left Latin to the
academicians and library savants and con-
centrated on the real problems of the
day. They are urgent enough. — B. Ec.
(N.S.W.).
Men at Work
~x , T , . , r _
Yesterday I garaged my truck fo
major repairs. The head mechanic and
his assistant a 15-year-old y° ut h> began
the job. At first I thought the mechanic
was over-cntical and apt to speak too
harshly, but I soon saw that the lad s
work was done in a most slovenly
manner. A metal plate to be cleaned of
oil received a couple of desultory rubs
that only smeared the filth over a wider
area, a request for a set of tools resulted
in two nondescript spanners and a screw-
driver being idly tossed to the mechanic,
and, finally, as*the tailshaft was being
assembled, the lad guided the universal
joint so clumsily together that small
needle-rollers were scattered all over the
floor.
The final touch came when the
mechanic was called away to an emerg-
ency job and left the youth to dismantle
screwing 5 20 storrS™s S ‘from LsSi
screwing 20 snort screws ir m asiiy
accessible positions, yet after an hours
work two still remained. The lad then
decided he d take a rest, and joined his
pal in the corner for a long discussion on
the picture seen the previous night.
"It’s hopeless,” the mechanic said on
his return. They re all like that. Simply
not interested m work. Threaten em
with the sack and they laugh m your
face and say they re thinking of leaving
■n any,case. There s still plenty of jobs
at> ° uk . , ~
And so young Australia grows up
secure m the knowledge that social
security and jobs for all make it un-
necessary to give any particular attention
to his work or any respect to any lawful
authority above him. B. J. L. (Q.).
Slum Clearance
While the N. S. Wales Housing Com-
mission is acquiring land in the outer
suburbs of Sydney—usually from citizens
who would long since have built their
own homes wpre it not for shortages of
materials and the restrictions on private
enterprise—a number of the closer
suburbs continue as an offence in the
nostrils. Rows of decrepit cottages, in-
sanitary hovels for the most part, can be
found in Redfern, Waterloo, Surry Hills
and sundry other sites. They are small
and overcrowded, slums in the worst
sense of the word.
These places are the homes and haunts
of most of the underworld characters
who are bashing and shooting indis-
criminately around the city. Conditions
“Surely a handsome type like you has enough names in his address
book already?”
get worse yearly, and each generation of
children raised there has something less
for which to thank their parents and
society.
These properties should be resumed as
the sites for large blocks of flats —
similar schemes were proving successful
in England when the war came. The un-
sightly and unhealthy atmosphere would
be done away with; the underworld
element would be driven to seek cover
elsewhere. Many more home units
would be available near the docks, fac-
tories, depots, offices and warehouses,
thus relieving some of the strain on
city transport. The streets could be,,
straightened and widened and some
semblance of order established where
none now exists.
With such a scheme in operation there
would be fewer squatters on the door-
steps of the Housing Commission and
less need for the police force to train
special tommy-gun squads.—Jindivick
(N.S.W.). . ,
,
I he r armer s ray
“Adam” (B. 4/9/’46). claims correctly
that “sweeping generalities prove noth-
in*:” proved nothing
A returned soldier wants to set up as
a farmer. Two hundred acres of free-
hold will cos t him £25 00. It will have on
a bouse? dairy, bails, barn, yards and
f ences a ]j G f which, after six years of
war _ wiU be in a sad state of rep air.
sixty cows and plant—milking machines,
horses> ploughSj harrows, cultivators,
buckets, cans, vats and the rest—will cost
b j m £lOOO
, ‘ ... „
t T u US It, * i tprp „ t Ir .„ d
**f fear a bank ner s (h!
£ l3l 5s - a / ear at ° a f k 11 v irn
™“ a l officers and to baik mSasCT the
cw-turnsf t f9®los a
» So his 60 covvs should r £ e 9 tu }„ an
t
an s“ de ii nes ,' such as swine, will return
b f2O0 ’ a yea r provided he has a good
j £ £ h a good site for his
I and frows his own supplementary
rat j ons —be’ll have to anyway to ensure a
d j H is , J T|| be killed
b y oile § P d y wn for his pigs as the ca j £
marke£ j most , unstable. Hides are
h shillings each on the local
market
v , s h wants his newly . acquired wife
hel M in the menia { monoto .
f asks o£ the CO wyard the farmer
wffl have £o employ
a man for those
- b and others F £ his extra , abor wiU
J, os£ him £3OO a year> and he>ll be lucky
to get a steady and reliable man.
* n these £^ureS _ flnd they’re a fair
avera g e —the farmer will have an annual
incom fe e of about £340 provided he has a
run of fair seasons . out of this he 1S
compel i ed t 0 pay shire rates, P.P.B. levies,
working costs and face up to a five per
cent, depreciation on his farm, stock and
plant — £l7s a year. Incidentally the in-
ability to face up to this continual de-
predation is one reason why “Adam” has
yet to see “anything in the world more
untidy than the average Australian farm.”
The £175 can be partly struck off as
working costs in the form of work put
back into the property without any direct
return of income.
In short, the farmer will receive about
£6 a week for the privilege of having the
worry of a £3500 property on his
shoulders, and the horror of mastitis,
abortion, T. 8., droughts, floods, bushfires,
hemp agrimony, grounsel bush, lantana
and Government interference to haunt his
dreams.
There is a certain breed of man, how-
ever, who*, from sheer stupidity or be*
cause he detests militant communistic
unionism, or even perhaps out of sheer
love of the soil, accepts these conditions
and toils the scoffed-at 60 to 70 hours
weekly (including Saturday and Sunday).
He is, as “Adam” suggests, a good chap
on whom a great deal of misplaced sym-
pathy is wasted. Wasted is correct, for
sympathy is a poor substitute for
a reasonable price for his work. —
Infanteer (N.S.W.).


mm. i
m
w&m
m
vV
o'
Vi
'yo'
3^
#
And no wonder, for In addition to being the
product of a great wireless organisation,
the new Radiola brings you outstanding
tonal reproduction and performance.
The Company’s laboratories are the finest
equipped and staffed in Australia. The
A. W. A. Radio-Electric Works, greatly
increased in size, met the demands of the
Services for radio equipment of the highest
technical design. Its output was larger than
that of any other wireless organisation in
Australia.
The post-war A.W.A. Radiola has gained
immeasurably by the higher technical skill
of* A.W.A. scientists and engineers devel-
oped during war time. It is a superb
instrument of Radio entertainment unpa-
ralleled for tone and performance —one
which you will be proud to own.
Although large production is being maintained, your
nearest authorised Radiola distributor may have
difficulty in making early delivery due to the big
demand from all parts of Australia. He will, however,
gladly advise you and give details of models which
will be available.
ħ
RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BV
AMALGAMATED
(A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
WIRELESS
m
Ac\ " U '’
» ‘“ bi ‘
c o»s° l
"*<
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
Badiol®
\U
«» vC
in
ihoti
itU
s
1 ,l*l“‘“
lii' 1 *
m
9
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit.
ble
a
a
A.W.A. Radiolette
