

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ VoL 67—No. 3450
Wednesday, March 27, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Christ’s Hospital.
JN Queen Victoria’s day, this English public school was in Newgate
Street, London, and as in the view shown here was a familiar
sight to Londoners. Founded in 1553 by Edward VI, on the
site of the monastery of the Grey Friars, Christ’s Hospital was at
first an orphanage but in the course of time it became a school for
the children of London freemen, clergymen and naval officers.
The building on the left was the Hall, built by John Shaw in the
late Gothic style in 1825-9. Here the boys had their meals, in-
cluding the time-honored Lenten suppers, to which the public
was admitted. The brick building over the cloisters was used for
dormitories. Christ’s Hospital scholars were generally called
“Bluecoat” boys, from the fact that they wore long blue coats,
knee-breeches, and vivid yellow stockings. Camden, Richardson,
Coleridge, Lamb and Leigh Hunt were Bluecoat boys.


story Writing
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Sly Name
Sly Address
S.B, 148 AGE
The Red Page
A TRIP TO THE MOON.
“I suppose you realise,” said Mr.
Shean, “that the speed and cruising range
of the jet-propelled ’planes of today are
limited by just one thing—the weight of
fuel that has to be carried.”
“Well?” said Mr. Gallagher,
“When the fuel is some form of atomic
energy,” said Mr. Shean, “that limitation
will disappear. You will be able to fly
non-stop round the equator in 24 hours.”
“But,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I have
not the slightest desire to fly non-stop
round the equator in 24 hours.”
“You will keep pace with the sun’s
progress across the sky,” said Mr. Shean.
“If you start at noon the time will re-
main noon for every instant of the
flight.”
“And I suppose,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“that if the ’plane carried sufficient
atomic energy, and if I didn’t want to
land, there would be nothing to stop me
whizzing round and round the equator at
noon for days, even weeks, on end?”
“Mr. David Dietz doesn’t say anything
about that,” said Mr. Shean, “but I
don’t see why you shouldn’t.”
“Who,” said Mr. Gallagher, “is David
Dietz?”
“A very likeable and informative
scientific populariser,” said Mr. Shean,
“who has written a book called Atomic
Energy in the Coming Era, which I have
from Dodd, Mead and Co, through Angus
and Robertson. Mr. Dietz is full of en-
thusiasm for the coming Atomic Era,
which he says may be upon us in from
ten to twenty-five years.”
“You may inform Mr. Dietz,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “that when I go on my
travels I like to look at the green earth
and the blue sea and I can see no sense
whatever in hurtling blindly through the
stratosphere.”
“Well, then,” said Mr. Shean, “you
will be able to stay home and amuse
yourself by controlling the weather.”
“I like it uncontrollable,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“The Era of Atomic Energy,” said Mr,
Shean, “will make it possible to speed up
the mining of the ocean. Mr. Dietz is
positively lyrical about that. Apparently
you pump the seawater into an engineer-
ing plant of some sort and extract from
it incredible quantities of salt, magnesium,
aluminium, iodine, iron, silver, gold and
what-have-you. Already the bromine
plant of the Ethyl-Dow Chemical Co. at
Kure Beach, near Wilmington, N.C., has
lifted with its giant electrically-driven
centrifugal pumps a square mile of ocean
89 feet deep, and has extracted from it,
among other desirable substances, 542,500
tons of Epsom salts —enough, says Mr,
Dietz, to furnish nine pounds to every
man, woman and child in America.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I am
charmed.”
“There is something infectious,” said
Mr. Shean, “in the American passion
for numbers. Five hundred thousand
tons of Epsom salts! Nine pounds for
every man, woman and child in America!
It is like a battle-cry.”
“However,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
can tell your scientific friends that I
really don’t want any giant electrically-
driven centrifugal pumps swallowing up
the ocean at my front door. The beaches
were not made for scientists but for such
marine fauna as jellyfish, crabs, beach-
girls and small children with buckets.
The ocean was not created to provide nine
pounds, or nine tons, of Epsom salts to
every man, woman and child in America,
but for ships to sail on and fish to swim
in.”
“I think,”' said Mr. Shean, “that Mr.
Dietz would tell you that you can’t stop
Progress.”
“As far as I am concerned,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “progress means increased
civilisation. Increased civilisation means
the production of great works of art and
the improved behavior of mankind. You
won’t paint pictures or write poems by
splitting atoms; and as for human be-
havior, the first thing man did when he
had released a sufficient quantity of
atomic energy was to wipe out a city with
it; a justifiable proceeding, no doubt, but
hardly to be claimed as an improvement
in human behavior.”
“Mr. Dietz believes,” said Mr. Shean,
“that universal and perpetual peace will
reign in the Era of Atomic Energy.”
“It will have to,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“And I trust he is right.”
“Well, then,” said Mr. Shean, “you
would have your improvement in human
behavior. And then, if Mr. Dietz’s pro-
phecy about rocket trips to the moon
should be fulfilled, would you not at
least find new subjects for painting and
drama in the exploration of space?”
“If the scientists could get to the
moon,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I would
forgive them much. If they would stay
there I would forgive them everything.”
More Siegfried Sassoon .
A glimpse of Robert Bridges, from
Siegfried Sassoon’s Siegfried’s Journey
(Faber):
He was seated at a table in the small
room, which wasn’t getting the afternoon
sunshine. My first view of his magnificent
bardlike head and fine patrician features
was a pleasantly impressive recognition of
the portrait frontispiece to his Collected
Poems. Masefield having pronounced my
name with dulcet distinctness,. I meekly
awaited the response. There was, how-
ever, no welcome in the way he looked at
me, nor did he stir from his chair. After
an awkward pause he asked us to sit
down.
Then, having inquired from Masefield
whether there was any credibility in the
report that the German Emperor had
abdicated, he glowered in my direction and
made one of the most surprising remarks
I have experienced. “What did you say
his name was —Siegfried Digweed ?”
An extension of Mr. Sassoon’s already
extensive autobiography, Siegfried’s
Journey is a good deal livelier than was
its immediate predecessor. The Weald of
Youth. In that volume, though the
charm of the prose remained, it seemed
that the material was thinning out, and the
contacts with the Georgian literary world,
which were the book’s chief interest,
were brief and unexciting. And Mr.
Sassoon had too much to say about his
own poetry. Here, while the author’s
poetry is again too much discussed, there
is a more impressive array of notabilities
and, as the paragraph about Dr. Bridges
indicates, the portraits are painted with
spirit.
Mr. Sassoon, like many writers' (and
portrait painters), is least satisfactory on
men of whom he wholeheartedly approves
—Walter de la Mare, for example, and
Thomas Hardy, both of whom emerge
over life-size —but delightful on anyone,
such as Wilfred Scawen Blunt in his white
Bedouin cloak, who strikes him as
bizarre; and he is at his best when, as
in the picture of Ronald Firbank, he is
able to mix with his paint a dash of
acid:
He received us in a closely-curtained
room lighted by numerous candles and
filled with a profusion of exotic flowers.
A large table was elaborately set out with
a banquet of rich confectionery and hot-
house fruits. Firbank, whose appearance
was as orchidaceous as his fictional
fantasies, behaved so strangely that all
attempts at ordinary conversation became
farcical. His murmured remarks were
almost inaudible, and he was too nervous
to sit still for more than half a minute at
a time.
A few days later I invited him to tea
Powdered, ninetyish and insuperably
shy, he sat with eyes averted from me and
my well-meaning repast. His most rational
response to my attempts at drawing him
out about literature and art was “I adore
italics, don’t you?” His cup of tea re-
mained untasted, and he quailed when I
drew his attention to my large and cosy
pile of crumpets. As a gesture of polite-
• ness he slowly absorbed a single grape.
Of a similar high quality are pen-
portraits of Churchill, Noel Coward and
the American poets Robert Frost and
Vachel Lindsay. There are a long account
of the author’s friendship with Wilfred
Owen and a note on his “discovery” of
Edmund Blunden when he was editing the
literary page of London “Daily Herald.”
A meeting with the American Carl Sand-
burg provides an opportunity for a use-
ful piece of criticism:
Meanwhile, I distrust random improvis-
ings, even when performed by the pioneer-
ing genius and bright vocabulary of a
Sandburg. “Explanations of life” should
be evolved and stated once and for all,
not incontinently ejaculated in blissful
immunity from the restrictions of verse-
craft. For this “poetry of the immediate
present,” invented, of course, by Whitman,
is a medium which has deliberately abro-
gated finality of form.
Held in unity by the graceful flowing
of the prose and by the author’s concept
of himself as a recorder —almost a symbol
—of the social, literary and political
history of his period, Siegfried’s Journey,
in its political aspect, is chiefly concerned
with the author’s protest against the Great
War in 1916. A junior officer who had
served in the front-line with distinction,
Mr. Sassoon, as is widely known, publicly
refused to return to service; on the
grounds, broadly, that “wicked old men”
Were unnecessarily prolonging the
struggle. To find himself in World War
II a middle-aged man thoroughly in favor
of fighting the Germans —“I share the
general opinion that nothing on earth
would have prevented a recurrence of
Teutonic aggressiveness” apparently
aroused in the author a little natural em-
barrassment.
History of Japan .
Professor A. L. Sadler’s A Short His-
tory of Japan (Angus and Robertson)
ranges in time from the era of primitive
mythology to the outbreak of the Pacific
war. It was compiled, the author says,
“owing to the lack of any convenient book
of the kind in English,”
Within its limits the book is admirable.
Professor Sadler is, of course, an author-
ity on his subject; his style—when,
amidst the recital of facts, he is able to
exercise it —is tinged with humor ; and
he is not a propagandist.
The absence, however, of a chapter on
Japanese behavior during the war gives
an impression of incompleteness ; and the
work as a whole lacks a theme and a pic-
torial sense, giving a general effect of raw
material unco-ordinated.
The opening chapters, for instance,
dealing with the wholly incomprehensible
activities of Heavenly Great Ears, Heav-
enly Bird Boat, Foot Stroking Elder and
others of the Eight Hundred Myriad
Deities, while of interest to the student
of mythology, will convey to the general
reader only an impression of lunacy. Pos-
sibly the spiritual background of the Japa-
nese is uniquely chaotic ; but many other
peoples—the Polynesians, for instance
have some pretty crazy traditions. A
simple, interpretative chapter with com-
parisions and comments of a kind that
Professor Sadler rarely attempts would
have been more useful.
Once the mythology and the semi-
mythological historical beginnings are
disposed of, the book satisfactorily ful-
fils its purpose as a factual record and as
a general survey of Japanese cultural and
political activity. A theme Professor
Sadler might well have dwelt on—and one
which, without emphasis by the historian,
presents itself clearly throughout his
array of facts—is the measure of violence
in the Japanese character. If the illusion
persists anywhere that, until the arrival
of Commodore Perry, bringing to a
fairytale East the violence of the indus-
trial West, the Japanese had spent the
centuries chasing butterflies and making
up little poems about cherry-blossom, A
Short History of Japan should finally
dispel it. The Japanese had their arts
and crafts, it is true ; but the record shows
them, like other peoples, ceaselessly en-
gaged in war or civil war, the eternal
struggle for power.
The Wagga Literary and Dramatic
Society is holding its second annual com-
petition for one-act plays. Three prizes,
of £3O, 10 and £5, will be given, and
entries (which close on July 31) are in-
vited. Further particulars from the
Literary Secretary, School of Arts,
Wagga, N.S.W. ____
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Paintings after Cezanne:
Roland Wakelin, whose paintings are show-
ing at Sydney’s Macquarie Galleries, appears
to have a curiously literal mind. At least,
that seems the easiest explanation for “Stormy
Evening,” one of the more ambitious of his
paintings. > Sombre coloring and a cloudy,
wind-swept sky to some extent justify the title,
but pride of place is given to a rotund
fasemeter. It is difficult to feel that Mr.
Wakelin finds any mystic significance in such
objects; he is not, as was Turner in his steam
and sleet” masterpiece, trying to convey an
idea of the mechanised might of man; nor is
he even trying to show the works of man
against a background of nature rampant.
There is no clash about his gasometer; it is
not beautiful; it is not even powerfully ugly.
It is just there. And that, probably, is the
only reason why Mr. Wakelin painted it. Aim
so with the modem flats and the automobile
that are immortalised in another landscape. _
The same kind of uninspired fidelity is evi-
dent in most of his work. The Morpeth scenes,
for instance, are good representations of solid
buildings, and solid shadows, and little else.
Some water effects are good, but m other
paintings the genuine sparkle degenerates into
a series of smears, which reveal another
characteristic of the artist he lacks subtlety,
not only of conception, but of technique. The
influence of Cezanne is obvious—m his fond-
ness for woolly clouds, for msfance—and in
“Ploughing at Hinton” stubble is indicated by
some Van Gogh-like perpendicular strokes. In
a ferry scene one is irresistibly reminded of
Van Gogh’s beard. . . _ , „
One of the larger pamtmgs, River Road,
was bought by the N. S. Wales National
Gallery. It is a pleasant enough painting,
showing a curving road, indeterminate green
trees and a couple of human figures; but there
is no special beauty, no flash of vision, to
make it remarkable. It is just there though
fortunately without a gasometer; and with, in
its absence, perhaps a certain spaciousness.
Ashley Dukes’s “The Man with a Load
of Mischief” comes late to Melbourne at
the hands of the National Theatre, but if
it had come ten years later it woulda’t
have been more old-fashioned. The duke
who pursues the fleeing mistress of a
Prince of Wales of old-time Merrie Eng-
land to a lonely inn and revenges himself
on the mistress by spending the night with
her maid, only to learn that his man, who
hates his master, has revenged himself in
the same way with the lady, smacks some-
what of Tom Jones but lacks that novel’s
robustness. Romance comes into its own
when the valet departs with the lady to
live happily ever after. The acting of
Peter French, Kevin O’Gorman and Pat
Henry fitted the stiff brocades they were
wearing. June Smithers was better.
Melbourne Tiv. has gone back to “The
Gay ’Nineties,” and the absence of the
crooner who stalks the microphone with
evil intent is positively refreshing. Miss
Millie Hansen, an Old-Fashioned Singer
of Old-Fashioned Songs, isn’t exactly a
Melba, but she sings “Home Sweet
Home” and other ancient ditties in
a lively and flexible voice. Fifty
years ago vaudeville patrons grew
sad at the “amazing message” of
the girl who became neither a Maid nor
a Wife “All Through a Glass of Cham-
pagne,” and Tiv. audiences still grow sad
when Miss Evie Hayes sings it. Which
shows that audiences don’t change much.
As a boxer and a parson that excellent
comedian Will Mahoney contributes
punch' and highmindedness to the
evening.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre began its
new season with a very American “Stage
Door” by Kaufmann and Edna Ferber,
concerning a boardinghouse for girl stage-
aspirants. There is a cast of 30, in which
the men are incidental and inconsider-
able.
At the talkies:
“Colonel Effingham’s Raid” (Sydney Em-
pire): A mildly amusing newspaper-office story,
remarkable in that it does not portray an
editor who leaps in smoke and frenzy from
one to another of a forest of desk ’phones.
The characters include a harmless religious
crank who haunts the editorial sanctum dis-
tributing elevating tracts and Charles Coburn
as a retired colonel who becomes a military
critic.
“The Dalfons Ride Again” (Sydney Capitol):
A sequel which, as usual, doesn’t come up to
the standard of the original —chiefly because
the gang is incredibly chivalrous. The acting
is good, with Thomas Gomez outstanding.
“Where Do We Go From Here?” (Sydney
Mayfair): Technicolored musical built round
the genie-of-the-lamp idea. Fred Mac Murray
does the releasing and is projected by the
grateful but impulsive genie into a bewilder-
ing series of centuries. In one Carlos Ramirez,
the operatic baritone, poses as one of Colum-
bus’s mutineers and gives some, splendid sing-
ing. The words of the song, which concern
the flat-world versus round-world controversy,
have a Gilbertian flavor. Much of the humor
depends on anachronisms, as when Mac Murray
finds himself in Washington’s army and warns
the incredulous general to beware of Benedict
Arnold.
“The Man From Morocco” (Sydney
Lyceum): Bellowdrama, crude of plot and
wretchedly directed, which kicks off as a weak
attempt to glamorise a Spanish civil war rabble
and finishes as a tame spy story in Morocco
and London. None of the characters rings
true, and the story jerks from one scene to
another like a cricket with St. Vitus Dance.
“The Perfect Alibi,” at Killara, Sydney
—a light and pleasant A. A. Milne murder
mystery —was produced by Jack Needham
with the smoothness that has become
characteristic of all the Kuring-gai
Theatre Guild’s shows. Rather un-
necessarily, someone in the play
remarks that the deceased, Arthur Lud-
grove, was always a “perfect'gentleman”:
all the characters, even Constable Mallet,
are perfect little ladies and gentlemen.
O. D. Bisset was well cast as the unfortu-
nate Arthur Ludgrove, John Nash, a tall,
dark young man, supplied the romantic
interest, and lounged around in flannels
making rather vacant love to Raida
Herring as Susan Cunningham, who was
chiefly instrumental in bringing the evil-
doers to justice. NasTi rather overdid his
part, but Miss Herring was excellent, just
shading David Magoffin, a very satis-
factory murderer, for the acting honors of
the night. Peter Trebilco, as P.C. Mallet s
forceful son from Scotland Yard, Phil
Hosking as Mallet senior and Knox God-
frey as murderer No. 2 were also good.
David Benjamin, as the butler, looked
the part but seemed to be afflicted
with nervousness. In the final scene
murderer No. 1 made some wild _ state-
ments regarding the idle rich, which, in
the polite context of the play, seemed a
trifle ungentlemanly. But this was passed
over very tactfully, and the curtain drop-
ped with the hero being romantic in an
eminently decent and inept manner.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE"
\o
M
111
6
...... liii
t H
B 1
e
M
A WAN-?
i
*().
*P pW* • »IMS®
»m
MR ANDRCWmUGH
*ssss&
\0
*0
\*
/t4Ae
WiII»SOEVE YOUR IWMY KOMI ROMS/
Consult our Handyman, Mr. Andrew Waugh, about any of your
home difficulties. He will be found on our Lower Ground-Floor,
Pitt Street, next to the Paints Department, and is available during
Business Hours. We offer you his valuable assistance as a free
service.
\
y
LISTEN TO STATION 2GB EACH
SUNDAY MORNING AT 10.15 A.M.
Many of those odd jobs around the home
will become simple if you listen -to Mr.
Waughs weekly chats over Station 2GB
remember each Sunday at 10.15 a.m.
3L
j
%
U-W-mns
mns
mo
r 1* j:' if
[lll
IG
nmr
sCjLsI
M 1 «
4
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY!


IT was just after midnight when the
new noise aroused Chook. It wasn’t
the rain ; he’d been lying here listen-
ing to it drumming on the cabintop for
hours before he dropped off to sleep. The
noise, louder even than the pelting rain,
was the roar of swift-running water inten-
sified because it was rushing past the
launch’s planking only a few inches from
his head.
The river was rising. Well, what else
could you expect with this rain?
Earlier in the evening he’d listened to
the special storm warning broadcast, but
there was little he could do about it
except double up the Sylvia’s headlines
and make sure they wouldn’t chafe. He'd
done that before he turned in ; but it
would be wise to have another look
around now. In the dark, warm stuffi-
ness of the launch cabin he removed his
pyjama trousers and cotton singlet and
slid back the hatch. The heavy driving
rain struck his naked body with a cold
force that made him gasp.
Quickly he scrambled out on deck and
closed the hatch. It was difficult to see
much in this downpour and darkness.
The river had risen considerably, that
was certain, for instead of having to climb
ten feet to the wharf he was able to step
on to it from the cabintop. He ran his
hand along the heavy mooring-lines and
felt their tautness. Both headlines were
taking an equal strain, and neither at the
bollard on the wharf nor at the Sylvia’s
own samson-post was there any sign of
chafing.
“They’ll hold her,” he muttered, his
teeth chattering with the cold. “Hold her
till the cows come home.”
He knelt down and looked at the dark
waters rushing past. The roar of them
filled his ears as they boiled around the
piles under the wharf. Great heaps of
dirty foam gleamed dully at every pile
and at the Sylvia’s stem, but elsewhere
the river was as black as the night itself.
As if to test the noise of the waters
against his own voice he yelled “Hoy!”
but his shout was drowned even in his
own ears.
“Some flood!” he commented. “Still,
she can’t rise much higher. I never yet
seen one come up to the wharf decking.
Might as well get below before this rain
peels the hide off me.”
Back in the warm cabin he switched
on the light and found his towel. The
batteries were low and the light yellow
and feeble, but it showed Chook’s lean,
tanned figure and the pleasantly ugly face
topped with a mop of black curly hair,
dripping wet now and straggling down
over the broad forehead,
Chook’s Army cobbers had always
called him “hard-dialed.” “She is a bit
hard,” he said, catching sight of his own
reflection in the little mirror on the bulk-
head and grinning cheerfully.
He pulled on a ragged pair of khaki
shorts and rolled a cigarette. Just his
luck to be caught without an engine at
a time like this, he reflected. He’d sent
south for a new carburettor last week, and
the engine was useless until it arrived. If
he had it now he could cast off and move
to a safer berth. Sturdy as she was, he
didn’t like the way the Sylvia was groan-
ing and creaking as the floodwaters
forced her against the wharf.
PD Chook the Sylvia represented every-
thing worth while in this world. She
stood for security—a home of his own
and freedom from the necessity of job-
hunting.
How often, up there in the stinking
jungle, had they discussed the endless
question, “What are you going to do
when you get out of the Army?” Most
of them had switched from one fancy to
another, but Chook had always remained
firm in his choice. “I’m goin’ to buy a
boat and go fishin’. You can always
make a livin’ out of fish, and jobs is goin’
to be darned scarce when this show is
over.” His deferred pay and everything
he had been able to save during his five
years in the Army had gone to purchase
the Sylvia and fit her out. There was
good money in it for a bloke who knew
the game, and Chook had put in three
years at it before he joined up.
He switched off the light and stretched
himself out on his bunk. No use wasting
batteries; he’d just lie here for a while
and smoke in the dark. After his second
cigarette he fell asleep. He slept soundly,
dreaming he was back in the New Guinea
jungle with the rain dripping steadily
down his back.
His next awakening was as rough and
sudden as any he’d had in the Army. A
heavy crash rocked the launch with a
force that flung the alarm-clock from its
shelf to the cabin floor.
Still half-asleep, Chook tore the hatch
open and scrambled out on deck. His
first realisation was that it was daylight;
daylight and still raining as hard as ever.
Next came the horrible feeling that the
Sylvia was no longer tied up to the wharf.
FLOODWATERS
BY STANDBY.
There was no wharf in sight! And
yet there, not thirty yards away, and
visible even through the lashing rain,
stood the wharf warehouse. He could
see the tops of the great double doors
above the surface of the water.
It took Chook a few more seconds to
realise that if the water was four feet up
those doors the wharf must now be at
least five feet below the surface of the
river. And what a river! It stretched
as far as Chook could see through the
driving rain, a brown, turbulent, raging
torrent, racing past in long, undulating
waves. Great patches of debris and yel-
low foam, branches, logs and even whole
trees streamed past. It was blowing a
gale, too, Chook realised, clutching a
backstay for support, blowing in great
whooping gusts that rushed around the
corner of the warehouse and struck his
bare chest like blows. For a while he
remained stunned by the immensity of
the forces around him.
A giant tree swirled past rolling over and
over in the current, its sodden branches
and gnarled roots swaying like twisted
arms waving for help. The sight brought
Chook’s mind back to the crash that had
wakened him. Something like that must
have struck the launch. He worked his
way for’ard and looked down. A huge
tree-stump was pinned against the stem-
post, held there by the current that boiled
through its upthrust roots and cascaded
down in a series of foaming waterfalls.
“Have to get rid of that,” Chook said.
“She’ll smash through 'the plankin’ or
carry the headlines away.”
He swung himself down, clinging to
the taut headlines with both hands. By
bracing his body and planting both feet
against the biggest root he strove to force
the stump clear. He strained until the
muscles stood out in great knots on his
shoulders and arms.
Sometimes the stump swung slightly or
submerged a root until the water surged
up around Chook’s thighs, but always it
clung firmly to the stempost. More debris
w'as coming down now, piling up against
the stump in an ever-growing barrier.
Chook stopped straining and clung pant-
ing to the headlines.
He was still trying to figure out a better
method of moving the stump when the
bay horse arrived. He was quite dead,
borne downstream on the torrent that
deposited him against the stump with a
dull, heavy thud,
Chook surveyed the new arrival with
disgust. The distended belly stood well
above water, and the current swung it
till the tail streamed like lank black sea-
weed over one root and the head rested
on another. The mouth was open, reveal-
ing a blue, swollen tongue and a row of
yellowish teeth. A blurred misty eye
regarded the man on the stump reproach-
fully.
“That’s right,” Chook said. “Make
yourself at home.”
But even in death the bay horse proved
a help. His weight, pressed against the
outflung root, swung the stump slightly,
and Chook, seeing his opportunity, ap-
plied all his remaining strength to the
other end. The stump moved slowly at
first and then, gathering speed in the cur-
rent, spun round and freed itself. Chook
scrambled up on deck and waved a hand
to the departing horse. “Thanks, mate,”
he called,
FREED of the deadweight on her bows
the Sylvia sheered wildly across the
current, brought up with a jerk and
sheered even more wildly back again. For
several minutes she kept up this surging
zigzag motion, her headlines taut as steel
cables, cutting through the water with a
“zip zip” audible even above the noises
of the storm.
Because he could think of nothing else
to do Chook edged himself into the little
wheelhouse and moved the wheel a few
spokes to port. He was rather astonished
to find that the helm did help. She lay
more easily now, so he tied the wheel
and went for’ard again.
Apart from debris the greatest danger
now lay in the fact that the headlines
were leading down instead of up. At
any moment they might lift from their
submerged bollard. By hauling himself
hand over hand along one of the lines he
strove to reach the bollard, but the cur-
rent was too strong for him. Half-
drowned and completely exhausted, he
crawled back on deck and down into the
shelter of the cabin. It was semudark
down here and stuffy, but he was grate-
ful for the warmth on his wet, shivering
body.
The clock, he saw when he bent to pick
it up, had stopped at ten minutes to six.
Must be well after seven now, he thought.
The sight of the little wireless screwed
to its shelf on the bulkhead reminded him
that the local station would announce
the time. The batteries would still have
enough kick in them if he turned it up
full. He switched it on, and above the
roar of wind and water a voice sang
something about “My Little Grey-haired
Mother in the West.” Chook had no
little grey-haired mother in the west; he
had no mother at all; but the tune
pleased him, and he raised his own voice
apd joined in.
Halfway through a line the singing
stopped and the voice of the announcer
cut in: “Here is a special storm warning.
The cyclonic depression is moving in a
south-westerly direction. Heavy seas and
gale conditions with wind 60 to 80 miles
per hour and further heavy flooding ex-
pected.”
A short pause while the announcer
cleared his throat and rustled a paper.
“Attention, please, listeners. Another
special message from the police station.
Will all boatowners and dinghyowners
who are willing to assist the police in
flood rescue work please contact the
police station immediately?”
“Sure,” Chook said humorously. “Take
mine if you s can shift her.”
But he switched the wireless off. He
was in no mood to listen to music now.
Because he wanted to know the worst
he climbed to the wheelhouse and wedged
himself into the driest corner. At least
he could see what was going on from
here. Not that he could do any good.
If the Sylvia went he would be powerless
to save her. No anchors would hold in
that raging torrent. She woqld be swept
out to sea and everything he’d fought,
sweated and saved for during those years
in the army would be battered to pieces
in the approaching cyclone. His thoughts
were solely for his boat. He couldn’t
lose her!
THE Sylvia was still sheering about
in spite of the assistance of the helm
and Chook was about to give her a few
more spokes when she broke loose. The
warehouse flashed past as she swung in
a dizzying circle, the sternline parted
with a muffled bang and the boat was
adrift, careering downstream with the
logs, uprooted trees and all the rest of
the flood debris.
Even before the sternline parted
Chook was out of the wheelhouse and
scrambling for’ard. There were two
anchors in the bows and he heaved them
both over and watched the heavy anchor
ropes run out to their full length.
“Might as well chuck a coupler fishin’
lines over,” he commented. “They’d do
about as much good.”
Certainly the anchors made no effect
on the Sylvia’s progress as, broadside-on
to the current, she swept madly sea-
ward, rolling heavily as she went. Here
and there through the rainsqualls Chook
caught glimpses of the houses along the
waterfront, houses standing in a sea of
water and slipping past with almost in-
credible speed.
Realising that he could do no good by
standing here and that the rain was lash-
ing his naked shoulders like whips he
clawed his way back into the wheelhouse.
What now? he wondered. If the Sylvia
was swept out of the main channel the
anchors might foul something, the man-
groves along the lower reaches perhaps.
If he could only do something to help
her out of it! He thought ruefully of
sails.
The old mainsail wouldn’t stand for ten
seconds in this blow, but the jib was in
better shape. If he could set it, it might
at least ease the drag on the anchors.
The wind was blowing against the cur-
rent now. That meant either that he had
rounded the first bend or that the wind
had changed. He had no means of tell-
ing for there was not a house or even
a tree in sight. He was alone in a world
of water, white driving rain above him
and the dirty raging river below. Wher-
ever he looked the two joined.
Getting the jib ready for hoisting was
a job that required all his strength and
cunning. The Sylvia was rolling violently
and the wind flung itself on him in hard
howling gusts that threatened to hurl him
overboard, forcing him to cling constantly
for support. When at last it was ready
for hoisting he crawled to the halyard
and cast it off. The jib rose a few feet,
filled like a bellying balloon, shook itself
with a fury that made the whole launch
tremble, and then burst with the report
of an exploding mortar bomb. Shreds
of canvas flogged violently in the gale
and vanished downwind leaving nothing
but a madly lashing headrope.
Back in the shelter of the wheelhouse
Chook surveyed the wild waste of water
with real alarm. The waves were rising
high now, real waves that, capped with
brownish foam, hurled themselves on
the advancing current as if in an effort to
stem its outward rush.
That meant that he must be at the
mouth of the river already.
In a few more minutes he’d be over
the outer bar ; not actually in the open
sea, for Long Island lay opposite the
river mouth, forming a lee for several
miles. For the first time the thought of
personal danger entered Chook’s head.
Wind and current would now combine
to sweep him out to the open sea, and
once clear of the protecting island the
Sylvia could not last long.
Here, in what normally were sheltered
waters, the seas were big enough; out-
side they would batter a helpless launch
to pieces in a matter of minutes. The
Sylvia was doomed but he might be
able to save himself. Well, why not give
it a go?
Although he could see nothing but a
wilderness of wild breaking water he
knew approximately where he was. At
most the mainland could not be more
than two miles away. Dead he’d be no
good to anyone, but alive he might land
a job and start saving up for another
boat. There was only a chance, a small
chance, that he would make the shore, but
it was worth a try. The dinghy lashed
across the stern was nearly half-full of
rain water, so he took a kerosene-tin and
bailed it out. The wind almost tore the
tin from his grasp. Breaking seas and
rain combined in an effort to make his
work useless, but Chook battled on. They
couldn’t beat him so easily. The seas
were bigger now, often breaking right
across the cabin top. That meant they
must be nearing the open water.
“She mightn’t float for long,” he told
himself, “but here goes.”
Just for a second or two he looked
appealingly at the ship’s head. The
anchors might take a hold. There were
several coral patches in this stretch. But
the Sylvia refused to face up to her
anchors, and even seconds were precious
now. Timing it with a roll of the launch
he slid the dinghy over and sprang
aboard.
AT ten o’clock the following morning
the harbormaster rang the police
station. The morning was calm and
sunny, and the inspector of police was
feeling more than thankful that at last
the floodwaters were falling rapidly. He
was almost asleep in his chair.
The coxswain of the pilot launch, the
harbormaster reported, had sighted the
launch Sylvia anchored under the far end
of Long Island and had gone out to see
if he could be of any assistance. There
was no one on board, so they had towed
the Sylvia back to port. Both anchors
were so firmly fouled in a coral reef that
the coxswain had to cut the anchor-ropes
and leave them. The dinghy was missing.
Would the inspector arrange for a patrol
to search the beaches?
“Yes,” the inspector said wearily. He’d
attend to the matter straight away. •
They found, first, a broken oar and
some wreckage of the dinghy ; and, next
day, Chook’s body lying face downward
in the sand. The big police constable
turned the body over for identification.
“Yes,” he said to his companion, “that’s
him. Fowler. Chook they called him.
A returned soldier bloke, not long dis-
charged. Wonder why the poor cow
didn’t stay on the launch. She was quite
safe where she was. Got the wind up,
I suppose.”
Second Childhood.
Age is by my shoulder. One lean hand
Scars the loose flesh of my throat, the
other
Turns back the pages of the brain’s
webbed tome;
And, searching there before the written
story.
He gloats upon its fingerprinted child-
hood.
Handling those painted smudges to
neglect
The finer scripts I line for his appraisal.
He seems to linger more upon those
stains —
Daylong they meet his tireless scrutiny
And midnight candles ripple on their
faces.
“I must tell Brother Death of these," he
says,
“Or, better, let him see them for himself.”
QUEENSLAND.
Val Vallis.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67 —No. 3450
Wednesday, March 27, 1946
STEPPES AND STARES.
“Dr. Evatt accepts the Russian view....If the British Empire and the United States are prepared to accept the comfortable Evatt theory the day will inevitably
come when the Soviet Union will be able to dictate its own terms to the world."— Menzies.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PETER, JOE AND BERT.
In Russia’s present policy, to the dangers
of which Dr. Evatt, so recently a cham-
pion of small nations, and all his party
are or choose to be blind, there is a great
deal that is familiar to readers of history.
In his appetite for other peoples’ terri-
tories, in his thrust towards warm-water
ports and in his contempt for covenants,
charters and treaties, Stalin is following
and expanding the policy of Czarist pre-
decessors. And the accident of circum-
stances has enabled him, for a time at
least, in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugo-
slavia and Bulgaria to give form and
substance to pan-Slavic ideas which
Romanovs were never able to realise.
After his first campaign against Hitler,
a campaign which, despite Moscow
bulletins and reports of British and
American correspondents who never saw
even a skirmish, was an appalling failure
—hence world Communists’ squeals to
hard-pressed Britain for an immediate in-
vasion of Europe—Stalin went nationalist,
invoking the spirit and example of Peter
the Great and Ivan the Terrible, as
well as Suvorov and Kutusov. Peter
repelled an invasion of Russia, as Alex-
ander was to do in the next century. To
extend his dominions to the Baltic, Peter
made war on Sweden. To extend them
to the Sea of Azov, he made war on
Turkey. To convert the Caspian into a
Russian lake he made war on Persia. A
condensed account of this campaign has
quite a modern touch.
Peter had got all he wanted in Europe,
but the anarchical state of Persia at' the
beginning of 1722 opened up fresh vistas
of conquest. The war lasted from May,
1722, to September, 1723. It was alto-
gether successful, resulting in the acquisi-
tion of the towns of Baku and Derbent
and the Caspian provinces of Gilan,
Mazandaran and Astarabad.
But the sequel was unfortunate:
The Persian campaign wore out the
feeble health of Peter, who had been ailing
for some time. A long and fatiguing tour
of inspection over the latest of his great
public works, the Ladoga Canal, brought
back another attack of his paroxysms. He
expired, after terrible suffering, on January
28, 1725.
He was in his 53rd year. Stalin, is rising
67. Of Peter it is recorded that “his
banquets were orgies; his hatred rarely
stopped short of extermination.” But his
people, serfs and all, idolised him, and he
had himself proclaimed “the Father of
the Fatherland and Emperor of all Russia”
—in October, month of the Revolution.
By the first three partitions of Poland,
1772, 1793 and 1795 (the others hap-
pened in 1918, 1939 and 1945), Russia,
with Catherine as Empress, became pos-
sessed of the greater part of that unfor-
tunate country. The Napoleonic invasions
of Poland and Russia interrupted the
three robbers’ enjoyment of their booty,
but at the Congress of Vienna in 1814
Alexander, “exaggerating the part he had
played in the final struggle,” demanded
the whole of Poland. He was dished by
Castlereagh, who, “going to the Congress
with an overwhelming distrust of the
growing power of Russia,” and remem-
bering that during the long war Alex-
ander had turned dog on his British ally,
declaring war on the British as Napoleon’s
partner in his Continental system, brought
off a defensive alliance with Austria and
France. Faced with this, Russia and Prus-
sia backed down.
Austrian partnership in the alliance
being necessary, there was. no way of pre-
venting Poland being divided among
Russia, Austria and Prussia. But the dip-
lomatic victory went to Castlereagh, who
“considered that the equilibrium of
Europe would be irretrievably upset were
the Russian boundaries to be pushed into
the heart of Germany, and was prepared
to go to any length to resist the claims of
Russia.” Now, though the territorial
arrangements are somewhat different, the
Potsdam Declaration has- brought about
the very situation which the Irish-born
statesman strove to prevent.
Forty years after Vienna, Alexander’s
brother Nicholas struck towards the
Mediterranean and the Middle East. After
a scrambling war, in which the forces
engaged were puny by twentieth-century
standards, the Russians were defeated by
a combination of French, British, Turks
and Italians. The victory, such as it was,
and the third Napoleon’s brief adventure
in 1859 against the Austrian Emperor,
gave Europe, Bismarck and Moltke ex-
cepted, false impressions of the military
strength of the French, Eleven years
later it was demonstrated terribly in the
war against Prussia and in the bloody
rising of the Commune, whose ruffians
murdered batches of noncombatants in
cold blood and went close to burning
down Paris, that France had never recov-
ered from the wars and civil disorders of
the first Revolution and first Empire,
Doing what no Russian has dared to do
concerning his own country’s dreadful
cycle of revolution, civil war, famine and
foreign war, Taine collected and pub-
lished the tragic statistics —and France
in 1789 had barely a sixth of the popu-
lation of Russia in 1917:
Two million Frenchmen marched under
the Republican flag and 800,000 died under
it; among the survivors, how many
cripples, how many with one arm and
with wooden legs. And over a million
died of starvation and poverty ; 400,000
wasted away in prisons.
Between 1804 and 1815 Napoleon
slaughtered 1,700,000 Frenchmen.
The Crimean War had been ended by a
treaty signed on Inarch 31, 1856, in which
Russia agreed to the neutralisation of the
Black Sea and engaged, with Turkey,
“neither to construct nor maintain any
naval or military arsenal along the coast.”
On October 31, 1870, the Russian Foreign
Minister, having secured Bismarck’s favor,
coolly notified “the European Powers
generally” that his imperial master would
no longer consider himself bound by the
treaty. The British Government protested
against this Oriental perfidy, but, France
being down, Turkey and Italy unwilling
and weak and Germany more likely than
not to side with Russia if it came to
war, it was obliged to accept the position
rather than try to enforce the treaty alone.
In point of fact, the Russians had already
double-crossed the other parties to it by
building naval works and launching a
fleet of steamboats easily convertible into
armored warships with mountings for
12 guns.
Yes, it all seems familiar. And, taking
advantage of the complaisance shown by
Mr. Truman at Potsdam and by Mr.
Roosevelt at Yalta, whence the dictator
from Moscow bore away a secret promise
of the Kuriles, Port Arthur and Dairen,
Stalin, adding a full issue of Oriental
chicane, has outdone any of the Czars.
The New York “Times,” which, owned
by a distinguished Jewish family, is any-
thing but anti-Russian, has compiled a
brief catalogue of Red Russia’s “acqui-
sitions” from foes —and friends:
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Eastern
Poland, Bessarabia, Bukovina, Moldavia,
the Carpatho-Ukraine (Czechoslovakia),
East Prussia, Karelia and Petsamo (Fin-
land), Tannu-Tuva (Central Asia), Southern
Sakhalin, the Kuriles; 273,947 square miles,
with a population of 24,355,000, equal to
the larger part of the eastern U.S.A.
Russia has also obtained naval bases in
Finland and China and joint ownership
and operation of the Manchurian trunk
railways. And all in wars fought under
a banner with the device “no aggrandise-
ment, territorial or otherwise.” Yet all
Russian pronouncements have made it evi-
dent that this is not enough. The world
is justified in asking “Where does the
search for security end, and where does
expansion begin?”
“Justified” is right; but not all the
world is posing the question. Commu-
nists and Parlor Pinks everywhere are
backing the annexation and sphere-of-
influence business, meanwhile attacking
Mr. Bevin and Mr. Churchill and calling
for “action” against Franco in Spain,
Peron in Argentina and Anders in Italy—
diversions in which they get queer support
from writers whose stuff is printed in pro-
fessed anti-Communist newspapers.
And Federal “Labor” is complacently
incurious where it is not rankly
partisan on the Russian side —in
the debate on foreign affairs Mr.
Ward interjected that Mr. Churchill
was “an old Tory,” and when it
came to his own turn he sneered that
“our opponents are afraid, not so much
that Russia is gaining territory, but that
capitalism is failing and failing fast.” In
the same Russia-is-always-right strain,
which is always his strain, this Sydney
Minister, protector and darling of Com-
munists, said “Mr. Menzies accused Dr.
Evatt of appeasing the Soviet because
he was not willing to play the game of
the Conservatives, but Dr. Evatt is
anxious to preserve world peace.” So
is the entire non-Communist world, but
not at the price of making Red Russia
master of Europe and Asia and of Britain’s
lifeline to India, China, Australia and
New Zealand and setting up Red dictator-
ships everywhere. That wasn’t what the
British Commonwealth fought for ; and it
began to fight nearly 22 months before
Hitler turned on his partner at Moscow,
Mr. Ward’s spiritual home —that is, if
this England-hating political larrikin has
a spirit.
The Minister of External Affairs, swal-
lowing all his professions of zeal for the
small members of the United Nations, of
which Persia is one, had said:
Having no clear evidence to the con-
trary, and having during the last four years
come to know some of Russia’s greatest
statesmen, I take the view that the Soviet
Union’s policy is directed towards self-
protection and security against future
attack.
He didn’t name these “great statesmen,”
but he can scarcely xhave met any
more of them than Molotov, Ouman-
sky (dead), Gromyko, Manuilsky and
possibly Vishinsky; and the claims
of Vishinsky and Manuilsky to be
in the category are contemptuously
dismissed by no less a Leftist than
Laski. Of their performances before the
Security Council, though Manuilsky
seems to have revived the flagging
military ardor of “our Indernesian
comrades” (anyway, more British and
Indian soldiers have been killed),
Laski wrote that “Mr. Bevin over-
whelmed them by his thorough ex-
posure of the flimsy evidence on which
thdy relied —poor secondhand evidence,
scraps from newspapers, bits of speeches
and the like” ; and that “neither showed
competence in the cut-and-thrust of de-
bate by which real principles emerge.”
Mr, Menzies let the doctor have his
“great statesmen,” but found it “curi-
ously ironical” that, having committed
himself to “the very quintessence of what
would have been called ‘appeasement’
before the war,” Dr. Evatt should have
“immediately gone on to condemn in
terms the Munich era of ‘appeasement’
of Hitler and his Axis associates.” And
apropos of “self-protection and security”;
The Minister should be aware that, if he
were to find this very sentence, substitut-
ing “Germany” for “the Soviet Union,” in
a speech by a British statesmen after the
Anschluss and the absorption of Czecho-
slovakia, he would condemn it as either
feeble or reactionary.
Then, quoting Stalin’s “remarkable
question” (“Is it to be wondered at that
the Soviet Union should make some effort
to secure Governments loyal to the Soviet
Union?”), Mr. Menzies said:
It is quite clear that the Soviet Union
has abandoned the' terms of the Atlantic
Charter, has swept aside the independence
of other nations and has enormously ex-
tended its boundaries and authority while
enhancing remarkably its military and
strategic position in the world. These
“territorial adjustments” have been made
by unilateral action. They have all served
to strengthen the position of the Soviet
Union apd, therefore, to weaken the posi-
tion of the Western democracies. Dr. Evatt
accepts the Russian view that, while all
this is no doubt in sad conflict with the
whole principle of U.N.0., it has been
done quite reasonably for Russia’s security.
But security against whom?
To this Dr. Evatt had no reply. He
was so flustered at that time, what with
Mr. Menzies firing unanswerable ques-
tions and the Dutch stubbornly refusing
to accept any “observer” on one of the
boycotted mercy ships, even “Labor’s”
favorite K.C. Mr. Barry, that he hadn’t
time to read a report of Mr. Mackenzie
King’s statement to the Canadian Parlia-
ment on the Soviet conspiracy against
his country, amounting to “as serious a
situation as has ever existed in Canada.”
Yet reports had appeared not only that
Wednesday morning but on the Tuesday
afternoon, and in the previous Saturday’s
newspapers there had been announced the
arrest of “a Labor Progressive” {i.e.,
Communist) M.P., an Assistant Professor
of Chemistry at McGill, an employee of
Allied World Supplies (“a Crown com-
pany concerned in the production of
chemicals and explosives”), an R.C.A.F.
squadron-leader and a Doctor of Physics
from Poland, who was “employed in re-
search enterprises for three years till he
joined the Navy.”
Seeing that Dr. Evatt is Attorney-
General as well as Minister of External
Affairs and has been much exposed to
Communists —after removing the ban on
their party and waiving fines imposed on
instruments of their coal “policy,” sabo-
teurs of production, he accepted them
as referendum allies —it is strange
that he exhibits so little interest in
the foul blow at a sister-Dominion so
loyal to the British Commonwealth and
so generous to all its war associates,
Russia and Australia included. Two
interim reports have been presented by
the Royal Commission, composed of two
Justices of the Canadian Supreme Court,
and the substance of the second, to which
the “Times” gave a column on the previ-
ous Saturday, could have been in his
hands days before he pleaded ignorance
of Mr. Mackenzie King’s statement —that
is, if “the” (late) “greatest champion of
the small Powers, the Foreign Minister of
Australia,” is dependent on newspapers
for information and has no equivalent
of the Foreign Office box.
“The new report,” the “Times” said in
an introductory paragraph, “gives addi-‘
tional evidence of the thoroughness with
which the Russian agents had organised
their activities and makes the significant
statement that some of the witnesses ex-
amined” (48 at 44 “had admitted
‘a loyalty which took priority over the
loyalty owed by them to their own coun-
try.’” This could be said of the Com-
munists who organised and took part in
the late iron and steel, shipping and coal
strikes, and who have caused the Dutch
ships to be held up for so many months,
and it intimately concerns our Govern-
ments which employ thousands of Com-
munists in many of their be-
ginning with schools. But “mum” seems
to be the word.
It would be interesting to know whether
Dr. Evatt has ever missed any of the flat-
tering things Communists have said about
him in their press. The “Tribune” was in
transports after his “self-protection and
security” speech, and it included his col-
leagues in its compliments —“correspon-
dents of overseas papers and agencies in
Canberra cabled that the Soviet Legation
had been notified that Dr. Evatt’s appeal
for continued friendship and unity is
not just Dr. Evatt’s personal view but
the considered view of the Chifley Gov-
ernment.”
A London Communist publication
called “The Week,” copies of which come
to Australia by airmail, related the speech
to “the crisis at Washington,” in which
the central figure was alleged to be Mr.
Byrnes, “under heavy fire from the ex-
treme Right”:
Surprisingly, it was Dr. Evatt, Australian
Foreign Minister and habitual critic of
Soviet policy [!], who, first among British
and Empire statesmen, saw through the
smokescreen behind which the .big game
is being played and took alarm at what he
saw. His warning speech was, in part,
based, according to our information, on last-
minute advices from Washington suggest-
ing that Mr. Byrnes had done, or was
about to do, a colossal deal with his
fiercest critics at the War and Navy De-
partments at the expense of what are re-
garded as Australian and Empire rights and
interests. What the Australian Govern-
ment has been told is [that] the Ottawa
bomb scare, the Vandenburg speech and
the Churchill speech were all shots at him
as representative and spokesman, until
recently, of a policy regarded as quite in-
adequately anti-Soviet.
The British Government had no advance
knowledge of what Dr. Evatt was going to
say; and the speech, despite some whistling
in the dark, was a bit of a j01t.... There
was in this speech—and in the situation
it revealed —a disagreeable reminder of the
Chanak days of 1922. Then, too, a
British Government pursued a policy of
bluff and bluster such as could only have
been made to stick by the existence of a
military force much greater than Britain
had available. Then, too, it was assumed
up to the last moment that the Dominions
would somehow pull the chestnuts out o|
the fire. And the Dominions refused td
play.
Dr. Evatt’s habit of suggesting that the
other parts of the British Commonwealth
are out of step with “Australia” (i.e.,
himself) must be a repeated pain in the
neck to the British Government, con-
cerned to present a united front to the
Empire’s enemies and unfriends. It can’t
answer him with the world for audience
nor apply coercion, but it might try —er —
conciliation. Can that be why it is pro-
viding special passages for a party of
footballers hired to play the brisk boys
of the Rugby League, of which Dr. Evatt
is patron?
Floods in Victoria.
Victoria has been spared any disastrous
bushfires this season, but it has had the
worst floods in its history and that in the
prosperous Western District.
Cyclonic downfalls of up to 9in. —in
one case 13in. —turned the rivers into
raging torrents. Townships were iso-
lated ; Port Fairy, Warrnambool and
other large towns were inundated ; scores
of bridges were demolished ; railways and
highways were severed, and there was
great destruction of stock and crops.
Five people were drowned. The loss
of life would have been greater if the
country people had not risen to the occa-
sion as they always have done during
bushfires. One constable for eight hours
supported a farmer entangled in barbed
wire, and insisted on going on with
his heroic rescue work although large
pieces of his flesh had been torn off his
body. Planes and amphibious ducks saved
many marooned families and averted star-
vation from isolated townships. The losses
are estimated at £2,000,000.
The question arises as to how ..much
the inundation was due to the long
process of soil depletion and forest
destruction that has been going on in
most Victorian country districts. No
system of soil conservation, however
perfect, can prevent floods when rain falls
at the rate of a couple of feet in a few
days, but all agricultural and forestry ex-
perts agree that Victorian rivers flood
more easily than in other years. Statis-
tics show that the run-off from mountains
depleted of their forest cover has been
steadily increasing, as well as the damage
done in the cultivated areas. Conversely,
watercourses, reservoirs and irrigation
systems show the effects of dry years far
more quickly. Fires, reckless misuse of
forests and soil-wasteful methods of cul-
tivation are held to be causes.
Thus was the fertile Tennessee Valley
turned into a dustbowl. The Tennessee
Valley Authority restored the soil to its
former condition.
The Government now has a chance of
profiting by the T.V.A.’s example. A
few of the millions it is proposed to spend
on an outdated scheme of railway
standardisation, which, at best, couldn’t
add a penny to the income of the country
and, at worst, would add many millions
to the annual losses on railways, would
transform the Western District,


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Grand Opportunity.
It is an ironical reflection on the “Gov-
ernment’s” so-called immigration policy,
which carries a Calwell limit of 70,000
immigrants p.a. and, save for 2500 speci-
ally favored Jews, is not to come into
operation for two years, that more Ameri-
cans than Britons are arriving in Aus-
tralia. They are all servicemen who liked
what they saw of the country when they
came to it on other business bent, and
formed friendships and more intimate
ties here. In some cases Australian Wives
accompanied them.
These Americans are intelligent and
observant fellows, and are very welcome.
Of the U.S.A. they report that money
wages are higher than in Australia, but
cost of living is so much steeper that
there is virtually no difference in what
“take-home pay,” as they call it, Will buy.
Thjs is a report which should be weighed
well by Government and industry and
all the parties concerned in industry.
It is in the vital interests of Australia
that the cost of living should be kept
at the lowest possible level consistent
with a just and generous distribution of
the fruits of industry among all sections
concerned in it —landmen, manufacturers,
wage-earners, all. And those who have
the ordering of taxation and public ex-
penditure should shape their policies to
this end. American free enterprise is an
example we may wisely follow ; but the
pushing up of wages to heights which
bring no corresponding or any benefit to
wage-earners, a process which increases
the danger of inflation and may result
in inability to sell goods in world markets,
is an example to avoid.
/Adventurous spirits in all Europe, as
well as Britain and America, want to
come to Australia. There are thousands
of inquiries even from French people, who
can see no future for France under semi-
Communist rule which may become pre-
dominantly Communist; and the French
never previously wanted to emigrate even
to French colonies. One day last week,
according to a Sydney “Sun” report,
crowds of would-be French emigrants
besieged the Australian Legation in Paris,
“forming a file hundreds of yards long,”
and having to be fobbed off with explana-
tions that nothing could be done for them
in the absence of shipping. The absence
of a Canberra plan is another obstacle,
but doubtless “the harassed officials” did
not mention that. «
Except perhaps the U.S.A. in the 20
years from 1890 no country ever had such
an opportunity of getting abundance of
immigrants and taking its pick as Aus-
tralia has now and will have in the years
to come. What was accomplished in
Greece after four wars in 10 years, the
fourth war disastrous, could be accom-
plished tenfold in this splendid continent,
where, for one thing, there are many
neglected ports with sparsely populated
hinterlands infinitely superior to the
Whyalla (S.A.) district, where B.H.P. has
set an example to all the Governments,
especially the one at Canberra.
Greece is a poor country. The main-
land (41,328 square miles) is much less
than half the size of Victoria, four-
fifths of it is uncultivable, and there is
no coal. Yet only a few years after the
defeat of the Greek Army by Mustapha
Kemal’s Turks it had found room for
1.400.000 Greek refugees from Asia
Minor. In 18 months alone, with the help
of a refugee settlement committee ap-
pointed by the League of Nations (one of
the League’s good deeds) and of loans
guaranteed in London and New York,
“more than half a million refugees were
settled in new villages and urban districts
throughout Greece” (the new Encyclo-
pcedia Britannicd).
With energy and imagination we could
in a few years double our population
with first-class immigrants from Britain,
Europe and the U.S.A. Oh for a man
W'ith the spirit and vision of John Forrest!
Sugar and Peace.
Looking back over 1945 and comparing
it with previous years, while trying to
get some idea of prospects ahead, the
Australian Sugar Producers’ Association
appears to be trying gamely to be opti-
mistic. It isn’t quite certain what there
is to be optimistic about, unless it is that
the wars are over.
Though the industry’s productive capa-
city, like that of practically every other
Australian land industry, was kicked to
pieces by war and “controls,” growers
managed to keep up an average annual
production of 650,000 tons, against the
pre-war figure of 829,000 tons. Fertiliser
and manpower losses mainly caused the
drop. In the two pre-war years fertiliser
deliveries averaged 60,000 tons a year.
They fell to 15,000 in 1942, rising to
29.000 in ’43, 32,000 in ’44 and 39,000
in ’45.
It is impossible to forecast how long
fertiliser rationing must continue.... Soils
in all sugar areas have become deficient
in potash. Growers must, therefore, look
upon potash as a major fertiliser need.
The industry’s requirements of potash for
1946 may be stated as 4800 tons.
It got 1700 tons last year. Prospects
for a material increase of that amount
in a year whose first quarter was black-
ened by Communist strikes in key indus-
tries, particularly shipping, are not bright.
As for manpower, the A.S.P.A. report dis-
courses on the muddle in high places
and the failure to supply anything like
the number needed, though a whole army
was kept in idleness for years all around
the sugar districts.
Turning from strikes and shipping hold-
ups to the future, the Association remarks
that the blight of war fell heavily on
most of the European beet areas, as
well as on the cane areas in Java and
the Philippines, neither of which is ex-
pected to re-enter world sugar trading
until 1948. Use of sugar in the making
of synthetics and plastics is discussed
as a possibility. But hopes for the
future come back, as with other
land products, to the urgent need
for men, machinery parts, fertiliser
and some reassurance of stability. It is
noted that Mr. Chifley toured the sugar
country last October, and, though his visit
was “very hurried,” it is politely surmised
that he “left with a keener appreciation
of the importance of exports.” To which
it may be added that if things don’t alter
they’ll stay as they are.
Footbrawlers First.
When J was in London I saw wives of
Australian servicemen with children three
years old who had never seen their fathers.
Who are deserving of more consideration
than those servicemen who, as Mr. Curtin
said, “put their bodies between us and the
enemy” and cannot now be reunited with
those they love? —Rowland James, “Labor”
member for Hunter (N.S.W.).
During the week in which Mr. Calwell
PROPOSITION REJECTED.
“Arrangements for sending one of the eight boycotted vessels to Java as a ‘trial’
ship With a union secretary and a Labor K.C. on board as ‘observers had to be cancelled,
the Dutch objecting.”
“No, Mr. Chifley ; I don’t think your intentions are honorable.
gave (incomplete) particulars of the num-
ber of people in Britain awaiting pas-
sages to Australia and eating their hearts
out whilst seeing their money disappear
—l5OO wives and 500 fiancees of Austra-
lian servicemen, most of whom are using
up their deferred pay in maintaining their
wives and children, and 3500 stranded
Australians, presently altered to “6000
persons in priority classes” it came out
that the Australian “Government” had
secured “priorities” for 26 professional
footballers, with two managers, who are
under engagement to play a series of
matches in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
This would be considered queer if the
record of the Australian “Government’’
and the interest of N.S.W. “Labor’
Ministers, particularly Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Beasley, in the Rugby League variety of
football (earbiting not barred) and the
people who cash in on it were not well
known.
“I never had any doubt about the
Englishmen coming here,” said a Mr.
Maher, vice-president of the N.S.W.
Rugby League at its annual meeting. He
gave as his reason for absence of doubt
“the efforts of Dr. Evatt and Mr. Beas-
ley.” Another gentleman, a Mr. Frank
Miller —not to be confused with Mr.
“Horrie” Miller, secretary of the League
since it began to buy footballers
hoof, who has been deposed —said “the
presence of an English team will create
the biggest Rugby League boom in Aus-
tralia since the inception of the code.”
His gratified audience proceeded to re-
elect Dr. Evatt patron, “unopposed.”
Then Dr. Evatt was heard from on the
subject of the playing strength of pro-
fessional football in England. “During
a recent visit,” he said —meaning the visit
during which he gatecrashed into the
Conference of Foreign Ministers, with in-
considerable results —he “saw Widnes and
Wigan play” and was particularly im-
pressed with a certain Martin Ryan, “a
constructive full-back who likes to run
with the ball and sidestep an opponent
or two” —as do certain “Labor” politi-
cians ; and the League in Australia, and
perhaps in England, is “100 per cent.
‘Labor.’ ” And the Minister of External
Affairs uttered a warning against com-
placency —“Australia will not win the
Ashes unless the team for the first Test is
chosen three weeks before the game, dur-
ing which period members of the team
should five together,”
All this seems rather paltry, considering
the other affairs pressing for Dr. Evatt’s
attention ; the reconciling of his cham-
pionship of the Little Nations, notably
Persia, with his defence of Russia as
actuated only by a desire for “security
and self-protection against future
attacks”; the blotting out of his
foreign policy for the Dutch East
Indies by the Communists who have
held Dutch ships idle in Austra-
lian ports for upwards of six months;
the bearing of the Communist campaign
for “our Indernesian comrades” on his
.professed zeal for a White Australia ; the
Australia First cases, which are by no
means at an end ; and the necessary draft-
ing and submission to Parliament of a
bill for the new referendum proposals.
And the Opposition is scarcely likely
to take the view that the doctor’s interest
in the tour of professional footballers and
his concern for their getting passages,
while the 6000 wives and fiancees of Aus-
tralian servicemen and Australian civi-
lians are left stranded, constitute a par-
donable diversion. T. W. White, M.H.R.
for Balaclava (Vic.), has quoted the case
of a 1914-18 Digger and his wife who
have been trying in vain to get to Aus-
tralia since 1942.
It was announced at first that “accom-
modation” would be “available” for the
professional footballers on a “ship leav-
ing England about April 20,” and “the
liner Rangitiki”-was named. Then it was
stated that the vessel carrying the team
and its fortunes and its expectations of
L.S.D., fully shared by the professional
crowd in Australia, would be “an aircraft
escort-carrier or a cruiser.” In either
case awkward questions will arise, and
it is ill arguing with angry servicemen
in Sydney and angry servicemen’s women-
folk in London and persons like the 1914-
18 Digger and his wife who have been
perforce exiled since 1942.
Exit a Farmer.
“J.R.D.” from the N.S.W. South Coast:
For 25 years our village got its milk from
a man with a farm on the outskirts, carrying
wellbred milkers, regularly tested and certified
free of T.B. During the summer months the
population is often trebled by tourists and
campers, and they were glad to have fresh milk
and cream. , .
Then the Sydney Milk Board stepped in. It
decreed that all this must cease forthwith, and
ordered the farmer to deliver all his milk to
the factory, seven miles away, telling him that if
he wished to continue supplying residents he
must buy his milk back from the board pre-
sumably after it had been to Sydney and back.
In “flush” months, when the board gets
more milk than the metropolis requires, he
would come in with all other dairyfarmers in
the district; deliver only half of his output as
milk and separate the balance, selling the
cream to the board at lOd. per lb. and dis-
posing of the skim-milk as he pleased. That
meant running it into the creek, for a neigh-
boring milk-powder plant is standing idle—
though Britain would take as much milk
powder as if could get.
Last week that dairyman broke up the herd.
He sold the milkers at auction, along with all
the farm implements and machinery. Thus
socialism goes forward (or does it?) and pri-
vate enterprise takes the knock again.
Attacking a Scourge.
Queensland’s Radium Institute can look
back on 18 months’ activity with con-
siderable pride, its treatment of various
forms of cancer having brought comfort
and hope to many sufferers.
The institute was established by Act of
Parliament after the visit to Australia of
Dr. Ralston Paterson and given the duties
and responsibilities of treating patients
at half a dozen bases —Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Mackay, Townsville, Cairns and
Toowoomba. The State Government
meets cost of transport both of patients
and operators, reimburses hospitals where
necessary and provides free treatment in
public wards.
In the first year of activity the institute
treated 13,100 sufferers, 51 p.c. being
malignant cases (of these 1685 were new),
30.6 p.c. pre-malignant and 18.4 p.c.
benign. It is worthy of note that there
were nearly twice as many male patients
as female patients. The work and equip-
ment are increasing and more radio-
therapists, physicists and the like are be-
ing trained. Many more country hospitals
are to get X-ray plant and other equip-
ment as soon as it is available.
What all this means to Queenslanders,
whose State has a startlingly high skin-
cancer rate, may well be imagined. In
this matter the Government which has
had Mr. Forgan Smith, Mr. Cooper and
Mr. Hanlon for successive leaders has
exhibited humanity and wisdom.
Nurses.
From J. H. M. Abbott, just out of
hospital;
Experience of hospitals—military in South
Africa and civil in Sydney —has convinced me
that the efficient nurse must possess three
cardinal virtues; These are an unlimited
capacity for hard work, something rather better
than a good temper and a bright cheeriness
above the average.
Every day she has to , perform 12 hours’
labor of a sort that is more exacting than that
by which most of her male contemporaries
earn their daily bread. She has to put up with
the peculiarities and exactions of bounders,
blighters and boors to an extent that would
instil notions of homicide into the mind of the
ordinary person. And she is expected to look,
all the time, as if her strenuous life were one
long joke. It is one of the many miraculous
attributes of her sex that she manages to do it.
A demand that she be in three places at
once, do half a dozen things at the same time
and look as if she enjoyed it is the stimulus
under which she works. She is expected never
to slacken off or fail in any of her jobs and
always to be merry and bright. Truly, a dog’s
life. Yet if you go into any hospital, public
or private, you will find, living up to this
amazing standard of efficiency, capacity and
personality, every sort of girl and woman there
is. It is almost as if they had come under
some magician’s spell that enables them to
reach a standard that anyone might have sup-
posed to be attainable only by some specially-
endowed species of human being. And the
queer thing is that, when the nurse gets put
of her uniform, she becomes again a typical
member of her sex.
It is a sad business watching people die by
inches and trying to suggest hopefulness with
a full knowledge that there can be no hope.
It is strenuous endeavoring to put courage
into the faint-hearted so that they may
not yield to death when there is no need
to do so. It is thankless doing the best one
can for such as are incapable of common grati-
tude. Yet, always, the typical nurse plays
the game according to its highest traditions.
Whatever the discouragement, that must be
done. And it is a perfectly safe statement to
make that 99 times out of a hundred it is
done. And the hundredth case, as likely as not,
if it were properly investigated, would prob-
ably show that nothing but complete break-
down had been responsible for a lowering of
the standard.
Comparisons have been well said to be
odious, but it is inevitable, almost, in con-
sidering the activities of the nurse, that she
should be compared with her fcllow-workmg-
women. The only difficulty about it is that
there is no particular class that may be thought
of that can be compared with her. She stands
alone—just as her work does. It is not possible,
if you come to think of it, to find any other
feminine occupation that exacts so much as
hers. Nor is it possible to find many that are
less well rewarded when what is required of
her is taken into consideration. Of all the
world’s workers, male or female, she is surely
the most sweated. Not for her an eight-hour
day or a 44-hour week or a minimum wage ot
a decent sort. She has not asked for it—yet.
When she does she should surely get these
things—and a good deal more besides.
The military hospital is quite different from
all others. Army discipline enables it to be
conducted after a fashion that is not possible
in civilian establishments, where a patient can-
not be “crimed” if he is obstreperous or un-
reasonable. It is in the latter that the nurse
is seen at her best—since she is less part of a
machine than she is in the military institutions,
and her individuality has a wider scope, her
personal qualities freer play and her good
points more generous recognition.
A broken ankle, a cracked jaw, something
wrong with his gastric machinery, a fractured
rib and, quite recently, a bout of pneumonia
have given the writer some opportunity during
the last 50 years of studying the conduct and
administration of a collection of hospitals,
civil and military, and the idiosyncrasies, cus-
toms and conventions of a considerable
diversity bf nurses. Once, on a troopship, he
became a nurse himself for some weeks, deal-
ing mostly with typhoid and pneumonia cases
with a complete lack of skill,’much distaste
and somewhat unhappy results. It is true that
his victims would probably have died anyhow
and that what he did or didn’t do to them
could not have made much difference. How-
ever, one man got better —or escaped, if that is
the right way to put it. This is only men-
tioned here as some slight evidence of this
scribe’s competence to tell a good nurse when
he sees her in action.


mm.
CRAVENA
fkafto aiwatfs,,
smoelk * ftodt!
Obtainable in 10‘s & 20’s
P RE VENT SO RE T H R OATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The Security Council of U.N.O. is
open for business again, this time in New
York, and without our little Normy
Makin to guide it. Its chief duty will
be consideration of a Persian objection
to the continued infesting of Persia
with Russian troops and other agents of
“social revolution,” though Moscow
swore by all its gods, living and mummi-
fied, that it would have them all out by
March 2. The Persian Premier, who was
supposed to be completely under Soviet
influence, acted in defiance of a Soviet
warning that lodging of a protest would
be regarded as “an unfriendly act,” per-
haps sharing the opinion of the Chinese
that Moscow is bluffing on a poor hand.
At the week-end it seemed possible that
he would withdraw his protest, and
Washington was reported to have one of
its own ready in case he did.
The England-hating Ward, following
his bent in the debate on foreign affairs
and turning to worship his Red gods:
Mr. Churchill speaks for the old Tories
of Britain.
If someone in Britain were t'o criticise
Mr. Menzies we should regard that as good
commonsense.
Our gallant Russian allies were battling
for us as well as themselves.... saved us
from German aggression.
What our opponents are afraid of is not
so much that Russia is gaining territory
but that capitalism is failing fast.
That must be why Russia, while sending
huge quantities of grain to France and
Czechoslovakia, is cadging shiploads of
foodstuffs from U.N.R.R.A. and trying
to cadge a six thousand million dollar
American loan. Getting in before the
crash.
Before Ward, the England-hater, sat
down he made incoherent observations
which may be construed to mean that his
Red gods are justified in tearing up all
Ihe charters and treaty articles and going
in for territorial aggrandisement on
a scale which makes Hitler’s efforts in
that line look cheap. And this because
the atomic-bomb secrets haven’t been
handed to them on a platter. Of course,
he said nothing about their trying to get
the secrets by wholesale espionage and
suborning of citizens of a sister-Dominion
from which the Wards, like the Red gods,
were not too proud to accept vast war-
time gifts without any expression of grati-
tude that anyone can remember.
Last week the British Labor Govern-
ment thanked the Maoriland Labor
Government —which has a drought to
contend with—for the gift of a million
pounds’ worth of foodstuffs. It hasn’t
had cause to thank the Australian
“ ‘Labor’ Government” for the gift of a
pound of butter.
Bruce is going back to Britain, there
being nothing for him in his own coun-
try ; and, though his country couldn’t
have a better representative on the
Security Council, his qualifications for
that post have been ignored. Reminding
the people that “self-respect, self-reliance
and moral integrity are the qualities that
made Australia,” he advises them to stick
to industrial arbitration but only if
awards are enforced—“nothing is more
demoralising than laws that can be
flouted with impunity.”
A.B.C. made a good job of broadcast-
ing the first address to Australians by
their first native-born Cardinal, home
from his travels. And it was a modest
and moving address, especially interesting
where it mentioned that “the three British
Cardinals” struck up an immediate
friendship and were received together by
the Pontiff in Rome and the King and
Queen in London. It closed on a deep
note: “Let us, like those great pioneers
who framed the Constitution of the Com-
monwealth, humbly rely on the blessing
of Almighty God.”
Obeying orders from the Communist
controllers of the N.S.W. Miners’ Federa-
tion, the “Government” at Canberra
agreed to have their industry “investi-
gated” and handed the commission to
N.S.W, Justice Davidson. Almost as
soon as the inquiry was under way the
Communists “squibbed it,” and Judge
Davidson completed it alone. His report
is a shattering indictment of Communist
“leadership” of their mobs, of “one out,
all out” Jarrikinism, of the results of Gov-
ernment ownership at Lithgow—where
coal is dearer, the accident rate higher
and the losses greater than in “compar-
able privately-owned mines”—and of the
actuarial position of the miners’ pensions
schemes, all of which, except the new one
in Victoria, are insolvent. Lithgow is
in Chifley’s electorate, but no one expects
Chifley to act on any of his Honor’s
revelations or recommendations, even if
he should read the report.
Chiang’s Chinese; going into Mukden,
Manchuria, after the Russkis’ belated and
reluctant departure from that city (they
are still all over the rest of the country
though they pledged complete evacuation
by February 1), found plague there.
This is important to Australia, to which
plague, both bubonic and the more
deadlier pneumonic form, has been car-
ried from those parts, though not in
recent years. The American Weller blames
Russian looting and primitive sanitation
for the outbreak.
Weller, one of the best of U.S. corres-
pondents, was in Westralia in the early
part of 1942, when a parcel of fools
alleged to have plotted the assassination
of Forde, Billy Hughes and many
others and the delivery of West-
ralia’s 975,000 square miles of terri-
tory to the Japs was arrested. He
summed them up as “ratbags” and tried
to send a report of the case to his paper,
but couldn’t get it past the censor.
Greatly impressed with Westralia, but
deciding that there was not the slightest
danger of its being invaded —though this
was feared at Canberra then and for
years after —Weller left it immediately,
not troubling to conceal what he thought
of the “Government” and its Minister of
Information—Ashley then.
Drew, the Premier of Ontario, on a
subject wmch doesn’t seem io worry
Federal “Labor” a bit:
One nation and one alone threatens
world peace. Russian aggression is follow-
ing precisely the same pattern and using
the same method as Germany. The two
great deposits of radium are in the Bel-
ian Congo and Canada. The Congo is
separated from Russia by many nations,
but the Canadian deposit is only about
three hours’ flying time from the nearest
Russian airfield. The bare, unvarnished
truth is that, unless Russian aggression is
stopped, we are in the front line. Yet
such is our sweet simplicity that on our
northern operation, Musk-ox, which could
only have one possible threat in mind, aur
Army took along a Russian military
observer.
Drew, himself a last-war soldier, can
scarcely be ignored by “Labor,” except
perhaps its Mountjoy. Ontario has more
than half the population of this Com-
monwealth — as many people as N. S.
Wales and Queensland combined.
Just before he handed over the Queens-
land Premiership to Hanlon, Cooper, now
Lieut.-Governor, outlined a grand post-
war “development” plan to cost
£26,200,000. The works are to be
divided in A, B and C priorities, and for
the current year there are to be £500,000
for soldier-settlement, £2,000.000 for
housing and part of £1,500,000 for a
hydro-electric scheme at Tully Falls. On
the programme are to be schools, hos-
pitals, roads, streets, harbors, river
works, water supply, forests, railways,
mining and even peanut farms, to be
financed for the most part by funds
hoarded from bloated Commonwealth
war-time expenditure in which all the
States should have shared.
Reports of more trouble in the early-
shearing sheds keep coming from outback
Queensland. Some sheds are obeying the
award ; in others men refuse to work on
Saturday mornings. Orders issued by a
so-called leadership committee in Bris-
bane are apt to be countermanded by so-
called local committees. The grazier
cops it both ways.
Mair, who followed Stevens as N. S.
Wales Premier, has handed the Opposi-
tion leadership to Vernon Treatt, and
may stand for the Senate. Treatt was a
Rhodes scholar, one of the very few who
have taken to politics. In young man-
hood a Rugby Union footballer and a
1914-18 Digger, he is a good fellow, but
will need to beware of being too amiable
to the other side.
Norwegian housewives, finding that a
Spanish ship was in port with a load of
tomatoes and that wharfies had declared
it black because it was a “Franco vessel,”
marched down to the wharf, burst through
the police cordon and began unloading
the fruit themselves. The mother of a
hungry family doesn’t care tuppence who
grows the food so long as she can get it.
But it would be a good thing to import
a few hundred of these Norwegian women
to unload the boycotted Dutch ships,
since the “Government’s” courage oozes
out of it when it smells Communists,
The resignation habit has spread to
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Chandler, who
has turned in the leadership of the
Queensland People’s party. He is not
resigning his Hamilton seat —at least, not
yet —being keen to have a say on a city-
transport measure. His successor as group
leader is Bruce Pie, who sits for Windsor
and sat for Hamilton, meanwhile trying
in vain to shift George Lawson from Fed-
eral Brisbane.
After “scenes” which were as nearly
disorderly as the House ever permits it-
self to get, the Victorian Leg. Assembly
agreed to the emergency legislation deal-
ing with vacant houses. Premier Cain
introduced a decent note into the discus-
sion by remarking that he had let his
own seaside home and that when he felt
the need for a holiday his tenants
switched to his city home and vice- versa.
A very good case of teaching by example
as well as precept. Some owners told
the Premier that they would sooner burn
their homes than let them.
Last week a discharged A.I.F. man,
his wife and two children, evicted from
their home at Caulfield, Melbourne, spent
the night in the open. Wife and children
afterwards got accommodation at a
hostel, but the ex-soldier continued under
field conditions, waiting to go back to an
Army hut at Port Melbourne. Meantime
the Communist Thomson, boss of the
Building Trades Federation, bobbed up
again with a circular ordering apprentices
in the trade to attend a slopwork meeting
and unionists to stop work if apprentices
were prevented from attending the meet-
ing. The Cain-Barry zeal for housing
will look sick unless they take a fall out
of this Communist.
In Sydney, as in London and other
parts, houseless people have been unable
to resist the temptation offered by empty
buildings and have taken possession. A
nasty business to anyone with any respect
for the reign of law, but men coming
home from war and finding their families
scattered are apt to act first and ponder
afterwards. In a Sydney City Council
building under demolition order at King’s
Cross, 11 families found shelter, and
soldiers’ families have moved into a four-
storeyed block of flats at Bondi. No build-
ing fit to live in and owned or tenanted
by any public authority should be allowed
to lie idle or be demolished until the hous-
ing position improves. The Sydney Coun-
cil might have remembered that it owns
and maintains blocks of workers’ flats
which have never paid.
In an A.B.C. broadcast Queensland
Railways Commissioner Wills, was un-
complimentary about the Ward-Clapp
£230,000,000 rail-unification plan. Of
course Ward denounced him, alleging that
“apparently he was in conflict with the
Queensland Government and Transport
Minister.” Whereupon Transport Mini-
ster Walsh, now Deputy-Premier, retorted
that it would be better for Ward “to
curb the chatter of his own officials” and
that Wills had the full approval of the
Queensland Government and its Trans-
port Minister.
Queensland is progressing as fast as it
can with settlement of returned men on
the land under the Commonwealth-
States agreement. Dedman, Minister for
Post-War Reconstruction, told the House
of Reps, that 30,342 returned men had
inquired or applied for land and that no
fewer than 26 were receiving rural train-
ing in Queensland. There is hope that
before 1950 at least one of them will
have a block.
The Legation Dr. Evatt set up in Mos-
cow costs £30,000 to £40,000 a year, and
for all the use it is to Australia it might
as well be at the North Pole. There
have been two Ministers and two Pink
Professors on the premises, and none of
them stayed long. Mr. Maloney, who was
Poland’s Protecting Power for a few
months, whereupon Molotov informed
him that the Soviet had made other
arrangements for Poland— i.e., Com-
munist arrangements—found it necessary
to recruit his flagging powers by a trip to
Australia, and has now given the job best.
His views of Sovietism have been with-
held—perhaps because they couldn’t be
printed in the Maloney language.
One Don Iddon, who writes a New
York column for the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” and other papers, quotes “PM”
as sneering that “the sun never sets on
mutiny against the British Empire.” This
recalls that a lot of the stuff served up
in Australia as American opinion is taken
from “PM.” It,is a semi-Communist
sheet, owned by the millionaire Leftist
Marshall Field, and is no more represen-
tative of American opinion than the
straightout Communist “Daily Worker,”
which has been howling for MacArthur’s
dismissal.
Beverley Baxter, M.P., has pointed a
moral for the Baddeleys and the Wards
of this country. When Emanuel Shinwell
announced in the Commons that British
coalmines were to be “taken over” sup-
porters of nationalisation roared appro-
val. But there was a Shinwell sequel —
men began to leave the pits in hundreds,
and Shinwell started looking for a chair-
man and members of a coal industry
board at salaries deemed high enough to
tempt not only managers but owners.
“Thus,” jibed Baxter, “instead of the
industry being run by inefficient capi-
talists, it is to be run by efficient capi-
talists.” And Ms.P. from mining districts
cannot help wondering where they stand,
since with “nationalisation” the Miners’
Federation might have no further excuse
for existence.
Land for servicemen, or the lack of it,
came up for debate in the Queensland
Parliament, and Morris (Q.P.P.) had
an idea: —
Let the Government create a Ministry
of Rehabilitation and give the portfolio
to a vigorous returned soldier.
But nobody took any notice, and a debate
on “tne urgent need for accelerating,
advancing and improving the present
machinery” for doing the job was
strangled in the birth.


SALES RESISTANCE.


REVIEW YOUR
WILL-NOW!
MANY a man reviewing
the Will he signed
some years ago has been
surprised and shocked to
find how changes in cir-
cumstances have altered his
real intentions.
Never before has it been
more essential that the
management of your estate
after your death should be
in capable and experienced
hands.
There is a happy solution
to this problem. You may
appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your
Executor, conjointly with a
friend or relative if you so
desire, and so ensure ab-
solute security for your
family.
Write for a copy of the
interesting and informative
booklet ‘‘Your Executor
and Trustee,” which will be
gladly sent upon request.
It explains the service the
company renders and what
it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T - S - KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A- J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.: E. R. KNOT-
' tt v POPE; ALLEN 0. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING EESS THAN £lO 000)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack
Gurwood Street-,- Wagga Wagga. ’
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
'v
■mmiuii
0*
2S
n - •
29
'Our stern alarums
changed to merry meetings
Now are our brows bound by victorious wreaths.
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments.
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
Richard 111.
99
Throughout the War, the Great White Yachts
of the K.P.M. Line gallantly served the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas all over the World.
One day, not too far distant, they will be
sailing from Australian ports again on their
peace time schedules to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore.
:
IMI
Incorporatad 111
the Netherlandf
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD., SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Next War
The next war immediately' facing
Australia is one against price and costs
inflation, against excessive Government
expenditure and its concomitant stupefy-
ing taxation, against industrial irrespon-
sibility and lawlessness, against produc-
tion depression and against the political
and social demoralisation of large sec-
tions of the people. All the enemies
named are internal, except that in the
case of industrial lawlessness and poli-
tical demoralisation outside influences,
notably Communist, are also at work.
The Communist factor is a particularly
vicious one.
The serviceman returning to civilian
life is generally finding the outlook dis-
maying. Preoccupied with the job of
defeating Germans and Japanese for
several years, he has regarded difficulties
on the home front as a comparatively
minor issue, possibly not remembering
that, during the depression of the early
’thirties, it was not uncommon to hear
that “this slump is worse than the last
war.” Also, when the war began, poli-
tical conditions in the Commonwealth
were more stable, more democratic and less
economically oppressive and obstructive
than they are today. The Government
benches at Canberra had not been occu-
pied by a crowd of politicians who put
a negative value on moral and social ob-
jectives, on production incentive, on thrift,
on industrial and other law, on hard work
and on real national service.
Australia has dragged its anchors since
the early days of the war and drifted far
from the moorings which promised the
population real government, reason-
able industrial stability, rewards for hard
work, incentive and thrift, a state of
society in which a sense of shame was a
check to breaches of the law and the
social code, and a standard of living that
was an encouragement to development of
the better things in the average citizen.
It is true that there was a measure of
unemployment even in the best of the
pre-war years. But this blot on the pre-
war scene is often overemphasised. We
can see .now, in the light of war-time “full-
employment” conditions, that there are
members of our community who deserve
no sympathy if they are unemployed.
In pre-war days, too, the daily press
was a more stable influence in the com-
munity. There were sections of it which
conscientiously tried to lead public
opinion. But, even in the case of some
of our most venerable morning dailies,
there has been an undignified, almost un-
scrupulous, chase after circulation, with
a mania for being in affinity with “public
opinion,” however nebulous and demor-
alised “public opinion” might be. It has
also become “the right thing” in the
daily-newspaper world to back the win-
ning side in politics regardless of the
moral or other merits of the winners.
The economic strain of war itself was
bound to be severe. So was the social
strain, especially with hundreds of thou-
sands of overseas troops, mostly Ameri-
can,, mixing with civilians in a semi-fatal-
istic, eat-drink-and-be-merry mood and
scattering money lavishly in a country
reduced in eligible manpower and short
of most living necessities, luxuries and
entertainment. But where Australia’s
failure was most pronounced during the
war was in the political sphere. The
characteristics of a Government with
almost supreme financial and legal powers
over the individual could hardly fail to
become the characteristics of a large part
of the population and its war effort.
The public mind was “softened-up,”
to an extent, by the apparent success of
force and brutality rather than fight and
morality in the earlier part of the past
war; also, in trying to adjust itself to
the astounding scientific developments of
the last few years, culminating in jet
’planes, rocket and atomic bombs, it has
paid less and less respect to the rules of
orderly, moral social behavior. “Modern”
political and scientific developments, para-
doxically, have tended to send people,
socially, back to the jungle.
For many years before the war, also,
there was a good deal of loose talking,
sometimes idealistic, sometimes plain
revolutionary, against “capitalism” and
“private enterprise.” The criticism came
not only from radical Labor and the like ;
it came from the middle classes as well,
especially “intellectuals.” The hard fact
is now emerging that “capitalism”
under a watchful, really democratic
Government works better in British
and American society than any “dic-
tatorship of the proletariat,” which
has never worked anywhere, not even
in Russia. Exceptional cases excluded,
it should now be clear to most
that what “capitalism” has taken in the
way of profits represents more in the
pockets of shareholders than it does out of
the pockets of the wage-earners and con-
sumers. Envy, not injury, has been the
main grouch against private enterprise.
Indulgence of envies has sold Australia
a mongrel pup.
The serviceman has not returned to a
country that is merely a run-down ver-
sion of that which he left a few years
ago. The nation is beset with the vari-
ous dangers already indicated. The popu-
lation, civilian and service, faces the hard
road back to real democratic government
and real individual prosperity. It has yet
to be fully realised by the people that the
socialistic dope it has accepted during the
war, with its post-war prospects of heavy
overtaxation and over-regulation, is mere
quackery, pushed on to us from a variety
of sources, not excepting external ones
which have the objective of delaying the
development of democratic countries
such as Britain, the United States and
Australia.
To the country’s political, financial and
industrial administrators the position is
truly a complex one. Let there be no
doubt about that; government of Aus-
tralia during the war was no easy task—
for this reason it called for particularly
impartial, straightforward and expert
handling. Government of the country in
the post-war period is going to be more
difficult still. The best administrators the
population can throw up are called for ;
and that obviously demands a change in
Government. Whatever Government
there comes to power later this year it
will be in the greatest need of co-opera-
tion on the part of the people in order
to restore industrial and financial stability
and social integrity. The weaker the
Government the greater will be the re-
sponsibility upon the people to use every
power they possess to influence it along
the right course. For in a democracy the
people are the Government, and that im-
plies great responsibility. -
To come back to other internal enemies
as defined in the opening paragraph, in-
flation in costs and prices is an enemy of
our export trade, of the value of our sav-
ings, of our production rate, of our living
standard and of our employment pros-
pects. Correct measures to be taken
against inflation include the expan-
sion of production (needed urgently
now) and the reduction of all un-
necessary Government expenditure,
especially that part of it which discour-
ages thrift and competes ponderously and
obstructively with efficient private enter-
prise. As to the upholding of the law,
responsibility rests largely with citizens
themselves; but, as in all things, a lead
from Authority can be of immense help,
Australia has allowed itself to get into
a position of extraordinary difficulty
through foolishness, greediness, “easy-
goingness,” indifference and lethargy. It
principally requires a full display of those
better qualities, of the brain as well as
the heart, that the nation possesses in
order to restore conditions equal to those
we have known in the past and, later on,
better them.
In 1944 and 1945 the United States
forces were supplied by the Common-
wealth with approximately the same total
amount of dairy produce and meat as
were our own Australian fighting forces.
Supplies of jams and canned fruits to the
U.S. forces were on a larger scale than
to the Australian, as were the quantities
of margarine, flour and eggs. Australians
consumed a large® quantity of potatoes
—and it isn’t really necessary to produce
statistics for this. The following is an
official tabulation of supplies to the re-
spective forces over the last two completed
calendar years:
U.S. Forces. Aust. Forces.
1944. 1945. 1944. 1945.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Dairy produce .. 13,200 10,500 11,200 12,500
Meat .. .. 105,000 78,000 91,400 91,200
Jams, canned and
dried fruits .. 31,200 26,800 19,700 25,600
Potatoes .. .. 34,000 27,000 57,000 75,000
Margarine .. 8,000 5,400 400 2,100
Flour, rice, oat-
meal .. .. 97,400 30,000 64,800 50,500
Mil- Mil- Mil- Mil-
lion lion lion lion
dozen, dozen, dozen, dozen.
Eggs .. .. 11 10 5.7 6.2
It will be remembered that lend-lease
aid to British countries from the United
States ended abruptly towards the close
of August last year. Australia continued
to supply America with some require-
ments for a period afterwards, but it is
clear that very substantial quantities of
certain Australian foodstuffs should now
be available for other purposes, especially
as supplies to Britain. With the return
of so many of our own servicemen to
civilian life also there should be a re-
duction in the waste of foodstuffs that
was a feature—sometimes inevitable—of
our war-time organisation. The wheat
harvest this season should be much
greater than for 1944-45, and this plso
may help our food exports.
Under reciprocal lend-lease Australia
provided the United States with a total of
234.000 tons of cereals, 195,000 tons of
meat, 219,000 tons of vegetables, 38,000
tons of butter, etc., 88,000 tons of sugar,
38.000 tons of processed milk, 57 million
dozen eggs and (among numerous items
of clothing) 11 million pairs of socks,
* * * «
Tasmanian Legislative Council having
rejected the bill to grant price-control
powers to the Commonwealth, it seems
that the whole question of Federal rights
in this field, as conceded by a conference
of Premiers, will have to be reconsidered.
* * * *
At no time previously have there been
so many young people interested in
journalism as a career. Newspaper offices
are telephoned or visited many times a
week by youths desiring to venture along
the Inky Way. Young men, too, who
have spent several years in the fighting
forces and who were clerks, lawyers,
landmen or something else before, fre-
quently feel that they have a greater
talent for journalism than for any other
job they previously tackled. There is a
limited field for newspapermen, however,
and, though anyone who really feels he
(or she) “must write” (and can) will most
likely get info the journalistic game some
day, there are few royal or regular roads
into it at present. It’s not like the textile,
clothing, food-processing, building and
similar industries, in which there is a
desperate need for more employees. Chief
staff difficulty on daily newspapers is to
get hold of expert journalists who aren’t
Left politically and “odd” in their literary
outlook.


ƒ
ONIV SCENTS
£l7/10/- S"S«,
Bu*h entirely in A ustralio by
DUPLICATOR
# haa all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cf
their cost. The "National" Rotary DupE-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music. % etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ ■ ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
SOMETHING TO
TREASURE
Your Favourite Snapshots can be en-
larged and beautifully coloured in
natural tones by our thoroughly
experienced photographic artists.
FRAMED
in sizes bins, x 4ins., 18/6, and
1 Oins. x Sins., 21/-. Write today
enclosing negative and parti-
culars of colouring, etc., to
OLDE MASTERS STUDIOS
50 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
AND
SATURDAY EVENING
POST
Again Available By Subscription.
National Geographic £l/11/3
Saturday Evening Post .. . . £2/10/-
READERS DIGEST (comm. Jan.), 12/-
ENLARGED PACIFIC EDITION TO BE
PUBLISHED IN SYDNEY COMM. MAY
POPULAR MECHANICS .. .. £l/4/-
POPULAR SCIENCE £l/8/-
ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS £5/12/6
These rates cover one year’s
supply including postage.
Subscriptions can be placed with us for all
Australian and overseas publications available.
Overseas orders dispatched by Air Mail.
Rates given on request.
MORGAN-HINTON
MAGAZINE AGENCIES.
Tel. 8W5170
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
National Mutuals Record Year
Points from 76th Annual Report
Results for year ended 30th September, 7945
NEW BUSINESS—AN ALL-TIME RECORD:
26,469 New Policies Issued, Assuring , £73,169,847
Single Premiums and Consideration for Annuities £180,825
Gross Income for Year £7,579,685
Payments to Policyholders £3*,822!275
Increase in Policyholders’ Funds £2,'743,728
Total Assets at 30/9/’45 £62,565,255
Since its establishment in 1869, the Association has paid Policy-
holders over £80,000,000
All the above figures relate to “Ordinary” Assur-
ance Business. The Association does not transact
Industrial Assurance Business.
EXCERPTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S SPEECH
In the course of his Speech at the recent Annual Meeting of The
National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited, the
Chairman, Sir Harold Luxton, said: —
LIFE ASSURANCE—A GREAT SOCIAL
SERVICE
There is a matter which is important and
which I feel has not been emphasised
sufficiently by the Life Offices in the past.
There is a tendency to think of Life Offices
mainly as great financial Institutions, but it
is much more fitting to think of them as
institutions carrying on a great social ser-
vice. Much publicity is given in these days to
social services and social security to be pro-
vided by the State, and it is often not appre-
ciated that the great Mutual Life Offices have
been providing these benefits for many years
with efficiency and at very reasonable cost.
Furthermore, the funds of the National
Mutual Life Association, although they
amount to the very large sum of £6l million,
are held in respect of nearly 350,000 policies,
so that the average fund held per policy is
only £175. The assets which constitute the
funds of a Life Assurance Office are the
necessary and tangible guarantee to policy-
holders that the benefits under their policies
will be paid.
LIFE ASSURANCE LEGISLATION
During the year uniform Commonwealth
legislation, which the Life Offices have been
advocating for many years, has been intro-
duced in Australia. The legislation is gener-
ally very satisfactory and has been welcomed
by the offices. It will reduce considerably the
multiplicity of our returns and supersede the
diverse State legislation, with which we have
been required to conform in the past.
It was very pleasing that the members of
all political parties paid tribute to the good
work and the strength of the Australian
Mutual Life Offices, of which your Associa-
tion is one of the most important.
PROBLEMS OF THE FUTURE
So much for what is past—we look now to
the future, which will bring its problems to
Life Assurance as to other businesses. Such
problems will include the effect of banking
legislation in Australia and in England—the
attitude of the Life Offices to post-war
aviation —the re-establishment of returning
servicemen so that the best use may be made
of their qualities of leadership and responsi-
bility—the provision of facilities to equip
them fully to take their places on the staff
—and the methods to be adopted to make the
benefits and the value of Life Assurance
better understood by the public in general.
During the war years the Life Offices have
played a major part in combating inflation;
these efforts must be continued with even
greater intensity in the post-war years.
INCOME EXCEEDS £7 MILLION
Our total net income now exceeds £7 mil-
lion, and it is interesting to contrast this
figure with the income in 1919, at the end
of the 1914-18 war, when it amounted to only
£2,100,000. From these figures it will be seen
that our income has more than trebled in the
comparatively short period of 26 years. Pay-
ments to policyholders, which after all pro-
vide a measure of the Association’s value t 6
the community, also provide an interesting
comparison. In the year 1919 they amounted
to £1,060,000, whereas In 1945 the figure ex-
ceeded £3,800.000.
SURPLUS SATISFACTORY—BONUSES
INCREASED
I am glad to inform you that the estimated
surplus for the past year is quite satisfactory
and your Directors have decided to apply
part of the surplus to provide intermediate
bonuses for the year.
The bonus additions under the main whole-
of-life and endowment assurance tables are
on a scale which shows an improvement upon
the increased scale of 1944. Certificates
showing the total amount of the bonuses
allotted to their policies for 1944 and 1945
will be issued to members as soon as possible.
GROUP ASSURANCE—A SPECIAL
FEATURE
Once again a very large part of the busi-
ness was derived from Group and Super-
annuation Schemes, of which the Association
makes a special feature. As I mentioned last
year, the advice and service of our technical
staff are at the disposal of any employer who
may be interested in the arrangement of
Staff Superannuation or Provident Funds.
APPRECIATION OF STAFF
In conclusion, I have to express to the
members of the staffs at all branches, both
indoor and in the field, the Directors’ very
great appreciation of the services which they
have rendered during the past year and dur-
ing all the years of war. The progress which
the Association has made during the period
is a measure of the work they have per-
formed. The Directors also extend a welcome
to those members of the staff returning from
active service, and acknowledge with grati-
tude the debt which is owed to them and to
those who lost their lives during the war.
What We Pay Taxes For
Certain charges for “war” are still
wholly legitimate and necessary. But the
Chifley Government must be held respon-
sible for great accompanying waste and
misdirection of the national income.
One of the causes of the continued
heavy “war” expenditure during 1945-46
has been the cost of deferred pay handed
to servicemen on discharge. The cost of
“war” during January was £4O million,
less than £lO million under the monthly
average for the most expensive period of
the war. But the greater part of these
“war” costs is not servicemen’s pay.
At the end of 1945 there were still
406,000 men and women in the forces.
January was a month of heavy discharges,
but it is noticeable that, since then, it
has been much harder for men to get out
of the services even where they are do-
ing almost nothing. It seems that, in
order to defer the cost of lump-sum pay-
ments to men on discharge, and also to
save re-employment embarrassment (many
war-time dilutees in industry are in danger
of the axe when soldiers return to their
jobs), the Government is contriving to
delay discharges even where it means a
greater charge on the public purse in
the long run. Discharges during the three
months to the end of December, in all
three services, were 161,850 men and 9827
women. There were then still more than
three times that number in the services,
though, as mentioned, a big number
“went through” in January. In February
and March discharges were reduced
drastically. •
The cost of deferred pay is something
that is thoroughly understandable by
those at all familiar with the situation.
But it was not wholly foreseen in Mr.
Chifiey’s budgeting, and is something
which “Labor” appeared to be reluctant
to acknowledge fully in any case. The
expenditure on “war” to Australia was
misrepresented to the extent of £4B mil-
lion in the last Budget speech even on
evidence revealed by the Budget papers ;
it was shown as a net figure after deduct-
ing sundry items of income in no way
relating to the year’s outgo. Still, this
method of .accounts presentation enabled
Mr. Chifley to pretend that “war” ex-
penditure was £4B million less than it
really was. Ironically, as the year has
progressed, actual “war” expenditure has
proved to be miles higher than any of
the Treasury’s figures, however analysed,
indicated. Revenue and loan moneys
have been exhausted in meeting it. Heavy
recourse has again been had to bank
credit, the mother of inflation.
In a “war” expenditure of £4OB million
gross during the year now current it
was reckoned that service pay, including
deferred pay, would run off with £lB3
million, leaving other “war” costs at
£225 million. That is a big figure in a
year largely of “peace,” and on a pro-
gressive total (to February 28) it looks
like being exceeded. During 1946-47
Mr. Chifley forecasts a “war” expenditure
of up to £294 million, including some-
thing less than £4O million interest and
£49 million in price subsidies to combat
the inflation caused by the war and war-
time methods of government. In respect
of the current year £26 million has been
set aside in “defence and war” costs to
subsidise prices.
It is difficult to offer detailed comment
on Mr. Chifley’s appropriations for
“war” during 1946-47 without know-
ing the number of servicemen who
will remain awaiting discharge on
July 1. But the deferred pay involved
should now be less than £75 million, go-
ing on December 31 figures. Mr. Chifley
has spoken of £BO to £lOO million being
required in 1946-47 for the sole purpose
of demobilisation, pay of forces, shipping
costs and winding-up war establishments.
In view of the fact that there is four
months’ expenditure still to be charged to
the current year, which could look after a
good deal of the demobilisation pro-
gramme, Mr. Chifley appears to be
burdening taxpayers heavily in 1946-47
for a job unlikely to be at all well done.
Nowhere in the public accounts or in
official forecasts of future outgo is there
evidence that the Government is econo-
mising. Obligations to servicemen must
be met, of course; it is not suggested
otherwise for a moment. But in the “war”
accounts can be found indications of many
kinds of non-defence expenditure —col-
ossal price subsidies, big losses on semi-
socialised shipping, “educational” ex-
penses amounting to Labor and Commu-
nist propaganda, and queer departmental
expenses of many kinds. The chairman
of Australian Provincial Assurance says
that in his building, “on one floor, where
the Maritime Commission meets once a
month, one forlorn official and his secre-
tary occupy no less than 2149 square
feet.” It is clear that tens of millions
of pounds are being wasted annually in
paying for unnecessary staff" (including
“munition workers” and the like) and
premises, and in keeping on men in the
forces longer than even they want. Mil-
lions of pounds are also being paid in
political blackmail to seamen still re-
ceiving “war-risk” bonuses and to crowds
of other “militant” unionists. The Com-
monwealth Budget is overloaded with
vote-buying costs and “appeasement” ex-
penses ; the taxpayer is grossly burdened
as a result, and industry’s future is
threatened by inflated costs and unstable
economics generally.
“National-welfare” costs, Mr. Chifley
says, will run to £74 million in 1946-47.
In 1939-40 they were no more than £l7
million. Only a comparatively small part
of the increase is the result of the Com-
monwealth’s taking over responsibility for
child endowment and widows’ pensions—
with these obligations, of course,
the right to collect payroll tax.
There is still a means test if one
desires to qualify for a Commonwealth
Government pension, so that he who pays
the most towards the £74 million
“social-security” costs is least likely to get
anything out of it.
Australia’s taxation rates are still far
too high, its public expenditure still too
much a thing of political expediency and
Government mismanagement. This con-
dition of things not only represents a
depressing burden to the citizen ; it re-
presents also a wicked obstruction to
national recovery.
Though Australia does not seek any-
thing like the boom recently seen on the
New York Stock Exchange—followed, in-
evitably, by a slump that will break many
foolish dabblers and scare the insides
out of others —it is high time greater
freedom was allowed on Australian
’Changes. The Treasury should remem-
ber that the keeping-down of share prices
to well below the open-market rate is
holding up sales by people who would
perhaps be willing to invest in Govern-
ment loans if they could realise their
shareholdings at a reasonable price. The
people who would be willing buyers of
investment shares obviously are giving
little support to Government loans now ;
a change of share-ownership could cer-
tainly do Government borrowing opera-
tions no harm. Morris Hedstrom shares,
pegged at 30s, in Australia, are at 565,
in New Zealand. Dunlop Rubber,
pegged at 265. 3d. in the Commonwealth*
sells at 30s. across the Tasman; B.H.P*
comparison is 445., 475. There are many
other similar anomalies existing between
Australia and Maoriland and Australia
artd London. Control of share prices has
operated in Australia for nearly four
years, bringing great injustice to those
forced to sell their holdings, and as an
unnecessary, encumbrance to the Aus-
tralian economy it should be speedily
abandoned. The ban on forward deal-
ings in shares might reasonably be con-
tinued for another year.
T * , * 4 * * n
In the early part of the war Percy
Spender, as Treasurer, was assailed by
Sydney “Sun” (representing the retail
trade) and interests in other States for
not splashing enough money about on
defence. The Government (Menzies)
reply was that when the men, machinery
and materials had been got together for
munitions production there would be no
shortage of money to expedite output.
That was sound economics ; the mere
spending of money beyond the capacity
of industry to respond would only have
caused senseless waste and inflation. Now
we have a Labor Government—and
“peace.” This Government seems to have
almost no plans for rehabilitation of ser-
vicemen and civilians beyond a standard-
gauge-railway stunt that would obstruct
far more essential reconstruction work-
But that doesn’t stop it from spending
money on a scale greater than when the
war was on. Deferred pay at present is
admittedly a huge item, but other outgo
is far beyond the bounds of reason,
“War” expenditure this year is greater
than for the same period of last year.
Other expenditure is higher. In spite of
all the spending there are no homes for
servicemen to buy or rent, few decent
clothes, there is a shortage of jobs and
a most confused economic future. The
“national income” is claimed by Labor- to
have risen by 50 p.c. since war began,
What a cynical piece of attempted wool-
pulling!
♦ * * ♦
In the 12 months to June 30, 1945,
although there were 604 more “establish-
ments” in operation (making a total of
11,359), employment in N. S. Wales fac-
tories fell by 8969 to 317,187. The
growth in the number of «establish-
ments” is no doubt mainly because of
small concerns setting up, partly the re-
sult of demobilisation, partly the conse-
quence Q f activities by refugees in small
premises. In 1938-39 the number of
n.S.W. employees engaged in the manu-
facture of “textiles (not clothing)” was
15,175; by 1943-44 the figure was
20,453. The greatest growth in N. S.
Wa j es f acto ry employment has been
un d er the heading of “metals, machines,
implements and conveyances,” the total
rising f rom 83,178 in 1938-39 to 164,241
j n 1943.44, w i t h a decline to 151,672 in
1944.45, and a further drop since,
* * * *
The average weekly wage of male
war-workers in Britain in July, 1945,
w . as £6 11s. 4d. Including overtime,
nightwork and piecework payments, etc.,
average men’s earnings in the middle of
1945 were 76 p.c. greater than in
October, 1938. Average women’s wages
in July last were £3 3s. 2d. (up 94 p.c.),
while the average for all workers was
£4 16s. Id. (up 80 p.c.).
* * * *
The increase m savings-bank deposits
during January was £12.7 million, carry-
in S the total to £635 million, compared
with £245 million at the beginning of the
war. The rate of increase at present is
exceptionally strong because of deposits
of servicemen’s deferred pay rather than
°f civilian earnings. The employment
position is not so good as it was, though
labor is still scarce in many trades,
notably textile and tobacco-processing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”: Sydney’s Art Gallery director
is reported as saying that the Gallery
intends to sell “a lot of bad Victorian
art.” About 200 examples of the rotten
stuff are to be disposed of. I suppose
it is only natural that an art director who
is a believer in the infallibility of the
contemporary school should find it diffi-
cult to conceal his contempt for works
chosen by his predecessors, who after all
were probably contemporaries in their
time, but the finance committee of the
Gallery must have shuddered at his naive
decrying of the goods he has to sell.
The auction should be well worth attend-
ing. I can visualise the auctioneer offer-
ing a painting: “What am I offered for
this lousy old Leighton? Come on, make
a bid, someone! We’ve got to get rid of
it. Here’s a Landseer. It stinks, but
it’ll do to hang in the kid’s room. What,
no offers? Well, what about this Burne-
Jones? Your friends’ll die laughing.
Who’ll start it off at ten bob? The frame
alone is worth a quid.” I think I’ll go
along to that auction. After all, there’ll
be another Gallery director some day.
* * * *
“Jasby”: The spruiker with a panacea
for all human ills from broken
spectacles to broken hearts, formerly
a familiar figure at country shows
and city markets, isn’t seen much
nowadays. Specialisation is the keynote
of patent medicines as of everything else.
Still, the other day I saw in a city shop
window a cure-all that almost tempted
me. Whether it was a new discovery, a
secret Indian recipe or just a relic of
Jeff Peters I know not, but it consisted
of a huge bottle of transparent fluid sur-
rounded by placards that offered it as
a cure for “coughs, colds, sciatica, dan-
druff, sore throats, rheumatism, influenza,
catarrh, asthma and all germ, bacteria and
fungus complaints.” At 6s. 6d. it seemed
a bargain, but there was a catch to it —
my trouble is an ingrowing toenail.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A citizen of Essendon, Mel-
bourne, where pinching pushbikes is a
major profession, has a grievance. Riding
a bike owned by his brother, still serving
in New Guinea, he left it outside a pub
while he went in for a refresher. When
he came out it had vanished. He trammed
home and spent the night in reassembling
the bits and pieces of a bike he had
owned since pre-war days. Next morn-
ing he rode off to work, but
stopped for a minute at a fish shop. When
he came out his second mount was gone.
Next night two policemen called on him
and asked him to explain how he had
come to be in possession of two bikes.
* * * *
“T.P.”: “The gags are fresh!” claims
the author of a wireless farce. Is there
one that is really new-minted? In the
early ’nineties at a Melbourne Uni. pro-
fessors’ social smoke night, a joke put over
by minstrel Charley Coghill at St. George’s
Hall, next the old Royal, was applauded
as “new and original.” Prof. Tucker
slipped out and returned with a couple of
books. Translating from a Roman
comedy written many centuries before, he
read the identical gag. Charley certainly
hadn’t pilfered it from that). Tucker
then thumbed the other volume to prove
that the Roman bloke had pinched it
from a still more ancient Greek.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; When Mrs. Jephson dis-
covered that her three-stone diamond
ring was missing she didn’t become flus-
tered but sat herself down and thought
hard. Then she arose and examined the
mincer in which she had ground the
family steak an hour before. She recov-
ered some minute fragments of gold.
Jephson and the schoolboy son arrived
and learned of the catastrophe. “What
did you do with the mincer?” asked
Jephson, “Scraped it clean and then
washed it, of course.” “Where’s the
scrapings?” Mrs, Jephson emitted a faint
scream. “The cat ate them. Oh, dear,
the poor thing will die. The broken
diamonds will cut its poor inside.”
Young Jephson snorted. “Don’t be silly,
Mum —the mincer wouldn’t break the
diamonds. They’ll be in the cat, whole.”
Eye met eye as tide same thought occurred
to each. “I could get the vet. to do it,”
Jephson murmured unhappily, Mrs. J.,
whose constant companion the cat was,
began to cry. Young Jephson vanished.
Presently he stalked in and laid three
“John, it's high time you got glasses .”
diamonds triumphantly before his parents.
“Easy,” he said. “I got the cat and
shoved one of Dad’s cigarettes down its
neck. All I had to do was wash the shift
it threw up.” Jephson is now convinced
that a genius has sprung from his loins.
* * * *
“Clooter”: The penchant of petty offi-
cials for ordering people about it is expand-
ing. On the Wynyard station (Sydney)
escalators notices have lately appeared
“Stand on the Left.” This is evidently
so that persons too impatient to wait for
the escalators to carry them up dr down
can surge up or down the moving steps.
It not only encourages the senseless
Sydney habit of rushing everywhere at
great speed, but is an open invitation to
louts to bump and jostle the staider tra-
vellers. My objection, however, is not
so much to this as to the sinister infer-
ence of the absence of “Please” from the
notices. That makes them orders, curt
and abrupt, and is still another manifes-
tation of the attitude of public servants
to the public they are supposed to serve,
I can’t resist adding that there is no law
whatsoever to prevent anyone standing
where he pleases on their blasted escala-
tors.
♦ * ♦ •
“Bo”; In a Sydney suburban court a
defendant in a motor-traffic case ex-
plained his ignoring of a constable’s
whistle after he had gone against a signal
by saying he considered it “unlucky to
look back when anyone whistles.” His
fear was fully borne out: he was socked
two “flags,” plus costs. Apropos, when-
ever my foxy has leapt over our front
fence and, in spite of my urgent whistling,
dashed down the street, giving a defiant
flick of his leg and with nary a back-
ward glance, I’ve ascribed it to dis-
obedience. I owe an apology to the tyke
for the chastisement he has on occasion
received. I now acknowledge that it
must have been superstition on his part.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A M-L. Judge in a
divorce case corrected counsel who had
said “The lady went to live with a married
man.” “Say woman,” said his Honor,
“a lady would not do such a thing.”
British law does not recognise the term
“lady”—except incidentally. This recalls
Mrs. Raddles in Pickwick, who grew
hysterical when Ben Allen referred to
her as a “woman.” Immorality has no-
thing to do with caste.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: The rickshaw, the in-
vention of the Rev. Jonathan Goble, who
first introduced the vehicle to Yokohama
in 1871, is to be banned in Chungking,
the notion that a Chinese should act as
a beast of burden being considered in-
compatible with the spirit of New China.
This is no doubt all to the good. Still,
there are other forms of labor in the
Asiatic countries which adopted human-
pony transport that are 10 times more
exacting. The life of a rickshaw man,
as a runner, in Singapore used to be esti-
mated at about five years. Opium, ex-
posure to the weather and carelessness
about his eating and drinking polished
him off early. But I had a private runner
in Penang who had been going for 20 years.
He could still pull his man along at a
fast, even stride for 14 miles, and after
a short rest bring him back again. He
always changed his scanty clothing when
caught in a rainstorm, and when he was
waiting he read the Analects of Con-
fucius. The worst effects of rickshaw
transport are often on the passenger. A
Dutchman once told me he was so horri-
fied at the sight of human horses in Singa-
pore that he couldn’t stay in the place.
They are not allowed in Java, though the
burdens that Madurese coolies support on
their creaking poles are twice as heavy.
* * * *
“Nurse”: They must be men or very
young housewives who advocate two-
storeyed houses in a country with a
perpetual shortage of domestic help. I
live in a brick-tiled bungalow and we
never feel it is a hot day till we have to
go outside. Work is not so tiring
when everything is on one floor, and
we have verandahs on which to have
meals and enjoy the evening breezes, if
any. My friends complain of the drudgery
of running up and down stairs when any-
one is ill, and domestics avoid places with
stairs.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Housewives looking for
fresh meat in one of Melbourne’s outer
suburbs were confronted with the spec-
tacle of a deer hanging in a butcher’s
shop. Deer, released many years ago to
provide sport, are so plentiful in parts
of Gippsland that the farmers like them
as little as they like rabbits. I recall a
deer-shoot conducted for strictly scien-
tific and assthetic reasons. Percy Reason
had a theory that the primitive artists
who drew the drawings of animals in
the caves of Altimara, Spain, depicted
dead animals, not live ones. All the
authorities had always held the reverse
opinion, the theory being that Stone Age
man had such quick perception and such
acute eyesight that he was able to put
down on his rocky canvas so exact a
description of an antelope running or a
boar charging that the world had to wait
for the modern slow-motion camera to
prove the accuracy of his observation.
Leason’s idea was that the hunters return-
ing from the chase threw the bodies of
their quarry on the ground by their
cooking fires and the primitive artist,
looking down from his cave mouth, drew
them in rigor mortis. A party of shooters
and scientists accompanied Leason and
brought down a fine specimen of the
family Cervidae. Leason climbed a tree
and photographed the corpse. He was
so satisfied with the result that he wrote
a thesis and sent it off to a famous abbe
in France. It so happened that the abbe
was a world authority on primitive art
and held to the live-animal-in-motion
theory; and Leason heard nothing more
about it.
♦ * * •
“Spasebo”: Freud is anathema to most
Communists of my acquaintance, and no
wonder. The great Viennese, who delved
into the secrets of the subconscious, was
sceptical of the promises of the prole-
tarian millennium. An acquaintance of
Lenin once told Freud that the architect
of the October Revolution had predicted
that Europe would have to go through a
period of desolation much worse than
that caused by the October business, the
civil war and the famines in Russia, but
that afterwards a period of unbroken hap-
piness and stability would follow. Freud
answered: “Let’s go fifty-fifty—l’ll accept
the first half.”
* * * *
“Time, Gents”; One of the most divert-
ing stories penned by Stacy Aumonier con-
cerned a dispute over the location of an
old London thoroughfare called Wych-
street. It originated among a collection
of deadbeats in a lowdown pub, grew
more heated as the participants violently
disagreed and resulted in the murder of
one of the pseudo topographical experts.
The killer barricaded himself in a near-
by house, and a siege, resembling the
Battle of Sydney-street, ensued. I was re-
minded of the yarn when I walked into
an argument in a George-street pub as to
the whereabouts of Wexford-street, once
well known in Sydney’s old red-light dis-
trict. One old gent declared that it was
in the vicinity of the Haymarket;
another ancient toper placed it as
far east as Riley-street; a third grey-
beard got lost in the back alleys
of Strawberry Hills. I *insisted that
it was somewhere at the back of where
Toohey’s brewery now stands. Only the
cutting off of the beer prevented a Donny-
brook which may have ended up as did
the Stacy Aumonier affair. Later at the
Mitchell Library I consulted an 1888
map of Sydney, which fixed Wexford-
street as running, from Goulburn-street
to the intersection of % Elizabeth and
Campbell streets. We were all wrong, as
I suspect most old-timers are in argu-
ments of this sort.
* * * *
“Simon”: Tattoo trouble, is it
(“B. A. Ker,” B. 13/3/’46)? I once knew
an Irish sailor who went to a Jap crafts-
man with a picture of St. Patrick, crozier
and mitre, and asked for it to be worked
on his back. He explained as well as
he could that the figure was to be shown
chasing the snakes out of Ireland. The
Jap misunderstood and set the snakes
after St. Patrick, who seemed greatly im-
peded by his insignia of holy office. Ever
after the sailor was one Irishman who
“never got his shirt off.”
“Justin”; A tattoo “artist” named
Bennell once kept a shop in George-
street North, and mixed boxing
with the tattoo business. He was
tattooed all over. Hugh D. Mc-
Intosh, wishing to break into the fight
game, was given a trial against the
human panorama. According to Mc-
Intosh the head of Queen Victoria was
pricked into his opponent’s chest, and
in the first round Hugh D. was floored.
Steadying himself on one knee, he
counted 14 tattooed pugs in the ring, on
one of whom Queen Victoria appeared
upside down. In his dazed state he took
a chance on this being the right one. His
guess was a good one, for putting all he
had into a swing he brought the
monarchy down and Mclntosh was in
the fight game—as a promoter.
* * * *
“Blank File”: During the war most
Australian motorists were very decent to
servicemen in the matter of offering
them a lift. Usually one didn’t have to
do much thumb-jerking to win a seat, it
being a fairly prevalent custom for the
driver to stop and sing out “Hop in,
Dig; how far are you going?” Since
the end of the Pacific tussle, however,
the majority of previously hospitable
drivers seem to have joined the legion
of the selfish who always scorched past
without regard for the bloke in jungle-
green footslogging to or from his camp.
Since last August I have seen many a
lad, burdened with kit and equipment,
trudging along in pouring rain or blaz-
ing heat while motorists, who often gave
my cobbers and me a ride, step on the
gas as they approach the soldier as if
they feared he might ask for a lift.
PURELY DEFENSIVE.
“Having during the last four years come to know
some of Russia’s greatest statesmen, I take the view
that the Soviet’s present expansionist policy is
defensive and not aggressive, directed towards self-
protection and security against future attacks.”
— Dr, Evatt in the House of Reps.
It’s natural that I should find
Myself a bit disgusted
To hear the Muscovite maligned,
His peace technique mistrusted.
Such gibes are far from Ivan’s due;
I’ll say you’d soon decide who
Was in the right if Churchill knew
As much of him as I do.
Take it from me he’d never plan
Belligerent coercion _
Towards the slippered Turcoman,
The carpet-weaving Persian.
All that he aims at is to place
A few adjacent races
Beneath his heavy thumb in case —•
You all know what in case is.
He likes to think of Czechs and Poles
Who look his way for orders
And count themselves as lucky souls
To have him on their borders.
In Balkan realms he sometimes claims
A say that seems excessive,
But rest assured that Stalin’s aims
Are wholly unaggressive.
Not to be caught off guard again,
As Hitler’s legions found him,
His preference is for a chain
Of henchmen nations round him.
And though the pressure upon these
May oft appear intensive,
The policy behind the squeeze
Is patently defensive.
I know the Teutons and the Japs,
And well I know the Russ, too,
And rank the last among the chaps
Whose good intent I trust' to.
His plea, when taken as it stands,
Is far from an unknown one;
He only seeks his neighbor’s lands
As ramparts for his own one.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: A reference of mine to “the
lingering Cockneyfied pronunciation of
the vowel ‘i,’ ” still common in Sydney,
prompted “P.R.A.N.” (B. 27/2/’46) to
assert that “the ‘oi’ sound is as Oirish
as Paddy’s pig.” Not exclusively; it is
Cockney also, and you can hear it in
other parts of England. And read Tenny-
son’s “Northern Farmer.” But “P.R.A.N.”
could claim an exclusively Irish origin for
the application of the words “invest” and
“investments” to forms of gambling. 1
quote from a description of Curragh races
in Gogarty’s novel Mad Grandeur;
period, just before the close of the
eighteenth century:
The Toucher had been entrusted with
five guineas to “invest” as best he could
while the odds on Green Glint were even.
Now that his jockey was changed he ex-
pected that the price would rise to three
to one. Then he would invest. And by
advancing the time of his investment when
reporting to his client he could make a
little commission of ten guineas for him-
self.
I have never heard the incorrect usage
in conversation, just as I have never
known anyone to say he “purchased” a
drink or a hat; but all the Sydney daily
and. Sunday papers have it that you “in-
vest” in the “lot’ry” and on the dogs and
horses, and that these operations and the
amounts of money gambled in these ways
are “investments.”
He H*
“Brian Bureau”; That idea of a Piim-
soll mark on beer glasses to prevent
drinkers being cheated by too much
froth (“Tarry Rope,” B. 13/3/ ’46) is bor-
rowed from Bung himself. Years ago
publicans introduced their own Plimsoll
on spirit glasses as a hint to over-liberal
selfhelpers not to exceed the prescribed
limit when pouring out a tot. I recall
an occasion when the presiding priestess
behind a bar explained this innovation
to a whisky-loving acquaintance of mine.
“Ah!” he exclaimed, “a dotted line —a
grand idea! I’ll sign the pledge on it,”
And as far as I know he’s been on the
water-wagon ever since.
• * * *
“Peter Mike”: Morotai-bound and
awaiting embarkation, the draft was told
that general leave was “off.” Smith pre-
“And think of the saving in manpower!”
sented himself at the orderly room with
the story that he had met a girl the
previous evening whom he had promised
to escort to church that morning. O.C.
Draft, always ready to pay out on an
priginal excuse, jokingly remarked as he
signed the leave pass: “Let me know
what the sermon was about.” Smith
paraded himself next morning and an-
nounced that the text had been taken
from the Old Testament: “If thou hast
fear of those who command thee, spare
those who obey thee.” He added: “Any
chance of another pass, sir? I’ve got
to return a book of quotations I bor-
rowed from the girl’s old man.” He
got it.
« * * *
“McGlum”: Our Q.M. was talking to
the English-speaking Jap doctor who
sometimes came to the prison camp to
gloat upon the physical deformities of
our beriberi patients. The captain was
pleading for better food, and eventually in
anger rated the Jap for his inhumanity,
promising that the Yanks would exact
just reparation for all cruelties imposed
on prisoners. The Nip answered
smoothly, “Be calm, captain ; maybe your
American friends will soon come here.
Maybe this year, this month ; maybe they
come this day.” At that moment a
Chinese-American Privateer roared over-
head and a stick of bombs plastered a
nearby ack-ack battery. The prophet
went to earth, later sneaking off like a
whipped cur in the direction of guard-
house and sake. He never spoke to the
captain again.
* * *
“H.M.A.”: “Pawang’s” publicity-
minded medico (B. 20/2/’46) is paralleled
by an ambitious young poet of my
acquaintance. Having failed to convince
editors that publication of his work was
the equivalent of a world scoop, he re-
sorted to high strategy as a means of
establishing a reputation. Selecting a
verse from one of his poems he wrote
under an assumed name to the corres-
pondence column of a literary journal,
inquiring if any reader could identify the
author of the quoted lines. After a period
of total blackout he again wrote, under
a fresh nom-de-fakc, revealing that the
verse (again quoted) was from the inspired
pen of that brilliant young genius Theo-
philus Dagwit, from his masterly but
yet unpublished work “Luminosities of
the Cosmic Ultimate.” As a bard, Theo
may rank several rungs below “Bellerive,”
but if anyone’s looking for a sales-
manager . . .
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: A quaint anomaly has
been discovered in a patriotic gesture by
the Brighton (Tas.) Council. At a public
meeting it was decided to present a silver
medal to every returned soldier in the
municipality. As a special rate of a
halfpenny in the £1 is to be levied to
meet the cost, servicemen-ratepayers will
be paying more than the intrinsic value
of the decoration for the privilege of
wearing it.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Foreign correspondents
are making a lot out of the painstaking
endeavor of Hirohito to live up to his
new role as a democratic sovereign by
visiting a factory and conversing rather
awkwardly with the employees, who
giggled with nervousness. Thirty years
ago when the Emperors were gods I wit-
nessed the procession of the monarch to
his mother’s tomb on her birthday ; the
only restriction put upon me was the
lowering of my European-style umbrella,
which in any case was an offensive-look-
ing object. In 1927 at the funeral of
Yoshihito there was all the ancient cere-
monial, and the road was paved with sand
so that the sound of the wheels of the
mourning coaches, which were ingeni-
pusly constructed so that they groaned
“I can't see why my wife COMPLAINS about having to shop!”
in diverse tones to express the mourning
of the nation, could be plainly heard.
For the first time the ceremony was
broadcast. It is doubtful whether the
devoted listeners-in felt that the divinity
of the Emperor had been in any way
impaired by this modern innovation.
♦ * * *
“Arpeos”: The four-year-old terror of
our street had the nasty habit of biting
w'hen squabbling with other kids. His
over-tolerant parents answered complaint
with phrases about “high spirits,” and
were unperturbed until one day the imp
arrived home from kindergarten howling
and pointing to a distinct set of teeth
marks on his arm. He had climated a
trying afternoon for teacher by biting a
little girl sitting next to him, whereupon
teacher, an advocate of modern methods
of correction, promptly bit him. The
youngster goes to another kindergarten
now—and he doesn’t bite people any
more.
* * * *
“Sarge”: With a few other Air Force
blokes I was in Hollywood awaiting trans-
port to Aussie, and for some reason the
brasshats would not pay us. For two
days we wandered around living on
doughnuts and coffee, supplied free at a
canteen. On the third day our stomachs
had that strange empty feeling and our
tongues were hanging out. Blue
saved the day by meeting a young
pathologist whose bureau needed human
blood for experimental purposes. Half
an hour later we were sitting in front of
a huge steak and eggs, less a half-pint of
blood but with four dollars each in our
pockets.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: British security
officers investigating the simultaneous
rioting by servicemen held in the eight
“glass houses” scattered throughout
Britain are convinced that the convicts
have a secret communication system
which can annihilate distances of
hundreds of miles. They rule out wire-
less, Spontaneous transference of
thought among groups of men who are
denied their usual forms of mental occu-
pation shouldn’t be new to army men.
Our ship, returning from the M.E. via
the Indian Ocean and a subsequent dash
towards the South Pole, was
heading north half a day out
of Adelaide, The rumor got
round that a rival Westralian
battalion had landed at Fre-
mantle. We all believed it, but
we were all rather astonished
when the following day brought
confirmation. The report from
the Old Dart states that,
although “prisoners are not
allowed newspapers, telephone
calls or telegrams”—what sort
of a prison is this, by the way?
—“less than an hour after the
Aldershot riot men hundreds
of miles away had full details of
the incident.” That “full details” is
obviously an exaggeration. But maybe
they did know something of what had
happened. All the same. I’ll warrant
they' were surprised when their “know-
ledge” became certainty.
« * * ♦
“Bisley”: Advice by “E.C.8.” (B.
6/ 3 / ’46) on easing a burnt finger by
grasping the lobe of the ear recalls a
trick taught me by knife-thrower-rifleshot
Jack Hilton. To strike a wax match ‘by
flicking the head between the nails of
the index finger and thumb appealed to
my childish ambition as the pinnacle of
achievement. After a few attempts I suc-
ceeded in igniting the vesta, but the head
came off and stuck under my nail. I suf-
fered agony. When I told Hilton he said
“Next time it happens, laddie, rub ycur
finger in your hair.” There was no next
time with the match trick, but some years
later I received a burn over three fingers
while lifting a billy off the fire. Tried
Jack’s cure and it worked.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Too right the dailies are
reliable (B. 20/3/’46). The oldest of the
Sydney ones, getting in early on the Leg.
Council elections, announced that Otway
Falkiner, of Boonoke and Wanganella
fame, was “in,” and published his
picture to prove it. Next day it calmly
announced that it was young Ottie, son
of the Boonoke man, who was the M.L.C.
and included his picture, presumably to
prove it. Not a word about the obvious
mistake, though some people were still
uncertain as to which Falkiner was
elected. Still, the dailies are no worse
than A.B.C. In its report of the Vic.
floods (9 p.m. news, 17 / 3 / ’46) it said that
all the country “in a triangle between
Hamilton, Portland and Port Pirie” was
under water. “Port Pirie” was men-
tioned at least four times in the broad-
cast, though it is about 400 miles by air-
line north of the affected district. Even
A.B.C. newshounds should know the dif-
ference between Port Fairy and the S.A.
smelter town.
* » * «
“Pookie”: Politics can play the devil
with family loyalties. Joe was a p.-0.-w.
in Germany, and came home via Russia.
At his reception the town hall was packed
and gay with flags, and the entire adult
population of Wallandoola was cheering
and clapping and clamoring for a speech.
Joe was about to launch into an oration
when his eye fell on the hammer and
sickle flag, together with a bold banner
bearing the words “Our Great Soviet
Ally Liberated This Wallandoola Man.”
Joe strode across the stage and tore them
down. There was an awful hush at this
strange conduct, finally broken by Joe.
Instead of the neat little speech he had
been rehearsing, full of gratitude and
with a nice leavening of modesty, Joe
burst into an impassioned denunciation
of the Russians and all their works. He
accused them of everything bar good
manners, and, as a final picturesque touch,
added that he had been finally handed
over to the British minus his trousers.
This sensational denouement was some-
thing of a facer for the small but active
Communist sub-branch which had con-
tributed the banner, but, before comment
had really died down, Alf, another
brother, also liberated by the Russians,
came home. He flatly contradicted every-
thing Joe had said, stating that he thought
the Russkis were “pretty good blokes.”
Immediately a frigid feud broke out
between the two, and feeling ran high
among their adherents. The bulk of the
township, however, reserved its verdict
until Harry, the third of the brothers,
arrived. But, perversely, he refused to
say anything, beyond expressing a desire
to forget the whole business.
WOPSE-WAISTS.
“Newest Paris fashions all feature curving hiplines
and wasplike waists.” — Cable.
In the whirling of fashions unstable
You never know when to expect
A switch to the mode one may label
Quite aptly “the hourglass effect.”
It means generous contours, alow as
Aloft, but redundancy stops
At waists with as slender a show as
That part of the insect we know as
The wopse.
Again you shall riote the hiatus
Midway in the feminine frame,
To which Venus of either Miletus
Or Milo had never a claim.
Young Romeo an armful shall taste of
What mannequins feature in shops,
And Juliet again be embraced of
A waist that resembles the waist of ‘
A wopse.
Do you charge me with slanginess, brother?
Well, at least I’ve a plea to be heard,
For I know of no rhyme to the other
Admittedly accurate word.
And when as a lad I’d endeavor
Their nests in a bank or a copse
With fire to destroy and dissever,
And at dodging reprisals grew clever,
The yellow marauder was ever
A wopse.
N.S.W.
TFDRD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“E. 2”: Dan got into the habit of visit-
ing Ray Peters every Sunday, and after
tea they would settle down to an indecisive
discussion on the merits and demerits
of a block of land Ray had offered to sell
Dan. Months passed, with Dan still
showing plenty of interest but no hurry
to clinch the deal, so Ray, exasperated,
decided to bring matters to a head.
“About that land,” he said shrewdly one
Sabbath evening. “There’s another cove
wantin’ t’ have a look at it, so y’d better
make up y’r mind about it now.” “Well,
I’ve bin thinkin’ it over,” Dan said. “Yair,
I know,” said Ray, “but y’ mightn’t git
the chance again.” “Now, that’d be a
cryin’ shame,” said Dan. “Why?” asked
Ray. “Weil, y’ see, I’ve bin cornin’ over
f’r a yarn ev’ry Sundee f’r munce,” Dan
replied. “If y’ go an’ sell the place
wotinell will we have t’ tork about?”
5P * * *
“Deir Suneid”: I know of only two
placenames in Victoria ending in Too (B.
13/3/’46), Banroo Creek and Whroo ;
but if kangaroo is eligible to compete,
Victoria leaves S.A. well behind.' The
gumsucker State has a town named Kan-
garoo, and there are two Kangaroo
Creeks and a Kangaroo Creek Hill, Kan-
garoo Flat, Kangaroo Ground, Kangaroo
Hill and two Kangaroo Ranges. The
N.T. ties with S.A., with Willefoo, Tupe-
roo, Bruroo, Annoburoo, Jaberoo and
Coomoonderod, and there are also two
Kangaroo Creeks. Abo. language stylists
may object to laberoo, on the ground
that the termination should be “ru,” but
as I know of four accepted ways of spell-
ing the name of the storklike bird, from
which the place derives its name, any such
objection will not be sustained.
* » * *
“Betcha”: Larry rested his arms on the
saleyard fence and watched the stranger
turn from a pen of young merinos to a
yarding of comebacks. “If y’re buyin’
ewes f’r down-country,” he suggested,
“you want t’ pick those there.” The
stranger looked up, interested. “Yes, but
they’re inclined to be a bit dingy in the
wool, don’t you think?” he pondered.
“An’ they’re small an’ very poor.” “Aw,
condition’s nothin’,” scoffed Larry.
“They’ll soon fill out.” The bloke took
him in more carefully. “Raise sheep y’r-
self, do you?” he asked. “Raise ’em!”
grinned Larry. “Gripes, I bet there ain’t
a bloke in this district raises more jum-
bucks than I do.” The stranger, not long
in the sheep job, seemed impressed. He
remembered the district’s reputation for
good stock and high-priced wool, and,
against his own judgment, decided on the
local’s choice. Arranging shipment for
them after the sale, he was still eyeing the
bunch dubiously, when he caught sight
of Larry. “About how many sheep does
that chap raise annually?” he asked one
of the drivers. “Good few thousand, I’d
say,” was the amused reply, “with the
ramp not reachin’ the level o’ the new
trailers. He’s the jobber that loads all
the stock transports.”
* * * *
“Bo”; A team from the railway con-
struction camp had challenged Bucken-
windie station to a cricket match and
Bung’s acceptance of an umpireship put
the seal on the match’s success. By mid-
day anyone who queried the score was
fast becoming regarded as a crank who
didn’t have the real interest of the day’s
sport at heart. As the last man straggled
off the field tp where most of the players
foregathered, Les, the rouseabout, after
solemnly listening at the vacant bunghole
of an empty hogshead, staggered across
to a full one, poured out a jug of beer,
took it across and began pouring it into
the bunghole of the empty hogshead.
To a navvy’s indignant query as to what
he was doing with the beer, Les looked
up, said “It’s Rus Calvert —can’t y’ ’ear
the pore cow? He’s in thish carshk an’
he’s shtarted chuckin’ all hish clo’sh off
an’ walkin’ round in shirklsh. They all
do that when they’re dyin’ o’ thirsht!”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Met Alec returning with a
couple of skinned rabbits. He tied a string
round the bunnies, and, going over to
the river, dropped them into a deep, still
hole. “Keeping the flies off?” I asked,
uncertainly. “No,” he returned, “Feedin’
eels.” Didn’t make sense to me,
but, as he seemed in earnest, 1 said no
more till again passing a couple of nights
later. “How’re your eels going?” I in-
quired. “Should just about be right
now,” he replied, threading? a worm on
a fishing line and tossing it in, “Can’t
beat a bit o’ free feedin’t’ collect a few.
Rabbits ain’t bad, but I like an old jum-
buck, killed on the edge o’ the bank so
the blood’ll run into the water. That
fetches ’em. Then all y’ got t’ do is fish
“Take it back and change it for one that doesn't bounce so much.”
’longside, an’ —an’ —cripes, look at that
bloke!” he chuckled, landing the next
day’s dinner in a writhing frenzy on the
bank,
* * * *
“Sub-Druid”: I’d heard that Myall Jim
was ill, and got the oil from Sam:
“Myall? Yair, appendicitis. Real crook,
he was. Bin operated on now an’ they
say he’s doin’ awright; but talk about
tough! Y’ know he was down to it f’r
weeks at the camp. Used t’ roll on the
floor in pain. But would he give in?
Not on y’r flamin’ life —kep’ right on
workin’ till one day he chucked a
doubler an’ they rushed him orf t’ the
horspital. Just in time, the quack reck-
oned ; an hour later an’ he’d ’a’ bin dead
as a dingoed lamb, Y’ gotta hand it to
him, though; he has guts, that feller.”
Well, I was talking to the doctor the next
day and doc. was on the warpath. “Some
of these bush fellows, you know—just
like children. Don’t realise the danger
of anything they can’t actually see.
Frightened of hospital, too, a lot of ’em —•
have practically to get the sergeant to
bring ’em along; like kids, going to a
dentist. Had a young fellow in here the
other day with a rotten appendix—must
have tickled him up for weeks. Rush
operation for me, and a big chance of a
death on the hospital’s record. Could’ve
come in before in plenty of time. But
no ; too damn’ childish to see the danger,
or too frightened to face it. Blasted
district needs missionaries—or kinder-
garten teachers.” Well, there are two
sides to every question,
* * * *
“C.E.”; My knowledge of mushrooms
being limited, I’d like someone to tell me
why it is the large, fleshy variety grows
in circles. The small mushrooms haven t
the habit, and, though in normal seasons
these coarser members usually come
through on the same strips of ground.
after the autumn rains of the past two
years certain paddocks in our district
have been white with the fungoids. Yet,
of the thousands in this mushroomers’
paradise, rarely could I find one that did
not conform to the usual pattern, a ring
of four or five feet in diameter. Often
the huge mushrooms jostle one another in
single file for the entire circle, while
others leave a gap of several inches be-
tween growths. All circles are clearly
defined, though they often overlap.
Clover grows luxuriantly within and sur-
rounding the circles, but under the mush-
rooms is bare soil. Again, why?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A visitor, I was standing
on the breakwater at Wollongong
(N.S.W.) gaping and mentally contrasting
the biggest tiddler I ever caught with
the 4ft. of kingfish that kept swimming
past, when I had cause to rub my eyes
even harder. A perky and most fascinat-
ing little penguin had appeared in the
narrow entrance to the harbor, and was
making a ton of fun for himself. Shoot-
ing along the water, skimming just below
the surface or diving out of sight to re-
appear at a spot least expected, the
little fellow made a delightful pic-
ture of joyful existence as he (pre-
sumably) captured his afternoon tea.
Therefore the words of a salty-looking
veteran came like a punch in the solar
plexus; “Poor little feller. Very seldom
one comes in ; then you generally find
him washed up on the beach a couple of
days later. Must be the warm water
that kills ’em.” Although I watched for
the quaint little chap on my return several
days later there was no sign of him —
dpaf i or a i; ve t can on i v hone that he
PM f aL °£ his predecessors
tbn .f Lrbt comes > h ere the natumlist might
S he N^,ure took in evo lving the
l t y
. , ,
‘‘Sou’-west”: What does “W.J.W.” (B.
13/2 /’46) find so wonderful in an old
we j 60 . 0 dd feet deep, most of it sunk
through solid rock? couple of hun-
dred miles further east he would have
f dth landscape pockmarked with
such pitSi sunk on'the bare prospect of
flndin ' g ’ old , An d th e goldseekers are
sdß sinking them. As for wells, in the
WA sou th-west professional wellsinkers
today put them down a hundred feet,
Nor wou ld that lost well have been
• ■ • the
S Zu g dbTtrict ’ was
Wortham, York, Beverley district, was,
°Pe ned “P 1 15 years agm The Clarksons
we l e , out far as la!
early seventies. As wonlrTn’t
dropped clean across » ensure
that simply be a thoug
th at straying cattle didn t fall in?
. * Somewhere around this
: ‘ t hree vear youngster and
house-there are afnd they
a half :S°J7mf T Tooked out of the
are i p • carrying
window and saw the
the ra u ed out and having a
ear . ° • . ibg dropped the
gul thoueh its temperature had gone
SeeJ Ac
up 2(X> ees Bits nopp q
ground like I he P £rot up very deli-
After a few se component parts
berately, shrugg wriggled tQ P see
back into th P » d ma rched
towards the baby, wno nau
or three yards. The kitten walked like
a boxer shaping up: shoulders high, neck
pulled in, swaying a little from side to
side, and he walked very slowly and with
terrifying purposefulness. Without a trace
of hurry he approached to within two feet
of his Nibs —who by now was nervous
—and sprang without warning, faster
than my eyes could follow, fastening on
a fat and grubby leg with teeth and claws.
His Nibs yelled the place down, and,
after letting the show go on for a bit, I
parted them. Now somewhere in my
son’s ancestry, I suppose, there was a
hirsute exceedingly - great - grandparent
who saw red death come for him in a
sabre-toothed tiger’s hide in just such a
deliberate manner. Perhaps Paleopatei
got off by a miracle and passed the
memory down. Anyway, I’m not sur-
prised at anyone’s fear of the feline tribe.
* * * *
“Wonk”; It was the first time Frank
had visited Mick’s bush hangout, and
he rounded the corner to find the old
chap quietly watching the antics of a
wallaby behind the garden plot. “Mar-
vellous, ain’t it?” he breathed, nodding
at the wallaby. “You won’t think he’s
so marvellous if he starts on your vege-
tables,” remarked Frank. “An’ just look
at those rabbits —you’ve got the animals
pretty tame around here, Mick.” Mick
turned from the rabbits to contemplate
a brace of wood ducks that waddled up
from the river to preen themselves on a
high bank. “Gripes, that’s an easy shot,”
gasped Frank. “And you said last night
you were out of meat. Beats me why
you don’t pot those things. And
those parrots? Soon you won’t have an
apple left on that tree. They’re pickin’
all the ripe ones.” “Yair, they know
awright,” nodded Mick. “Marvellous,
ain’t it?” Frank turned towards a
rustling on the roof. “Gripes, an’ there’s
a snake!” he exclaimed. “On the top
there, see? Don’t tell me that thing’s
a pet. Only way to get him is with a
bullet. Well” —as Mick made no move —
“aren’t you going to shoot it?” Mick
shook his head slowly, as he looked at
the snake. “Marvellous, that’s what it
is,” he mused, with a deep wondering
sigh. “Flamin’ marvellous how all them
things know I lent Sandy me rifle t’day.”
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Old Sundercutt
was an inveterate implement buyer, and
whenever a new purchase arrived Mrs. S.
trundled the old sewing machine out and
began work on a pile of men’s wear
almost bullet-proof with patches. One
day a sewing-machine agent, after see-
ing Sundercutt come through the
gate using the latest in ploughs, passed
up to the house, where Mrs. S.’s sewing
machine was groaning through its task
like an outraged threshing plant. “I’m
surprised,” he opened up in his oily
tones, “that the wife of such a progres-
sive farmer should cling to such an ante-
diluvian relic as that machine you’re
working.” Then it was that the sales-
man learned, the hard way, why the kids,
the cats and the cattle dogs avoided Mrs.
S. when a new implement came home.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Whenever you
yarned to old hands in New Guinea the
impression was always that t
seen the place until you had been “up the
Sepik ” A trip up-river disclosed that
about all of the old Sepik the Jap had
left unchanged were pit-pit swamps, mos-
quitoes, alligators and heat. Kopar, the
“rich village” inside the mouth, did not
exist. At Marifinburg, former headquar-
ters of the German Catholic Mission, bat-
tered homesteads, workshops, stores and
gardens sprawled on a hill overlooking
cow paddocks and a quaint boat-builders
yard on the river fiat whispered what a
picturesque outpost it once had been.
At Angoram, until Angau arrived,
there was nothing. Half the houses that
still stand at Magendo village are in bad
disrepair, as they are elsewhere, owing
to most of the inhabitants living “along
bush” during the occupation. At Tam-
bunum, of old the show place of the
river with a population of 1300, bullet-
shattered coconut palms, burnt ruins and
Jap graves are everywhere. Along the
waterway, garden foods are plentiful,
though the Japs had no trade, and tools,
lap-laps and canoes are at a premium.
In places up to a quarter of the popula-
tion has been depleted by dysentery, and
pro-Jap villages used the invaders to
settle old feuds and start a few more. At
Timbunke 99 males were massacred in
one hit. No village escaped entirely until
you reach Avatip, 240 miles up. this
was because a small A. 1.8. P a rty9 am pe.
there held off a large force of Nips and
armed the natives—so well that the Jap
colonel personally chaUengedtheA.Lß.
officer, McColl, to a duel with swords
McColl’s signal to headquarters is worth
repeating. It ran: “Please drop>** by
parachute one sword and a book of i
structions.”
SUNSET.
I love to wander at close of day . .
When the swans fly westward on pinions
strong
And the magpie wings on his homeward way
With a random snatch of a wayward song.
A song of a boy in the long ago
With the cool wind blowing on brow and
cheek,
Driving the cows in the afterglow
To the old bush paddock beside the creek.
Idly cropping the wayside grass, .
They shake their horns and they switch their
tails;
He lowers the timbers and lets them pass
One by one through the old sliprails.
The plovers call from the distant swamp,
And the cry of a bittern is harsh and loud,
While over the ranges the sunset pomp
Flames magnificent, cloud on cloud.
How much of sorrow, how much of joy,
What paths untrodden, what journeys strange
Wait for the feet of the barefoot boy
Gazing over the darkening range?
Oh, well, the journeys are long since done,
The perils are passed and the wonders seen —
Does it matter now what was lost or won,
Saved or spent in the years between?
Joys and pleasures have ebbed and flowed,
But still I wander at close of day
Where the sky still burns on the sunset' road
And the magpie sings on his homeward way.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARERINGTON.


“Old-timer”: One wet Sunday Little
Curl was rummaging among the old gear
behind the disused blacksmith’s shop, on
the station and came across an old rusty
double-barrelled muzzle-loading pistol. It
was about 18 inches long, the barrels
octagonal and one above the other, fitted
with nipples for caps and great hammers
like iron rabbit-ears. Curl soaked it in
kero, for a week, rubbed it with oil and
fine emery, got most of the rust off and
got the barrels to work on their swivel.
The great day came when he got the
triggers to work, “By cripes,” said Curl,
“she’d be handy to carry on horseback
if a man run into a ’roo or fox or some-
thin’.” So he made a huge leather holster
for his saddle, sent to the city for a box
of caps and some black powder, bor-
rowed old George Lewis’s bullet-mould
and turned out about a pound of slugs.
Came the day when Curl, aboard his
horse, walked it slowly towards a ben-
zine-tin on the ground, drew the weapon,
took careful aim and pulled the trigger.
There was a roar like the Last Trump,
bits of pistol flew in all directions, the
hoise leapt sideways and Curl stood on
his head in the sand. His face was black
with powder and smoke, and a small
piece of one ear was lost for all time.
“G-good grief! ” he gasped as we rushed
to him, “no wonder none of them high-
waymen blokes lasted long!”
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We were making across
from Gladstone to Port Pirie (S.A.), north
of the narrow-gauge line, and had
tramped most of the late afternoon with
our heads down to avoid the glare of the
westering sun. We’d got down out of
the hills on to the coastal plain and made
camp in a clump of acacia just on night-
fall. The dawn was bright and hot, and
“Not now —Sunday!”
Mai, first up, looked west and let out
a yell. I jumped out. His finger indi-
catecl a big ship sitting on the plain. I
blinked and looked again. The ship was
still there, clear and sharp in the morning
light. “You see anything?” Mat asked,
“Looks like a ship,” I replied. He stared
again, then he mumbled “Well, I always
reckoned this South Oss was a queer
joint, but when it comes t’ two blokes
seem’ the same mirage in the same place
I reckon it’s time we got out.” Troubled,
for Td never seen a ship-mirage before,
I looked again and saw the smelter-stacks
and part of another ship grow against the
lightening west. ' “Hey,” I said, “It’s Port
Pirie. We’re so low here we can’t see
the water.” Mat gazed a while, then he
turned to the fire. “Well,” he growled,
“I’ve heard of blokes bein’ lower than a
snake, but I never reckoned I’d ever be
so low as t’ see ships sailin’ on the land.”
And, seriously disturbed, he made the tea.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Novel fishing
methods? Worried by large leather jackets
sucking their baits off hooks, boys on
the pier at Sorrento (Vic.) now catch these
almost unhookable fish in rabbit-traps
suspended under water. The
job is easy. As the leathery
swims in and sucks at the
meat secured to the plate of
a set trap, it invariably
springs it off and is caught by
the nose in the jaws.
* * *
“Horseless Horseman”:
Old Bill had been a carefree
Gulf-country stockman all
his years until he came into a
legacy, so when he took over
the Ten Mile pub making
money was only a sideline.
What was ritual to him was
a habit of joining in all
drinks, and then shouting
back, and Bill had his own quaint ways of
seeing this camaraderie was never broken.
Recently a well-dressed stranger drove
up to the little pub’s verandah and, in-
viting in a couple of horizon-gazers
seated there, he plumped on the
counter 35., the customary price of
three beers. But Old Bill poured out four
glasses, and leaning across to the new-
comer he quietly asked “Where’s the shil-
ling for your drink?”
* * * *
“Creel”: Can’t agree with “Lower
TopsTs” claim (B. 6/3/’46) that sea-
snakes lack the lethal touch. In 1937 a
Jap pearl diver working off Darnley
Island was bitten on the right wrist by a
4ft. olive-brown seasnake while being
hauled up and when near the surface ; he
died a few minutes after being removed
from the water. That reptile was identi-
fied as Astrotia stokesii. regarded as the
deadliest of all seasnakes. Named after
Captain Stokes, of H.M.S. Beagle, during
whose North Queensland voyage in 1841
the first specimen was captured, the reptile
grows up to 6ft. in length.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “G’roper” says (B.
27/2/’46) “you don’t see swans on the
Swan these days.” Of course you don’t —
from the Barrack-street jetty. Nor, for
that matter, anywhere else on the river
during the breeding season, when they are
away on the inland lakes, fetching out
their broods free from the hurry and
bustle of a great metropolis. The rattle
of Perth’s trams and the roar of her
speeding trains, which “G’roper” in his
innocence mistakes for nature’s sym-
phony, are disturbing to a sitting swan.
But venture a few miles into the wilds
of, say, Belmont, a mile or so beyond the
Ascot racecourse, in autumn, when the
fully-fledged and -flighted young are
brought up from the country to visit the
species’ ancient hunting ground, and you
will see your swans, in hundreds. Or
journey beyond the glow of the city lights
of a quiet evening, and you will hear a
plaintive, almost weird, jcry, oft repeated
softly—it will denote swans passing over-
head. Within recent years I have seen
the river for a quarter of a mile black
with bird life, with swans predominating.
Should “G’roper” leave his St. George’s-
terrace haunts for the locality I’ve men-
tioned, he will not be mistaken for a pot-
hunter if he confines his activities to
swans. Despite his assertion that they
“They’ve been pillaging me marble again!”
“never pass a swan,” they do there, where
the river swarms with duck. After all,
you can eat duck.
* ♦ * *
“X.E.D.”: “Seen a cove once,” said
Bundy, “who was so scared of lightnin’
that in thundery weather he useter wear
a plough-chain round his middle under
his strides, with the other end draggin’
on the ground behind him like one of
them petrol wagons. Reckoned he was
safe that way ; but that’s just wot finished
him. Y’ see, he was strollin’ across the
paddick full o’ confidence durin’ a
thunderstorm when the bull chased him.
Of course Joe shoots through the fence
like a bullet, an’ just after that comes an
extra-big flash o’ lightnin’, strikin’ the
wire an’ runnin’ down the chain t’ scorch
Joe t’ bits. The pore coot would’ve bin
clear of the fence be yards if he’d had
enough sense t’ pick a chain without a
hook on the end.”
* * * *
“W. Court”: I’ve known many intend-
ing apiarists who gave up on dis-
covering that rainbow birds were
prominent among the native fowl of the
locality. The rainbows are common in
C.Q., going about in sizeable flocks in
open country where trees have been
ringbarked. Looking like kingfishers
when perched, and like brightly-hued
swallows when flying, they subsist ex-
clusively on bees where hives are plenti-
ful. When going out after pollen, the
bees often outfly the gaudy gorgers, but
when flying slowly home with full “bags”
they haven’t a chance of escape.
* * * *
“Sesqui”; On March 25, 1796, Bass and
Flinders, exploring south from Sydney in
a boat scarcely bigger than their earlier
Tom Thumb, were carried past Bulli by
a current, and a head wind prevented
their return. Near Five Islands they were
washed ashore, their stores being
drenched in the landing. While
their powder was still wet they
were approached by a band of
hostile natives. Flinders’s quick-
ness of thought saved the situa-
tion. Lining the abos. up, he
proceeded to shave them and
cut their hair, much to their
amusement and gratification,
while Bass dried the powder on
a rock. That the natives didn’t
see anything alarming in a lethal
weapon like a razor being in
the hand of a possible enemy
must have been regarded by
the explorers as a slice of luck.
But luck didn’t enter into it when, ex-
ploring Port Hacking on the way back,
they were caught by a gale while asleep
in the boat one night. They pulled up
the stone they used as an anchor and ran
before the storm, with Bass holding the
sail and Flinders steering with an oar.
That was good seamanship; but then
there were grand seamen 150 years ago.
“Centen”: March 29 marks the cen-
tenary of the return of Ludwig Leich-
hardt from his trip to Port Essington,
the German arriving in Sydney to dis-
cover that he had been given up for
dead. He was treated as a hero; a
Government grant of £lOOO was made;
the public subscribed £l5OO to be divided
among the party. Leichhardt bathed in
the praise, believed himself a genuine
explorer, and went on to plan further
conquests, with the result that the Fate of
Leichhardt is still a favorite subject for
bar-room speculators and sensational
fictioneers.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Strange how some
writers who pay such attention to accu-
racy of detail on unusual subjects fall
down in describing the commonplace.
Have been reading John Brophy’s Spear
Head. Well written, but in the midst
of minutely recorded Commando actions
he weighs in with “The sentries could
see only a short distance ; the moon was
new and would not rise till early morn-
ing.” Dickens, in Chuzzlewit, places
a setting sun on one horizon and a sickle
moon on the opposite ; and even John
Buchan, whom one could assume to have
spent some time out of doors, keeps a
new moon hung in the sky for hours after
it should be in bed. Any middle-aged
writer who lifts his eyes now and then
should have seen a few hundred new
moons. Is the weather in England so
consistently foul that the sickle can
seldom be seen?
* * * *
“T.W.H.”: “8.A.” (B. 27/2/’46) says
he has never met, a man who has seen
white-ants building a nest. I have. The
other day I watched a mound with a
patch about a foot across being con-
structed in bright sunlight. It resembled
a piece of coral, and the white-ants were
working like bees on a comb. Both tree-
and mould-builders employ the same
procedure, one using wood and the other
mud; and I have seen dozens of colonies
at work on the Macpherson range, mostly
on dull days. White-ants there take on
green timber as well as dry.
* * * *
“Blime”: Sam dropped in to find Dad
poring over a paper on the table. “It’s
young Bill’s eddication,” Dad explained,
worriedly. “He’ll be leavin’ school soon,
an’ I think I’ll send ’im t’ this place
where they’ll learn ’im erbout engines
’n’ machines.” “A good trade,” agreed
Sam. “But you got on awright, Dad,
without them frills,” “Yair, but things is
diff’rent nowadays,” sighed the old bloke.
“After' that ’e c’n go to a agriculture
collidge ’n’ learn erbout soils. Then ’e
c’n do a course at a vet school.” “Well,
that’s a good job, too,” agreed Sam.
“Though, when it comes to stock diseases,
there’s not much you couldn’t teach him
y’rself, Dad.” “Not now, Sam,” mourned
Dad. “Sheep don’t seem t’ get pulpy
kidney or cheesy gland no more. They
get enterotox somethin’ an’ caseous
lympha whatever it is, ’n’ things like
them. Then young Bill ,c’d do a season
or two in the wool stores.” “But I
thought he wanted to learn building?’ 5
mentioned Sam. “Yair. Well, I might
’prentice ’im t’ that f’r a coupla years
as a sort o’ sideline,” mused Dad, “afore
’e starts the rest of ’is eddication.” “What’s
that?” “A business learnin’, o’ course,”
replied Dad. “All erbout letterwritin’, ’n’
cheques, ’n’ finance. An’ they got t’
learn ’im bookkeepin’, an’ inkum tax,
an’ erbout forms ’n’ licenses, an’ all that.”
“An accountant, eh?” said Sam. “That’s
it,” nodded Dad. “Then ’e’ll be erbout
able t’ keep track o’ things when ’e takes
over this place.”
* * * *
“Zake”; Old Josh Simmons, sick of
replacing bolts and nuts from his big
roadside gate, put on it a notice which
he had laboriously written on cardboard
with a stick dipped in Stockholm tar. It
read: “Notis to carriers. Don’t hoyst
the bolts an’ nuts out of the gate. If
you want enny come up to the homestead
and you’ll be given them.” Next day
Josh went down and saw the gate swinging
drunkenly, and underneath his notice a
neatly pencilled note: “Sorry we couldn’t
come up to the house, but it’s against our
principles to ask for charity.”
COAST TOWNS.
Walking up to Bogangar,
All the way b'y sea,
Lightly on the bright sands
Go we three.
Walking up to Bogangar
Wind and sun and sea
Clothe us in contentment,
Set our spirits free.
Walking up to Bogangar,
Stopping here to fish.
Casting out a fine line
And a fisher’s wish.
Casting out a fine line,
Little-hooked, inviting,
Where the shallows promise
Opal hordes of whiting.
Walking up to Bogangar
The sea’s all bright and fair,
Gossiping of coast towns
Like music in the air.
All the way to Bogangar
The foaming ripples flow,
Tossing colored cadences
Back and to and fro.
Midginbil and Mooball —
Savor there the song!
Cudgen Creek and Fingal,
Crystal-clear and strong.
Bilambil and Burringbar
Flowing dark along;
With Condong and Cudgera,
Wall-eyed Woodenbong ...
Walking up to Bogangar,
All the way by sea,
Lightly on the bright sands
Go we three.
n.s.w.
CONSTANCE MCEWEN.


pEPO*
(kPGt
p/50P
yj
U
nu
fft
V-
%
9J
$
l n Q ra ff.
--
SMWNfi
K
W/fA full chevrons for war service, Ingram steps into civvies
again and bestows on discriminating whiskers, young, tough and
old, that creamy COOLNESS that goes with every jar of
Ingram's Shaving Cream.
INGRAM’S
B.
cbhbk
1N.4
ip
In
or
THIS
MAN
works
or you!
sun-scorched deserts
steamy jungles . . .
in swamps or on moun-
tain sides, the geologist
is always seeking for
earth structures that
may hold new and better oil fields. He
is one of the vast army who work in
constant danger and hardship so that
CALTEX may bring you through your
nearby CALTEX dealer the finest
petroleum products from the world’s
richest oil fields.
LISTEN TO
“YOUTH SPEAKS”
EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Study of Stalin.
{Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by David J. Dallin, author of “The Real
Soviet Russia,” and one of America’s leading
authorities on that country .)
A resourceful foreign correspondent,
writing in the “Saturday Evening Post,”
offered a pleasantly reassuring theory on
Generalissimo Joseph Stalin’s post-war
intentions. The Soviet dictator, he ex-
plained, is over 65—really an old maiv—
and has achieved much in his lifetime.
At such an age, men are hardly inclined
to rush into new adventures, to take
chances or look for trouble. It is an
age for conservatism. Stalin, in short,
may be expected to settle down to the
quiet enjoyment of what he possesses—
to live and let live. A fairy story.
Reliance on sheer force, use of nego-
tiation as a manoeuvre, cynical acceptance
of tomorrow’s deadly enemies as 1 today’s
coalition partners, single-minded drive to
the goal of one-party rule, calm contempt
for other people’s moral sensibilities —
there we have the quintessence of Stalin-
ism!
What superficial observers of Soviet
history fail to grasp is that while Stalin
often alters his tactics and strategy—we
are all familiar with startling overnight
reversals in the “party line” —he remains
true to his underlying aims and concepts.
Through all the outward shifts he has
remained steadfast as the chief represen-
tative of a revolutionary tradition. He
has revised it in line with his own char-
acter and limitations. His version of
the process of social transformation is so
personal that Stalinism is a better word
than Communism to characterise it. But
such as it is, this curious Communism
is pot an outer garment he could cast off
even if he wished. It is flesh of his flesh
and bone of his bone ; he is neither will-
ing nor able to separate himself from it.
Stalin’s strength lies precisely in this
unbreakable relation to the revolutionary
tradition. It gives him the confidence
and the ruthlessness of the man with a
mission. He thinks of himself as the
“instrument of history.” Those raised
in the spirit of his leadership know that
even Stalinist acts seemingly contrary to
the tradition are strategic moves; not
sun enders but temporary retreats. They
accept every seeming “retreat” in that
sense.
To ex P ect ’ therefore, that Stalin will
-somehow emerge as a pure old-style Re-
sian imperialist—the new Tsar of a
revived nationalist State—is to expect the
im P° ssible - His propagandists have en-
couraged the fiction in some Russian
circles abroad, but that also is revolu-
tionary strategy. No less futile and self-
deluding is the thought that Stalin may
beCo me a “democrat,” a believer in the
four f ree doms and head of a democrat-
j se( j State
Such U p si de-down transformations in a
man at t he pea}c of success obtained along
totally different lines are psychologically
impossible. If Russia should change into
a democracy, or into an old-style im-
perialist nation, there will be no room in
it for Stalin.
Revolutionary tradition, while it has
been a fountainhead of strength for
Stalin, has also been a source of serious
error. Two mistakes deriving from the
consistency of his basic political faith
have been especially costly to his country
an d disturbing to his followers,
First, there was his reliance on the
Communist doctrine that a war between
capitalist nations would resolve into civil
wars, producing new Soviet countries to
join the U.S.S.R. Stalin adhered to this
view when war swept through Europe in
1939. His policy of non-belligerence was
to a great extent influenced by that doc-
trine. He expected the “capitalist war”
to break down in social revolutionary
s *nfe, after which new Soviet republics
would drop into his capacious lap.
This expectation proved mistaken,
Revolutionary movements played no sig-
-nificant role in World War 11. But as
ye t Stalin has not readjusted his beliefs
to this reality. His theories are too
integral with his life to yield to mere
experience.
Even more dismal, from the Commu-
nist vantage point, has been the failure
of another central concept. In case of a
capitalist attack on the Soviet Union, the
doctrine held, the workers of the world
would rally to its support. When Hitler
attacked in 1941, Stalin actually awaited
a great pro-Soviet upsurge inside Ger-
many. In his early war speeches he stated
that Germany was “a volcano ready to
erupt.” This crucial doctrine failed in
the first test of experience. The support
did come—from capitalist Governments.
We [U.S.A.\ are losing the peace. We
are losing the respect of the world. If
we should look honestly at ourselves it
might be difficult to keep our self-
respect. Physically the world’s most
powerful nation, we are hysterically
divesting ourselves of our physical power
even before the formal peace has been
made. Much given to lecturing others
on their moral shortcomings, we are
drifting toward moral bankruptcy. Ex-
alting our own prowess, we are nonethe-
less inclined to blame the troubles of
the post-war world on others: the
British are too shrewd, the Russiatis too
ruthless. Ferociously energetic, we are
intellectually lazy. Brilliantly competent
technically, we tend to be politically
inept. Tough in war, we are soft in
peace. Girdling the world with our
living and our dead, we do not yet know
our place in the world. Creating such
miracles of military engineering around
the earth that other peoples regard us
with awe, we have behaved as if we
were in a political vacuum, not knowing
how to relate cause and effect. Out-
wardly internationalist, we are yet in-
wardly isolationist. It is not that we do
not want peace. It is that, being in-
tellectually adolescent, we do not realise
that if we want peace we can have it,
but only at the price, however high, that
if demands. Facing the atomic age
which we inaugurated, we seem unable
or unwilling to face up to its staggering
consequences.—American war corre-
spondent writing on his country in peace
and war; “Atlantic Monthly.”
There ivas no trace of “solidarity of the
workers” in the hour when it was most
urgently needed.
But from this, too, Stalin has not drawn
the obvious political deductions. He
evades them, steers around them. Such
stubbornness in adhering to concepts
overwhelmingly belied by events is beyond
logic ; it derives from deep-rooted faith.
Given Stalin’s traits of mind, hardened
in three decades of struggle and two de-
cades of dictatorial power, he is incapable
of a fundamental revision of long-held
beliefs. Asa substitute for the missing
solidarity of workers, he offers the spuri-
ous solidarity* of revolutions imposed on
neighboring nations by the victorious Red
Army.
His relentless loyalty to ideas which
to others seem to have been cancelled out
by history underlines Stalin’s essential
consistency on basic doctrine. We must
not let his talent for surface adjustments
and tactical reversals mislead us. Stalin
remains the exponent and leader of a
world revolutionary tradition with its
centre in the Soviet Union. He offers no
real ground for the now fashionable hope
that he will set up anew kind of Russia.
Stalin’s interest is not simply in expand-
ing and strengthening Russia as ends in
themselves, but in enlarging and fortify-
ing the area of Soviet Socialism centred
in Moscow. Outwardly the manifesta-
tions may seem the same, but its purposes
and spirit are quite different. An old-
style imperialist would be content to
widen Russia’s spheres of control, what-
ever the political and economic systems
might be. Asa world-revolutionist, Stalin
aims ultimately to Sovietise those spheres
and to make them politically and econo-
mically consistent with the rest of the
Soviet Union. In short, his imperialism
is real enough, but it is of a revolutionary
variety.
Nor could Stalin conceivably head a
Russia reconstituted on the basis of poli-
tical freedom. Should there be an evolu-
tion in that direction, it could not pos-
sibly occur under Stalin’s guidance. It
would have to assert itself against Stalin’s
complete and ruthless opposition.
As yet there hias not been the slightest
relaxation in the rigid and cruel Stalinist
system of power. The one-party rule is
today more thorough than ever before,
the grip of the secret police more univer-
sal and absolute. The latest five-year
plan is geared, precisely like its prede-
cessors, to heavy industry, with war indus-
tries and the construction of a navy as
its most vital components. This definitely
means a continued neglect of the needs
of the “common man” and by the same


TH*>
W
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Dewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E» R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
r*
1
O' K,
wHE RIGHT KNIFE
FOR EVERY MAN . .
Whatever the outdoor man—
or boy desires in knife
equipment, he can obtain it in
a Whittingslowe. All Whit-
tingslowe knives are strongly
built and the blades are care-
fully made, ground and tem-
pered in the best Sheffield
tradition.
7 TOOLS IN ONE. Combining pen*
cil sharpener, blade sharpener, bottle
opener (screw top), bottle opener
(crown seal), tin opener, screwdriver,
three-inch rule.
&
POCKET KNIFE. Strongly made,
complete with bottle opener. Handy
pocket size, with attractive nickel
finish.
CLASP KNIFE. Heavy blade, can
and bottle opener. Blackened finish.
A similar knife is obtainable with a
marlin spike.
STOCKMAN’S KNIFE. One general
purpose blade, one castration blade.
Very strongly made. Solid brass
handle.
HUNTING KNIFE. 6-Inch blade,
strong polished wooden handle. Sup-
plied with leather sheath. Also avail-
able without the can opener in handle.
t tt »
%
*
♦
X
Vs‘ ;
Keep Them Keen With An
EVERLASTING KNIFE SHARPENER
The Whittingslowe Everlasting Knife Sharpener
quickly puts a keen edge on cutlery or any type
of blade. Long-lasting sharpening discs are self
adjusting and quickly and inexpensively replaceable.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
token a continuation of the stern police
measures to enforce new sacrifices on the
populace,
As far as Stalin is concerned the world
is in a protracted transition period on
the road to Socialism. He is a Moses
leading the people out of Egyptian servi-
tude into a Promised Land, and many
must die—all must suffer—before the
goal is reached. This theory, earnestly
held, is incompatible with ethical re-
straints or democratic concessions. It
seems to him to justify every sacrifice
involved including death for millions,
slave labor on a gigantic scale and hard-
ships for the whole population.
To Stahn democracy is another name
for weakness and inefficiency. He couples
it automatically with the adjective “de-
generate.” He despises British Labor
leaders and French or American Social-
ists moie deeply than he does out-and-
out capitalists. Again and again he has
expressed his conviction that the “liqui-
datum of such people is the prerequisite
for tne rise of Communism.
Great events are gestatmg in Russia ;
of that there can be no doubt. No race
or nation can undergo the experience of
The German woman feels little opti-
mism about the coming years. She has
already forgotten how, toward the last
days of war when the world was col-
lapsing around her, she prayed for peace,
for anything to end the ghastly terror,
even at the price of conquest. Now she
has the peace, but, somehow, it is not
as she hoped it would be. Death has
stopped raining down from the sky, but
now hunger, cold and loneliness have
taken its place. And when she surveys
the ruins which surround her she sees
nothing but bleakness, toil and endless
poverty ahead. German women suf-
fered most from war, and will be the
ones most affected by its results for years
to come. But they have completely
failed to learn a lesson from it. And it
is safe to say that if another dictator
presented himself to the German people
and they had a chance to install him in
power, it would be the women, who are
more politically minded than the men-
folk, who woidd give him their vote.
Talks with German women of all classes
and nearly all sections in western and
southern Germany, and recent official
surveys conducted by American military
authorities, both lead to that conclusion.
Tania Long; N.Y. “Times” woman
staff correspondent visiting Germany.
the U.S.S.R. in this war—the prodigious
sufferings and loss of life, the new sense
of national strength, the contact with an
alien civilisation in conquered and liber-
ated European countries—without being
stirred to its depths. But whether the
gestation will lead to some rebirth re-
mains to be seen. The Soviet police sys-
tern is incalculably larger, stronger, more
efficient and more cruel than that of the
Tsars.
But if events in conflict with the tradi-
tional Stalinism should come to pass,
Stalin certainly will not accommodate
himself to them, simply because he can-
not. He will fight them to the bitter end.
There have been reports of Stalin’s ill-
ness and even false rumors of his death.
Whether his life will be long or short,
whether he will die in the Kremlin, in
prison or in exile, he will remain to the
end a devoted and relentless advocate of
his own version of Communism for the
whole world. The quality of that Com-
munism is open to question; his con-
sistent adherence to it is not.
Arctic War Bases.
(From “United States News.”)
Uninhabited wastes of the Arctic
rapidly are becoming the object of a new
set of international rivalries. Military
men point out that all the important
Powers are grouped in a relatively small
area outside the Arctic Circle, and that
any war of the future is likely to centre
on the North Pole. A race to obtain
rights already involves possible bases on
Spitsbergen and Iceland.
The United States for many years has
possessed one highly strategic area in the
North, and now is seeking air rights in
others, Alaska proved its great value
during the recent war. From Fairbanks,
the Russians ferried 3500 ’planes across
Siberia to the front in Europe. Alaska
also is on the direct route from mid-
U.S. to Japan and China.
Iceland and Greenland are areas where
the U.S. is seeking peace-time rights to
bases and weather stations that were used
during the war. From Iceland it is only
1050 miles to London, 1250 miles to
Berlin and 1900 miles to Moscow.
Greenland, a Danish possession, is on the
direct air routes from such cities as
Detroit and Chicago to London, Berlin
and Moscow.
Russia, likewise, is showing an interest
in air bases in the North. At Potsdam
Generalissimo Stalin brought up the sub-
ject of possible Russian rights in Spits-
bergen, which is a possession of Norway.
Spitsbergen is 3500 miles away from
Washington, but it is only 300 miles from
northern Greenland. Russia, because of
her long Arctic coastline, organised a
“Northern Sea Route Administration”
some years ago. Also, she is reported to
maintain bases and weather stations on
ice fields between her coast and the Pole.
The British Empire, through the
Dominion of Canada, possesses much
strategic land in the Arctic region. Grant
Island, farthest north, is only 400 miles
from the Pole. Northern Canada has a
vital relation to the defence problems
of the U.S., and may figure prominently
in any future collaboration between the
two countries.
Secret bases in the Far North, accord-
ing to air strategists, could be used as
launching sites for rockets, pilotless
’planes and long-range bombers that
would carry atomic bombs to the main
cities of U.S. and Europe, 1500 to 2000
miles away. One suggestion is that the
whole Arctic region be internationalised
under the Security Council of the United
Nations. But this cannot be done for
some time to come, if ever, and, mean-
while, the Powers are scrambling fox
whatever advantages in the Arctic they
can get.
Patchwork Job in Germany.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Dernaree Bess.)
Not one American political leader
fully realised at the outset how formid-
able! our German commitments would
prove to be. There was no idea, at the
beginning, that Americans would be-
come involved in a project to take Ger-
many completely apart and put it to-
gether again in wholly new patterns.
In the early planning everything looked
comparatively simple; a forthright
military occupation. Considerable num-
bers of influential Americans, however,
were not satisfied merely to destroy the
German Army and to overthrow the
Nazi regime. They insisted that we
must also break up the entire economic
and financial system of Germany, de-
prive the country of all heavy and much
light industry and reduce the people to
a pastoral existence. To those who
opposed this programme it became
known as the “goat-pasture” policy, and
it split into two warring camps the men
whom President Roosevelt had assigned
to plan the U.S. share of the occupation.
►Secretary of the Treasury Henry Mor-
genthau gradually became the chief
spokesman for the advocates of an
American-imposed revolution in Ger-
many.
Mr. Morgenthau became convinced
that U.S. should go into Germany with
a complete blueprint, worked out in ex-
haustive detail, providing for an eco-
nomic and industrial revolution so drastic
that it would affect not only Germany
but almost every other country in
Europe. He wanted U.S. to adopt this
blueprint for itself and to use every
conceivable means of pressure upon its
Allies to get them to accept it. When-
ever he was outvoted in the Cabinet com-
mittee he had the immense advantage—
as an intimate friend of Franklin D.
Roosevelt —of being able to go through
the side door of the White House and
sell his ideas directly to the President.
Eventually, late in 1944, a sub-
committee completed the directive known
as J.C.S. 1067. That'“J.C.S.” stands for
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and this directive
was sent to General Eisenhower.
Although several top Washington
officials and a large' number of the ex-
perts who worked on it had the gravest
doubts about many of its clauses, J.C.S.
1067 was presented as the basis not only
for United States policy in Germany but
also for that of the other occupying
Powers, and General Eisenhower was
instructed to try to obtain acceptance of
it by British and French military com-
manders, so that common action could
be assured by the Western armies under
his command. However, British and
French commanders were horrified by
the complexity of this programme, and
they refused to be bound by its man-
datory clauses.
But this rebuff did not discourage
American enthusiasts for this compli-
cated project, and they enlisted the con-
tinued support of President Roosevelt.
A somewhat revised form of J.C.S. 1067
was thereupon referred to the London
Advisory Commission, which had been
set up late in 1943 to work out plans for
a joint occupation. U.S. representatives
on that commission were instructed to
present this document as an American
proposal for joint action and to push for
its acceptance in London not merely by
Britain and France but also by Russia.
The British were emphatic in their
disapproval of the American plan, argu-
ing that many of its clauses were un-
workable. The ensuing debates between
the Americans and the British were
watched by the Russians, for the most
part in sardonic silence. The Russians


Peanuts ’n Popcorn ’n...
Have a Coke
931
■
ar
£
—field day for fun under the big top
Everybody loves a circus.
Everybody comes for fun.
From big city to small town
it’s a red letter day a day
when everyone wears a smile
and joins in with friendly
good nature and neighbor-
liness. ‘Have a Coke’ are
words heard all around, for
the circus is the time to relax
and enjoy yourself. And
nothing was ever invented
to help you do just that better
than ice-cold Coca-Cola . . .
enjoy one now.
mm
high-sign
It s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.Ai
(Liability Limited)
contented themselves with the comment
that they were not concerned in this de-
bate, since they had already devised
their own methods for administering
their own occupation zone.
Thus the four Powers began their
occupation almost completely independent
in their respective zones. This occupa-
tion machinery was the work of politi-
cians, not of military commanders; the
latter had little or nothing to say about
it. Nevertheless, it was military com-
manders who had to try to make the
machinery work.
It can be seen now, after observing the
consequences of United States policy in
its zone, that the three other occupy-
ing Powers were wise in rejecting J.C.S.
1067 as the basis for joint action. They
had, at least, as much reason to desire a
hard peace as America did, but they had
too much experience to tie themselves
up in advance to any hard-and-fast pro-
gramme.
The net result is that the four Powers
administer their respective zones accord-
ing to. their own ideas of what is most
imperative:
The French, unconvinced that the
atomic bomb has opened an entirely new
era, are insisting upon establishing buffer
States between themselves and Germany,
To this end, they’re trying to make
friends of the Germans in their zone and
to encourage them to organise separatist
movements.
The British, conscious of the broader
aspects of Western Europe’s economic
situation, are devising schemes to revive
German economic life in their zone, par-
ticularly in the Ruhr. In order to pro-
vide immediately for some of the things
which Western Europeans so urgently
require, they’re trying to establish some
kind of international combine to operate
Ruhr industries and coalmines—a pro-'
posal which they compare to the Tennes-
see Valley Authority.
The Russians, grappling with the enor-
mous task of reconstructing their own
war-wrecked homeland, are carrying off
from their zone all the machines and tools
and animals which they can use in Russia.
While the Russians reduce the labor sur-
plus in their zone by sending skilled Ger-
man workers to Russia, they also encour-
age the remaining Germans to revive poli-
tical and economic life, with due atten-
tion to Russian models.
It is only in the American zone that
the “pastoral economy” is emerging which
some Americans had visioned for the
whole of Germany. Although the Pots-
dam Declaration technically superseded
the American directive J.C.S. 1067, in
practice this directive never has been
superseded, so far as Americans are con-
cerned. ■ Americans still are committed
to apply in their zone a blueprint which
was designed for the whole of Germany,
but which never was accepted by any of
the other Allies. This directive is chiefly
concerned with tearing things down rather
than building things up, and in the ab-
sence of any common policy for the
whole of Germany America’s zone is
threatened with “planned chaos.”
Revolt Against Liberty.
(From a “Wall-street Journal” article by
William Henry Chamberlin.)
One of the most significant features of
the twentieth century has been the world-
wide revolt against human liberty. This
suggestion may come as a shock to minds
which are conditioned to thinking of the
course of history as one of unbroken
progress. But it is an unmistakable fact,
especially if one takes for purposes of
comparison the century between the end
of the Napoleonic Wars and the outbreak
of the First World War.
The curve of development during that
century was unmistakably in the direction
of greater freedom for the individual as
against the arbitrary power of the State.
The suffrage was steadily extended. Per-
sonal and civil liberties were reinforced.
Penal codes were humanised. Education
became accessible to much larger num-
bers of people. Representative Govern-
ment became the rule, not the exception.
Even those regimes in which a good deal
of arbitrary power was still concentrated
in the hands of the State seem almost
liberal, in retrospect, when one considers
the complete blackout of opposition and
criticism in the modern totalitarian State.
Liberalism in economics went hand in
hand with liberalism in politics. The
nineteenth century was an interlude be-
tween the old-fashioned Government
attempts to regulate wages, prices and
conditions of production and the modern
vogue of State-planning. Economic
activity was largely left to individual initi-
ative. Currencies remained stable under a
smoothly working international gold
standard, with great consequent benefit
to travel, investment and trade. While
there was a swing toward protectionism
in The latter part of the nineteenth cen-
tury, tariffs at that time were mild
obstructions to the free flow of inter-
national trade, by comparison with the
elaborate network of arbitrarily fixed cur-
rencies and quota systems which are so
characteristic of more modern times.
It is noteworthy that each of the three
major revolutions of the twentieth century
has been in practice destructive of the
safeguards of individual liberty, which
were steadily built up in the past and
reached their climactic development in the
era immediately before the First World
War. It is scarcely necessary to labor this
point in discussing the fallen Nazi and
Fascist regimes in Germany and Italy.
Both obviously represented tremendous
retrogression from previous German and
Italian standards of law, equity and
humanity.
The Soviet system in Russia, whatever
may be said for its achievements in build-
ing up the military and industrial power
of the nation and extending general and
technical education, has been accom-
panied by a blotting out of critical and
opposition voices on a scale unmatched in
Tsarist Russia. One need only look at
the comparative figures in such matters
as political executions and numbers of
persons held in prisons and concentration
camps.
The Second World War was hailed in
some quarters as a victorious crusade for
■ liberty. But it may be questioned, in the
light of certain developments, whether this
war, any more than its predecessor, has
made the world safe for democracy. It
is true that three tyrannical militarist
systems have been overthrown. But if
one takes a panoramic view of the
troubled world scene liberty does not
seem to be established securely anywhere
except in the countries of North America
and Western Europe where its roots are
deepest.
Many regions have only exchanged one
form of totalitarian domination for an-
other, Others are in a state of chaotic
ferment. Still others have been so shat-
tered, morally and materially, by the war
that the minimum physical basis of effec-
tive democracy seems likely to be want-
ing for many years to come. Even in
those countries where liberty is part of
the national tradition and will not be
easily surrendered, the war may have left
delayed-action time-bombs, in the shape
of very difficult social and economic
problems. Mussolini and Hitler came
into power years after the end of the
First World War.
The causes of this revolt against liberty
are worth examining. The most obvious,
perhaps, is the catastrophe of the First
World War, which accustomed the
peoples of the Western world to severe
Government regimentation and prepared
them psychologically to seek violent
shortcuts. The shift of society from an
agricultural to an industrial basis has led
to the emergence of big business and big
trade-unionism and to the strengthening
of group and corporate interests which do
not always fit in easily with the pattern
of individualistic democracy.
Moreover, the craving for authority in
the human mind is perhaps as strong as
the craving for liberty. Leaders in the
modem totalitarian States have been
quick to take advantage of this fact, and
also to represent their dictatorial systems
as revolutionary, progressive, even,
strange as this may seem, as offering the
highest form of liberty.
The revolt against liberty—political,
economic, psychological—is a character-
istic of our time. It increases the respon-
sibility of peoples who live under free
institutions to use their liberty so wisely,
constructively and effectively that its prag-
matic superiority as a method and a Way
of life will be vindicated beyond any
reasonable doubt.
Both Sides in Palestine.
(This summary of the Zionist and Arab points
of view i on Palestine is condensed from two
articles by a London “Times” special
representative.)
The Zionists declare that the 1939
White Paper is illegal, since 'it was not
recognised by the Permanent Mandates
Commission of the League of Nations;
immoral, since it prevents the realisation
of legitimate Zionist aims ; indefensible,
as a, product of the British pre-war policy
of appeasement; and unacceptable, as an
instrument of race discrimination and a
glaring violation of human rights. The
Arabs accept the White Paper. Their
first reaction to its publication was un-
favorable, but in general they have
accepted the Jewish contention that the
White. Paper is anti-Zionist and they are
reasonably content with its terms.
The Zionists argue that the Balfour
Declaration, by demonstrating sympathy
with Zionist aspirations, involved the
British Government in acceptance of
political Zionism. Further, they declare,
the Declaration clearly lays down that
there shall be a Jewish National Home in
Palestine, not in a part of Palestine ; and
the essentials of a national home, or com-
monwealth, are sufficient space, control
of immigration, self-government, and the
right of defence.
The Zionists argue that the intention
was that the whole of Palestine, and not
merely a ghetto within Palestine, was
meant for the Jews. The Zionists further
maintain that the Arab claim that the
correspondence between Sir Henry
McMahon and the Sherif of Mecca in
1915 forms a just basis for the conten-
tion that Palestine should be converted
into an Arab State cannot be upheld.
The whole of Palestine west of Jordan
was excluded from the McMahon pledge.
In any case, the Balfour Declaration
carries more weight than the McMahon
correspondence, because it had behind it
the authority of his Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the other principal allies, and
not merely of one local representative.
The Arabs contend that the McMahon
promise that the Arabs should have self-
government included Palestine, and that
the British Government had no right to
issue a denial of Arab rights. In any
case the Declaration says that a National
Home for the Jews shall be established
in Palestine. “In” means “inside” ; it
does not mean that all Palestine shall be
the National Home. As the British Com-
mand Paper of 1922 said; —
Unauthorised statements have been made
to the effect that the purpose in view is to
create a wholly Jewish Palestine. Phrases
have been used such as that “Palestine is
to become as Jewish as England is Eng-
lish.” His Majesty’s Government regard
any such expectation as impracticable, and
have no such aim in view. Nor have they
at any time contemplated... .the disappear-
ance or the subordination of the Arabic
population, language or culture in Pales-
tine. They would draw attention to the
fact that the terms of the [Balfour] Dec-
laration do not contemplate that Pales-
tine as a whole should be converted into a
Jewish National Home, but that such a
Home should be founded in Palestine.
The Declaration, therefore, has in fact
been fulfilled, according to Arab conten-
tions, and the Jews now have their
promised home. The Zionists claim that
Zionism is no new thing but deeply
rooted in the remote past. Although
they have been dispersed all over the
world they have never forgotten Palestine.
Judaism and its ritual are inextricably
linked with memories of the past. Jews
throughout the world have always looked
to Palestine as a spiritual home, and the
same sense of longing for the land of
Israel has always permeated their secular
thought. Nor is the link entirely spiritual.
Since the fall of Jerusalem they have
continued to live in the land, and they
regard its restoration to the Jewish people
as involving a fundamental principle of
justice.
The Arabs reply that they have lived
in Palestine for at least 1300 years, and
that Zionist claims based on earlier pos-
session, even if such possession could be
proved, are untenable. Actually Palestine
has never belonged to one nation and
was not for any length of time in Jewish
possession. The mountain lands of the
Central Range and Gilead were Israel’s
proper and largest domains. The Jews
never won a secure footing in the valleys
nor jn Moab, and for long periods they
were kept out of the Maritime Plain, the
Upper Jordan Valley and Esdraelon, In
short, Palestine was wholly Jewish only
for two short periods, and they were over
20 centuries ago. The religious connec-
tion of the Jews with Palestine is not
denied, but the territory has equally
strong religious attachments for Christi-
anity and Islam.
The Zionists say that Arabs and Jews
always got on well together until artificial
hostility was created by Axis and Arab
League propaganda. People of both races
live and work together in many parts of
the country, and the Arabs know how


‘Coorf Mornings 9 begin
with Gillette
Duty’s a pleasure,
You feel like promotion,
Once you’ve caught hold of
This grand shaving notion.
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents :
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
EYES ARE RATIONED .
You only get two in a lifetime!
Do you
suffer from—
Squint
Far Sight
Near Sight
Tired Eyes
Weak Eyes
Glare
Eyesight
Headaches
Running Eyes
Inflamed Eye?
Strain
Modern, natural methods of eye treatment now
enable sufferers from eye defects to regain normal
sight. THE CAMPBELL EYE TREATMENT has
brought relief to thousands of sufferers.
Read these grateful appreciations:
“X am writing to give you my third report. My eyes are
feeling marvellous, and I have had no headaches or pains
for some weeks now. I read and knit without glasses
and have no trouble with my eyes, and I feel sure I am
now enjoying perfect sight.” Miss J. MacDonald, Ballarat
Eoad, Creswick, Victoria.
“ . . . I am delighted with the results that I have had
, from this treatment and would certainly recommend it to
any who are anxious to regain normal sight.” Mr. h. Joyce,
92 Birriga Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney.
Originals of these and many other letters from
former sufferers are on file.
GOOD EYESIGHT CAN BE YOURS, TOO!
Send now for comprehensive free booklet describing the treatment
(enclosing 2£d. stamp for postage) to
ƒ
Suite 6 (n 1), Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
or Phone 8W7462 for Free Consultation.
REGAIN NORMAL EYESIGHT
AND DISCARb THOSE GLASSES
greatly the presence of the Jews has im-
proved Arab social conditions, wages,
education and standards generally. The
large increase of Arab immigration into
Palestine since 1918 proves this. Mod-
erate Jews wish nothing better than to
work in full co-operation and amity with
their Arab friends and neighbors, whose
rights would be fully respected in ai
Zionist State.
These Zionists speak fair now, the
Arabs reply, but it would be different if
they were in control and the Arabs bereft
of protection. Opposition to Zionism is
not the result of propaganda ; it is in-
spired by fear that the Arabs will lose
their country, and Arabs will not exchange
their independence for any alleged
material benefits, present or future. Do
the Jews, in fact, do any more for the
Arabs than is necessitated for propa-
gandist or selfish purposes? Many, if not
most, Jewish institutions and businesses
forbid the employment of non-Jewish
labor. Those who insist on employing
Arabs do so in the teeth of strong Jewish
reprobation.
The Zionists believe that the British are
making a mistake in trusting Arab friend-
ship. The Palestinian Arab leader, the
Mufti of Jerusalem, is a war criminal, a
friend and supporter of the Axis, with the
blood of many Palestinian Arabs on his
hands. Egypt is fundamentally anti-
foreign and is clamoring for British with-
drawal, Rashid Ali and the Iraqis re-
volted in 1941, when the war situation
was very black for the British. That same
year the Syrians let the Germans into
Syria. Arabia contributed little to the
war effort compared with the Jews, and
the Arab League is showing acute nation-
alism that must end in xenophobia. Jewry
claims to be loyal to Britain, and it is
in the British and the general interest to
have a strong loyal Jewish Palestine as
a base in the Middle East. Without that
secure haven the British garrisons and
fleet bases in the eastern Mediterranean
will remain on sufferance only, meeting
continual friction and pressure for their
withdrawal.
The Arabs answer that if they had been
hostile to Britain during the war they
could have caused serious trouble, especi-
ally when France fell and Italians were
at the gates of Egypt and the Sudan. The
most important fact about the Mufti is
that he had to flee. The Iraqi revolt was
the engineered coup of a small Nazi-
supported group and was quickly and
easily suppressed. The Syrians were
forced to help the Germans by Vichy
French officials. Egypt has been acknow-
ledged to have done all that the United
Nations asked of her.
The Palestinian Arabs themselves volun-
tarily ceased their revolt the moment war
broke out and have never resumed it. In
short, the Arab world has co-operated
valuably with the Allies. And is there
any proof-that a Jewish Palestine would
remain “loyal” to Britain? The Pales-
tinian Jews are a mixture of races from
all parts of the world, ignorant of the
English language and British ideals, hav-
ing nothing in common with the British
and with no reason to be loyal to the
Crown. Far from being a sure base, a
Jewish Palestine would be an embarrass-
ment, they claim, because of the perma-
nent hostility it would have aroused in
the neighboring Arab countries.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“We must be prepared on M-Day—the day
the enemy strikes —or we may never be pre-
pared to avert defeat at the hands of an
aggressor who uses against us the weapons of
the future.” — General Eisenhower.
* $ * *
Soviet Russia must be using, for her re-
habilitation' work, something like 5,000,000
German war prisoners and Nazis caught in
eastern Germany. It is also probable that large
numbers of “anti-Russians” and “Fascists”
from the territories annexed by Russia in
Poland and the Baltic States have been drafted
for work in forced-labor battalions under the
supervision of the Secret Police. But there
are indications that Russia wants to obtain still
more convict workers —many more. The spec-
tacular trial of the leaders of the Polish Home
Army last spring was not only intended to put
pressure on the Polish Government-in-exile.
According to the Russian comments at the
time, the conviction of these leaders as anti-
Russians and Fascists automatically made every
member of the old Polish underground liable
to imprisonment or forced labor. — Peter F.
Drucker; “Harper’s Magazine.”
* * * *
No World Government could function unless
it possessed the power to exercise complete
control over the armaments of each constituent
State, and unless every nation was willing t'o
open up every inch of its territory and every
one of its laboratories and factories to a con-
tinuing international inspection. Nor could it
function unless the Government of each par-
ticipating country was equally willing to sub-
mit to the scrutiny of the authorities of the
World Government every one of its govern-
mental processes, including its conduct of
foreign and internal affairs and of finance. It
surely requires no demonstration that' any such
requisite as that would wholly destroy the pre-
sent Soviet system.-— Former U.S. Undersecre-
tary of State Sumner Welles; “Atlantic
Monthly.”
* * * *
According to news dispatches from Germany,
Germans are bossing youthful American
soldiers. U.S. officers are being luxuriously
entertained by Nazis. U.S. men are asking
permission to marry their German mistresses
before their children come. Raymond Daniell,
in the New York “Times,” has made the point-
blank statement that “Germans have begun to
direct from the bottom up the American occu-
pation of their country.”— David L. Cohn;
“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
On one subject U.S. Foreign Relations Com-
mittee chairman Senator Connally was vigorous
and uncompromising on his return from Lon-
don. “We are not,” he said, “going to give
the secret of the atom bomb to anybody, any-
where, anyhow until some international agency
is created that will guarantee security.”—Lon-
don “Times” Washington correspondent.
* * * *
For hag-ridden Britons —after all these
months of total peace—living comes down to
8000 “thou shall nots.” Some are stern, some
are silly. Under penalty of 14 years in jail
and/or a £5OOO fine, Britons shall not ex-
port a fretsaw or a pudding-basin. Neither
must they refuse to go down a coalmine or
up a chimney if, in the sole opinion of the
Ministry of Labor, they are "‘capable of per-
forming” these actions. As ordinary Britons
in their own country they cannot freely: Set
up as a cobbler or a plumber; go for a short
row anywhere off the coast; buy an alarm
clock; manufacture a new line of goods; kill
and sell a pig; go to a theatre on Sunday;
send a packet of stamps to a schoolboy in
France; eat a fillet of plaice and a lamb chop
in the same meal; buy a tailormade suit with
a velveteen collar; avoid going through at least
five authorities if they want to undertake any
building for their business; buy a new type-
writer or break up their old one; set up any
sort of retail shop from a haberdasher’s to a
grocer’s; buy a loaf of “white” bread; go to
visit' Malta, Kenya or Ceylon without a special
permit; take more than a single trunk (i.e.,
1001 b. of heavy luggage) when they travel by
railway; sell a skipping-rope more than 9ft.
long or a powder-puff with a piece'of material
attached more than 3in. square; send a present
valued over £5 to anyone in Canada; buy
vegetables from the man who owns the next
allotment. — London “Daily Mail.”
* * * *
Addressing the British Army Nursing Ser-
vices the Matron-in-Chief, Mrs. L. J. Wilkin-
son, said that the nursing-service casualties in
the war had been very much higher than in the
previous war, though the general overall figure
for the forces was less. That indicated greater
risks taken by the nursing services and, surely,
greater services rendered. They would not have
it otherwise. Dame Katherine Jones, Matron-
in-Chief until her retirement in 1944, said that
the Army had realised the value of the nursing
services in letting them go so far forward —
closer to the front than any other * women’s
service. “I thought of you all,” she continued,
“when I had the first casualties —34 sisters
lost. Then 44, the whole lot, went down
in the Indian Ocean.” — London “Times.”
•K •f* 4*
Rev. Hewlett Johnson, venerable Dean of
Canterbury, at a Communist rally in London
told his audience that America is 100 years be-
hind the rest of the world in everything except
religion, and in religion it is 150 years behind.
Maybe so. But the good Dean was taking in
a lot of time, a lot of territory and a lot of
people. And a lot of Congressmen may take
exception. Few will admit they are as much as
150 years behind the time, but most of them
shamelessly boast of being oldfashioned —old-
fashioned enough still to believe in God and
the Ten Commandments, but not in Santa
Claus. After hearing about the reverend Dean
some of these oldfashioned Congressmen may
conclude that, instead of lending billions to
Britain, perhaps Uncle Sam might use the
money to better advantage at home, lifting be-
nighted Americans out of the appalling ignor-
ance to which the Dean has consigned them. —
William Philip Simms; t N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
There is no way of avoiding the so-called
Russian problem. The Soviet Union is a nation
of nearly 200,000,600, with a birthrate of about
40 to the 1000. Its population is expected to
increase in the next 40 years by more than
50,000,000. It is a totalitarian State in the pro-
cess of industrialisation, and, therefore, has the
power and authority to make war. Life, ad-
mittedly, would be much simpler if we didn’t
have to deal with these facts, but, so long as it
takes only one nation to make war and so long
as peace is our business, we do have to deal
with them. Russia will remain the one vast
and powerful nation in the world capable of
making effective war on the United States in
the next generation, and the problem of the
peace must be approached from this premise.
—James B. Rest on; N.Y. “Times'* supplement.
* * * *
The districts of north-west Persia, in which
the Soviet troops are remaining, cover the
Turkish frontier for a considerable distance
and lie close to the Tigris valley and the oil-
fields of northern Iraq. In Persian Azerbaijan
the Soviet controls, in addition to the routes
into Turkey from its own territories, the road
from the southern slopes of Ararat, which runs
round the southern shores of Lake Van to
Bitlis. It likewise stands on the road which
runs through Rowanduz to Mosul. Its power
extends to within about 75 miles of Kirkuk
and the oil pipeline from that point. Autonomy
for Persian Azerbaijan would not differ
materially, in a military sense, from a con-
tinued Soviet occupation of that province.
Supposing that the province were to become
autonomous, with its forces under Soviet
tutelage and occupying the main strategic points
in the country, Azerbaijan would continue to
be a ready-made Russian place d’armes. The
Soviet forces now know every foot of the
country. They would be leaving behind a
Soviet-controlled Persian force to look after
the communications which they have estab-
lished for themselves during their long period
of occupation, and if reoccupation became
necessary from their point of view it would
not take more than a few hours to begin it or
more than a few days to complete if. — London
“Times” military correspondent.
♦ * * £
If you want to find signs of hope for the
return of France to greatness —which every
lover of France is desperately seeking these
days—you are often told to go into the French
provinces. Yet, even there, amid the solidity
born of one of Europe’s richest soils and of a
rural-type civilisation which has kept much of
its medieval strength, you will find the con fu-
sion, demoralisation and class conflict which
are retarding this country’s effort's to regain
its place among the world’s Powers. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune ” Paris correspondent.
* * * *
Treasures from Oxford’s Museum of Flistmy
and Science —including a clock face belonging
to Cardinal Wolsey—are missing. They are in
a safe place. But the two men who knew the
secret are dead. The men were Dr. R. T.
Gunther, curator, and Mr. Albert Joyce, the
janitor. When the war began they hid 10
astrolabes (brass navigating instruments used by
sailors a thousand years ago), Cardinal Wolsey’s
clock face and some ancient watches. Where
they hid them no one else knows. Dr. Gunther
and Mr. Joyce died in 1940 —and their secret
went with them. — London “Daily Mail.’’’
* * * *
The German Communists are already seeking
to gain more support within Germany by
strongly nationalist appeals against any de-
tachment qf the Ruhr—appeals coming strangely
from the party which acquiesced the most
easily in the transference of the eastern areas
to Poland. — London “Times” diplomatic corre-
spondent.
* * *
The basic difference between the American
and British outlook on the occupation of Ger-
many is that we want to get our men home as
soon as possible, and the British and Russians
take a long-range view. As for the French,
they apparently would like to live off Germany
for ever. — N.Y. “Journal-American” staff corre-
spondent.
sfc * * *
The Anglo-Soviet-Persian treaty of 1942
stated that all foreign troops would be with-
drawn from Persia “six months after the cessa-
tion of hostilities.” During the session of the
Council of Foreign Ministers in London last
September Mr. Bevin exchanged letters with
Mr. Molotov to ensure that Britain and
the Soviet Union had the same date in mind:
March 2, six months after the Japanese
surrender. Mr. Molotov wrote: “As regards
the complete withdrawal of Soviet troops from
Persia, the Soviet Government, as you are
aware, fakes the view that this withdrawal of
troops should be effected within the period
laid down in the Anglo-Soviet-Persian treaty.”
After Mr. Bevin had expressed satisfaction that
both parties were agreed on the date, March 2,
Mr. Molotov replied that he was glad his letter
had given satisfaction, and went on: “I would
ask you to bear in mind that the Soviet Gov-
ernment attaches exceptional importance to the
strict fulfilment of obligations undertaken.” —
London “Times.”


For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
j/JU Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET, A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY HAT. MOREE.
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOSi AffiES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
The MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
Beef Sires.
“P.E.C.”: Admittedly “there are prac-
tically no top sires”—top only in respect
of pedigree and importation—“in Aus-
tralia today” (B. 20/2/’46) ; but to say that
there are not large numbers of first-class
Australian-bred sires is wide of the mark.
Animals should be bred to suit the en-
vironment in which they are placed ; it
is well known that a sire will not always
produce “better than himself” progeny
in an environment to which he is un-
suited. Especially is this so when the
sire is bred in an artificial environment
and fed on concentrates, not so much for
the purpose of being a useful animal but
primarily to have the appearance of being
a useful animal and to be exported at
a fancy figure. In the particular environ-
ment in which the bull was reared and
under similar feeding conditions he may
be a very valuable animal, but in an
entirely different environment and on
pasture he may well prove a headache
to the unlucky buyer.
A bull is only as good as its progeny.
That is to say, if the bull is mated to a
uniform line of cows of the same breed,
the calves should all be similar to the
bull and to one another and possess the
outstanding qualities of the bull to an
equal or greater degree.
Stock will not deteriorate without new
blood if they already have uniformity of
outstanding qualities. It is only when
the flock or herd is of mixed blood and
with outstanding qualities not fixed or
uniform that deterioration occurs. Then
new blood will probably help, though the
improvement is not permanent, for the
progeny of the introduced sire and the
mixed females will not always turn out
as expected ; some will be of lower and
others of higher grade than the mothers,
but none will equal or be superior to the
introduced sire.
If, however, the stock already possesses
usefulness and uniformity and has its
outstanding qualities fixed and perma-
nent, the herd will not deteriorate but
will produce progeny of the same quality
as itself until such time as new
blood is introduced. The introduced
blood will necessarily alter the quality
and perhaps the usefulness of the pro-
geny. Which would be better for Aus-
tralia: (1) To try to maintain our stock
to an English standard with untried im-
ported sires or (2) to breed stock suited
to our climatic conditions from Aus-
tralian-bred first-class sires who have
proved their ability/ to pass their quali-
ties on?
Wool Brands.
“Murrawong”: On what authority does
“C.V.S.” (B. 20/2/’46) state that brand-
free wool is worth an extra Id. per lb.?
If all wool were free of tar brands and
the overlookers who watch for tar
during the manufacturing processes dis-
pensed with, its value to the manufacturer
should correspond to the saving in wages
involved, but whether that would be
passed on to the grower is another
matter. Experience has shown, however,
that under the present system, whether
wool is sold by auction or appraisement,
a clip free from tar brands and notified
accordingly in the catalogue brings no
more than a branded one.
For years the writer classed a super-
fine clip which several times topped the
market. Sheep bred on the property were
never tar-branded, and that part of the
clip was catalogued apart from the
balance of branded wool from introduced
wethers. The branded wool sold just
as well as the unbranded.
When it was put up to a buyer he said
that although the wool might be free
from brands and tar; it would have to be
blended with other wools carrying brands.
Therefore, although in the finished pro-
duct the proportion of tar brands would
undoubtedly be less than usual, the super-
vising would still have to be done. If
tar brands could be abolished by law
growers could get more for their wool,
but until it is growers who don’t brand
are unlikely to benefit.
War on Weeds.
“Pat Ater”: A notable victory came
from the use of a power-kerosene spray,
with just the right amount of killing
agent to destroy weeds, on carrot crops.
It was the work of research chemists of
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture and
the C.5.1.R., who turned out a mixture for
use by growers.
The power-kerosene can be sprayed
along the carrot rows at any stage of
growth, up to within six weeks of pulling.
“ ’Ere, use yesterday’s milk on y’r porridge, same as everyone else!”
If sprayed just prior to harvest, tainting
of roots may occur. Onion crops, which
need ruthless weed-suppression, have a
protection in a sulphuric acid solution,
product of 1.C.5., which has the virtue
of killing most weeds without destroying
the onion plants.
American scientists have reported
successful tests with sodium selenate in
powdered form, mixed with water and
applied to the soil to control insect pests.
The Americans say the plants can now
“bite back” at the wogs which bite them,
for, in taking up their food in soil solu-
tions, the poison is absorbed as well, to
kill parasites which eat the leaves. How-
ever, this is not for vegetables, which
would become poisonous, but for flower
and other ornamental plants.
England has a weedkiller, methoxene,
which proved its worth after a two-year
trial. Cereal crops and grasses growing
in conjunction were unharmed. An im-
portant factor is that weeds can be elimi-
nated before they grow to rob crops of
their moisture. Methoxene has yet to be
tried in Australia.
Manures (or Vegetables.
“Tub”: Nitrogen is the leaf-builder
for the cabbage family, lettuce and silver-
beet. Yellowing of plant leaves is fre-
quently a sign of its shortage. It is
present in all natural manures, particu-
larly sheep- and fowl-manure and fresh
stable manure, and should be used spar-
ingly at first until the right amount is
gauged. Likewise with nitrate of soda
and the slower-acting sulphate of
ammonia; too heavy application is severe
on plants. Nitrogenous manures need
fairly frequent application, as they are
bleached from the soil by constant water-
ing.
Phosphorus is best supplied by blood-
and-bone or superphosphate. It is con-
tained in natural manures to varying ex-
tents, but, with the exception of fowl-
manure, the addition of a little blood-
and-bone or super, will generally be to
advantage.
Potash may be supplied in a variety of
forms, by the application of wood ashes
and in natural manures and compost. It
is the fibre-building element in plants and
is present in all forms of humus-making
matter in the soil.
Of the natural manures, fresh stable
manure is heating and stimulating for a
relatively short period, and improves
greatly the texture of clay soils and adds
humus ; cow-manure is slower in action,
with less marked effects, but lasts longer ;
sheep-manure is highly stimulating to
leaf growth and should be used sparingly.
Fowl-manure is rich in the three elements
and, when carefully used, promotes quick
growth in vegetables. It is best collected
on a layer of fine sand beneath the
roosts, the lot dried and pulverised and
used as a topdressing for leaf-growing
plants and onions.
For the Wmumera.
“Mr.”: Pinnacle, a Vic. Department of
Agriculture wheat, is a selection from
Pindar and is a midseason variety. It
looks like Gurkha, though slightly taller,
and is highly resistant to flag smut.
Pinnacle’s average yield for four seasons
was 24.5 bushels, compared with Magnet
23.1, Quadrat 22.6 and Gurkha 20.7. At
Salisbury over five years Pinnacle was
slightly better than Magnet or Quadrat;
at Charlton it gave a higher yield than the
standard wheats ; at Kaniva there was no
difference between Pinnacle and Magnet.
Queensland Grasses.
“K.P.”: Guinea and molasses grasses
(B. 6 / 3 / ’46) are no good for cattle in the
coastal districts of tropical Queensland,
In the wet season Guinea grass will grow
six to eight feet high in about as many
weeks, with stems up to |in. thick. What
cattleman would want a grass like that?
Molasses grass, tested by Queensland
Department of Agriculture, showed such
poor value that its growth was not sug-
gested, except on soils where mineral
acidity is too high for better grasses.
There is no beef country in the Innisfail
district of N.Q., nor could any be ex-
pected where the average annual rainfall
is 143 in. In the Tully district (rainfall
180 in.) about 10 years .ago Bulcock, now
Federal Director of Agriculture, but then
Minister for Agriculture in Queensland,
initiated what he grandiloquently termed
a “tropical coastal fattening scheme.” It
was a fiasco, as was expected by cattle-
men generally, and the scheme, with some
others engendered by that neophyte in
agriculture, passed into oblivion. Any
weight gained by cattle in the tests was
due to Para grass.
Substitutes for Bran.
‘L.G.V.”: Substitutes for bran are
maize oil-meal, maize gluten (polly) feed,
crushed oats, oat branning, barley bran-
ning, mait coombs, dried brewers’ grains
and lucerne pollard or chaff. Food value
and bulkiness of these fodders vary, and
they shouldn’t be fed in the same pro-
portions as bran. The weights of various
substitutes containing the same number
of food units as 1001b. of bran are:
Maize oil-meal, 501b.; maize gluten
(polly) feed, 571b.; coconut meal, 581b.;
barley bran, 601b.; crushed oats, 711b.;
oat bran, 941b.; dried brewers’ grains,
961b.; malt coombs, 981b.; lucerne chaff,
1261b.
Brigalow and Belar.
“Scot”; In the brigalow and belar
scrubs of s,-w. Queensland, the timber
is usually in three stages: (a) the centre
area where timber is mature and natural
thinning out has taken place, and where
the fallen trees have rotted for years to
form a considerable depth of good soil.
( b ) The area around area (a). Here the
timber is sapling-growth or larger, but
natural thinning out has not yet begun.
Soil forming from fallen leaves is, how-
ever, in process, and there is generally a
few inches of newly-formed soil beneath
the decaying leaves, (c) The area around
area ( b ) and on the edge of the main
scrub. On this area growth is generally of
a whipstick nature on hard soil where
fallen debris is not yet rotted to form soil-
humus. On this class of country ring-
barking and scrub-falling, with the sub-
sequent burnoff, have harmful results in
leaving the hard soil bare and capable
of growing only stunted grass that
scorches readily in hot weather. Artifi-
cial grasses will grow if sown in
the ashes immediately after the
burnoff, but they do not last
more than two years.
On these scrub areas I have
in some cases taken notice of
growth over a period of 50 years,
and have noted that the timber-
seed (especially belar) is washed
down the gullies leading from
the main scrubs to germinate in
the gully seedbeds, afterwards
growing to the seeding stage
itself when its seed falls to ger-
minate and grow up around the
parent tree. These trees ap-
peared to me as scouts for the
advancement of the main scrub
area. Given a chance, scrubs
in these parts would expand.
But brigalow and belar growth
kills out the forest growth of
box, ironbark and sandalwood or
buddha. On an area such as
(c), where the scrub-forming
timber is in its early stages,
the forest timbers, robbed of soil
moisture by the thick undergrowth, are
in a weakened state with their leaves thin-
ning out and dying. Working into the
scrub towards area (h) the forest timbers
are in a recently-dead stage, and on the
centre area (a) have been dead for a
number of years.
Pig-weighing Crate.
“Cam. My.”': Measure length, height
and width of a pig, then add 12in. to the
length, 9in. to the height and 6in. to the
width to allow a little movement, but not
enough to let the pig turn around. Use
light timber. For the floor nail Sin. by
|in. boards across two runners of Sin.
by Sin. For the sides nail similar boards
to 4in. by uprights ; place the bottom
board Sin. from the bottom ends of the
uprights, and the two lower boards close
together to avoid leg injury. Then fix
the sides to the floor with the lower side
boards resting on the floorboards, and
bolt the uprights to the floor runners.
Next, nail top boards (Sin. by fin.)
across. Make slots for the door to be
dropped into by nailing two pieces of
lin. by fin. timber on each side at each
end. The two doors allow the pig to
walk through after it has been weighed.
For the doors use 4in. by Hin. uprights
and nail on Sin. by fin. boards.
Berriquin Soils.
A preliminary survey of them
is described in C.S.I.R. Bulletin 189, the
area being an irrigated district in Riverina
and the survey' designed to present a
general picture of the soil groups and


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for everymauV
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Manseaae 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eijas and Eyelids «. Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply, Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courseu
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN IiOTION 8/8
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/S
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
f
BARKO
SOLD
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
vMWStf
far
Don’t allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem... the rabbits are buried.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
1946 SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
Conducted by
THE NEW SOUTH WALES SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
on
31st MAY and Ist JUNE
at
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD'S WOOL STORES
Jones Street, Ultimo
Merinos, Corriedales, Polwarths, British Breeds Catered For
Junior and Senior Judging Competitions
ENTRIES CLOSE 4th MAY (NO EXTENSION )
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS NOW AVAILABLE
Endeavour House, G. C. Somerville,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary-
WONDERFUL BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES . . .
Take advantage of these splen-
did offers in Surplus - War-time
Military Equipment.
<j//
Strong Quality
12ft. by 14ft. TENTS . . . . £7-0-0 Plus
ditto, (with small tear or tears) . £5-0-0 Freight
Ideal for emergency accommodation or camping.
Waterproof Combination Military Ground Sheets & Capes . . 7/6
Mosquito Nets ~ 10/-, R.A.A.F. Kit Bags .. 5/6, 8/6, 10/6
R.A.A.F. Blue Combination Overalls (Send Measurements) . . 12/6
Add 1-/6 Postage for each above 4-items
Canvas Buckets for campers, fishermen, etc.—Heavyweight. (Post Free) 2/6
Military Water Bottles for hikers. (Post Free) 3/6
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
15 McKillop Street . . . . Melbourne
/S
5J
m
TTZ. 1 ,IL
•T~? <*«»/#
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONEY SEEF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOB THE PAST 18 YEARS,
AND THE ONEY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
WARNING !
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the Public,
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolveaator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not be misled by specious statements. Buy only that which has
an unsullied reputation.
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET
HYCEBA
SANITARY CO. PTY.
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Est. 1927
DISTRIBUTORS:
1
m-k
N.S.W.s Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 83~ Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolwortlis Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Viet,; Victorian Producers Co-op. Co. Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
Si Aust.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: B. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
define the run of the country and promis-
ing areas. It could not be used for inter-
preting soils and land-use on individual
farms; a fully-detailed survey will be
undertaken later on, but it is of interest
in the study of the value of irrigation
for pastures, as distinct from horticul-
tural crops.
The district is now devoted primarily
to wheat and fat-lamb production. The
soils have a moderate standard of fer-
tility, and most of the land is suitable
for cultivation. Since the soils are low in
salt and the watertable is deep, the more
disastrous ills often associated with irri-
gated areas should be avoided, provided
care is taken in irrigation practices.
Annual mixed pastures of sub. clover
and Wimmera rye can be expected to
grow well with irrigation on nearly all
Berriquin soils, and lucerne should do well
on the permeable types. Rice could prob-
ably be grown on all the heavy soils,
particularly the Riverina and billabcng
clays, and other soil types are well suited
to fruit, particularly peaches and citrus
when irrigated.
Unbranded Hides.
“Simon the Tanner”: The only practi-
cal way I found to reward the grower
for taking care of his hides by using a
small brand (B. 20/ 2/ ’46) was to have
him advise me when he sold cattle to a
meatworks. I then contacted the meat-
works and paid the market price for the
hides, which were kept separate. On
receipt of the hides at the tannery all
those which were branded as indicated
were paid for to the owner direct.
Usually the mobs sold totalled from 200
to 300, and the meatworks co-operated
readily.
With smaller lots the owner could
notify the broker, and the broker could
make it known at the auction that the
beasts were only lightly branded. Hide
merchants would be quick to inform the
purchasing carcass butcher, - who would
bid up on the beasts knowing that the
hide merchant would pay the extra for
the hide. There is keen competition
among merchants and brokers at the
Homebush abattoirs for hides, and the
extra amount they can offer goes on to
the price of the beast.
If “A.W.S.” will let me know next
time he has a mob of cattle going to a
meatworks I will do my best to secure
them ; under today’s condition of allo-
cation this is not guaranteed, but it would
be worth trying. If control by the Aus-
tralian Hide and Leather Industries
Board continues for any length of time
I would advise “A.W.S.” to notify it of
the quality of his hides and ask that
they be appraised at a higher value
whether sold by meatworks or by
brokers.
Hints for the Farm.
■‘Steve”: Pink-eye in sheep is preva-
lent in dnsty weather. At first sign of
this trouble separate the affected sheep
and keep them away from the mob. Treat
the eyes with kerosene. Use cottonwool
swabs soaked in kerosene. Brush the
eyes well and repeat every few days. A
break in the weather is the best cure.
“Billjim”; Cause of “big head,” seen
in some yearling rams during the autumn
months, is a common soil organism which
grows in certain types of injured tissues.
Rams pick it up through butting. Pre-
vention can be obtained by vaccination
with black disease vaccine (alum pre-
cipitated) using a single c.c. dose. Im-
munity lasts 12 months,
“Bill C”: After a stay in the Solo-
mons, Government Botanist C. T. White
spoke enthusiastically about some plants
he thought would grow well in North
Queensland. Of several nuts indigenous
to the Solomons, the narli nut had a
tough shell and was good eating, raw or
baked. The green shoots of a native
hibiscus were good for salad-making, an-
other decorative plant had an agreeable
carrotlike flavor when cooked as cabbage,
and a species of yam was a good change
from sweet potato.
“L.C.”: Earth-eating habits of cows
may be due to lack of salt or minerals or
highly-improved pastures. To supply the
minerals, make a salt lick of two parts
of salt and one part steamed bone flour,
and place in the bail of milking cows.
Don’t increase proportion of bone flour ;
cows like salt. Animals on clovers and
grass only develop a craving for rough-
age and rubbish. They need hay and
coarser feed.
“Rusticus”; A novel and effective
method of establishing lucerne without
cultivation is being adopted at Goolwa
(S.A.), near the Murray mouth. The
dairymen feed a little lucerne seed to the
cows in their bail ration of chaff and
bran, and the seed is thus assured of a
wide dispersal and a fertile seedbed.
Once rooted, the lucerne is not unduly
disturbed by grassland harrowing.
“Hortus”: When feeding out baled
lucerne take a shallow tank about one-
tier high, that is, high enough to soak a
bale of hay. Put in it a weak syrup of
water and molasses. Place the bale in the
tank the day before you require it. Have
a small platform handy that you can lift
the bale on to, so that the liquid can flow
back into the tank. Only allow bale to
stay in a few hours. Next day, when
opened up, little wastage will be noticed.
What’s more, the stock like the feed
better, as it is a little damp and has a
sweetish taste.
“Myrrhee”: Used as a substitute for
separated milk, meatmeal gives better
results when fed in combination with
other protein-rich foods and minerals. A
mixture of 501 b. meatmeal, 201 b. linseed-
meal, peanutmeal or rapemeal, 201 b.
lucerne chaff, 81b. ground limestone and
21b. salt, fed at the rate of £lb. per pig
daily from weaning to baconer weight
and for brood sows, and 11b. a day for
sows rearing litters, will balance all the
grain the pigs can eat. When good
pasture or ample green feed is available
the quantities can be reduced by half.
“Plane Creek”: Most seed failures can
be traced to improper soil preparation.
When it’s a seedbed from which all
seedlings will be transplanted, deep culti-
vation doesn’t help seed to germinate.
The surface should be raked to a fine
tilth a week before sowing and the bed
then left undisturbed to give buried weed
seeds time to germinate. Weed ’em out
and remake the seedbed. Keep fresh
manure out of it. Have a quantity of
fine sand or soil handy and sprinkle this
over the bed after you’ve scattered the
seed. Most seed should be just covered
with soil. Water the bed lightly and,
finally, mulch it with fine, dry horse-
manure.
“Compordie”: The Australian Organic
Farming and Gardening Society has
begun publication of a quarterly,
“Organic Farming Digest,” containing
articles and extracts from all over the
world. The quarterly is a manifestation
of the awakening interest in the soil
which has resulted in a great output of
books and periodicals in the past few
years. The booklet is worth the 6d.
asked for it, and anyone can join the
society for ss. a year. Send it to 50
Mitchell-street, North Bondi, N.S.W.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
A cure for horses suffering from “greasy
heel” ?
Clip all hair from affected area, wash with
mild soap and hike-warm water or a 2 p.c.
Dettol solution and allow to dry thoroughly.
Apply a suitable disinfectant and astringent
dressing (zinc ointment), smearing it liberally
over the area, and bandaging.' This dressing
must be renewed regularly until healing is
effected. To prevent the condition the pasterns
and fetlocks of the horses should receive par-
ticular attention in the daily grooming,
especially after working in muddy conditions.


“They have made
a new man of me
ms ,i'i..
tsf<
, ts <&
U ! £0° d ’ Iftrfl
>te>p
p% V e
ua* >
V 1”
CO^«M AT/0 v
iake°n, a .f a 'n:
I
a »*ZZ*>
/*?*£%'
0/me - tl
Z^
like 30 »
V
In these strenuous times the revitalising effect of these wonderful
little tablets is more than ever valuable. Just two tablets three
times a day before meals. But if you take the tablets regularly
the results will astonish you.
Start taking
PHYUO
helps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The regd. trade mark ‘Phyllosan ’ is the property oj Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
(J/ceat (Occasions
... and all other occasions
MR46/07
Iw
V
'sr
i
Hi
37
1
s>
ROMANCE
This famous chocolate assortment will
again be available when conditions permit
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
SMOKEE-OH!
“She whisked into her bedroom that opened
directly off the kitchen with a flutter of skirts.”
— Story.
And a rustle of victuals?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sprinkle a little salt on a newspaper.”
— Woman’s paper.
To help you digest its stale articles?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fowls suitable boil, also secondhand
timber.” —Suburban paper.
Must all be well seasoned.
*l*
“Many great men have consumed much
alcohol. Joe Stalin drinks 40 glasses of wine
a day.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Though Uncle Joe can daily swill
His two-score wines of various sorts,
He is so thirsty that he still
Is reaching out to seize more ports.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Please be patient if your young wife’s early
attempts in the culinary art are not quite up
to mother’s mark.” —“New Idea.”
Or you may put a damper on her
spirits.
.4* 4* 4* 4*
“When a man can’t get a beer after work he
is dissatisfied.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
But he doesn’t get bitter,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Roll in flour; then in beaten egg and bread-
crumbs.” — Woman’s mag.
To make yourself a rissole?
Why Learn?
“Bridegroom to study singing.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Now marriage is an institution
Which some avow is pretty rough.
So song’s a useless contribution —
He’ll face the music soon enough.
Eve.
4* 4 4* *l*
“News reports say that Australians are be-
coming music-minded.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
This would explain the prevalence of
tram scalers.
“You ARE aggravating , Arthur —you know I prefer flounder .”
Zoological.
“In the animal kingdom some mothers chas-
tise their young with great severity.”
—Science article.
They often bowl their offspring flat
And treat with biting and with kicking:
Why, even the domestic cat
Will give its progeny a licking!
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Whist player (gent.) like contact few others,
ladies or gents., view arrange sol evening.”
- —Suburban paper.
Try advertising in the “Sun.”
,4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women, married and single, still have the
wrong end of the stick.” —Feminist article.
Then why are men always asking for
their hands?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Thirty-stone youth, aged 17, looking for
thin wife.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
What a hopeful young brat!
It is easily seen
That his hopes may be fat
But his prospects are lean.
Yair.
“Kiss him when he comes.home in the even-
ing—don’t wait for him to kiss you.”
—“New Idea.”
He is bound to feel peckish.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Almost Human.
“A New York department store is advertis-
ing a garden sprinkler which can ‘walk’ for
100 yards in any direction, either in a straight
line or a gentle curve, stop and then turn itself
off. It uses its own hose as a track.”— Cable.
This is a variation of my own inven-
tion: a radio-active, jet-propelled peri-
patetic hose nozzle.
All I had to do was turn up the wire-
less at news time in the morning loud
enough for it to be heard near the garden
tap. If the meteorological forecast said
“fine” the nozzled hose would remain
inert. If, however, it predicted heavy
rain the nozzle would give a few convul-
sive jerks sufficient to unwind the hose
and then start watering. It never made
a mistake.
It would then start wandering around,
using a hop, step and jump action. For
such delicate tracery as maidenhair fern
it would use a gossamer spray ; for stur-
dier plants it turned on a stronger force ;
if it encountered a snail, slug, slater or
even a thrip it would automatically aim
a jet of water with uncanny accuracy and
sufficient fierceness to kill the pest. On
the morning after we had thrown a party
it would invariably wander through the
house until it reached the lounge-room
aspidistra, in which our guests were wont
to toss their cocktail dregs and cigar butts.
It would then proceed to administer a
real lifesaver to the dissipated plant, en-
abling it to recover quickly from the
evening’s hangover.
An unusual and handy feature was that
whenever a skirt or a pair of trousers
cadre within a prescribed distance of it
the nozzle would cease watering and
remain still. Its habit, though, of emit-
ting a loud and expressive double whistle
whenever a shapely pair of silk-clad legs
came rather close to it tended to become
embarrassing when lady visitors went out
to admire my nut-grass lawn, especially
as the pitch of its whistle was similar to
my own.
Before going to work I always in-
structed it to go around on to the front
lawn. When the postman came it might
be innocently meandering about, seem-
ingly intent on giving sustenance to the
asters or pansies. Should an ordinary
hand-written envelope be pushed into the
box the nozzle would concentrate on the
job in hand, taking no further notice of
the postie. But were a window envelope,
usually denoting a bill, slipped in, the
nozzle would rear up savagely and let
him have a collarful. Only once did I
deem it to have made a bloomer, and
that was when a window envelope con-
taining a telegram was put in the box
by a lazy postman, who got the full
works in the eye. But the nozzle wasn’t
tricked. The telegram turned out to be
an announcement from the wife’s pestifer-
ous Aunt Agapanthus that she was com-
ing for a month’s visit.
Perhaps the most notable, and certainly
the most pleasing, feature of the nozzle
was its economy. Not only have I never
had a bill for excess water, but actually
the Board now owes me a matter of
£27-odd.
The nozzle, however, developed cer-
tain temperamental qualities, possibly
through being over-pampered and shown-
off so much to visitors. One bitter winter
morning, for instance, I dived out in my
pyjamas to get the paper and accidentally
kicked the nozzle as it lay on the lawn.
I discovered then that a viciously-directed
stream of icy water goes through flannel-
ette easily.
But I’m happy to say the nozzle has
qualities other than vindictiveness. It
demonstrated one of its better ones only
last Saturday,
I had lent it to Alby, my nextdoor
neighbor, who had fitted it with a new
washer. Later in the day we took a stroll
down the street. As we came near the
pub Alby said: “Don’t look around now,
but I think we’re being followed.” A
few seconds later my friend and I were
held prisoners in strong rubbery coils.
As I opened my mouth to protest a stream
of foamy liquid with a not unpleasant
taste shot into my mouth ; then the nozzle
turned its attention to Alby.
I realised then what had happened. The
nozzle, grateful for the attention it had
received, had followed us up with the
hose, the other end of which it had
snaked down the pub cellar and into a
hogshead of beer. We were, in effect,
forcibly injected with it. The kindly
nozzle eventually guided us back home.
Anyway, that’s our story, and we’re
sticking to it.
Bo.
Cautionary Tale.
An elderly chiropodist
Who used to read the Honors List
{Due to insomnia, not ambition )
Discovered in an old edition
By some odd Ministerial whim
A K.C.B. assigned to him;
And to his unconcealed delight
He found himself a belted knight.
Exalted by his novel status
And fired with chivalrous afflatus,
He resolutely bent and kissed
His copper-topped receptionist . . .
Her husband, who had been connected
With a commando school, objected.
And after a brief one-sided fight,
He was, in fact, a belted knight.
P. M. Lusk.
Imagination at Work.
Last night I thought that hens, in laying
eggs.
Performed a miracle; for eggs contain
Potentialities of wings and legs —
In short, another fowl. It dazed my
brain.
But then my wonderment was put to
flight,
For even stranger thoughts were up-
wards urged;
Suppose one hen laid twelve eggs in a
night
And out of each two elephants
emerged !
T. W. Nathan.


Public Notices.
iJL GREENHALGH son of Mary
Elizabeth Greenhalgh deceased late of Blundellsands,
Lancashire, Engiand. or if he has died any of his
children, will communicate with the undersigned they
of T « hin S to their advantage. LIGHT-
r£m^ D t i dONES & GO., Solicitors, 18 Water
Street, Liverpool, England.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get DOAN’S.
ofrSA
y'm
m.
m
w.
wm
m
mk
m
:'S.
wax*
ijote**
IB'-* I -
114
WH.2.-45
Both TODAY and in
the YEARS to come
The present regulated supply
of White Horse is an essen-
tial provision to ensure for
you the enjoyment of really
good Whisky both today and
in the years to come.
Whenever possible see that
your “Scotch” is . . .
mrema
WHISKY
•EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR"
How often have you refrained from making some vital decision because a
sense of insecurity held you back . . . made you afraid to take even a legitimate
risk? Don't be placed in that position again. Set to work now to create for
yourself a degree of security fhat will result in independence of thought and
action , . , and enable you to take your rightful place in this post-war world.
Bonds in Australia’s Security Loan can be purchased either for cash or by
easy instalment out of income. Hold these Bonds until they mature and you 11
have a very respectable sum behind you. Work out now how much you can
set aside each week, then call at your nearest Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker and find out the value of the Bond your
savings will buy and the interest it will earn.
Remember this! Your security is Australia’s security. The Bond you purchase
will help to attain the £70,000,000 total for which the Government is asking
, . . money that is urgently needed if we are to consummate the rehabilitation
of the service men and women to whom we owe so much.
Every one of us must shoulder his share of the responsibility. How gratifying
to know that we are, in turn, providing a degree of personal security that in
itself is a contribution to morale.
ƒ
ABOUT THE £70,000,000
SECURITY LOAN !
1 All you lend will be used to meet commitments arising
out of the War, particularly the rehabilitation of Australian
servicemen and women.
O Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, or Inscribes
* Stock may be purchased for cash or by instalments through
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six months at 3i% per annum for 12
years, or 2% per annum for 3 years. The 2% short term interest
rate should appeal to companies and individuals with money
temporarily available for investment.
*1 Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Com-
monwealth. Bonds and Inscribed Stock are readily saleable
to meet an emergency.
4.
On your application form, credit your subscription to your
district to help its quota.
■
name
INVEST IN THE
' ; ••
Security for Servicemen Security for You
$L5.||3.26
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Norman Lindsay’s earlier novels,
including Cautious Amorist, Curate of Bohemia
and Redheap (illustrated editions preferred).
3715.
To buy Best of O. Henry— 3716.
Information Sought.
(1) Do scientists know the precise nature of
sunspots ? (2) Do sunspots cause droughts .
(1) No, but it is thought that the spot is a
revolving gaseous storm in the outer envelope
of the sun (such a storm being somewhat
analogous to the cyclones and hurricanes on
the earth’s surface) and that it apparently re-
volves and moves across the sun’s surface. The
formation is due either to a relative cooling of
a 'mass of gaseous substances or an outburst of
atomic energy. (2) If sunspots really do affect
the weather they may cause droughts or floods.
They apparently affect the pressure distribution
over the globe, and, according to the relative
tracks and intensity of highs and lows, so will
above-normal and below-normal rains occur.
(1) How to detect the presence of prussic
acid in plants? (2) Treatment for cattle
affected by prussic acid poisoning? (3) Has
methylene blue been used successfully on
affected animals?
(1) The suspected plant is finely cut up or
bruised and placed in a 2oz. wide-mouthed jar.
A few drops of petrol or chloroform are poured
over it, a piece of blotting-paper moistened
with 2 p.c. sodium picrate is suspended over
the plant —without touching it —and the jar is
tightly corked. At summer-room temperature
a positive reaction is denoted by the presence
on the blotting-paper of a brick-red color, the
deepness of which is an indication of the
amount of acid present. During winter it is
necessary to warm the bottle slightly before
the reaction takes place. At times an enzyme
will have to be added in order to hasten the
action, and for this purpose about one-quarter
of an almond is finely chopped up and placed
in with the suspected plant, (2) A subcutaneous
or intravenous injection of a solution of 3gm.
sodium nitrate, 15gm. sodium thiosulphate and
30ccs. wafer; but, failing this, a drench of 2 to
4oz. sodium thiosulphate in one pint of wafer
may be administered if the animal is in a fit
condition to swallow. (3) It has been used
overseas, but better results have been obtained
in Australia with the above methods.
Some information about the Sydney Cricket
Ground?
It originally formed part of an area of 25
acres authorised by the Governor in 1852 to be
reserved for the use of the Army, stationed at
Victoria Barracks, as a “garden and cricket
ground.” On July 31, 1877, the southern 12
of the 25 acres were dedicated for cricket-
ground use and referred to as the Association
Cricket Ground, which some time prior to
1869 became known as the Sydney Cricket
Ground. The northern end qf the original 25
acres was appropriated in 1861 for the
Volunteer Rifle Range, but was afterwards dedi-
cated for military purposes, while the balance
of the land —six acres —was set aside as an
addition to the cricket ground and named
Sydney Cricket Ground No. 2. Trusteeships,
honorary positions which are held for life or
until the age of 70 is reached, are appointed
by the Minister for Lands.
Treatment for a strained heart ?
The heart subject needs medical attention.
In all cases mental and physical rest are essen-
tial, and excitement in any form must be
avoided. An irritating cough (which smoking
tends to aggravate) is usual, especially after
an uphill or hurried step. Diet must be sim-
plified, and white meats, fish, light greens and
easily digested foods are best. Salted and
corned meats, ham, bacon, veal and the like
should be curtailed, while alcohol should be left
severely alone. A strained heart is weak in its
functions, so avoid overstrain. •
Brief Answers.
H.W.R.: Euclid lived in the third century
b.c M.W.: If a batsman is caught after
the ball hit first his pad then his bat he is not
out V.W.: Know of no such institution.
A.A.: (1) Police stopped the Tommy
Burns-Jack Johnson world’s title fight in the
14th round to prevent Burns from further
punishment. (2) Jess Willard was a white
American A.E.S.: (1) Dr. Philligo; remi-
niscences and journals of fact. (2) Only book
available containing a biography is Men of
Power, obtainable from Angus and Robertson.
E.S.: The buyer proposes the toast, and
the eldest of the ones toasted would acknow-
ledge. After that etiquette is silent... .L.C.S.:
Dame Enid Lyons was granted an annuity of
£500 p.a., with the same amount for her
children, qualified by age and condition.
Dame Enid does not draw this annuity
while she is a M.H.R. Mrs. Curtin
also receives £500 p.a A.W.: The executor
may apply to the Court at any time for leave
to presume death G.D.B.: You cannot be
evicted until the expiry of a proper notice to
quit, giving a specified time to leave, dependent
on the length of your tenancy. When this
notice is received consult a solicitor A.C.;
The name can be altered by having a deed poll
registered with the Registrar-General M.N.:
It is impossible fo say without further infor-
mation to what extent the pension would be
affected. The pensioner should notify the de-
partment of the receipt of the legacy
D.H.O’D.: Know of no one who would buy
the sets J.T.: Write D. G. Macdougall,
General Organising Secretary, Citizens of Syd-
ney Organising Committee (Inc.), Lanark
House, 148 Phillip-street, Sydney... .L.S.L.:
Biaggmi’s Reading and Writing of English
M.K.: The S. H. Prior Memorial Prizes
awarded since 1939: Miles Franklin’s Who
Was Joseph Furphy?, 1939; Eve Langley’s The
Pea Pickers, M. H. Ellis’s Lachlan Macquarie,
Kyhe Tennant’s The Battlers, 1940; Gavin
Harder for Girls, 1941; no award
1942, 1943 ; Douglas Stewart’s Fire on the
Snow, 1944....H.R.; Contact the Chief Sec-
retary s Dept.... .M.S.: Allied and merchant
servicemen who were in the Milne Bay area
between August and December, 1942, are elig-
“jj *° J. olr L the Milne Bay Association, whose
address is Box 4162, G.P.O., Sydney,
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. *MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.W.: Bubble and jingle J. 8.: Not
quite; though there’s something very pleasing
in its simplicity... .F.E.8.: Not' a hope in
the firstperson... .M.C.A.; You’ll find it hard
to say anything fresh about either gipsies or
fairies R.A.McC.: Boil it down to eight
lines J.J.M.: No go M.S.: Kittenish,
H.L.: As lacking in punch as in punctua-
tion M.A.: Painfully sentimental E.C.:
The capital letters are a confession of weak-
ness R.A.: Elementary Poley: Why not
try your hand at Abo. pars? J.E.: Keep
away from King’s Cross S.M.: “Just a
Thought” is just a thought E.T.: Bumpy
and unfinished W.L.8.: You haven’t really
worked at it S.R.: Come again J. 8.:
Whatever you’re trying to say about the “hell-
ship” that’s a devil of a poem C.M.S.:
You credit the moon with a fake personality
and with impossible activities J.L.: Well,
it’s not often anyone echoes Burns L.C.:
Wordy N.C.: Featherweights J.E.P.:
But such an ancient controversy F.L.:
“Eggs” should not be preserved P.R.K.:
“Now that I can afford the time I hope to be-
come a regular contributor.” But can you
afford the stamps?


: 3
m
tO
•n»
wmm.
pmm
mCHWAF Mi/JMYS
fa Ipstb uuuhelfjpfeamU !
£JOME with Pioneer along the
highways . . smoothly
travelling in the deep-cushioned
comfort of your individually
adjustable easy chair . . . beside
a wide full-visioned window . . .
your mind at ease . . freed from
the cares of luggage and accom-
modation. Call and discuss your
Highway Holiday with us.
eer tours
HEAD OFFICE;
465 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE. F 9491.
Also at Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide.
N" P45/33
“A daily dose of *NUGGET ’ will
put new life into
you. Keep your
smartness and
you’ll keep your
job”.
It
For 50 years a GOOD polish
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
31
m
it
t leather
vdtive
The
Prese
AUulil/i
SHOE POLISH
THE GLORY BE
BY BRIAN JAMES.
(( K I ELLIE, you’ll be having your
I buggy yet —see if you don’t! ”
| | Uncle Johnny Sheehan had
been saying this so many years
that Auntie Nellie Sheehan didn’t believe
it any more.
“Och—get along with you, Johnny!
And did you notice at all where the milk-
strainer is now?” Or she might add “The
woodheap is getting low” ; or “Toohey’s
bull is in again”—whatever it was that
came to her mind as open evidence of
Uncle Johnny’s shortcomings and neglect.
But she refused to entertain the vision
of a buggy, even a single buggy, any
more. Not after thirty-nine years of
promise. It would have to be the village
cart to the end. “It’s like you and your
gold,” she often said, “and a fat lot of
that you’ve got for all the work that’d
have made a fortune at anything else at
all.”
Then Auntie Nellie might wonder what
she could have ever seen in Uncle
Johnny that caused her, one of the Rileys
—and the Merribone Rileys, at that —to
marry him. The problem was too much
for her, and she could never quite pin
down a good and sufficient reason. True
enough, he had been different thirty-nine
years ago, but didn’t she have some sense
herself then? She sighed, as always, and
gave it up.
The Sheehans lived at Rocky Crossing,
where the branch road crosses the creek.
And a fine creek it was thirty-nine or
forty years ago, running the whole, year
round, no matter how hot and dry the
summers might be. There never had been
any rocks there, despite its name, only
coarse gravel, blue and red and white and
grey, and all the colors in between.
Ten good yards of water, fetlock-deep
mostly, and clearer than any water from
a tank or cask. And never a horse went
through it but he stopped in the middle
and pawed the water and gravel with his
hoof and had a drink whether he really
wanted one or not. It was just that it was
the proper thing to do.
But the Rocky Crossing Creek dried
up. Not all at once, of course, but less
flow year by year ; then dry through the
summer. And then dry altogether, and
only a flood now and then, with its ugly
swirl of yellow and brown water, and a
smother of rubbish and litter upon it and
much dirty froth in the backwashes; with
big logs bobbing up and down and
maybe a half-mile or so of Frith the
squatter’s fence. The creek would run
for a week, or even two weeks, after that,
and then become dry as a bone again.
When it was perfectly clear that the
creek wouldn’t run any more, the sea-
sons having changed so everyone said,
the Council put a nice white bridge over
the creek, although it was only a branch
road that ran that way. But there was
always gravel there, and sheoaks, the
big ones a yard or more through, to show
that there was a creek, and so a good
and sufficient reason for a bridge.
THE Sheehan home was on the high
bank just beyond the bridge. It had
been a fine house once; broad, even
slabs and strips of tin to cover the cracks,
and a nice roof of oak shingles. There
were two fairly big front rooms, and
these were the house proper, from which
the rest of the house ran back into an L,
making two more rooms —the boys’ room
and the dining-room, with a fireplace in
it big enough for a castle hall.
The kitchen was a huge slab-and-bark
affair, detached and reached by a flagged
walk, covered above with bark. Unless
the rain was slantwise you could get to
the kitchen from the dining-room with-
out getting wet.
All that thirty-nine years ago, and a
very fine house then. The whitewashed
walls and the greying shingles looked
well, much better than the bare walls now
and the garish galvanised iron that Uncle
Johnny and the boys put over the shingles
on account of the leaks. And the kitchen
was tumbledown and only induced to
keep any sort of upright posture by the
means of props on the leaning side.
In its present bareness the house looked
like a hut, and the years had been as
hard on it as they had been on the creek
or on Rocky Crossing itself for that
matter.
Eight children had come from the
house, but they are all gone and scattered
now. The Sheehans left home early.
Auntie Nellie didn’t mind the house so
much, even though she was one of the
Merribone Rileys, She was used to it,
anyway, and its decay had been gradual.
It is often easier to forgive a house than
a husband. And it didn’t seem to occur
to her that she might be herself some-
thing of an eyesore to Uncle Johnny—
for she had grown fat and waddled like
a duck, and she had sporadic outbreaks
of beard on the curves of her jaws. But
apparently Uncle Johnny was not over-
critical ; nor was he much to look at him-
self, with a stoop to his once powerful
shoulders, and bows to his legs, and a
struggling grey beard that seemed to be
suffering the effects of a prolonged
drought. Only his eyes were bright and
sharp still, dark eyes almost black, and
their gaze was still to the future.
“Nellie, old woman, you’ll be having
that buggy yet! ”
Auntie Nellie sniffed, not very success-
fully, for only thin women with sharp
noses can really sniff properly. Then she
said with no great enthusiasm “What
would it be now?”
Uncle Johnny gazed through the win-
dow at the big sheoaks. “Long Jack and
I are putting down a shaft at the top end
of Sellar’s Gully.”
“Oh, you are, are you?”
“It’s a likely bit of ground that, and
the wonder of it is that we never thought
of it before. Sellar’s was good in the old
days, but very patchy. Good coarse gold
it was when they struck it.”
“And they would be leaving the best
of it, I suppose!”
“They didn’t get all of it, it’s safe to
bet that. I just have a feeling the gold’s
there.”
“You often get those feelings, Johnny,
and a lot of good they do you, with your
rheumatism and lumbago getting worse
every year.”
“But never quite like this before. I
seem to know the gold’s there.”
It was an old, old story, but Uncle
Johnny never grew tired of it. Gold is
like that with a man. And so is hope,
much stronger and more lasting than it is
in a woman.
Auntie Nellie said “And are you ever
going to mend the billet fence round the
vegetable garden—to stop the calves and
the wallabies?”
“Time enough for that. We start the
shaft tomorrow.”
“Long Jack! ” Auntie Nellie knew she
had another complaint. “I thought you
were out with the Dorans.”
“All ancient history now. And that
same Long Jack has been much maligned.”
“So much so that you wouldn’t go near
him for years wid a forty-foot pole!”
THIS Long Jack was the most cranky
and outstanding of the numerous
clan of Doran. A bachelor, he lived with
his brother, Conny, a mild little man and
very respectable, whose soul quaked all
the time between two mighty fears, the
fear of Long Jack and that of his wife.
These two never did hit it at all, and
Conny’s principal role was that of peace-
maker with no particular success to it.
Long Jack had been a flash digger in
the great days when Rocky Crossing was
a rich field, and a notable masher, too,
from which he had graduated by easy and
natural stages to the cantankerous uncle
on the premises and a thorn in the flesh
of every young Doran, over whom he had
tyrannised till they grew up and left home
altogether.
Now, near seventy, he was a gaunt
streak of a man, with a rusty red
moustache and a bristly chin and very
blue eyes with pinpoints of angry light in
them, and a great many lines radiating
from them that made him look nearly as
crotchety as he was. He had a top dental
plate which he spoke of as “me false
teeth,” which was downright flattery, for
there was only the one tooth left on the
plate, and that the eye-tooth. And the
plate was so loose that it frequently, in
those moments of greater excitement and
controversy, jiggled and balanced on his
tongue, making that tooth quite acrobatic.
These days Long Jack was more touchy
and independent than ever, for he had a
“private income”—that being the old-age
pension, recently instituted, and consist-
ing of ten shillings a week.
The relations between Uncle Johnny
and Long Jack had varied greatly over
the years. Mostly these relations were of
rank and open hostility, and then they
would put down opposition shafts in full
view of each other, and the only consola-
tion of the one that his shaft was a duffer
was that the other had put down a duffer,
too. Or there would be periods of proud
and lofty ignoring of each other’s exist-
ence altogether. And then, for no known
reason at all, they would come together
and be as thick as two thieves and put
down a shaft as mates. And this always
meant that they would be deadly enemies
for a very long time after.
They started the shaft next day in a
little grassy clearing in the midst of a
great number of wattle-trees, with wild-
apple and yellowbox as a kind of back-
ground. “And as pretty a spot and as
likely as you’d find anywhere,” said
Uncle Johnny. Nor was the sinking very
hard or very deep.
“You’ll come along, Nellie, won’t you
now, and see the very commencement of
a real golden hole?”
“And for why should I?” said Auntie
Nellie. “And who will be milking the
cows, and making the butter, and gather-
ing the eggs if 1 should go gallivanting
about looking at another of your golden
holes?”
'T'HE Finucane boys came along, and
i often as not Tom Mahoney was with
them, and they all spoke very nicely and
hopefully to Uncle Johnny and quite
respectfully to Long Jack, who was no
relation at all to them, only very distantly
connected, and that through a marriage
or two a long way back. It took great
skill and a good memory, too, to trace
put all the relationships of Rocky Cross-
ing, but there were folk who could dopt
if they tried.
“Good morning, boys!” Uncle Johnny
greeted them, full of affability and for-
giveness on account of the great fortune
that lay at the bottom of the shaft.
“You’ll strike it this time, Uncle
Johnny, I’m sure,” said Larry Finucane
with a sincerity and enthusiasm that
would deceive almost anyone.
Larry was eighteen or a little more,
and he had curly black hair and a fine
open face &id a voice that was truly
soothing. But fond of a joke always, and
the strict truth was not so often in him.
People often said “Well, if Larry Finu-
cane told you that you’d be foolish to
believe it.” And they said, too, “Those
young Finucanes are all like that, and a
great pity—the old man being so
decent.”
“I never saw a more likely spot,” said
Larry’s younger brother, Jim. He
crumpled up a clod of mullock as though
that proved everything.
“Who’s that you have there?” came a
yell from the bottom of the shaft.
“Only me nephews, the young Finucane
boys and Tom Mahoney.”
“Tell them, Johnny, to get to hell out
of this. We don’t want suchlike spying
round.”
Larry leaned over the low logging of
the shaft. “Well, if it isn’t you. Long
Jack! And how are you this morning?”
Long Jack intimated rather forcibly
that he’d show Larry how he was if it


Do you need a
Penn/
HAUNTING bills and money wop«
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whateyer your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces.
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme.
17th September, 1944.— My . interest and
powers of concentration have increased to a
suprising extent. I look forward to each day
with pleasurable anticipation and undertake
each new matter as it arises with added
confidence in my ability to see it through to
a satisfactory conclusion. —SOLICITOR EX-
SOLDIER.
3rd March, 1944— Force of circumstances
had caused my fires of interest to die down.
Now I feel that I have regained my grip
and have definitely laid the basis of a suc-
cessful course. I intend to make each small
task my immediate aim, whether it be to
correct some habit or to carry out duties.
—MAJOR.
31st October, 1944.—1 find myself becoming
more methodical about things and can deal
with problems more clearly and quickly. In
fact, Pelmanism has fulfilled exactly what I
wanted. It has widened my horizons socially
•and culturally. — LIEUTENANT.
6th September. 1944.—1 must thank the
Institute for the co-operation and the almost
unbelievable benefits I have received
through the Course, but most of all for
the happiness that I have derived since I
started. — CORPORAL.
18th September, 1944.—1 n retrospect I find
that I have gone a long way to the accom-
plishment of my aim. Frankly, I feared
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the goal
of the fuller man. Fear of the future has
been replaced by willingness to embrace it
with open arms and a desire to serve my
fellow-men in my own caIIing.— PRIVATE,
A.I.F.
12th October. 1944— Pelmanism has shown
me the road to success with keen percep-
tion, memory power, concentration and the
new emotional drive, which comes from
having a definite aim in life. — L.A.C.
30th September. J944.— Without a doubt I
have made progress. My original aims—
clearer perception, concentration and more
astute mental employment—have become
clearly defined. In covering the ground I
have found other information of which I
had not previously thought.— CAPTAIN.
30th October, 1944— 0ne of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and refer-
ence numbers. By using the Pelman
methods. I was pleased to find I had the
whole list correctly reproduced. Similar
instances often occur. — CORPORAL.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that
we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
see more and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence
there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact
knowledge, remember it, and recall it as required. We learn to trust
our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then
open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and women.
The more important of these qualities are:—
Observation Self-Confidence, Concentration
Will-power Organization Social Ease
Decision Judgment Initiative
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
The exercises are pleasant, and each has its special purpose. The
Pelman Course is a real training, its primary objects being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones,
to train the conscious and the sub-concious so that every faculty will,
when called upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of
anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 60,000
have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” are posted free. Inquiries are
regarded as confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents df New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.*
NAME
ADDRESS
172
was made worth his while to come up
out of the shaft. And Uncle Johnny
soon after called down. “There’s young
Tom Mahoney here, and he says he could
bring a new oil drum for a bucket.”
“To hell with his oil drums, and Tom
Mahoney, too.”
All of which was quite mild for Long
Jack, being what he was mostly, but
under the restraining influence of a truce
at the moment.
Uncle Johnny and Long Jack went
through a foot of nice looking wash be-
fore they struck bottom, but never a
color in any of it. Uncle Johnny said
that signified nothing, nothing at all now,
seeing that Sellar’s Gully was all very
coarse gold, not even shotty gold.
“We’ll put in a drive,” said he, “on the
gully side.”
“Which we’ll not,” said Long Jack,
“we’ll drive towards the hill.”
“We could do both, of course.”
“Which we could, but we’ll try the
hill side first.”
In the interests of peace and co-opera-
tion they drove on the top side, and there
was nothing *to it. And the Finucane
boys and Tom Mahoney were frequently
there with their encouragement, timing
their visits for Long Jack’s shift below,
“It’s just the sort of ground where
you might light on a nugget any time,”
said Larry, “Father remembers some of
the big slugs that came out of this gully
in the old days, and one of the biggest
was worth four hundred pounds.”
And Uncle Johnny said “And that
might well be, too.”
Then Uncle Johnny got lumbago, which
Auntie Nellie said was his age and the
damp ground ; and a great pity, too, that
he didn’t get his lumbago from a more
worthy cause. When Uncle Johnny got
his lumbago he went about, if at all,
doubled up like a hoop, and with two
old sticks to stop the ends of the hoop
from joining; or he stayed in bed more
likely, with no great permanent comfort
in any position he might lie in.
Auntie Nellie said, apart from any pain
there might be in it. Uncle Johnny was
as well off in bed as anywhere else.
Long Jack came along and spoke
frankly about lumbago, which was really
a condemnation of those that got it. And
Uncle Johnny groaned with the twinges
he suffered, in trying for a better position.
Long Jack said “I’ll go right ahead by
meself and spike in the long ladder down
the shaft.”
So Long Jack continued by himself,
and the Finucane boys and Tom
Mahoney kept well away; but it was
noticed that they were unusually busy
at the makeshift forge old Finucane used
for pointing picks.
IT was two days later, when Uncle
Johnny was drinking a cup of beef
tea, and trying to do it without too much
distress, and complaining at the same
time that Auntie Nellie had spoilt the
tea with too much salt.
There came a shout outside: “Johnny!
Johnny, boy!” It didn’t sound a bit like
Long Jack, but it was he just the same,
with a new note altogether to his voice.
“Johnny, we’ve struck it! There’s
in the drive bigger than your
fist!”
“Glory be!” said Auntie Nellie with
all the faith and fervor of Ireland in her
voice. “Glory be!” and she met Long
Jack rushing through the door.
“Look at it, you! ‘Glory be,’ you just
said. And that’s a good name for it,
now,”
He thrust out a lump of gold as big as
a very fine potato. “Seeing’s believing.”
Auntie Nellie took the nugget. It was
as big as her two fists, and smooth-worn
and gleaming yellow, and a peep of white
quartz, smooth and polished, here and
there.
“It’s a specimen nugget,” said Long
Jack, “but nearly all gold at that.”
Auntie Nellie peered at the nugget.
Glory be! all right. But she had suffered
a lifetime of disappointment.
“I only wonder if it is really the gold
now,”
“Listen to the woman! And me digging
it out of the loose wash myself on the top
side. And she’d be asking if it is gold
really.”
“Show me! ” called Uncle Johnny. He
stretched out his hand, and his; back
nearly broke in two with the movement,
but he didn’t notice it so much now.
“Show me!”
“He’ll know,” said Long Jack.
The nugget was passed over. The light
in the room was a bit dim, but Uncle
Johnny didn’t so much look at the nugget
as weigh it lovingly in his hand. He
appraised its gracious weight by a slight
up and down movement, which put a
terrible strain on his lumbago.
“Take it away!” he said. “It’s gold!”
He sank back weakly, full of pain and
pleasure and excitement.
“And now, Nellie me girl, we’ll see
about that buggy!”
“Is there a drop of whisky, or brandy
maybe?” asked Long Jack. “Johnny
there needs a drop to help him, and I
might keep him company with it.”
Auntie Nellie said there was neither
whisky nor brandy, theirs being a house
where whisky and brandy didn’t keep.
Long Jack looked at the nugget
again and turned it over and over,
and Uncle Johnny felt its weight
again and declared again “It’s gold!”
He reckoned there would be a good
three hundred pounds’ worth in that
nugget, allowing for the stone and all,
and Long Jack thought not a penny less
than three-fifty. At last Auntie Nellie put
the nugget on the mantelshelf where
Uncle Johnny could see it without having
to move.
“We’ll be keeping it a great secret,”
said Long Jack, and eyed Auntie Nellie
accusingly.
“And if you mean me I’ll not be telling
anyone,” said Auntie Nellie.
“For,” Long Jack went on, “we’ll have
the whole world about our ears if you
do.”
Uncle Johnny agreed. It was a pity
really that Auntie Nellie should know
about it so early, for a woman can’t be
trusted in matters like that.
“I’ll be moving,” said Long Jack. “And
the nugget will be safe here.”
Long Jack didn’t go back to the shaft.
Instead he went straight across the creek
to Sholtz’s place. Otto Sholtz had a vine-
yard and made wine. Good wine, too,
and plenty of it. This was a proper occa-
sion to see old Sholtz. He stayed there
three days and three nights, and in the
more conscious moments of them was
very happy in a cryptic sort of way, men-
tioning frequently that “they could keep
their miserable bit of a pension now.”
What else he said is not clearly known,
but the Sheehan home had more visitors
than it ever had before, and the object
of the visits was thinly disguised in “We
just looked in to see how himself, poor
man, might be”; or “It’s great to see
someone having a bit of luck these days.”
But Uncle Johnny was as shrewd as
you like, and talked of lumbago and race-
horses and the sad trouble the Dwyers
were having just now, but never a word
about gold.
THERE commenced a deal of activity
in Sellar’s Gully—ancient greybeards
revived ancient greenhide buckets and'
creaky windlasses, and pegged out claims
and doddered and pottered about and
started shafts.
Old Finucane left his fossicking round
about the puddling machines of other
days, where he always managed to get a
’weight or two, and very shrewdly selected
a site in Sellar’s and started a shaft. Some
of the young fellows who had never done
anything very useful or permanent came
along and started sinking. The Finucane
boys and Tom Mahoney visited the claims
and spoke cheerfully and hopefully to
everyone. But they didn’t start a shaft
themselves, nor did they work at the forge
any more. The great days were back
again, and men were turning up the
golden ground once more.
Uncle Johnny was out of it all, for the
lumbago was giving him the worst twist
ever he had. But they got nothing out of
him, no matter who it was, except old
Monty Grey, a man you could trust any-
where. It was clear enough though that
everyone knew.
Auntie Nellie sniffed more frequently
than ever, and refused to enthuse over
buggies, and didn’t say “Glory be” either,
liiere were still the few cows to be milked
and the butter to be made, and the hens
to be looked to, and the eggs to be
gathered.
“And where would we have been with-
out all these, that’s what I’d like to
know?”
At the end of the week she said “Your
great nugget is as green now as a patch
of young clover.”
Uncle Johnny was hobbling about like
a hoop. “Bring me me reading glasses,
Nellie.”
There was no denying it, the nugget
was green, only the quartz staying un-
changed.
“Brass, if you ask me,” said Auntie
Nellie. She was a trifle triumphant
about it.
Uncle Johnny rubbed the nugget and
his fingers went green, too. “The Good
God Almighty, but how could a piece of
brass get into the ground and with lumps
of quartz in it?”
“And wouldn’t a piece of brass melt
in a forge if you wanted it to?” Auntie
Nellie was not beyond putting two and
two together—the Merribone Rileys were
like that.
“And who would do a dirty trick like
that?”
“How would I know? But the Finu-
canes were around the shaft a lot, so you
said, and I saw them at the forge myself.”
AND so the news got round, to the
very great shame of Uncle Johnny
and Long Jack, who straightway com-
menced a long and dignified silence be-
tween them. The ancients, and the not-
so-ancient, deserted Sellar’s once more,
and chuckled over Long Jack, which was
some compensation for their own dis-
appointment. It was worth more than
life and limb for any young fellow to
mention nuggets to Long Jack —except
at a very safe distance.
Mrs, Finucane wondered much where
three of the doorknobs had gone to ; and
Mrs. Mahoney said “I’ve looked every-
where for the tops of the bedstead,”
But it wasn’t for years that the Finu-
cane boys and Tom Mahoney were game
to. give details of the making of the
Glory-be nugget.
Uncle Johnny said “Ah, well, it’s worth
it to be rid of that Long Jack Dorjin.”
His lumbago left him quite suddenly, and
with hope undimmed he started another
shaft at the bottom end of Sellar’s and
not a hundred yards away from Long
Jack’s new shaft. “Nellie, me girl, you’ll
have that buggy yet.”
And Aunt Nellie said “I’m sure there’s
a goanna getting the eggs.”


m
What Would You
Do?
li you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 67 years* experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
The Trustees Execiitors
aind Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and at 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
> BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, MS., Melb., F.R.C.S., H«g.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
A
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ƒ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
The WILDCSA COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To He- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves, serves.
£/ £ £ £ £*
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937.. 157,543 24,000 120,000 13,543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c.
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277 -
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 364,091
16 p.c. ,
1943.. 145,469 24,000 120,000 1,469 365,560
Excess tax provision written back
£109,696 .. 475,256
17.4 p.c.
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,191 24,000 305,000 269,243
Conditions governing manufacture of
tyres and other rubber goods altered little
last year. Production was mainly on de-
fence account, and restrictions and con-
trols continued in full blast. Plant worked
as hard as the limiting factors of material,
labor and power shortages would allow
it to work. These shortages, especially
the power stoppage, brought about by a
Communist-inspired holdup as the year
drew to a close, were the main cause of
contraction (£33,605) in net earnings.
The £122,191 of profit claimed was
written after setting aside £61,000 (down
£37,300) for the taxgatherer and allow-
ing £104,898 (up £19,703) for deprecia-
tion. The last-mentioned allowance was
equal to over 30 p.c, of the book value of
fixed assets at end December last. The
policy of paying for additions to these
assets out of earnings and then from the
same source severely writing them down
enhances earning -power in relation to a
steady capital account.
The year’s profit covered the pref. div.
and 13.4 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord.
capital (all held by the big parent co. in
U.S.A.), compared with 17.5, 16.2, 14.7,
14.6, 12 and 16.3 p.c. back to 1939.
Though the parent has never been hungry
for cash, the div. was lifted from 17.4
p.c. to 40.5 p.c., undistributed profits
being drawn upon for £206,809 for the
purpose, reducing the visible accumula-
tion to £269,243. Possible scarcity of
dollar exchange in the future probably
influenced the board in making such a
high rate of distribution. Since produc-
tion began over 16 years ago the ords.
have had an average of 12.1 p.c., the first
five years being dry ones.
With war out of the way the pressure
of service demands is diminishing. Trade
opinion is that present restrictive con-
trols, which severely limit civilian con-
sumption, can be lifted with safety about
the end of the third quarter of this year.
For the next few years civilian demand
for tyres and other rubber goods looks
like running ahead of plant capacity.
High-priority war-time users of vehicles
received only limited supplies of tyres and
tubes. The remaining vehicles, which
were most of them, continued in restricted
use on patched shoes. In addition to the
big replacement demand thus fore-
shadowed, there will be initial shoeing of
new cars and trucks required to take the
place of wornout and obsolete ones. And
there will be a strong deferred demand
for all kinds of other rubber goods, too.
Three main factors governing output
Will be: (1) an adequate supply of suit-
able labor; (2) a sufficiency of raw
materials and freedom to use them to the
best advantage; (3) freedom from in-
dustrial holdups. As for labor, the posi-
tion should ease as demobilisation ap-
proaches completion. The industrial
question is in the lap of the Government
and labor organisations. On the materials
side, the co. is using considerable
quantities of synthetic rubber, but increas-
ing supplies of the natural article, which
possesses advantages in production of
most rubber equipment, are expected to
come forward after the close of 1946.
Anticipations are that about 600,000 tons
natural rubber will be available by the
end of this year, and that production may
rise to 1,500,000 tons in the next three or
four years, giving a combined natural
and synthetic world output of about
2,750,000 tons p.a., as against estimated
world consumption of some 1,500,000
tons p.a. Costs will, of course, be a big
factor in the struggle between these two
types of rubber. Though plantation costs
have not yet been established on a firm
basis, many hold that, unless U.S. is to
perpetuate production of synthetic on an
uneconomic basis, Malaya should be able
to compete successfully for 'most of the
world’s rubber requirements.
Here are Goodyear’s balance-sheet
figures:
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Pref. capital. . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital.. 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear (U.S.) 54,800 —•— .
Creditors . . 146,583* 558,756 79,651 178,721
Tax reserve .. 245,867 144,100 80,300
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 407,063 347,667 300»021 330,344
Stock. . . . 683,857 1,313,522 783358 747,139
Book debts . . 298,008 474,643 435,117 229,102
Cash, etc. .. 80,501 51,151 231,208 271,680
Java subsid... 197,300
* Including taxation, etc.
Last year’s net addition of £30,323 to
fixed assets reflects installation of dipping
units for processing fabrics with the syn-
thetic article and addition of a new Ban-
bury mixer, The year’s earnings, together
with a reduction of £206,015 in debtors’
balances and £36,319 in stocks, enabled
the ord. div, to be paid and cash, etc., to
be strengthened by £40,472. The shrink-
age in the more or less liquid surplus
(£988,900) was £237,132.
Buyers offer 345. 9d. for the well-
protected 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which sel-
dom come on to the market. The return
at that figure would be 4.6 p.c.
Australian Provincial Assurance
_ To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755,616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
■1937.. 386,732 294,378 104,072 t 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 .. .. 2,802,326
1938.. 389,295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund, £8439 2,769,718
1939.. 389,796 350,183 106,466 2.702,865
1940.. 387,682 377,818 105,130 2,607,599
,1941.. 375,083 840,345 108,125 2,534 212
1942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472 755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,570
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
1945.. 440,732 241,563 121,407 77,762 2,626,958
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1934,
£8926; 1936, £9000; 1936-40, £4500; 1941,
£9000; 1942, £4500; 1943-45, £9OOO.
t Including loss on King-street property, £4994.
Outstanding feature of the latest ac-
counts is the comparatively large amount
of new business put on the books
(£1,319,456, up £386,143), which was over
29 p.c. more than for the previous term.
Despite the inroads made into incomes
by heavy taxation, and partly because of
it (life assurance secures partial relief
from income tax), there are sound reasons
why expansion should be the order of
the day. Chief is that prices generally
are higher than they were pre-war, and
it seems unlikely that they will recede
to their old level again. This calls for
a larger volume of insurance from all
classes, and there is a considerable
amount of savings awaiting investment.
Of the problems arising out of the war,
reduction of interest rates has affected,
and will continue to affect, life offices
most. The difference between the rate
at which an office assumed its funds
would earn and the rate which these funds
actually turn in has been the chief source
of surplus earnings, and therefore of
bonuses to policyholders. Since 1939 the
life offices have invested the whole of
the increase in their funds, and more be-
sides, in war loans on terms increasingly
favorable to the Treasury. Together with
the rise in taxation, this has reduced both
the net return from current investment
and bonuses to policyholders.
Furthermore, this combination of cheap
money and high taxation operates over
the whole range of investments. Their
influence cannot be avoided by switching
from one security to another. And, when
money has to be reinvested, the problem
of obtaining an approximately equal
return after sale or repayment of parti-
cular securities becomes practically in-
soluble. This is one of many factors
which help to explain why buying acti-
vity has come up against a shortage of
sound securities in the market. And tech-
nical factors favor continuance of cheap
money. A more or less closed market is
still in being; capital issues have to run
the gauntlet of official examination; offi-
cial action has been nicely co-ordinated
to help the movement forward; a
sequence of conversion offers lies ahead ;
many new avenues of spending, both on
recovery measures and social services, are
forecast which might result in expansion
of purchasing power. The aim behind
the investment policy of life offices will
be to get as high a return as possible for
*as long a p'eriod as circumstances permit.
As soon as building gets under way more
attention can be expected to be given
to house-purchase loans, which not only
carry a higher rate of interest than Gov-
ernment securities but are also very help-
ful in writing new business.
To help soften the blow and preserve
the bonus-paying capacity of the busi-
ness, the A.P.A. has steadily reduced its
rate of actuarial valuation of policy lia-
bilities from a lenient 4 p.c. Sprague in
1927 to the present stringent 2| p.c. net
premium basis, thus giving policyholders
a lot more protection and bringing the
business more into line with its big com-
petitors. After deducting taxes (£23,403,
up £3395), last year’s net effective return
on total funds (capital, reserves and assur-
ance funds combined) was 3.17 p.c., as
against 3.38 p.c. for the previous term.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £86,762 (up £13,143) of last year’s
takings remained. This, together with
£5OOO from bonus reserve, was used,
£47,784 to cover growth in liabilities
under policies, £30,534 in payment of
bonuses to policyholders at slightly in-
creased rates, £3OO to reserves for un-
expired risks and £9OOO ( 2\ p.c.) to share-
holders. The remaining £4144 increased
the carry-forward to £11,712. The co.
thus distributed to policyholders over
three times the amount paid to share-
holders.
The financial structure is now more
solid than at any time in the co.’s history:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Public sec. 1,273,452 1,082,573 1,161,620 1,272,235
Mortgages.. 517,449 463,515 440,622 433,907
Loans on
policies, etc. 119,389 89,062 66,891 61,020
Book debts,
cash, etc. 97,365 104,631 138,998 124,232
Equipment 16,088 7,929 4,681 3,695
Properties.. 814,462 818,785 800,840 781,096
Shares .. 385,321 416,750 428,527 443,154
Tangibles 3,223,526 2,983,245 3,042,179 3,119,839
Creditors . . 151,218 142,061 119,284 118,384
Net tangibles 8,072,308 2,841,184 2,922,895 3,000,955
Assur. fund* 2,629,684 2,341,030 2,445,628 2,524,246
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £15,000,
1939; £21,000, 1942 ; £lB,OOO, 1944 ; £18,300,
1945.
Last year’s surplus earnings, and more
besides, were again channelled into Gov-
ernment securities (up £110,615). The
growth in net tangibles was £78,060. When
the books closed shareholders could see
the whole of their money intact and
£116,709 besides, an improvement of
£34,085 over the last half-dozen years.
Pelaco. Ltd. CMelb.)
A B
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4950 5011 3,608
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8250 5949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4500 8250 1809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4950 1494 12,860
4-p.c.
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6600 4865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6600 7873 25,598
5 p.c.
1945.. 22,772 2081 4500 8250 7941 33,539
As the eye sweeps down the profits
column in the table it needs to be re-
membered that just as the dead horse of


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Kassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* « * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —A dvt.
f
f
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do bard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
aolutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
f
BRANDAUERrS
mt
w
#Bl
B?
si
GW
'PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRAISDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
m
ns
c s^.^
FACING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworlh is the peaceful
atmosphere . , . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut <^>ylitey
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
m
: ■ V
II
*> t v
mm
mmmk
m
W I.
<\ * ••»
I
Sl#
vr/Zi
w
HILLMAN MINX
55rtSfel /er* d ~6&S'i. eJ£,ll dou£. /
ini Bn ei ■•%■ ** ft /% ftl - ?_ .* _?(...!. m Dniiliimfalifl
AVAILABLE SOON.
See Your Distributor tor Particularsl
JOHN McGRATH LTD.,
lie CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
(Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD., 223 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGRATH, LTD. .. 324-340 Wickham St., The Valley,
BRISBANE.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTORS CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY., LTD., Cr. York & St. Johns Sts.,
LAUNCESTON.
Rootes Group Regional Representative: 472 Bonrke St., Melbourne,
accumulated pref. div, had been worked
off— a legacy of the early 1930’s slump—
war arrived. With it came price-fixing and
other troubles, including steep rises in
taxation and other costs, as well as big
changes in the nature of demand. How-
ever, the flood of service requirements
more than offset the evaporation of civi-
lian sales owing to rationing. Though
the profit margin on Government con-
tracts was less than in the civilian market,
net earnings benefited from the increased
volume of turnover. Fluctuations in
earnings have been due mainly to taxa-
tion and other costs factors. For the
half-dozen years to the close of last ac-
counts profits averaged £18,719, com- 1
pared with an average of £13,953 for the
preceding six years. The ords., after a
.nine-years’ drought, have had an average
of 4.1 p.c. over the last seven years. To
help overcome production and other diffi-
culties, including labor shortage, a branch
factory was established at Frankston
(Vic.) about three years ago and another
was set up near Sydney (N.S.W.) last
term.
The co. is in the highly-competitive
men’s-wear manufacturing business,
specialising in production of shirts, col-
lars, pyjamas, etc. There was a slight
increase in supplies to the civilian market
last year, but defence contracts continued
to absorb most of the output. Gross
earnings, which stepped up £11,244, were
the best since 1941:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Gross.. ..£109,493 £66,412 £82,160 £93,404
Exes.,. .. 88,713 53,387 61,106 70,633
Net .. £20,780 £13,025 £21,054 £22,771
Including something for taxation and
£4547 for depreciation, exes, took £9527
of the gain. The net result was £l7lB
better at £22,771, the best showing since
the mid-1920’5. It was enough to pay
full contract rates to the prefs. and show
9.8 p.c. on the £165,000 of ord. capital,
compared with 8.7, 6.9, 3.7 and 6.1 p.c.
for the four preceding terms. A point
was added to the div., making it 5 p.c.,
and the £7941 that remained lifted the
lay-by £33,539 in excess of goodwill
(£10,000), not treated as an asset herein.
Evaporating defence orders will en-
able the co. to turn more attention to
civilian trade during the current term.
Principal nuts for the management to
crack will be costs, labor and materials.
If it succeeds the agitation to lift wages
and reduce hours will, under existing
conditions, multiply everybody’s troubles.
Labor, especially female labor, is in short
supply, and seems likely to remain so
until economic conditions bring about a
psychological change in which the
worker calls for the job instead of vice
versa. As for materials, cotton promises
to be in short supply for some time. To
what extent synthetics will fill the gap
remains to be seen. And, until the
sterling-dollar question resolves itself, the
exchange position remains uncertain.
Local demand promises to be strong,
until wardrobes are replenished, at any
rate. But competition, based largely on
quality and price, will be keen, and can
be expected to sharpen steadily. The co,
enjoys a wide goodwill, has an efficient
plant and finances are comfortable.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities ..’ 131,897 73,815 41,617 40,638
Tax provision 14,503 27,472 27,677 32,678
Premises .. 103,571 101,825 99,647 98,558
Plant, etc. .. 46,883 42,023 37,317 43,280
Book debts . . 114,551 36,072 72,468 53,167
Stock.. .. 143,966 177,243 110,317 156,104
Cash, etc. .. 6,556 13,253 33,062 15,314
The high level of stocks (up £45,787 last
term) is largely an insurance against
both scarcity of supplies and rising prices.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£151,269) was £4716.
The market prices the 7 p.c. A prefs.
at 28s. and the 9 p.c, B prefs. at 335., at
which figures the return is 5 p.c. and
5.4 p.c. respectively. At 11s. the f.-p. 10s.
ords. yield 4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribu-
tion. The net tangible cover per pound
of paid capital is £9 7s. As, £4 19s. sd,
Bs and 245. Id. ord.
Sungei Bidor Tin Dredging (paid
capital £120,000 in 10s. shares) was regis-
tered at Canberra early in 1937 to take
over and work the low-grade Bidor tin
leases (F.M-S.) previously held by Mel-
bourne interests. The property contained
about 32,000,000 c.y., was bored to aver-
age a little over ilb.-t.o, per c.y., and is
equipped with an efficient 300,000 c.y.
per month electric dredge. Gold, not in-
cluded in original estimates, has proved
a useful sweetener. Operations began in
August, 1939. Results to end November,
1941, were as follows;
Div.
Dredged, T. 0., Gold, Costs, Profit.f per
June, C.y. Tons. Oz. C.y. £ Share.
1940*. 3,124,000 741.30 1158.00 2.55 d. 67,861 2s.
1941.. 3,368,000 839.75 846.08 3.65 d. 77,458 6s.
Nov.,
1941.. 1,383,000 278.18 267.67 4.39 d. 29,8541
*ll months, f After allowing for depreciation and
renewals. J Working surplus.
On official instructions the dredge was
partly destroyed and then sunk. It was
raised and worked intermittently by the
Japs from August, 1942, to July, 1945.
Electrical equipment has been extensively
damaged by immersion, inefficient super-
vision and looting. Good progress is be-
ing made toward rehabilitation, ship-
ments of essential stores and spares have
gone forward, and digging is expected to
begin again before August next. At
June 30 last liquid assets in Australia and
U.K.v totalled £30,228, of which £30,082
was in the bank on fixed deposit. On
’Change buyers offer 295. 6d. (official
high limit) for the scrip.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. paid a shilling
dividend on March 27. Co.’s application
for 69 auriferous areas, covering over
1000 acres at Edjudina (W.A.), came
before the Kalgoorlie Warden the other
day. He recommended that the applica-
tion be stood over for 12 months. Mean-
while it is proposed to go ahead with pre-
liminary development. Co.’s attorney told
the warden that development of the
narrow, patchy gold-carriers in the prop-
erty would be expensive, and some time
might elapse before it was known whether
they contained sufficient pay-ore to war-
rant erection of plant.
* * * *
Westralian goldmining cos. are irri-
tated at the delay in returning or replac-
ing plant and machinery impressed by
the Government to meet war needs. Six
months ago Prime Minister Chifley pro-
mised to hasten the process. Power plant
from Big Bell, dismantled and sent to
Darwin, is still at the northern port un-
packed. Appeals to have it sent back
again have as yet been unsuccessful.
Some machinery originally taken from
other mines in the West was in process
of being returned, but was diverted to a
cellulose factory in South Australia. Other
eastern manufacturers are also using plant
removed from Westralian mines and
now urgently needed by its original
owners.
* * * •
“O.B.”: Latest estimates of ore re-
serves in Kalgoorlie Golden Mile mines
(W.A.) show that approximately one half,
is exposed in the western series of carriers,
which lie within the boundaries of the
Lake View and Star group and Gt.
Boulder. Remainder is visible in work-
ings on the eastern series, in the Paringa,
North Kalgurli, South Kalgurli, Boulder
Perseverance and Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie properties. Most gold won at the
“Mile” has come from the western car-
riers ; a lot of it from Golden Horseshoe
and Ivanhoe, now included in Lake View
and Star’s holdings.
* * * *
Goldthorp Hay, chairman of Lake
View and Star, is to visit the mine early
in May. Other directors of London-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos. who
talk of “paying visits” include Claude de
Bernales and R. E. Binns (chairman of
Wiluna).
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association,
LIMITED.
Report of 34th Ordinary General Meeting
held on Tuesday, 26th February.
The Thirty-fourth Annual General Meeting
of the Association was held on The Twenty-
sixth day of February, 1946.
Mr. Edmund S. Paul, Chairman of the
Company, presided.
The Secretary-having read the Notice con-
vening the Meeting, the Chairman said:
The New Business for the year amounts to
£1,319,456, the average policy being £276. This
compares with £933,313 for 1944, and is the
largest total written since 1925. We have again
shown the net amount received for Freehold
Properties after deducting “Outgoings” with
the exception of Land Tax.
The total amount of Rents is £32,318, and
after deducting Land Tax leaves only £16,870,
so that the Land Tax absorbs 48 per cent, of
the net rents on Freehold properties.
The Company is now meeting with an
increased demand for House Purchase Loans
supported by a Life Policy. As soon as the
Building industry improves the Board have
arranged extensive projects in this direction.
The Board regret that the Department of the
Interior have not yet vacated the A.P.A. Build-
ing, Sydney. Not only are we ourselves suffer-
ing great inconvenience by carrying on poition
of pur business in our own building and por-
tion in Federation House* but our tenants are
in desperate need of getting back their pre-war
space to accommodate their staff returning
from the war.
Out of a total of 21,670 feet the De-
partment have only released 1,650 feet.
On one floor, where the Maritime Com-
mission meets once a month, one forlorn
Official and his Secretary occupy no less
than 2,149 square feet.
The Minister for the Interior states he is
“squeezing up the Department, but if he
can only “squeeze up” to the extent of
two bureaucrats occupying 2,149 square
feet it will be years and years before he
“squeezes” the bureaucrats into a space
comparative to that occupied by other
professional officers.
War claims have unfortunately maintained
their figures of previous years. These claims
have been a heavy drain, and have affected
the surpluses of all Life Offices, and with the
result that smaller bonuses have been paid
through the war years. Although hostilities
have ceased, future claims from war disabilities
can be expected, and will need to be provided
for.
In spite of the heavy war claims the Board
have deemed it prudent to increase the bonus
on certain classes of Policies. To pay this
increased bonus £5,000 has been transferred
from the “Reserve of Bonus to Policyholders.”
The Dividend to Shareholders remains as
heretofore, at per cent. It will be noticed
that the Accident Department account shows
a small loss for, the year. This is occasioned
by the fact that two years’ Income Tax Assess-
ments were paid during the year. Previously
the Income Tax in respect of the Accident De-
partment was included in the general item
“Income Tax” shown in the Life Revenue
statement.
So far only portion of our staff have re-
turned, but we hope the time is not far distant
when they will all be with us again. We do
well to remember those who, having made the
supreme sacrifice, will not return; and to their
relatives we extend our heartfelt sympathy.
To the General Manager of the Association,
Mr. Bruce-Smith, to Dr. Green, our Chief
Medical Officer, and to all those who were able
to devote their time to the work of the Asso-
ciation, our thanks are due.
Mr. Leslie J. Thompson, Deputy Chairman,
in seconding the report, mentioned the difficult
year through which the Association had passed
due to the reduction in the rate of interest.
He emphasised the Chairman’s remarks in
regard to House Purchase Loans.
Mr. Inch stated that he was disappointed in
the dividend rate being only 2\ per cent, after
such a long period, prior to which the rate
had been H per cent. He hoped the Chairman
would bear this in mind when the Board came
to deal with the next year's annual accounts.
The Chairman, in replying, stated that he was
in full accord with what Mr. Inch had said
with regard to the dividend, but until bonuses
were increased, it would be suicidal to increase
the dividend.
It was true that the Policyholders’ interests
were, in the opinion of the Board, paramount.
The adoption, of the Report and Balance
Sheet was carried unanimously, Dr. C. A.
Thelander being re-elected as a Director and
H. J. Brigden and Company being re-appointed
as Auditors.
The Meeting closed with a vote of thanks to
the Chairman and the Bpard.


/
/
/
r
/
/%
m.
-i
-4^'
*?*
i
BKO
m
*r
%
:
V
2
n
V*T\«
i
*
s>
V
A
V
2&
\
m
X
NN
3>
\>
\\
1
N\
•hN
s\
ft
V\ N
i
ww'lt
x N >
m
\\
'V
A\
v'\
\ \
£§
V vv>\
V\
Ya
W%%
s
W
YYV
W'
s2l
NX
sV
NN
\v
W\
its high called the Tune!
We’ve had a sickening of harsh
music—and we’ve paid through the
nose for it. We have been taxed
to the skies to pay for the extrava-
gance, incompetence and dull com-
placency of a Labor Government
that neither labors nor governs. -
The tune we want is Lower Tax-
ation the musical ring of more
money in our pay envelopes, more of
our own earnings to use in our own
way.
The Liberal Party will give us 40
per cent cut in Income Tax, besides
other overdue taxation reforms. The
Liberal Party means sound, pro>
gressive administration.
The Way Back to Freedom is through
LIBERAL PARTY
OF AUSTRALIA


ƒ
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
Exide Batteries contribute to the conveniences
of modern living, from a telephone call to air
travel. In your choice of a'car battery you
can safely be guided by the world’s largest
telephone exchanges, who depend on Exide.
WHEN ITS
iniwiFSTMT
1.45
PERSONAL ITEMS
Eric Millhouse, of Adelaide, new
president of R.S.L. in succession to
Gilbert Dyett, retiring after 27 years at
the head of the League, brings brains,
energy and enthusiasm to a job that calls
for an abundant supply of all three,
Millhouse is an old artilleryman of the
First A.1.F., who sailed not long after
being admitted to the Bar in 1915 and
served with Eight Battery. He was S.A.
Crown Prosecutor from 1923-28 and be-
came a K.C. last year. Since 1942 he has
been State president of the League, so he
has already had a foretaste of the many
problems confronting him in the bigger
job. Retiring president Dyett has seen
the R.S.L. grow from small beginnings to
become a real force in the community;
his successor’s task will be to see that the
League offers ex-servicemen practical help
in their material problems and the moral
leadership necessary to combat disillu-
sionment.
Claude Reading, dead in Sydney at 71,
as a member of the Commonwealth Bank
Board since 1927 and its chairman from
1934 until its demise last year had a
great deal to do with the development of
that institution into a central bank.
Born in Sydney in 1874, his first business
experience was gained with Union Bank,
but he early became connected with the
tobacco industry and was for many years
on the boards of Wills and British-Aust.
Tobacco. When appointed Bank Board
chairman he resigned these directorships.
The staffs of these firms share with
officers of the bank an esteem for his
courtesy, fairness and integrity, and these
attributes were the keynote of his public
career as well as of his private life. As
chairman of the Bank Board he took a
conscientious view of his responsibility
to the country; on occasions he had
differences of opinion with the trading
banks, but he also uttered a warning to
the Government a couple of years ago on
its excessive use of bank credit. Among
outside interests Reading was Boy Scout
president in N.S.W., helped largely in the
work of Fairbridge Farm Schools and
was a trustee of the Gowrie Scholarship
Fund.
Noel de Jersey, of Moorooka (Q.), who
has been granted a travelling scholarship,
two years at £5OO p.a., for coal re-
search at London University, gained his
M.Sc. degree with first-class honors at
Queensland University when only 21.
Now 23, De Jersey has done considerable
research work on Queensland coals, the
results of which are due for early publi-
cation. On his return to Australia he will
join the C.S.I.R. as a research officer.
Commander Robert Gillman Allen
Jackson, C.M.G., 0.8. E., R.A.N., who,
unless an American is chosen, will step
up from deputy director-general of
U.N.R.R.A. to director-general, is a
Victorian. Born in 1913, he went
from Mentone Grammar School straight
into the Navy. In British governmental
circles he is regarded as the man who
saved Malta. When that island was
threatened with extinction he arranged
the evacuation of the inhabitants who
weren’t wanted and organised a brilliant
systnm of supply lines. He got an 0.8. E.
for it. In 1944 he was appointed
director-general of the M.E. Supply
Centre, stationed at Malta. Last year he
got his U.N.R.R.A. job of trying to save
Europe.
By contemporary standards, Henry
Handel Richardson, just dead in England,
wrote very little. In 1908 she published
Maurice Guest, the study of a young
English musician who goes to Leipsic to
study, becomes obsessed with a beautiful
woman and completely forgets why he
came there. In 1910 she published The
Getting of Wisdom, a brilliant and often
bitter description of her school life at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College in Mel-
bourne. In 1917 she started The Fortunes
of Richard Mahony, the trilogy which
gave her an international reputation ; she
finished it in 1930. The End of a Child-
hood, a collection of short stories, fol-
lowed in 1934, and The Young Cosima,
a profound study of the love relationships
of Richard Wagner, in 1939. Herself a
fine musician—she studied in Leipsic—
she wrote many songs, but for the main
part she lived a retired life, and all her
vitality went into her books. It was her
own experience she dealt with, and she
wrote with extraordinary thoroughness
and concentration. Her father was Dr.
W. L. Richardson, a Scots doctor who
came to Australia in the ’sixties and prac-
tised at Ballarat, at Queenscliff and Mel-
bournej and the trilogy is to a great extent
his portrait, as the descriptions in it are
the landscapes she grew up in. She mar-
ried Professor J. G. Robertson, Professor
of German Language and Literature
at the University of London, who died in
1933. She wrote under a masculine pen-
name from a somewhat belated belief that
the world was inimical to women writers.
Richard Arnold Rowe, chairman of
Melbourne Stock Exchange and the
Associated ’Changes of Australia, drawn
here by Tram, has been interested in
shares and scrip almost since he was in his
cradle. Born at Ballarat, he went straight
SELLS SHARES.
from school to the firm of F.
Holst and Co., of Collins-street, and has
been there ever since. At 57 he is now
senior partner. He became a member of
the Exchange in 1920 and chairman in
1942. He was a war-time President of
the R.A.C.V. and organised its patriotic
fund and its fleet of war transport units.
He figures on a mort of directorates of
public companies, sits on the Fire
Brigades board and plays a good
backhand at tennis.
Eighty on March 15, Matthew Charl-
ton, leader of Federal Labor from
1922 to 28, was born at Linton, Victoria,
but early shifted to Lambton (N.S.W.),
where he still takes an active interest in
bowls and the work of Lambton Council.
As a young man he dug gold in Kal-
goorlie and coal in Newcastle before be-
ing elected to the N.S.W. Assembly in
1903. Seven years later he became
M.H.R. for Hunter. On his resigna-
tion as Labor leader in 1928, he was
succeeded by James Scullin, and did not
stand at the elections the following year
when Labor was returned to power.
“Becks” farewells an Old Boy:
Major-General Lionel Charles Dunsterville
died in England last week at 81, but his name
is assured of a double immortality—as the
original of Kipling’s “Stalky” and as com-
mander of the Dunsterforce, a bits-and-pieces
army formed in n.-w. Persia during World
War I. From the Devon school where he was
a stablemate of Kipling, Dunsterville went
to Sandhurst, thence to Malta and
India. The mid-’nineties saw him mixed
up in campaigns in Waziristan and the
n.-w. frontier, and when things quietened
down a bit he spent some time in Germany
and Russia studying the languages, but he got
back to India in.time to go with the British
contingent of the all-nations force sent to
China to quell the Boxer Rising. His regiment
was to have taken part in the action against’
the Peitang forts, but it arrived too late. To
quote Dunsterville himself: “Some of the other
nations cheated by starting before the agreed
timed’ From then until 1914 his life followed
the routine of the normal Indian Army officer.
When war broke out Dunsterville was in
Britain, a colonel without a regiment. Indian
Army officers weren’t wanted, so he took on a
subaltern’s job in France as trucking officer.
After a few months he was again in India, where
flareups with the Mohmands kept him occu-
pied for a couple of years till the Persian job
came his way. Following the Bolshevik Revo-
lution, the Russian front against the Turks had
collapsed; Turks and Germans, although allies,
were independently wooing the Persians; three
Russian groups in the area were at loggerheads;
Kurdish tribesmen were prepared to loot friend
and foe alike, and the Persians, then as now,
could be relied upon to be completely unre-
liable. Dunsterville was sent with a nucleus of
picked officers and n.c.os., hard-bitten
Diggers among them, to raise and train a
force from whatever material he could find,
with the object of keeping the Turks out ot
Persia and preventing seizure of Baku oilfields.
The Cossacks were holding some kind of a line
near the Caspian when the original Dunster-
force arrived —12 officers and an armored
Ford car. Said the Russian officer, who had
met “Stalky” before, “Dunster I know, but-
where’s the force?” The force grew, and
Dunsterville worked wonders in his own little
war, but the utter uselessness of the local levies
and the course of events elsewhere forced a
withdrawal from Baku. His book on the expe-
dition, like others from his pen, is a breezy
work well sprinkled with quiet wisdom and
humor. “Staltfy” held a rather poor opinion
on the successors of the Czars, and it would
be interesting to hear his views on the present
setup in his old stamping ground.
P, E. Richardson, general manager of
the Queensland Agricultural Bank, has
been made that State’s first Valuer-
General, and faces the big task of revalu-
ing every block of land in Queensland.
It’ll probably keep him busy for five years
and entail travel from the Gulf to Surfer’s
Paradise and all points west.
Among delegates to the conference of
Imperial Agricultural Bureaux in London
will be Dr. Hugh Christian Trumble, Pro-
fessor of Agronomy at the Waite Re-
search Institute, Adelaide. A Mel-
burnian with overseas experience,
Trumble was appointed agronomist at the
Waite in 1925, and was engaged on special
work in Morocco and Algeria for the
Empire Marketing Board in 1928.
Since he became Professor at the Insti-
tute in ’4l, he’s specialised in research on
production of flax and rubber-bearing
plants and control of soil erosion.
He’s 43. I
In the Second A.I.F. youth was one of
the prime essentials for promotion, but
the record of E. R. Wilmoth, M.C.,
sketched here by Bill Prior, will take a
lot of beating. Born at .Horsham (Vic.),
he was a law student at Melbourne Uni.
when war came. Joining up at 22, he
was a captain at 24, major a year later and
a lieut.-colonel at 26, by which time he
had tucked away a lot of experience—
the Libyan campaign with 2/8 Battalion,
Greece and Crete with H.Q. 19 Brigade
and periods in Palestine and Syria. After
attending staff schools at Haifa and Dun-
troon, Wilmoth became a staff officer of
Second and later Fifth Divisions. Finally
he became G.5.0.l Seventh Divvy, and is
PLANS CAMPAIGNS.
credited with considerable influence on
the course of the Balikpapan campaign.
Against a school of thought advocating
an outflanking attack Wilmoth stuck out
for a direct thrust at the heart of Balik.
This course was adopted, and the short-
ness of the campaign and the relatively
light casualties sustained justified his
stand.
Even though the Japs who were tried
by Arnold Brown and his court at Darwin
got off with jail sentences, they
must have found the ordeal of being
tried before Arnold a terrifying experi-
TRIES JAPS.
ence. Though Scorfield’s drawing was
done 12 years ago, it gives a very fair
idea of Arnold as he is to-day, unmel-
lowed by the experiences of a new war
and not bowed down by a new half-ton
of decorations and a few extra martial
knocks and ailments. Arnold hails
from Coonabarabran (N.S.W.). The
Official War History was modest
when it wrote of him in his past:
“Brown was no backline warrior.
He held the Windmill Crest at
Pozieres.” In fact, he was the Wind-
mill Crest, and he was so long
that he stuck out about a yard
above all cover. The pivot of the
28th, he it was who also rallied the
troops in the desperate affair at Flers, and
gathered the 28th and sth Brigade rein-
forcements which, in the even more
desperate business at Second Bullecourt,
were “ready to do anything.” At the
end of last war Arnold Brown looked
more like a reformed human colander
than anything else, by reason of his
wounds and chips. After this war, with
all the A.I.F, fronts from Libya onwards
behind him, it was almost impossible to
see what he looked like with all his fresh
ribbons up, but the general ensemble sug-
gested a corner of the medals display
at the War Museum hung well up on a
tall gumtree.
When K. D. Young, of St. Kilda, Mel-
bourne, went to U.S. in 1938 he had no
notion that he would be back in his home
town eight years later under an American
soldiers’ rehabilitation scheme entitling him
to £7 a week and a course of study at the
University. When Hitler erupted he got
a job on the British Purchasing Commis-
sion at Washington which lasted till 1942.
Then Uncle Sam relaxed his regulations
about taking friendly aliens into his army
and he joined up. Young landed in
France three days after D-day, was in the
Rhine crossing and served in Germany
with the American Army of Occupation.
Into the silence;
At 95, in Melbourne, Mrs. Bessie Fox-
Pollard. She came to Australia with her
family in 1853, and was one of the women who
joined in the Bendigo gold rush. Her hus-
band was a Victorian Railways superintendent.
At Wellington, M.L., at 71, Charles
Statham, first native-born Speaker of the
House of Reps. A solicitor, he was elected
to Parliament in 1911, became Speaker in 1923,
and held that position till his retirement in
1935, when he was appointed to the Legislative
Council. A knighthood came his way in 1926.
In Melbourne, at 80, James George Black.
A widely-travelled bachelor whose interests
were very comprehensive, embracing the Old
Colonists’ Home, Sailors’ Home, Navy League,
Sutherland Homes and Mount' Royal Homes
for the Aged.


S (with or withoUt 0 j C ytckers
C * a S*« e, 7,” C pnfi »f Wf
% M the \uke of itf *»
(j/«, i utile crsam, u _ >1 rtfain, p ou
syrup, and aU I 'hake or sttr welt, s soda-water-
Übroken ,ce. ‘ h f with voter (or
tumblers. M i%n ?
can get
\ CJP&
&
am Sasy-tb-mix refresher
\Ji
in
Cut it out for your recipe book; try it as
the family home-from-work drink.
The easy-to-get etceteras, plus the plentiful
stocks and pleasant quality of Vickers Gin,
make these helpful notions doubly welcome
Nowadays.
-famous since ITSq
IS*'**
%9&
Ackers
VG4S/1
In the 2oz> Pouchpak.
The long, even-burning strands of
Champion Ruby are Ready Rubbed
for easier rolling.
If sometimes your Champion Ruby is
~ in short supply—it is because of exist-
ing conditions. Ask for it as
however —your retailer will gladly
supply you when he can.
Also In Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe.
★ Buy Security Loan Bonds
the SETVICE MAN
Russia and China.
“Ek Dum”: After bluffing to the last
moment, Moscow began to withdraw
troops from Persia and promised to com-
plete the withdrawal within six weeks, it
nothing “unforeseen” happens. While
Dr. Evatt and Mr. E. Ward are
full of confidence that Russia (holy
to Mr. Ward) has no aggressive inten-
tions, her moves and those of her friends
on the Pacific side of the world are of
more importance to Australians than her
manoeuvres in Persia.
What is happening in China is indeed
of great moment to Australians, especially
since Australians are being subjected to a
“foreign policy” which, active or inert,
is always on the side of Russia. The
Manchurian position will at least cost
Australia something in reparations.
On February 25 an agreement was
signed between General Chang Chih-
chung, for the Central Government, and
General Chou En-lai, for the Communists,
and by General Marshall, U.S. Ambas-
sador. Under this agreement the forces
of the two Chinese parties were to be
fused into a single army. The Chinese
National Army was to be reduced to
50 divisions and that of the Communists
to 10 divisions within 18 months. The
two forces were to be merged under
General Chiang Kai-shek’s command.
While the agreement was being signed,
however, it was reported that the Chinese
Central Government troops and the Com-
munists were involved in combat 35 miles
from Mukden, the Communists having
begun an assault on Simnin with a view
to disrupting railway communications and
hampering Chiang’s occupation of Man-
churia,
The Manchurian “Evacuation”
Manchuria is supposedly being
abandoned by the Russians. They, in
complete contravention of their agree-
ments, had first of all
(а) Disposed of all Japanese troops who,
instead of being sent to their homeland
under the specific armistice terms, have
disappeared off the face of the earth
either incorporated in the Red Army or
relegated to slave labor. That is, if there
were any Jap troops.
(б) Stripped Manchuria of till factory
equipment, rolling stock and other material.
(c) Established military rule of war-time
rigidity at Dairen and in Sakhalin and the
Kuriles.
The withdrawal from Manchuria (if
it is a withdrawal) was implemented by
Moscow with boorish reluctance only
after there had been vigorous popular
demonstrations in Chinese cities and in
Mukden, at which posters were carried
bearing such slogans as “Down With
Aggression! ” and “No More Concessions
to Russia!” Moscow Radio immediately
advertised that these demonstrations had
been “organised by the Chinese Govern-
ment.” This Dr. Wu, the Chinese In-
formation Minister, immediately and
emphatically denied.
The Kuomintang Central Executive
met on March 7, and doubts were ex-
pressed by members about the sincerity
of the Communists’ intentions under the
new military agreement. A memoran-
dum by 34 members called on the Com-
munists to put national* before partisan
agreements, to “give up their indepen-
dent armed forces” and “discard their
intention to wrest power by force.”
At the same time the Chinese military
authorities reported that 1,255,000
Japanese troops in China had been
moved, and that 439,661 Japanese p.-0.-w.
and civilians had been repatriated with
U.S. help.
That week, the first in March, Mos-
cow suddenly reported that Russian
troops had been withdrawn from Muk-
den. The Chinese Government had not
been notified. The thing was obviously
a trick to allow Chinese Communists to
take over Mukden before the rightful
owners could hear of it. Attacks on the
communications of the city a few days
earlier showed that the whole thing was
a Russian-Chinese-Communist plan.
The Russian “Strays”
General Marshall was recalled to
Washington for consultation, and mean-
while Communist troops, surprisingly
well armed with Japanese weapons,
fought the Chinese Government troops
in Mukden and along Chinese communi-
cation lines. Chiang’s Chinese have dis-
covered frequently when they have taken
Chinese Communist posts, and particu-
larly artillery posts, that their captives
include Russian officers and non-coms.
These account for themselves as
“strays” from the Red Army. Usually
their “strayings” seem to have been well
classified ; e.g., artillery officers have the
habit of straying into Communist gun-
posts. In fact, there is some evidence
that what is really happening is that the
Russians are making war on China with
Chinese Communist troops.
Britain and U.S. Protest
Meanwhile Chinese and U.S. Notes pro-
testing against the removal of machinery
from Manchuria to Russia —in effect,
wholesale theft of joint Allied property—
were left unanswered (as were the British
and U.S.A. Notes on the doublecrossing
in Persia). On March 15 the Lon-
don “Times” wrote: “The fact has
prompted a suggestion in [Washington]
official quarters that Moscow is relying
on the old injunction that if a letter is
left unanswered long enough it will
answer itself.”
On March 18 it was stated in the House
of Commons that on March 9 the British
Government had joined the Americans
and Chinese in their protest against the
looting of Manchurian industrial plants.
Next day it was announced that the
Far Eastern Reparations Commission had
reached a stalemate because Russia re-
fused to include Manchuria in any plan
for securing reparations from Japan. As
a reward for her bloodless progress
through this part of the Chinese north,
after Japan had been beaten, Moscow
claims the whole swag. The Japanese
property available for reparations was
calculated to be worth £A718,000,000.
Australia, of course, is affected, but
it looks as if whatever Moscow says will
be all right with “Labor.”
Soviet Spies in Canada.
“Ek Dum”: The trials of the Canadian
Soviet agents were opened over the week-
end with evidence by Gousenko, the Rus-
sian code clerk, who declared that Fred
Rose, one of the accused, a “Labor-Pro-
gressive” (Communist) member of the
Canadian House of Commons, and Sam
Carr, the national organiser of the party,
were recruiting agents for the Soviet spy
ring in Canada.
Gousenko declared that the N.K.V.D.
(Russian secret police) was operating on
a widespread scale in Canada, and that
in his opinion its operations were con-
nected with preparations for war. Docu-
ments which he produced proved that the
“Canadian” Communist party acted as a
base for Russian operations.
The prosecution’s dossier included a
letter from an “undercover agent” who
signed himself “Back,” written on March
28, 1945, while the wars with Germany
and Japan were still in full swing, giving
details of nuclear physics developments
which were even more secret than those
of radar. The letter was allegedly written
by Captain Luman, of the Canadian In-
formation Department, one of the ac-
cused ; and Gousenko identified a com-
munication mentioning a payment of 100
dollars to “Back” as emanating from
Lieut.-Col. Rogov, of the Soviet Embassy.
Meanwhile Moscow Radio continues
to pour vituperation on the head of the
mild and philanthropic Mackenzie King,
whom it calls —often in German —a “war-
monger.” And the Canadian Government
continues to show its confidence in the
lengths to which Russians will go on
Canadian soil by keeping Gousenko under
heavy protective guard. A “high Cana-
dian official” declared that he had risked
his life by giving evidence.
Four more men have been arrested—
Squadron-leader Matt Nightingale, Dr.
Raymond Boyer, assistant professor of
chemistry at McGill University, Harold
Gerson, of a Crown explosive plant, and
Dr. David Shugar.
In London, Dr. Alan Nunn May was
charged at Bow-street with communicat-
ing secret reports on atomic energy and
giving specimens of a new and very secret
material connected with atomic research
to persons in Canada whom he refused
to name. The accused was committed for
trial and bail was refused.


Commonwealth of Australia.
Australian Wool Realisation Commission.
DIRECTION TO PERSONS HOLDING
SHEEPSKINS.
/o? ursu , a ? lt to Relation 9 of the National Security
Regulations, the AUSTRALIAN WOOL
REALISATION COMMISSION hereby directs that all
sheepskins carrying wool Jin. in length and up avail-
.”V * or ex P°rt shall be submitted for appraisement
in the s.ore of a. Sheepskins Export Packer approved
in accordance with Regulation 15 of the said Regu-
lations not later than the 15th day of June, 1946.
- persons who hold sheepskins carrying wool lin.
1? .’l*’ b an d U P available for export are notified
that if such sheepskins are not submitted for appraise-
ment before the 15th day of June, 1946, the export
Ir not P ermitt »l before or after the
30th day of June, 1946.
Mnlhnnrmi TLT U r C. LEIGH, SeCietaiy.
Melbourne, March 15, 1946.
Start the Next Financial Year with
PROGRESSIVE
TAXATION SERVICE
and have your books written up pro-
gressively by experts approved by the
Taxation Board.
We supply specially printed account books.
Prepare final accounts for Traders, Pro-
fessions and Primary Producers. Compile
and lodge taxation returns,
“PROGRESSIVE TAXATION SERVICE”
Box 353, Post Office, Haymarket, Sydney.
Phone UJ5693.
Two* cis'rV.i
for SERVICE MEN & WOMEN
nPHERE are men and women in the Armed
Forces of the United Nations who, but for the
war, might now be established authors. It is
to encourage such as these, that three firms have
joined together to offer a Prize of £1,500 plus
royalties, plus £5OO option for film rights, plus
moneys for translations, etc. The sponsors of this
UNITED SERVICES BOOK CONTEST are:
GEO. G. HARRAP, PUBLISHERS, LONDON & SYDNEY
THOMAS Y. CROWELL, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK
COLUMBIA PICTURES CORPORATION. NEW YORK
Si LONDON
,9
I <w
| NEW YORK
LONDON
If you have served in ihe Armed Forces of the United Nations
at any time since Sept. 1939 and wish to submit a manuscript,
which may be fiction or. non-fiction, write for entry form to:
AUSTRALASIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.. 55 YORK ST.. SYDNEY
Illustrating a section o I
the Wunderlich pressed
steel partitions, installed
throughout the eleven
floors of the N.S.W.
Govt. Railways Adminis-
trative Building, Sydney.
wwr* ” ”
Mmnfp
mm
1
|i
m
M
■
„■
Wmm ■■ -
BSP ilii
■
■
m ■
a
m
mt.
>.
Wmmm
Immm
ms
Wfe’ife'Sl iPIII
4;.
< - :
PRESSED STEEL PARTITIONS
For the subdivision of offices, and large
floor areas. WUNDERLICH PRESSED STEEL PARTITIONS
are neat in appearance, hygienic, fire-resistant, and permit
of the secretion of wiring installations. They are capable
of being quickly installed. Subsequent changes to the floor
layouts involves little more than the costs of labour as the
standard units are easily dismantled and interchangeable
for re-erection in any other location.
'Phone or write tor further details;
c/er/ic/i
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. 'Phone; MX 2411.
♦
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
INVEST IN THE COMMONWEALTH SECURITY LOAN
The Australia First Cases.
“Ek Dum”: Dr. Evatt had a hard task
when he came to explain the details of
the Australia First cases to Parliament
on March 15. ■
These men had, on March 26 and 27,
1942, been accused by the Army Mini-
ster, Mr. Forde, of having been involved
in a conspiracy to make contact with
the Japanese, sabotage war facilities and
carry out large-scale assassinations. Tq,
this Mr. Curtin had added: —•
Twenty persons concerning whom a
prima facie case has been established by
Military Intelligence have been interned. I
do not know if any more persons will be
arrested. The whole processes of law will
be invoked. The civil authority will
be directed to formulate charges on the evi-
dence available. I agree that there ought
to be no prejudicing of a fair trial of these
people
Dr. Evatt himself had said in “S. M.
Herald” (3 / 5 / ’44) that the internees were
“a group the leaders of which were pre-
pared to stab Australia in the back at
the period of our greatest peril.”
The safety of Australian soldiers and the
Australian people would have been placed
in greater peril had their agitation and
propaganda been successful... .Mr. Jus-
tice Clyne will, I hope, carefully dis-
tinguish in his report as to all the indi-
viduals concerned, directly or indirectly,
in the leadership of what was undoubtedly
a quisling, subversive, anti-Australian
and anti-British group.
Exoneration
Yet as'the result of the inquiry Mr.
Justice Clyne declared five of the so-
called leaders innocent. They were
persons whose leadership was stressed by
the Crown before the Commission —
Hooper, who was a joint controller of the
“Publicist” ; Masey, tutor of the speaker
classes and regular speaker at meetings ;
Bath, who was to chair the last meeting—
suppressed—which was to criticise Mr.
Forde ; Watts, a 1 wounded and decorated
Digger who died before the report was
issued and who had been on the execu-
tive, and Tinker Giles, the treasurer. Dr.
Evatt now said of them and of their
guiltless couple of associates —one, a
Gallipoli Digger, not even a member of
the Australia First Movement; —
I declare the eight men exonerated. I
even declare them free from taint. I de-
clare they are loyal men. I declare, too,
that they have been compensated. The
compensation has been drawn by all but
one. They will receive their legal costs at
the inquiry. I think that is their vindica-
tion. Nobody shall henceforward be able
to say with impunity anything to their
detriment in connection with this matter.
There were many things which Dr. Evatt
did not say. One was that after they
were let out security police harried them
for months —on one occasion a 73-year-
old member was ordered out of his sick-
bed by two police at three o’clock in
the morning and without any reason be-
ing given ordered to leave Sydney in-
stanter for Picton. The restriction of
the movements of the rest maintained a
presumption of their guilt. And in his
apology Dr. Evatt did not say that some
of them were ruined ; that one — the
wounded and gassed returned soldier
Watts —was dead in a military hospital
before vindication; and that the mother
of the Gallipoli veteran, Harley Matthews,
died not knowing that he had been com-
pletely vindicated and that the Security
Department had not a vestige of a charge
to offer against him in justification of
his ruin.
Mysteries to be Solved
And the doctor did not explain in his
speech why a number of leaders of the
Australia First Group—“subversive, quis-
ling, anti-Australian” and a danger to the
army and the nation, according to him —
were not arrested at all. This group of
leaders included the secretary and some
executive members. He did not say why
the movement was not banned or its
paper suppressed after the arrests.
And he did not explain that, though
the movement had been under his closest
surveillance (as he himself admitted in
Parliament three days before the arrests),
he had found no ground for interning the
leaders, even the two who were not given
compensation, P. R. Stephensen and Val
Crowley, and that no justification for
action against them, in fact, existed other
than the repeated demands of Com-
munists (on patriotic grounds!), until the
fake excuse of the Westralian conspiracy
was imported into the affair.
He, however, repeated that behind the
avowed objectives of the Australia First
Movement there was “undoubtedly a
group which was pro-Japanese, and en-
thusiastically pro-Japanese, even after
Japan came into the war. It was
pro-Hitler and pro-Fascist. There was
an anti-Jew attitude. There was un-
doubtedly an inner group. Included in
it in some way there were other groups
of men, which included the eight persons
exonerated by the Judge.”
On the basis of the evidence at the in-
quiry most of this is sheer nonsense. But
if it is not why did not Dr. Evatt or the
Government prosecute? The Govern-
ment declared at the time that it had a
prima facie case against all-the men, and
that all would be tried.
Mr. Archie Cameron pointed out in the
House on March 16 that, under the
Crimes Act, a person guilty of an inten-
tion to excite disaffection against the
Government or Constitution of any of
the King’s Dominions, including the
Commonwealth, was legally guilty of
seditious intention. To excite such dis-
affection in a time of war deliberately for
the benefit of an enemy would be treason.
Hie Ratliff-Thomas Precedent
Dr. Evatt himself had declared in rela-
tion to the Ratliff-Thomas pair of Com-
munists in July, 1941:
Labor will not tolerate any attempt to
imperil the security of this country. But
we think where Australian citizens are
alleged to be guilty they should be prose-
cuted in the ordinary course and should be
charged with some specific offence
These men were detained on the fiat of the
Minister. They were not charged with any
offence. They are not entitled to an open
trial the ordinary course of justice is
completely forgotten.
The Australia First cases are infinitely
worse than this, since the two Commu-
nists actually were fresh from a sentence
in jail for having plotted to sabotage war
industry on a large scale. Yet though
Dr. Evatt says that “undoubtedly” the
Australian Firsters were guilty of being
“enthusiastically” on the side of the
Asiatic enemy who was supposedly about
to invade the country, even when he re-
turned from America months later and
began to pose as a good fairy to the inter-
nees, no charges were laid.
Who Gave Costs?
The innocent were left under a stigma
for 34- years and were forced to secure
guarantees of thousands of pounds in
costs to defend themselves. Dr. Evatt to
Parliament: —•
Mr. Justice Clyne made no recommenda-
tion for payment of their legal costs; but
as it was shown that they were justified
in going to the Commissioner for vindi-
cation, and as they had had to meet the
expenses involved, I decided to recommend
that the Government pay their costs. It is
a substantial sum of money. The inquiry
lasted fourteen months and occupied sixty-
four sitting days.
The relevant matter which the Crown
produced at the inquiry could have been
produced inside a week. And the rest
of the statement is untrue. After the
eight Australia First men had been
cleared, they were blackened once more
by two statements by the Army Min-
ister, made under Parliamentary privi-
lege. After a long interval they were told
they could have the meagre sums granted
them by the Commissioner provided
they signed a portmanteau document ab-
solving all persons, legal, Government
and private, from liability for wrongful
acts done against them in connection
with the cases. It was put to them in
writing:
If you fail to accept the amount offered
within reasonable time there will be no
other alternative but to repay the amount
into Consolidated Revenue Fund.
They had the conditions removed only
after months of fighting.
The grant of costs was no generous and y
spontaneous act. The unfortunate men
were in the end compelled to brief counsel
to go specially before the Commissioner
long after the inquiry and ask for them.
His Honor recommended payment of
costs.
There is a lot more to be said about
these cases. The last has not been heard
of them by the Government, however
intent on washing its hands with invisible
soap in imperceptible water.
All the Australian servicemen in Timor,
save an officer and eight men, were
repatriated to Darwin last week in the
Manoora. The bulk of the force is from
the 2/40th, which received the surrender
of the Japs in the island. There are still
600 of the enemy at Koepang and 22,000
on Soembawa, commanded by Lieut.-
Gen, Yamada.
Two Japs, Sergt.-Major Masura Ina-
gaki, a military policeman, and Harno
Kirawa, were hanged at Rabaul on
March 20 for atrocities against local
Chinese and natives. Both asked for
sedatives before the execution.


M3N ‘SMOOB M3N
THE BEST PEATS 1944-45 AND THE YEAR
BOOK OF DRAMA IN AMERICA. Edited
by Burns Mantle, with illustrations. 22/6
(post. 6d.). “This book contains 27 plays,
index of authors, index of plays and casts,
index of producers, directors and designers.
MEN AND MANNERS IN AUSTRALIA. Being
a social and economic sketch history by J.
Allan. With numerous illustrations from
photographs. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
CENTRAL AUSTRALIA. By C. T. Madigan.
With numerous Illustrations from photo-
graphs. New edition. 15/- (post. 6d.).
PRINTING TO-DAY. By John C. Tarr, with
numerous photographic reproductions and
drawings. 6/6 (post. 4d.).
WORDS IN THE MAKING. How to use the
English language. By G. H. Vallins. 5/6
(post. 4d.),
THE MODERNS. Past, present and future.
By Jack Bilbo. Containing 60 reproductions,
nine of which are in colour. From Yan
Gogh, Cezanne, Picasso, Degas, Toulouse,
Lhutrec, etc. 33/3 (post. 6d.).
SOCIETY OF ARTISTS BOOK 1945-46. Con-
taining 80 reproductions, the work of 65
notable Australian artists. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
POST-WAE YACHTING. By Maurice Griffiths,
With numerous illustrations. 31/9 (post. 4d.).
A SHORT HISTORY OF JAPAN. By A. L.
Sadler, Professor of Oriental Studies, Uni-
versity of Sydney. With illustrations and
diagrams. 31/- (post. 6d.). “With all its
simplicity, its irony and wit, this is a funda-
mental work that no student of Japan can
afford to ignore.”
MODERN AMERICAN SHORT STORIES.
Edited with an introduction, critical and
biographical notes by Bennett Cerf. 10/6
(post. 6d.).
ENGLISH CRICKET. By Neville Cardus.
With coloured plates and twenty-one illus-
trations. 6/6 (post. 4d.).
HOW TO PLAY CRICKET. By Don Brad-
man. Illustrated. 3/6 (post. 3d.). Don
Bradman says “These methods are mine,
and as far as possible I play 100 per cent,
along the lines set out in this volume.”
STRANGE SUPERSTITIONS AND MAGICAL
PRACTICES. An authentic and fascinating
story of man’s conduct, customs and folk-
lore. "A ready reference on superstitions,
past and present, by Fielding. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.. 89 Castßereagh St., Sydney.
Jauxm
lEfclfTRI
ms
»wc»v
HVMI MAU VIM (CAN
,
\<7l> \
tub BOTTtJ.
UmPEim
sauce
I El
!, P
TOMATO
SAUCE
tSAWKi
B,
IEA AND PERRINS
mmmmm
mmm { m
■Mmm
■■:■ ■: ■
I iliW
mi'
7.
:
4.4
•••vx.-
■■■l
■
m .,.v
J - '
- AJVJ
' -
I
I
*
Keep oil
Buying
Savings Certificates
and Stamps,
umpic
TYRES
They're coming back ... the big value, big mileage
OLYMPICS which were always your first choice. Keep
in touch with your OLYMPIC dealer . . . confident that
OLYMPIC will oiler tomorrow's top value in tyres . . ■
and in the meantime . . . drive carefully, conserve yout
present tyres.
OLYMPK
RUBBER
insulated
ABIES
You'll get better service from synthetic tyres
by strictly observing speed limitations and
load and inflation recommendations.
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
"imiunm n"'IHE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IW AUSTRAUaI
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Canterbury on Saturday the 29,000 crowd
put a record of over £90,000 through the tote,
and bookmakers also reported exceptionally
heavy betting—not cheerfully, since three out-
right favorites, two equal favorites and a couple
of second favorites accounted for the seven
races
The photo-finish device was in operation,
and, obligingly, the noddies provided a succes-
sion of rattling close finishes"though the judge
called on the camera only twice. The nine-
furlongs Punchbowl Trial, in which the second
placing was in doubt, provided a good ex-
ample of an occasion when the camera could
be almost essential Tin Mine hung on well
and was a clear winner, but Generator, finish
mg on the inside, was obscured by both the
winner and Open Air, on the outside. The
camera showed that an accurate decision would
have been difficult from the judge s box, but
the view reflected by the mirror on the rails
cleariy indicated that Open Air was a couple
of whiskers to the good Open Air, met-
dentally, was finishing best of the trio, and is
very close to a win. Sancherie finished well
in fourth place, and should be able to win a
Maiden over 10 or 12 furlongs when the
opportunity offers.
• • • ‘ ‘ '
The judge again left it to the camera, and
was no doubt very glad to do so, in the Flying,
when the solidly-backed Silver Link produced
a powerful finishing effort to just' beat Rough
Caste and Lunar. Without the irrefutable evi-
dence of the camera one of those formerly
monotonous “demonstrations” would have
greeted whatever verdict was given. As it was,
there was vigorous betting after they had
passed the post, and it would do no harm all
round if betting on camera finishes could be
entirely prohibited.
Silver Link’s win was a particularly good
effort. With half a furlong to go he appeared
to have not the bolter’s chance. A four-year-
old gelding by Brueghel from Bren, Silver
Link has 8.6 in the Doncaster and 8.5 in the
Sydney Cup, and, while this win over seven
and a quarter furlongs raised the possibility of
his contesting the mile, his best performances
in the spring were over a fair bit of distance,
including his good second in the Melbourne
Cup. Three-year-olds Blue Legend and The
Gaekwar, both at long odds, finished handy to
the placegetters, The Gaekwar particularly
running a very promising race,
' ' ... , ’ ,
With Cordale a course withdrawal fro'
S.T.C. Handicap, the favorite became Cas
reagh, who at his previous start was a distant
third to Shining Night after suffering bad
interference. He duly landed the cash,
? ut Tf 6 . f ar ; n
length, while Thanks America was far off m
third place. Loyal March did*wdl. as he
parted poorly and trailed the field for half
ttie ln P- .....
Jh j boxes were emp i oyed for three
s(arts from t b he six . fur } ongs barrier, and they
revealed no apparent advantage sufficient to
warrant their £f der adoption . Certainly they
dispelled any suggestion that they ensure
or j ncide nt-free starts. Two starts
P considerably delayed by horses refusing
tQ enter the stal f S) and J th ose horses were then
gj ven tbe practically impossible job of trying
f j fro £ the d f stant H outsid e k
......
Bowturn seemed the bet of the day against a
me diocre bunch of maiden two-year-old colls
and geldings, and he started at a shade of
odds on / with the fairly speedy Beau Desire
sent to the outside, Bowturn found nothing to
trouble him, going on to win by four lengths
f rom wise Lad and Prince Consort'. It was
not much of a field for Bowturn to beat after
f a i{ ures in stronger company, but this Buzzard
co i t may improve a good deal. Huge for a
two-year-old, standing 17 hands, he is raced
b y Messrs. Bowes and Turner; hence his name,
a similar event for fillies went to Tattling,
and this daughter of Oro seems a good buy at
the 140 guineas she cost as a yearling. The
experience gained in her first start a week
previously was evidently needed; prior to that
run she was reported unbeaten in barrier trials
and track gallops. A pair who impressed in
this race were November and Gay Fly. Raced
respectively by Mrs. and R. Wootton, they
appeared very similar; fine-looking big chest-
nut fillies, both sired by Mid Kent. November
filled third place behind Summer Rose, with
Gay Fly a little further back,
' .. . ‘ ' . ‘ .
Two divisions of a six furlongs Welter went
respectively to the favorite Gay Monarch, who
got up to down Glencrag and Titanic, and the
equal favorite Atherdon, who led the second
division all the way, with Chantilly and
Bramalt closest at the end.
* * * *
The six-year-old Glideaway gelding Gyrone
gave a masterly exhibition of jumping in easily
winning the two-miles Beach Hurdle at Men-
tone on Saturday. Taken to the front with a
mile to go, he went out to a five-lengths lead,
and held it to the end, with the honest little
Tasmanian jumper Misogynist second and
Mitchell next. Misogynist battled on well,
but he’s a pony, and the 101 b. rise for his
Moonee Valley win was too much for' him.
With a light impost he should go well again,
even in better company than this. •
Weight also at last caught up with that
model of consistency Invasion Chief. Bur-
dened, after his three successive tearaway wins,
with the decided steadier of 9.7, the Valiant
Chief colt finished well back in the Berwick
Handicap field, the Actor gelding Drama com-
ing with a fast late run to down the favorite,
Lord Beaufort, a length, with Rimfire third,
Drama was getting nearly two and a halt
stone and the second topweight, Rimfire, over
a stone from .Invasion Chief.
. . . . . .
Rnfh H RaHoer anrf A Rreaslev rode
doubles. As noted here earlier, Badger is
definitely back to his best riding form again,
and he needed to be to land his winners,
having to drive the very heavily-backed Hel-
lenist hard to run down the rough outsider
General Cunningham, with Prince Negri third,
in the first division of the mile Dromana
Welter, and getting the Aztec gelding Bronx,
a former country performer, home a head in
front of Neutron, with Home James, Breasley’s
mount, a very promising third; in the second
division
.‘.. • • •
Breasley had an easy ride on the 6-to-4 on
favorite Bruin (Solar Bear-Ouragan), going to
the front after about a furlong in the seven-
furlongs Hume Juvenile and staying there to
win comfortably from Leading Role and
Cepheness. He completed his double with a
head win on the aged Treyford gelding Sir
Locket in the 13-furlongs Waverley Handicap,
with Balmoral next and Pledget third. Brum
is evidently a fairly good colt, but the distance
race did not look very impressive form.
The books, who took something of a pasting
altogether, had considerable relief when the
outsider Delano, another country performer,
downed Somers and River Hero in the six-
furlongs Autumn Stakes. As well as the winner,
Somers ran an excellent race, and should be a
reasonably good thing very shortly. So should
River Hero. This three-year-old son of
Hellespont and Rivette was a hot favorite,
though he had not had a run for many months,
On his showing he could now beat a field of
this calibre with ease.
* # • *
For the English Grand National, which will
be run on the Aintree course next week (April
5) for the first time since 1940, the Irish horse
Prince Regent (topweight) will be a stronger
favourite than ever after his solid win in the
Gold Cup at Cheltenham, where he led over the
last'mile and a half. The form would have
looked even better if the French challenger
Symbole hadn’t been debarred from the Gold
Cup because of an error of entry.
* ' ’ ‘ . '. . .' ,77
The Grand National topweight limit is 12./,
but the handicapper assessed Prince Regent at
21b. less, with Kargal (like Symbole, Frencn,
but since injured at Auteuil) given 12st. ana
Symbole 11.11. Half the big field entered were
allotted the minimum, lOst. It says something
for the punting hardihood in such events that,
while 3 to 1 is the accepted price for any starter
completing the Amtree course, Prince Regent
will probably be at less than dipuble that figure
to win. Moreover, he’s now rising 11, though
its generally a grandfatherly field this year.
A further comment on the P unt ‘ng ,har di hood
is that no horse carrying 12.5 or more has won
the Grand National since Poethlyn m WW,
and only two others in close on half acentury—
Jerry Min 1912 and Manifesto m 1899. The
race was first run in 1839, and has been he d
yearly at Amtree ever since except when Britain
was at war. *
.. f„ rrn « r
S.A. has decided to return to lts •
Anzac Day observance and hold a ra^-meeting,
with other sports, after the serious march ana
service in the morning. The S.A.J.C. gives the
Morphettville course, with no members prm-
leges, all proceeds going to toe Distressed
Soldiers Fund On the other hand, the tree
admission to all racecourses at al times of ah
servicemen and -women will end in y,
the present season winds up.
, , , rniror „, at
F. W Hughes who has seveial starters at
practically every Sydney meeting, a
his colors on top there a * dm Newcastle and
Melbourne on the same day, can *b
be racing m a very small and modest way
compared to the English woman owner Miss
Dorothy Paget. Including multiple entries,
Miss Paget had no fewer than 60 on the cam
at the National Hunt meeting at Cheltenham
earlier this month.
* ~, , u
Breaking of £ s. d. records has bccoma
an almost weekly affair m racing, and more
were duly shattered at the Brisbane yearlong
sales, held at the Exhibition Grounds. ine
previous best sale was m 1944, when
yearlings went for 13,820 a y e^a^ a B
over 260 guineas. Last year 74 fetched 17,760
guineas, averaging 240 guineas, with 625
guineas top auction price. This year 97 y ar-
ings were sold for 29,665 guineas, an nverage
of over 305 guineas. Four went for 1000
guineas or more, and another was passed in at
1150 guineas. The Queensland record for a
yearling is the 1300 guineas paid for Cheviot-
dale in 1923 by the late T. M. Ahern. This
was equalled at the latest sales, when former
jockey R. Bougoure paid a similar sum tor a
colt by Laureate from Ross Cor.
„ * * . , c . ,
From William Inghs and Son a catalogue
for their yearling sales to be hdd at the New-
market stables commencing Tuesday, April
23, and continuing through Wednesday and
Friday. A tip-top production in itself, packed
with horse information, the catalogue lists 544


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 4052 of 1944.
TO BERYL IVY RICHARDS late of 17 Margaret
Street Strath field. —TAKE NOTICE that a decree for
restitution of conjugal rights dated 29/11/1945 has
been made against you in a suit by your husband
EDWARD HENRY RICHARDS the Petitioner re-
quiring you within 28 days from service of the decree
to return home to him and render to him conjugal
rights and requiring you within 4 days after expira-
tion of the said 28 days to file in the registry of
the Court a certificate of compliance with the de-
cree AND TAKE NOTICE that by an order made
on 14/3/1946 substituted service of the said decree
and usual notices is to be made by publication of
this Notice once each in a Sydney daily newspaper
and a Sydney weekly newspaper within 21 days of
the making of such Order and such substituted
service to be deemed complete 30 days after date
of such publication AND TAKE NOTICE that the
home to which you are to return is Number 17
Margaret Street Strathfield AND that the conse-
quence of your noncompliance with the decree is that he
may at once present a petition asking for a decree for
judicial separation or for dissolution of marriage
ON application to the undersigned solicitor you will
be supplied with the reasonable expenses for your
return Service is to be taken as complete on the
first day of May 1946 from which day the 28 days
in which you are to return home will commence to
run DATED this nineteenth day of March 1946. —
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
ERNEST PATRICK WHITE, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce,
TO DONALD McOALL GRAHAM late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARJORIE GRAHAM has filed a
petition for divorce Number 5336 of 1946 against
you on the_ grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 19th day of April 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from ADRIAN C. R.
TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—•
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JAMES HEATHERILL (also known as Thomas
Banks) late of Homeville in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that Hilda Ellen
Heatherill has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1749 of
1945 on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the first day of May One thousand nine hundred
and forty six and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. W. Fraser & Parkinson
Solicitors 51 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS PATRICK DOHERTY late of 3(
Rawson Street Newtown N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICI
that Edna May Doherty has filed a Petition foi
Divorce No. 3812 of 1944 on the ground of drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and upwards I
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance ii
rce Registry Supreme Court Sydney bv
the 25th April 1946 and obtain a copy of th<
Petition without charge from C. W. Robinson
s™ 74 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K
DODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
IF FRANK HENRY CRAMLING, formerly of M
bourne, sometime in Traralgon district, will co
municate with MESSRS. WEIGALL & CROWTHE
he l wm r fi Pa of 459 ,,¥ tt1e Collins Street, Melbour:
he will hear something to his advantage.
I^™^? ne TT lcnowin S the whereabouts of Ml
t HE ™RY (widow of CRAWFO:
HENDRY), formerly of Richardson Street, Mid
Park, but last heard of in Sydney, communicate w
Solicitor. H:
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities -will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globitel
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
RDNALDSDNTIPPETT
ENGINES
are coming off the production lines!
Type C.F.
5, Gi & 8 h.p.
At the moment we say: Get your order
in. Delivery may not be immediate, but
at least it will be reasonably early.
Buyers may be sure that the traditional
quality is in every post-war Rohaldson-
Tlppett Engine.
'JpHROUGH the war years our hands
were full, so to speak, with
Defence orders, but, nevertheless, by
careful planning, we were able to
satisfy a small though very important
section of “civilian” users, the
Primary Producers of Australia.
In Peace we are doing our
best to meet delayed deliveries
arid to reach that happy stage
where we shall be able to keep
abreast (and, later, ahead) of
orders. _
hi j
Type C.H. 3i h.p
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 JJourko Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Paxbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
lots, representing 135 breeders and the progeny
of 83 sires. Only a few Ajaxes are offered,
and one of the best prices may be bid for a
bay colt by that sire from Intuition, the dam
of Tel Asur. Other interesting lots are full
brothers to Shannon, Katanga, All Love,
Laudus, Castle Frontenac, Jamelie, Flying
Cloud and Castlereagh, and full sisters to
Cragsman, Warlock, Four Square and Mentone.
* * * *
Photo-finish, which is to be set up at Rand-
wick as soon as the A.J.C. can manage it, is
also being introduced in England. It is ex-
pected to be installed there on the Newmarket
Rowley Mile course in time for the Craven
meeting, which begins on April 9.
* * * *
Mention was recently made here of America’s
leading trainer for last year, Tom Smith, having
appealed against disqualification for a year in
connection with alleged doping of a neddie
called Magnific Duel. The appeal has since
been dismissed by the U.S. Jockey Club, but
now, according to Tom’s attorney, it goes to
the law courts. Tom, incidentally, trained for
Mrs. Graham, last year’s winning owner.
* * * *
The American-bred War Admiral was
America’s leading sire for 1945, ahead of such
notable importations as Challenger, Bull Dog,
Sickle, Mahmoud, Blenheim and Sir Gallahad
111. War Admiral’s progeny won 58 races worth
$588,997. The previous sires’ money-winning
record —$437,000 by Equipose stock in 1942
was last year also beaten by Challenger
($460,000) and Bull Dog ($439,000), which alone
indicates the increasingly big money in racing
over there.
Further on the money in racing in America.
By winning the recent Santa Anita Derby the
Discovery’ colt Knockdown credited his woman
owner, Mrs. Elizabeth Graham, with $94,680,
the race this year having $lOO,OOO added money;
hitherto the stake was $50,000. Knockdown
cost Mrs. Graham only $2OOO as a yearling and
now has won $113,945.
* * * *
The recently-imported young stallion High
Peak (Hyperion-Leger Day), fifth in Dante’s
Derby, is going to the stud in Victoria. A
heavy tax which only operates if an imported
horse races in this country has decided his
South Australian importer, H. Nitschke, against
racing him as intended. This is possibly a dis-
guised blessing, as horses trained to the Eng-
lish manner of riding and English racing con-
ditions frequently have pot fulfilled expecta-
tions when raced here, and, with nothing much
to gain, it would be risking failure in local
races which would falsely detract from the
colt’s stud value. High Peak —by present
standards of horse value in England a bargain
at his reported cost of 10,000 guineas—has been
leased for a year to Kismet Park stud, where
he will stand at a fee of 300 guineas. The
AJ.C. handicapper intended taking no risk
with High Peak, awarding him 9.1 for the
Sydney Cup. Only St. Fairy (9.6) and Craigie
(9.5) were rated higher.
* * * *
Those “long-range” (or should it be long-
haired?) planners who seem itching to have a
finger in everything these days may have got
their inspiration from the nomination condi-
tions of the American Futurity Stakes. Entries
for that U.S. classic event have to be made
before the foals are born! The 1948 entries
are now in, totalling 1621. Even that still falls
short of the record figure of 2109 back in 1929.
* * * *
About 5600 baby colts and fillies were regis-
tered with the U.S. Breeding Bureau last year
—a tidy tally, even though just on 1000 short
of the 1942 record crop. A comment by an
American sporting writer may suggest one of
the reasons why England stays at the top in
thoroughbred breeding: “Fantastic prices paid
for yearlings during the war encouraged some
breeders in America to use every mare possible,
irrespective of age or quality, in the belief
that every one of her yearlings would bring a
large profit. But the more conservative and
intelligent members of the industry refrained
from such practice, declaring that increased pro-
duction of bad horses would clutter up the
racetracks 'and do irreparable harm to their
business and the sport of racing in the long
run.” Of that U.S. 1942 record crop, close on
40 p.c. never got to the races because of in-
firmities, sickness or lack of quality, while no
fewer than 2423 of the 6580 competed in three
or more races and failed to win the price of an
oat.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
York Two-year-old: Superfort, 1; Euryalus,
2; Flying Duke, 3. Mercury Maiden: Prince
Regent, 1; The Gaekwar, 2; Fairness, 3.
Burma Three-and-four-year-old: Magnificent,
1; Open Air, 2; Monmouth, 3. Lord Louis
Mountbatten Cup: Craigie, 1; Tahmoor, 2;
Cragsman, 3. H.M.S. Kelly Handicap: Cor-
dale, 1; Shining Night, 2; Loyal March, 3.
Commando Encourage: With 77 nominated,
this race will probably be divided. Rose Glory,
Ophir, Prince Midas, Pennicuik, Pearler and
The Doctor should be close to the money.
* * * *
American sporting writer Grantland
Rice, in N.Y. “Sun,” says that for the
Davis<Cup America must bank largely on
Frank Parker, Billy Talbert and possibly
Kramer and Schroeder if they can get
out of service, in time to reach form.
Rice adds: “You will discover no Big
Bill or Little Bill in this group—the pair
who brought the Cup home in 1920 after
World War I. But it will be an experi-
enced team that can at least put up a
good front. We are inclined to agree
that the Cup will remain in the land of
the Southern Cross.”
* * * *
The Australian Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion stood to its guns, despite pressure,
and refused permission for Pails hnd
Bromwich to go abroad. The Davis Cup
finals are set down for December 26-28,
and seating at Kooyong (Vic.) has been
increased to hold 18,000.
* * * *
In the U.S.A. Norman Brookes was
asked by a sporting scribe to name his
choice of the greatest tennis player of
all time. Said the old Davis Cup player:
“That’s easy. Bill Tilden. He came
closer than anyone else to being the
‘complete player.’ All he lacked was the
volleying ability of Vinnie Richards, a
volleyer whose skill never has been
approached. Even at that, though, Tilden
was nearest to perfection.”
* * * *
Australians in M.L.: —
Otago’s first-innings 168 was the best M.L.
opening score so far (Auckland made 138 and
Canterbury 141), and the second-innings 347
was the highest M.L. total in any single essay
(Auckland’s 261 was next-best). Hadlee’s 198
was the finest single effort for many years.
To the end of the Otago match some of the
Australian batting averages look healthy. In
three fixtures Brown had scored 342 runs,
averaging 85.5, Hassett 218, averaging 72.66,
Meuleman 219, averaging 54.75, Barnes 164,
averaging 54.66, and Miller 281, averaging
70.25. O’Reilly had taken 20 wickets for
264, Toshack 9 for 162, Barnes 8 for 77, Lind-
wall 7 for 228, McCool 5 for 151, Johnson 5
for 130 and Dooland 2 for 125.
W. A. Hadlee,. M.L. captain in the first
Test against Australia, is one of the bul-
warks of Dominion cricket. After playing
against the M.C.C. team in M.L. in 1937 he
went later in the year with Page’s XI to Eng-
land and piled up 1225 runs, averaging 29.87 —
the best being 106 v. Essex. In Tests his
figures were 151 runs, averaging 25.16, includ-
ing a defensive 96 (out of 180) in the second
Test at Manchester.
Young K. Meuleman (Vic.) is definitely the
“find” the Australian selectors have been lock-
ing for as opener with Brown. Since the tour
began the pair have put on 96 v. Auckland,
114 v. Canterbury and 118 and 60 v. Otago.
Fingleton and Brown were the last trustworthy
openers for Australia. In Test cricket v. Eng-
land Woodfull and Ponsford (162 at Lords,
159 at The Oval, 106 at Manchester) and
Collins and Bardsley (123 at Sydney, 117 and
116 at Melbourne) have done best; but the
record of 180 was made by Bardsley and Syd
Gregory at The Oval in 1909. Against
S’Africa Brown and Fingleton put up 233 at
Capetown on New Year’s Day, 1936. In Aus-
tralian first-class cricket Woodfull and Mayne
hold the record with 456 for Victoria v.
Queensland in 1923-24.
Winning the toss, Wellington batted on a
soft wicket, and was out for 94. Rowe and
“Sundries” (each 22), Crawford and Wilson
(12 each) alone got double figures. Dooland
bagged 3 for 16, Johnson 3 for 31, Toshack 2
for 18 and Miller 1 for 7. Against a weak
attack the Australian batsmen ran up 415, of
which Hassett (114, his second century on the
tour; the other was 121 v. Canterbury), Barnes,
Hamence and Miller (46 each) and McCool
(44) got the bulk. Buchan’s 4 for 99 was the
best of the bowling. Still, six of the tourists
were dean-bowled —a rarity in big cricket.
The Marylebone C.C. tour in Australia, to
open at Perth on October 11, is to run to 23
matches, one fewer than in 1936-37. Two Tests
will be played in Sydney and one each in
Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide. All the
States are provided for, and matches are also
listed against country Xl’s. In the last series
of Tests in Australia England won the first by
322 runs, the second by an innings and 22
runs; Australia won the third by 356 runs,
the fourth by 148 runs and the fifth by an
innings and 200 runs.
Looking well ahead, the Australian Board of
Control has definitely mapped out future pro-
grammes. An Indian team will come here in
1947-48, and Australians go to England in
1948 and to S’Africa in 1949-50.
* * * *
“Mark Patch”; Discussing probable
Australian representatives for the 1948
Olympic Games at London, the Austra-
lian Amateur Athletic Union’s president
did not include Graham McLachlan in
his possibilities; he named Dunn and
Treloar as the only immediate prospects.
If trials are held over the Olympic dis-
tances of 100 metres and 200 metres Mc-
Lachlan is likely to demonstrate he is the
best Australian sprinter since Jimmy Carl-
ton.
* * * *
Other present champions besides Vic
Patrick who favor the southpaw stance
are Jackie Paterson and R. Gallacher,
respective holders of the British pro-
fessional and the Scotch amateur
flyweight titles. Gallacher represented
Britain in the recent all-divisions
amateur clash with France at Wejm-
bley, and was one of Britain’s five
winners to three; France’s share, the
fedder, cruiser and heavy.
* * * *
Except in point of gameness, Art
Davis, figuring in a welterweight bout with
Clarrie Gordon at the Sydney Stadium,
failed to live up to the reputation he
brought from Brisbane. Davis was out-
paced and outpunched by Gordon, who
hails from M.L. After winning the first
three rounds, Gordon early in the fourth
brought Davis’s guard down with a left
to the body. This opened wide a way to
the Queenslander’s chin for a right that
felled him for the full count and broke
his jaw.
* * * *
It would have been an agreeable change
for the customers Md Tommy Colteaux
and A 1 Walker shaped up masked or in eye
bandages for their latest fight (the tenth )
at Leichhardt. Colteaux surprised by
sending many a perfectly delivered left
to Walker’s countenance. Walker could
not stop or get away from these punches,
and for his own part he landed seldom
and with small effect. All the same he
got the decision. The ensuing protests
could have been heard in Pyrmont.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
This city has been agog to meet the
Supreme Allied Commander South-East
Asia, Lord Louis Mountbatten, and his
charming wife, who after a 20-hour flight
direct from Singapore landed at Can-
berra on Sunday morning, to be wel-
comed by the admiral’s cousin, the Duke
of Gloucester. The Mountbattens’ pro-
gramme for their brief Melbourne visit
before leaving for Sydney is strenuous,
including a civic do, a Government House
reception and fetes’by the Red Cross and
the Royal Empire Society.
From all parts of Victoria came 1000
members of the A.I.F. Women’s Asso-
ciation to take tea with Lady Dugan £t
Government House, on the occasion of
their final meeting as an association.
Members strolled on the sunlit lawns of
the fountain court and listened to
music supplied by the Public Service
Military Band. Later, in the ballroom,
afternoon tea was served from long
tables decorated with bowls of mixed
flowers. The Governor’s wife wore a
a , smart blue-and-white-spotted jumper-
suit with a royal-blue straw hat trimmed
with matching velvet. Chief Justice Ed-
mund Herring, who, until the arrival of
the Governor, bravely held alone the
masculine fort, was accompaned by his
lady, who was president of the associa-
tion. She wore a floral frock under a
navy coat, with a small navy hat. Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, the Lady Mayoress, had
on a smart black wool jumper-suit with
a touch of white at the neckline and a
large black straw hat. Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell was another who chose black,
but highlighted it with a small, gay
flower hat. * Mrs. A. Lord, secretary to
Lady Dugan, was in navy blue; her
small hat of straw featuring the new
high crown was trimmed with tiny bows
of navy-blue grosgrain ribbon.
Most interesting news was told by
Mrs. Vasey, widow of Major-General
Vasey. She has formed the War Widows’
Guild, whose purpose is to assist these
women to add to their pension. They are
encouraged to work at home, and the
guild will find a market and sell their pro-
ducts. Women who live in the country
will be included, and they will receive
postal instructions in any course they
want to do. If it is necessary for a
woman to come to town to spend a little
time, polishing up what she has learned,
the guild will pay someone to go to her
home and care for her children. Mrs.
Vasey feels sure that the War Widows’
Guild will fulfil a want.
More than £9OOO was raised by the
recent radio drive for the Florence
Nightingale War Nurses’ Trust. This was
stated proudly by the chairman, knight
Thomas Nettlefold, at a recent meeting
held to wind the drive up. Of this
money over £BOO was raised by- women
journalists and radio women at their
Radio Riot. Amount in hand is more
than £20,000, but the goal is £50,000.
The trust will assist nurses returned from
service in the 1939-45 war who may need
help in the future. The chairman was
so delighted with the effort of the radio
women and women journalists that he
asked them to make Radio Riot an
annual event. This was promised, and
already plans are iq hand for the func-
tion, which will be held later in the year.
A band of zestful youngsters has
formed the southern auxiliary for the
Tweddle Babies’ Hospital. To raise funds
Mary Carlson gave a cocktail party, high-
light of which was a Krazy Hat competi-
tion. Mary’s freak chapeau was a brightly
colored Chinese lantern, in which was
concealed a music box. Margaret Camp-
bell, one of the ticket secretaries, topped
her tresses with three large water-lilies,
from which dangled red fish. David
Campbell brought his fiancee, Shirley Rey-
nolds, who hails from W.A.; his effort
was a colander decorated with carrots,
parsley and turnips. Young medicoes
who had a good time were David and
Tom Cordner and Lance and Cyril Lan-
sell. The lass who landed the prize had
a small wire cage resting on her locks ;
it contained, of all things for a girl, two
mice! The party was followed by a river
trip on the Fairyland. The do raised £5O
for the good cause.
Beautiful flowers from private gardens
and tall golden privets decorated Earls
Court' when the Debutante Return Bail
of the Catholic Welfare Organisation was
held. There were 10 young hostesses, and
they made a delightful picture as, dressed
in white deb. frocks and wearing red,
white and blue sprays, they advanced in
stately measure up the ballroom to pre-
sent posies to the official party and then,
after curtseying, waltzed away with their
partners. Mrs. J. J. Daly, president of
the T C W ° > S Delahenty and
M . !SS^ S / K une £ un f on and Pratt f e :
c A e > ved official party, which included
Admiral , and I 1 ? 5
sister, Hon. Mrs. Ronald Douglas, Air
an l <^eo^8 e
th e Loi d Mayor ’ Q - . R - Connelly, and the
Lady Mayoress, Be . rnard Hein “*
v e French Naval Attache, Commander
e [ Ve il a ’ and French Military Attache,
• Renu cci, were also among the
Suests.
The Pretty girl pictured here in this
Sr the queens sponsored by the M>ei
Emporium for the monster carnival in
aid of the Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain
r- * t,
p “ n ,l P,V tore , has nom ! nated e ‘B h
, s ' ;ing a f ‘"f*
° n h e „ the Dreonly ' ~,T hK e ° ?e
r i es t e most money wi 1 be I te
?“ een Renting the store, and she will
*f" e 2 ter ag “ n f <l u ““ ch< f. cn by ma ” y
° firms. Helen McDonald, a member
of thc carnival committee, is impartially
helping all the girls in the store. She also
has a stall at the Government House Chil-
dren’s Carnival, and the eight queens will
give her every assistance as saleswomen.
It will cost adults one shilling to enter
the carnival and children sixpence.
School children are rallying round, for
they are anxious that British children
will get many of the good things that they
themselves accept on their own tables as
a matter of course.
The Tallis wing of the Conservatorium
was gay with pink gladioli and dahlias
when the Old Students’ Association gave
a reception in honor of Madame Lili
Kraus and her husband, Dr. Otto Mendl.
Speeches of welcome were made by the
president of the Con., J. A. Steele, and
Vice-Chancellor of the Uni., J. D. G.
Medley.
Two exhibitions have aroused great in-
terest in this city. One was held at the
Myer Art Gallery, which housed a splen-
did collection of pictures, all donated.
Tickets were £5 55., and the first number
drawn entitled the winner to first choice,
with every ticketholder participating in the
draw. Proceeds were for the French
Artists’ Relief Fund. Mrs. Phillips Fox
was responsible for gathering the collec-
tion, and M. Auge, French Minister,
came from Canberra for the official
opening.
The second exhibition was at George’s
Gallery, where William Prater showed his
works. The Clapp lady, soignee in dusty-
pink ensemble with a patterned blouse in
the same shadings and a small straw hat,
performed the opening ceremony. One
of the interested spectators was Mrs.
Douglas Stewart, who has just returned
from a holiday at Devonport, Tas. Her
news concerned the visit there of the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester ; at the
conclusion of their visit the royal couple
gave a reception to the residents by way
of saying “thank you” for respecting
their privacy and allowing them and the
two princes to have a wonderful holiday.
Lunching recently at the Australia were
GeneraT Berryman and his wife. They
are busy saying goodbye to friends be-
fore going to Sydney, where they will live.
Among old friends who said how sorry
they were to lose them were Mrs. Allan
Walters, wife of Air Commodore Walters,
and Mrs. Arthur Wilson, wife of Brigadier
Wilson.
From Sydney
Big excitement at the end of the week
will be the visit of Lord Louis Mount-
batten and Lady Louis Mountbatten.
They are timed to arrive on Friday about
midday, and after that the pair will be
chivvied socially till they depart for
Maoriland on Sunday. They will stay
at Admiralty House during their Sydney
visit. A State Government lunch at the
Australia, a civic reception at the Town
Hall, a cocktail party with the com-
mittee of King George’s Fund for Sailors,
a visit to the Captain Cook Dock and one
to the Returned Soldiers’ League at Anzac
House are among functions planned.
The voice of kindly Monsignor Meany,
of 2SM, torn between desire for a mon-
ster roll-up of the faithful to greet Syd-
ney’s new Cardinal on his homecoming
and fear that the threatening weather
might harm them, was a touching pro-
logue to the arrival of his Eminence for
the Liturgical reception at the Cathedral.
But in spite of admonition the Chil-
dren of Mary did not budge. The
policemen on duty proved that kind
hearts beat beneath their tunics, and en-
folded as many children as possible in
their splendid waterproofs. And when
the bells of St. Mary’s rang out, and cars
bearing the Cardinal and the Papal Legate
reached the Cathedral steps, the numbers
lining the way from the Registrar-
General’s office to the front entrance of
the. Cathedral were beyond count.
At the entrance Monsignor Collander
was waiting. Inside the Cathedral there
were soutaned and surpliced priests in
their hundreds ; a flash of purple denoted
the groups of Monsignori. The Cardinal
wore the long, flowing red silk cape of
solemn occasions. The Red Hat, symbol
of the new office, was borne on a cushion
by a high prelate. The “Te Deum” was
chanted.
It was a short ceremony within the
Cathedral. Then to the loud clap of greet-
ing and applauding hands Australian-born
Norman James Gilroy came out to speak
to his flock. His speech was brief and
warmhearted. He brought his listeners
greetings from the Vatican. He brought
a special blessing from the Pope. The
thousands kneeling in that wet and in-
clement afternoon were as happy to
receive as he looked giving it. The Car-
dinal had come home.
On Monday morning at half-past
eleven Lord Mayor Bartley, in full robes
of office, extended civic reception to Car-
dinal Gilroy. About 200 of Sydney's
leading citizens were there, too, to offer
congratulations. The reception was held
in the vestibule to the concert hall.
Matilda Etches, holding court among
the Ascher fabrics, shook hands with in-
numerable women and a score or so of
men last Wednesday afternoon. Midway
through the afternoon, when the sun was
burning on the windows of the New
Studio in Rowe-street, the tiny Yorkshire-
woman with the nice forehead and intelli-
gent eyes slipped across the road to the
Australia, which is her Sydney home,
and changed into the smartest of lounge
suits. Its slacks, and rather long coat
were pale buff, her shirt blouse a cinna-
mon tone. She was still excited over her
meeting with Mary Clapp, of Melbourne,
who in the past had designed clothes for
celebrities like Marie Tempest. Matilda,
who is a topranking dress-designer for
film and stage, has done notable work in
“Lisbon Story” and “Gaiety George.” But
she is tired of period pieces, and would
like to see stage and film stepping out
with our own times again.
All around the walls of the studio were
arranged the Ascher fabrics brought to
Australia by Miss Etches. Here were
scarves printed in designs by Felix Topol-
ski. Felix lets his pencil take the bit
between its teeth, and the result is a scarf
on which swapking arid prancing horse-
men are winning arguments as to right of
way from a mere pedestrian with um-
brella aloft. Nearby was a length of
nylon of Henry Moore imagining, a design
as delicate as a frosted pattern on a
window pane imprinted on its gossamer
surface. There were brave red and white
stripes by Cecil Beaton, and Paisley
designs on square scarves of finest
woollen. Luscious red peonies and roses
glowed on glossy satin.
Everybody raved over the busy little
number on spun rayon depicting in
nervous vivid strokes a naval base in
the British Isles at the height of the battle
of the Atlantic. Lucky buyers at the
auction for the Red Cross were H. M.
Macken, who scored a length of pale-
blue nylon, its pattern by Christian
Berard, for 65 guineas, and Rodney
Dangar, who bought two lengths.
Pretty little Miss Carlotta Doyle, who
died last week, has left many friends
sorrowing. Carlotta, who was one of the
founders of the Women Pioneers’ Society
and for many years its honorary secre-
tary, was a true Australian. She was
descended from Andrew Doyle, a mili-
tary gentleman who came to Australia in
1803, and from Andrew MacDougali, of
H.M. Navy, who arrived in Sydney in
1798. First homes of the two ancestors
were out Windsor and Baulkham Hills
way. Later there was a well-known
Doyle property: Ulinbawn, on the
Hawkesbury. Narrabri and Maitland
also knew the families.
Gualtiero Volterra, smiling happily, a
man with his job restored to him, got to
work on the concert grand in the Town
Hall last week, and with the background
of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra gave
his audience a feast of the real Chopin
in that composer’s E minor concerto.
Mr. Volterra, who had played in almost
every capital of the world before coming
to Australia, is a born player of Chopin
—sensitiveness and good taste marked the
entire work. The concert was for the
Red Cross Food for Britain appeal, and
the Town Hall might have been more
tightly packed. However, the audience
was a very musicianly one.
It was rather social and Darling Point-
ish, too. Mrs. Volterra’s father and
mother, the Bertie Kellys, and her sister
Mrs. McPhillamy, of Bathurst, ' were
applauders. They were in company with
Lieutenant-Governor Frederick Jordan.
Not far away sat the Charles Lloyd Jones
couple, an emerald like a miniature
lagoon pendant from her diamond
necklet, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, Mrs.
Claude Plowman, the Colmans, Mrs,
Boyer and the Moses couple of the
A.8.C., pianist Trixie Tange, Mrs. A. E.
McCartney, and the ever concert-present
Miss Phillips, of Neutral Bay, were
others.
Frank S. Rodriguez’s one-man show
was quite a draw last week. State
Attorney-General C. E. .Martin, a friend
of many years’ standing, opened the ex-
hibition and made a speech that showed
knowledge of painting and the arts
generally. Of the 116 pictures, 28 were
sold early in the afternoon. A sensitive
imagination tinges all this painter’s work,
and the subjects of his brush are many
and varied. Mrs. Rodriguez, the rose on
her high pale-blue hat meshed in blue
veiling, accompanied, her husband, ’ and
daughter Marie Elizabeth took the after-
noon off from school to be present, but
soldier son Dr. Lawrence Rodriguez, on
his way down from Rabaul, missed the
opening by two days. However, he will
have a chance to view the works, which
hang in Anthony Hordern’s Art Gallery
till the fourth of April.
A concert in which negro spirituals
and modern Dutch songs rubbed
shoulders with Schubert lieder and old
and modern French chansons would
appear to be a real musical pot-pouri —
and this is what the one given by
Sydney’s Dutch community at Paling’s
Concert Hall was intended to be, for it
reproduced exactly the type of concert
organised in Jap internment camps in
Java. The three Dutch ladies who con-
tributed to the programme were the same
performers who did so much to keep the
spirit of music alive behind barbed wire.
Madame Crince Le Roy used a flexible
mezzo soprano in a group of negro
spirituals of which “Crucifixion” was a
fine musicianly example, and she sang
“Who Is Sylvia?” and “Wohen” as to
the manner born. Madame Canter
Visscher showed what can be done with
descriptive French singing, in which the
hands are as important as the larynx.
Madame G. Barbas, who accompanied
throughout (some of the French songs
were her own composition), played a
Schumann Romance and an Arabesque
with appreciable delicacy.
The pleasant little Red Cross cafe in
George-street has gone out of business,
and the director and committee will pre-
sent the final cheque from this goldmine
on Monday, April 8. A tea party m th
Legacy room, 188 Lower George-street,
will surround the last round-up.


THE OTHER FELLOW'SMIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2|d. per yne.
A Sandakan Survivor
I have been taking a lot of interest in
the Jap war-criminal trials, especially the
ones concerned with Borneo, and have
been disappointed at the casual way in
which the daily press dealt with them. I
felt particularly exasperated when the
recent executions were reported without
names being mentioned in any of the city
papers I examined.
As an ex-inmate of the Sandakan and
Kuching p.-0.-w. camps, I was more than
mildly curious to know what criminals
had been shot, and was considering ask-
ing some Army department or other for
the necessary information when I saw
the names published in The Bulletin.
Two thousand of us were sent from
Changi to Borneo. Only 170 lived to
come back to Australia.
Considering that Jap criminals were
responsible for the destruction by various
forms of savagery of 1800 disarmed and
helpless Australians, it is amazing that
the press should have treated the trials
of those concerned with so little apparent
interest. Maybe it is because the 1800
Australians were only soldiers and not
wealthy bookmakers or sporting publi-
cans and the like who did so well out of
the wars. —A. W. (Tas.).
Diggers Had Their Share
The Yoizuki affair left me cold. The
overcrowding of those who seem now to
be our little yellow brothers received fifty
times as much publicity as all the cases of
.the kind in which our own troops were
concerned.
Leaving out what others have told me,
I offer the following details to “indignant
Australians” as personal experiences: -
(1) The affair of S.S. Anuhui. A cargo
ship, built in 1928, she travelled from
Finschhafen to Brisbane with 893 troops
aboard, taking their ease on pieces of
three-ply laid on steel decks. For wash-
ing there was salt water, with a ration of
fresh for drinking. No air-conditioning or
scuppers, and a blackout from sunset to
sunrise.
(2) The affair of S.S. Kings Point, , a
converted Victory ship. The Kings Point
carried 1863 troops from Cairns to Morotai
in 18 days. She had canvas bunks in tiers
of six. Water and blackout as in the
Anuhui case. Maximum number for com-
fort, probably 1400.
(3) The affair of L.S.T. 652, Tarakan to
Morotai. There were 560 aboard a vessel
designed for at most 250. Water as above.
No troops allowed below decks at any
time, even during rain and heavy seas.
Three average cases of normal travelling
conditions for our own troops. Yet it
was no use mentioning them to “in-
dignant Australians,” and I found my
opinion of the Yoizuki business unpopu-
lar.—R. K. O. (N.S.W.).
A Serviceman’s House
Most solicitors are able to tell stories
like the one X am about to relate.
A client of mine who was going on active
service was pestered by an acquaintance
for the use of his furnished house ; rent
no object. After much importunity my
client let him the house at a rent, high
but not exorbitant, which would permit
him to leave the wife and children in
decent circumstances.
When the tenant was a fortnight in the
house, he applied to the Fair Rents Court
under National Security (Landlord and
Tenant) Regulations and had the rent
reduced almost by half.
My client is back from the war and
wants his house, but from the state of
the law on the subject he is going to
have to battle hard in the Court to get it.
Laws which protect and legalise un-
conscionable conduct of this nature must
result in a lowering of the moral tone of
the community.— Sol Brass (Q.).
H.C.L. at Balikpapan
“R.K.0.” (B. 16/1/’46) and “J.S.S”
(B. 6/2/’46) are wrong in blaming
Indonesians or Australians. Inflation
prevailed. There were, I believe, about
30,000 troops all told at Balikpapan be-
fore the war ended, and these spread
large sums of money around each pay-
day. There was very little to buy.
You can’t blame an Australian for
taking 10s. for a tin of tobacco when
natives came around the camps offering it
to him. Fowls cost 15s. to a guinea, but
I know from my own observations the
natives bought them for this price among
themselves. I never saw a bunch of
bananas sell for more than lOd. to Is. —
your washboy would get you all the fruit
you wanted free.
Thieving was prevalent, but most of the
natives were in almost desperate straits.
and although Australians provided tor a
number by employing them around
camps our contribution didn’t help much.
Though the Dutch authorities seemed
to be doing their best to make an equit-
able distribution of foodstuffs and
clothing, such supplies as were available
were pitiably short, the Japs having
grabbed the rice harvests themselves and
supplied no clothing for the markets. The
Dutch .themselves —mostly repatriated
from prison camps in Japan, Manila and
Celebes —were short of essentials.
What I want to know is where was
U.N.R.R.A.? Isn’t it supposed to help
all liberated peoples or only some of
them, such as the Ukrainians and the
Byelorussians?— Betoel (A.1.F.),
You Mustn’t Work!
The Victorian Leg. Assembly has
passed a bill to provide for two weeks’
annual leave for all workers. In itself an
excellent thing, but one of the amend-
ments agreed upon provides yet another
pointer to the prevailing trend for plac-
ing restraints on the individual’s free-
dom as the price for social benefits. „ It
is that the worker shall not during any
period of his annual holiday engage in
any employment for reward.
In effect, the man whose ideas go
beyond booze and the horses cannot earn
a few pounds by means of extra work in
this spare time. Oh, no! Everyone
down to the same level! Strange that a
party with the honorable title of “Labor”
“ Jitterbugs? No, lady, I prefer to play for jugs o'bitter!”
should have such a down on work and
thrift! *
Will the day yet dawn when it will be
necessary to submit a certificate, duly
witnessed by the police constable at Alice
Springs, a doctor in South Africa or a
schoolmaster with seven children, stating
that you are not engaged upon any work
for gain (except perhaps writing pars, for
The Bulletin) before one of these efforts
can be accented and paid for? — lago
(Vic.).
“Assisting” Manufacturers
Authority says it yearns to assist manu-
facturers to renew their plants and
modernise them. A thought worthy of a
bureaucrat who knows nothing whatever
about the practical side of manufacturing.
Take one instance in my class of
business. A machine purchasable for £560
before the war is now offered us at £l6OO.
Other machinery and plant are in the
same high proportion. How can plant be
modernised if such prices are asked? The
machine in question has no greater cap-
acity than the pre-war machine, yet its
price is trebled. Tax rebate for renewed
plant is therefore really a myth so far as
I am concerned.
I want to modernise several portions
of my plant, but on sane lines. — Manu-
facturer (Q.).
Post-graduate Army Education
As reported by “Wongajong” (B.
13 / 3 / ’46), some ex-members of the Army
Education Service have decided upon the
formation of an association to continue
certain aspects of A.E.S. work in the
civilian field.
An organising committee is in being,
and it has been suggested that the associa-
tion be formed under the name of Media
(Movement for Educational Development
in Australia). The founders consider that
“efficient democracy and lasting peace
depend fundamentally on the existence
of an informed, reasoned and vigorous
public opinion,” though they are “not
ends in themselves but means to the
fullest enjoyment of life by the greatest
number of people.” So they aim at “pro-
moting discussion on all questions touch-
ing the wellbeing of both the Australian
and the world community, and stimulat-
ing and broadening Australian cultural
interests” while making a direct contri-
bution towards the rehabilitation of ex-
servicemen and women by providing an
educational advisory service.
Former members of A.E.S, and dis-
charged servicemen and -women inter-
ested in the project should communicate
with Miss E. Harrison, 43 Countess-
street, Mosman, Sydney. —W.E. F.
(N.S.W.).
The Departmental Way
A lad with a good school record desired
to enter the N.S.W. Teachers’ College.
In case he should be unsuccessful, he
applied at the time of the “Leaving”
examination for a job on the Common-
wealth Bank staff and also for a clerk-
ship in the N.S.W. public service.
Results of the exam, were published on
January 15. The lad got a capital pass.
He received an immediate offer from the
Commonwealth Bank; the letter arrived
the same day. And within a week he
was advised by the Public Service Board
that he had been placed on a list of
eligibles for early appointment. He
waited another fortnight, hoping for his
first choice, a Teachers’ College scholar-
ship. Hearing nothing, he took the posi-
tion in the bank. After another 10 days
there came a telegram commanding him
to report at the Education Department on
the following day. .
Since this department has first know-
ledge of and access to the examination
results, the delay seems inexcusable. Any-
way, this lad (and perhaps many others
similarly placed) has been lost to the
teaching service.—E. J. B, (N.S.W.).
War Memorials
Our town is one of the comparatively
few in Australia where, after World War
I, the utilitarian idea in war memorials
(B. 27/2/’46) triumphed over the purely
sentimental granite column or statue. A
hospital was erected, largely the result
of efforts by returned men. It remains
a permanent memorial to those comrades
who did not come back, as well as being
the town’s , most important public utility.
Those men who lie in foreign fields
would not have wished it otherwise. —
C. A. (S.A.).
Service and Citizenship
I wish “McGlum” (B. 20/2/’46) could
have seen the rifle company to which I
belonged when the war ended ; he might
be less anxious to aver that a great many
servicemen won’t be interested in any-
thing but grog, girls, gambling and growl-
ing.
Company strength was 90, made up of
a sprinkling of originals, one of whom —
a corporal—had served with the company
from Tobruk to Borneo without missing
a major battle; a fair number of men
who had seen at least one campaign prior
to Borneo ; and a large batch of young
reinforcements and cross-posted militia
personnel experiencing their first taste of
overseas service. In short, a fair repre-
sentation of the A.I.F. as it was in August,
1945.
Their reactions to peace didn’t indicate
that their “minds had deteriorated badly
during training and combat periods.”
There was a large attendance at a volun-
tary service of commemoration. Every
man joined one or other of the rehabili-
tation classes which Brigade was making
available, the most popular subjects be-
ing woolclassing, carpentry and auto-
motive engineering; and 35 also volun-
teered to attend lectures on civics. For
the surrender ceremony they turned on a
guard of honor of which the Coldstreams
wouldn’t have been ashamed. They cut
out two-up and poker after their com-
pany commander quietly suggested that
they could not afford to risk large sums
of money now that theijr rehabilitation
was close at hand. Their recreations
changed to home-designing, arguments on
a variety of subjects from soil erosion
to football, letter-writing (including letters
to the next-of-kin of cobbers who had
been killed), sandal-making and other
forms of. handicraft.
They didn’t sprout wings they
grumbled profanely about the inade-
quacy of the beer issue. But they had
an unerring and unfriendly eye for the
“bludger,” and they left me with a com-
fortable feeling that post-war Australia
would be pretty safe in their hands.
Today I’m still convinced that their minds
are stronger and broader than those of
most young men I’ve met who didn’t
suffer the moral dangers of service.
If they do act in the way that “Mc-
Glum” suggests, it will be because the
country gives them neither leadership nor
the opportunity for useful citizenship.—
Peter Mike (W.A.).
“Interim”
When I returned home after having
acquired some flying, time in the Euro-
pean sector of the late global fracas, I
was unsettled, did not look like getting
married and was keen on inking-in many
more entries in my log book. Nothing
was said to me or my cobbers, of whom
a few at least thought on my lines, about
further service with the R.A.A.F.
Time went by ; Air Board ponderously
churned out the red tape relevant to my
discharge and I was back in Civvy-street
before I met a mate of mine who had
just signed on with the interim force for
a further two years’ service as an observer.
That was the first indication I had that
it was possible to join the interim show.
Now I am bespoke to the lass of my
choice, and, having readjusted myself to
earning a living in the big world outside
the airfield perimeter, I would not be in-
terested in continuing service with the
R.A.A.F. if they made me a wing-
commander. But five months ago I would
have taken it on at the rank of w. 0., with
which I returned. And yet Air Board is
kicking because only a couple of thou-
sand out of 25,000 eligible have volun-
teered! — Squizz (Vic.).
Departmental Wangling
Before the war my brother and I sup-
ported our mother. Then my brother
joined the R.A.N. and wrote my mother
down as a dependant Everything seemed
fine, the Navy paying an allotment
which, if not exactly munificent, was at
least a living rate. Then the pensions
officer found that I was living at home,
and the allotment was decreased im-
mediately to 17s. a week. My mother
was informed that she was still partly
dependent on me.
I appreciated the Navy point of view,
but wrote to the Taxation Department
asking for an abatement, as I had been
classified by the Navy as a part sup-
porter. The commissioner regretted that
no exemption could be granted, as I was
not a 100 per cent, supporter.
I have no redress, of course, but I con-
sider it speaks volumes for Govern-
mental control when, each to suit its
own purpose, one Government depart-
ment can designate me as the supporter
and another claims that I am not. —
Confused (Tas.).
Soldier Preference
It being quite impossible to devise
an absolutely fair system of soldier
preference, the onus is on the Govern-
ment to provide social services that will
assist the nation as well as the individual.
Australia does not want —and cannot
afford to have —a proportion of its popu-
lation engaged in dead-end and non-
reproductive work just because they were
servicemen. Every effort should be made
to teach them to be useful, and give them
a chance to make the most of what they
learn. Servicemen want charity least of
all. I know; I’m one of them. — Nick
(New Guinea).


J “SHELL TELLS”: No. 2 of a Series
mm
m
m
mm
\ /
mm
m
R
1
RHP ■ ■
SHELL
played a vital part in producing
ARMOUR PLATE
from OIL SOOT!
Yes ! — because vanadium, which turns steel into
armour-plate, can be found in certain soots from
certain oils.
There came a great crisis in the war when it
was suddenly vital to scrape together far more
vanadium than had ever been contem-
plated before.
Shell men had to show stokers of
innumerable ships how to select the
special soots that contain vanadium.
And the Shell Group, in their own furnaces
alone, promptly improvised methods which pro-
duced enough vanadium to make 88,000 tons of
armour-plate for Britain.
Shell is trained to serve!
Use SHELL Motor Oil —As
You can be sure of | | a
m G 46 1 M
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. in Gt. Britain).
