

ROYAC
rwni a s*w«wib. s
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“TKe Bulletin,” VoL 67—No. 345 r
Wednesday, May 22, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Paternoster Row.
'CORMEPvLY known as Paternoster Lane, this famous London
thoroughfare connects Cheapside with Amen Corner, from near
....... - +u , , ~
whtch this view of the lane shows its appearance during Queen
Victorias reign. Originally named after the paternosterers who
formerly lived here, and who removed in the 13th century from
St. Paul’s Churchyard, Paternoster Lane has a special connection
with the publishing trade, and such famous firms as Longmans,
Nelson and Blackwood were represented here From this aspect
may be seen (left) Ivy Lane, venue of Dr. Johnsons Tuesday-
c|ub m ' eetin * nd Court> where part of <. sir Charles
G randison,” as written by Richardson, and (right) the rebuilt
Chapter Coffee House, where Charlotte and Anne Bronte lived
during their first visit to London.


TO
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin/’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246 AQK
The Red Page
THE MAKING OF A NOVEL.
If the Australian novel has a definite
nationalistic “direction,” it would appear
to be towards the picaresque, for the
three most distinctively national works
up to the present are in that category;
Such Is Life, The Peapickers and Brian
James’s The Cookabundy Chronicles,
which is making its first appearance in
The Bulletin.
The Cookabundy Chronicles, though
told in a series of short stories, is a
coherent whole ; and, insofar as it .strolls
about the countryside for its material, is
in the area of the picaresque. On Our
Selection, loose and casual as its writing
is, might be included in the same cate-
gory.
But these works are outside the classi-
fication of the novel proper, as is also
that other type of prose work of which
we have had a fair number of examples
produced here ; the semi-historical, socio-
logical, three-generation chronicle, more
or less in the vein of Richard Mahony.
But writers in Australia have dodged,
and are dodging, the novel proper, be-
cause it forces on them a difficult
problem in construction. And they must
face it, if they are to be accepted as
competent prose craftsmen. Jonah is the
best example we have had yet of the
true novel, though it is weak in con-
struction ; the two themes of Chook and
Jonah being told in alternate chapters,
neither of which has any integral relation
to the other, so that the effect is of two
separate novels.
The novel proper is based on a central
theme, towards which all lesser motives
move, and which is brought to a dramatic
crescendo which finalises whatever may
be its special motive. And all characters
in it must have some relation to its
central theme, and all extraneous com-
binations of personality and event must
be rigidly excluded from the narra-
tive. In short, the novelist must face
precisely the same technique as the play-
wright. Whatever the suspense-motive of
his work, it must build towards that crisis
which reveals and finalises its theme be-
fore the curtain comes down on the last
act.
To revert to the picaresque is to throw
back to the genesis of the novel. Pet-
ronius, The Golden Ass, Rabelais, Don
Quixote, Tom Jones —these great and en-
during works will last as long as civilisa-
tion. But they ignore any constructive
principle, and remain the explosive out-
put of gay and reckless minds, fascinated
by the mad spectacle of life, and grabbing
up great handfuls of its material right
and left. Scott’s novels are also in the
picaresque key, loosely held together by
a casual hero and heroine thread. But
once Jane Austen had written Pride and
Prejudice the novel had to face a dis-
ciplined technique based on the dramatis-
ing of a central motive, and all great or
near-great novels since her day have
worked strictly within that basic prin-
ciple.
For the novel cannot escape the prin-
ciple by which §ll other arts must func-
tion. it is only because prose gives the
writer a larger mass of material, and a
longer time in which it may be dealt
with, that the novelist is able to evade
constructive principles that would be
glaring faults if applied to music, drama,
or painting. Once a composer has given
out his theme, all other phases of his
work must be dominated by it. Once
an artist has defined his salient curve or
angle in a picture or a statue, all lesser
rhythms must have their precise relation
to it. For the playwright, of course, the
mechanism of the stage insists on a more
severe discipline than any other art. A
nice mess he would make of a play if he
threw in a few casual characters and
events that had nothing to do with its
theme.
If the Australian novelist of today
confines his or her reading only to the
novels of his own generation he may as
well give up any idea of construction. Prac-
tically the whole modernist movement in
all the arts has been an attack on estab-
lished principles of construction, without
being able to supply a constructive prin-
ciple of its own begetting in return.
The bumptious young modernist has
a contempt for all works outside
his own meagre time-factor, and the
meek ones have a vague sense of
guilt in referring attention to past
masterpieces. The modernist painter
pins up a print of a Gauguin or a Dali
beside his canvas and then tries to paint
something like it, and the modernist prose
writer reads Joyce or Hemingway or
Steinbeck and proceeds to evolve a novel
out of the state of mind engendered by
these writers.
And what a state of mind the novelists
have exhibited to us! It has been one of
dissatisfaction, fear and suspense, owing
to the incessant threat of more war and
to the moral disruption set up by the
Russian revolution. Apart from its ex-
cessively depressing effect on the novel,
it has seduced the novelist into assuming
that the conditions under which man lives
are of greater significance than man him-
self. He has surrendered to the supreme
fallacy that affairs make man, and that
by altering affairs man will become an
altered being. Since Plato wrote that
despicable work The New Republic this
prime idiocy has been apparently ineradi-
cable from the human mind. Its in-
fliction on the novel these later days has
been the miserable Leftist grouch against
life and undergraduate jeers at it under
the general heading of debunking all
cheerful, courageous, and upright con-
cepts of the procedure under which we
must exist on earth.
Communism —or, in other terms, rebel-
lion against freedom of action imposed
by an elder world —is the normal state of
adolescent youth. It is a stimulus to
throw off parental authority and start .out
alone on the adventure of life. Once that
adventure has begun, it should be dis-
carded, having served its turn. If that
state of mind persists after the twenties,
the unfortunate being infected by it is
doomed to futility.
As for sociology, who cares a damn
today whether shipowners of the ’sixties
were scoundrels or that lunatic asylums
were mismanaged in that era ; matters
which sent Charles Reade into a frenzy
of altruistic novel writing? The only
work of his that survives is The Cloister
and the Hearth, which has nothing to
do with politics or sociology.
The novel must return to the construc-
tive principle defined by its greatest
writers, Dickens and Balzac, because
there is nowhere else to go. And that
principle is to take a central motive and
build slowly towards its crisis, keeping
all other threads in the novel interwoven
with it and moving with it to a finality.
The central motive may be divided
roughly into two basic principles. It
may be a drama of passion and events
which drives the characters into action,
as in Bleak House, or it may be the
effect of a dominating passion in one
character dictating motivity to the lives
of other characters, as in Eugenie
Grandet.
Reduced to their starkest statement,
the central motives of these novels may
be stated in a few words. In Bleak House
it is that of a woman who has had an
illegitimate child in her youth, but has
hidden that event, and, later, has married
into a high social position. The early
scandal of her life is wormed out by a
morally blackmailing old lawyer and she
is driven by the shame of exposure to
a self-sought death. In Eugenie Grandet
it is the ruthless acquisitive passion of a
miser who frustrates the lives of all in
connection with him. The themes in
both cases are commonplaces of human
relations; they are made profound by
the revelation of human personality, by
the absolute conviction of reality in the
creation of character, and by the perfect
artistry with which each novel, in the
hands of these masters, is built to its
crisis.
In Bleak House the constructive prob-
lem is much more difficult than in
Eugenie Grandet, because of the mass of
its characters, and the complicated
threads which draw all those related to
the central motive into contact with it.
Consider what a hell of a job Dickens
gave himself when he posited the beauti-
ful and remote Lady Dedlock as a focus
for such characters apparently impossible
of any relation with her as Mr. Guppy,
the crude little Cockney law clerk, his
friend Tony Jobling of the whiskers, Mr.
Snagsby, the meek little law stationer, Mrs.
Snagsby, his nagging little wife, the oily
Chadband and his wife, Mr. George, the
ex-trooper, Mr. Bucket, the detective, and
the astounding Smallweed family and
their especially astounding old relative,
Krook, the rag-and-bottle dealer. The
only character who has right of contact
with Lady Dedlock is Mr. Tulkinghorn,
Sir Leicester Dedlock’s solicitor. He is
selected as the instrument of destiny who
may expose Lady Dedlock or preserve
her secret for her. It is by one of the
most subtle uses of anticlimax that I
know of in any novel that Dickens uses
the murder of Tulkinghorn as the signal
which releases the exposure of Lady
Dedlock.
It is true that in this novel Dickens
intrudes two minor extraneous themes:
he attacks professional philanthropists on
the one hand and Chancery practice on
the other. But so many of the charac-
ters involved here are in contact with the
central motive that they work into the
general pattern of the novel. He gets
some splendid fun out of Mrs. Jellyby
and the philanthropists, but the Richard
Carstone episode could be very well dis-
pensed with. In it Dickens makes one of
those annoying conflictions between pre-
sentation and motive that he so fre-
quently does in his technically “good”
characters. Richard Carstone is por-
trayed with psychological veracity as
a shiftless youth, incapable of any
sustained effort, who would make a
mess of his life under any terms,
but, when he gets obsessed with
the Chancery suit and dies (very uncon-
vincingly) of disappointed expectations,
Dickens tries to tell us that the evils of
Chancery procrastination killed him. On
the same sort of misplaced motivity, he
pretends that he is presenting Esther
Summerson as a sweetly unselfconscious
young creature, while exposing her as a
smug little prig, avidly recording every
tribute paid to her and affecting amaze-
ment at her own goodness of heart as
announced by all those around her. But
that sort 6f thing in Dickens goes be-
yond innocence. He must have had
spasms of disgust at times, for the con-
cessions he made to popular sentiment
never fail to arouse our, dislike and de-
rision for those characters who are osten-
tatiously introduced as sentimental dum-
mies. But in reality they take up very
little space in the mass of his work, and
the drama of Lady Dedlock herself is
carried to the end without a single re-
sort to false sentiment.
In Eugenie Grandet the conflict motive
is between father and daughter. Old
Grandet is a miser, but a miser of Shak-
spearean magnitude. He is built up with
such a minute attention to every facet of
his personality that his reality as a human
being carries complete conviction of the
effect of that personality on the Grandet
household. His wife and daughter
Eugenie and old Nanon, the servant, ac-
cept his parsimonious dominance over
their lives as the rulings of omnipotence.
Eugenie, a simple, charming and affec-
tionate girl, falls in love with her cousin,
a youth whose father has committed
suicide after sending an appeal to his
brother Grandet to take charge of the
youth’s future. Grandet, to get rid of
the lad, sends him out of the country,
which also* sends him out of the novel.
But Eugenie has committed the unpar-
donable sin of giving the youth all her
small savings, for which Grandet pun-
ishes her savagely, locking her in her
room and allowing her only a prison
diet, though old Nanon, manages to
smuggle food to the prisoner.
Later, Eugenie marries a dull fellow
and is submerged in the drab life of .a
small provincial town. Her parents die,
her husband dies, she inherits Grandet’s
fortune. But it is no use to her. Her
will has been destroyed by the satanic
dominance of her father. She gives her
money away in charity and lives out her
existence in the old house, religiously
obeying all those parsimonious rulings
laid down by her father for the adminis-
tration of food and the necessities of
life. Her one poor little act of rebellion,
inspired by love, had been quelled at its
source by her father, who continues to
dominate her life from the grave.
A ruthless novel, but not a depressed
one, because Balzac creates old Grandet
with a satanic gusto, is fascinated by him
and imparts that fascination to the reader.
Moreover, the clarity with which the
Grandet household and house are visual-
ised is so vivid that we meet them as
known personages, and could walk about
the house blindfold. Indeed, the unflag-
ging care and zest with which Dickens
and Balzac get everything possible out
of their material give such a sense of
vitality and fecundity to their works that
after reading them most other novels
seem only to be sketched in outline.
The construction problem in Eugenie
Grandet is not one of gathering threads
to a focal point, as in Bleak House, but
of the gradually accumulated evidence of
potency and ruthlessness in old Grandet,
and of docility in Eugenie, which makes
his dominance over her so convincing.
It cannot be too often emphasised that
what an author says about a character has
no validity. The character must reveal
everything about himself by his speech
and actions, and their effect on those
about him. Reality in the novel has very
little to do with factualism in itself, since
factualism can turn out data which are
extremely unconvincing, while the most
bizarre event can bring a conviction of
absolute reality, if handled with minute
attention to its external dramatisation.
A perfect instance of this is the death
of old Krook by spontaneous combus-
tion. Whether such a death is possible is
beside the point, though Charles Fort has
dug up a great deal of evidence to the
effect that such cases have happened. The
reality of the event consists, firstly, in the
visual projection of old Krook, with his
liquor-fuming breath and his states of
sodden coma, from which, when finally
aroused by repeated shakings, he emerges
in the full control of his faculties, as the
evidence that he is no longer a normal
drunk, but a man whose normality has
been transferred to a liquor-sodden car-
cass ; secondly, the prelude to his finality
is so forced upon our senses that we feel
the physical ill-ease of that close, hot
night, and smell the stuffy atmosphere of
that dingy little room in which Mr. Guppy
and Jobling are waiting for the hour of
twelve, when old Krook is to hand over
the letters which will incriminate Lady
Dedlock. The sense of suspense, of con-
spiracy, of waiting on an unmentionable
event is forced on one almost intolerably
by the awful significance of that smell
of burnt chops, and of that filthy, oily
substance that Mr. Guppy gets his fingers
in, sending a shudder through our own
as he frantically washes his hands, and
smells- them, and washes and smells till
that obscene stench is removed from
them. It confounds me that any novel-
writer today should attempt to practise
his metier without having studied that
masterly piece of realism . . .
I know that many aspiring writers
suffer an illusion that the novel with a
centralised motive requires an immense
exercise of ingenuity in its invention and
construction. Construction does require
craftsmanship, but that is not an inspired
process and is within the range of any
competent literary carpenter.
And the centralised motives of all great
works are not complex, but extremely
simple. The Fifth Symphony is based
on four unison notes. The destruction
of Macbeth is .made inevitable by the
prophecy which assures him of an
achieved ambition. Take the motive of
any of Conrad’s novels and it can be re-
duced to the simplest of formulas. A
trusted employee of a silvermine is placed
in a position where he can safely steal a
load of silver and succumbs to that temp-
tation. Out of that minute germ that long
and powerful novel Nostromo is built.
In The Secret Agent, a mother and sister
devote their lives to protecting the half-
idiot Stevie, and are thereby the means
of destroying him. The Nigger of the
Narcissus —a malingerer is really dying
of the disease he thinks he is simulating'.
Heart of Darkness —a highly civilised
man goes into the African jungle to bring
it the benefits of civilisation and the jungle
reverts him to a primitive savage.
Babbitt, a great novel built on the meti-
culous observation of trivialities, has for
its motive the obscure and troubled urge
of a commonplace businessman to escape
the dull compulsions of his daily life and
the opinions of his fellow dull dogs and
live according to his own needs and aspi-
rations. He makes one feeble effort at
rebellion, which brings down a threat of
ostracism on him, and in alarm he scuttles
back, to submerge once more in the com-
mon mass of his kind. In short, the
simpler and more commonplace the cen-
tral motive, the better for the novel, since
it will apply to the greater area of human
experience.
It is not as an arbitrary ruling that we
insist that the novel must be based on a
central dramatic motive. Life itself dic-
tates this principle. Every human unit
has one special aspiration, passion or
urge which dominates his or her lesser im-
pulses, and every event involving conflict
of personality must arrive at some sort
of crisis before reaching finality. It is
not proposed that Australian novelists
should laboriously invent plots and then
fit a set of characters to them. That is
an industry for secondrate fiction.
There is the whole range of human
personality and passion from which to
choose a central motive, including the
seven deadly virtues and the seven delect-
able sins. Love and hate may be the
basic urges underlying all human action,
but they are capable of infinite variations.
No two human beings are created pre-
cisely alike, any more than out of a bil-
lion leaves we will find two with the same
fibrous veinings. The material for art
is inexhaustible. That understanding
should be sufficient inspiration to the
average young novelist to look about him
for a few central motives on which to
dramatise his novels.
NORMAN LINDSAY.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
2/8 Y a rd **
. n { qUraclivs
Tn a number oun ds,
g|iss;s «■■•'"
* Ua Ground Floor.
o
6
&
9>
. .
O' O
'^Sr.rs-
■ /
S2&V.
S&v'-
mag-
The fashionable Bedspread of 1946 is
undoubtedly the "Chenille" and the
reasons are obvious. For example they
require no ironing, launder well and
are uncrushable; this of course is apart
from the smart appearance a Chenille
Bedspread lends to the Bedroom. In
plain shades of Rose, Blue, Green,
Beige and Off White. Double Bed Sizes,
92" x 104" 72/11 (19 coupons)
Flannelette, Flannel,
Wlnceyette
for
Winter Warmth
(UNILLUSTRATED)
All Wool Flannel. In Light
Grey or Natural colour this
good medium weight is for
Men's wear. 28 in. wide.
Price, 3/4i yard (1 coupon)
All Wool Cream Baby Flan-
nel. The soft fine texture of
this material makes it ideal
for infants' wear. 28 inches
wide. 3/82 yard (1 coupon)
Twill Winceyette for dainty
lingerie. Available in Pastel
shades of Green and Lemon.
35/36 inches wide, 2/11 yard
(2-2 coupons)
White or Cream Flannelette.
Of reliable British manufac-
ture it is noted for long wear-
ing qualities. 35/36 inches
wide, 2/8 yd. (2£ coupons)
Nursery Flannelette, raised
back . . . British manufacture.
27 ins. wide. Price, 2/1 yd.
30 ins. wide, price, 2/3
yard. (2£ coupons per yard)
Nursery Flannelette (cut into
squares but unhemmed) can
be obtained with P.N.
coupons for \ coupon per
square.
You are invited when visiting
Sydney, to write your name
in our “Visitors' Book."
Anthony Horderns'
THE SENIOR STORE
PHONI
(DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYfNEY


NR
X
yji
Enmc
OT
- and no appeal,
I The rasping squeal of a rusty wheel,
A leaking tap and a slamming door.
These are afflictions we all abhor.
But a hacking cough is worse than these.
Hearers and sufferers know no ease,
Till both a restful relief assure
With soothing Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure for Coughs and Colds, never falls.
JUST RtGHJ Ml Urine
t
tf 8 Hi WI fSHT IHSSASf
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airway!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD
<W3i*
FACING G PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . • . The
Wentworth faces a part . .« . yet
it is merely "'round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
all you would wish
rooms are
the
and
excellent.
TAE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
-imo 1841
'* 1944 1945 1946
*•' cr-.o- >
K
'4
r/
SC
el
r
SHORTAGES OVERCOME? YES INDEED!
CONTINUING PROSPERITY? CERTAINLY!
IT IS ONLY OURSELVES who can pre-
vent a return to more normal peace con-
ditions in reasonably good time. But
we must not forget that to go from war
to peace does take time.
The factories haven’t yet had time to
produce all the goods we want though
we have the money to pay for them.
Yes, after all the taxes have been paid
we have plenty of money left over (bank
figures prove it) —and there’s the dan-
ger. If we insist on spending this money
we don’t get any more for it—we simply
insist on paying more for what we do
get. To put an ugly word on it, we help
to bring about inflation.
What we must all do now, as a matter of
good sense, is to save our money and
invest those savings in Commonwealth
Bonds and Savings Certificates. Money
in Bonds and Savings Certificates is
money off the spending market and thus
helps to keep prices down. At the same
time Bonds and Savings Certificates
earn better than hank interest. So we
score both ways—they return us more
money , and, having helped to check
prices in the meantime, will enable us
to get more for our money.
Savings Certificates may be purchased
at any Bank or Money Order Post Office,
and advance subscriptions to the next
Commonwealth Cash Loan may be made
through any Bank or Stockbroker,
WHAT TO DO TO ENSURE YOUR FUTURE SECURITY
J Spend wisely. Get full value. Buy
* only what you really need. Save all
you can. Hold all your Bonds and
Savings Certificates.
Share and share alike the goods
available . , . don't foster the black-
market by paying more than maxi-
mum prices. Check all prices with
the lists available.
Keep your owrt prices down. Don't
take advantage of shortages to ask
more for your goods or services.
Pay your way—settle your debts—
make no new ones.
Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth
Bonds and Savings Certificates.
When goods are plentiful again you
can make good use of the money
you save now—for then you will get
more for your money in everything
you buy.
Bea Seven Not a Spender-Help Keen Prices
N 5.68.113.46
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Logical Basis bf Education, by
Welton, Introduction to the Theory of Employ-
ment, by Joan Robinson. —3750.
To buy Tamburlaine, by Marlowe, Pygmalion,
by Shaw, The Circle, by Maugham, Return of
the Native, by Hardy, and Lord Jim, by Con-
rad.—3751.
To buy books dealing, with seashells. —3752.
To buy Flags of Ail Nations. —3753.
Information Sought.
(1) Does the ex-servicemen’s land-settlement
scheme apply to Norfolk Island? (2) What are
conditions in the way of obtaining land on the
island ? •
(1) No. (2) Land tenure comes within two
categories—freehold and leasehold. Freehold
land is difficult to obtain, as present owners are
reluctant to sell. Leasehold land at present
available is being temporarily reserved for the
settlement of Norfolk Island ex-servicemen, and
as all these men have not yet returned no indi-
cation can be given as to when leasehold land
will be made available to other persons. The
majority of leaseholds are of small areas, as
the total area that may be held by one person
—except in special circumstances—is restricted
to 25 acres.
* * * *
Formula of a waterproof whitewash?
Using a troughlike receptacle, dissolve l|Ib.
rock salt in one gallon water and pour on to l%\h.
unslaked lime. Add gallons wafer slowly,
thus allowing the lime to slake. Sprinkle on
ilb. cement when the lime is almost slaked
and stir thoroughly. Apply the wash while it
is still warm, on a surface that is free from
other washes. For wooden surfaces mix
whiting, 6oz. casein and loz. borax, plus suffi-
cient water to reduce the mixture to the con-
sistency of paint.
* * $ *
What is atavism ?
The term given in biology to the reproduc-
tion in a living person or animal of the charac-
teristics of an ancestor more remote than it's
parents. Loosely used> it connotes a rever-
sion to an earlier type. Individuals reproduce
unexpectedly the traits of earlier ancestors, and
ethnologists and criminologists frequently ex-
plain by “atavism” the occurrence of degenerate
species of man.
... * * *
On what dates did Herb McCoy meet Paul
Til, and Jack Read clash with Grover Hayes ?
McCoy knocked out Til in nine rounds on
August 31, 1912, and Read outpointed Hayes
in 20 rounds on October 9, 1912.
* * * *
I have decided to acquire a small property
and cannot decide what to run. Which is the
better, sheep or cattle?
Advice on such matters must at best be purely
generalised. So much depends on the district,
the land and the man, as well as other factors.
However, N.S.W. is primarily a sheep-produc-
ing State, the majority of cattle being run
only as an adjunct to sheep, while Queensland
—particularly the northern portion—is essentially
cattle country. Australia has entered into a
long-term meat agreement with Great Britain —
it expires in 1948 —so satisfactory prices should
be obtainable for all kinds of meat. The wool
agreement with G.B. terminates in June, but it
is freely rumored that prices of fine merino
wools will increase when auction sales resume.
With, only a limited amount of capital it would
be advisable to engage in sheep raising, as in
the case of cattle a substantial backing is needed
and losses can be heavy in the event of a lean
season. Sheep farming is more diversified, as
there are three avenues of production, and,
with reasonable management, provision can be
made for dry seasons. Even in these drier
seasons sheep still return a substantial wool
cheque.
* * * *
Method of removing excess dubbin from
bridle reins and verdigris from brass buckles?
Remove the dubbin by washing the reins in
a warm water solution of a commercial deter-
gent: “G2 Yellow Label” or “Colosyl-S.”
The former may be obtained from James
Hardie Trading Pty., Ltd., Felix-street, Brisbane,
while the latter is manufactured by F. V.
Richards, 228 Stanley-street, West Melbourne.
Some of the grease in the verdigris may be
removed by washing with the detergent solu-
tion, but the best method is to scrub the buckles
with a hard, dry brush.
Brief Answers.
M.N.: Information unobtainable—A.H.:
(1) The Federal and State bodies are separate
organisations. (2) Only Ms.P. are eligible for
membership I.C.: As the child is only 11
years old she is still required to attend school —
either an ordinary school or a school for par-
tially sighted children. Training depends upon
the degree of blindness. Contact the Director,
School Medical Service, Box 33a, G.P.O., Syd-
ney T.T.: Minimum charges of the Institute
of Patent Attorneys, which include normal
official charges, are £6 6s. for provisional appli-
cations (nine months’ protection) and £24 for
complete protection (including a charge for
drawings). Patent Attorneys will give an
opinion as to whether an invention is worth
patenting F.P.: If it is a case of shared
accommodation, 14 days’ notice may be given,
after which application must be made to a
court of jurisdiction. If the business was com-
pletely taken over, seven days’ notice must be
given for every six months of occupation
D.H.: It is not unusual for pullets to sit on
the nests without laying. The only thing to do
is to see that the birds are receiving a suit-
able ration, and that their nests are not open
to excess light S.M.: There is a School
Library Service operating in Hobart. Lists could
be obtained by writing to Miss D. Belcher,
Psychologists’ Office, Hampden-road, Hobart.
J.L.: That co. is no longer operating
H.B.: 100 yards: F. Wykoff, J. C. Owens
and C. Jeffry (all U.S.A.), 9.4sec. 220 yards:
J. C. Owens, 20.3. 440 yards: B. Eastman and
C. Klemmer (both U.S.A.), 46.4sec. 880 yards:
S. G. Wooderson (G.B.), Imin. 49.2sec. One
mile; G. Haegg (Sweden), 4min. 1.6sec.....
G.N.: The Piltdown Skull was discovered in
1912 at Piltdown, Sussex, and ascribed to
primitive man of early Paleolithic times....
T. Land area of the world is 51,375,000
square miles. Estimated population in 1940 was
2,174,000,000... .N.J.: Persons occupying the
same building may jointly subscribe to a tele-
phone service under the one exchange numoer
for an additional fee of £1 10s. P ; a -> W “ 1C °
also covers the extra entry in the directory^


/Vo. 1 of a series
f | <De(otft|edooxon
dJthCeHturp
1
'<s>
IU
B
Gun
This early wheel-lock Handbikhse sporting rifle with its ornate buck-horn stock,shows all
the consummate skill of the 17th Century gunsmith. Although its range was limited, and its
accuracy doubtful, the Handbuchse sporting rifle was among the finest weapons of its day.
Modern weapons demand high grade ammunition. Sportsmen of today have
a sure guarantee of consistent excellence in all i.c.i. sporting ammunition .
la
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL tfIDUSTRIES OP AUSTRALIA AMD NEW I’jIAHKD LIMITED
r
m
m*
o
m
m
m
EE
W
M 461 %
, , , remains fluid at low
temperatures . . . retains
its body under heat.
Mobiloil gives easier start-
ing .. . quicker oil supply
to bearings . • . better
protection.
QUALITY PRODUCT
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD, iim.-
I *B»tJ
~ ~~~
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
iSSSLds and no MS will be
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.L.K.; It’s an excruciating rhyme, but not
more painful than the exodus from Egypt.
“He’s gone, methinks,”
Observed the sphinx.
—“You haven’t seen Attlee7
“No, not latlee.”
KL.K.t The ship’s obviously unseaworthy.
!. .G.C.G.: Allegedly funny poem about tem-
perance society would drive strong men to
drink....Women’s hats should not
drive you to the length of rhyming br ™
with “in”. X ,I.H.: “The awful ache of futile
love” makes truly agonising poetry... - T-K. .
It’s questionable whether painting trains is
really a worse occupation than reading verse,
but come in and get it out of your system:
In order of precedence I asked myself to state
The thing I needed most in life my misery to abate.
And harshly came the answer, a voice in strident
strains • •
“You must forsake for ever your job of painting
trains.”
“From earliest youth you’ve labored, nor is the
end in sight
Of this task you’ve set yourself, that s causing your
life’s blight.” .. .
“The world is wide and fair, it said, so go, and
save your soul; , , . , ...
You’re becoming an automaton, with 5 o clock as its
goal.”
“The present manpower shortage has prospered fools
galore, . „
So even you may prosper, my feeble man of straw.
“Enough!” I cried, “I’m quite convinced. 111
free my life from chains; .
I forgo this task for ever —to hell with painting
trains.”
B.I.: “Of what are you thinking, old
tree?” Of all the poems that have referred
to its weird, gaunt appearance, no doubt
R C.P.: Glad you’ve appreciated him....
E.R.B.: Drought is out....P.H.: “Schemati-
cally it is well conceived.” Oh, emphatically;
but you’ve carried it out so erratically ... .A.C.:
If auntie really solves crimes, see if she can
account for that story... .C.S.: “Cattle Dog
sent to R.S.P.C.A Tom T.: —
Oome, gather ye gold in the lanes
Where Autumn’s largesse is rich.
Nc/crying on these baked stones of old,
Only gold, gold, gold, gold.
Send it to Mr. Chifley’s dollar pool... .M.K.:
“The little cat hummed in the sun.” As dead
as the story, evidently... .H.C.: Either the poor
devil was dead or he wasn’t; why insist that
he was “quite dead”? ... .R.B.: Not our cup
of tea....G.A.: “What greater shock could
there be than a lover’s cold dismissal?” Wait
till you hear a tobacconist say yes when you
ask for cigarettes... .V.M.N.: We know 23
different people each of whom would cheer-
fully pay 40 bob a week rent for any haunted
house and guarantee not to disturb the ghost.
..McM.O’L.: “Murder of Shamus O’Roqke”
is crook D.S.W.: As void of life as Pirie-
sCreet, Adelaide, on a wet Sunday morning,
Old Hand; So you went up the Gulf in
1932, but you came back, dash it, you came
back! B.W.: “The Bullocky’s Dream” is
a nightmare H.T.: “Dam-sinkers” is dam’
sinking.... Zac. U.: Send “Sand” to the
“Grocers’ Gazette” N.E.: Try again....
Ralph: “Be not like the serpent, dear; regard
me not with repellent eyes,” doesn’t quite sound
like a boundary-rider wooing the squatter s
daughter.. . .Yorky: Intrigued by picture of
N.T. policeman “slipping cat-footed into the
suddenly pregnant room and coldly snapping
‘Reach for the ceilin’, gents!’”... .The Bard:
Barred A.M.L.: A daily might pay a few
shillings for details of your bottle G. for
George: Thank you, George... .G.M.: That
fiah story is a new one, but it doesn’t sound
any more credible than the rest of ’em....
D.E. : Couldn’t make head or tail of your
manuscript till someone suggested playing it
on the piccolo Pessimist; “I suppose this is
the worst attempt at verse you’ve ever re-
ceived.” Very nearly... .J.H.: Where did you
find those sheep with the “bright, intelligent
eyes”? P.P.: Wordy J.McN.: It’s short,
anyway... .P.A.G.: Try a daily... .G.W.: Sen-
timental H.L.: Bad Hemingway A.F.:
Trite M.B.N.: Frothy W.W.: Everything
you say about the Black Market is undeniable
and uninteresting D.K.: “A Village Wel-
come” bristles with “spouses,” “swains” and
“comely maidens” O.P.: Characters wooden.
S.C.:: “A nice mixture of humor and
tragedy”—but the tragedy is humorous, and the
humor pathetic E.A.: “Look at the bottom
of the garden, at the humble cabbage, the
salubrious lettuce, and there you will find the
marvellous beauty of nature unfolding before
your purblind eyes.” Look in the bottom of
the letter-box and there you will find the
“Meditations of a Beauty Lover” J.McDA.:
No amount of revision will do that hardy
pioneer any good... .L.J.K.: Slight... .W.J.R.:
The Latin tags may be erudite, but the English
is awful. .* .C.C.: Come again I.L.: "Too
many characters F.M.: For literary style,
don’t study the latest newspaper sensation.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.W.D. : Neither the tailors’ dummies nor
their conversation pleased H.F.: Fair
ideas, but the execution is amateurish....
C.B.: That class of humor is a sure bet for the
basket W.S.T.; You have the makings of a
plodder—that is all P.T.: Effort to squeeze
seven assorted figures into the space was a dismal
failure M.H.: Sometimes it is an aboriginal
that makes that retort —at other times a China-
man or a Hindu... .DJ.S.: Don’t draw from
photographs, and don’t lift jokes from Ameri-
can magazines J.W.E.; How many do you
imagine that would interest? A.T.B.:
Shaggy-dog drawings are now at a discount
B.H.: A most unappetising hash R.C.: Not
humorous enough to carry off the unbelievable
situation E.M.G.: Dainty and decorative,
but not the class of material we want....W.S.;
Golfer and mushroom best of a bad bunch.
V.L.; You’ve certainly got simplicity of
line, yet that’s not every tnnig H.R.N.:
Might have had an outside chance if it had
arrived a year ago... .P.A.: That gag’s whiskers
would fill a mattress C.Y.: You would have
made an ideal illustrator for an eighteenth-
century woman’s paper S.T.: As you are
“fond of drawing” it would do you no harm
to take some lessons A.C.; Ease the out-
put and try to improve it R.R.: We don’t
want pencil drawings... .G.R.C.: The same
applies to you..G.F.A.*. Not in our line.


We want ro
shift- this
shadow!
Behind the good times of today is a grim
shadow . . . the shadow of depression.
mrr
vL *
4'Al
U.
/'
Mae
If the present inflationary trend a result
of the Government’s Boom , Borrow and Bust
policy —is allowed to continue, we shall
assuredly be caught again in its chilling grip.
By applying wise administration and a
planned economy; by providing a balanced
programme of public works whereby pro-
duction would be stepped up to offset
unemployment; by reducing the taxation
burden the Liberal Party will maintain
stability and pave the way to a bright and
prosperous tomorrow.
In the critical days ahead we want a trust-
worthy and careful financial policy, we want
men of proven ability; we want a Govern-
ment capable of restoring confidence and
stimulating industry. We want a LIBERAL
Government.
The
Back to Freedom is througl
•* ' M \ -v -
\ s y •■ .‘ s'
mm ••• . s
La P.
VIVV
A ISJb
" I ' *
II IT S TR A X
Authorised by The Federal Secretariat of THE LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA


THE HERMIT OF TIDAL CREEK
BY RODERICK FINLAYSON
IT’S nice for Uncle
Ted to have Jake
back at Tidal
Creek. He gives
him all the jobs that
he himself puts off
doing. He’s sent Jake now off to Moss’s
place to return the copy of Brighter Agri-
culture that Mr. Moss pressed on Uncle
Ted years ago. The silverfish in the
storeroom have devoured a good bit of
it, but Uncle Ted never a word.
“A queer fish, old Moss,” says Uncle
Ted. “Sort of hermit that keeps to him-
self and his precious books in an old
house in the middle of that overgrown
garden of his.”
Lanky Jake, grown longer and lankier
during the last seven years, walks across
the paddocks to the tree-clad point that
is Mr. Moss’s retreat.
Well, he thinks, seven years haven’t
made much difference to Tidal Creek. Old
Luke the fisherman looks no more
weatherbeaten than before, the store-
keeper is much the same as ever, and all
the others, too. And Uncle Ted says the
Crummers are still hanging out in the old
shanty, only a few more of them. As
for Uncle Ted—well. Uncle Ted’ll never
alter, will he?
Jake looks over the countryside. There
in the distance is the Landing, the store
and the pub, and the big gum-trees just
as he remembered them. The funny thing
is that the whole place looks just a little
faded and dingy. Still, it’s nice to return
for a long, quiet rest after exams, and
swotting for the university.
Uncle Ted said “Gb the bush track.
It’s real pretty by the creek up the gully.
I reckon you can find your way to
Moss’s.”
ALONG the track fantails flit around
Jake’s head. They peer into his face
and cheep in a cheeky way; they spread
their tails showing off their pretty fans.
They’re as friendly as can -be.
Apart from their tiny voices and the
quiet purling music of the creek all is
silent and still amid the green gloom of
the bush. Jake scrambles down to the
creek, takes off his shoes and wades in
the clear, cool water. He watches small,
lean fish and tiny shrimplike creatures
flurry in the pools among red and brown
and greenish pebbles. The black shaggy
trunks of punga ferns lean over the pool
and cover it high above with their great
green umbrella heads. *
Jake rests on a bank of springy moss
and sniffs. He smells creek water and
decaying leaves and logs in the damp
loam. He smells the sun-warm saps and
resins of a thousand forest growths. So
this, he thinks, is how it was before the
pakeha came.
Then he puts on his shoes and tries to
push ahead without regaining the track.
He soon finds how untamed the bush is.
Cutty-grass scars his arms and cheeks,
bush lawyer-vines hook into clothes or
flesh, and a host of other kinds of trailing
vines and dense growths make progress
almost impossible. The sky shows only
through chinks here and there in the
treetops.
Jake hesitates. There’s a loneliness
about the bush, and something that pulls
taut the nerves. It’s not just a fear of
being lost but something more awful be-
cause you cannot name this fear.
As Jake listens intently with every nerve
strained, suddenly he’s sure he hears him-
self called, as his mother calls him,
“James! James!” The’call seems to
come from nowhere and yet to be every-
where. He stands stockstill, listening.
All bosh! It was just imagination. But
when he moves —there! Isn’t that it
again?
“James! James!”
He turns and struggles wildly through
the clawing tangles. This bush is too un-
canny. He flounders desperately in the
undergrowth until he has fought his way
to the cattle track, sweating, winded and
shaky.
Here it’s more friendly, and here come
the playful fantails again. The sun shines
down through a break in the treetops and
the creek runs between Jake and the
lonely heart of the bush. No wonder the
pioneers burnt the bush. Jake remem-
bers old settlers speaking of such experi-
ences. Bush-fright, they reckoned.
Jake hurries on. Presently, after a stiff
climb up the gully, the track leaves the
bush in a clearing on top of the hills.
And there, at the foot of the other side of
the hill, is an old-time settler’s homestead
—a gabled, wooden house, painted buff
color, plain but solid, with nicely-propor-
tioned windows above and French doors
opening on a verandah below. Great old
gnarly pines shadow it where it stands
near the fringe of the bush.
The sheep hills beyond are the way the
settlers left them after their “burns” —
stark and bare, scarred by raw faces of
clay where the land has slipped.
But around the homestead itself are
gardens and orchards with fruit-trees and
shrubs of all kinds growing in wild luxuri-
ance—peaches and loquats, apple-trees
and banana-trees, plum- and orange- and
lemon-trees, bamboos and palms, and
everywhere flowering creepers in masses
trailing over outcrops of lava rock or
climbing the trunks of the trees.
JAKE wipes away what he can of the
signs of his battle with the bush and
clambers down the hillside. Soon he
strikes a drive leading to the house, but
just before he reaches the long verandah
with its row of open French doors an old
man with a spade comes from behind a
hedge and bars his way.
“You read the notice on the gate: ‘No
Admittance! ’ ” says the old man snappily.
He’s- a tired old man, in an eaith-
smeared white shirt and white pants, held
up by a black band. His feet are bare and
earthy, too. He wears a stained Panama
hat, and he has a scraggy grey beard. At
first glance you might take him for a
gardener, but he’s awkward with the
spade, and, by something in his voice and
manner, Jake guesses that he’s Mr. Moss.
“I’m sorry, Mr. Moss, but I didn’t come
in the gate. I came through the bush, and
I brought this book that Uncle Ted has
finished with,” he says, pulling the book
from inside his shirt.
“Hm,” says the old chap, planting his
spade in |he ground, wiping his hands on
his pants and taking the book. “Hm,”
he says with a glance at the book before
he tosses it on to the verandah.. Then he
looks at Jake with an embarrassing sort
of absentminded look. “So you are the
young gentleman who is staying with his
Uncle Ted.” The old bloke is certainly
English in spite of his grubbiness and
bare feet. You can tell it as soon as
he speaks.
“Come and see my garden,” he says,
jerking himself into action.
“You have a corker garden,” Jake says.
“All these palms and banana-trees make
it look as if we’re in Hawaii.”
“My Pacific paradise,” says Mr. Moss
with a bitter sort of laugh that surprises
Jake. The old chap shows him papaia-
trees and pineapple bushes and hibiscus
plants here , and there in nooks amid the
shrubbery of the old-fashioned garden
where everything grows more profusely
than orderly, and weeds are smothered
more by their own rank growth than by
good gardening. Yet Jake likes it.
“Have you been here long, Mr. Moss?”
he. asks. “The house looks like an old
settler’s home.”
Mr. Moss looks back at the gabled
house as if seeing it for the first time.
“Queer how this homestead came to be
abandoned,” he says. “It used to belong
to a fine old pioneering family. They
were on my firm’s books for several gen-
erations —well known and well respected.
I was an importing merchant in London,
you know,” he tells Jake, “Butter, wool,
mutton.” His voice trails off.
“And where did the settlers go?”
prompts Jake, seeing Mr. Moss’s absent-
mindedness.
“God knows!” says Mr. Moss. “They
just seemed to drift away—vanish—like
the sheep from those damn’ hills. I can’t
fathom it. This used to be one of the
largest sheep stations in the country. In
England, you know, everything used to
appear so settled. But here families just
seem to go to pieces before they have
properly started. The land can’t be
played out surely,” he says, staring hard
at Jake as though he might be contra-
dicted. “When one thinks of the thou-
sands of tons of produce my firm handled
every year”
“This must be a big change from
London,” Jake says to avoid trying to
solve the problem. “Whatever made you
come so far?”
“Perhaps the tourist advertisements,”
says Mr. Moss vaguely, “Of course,
when I—er —decided to leave the Old
Country naturally 1 thought of New Zea-
land, where my firm was so well known.
And this place was on our hands, you
know. I got it for a song. I wish to
God I’d gone to’ Italy or the East or
anywhere on earth but here,” Mr. Moss
adds sourly,
“Oh, I’m sorry you don’t like it here,”
says Jake, really distressed to find anyone
unhappy to be in New Zealand.
“Paradise of the Pacific!” Mr. Moss
laughs his bitter little laugh. “A little hell
rather. Not a big man-size hell, mind you,
just a nasty little hell. Those damn’ hills
are enough to drive a man mad, he says,
eyeing the sheep hills.
“Yes, what a pity they’re not bush-
covered,” says Jake.
“Bush! ” says Mr. Moss. “That unholy,
gloomy bush at the back is almost worse.
Jake doesn’t know what to say.
<<VOU know, I came out here to rest,”
i says Mr. Moss. “After a rather
unfortunate experience I needed peace of
mind.' But, God knows, I’ve had neither
rest nor peace of mind since I came here.
I’m cursed with insomnia, in fact.”
“The sea air should help,” says Jake
hopefully.
“Hm!” says Mr. Moss. “At night I
read. I may be vegetating here, but I keep
up with modern thought. At first my
books used to help me to doze off. Now
it’s different. When one thinks of the
tremendous problems of modern science
—and economics —and politics!” . . .
Mr. Moss leaves Jake to imagine the
immorality almost of sleep in the circum-
stances
“Couldn’t you read real sleepy kinds of
books?” Jake says.
Mr. Moss disregards this. “But day-
time is worse,” he says. “After a sleep-
less night I used to lie on a couch on
the verandah and doze. Then I became
aware of the hills. They looked restful at
first. Somehow I couldn’t take my eyes
off them. Now, whenever I try to take
a nap I see those blasted hills with my
eyes shut. If there were sheep on them
I might count sheep ; but, you know. I’ve
caught myself counting those bally clay
slips instead. If I close my eyes I can
see every one. It’s nightmarish. They’re
driving me crazy. Every summer
every winter there are more of them.”
“Couldn’t you go somewhere else?”
says Jake, seeing that the position is hope-
less.
“Not at my time of day,” Mr. Moss
says decidedly. “Anyway, it would up-
root things, you know. All my invest-
ments are made and everything arranged.
No, it’s no good. Damn the land!”
Jake thinks, well, he had better go. But
the old bloke seems to like to have some-
one to listen to his story.
“Sleep, sleep! You don’t know the
blessing of sleep,” he mutters wearily.
“You know, once I thought my house-
keeper was helping to cure me of my in-
somnia, She reads Higher Thought or
some bally thing. She tells me that noth-
ing’s real, you know. You kid youtsell;
you aren’t awake or something. Look at
the hills, she says; they are only in your
mind. There is nothing really there.
When you think of it, it sounds reason-
able, quite scientific, you know,”
“And does it work?” says Jake.
“Oh, it’s wearing a bit thin now,” says
Mr. Moss wearily. “But I have my
garden,” he says somewhat more brightly.
“Afraid I’m no gardener. Queer how
nothing will grow on those awful hills
and everything just springs up here in
the garden. It’s all that leaf-mould, I sup-
pose. I’m nearly worn out trying to save
my choice things. Weeds and trees and
stuff just overwhelm me. Anyway, I
make the best of it. As you see, I go
barefoot. I read in a recent book that
one gets the benefit of the earth’s mag-
netic currents that way. And I wear a
beard because they say the facial hairs
act as filaments to strengthen a man’s
life-force, you know. Well, in time it
may all help.”
Jake says he hopes so, and he must go
now.
BUT a din like nothing on earth
drowns his voice. Branches crack
and the undergrowth is ripped, torn and
trampled. The panting, snorting and bel-
lowing of frightened animals, the barking
and savage yelping of dogs and the in-
coherent swearing of a horseman make
up most of the tumult.
The curtain of leaves parts for a
moment, and Jake glimpses the massive
head and curly hair and bloodshot .eyes
of a maddened Jersey bull. In an instant
it is gone, charging ponderously among
a mob of silly cows.
From the scrub at Mr. Moss’s feet a
red Tamworth boar rushes squealing like
a wild tusker, and a black sow and her
shrieking litter follow. The pretty little
black and red sucking-pigs scuttle here
and there and scamper over Jake’s toes
in their fright.
Following in the wake of the animals
come the swearing horseman and his yelp-
ing dogs.
Mr. Moss swears, too. He grabs a
garden stake and runs down the path.
Some of his choicest plants lie crushed
and trampled by the
mob. Jake reckons
he’d better keep out of
the way of the Jersey
bull, so he pushes
through the shrubbery
into a neglected orchard, and is about to
make his way back to the house when a
voice hails him.
“Hallo!”
Sounds like a girl’s voice, thinks Jake.
“Hallo! Don’t run away.”
Jake looks around, and there, in an old
gnarled apple-tree, balancing on a lower
branch, is a girl with a mop of fair hair.
“Have an apple,” says the girl, offering
Jake a juicy-looking one. But it’s hard
and sourly bitter, and Jake wishes he
hadn’t bitten it. The girl rocks gently
on the branch, smiling secretly.
“A mob of animals stampeded through
the garden,” Jake says as he munches, try-
ing to look as though he finds the apple
good. /
The girl titters. “I’m always in for it,’
she says.
“For what?”
“Leaving gates open,” she says. “I was
over getting a basket of eggs from Mr.
Asprey on the farm next door, and I
tried to catch the dear little porkers.
They’re lovely and silky to stroke. Well,
they all got out and the old pigs, too,
and the dogs stampeded all the cows out.
When I saw the bull coming I went for
my life. I must’ve left all the gates open.
Isn’t # it awful? I better lie low till the
old man gets over it. He’s so proud of
his garden, he hates it rumpled.”
“Oh,” says Jake. “You live here, too?”
“I work here. But don’t you know
me?” says the girl saucily. “You haven’t
changed a bit —only got lankier.”
I N between spitting out big lumps of
1 sour apple, Jake takes a good look at
the girl. She certainly seems somehow
familiar. Then it comes to him. Good
Lord! she’s Mabel—Mabel Crummer
from the shanty on the gumland! A
slightly different Mabel though, more
“ladylike” in manner, her speech more
“refined.” Jake guesses it makes a differ-
ence being grown-up.
“Why, yes, of course,” he stammers.
“You have changed a bit, you know. You
say you’re working here?”
“Yes,” says Mabel. “I work for the
old boy. Pretty good job. There’s a
housekeeper, Mrs. Kirp, but the rheu-
matics have got her. The idea’s to get
some young blood about the place.”
“Oh!” says Jake. “Mr. Moss is a queer
sort, isn’t he?”
“A bit screwy. I can tell you why. I
know all about him,” Mabel boasts.
“Does he let you into his secrets?”
Jake asks sarcastically.
“Yep,” says Mabel. “Seems to like
me to talk to. I sort of jolly the old boy
along. Says I’m just like a daughter to
him.”
“Oh!” says Jake.
“Look, he came out here because a
girl he was sort of fond of in the Old
Country turned him down. Showed me
her photo, and all. Sort of stuck up-look-
ing tart. I wouldn’t keep her picture and
pine over her all these years, would ypu?”
“No, I don’t suppose I would,” says
Jake uncertainly.
“Must be because he’s an Englishman,”
Mabel goes on. “It’s like you read about
in books. Poor old boy! The idea’s to
come out here to forget.”
Jake is wondering how much Mabel
helps him to forget when the girl jumps
to the ground. “Come on up to the
house,” she says, taking Jake’s hand and
pulling him along. She bends and looks
up into the boy’s face, laughing her teas-
ing laugh.
At the house they find Mr, Moss flat
on his couch, staring at the hills.
“The farmer must’ve got all his animals
rounded up,” Mabel whispered to Jake,
giving his hand a squeeze.
All that Mr. Moss seems able to say
in a tired and peevish voice is “Can’t you
ever learn to shut gates, Mabel?”
“Accidents will happen,” says Mabel
brightly. “Got the eggs, anyway. Well,
I better get going. Tat-ta!” and she clat-
ters round the corner of the verandah.
Mr. Moss gives Jake a tortured look.
Jake doesn’t notice it, though. He’s trying
to peer round the corner after Mabel.
“Come and see me again,” says Mr.
Moss. “And go out the front gate when
you go.”
“Well, good-bye, Mr. Moss,” Jake says,
waking up.
“Yoo-hoo!” says Mabel, suddenly pdk-
ing her head round the corner. “You
got to come and talk to me next time.”
Jake swings down the drive, thinking
life is great.


Queensland
; Insurance Go. i
Ltd.
; Queensland Insurance Building, j
80-82 Pitt Street,
j SYDNEY.' I
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting J
I Fire, Marine, Accident, House- ■
; , owners’ and Householders’, J
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler J
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown, !
Aviation, etc.
NP4S/37
u Going away for a rest cure?
All you need is
a daily dose of
' NUGGET '
. . . that's what
keens me fit".
(71
&41
For 50 years a GOOD, polish
3MED
E
Finest Leather
Preservative >
HOGGET
SHOE POLISH
Do you need a
Pcm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.'
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHITHER U.S. POLICY?
(The "Wall-street Journal" lashes out.)
We Americans gave our Government
encouragement—it did not need much —to
connive with Stalin. In the criminal deci-
sion of Yalta an American President
accepted secret agreements which bar-
tered thousands of human beings and
which, if carried out, will send thou-
sands more to exile and death.
We did that and a chorus of writers
and commentators defaulted their obli-
gation to ask questions and said that
Yalta was good. They said Stalin was a
man of his word. He would not grab
territory. He would not suppress the
churches. He would cease to send his
agitators into every corner of the world.
He would not use his military power to
force on other peoples his own social and
political system. Each of those things he
has done. Some illusionists, who said he
would not, now have the decency to
acknowledge disillusion. They suggest
that we shake an admonitory finger at
Stalin,
That is a ludicrous suggestion. Does
anyone imagine that Stalin is such a
fool that he thinks we can or will oppose
his armed might with ours? And if we
are not ready to do that, what other
means of opposition have we? We have
none, for we besmirched our own moral
precepts. We have dropped our faith
and stand grotesquely naked.
Yet we tell other peoples of the
world how they must act. We have
abandoned the tradition that peoples have
the right to work out their own destiny.
We denounce a Col. Peron, of Argen-
tina, as a dictator and a bad man sus-
pected of aggression and therefore he
must not rule that unhappy republic. He
certainly is those things. But who is
the United States to denounce the man
that the people of his country appa-
rently have chosen in a free election and
to condemn any other Government for
co-operating with dictators? The fact is
that Col. Peron helped himself to power
by borrowing more than one page from
the book of the New Deal.
But Col. Peron and General Franco,
another unsavory character ruling Spain,
are, we say, corrupt. Furthermore, they
suppress the rights of the people. They
poison the wells of free information.
They certainly do those things.
Let us see what Government it is that
hurls these accusations of corruption and
extra-legal sanctions.
It is a Government where the family
and the friends of a President could use
their prestige to enrich themselves and
those who publicly protested are de-
nounced. It is a Government against
which, for the first time in American
history, Americans fear to speak. It is
a Government which is spending the
people’s money on a bureaucracy with
which men abhor contact because
resistance means reprisals.
Looking at our record of connivance
with dictators and looking at our domestic
scene, is it any wonder that the people
of Argentina decided that Col. Peron
might be the lesser of two evils?
And while we condemn the dictators
for suppressing and distorting the free
flow of information, our own State De-
partment proposes a plan to blanket the
world With propaganda.
Why should Stalin take us and our
pious protestations seriously? WMV
should he give us any attention at all?
He knows what is happening and he
knows-that we are treading the path to
his philosophy and his orbit. He thinks
he has only to wait—and he may be
right.
We have told the world about four
freedoms, but the number of men who
live under the heel of dictatorship is
greater, not less. We have not stood
for freedom. We are in the thick of the
game of power politics. We are in it
in Europe and in Asia and we have
imported it to the American continent.
It is Stalin’s game and, of course, we do
it badly.
There are men not afraid to speak out.
One is John Foster Dulles, who dares
speak and knows whereof he speaks. We
quote:
I am afraid we’ve got very few friends
in the world today. There was a time
when we had more friends than any other
people of the world. Today we have in-
fluence because of our production capacity,
because people are trying to get the phy-
sical things we produce. I don’t detect
any real friendship on the part of other
peoples. This leaves us in a dangerous and
vulnerable position; one which we should
do our utmost to correct.
A man’s standing in his community is
a projection of his own character. A
nation’s standing in the world is a pro-
jection of its domestic life.
What we see at home is a condition
where public trust is openly accepted as
—New York “Daily Mirror."
ON HIS WORD OF HONOR.
an avenue to private gain ; where a Gov-
ernment is so steeped in propaganda lies
that it must give the wrong reasons for
its policies; where in the name of free-
dom the citizen is being handcuffed to
rules of a troupe of brilliant pygmies
who write the prescription for a fuller
life on an adding machine; where debt
is prosperity, and thrift a social crime;
where it can be asserted that there exists
a “moral right” to steal and bribe ; where
men shout free enterprise and then seek
better and bigger Government subsidies ;
where women leaving blackmarkets stop
to sign petitions for continuation of
price-control; where groups demanding
“When do we get ours?” no longer
whisper, but shout; and where officials no
longer consider it necessary to conceal
that they are the creatures of these
groups.
Is it any wonder that in our inter-
national relations we cannot combat the
assertion that black is white and that t e
goal of human freedom is the slave btate.
Is it any wonder that Mr. Dulles
laments the lack of those policies ex-
pressive of the righteous faith of the
in America?” , .
We are apathetic. We are rapidly
growing pathetic.
FINDING ON PALESTINE.
(The Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry on Palestine accompanied its r ecommendations
with certain observations and comments. Here they are condensed from the
London “Times” report .)
It is neither just nor practicable that
Palestine should become either an Arab
State or a Jewish State. In neither case
would minority guarantees afford ade-
quate protection for the subordinated
group. Palestine, then, must be estab-
lished as a country in which the legiti-
mate national aspirations of both Jews
and Arabs can be reconciled. In our
view this cannot be done under any form
of constitution in which a mere numerical
majority is decisive. (
Our recommendations are based on
what we believe at this stage to be a fair
measure of justice to all. They are not
in accord with the
claims of either
party, and, further-
more, they involve a
departure from the
recent policy of the
mandatory. We re-
cognise that, if they
are adopted, they will
involve a long period
of trusteeship, which
will mean a very
heavy burden for
any single Govern-
ment, a burden
which would be light-
ened if the trustee
had the support of
other members of
the United Nations.
One of the chief
causes of friction is
the great disparity
between the Jewish
and Arab standards
of living. The Arabs
will have to rely, to
a far greater extent
than the Jews, on
financial aid from
the Government.
The Jews of Pales-
tine should accept
the necessity that
taxation, raised from
both Jews and Arabs,,
will have to be spent
very largely on the
Arabs in order to
bridge the gap which
now exists between
the standard of liv-
ing of the two
peoples.
While we recog-
nise that any Jew
who enters Palestine
in accordance with its laws is there
of right, we expressly disapprove of
the position taken in some Jewish
quarters that Palestine has in some
way been ceded or granted as their State
to the Jews of the world, that every Jew
everywhere is, merely because he is a
Jew, a citizen of Palestine, and therefore
can enter Palestine as of right without
regard to conditions imposed by the Gov-
ernment upon entry, and that therefore
there can be no illegal immigration of
Jews into Palestine.
The building of the Jewish economy
has enjoyed the advantage of abundant
capital, provided on such terms as to
make economic return a secondary con-
sideration. The Arabs have had no such
advantage. \Ye do not think it wise or
appropriate that plans, such as the pro-
ject for a Jordan Valley Authority,
should, if judged technically sound, be
undertaken by any private organisation,
even though that organisation, as sug-
gested by the Jewish Agency, should give
an assurance of Arab benefits and Arab
participation in the management.
The Jewish schools —controlled and
largely financed by the Jewish community
—are imbued with a fiery spirit of
nationalism. They have become most
effective agencies for inculcating a spirit
of aggressive Hebrew nationalism. Ade-
quate control must be exercised over the
education of both Jews and Arabs in
order to do away with the present excited
emphasis on racialism and the perversion
of education for propaganda purposes.
According to official estimates, the
population of Palestine grew from 750,000
at the census of 1922 to 1,765,000 at the
end of 1944. In this period the Jewish
part of the population rose from 84,000
to 554,000 and from 13 to 31 per cent,
of the whole. Three-fourths of this ex-
pansion of the Jewish community was
accounted for by immigration. Mean-
while the Arabs, though their proportion
of the total population was falling, had
increased by an even greater number —
the Muslims alone from 589,000 to
1.061.000. Of this Muslim growth of
472.000, only 19,000 were accounted for
by immigration. The expansion of the
Arab community by natural increase has
been in fact one of the most striking
features of Palestine’s social history under
the mandate. The present density of
population in Palestine is officially esti-
mated at 179 per square mile. If the
largely desert sub-district of Beersheba
is excluded from the calculations the
figure is 336,
European Merry-go-round.
(From a letter to London “Times” by an
anonymous correspondent.)
Here is an account of the situation in
Europe a few years after the battle of
Waterloo. If the word “Left” be sub-
stituted throughout for the word “Right”
and vice versa there will be seen a certain
parallel with the present situation.
“The great war was over. The result
of it was considered a victory for the
parties of the Right in most countries of
Europe. All the great Powers were under
Rightist Governments. Russia dominated
the continent. Although she had played
an equivocal part at the beginning of the
war and had even made an alliance with
the one man who was mainly responsible
for all the bloodshed, she had later altered
her policy and„ it was that man’s unsuc-
cessful invasion of Russia which had
proved the turning-poinl in his fortunes.
“The Russian army had fought with
astonishing courage and had proved a
decisive factor in the victory. Now that
the general trend in politics was. towards
the Right, the Russian Government,
under one who was generally considered
an enlightened autocrat, represented that


OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
£ We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art. past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 3 GNS. TO 500 GNS.
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 5803.
Gallery open Daily from 9.50 a.m. to 3.50 p.m,
Saturday. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Australian Wool Realization Commission
WOOL FOR APPRAISEMENT,
SEASON 1945-46
. ,v . .
Woolgrowers and others are reminded that Clause 19 of the National Security
(Wool) Regulations provides:
(1) All wool sltfilW be submitted for appraisement.
(2) If any person owning, or controlling, or having possession of any
wool, fails to submit it for appraisement, he shall be guilty of an
offence. , ,
(3) Any wool which is not submitted for appraisement within the wool
year may be seized under the authority of the Central Wool
Committee and appraised.
The powers'conferred by these Regulations on the Central Wool Committee
are now vested in the Australian Wool Realization Commission. The Australian
Wool Realization Commission, therefore, wishes to notify all growers and others
that wool which properly belongs to the wool season 1945-46 must be submitted
for appraisement before the 30th June, 1946.
If any wool which, in the opinion of the Commission, properly belongs to the
wool season 1945-46 is not submitted for appraisement before the 30th June, 1946,
such wool is liable to be seized under the authority of the Commission and
appraised under the 1945-46 Table of limits.
Melbourne, Bth May, 1946. H. B. I/EIGH, Secretary.
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment fpr thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
gjg. 117 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
trend in its extremist form and was
anxious not only to push the victory of
the Right to its limits, but to prevent
the Left from ever reasserting itself.
“In one country of Europe the forces
of the Left were still powerful. That
country was Spain, and there a Leftist
regime succeeded, despite strong opposi-
tion, in holding the forces of the Right
at bay. The Rightist Governments of
other European countries were indignant,
none so indignant as those of Russia and
of France.
“The position of France was delicate,
because she had after all been defeated
in the war, and had at one period been
dominated by the Left. France, anxious
to show that she still had an army, urged
on as she was by Russia, took indepen-
dent action on the Spanish frontier.
“Great Britain also had a Government
of the Right, but it was a moderate Gov-
ernment which deplored interference in
the internal affairs of other nations and
was strongly opposed to intervention in
Spain. It took the view that it was
for the Spanish people themselves to
decide upon the form of government
they preferred.”
The Japanese Election.
(From a "Wall-street Journal” article by
William Henry Chamberlin.)
The election in Japan may be con-
sidered another success for the enlight-
ened and efficient military administration
of General MacArthur. The voting was
free and orderly; 70 per cent, of the
registered voters cast their ballots; and
the innovation of.women’s suffrage was
apparently very well received.
Women voted in large numbers, and
among the 466 members of the House of
Representatives will be between 20 and
30 women. Perhaps the best known
of Japan’s first women legislators is
Baroness Shidzue Ishimoto, author of the
interesting book of personal experiences,
Facing Two Ways, and a frequent lec-
turer in the United States.
Her election by a large vote is an indi-
cation that liberal and moderate elements
in Japanese political life are coming into
their own. To some extent, of course,
these elements were favored by the com-
pulsory elimination as candidates of in-
dividuals who were considered too deeply
compromised by association with the war-
time Administrations of General Tojo and
his successors.
However, General MacArthur has been
much less extreme in his “denazification”
methods than the officials in the Ameri-
can Zone in Germany. Consequently
and this is only to be welcomed as a
favorable omen for the ultimate success
of our effort to create a demilitarised and
peaceful regime in Japan—the new Par-
liament cannot be written off as a group
of handpicked American Quislings. It
is sufficiently representative to constitute
a solid base of contact and co-operation
between the occupation authorities and
the Japanese people.
For the first time in Japanese history
Communists were permitted to take a
free, open and active part in the election.
But Japanese Communism, in this first
test of strength, showed far less strength
than Communism in most European
countries. The three most prominent
Communist leaders, Sanzo Nosaka (who
returned a few months ago from a long
political exile with the Chinese Commu-
nists in Yenan), Tokuda and Shiga were
elected, but few other Communist candi-
dates showed much strength.
The four strongest political groups in
the new Parliament will be the Progres-
sives, the Liberals, the Social Democrats
and a miscellaneous group of Indepen-
dents.
All parties except the Communists
favor the retention of the Emperor, as a
constitutional ruler, not as a semi-divine
autocrat. Even the Communists appar-
ently did not carry on any violent propa-
ganda against the Imperial institution.
Their campaign was to some extent defen-
sive ; they tried to convince the voters
that they were not controlled from Mos-
cow and that they did not propose to
confiscate all private property.
Agrarian reform, break-up of the ex-
treme concentration of economic power
in the hands of big trusts like the Mitsui
and Mitsubishi, rebuilding of Japan s
shattered cities and resumption of indus-
trial production and foreign trade would
probably be recognised as desirable goals
by- all the new Japanese legislators,
although there may be differences of
opinion as to details. The Parliament
may be expected to approve the spirit of
the proposed new Japanese Constitution,
which sweeps away the various obstacles
to responsible Parliamentary government
which were inserted in the old Constitu-
tion, put into effect in 1889.
The political foundation of a healthy
and co-operative Japan has been well laid.
Experienced foreign observers who have
recently returned from Japan say that the
Japanese people have no illusions as to
the fact that they were thoroughly beaten
in the war.
But the soundness and stability of the
political structure in Japan, as everywhere
in the world, depend on some tolerably
satisfactory solution of the grave econo-
mic problems which the country faces.
The present industrial paralysis, partly
caused by uncertainty as to what will be
taken as reparations, must be overcome.
Export industries and foreign trade must
revive if the 75 million Japanese packed
in small islands are to maintain even a
modest subsistence life. The fate of
democratic self-government in Japan
is linked with the success or failure of
world reconstruction.
Paying for Socialism.
(From an article by a "Christian Science
Monitor” London correspondent.)
It isn’t the rich or big business or
inheritance duties, but the British people
—the man and woman in the street —
who are going to pay for Britain’s
Socialism.
The first full-scale Socialist Budget in-
troduced by Chancellor of the Exchequer
Hugh Dalton underlined that indelibly.
In Britain’s estimated total revenue of
£3,161,300,000 for the year 1946-47, in-
come tax will account for £1,111,000,000,
and indited taxation, including purchase
tax, movies, liquor, tobacco, etc.,
£1,187,000,000.
By contrast, the surtax on incomes over
£2OOO will yield only £80,000,000 and in-
heritance duties £140,000,000. The excess-
profits tax will still provide a delayed action
yield, but the Chancellor has decided to
abolish it next year, partly because it
checks industrial expansion and partly
because' it is running down, anyway.
Furthermore, the Chancellor has warned
the country that the purchase tax has
come to stay, to yield increasing revenue
and help pay for social betterment.
All this doesn’t mean the rich are get-
ting off lightly. Far from it. But they’re
becoming increasingly few and their con-
tributions less and less important in a
rocketing national revenue and expendi-
ture. Therefore, it is on the weekly wage-
earner and shopping, housewife that the
main burden of paying for social security
for the wage-earner and housewife will
fall. This upsets the view that has been
prevalent among Left-Wingers that the
redistribution of wealth was a simple
matter of soaking the rich. In fact, how-
ever, it is more a question of creating
new wealth by hard work, initiative and,
most of all, by the goodwill and co-opera-
tion of all classes of the community.
Mr. Dalton’s Budget is ranked as
highly successful in that it encouraged
Britain to feel that the new goal was well
within the grasp of this country.
Judging from statements by the Labor
Government spokesmen, some 80 per
cent, of business in Britain is going to
remain under private enterprise. So Mr.
Dalton relies to a large extent on private
enterprise for his production drive and,
therefore, for the success of Britain s
present Socialist experiment.
One way and another, many illusions
are going out of the window. The work-
ing man is going to do most of the pay-
ing for his social betterment, and the
chairman of the new nationalised indus-
tries, like coal and the Bank of England,
are still men wearing peer’s coronets be-
cause they happen to be considered by
the Socialist Government to be the best
men for the top jobs. The difference is
that wearers of coronets are today on
national service, with secure pay packets,
and are at the same time immensely grate-
ful to the nation for taking over their
expensive domains as pleasure-grounds
and places of educational improvement
for the workers.
U.S. Bases in the Pacific.
(W. H. Lawrence puts clearly in this article
condensed from the N.Y. "Times” what the
U.S. Army and Navy plan for the Pacific in
peace-time.)
The United States Government hopes
to shelve for at least a year a final inter-
national political settlement on eventual
disposition of the former Japanese-owned
and mandated islands, but the Army and
the Navy are preparing great fleet anchor-
ages and air fields. The job of construc-
tion cannot wait for the final political
settlements.
There is considerable sentiment in the
United States and especially in Congress
for outright annexation of the former
Japanese islands conquered by our forces
and considered by the Army and Navy
essential to future defence of the U.S.
—New York “Times” map.
The bases the U.S. Navy and Army want-and are already building—in
the Pacific.
On the other hand, there is a provision
in the United Nations Charter under
which- territory taken from the enemy is
to be placed under trusteeship arrange-
ments approved by U.N.O.
It is not possible to settle the trustee-
ship versus annexation issue until a final
peace treaty is signed with Japan, an event
which is not expected at best in less than
12 to 18 months.
Those who favor international colla-
boration through U.N.O. contend that
for the United States to insist upon an-
nexing Japanese possessions in the Pacific
is a violation of the Atlantic Charter.
Proponents of annexation point out that
the two architects of the Atlantic Charter,
the late President Roosevelt and former
Prime Minister Churchill, were parties
to the secret agreement of Yalta in which
it was decided to hand over to the Soviet
There are abundant sources of uranium
for those who are willing to pay a nigh
price. Granite contains uranium—as
much as an ounce to a ton of rock.
Even the ocean contains some. There is
a thousand times more uranium than
gold in the earth’s crust and more than
cadmium, bismuth, silver, mercury or
iodine. There is no need to worry about
the exhaustion of known uranium de-
posits, since it is to be found everywhere.
Ores are commonly mined which contain
only one-fifth of an ounce of gold per
ton of rock. There are vast quantities of
rock which contain from one-fifth to one
ounce of uranium per ton. If society de-
cides that uranium is to be as valuable
as gold, then practically unlimited quan-
tities of uranium are available for use
in supplying atomic energy. — N.Y.
“Times.”
Union the Japanese-owned Kurile Islands.
There is no indication that the Soviet
Government plans to place these islands
under the trusteeship system.
Involved in the discussion are six major
island groups, held in the main by the
Japanese through ownership or League of
Nations mandates before this war, whose
conquest cost United States forces ap-
proximately 140,000 casualties.
In the order of their importance to
U.S. plans for the defence of the Pacific,
these islands are: (1) Marianas—Tinian
and Saipan, in addition to United States-
owned Guam ; (2) Ryukyus —Okinawa ;
(3) Marshalls —Kwajalein, Eniwetok and
Majuro ; (4) Volcanoes —Iwo and Chichi;
(5) Carolines —Truk and Ulithi; (6)
Palaus —Peleliu, Angaur and Babelthuap.
As the U.S. Navy sees it the acquisition
of Tinian and Saipan with Guam in the
Marianas chain is most important to
provide a great advanced fleet base and
anchorage amply protected by land-based
air power. Fleet Admiral Nimitz,
chief of Naval Operations, believes
the Marianas fleet base might in
time be more powerful and more im-
portant than the present Pacific fleet
o Continued on page 32.)


Personal Interviews with “ Everyday ” People
name.
25^
“20 miles a day for 10 years
. . . that*s mv average!”
“I cover a 20 mile route, day in and day out
and people say they can set their clocks
by me. Most of the time Pm carrying a
50 lb. bag. How do I keep going? By
looking after my feet and taking caret
of my health. For my health’s sake
(and because I like it) I drink “MILO”
regularly. “MILO” puts pep into a man
helps to build up his resistance
and keep him going.
Good stuff “MILO”!
Pure country milk and malted cereals
fortified with energising vitamins and served
as a palate-tempting chocolate-flavoured
beverage: that’s MILO. MILO helps to
build stamina , restore energy and induce
sound , restful sleep.
In metropolitan areas a i lb.
tin of MILO costs only 2/3d.
from any chemist or store,
i
9o£jes peaceful
%
I
£
E
£
£
= £
Ltrengl
MILO
The Fortified
TONIC FOOD
A NESTLE'S product
m
m
■ ■
wm
1111
m-y
-"yt.
mmmm
m
:, m
m
tss&
COPYRIGHT B123TB


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3458
Wednesday, May 22, 1946
SHARPER THAN A SERPENT’S TOOTH.
“During the fortnight’s strike which tied up over a hundred ships, and which was settled on the usual terms—total and ignominious surrender to Communists—
Mr. Forde learned that TWO servicemen would be his opponents in Capricornia.”
“And after all I’ve done for them! They can’t do this to ME!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
«. K. Prior J. £. Webb
*• “• Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
B °?, 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
Mew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LAW THE REMEDY.
The hold-up of wool-ships and food-
ships was a natural sequel to the hold-
up of Dutch ships last September, and to
the poltroonery with which the “ ‘Labor’
Government” has submitted to that out-
rage on humanity and on loyalty to an
ally in the wars against Germany and
Japan. When Mr. Chifley was challenged
on the exhibition of “Labor” cowardice,
he assumed an appearance of offended
.virtue. Addressing Mr. Spender he said:
Does the hon. member suggest that, in
order to have limited quantity of supplies
loaded for some particular part of the
globe, we should have allowed an indus-
trial dispute to flare up on the waterfront
that would have involved the whole indus-
trial movement and the whole of the ship-
ping trade of this country? Such action
would create a complete hold-up on the
waterfront. I tell him frankly that 1 was
not prepared as Leader of the Government
[“Hansard” capitals] to be a party to doing
that.
Because the gentleman “was not prepared
as leader of the ‘Government’ to be a
party to doing that,” his “Government”
became a party to “a complete hold-
up on the waterfront”—in other
words, another industrial crime, ordered
and carried out by the same people,
doubtless under orders from the
same quarter, and this tinie with Aus-
tralia the special victim, its main industry
attacked and its reputation for humanity
again foully besmirched.
Is there no means of preventing these
crimes against the nation or of punishing
them if committed, punishing them so
drastically that there would be no danger
of any repetition? In the Common-
wealth Constitution and Statute Book
ample powers of prevention and punish-
ment exist, especially where the crimes
can be sheeted home to Johnny-come-
lately Communists like Healy (Waterside
Workers) and Thornton (Ironworkers).
Each of these particular Red Fascist
toughs has given an account of himself
in a thumbnail biography;
Healy, James: General Secretary Water-
side Workers’ Federation since 1937. B.
March 22, 1898, Manchester; branch officer
Waterside Workers’ Federation, Mackay
(Q.), 1930-36. Recreations, football, cricket;
club, Journalists’, Sydney; address, Wem-
bley Chambers, 104 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Thornton, Ernest: General Secretary
Ironworkers’ Union since 1936; appointed
representative of Australian Trade-unions at
World Trade-union Conference, 1944. B.
England; came to Australia at age of 16
as Dreadnought Boy; twice contested
Federal electorate of Yarra (Vic.) as
Communist candidate; address, Wembley
Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
Had these fellows inflicted themselves
on the United States instead of Australia,
and behaved there as they have done in
this country, they would have been de-
ported long ago. The United States immi-
gration law specifies that an alien Com-
munist may not lawfully enter or remain
in the United States, being “subject to ex-
clusion or deportation.”
When Mr. Coolidge was President, and
with his express sanction, this law was
invoked to prevent the admission of
Saklatvala, the Indian M.P., to attend a
so-called Parliamentary Congress. Sak-
latvala pleaded that he was not Com-
munist but Labor; all the same, he was
not admitted. And when Mr. Roosevelt
was President, though he was said to be
partial to Communists, the law was in-
voked again to secure the deportation to
Australia of Bridges, leader of the water-
side workers on the Pacific Slope.
An order for the deportation of Bridges
on the ground that he was an alien Com-
munist was signed by the Democratic
Attorney-General, Mr, Biddle. Bridges
had powerful friends, and after proceed-
ings in several Courts he was finally
allowed to remain, the U.S. Supreme
Court, by a three-to-two judgment, accept-
ing his plea that he was not a Communist.
Had it decided that he was a Communist,
we would have had the fellow back in
this country, if he had not chosen to pro-
ceed to Moscow. The validity of the im-
migration law was never in question.
Section 51 of our Constitution vests in
our Parliament the same powers as are
possessed and have been exercised by
Congress (“The Parliament shall, sub-
ject to this Constitution, have power to
make laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with
respect to (xxvii) immigration and
emigration”). And 21 years ago deporta-
tion proceedings were launched, though
very clumsily, against Tom Walsh and
Jake Johanson, who, as leaders of the
Federated Seamen’s Union, had thrown
the weight of their organisation behind
a general strike of British seamen in Aus-
tralian ports, stirred up by Communists
and repudiated by the executive of the
British Seamen’s Union.
A bald official record of the Walsh-
Johanson case:
In 1925 clauses were inserted in the Com-
monwealth Immigration Act to authorise
the Federal Government to take action for.
the deportation of persons not born in
Australia who are involved in serious in-
dustrial disputes or who have been con-
victed of an offence against the Federal
laws relating to conciliation and arbi-
tration. Under certain conditions such
persons might be summoned before a
hoard of three persons appointed by the
Minister. When the seamen on British
ships in Australian waters were involved
in an industrial dispute, a board ordered
the deportation of two officers of the
Federated Seamen’s Union, but on appeal
to the High Court of Australia the order
was declared invalid.
The Attorney-General of the period
was the ageing and weary Littleton
Groom, It was realised from the first
that his methods were slipshod and likely
to fail, the appointment of a board being
particularly objected to. “The board,”
James Edmond wrote, “can only advise
the Ministry to do something. It isn’t a
Deportation Court, permanent and avail-
able wherever required, with real Judges
on the Bench and power to hand down
judgments.” One of the grounds on
which the appeal was upheld was that the
relevant section of the Immigration Act
was passed by a Legislature which came in
existence in 1901, and could not, there-
fore, apply to immigrants like Walsh, who
arrived in Australia before 1901. It was
held also that he and his associate had
not been sufficiently informed of the
charge against them.
But though Littleton Groom bungled,
and was immediately removed from
office, being complimented into the
Speakership, it was a barren victory for
imported troublemakers. Walsh and
Johanson soon sank into insignificance (as
Thornton and Healy would sink into in-
significance if conducted back to England)
and Australia was to have many years of
relief from shipping and waterfront
strikes, with which it had been
racked foi seven years, in the course of
which the experiment of running a Com-
monweal'h Government line of steamers
was butchered by job-control.
For Groom was succeeded as Attorney-
General by a man of a very different
stamp, a man of inflexible character who
had the Constitution at his finger-tips—
John Greig Latham. Within a few
months Mr. Latham had steered through
a measure which dispelled notions
founded on the High Court judgment that
there was no power under the Constitu-
tion to punish and expel strike promoters,
and which implanted fear in the hearts
of the whole tribe.
The bald official record proceeds:
The Crimes Act, as amended by the
Federal Parliament in 1926, provides that,
in the event of a serious industrial dis-
turbance prejudicing or threatening trade or
commerce with other countries or among
the States the Governor-General may make
a proclamation to that effect. Durmg the
operation of the proclamation persons
concerned in a lockout or strike relating to
the inter-State or overseas transport ser-
vices or to the provision of any public ser-
vice by the Commonwealth become liable
to imprisonment for a period not exceed-
ing one year and (if not born in Australia)
to deportation.
Another Latham measure- which had
very salutary results was the introduc-
tion of licences for wharflaborers, licences
which could be, and were, cancelled for
any flagrant form of misbehavior, from
striking without cause to stealing. The
present “Labor” crowd, in effect, repealed
the so-called “Dog-collar Act,” one result
(in Sydney especially) being that the
wharves became refuges for criminals,
shirkers and loafers, and feeders for
the black markets, conviction for theft,
even when the goods stolen belonged to
servicemen or to societies ministering to
their comfort in battle areas being no
bar to re-employment. For everywhere
the union, Communist-controlled, became
dominant, and when a convicted thief
returned to the scene of his crime, after
paying his fine or serving his sentence —
though sentences were rarely imposed—
the union asked no questions. But
“Labor” neglected to repeal the Crimes
Act, and, as Mr. Fadden has pointed out,
the Crimes Act remains at the service of
any Government which has the courage
to enforce and protect the nation against
internal enemies who aim at bringing
about chaos so that they may “take and
hold the means of production” and the
rest by “revolutionary industrial and
political action.”
Of course, “Labor” will do nothing
except crawl to union bosses and union
mobs ; but Mr. Fadden has made it clear
that his party will enforce the Crimes Act
if it gets the opportunity. It is already
committed to reimposing the ban on the
Communist party and its organisations
and publications, having been strength-
ened in this determination by what has
come out in Canada, where Canadians
concerned in the Soviet conspiracy against
Canada startled the two Supreme Court
Justices who conducted the investigation
for the Government by avowing that their
fealty to Russia took precedence over
their loyalty to their own country. But
there is a great deal wanting in the Liberal
party’s references to the Communist con-
spiracy against this country, and in its
proposals for bringing unions through
which Communists commit their unpre-
vented and unpunished outrages under the
restraints of law.
It is common knowledge on the water-
front that wharflaborers in general were
content with double-dumping and did not
want the strike. They were coerced into
it by Communist union bosses intent on
their own evil purposes. In Sydney a
party of them tried to hold a protest
meeting, but these men were soon over-
awed and dispersed. The law, which
should have protected them, failed be-
cause, since “Labor” came in and crawl-
ing to mobs became one of the “ ‘Labor’
principles,” law-enforcement has ceased.
Wisely led and regulated, unions are
necessary, and there is a great field of
usefulness in which they can operate with
benefit to all. But the unionism which
strikes at the overburdened and over-
wrought housewife, which halts the hous-
ing of the homeless —most of whom are
servicemen, their wives and children —
which sabotages the rehabilitation of
servicemen and of industry in general,
and which deprives the hungry peoples
of food when famine and pestilence
threaten a great, part of the world-Mhis
unionism is in its nature larrikinism, the
cruellest and most dangerous form of
larrikinism with which this Australia of
ours was ever infested. In the exercise of
their power and the attainment of so
much of their vile programme as is thus
far attainable, the directors of this union-
ism employ the methods of the old larri-
kin “pushes.” Sydney used to be the
headquarters of the larrikin “pushes,” and
is now the headquarters of Communist
larrikinism. The proved remedy for larri-
kinism is law, law shaped by firm minds
and enforced with strong arms. Old and
new, there is nothing larrikinism fears
so much as law, when law is swift, severe
and certain.
Rebuilding Duntroon.
Criticism of the Royal Australian Mili-
tary College has led to a discussion in
which sight has been lost of the essentials
of the situation.
General Blarney made the statement that
the college had produced a staff corps
which had become a “closely-knit nucleus,
largely segregated from the thoughts
and minds of the body of an army which
must necessarily remain a citizen army.”
The general said that “most senior
officers throughout the war came to the
conclusion that Duntroon in its present
form did’ not supply adequately the need
it was created to fill. To secure the utmost
value from it the college must be
liberalised.’ 1 He put forward the sug-
gestion that cadets should be able to go
through college without the certainty that
they should receive military appoint-
ments ; in effect, that all entrants should
be fitted for civilian life, while engaging
in any case to serve in the militia.
Our Army (the general continued) was
essentially a civilian army, and the com-
position of the Military Board “ignored
this fact.” In consequence, permanent-
force officers had come to regard them-
selves as controllers of the Army, and a
great deal of friction was thus engen-
dered.
General Savige, a citizen soldier, fol-
lowed with the remark that Duntroon
was “a failure.” He averred that “early
iq the nineteen-thirties Duntroon gradu-
ates who had advanced to field rank, by
their general attitude and actions indi-
cated their complete misconception and
misunderstanding of the form, work,
role and spirit of the Australian National
Army.” And he could “see no hope that
the regular soldier would or could de-
part from his restricted outlook and
actions while the present system re-
mained.” To this Major-General Steele,
Chief-Engineer, added that the Duntroon
system did not give graduates a chance
to secure suitable peace-time engineer-
ing experience, and that there were no
Duntroon men in the senior field-engineer
posts of the Army on V.P. Day.
The symposium was completed by the
widow of a very gallant officer, Major-
General George Vasey, who (as reported
by the evening press) declared that the
criticisms were based on a secret report by
Major-General H. C. Robertson, Briga-
dier Coombes (a former commandant
of the college) and her husband. They
had drawn largely on Red Army experi-
ence, and had been influenced by The
Unknown Army, dealing with military
academies in Russia.
Mr. Forde said he had never heard of
this report. But out of his omniscience
he described Duntroon graduates as
“typical Australians,” who, “in all
types of command and staff appoint-
merits in the First and Second A.l.F.,**
had ‘proved by their views and
approach to military subjects that their
minds were in no way segregated from
the problems of the Army as a whole.”
It is a pity that the matter should be
debated without its background.
Duntroon is, in origin, a cadet
college just as Sandhurst is a cadet col-
lege. Its objective is to bring cadets to
the stage at which they are fit for unit
commissions and to provide them with
a basis of knowledge to which they may
apply experience in order to become
capable officers, regimental or staff.
The great troubles hitherto have been
that Duntroon has existed on a starvation
diet, and that during the most crucial
period between the two wars it
had no real existence. The political party
that now claims to have saved the coun-
try garrotted the college in its prime, at
the same time reducing graduates to a
miserable dole-standard of living which
would have been considered a disgrace
in a backward Balkan State.
There was before the war no supple-
mentary college to which men with
special aptitudes for staff work might be
drafted to develop their talents. There
was no artillery school worth the name
nor any engineering college.
Leaving the depression period out of
consideration, the Duntroon graduate has
had a beggarly present and no future.
His salary has been a scandal a dis-
grace, making life a perpetual struggle
for him, and his future has held only the
alternative between getting out into civi-
lian life before he is too old to work and
facing an almost pensionless old age for
which his scandalous salary has not given
him a chance to provide.
A major in one of the technical for-
mations of the British Army serving
abroad draws a salary and allowances
equal to those of an Australian major-
general. A full colonel receives about
£I7OO a year, and can count on a sub-
stantial pension. And the technical
major, if he is an artilleryman or an engi-
neer, can reckon on a fine civilian job
if he cares to leave the Army in his early
forties, and the Government will usually
be behind him, since in the ordinary
course of events he will apply his know-
ledge in some business connected with
armament or war materials.
In this respect what is true of the Army
is also true of the Royal Navy. Just
before World War II the chairman of
directors of Hadfields (Eng.) was a retired
Royal F.A. major. The managing
director had been a R.N. commander.
The chairman and managing director of
Vickers-Armstrong was Sir Charles
Craven, a retired naval commander. These
were the active managers of their busi-
nesses, and, of course, primarily trained
in service colleges. As for relationship
between college-trained officers and other
ranks, when Generals Blarney and
Savige declare that Duntroon-bred
officers are “largely segregated from the
thoughts and minds of the body of an
army which must necessarily remain a
citizen army,” it might be fair to ask
“What citizen army?”
The present system, particularly as it
was applied in the quarter of a century
before September, 1939, did not provide
for a citizen force worthy of the name
of permanent “army,” except insofar as it
was kept alive by the enthusiasm of officers
of the old A.I.F, and that of some of their
sons, who persisted in “playing soldiers”
amid the jeers of larrikins and louts.
Duntrooners themselves are the first to
admit the bleak incompleteness of the
military educational system. The fact re-
mains that it has never had a chance to
prove itself.
It is impossible to -develop the
aptitudes of the most competent mili-
tary college graduate unless he has
material to which to apply his knowledge.
And that cannot exist in a country which
gives only lip-service to the principle of
universal training for home defence, and
which considers a few days in the year in
camp sufficient to make efficient soldiers
out of the few youths who are likely to
be inducted into the national citizen
forces, and who mostly have not even
been school cadets.
In Britain, the regular officer, unless he
has a very special trend of mind, leans
to regimental service and thus is able to
fortify his college learning with experi-
ence. The German, the Frenchman, the
Russian has always been able to look for-
ward to two years or so continuous mili-
tary service in the ranks, a period long
enough to give him artisan experience
which will be of value to him in civil
life and to discover his flair for leader-
ship, if any, and equip him for it. Under
the modern German and Russian methods
—the latter developed by German in-
structors —the young officer-to-be reached
the military college by matriculation at
the end of his two years’ conscription
period, and was then sufficiently advanced
in military training to specialise. He was
already fit to become a subaltern and to
command men. Also, he had a future
and he could work with a stable force


of men organised in regular units with a
continuing esprit de corps.
In Australia the young military officer
is expected to make bricks without straw.
This is not saying that Duntroon men
have not done remarkably well. In spite
of the impression created by General
Blarney’s remarks, a very large propor-
tion of the most senior staff officers who
surrounded him and who presumably
were largely of his own choosing were
Duntroon-trained. Among them were
Major-General Lloyd, the Adjutant-
General ; Lieut.-General Berryman, the
brilliant staff-officer who acted in liaison
on General MacArthur’s staff; the
lamented Vasey, who died in an accident
while in command of the fighting Seventh
Division ; and Major-General Sid Rowell,
who was Director of Tactical Investiga-
tion at the War Office during the invasion
of France. Moreover, all the members
of the 1944 committee mentioned by the
press as having provided General Blarney
with the basic material of his criticism
were Duntrooners. Two indeed had
served later in Duntroon, one as
Commandant and the other as Director of
Tactics and Military Art.
This fact gives all the more force to
their criticisms and suggestions. The
college certainly needs reorganisation and
expansion. It needs to be brigaded with
engineering, artillery and air, scientific
and naval and transport specialist col-
leges or branches. But most of all it
needs the substantial background of a
sound defence scheme and a compulsorily
trained citizen force of proper dimensions
and nature, in replacement of the past
shadow of a defence army.
PLAIN ENGLISH
We Must Have People.
Again and again visitors to this country
remark on its vast natural wealth, de-
veloped and undeveloped, and the hope
it offers to the distressed peoples of
Europe.
In Sydney a Mr. Coyne, an agri-
cultural attache to the U.S. Legation, told
a group of cattle-breeders that, coming
from a pastoral district in his own
country and having seen more of Aus-
tralia than most Australians, he never
ceased to be astonished at the quantity of
grass it has —American stock-raisers
couldn’t credit it. A few days later that
eminent Canadian and very good friend
of Australia Justice Davis, about to re-
turn home after being High Commis-
sioner at Canberra, added his own
view:
Australia is a land where it never rains
but it pours. You get the water but it
runs away to the sea. Your national
motto should be “Not a drop of water
shall run to the sea unused” Never in
my life have I seen a land where human
intervention could do so much to over-
come natural obstacles.... I doubt if there
is a thing growing under the light of
heaven anywhere in this world which could
not grow somewhere in Australia. Don’t
overlook your Northern Territory. In
your north you have a treasure land. Turn
your eyes towards it and do something
about it. When you don’t' want it, let us in
Canada know.
Every Australian with vision knows the
truth of that, as every Australian with
vision knows that, once made aware of
what Australia has to offer and given half
a chance to come here, millions of im-
migrants could be had for the asking.
Against what we have to offer and
against the obvious wave of immigrants
now banked up in Europe, the Common-
wealth Government’s proposal to get
70,000 p.a. by some problematical date is
ridiculous.
Two irrational obstacles have to go.
One is the prejudice against foreigners,
among whom the present Minister of
Immigration places “these English
people” ; the other is the feeling against
opening the gates till “every Australian*
has a job.” Justice Davis has stated that
in his own part of Canada 2,000,000
Europeans of different nationalities were
“dumped” within 20 years, and that all of
them* became good Canadians and their
sons fought for Canada in two wars.
Australian sons of Europeans proved
themselves in the same way, even many
of German blood, as honor-rolls all over
the country testify. And the son of a
southern Slav who took up land and
reared a large family on third-class coun-
try in a remote part of Westralia won
the V.C. in the war against Japan.
We have been talking big lately about
our place in world affairs, and especially
in Pacific affairs. Our geographical
position and our British connection place
on us a great responsibility. “All around
you,” said Justice Davis, “are countries
economically backward, but with vast
populations and natural resources.” Those
countries are no longer stagnant; to-
gether with nationalist impulses are de-
sires for industrialisation. Australia will
either lead and, in some measure, control,
or be swamped.
Today, to starving and despairing
Europeans, Australia is a lodestone. And
Australia needs new blood as badly as
does a run-down merino flock. After
158 years of settlement we should have
learned enough of our continent and its
climate to realise that there must
be constant renewal of human, as
well as animal, stocks. We have nar-
rowly escaped an Asiatic- invasion. We
may not be so lucky another time. We
can carry at least 20,000,000 people on
our present standards, and getting them
here as quickly as possible and by any
means possible stands equal with any
other duty as a first-priority job, already
behind schedule.
Five Years Premier.
On May 16 Mr. William John McKell
completed five years as Premier of N. S.
Wales; according to a sympathetic
chronicler, “the third-longest consecu-
tive term in the history of the State.”
Comparing performance with promises,
it may be held to rival Mr. Lang’s last
term (November 4, 1930, to May 13,
1932), during which Mr. McKell (with
present Ministers Baddeley, Hcflfon,
Dunn, Martin, Hamilton Knight, Cahill,
McGirr and O’Sullivan' and the depart-
ing Tully) supported Mr. Lang in all his
wild measures —interest-default, resist-
ance to the Financial Agreements En-
forcement Act, attempted capital levy on
mortgagees and the rest —till Governor
Game dismissed the whole crowd.
On the McKell Administration’s record
are the setting-up of a racing club with
Treasury backing, and that in war-time,
when Australia was reckoned in peril of
invasion ; the loss of the Nuffield fac-
tory to Adelaide because the Govern-
ment put racing first; a total and abject
surrender to union larrikinism ; the ex-
pulsion of in-patients from public hospi-
HIS “SHAPING SPIRIT OF IMAGINATION.”
“Dr. Evatt has become a force in shaping the world.” Enthusiastic Law Professor, a
Mr. Hughes.
tals during and because of one of the
union-larrikin strikes; the wholesale
breaking of pledges to servicemen to have
stacks of farms and houses ready for
them when they returned; the passing
of a Brewer and Bung Bill disguised as
“reform” of a trade which has been a
stench in the nostrils throughout the five
years; the provision of a sinecure for
Mr. C. Evatt, “Minister of Immigration
and Tourists,” when (as has been pointed
out in Mr. Lang’s paper) “there are no
immigrants and no tourists and there is no
vote in the Budget for the Department of
Immigration and Tourists” ; and the cul-
minating outrage of a Pensions for Par-
liamentarians measure treating Assembly-
men and their widows as an especially
deserving class with far greater claims
on the country than war-wrecked ser-
vicemen and servicemen’s widows.
Historians will look back on the Mc-
Kell period wondering how the people
stood it for five years.
Maloney Wins. *
The Religious Editor goes to a meeting:
The Bulletin was guest of honor at Com-
rade Thornton’s Apology-for-the-Soviet meeting
at Sydney Town Hall. The meeting had been
widely advertised as a reply to J. J. Maloney’s
national broadcast in which he revealed a few
home truths about conditions in the Workers’
Fatherland. Thornton had challenged Maloney
to appear at the meeting and debate with him
the accuracy of his radio talk, but, probably
having heard of the disgraceful treatment
accorded W. C. Wentworth when he accepted
a similar challenge to a battle of words with
a Communist, and being also aware of the
exhibition of Communist fairplay to opponents
that was staged at the Town Hall the previous
week, Maloney had declined to fall into the
bap. Instead he had agreed to meet the
challenger in a radio debate.
In the absence of its chosen victim the
Thornton gang placed an empty chair in his
place on the platform. Beside it stood a
more than lifesize copy of a Bulletin poster
“Here’s to Maloney,” and for the first few
minutes of Comrade Thornton’s one-man
debate it seemed as though The Bulletin and
not the ex-Minister to Moscow was to be the
chief recipient of his invective. But' it was
only a passing phase, and the poster didn’t
pale a shade on hearing its parent sheet called
a “filthy, lying Fascist rag,” and learning that
for Maloney to be praised by it was sufficient
to condemn him in the eyes of all “decent
Labor” men. ,
There are a vast number of decent Labor
men who look with contempt on Thornton
and all his works, but these would hardly be
the people the Ironworkers’ Federation dictator
had in mind. The Communist bosses of the
Seamen’s Union, the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration and the Miners’ Federation would pre-
sumably be “decent Labor men.” A man
prfepared to shout out “What about pig-iron?
at a Liberal meeting would assuredly get the
Thornton 0.K.; the louts who made a
mockery of free speech at the meeting of the
Citizens’ Rights Committee would be “decent
Labor men” with knobs on. But any man
who dared suggest that all was not well in the
Socialist Fatherland, no matter how decent'
he might think himself or how staunch ms
Labor principles, would rank himself immedi-
ately with that “filthy, lying Fascist rag,
The Bulletin, and would be marked down
for retribution on Red ’Fascist Judgment Day.
One “decent” Labor man —by Thornton stan-
dards —present at the meeting was Comrade
Moran, secretary of the Sydney branch of the.
Waterside Workers’ Federation. He was not
there merely to listen to his colleague’s apology
for the Soviet. He had a definite part in the
programme, and when oh one occasion Com-
rade Thornton found it necessary to mention
double-dumped wool he immediately apolo-
gised for stealing Comrade Moran’s thunder,
for Moran had come along to give his union s
viewpoint on the shipping hold-up. To those
of the audience who had heard Comrade
Thornton on his favorite theme before —and
few among the audience hadn’t —Comrade
Moran’s piece was to be the speech of the
evening. At last it came —after Comrade
Thornton had spent the best part of an hour
abusing the absent Maloney, gesturing dram-
atically at The Bulletin poster which appeared
to be acting in the role of a Maloney effigy,
and blaming the war for a multitude of Soviet
shortcomings that were evident to many years
before Hitler turned dog on his Moscow pal.
Unlike Comrade Thornton, the waterside
Communist does not believe in beating about
the bush. After a few pleasantries at the
expense of Maloney he got straight down to
the business of double-dumped bales of wool.
Only slightly abridged, and with no essential
points of his argument omitted, his case for
the watersiders’ strike was this:
In 1919 ships were loading munitions in
British ports for use against Russia. Win-
ston Churchill spent £100,000,000 of British
taxpayers’ money in a war of intervention
against the U.S.S.R. But the waterside
workers of Britain refused to handle the
cargo. It was the same in 1937 when the
waterside workers in Port Kembla refused
to load pig-iron for Japan, and the same
this last year when the waterside workers
of Australia refused to load Dutch ships
to help defeat the Indonesians. And it’s
the same today when we refuse to handle
double-dumped bales. During the war the
waterside workers did a magnificent job
and helped to defeat Fascist Germany and
Fascist Japan. We won the war and now
we’re out to win the peace.
Comrade Moran was satisfied to let his case
rest there and to call for subscriptions to a
cause that was not very clearly defined ; it was
either for aid to the Soviet or for strike funds
—a distinction without much difference.
At the end of ten minutes’ appeal no more
than a dozen had unbuttoned their pockets.
If the proportion of “decent Labor men” in
the hall was to be measured by their cash
response it must have been very disappointing
to the promoters. The vast majority must have
left either their decency or their wallets at
home —possibly both. And when going to a
Communist meeting that’s a pretty good idea.
The Maloney-Is-Wrong-and-Everything-Left-
Is-Right radio debate over A.B.C. turned out
to be rather a drab affair. Maloney is no
great chop as a debater, and at times he
allowed his indignation to get the better of
him; Thornton, the challenger, who had
adroitly drafted the motion in the negative
form and thus secured the final say, adopted
a pose of exaggerated calm which made his
ease sound even less convincing than it had
done the night before when he hurled it at
The Bulletin poster. But question-time shook
him out of his complacency, especially when
he was asked “Would it be possible to hold
a debate of this nature in the U.S.S.R.?” It
was a question he’d never thought to ask
Moscow and he floundered badly. Decision
to Maloney on p’ints.
Railways and Water.
A Queensland Royal Commission on
Abattoirs and Meatworks recently
recommended the setting up of a “meat-
production directorate” and sundry re-
search and experiment stations, to cost
in the first place £45,000 and £35,000 a
year afterwards, cost to be shared by
two Governments*and graziers.
The commission’s report mentioned de-
velopment, increased production and a
lot of other things. It did not please the
Queensland Selectors’ Association, whose
secretary described it as “feeble,” and
scorned a recommendation that abattoirs
be established in all centres with a mini-
mum population of 4000, as having
“nothing to do with a planned system of
cattle-raising and marketing of beef in
a general sense.’-’
As for the railway aspect, the Clapp
plan is for a line- from Bourke (N.S.W.)
to Cunnamulla, Charleville, Blackall,
Longreach, Winton, Hughenden, Clon-
curry, Dajarra and Camooweal, which,
with conversion of 1011 miles of 3ft. 6in.
gauge, is estimated to cost £17,596,000. The
commission prefers a line from Bourke to
near Nockatunga, thence via Windorah,
Monkira and Boulia to Camooweal, with
three extensions from Quilpie, Yaraka
and Dajarra ; estimated cost £10,614,000,
This route is slightly west of the one
approved by a Queensland Government
in 1910 and, as the commission says, fol-
lows the “channel” country and would
thus tap a better beef and mutton fatten-
ing area. The commission holds, too,
that it would exercise a greater influence
on N.T. development than tjie Clapp line.
Either route leaves out the Gulf country
north of a Hughenden-Camooweal line,
though the commission has sundry sug-
gestions for bettering thiqgs up theffe.
Clapp plan and commission alternative
were discussed at a conference of N.Q.
local authorities, who reached no con-
clusion about either. They had, however,
a letter from Mr. Dedman saying that
it was “impossible” to undertake the
wide investigations entailed in any
consideration of the inland water
scheme proposed by Dr. Bradfield.
Outback Queensland cannot possibly be
satisfied with that. A Federal Government
cheerily planning to spend about
£230,000,000 on standardising railway
gauges, upward of £20,000,000 of it in
the very country affected by the water
scheme and on railways which, after all,
will be mainly concerned with haulage of
land products, should be asked for defi-
nite and convincing reasons why any
water proposal should not be investi-
gated. On the face of it, without a water
scheme, it looks as if whichever line
is built will be simply for the pur-
pose of running drought-stricken stock
out of the area to southern agistment and
running them back again when the
weather breaks.
Ministerial Ignorance.
Mr, Dedman’s assertion that Australia
has no fisheries capable of supplying even
its own requirements affords a flagrant
example of the ignorance and apathy in
high places which are hampering so seri-
ously the development of our industries.
In 1929 the Commonwealth Develop-
ment and Immigration Commission inves-
tigated the whole subject, and published
a comprehensive series of charts and
tables compiled from actual observation
extending over many years. It summed
up the general situation thus:
Australia possesses an abundant and
varied fish fauna, embracing both tropical
and temperate varieties, but the extent of
their commercial exploitation is far be-
low that warranted by either the present or
the potential consumptive demand.
Of 35 species regarded as of first-grade
quality, a majority had been found to
occur in large numbers in the waters of
two or more States ; some, such as bream
and sea-garfish, in all States. These con-
clusions were substantiated and extended
by subsequent investigations conducted
by the Commonwealth Fisheries Section,
but interrupted by the war.
Nor is it only the edible species of
Australian fish that are of commercial
value. Fishmeal, fish manures, fish skins
for shoe and other leathers, fish oil of
better vitamin value than the Newfound-
land codliver article and a dozen other
valuable side products would also be
obtained.
Capital is needed to provide boats,
gear and processing factories. The result-
ing industry would provide work for
thousands of ex-servicemen on land and
sea. Yet we have the incongruous spec-
tacle *of the very Minister who should be
encouraging its extension and develop-
ment by every means in his power, as an
essential measure towards post-war recon-
struction, shutting his eyes to plain fact
and allowing himself to be guided by the
ancient prejudice against all things “colo-
nial.”
It is no exaggeration to say that, with a
properly-organised fishing industry, Aus-
tralia could produce in a year more fish
and fish products than could be gleaned
from the icy seas around Mr. Dedman’s
native Scotland in half a century. Were
he to develop sufficient enterprise to take
a trip on the Federal fishery-investigation
ship during the salmon or mackerel
seasons, even Scottish douraess might be
overcome by the sight of hundieds or
square miles of living proof that he is
totally wrong about Australia’s fisheries
resources.


€
m
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5789
CRAVEN “A
\IiIAAV mm mm mmk
You’ll appreciate their
outstandingQualit
- O ■ :
I Obtainable in I«’m&2o’s
Mm
ssill;
m
POLITICAL POINTS
The P.M. got back on Sunday, landing
at Mascot, Sydney, in a howling storm
of wind and rain. There to greet him
was his deputy, Forde, oleaginous from
his ratification of the latest Commu-
nist victory over the Australian nation.
Chifley told the reporters that “British
industrial leaders in many fields” were
ready to establish subsidiary companies
in Australia, that the double-taxation
problem was about to “disappear,” that
the food position in Britain was “pretty
tough,” and that he’d smoked a lot of
tobacco on the trip. Then he left for
Bathurst to rest and recuperate —whether
from the trip or the advent of Forde and
his “settlement!’ of the wharf strike, which
will enable the Commos to set dates for
the next lot of strikes, was not clear.
“After full consideration of the facts
the Government considered it could not
allow this minority to override public
interest and to paralyse industry and the
entire waterfront of Australia, thus cut-
ting off most urgently required food-
stuffs and supplies of wool to peoples
who are in dire need on the other side
of the world.” Thus Forde, announcing
the “settlement” of the strike which, on
his own showing, held up “102 ships,”
many with “urgent shipments of -wheat
for India and foodstuffs for the United
Kingdom,” for 12 days, increased to 14
days, on the flimsiest of all pretexts for
cruel and wicked strikes. And “this
minority,” in Forde’s cockeyed view, was
not the parcel of Communists who
ordered the cruel and wicked strike
or the men who obeyed them (many of*
the men unwillingly). but “holders of 20
per cent, of the clip,” quite unidentifiable
and powerless for mischief, being
scattered through Australia, Had Forde
been compelled, as a punishment for his
“Government’s” poltroonery, to make
a meal of his dishonest words, they
would have choked him.
“Pretty tough” as is the British food
situation, in Chifley’s euphemism, the Attlee
Government, in the true Christian spirit
of “capitalist” Britain, is sparing another
200,000 tons of wheat for its starving
enemies. The Canadian and Maoriland
Governments, for their part, have called
upon their peoples for fresh sacrifices, in
both cases willingly made. And though
the Australian people are anxious to help,
and have helped with the private Food
for Britain appeals, officially cold-shoul-
dered, the Australian Government’s atti-
tude is one of deadly materialism, and to
this Communists, introducing the cold
ferocity of Moscow, have added sabo-
tage of transport. To deny European and
Indian women and children the food with
which holds are packed is to kill them
as surely as if they were knocked on the
head.
It is more than a twelvemonth since
the Germans caved in, and there is still
no sign of a peace treaty nor any pros-
pect of one for many months, if there
is ever going to be one at all. In the first
German war the enemy sued for an armi-
stice on November 5, 1918, got it on
November 11, 1918, and was presented
with the peace treaty (15 parts, beginning
with the League covenant) on June 20,
1919. There is dreadful irony in the re-
collection that there were protests in
all countries that Wilson, Lloyd George,
Clemsnceau and Orlando were far too
slow.
Since there can be >no peace confer-
ence for months, Molotov having vetoed
a proposal that a. beginning should be
made with peace palavers on June 15,
there was no occasion whatever for
Senator Donald Grant to set out for
Europe as Dr. Evatt’s “adviser.” He de-
parted, nevertheless, and has cast up in
Britain. Separating a “Labor” politician
from an overseas holiday at the public
expense would be like dragging a vulture
from its prey, only more so.
Australian Associated Press drily
recorded that “during a two-day ’plane
delay at Singapore Senator Grant was a
guest at the home of Lord Louis Mount-
batten, who was absent.” Very thought- 1
ful of the admiral. Old Brig. Rankin,
who was the first to object to the bellicose
1914-18 pacifist, etc., being employed as
“adviser,” may be depended upon to
demand full and precise details of public
expenditure on this outrageous expedi-
tion. Whether he will get any informa-
tion at all is another matter.
With a callous contempt for the feel-
ings and representations of a lot of
“Labor” politicians and writing boys and
the two Sydney afternoon papers, the
Victorian Parliament elected A. J. Fraser,
whom Victorian “Labor” had “removed”
from the chairmanship of the Transport
Board, to the vacancy in the Senate.
There were 53 votes for Fraser and 42
for Hendrickson, who was Keane’s cam-
paign secretary. Fraser, an M.C. of
Messines, was championed by Dunstan,
and the Dunstan influence remains
powerful in both Houses.
One of an astonishing number of press
misstatements on Senate elections;
At the Federal elections in September a
total of 15 Opposition Senate seats and
only three Labor will come up for re-
election. Thus in the next Parliament
Labor is already assured of half the rep-
resentation in the Senate.
Actually there will be contests for four
seats in Westralia and four in Victoria,
as well as for three each in the other
States; and Labor will lose its majority
“as from” July 1, 1947, if the Lib.-C.P.
alliance wins the lot. And that happened
in 1919 (19 seats), 1925 (22 seats) and
1934 (18 seats).
Forde’s statement that “Australia must
never again be allowed to be in the help-
less position in which it found itself at
the beginning of the Second World War”
moved Hobart “Mercury” to recall bit-
terly that Forde was a member of the
Scullin Government, “one of whose first
executive acts was to abolish the univer-
sal training scheme established on the
advice of Lord Kitchener,” and that
Lyons, another Scullin Minister, failed
to restore it.
The result was that at the beginning of
the Second World War it took twice as
long to put the first division in the field
as it had taken in the First World War.
The “Mercury’s” conclusion was that
“Mr. Forde is one of the best tongue-in-
cheek exponents in Australia.” One of
the best or one of the worst?
Four Victorian transport concerns are
asking their State Road Transport Board
for licences to run passenger buses from
Melbourne to Sydney and return. This
should mean a hurried conference of State
transport Tsars, for, once permitted,
heaven only knows where this sort of
thing would end.
Dr. Gaha and H. C. Barnard can take
no comfort from the Leg. Council elec-
tions in Tasmania. For the Hobart seat,
left vacant by the death of Charlie Eady,
“Labor” had a candidate with a far
greater appeal to this generation than any
of the 49 Ms.H.R. it will have to rely
upon in a few months. Named Russell
Lyons, he has a good Middle East and
Pacific Islands record, and he W'as not
sparing of criticism of his own side, re-
ferring to the means test as “an iniquitous
Federal imposition.” Nevertheless, he
was defeated by Lord Mayor Soundy.
For the Launceston seat, in which Bar-
nard is interested, McElwee, the retiring
Labor member, was unseated by a former
police magistrate, Green, whose majority
was just under a thousand in an effective
poll of 4289.
If two accidental Sydney “Labor”
Ms.HIR., Haylen (Parkes) and Daly
(Martin), lose their seats, as nearly every-
one expects, A.B.C. will go into mourn-
ing. Its “non-political” Sydney “national”
station pads out many of its “news ses-
sions” with “information” about one or
other of the uninteresting pair. Haylen’s
last suggestion, and worst, was that the
taxpayers should be called on to send
six persons abroad to learn “theat-
rical production” so that they might
produce plays preferably, no doubt,
Haylen’s plays —in the “national
theatre” which Haylen has already
decided to inflict on the taxpayers.
This should stimulate Daly to propose
that the taxpayers should dispatch 12 per-
sons by rocket to the moon to learn how
to manufacture green cheese in Daly’s
electorate.
There can no longer be any doubt that
“unconditional surrender” was a fool of
a policy, and that the Yalta and Potsdam
agreements were calamities. When the
Italians surrendered they were told they
would be permitted to “work their pas-
sage back.” After three years, and after
all the palavers of the Big Four and
their Foreign Ministers, to say nothing
of all the U.N.O. skirmishes, they are to
get “revised armistice terms,” which still
don’t specify what is in store for them in
Trieste or in their colonies.
The American Walter Lippmann has
been driven to admit that at Potsdam
his country (meaning President Truman
and his advisers) “made the enormous
error of allowing the Soviet to fix the
eastern boundaries of Germany without
insisting simultaneously upon determining
the status of western Germany,” In the
result there is economic and administra-
tive chaos, and there have been food riots,
and there will be more if millions of
maddened people decide that they will
die fighting rather than drop in their
tracks.
Just when Premier Hanlon thought
everything was set for the Bremer by-
election, the Corns, withdrew their can-
didate and loudly announced their inten-
tion of supporting the Labor man “against
the common enemy.” Hanlon, who
knows what harm Corns, can do his party,
recovered sufficiently to remark that he
hoped it meant a “change of heart.”
Opposition-leader Pie came in with a
nasty one —the Corns, had withdrawn
“their official candidate in favor of their
unofficial one.”
The French Corns, made a great noise
when a Soviet freighter arrived at Mar-
seilles with 5000 tons of Russian wheat.
The Russian Ambassador headed a Com-
munist delegation to the wharf, bunches
of flowers and sheaves of wheat were ex-
changed and 100 sacks of grain were
paraded through the streets. Then the
U.S. Ambassador arose and reminded the
French that from July, 1945, to April,
1946, his country had shipped to France
1,894,250 metric tons of wheat. Where-
upon a dead silence would have fallen
on Marseilles if it were possible for Mar-
seilles to be ever silent.
The May Day procession in Townsville
(N.Q.) had for its marshal a Mr. Strike.
At time of printing “the largest confer-
ence in Australian coalmining history”
was being held in Sydney “to hear the
plans of the miners for State control of
the industry.” Under orders to attend
were Dedman, Ashley, Holloway, Ward,
Calwell and Lazzarini from Canberra,
and McKell, Baddeley and Ham. Knight
from Sydney. One thing that can be said
for all of these “Labor” worthies, when
they get their orders from Boss Wells or
Boss Healy they carry them out.
The Communist Wells was pleased to
announce that “progress” is being made
with plans for State control of the N.S. >V.
coalmines, “State control” meaning hand-
ing over to Communists. And Comrade
Wells went further:
We have received encouraging support
from, Victoria. The Premier, Mr. Cain,
the Transport Minister, Mr. Stoneham, and
the Mines Minister, Mr. McKenzie, have
discussed the position with Me. They said
publicly that, provided sufficiently good
quantities of coal were received by Victoria
and other States from N.S.W. under the
plan, the miners’ proposition would be
pursued fully.
If Cain or any of his Ministers did say
that they will be “pursued fully” into
outer darkness by the Victorians next
time an election comes round ; and their
Government has no majority.
The imaginary 70,000 immigrants a
year who are to begin coming to Aus-
tralia by some imaginary date are to be
split up among the States in proportion
to present population, giving N.S.W.
30.000, Victoria 20,000, Queensland
10.000, South Australia 5000, Westralia
3000 and Tasmania 2000. So Calwell
says, and the arbitrary division is worthy
of his small Big-City mind. It is West-
ralia and Queensland that need popula-
tion most, and either could absorb the
70,000 without a blink.
On May 6 a strike at the Murrarie (Q.)
bacon factory over the dismissal of four
(4) men developed into a State-wide affair.
The Industrial Court deleted the prefer-
ence clause from the union’s award, and
numerous meat-processing works carried
on with the help of volunteer labor. There
was picketing, and there was violence
here and there. Then the Court was asked
to deregister the M.1.E.U., and set May
23 as the date for the issue of an order
if negotiations under way failed. Mean-
time one Neumann, Queensland secre-
tary of the union, issued an ultimatum to
every citizen of N. S. Wales, Victoria
and South Australia: unless a “settle-
ment” is reached and deregistration
averted, he will extend the strike to those
three States and nobody will get any
meat. There are over 5,500,000 people
in the three States, and they never heard
of Neumann, but he’ll show ’em!
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” on the May
waterfront hold-up—date for the June
one not yet fixed:
Political or industrial wrangling that
risks loss of any food in this world of
starving millions or prevents its shipment
to famishing people is despicable. There is
no excuse for it.
E. C. Englart, Brisbane secretary of the
Wharfies’ Union, in “reply”:
If the “Courier-Mail” persists in its
malicious, provocative and misleading
attacks on waterside workers, we will seri-
ously consider taking action to prevent any
newsprint supplies coming olf the wharves.
All Queensland would like to see him
try it.
There is Bernard Baruch in America,
there is Isaac Isaacs in Australia —each
a great patriot and a man of immense
breadth of mind—-and in England there
is Laski, born in England but unassimil-
able. Consider his latest piece of pestilent
nonsense uttered at Cardiff:
To those who say that we have to
choose —as I do not believe we have to
choose —between Russia and the United
States, we, the Labor party, stand four-
square behind the Soviet Union.
Two days before that the secretary of
the Labor party said that every British
union which so far had taken a vote on
Communist affiliation had recorded an
emphatic “No”!
We cannot afford a Fifth Column aiming
at the destruction of the Labor party and
the Labor Government, which is what
Communist affiliation would mean.
Obviously British Labor will never
“choose” Laski again.


SHOTGUN WEDDING.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Uco”: There are quite a lot of items
on my list of things I don’t like about
the radio, but right up at the top are
the radio funny men. Perhaps I’m old-
fashioned, but I like my comedians to
credit me with the ability to recognise
a joke for myself, and every time the
man at the mike laughs at his own quip
as a signal to me to laugh too I writhe
with resentment. When he changes the
inflection of his voice to that recognised
by all experienced listeners as implying
“This is going to be a real killer-diller.
You’ll simply die laughing at this one,”
I turn the knob to escape him. Still,
radio’s radio and I suppose it’s entitled to
its own technique. But when the radio
funny man turns newspaper funny man
I think he should leave radio technique
behind in the studio. One such bloke
runs a column in my afternoon rag. He's
handicapped a bit by being unable to
lead the laughs himself, but to make sure
no one misses his points he prints all his
jokes in block letters.
* * * *
“Red and Green”: “Lt.-Col. Fitz-
thunderbox” (B. 1/ 5 / ’46) is astray if he
thinks the ranker holds the adjutant in
any special awe. By most he is regarded
as a kind of super-clerk, completely
cowed by any efficient orderly-room ser-
geant. The corporal clerks judge the
adjutant by the amount of paper he
scatters around the regiment. The most
respected is he who follows Montgomery’s
alleged advice and writes nothing. One
genial cove I knew could not work unless
he had on his table three trays, marked
“in,” “out” and “too hard.” The third
tray was always full.
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: Kerr Grant, Professor of
Physics at Adelaide University, who has
suggested that in any future war the
parcels post will provide an ideal and
economical method of distributing atom
bombs, was always a humorist. When
he was a lecturer at Melbourne Univer-
sity, away back in the days of the World’s
Innocence, a heated controversy broke
out in the nature-study columns of the
“Argus” concerning strange nocturnal
'sounds alleged to have been heard
in the outskirts of the city. Kerr
Grant contributed a note mention-
ing that, while crossing the univer-
sity grounds on the previous night,
his attention had been attracted by loud
noises proceeding from a grass paddock
nearby. Tracing them to their source, he
had found that they were emitted by an
animal larger than a grass cricket, with
two curved processes projecting from its
head, and possessing four legs instead of
the six which are characteristic of insects.
When the resultant flood of speculative
identification had reached its full height,
he wrote again to explain that he had since
identified the creature. It was a cow!
* * * *
Seaforth”: A truck pulled up at an
isolated corner of a harborside beach and
a man took from it three bushel cases of
fish which he carried to a waiting skiff.
The skiff pulled out into the bay and
made for the more populous end of the
beach. Two men, coatless and with
trousers well rolled up in the manner of
professional fishermen, disembarked, took
out the cases, now empty, and placed
them on the sand. Upon the cases they
placed three large baskets of fish, wet
and dripping with water. A small notice-
board with the words “Fish for sale” was
displayed. Soon a horde of trippers
gathered around and in a short time the
baskets were empty. I’ll lay ten to one
that most of the buyers that evening re-
marked as they sat down to a feed of
fish, “You can’t beat a meal of fish
straight from the sea. Not like the stuff
you get in the shops.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: No one having tears of com-
passion at call could forbear to shed
some extra salt ones at Sydney “Sun’s”
harrowing account of the ordeal
suffered by the English Rugby League
footballers on their journey from W.A.
The tourists “bitterly” told the author they
had been “let down by the Australian Gov-
ernment,” for had not Our Bert, that stout
patron of small nations and professional
footballers, persuaded the English North-
ern League to send the team? Poor
devils, they even had to eat from the
military cook wagons of a troop train,
and such were their tribulations that
“their morale was worn ragged and their
condition badly affected.” I was there-
fore puzzled at not seeing photos, of a
“Good show, stoker! I'll take six dozen bottles."
line of ambulances at Central Station
waiting to take the emaciated martyrs
straight to hospital, or hearing that per-
haps some of the weaker ones had
perished of their hardships en route. The
mystery was solved when I read next
day that they had all swung “into
toughest training” at the Sydney Cricket
Ground and that “some of the players
have increased a stone in weight since
arriving in Australia.” There.followed a
photo, of a 15-stoner tackling a forward
who, tottering off the train, tipped the
beam at a mere 17y stone. Isn’t our Aus-
tralian air wonderful!
. * * *
“Melbn”: Residents of Wangaratta, in-
cluding its mayor, who attended a lunch
on the new Swedish motorship bearing
the name of the Victorian township, were,
to say the least of it, overwhelmed by
Swedish ideas of hospitality. Course fol-
lowed course and toast followed toast for
two hours, and the sighs of repletion
could have been heard in their home
town. Smorgurdsbord is a commonplace
in Sweden, where people are hearty
eaters. It is served on a sideboard and
eaten standing. When I first encountered
it at Stockholm I was fascinated by the
variety and exquisiteness of the bewilder-
ing array of viands, and helped myself to
several platefuls. ’ Then I discovered that
I still had to sit down to dinner. It has
been a mystery to me ever since how the
Swedes, male and female, retain their
great mental activity and their well-pro-
portioned figures.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Seven weary, hungry
and ragged Australian p.-0.-w. and their
Jap guard were stumbling along the rough
road when four heavily-armed Burmese
stepped out of the jungle. “Run,” yelled
the guard, suiting the action to the word.
The prisoners stayed and passed a friendly
greeting to the strangers, who seemed also
disposed to be friendly after a few amused
glances had taken in the unarmed and
ragged state of the white men. Some un-
intelligible but animated conversation
took place and the parties separated, the
Australians richer by a few packets of
cigarettes. When they got back to camp
the Japanese were surprised to see them
still alive. A strong search party had
been about to set out. “Dacoits, bad
men,” they said. “Kill and rob every-
body,” Five thousand men in the camp
were amused. They were quite safe. They
were not worth robbing.
sjs H*
“Bondi Beachcomber”: It happened in
Northern Australian waters. One of
those ancient Seagull amphibian biplanes
which still roar overhead around Sydney
Harbor made a forced landing on the
sea. An American destroyer steamed to
the rescue, and two Aussie flyers climbed
aboard. They received a gracious greet-
ing from the commander, who, shooting
a glance at the disabled old Seagull, said
“The Wright brothers, I presume.”
* * * *
“Zake”: During his broadcast debate
with Maloney, Thornton, who sounded
as if he were having a terrific struggle to
prevent his humorless and toneless stuff
sending him to sleep, had to find a parallel
to emphasise his scorn of a Maloney
statement on Russian diet. “Why!”
drawled the crawler to the Kremlin, “it
is as fantastic as saying that we eat goats’
meat in Australia!” To “Australians”
like Thornton, who think Sydney is Aus-
tralia and Strathfield is part of the Far
West, the question “Wot’ll y’ have—goat
or galah?” might be one from another
world. It’s been asked in plenty of bush
pubs and homes. But perhaps “Balance-
sheet” imagines they have a twice-a-day
delivery service of the choicest cuts of
pork, beef and lamb back of Come-by-
chance or out from Tunnabutta.
* * * *
“Croy”: Add to “Bondi Beachcomber”
(B. 8/5/’46) a few remarks quoted from
a book entitled Death at Oodnadatta, ap-
parently written by an American service-
man. Quotes —•
Eighty years ago John McDougall Stuart
made the first south-to-north crossing to
survey the telegraph line, and today his
grandson, Sgt. Malcolm Stuart, of the
Royal Australian Mounted Police, still
feels a thrill every time he looks up at
those singing wires.
He was liable to be food for the walla-
bies if he stayed out too long.
The kangaroo belonged to Pete de Koven
the Arunta women here all think it’s a
little darling.
But dukeif snakes always travel in pairs.
If you kill one, the mate will follow you
for hundreds of miles across the desert
until it takes its revenge.
Let’s hear if anyone can beat that.
* * * *
“Wongajong”: Glancing through the
classified section of the new Sydney tele-
phone directory I find that if I want a
steeplejack to climb the flagpole in my
back lawn there is only one firm in
that line of business in the metropolitan
area. On the 1 other hand, seven marine
divers are on hand to retrieve any stray
coins I may drop in my goldfish pond.
Since one of them advertises himself as
an expert in the use of explosives, I
shouldn’t go short of dynamited Red
Paradise during the next meat shortage.
Half a dozen chimney sweeps will guaran-
tee not to spill soot on my Persian car-
pets, and I have a horde of whiteant
exterminators to choose from. There are
three hospitals to which dolls —the
crockery, not flesh and blood, variety-
can be sent for repair, and more than a
dozen dogs’ boardinghouses will take
Rover in when he becomes bored with my
company. At least eight debt collectors
will either chase debts for me or chase
me for debts. I can get a glass eye from
a couple manufacturing artificial peepers
and can take my pick from 30 herbalists
if I am not satisfied with my g.p-
Seven livery stables will hire me a horse
and cart and there are eight farriers to
shoe the nag. And I now know where I
can buy crumpets, sausage casings v slot
machines and burglar alarms.
* * * *
“Stone”; Today’s prices for the Phil
May catalogues (B. 8/5/’46) are not ex-
cessive, A Sydney bookseller recently
sold me copy No. 1 of the Sydney issue
(it had belonged to William Macleod)
for something less than ten shillings. It
contained, too, the loose corrigenda sheet.
Phil May is “collected” in America and
England as well as here, but even there
the margin on the issue price is not as
great as on some other Bulletin produc-
tions of those days. A. G. Stephens set
a standard of quality in book-production
in Australia that has not been since ap-
proached by any commercial publishing
house.
* * * *
“Peter Paul”: Few mothers would see
anything suspicious in a display of affec-
tion towards their offspring by another
woman, but a Melbourne mother will
never be so trusting again. She left her
small son in his pram oqtside a shop.
While being served she noticed a kind lady
stop at the pram, lean over dotingly and
chuck the babe under the chin, voicing
babyish goos. The mother’s return re-
vealed that the kind lady had lifted the
purse which had been left under the in-
fant’s mattress. It contained £4.
* * H-- *
“Cro”: The yarn that radar causes
baldness, sterility and other mischief must
still enjoy considerable since
U.S. Army Air Force surgeons have gone
to the extent of experimenting on guinea-
pigs to discount it. R.A.A.F. doctors
issued special instructions to placate
worried W.A.A.A.F. and radar per-
sonnel, and even then there were many
who still believed they were endangering
the future of the human race if they stood
in front of any radar outfit. The Navy
was worried, too. When some new centi-
metre gear was installed on Warspite—
reputed to carry as much radar equipment
as any other three ships together—the
yarn circulated that any matelot who
who stood in front of the antennas for
10 minutes would thereafter be incapable
of perpetuating his name. It is possible,
by standing close enough to the antennae
of ultra-ultra-high-frequency radar equip-
ment, to feel heat radiating from it, but
unless there’s any foundation for the old
Chinese belief that hot baths produce
temporary sterility even that should have
no effect on our vital Statistics.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Any foreigner who happened
to be listening would have been puzzled
by two messages radioed to police patrol
cars in Melbourne. One was:
Two Tasmanian devils have escaped from
Royal Park Zoo.
The other:
Two prisoners under eScort escaped a
few minutes ago from Spencer-street station.
The first was not a reflection of any inter-
state prejudice that may exist in Victoria
against the inhabitants of the Apple
Island. It referred to the fact that a
couple of specimens of Tasmania’s most
peculiar fauna, which have a nasty temper,
a howl that rises from bass to contralto
and a habit of attacking poultry and any-
body who tries to intercept them, had
got out of their cage. These escapees
were found fraternising with wild dogs—
with unfortunate results for the poor
devils.
* * * c
“Bernard Hackshaw”: A “graphologi-
cal advisory bureau” has been opened in
Melbourne,, While the “bureau” dis-
claims any connection with “grapho-
logists” who try to unravel the future
of their clients, it offers, for two
guineas, to find customers the right
man for the right job, to let them
know the people they have to deal with,
and to assist in cases of suspected forgery.
Complete secrecy is promised, and if you
want to find out any particular trait of
a person’s character the bureau will tell
you. Scientific graphologists, it is asserted,
are being consulted by police, schools,
ministries, banks, firms, etc. Follows a
testimonial from a writer who is dead,
Stefan Zweig, to the effect that a man may
lie, simulate, disown himself: a portrait
may change or beautify him ; a book
can lie and so can a letter, but in one
thing man is inseparably attached to the
innermost truth of his nature —in his
handwriting. If this is so, it is difficult
to understand why the bureau asks its
clients to state the sex and age of the
writer when sending along a specimen
for analysis.
CHIFLEY, P.C.
“The people of Australia are beginning to ask
‘Why did Mr. Chifley go abroad? What did he dis-
cuss in his few days in London ?’ ” — Mr. Menzies.
Around the world he tore at breakneck speed
But what he did and how and when and
where,
And why he went, it seems to be agreed,
Continues a mysterious affair.
The one undoubted fact to be discerned,
Which may supply the real motive for
His jaunt, is the distinction that he earned
In rising up a Privy Councillor.
He hit few headlines, such as others win,
Imposing figureheads from oversea,
Except a few that found him lacking in
(All lies, says Calwell) punctuality.
It doesn’t seem that Attlee tried to find
His views on the Egyptian question or
Anything else. But one must keep in mind
He’s now a full-blown Privy Councillor.
The sounding prefix of Right Hon’rable
Is his for keeps. Two letters he can use
Which put him on a footing parallel
With Cook and Menzies, Bruce and Billy
Hughes.
In Britain, when a scale of ranks they make,
Never an ermine-clad Chief Justice or
A bloody-handed Baronet may take
Precedence of a Privy Councillor.
Why did he go? Well, no one knows but he.
Yet now he’s something that he wasn’t before,
A duly sworn and docketed P.C.
A right-down, reg’lar Privy Councillor.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Jasby”: Censorship of Army morals
(B. 15/5/ ’46) ? “Hoot” wrote to his wife
after a long stay in the islands. The
general subject of his letter has been
handled much more delicately by count-
less poets and writers throughout the
ages, but delicacy was not “Hoot’s” strong
point; what he lacked in that faculty he
made up for in fervency and directness.
When the young censoring loot read the
screed he blushed a rosy hue, his hair
stood on end, he sent for “Hoot,” and in
an embarassed way suggested that per-
haps the letter could be toned down a
little. “Hoot” was immediately on his
dignity. It was his wife and his
letter; couldn’t he say what he
liked to his own wife in his own
letter? The officer murmured that certain
phrases in the letter were rather crude.
“Hoot” stormed. Crude, were they?
Well, was that anything to do with the
censor? The young loot admitted that
the letter contained nothing infringing
security, but faltered that he didn’t like
the idea of putting his signature on such
a sizzling epistle. “All right,” said
“Hoot,” “Gimme it back. I'll take it
along to the padre ; he'll sign it.”
sj« # *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson, feeling off-color,
left the office and arrived home about
11 a.m. The offspring were at school
and Mrs. Jephson was missing, presum-
ably gone visiting or shopping. Jephson
“Better hurry , Bill — we're runnin late.”
somewhat irritably made himself a cup
of tea, then retired to bed. Presently
came a small boy to know if this was
where the Harrisons lived, and within the
next hour four other callers arrived with
various missions. Jephson ensured it,
expecting each to be the returning missus
to get him some lunch. By 2 p.m. he was
forced to get his own ; then he lay down
again. Immediately a motor-bike raced
by with a shattering roar, 14 dogs chased
it and then ran in on to the Jephson
lawn and staged a free-for-all. Jephson
started up and hurled abuse and furniture
at them, was abused by the lady next
door for swearing and sulkily withdrew.
Ten minutes later two large and deter-
mined fellows rang the bell and sold him
a cake of soap; 12 minutes after that a
ragged individual stood 1 in the street and
bawled “Flow-urrs! Fresh flow-urrs!”
and nine minutes later Jephson was on
the tram, returning to the office to enjoy
his distemper in peace.
“Brian Bureau”: A pal selling a trade
directory called at the office of
Blank and Co. and began to expatiate elo-
quently on the merits of his book. The
manager interrupted his harangue by in-
quiring if the next-door firm had bought
one. “Yes,” lied the smart alec with ready
alacrity. “Well, in that case, we won’t
need one,” came the disappointing re-
joinder. “We never buy what we can
borrow.”
* * * *
“Exkewex”: Isn’t “Burglar’s Laborer”
(B. 8/5/’46) a bit off the track with his
remarks concerning the king-hit? In
south Queensland country pubs, where
the word was freely used, it was always
applied to the unexpected hit which ended
the fight before the other party really
knew it had started. If you hit him under
the ear as he turned to put his pot on
the counter or uppercut him as he started
to take his coat off, or if you “crowned
him as he preceded you through the door
after inviting you to “come outside,” in
each case you king-hit him. Incidentally,
I never heard the word used as a noun
but invariably as a verb. (As a matter
of personal curiosity is “B.L. identical
with the contributor who used to sign as
“Casual Burglar’s Laborer”? If so, may
I congratulate him on his improved
economic status?)
* * * *
“Matha”: I doubt whether editors
Archibald and Edmond ever bothered
about the “Oriental scene” on the other
side from The Bulletin office windows
(“Fitz,” B. 10/4/’46). If they had time to
glare out of the windows over the passing
buses it was to relieve anger at the
awful calligraphy of contributors (there
were few typewriters in the ’nineties).
The chief Chinese community in that area
was further down (below Essex-street to
the Quay), where the City Council later
erected a series of shops ; there the Celes-
tial compositors could be seen setting up
the “Tung Wah Times.” When the Chinese
were shifted from that area to Botany
and the Milson’s and Dawes’ Point femes
ceased to ply, Circular Quay as a spectacle
for tourists and a lunch-hour rendezvous
for old-timers almost faded out. Even
the once-fashionable Macquarie-place is
now left to a few lunchers, caravan
preachers and the pigeons. *
* * * *
“Fitz”: One of the brightest yarns
penned by Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak )
was “The Automatic Barmaid.” Not only
could “Gwennie” serve the correct drink
ordered by a customer, but she could
clean glasses, replace bottles and change
a fiver. She was a plump, stylishly-
dressed robot and could even speak two
phrases, “Love-ly da-ay” and “Good-
bye.” Her career came to an end when
a sozzled journalist began to whisper
endearments into her ear, a contingency
not bargained for by her inventor. Ine
compliments so agitated r^f n . n / e
that she ran amuck, smashed halt me
bottled stock and fractured her metallic
spine. I was telling the yarn to a friend
“Sorry to keep you waiting, gents., but I never rise before eight-thirty .”
in a pub. His comment, as he tried for
the tenth time to attract the attention ot
a fiesh-and-blood barmaid, was: “Listen,
Fitz, if that bloke wrote the yarn today,
he’d have to give her some gadget tor
collecting tips. She wouldn’t serve you
until she was tipped. You can’t tell me,
I know ’em.”
;j; Sjl
“Sha-Sha”: Tell “Exdig” (B. l/5/’46)
we played Aussie Rules in Stalagluft VI,
Heyderkrug, Lithuania, where nearly 2UU
Australian airmen were prisoners. After
a big build-up on the skill and speed
of the game, we put on a match to
show the Chooms and Canucks how it
worked. Unfortunately, everything was
dead against us. We played, on a Soccer
pitch with soft sand to a depth of six
inches, it poured like the devil for the
two days before the game, and we could
only field 11 men a side. Nobody was
impressed, least of all the Aussie spec-
tators. It would have been better left
alone.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: One would think that the
highest compliment an overseas artist
could pay this country is to elect to stay
in it. As a matter of fact, it is the best
way for him to court obscurity. When
the Spivakovskys first visited Melbourne
as virtuosi they packed the Town
Hall at every concert, and were
social lions. After they had been living
here a few years three of the brothers
gave a recital at the same Town Hall and
a few hundred attended, though there is
no reason to suppose that the players
weren’t better than ever. Tossy got the
highest job for a violinist at the disposal
of America. There are other cases which
could be cited—Friedman, and that
nificent pianist Edward Goll. Hepzi-
bah Menuhin, however, appears to be ah
exception; anyway, she commands full
houses on her periodical appearances now
that she is the wife of an Australian
pastoralist.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: Under a new Hobart City
Council bylaw, drinking from a bottle
in a tram or bus renders the offender
liable to a fine of a fiver. As the contents
of the bottle aren’t specifically mentioned
mothers of bottlefed babies are asking
where they come in.
# 4 ♦ *
“Laetitia”: One of the Nip’s many
inexplicable performances was his attempt
at the Milne Bay invasion without air
support. ’Planes arrived in force the
morning after the battle was lost, with the
Nips in full retreat. They made for
the ’drome with landing wheels down,
and two R.A.A.F. fighter squadrons
swooped to an easy kill. The suicidal
manoeuvre was in slavish obedience to the
Jap operation order, which was captured
later, prescribing the capture and repair
of the ’drome to permit the landing of
his aircraft on the morning of Aug. 28,
’42. Mystery lies in the apparent failure
of the many survivors of the abortive
invasion, who were picked up by the
cruisers which shelled the Australian posi-
tions on the night of Aug. 26 and 27,
to inform their aircraft of the failure ot
the preliminary operations in the plan.
* * * *
“Weff”: Marcus Clarke (B. 24/4/’46)
is not the only Australian writer the cen-
tenary of whose birth occurs this year.
On September 26, 1846, there was born
at Glasgow the daughter of a grain mer-
chant who was to become the first poetess
of distinctive merit in Queensland. As
Mary Hannay Black she came to Aus-
tralia at nine, was educated in Mel-
bourne and studied art under Von
Guerard at the Victorian National
Gallery. In 1874 she married Thomas
Wade Foott, one of the owners
of Dundoo station, on the Paroo River
(Q.). She had ten years’ experience of
station life, and after her husband’s death
became literary editor of the “Queens-
lander.” She published only two books
of verses, but many of her individual
poems were selected for anthologies. Her
“Where the Pelican Builds” has been a
favorite with schoolchildren for over
half a century. Mary Foott, who was the
mother of Brigadier-General Cecil Foott,
outlived Marcus Clarke by 37 years.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Further to “Jasby’s” early
maps of Australia (B. 24/4/’46). In the
Mitchell Library there is an atlas first
printed in 1563. In it South America and
Australia are lumped together as a tract
of land surrounded by sea serpents and
other fierce-looking monsters, the whole
being described as “Terra Incognita Aus-
tralis.” One of the "weird fauna has
points hr common with the kangaroo,
which suggests that long before Dampier s
time some roving navigator touched on
these shores and brought back a hazy
description of the ’roo. The artist has
given the creature a long neck, a small
head and a pouch containing twin joeys.
* *
“City Lights”: Mention of the one-time
popular craze for collecting match-box
tops (B. 20/3/’46) recalls that when the
bottom began to drop out of the mania
we kids, with thousands of the • embel-
lished cardboard discs on our hands, be-
gan to seek some profitable outlet.
Someone started a rumor that the gun-
smith was buying them for cartridge
wadding. I was perhaps the hundredth
kid that arrived at old Green’s shop with
a boxful; and he wouldn’t even let me
leave my treasure on the premises as a
gift. But those tops made a wonderful
footpath, for that was where most dis-
appointed kids dumped them, just beyond
Green’s door; winter rains pulped the
cardboard, traffic mixed it with the clay,
and it was like a paper carpet for years.
* * * *
“K.L.C.”: So many complaints are
made as to cost and scarcity of clothing
that a Bulletin advertisement of a Pitt-
street firm deserves notice:
It was aJittle while ago, of course —1887.
* * * *
“Musgrave”: After six years’ “inactive
service” Sydney Ferries have revived
the “Gang Plank,” a small four-
page monthly issued free to passengers.
Before the war this miniature magazine
was a breezy compendium of facts about
the company’s ferries, ferry services and
the harbor generally. Regular travellers
with more than a passing interest in the
history of foreshore landmarks and the
busy traffic of Port Jackson looked for-
ward to each issue. Sydney Harbor, with
its 188 miles of coastline, its nine islands,
the craft on its waters, its wharves,
bridges, lighthouses, wrecks and storms, rs
rich in history and varied interest. Thou-
sands who have used the ferries daily for
years are still discovering new and fasci-
nating features. Why doesn’t some popu-
lar historian provide us with the history
of the Harbor and the ships and men that
have used its waters?
A SUGGESTION.
“The British Ministry of Food has announced .that
lawn-tennis players and other visiting athletes will
be allowed to bring with them 151 b. of food apiece,
so that they will not feel unduly the sudden change
in diet.”
A sportsmanlike and equitable fiat!
It isn’t difficult to understand
That anyone might feel extreme disquiet,
Fresh from the fleshpots of this favored land,
At sudden switching to the Spartan diet
That Britain’s disabilities demand.
The change is well deferred a little while
Lest it should cramp his stomach —and his style.
A tennis star, to keep in good condition
For crafty lob and devastating smash,
Should be exempted from the demolition
Of new and unfamiliar kinds of hash.
It can’t be questioned that abrupt transition
From steak-and-eggs to sausages-and-mash
Before he gets accustomed to the same
Is just the sort of thing to spoil his game.
A sporting team is like an army. Whether
With bat and ball it seeks the foe to tan,
Pursues or boots a bit of whirling leather,
It needs a suitable supply of scran.
It marches, individually and together,
Upon what might be termed its inner man,
And quite indubitably what is best
For him is what is easiest to digest.
So let us wish them luck and trust they’re
freighted
With aught that may enable them to bear
The time of trial that’s anticipated;
Enough to tide them over, as if were.
Until they’re properly habituated
To very much less appetising fare,
And have the chance to get inured to it
Gently and gradually, bit by bit.
And yet, to make their meals less mean and
measly
In the lean days that soon will be begun,
How would it be to quarter them on Beasley
Before they face the nets at Wimbledon?
If there’s a man can solve their problem eas’ly
The indications are that he’s the One.
The staggering stock of victuals he was let
Convey to London can’t have vanished yeL_
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
One tweed sac suit, one white shirt, one
colored shirt, one straw or felt hat, three
pairs socks, three collars, two scarves, two
undershirts, one pair braces, two handker-
chiefs. Seventeen articles in all; carriage
paid to any seaport or railway station in
N.S.W. for 30s. —J. F. Collins & Co.,
235-37-39 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Red Fascism
v
Democratic Labour
The hold up of Dutch ships and conse-
quenl strangling of export trade is but
another episode in the fight the forces of
“red fascist ’ dictatorship are putting up
for the control of the Australian Labour
movement.
The Federal Government, the Dutch
authorities, the A.C.T.U. and the Trades
and Labour Council all agree that the
ships should be allowed to sail but still
they remain tied up in our ports.
What matter if the trade is being des-
troyed; what matter if machines are idle
in Australian factories and men unem-
ployed, so long as the day of the red
revolution be brought closer.
Is the power of these <e red fascists ”
so strong already in the Labour
Unions that neither the Govern-
ment nor the Industrial Labour
leaders dare attempt to control
them?
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
CFB
Luxury sight-seeing.
with the blue <md stiver
SNk * v * —* .
pioneer roadcrulser
.:■•••••••'
m
\U v
/ X.
%
4fWM
■ HbK
1 3
I F J
Individual seats:
adjustable to five
restful positions. fft
Wide windows afford
perfect visibility.
Courtesy and service
from capable driver
guides.
yy HEN you step aboard the blue-and-
silver Pioneer roadcruiser you
begin a journey that will provide you
with a new experience of luxurious
travel. Seated in the deep-cushioned
comfort of an aircraft-style chair . . .
beside a wide-view window . . . with
ample space for stretching . . . that’s
highway travel you’ll really enjoy. And
the driver guides of the Pioneer fleet
are men chosen for their exceptional
courtesy, their ability to serve you well
while you’re the guest of Pioneer. The
travel expert at your local Pioneer
Office will gladly furnish details of the
happy highway holidays that Pioneer
has planned for you.
Now is the time to hook for
freer tours
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE
MU COl4 B 7511 B 0550 C 25U
A WIDE CHOICE OF PIONEER TOUR'S IS AVAILABLE; ASK FOR DETAILS
THE SERVICE MAN
Cadet Movement Flourishes.
“Ek Dum”: One bright spot on the
Australian military horizon is the de-
velopment of the* cadet movement on a
basis which seems almost too good to
be true.
Before World War I Australian School
Cadet Corps were the whole basis of pre-
liminary officer training and selection.
They were largely the individual product
of school efforts. They were conceded
the use of tough old Guards sergeant-
majors by a higher power, but were
mainly self-supporting and proud to be
so. Many schoolmaster officers—Blarney,
Brand and others—attained military dis-
tinction.
The- writer was a Brisbane Grammar
School boy. The school members in his
day were about 200; the cadet corps ran
to about 70. Its gaitered uniform and
slouch hats were a pretty close approxi-
mation of Second AJLF.’s first uniform.
It cost 10s. a year (from memory) to be
a swaddy and the same to be an officer
or a non-com.
The commandant was the headmaster,
R. H. Roe, who in military matters dis-
played the earnestness proper to a descent
from Bishop Heber with the energy of an
Oxford rowing blue. The “active ser-
vice”-commander was Captain “Bobbie”
Gross, a Swiss-trained enthusiast, who
was a whole army in himself. Membership
was a condition precedent to a Rhodes
scholarship (four or five, including Len
Brown, who doctored Mr. Chifley in Lon-
don the oth'er day, and after the last war
captained an English Rugby side, were
among the officers in those times). Mem-
bership was also the necessary prerequi-
site to application for a coveted commis-
sion in that grand old training corps the
Royal Australian Artillery.
That small enthusiastic body of youth-
ful B.G.S. cadets before World War I
twice won the Earl of Meath’s Cup for
rifle shooting against the Great Public
Schools of the Empire (each time having
a reserve team which could have taken
on the winners).
The —incomplete—list of commanders
which it produced from within a dozen
years of training is Lt.-Gen. John Lava-
rack (Corps Commander in Syria), Major-
General Jim Cannan (Q.M.G., World
War II), Lieut.-General C. G. N. Miles,
Major-General E. C. Plant (for a time
commandant of Duntroon, echelon com-
mander in Greece, and L.O.C. Eastern
Command towards the end of the war),
Major-Generals R. E, Jackson, Coxen
(who commanded the greatest aggregation
of artillery in all history up to that time
on August 8, 1918), Cecil Foott, Victor
Sellheim, A. J. Boase (now Australian
military representative in London), Briga-
dier L. C. Wilson (3rd and sth A.L.H. in
World War I), Donald Cameron (C.O.
sth A.L.H.), Lieut.-Col. Hubert Harris
(sth A.L.H., killed on Gallipoli), Alex.
Heron (CO. 41st Batt., First Aj.I.F.),
G. C. Somerville (lieut.-col. staff, Second
Division, First A.1.F.), Col. K. Smith
(A.D.M.S., 4th Division). Also George
Moore, now Rear-Admiral, who com-
manded the Sydney station during the last
phase of World War 11.
In World War I alone the corps pro-
vided five generals, two colonels, 18 lieu-
tenant-colonels and 32 majors.
The school sent 1019 men to World
War I out of a total of 1350 of military
age. Most of those who didn’t go were
rejected and most of those who did
started as sound rifle shots and with a
military training. Four of the first six
officers to be killed on Gallipoli at the
landing, Joe Costin and F. G. Haymen,
J N. Rigby and T, Robertson, were
“Bobby Gross men,” though their mentor
did not live to take pride in their deeds —
he died suddenly of cancer in 1908. The
first day’s casualties from the little corps
numbered seven, all from the 9th Bat-
talion and 15th.
This record was typical of the cadet
corps of the day throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Cadet History
Cadet corps were formed first in Aus-
tralia round about the early ’sixties. They
served a magnificent purpose while they
were in full bloom, but they suffered in
later days from the blights of too much
centralisation and red tape.
The revival took place almost imper-
ceptibly during the latter part of World
War 11.
In June, 1943, there were in N. S. Wales
46 detachments with a strength of 5400;
in March, 1946, there.were 113 detach-
ments, made up of 212 officers and 11,815
other ranks —70 country detachments and
43 metropolitan.
The basis of organisation is that all col-
leges, high schools and secondary schools
may voluntarily form corps. The oldest
existing corps in N. S. Wales are Newing-
ton (1863), The King’s School, Parra-
matta (1866), Sydney Grammar (1882),
Scots College (1893), Barker College
(1899), Armidale (1906). The disastrous
state of affairs which developed in the
past generation is shown by the fact that
only eight schools can boast cadet corps
which date from before 1929. Two
C.E.G.S. (Shore and Cranbrook) were
formed that year. Knox and Sydney
High joined the band in 1936, Canter-
bury High School in 1937, Parramatta
and North Sydney. Highs in 1938, Fort-
street, Yanco A.H.S. and Coff’s Harbor
in 1939.
Thus in the whole State there are
only 18 school corps of pre-World War
II vintage—a staggering fact. The remain-
ing 95 have been organised since 1940,
36 last year and 25, stretching out to
Coonabarabran and almost from border
to border north and south, in the first
three months of this year.
The Syllabus
The syllabus at present provides for 60
hours of annual training, an annual camp
of 10 days (there were 3000 in camp at
Walgrove, near Sydney, last week), and
bivouacs as required. Service A.M.F.
dress is free issue, but schools can pro-
vide their own individual uniforms at will,
subject to H.Q. approval of pattern.
Small arms, signal equipment and auto-
matic weapons are issued free to all
schools. The course includes fre-
quent miniature-range practice and the
use of service shooting and automatic
weapon practice during camps. And the
instruction is carried out by A.I.F. in-
structors from Central State Command.
The Latest From Persia.
“Ek Dum”: No report has been avail-
able to the United Nations on conditions
in Persia. Gn May 8 the Security Coun-
cil adjqurned till May 20 after it had
oeen informed that Soviet interference
had prevented the Persian Government
from ascertaining whether the Russian
troops actually had withdrawn from
Azerbaijan,
On May 12 a London “Times” corre-
spondent reported from Tehran that
seven days after the Russian troops were
due to leave there still was no official an-
nouncement, and that the “Supreme Coun-
cil,” charged with the duty of arranging
general elections throughout Persia, had
decided that “elections for the 15th Legis-
lature will be postponed pending total
evacuation of Persia and the settlement
of the Azerbaijan dispute.”
Despite attempts to gloss over the situ-
ation, there is no question about the fact
that if there is no active war in the Per-
sian north and Kurdish areas there is a
state of civil war, with armed forces
facing each other.
Last week Azerbaijan Radio (Tabriz)
said:
During the past 20 years this nation has
attempted to gain freedom. The Azerbaijan
National Army is ready to fight against the
enemies of freedom, but has not wanted
fratricide Our representatives are now
returning from Tehran, and we are ready for
any eventuality. ‘’We want everyone to
know the fault is not ours Now we are
announcing to all nations that we are ready
to fight. We have given orders to the
National Army and the Democratic Party
on the frontier that if the Central Govern-
ment Army enters Azerbaijan we will pre-
vent them. We Azerbaijans, from small
boys to old men, will fight and not give up
freedom and self-government.
On May 20 Tabriz Radio reported that
fierce fighting had bepm. Combined with
the Russian attitude, it seems clear that the
Russians have taken advantage of the
hospitality of a friendly Power to spur
its citizens to rebellion, and that what-
ever is being done in Tabriz is done with
Russian countenance and protection.
A New Note in Germany.
“Ek Dum”: There have been mutual
displays of chivalry in war-criminal trials
in Germany.
The first came in the evidence of a
German general, who said that at one
stage it was doubtful whether the German
drive into Grefece would not be checked
owing to the stand of the Maorilanders
in the Olympian neck and the Peneios


Study for a spare-time or full-time
career. Complete Home Study Course
covers 20 weeks. Complete cost of
£6/0/- covers personal correction
service. Send for brochure to . . .
RADIO INSTITUTE
OF AUSTRALIA
Cowell Buildings, Victoria Square,
Adelaide, South Australia.
NAME...
address
BI
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
In Divorce.
TO EDWARD MANSFIELD DE LA DETTE.—TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed in a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the petition of AILEEN MARY DE LA
DETTE of Hamilton in Tasmania praying for a dis-
solution of marriage In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within Thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be entered at
the Registry Office of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart. —(t.s.) F. N. PRINGLE,
Acting Registrar.
N.B. —Friends of the abovenamed Edward Mans-
field De La Dette who may see this advertisement are
requested to bring it under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILY ARMIT late of Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that STELLA GWENDOLINE FITZJAMES
has filed her petition in this court for Divorce No.
1184 of 1945 from Harold Fitzjames on the ground
of his adultery with you You may apply to the
court to defend the charge if you desire and. obtain
a copy of the petition free of charge from J. C.
PAYNTER Solicitor for the Petitioner 107 Elizabeth
Street Sydney Dated this 14th day of May 1946.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
To OSCAR GUSTAV EUGEN LARSSON late of 820
O’Farrell Street San Francisco California. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARIE CLARE LARSSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1731 of 1946 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
3 years and upwards She will ask for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under S 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 21st
October 1946 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from William Parker Solicitor 77
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARIE EILEEN SEVAN formerly of 56 City
Road Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS FRED-
ERICK ROBERT BEVAN has filed against you a
Petition for Divorce No. 1772 of 1946 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you ma/
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Sup-
reme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
19th day of June 1946 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from N. W. CALDWELL
Solicitor 375 George Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAU TERRITORY.
No. 5 of 1945.
IN THE MATTER of GREENWOOD. & LAWS
LIMITED (in liquidation) a New Guinea Company.
—Creditors and Shareholders of the abovenamed
Company are required on or before the 10th day of
June 1946 to send their names and addresses and
the particulars of their debts claims or shareholdings
and the names and addresses of their Solicitors (if
any) to RICHARf) ARTHUR LAWS of 211 Military
Road CrCmorne the Official Liquidator of the said
Company and in the case of creditors if so required
by notice in writing from the said Official Liquidator
are by their Solicitors to come in and prove their
said debts or claims at the office of the Registrar of
the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Terri-
tory at the Patent Office Building Canberra at such
time as shall be specified in such notice or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit of
any distribution made before such debts are proved
Monday the eighth day of July 1946 at 2.30 p.m.
in the afternoon at the said office is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the debts and claims.
DATIM) this Sixth day__ of May lOtfi.—F. C. P.
KEANE, Registrar.
WSWArtVOW
//OM£ a
SUMMER HEAT
WINTER CHILL
•"l.
vWl'l
H
vnm
r* * m
’
■:■
.
mtw \
v j-
. V . ?
HI
■
CANE-ITE
Cane-ite not only beautifies your home but it gives
you double protection as well. It insulates and
protects your home against excessive cold and
heat —and gives you added comfort all the year
round. This modern attractive building board
keeps y6ur home cosy in the winter, cool in the
summer.
Cane-ite is easy to use. In renovating it goes
right over unsightly walls, covering cracks anc(
stains quickly and inexpensively. Cane-ite is
white-ant proofed.
ds
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney—Melbourne—Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth
Other C.S.R. Products: Slagwool, Asbestos, Piaster Products
gorge region. Af the time German news-
papers published glowing accounts of the
gallantry of the New Zealanders, whose
story was excellently told by their own
war correspondents in some of the best
war reporting of this or any war.
On May 9 it was New Zealand’s turn.
Colonel-General Student was on trial at
Llineberg on charges that, while in com-
mand of the parachute troops who in-
vaded Crete, he used prisoners as screens,
bombed a hospital and shot and ill-treated
prisoners.
Brigadier Inglis, in command of the
Maorilanders in Crete at the time, “after
reading the report of the trial, volunteered
“Range control! Bearing 270, angle 10—an' mind the backlash !”
to give evidence ‘in the interests of British
justice”’ (London “Times,” May 10).
He declared that prisoners were not
used as screens, as their guards were not
numerous and were not attacking. He
also swore that the aeroplane which
dropped a bomb on a hospital was obvi-
ously trying to hit a crowd of troops on
the beach.
The defence decided, after Brigadier
Inglis had given his evidence, not to call
any more witnesses.
The reflection immediately arises as to
why so important a witness as the Maori-
land brigadier was not consulted in the
first place before the trial opened.
Student was acquitted on the prisoners-
screen and hospital-bombing charges, but
was held guilty of responsibility for ill-
treatment of British prisoners, six of
whom were shot, and sentenced to five
years’ imprisonment.
R.A.N. in the Coral Sea.
In newspaper accounts of the Battle of
the Coral Sea, and in speeches celebrat-
ing the fourth anniversary of the victory,
the part played by the R.A.N. received no
mention.
A Melbourne store provided a notable
exception. In its excellent graphic recon-
struction of the series of warship-aircraft
actions of which the battle consisted, it
set out clearly the activities of the Aus-
tralian ships which were engaged.
H.M.A.S. Australia and Hobart
were in the battle, while forming part of
Task Force 44, which included the U.S.
cruiser Chicago and the U.S. destroyers
Perkins, Farragut and Walke, the whole
being under the command of Rear-
Admiral J. G. Grace, C.B. (himself an
Australian), who had his flag in Australia.
On the afternoon of May 7, 1942, this
force, which had been detached from the
main carrier force to intercept a number
of enemy ships apparently making for the
Jomard Passage from the north, and
which was without fighter cover, with-
stood three separate air attacks without
loss or damage:
(o) A torpedo attack by nine t.bs. All
torpedoes from this attack, some of which
ran close, were avoided, and five aircraft
were shot down.
(b) A high-level attack by about 20
bombers a few minutes later. Two large
patterns were dropped round Australia,
which was washed down by the splashes
and spattered with splinters.
(c) A high-level attack shortly after this
by a few bombers of our own side from a
shore base.
These aircraft had observed the Japanese
h.l.b. attack, and, assuming (for some
reason or other) that enemy ships were
being bombed by Allied aircraft, decided
to have a go too. They missed Australia
by about a mile, but were within a couple
of hundred yards of one of the destroyers
on the screen.
The Task Force, which the Japanese
had completely failed to destroy or drive
off, remained, still without fighter sup-
port, in an exposed area covering Port
Moresby and north-east Australia until
the next forenoon, when, upon news of
the repulse and retirement of the Japanese
invasion fleet, it was ordered back to the
Barrier Reef to refuel.
A Japanese radio broadcast subse-
quently announced that this force in-
cluded the U.S. battleship California (no
doubt, Chicago), H.M.S. Malaya (possibly
Hobart) and Australia. It was claimed
that the Australia had been sunk and
the other two damaged.
Australia and Hobart were the only
Australian cruisers available in the south-
west Pacific area at this time. Sydney
and Perth had already been sunk. Ade-
laide was engaged on convoy duties and
Canberra was carrying out a long-overdue
refit at Sydney after some 200,000 miles
of steaming during the previous 2| years
of the war.
What about a carrier next time?
A General on the Red Army.
“Ek Dum”: The first British soldier
attached to the Russian Army to report
on Red Army methods has come to light
in Lieut.-General Sir G. le Q. Martel.
Britain’s leading tank officer, he suc-
ceeded General Mason-Macfarlane as
military attache at Moscow at a crucial
period of the war.
Pressure and his world-wide reputation
as a tank-man resulted in the lieut.-general
seeing something mor v e of the Red Army
than the average observer. His conclu-
sions, embodied in a work on Our
Armored Forces, recently published in
London, and of which the first reviews
have this week reached Australia, seem
to endorse in detail the view taken of
the Red Army in these pages throughout
the war.
The distinguished author says that the
Red Army’s success was largely due to
its overwhelming manpower, Allied arms
and transport supplies and Allied aerial
destruction of German war potential.
After the defeat of Stalingrad, General
Martel declares, the German armies on
the Russian front were weak and of bad
morale. He might have added, in view
of the performances of Field-Marshal von
Paulus and his apparent defection after
the surrender, that they were of
bad morale before the Stalingrad sur-
render, and, in fact, from the time the
Luftwaffe in force was withdrawn from
the Volga at the end of October, 1942,
near the beginning of the Alamein battle.
On the Russians’ own statistics the Red
Army’s artillery barrage at Stalingrad was
a mere pup by Western Front standards.
Anyway, after Stalingrad German equip-
ment in Russia, according to General
Martel, was second-rate in comparison
with that of German forces opposing the
British in the Western Desert, Italy and
France.
This is particularly illuminating in
view .of the fact that, with this condition
of affairs prevailing, the Germans suc-
ceeded in stopping the Russians’ ad-
vance after Stalingrad, throwing them,
back out of Kharkov, and that in the fol-
lowing summer they were making real
progress towards once more pushing the
Russians back to the Volga or breaking
clean through them on the Kharkov-
Orel front. At this juncture the Allied
attack on transfer of the Mediterranean
war from Africa to Europe compelled
the enemy to deplete his Russian-based
forces further and to starve them addi-
tionally of supplies and ammunition.
General Martel expresses the opinion
that the British Eighth Army, as it was
after the occupation of Tripoli, would
have defeated easily any two armies of
the type mustered by Germany and Russia
on an eastern front.
The plain fact is emerging from the
statistics and details made available by the
occupation of Germany, and by the
glimpses of the combatants vouchsafed
released prisoners who were in the path
of the Russian advance, that the final
campaign of the Russian front was a
surging battle between a locust, half-
trained Asiatic horde living off the
country at the cost of hundreds of
thousands of civilian lives and Ger-
man reserves made up of the tattered
remnants of third-line troops. The
Red Army’s real checks came when
they were forced to penetrate fortified
positions. These they overran by a dread-
ful sacrifice of manpower, their armed
mobs rolling on and on, dying in heaps
at the order of frosty-eyed commanders,
until the defenders ran out of ammuni-
tion or dropped exhausted from the sheer
labor of killing.
And, judging by the reports on trans-
port, the victorious Russian armies of
Berlin would still be plodding along the
Dnieper if they had had to depend on
their own transport.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY
W«N
a
I
Wiim
Our Navy and Merchant fleets depend on Exide
Batteries. Exides are serving the public daily in
over a hundred ways. In your choice of a
battery for your car, be guided by those
who have learned to depend on Exide.
S ■
&
""""iii.
N>
on?
•«#
PERSONAL ITEMS
A Yorkshireman from Skipton who
wears the old school tie and graduated
from Trinity College, Cambridge, Sur-
geon Rear-Admiral W. J. Carr has just
retired after 34 years in the R.A.N. He
was at sea with H.M.A.S. Melbourne
when the Kaiser overflowed in
Europe, and was M.O. of first Syd-
ney when that ship attended the
German Fleet surrender. Surgeon
captain in 1934 and surgeon rear-admiral
in March this year, he has always had a
kind word and a helping' hand for his
junior M.Os. He has been Director of Naval
Medical Services since 1933, and in 1936
collected a C.8.E., was made honorary
physician to the King in 1943 and, now
retiring, leaves a son still serving as a
sub-lieutenant in the Navy, An active
sportsman, he has given up cricket, and
hockey for bowls and gardening.
Keith M. Hampshire, who was ap-
pointed operational supervisor of the
National .Airlines Commission and re-
signed the job a fortnight later “owing
to moral obligations,” commanded Six
Squadron at Richmond (N.S.W.) to-
wards the end of 1940 when it was fitted
with Hudsons ; then he went to Moresby
in command of a Boston squadron and
collected a D.S.O. He was in hospital
with a thigh wound, after a bombing
attack, when he eluded the M.O. and
orderlies, got out of hospital at 4 a.m.
and drove off to take part irf prepara-
tions for an important mission then brew-
ing. He was talked out of it, but it took
a lot of talking. Hampshire has always
been interested in sport, and at
Moresby he started boxing in an open-
air ring, where Aussies and Yanks put
on some good bouts. Transferred to
England, he shot down at least three Ger-
man aircraft during night raids over
Britain, and then took command of a
Lancaster squadron. In civil life Hamp-
shire was associated with insurance in-
terests and apparently intends to stick to
them.
Archer Russell, naturalist and freelance
journalist, whose fifth book, Bush Ways,
was an Australian Book Society’s first
choice, has roamed far and wide since
leaving Christ Church School, Adelaide,
In his ’teens. Russell has been boundary-
rider, opal gouger, river-steamer deck-
hand, orchardist, trader in northern
Rhodesia an.d the * south-eastern Congo
and wanderer in search of copy
over most of Australia. Russell served on
Gallipoli and in France until wounded in
1917, and at 65 can still step it out with
the best of them. A small, wiry fellow,
his gentle speech and old-world manners
suggest the recluse rather than the in-
trepid adventurer. During the past de-
cade he has tramped the spurs, ridges and
gullies of the Great Dividing Range, from
the Tweed to the Murray, studying and
writing of its bird and animal life.
Brigadier John Lloyd, whose work as
C.O. of the Singapore reception camp
was praised by Lady Louis Mountbatten
during her visit to Perth, once startled
some of the Indian Cavalry Regiment in
Tobruk by addressing them in their own
language. Between the first war, in which
he won the M.C. and bar, and the second
war, in which he won the D.S.O. and
C.8.E., he spent a number of years with
the British Army in India before going
on the land in Westralia. Commanding
the 2/28th Battalion in Tobruk, he was
warned by Higher Command that he
must desist from establishing his B.H.Q.
amongst the forward rifle sections ; but
he continued to sneak out for an occa-
sional stroll -through No Man’s Land
with his adjutant and batman. Taking
over the Sixteenth Brigade, he was
known on the Owen Stanleys as the
“brigade forward scout.” Now a mem-
ber of a Perth firm of auctioneers and
estate agents, he is a moving spirit in
ex-servicemen’s associations.
A link with Melbourne’s early rowing
history snapped when Arthur Edwards
died the other ,day at 78. He was one
of a family of seven sons and two daugh-
ters of James Edwards, who built racing
boats on the Thames before he came to
Melbourne. The Edwards’ boat-building
sheds on the Yarra, near where Princes
Bridge now stands, were a centre for the
rowing fraternity for generations. All the
sons were noted rowers and scullers, as
well as builders, and the family could
man a racing eight and beat most oppo-
nents.
W. P. F. Morris writes: “8.G.5.” (B.
1/5/’46) is right: we did not have
Jack Lindsay at Brisbane C. of E. Gram-
mar ; but his brother Philip was here for
some years. I rei ember him as the
cleverest essay writer of his age ; and at
this distance he will forgive me for say-
ing—the untidiest.
Wool expert Stanley Hood Pettitt, back
in Australia after 16 years abroad, spent
the war years working for the Canadian
Government as Director-General of Tex-
tile and Clothing Production. A native
of Melbourne, he left school at 12 and got
a job with the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile
Agency. He mastered every phase of
wool-classing and marketing and the
manufacture of woollen goods. In 1930
he went to the U.S.A. to survey produc-
tion and cost-control systems in the manu-
facture and processing of wool fibres,
and made his headquarters at the Arling-
ton mills, just outside Boston. Two years
later he moved to Canada and started in
business on his own as a textile surveyor.
Apart from his services to the Canadian
Government, he has carried out research
work and investigations for, the Austra-
lian and Maoriland Governments.
The appointment of Neal Macrossan,
Senior Puisne Judge in Queensland’s
Supreme Court, as successor to Chief
Justice Webb, who goes to the Federal
High Court Bench, affords the first case
in Australian legal history of two brothers
becoming Chief Justice of their State, The
new C.J.’s brother, Hugh, died in 1940,
the same year in which he himself was
elevated to the Bench after a distinguished
academic and professional career. Winner
in 1906 of the first of three Queensland
Exhibition Scholarships to the Sydney
University, he was selected as Queens-
land Rhodes Scholar in 1907, graduated
at Oxford in 1910 with honors in juris-
prudence, and was called to the Bar in
Brisbane in 1912.
Cecil Stephen Hincks, depicted here
by Coventry, is S.A.’s new Lands
Minister. He hails from Port Vic-
toria, Yorke Peninsula, where he
grows wheat and barley, Hincks fought
with the 10th Battalion on Gallipoli, and
lost a leg in the Tenth’s first engagement
in France. That misfortune has cost him
S.A. FARMER.
close on a hundred operations, but de-
spite it all he is in fine fettle, and a man
of powerful physique—in his young days
he distinguished himself as a country
footballer. The new Minister is chair-
man of the Liberal and Country League
and has been M.L.A. for Yopke Penin-
sula since 1941.
Anyone outback who catches this face
peering into the mysteries of a drillbox
of a Murray pumping station needn’t fear
that a Taxation Department form will
follow. It belongs to John Green, Glou-
cestershire farmer, breeder of dairy Short-
horns and Downs sheep, formerly of
Cambridge and the Bar, now Agricultural
Director of A.B.C. He is spending a year
in Australia and will spend another in
Maoriland; the idea is an exchange of
views on agricultural practices and a link-
ing of common interests. This has been
achieved to a fair extent, by medium
B.B. C. FARMER.
of broadcasting, between Britain, Canada
and the U.S.A. Here since January,
Green has seen something of Victoria
and Queensland, and. is now probably
somewhere on a line running from Syd-
ney via Orange, Cowra, the M.1.A., Swan
Hill and Murray settlements to Adelaide,
whence he’ll go to Melbourne through the
S.A. south-east, Victorian west and Wim-
mera. He started farm broadcasts on
8.8. C.
Retiring shortly after 25 years’ service
as Director of the Tas. Psychological
Clinic and the chairmanship of the Tas.
Mental Deficiency Board, Dr. E. Morris
Miller will continue to serve the clinic as
a consultant-psychologist and sit on the
board as a university representative.
Although he recently resigned as Vice-
Chancellor of the University of Tas-
mania, he is still Professor of Psychology
there. One of the Speck’s most learned
citizens, he is of Scottish ancestry,
born at Pietermaritzburg, in Natal. His
various appointments and list of publi-
cations in the scientific and philosophical
field fill almost half a column in Who’s
Who. His most valuable contribution to
Australian culture was his two-volume
Australian Literature, a critico-biographi-
cal and bibliographical survey from the
beginnings of Australian literature till
1935. A monumental piece of research
and compilation, it will long be the
standard work on the subject.
Geoffrey Mainwaring, appointed to
paint the Victory March in London, will
not be new to that sort of job. Born and
trained in S.A. and a teacher at the
Adelaide School of Arts and Crafts, he
enlisted in the A.I.F. in ’4l, and finished
up with the Military History section,
where he painted the surrender cere-
monies at Bougainville and Nauru.
“Lao-dah” recalls a businesswoman:
Bali, quietly occupied by British and Dutch
troops, is a reminder to me of Ma Patimah, of
Boeleleng, who showed me over the island which
has inspired so many artists and writers. Ma
Patimah was then an old woman by Malayan
standards, but in her blooming youth she was
the wife, or one of the 21 wives, of a rajah
who lorded it over a kingdom on the Indian
Ocean side of Bali. The rajah did the incon-
siderate thing and predeceased his harem. Under
Bali law, this meant that the whole district
had to make a gigantic bonfire of costly woods
and fine raiment, and erect an elegant tower,
carved with gods and demons, with a platform
from which a springboard projected for Ma
Patimah and her fellow-widows, after a fort-
night of ceremonies, to jump from into the flam-
ing pyre, pricked from behind with lances if they
showed a dishonorable reluctance to join their
lord in Shorga. Ma Patimah was an unusual
woman and didn’t altogether fancy this spiritual
ascension. One night, although pregnant, she
climbed the palisade which surrounded the
rajah’s palace and escaped into the jungle,
walked across the island and sought the pro-
tection of the Dutch controleur at Singaradja.
The controleur was gallant enough to give it,
little knowing that in the shrinking damsel he
was harboring a synonym for Balinese modern
progress. Dutch warships subsequently made
widow-burning unhealthy, but in the mean-
time Ma Patimah became one of the new forces
in Bali. When I met her she owned the only
fleet of motor-cars on the island (her son
was managing director), a flourishing tourist
business and a village of several hundred crafts-
men and women, who weaved and painted
sarongs, engraved bronze and copper and cut
the Hindu gods out of wood—these for sale
as genuine antiques. I subsequently heard that
she had superseded these primitive forms of
Balinese mass-production by a modern factory.
Although I don’t admire her activities, which
are helping to destroy one of the last oases of
the craftsman and the artist, I admire the old
lady and I hope she has survived the Japanese
occupation.
With the retirement of Captain James
Carnegie, Brisbane ferry travellers will
miss a familiar and picturesque figure. A
16st., ruddy-faced six-footer, with a voice
that could be heard round three bends
of the river, Big Jim had 28 years of
ferry-command, 20 of them in the sturdy
old Hetherington on the Bulimba run, and
covered more than 200,000 miles of river
crossings. Brisbane-born, he began as
a boy in the Moreton Bay trade, and has
spent most of his 66 years in boats.
Isabella Southwell, who died in Can-
berra, at 60, was manageress of Hotel
Kurrajong. She was hostess at Yarra-
lumla homestead when what is now the
official vice-regal residence was main-
tained as a hostel for Federal members
visiting the capital, then in course of con-
struction. Born at Brindabella, she was a
grand-daughter of one of Canberra’s
earliest pioneers, who settled there nearly
a century ago. “South” was a close and
warmly-esteemed friend of many Parlia-
mentarians, and was a kindly friend to
many women working in Canberra away
from their homes in other States.
A graphic record of life in Japanese
prison camps is Rohan Rivett’s Behind
Bamboo. Son of David Rivett, of the
C.5.1.R., and a grandson of Deakin,
the author was a reporter on the “Argus”
when the Japs surged across the Pacific.
He went to Singapore, where he became
a war correspondent for the Malaya
Broadcasting Commission. He saw the
inside of prison camps from Java to
Burma, was in two notorious hunger
marches and learnt in acquaintance the
meaning of “hellship.” His book is a
grisly story made up from the diaries he
kept while under Nip eyes.
When claims are being made regarding
Australia’s oldest mailman, Harry Murray
must be a strong contender. For over
50 years he has carried the mails between
Wongrabelle and Genoa. In his younger
days he carried the mails on horseback
when the roads were little better than
bridle tracks; later he changed to a
wagonette and then to a motor-car. It
would not surprise the local people to
see him change any day now to an aero-
plane.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 69, Francis Anthony Mar-
zorini, former secretary of the Victorian Labor
Department. He retired in 1941 after 41 years’
service. As president of the Public Service
Association, he helped to lay the foundations
of the present scale of wages and conditions.
During the war he was a member of the Man-
power Directorate.
In Sydney, David Barker, painter and etcher.
He served on Gallipoli and in Egypt, Pales-
tine and Mesopotamia, and had a big share
in the production of the Anzac Book.
In Brisbane, R. H. Walne, one-time
champion cyclist. Bobby Walne flourished in
the days of “Plugger” Bill Martin and Charley
Kellow when cycling was at the height of its
popularity.
In Sydney, at 47, Kurt Offenburg, journalist,
author and radio commentator. Born in Ger-
many, he became Far Eastern correspondent of
the “Frankfurter Zeitung,” and came to Aus-
tralia when the Nazi rise to power made his
position untenable. He married an Australian
girl and became a naturalised citizen.
In Adelaide, at 71, F. J. Nottage, who in
earlier life had a transport business in Rho-
desia, with native carriers. A notable rifle
shot, he acted as guide to a Royal expedition
into the Belgian Congo.
In Melbourne, Spencer Raymond Shier,
doyen of Melbourne’s society photographers.
He started forty years ago in Cole’s Book
Arcade. During the last war he opened a
studio in a military camp. He was a Fellow
of the Royal Photographic Society of London,


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME . COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERTHA KATHLEEN MARY SCHOFIELD (now
known as KOLB). —TAKE NOTICE that CLIFFORD
NELSON SCHOFIELD has filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales (No. 1998 of
1946) praying for a divorce on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the 24th day
of June 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. PIKE AND PIKE Solici-
tors 141 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's Letter's
From Melbourne
Late on an afternoon a stream of news-
boys, some carrying their money bags,
were seen hurrying up the hill from St.
Kilda-road to Government House. Shortly
afterwards they were sitting down to hot
sausage rolls, savories, sandwiches, etc.
Flower-decked tables were set in the ball-
room, and the silver candelabra was
brought out as in more formal affairs.
This happy function was the last given by
Lady Dugan prior to her departure with
Sir Winston for a well-deserved holiday
in England, This city’s newsboys (the
Governor’s lady is their president), having
heard of their Excellencies’ imminent de-
parture, had had a whip-around and
bought a gold self-propelling pencil. It
was presented to Lady Dugan at the
G.H. tea.
The first military wedding of the
8.C.0.F. was celebrated recently at the
British Indian Garrison church at Hiro,
near Kure, Japan. Sister Isabelle K. D.
Irving, of Blairgowrie, Scotland, a-mem-
ber of the Queen Alexander Nursing Ser-
vice, was the bride. The ’groom was Cap-
tain H. Kirkpatrick, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. V. L. F. Kirkpatrick, of Mentone,
A former member of the A.1.F., Captain
Kirkpatrick is now in the British Indian
Army. He met his wife while a patient
in a hospital in India. The bride even
wore an Australian veil—it had been sent
her by the ’groom’s sister, Mrs. Squire.
Transferred to Macedon Golf House
during the war years, Yooralla Hospital
School for Crippled Children will soon
return to its old premises in Melbourne.
The committee has bought a 10-roomed
house in three acres of land in Balwyn,
and it will soon be ready for occupation.
It is 27 years since Yooralla was founded
by a small committee of women, at the
instance of two mission sisters. From a,
small beginning the school has flourished
and throughout the war had an average of
72 patients. The children, some of whom
are in chairs, are all outpatients of
Children’s Hospital. The Education
Department provides the teaching staff.
All kinds of craft work are taught, as
well as the usual school subjects. The
home at Balwyn will be used as a hostel.
To bid farewell to Mrs. Lena Ruppert,
who for over 12 months has been associ-
ated with the U.S.A. Information Library,
a gay late-afternoon party was held at the
Library. Among the guests were the
Consul-General for U.S.A. Mr. R. Boyce,
Vice-Chancellor of the University J. D.
G. Medley with his wife and daughter
Diana, and Col. Earl Stewart of the
U.S.A. Forces. Mrs. Ruppert is eagerly
anticipating reunion with her daughter,
who is at Ohio University.
As flourish the sales of winter woollies,
so do the Arts. There are exhibitions at
almost every gallery ; also, the National
Theatre has plunged into its ballet sea-
son. Jean Alexander, ballet mistress, was
responsible for the choreography of
Tutankhamen a lavish presentation
costumed in the splendor of Pharaoh and
his Queen, together with Isis, Osiris and
the animal gods. The dancers, all
amateurs, were trained by Eunice Wes-
ton. In the Fantasia on Liszt’s Piano
Concerto the corps de ballet were frocked
in cerise ninon mounted on the same
material in mauve, with the colors re-
peated at the waistline, which was in
hand-painted gold. Pat Martin, the
soloist, wore a long sunray-pleated frock
in deep wine shading, finished with
purple and gold bands.
Flowers of gold and pale-blue, the
colors of St. Catherine’s School, were
chosen to decorate St. Kilda Town Hall
for the dance held by the Old Girls’
Association to raise funds for the Lord
Mayor’s Food for Britain appeal. A large
floral school crest decorated the stage,
which was illuminated with spotlights, and
school pennants hung from the balconies.
In the official party were the principal,
Miss Hilda Langley, and the headmistress,
Miss Sophie Borland. They were received
by the president of the Old Girls’ Associa-
tion, Margaret Coles, who was wearing a
frock of midnight-blue velvet with a smart
red jacket. Treasurer of the association,
Karen Allen, looked decorative in a white
frock spangled with red sequins. Ticket
secretary, Kathleen Lascelles, gave a small
cocktail party at her home in Toorak
before the dance, and dinner parties were
given at Menzies. Among them was one
by Margaret Dewez, who chose a cream
lacquered satin frock, patterned in a small
pastel design. Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Coles
were at the dance with their two younger
daughters, Judy and Margaret.
Only woman member of the N.E.I. Red
Cross delegation now visiting Australia
is Mrs. E. Ramaer-vSibinga-Mulder, who
is head of the Supply Department. Mrs.
Ramaer was born ip the N.E.1., but went
to Holland when she was four years of
age, returning to Java in 1919. With the
Japanese occupation of the N.E.1., Red
Cross work was forbidden, but by means
of a forged Eurasian passport she was
able to do relief work until May, 1944,
when she was arrested by the Jap police
and imprisoned for six months.
Dances in national costume were a
feature of the ball at the Coconut Grove,
South . Yarra, to celebrate Norway’s
National Day. Chief speech was made
by the Consul for Norway, Mr. J. A.
Schreuder, who was accompanied by his
wife. Norwegian residents of this city
are always willing to lend a helping hand
to any good cause. Also at the dance
were the president of the Norwegian
Club, Mr. Elmar Mongum, and his wife,
and the honorary secretary, Mrs. W.
Hartup. Many Maoriland Air Force
officers of Norwegian extraction attended.
Balletomanes still crowd his Majesty’s ;
although, sartorially speaking, the
standard of the opening gala night has
not been sustained, the formal frock is
holding its own with the short frock and
small (mostly floral) hat. Among the
elegantly gowned noticed in the enthusi-
astic throng have been Judith Silk, in
white with a scarlet, gold-trimmed jacket,
and Bettine Burgess, in midnight-blue
crepe topped with a silver fox fur.
Here is pianiste Viva Holgate-Clark,
who is often heard over the national
stations. Recently she has been giving
some of the works of Eugene Goossens,
the composer-conductor, who will visit
us later in the year. Viva was a pupil
of Biddy Allen. Her favorite composer
is Bach and the relaxation that delights
her most is to spend a week-end in the
Dindenong hills, at the home of her
friend, Madame Angelau, the American
operatic singer. Viva plans a recital tour
of South Africa when transport becomes
less of a problem. Photograph from
Ritter-Jeppesen Studios.
From Sydney
The Duchess of Gloucester, now recov-
ered and convalescing from her appendix
operation, has returned to Government
House, Canberra.
Grand trek out to Sydney University
last week for the conferring of degrees.
Whole companies of young men and
young women (ex-servicemen among
them) took degrees in Arts, Agriculture,
Economics, Law. There were a number
of girl graduates in Economics. One of
them, Margaret Woodley, graduated with
second-class honors. Lawrie Ward and
Elizabeth Meldrum are already demon-
strators at the School of Agriculture at
the Uni. Four young things who have
their LL.B. fresh upon them are Valma
Step, Gina Christie, Dorothy Asher and
Melia Nicholson. It’s just as well Portia
had mere men to contend with. Faced
with a woman’s legally-trained mind, the
odds would have been against her coming
off so triumphant.
If some have their way we will be
dancing in the streets on Victory Day.
That is June 10,-and there is an unofficial
edict that all must be gay. However,
there will be no crackers to put a leap
into sober-heeled citizenry. Officialdom
has a corner in them, and promises to
stage a grand fireworks and aquatic dis-
play on the harbor when evening falls.
In the morning symbolic floats , will
parade, and ex-servicemen and -women,
in uniform, will march through city
streets, before the march there will be
a service in the Domain.
For the first time Australia is to be
represented by a' Minister in Eire. He
is barrister W. J. Dignam, and here is a
photograph of Mrs. Dignam, taken last
week by Norton Trevaire. Both husband
and wife are Australians of the second
generation, and this will be their first
venture beyond their native land. How-
ever, he is quite looking forward to visit-
ing the handsome old law courts of Dub-
lin, and Mrs. Dignam is hoping their
home may be one of the wine-red brick
Georgian houses in Merrion-square. Both
think they will enjoy the Dublin horse
show. If they aren’t in time for it this
year (they sail some time in July) they
can visit it next, as Mr. Dignam’s ap-
pointment is for three years. The four
children, two girls and two boys, aged
two, four, six and eight, make the jour-
ney also.
Sherry and celebrities were on the pro-
gramme of the P.E.N. five-to-seven party
at History House last Wednesday. There
was almost a full roster of members, and
there was nothing stingy about the hand
that poured the sherry. Captain Van Dyjk
and his wife from Java (she is a novelist
who writes as Van Dyjk Manders) and
surgeon-novelist Dr. George Sava and his
really lovely wife were the guests of
honor. Mrs. Van Dyjk, who was interned
in a prison camp in Java-, nevertheless
contrived to write a novel while in cap-
tivity, and is now writing a new one in
English. Her husband goes back North
in a week or so and is persuading his wife
to stay here, so maybe she will finish her
novel in Sydney surroundings.
Dr. George Sava can keep a party from
sagging as easily as he can a face. This
clever plastic surgeon would be the
answer to any hostess’s prayer. He has
the easiest and most friendly manner, and
as he is a member of the London P.E.N.
he beamed in brotherly fashion on all
the local poesy- and novel-makers. Sec-
retary John Preece was absent —his
brother had died in Adelaide. Acting-
president Dr. Keith Brown, of Parra-
matta, whose home is one of the few over-
a-century-old cottages left standing, was
the host. Mrs. Mary Irvine and Ruth
Bedford were hostesses. Poetess Doro-
thea Mackellar made one of her too-rare
appearances. Mrs. Barrymore, who was
Freda Sternberg, made re-entry. And
there were more men than women in the
comfortably-filled room —and that causes
no moaning at the bar.
Szymon Goldberg, playing his violin in
company with the Symphony Orchestra,
pianist Volterra, giving a recital on Satur-
day night full of warmth and color and
scintillating beauty, were delectable fare
for the musical and the imaginative last
week. Aviator Jimmy Mollison, back in
Sydney, renewed between-wars memories
in many Sydney hearts and minds. The
Journalists’ sherry party was an affair of
great size, immense volume of smoke and
a beer queue rivalling any alfresco late-
afternoon near-the-Quay one. Abbey
Clancy, taking money at the door, ex-
claimed with a gratified smile: “Really,
people are very honest. Nobody has tried
to push past without paying!”
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has been
sad all week, for she has had to say the
irrevocable good-bye to Archdeacon
Hammond, an old friend and a great
Australian.
Papal Delegate Dr. Panico farewelled
parting Brazilian Consul-General Dr.
Mario Santos and his wife, and welcomed
the new Minister for Brazil, Oscar
Correia, at a lunch in the Legation at
North Sydney last week. Dr. Santos goes
to Maoriland to open the new consulate.
Two guests whb were not Consular were
Mrs. John Woods and Mrs. Fagan, of
Mandurama. Mrs. Fagan, with daughter
Marie, Dr. Ena Williams, of Melbourne,
and one or two more left Sydney by car
on Friday for Mudgee, where the Mit
Loneragans’ baby will be christened. Mrs.
Mit Loneragan was, before her marriage,
Margaret Fagan. Jan Marie are the
baby’s names.
After two years of unremitting search
the Cliff Gearins have found a flat. Now
their search is for carpets, curtains and
furniture. The flat is at Clifton Gardens.
One letter in the mail last week
sounded as though the war were really'
over. It was from the women’s auxiliary
of the Sydney Industrial Blind Institution,
and it told that the White Ball would
again be held in the Trocadero during the
October Race Week. The White Ball was
one of the pre-war events of the social
year. All the city’s prettiest and best-
dressed women had gleaming white satins
and silks or demure chiffons made into
beautiful gowns for the occasion, and the
effect was vefy decorative. The auxiliary
is one of the hardest working in Sydney,
and, led by its president the Alfred David-
son lady, continued to raise large sums
for the cause throughout the war.
The Institute of Journalists, which is
practically a “S. M. Herald” stronghold
(just digest its list of past presidents!), is
“tendering” a lunch on Friday, May 24,
to J. J. Maloney, M.L.C., former Min-
ister to Russia. Mr. Maloney has already
said a good few things to show that there
really are jollier places to live in than
the Soviet Union. Of course that can t
be why he is being “tendered” the lunch.
Anyway, wouldn’t it be fun if Mr.
Maloney didn’t mention Russia at all!
On the night of June 7, and it doesn’t
need gipsy blood in your veins to know
it, the Sydney Town Hall is going to
throw off its civic aloofness and go into
a topspin of gaiety. That’s the night
the journalists are holding their ball.
Dancing starts at nine and goes on till
two. It’s going to be one of those nights
so good you’ll talk of it for weeks or
never mention it again. Tickets are 15s.
each, and you pay at the door. Abbey
Clancy and J. C. James are the secre-
taries, Mrs. Davenport the treasurer and
A. E. Crouch president. The cause is a
good one —the building up of a fund for
the education of the children of Aus-
tralian journalists and photographers who
lost their lives in the war. The fund aims
to give the children as good an education
as they would have enjoyed had their
fathers lived.
Mrs, Dorothy jenner, in suave black
lit with an orchid spray, touched off with
a toque of swathed red chiffon, and look-
ing so unlike one’s mental picture of an
internee that it was hard to imagine the
four bitter years she had experienced,
spoke at the Pickwick Club last week.
She told her experiences, and in doing
so revealed some of the horrors of being
under the heel of a conqueror. Could
we who listened replete with chicken pat-
ties and trimmings, ices and black coffee
understand the stark horror of those filthy
and meagre rice messes served by the
Japanese to the prisoner? The Pickwick
could scarcely pack its members in, and
Mrs. Jenner, who spoke for the Food for
Britain appeal, could feel happy over the
number of her listeners. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, smart in brown, thanked the
speaker.
Smetana’s “Battered Bride,” as the Girl
in the Flat Opposite calls her, will be
heard at the Con. on May 28. The cast
will include Margaret Kerr, Nita
Maughan, Joyce Livingstone, Nerissa
Niblo and Raymond Nilsson, with David
Barwell as the intriguing marriage-broker
whose scheming at last recoils upon him-
self. New scenery will be provided by
Amie Kingston, and Hilda Mulligan,, as
producer, will present a picturesque and
lively action. Smetana’s colorful orches-
tration will be dealt with by conductor
Florent Hoogstoel; Fred Foxiey is the
chorus-mastef, and Roland Foster has
charge of the organisation.
Captain John Macfarlane, Fellow of
the Society of Antiquarians, was the
speaker at the last Celtic Society’s meet-
ing. The seafaring captain—he was
master of a sailing ship before he was
25 —told with pride how greatly superior
the Celtic fleet was to the invading
Roman galleys, and to prove it quoted
Caesar’s admission of it, and also
his acknowledgment of the camou-
flage that the sailor lads of the south of
Britain indulged in—painting their sails
and the sides of their ships blue to make
them less visible.


Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 67 years’ prac-
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,437
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.; Sir Alan
Newton, M.S., Melbourne, F.R.C.S., England.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS:
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
ART AND ILLUSTRATED BOOKS
PAINTER’S JOURNAL. Written and illus-
trated bv Donald Friend. This fascinating
book will certainly not disappoint you.
Donald Friend’s amazing ability is expressed
in his character drawings, humorous
' sketches, studies for paintings, as well as
his comments —amusing and serious. There
are 144 pages, with an illustration on nearly
every page. 17/6 (post. 4d.).
BIRDS OF. THE NIGHT. By Eric J. Hosking
and Cyril W. Newberry, with a chapter on
the eyes and ears of owls by Stuart G.
Smith With 80 remarkable photographs
taken at night by flashlight. 19/6 (post lOd.).
AUGUSTUS JOHN’S PAINTINGS AND
DRAWINGS. By John Rothenstem. Con-
taining about 100 illustrations, four of which
are in color, 31/3 (post. 1/4).
THE OLD CHINA BOX. Including Stafford-
shire Wedgwood, Lustre and other English
pottery and porcelain; by N. Hudson Moore.
18/6 (post. Bd.).
Contains 150 beautiful photographs, a biblio-
graphy, index and descriptive list of patterns
on 700 old china items.
ETTY AND THE NUDE. The art and life of
William Etty, R.A., 1787-1849. By William
Gaunt, M.A., and F. Gordon Roc. Containing
62 full-page plates, of which four are in
color. £B/8/- (post. 10d.).
ROMAN PORTRAITS. Containing 120 mag-
nificent photogravure plates. 31/3 (post
1/4).
The great European achievements in art of
the first four centuries after Christ are the
Roman portrait sculptures. These portrait
sculptures lead to the origins of modern art.
THE MIND OE LEONARDO DA VINCI. By
Edward McCurdy.'lllustrated. 15/- (post. Bd.).
The author gives a vivid, living picture of
this incredible genius.
A GALLERY OF GUM TREES. By A. W.
D’Ombrain. Containing 21 full-page illus-
trations from original paintings in water
color. 12/6 (post. Bd.).
ARISTOPHANES, THE ELEVEN COMEDIES.
Literally and completely translated from the
Greek into English. With translator’s fore-
word, an Introduction to each comedy, and
elucidatory notes. Three volumes in one. 882
pages. '2l/- (post. 1/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd.. 89 Castlereagh Street. Sydney
The WILDCAT COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net Dividends. Written
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £
1935. . 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936.. 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
7 p.c.
1937.. 266,126 171,935 80,000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 168,875 85,000 3.602,697
1939.. 240,294 163,625 65,000 3,614.366
1940.. 205,088 149,515 50,000 3,619,939
1941.. 208,892 139,125 50,000 3,639,706
6 p.c.
1942.. 121,120 116,375 3,644,451
1943.. 134,356 120,938 3,657,869
1944.. 138,444 120,938 8,675,375
1945.. 140,419 122,250 3,693,544
A lot of water has run under the bridge
since the last accounts were made up
and sent to London, where headquarters
are, and back to Australia, where most
of the business is done. War has ended,
new banking legislation has been intro-
duced, seasonal conditions have im-
proved, and the co. has decided to repay
in sterling its 4 p.c. stock (£924,443) and
3 p.c, stock (£749,816) at a premium of
5 p.c. and 2 p.c. respectively on July 1
next. This stock, a relic of the financial
hurricane of the 1890’s, is costing on the
average 3.55 p.c., and has now become
more of a hindrance than a help. Last
term’s net earnings, the best since 1941,
plus cost of perpetual stock, were together
equal to 2.39 p.c. on capital, reserves and
stock combined. On that basis, redemp-
tion means a saving of £19,421 p.a, in
outgoings, or 0.64 p.c. on the £3,000,000
of capital.
The improvement of £1975 in last
term’s net earnings was due entirely to
a reduction of £36,378 in the tax bill
(£430,664). There was a slip of £22,031
in gross earnings (£1,461,654), and a
growth of £12,372 in exes. (£890,571, in-
cluding £lO,OOO sent to the staff fund).
The £140,419 of profit was 4.6 on capital,
or a mere 2.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The de-
clared rate of div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
subject to English income-tax, which re-
duced the rate actually received by share-
holders to 4.07 p.c. Allowing for exchange
this was equal to 5.09 p.c. in Australian
currency. The market prices the £5
shares paid to £3 at £4 18s. 6d,, at which
figure the return is 3.1 p.c, on the basis of
last year’s distribution, after flowing for
exchange. The Australian investor at £4
18s. 6d. who looks for approximately 4
p.c. on his money counts on a p.c.
div., with exchange as it is and English
tax at 6s. in the £. A p.c. div., less
6s. in the £, would call for £157,500, and
appears to be within reach, though it
is doubtful whether better need be looked
for until taxation is further reduced.
Government war-finance methods dis-
torted the banking structure. Trade was
concentrated largely in official hands, all
forms of speculative buying were forbid-
den, and Government spending on de-
fence account was associated partly with
industrial expansion and partly with
financing transactions for which in
normal times bank loans would have been
used. This produced the anomaly of
lively and expanding industrial activity
accompanied by a reduction of advances
and growth of liquidity in the banking
structure, as the following comparison
of the E., S. and A.’s balance-sheet figures
shows:
Liabilities.
1939. 1944. 1945.
Notes .. .. £l,OOB £1,003 . £l,OOl
Bills, etc. ... 1,674,852 ]
Fixed deposits 20,362,759 \ 61,682,654 66,876,595
Free deposits.. 14,579,717 ]
Total . . £36,618,336 £61,683,657 £66,877,596
, ' Assets.
Liquids . . £14,001,901 £44,852,724 £55,549,128
Advances . . 30,532,941 24,551,754 19,551,458
Premises .. 718,264 768,127 760,977
Total .. £45,253,106 £70,172,605 £75,861,563
Once the largest and most profitable of
the co.’s assets, advances (down £5,000,296
last term) have now been relegated to
second place. Of the £55,549,128 of
liquids at end June last, £26,419,000 was
on special deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank, £11,965,603 in Government
securities and £5,265,000 in Federal Trea-
sury bills. The co. was thus rendering
more than twice the financial assistance
to the Commonwealth Government than
it was to trade and industry.
What of the future? Although there
will be a substantial restoration of private
trade and merchandising, industry has at
its command large amounts of cash and
Government securities —which it might
prefer to sell before it borrows —thus re-
ducing its immediate dependance upon
the banks. On the other hand, the rise
in costs means that replacements, arrears
of maintenance, modernisation, re-tooling
and other transitional outlays will involve
much greater amounts than would similar
items pre-war. And the new high priests
of finance —the heads of the Treasury and
Commonwealth Bank —hope to regulate
spending by control of central bank
credit, and of the volume and direction
of trading bank advances. Other trading
bank investments are also subject to con-
trol, and so are interest rates. And the
•Commonwealth Bank is to become a
more lively competitor with the trading
banks for ordinary banking business.
Although the profit that can be earned by
the trading banks is not specifically
limited by legislation, Government control
of investment policy and interest rates
means control of earning power. One
way and another it is difficult to avoid
the conclusion that, for some time at any
rate, the banks will find themselves de-
pendent to a substantial degree upon the
investment basket for their eggs.
Burns Phllp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 42,754 5 p.c. = 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938. 65,145 6J . 46,875 1 70 134 621
To staff fund, £oooo .. j ’
1939.. 51,233 6± p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 6J „ „ 46,875 2,477 141,456
1941.. 38,971 5 „ „ 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45.661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943.. 58,243 6] „ ~ 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8f p.c. = 65,625 1 36 964 371,637
To staff fund, £lO,OOO . . )
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
1945.. 96,732 8f p.c. := 65,625 ) 03107 524 256
T 6 staff fund, £5,000 .. j 26,107 524,
Unexplained addition, £152,594 .. 676,850
1946.. 80,401 SJp.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
This is the co. which, in 1920, took over
the extensive island produce and shipping
business that had been built up by the
big Burns-Philp organisation. The parent
got a round half-million in paids for the
assets, and 8.-P. shareholders put up
£250,000 in cash, thus the pup has a paid
capital of £750,000. Headquarters are
at Suva (Fiji), and there are 17 branches
and numerous trading stations scattered
throughout the islands of the South
Pacific. There were four other branches
in the Solomon and Gilbert groups, which
fell into enemy hands, where trading has
not yet been resumed. The management
has followed a cautious policy, keeping
the div. moderate and expending and
strengthening the business out of earnings.
For the 19 years to the close of accounts
in 1939 divs. averaged 6.1 p.c.
When the Japs overran the Western
Pacific early in 1942 about two-thirds of
the world’s copra supply was cut off. At
the same time control of the industry in
the South Pacific passed to the British
Ministry of Food, which is still the sole
buying and selling agent in this area, and
seems likely to remain so for an indefi-
nite period. Prices have been satisfac-
tory. At the outbreak of war the London
figure for South Seas sun-dried was £9
12s. 6d. a ton. Present buying prices,
fixed by the Fiji Supply and Production
Board until end of 1947, are £lB ss. 6d.
per ton plantation grade and £lB f.m.s.
grade. So long as present control remains
merchants and brokers will be precluded
from participating in purchase and ship-
ment of the stuff.
For these and other reasons the co. now
finds itself with a lot more money than
it can profitably employ in the business,
and the board contemplates return of
half the share capital. It could do this
and still leave the co, with ample work-
ing capital to exploit opportunities as they
occur. Consider these figures:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 55,708 119,222 301,087 244,102
Properties,
shipping, etc. 384,546 215,679 133,407 126,383
Investments .. 258,096 211,421 499,571 1,133,566
Stocks, • etc... 98,803 390,504 856,980 279,723
Book debts .. 163,221 121,666 49,614 85,853
Cash .. .. 99,790 78,271 97,702
Last term £633,995 was added to the bock
value of investments, partly on account
of a reduction of £577,257 in stocks, etc.,
and partly on account of disclosure of
£152,594 of inner reserves. Return of
half the capital would reduce investments,
which consist of shares in other cos. and
Government loans, to £758,566. It would
also reduce paid capital to £375,000, on
which a 10 p.c. div. would call for
£37,500; and only twice (1922 and 1935)
during the last 26 years has less profit
than that been claimed.
The co. would still be left with its own
plantations, and a large inter-island ship-
ping, merchandise and finance business,
which has turned in very satisfactory pro-
fits since control of copra passed to the
Government. Over the last half-dozen
years net earnings, swollen by Allied war
expenditure, averaged £72,066. Last term
the figure was £80,401 (down £16,331), or
10.7 p.c. on capital as it now stands. An-
other £152,594 of inner reserves was dis-
closed, making the total so brought to
light over the last three years £451,323.
Over the next few years the outlook
for copra is one of strong demand and
a good pripe. What will happen in the
less immediate future, when the Philip-
pines and Netherlands Indies get into pro-
duction again, remains to be seen. The
success of Government bulk buying dur-
ing the war has been due mainly
to three factors: (1) purchases
were made on a rising market, when
any forward contract was bound
to turn out well, (2) there was co-
operation between consuming countries,
and (3) there was co-operation between
producers and consumers. If one or all
of these factors be removed the position
is radically altered. International co-
operation, with its allotment and, other
boards, will pass as scarcity of the com-
modity becomes less intense. When that
and when the price trend be-
comes more indefinite, the defects of Gov-
ernment bulk buying 4111 become readily
apparent. Experience during the between-
wars period shows that Government inter-
ference with commodities has been hailed
in the first instance as a necessary depar-
ture in the regulation of economic affairs,
and has succeeded while conditions have
been favorable, but has become a costly
failure in the end —with the consumer or
taxpayer bearing the risk.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
f~- Dividends Nominal
t — To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’35.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 p.c. = 7,330 2,675 24,095
'36. . 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37. . 25,150 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’3B. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,075 8.336 51,455
’39.. 27,887 2215 3000 10 p.c. = 12,827 9,845 61,300
’40.. 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ „ 12,828 5,096 66,396
Contingencies reserve, £20,000 .. 46,396
Underprovided taxation charged to
specific reserves, £9OOO.
’4l. . 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,596 50,992
To contingencies, £5933 .. ..45,059
’42. . 18,469 2214 .3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 2,993 48,052
’43.. 18,092 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 1
To contingencies, £2OOO .. ) 616 48 > b6B
From contingency reserve, £12,500 .. 61,168
’44.. 17,551 2214 3000 8 p.c. t= 10,262 ) ~ fil
To contingencies, £2OOO «> oi.zm
’45.. 17,582 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 \
To contingencies, £2OOO .. f 106 61,349
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934
at Dec. 31).
Net earnings of this enterprising
hosiery manufacturer averaged £19,150
for the half-dozen years to the close of
last accounts, compared with an average
of £23,297 for the preceding quinquen-
nium. And a run of 10 p.c. divs. was
interrupted in 1941, when the rate
dropped to 8 p.c., and has remained
steady since. Although the heavy de-
mand for standardised hosiery for the
services more than filled the gap in the
civilian trade caused by rationing and


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York "and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
«uppon for everyraaa’a
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
IT
WO#
%l
a-p
post
Se^
FREE
dwej
so*
fdsf
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a courses ___
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
D A D Vf\ CONDITION POWDERS 1/f
DAKJVU sk,n COTION 2/«
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THA-
T-4
/-
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Ecwis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE BTNEET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 Syd" 8 !*
* BP 4 44.
n
L- •
i. !■
ilaa
i
Weight (approx.) 2| tons
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Buitt to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.LTD.
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ftd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists. Ftd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the
TlAiriininn.
: -
' ■:
I
V
, v »
: : : i mmmmm
Distinctive
At left: Anodised Aluminium Casing to
Escalators.
Below: Chromium Plated Balustrading to
Staircase.
ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
THE NAME OF WUNDERLICH has (for
over fifty years) been synonymous with individuality in architectural
metal-work of every type; fabricated to the satisfaction of the
most exacting architects and builders.
SOON the craftsmen of Wunderlich Limited
(having been fullyoccupied on defence requirements throughout the
war years) will employ their skill in the production of distinctive,
beautiful architectural metal features for embellishing the institu-
tional and commercial buildings now being planned for the years
ahead.
Vour enquiries are invited.
cJjjn i ted,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALTITT FOR OYER SO TEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN. SYDNEY: ’Phone; MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.. and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
other restrictions, these defence orders
carried narrower profit margins, and costs
kept on advancing.
Last term Government orders, which
again accounted for a large slice of turn-
over, tapered sharply during the second
half, when demobilisation swelled civilian
demand, which has run far ahead of pro-
duction for the right type of goods.
Towards the close of accounts the co.
found itself with a lot of standardised
goods for which there was little demand
in the civilian market under existing con-
ditions. However, removal of coupon
rationing from all types of hosiery en-
abled these stocks to be cleared.
After setting aside £15,989 (up £482)
for the taxgatherer and allowing £20,528
(up £528) for depreciation, there was little
change in last year’s net earnings
(£17,582). They were sufficient to cover
the pref. divs. and show 9.6 p.c. on the
£128,270 of ord. capital, compared with
9.6, 10, 10.3, 11.5, 13.7 and 17.7 p.c.
back to 1939. Prospects depend largely
upon what happens in connection with
price control, costs and payment of Gov-
ernment subsidy in connection with im-
ported yarn. Competition in the industry
promises to be very keen.
Plant is being switched from the
standardised products of service con-
tracts to meet the infinitely miscellaneous
demands of the individual for style and
quality. To this end two of the co.’s
executives have already been abroad to
study latest developments in connection
with textile machinery and nylon and
other plastic yarns. On the knitting side
production has expanded considerably.
Before the war the co. made one-sixth of
Australian output of full-fashioned
hosiery from one plant at Brunswick
(Vic.). Now it manufactures one-quarter
of Australian production from nine plants
—seven in Victoria and two in N.S.W.
The need at the moment is for further
expansion of finishing activities. New
plant is on order, and permanent build-
ings are to be erected on the co.’s land
at Box Hill and Ringwood (Vic.).
Nominal capital has been increased by
the creation of 100,000 new £1 shares,
but no hint has been given as to when,
or for how much, shareholders are likely
to be called upon.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
suggest that the co. is losing no time in
regaining its civilian connections:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Ord.capital. . £128,270 £128,270 £128,270 £128,270
Pref. capital 77,685 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities . . 51,303" 165,686 108,139 132,514
Tax prov. . . —48,000 f 44,611 f
Freeholds, etc. 81,297 82,352 1
Plant and ]■ 109,580 114,039
fittings .. 64,308 45,317 J
Stocks .. 158,647 301,049 251,230 250,350
Debtors . . 6,017 26,557 81,671 52,946
Cash, etc. . . 2,659 4,221 5,259 6,397
* Includes tax provision. t Includes contingencies.
To add £21,275 to debtors’ balances and
£4459 net to plant, etc., the board went
outside for an extra £24,375 last term.
The more or less liquid surplus
(£132,568) was £4353 less than at the
previous balance.
Buyers offer 28s. 9d. for the ords. and
28s, 6d. for the 8 p.c. first prefs. with-
out attracting sellers. At these figures the
return would be 5.5 p.c, and 5.6 p.c.
respectively. At 265. the second 6 p.c.
prefs. yield 4,6 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £9 Is. 7d. firsts, £4 9s. sd. seconds
and 275. Id. ords.
Mining operations at Mt. Lyell (Tas.)
resulted in an unstated loss for the six
months to end of March last. No interim
div. was paid. Last distribution was Is.
a share in December, 1944. Shortage of
manpower and insufficient excavating and
ore-transport equipment are still the chief
obstacles in the way of increased produc-
tion of copper at lower cost. Portion of
the overburden, carrying a very low per-
centage of copper, has to be included in
the feed to preserve mill efficiency. This
means that more ore has to be mined and
treated to produce a ton of copper, and
that bumps up costs. The increased
mechanisation of the opencuts, now in
hand, will enable more slightly higher-
grade ore to be sent to the mill, where
additions are being made to the crushing
and fine-grinding sections. Until the whole
scheme gets into full swing—progress will
be governed by delivery of equipment
now on order—-the cost of producing
copper will remain high and unprofitable.
When the work Is complete the board is
confident that copper will be produced
at a cost which will permit a reasonable
profit to be earned. As an offset to losses
on mining account, the co. receives a
substantial sum in dividends from share-
holdings in fertiliser cos. and in Metal
Manufacturers, Ltd. Last term these divs.
totalled £44,321. Paid capital is
£1,550,000 in £1 shares, which the market
prices at 245. The investor at 245. who
dooks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 5 p.c. div. (£77*500).
* * * *
Preliminary reports from the Australian
Tin Inspection Committee on three Mel-
bourne-controlled Siamese tin dredging
concerns show that Tongkah Compound
No. 3’s dredge, machinery, building, etc.,
are all in fair condition. About 48 acres
have been dredged during the three years
of enemy occupation for 634 tons ore.
Tongkah Compound No, 4’s dredge is in
good condition, and machinery fair to
good. Some 30 acres were dredged for
626 tons ore. Tinsongkhla’s dredge is
heavily corroded in parts, and the bucket
band badly worn. Some of the plant will
need to be replaced. About 42 acres were
dredged for 834 tons ore. However, until
the cos.’ own engineers take over and
detailed reports are received, no reliable
estimate of the cost of rehabilitation can
be formed.
* * * *
F. G. Brinsden, general manager of
South Kalgurli (W.A.), announced on his
return from London by air that a co.
known as Croesus Proprietary Treat-
ment Co., Ltd., has been formed by the
South Kalgurli and North Kalgurli cos.
in association. This treatment co. will
operate North Kalgurli’s shut-down
Croesus mill, which is to be enlarged and
will heat South Kalgurli and North Kal-
gurli ore. At present ore from both these
properties is treated by the Kalgoorlie
Treatment Co. on the .Boulder Persever-
ance mine. Shares in the Kalgoorlie
Treatment Co. are held by Boulder Per-
severance and North Kalgurli.
*•* * *
Western Mining Corp. has added two
more options to its list of Westralian
goldmining prospects. One is the Sur-
prise blocks at Hampton Plains, near
Coolgardie, and the other the Central
mine on the old Fraser’s line of lode,
Southern Cross. Boring has commenced
on the last-mentioned property.
» * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has de-
clared an interim dividend of 6d. stg. a
share, less English income tax, which
reduces the amount payable to 3.3 d. Aus-
tralian shareholders receive 25 p.c. more
on account of exchange adjustment. Co.
has paid Is. 6d. a year, less tax, since
1941-42, when 2s. was distributed.
* * * *
“Hannans”: Brownhill-Oroya shoot Was
the richest gold-bearing ore-body found
on that field. It outcropped on the Brown-
hill mine, pitched southerly at an angle
of 45 degrees, and, after a horizontal dis-
tance of nearly 1500 ft., entered the Asso-
ciated Northern block at a depth of about
700 ft. It then passed through the Oroya
North block at a steeper pitch, and
entered Associated’s holding at 900 ft. It
continued in the Associated with a flatter
pitch for about 1100 ft., when it became
low in value, broken in continuity and
was finally lost. The total horizontal
length of the shoot was 4600 ft., measured
along its pitch, with twd breaks in con-
tinuity. The value of the ore extracted
was estimated at £7,000,000, with gold
worth approximately £4 ss. an ounce.


V o Vj "
\HTO 1U
POST-WAR
■ .mmm
■ : •
H
r A -qw'
\ i ■.
sii
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years. •
Call in and s®® an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. iES. f'*'
AG A
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourlce St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents; Colton Palmei
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
Y
SUNDRY SHOWS
Shakspeare and Shaw.
Shakspeare and Shaw have been
having a great innings in Sydney,
with “Candida” at the Independent, the
film “Henry V” at Hoyt’s Embassy, and
the Metropolitan Theatre weighing in with
“Othello” at Killara. At Killara, too,
Shaw’s “Major Barbara” will soon be
showing. The coupling of the names natur-
ally recalls Shaw’s “better than Shak-
speare” statement, which paid splendid
dividends, for people flocked to see the
works of the rash young man who imag-
ined he was better than Shakspeare. Even
now, respectably aged, and with a legend
of his own, Shaw is extracting formidable
quantities of dollars from the American
theatre-going public with “Candida” and
“Pygmalion.” But then the Yanks, as
they themselves freely admit, are always
suckers for well-advertised culture. And
G. 8.5., whatever his claims to immor-
tality may be, is certainly no slouch at
publicity.
It is unlikely ‘that Shaw seriously be-
lieved he was a better playwright than
Shakspeare, and if anyone else does the
show at the Independent should disillusion
him. The acting was good, with Nicho-
las Parkinson as Eugene Marchbanks, that
precocious and sham-poetic young man,
acting rather better than most. But, as
Shaw, incidentally (per Marchbanks),
admits, Marchbanks is only a “nervous
disease.” And diseases, nervous or other-
wise, make a poor showing beside Othello
and lago, Henry and Falstaff,
Not that there is much Falstaff in
“Henry V.” As Falstaff is one of the
giants of literature, this may be deemed
a pity. Yet that little is enough, for he
dies, poor and neglected, at the Boar’s
Head Tavern, cast off by the king: about
this casting-off there is something of the
remorseless march of fate. Something,
too, of that touch of ruthlessness in Henry
which is necessary for a full picture of
him, and which is shunned elsewhere in
the film. The Olivier version of Henry
is of a dashing, colorful fellow with a
heart of gold, which is all very well in its
way, but not quite Shakspeare’s Harry.
Therefore it is surprising to find the death
scene retained, although Henry’s speech
to the citizens of Harfleur, promising
them all kinds of atrocities if they resist,
and his “no quarter” order at Agincourt
are scrupulously pruned away: as being,
perhaps, unbecoming in a Merrie Mon-
arch. Yet the ruthlessness of Henry
heightens his dramatic stature, as do the
darker deeds of the heroes of the Iliad:
Which brings us naturally to another
characteristic of Shakspeare, which he
shares with Homer, the breadth and
maturity of his genius, which enabled him
to see all round a person or a problem:
a characteristic emphatically lacking in
Shaw, who painfully restricts the truth to
make it startling. Whereas Shakspeare
can give Desdemona, Othello and lago
each their several dues, without losing
one iota of the breathless quality of the
tragedy.
“Othello” was seen to advantage at
Killara, for the play was well produced,
and the acting uncommonly good.
Desdemona was a little too winsome at
first, but made splendid amends later, and
Kenneth Pawley, as lago, was spasmodi-
cally brilliant. Faltering occasionally, but
sometimes, particularly when upbraiding
Roderigo, or taking the audience into his
confidence, sparkling with a real Mephis-
tophelian grace and fire. But good as
they were they were overshadowed by
Kevin Brennan, whose Othello was only
marred by the mechanical inefficiency of
his beard.
On the evidence of this comparison it
would seem that the flesh-and-blood
theatre is a better vehicle for Shakspeare
than the screen. Yet certain unusual
factors must be taken into consideration.
“Henry V,” by its very nature, is a
historical pageant, and, for all the glitter-
ing knights, and yards of gay canvas, and
real horses, the illusion of pageantry was
almost entirely lost by a mad kind of
economy which introduced fake castles
and painted scenery into the picture.
Again, the opening scenes were a mistake.
If a life of Shakspeare was intended, it
would be a good thing to show the Globe
Theatre and an Elizabethan crowd, actors,
orange girls, gallants and all. But this,
interesting in itself, detracted from the
general illusion. As well preface a play
with a description of the present com-
mentator’s difficulties in getting a seat at
the Embaysv at all.
"Scheherazade" in Melbourne
If anything was needed to convince
balletgoers that the Borovansky Austra-
lian Ballet is standing, so to speak, on its
own feet, there couldn’t have been a
better demonstration than “Schehe-
razade,” which opened its new season at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Rimsky-Korsakoff’s ballet is difficult,
and imported cos. used to do it with a
disciplined ferocity which was supposed
to be beyond the capacity -of anybody not
a Russian. The final leap to death of
Martin Rubinstein, as the slave who has
been cavorting with his master’s mistress,
was as dizzily vertiginous as they make
’em, and this admirable actor was equally
impressive in all, his moods of bodily
emotion, with Tamara Tchinarova as his
extraordinarily effective opposite number.
Odalisques, first wives, second wives,
youths, slaves and whatnot filled the
stage with sinuous genuflections. But
still there is always a fairytale quality
about the story —if there isn’t in the
music—and it was thoroughly well main-
tained in the scenery of William Con-
stable, who seems to have got his ideas
on Oriental architecture from the innu-
merable illustrators of Omar Khayyam.
The collection was a trifle unsteady on
its pins at the beginning of “Les Syl-
phides,” but recovered later, and there
was no anxiety in anybody’s mind as to
whether Laurel Martyn, Edna Busse or
Dorothy Stevenson, after whizzing for
five minutes, wouldn’t land exactly where
they wanted and stay put, looking as
charmingly inconsequential as a butterfly
on a rosebush. Nor was the company
any less at ease in “Le Beau Danube,”
which is light stuff.
The clowning of Borovansky, as the
eunuch of “Scheherazade” and the athlete
of the “Danube,” was first-class. In fact,
the company seems almost overburdened
with talent, not to mention lovely ladies
—who would be even easier to look at if
they went a trifle slower on the make-up,
their lavish use of which makes any one
of them facially indistinguishable from
all the others. A pity.
Gabriel Joffe conducted his limited
orchestra well.
Drama in the Dandenongs.
Australian historical dramas aren’t
generally satisfactory. The authors nevei
seem to know whether are writing
a political textbook or describing human
beings. Marjorie McLeod’s “Within
These Walls,” put on by the National
Theatre in Melbourne as one of the high-
lights of its tenth anniversary celebra-
tions, is one of the exceptions.
Miss McLeod has take a wide swathe
of Victorian history—from 1860 to 1910
—but she has placed all her action in the
home of the Camerons, a Scottish family
settled in the Dandenongs. The only out-
side event of any importance is a bush-
fire which, at the final curtain, engulfs
the old house as well as the old lady.
The lady has endeavored to keep the
family together since 1860, when, as a
young wife, she was confronted with the
fact that her husband is having a liaison
with a servant. The repercussions cloud
the homestead through the succeeding
decades until 1910, when the old lady is
again confronted with her former rival,
now an aged woman, who comes to tell
her that a projected marriage in the Cam-
eron family can’t proceed because the
couple are blood relations —the play thus
ending where the CEdipus myth starts.
Miss McLeod’s opus is straightforward
and refreshingly free from patriotic
cliches, references to State rights, missing
heirs and the mortgage-motive. It was
well acted by Clarice Graham, Jack Lani-
gan, Muriel Stevens, Paul Maloney, Shir-
ley Fosdick and others and sometimes
attained to a high emotional tempo. It
was also admirably costumed.
Art bursts
An exhibition by members of the N. S.
Wales Royal Art Society at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney, included almost a hun-
dred paintings. But, with the possible
exception of Lance Solomon’s “Classical
Landscape,” there was no single work
likely to set the Tank Stream on fire.
Solomon’s painting, a rich but restrained
oil, was a piece of unobtrusive excellence,
with a variety of subtle lights which
seemed to grow within the body of the
picture, and increase with inspection. The
opposite was the case with Robert John-
son’s “Sand Drift,” an unusual study
which was striking at first, but revealed
crudities later. As did James R. Jack-
son’s “Tranquil Afternoon, Sydney,” a
heavy oil which was altogether too tran-
quil. H. A. Hanke’s “Young St. Corner,”
a pleasant oil, succeeded in doing some-
thing a host of minor painters are always
attempting: making a street corner look
natural, without resorting to imitations
of French boulevards or Russian fac-
tories. And the green leaves of a tree
gave the painting the right note of fresh-
ness. “Timber,” a watercolor by Rufus
Morris, was very promising—slight, but
with a lyrical touch to the exploitation
of line and shadow.
By grace of the Felton Bequest, Vic-
torian National Gallery has acquired four
new works of art —a portrait by Uccello,
or somebody who painted like him, for
£17,000; a “Lady,” by Terborch, for
£5000; a medieval church sculpture for
£5OOO ; and an Augustus John for £lOOO.
The Uccello and the Terborch are good
examples of the schools they are said to
belong to, though neither is a great paint-
ing nor comparable to the Rembrandt
self-portrait. The sculpture, an excellent
specimen of Middle Ages carving, is not
to be compared with the lovely pieces of
the same genus recently acquired locally
or the superb Kwanyin in'the ceramics-
gallery by some anonymous Chinese
sculptor with a touch of the Greek influ-
ence. The John isn’t up to much —a styl-
ised drawing of an elongated female
equipped with a face with no expression.
“Modernists,” who are extraordinarily
susceptible to suggestion, are said to be
overwhelmed by the subtle significance
of the Uccello, which, flatly painted,
depicts a lady in profile with an unusual
hairdo. An outbreak of ladies in profile
with unusual hairdos may be confidently
expected. There will be no difficulties
about the flatness.
At the Talkies
“The Seventh Veil.”
(Sydney Esquire .)
In spite of the title, it’s not a strip-
tease —the allusion is to the veils covering
the subconscious mind.
The film deals with the associations
and repressions uncovered by a psychi-
atrist as, with drugs and hypnosis, he re-
moves the “seventh veil” from the mind
of a concert pianiste whose mental and
physical experiences have culminated in
attempted suicide in the belief that she
can no longer play.
Treatment, cure and what is revealed
—a brutal caning in childhood, a couple
of love affairs with a dance-band leader
and an artist, and the mental domination
and restrictions imposed by the guardian
who has steered the girl from gawky
adolescence to success on the concert
platform—make familiar film material,
but it’s presented uncommonly well. The
acting is sensitive and set in rich, cleverly
photographed interiors, while musical
interludes and accompaniments fit
naturally and pleasantly into the story.
James Mason is the dark, dramatic
guardian and Ann Todd the haunted
heroine.
“Make Your Own Bed.”
(Sydney Taller .)
Light comedy froth about a business
tycoon’s attempts to overcome the ser-
vant shortage by engaging a private
sleuth and female assistant to mas-
querade as butler and maid and rid his
home of mysteries and crimes of his own
devising.
Jack Carson, as the investigator, dis-
plays as much light comedic ability as a
draughthorse, but he expends a large
amount of horsepower on an equal
measure of mildly amusing horseplay.
“Masquerade in Mexico.”
( Sydney Capitol.)
The opening scene is a police station
in a pother about a stolen diamond;
closing scenes include Aztecs, Spaniards
and whatnot in a choreographic depic-
tion of the history of Mexico.
The labyrinthine course of the con-
necting narrative touches on a success-
fully comic taxidriver, night clubs,
flower-strewn gondolas, jewel thievery
and bullfighting, with Dorothy Lamour
contriving to figure conspicuously in all
of it.


REGAIN GOOD HEALTH
Vigour, Happiness . . . n wa?l s
Regain the Vigour and Sparkle of Youth : A New Scientific
Diet Treatment that lets you
ENJOY EVERY MEAL!
The cause of ill-health :
Most diseases and ill-health are caused in
the first place by lack of vitamins and an
impure bloodstream that comes ifroih eating
the wrong foods. When we mix good and
poor food# alike, destroy vitamins in cooking
and other processing, and over-eat, our health
suffers, and vitality is lost, sometimes never
to be restored!
How Correct Diet Restores Health :
To restore and to maintain good health, and
the feeling of well-being that goes with it,
it is essential to combine the various foods
correctly, and this can only be done by
scientific diet. The Campbell Health Service
will give you full advice on this important
aspect, together with an easy-to-follow food
chart, with recommended menus, and the
correct food combinations.
Enjoy ALL your meals !
Correct diet does NOT mean that you are
restricted to colorless, flavorless meals!
Study the menus supplied with the Campbell
Health Service —see how carefully they are
planned in the best possible proportion to give
you enjoyment AND health!
CAN YOU ANSWER
THESE QUESTIONS?
What kind of breakfast foods should
I eat?
What is the correct way to cook
vegetables ?
What are the best energy producing
foods?
How can essential vitamins be preserved
in cooking?
When should I drink tea » . . milk . . .
other fluids?
... And this Is VITAL: What is the
correct combination of foods?
Answers- to these questions, and many
others, are given by the Campbell
Health Service.
WRITE TO-DAY !
The Campbell Health Service includes advice
and guidance on all matters affecting health
and will show you how to regain the good
health that is everyone’s birthright. Send
a sthmped addressed envelope to-day tor
information regarding the Course to:—-
The Campbell Health Service
Suite 6 (nl), sth Floor, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
nr Phone BW 7462 for Free Consultation.
SPORTING NOTIONS
On Sydney Tatt.’s Club programme was the (
James Barnes Plate, restored alter four years, i
There were about 36,000 at Randwick, and (
£157,961 went through the tote.
Waratah was favorite for the Plate, at fours :
in a field of 11, but he failed to stay the dis-
tance, 11 furlongs, with the false rail adding
28 yards. Turn Again, nicely weighted with ;
7.10, set a rattling pace, and hung on well
enough to hold off a strong challenge from the :
topweight Accession, who failed by a half-head.
After trailing the field most of the way old
Shining Night dead-heated with Silent for third
place. Turn Again, who was ridden by Wil-
liams, went out at eights and clocked 2.19|.
A five-year-old chestnut entire by Hua-Peal o’
Bells, he has been a profitable proposition for
his present owner, Hillman, who likes the
breeding, having in Bell Rock a two-year-old
full brother to Turn Again.
A 71b. apprentice allowance claimed by
Hickey did not benefit Hall Stand as greatly as
was anticipated by those who backed' him at
9 to 4 for the Flying, and the handsome chest-
nut failed once more. Half a dozen trainers
have had a go at this son of Hall Mark. He
has been a beaten favorite at his last five
starts. The Coronation Day gelding Gay
Monarch (Faggotter), whose record had sug-
gested better prospects in Welter company, won
in pretty good style. Civic Pride and Hall
Stand cut at each other throughout the first
half-mile. Nearly last round the turn, Gay
Monarch finished all over the field to win by
a length, with Civic Pride relegating the tiring
Hall Stand to third place.
A newcomer among Sydney trainers, though
he was associated with Melbourne stables be-
fore the war, J. O’Shea is having a run of
success, and good luck to him! He served four
years in the R.A.A.F. as an air-gunner. For
the Juvenile Stakes he prepared the consistent
Laurette (Eaves), who made up a lot of
ground in the straight, enough to pass the
favorite. Lithesome, who had set the pace;
Pholinia was third. By Ajax from the High
Art mare Bubbles, Laurette * cost 1250 guineas
as a yearling. O’Shea, who has held his trainer’s
licence only four months, has started Laurette
three times for two wins and a third; his
other charge, Franjean, has also not been out
of a place. Both are owned by “A. Etfell,” a
boot manufacturer.
Though reputed bad at the barrier, Decorate
started favorite for the seven-furlongs Two-year-
old Handicap. Keeping him quiet before the
start, Ward got him away on terms with the
rest at barrier-rise, took him to the front
in the straight and k#pt him there, though
he was being hard pressed at the finish by
Tamasha and Grovetown.
Ward is a good lad with unruly horses.
Earlier in the week he had won the Wagga
Cup on Peter, banned hr Melbourne. ,
In the Welter Ward had the mount on
King’s Glen, another ill-tempered beast, who;
held the lead to the Leger, where Laudus went'
to the front. Laudus then looked the winner,
but was unable to hold off Columnist (Weate),
and this Genetout colt, favorite, won by a long
head, with Strathdarr third.
Having his first run since October, Crusader
(Mulley) won the Novice with a lot in re-
serve; a 50-to-l chance, Yankee Lad and
Cavalero filled the places. Crusader is a good- #
looking three-year-old gelding, by Titan-
Fidelity, from the successful Payten stable.
It was a pleasure to see J. J. Leahy’s green,
yellow sash and red cap first past the post
again, carried to that position in the Encourage
by the Sansofine-Agincourt gelding Sancourt
(Thompson), who downed Grape Vine and
Cherry Lad. The colors were Sarcherie’s, but
hadn’t been successful since Bringa’s 1939
Summer Cup. Sancourt’s dam was also raced
by J. J. Leahy, and in Sancherie he has a
daughter from Sarcherie.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances): —
Three-year-old Novice: New Cashmere, 1;
. Franjean, 2; Skymaster, 3. Two-year-old
Novice: Pitt, 1; Tamasha, 2; Uranium, 3.
Carlita Handicap: Questing, 1; Fort Denison,
2; Grape Vine, 3. Flying: Gay Monarch, 1;
Civic Pride, 2; Tahmoor, 3. Warwick May
Handicap: Silent, 1; Accession, 2; Turn Again,
3. Highweight: Magic Wand, 1; Oberon, 2;
Cisco, 3.
* * ♦ • ♦
The Grassmere Steeple at Flemington pro-
vided a thrilling finish and another “demon-
stration.” Subject of the demonstration was
Quixotic, who had failed miserably when favor-
ite at Moonee Valley, but was backed to 7 to 2
for the Grassmere. He joined the leader,
Victory March, over the second-last jump, and
they had a great tussle from that point, Quixotic
beating Victory March by half a head. Fugel-
man, 12 lengths back, was third, having run
out at the last fence.
Quixotic made it a double for R. Hall. In
the Barkly Hurdle Hall had the mount on
Hiatus and landed him a winner from The
Feline and the favorite, Solvent.
The much-improved Geronimo, having
beaten two fields of three-year-olds, tackled
open company over 10 furlongs in the Koor-
long Handicap. The apprentice Watson rode the
colt a patient race, allowing Valcurl, Nalong
and Contact to lead the way through the mud.
Given his head about a furlong 1 from home,
Geronimo tore away to a three-lengths win,
Bisley and Valcurl being next-best.
Geronimo is a son of imported St. Magnus,
sire of St. Fairy. While the colt was adding
to the family reputation in Melbourne, St.
Fairy, ridden by Breasley, carried 10.9 to vic-
tory in the Jockey Club Handicap at Adelaide,
being favorite at 5 to 2. At Flemington an-
other St. Magnus was successful —the two-year-
old Robert Bruce—in the Ferndale Handicap.
Though Badger was up, Robert Bruce drifted
to 20 to 1.
Like Hall Badger rode a winning double,
the second leg being Greek Myth in the first
division of the Dingwall Welter. The second
division of the Welter was rough, Sir Change
(H. Hall) cutting across to the inside much
too sharply, and throwing half the field out of
stride. The worst. sufferer from the inter-
ference was Eagle Flight, a Maoriland mare
having her first run here. Evidently a good
thing beaten (and she had been the medium c>f
a plunge), Eagle Flight got going again
and finished second to Sir Change. There was
no protest, but the stewards suspended Hall
for three months.
The Cardinia Handicap at Felmington, 14
furlongs, went to the three-year-old Actor geld-
ing Drama, Buzharine being second and Chat-
sol third.
# * * *
In a nasty smash at Newcastle on Saturday
an apprentice jockey, G. Allen, was killed, and
two other boys were seriously injured ; another
couple were fortunate to escape. Five horses
came down.
“Is it your move or mine, dear?”
With rounds of 73 and 69 —the second
being six under par—Queenslander
Norman von Nida won a 36-hole event
at Cheshire, England, one stroke
better than C. H. Ward. “The Von” has
quickly settled down to English conditions
and is accepted by the critics as a serious
contender for the British Open.
* * * *
Anyone travelling along Smith-street,
which divides the Melbourne suburbs of
Collingwood and Fitzroy, on Saturday
night would have noticed a breathless
hush. There wasn’t an argument or a
song, not even an excuse. Collingwood
and Fitzroy, playing that day against
Richmond and Essendon respectively,
could kick only 6.31 between ’em. The
worst spectacle occurred at Collingwood,
where Richmond Tigers, smarting from
wounds inflicted by Footscray the week
before, piled up 14.10 to 2.16, ’Wood
failing to score a goal till after half-time.
At Essendon it was not quite so painful,
the ’Dons contenting themselves with
11.13 to 4.15. The other astonishment
of the day was a win by St. Kilda, 13.17,
over Geelong, 11.8. In adjacent pans
Footscray 22.14 beat Melbourne 12.13;
South Melbourne 11.21 walloped Haw-
thorn 6.17; and Carlton accounted for
North, but found North none too easy:
11.15 to 9.11.
# * ♦ *
Hup ting as a pack for the first time
this season, Randwick’s forwards out-
played East’s in a most interesting match
at Coogee. They won the battle for pos-
session, breakaway Col Windon scoring
three grand tries, and when the bell rang
East, previously undefeated; was a
thoroughly beaten side: Randwick 23,
East 6. Manly scored four tries to one
against Gordon, but a last-minute penalty
by centre Allan (his fourth) made it a
draw: Manly 15, Gordon 15. With a
reshuffled backline that showed much
better penetration than hitherto, Parra-
matta registered its first win this season,
9-3 at West’s expense. Other games:
University 26, St. George nil ; North 18,
Drummoyne 12. Randwick and East are
now level at the top of the competition
table.
* * * *
With recollections of the many fine
Maori footballers who have playet} in
N.S.W. and Queensland since the
’eighties, though never in time of war, it
was inspiring, and yet pathetic, to read in
N.Z. papers that the Maoris had begged
for a match with the Australian team
which presently is to fly across the Tas-
man —begged for reasons which were
memorably stated to the N.Z. Rugby
Union when it was arranging the pro-
gramme for the tour.
The Maoris want a match to rehabilitate
Maori football. They remember their old
associations with Australian Rugby Onion
players, which have always been very close.
The Maori Advisory Board agreed that
while the war was on football should be
put aside by the Maoris.
And put it aside they did, those grand
footballers, fighters and patriotic sub-
jects of the King. Their sacrifice of the
game they love above all would be touch-
ing to anyone but the hundred per cent.
“Labor” N.S.W. Rugby League, which
never went short of meal-tickets during
the war and boasted greater “gates” than
in the war of 1914-18.
* * * *
The experienced Jimmy Dundee found
Jack Samuels no difficult proposition at
Leichhardt, and didn’t knock him about.
When a right floored Dundee in the sixth
round the gallery urged Samuels to com-
plete the business, but he couldn’t. Dun-
dee sprang up immediately and continued
to give Samuels a boxing lesson to the
end of 12 rounds.
* * * *
Melbourne boxing gyms, are turning
out some very promising young scrappers,
and Frankie Flannery, the latest to be
seen in Sydney, proved much too good
for Ken Hatcher at the Stadium. Hatcher
was really knocked out in the first round
when a left upset him, but the bell came
to his rescue. The same thing happened
late in the fifth round. Hatcher couldn’t
come up for the sixth. The other “twelve-
rounder” really went 12 rounds, Joe
Grant beating A 1 Watkins on points,
J * * * *
When Ron Richards read that Gus
Lesnevich got £12,000 for whipping the
Englishman Freddie Mills in a bout for
the light-heavyweight championship of the
world, at London, it must have occurred
to him that he retired too soon. He was
clearly Lesnevich’s master when Lesne-
vich fought him in Sydney eight years
ago. Gus was down and nearly out early,
and was hard put to it to last the distance.
He had Mills apparently settled in the
second round, but Mills recovered and
gave more than he received until the 10th,
when he was punished so fearfully that
the referee intervened to save him from
the knockout.
In the same week at “the Garden,”
New York, Bruce Woodcock was knocked
out by Tami Mauriello, No. 4 on the
U.S.A. rating list, in the sth round. But
the British heavyweight champion made
a great impression on crowd and critics,
having had the better of a bout which
was all action and stiff punching till he
ducked into a savage right that bowled
him over. It was agreed that he had
everything but experience.
* * * *
In the haunts of “sports” there are
more squealers to the acre in Sydney than
in any other part of his Majesty’s
dominions, and Vic Patrick’s manager,
McQuillan, left a very bad impression
on the other side of the Tasman by
squealing after his charge was declared
the loser in the young man’s bout with
Murphy. It was a close thing, but, as
the photographs suggest, Patrick took
plenty of punishment and at most earned
a draw. Indeed, the photographs, pub-
lished in N.S.W. as well as M.L., indi-
cated that Murphy was always in com-
mand of the situation and was unmarked,
whereas Patrick was a severely-damaged
pug. What his manager failed to realise
was that, from the days of Billy Murphy,
Maoriland has never been without a good
scrapper or two, and obviously the tall,
cool, and confident Murphy has main-
tained the tradition.
Introduced •in the ring before the
Murphy-Patrick fight was Tommy
Donovan, who, 16 years ago, thrice re-
ceived decisions over Pete Sarron, after-
wards featherweight champion of the
world. - Sarron had been undefeated in
Australia, and it was bad luck for Dono-
van that the American, who was of
Syrian extraction, came to these parts be-
fore, and not after, he won the world
title. No Australian since Bill Squires on
July 4, 1907, has figured in a' world
championship match and Bill didn t last
a round. The New Zealander Tom
Heaney made a far better showing against
our war-time visitor Gene Tunney when
Tunney was heavyweight champion of
the world.


Does Your WILL
Reflect Your Sound
Judgment ?
WOULD the men whose opinion
you value most consider that
your will reflected your sound judg-
ment? Does it make the wisest and
best provision for the protection of
your family’s interests after your
death?
There are so many factors to be conr
sidered. There are economic factors
and human factors. That is why
your friends would attach so much
importance to your choice of
Executor.
If you have appointed Perpetual
Trustee Company, Limited, as your
Executor (in conjunction with a
friend if so desired), you have pro-
vided your family with the protec-
tion of a company with a record of
over 60 years’ service to the com-
munity.
Perpetual Trustee Company has
wide experience in the management'
of Estates of every kind. It enjoys
public confidence, as shown by. the
Trust Funds under administration,
which exceed £64,000,000. Yet, the
average estate is less than £lO,OOO.
Write for a copy of the booklet
Your Executor and Trustee, which
describes the service the Company
renders and what if costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R KNOT •
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, MH R ’
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAQE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING BESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place Orange
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, ’ ’
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
ds
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
secu r i ty. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 87), 9, Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANDALERS
p
B?
ft?-
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Target: A Balanced Budget
A national objective, if Australia is to
return to vigorous production and gen-
eral prosperity, must be a balanced Federal
Budget. An unbalanced Budget, justifi-
able in war-time, will soon come to be
synonymous with excessive Federal spend-
ing and, therefore, excessive obstruction
to the ordinary independently-owned in-
dustries of the Commonwealth. An un-
balanced Budget also means excessive
Government borrowing, which in turn
points to either a drain on investment
funds more properly required by private
industry or to excessive creation of bank
credit—the mother of inflation.
To save our credit, restore production
and provide employment there must be a
diversion of national investment and
spending from .the broad, stagnating Gov-
ernment stream to the more varied and
swift-flowing channels of private enterprise.
Odious though the idea may be to the
minds of “unorthodox” economists, Aus-
tralians had better give the idea of a
balanced Federal Budget some profound
thought. The balancing of a Budget after
a period of unbalance generally brings
pictures of reduced Government expendi-
ture and higher taxation. In present cir-
cumstances we want the reduced Gov-
ernment spending, but we also ask for
reduced taxation —taxation being already
excessive, now that the war is over. Re-
ductions in taxation, however, should be
discreetly planned, so as to add to produc-
tion incentives rather than to the forces of
uncontrolled spending and inflation.
Even those modern economists who
advocate the compensatory Budget theory
must agree that the present is the right
time to curb Government spending. We
now have an excess of spending power
in the hands of the people and a lack of
production, the production shortage being
in a measure because of the excess of
money in the possession of wage-earners.
Now is the time to restrict Government
credit expansion so that credit may legi-
timately (and confidently) be expanded in
times of depression. We must establish
our ability to contract credit in times of
inflation before we can justify our right
to expand it in times of deflation. The
value of our money and money-rinvest-
ments cannot be kicked around willy-
nilly for political purposes without dam-
aging seriously (perhaps irreparably) the
mainspring of all financial and industrial
activity—that is, business confidence.
An equally obvious reason for the
balancing of the Federal Budget is that
the Federal Government should reconcile
itself to the fact that it must go out of
business so far as many of its war-time
activities are concerned. Its controls over
production and its wide spending powers
are becoming unpopular and out of place.
The loans which it has to raise in order
to bridge its Budget deficit are given poor
support by the investing public, whereas
there is a big volume of money awaiting
investment in private industry, as the
ready oversubscription of all reasonably
good industrial-share issues shows.
Australia, as a country, has to plan
now for a return of production control
to private industry. The nation must look
to private industry for employment and
production, and to demand and supply as
being the immediate governing factors in
production. Private industry, under com-
petition, has always shown itself capable
of advancing, as to new products, new
designs and more efficient methods, much
faster than any Government-controlled
economy.
It is probably best that the Govern-
ment spending-tap should not be turned
off abruptly until private industry has
prepared itself to take over the responsi-
bility of giving full employment to all
willing and able to work, including return-
ing servicemen as a No. 1 obligation. But
there must be no official obstruction of
this necessary changeover. Socialistic
doctrine within the Labor party, Commu-
nist treachery and industrial sabotage
in a number of unions cannot be allowed
to hold up the general movement towards
the fullest possible restoration of private
industrial initiative. Where those things
are slowing down a return to full produc-
tion a cutting-off of Government spend-
ing, though imposing temporary hard-
ship, might be a necessary way to bring
obstructionists to their senses. There are
sections within the community which are
opposed to a general return of private
industrial initiative, and they are de-
liberately making that return Iqok distant
and difficult, N. S. Wales coalminers,
who at present are demanding State Con-
trol of the industry, are a case in point.
There should be full, intelligent co-
operation between the Commonwealth
and State Governments and private in-
dustry, the Commonwealth Bank and the
trading banks. Essential public works
must be decided on and finance arranged
therefor, and if the labor, money and
materials required for these works are
going to leave private industry short for
the time being it will require to be de-
cided which sections of private industry
must go without. Also, private industry
itself may need to build up its productive
strength for a time in order, in the long
run, to increase its capacity to turn out
goods for popular consumption, and in
the period of building-up it may be neces-
sary to transfer productive forces from
consumer goods to building and
machinery-manufacturing. The need for
this sort of intelligent planning and co-
operation is urgent. But the fact that the
various Labor Governments in the Com-
monwealth setin to lack the ability to
carry out such planning is no real rea-
son for abandoning the idea of doing
the best we can by restoring private
initiative, or for letting the Common-
wealth Government go on pouring
out a flood of money in haphazardly-
planned,” politically-based spending
that defeats the efforts of private enter-
prise and brings the danger of economic
breakdown and political upheaval
ominously nearer.
The time is not far distant when Gov-
ernment borrowing for other than needed
public works of a reproductive nature
will be inexcusable. Any further spend-
ing of public money just “to keep things
going” and to keep pressure groups quiet
will amount to a scandal. This latter
variety of spending is the kind that pro-
duces an unbalanced, wasteful Budget.
In 1938-39, including the figures of
business undertakings, the Common-
wealth Government had a Budget ex-
penditure of £94 million. By 1942-43 the
figure had grown to £686 million. In
1944-45 expenditure was £610 million,
and during the current year it has been
at the rate of over £600 million per
annum. In 1938-39 there was no borrow-
ing in order to make the Budget balance.
But in 1943-44 £377 million was needed,
in 1944-45 £267 million, and in 1945-46
to date over £170 million of borrowings
have been availed of in addition to heavy
taxation. Total Federal borrowings dur-
ing the war and post-war periods, almost
entirely to finance Budget deficits, have
been in excess of £1500 million.
This huge borrowing to finance un-
balanced Budgets has created an excess
of bank-credit money (to the extent that
public response to loans has failed) and
it has drawn on the investment market
to the extent that the people have re-
sponded to loan appeals. In the case of
bank-credit borrowing, too, private in-
vestment has been affected to the extent
that the Government, afraid of inflation,
has placed restrictions on investment,
prices and spending.
Another outline of the war-time finan-
cial set-up can be got from an overall
picture of the national income (inflating
rather than growing) and all Government
and municipal expenditure and deficits
set alongside the total of annual private
investments: —
Estimated Govt, and Govern- Private
National Municipal ment Invest-
Income. Spendings. Deficits, ment.
Year. £million. £mi!lion. £million. fmillion.
1938- 795 201 25 150
1939- 854 238 38 170
1940- 935 351 108 110
1941- 1072- 496 188 90
1942- 1228 728 356 45
1943- 1283 692 305 30
1944- 1256 610 203 50
It will be appreciated that the Govern-
ment figures, whether Federal, State or
municipal, interweave to some extent.
Thus the column for “Government
deficits” shows all deficits to be less than
the Federal deficit alone; this is because
the State Governments mostly had sur-
pluses during the war, and these are
deducted from the deficits.
But it can be seen, even on a net basis,
that Government spendings rose frojm
about a quarter of the national income
in the last pre-war year to more than
half of an inflated national-income figure,
and that private investments fell from
19 p.c. of the national income to under
p.c. at one stage.
The situation in the Commonwealth
now is such as to call for a much higher
investment in private industry than before
the war in order to restore manufacturing
capacity and then expand it. Industry, as
a whole, has not been in a condition to
make large reserves during the war owing
to heavy taxation and price control; this
will, in many cases, make it necessary for
businesses to go on the market in the
near future for fresh capital if their post-
war rehabilitation is not to be unjustifi-
ably delayed. Commonwealth Bank
figures covering more than 500 companies
suggest that shareholders’ funds during
the war years have increased, on an aver-
age, by less than 15 p.c., including both
new capital issues and accretions to re-
serves. There was a far greater growth,
both in total and as a percentage, in the
six years before the war.
For over five years in Australia it was
a case of drop everything else and get on
with the war job. Now it is a matter of
pick up everything we dropped and get
back to wide-scale civil production at full
speed so that we shall not lose the peace
after having won the war. In war civil
industry gave way to Government regi-
mentation. Now Government regimen-
tation has to give way, rapidly and in
a planned manner, to private enterprise.
And, in giving way, the Government
must have a balanced Budget as a clear
objective ahead. A balanced Budget rep-
resents the key to many of our financial
and production problems.
Bradford Cotton’s new issue is to be
370.945 £1 ords. at par, one for two. It
will raise paid capital to £1,265,938, in-
cluding £153,104 of 6 p.c. prefs. Last
term’s earnings represented 13 p.c. on
ords., after attending to the prefs., and
a 10 p.c. div, was paid. No difficulty
should be experienced in maintaining the
div. rate on the new capital provided in-
dustrial paralysis does not extend. Brad-
ford’s ords., ex rights, retain their old
ceiling of 49s. 3d,
* * * 5ft
Burlington Mills (Aust), Ltd., of which
R. J. Webster (Bradford Cotton’s manag-
ing director) is chairman, is doubling its
£350,000 ord. capital by an issue of one
for one at par. An American concern
of similar name half the shares ; the
rest originally belonged to shareholders in
Tapitex Pty., of Sydney, a tapestry-weav-
ing business, since incorporated in Bur-
lington Mills. The main objective now is
to weave rayon products from imported
yarn at Rutherford (N.S.W.), where part
of the plant is already operating, and the
new money is required for factory exten-
sions and working capital.
* * * *
Stirling Henry, Ltd., cotton-weaver,
with headquarters in Sydney, is to issue
200,000 new 5s. ords. in order to erect a
factory near Brisbane. Present issue will
raise paid capital to £175,000. Ord. div.
has been at the rate of 10 p.c. for the
past 4\ years, previously being p.c.
The 5s. shares are at the ceiling price of
13s. 6d.
* * * *
Chief components of the Australian
cotton-goods industry are Bradford
Cotton, Davies Coop, Bond’s Industries
(all spinning yarn as well as weaving),
Stirling Henry and Sydney Cotton Mills.
H. B. Dickie, of Melbourne, spins con-
denser yarn as well as weaving towels
and terry-cloth.
« * * *
Before the announcement of the new
issue the ord. shares in McPhersons, Ltd.,
were priced at 56s. 6d. The issue turned
out to be one for three at a premium of
«100 p.c. Ex rights the old shares are
selling at 54s. 6d. now, and the rights are
available at 14s. 6d. Ceiling for the ords.
is 60s., and for the rights 20s., which
makes the old shares the more attractive
buying. The new money coming in will
be £483,714, including the premium;
it will carry paid capital up to
£1,024,756, of which £50,000 is now in E
shares. Div. on the ords. has been 8 p.c.
out of profits shown at 22 p.c. on ord.
capital. The co. carries on an engineer-
ing, nut-and-bolt manufacturing, rivet-
making and toolmaking business in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales, and it has sub-
sidiaries in other States and New Zealand.
It has additional interests in file-making,
metal and abrasive concerns. It was a
proprietary concern until last year.
Apparently war-time expansion has been
prodigious, and post-war business pros-
pects have prompted the new share issue,
which will help to establish new manu-
facturing enterprises, provide working
Capital and pay off debts on freeholds.
* * ❖ *
Broken Hill Prop.’s accounts close on
May 31. Earnings this year will have
the unusual assistance of a 5 p.c. p.a.
interim div. from Australian Iron and
Steel, the Port Kembla subsidiary. The
first ord. div. declared since 1929, and
the only div. to be paid, it will represent
£117,500. A.I. and S. earnings have been
expanding during the past two or three
years, but have been affected by strikes.


THE SOCIETY OF ARTS & CRAFTS OF N.S.W.
Studio Classes or Correspondence
Educational Director:
Mrs. A. Gieemore Rees.
Sydney!"* Enrol Now for 2nd Term, May 27th. B ‘ F ‘
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
C lncorporated in England)
(Based
on
stability ,
built
on
service.
OF
•m
tsr?
*o3>
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand .
a
t/0>
Inserted on Behalf
of the Brands of
The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd.
Distillers Corporation
(Pty. Ltd.
Federal Distilleries
Pty. Ltd.
The successful lives of a great many men (you may 9
be one of them yourself) have been built on a simple
recipe: —When you lock up, lock your business worries
away until the morning ... take a small quantity of
whisky to break the spell of the day’s tension . . . and
use the evening for peace, pleasure or broad planning.
The unique merit of whisky for this purpose is that,
used wisely, it suits and safeguards the normal man’s
constitution.
First, the composition of mature whisky is particularly
pure, in the medical sense. It aids instead of taxing
the digestion.
Second, the quantity nfeeded for healthful stimulation
is relatively small.
The secret of wisdom in using it, as in so many things,
is moderation, and insistence on sound quality. The
best Australian brands are excellent |n flavour and
purity, and have been brought to a high level of
wholesomeness by ageing for the exceptional period
of over 5 years.
W2/24
The Australian Price of Gold
“Ebony” writes from the Golden West:
The statement by Mr. Chifley that gold has
been stored in Australia for a number of years
raises the point as to how the price ot gold
has been reached during the war period.
The fact that £33-million-worth of gold has
recently been sent to England does not convey
much information until it is known when the
last shipments were made and what period
they covered. In 1940 the value of the Austra-
lian gold output was £17.5 million, in 1941 £l6
million, a total of £33.5 million, so if could
easily be for these two years.
Since 1941 the production has been as fol-
lows; —
1942 £12,060,000
1943 7,851,000
1944 6,901,000
1945 7,000,000
£33,812,000
Again we get a figure of £33 million.
During 1940 and 1941 the Australian price
(before deduction of tax) ranged between
£lO 14s. and £lO 10s. per fine ounce, being at
the higher figure for more than half the time.
On January 21, 1942, the quote was £lO 95., at
which it remained until June, 1944, when it
was raised to £lO 10s., followed by £lO 12s.
on September 19. On May 28, 1945, if reached
£lO 13s. 6d., and on June 10 it was fixed at
£lO 15s. 3d., or slightly below British parity.
Ostensibly the fluctuations in price have been
due to variations in cost of war-risk insurance
and other charges not specified.
During the whole of this time the value of
gold in the United States has been fixed at
35 dollars an ounce. On September 5, 1939,
the value of sterling in New York was pegged
to avoid it falling to disastrous levels. This
was a valuable contribution to the national
economy, and the gold producer, although a
heavy loser by the arrangement, was proud to
bear his part.
The cost of dollars automatically fixes the
world price of gold, which in the case of Great
Britain is arrived at after providing for cost
of transport and handling to London and from
London to the United States,- As these charges
are deducted before valuing gold it is in effect
a charge on the producer. This practice per-
sists even though the Commonwealth Bank now
compels gold to be delivered to it within 30
days of its production and is also the sole
agency for fixing the price.
At’ Bretton Woods, when the basis for valu-
ation of international funds was established, the
rate of conversion for Great Britain was fixed
at four United States dollars to the pound
sterling, at which it had been pegged since
September, 1939. On this basfs the price of
fine gold is £8 15s. sterling per ounce, or
£lO 18s. 9d. Australian. This would mean a
net price to the producer of £9 19s. 4£d. and
allow the Treasurer the handsome return of
19s. per ounce by way of tax.
The producer, however, has not only to pay
freight, handling and insurance charges to Great
Britain and then to the United States but
United States Mint charges, after which the'
conversion to sterling is made at the buying
exchange rate of 4.03 dollars, or the cost of re-
mitting his money from America, thus adding a
further charge to the producer. It. was plainly
unjust to charge him with the cost of war-time
marine insurance while the bullion was lying in
the jail at Broken Hill, as was the case in
1942, 1943 and part of 1944. The price then
Was, down to £lO 9s. per. fine ounce.
The gold tax was levied, in the beginning, on
the principle that the producer was to get'
only half of any excess over £9 an ounce, the
Treasury taking the rest as tax.
In view of the gold tax and the fact that, in
Westralia at least, gold is produced from our
Mint in merchant bars accepted all over the
world, and that gold is a mobile security which
can be realised anywhere at any time, old bank-
ing methods of arriving at the price should be
dropped. Charges for handling, storing and
converting into dollars are bank charges which
should not fall on the producer in addition to
tax, and there should be an early end to the
autocratic manner of dealing with the yellow
metal. The war is over, let us remember.
In the last six months before the out-
break of the European war Australia
exported £669,038-worth of clothing, tex-
tiles and manufactured fibres. In the
six months to December 31 last similar
exports were worth £2,362,000, the greater
proportion being in, the final three
months. Of the later total £509,000 was
represented by piecegoods (£164,000 in
the 1938-39 half-year), £55,000 boots and
shoes (£23,000), £272,000 manufactured
fibres (£257,000), £288,000 “other textiles”
(£113,000) and £1,238,000 “other apparel”
(£111,000). “Other apparel” apparently
includes hosiery ; recent expansion in ex-
ports under this ambiguous heading has
been very noticeable. There has been
criticism of the fact that suitings and
other piecegoods, as well as hosiery, con-
tinue to leave the Commonwealth at a
time when the Australian market itself
it badly supplied. The picture may not
be an unmixed one; in addition to
obligations which we may have to New
Zealand and other countries, we have to
consider the question of post-war markets.
In a few years’ time we may be glad we
established an overseas goodwill for our
textiles.
* * * *
The “war-risk” bonus payable to coas-
tal seamen on ships operating north of
Townsville remains at 50 p.c. “until June
30” ; south of Townsville it is 25 p.c.
Thus the bonus takes on a Kathleen
Mavourneen air; it was to be abolished
“definitely” by the Government months
ago—so far as southern waters were con-
cerned, over a year ago. But each time
the question of really ending the bonus
crops up the Government does the big
crawl, and the militant racket has an-
other victory. The unions, which were
granted a 44-hour week as a war measure,
are now pressing for a 40-hour week;
they are also asking for a 25 p.c. rise
in wages. Austin Howard-Smith says
that his company finds the position so
obscure that it is not proceeding with a
definite post-war plan. Canberra is add-
ing to chaos in the industry by insisting
on reserving the trade to Australian-built
ships and by the delicensing of vessels
after they are 25 years old. More than
half the vessels on the coast are overage
by this standard, and many which ordi-
narily would have been disposed of have
been kept in commission solely for war
needs, according to Mr. Howard-Smith.
Depreciation provision on such vessels
and other costs have not been allowed
for in an adequate measure by the
Commonwealth controllers during the
chartering period. The Government is
now contemplating building tonnage ap-
parently regardless of cost. The industry
looks like finishing up overcapitalised,
overmanned, overloaded with costs and
financially undernourished.
« * * *
American comment on a topic of
world-wide concern;
The primary inflationary force is, of course,
the war-time expansion of the money supply
relative to the supply of goods for civilian use.
This expansion is the result of war financing.
It has occurred in all major wars here and in
other countries, and, while there are differences
of opinion as to whether it could have been
held within narrower limits, to a great extent
it was unavoidable. This expanded money
supply, particularly when supplemented by the
policy of constantly lowering interest rates,
has exerted inflationary pressures in many direc-
tions. In all markets it's presence has been
equivalent to that of a piece of tinder waiting
for the spark to start the flame.
It has always been possible, however, assum-
ing sound policies, understanding, effort and
unity, to limit or neutralise the expansion ot
the money supply—first, by achieving a rapid
and great expansion of production of civilian
goods to counterbalance it; second, by co-
operation in maintaining costs and price stability;
and, third, by restraint in spending. The
present and prospective price increases, br,
alternatively, the industrial disorder, are the
consequences of failure in all these respects.
The commentator is the National City
Bank of New York. It has since recorded
that in March and later the production
position in the United States has shown
considerable improvement. However,
the soft-coal strike is now threatening all
U.S. industry.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: With a few thousand
other Australians I have just seen blos-
som time in Japan run its short cycle.
Short is correct; as with spring any-
where, there were heralds of the main
pageant, and here the plums and white
magnolias ushered in the cherries, whose
entrance was dramatic —within a week
bare branches had become a fairyland.
But in another week the flowers were
falling; leaves hid the stragglers, and in
a few days only the later peaches and a
few double cherries with a backdrop of
mauve wild azaleas on the hillsides were
left to round off the show. Blossom time
had passed like a procession. This world-
famed Nipponese floral festival simply
does not compare, as a spectacle, with
wattle time in Australia. It is pretty, deli-
cate and profuse, but pale and cold ; no-
where is there the warm, rich splendor
such as is brought by the wattle to the
Lofties, the Gippsland streams, the
ridges around Bendigo or the N.3.W.
tablelands. Further, the cherries get prac-
tically no backing from the miles of bleak
mountains; the wattle is the crowning
gem in a setting of heaths and orchids,
banksias, bottle-brushes and flowering
gums, and the wondrous diversity of the
Grampians, the Sydney sandstone and the
peerless West. I’m not an advertising
man, but when one sees another country
making a world attraction of an institu-
tion inferior to ours it seems something
should be done about it, if only in the
'interests of truth. Anyway, an under-
standing of your heritage is a first step
towards becoming worthy of it.
* * * *
“Potrero”: Now a little more than two
months after abnormal rains inundated
the sou’-west corner of Victoria, that dis-
trict is experiencing a premature spring.
There, with a spell of mild, warmish
weather, many fruit-trees are carrying
blossom, while grass everywhere is at the
seeding stage. Most peculiar of all, how-
ever, is that all birds are nesting, includ-
ing many swans beside the new swamps.
What I’m wondering is whether these
birds will nest again during the true spring.
* * * ♦
“Naturala”: Tell “B 4” (B. 17/4/’46)
that termites do use mud for building.
This can be proved from the old white-
ant bread-baking ovens once so popular.
Again, in sandy country one will find
myriads of sand particles embedded in
the mound structure. Have traced such
sand grains 30ft. up a tree. When ter-
mites are building a mere travelling pas-
sage, such as up wood they are in the
process of devouring, they then employ
their excreta as a covering. As for then-
water supplies, it has been definitely
proved that some species sink wells down
to the subterranean water level, often
90ft.
* * * «
“Edjudina”: Round about the Great
Victoria Desert (eastern W.A.) a native
well is no mere hole in the earth or
rock containing more or less water. In
most cases the hole certainly is there,
though long ago either Nature or Binghi
filled it up with sand. And except in times
of severe drought there will be water in it,
for it is always situated so as to obtain
the benefit of a more or less extensive
watershed. To get a drink the abo.,
who, of course, knows just where the
well is, first pushes down a long hunting
spear, testing the point on drawing it up
to see if water really is present. If satis-
fied he next scrapes away the loose sur-
face sand until a degree of compactness
is reached. Thrusting the spear down
again he works it around until a minia-
ture borehole is formed. A tuft of light
fibrous grass is then tied to the spear end ;
by dipping this time after time and suck-
ing out the moisture a drink is obtained.
A slow process, but it conserves the water,
and, anyway, Binghi would have a slim
chance of digging out the well with such
tools as he might possess. Even when
dealing with surface water he favors the
tuft of grass. Bending to drink from a
pool or a swamp he will hold the grass to
his lips and suck his drink through it, so
avoiding slime and possible wogs.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: On this question of civic
pride in country towns, I can keep silent
no longer about the young citizen of
Cowangie, in the Vic. Mallee, whom I
encountered when I drifted into the place
one moonlit night from the Pinnaroo side.
Cowangie then had one street, consisting
of about four shops, a post office and a
bank on one side and the railway siding
on the other, with a short sort of arm
running off to the local hall. Around it,
black and silver and silent under the moon,
lay the rolling scrub. Young ’un emerged
from the store verandah and bade me
good-night. “Pretty quiet hole,” I com-
mented. “Aw, it ain’t too bad,” he said.
He showed me the hall on the sandy rise.
“Sorry, Mum, but that's a carpenter's job — I'm a plumber."
and the little school beyond it, then the
football ground where, as he said, “we
stoushed Walpeup twice.” Then he led
me to the railway siding and proudly
invited me to look at the wheatstacks.
I looked at them. “You know what,” he
said, gravely, “me an’ Bob Stewart was
here with our dogs this afternoon an’ we
got a hundred and eighty-six mice!
Quiet, me foot!” And he stalked off
proudly, having defended his town against
the calumny of a passing stranger.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “B. A. Ker” can’t get
out of it like that (B. 8/5/’46). I know
full well how rabbits will cross streams
and that they come out in wet grass, but
so do cats. That’s beside the point,
which was that “8.A.K.,” having seen
rabbit tracks disappear at the sea’s edge
and reappear further on, tried to con-
vince the Council that it was evidence to
prove that bunny went surfing. His own
witness of having seen them run after
retreating waves and then bolt back from
approaching ones proves only that his
evidence was mistaken.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “The difference be-
tween a mate and a missus,” said Mat, as
we sat in High-street, Echuca, watching
a wedding party pass, “comes in this
wantin’ t’ make a show. Now a dinkum
mate don’t give a dam’ how y’ 100k —y’re
still his mate an’ he don’t want y’ to get
about done up like a sore toe an’ pre-
tendin’ y’re Lord Muck. But a missus
is always worryin’ about what the neigh-
bors think or somethin’, an’ she orders
a bloke to shave himself an’ put on his
Sundee suit an’ choke himself with a
collar an’ tie. She wants him t’ look as
if he owned the place or somethin’ an’
she goes round tellin’ her mates what a
good job he’s got an’ how well he’s doin’
an’ all that, an’ before he knows it she’s
got the poor blankard tryin’t’ live up to
it. That’s when a bloke gets airs an’
stops bein’ a man.” I thought it over,
then I said, “Yair. But couldn’t that be
good for a bloke? It don’t do y’ no
harm t’ have somebody spurrin’ y’. Many
a bloke’d be satisfied with a pick-an’-
shovel job if it wasn’t for his missus,”
The big fellow thoughtfully chewed a
match. Then, “Wake up t’ y’rself, mate,”
he said. * “Mow’d you like t’ wear a collar
an’ tie every Sundee?” The inference
was too appalling for me, which is why
I stopped writing to the hairdresser’s
daughter in Quandialla.
• * * *
“Pitt St.”: That Barrier policeman who
was bitten by an ancient Afghan—the
Afghan dying soon afterwards—was no
tougher than one in Sydney Town Hall.
During an incipient riot a Communist
female sank her teeth in a constable’s
arm. She suffered (a) broken dentures,
( b ) broken spectacles, (c) broken wrist-
watch.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: This is dry country, but a
recent 100-mile car trip earned me a
bottle of water with plenty of green slime
on top of it, and for me the rough trip
was worth it. The green slime in itself
is beautiful enough under the microscope.
A filamentous alga, each strand consists
of a single thickness of cylindrical cells
joined end to end. Each cell is full of
protoplasm colored a soft and lovely
green by the small chlorophyll-containing
bodies embedded in the jelly. The chloro-
plasts themselves can be any shape, from
small spheres to spirals. And among the
strands of slime are swimming countless
thousands of oval or round unicellular
organisms. These restless small crea-
tures, which swim rapidly and errati-
cally by waving a bunch of “feelers,”
are also plants, bright green with
chlorophyll and feeding and breath-
ing in essentially the same way as
an 80ft. redgum. They can be either in-
dependent vegetables or the motile spores
of the “slime.” In the latter case you find
many of them that have settled down to
a sedentary existence, shedding their
“feelers” and putting out a transparent
“foot” to anchor themselves. Others
again are further advanced: the original
cell has divided and the tiny, green,
club-shaped plant is now the beginning of
a new alga strand. Merely to have seen
the things is enough to make a man feel
like taking off his hat to the first mallee
tree he meets, as is fitting in the presence
of a vegetable that has travelled such a
long road since its simple ancestors
wriggled around in slimy water.
■* * * * »
“C.E.”; For years Gregson watched
the river flowing past his paddocks,
cursed his starving stock, and talked of the
hundreds of acres he would irrigate some
day. He was tired of losses and low
prices for poor stock. By using a system,
of . storage dams and flood gates, he
would have a high stand of feed through
the parched months, and his stock would
be the envy of the whole district. Fol-
lowed a few more years of growling,
then he started, in. Through the winter
he worked early and late on his new
project, Ma and the kids helping. Mid-
day meals were served on the job.
Horse and scoop worked overtime.
By early summer everything was in readi-
ness. Three months later Bill came on
Gregsbn draped on the front fence,
despondently surveying his paddocks.
“Don’t seem much use tryin’ to get on
at this game, Bill,” Gregson growled.
“Y’ know all the work I put in on that
water scheme, don’t y’? Now look at
it! Hardly been a fortnight without
rain all summer, and the feed’s just run-
nin’ wild. Not a hoof on the place that
ain’t mud-fat, and not a blasted thing
anywhere that needs waterin’. Gripes,
how can they expect a man to get on?”
* * * *
. “Dronestung”: The manna-gum (E.
viminalis) is a product of its environment,
ranging from straggling dwarfs of the
open country to the smooth-trunked
giants of deep mountain gullies, where it
is known as ribbony-gum and produces
fair timber; but as firewood it chars and
won’t burn. In other parts this tree goes
under a variety of local names; but
these are vague and misleading, and the
best I could do was follow the generally-
accepted name used by apiarists and the
Vic. Department of Agriculture. While
“Rooster” (B. 24/4/’46) was correct
about the yielding of manna, there are
many other eucalypts more or less given
to infestation by the scale insects at
various times. The manna-gum of Vic-
toria, I suspect, was identified with the
sweet substance merely for the sake of
a common name. However, viminalis is
easily identified from the buds in threes
in the shape of a Maltese cross, distinct
from its close relation the candlebark (E.
rubida ) in its lance-shaped sucker leaves.
“Prop”: For manna, try S.A.’s
Wilpena Pound. The ground under the
big creekside gums looks as though
there has been a light fall of snow, and
the job of getting anywhere yvith a sweet-
toothed small boy in tow is formid-
able. As for the drought theory: it
seems reasonable that the abundance of
manna is to be accounted for by the
superabundance of sap in the gums which,
for two or three miles, grow beside per-
manent water. Just as a good season pro-
duces plagues of grasshoppers and cater-
pillars, so the plentiful tucker at the
Pound has produced a plague of lerp
insects.
* * * *
“Wonk”: The subdivision fences on the
small Sawyer farm were as makeshift as
everything else the brothers owned, yet
the pair seemed always busy. Almost
any time one passed the place they could
be seen in their chock-and-log yards
hand-picking sheep, a job that in-
trigued Wally by its persistency.
One afternoon he dropped in to
lend a hand with the sheep-sorting.
“It’s the young crossbreds we want out,”
explained Bill Sawyer. “They’re always
getting through with these merino ewes
and rams, and we aim to sell the young
’uns fat next winter.” Wally nodded, and,
grabbing a jumbuck, straddled her to the
fence and heaved her over. “Gripes, you
blokes ought to build a drafting-race,”
he grunted, after hoisting several more to
the top rail. “Y’d run this bunch through
in about twenty minutes, instead of spend-
ing hours at this back-breaking business.”
Bill turned with a growl. “Yair? And
when do y’ think we’d ever get time to
build a flamin’ race?” he demanded. “I
tell y’, it takes Tom and me more than
half every day as it is just sortin’ jum-
mies, let alone all the mustering and things
we got to do.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Since Old Joe’s
widowed sister came up to keep house
for him, we have come to understand
the reason for his sour distrust of women.
“Pity ’e never got married,” she told the
missus over a cup of tea. “’E got a
norful shock over Mum, though, w’en ’e
was quite a lad an’ never got over it.
Joe wuz alius a good lad, an’ took a
pride in the famerly, though I must say
Dad wuz a bit uv a ’ot member an’
cleared out with one uv the ’ousemaids
from the pub when Joe wuz only eighteen.
Three of us there wuz, Joe the eldest, then
’Enry an’ me, a kid uv fourteen. But
Joe an’ ’Enry wuz like fathers to us the
way they worked, an’ Mum turned to
an’ got a job cookin’ at the pub, so we
all got on some’ow. Mum wuz allers
a good looker, and when Dad wuz gorn
about three year the noo landlord wot’d
bought the pub asts ’er ter marry ’im.
She gets us all together an’ tells us she’s
gointer marry ’im ’cos it’d be better for
all uv us. ‘Yer can’t, Mum,’ sez Joe.
‘Y’ don’t know if Dad ain’t still alive,
an’ that’d be bigamy an’ yer’d get inter
jail.’ She keeps on sayin’ she would an’
Joe an ’Enry keeps on tellin her she
mustn’t, until at last she busts out; ‘Well,
if yer gotter know me private bizness, I
never married yer father! Me ’usband
beat me an’ I’d never stand that from no
man, an’ I run away with yer father.’ I
alius admired Mum’s pluck, but it broke
pore Joe up fer good an’ all so far as
trustin’ women’s concerned.”
THE GOLDEN HORSEMAN.
When through the dusk the afterglow
Glimmers beyond the ridge,
I see the golden horseman go -
Across the shadow bridge;
Beyond the trees which darkly stand,
The horseman on the crest
Rides with a sword in his right hand,
And his strong lajice at rest.
Long after sunset dies there gleams
That pale light through the trees,
Such light as shines in Land o’ Dreams
That lies beyond the seas —
Long after dusk the horseman rides
As if he’d lingered till
The moonlight bathed the' mountain sides
And lit the lesser hill.
Who is the rider? Can you guess
His name? Nor yet could I,
Till on a night of loneliness
I saw my youth ride by,
Wrapped in rare dreams, his eyes alight,
His lips with laughter wreathed,
While, tall and alabaster-white,
His steed defiance breathed.
His were the boyhood dreams I dreamed
Of worlds to win afar;
About his head they glowed and gleamed,
Each one a golden star.
I wonder, when the afterglow
Shadows the trees again,
How will the golden horseman know
The dreams he dreams are vain?
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Propalong”: “Meanest cow I ever
struck,” grumbled Larry, “was young
‘Chicker’ Edwards. He was in the War-
reowie camp with me one time when the
whole flamin’ six of us was stuck at the
Bend Camp in a big rain. We got up a
poker school one night an’ ‘Chicker’ was
lucky—flamin’ near cleaned us out. Well,
next day it was still rainin’ an’ ‘Chicker,’
the cow, got up a card-pack tearin’ con-
test. Yair, we was so anxious t’ show
off our strength none of us woke up till
‘Bluey’ Smith had ruined the last pack
we had.”
* * * *
“Abi Tonus”: These sulpha, drugs
are the deuce! I’m just convalescing
from pneumonia, but the dreams still
come on. Sometimes I am a water-
snake being shot at by “Narrin”;
I change to a nine-gallon, and along
comes “Colonel Bungstarter.” Escape as
a concrete-mixer seems safe enough until
I meet up with “Gravelsnatcher.” Rapid
metamorphosis being essential, I have a
rest as a bag of flour until “B. A. Ker
spoils it, and wake up only when The
0.D.” swings along to vaccinate me with
a bulldozer.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “You’re a dope taking
that price for your skins,” I told Seventy-
fiver the other day. “You’d have got
more if you’d waited. Only a matter of
time.” “Time?” mused the old bloke,
pulling on his pipe. “Yair. Ever tell y
about that bit o’ trappin’ I done one
winter?” he went on. “Camped out on
Pinchgut, with old Sandy. Gripes, she
was rough. Buyer came out t’ see me
an’ offered eight bob, but Sandy reckoned
they was worth eight-an’-six, an I
wouldn’t sell. ‘Y’ll get it,’ he sez. On y
a matter o’ time.’ Week later they
dropped t’ sixpence,” Seventyfiver
nodded disgustedly. “Yair, an’ me with
four thousand of ’em.” He paused
awhile, then resumed. “Heard young
Prentice, over on Bald Knob, good
Way o’ tannin’ skins,” he said. “Hit on
it hisself. More, expensive, but quick.
‘Tan ’em,’ ’e sez, ‘an’ hang on. On’y a
matter o’ time.’ So I paid two quid each
f’r a coupla big barrels an’ bought a heap
o’ things at the chemist like he tol’ me,
an’ got t’ work. Yair, she was simple
enough. Had the lot through in a few
hours.” “Well, there you are,” I chal-
lenged. “Better than taking the low
price, and it wasn’t much trouble.” “Aw,
I dunno,” he sniffed. “Took me a
flamin’ day ’n’ a half after that t
bury ’em.”
* * * »
“Esk D.”: The wild dogs of the Vic-
torian Alps are of mixed strains and,
though association with domestic hounds
has resulted in bigger frames and varia-
tions of color, the dingo characteristics
of stocky body, thickset legs and short,
bushy tail predominate. Mostly they are
fine specimens —some almost as large as
St. Bernards —and a well-conditioned dog,
sleek, heavily-muscled and active, could
have’any man as his boss. These dogs
are nomadic, following in the wake of the
cattle which go to the high country for
summer grazing and come down with the
mustering before the tops are snow-
“We're worried about Alfie , doctor —he only wants to he Leader of
the Opposition."
bound. It’s in winter, when the dogs are
down, that losses of sheep on outlying
farms are heavy, and the practice of yard-
ing the jumbucks at night has sometimes
to be resorted to. One enterprising
farmer ran a few goats with his sheep,
thinking they would intimidate the
dingoes. But Billy and Nanny got a high
priority on the canine fodder-list and the
experiment was a failure. Some pups
have been captured and efforts made to
tame and train them, but these attempts
usually end by a final coercion with the
shotgun.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Delayed explosions (B.
1/ 5 / ’46)? Memory recalls a mate of
early youth who found, on Lion Island,
in Broken Bay (N.S.W.), a dud shell pre-
sumed to have been fired by H.M.S.
Powerful at practice about 1909. This
lay in the yard of his father’s dairy until
it was hoisted into the bonfire which cele-
brated Armistice night, 1918. It merely
glowed, and the disappointed youth of
the district had to leave without seeing
it explode. That happened after they
turned in ; a large hole in the paddock
still njarks the spot.
« * ♦ *
“Bo”: Dick, at the outstation, couldn't
read or write. The boss, wanting Dick
to look at the fence between the
billabong and a claypan, drew two
circles, shading one to denote water, and
drew parallel lines between them to de-
note the fences. This he dispatched with
an abo. The latter on delivering it seemed
very foggy about what it all meant, despite
all the coaching the boss had given him.
Dick puzzled long over the diagram; at
last, with an “I got it! ” he went into the
hut. A few seconds later he handed over
a blackened billy to the boong. “Tell
the boss he’s lucky I had a spare one,”
he said, “though why the hell he can’t
get one in the township has me beat!”
* ♦ * *
“Zake”: A peculiar feature of our
native birds is that mostly—l except the
emu and the plain turkey—they lay
exactly the same number of eggs at each
nesting. I have never known a rosella
to lay any number other than four —that
sable ruffian the crow favors the same
invariable tally. On the other hand, the
soldier birds and the magpies decide they
will have only triplets —a resolution that
is strictly adhered to. That any of our
native birds thus given to producing only
a set number of eggs doesn’t wake up to
the cuckoo’s confidence trick proves
either that they are poor at mental arith-
metic or too dumb to notice the differ-
ence in the size of the alien goog.
» * * *
“Gill Guy”: Anyone stranded in the far
outback sandy country can save himself
from perishing of thirst by a knowledge
of how to tap the needlewood-tree. A
western Queensland abo. explained the
method to me. You scoop the sand away,
exposing the branching roots. Cut a fair-
sized one and place a receptacle so that
the sap will drain into it. Then with a
piece of rope, strap, or whatever is
handy, bunch the leafy top branches
together and with the aid of a handful
of dry material set this alight. Once
started the green tops burn brightly, and
the heat drives the sap down the tree-
trunk, filling the catchment vessel in quick
time.
* * • ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: The unusual presence
of huge shoals of jellyfish in the land-
locked, gum-fringed waters of Malla-
coota Inlet (Vic.) is making seining
almost impossible for fishermen during
the winter netting season there, which
opened this month. The jellyfish, which
resemble the sunfish variety (minus the
tail), seen at times in Port Phillip Bay, are
as thick over the inlet as salmon in
Canadian rivers. When caught in the
bight of the huge 800 yd. long seine-nets,
the “jellies” not only lift the lead-lines,
allowing the mullet, bream and garfish to
escape, but, with their massive, gelatinous
floating bulk against the mesh, fishermen
often find it impossible to haul seines
ashore. Worst of all, the slime of these
marine animals quickly rots valuable nets.
With the exception of one lucky haul of
55 boxes by W. Robinson, catches are so
poor that fishermen have already aban-
doned netting this season and are migrat-
ing to Eden (N.S.W.) to hook barracoota.
Old hands say that the only thing which
will kill the unusual marine visitors in the
inlet is a long-overdue fresh from the two
rivers at its headwaters.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Victoria is
the State in which you would not
expect his Majesty’s Royal mailcoaches
to be troubled by dingoes and kan-
garoos. Yet, during the last two
months, Cliff Rankin, the one-armed
coachdriver who operates daily along
the 60-mile route winding through
the East Gippsland forest from Gann
River to Mallacoota Inlet, has run down
two. warrigals, for which he received a
bonus of £4—and he has paced many
more. His main worries, however, are
’roos and wallabies sitting by the road-
side. Through the hoppers bashing into
radiators he has spent more than one
night on the lonely road, so that he is
getting special radiator guards fitted. In-
cidentally, L. Meade, an employee of
the Land Board working from Gann, has
in three years trapped, poisoned and
shot 310 wild dogs. But despite this
killing I heard from Fred Clark, the
cattleman who grazes the huge forest
“Did your father have red hair like you ?”
"I dunno—Ma says he never took his hat off."
lease from Mallacoota 35 miles through
to Cape Everard lighthouse, that wild dogs
are so bad in his wild, unfenced run that
he is going dingo-stiffening himself in
opposition to Meade and the mailcoach
driver.
* * * *
“Susu”: Admittedly the bamboo (B.
10/4/ *46) is a plant of great and
variegated usefulness to Jhe more primi-
tive types of mankind, but the coconut
palm is by far the more valuable to
them over a vast area of the inhabited
world. Unlike the bamboo, it provides,
from the oily kernels of its nuts, a rich
food, capable of maintaining its users in
health and strength even if no others are
available, and providing luscious pud-
dings and other dishes when they are.
The oil is excellent for cooking, and also
protects against sunburn. , Coconut buds
and the pith of young palms are real
delicacies, rich in vitamins. The milk
replaces drinking water most satisfac-
torily, and has the added advantage that
if left to ferment for even a few hours
it developes a surprising alcoholic kick.
The fresh sap from the flower stems also
provides a refreshing drink, and when
boiled to evaporation yields a good
sugar. The shells have unlimited uses
as water-bottles, drums, cups, lime-
holders for betel-chewing, spoons, bowls,
ornaments and otherwise. The fibre
surrounding the nuts and in the stem
and roots provides a wide range of use-
ful products ranging from fishing lines
to dresses, mooring cables and armor.
The fronds can be made into baskets,
fans, pig fences, bull-roarers, mats, fish-
traps and whistles, to mention only a
few of their uses. The solid, heavy wood
is good for paddles, weapons, fish-hooks,
house-posts, drums, tool handles, launch-
ing-rollers and lots more of useful
articles. And, to crown all, this miracu-
lous and beautiful plant flourishes in
sandy soil exposed to wind and sea-
spray, can withstand heavy gales, bears
all the year round, matures within seven
years and lives to 80 or more.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Hares were plentiful on the
farm in the Goulburn Valley (Vic.), and
for a time the two sheepdogs ran them-
selves footsore trying to catch one. The
big bunnies, knowing pretty well the speed
limit of the hounds, used to hop away
smartly from the seats and lollop tantal-
isingly just ahead of their yelping pur-
suers, putting on a burst of speed when-
ever danger threatened. When the dogs
got the idea of it they caught quite a few
by timing a sudden spurt to overtake
their quarry. Maybe some of those hares
had become a shade careless, but most
of ’em were cocksure to the last and took
an obvious delight in showing-off.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Examining the partially-
mummified remains of Sobia and Waiaia,
two of the mightiest of the Torres Strait
Island warriors, I remarked on the wafer
thinness of the bone crust forming the
frontal area of the fairly well preserved
skulls. Jacobo Baira, direct descendant of
one of the storied stalwarts, informed me
that it was customary for the young war-
riors of the tribe to swallow a paste ob-
tained by scraping out the lining of the
skull of a deceased hero. This substance,
deemed to be a potent source of heroic
inspiration, was parsimoniously dealt out
by the tribal councillors to as large a
number as possible among the unblooded
bucks.
* * * *
“Blime”: The boss was halfway
through his breakfast when the fellows •
from the hut began to stroll in. First
came Paddy. “Gripes, me shoulder where
that limb hit gi’me fits last night,” he
yawned. “Never got a
wink o’ sleep.” The boss
grunted sympathetically,
and was making sugges-
tions when Ted arrived,
slumped into his place and
glared across at Paddy.
“Blime, you snore like a
blasted pig fight,” he ac-
cused resentfully. “Eight
solid hours of it, from the
minute y’ hit the blankets.
It’s no wonder a man never
shut a bloomin’ efye all
night.” He reached for
his plate and started as
Squib dragged in wearily.
“Got anywhere else I can
turn in, boss?” he mur-
mured. “No good me
sharin’ with Ted. The cow
hogs all the flamin’ blan-
kets an’ most o’ the bunk.”
“What!” bellowed the big
bloke. “After me whack-
in’ ’em so partic’lar! ”
“Yair, but that on’y lasted
half a minute,” retorted
Squib. “Then y’ went t’
sleep, an’ up come y’r
flamin’ hoofs. Tried off
an’ on through the night f wake y’, an’
couldn’t. Gripes, I never slept a flamin’
wink all night.” Breakfast was about
over when old Charlie looked in. You
blokes die, when y’ go to bed, he
growled sourly. “There’s a dog got
caught in that trap under y’r hut durin’
the night. Growled an’ whined for hours
an’ none of y’d get up. Gripes, I’m
about twenty yards away, but the thing
made such a noise I never -
shut up,” snapped the boss testily. “You
were snoring when I got up to let it
out at two o’clock! ”
SONG OF THE RIVER STEAMERS.
Her hull is low and turtle-shaped, her prow is
blunt and stout,
A sloping deck runs back to where the paddles
thresh about,
And, plunging in the boiling stream, the angry
waters churn
That rise in showers of spray above her atter-
And over all a funnel black that belches forth
at night
A meteoric shower of sparks that make the
forest bright.
Oh, deep down in her wooden hull the engines
roar their song
And make the forest echo as the river rolls
along;
And, breasting the rough stream behind, on
towlines taut and stout.
Like tethered horses young and wild her barges
plunge about.
No sailor here lifts up his head to taste the
fresh sea-breeze — _ .
Theirs is a realm of open plain or river hid in
trees.
The captain doesn’t shoot the sun, or steer
her by the stars,
But he knows the river channels and the
treacherous sand bars
And navigates his ship with care and issues each
command
In language strong and frank and loud the
crew will understand.
And when for many miles they see black bottles
floating by
The crew know that the drought’s in Bourke,
and feel their throats grow dry.
Down from the Queensland border, heading
to New South Wales,
A three-knot current at her back the paddle-
steamer sails;
Down on the winding Darling, bright ripples
in her wake,
The clamor of her passing makes the tall gum
forest *
The voice of lusty paddles, where the waters
dance and leap,
And mile on mile along its length the river
wakes from sleep.
VICTORIA.
GEOFFREY DUBOUT.


T
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CIIARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
. if} H
m
ifvv
n
m
mnw.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
c
T „ .. BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum or
32,5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide. 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Stud Beef Sales.
“Bulago”: High prices were expected,
prompted by the yearling sales, rumors
of high reserves and private bargainings
in four figures, but they didn’t come off.
Many animals were passed in or with-
drawn. Two Shorthorns dead-heated for
top price of 1125gn5., Calool Jupiter,
reserve champion at the show, bought by
a W.A. breeder, and Coonong Ossian.
Coonong 0.8. E., grand champion at the
show, was not offered. Good prices were
600gns. for Munduney Iron Duke, 500gns.
for Turanville Postmaster 2nd, and for
Calool Journalist, 410gns. for Coonong
Perfection and 400gns. for a Hambledon
bull. Turanville got 400gns.—highest
price for a Shorthorn female —for a heifer
that didn’t win a ribbon at the show.
Calool made the best average, but credit
is due to Coonong, whose average would
have topped the list but for their decision
to meet the market. Coonong sold more
bulls than any other Shorthorn breeder.
Hereford sales were disappointing none
exceeding three figures. Windsor Path-
finder, show champion, made only 750gns.
and was purchased by Ranger’s Valley.
Top price of 925gns. was for Bexley Lime
Cup. South Boorook (Vic.) Herefords,
first appearance in Sydney, met with a
good demand. One bull made 725gn5.,
and the five bulls topped the Hereford
averages. Windsor, with nine bulls sold,
was not far behind, and Golf Hill was
next with an average of over" 300gns. for
10 bulls. One sensational price was made
in the females when J. N. Laurie, of
Gloucester (N.S.W.), paid 825gns. (Aus-
tralian record) for Hays Bros.’ champion
heifer.
The general levelling of prices may have
a salutary effect in the long run as there
has been a tendency toward inflation ;
this year’s prices got closer to actual
values.
There was a good market for Devons,
and two Havilah bulls sold for 240gns.
and 190gns. Clearances of this breed
were very satisfactory. Demand for Red
Polls was limited, but Bundaleer made
good prices, up to 140gns.
In 1945 an Antrim Poll Shorthorn bull
brought 2100gns. ' This year, although
the same stud got the top auction price
of 750gns. for the junior champion, there
was never a chance of anything reaching
four figures and a big percentage was
passed in, the five-year-old Netherby
champion among them. Killen polls
from Antrim and Armagh fared best,
Gundibri sold well and the Peel River
roans attracted some competition, but
bidding was generally hesitant.
Poll Hereford sales produced some sur-
prises, and prices for tops were well ahead
of last year. Wantabadgery Barrister,
champion at the show, was sold to Vic-
toria for 700gns.; the females went one
better when Warwick Fairfax paid 750gns
for Milton Park’s reserve junior champion
heifer. Invernisk, first appearance in
Sydney, scored well at show and sales.
Its reserve junior champion bull brought
500gns.
Aberdeen-Angus buyers showed con-
siderable discrimination. Anything really
good attracted spirited bidding, but
several studs had a very thin time and a
big percentage was passed in, Booroo-
mooka polls met a ready market. The
champion, Nikola, was sold privately to
Terrinallum (Vic.) for 1500gns., equalling
the Australian record paid for another
Booroomooka bull two years ago. A
Booroomooka bull made 725gn5., highest
price paid at auction. Kahlua cattle sold
well, as did those from Wallah, Trangie
Experiment Farm, Abington and Narran-
gullen.
Wool Exports.
“Graz”: For the 21,025,545 bales of
wool Australia produced during the six
war years she got £400,063,794. Exports
for nine months of the present season
totalled 1,969,836 bales, a rise of 544,973
on 1944-45 figures. The U.S., with
“Hang on a tick and you can take this one, too!”
824,665 bales, was the largest customer,
followed by Britain 694,886, France
167,648, and Belgium 114,715 —the first
wool to go to the last-named two since
1940. Turkey, Egypt and Mexico are
taking small quantities. Large consign-
ments are sold, awaiting shipment.
Greater expansion of milling capacity for
inferior wools is needed to clean up the
low-grade wool in the stockpile.
A recent statement issued by the Wool
Realisation Commission shows that ap-
praisements are down 241,190 bales on
the corresponding period of last year.
Average price for the Commonwealth,
13.92 d., is about the same as at March 31,
1945, but most growers will get smaller
adjustment divs. as their clips are lighter.
Britain is having wool processed in
Italy and allowing the mills to retain por-
tion of the finished materials in part pay-
ment for their services. America em-
ploys the same idea in Germany with
cotton, but Britain refused to send wool
to that country, and encourages the con-
tinued manufacture of staple-fibre pro-
ducts. The world shortage of woollen
piece-goods continues, and mills are
weighed down with’ orders.
Pulpy Kidney.
“Steve”: In these southern Victorian
districts it has been severe this autumn.
The pastures are luxuriant, and all sheep
and lambs in prime condition. It has
been general practice to vaccinate spring
lambs with the preventive vaccine, and
losses from pulpy kidney have been re-
duced to a minimum. Where graziers
were accustomed to a yearly loss of 30
p.c. and more they now rarely lose more
than 2 p.c. Until this autumn the treat-
ment of adult sheep for the trouble has
not been general—in this district, any-
way. Now graziers are trying their pren-
tice hand at vaccinating prime heavy
pregnant ewes —and it’s no easy job. If
it were good, safe practice to upend these
sheep it would be easy enough to put
the needle in flank or brisket, but to do
the job whilst the animal is in a standing
position is no simple operation. Some
state that the easiest place to vaccinate
is on the tail, but this is apt to agitate
the sheep, and the animal must remain
quite still during the process.
The Agricultural Department recom-
mends parting the wool just behind the
shoulder. This is definitely the best place,
but amateurs will find it difficult to do
the job as the needle is hard to insert
at the angle prescribed, which is to be
attained by laying the syringe along close
to the skin. If the novice tries piercing
the skin by inserting the needle direct
and not at an angle it will make all the
difference. Any danger of piercing too
deeply into the tissues can be guarded
against by using the fingers of the left
hand to hold the wool back and placing
the thumb alongside the shaft of the
needle. The needle will go in quite easily
direct, but it takes pushing to do so at
the angle generally recommended.
It seems remarkable that a lamb three
weeks old can be safely vaccinated with
5 c.cs. of the strong vaccine (alum-
precipitated) whilst the same dose (5
c.cs.) is equally effective, if not more so,
in grown sheep weighing 1301 b. to 1401 b.
liveweight.
“Safe” Wheat Areas.
“Milton”: Boiled down, “7346’5”
treatise on medians of rainfall records
in the marginal wheat areas (B. 1/ 5 / ’46)
is the winter rainfall during the five
months’ growing period. This is all that
the experienced wheatgrower worries
about, except for hoping for a thunder-
storm to fill his tank or dam, for it has
been proved that a 7-Bin. rainfall distri-
buted over the growing period and well
sustained during the critical month of
September will give a return of 18-20
bushels per acre; in some cases nearly
three bushels for each inch of rainfall
have been harvested.
With N.S.W.’s erratic rainfall in the
marginal areas a record of medians un-
doubtedly guides the prospective be-
ginner but would have little influence in
Queensland’s limited area, where an early
sowing of an early wheat lessens the
gamble, while practically no median
record is needed in W.A., with its con-
sistent monsoonal rainfall over the wheat-
belt, diminishing as the distance increases
eastward from the Indian Ocean; the
axiom there is “finish sowing before May
15” to ensure some success.
Until the various Governments lose
their obsession for small-area wheat farms
such farms will foster land-flogging,
with resulting wind erosion. The small-
farm idea makes no provision for por-
tions to remain in a natural state or be
planted with trees for breaks and stock
shelters.
The Show Horse.
“Haute Ecole”: This, from “Polo”
(April, 1934), shows how far behind
American show standards we are: Hunter
trials were conducted over three days,
during which the horses were required to
show their training on the first day, go
across country on the second, and jump
in the ring on the third. The perform-
ance captured popular fancy at the Flint-
bridge Trials at Pasadena (Cal.).
Each entry was shown under the saddle
at the walk, trot and canter, perform-
ing such movements as the judge
required to show suppleness, good man-
ners and obedience to the rider. This
phase counted 200. Then they had to
negotiate about two miles of coun-
try at a fair hunting pace, and
negotiate 20 obstacles not over
3ft. 6in. high, with 600 as a per-
fect score. Final test was over a
dozen varied obstacles, which did
not exceed 4ft. high, possible score
200. There were awards for each
phase and final awards.
The opportunity for Australian
breeders to cater for the increased
demand for good show horses
should not be missed, as a trained
and proved horse will always
bring his price. As Royal shows
loom closer enthusiasts are put-
ting great work into their charges,
but it is almost impossible for the
discriminating to obtain .a worthy
exhibit for next year. There must
be many good types to be had, but
the lack of training facilities at
the disposal of the city fancier —who is
the one with the open purse at the
moment —is a big factor holding things up.
One Queensland breeder has the right
idea, to judge from his advertisements.
His horses are trained before they are
offered for sale, and his prices are in
accordance with this seryice. The horse-
lover is no longer content with possess-
ing something with a leg on each corner,
capable of carrying himhe is demand-
ing a better type, something he can ride
into the show ring and have as good a
chance as the next of winning. We have
not reached the American standard of
five-gaited show horses, but that may
come.
Soakage Pits.
“Agro”: Homesteads are too often
without facilities to dispose of refuse
water from kitchen, dairy, bathroom, etc.
Apart from the repulsive appearance of
open drains they are smelly and insani-
tary. A soakage pit fitted with a grease
trap is cheap and easy to make.
First make the grease trap. A con-
venient size would be 2ft. long by Ift.
wide by Ift. deep, using bricks or stones
put together with cement compo. The
top should be flush with ground level.
In each end leave a hole, one an inlet
for the refuse pipe, and the other the
outlet into the soakage pit. Both pipes
should be grooved into the box with
compo. Into the outlet stuff a tight roll
of hessian and into the box sprinkle a
liberal quantity of lime. Repeat the
sprinkling every couple of weeks. The
grease cannot escape from the box and the
strained water seeps out through the
hessian. The lime eats the grease and
neutralises the smell. Occasionally, how-


Notice.
Men desirous of securing employment as cane-
cutters in the Cairns District, North Queensland,
during the 1946 harvesting season, which will begin
early in June, are hereby invited to immediately
registet their names and addresses with the under-
Slg Any relevant information required will be gladly
supplied on request.
FRANK FERGUSON, Secretary,
Cairns District Canegrowers’ Executive,
P.O. Box 842, Cairns.
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
m.
£l7/10/-
!rely in Australia by
mm
KPS
mu
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
VIBRATOR OPERATED TABLE RECEIVER
oAti. Ttiftv c
See and hear this outstanding Dual-Wave Receiver
(Model 326) at your nearest “His Master’s Voice
Retailer.
★ There is also an A.C. operated Broadcast Receiver
(Model 456).
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
true-to-life Radio
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated, in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W,
R.12/46/B.
n
&
X
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOK
INTERSTATE AGENCIES —
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE,
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HVGEIA DISSOLYENATOR.
NAME
address: 8N.5.44
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
wmmm • 4 m
Farm-with
McCORMICK-
j&sxV::S
m
m
m
M
U '
HM
** ‘ ' ' -*vs ’ 'S <
A size and type of
tractor for every
farm . . and a com-
plete system of
power equipment
for every farming
need
GUTBB-24
|_ HERE Is an Increasing demand for modern
farm equipment. During the war years, you made
your old equipment do. Now is the time for new
and better tools, implements and machines . . .
Place your order well ahead with your nearest
International Harvester agent for that new
McConnick-Dcering tractor. Ask him, too, about
the wide range of latest types of McCornuck-
Deering power farming equipment—which include
complete systems for potato and vegetable
production, fruit culture, pasture Improvement and
fodder conservation, as well as for dairy and
mixed farming. Keep in touch w «th
International Harvester agent. Month by month
he’ll be in a more favourable position to satisfy
the heavy demands for McCormick-Dee ring
tractors, and for the improved equipment now
being built for postwar farming needs . . .
comes to your postwar truck, remember
Sat it’s only INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
that outfits the farmer for both production and
t ran s port at ion. For nearly 40 years of Its 11
history. International Harvester has built
International trucks. For several long years new
Internationals went off to war by the lens of
thousands. To-day, Intcrnat.onals are AGAIN
being built for commercial needs —
duty, and heavy-duty sizes. All these types will
soon be available.
Haul with
INTERNATIONALS
m ■
ERNfIT lg N A Pj
See Year Nearest International Harvester Agent
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. IN Vlg.) BRANCHES IN
dsf
Agents everywhere to serve the farmer
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
ever, it may be necessary to clean the box
thoroughly, scooping out accumulated
grease and freeing the hessian, otherwise
seepage into the outlet might be deterred.
Over the top of the box fix a movable
lid, close-fitting and reasonably airtight.
Next connect the overflow pipe to a
soakage pit 15ft. or 20ft. long by 2ft.
wide and 2ft. deep. Over the floor of
this fill about 6in. in depth of broken
bricks, tiles, bottles, etc., the whole to be
covered completely with old sheets of
iron (preferably fairly heavy in gauge).
This prevents the sand from filling the
soakage drain underneath. The trench
can then be filled up with soil. Be sure
that the overflow pipe from the grease box
connects properly into the broken-brick
drain. This spot must be well covered
with iron or other material to stop the
soil from running into the pipe’s mouth.
Such a soakage pit, if built carefully,
is most successful, particularly in sandy
country. If you have clay or heavy soil
which might not drain too well, make the
trench considerably longer, giving it a
slight fall away from the pipe entrance.
Bee Feeding.
“Sundowner”: Introduction of queens
to a hive during a dearth of nectar is
risky. A remedy is to try to create
better conditions in the hive by feeding;
a half-pint of syrup of one in three
strength for five days before and after
introduction will help considerably. The
introduction should be done with as little
disturbance of colony condition as pos-
sible. Use a double-end cage in which
the worker bees gain early access to the
queen before she is released. Place the
cage over the frames immediately the old
queen is removed, before the colony has
time to realise its loss. Sprinkle a
little of the feed syrup oyer the top of
frames to take the attention of the bees,
then do not open up the hive again for
five days, beyond filling the feeder each
day. Late in the day is the best time to
avoid robbdrs. If the colony has been
queenless long enough to become brood-
less, add a frame of hatching bees when
beginning to feed or failure is almost
certain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof.”: To minimise scours in young
calves allow them to run on a small pad-
dock of Kikuyu grass between feeds. At
Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.) calves
pastured on this grass kept in first-class
condition. The grass required only the
minimum amount of water to keep it
green and sufficiently high to permit the
calves to get a pick,
“Sundowner”Best time for cultivation
of Wimmera rye pasture is autumn, when
the seeds are dormant and no plants are
destroyed by the tillage.
“W. Court”: Citrus trees are less likely
to be injured and made susceptible to dis-
ease if persons climbing them wear rubber
shoes. Hard leather shoes scrape away
a lot of bark. Branches should be cut
away with a good sharp saw. Orchard
trees need constant care and attention.
It’s no use neglecting them for years and
then frantically trying to save them.
“W.E.M.R.”: Don’t feed pigs on grain
sorghums which contain Noogoora burr
seed without gristing it first. Soaking or
boiling without gristing will cause scours
and death.
“Xob 33”: When a dog gets dry scurf
the best cure is a dressing made of
flowers of sulphur and olive oil. Mix
them into a cream and then rub it
thoroughly into the skin, giving an appli-
cation once every two days. In addition,
give small doses of fluid magnesia and
condition powders. Feed the dog well on
meat and as much milk as it can drink.
Bathe it about a week after you have been
treating it, and then twice a week until
the scurf has disappeared. Bathe in fresh
warm water, using very little dog soap.
“Bogan Joe”: Outbreaks of wool mite
in parts of N.S.W. over the last 18 months
indicate that the pest is active! Too small
to be seen, the mite burrows down into
the wool follicles, causing irritation. The
sheep rubs against fences and trees to
ease the itch and spoils the appearance of
the fleece. Ordinary arsenical dips are
no use, nor are the carbolic fluids; only
a specially-prepared lime sulphur solu-
tion will fix it.
“Cuira”; To shift an obstinate pulley
from a shaft of the setscrew type, remove
setscrew and fill hole with grease, then
screw in the setscrew, thus forcing grease
between shaft and pulley boss.
“Anurose”: To remove and replace
overhead valves in a car engine, hav-
ing no valve-lifter handy, use the feed
screw of a blacksmith’s drill to compress
the springs. To remove and replace the
split collars place an open-end spanner
on top of collar.
“Billjim”: Alternative to blood-and-
bone manures is planting of a green
manure crop which can be ploughed
under and incorporated with the soil
when it has made bulky succulent growth.
Such crops not only create important
organic material but help to check
erosion.


SIMPLE TO FIT—OPERATES QUICKLY & ECONOMICALLY
' T?f r
1
B
PETROL MIST INJECTOR
si
•
/////
a &
e
lIZ2
I I
PLUNGER I
INDUCTION
MANIFOLD
K I G A SS
trol Mist
For all types of:-
• TRACTORS, TRUCKS,
• CARS, BUSES,
• MARINE & STATIONARY ENGINES (Petrol and Diesel) ggfc#
Australian Agents;
(AUST) PTY LIMITED
Sydney.: Bowden Street, Alexandria Phone MX 1191
Melbourne: Cnr. Capel and Queensberry Sts., Nth. Melb. . . , Phone F 3616
Newcastle: M.L.C. Building, Hunter Street, Newcastle .... Phone B 1810
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/* lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
STOP
DISTURBED
NIGHTS
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes or filters -which help to purify the blood and
keep you healthy. When they get tired and don’t
work right in the daytime, many people have dis-
turbed nights. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder. Don’t neglect this condition and
lose valuable, restful sleep.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may also cause
nagging backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss
of pep* and energy, swelling, pufflness under the eyes,
headaches, and dizziness.
Don’t delay I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
io the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
To
Every
Australian
Have you ever thought how much better it would be if, when seeking a job
or a position, you could avoid tramping from one address to another by
calling on a friendly expert who could advise you on the best employment
prospects and introduce you to the employer concerned!
Have you ever thought, when consider-
ing the future of your son or daughter,
how valuable it would be to have the
advice of an expert as to the career or
the type of occupation he or she should
embark upon after leaving school?
Do you want any advice on, or wish to
discuss with a sympathetic officer, any
matter in relation to benefits, etc., to
which you feel you are entitled—e.g.,
under the Re-establishment Act or
other Commonwealth legislation?
These services are now available. In all
cities and suburbs, and in most large
provincial centres, there are now
District Offices of the Commonwealth
Employment Service staffed with
trained, experienced, courteous and
efficient employntent officers whose job
it is to help you. Their task is to discuss
these matters with you, to advise on
employment prospects and opportuni-
ties and to help you find the job or the
position you want for yourself, or any
member of your family.
The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice is at the service of every Australian.
It provides the link between you, as
one interested in obtaining employment
for yourself or someone else, and the
thousands of employers who need
workers of every type and description.
Its aim is to ensure that every worker,
whether professional, executive, cleri-
cal, skilled or unskilled, domestic or
rural, finds employment where he or
she can exercise his or her abilities to
the full and enjoy the maximum satis-
faction in doing the job.
Call at, phone, or write to the District Employment Office of the area in
which you live. The whole of the facilities of the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service are available to you without charge .
There are COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
CENTRES throughout AUSTRALIA.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
look lor the COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SIGN
CESG2-93-46
headquarters at Pearl Harbor. In any
event the Guam and Pearl Harbor bases
will be the key naval bases in the future,
backed up with secondary bases in the
Philippines, the Carolines, the Marshalls
and at Manus Island in the Admiralty
group.
The most forward fleet base would be
in the Ryukyus, but these islands are
chiefly important to the Army Air Forces
for deployment of long-range bombers.
The U.S. will, of course, continue to
hold and develop United States bases in
the Aleutians, at Midway, Wake, Canton,
Johnston and Samoa, and there is con-
siderable sentiment for a defensive
arrangement with Ecuador which would
give naval-base rights to the Galapagos.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The replacement of war losses of shipping is
well under way. New merchant shipping in
hand at the end of March, according to Lloyd’s
Register, was 1,676,000 tons, represented by 403
vessels. This exceeds the volume for March,
1939, by 1,079,000 tons. It is the largest amount
since June, 1922. All but 6.2 per cent, of the
construction is still for British owners. Over
half (actually 51.5 per cent.) of world construc-
tion is now being built in Great Britain and
Ireland, compared with only 22.1 per cent, in
the spring of 1939. — London “Times.”
* * * *
“Out of the fighting and slaughter of war we
have emerged with more iron in our blood,
more imagination in our minds, and with our
souls preserved. When you think that Britain
has been mobilised to the maximum one day in
every three of the last 30 years, fighting 10
years out of 30 with two of the most magnifi-
cent generations this world has seen, you realise
we have paid in manpower the greatest price
in the world. The outcome of it is not de-
spondency but optimism. There is a feeling of
rebirth of the British Commonwealth and
Empire. It has survived and it will survive.
It is one of those strange phenomena in the
world. It is an intuition. We cannot explain
it but we have found the secret of combining
unification of great masses of people without
destroying their liberty and at the same time
maintaining freedom for them all. If we main-
tain our policy on a firm and true course this
great secret which Britain has discovered may
yet become the foundation of the federation of
the world.” — From a speech to London jewel-
lers by Ernest Bevin, British Foreign Secretary.
* * * *
The Japs left behind them in Asia at least
one legacy which will survive: “Asia for the
Asiatics.” Occidental-overlords are on the way
out. Which, insofar as this means self-govern-
ment, is both inevitable and desirable. But
if it merely sets the stage for the subtler, more
ruthless form of imperialism now spreading
from Moscow, instead of that being the end of
a chapter, it will only mark the beginning of
one. — William Philip Simms in N.Y. “World
Telegram.”
* * * *
The superficial slogan “One World” is much
less real today than it was before the First
World War. In this age of wars and revolu-
tions peoples have become more divided, not
more united; and no amount of fustian
oratory can alter this hard but unmistakable
truth. — William Henry Chamberlin; “Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
Well, Joe Stalin has come across with
$1,700,000 dues in U.N.0., so it looks like he
was determined to stay through all the fighting,
in spirit if not in the flesh. The money came
with complaints, allegations and nose-thumb-
ings from “Pravda,” but I wouldn’t say there
was $1,700,000 worth of ’em. — Dave Boone;
N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The atomic-bomb tests are not going to settle
an argument, but start one. The key question
is not whether an atomic bomb can destroy
a battleship but whether battleships can keep
atomic bombs from reaching and destroying us.
The decisive tests between the two weapons
would have to be strategic and tactical; i.e.,
plant a man in Africa with a suitcase contain-
ing an atomic bomb and see whether the Navy,
with all its weapons and instruments, can keep
him from getting it to New York. The proposed
tests at Bikini Atoll are merely large-scale ex-
periments in physics. It is interesting to know
that a railroad train is heavier than & canal
boat, but, in our economic history, the railroad
train beat the canal boat without ever having to
fall on one. A real test of Navy v. bomb
might be to see whether the Navy can so
manage year after year to be ready at an hour’s
notice to put out to sea and to maintain itself
there for, say, three to six months without con-
tact with land. If the conditions seem hard, the
answer perhaps is that life in the atomic age
is going to be hard. The tests cannot show
that a combat Navy is still valid, for if a
foreign Power learns to by-pass the fleet it may
become invalid without ever getting a spot of
rust on it; on the other hand, the test cannot
possibly prove that the Navy is obsolete, for
the Navy has an offensive, or bomb-carrying,
function, which is not subject to test. — Samuel
Grafton in N.Y. “Post.”
* * ♦ ♦
The £162,500,000 “pipeline credit” with which
the United Kingdom has been financing most of
its imports from the United States since last
December has just about run out. British pur-
chasing missions are now compelled to use gold
and dollar balances in making cash payments for
materials. Although the dollar pool—at the
last estimate it was reported to contain some
£450,000,000 —is being fed with the income from
British exports to the United States, it is gradu-
ally shrinking. The credit was intended to
cover the cost of goods which were in the lease-
lend “pipeline” at the end of the war. It was
hoped that the amount would tide Britain over
until the bigger loan was made available. A
grave situation as regards British dollar re-
sources might develop if the loan ratification
were delayed until the autumn. It would almost
certainly compel radical curtailment in the
British purchasing programme. London
-Times"-


Valet Blades
now more easllt)
obtainable
You, perhaps, were one of those unfortunates
who had to give up "Valet” shaving when
Valet Blades became scarce.
Valet Blades are now back again in reason-
able quantities-.
Get out the old Valet . . . put in a brand
new blade and lather up for the best shave
you’ve had in years.
Valet
AUTOSTROP RAZOR BLADES
555
m.
W-.
SSS
S'
ssg
55=5
5*S
I
/
;v i'
IkOSi
■&*
&
m.
Sunshine and Calm Seas
The Netherlands Merchant Navy, throughout the dark
and stormy years of war, wrote stirring pages into its
.history, carrying munitions, supplies and comforts to
our troops in the S.W. Pacific and serving the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas.
Now, they are discarding the drab grey.
Soon the Great White Yachts of the
K.P.M. Line will be here again, and
then regular sailings to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore will be resumed.
Incorporated In
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD , SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“People in a city street stared at a woman
who wore a tobacco-brown 1926 model gown
for £1 wager.”— Adelaide “News:”
The shade reminded them of the days
when anyone who wanted it could get a
raid.
4* 4* 4 1
“Bag, navy, lost, containing money, food,
clothing coupons, glasses, beads, train.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Definitely not a brief-case.
Simple Slip.
Gloria Potts de Point is so annoyed by
a newspaper mistake that her artificial
eyelashes keep plaiting themselves. You’d
think a socialite of her standing would be
more tolerant of other people’s errors,
wouldn’t you? But no! Gloria is fum-
ing just because getting some nice pub-
licity at a posh cat show at which she
was an exhibitor the rag left the final
two letters out of that word.
Gloria says it’s a lie and she’s just
waiting to get her claws into that re-
porter !
Evje.
*l* 4*
“He had to get married to keep her.’
— “Woman’s mag.
And then had to keep her when
married.
•j. * q* 4* .
“Citizens of Los Angeles must first obtain a
licence before a bathtub may be installed in
their homes.” — “World’s News.”
The town clerk receives a constant
shower of applications.
“Fountain pens to arrive shortly. Book
your order now.” — Advt.
Although we dread the outcome when
Upon this we look.
Let’s hope that all who book a pen
Won’t go and pen a book.
F.M.
* *
“For sale, grave, South Head Cemetery.
Prominent pos.”— “S.M.H.”
Vacant possession, exchange or subject
to present tenancy?
4* *J*
“A packet of dahlia seers.”
■—Heading in church paper.
To produce flowery prophetic sermons?
•J*
“Harry was working on the fence when he
saw her coming. He immediately looked basn-
ful and awkward.” — Short story.
And yet fencing is supposed to give
poise!
•I*
“Married couple being vacated would like
to share house.” — Suburban paper.
Just for the vacation?
When determined to get fine feathers
some girls will even take them from a
jail-bird.
“Wanted, woman officer, cleaning Sat. morn-
ing, 2s. 6d. an hour.” — Suburban paper.
Only generals need apply.
4* 4*
“But she saw no one but Tom. There was a
thread from him to her and she was drawn
by it. She was powerless to stop.”
• — Woman’s paper.
She cottoned on to him.
Battle of the Bulge.
“A girdle padded to provide attractive curves
is among the latest American inventions.”
It won’t be long, I’d prophesy,
Before the slender lass will tty
To make her figure more emphatic
With gadgets suitably pneumatic, ,
, And chance the unbecoming stir
That would conceivably occur
If with a pin some womanhater
Obeyed an impulse to deflate her.
All very fine; but what about
The girl, symmetrical though stout,
Who has already got an issue
Of solid, supplementary tissue ?
A garment with upholstered curves
Avails her not when she observes
That some insuperable hurdle
Forbids the fastening of her girdle.
P. M. LUSK.
Nipped.
“ ‘Jap girls beat ours,’ says a writer.”
I’m tempted to dispute this view
With extra-vitriolic pen.
But, sisters, were the sally true,
At least our brothers licked their men!
MISS SMITH.
Elephantiasis.
What time the giant pachyderm
Goes lumbering along.
The Indian seated on its head
Emits a merry song;
And, viewing this phenomenon.
With logic I infer
That if the elephant instead
Were seated on the Indian’s head
The song would not occur.
T. W. NATHAN.
Among the Record-Breakers.
“Soviet Weight-lifters Still Breaking Re-
cords.” — “Tribune” heading.
The Moscow State Circus was crammed.
The afternoon sun shone through the
stained-glass windows on the happy faces
of the worker-comrades seated in the
pews. The old pile would still have
been used for worship had not its pastor
some years ago been called to an urgent
appointment with a wheelbarrow in a
Siberian saltmine. Meanwhile, pending
his return, if any, it was given over to
those Joy Through Strength spectacles
which the beloved Fiihrer of the Kremlin
had ordered.
The happy smiles could have been due
to either the knowledge that 2000 secret
■ \
police were sprinkled among the workers,
and that disobedience of the order to
look happy would mean the concentration
camp, or that it was Sunday afternoon
and the 84-hour week had just finished
(how they pitied those poor downtrodden
slaves of the decadent Western capitalist
countries who had never known the pro-
letarian freedom of being marched to
work under hn armed guard!).
Suddenly there was a fanfare of trum-
pets, and all eyes turned to the entrance
doors as, in a uniform more gorgeous
even than that of a talkie-theatre com-
missionaire, the great Marshal Dudski,
who had fought so magnificently at the
looting of Manchuria, strode in, followed
by a liveried baton-bearer, two samovar-
holders, his perfume-sprayer, his private
vodka-distiller, his corps of concubines
and his bodyguard of picked thugs.
As the worker-comrades rose in a body
and raised a forest of clenched fists they
shouted the Russian equivalent of “Sieg
Heil! ” to the great soldier who looked
unsmilingly at the concourse. This
aroused, as “Depravda” said in its report
next day, a feeling of tremendous pride
that only on the holy soil of the U.S.S.R.,
“Shift y'r grip further up, can't y '—y're
strangling a bloke!”
where all class-consciousness had been
abolished, could be seen such a manifes-
tation of the true equality of man.
As soon as the marshal had taken his
seat the two chief contestants, Ilyitch
Bicepsov, the Georgian Wonder, and
Nutoff Riporbustski, the Urals Wizard,
came on the stage accompanied by two
political commissars. Ilyitch, with a ner-
vous glance at a bulge near one com-
missar’s armpit, launched into a passion-
ate denunciation of Trotskyist wreckers.
Nutoff followed with an attack on coal-
miners who unpatriotically failed to
achieve Stakhanovite peaks of individual
production. After the speeches the con-
testants flexed their muscles for a minute
and then announced they were ready.
Immediately the heavy curtain dropped
and they, together with the commissars,
disappeared behind it. Then came the
sounds of some grunting and some object
being put down. A few seconds later one
of the commissars parted the curtain,
stepped forward and announced that
Bicepsov had broken the world’s record
for a straight one-handed lift of 582
pounds. The applause shook the building.
The commissar disappeared behind the
curtain again. There floated out to the
audience more sounds of agonised grunt-
ing and another dbject being placed down.
Then the other commissar pushed his way
through the curtain to give the glad
tidings that Riporbustski, in a cruciform
lift of 711 pounds, had smashed several
world’s records. Terrific applause.
The next time a commissar emerged
was to tell to a hushed, expectant house
that Bicepsov, in a great two-handed,
clean-and-jerk lift, had broken 19 world’s
records and his pelvis
with a weight of 933
pounds, which he had
kept aloft for six
minutes. This time the
rustle of pressed-paper
suits as the comrade-
workers leaped' up in
joy was deafening.
Two minutes after
that came the dramatic
announcement from in
front of the curtain that
Riporbustski had placed
the Soviet’s name in
imperishable letters on
the tablets of world
sport by lifting single-
handed a bull weighing
1082 pounds! It demon-
strated what the muscles
of the well-fed, happy,
smiling inhabitants of
the Workers’ Father-
land were capable of.
Suddenly, from a
back pew, a fed-up
voice sang out “That’s
too much bull.” A few
seconds later the inter-
jector was being
marched out. Shortly
after that a musketry
volley rang out, followed by a dull thud.
* * * *
Well, so much for the glorious efforts
of the champion weight-lifters of the
Soviet Union. But they’ve got nothing
on the champion watch-lifters. The record
is held by a Red Army private in Berlin,
and it took him only seven stranglings,
two knifings and a few threats to break
the previous best of 27. The record-
holder is now being taught to tell the time.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
A Lesson from Japan
As I write, Australians in the Occupa-
tion Force haven’t seen much of Japan
because we have been too busy settling
in, but one of the things which have im-
pressed us is the abundance of electric
power and light.
Every tiny cottage in every small village
has electric light, and there are power
lines everywhere, Japan is rich in hydro-
electric power, which makes for industrial
greatness.
China, too, will not be left behind in
electric-power development. I read this
in the English edition of the “Nippon
Times” (30/4 /’46):
Designs for the world’s largest dam to
impound the waters of China’s Yangtze
River are on the drawing-boards at the
U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in Denver,
Colorado. When built the structure will be
bigger even than Egypt’s greatest pyra-
mid Estimated construction cost will
be 1,000,000,000 dollars... .Behind the dam
will be a 250-mile-long reservoir contain-
ing 50,000,000 acre-feet... .Ninety-six gene-
rators will produce 10,560,000 kilowatts of
electric power.
We haven’t a Yangtze in Australia, but
we have the Snowy and other streams
capable of producing electric power. No-
thing increases efficiency of farming
methods, adds to the comforts and con-
veniences of country life and encourages
industry as much as cheap power and
light. It will be tragic if State jealousies
and lack of bold, confident statesmanship
impede our hydro-electric development.
—Alpha (8.C.0.F.).
Adachi’s Army
I can’t agree with “Nogat” (B.
24/4/’46) that Adachi’s 18th Army at
Wewak was well disciplined. Discipline
in any army means more than administra-
tion of punishment; it includes, among
other things, a strict hygiene routine.
Complete disregard of hygienic living
conditions was a primary reason for the
disintegration of the 18th Army.
After the surrender the remnants of it
were sent to Muschu Island, about two
miles off the Wewak coast. They were
supplied with adequate rations, sufficient
building material and stretchers for a
hospital compound and other necessities
for establishing themselves in reasonable
conditions.
Separate groups set up small camps all
over the island. They lived like pigs;
cooked, ate, slept and lived under the
one sak-sak roof. They built no latrines,
and made no attempt to clear the jungle
or construct facilities for washing. Their
hospital was literally lousy. There was
no isolation of infectious cases, and hos-
pital refuse was dumped in an open hole
outside the wards. The whole island be-
came black with flies. Orders from Sixth
Div. Headquarters regarding hygiene were
either ignored or lackadaisically carried
out when an inspection was due.
Admittedly they were a beaten and
demoralised army, but had their disci-
pline been good they would have made
some attempt to live like human beings.
—K. G. P. (Vic.).
Unemployment Insurance
“Nordbo” (B. l/5/’46) talks through
his hat in saying that an insured worker
can afford to provoke the sack deliber-
ately, being sure of going on the unem-
ployment insurance fund. There is a
penalty clause deferring payments in the
case of a worker discharged through his
own fault or leaving employment of his
own accord. Benefits may be refused a
person who turns down an offer of a job
in his usual or a kindred calling.
Many who in 1922 hailed the Queens-
land Act as the “Loafers’ Paradise Bill”
lived to bless it in the bad nineteen-
thirties. — Curate’s Egg (Q,).
Moral Rearmament
My three months at the World Con-
ference of Moral Rearmament have been
three of the most profitable and en-
lightening months of my life. More and
more I see how what is going on here
can back up all those who are trying to
put secure foundations into the peace.
I have been tremendously impressed
with the evidence of a new spirit in
nations and between nations. In the
U.S. there has been significant work done,
particularly in the turbulent field of in-
dustry. Dr. John Steelman, recently
appointed Administrative Assistant to
President Truman and head of the U.S.
Conciliation Service from says
of M.R.A., “I am of the opinion that the
M.R.A. workers represent the most effec-
tive single force for industrial concilia-
tion in the country.”
Typical of such work was a story told
at the conference by a vice-presi-
dent of the United Automobile Workers,
who described how he had prevented
work stoppages in his plant through put-
ting into action Moral Rearmament prin-
ciples. Another case was cited by an ex-
ecutive of a steel manufacturing com-
pany, who said his corporation had been
saved hundreds of thousands of dollars
through M.R.A.
One of the spearheads of this work in
industry has been the M.R.A. industrial
drama, “The Forgotten Factor,” described
by President Truman as “the most signifi-
cant play produced by the war.” As you
can imagine, I am immensely interested
in what drama can do. This play has
been seen by 100,000 picked leaders of
industrial and civic life throughout the
country, with invaluable results in team-
work and heightened production.
It has. been great to meet Dr. Frank
Buchman again, who has fought so con-
stantly through the years for sound moral
leadership, in spite of the rising tide of
materialistic thinking and living which
has swept over so many nations.— lvan
Menzies (Washington, D.C.).
The New Army
The suggestion by “X.Q.X.” (B.
17/4/’46) that* A.I.F. and militia bat-
talions should be amalgamated into
"Here's that life-assurance canvasser again, Pa.'
infantry regiments has one further point
to commend it—the fact that the British
Army uses and likes the same general
system. But why not scrap the numerical
designation of units and give each regi-
ment a name? I’ve heard the idea dis-
cussed in many messes, and there was
never a dissenting opinion. Some units
already have unofficial names; for ex-
ample, the 2/23 Battalion glories in its
title of “Albury’s Own.”
We could then dispense with color
patches—a system which may have been
satisfactory in World War I but which
broke down badly in this war when the
“square” formations changed to “tri-
angles.” According to the equation black
over green in a diamond equals the first
battalion of the first brigade of the
second division, which, mathematically
should be the 2/ 10th Battalion. However,
the first battalion of the first brigade, etc.,
was the 2/9th Battalion; and the black-
green diamond was worn by the 2/17th
until the Ninth Divvy changed to a T.
Without the Order of Battle in one’s
pocket it was impossible to identify units.
Good security—but bad for esprit-de-
corps. A regimental name, worn on the
sleeve in the British Army style, would
end the present muddle.
Finally, let’s copy the Tommies’ turn-
out. For smartness and utility their
battledress of jumper and slacks and their
double-breasted cavalry-style greatcoats
put our uniforms to shame. The record
of the Australian Army is good enough
for us to be able to accept a few points
from the British Army without suffering
a loss of prestige or individuality.—
Philm (W.A.).
Police, Unions, Servicemen
Some time ago there was a Bulletin
comment on the affiliation of the Wes-
tralian Police Association with the
Trades and Labor Council in Perth, The
South Australian Police Association had
then been affiliated with the Trades and
Labor Council in Adelaide for a con-
siderable period. There have also been
references by contributors to exclusion of
ex-servicemen by some trade-unions.
About two years ago the S.A. Police
Association requested that approved ex-
servicemen be recruited to make up the
depleted strength of the Force. Fifty
was the number asked for. For over a
decade entrance to the S.A. Force could
be gained only by joining as a junior
constable (between 16 and 19 yeass). It
has now been decided to admit 40 ex-
servicemen to the Force, who will be
specially trained with a view to bringing
up the strength.— Robert (S.A.).
N.S.W. Railway Improvements
I trust “Rekab” (B. 8/5/’46) does not
think that the sole benefit of the proposed
improvements to the Sydney-Newcastle
railway will be the reduction of eight
minutes in the running time of the “New-
castle Flyer.”
Goods trains will be able to haul
greater loads at higher speeds using the
same tractive force. This will mean
lower running and maintenance costs.
Elimination of sharp curves will ensure
greater safety and comfort for passengers
in fast expresses.
This is the fastest section of line on
the N. S. Wales railway system, yet its
crack express, as “Rekab” states, does
not average 40 m.p.h.
The “Hiawatha” express in the U.S.A.
averages 78.4 m.p.h. and touches 120
m.p.h. In S. Africa, with its 3ft, 6in.
gauge, the Johannesburg-Capetown* mail
train can maintain an average overall
speed of 37.1 m.p.h., crossing two moun-
tain ranges on the way. Time of journey
is 25| hours. In Queensland the Towns-
ville-Mt. Isa mail train, with sleepers
attached, can average only 21.3 m.p.h.
overall speed, largely because of the in-
different railway track, which has many
sharp, five-chain-radius curves. Length
of journey is 602 miles; time of journey,
28} hours.
Railways will be an important and in-
tegral part of our transport system for
many years to come, but present perform-
ances must be improved.
The U.S.A. has announced a
£400,000,000 modernisation scheme for
her already well-kept railways, and S.
Africa a £60,000,000 scheme for the same
purpose. The expenditure of £250,000 to
improve the busy Newcastle-Sydney rail-
way is a very wise and very necessary
step.—G. B. (N.S.W.).
Landlord and Tenant
In Queensland, employers must exhibit
in a conspicuous place a copy of the
relevant industrial award so that their
employees may be aware of their rights.
In N. S. Wales hotelkeepers must indicate
the extent of their liability to guests by
public notice in each bedroom.
Most tenants are ignorant of their
rights under Landlord and Tenant Regu-
lations, so much so that landlords should
be compelled by law to post up a sum-
mary of the regulations in all leased
premises. These regulations provide
ample protection against all the more
frequent rackets; for example, “key
money” and the raising of rents by adding
a few sticks of furniture.
Regulation 33 not only prohibits “key
money” or money paid by way of bonus
but gives to the tenant who has paid
any such sum a right to recover it in any
court of competent jurisdiction. In addi-
tion, the landlord is liable to a penalty
for breach of the regulations.
Regulation 15 pegs all rents (with or
without furniture) as at August 31, 1939
(N.S.W.), or December 31, 1942 (Vic. and
Queensland), and no rent greater than
that charged at those dates may now be
charged. Any excess rent paid over and
above the pegged rent may be recovered
by the tenant as a debt.
Any tenant may apply for a determina-
tion of the fair rent of his premises
(Regulation 16), and rent cannot be in-
creased above the fair rent determination
merely by the addition of extra furniture
(Regulation 15).
Why tenants continue to pay seven
and eight guineas a week for flats leased
a few years ago for two or three pounds
a week is beyond me. That their com-
plaints should be addressed to the press
instead of to a Fair Rents Court indicates
either an ignorance of their rights or lack
of the necessary spirit to insist on them.
Any lawyer or agent will assure you
that a tenant who knows his rights and
insists upon them can give the most
rapacious and cunning of landlords a bad
headache. — Sol Brass (Q.).
Books and Writers
While in Maoriland Walter G. Harrap,
director of the George G. Harrap pub-
lishing firm, was not very complimentary
to its Government’s policy towards litera-
ture. From being the greatest book-buy-
ing public in any Empire country, he said,
M.L. was now the only country in the
Empire which imposed any quota or tax
on books imported from sterling areas.
Mr, Harrap might have gone further
and accused the Government of penalis-
ing its own writers by a tax. The free-
lance scribe sees red when he finds the
meagre cheques from N.Z. papers shorn
of half a crown in every pound. The
Government does not trust him to include
the 2s. 6d. in his income returns ; it insists
on the newspaper proprietor collecting.
To receive a Bulletin cheque for the
full amount earned acts as a salve to his
wounded feelings. Presumably M.L.
writs don’t run —or fly—across the
Tasman. — Uramao (M.L.).
“We Were the Rats”
I have been instructed to write to you
expressing our deep disapproval of the
Government’s action in connection with
the book We Were the Rats.
Many of our members, who are the
actual subject-matter of We Were the
Rats, feel that the passages objected to —
by a small band of Tasmanian women
not representative of the community—are
merely factual statements without which
the historic value of the book would be
lost.
It’s pretty grim when a small band of
women —apparently under the delusion
that war is a picnic—can cause the ban-
ning of a book which has been read and
enjoyed by thousands as a first-class por-
trayal of war and all that goes with it. —
J. Braham, Hon. Secretary, Rats of
Tobruk Association (Vic.).
New Deal for Politicians
Why the fuss about McKell’s Pensions
for Parliamenteers? That measure merely
brings payment of members to its logical
conclusion.
When electors allowed that first tax for
salaries to be levied, they surrendered a
very great power. Every politician’s
salary immediately became fixed, and had
to be paid according to law, no matter
how much the gentleman neglected his
constituency or his pre-election promises.
That salary vote reduced politics from a
vocation to a salaried position, to the
incalculable disadvantage of those who
had to pay the piper.
Perhaps this lost sense of vocation
could be restored to politics by relieving
the general taxpayer of the burden of
paying salaries, allowances and pensions.
They should be paid, if at all, to the indi-
vidual member by the individual elector-
ate. Electors would then have a very real
discipline for Ms.P. who wouldn’t be-
have. Every representative would be paid
by a local committee, with power to vary
the amount from month to month, with
the basic wage as a minimum.
Nobody can say the scheme wouldn t
work. Ministers of religion have been
on that basis for almost 2000 years. Why
not Ministers of State and members?.
W. S. W. (S.A.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are i —
-12 months .. .. .>£l4o
6 „ 12 6
3 * • >
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia '
12 months .. .. .. 16 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lOO
Forty-hour Week
“Country Unionist” (B. 8 / 5 / ’46) missed
an important point in his argument
against the 40-hour week —who’s going to
pay for it?
Commonsense tells me, and I’m no
unionist, that with the introduction of
40 hours one man in every fen must be
added to make up the other four hours.
The employer in turn must either in-
crease the price of his commodity or re-
duce wages in order to pay the extra
man. He surely won’t pay for it out of
present profits. I allow that there are
thousands who prefer the easygoing spirit
of “Country Unionist’s” boss to any
trade-union whip.—A. B. C. (N.S.W.).
Dutch Who Fought
Check to “Gunner X’s” contention (B.
1/5/’46) that the Dutch in Indonesia
failed to fight the Jap and spent the'war
years in the safe sanctuary of Australia.
In the Pacific a Dutch destroyer went
to sea with an Australian squadron, look-
ing for a reported enemy force. The
squadron found it, and in the ensuing
night action the Dutchman became sepa-
rated from the -main body. Just before
down the signals started coming in. The
first read: “Am engaging enemy cruiser.”
The Dutchman rated 2000 tons, the Jap
15,000 ; 4in. guns against 12 Sin. Then
“Am hit”; then “Am on fire”; then
silence.
With Somerville’s Eastern Battle Fleet
bombarding Sabang in Sumatra, Tromp
requested permission to engage. It wasn’t
a destroyers’ show, but the admiral
understood the feelings prompting the
Dutch request. Tromp raced in almost
to rifle shot of the shore batteries on
each side of the jungly harbor entrance,
and opened with rapid broadsides. She
fired to such effect that her magazines
were emptied. On the last run up she
took five shells inboard —one on the
foc’s’le, one on the fore director above
the bridge, another in the boiler-room,
the next in her stewards’ mess aft, while
the quarter-deck capstan stopped the last.
Instead of hauling off to seaward, the
Dutchman altered course in still closer,
headed back, and threw at the Jap a
mixture of all she had left —starshell,
h/a shell, even practice. If the
admiral hadn’t ordered her to rejoin
station in the destroyer screen she’d prob-
ably have aired her boarding party.
I’ve seen some frisky destroyer actions,
but the sight of that Dutchman snarling
and spitting almost inshore made us proud
to have her secure alongside our destroyer
on return to Trincomalee. — Macnell
(Vic.).
The Australian Officer
On one point “Peter Mike” (B.
8/5/’46) overstated his case, Fremantle
was a tough proposition for any non-
Labor candidate, and the brigadier’s
defeat could scarcely be ascribed to his
rank.
Brigadier Macarthur Onslow was de-
feated in Eden-Monaro in 1943. He
and Brigadier Dougherty, who is to
oppose Mr. Ward in East Sydney, en-
deared themselves to thousands under
their command, but even their outstand-
ing personalities cannot change the spots
of the staunch Labor supporter.
However, “Peter Mike’s” letter does
draw attention to what he calls “tradi-
tion and an effete Army system.” An
inquiry into officer-G.J. relations is
being conducted in the U.S.A., and a
similar investigation is needed here. Our
system is a heritage from the days when
the distinction between officers and men
was social. The officer came from
wealthy and influential classes, and he
commanded men who were either pro-
fessional soldiers or men pressed into
service ; often a rabble. For discipline
it was then necessary to distinguish
sharply between the two classes.
Now the set-up is entirely different.
Men of all callings volunteer. In time
some are chosen as officers, but still in
the ranks are businessmen, ’Varsity
graduates, teachers, skilled tradesmen,
technicians and many others of a high
order of intelligence. The chief reward
for the young officer should be increased
pay, but he also receives the “few privi-
leges” lightly touched on fey “Peter
Mike” and here elaborated;
(i) An officers’ mess, the nearest possible
approach to club life; (ii) an original uni- .
form allowance of £25, plus “annual re-
placement allowance; (iii) first-class travel;
(iv) on troopships, normal peace-time
saloon accommodation, where available;
(v) on the Transcontinental railway sleeper
accommodation, o.rs. riding in cattle
trucks or huddled eight to a compartment
with full gear; (vi) non-appearance on
early-morning admin. parade; (vii)
female visitors in the mess; (viii) in city
areas, unlimited opportunities of obtain-
ing bottled liquor from the mess; (ix)
and, of course, one batman per officer —
a shocking waste of manpower.
Those are only a few of the “few
privileges.” The thoughtful ranker
blames the system and not the individual
officer. But surely it is no wonder thal
the majority find it difficult to dissociate
the officer as a man from the officer as
part of the “effete Army system.” 1
need not point out that in tough spots
all distinctions melt away.
Any future plans for the Army must
include an investigation into this very
real problem. The result should be the
creation of a new conception of the
fighting man ; and officers will exist only
by virtue of their qualities of real leader-
ship and not by a collection of pips and
crowns on the shoulders. — Red and
Green (N.S.W.).
Looking for a Home
Just out of the R.A.A.F., I went look-
ing with the wife. We left house-agents
alone for three days, concentrating on
shops and tradesmen in selected suburbs.
Every time I saw a milkman, baker or ice-
man, I plied him with questions regard-
ing houses or flats. In this manner I
uncovered an amazing number of pros-
pects, but didn’t find a house.
I might have got tolerably suitable
accommodation but for the unwillingness
of those who could have provided it to
deal with a returned serviceman, who
could not be shifted if a bad tenant. No-
body was willing to take the risk.
My attack on the house-agents was an
eye-opener. I tried a seaside suburb first,
on the theory that in winter many holi-
day flats must be vacant. Many were,
and to the best of my knowledge still
are. Because a flat is designated a holi-
day flat, the owner or agent is able to
charge whatever he chooses and can get.
In most of these cases, two weeks was
the maximum period of tenancy allowed.
In every case the prospective tenant was
required to sign a statement that he had
a home of his own and would leave the
holiday premises on expiration of the two
weeks. I could have had many such flats
at from four to 12 guineas a week.
Legislation has been passed covering
the availability of “holiday” places, but
the question of rent has not been decided.
Until it is, and until rents of these holi-
day houses and flats are brought under
control, the law can have little effect.
I haven’t even mentioned the heart-
breaking uselessness of trying to buy or
build a permanent home. —Still Look-
ing (N.S.W.).
New Guinea Trials
In acquitting Lieut.-General Kawakubo
in New Guinea, the Judge Advocate drew
attention to the fact that magistrates in
tfie Territory combined the powers of
Judge and jury, and that no legal officers
were present to defend the natives.
Before the war, natives charged under
the Queensland
Criminal Code in the
Central Court had
legal officers allo-
cated to their defence
Europeans pro-
vided their own
counsel. For neither
black nor white was
there a jury. Sen-
tence of death on
one European and
on many natives has
been carried out
under these condi-
tions.
In the District
Courts magistrates,
under various Acts
and Ordinances,
could try and con-
vict Europeans and
natives without bene-
fit of counsel or
jury, but sentences
were limited. Indict-
able offences were
remanded to the
Central Court.
When natives were
tried in District
Courts a junior
officer, if available,
was detailed to act
as defending counsel.
A prosecuting officer
was required when
Europeans were on
trial and the accused
could carry out their
own defence.
The question of juries has been raised
frequently but has been considered im-
practicable in a country of small and
scattered communities. —F. J. G. (N.S.W.).
The Tobacco Mystery
Whenever a little time can be spared
by the Federal “Government” from burb-
ling about new shipping lines, duplicat-
ing State activities in the employment
control line and otherwise wasting public
funds, it might, with much public appro-
bation, arrange for an investigation of
the tobacco-famine, and of its real causes.
The trade explanation of “shortage of
female labor” has become more than a
trifle hackneyed. It is admitted that there
are ample supplies of tobacco leaf in
Australia and lots more coming forward.
Other industries in which female labor
was formerly preponderant have been
faced with this same alleged disinclination
of women to take up such work again.
They have met it by filling the vacancies
from the large and growing supplies of
ex-servicemen and other labor now avail-
able. They have found that the higher
wages for men have been more than bal-
anced by greater efficiency and output
and far less absenteeism.
And the inquiring authority might well
be charged with the additional duty of
ascertaining Australia’s prospects of pro-
ducing its own tobacco supply in full, and
of building up a future export trade.
Large areas of eastern Australia, ranging
from Victoria to North Queensland, are
provenly suitable for production of leaf
equal to the best imported kinds for pipe
and cigarette tobaccos. Papua and New
Guinea possess indigenous species of
tobacco of the highest quality, given suit-
able methods of preparation. Samples
sent to England in the late 1890’s by
Governor William MacGregor sold for
as much as 18s. a pound and elicited in-
terested inquiry from the trade. With
native labor available, a highly successful
industry might easily be developed there,
with beneficial results alike to the native
population and to the Australian tax-
payer.
Mr. Chifley’s eternally-depicted pipe
has become a sort of world trademark
for Australia during his hurried jaunt
abroad. It would be all the more appro-
priate were he to lose no time after his
return in getting busy on Australia’s
tobacco situation, present and future. —
Colbun (Q.).
Mother India
Two things limit increase in the Indian
population famine and epidemics.
British efforts to counteract these have
been tremendous, and the latest is a
gigantic scheme of irrigation. If it suc-
ceeds, there will be a further enormous
increase in population and once more
disease and famine will take over unless
there is a fundamental change in Indian
thinking
The Hindu mother and father believe
that if a girl has reached the re-
quisite age for reproducing her species
and neglects to do it she will be reborn
as an insect in ordure and have to go
through a tedious series of painful re-
incarnations before she can regain her
human status. This sounds a queer
belief, but it is no queerer than scores
“Well, what if I DO blow it only four times in the
show — I've got to clean it afterwards!"
of other Hindu beliefs, such as that it is
dangerous to kill an anopheles mosquito
in case it contains the soul of a relative.
So that it is his own prejudices, not the
British Raj, which stand between the
Indian and the solution of his most press-
ing problem. If the fertile area of the
country were doubled tomorrow, it would
be overpopulated within a few genera-
tions.
I was moved to this disquisition by
reading the following item in a Victorian
geography textbook for Government
schools, written by the present Professor
of Education, G. S. Browne, and Dr.
A. V. G. James and published in 1935:
Great Britain looks after India and tries
to make it a happy and prosperous country
which some day will take care of its own
affairs. The British have a hard task, be-
cause the Indians do not like them being
there and would like them to go away.
Chitrani’s father fells us, however, that he
hopes the British stay in India, because
they keep famine away and prevent the
Indians fighting one another.
This and references to Russia as a back-
ward country of small farmers, and to a
little Italian blackshirt of seven years who
has just been admitted to a club, which
is “called the Balilla and is somewhat
like our Boy Scouts,” have moted the
present Minister of Education to order
a revision. But what are they going to
put in the new edition that won’t have to
be revised in another decade when present
friends have possibly become enemies,
and vice versa ? — Lao-dah (Vic.).
Transport Aircrews
In “Beauforts in N.G.” (B. 1 /5/’46)
“Oscar ex-266” attempts to answer my
plea for recognition of transport air-
crews with a passionate defence of his
Beaufort squadron.
My comparison of transport work with
the Beauforts operating in that area was
to show that the transport lads deserved
equal recognition, and of this Air Board
has now admitted the justice. •
A letter from the Secretary for Air
advises me that crews operating with civil
airlines in forward areas are to be granted
Pacific Star, 1939-45 Star and returned
active service badge, as well as the over-
seas rate of gratuity.—43432B (Q.).
Wheat for Dog Biscuits
The Scully assertion that there would
have been “a large increase in the number
of sheep killed by graziers and farmers
for feeding their dogs” had Mr. Scully not
issued 40,000 bushels of wheat (at 4s.
lid.) for dog biscuits is as weak as water.
All we know of meat which would be sent
to Britain if the Government could get
it away is known. I should like to meet
the farmer or grazier of my acquaint-
ance who “kills” for the maintenance of
his dogs! Towser on the farm lives on
the good nature of the cook and has
hungry times. Occasionally an old sheep
may be saved up for dogs’ meat, but it is
never fit for human consumption, usually
cancerous or an otherwise poor doer —
and it is rarely that the station dog gets
more than kitchen bones and a blowout
at the weekly “killing.” I suspect that
the chap that gets the biscuits is a racing
greyhound. Ask the poultry farmer how
many eggs would be produced on 40,000
bushels of wheat. — Cuchulain (N.S.W.).
The Australian Film
At last, after many years, the Austra-
lian film business may develop a first-
class producing unit. The big man of
English films, J. Arthur Rank, is estab-
lishing a studio here. I trust it doesn’t
mean that he will have Australian film
enterprise by the throat.
Lack of capital has held down our
film-making since pictures were in their
infancy. Once every three or four years
an Australian picture is produced. Now
even this weak effort may lapse into
nothingness with Mr. Rank operating.
Surely there is enough money in the
country for the formation of an Austra-
lian co., beginning with short features,
with our national sporting champions in
action, and travelogues. These are popu-
lar, and should find a world-wide market.
Staff men could be trained, and script-
writers could gain experience. As capi-
tal grew, larger ventures could be under-
taken.
The lives of famous Australians of past
years would make fine films, besides tell-
ing the world of their exploits.
We have had .dozens of films glorify-
ing foreign heroes and practically none
telling of our own. The first (and not
the last, it is hoped) is the life of Charles
Kingsford Smith. There are many which
could follow.
Hollywood flooded the British theatres
with pictures during World War I. Then
the British Parliament made it law that
British-produced films must be exhibited,
and a ready market was opened to the
British producer. —R. L. F. (R.A.A.F.).


MACHINE TOOLS
for the
TASKS AHEAD..
'
.
imill
'
iiilSIS
*
LIMITED
SELLING AGENTS FOR
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA P
546 Collins Street, MELBOURNE 260 Kent St., 51 Bathurst St.
ip '• J
116 Waymouth Street. ADELAIDE 532 Murray Street
T ** > ,
*MT&~CHU&CMrU.
mSTMUA
