

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67 —No. 3449
Wednesday, March 20, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE "WORCESTER" TRAINING SHIP.
'■pO those who know the lower reaches and the estuary of the
Thames, the old men-of-war at anchor here and there, now
in use as training ships, are familiar objects. The “Worcester,”
a two-decker, of 4725 tons, formerly the “Frederick William,”
was moored off Greenhithe in the 1860’s and became known
officially as the Thames Nautical Training College after having
been lent to the Thames Marine Officers’ Training Ship Society.
Boys were educated on this vessel for a seafaring career at a cost
of from forty five to fifty guineas a year, and the Board of Trade
allowed two years spent on her to count as one year’s sea service.
The Admiralty also favored the ship by nominating some of the
boys to cadetships in the Royal Naval Reserve, and Queen Victoria
gave prizes for competitions. Almost a thousand old boys from
“Worcester” served in World War I.


Learn
This Book FREE to YOU'
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write / or Profit a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB- 146 . AGE
The Red Page
A GAVIN CASEY NOVEL.
When Gavin Casey’s It’s Harder for
Girls was published, a reviewer in
“Southerly” observed that there was a
recognisable “Casey hero” appearing in
nearly all the stories —a young man
doomed to eternal disappointment.
The same gloomy, bitter, disillusioned,
self-pitying young man —the one who
had been sick and miserable while every-
one else was happy at the “Buck Party”
—was to be found in Mr. Casey’s second
book of short stories. Birds of a Feather,
where, while all the other racing motor-
cyclists enjoyed their adventure, he,
soured and depressed, wanted to “have
done with it all.”
Consequently, though he had attempted
humor in Birds of a Feather, it was true
enough as a generalisation to say that Mr.
Casey had written only one short story.
When you had read “Short Shift Satur-
day,” in which his unquestionably power-
ful art reached its lirttits, you had read
everything he had to say.
Downhill Is Easier (Angus and Robert-
son), his first novel, is the same thing
over again. Or rather, over and over
and countless times over again: for
while the “Casey hero,” working on the
goldfields, drifts downhill until he be-
comes accessory to a murder and ought
to become principal in a suicide, he is
hopeful then disillusioned, resolute then
weak, happy then depressed again, on
almost every page:
When I did get back' to the hall I was
full of beer and self-satisfaction. But
what I saw drove the self-satisfaction out
of me, and seemed to turn the beer sour.
In a sense, all writers repeat them-
selves. In any man’s work one is
aware, ultimately, of the mind behind it.
There is an outlook, a philosophy, a
point of view ; and even a new Dickens
novel, were so superb a gift still possible,
would be “typical” Dickens. But how
rich, how fertile, how multifarious were
the elements that made up the unity of
Dickens’s mind! Considering any one of
his novels, let alone the stupendous
orchestration of his work as a whole, it is
not repetition that one Thinks of but in-
vention ; the lavishness, the prodigality of
his imagination ... that one man could
create so wide a world and manipulate
such a host of characters.
Downhill Is Easier ; it must be said,
forces upon one an awareness of the limi-
tations of Gavin Casey’s world —as it has
so far been revealed ; its narrowness ; the
poverty of hrs invention. There are the
“Casey hero,” the long-suffering wife and
the noble-minded “mate” ; and that—
almost —is all.
To what extent Mr. Casey could extend
his powers no one can say. But it is cer-
tain that he is imposing unnecessary limi-
tations on himself by the style and method
he has adopted. Owing most likely to the
difficulties a short-story writer finds in
attempting the more complex patterns of
the novel, the story-telling method of
Downhill Is Easier is simple to the point
of naivety. Mr. Casey uses his hero as a
sort of barometer; he walks up to this
barometer, taps it and the barometer says
it “feels good” ; Mr. Casey takes a turn
round the room, comes back and taps his
barometer again and it says it “feels
bad”; on the next page it feels good
again ;on the next, bad; and so —with a
few variations in which it feels “pretty
pleased with itself” or “pretty sour”—
the barometer records the simple weather
of its mind until Mr. Casey sends it to
jail, where it remains permanently set
foul.
The effect on the reader, compelled to
share these ups and downs, is a certain
giddiness ;as if —to change the metaphor
—Mr. Casey had taken one for a long
ride on a see-saw.
Both here, and in the severely collo-
quial style he adopts, the writer has
obviously been affected by Hemingway.
Ihe “Casey hero” is Hemingway’s
“Dumb Ox” slightly modified into a Sad
Ox. Something is gained, perhaps, by
restricting one’s exploration of the soul
of ma R to the phrases “feels good” and
“feels bad” ; something may be gained by
subjecting English prose to the limitations
of a barren proletarian language: but
worlds are lost. And, beyond dispute,
the possibility of variation is abandoned.
By this method and in this style Mr.
Casey can never play more than one tune.
To that tune, as far as he has developed
it, there is a fundamental objection.
When the hero of Downhill Is Easier,
having acquiesced in the murder of a de-
tective, is finally being hounded to his
doom —when he is in terror of the police
and when he is trapped—there are pas-
sages of genuinely tragic intensity;
powerful, almost nightmarish writing,
Casey at his best. But the book as a
whole depresses. The “atmosphere” is
grimy ; the mood miserable ; and the hero
at the end is imprisoned in an eternity
of remorse and gloom. As Hazlitt said
of the “domestic tragedies” of Moore and
Lillo, the novel is “a dead weight upon
the mind, a load of misery which it is
unable to shake off” —because it “appeals
to only one of our faculties, our sensi-
bility.”
One wonders, really, what pleasure Mr.
Casey finds in writing this sort of thing.
Does it make him “feel good”? Can it
possibly be intended for his readers’
enjoyment!
If there is a grim sort of enjoyment to
be extracted from Downhill Is Easier it
is because the concluding chapters do
approach tragedy and because a new por-
trait is added to the Casey gallery—a boss
gold thief named South, who is so in-
tensely unpleasant a character that —as it
should be —it is a pleasure to read about
him. Also there are times when the
“Casey hero” speaks out of character:
I wondered if South had ever done any-
thing like this before. Perhaps he had, at
some time in his violent, mysterious past.
It wasn’t hard to imagine a good deal of
blood and brutality along Peter’s trail
through life, once you had seen him in
action —
so that one is reminded that, when he
gives himself a chance, Gavin Casey is an
eloquent as well as a powerful writer:
and that, with only a small extension of
his narrow world, much would be
possible.
The Eyes of a Lynd.
Robert Lynd hardly looks at life
through the eyes of a lynx; there’s a
gentleness in his Things One Hears
(Dent) that is both its principal charm
and its greatest disadvantage. The essays
lack intensity, but seen through the eyes
of a Lynd the world is certainly a plea-
sant place.
He likes the little oddities of life: the
fact that native mystics in North Africa,
by breathing deeply, are said to be able to
drive nails into their skulls without dis-
comfort ; that, according to a London
newspaper (whose correspondent must
have got his information from some Bul-
letin Aboliar), great havoc was caused in
Australia a few years ago by a beetle
that lived on trouser-buttons ; that, on the
authority of a chance acquaintance in a
restaurant, mules have been cured of
some unnamed —probably unnameable —
neurosis by the methods of pyscho-
analysis ; that Pliny believed in the exist-
ence of a tribe known as the Umbrella-
feet, whose custom in hot weather was to
lie on their backs and protect themselves
from the sun with the shadows of their
feet; that the curious passion of philately
still survives on the earth ; that everyone
who ever “touched wood” .or threw a
pinch of salt over his shoulder is afraid
of Nemesis ; that, in their zeal to confuse
the Nazis should they have invaded Eng-
land during the dark days of the war,
some villagers, while the authorities were
removing the signposts from the roads,
took the names of their cottages from the
gates.
But the book is more than a collection
of oddities. It is, in a minor way, the
expression of a completely civilised mind,
putting forward a philosophy of toler-
ance, patience, steadfastness, humor. In
the essay entitled “Window View,” for
instance, Lynd records hearing a child in
a London bus cry out with delight
“Look! Damage! Damage! ” every time
some bombed ruin met her eyes, and he
reflects;
After all, we older people in our love
of sight's cannot claim any moral superior-
ity to her. How pleasant it is to be shown
over a church where Cromwell’s men once
knocked off the noses of, or otherwise
mutilated, the figures on the tombs! . To
be interested in such things does not imply
agreement with Cromwell’s men; but, if
Cromwell’s men did such things, we like
to see the effects of the things they did
Twice I was nearly drowned, and, though
the thing happened on each occasion too
suddenly to be as terrifying as I should
have expected, it was unpleasant: yet, in
memory, my all-but drowning has become
something agreeably seen through a window.
I should not now like to have missed those
experiences that had no sugar of happiness
in them.
In their style and their form, as in their
thought, the essays give the same im-
pression of being, as it were, a distilla-
tion: each one no more than a single
drop of experience, but beautiful in shape
and sparkle.
Wells at the End of His Tether
At 79 Wells .has sung his swansong,
and it is a dirge, not only for himself,
but all mankind; in fact, life in general.
In a brochure of fewer than 400 pages
called Mind at the End of Its Tether
(Heinemann) he makes his- last pro-
phecy, which is the doom of life on this
planet.
He gives the reason why he did it. In
a vast compendium called ’42 to ’44,
he stated his case in full. Then The
doctors gave him a fright. They told
him he would die in 12 months. So he
immediately collected everything relevant
to his subject in condensed form and
rushed it into print at a price that would
put his direful prognostications within
reach of the humblest pocket; which was
very generous of him.
The doctors were wrong. Wells now
thinks he is very far from dying; never-
theless, so convinced is he that Man is
done for even if Wells isn’t that he has
made this his last will and testament.
The distinguished writer, who in his
time, has proclaimed himself the Messiah
of several world orders, at least two re-
ligions and an age of science, now finds
that, “within a period to be estimated by
weeks and months rather than by aeons,
there has been a fundamental change in
the conditions under which life, not
simply human life, but all selfconscious
existence, has been going on since its
beginning”-—a very startling persuasion
which he is sure will be entirely unac-
ceptable to the ordinary rational man. A
series of events has’forced on him the
realisation that “this world is at the end
of its tether, the end of everything we
call life is at hand and cannot be
evaded”:—
The human story is finished and Homo
sapiens, as he has been pleased to call
himself, is in his present form played out;
the stars in their courses have turned
against him, and he has to give place t'o
some other animal better adapted to face
the fate that closes in more and more
swiftly on mankind.
The explanation? “The rotation of
the earth and its annual cumulation in its
orbit are slowing down; terrestrial
vitality is slowing down ; the years, the
days grow longer; the human mind is
active still but it pursues and contrives
endings and death.”
It was an accident produced Man.
The whole vast world of backboned
animals, including ourselves, owes its exist-
ence to a freak of Nature. There was no
reason, whatever in it. If happened so.
But now the world is a jaded world
devoid of recuperative power:
In the past he [Wells] has liked to think
that Man could pull out of his entangle-
ments and start a new creative phase of
human living. In the face of our universal
inadequacy that optimism has given place to
a stoical cynicism. The old men behave
for the most part meanly and disgustingly,
and the young are spasmodic, foolish and
all too easily misled. Man must go steeply
up or steeply down, and the odds seem all
in favor of his going steeply down and
out. If he goes up then so great is the
adaptation demanded of him that he must
cease to be a man. Ordinary man is at the
end of his tether. Only a small, highly
adaptable minority of the species can pos-
sibly survive.
Wells thinks that the animal which will
replace man may be “an entirely alien
strain, or it may arise as a new modifi-
cation of the hominidce (the man-apes)
and even as a direct continuation of the
human phylum, but it will certainly not
be human.”
After which, Wells offers some surely
superfluous advice on how human beings
should behave —during the few years left
to them.
The best answer to Wells, of course, is
the simple assertion that those eminent
backboned hominidce named Homer,
Rubens, Shakspeare, Beethoven and H.
G. Wells were not “accidents” ; and that
if we can cope with the confounded
atomic bomb it is quite certain that
5000 years from now elderly prophets
will still belaying exactly what Wells is
saying.
FENG-SHUI.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: Recent art shows in Melbourne
include flowerpieces by Violet Mclnnes
at the Athenaeum and watercolor sketches
and drawings by Frank Medworth, of
Sydney Technical College, at George’s.
The widow of W. B. Mclnnes paints
in the Bernard Hall tradition and
her flowerpieces have all the literalness
of that painter’s manner, Mr. Med-
worth vaguely recalls Matisse, with under-
tones of his own academic training.
“Sunlight Balcony, Sydney,” is a lively
drawing. Max Meldrum’s show of port-
raits at Myer’s Gallery includes early
self-portraits and some of his wife and
family. Meldrum’s art is purely con-
cerned with the measuring of relationships
of color, tone and form as they occur in
Nature. He has probably pushed impres-
sionism to its furthest logical extension
and his influence on Australian art in this
direction has been tremendous. His
recent work comprises an impressive array
of Judges, scientists and professors, gor-
geous in scarlet and ermine. There is
the usual touch of staccato in them, owing
to the strong electric light in which they
are painted.
“J.F.” has the horrors:
Personally, I’ve had my fill of horrors in
Sydney for one week. First, there was
“Ghosts” at Bryant’s Playhouse, a play Ibsen
must have written in a melancholy mood of
weakness ; then the “Australia at War” exhibi-
tion at the N. S. Wales National Gallery, with
its plethora of carnage; and after all this I
went to the Independent Theatre and saw
“Mourning Becomes Electra.”
The horrific note was struck in both
“Mourning Becomes Electra” aryl “Ghosts,”
and there was some similarity between Bruce
Beeby’s part, as Lieutenant Orin Mannon, and
Alan Poolman’s role as the unhappy hero of
“Ghosts.” The lieutenant, a hero-despite-him-
self, has a penchant for babbling about the
“realities” of war in the drawingroom, and
Ibsen’s young man is apt to babble about
almost anything, being sunk in a perpetual
Nordic gloom. Both of them are young and
unfortunate, and there is something unmanly
about the character of each.
The chief exponents of the “realities” of
war at the gallery were Frank McNamara, T.
Rafty and John Stuart Downie: their pictures
were “Sons of Nippon,” “Two Sons of
Heaven” and “Sons of Heaven—Finschhafen”
respectively; all three containing Jap corpses.
From which the conclusion may be drawn
that there is something uniquely horrible about
dead Japanese; which is nonsense. Any litter
of broken limb’s seen in a painting, in normal
surroundings, will, provided the picture is
vivid enough, repel the average observer. But
that repulsion is not a true reflection of what
takes place in the mind of a man who sees
the original at a time of great activity or
danger. Horrors are incidental then. There-
fore, there is no greater obligation for a war
artist to take his material from cadavers than
there is for his civilian colleague to haunt the
casualty wards of hospitals or the abattoirs,
where there are horrors in plenty.
The morbid element in “Ghosts” is implicit
in the story, which concerns a widow who has
built up a monument of respectable legend
around the memory of her husband, a drunken
rake; her son, who suffers for the sins of- his
father; a pretty servant-girl with whom the
son falls in love and who turns out to be his
illegitimate half-sister; and a pastor who keeps
breaking in and thundering denunciations and
exhortations. But the widow, charmingly
played by Gwen Harrison, is more than a
match for him, confounding him with her
logic. All of which rather spoils the direct-
ness of the drama, for it is not always clear
whether Ibsen is thumping home a moral about
the sins of the fathers or tilting at the conven-
tions. As a matter of fact, he is doing both,
tying up the conventions —the “ghosts” of the
play—with the tragedy; as is clear in the fine
analysis of the father—belated, but like a flash
of the real Ibsen amid the fog of shallow
truisms. The determined tilting at orthodoxy
is wearisome, its “daring” is anachronistic and,
at' this late date, about as startling as a cam-
paign to obtain votes for women.
“Mourning Becomes Electra” had none of
these faults. It lost nothing in drama from
the American Civil War setting, and the un-
usual utilisation of CEdipus complexes, death-
fulfilment dreams, etc., was so skilfully woven
into the texture of the play that it was in no
way obtrusive, as were Ibsen’s didactic
speeches. In any case, playwrights, whatever
their techniques, have always been psycholo-
gists.
But, despite the drama and the poetic
beauty of the language, “Mourning Becomes
Electra” is not a great play. And only the
excuse of greatness can justify a trilogy of 12
acts. The human mind is so constituted that
even beauty palls. Some of the scenes between
Lavinia Maddon and her mother, which were
tense enough at first, degenerated into
squabbles between two women; “scenes” in-
deed. There was something clinical and de-
pressing about the characters after a prolonged
dose of their hatreds, and passions, and
crimes; instead of gaining stature in tragedy
they lost it, becoming abnormal unfortunates;
a silly woman, a repressed girl, a weak boy
and so on. The emotions, so far from being
“purged by pity and terror,” were stunned with
excess. Which is the same thing as saying
that, whatever “Mourning Becomes Electra’s”
considerable virtues may be, in the final
analysis it is inferior art.
In both plays the acting was, on the whole,
good. Gwendolen Head, as Regina, Ibsen’s
servant-girl, appeared to be nervous at first,
which made her overact, but as she gained
confidence she gave a fine performance, second
only to Gwen Harrison’s. Tom Lake,,as the
pastor, did well within the limitations of the
part, but Alan Poolman overloaded his
originally pathetic part with extraneous pathos
—or horror. In any case, he took a long
time to die, which was a pity, for it was really
the point of the play.
Bruce Beeby did much better as Oriri in
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” although he was
not assisted by the fact that he was required
to hold his head in his hands and mutter
darkly about corpses. He was aided, on the
other hand, by the fact that he was one victim
among many, and took an active part in the
tragedy, whereas Poolman was a passive and,
physically at least, a solitary sufferer.
In the dual parts of Brigadier-General Ezra
Mannon and Captain Adam Brant, Ivor
Bromley Smith had characters congenial to his
talents. Lusty, forthright fellows, and, as
always when such is the case, he gave a good
performance.
As Lavinia Mannon, Elaine Foster played a
difficult part well. If she erred at all it was
on the side of intensity, which, “Vmny” being
what she was, was probably a good fault. Much
of her dramatic force was obtained by dint of
narrowed eyes, a taut face and a forward in-
clination of the neck, as of a snake poised to
strike, which, with her sombre clothing, was
singularly effective. But as scene succeeded
scene and crisis followed crisis her t'autness
seemed unnatural. She could, indeed, have
represented a war artist conscientiously staring
at horrors.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
v
cV vfat
REPLICA OF XVMIth
CENTURY CLOCK
In a beautifully proportioned
Mahogany case. Modern high
class movement. Height, 14-j
inches. Price £lB/18/-
OLD FRENCH
MANTEL CLOCK
In Vernis Martin. Delicately painted
with Watteau figures and floral side
panels. With handsome gilt and
enamel dial this antique clock is an
outstanding example of fine French
craftsmanship. Eight-day movement.
Height, 17 inches. Price .. £52/fb/-
rys*/*
w.
LW (1 \
mm
IHi
mmm
HH
: 8
B
i mh n
ssm»
ANTIQUE WALL
CLOCK
With plain white dial and black
numerals. In old inlaid Walnut
case this clock will be appre-
ciated by the connoisseur of
fine craftsmanship. Height, 22
inches. Price £3l/10/-
s
mm
m
m
m
ow
GRANDFATHER CLOCK
Late Georgian period Vin Mahogany
case of simple but stately design.
Silvered dial and eight-day move-
ment. Height, 6 ft. 4 in. Price, £B5
• Fine Art Gallery—Fourth Floor
CHIPPENDALE GRAND-
FATHER CLOCK
Made in 1785 (approximately), this
well preserved clock with silvered
dial is enclosed in a fine old
Mahogany case. Height, 8 ft. Eight-
day movement. Price £l2O
*
An Exhibition of
Paintings
At Anthony Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery,
commencing Wednesday, March 20, an
exhibition of Paintings by Frank S.
Rodriguez will be on view. Admission
Free—Proceeds from sale of Catalogues to
Legacy. Official opening, M,arch 20, 3.30
p.m., by the Honorable C. E. Martin,
M.L.A.
‘"*v
•)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES (
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


Pelman Note to Members of the Services: No. I
ON BEING INTERVIEWED
ON being interviewed as a civilian seeking work the
prospective employer will probably ask you to sit
down. If, by chance, he is the kind who does not
ask you, do not let it disturb you.
gEFORE entering the room breathe deeply a few times
and then relax. This will steady you, particularly your
voice, which is a very important factor in impressing
people. Some employers like a man to carry himself as if
on parade. Most of them will be satisfied, and favourably
impressed, if your bearing is that of a man who has been
trained to fitness. So let your bodily carriage be easy. As a
trained man, control of your body in all its parts is instinc-
tive. Let habit look after your body and give your mind
fully to the purpose of the interview.
*
involves mental effort, but it also induces a happy
attitude of mind. If you have been in any branch of
the Service which continued the working experience of
your pre-war life, there is probably amplification of experi-
ence. State your war experience as it concerned your work.
Refer to any special responsibility you had whilst in the
Service, but do not emphasise it unless the work you are
seeking would involve a similar responsibility.
[ F you have not had experience in the work you are seek-
*■ ing, or only a limited or theoretical experience, remem-
ber that you would not be being interviewed if there was
not a reasonable chance of being engaged. Before the inter-
view review your activities before the war and whilst in
the Service for what would be useful in the work you are
seeking. Observe particularly the development of apti-
tudes through actual training and through any courses of
study you have undertaken. Let your mind move on these
matters so that you can not only answer questions precisely
but also volunteer anything that is pertinent. Have in
mind, too, the addresses and standing of any people
who know you and a reference to whom might help you.
Speak distinctly. Start now the habit of using your
lips and tongue properly so that your speech will be easy.
Be serious in your intention: get ready for the interview by
reflection and thought. Pay attention to your appearance.
Prepare to make as good a first impression as you can, but
without any implication of seeking to ingratiate yourself.
Learn the name of the man you are going to see, and call
him by his name now and then, but not often enough to
imply familiarity.
Keep your mind outwards all the time. The inter-
viewer is trying to feel your pulse, and quite properly so,
and you should seek about for his, and, again, quite
properly so.
Your Application Is Individual
EEP in mind that you are a man, an honest man who
has given most honourable service to his country.
You are seeking to give similar service to an employer.
Regard your application as a purely personal matter. Do
not talk, or even think, about the claims of discharged men
in general. If the question of returned men in general
should arise talk appreciatively of what is being done for
them, not critically of what is not being done.
Take the modicum of time necessary to reflect on your
answer to questions. Reflection includes what is implied in
the question and the phrasing of the answer. But do not
hesitate. Deliberation is not hesitation. It is the obvious
exercise of thought to express briefly, clearly and fully
what is in the mind of the speaker. Start now to train
yourself to think closely and express yourself clearly and
quickly.
If you volunteer any information apply the same rules.
Watch out for the movements of the body as well as for
facial expression and for the tones of voice that indicate
what is passing in the interviewer’s mind. This again
means keeping the mind outwards. If you are thinking
about yourself your mind will be turned inwards and you
will miss the intimations of what is happening in the inter-
viewer’s mind. His movements, gestures and tones of voice
are the chart by which you steer. Keep your eyes and ears
open. When the interview is finished do not wait upon the
order of your going. Say “Goodbye. Thank you,” and go.
The Courtesies
OBSERVE the usual courtesies o£ social intercourse. Be
a good listener. Employers are human and they do
not like to be interrupted. Neither do they like to be antici-
pated, so i£ you do see what is coming be quiet and look
interested. Above all, do not translate what he says. You
may have got the habit o£ saying “I see what you mean”
(and repeating it all over again). If you say it better than
he said it he won’t like it. I£ you don’t say it better you are
a time-waster. Be agreeable and courteous to any subordi-
nate members of the staff whom you might see: they may
put in a word for you afterwards.
You are in a strange world, the degree of its unfamili-
arity being in direct ratio to your years of service. There
will be much that will disturb you. Two things you must
seek to make constant in your mind. First, that all decent
people are prepared to show friendliness, and second, that
you must fight for yourself the demons of cynicism,
despair and self-depreciation as firmly and 4 courageously as
you fought other enemies for other people.
You will be helped, in being interviewed as in every
other circumstance of life, by the fact that to every one of
us is attached at least one person whose spirit ranges with
ours and whose prayers, uttered or unexpressed, go up
for us.
E. H. WELFORD,
Director, Pelman Institute (O/seas).
This announcement will he followed at intervals by others, each intended to help members of the Services, men and women, to a
comfortable adjustments civil life. Civilian readers will, we believe, find in these announcements indications of means by which the
Serviceman’s re-entry to civil life will be made easier.
We are grateful to "The Bulletin" for making this space available to us.—THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, MELBOURNE.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is approved by the War Office, London,
and under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme. The Pelman Institute has enrolled nearly Eleven
Thousand members of the Services since 1939. Particulars of the Pelman Course are sent on request to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Corner Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute, with the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to meet the financial
restrictions and enable residents of New Zealand to enrol
i&r the Pelman Course of Training without delay. Write
» the first instance to the Pelman Institute, Melbourne.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please post me a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME Address


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3449
Wednesday, March 20, 1946
OUTSKI!
“Having come to know some of Russia’s greatest statesmen, I take the view that the Soviet’s policy is directed towards self-protection and security against future
attacks.”— Dr. Evatt, at San Francisco the Great Champion of the Small Nations.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ‘Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp .
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AN EVATTICAN REVIEW.
What has happened to the Minister of
External Affairs, that knight-errant of the
Little Peoples? He seems to have suf-
fered a sea-change such as he underwent,
though more gradually, between his writ-
ing of Liberalism in Australia and his
arrival in the N.S.W. Assembly as mem-
ber of a socialist Labor party.
“Liberalism in Australia,” Dr. Evatt
wrote in the book with that title, “is the
spirit of Liberalism taking its time to
reveal itself, and teaching its adherents
in the rest of the world its new possibili-
ties in practice and even its new impli-
cations in theory.... But that it is as
much a living force today as when it
entered its first protests against privilege
and tyranny no one who knows the ideals
of Australia can reasonably doubt.”
He quoted a Churchillian parallel:
Socialism would destroy private in-
terests. Liberalism would preserve private
interests in the only way in which they can
safely and justly be preserved, namely, by
reconciling them with public right. Social-
ism would kill enterprise. Liberalism
would rescue enterprise from the trammels
of privilege and preference. Socialism
assails the pre-eminence of the individual.
Liberalism seeks, and shall seek more in
the future, to build up a minimum standard
for the mass. Socialism exalts the rule;
Liberalism exalts the man. Socialism
attacks capital; Liberalism attacks
monopoly.
But the learned author was alive to a
tendency which he deplored:
It is not consoling to find that Liberal
parties in England, as well as in Australia,
are* tending towards an adoption of the
caucus system. It is on this question
that Liberalism should be prepared to fight
once again for freedom and liberty, and it
is wrong that those ideals of political and
social philosophy should be sacrificed on
the altar of utility and party discipline.
Meanwhile we must express the hope that
the vital principle of representative gov-
ernment will not be sacrificed.
Pledge, as well as caucus, was repug-
nant to the aspiring young man. Labor
arguments for the pledge, that it was
sanctioned by precedent, expediency and
necessity, he examined and shattered:
Expediency and necessity do not justify
a system which strikes at the principles of
the responsibility of Parliament to the
people and of the freedom of Parlia-
mentary discussion. The pledge is cer-
tainly not “moral” in any real sense of the
term.
Few copies of Liberalism in Australia
have escaped the ravages of time. One
has been preserved by Richard Thomp-
son, a Sydney M.L.C, To Mr. Thompson
it is astonishing that a man who could
so extol Liberalism and condemn pledge-
and-caucus, one of his grounds being that
minority rule is “quite possible under the
caucus system,” should have signed a pledge
which binds him, among other things, to
“actively support and advocate at all
times the party’s objective, the socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and, exchange,” and should have been since
October 7, 1941, “a member of a Gov-
ernment controlled by a caucus which
in turn is controlled by forces outside
Parliament —by trade-union groups, many
of which are riddled by the white-ants of
Communism.”
Others, mindful of this being an
old story, are astonished rather at Dr.
Evatt’s part in the martyrdom of the Aus-
tralia Firsters (among them two wounded
Diggers of World War I, one of whom
died before his vindication), pronounced
innocent by a royal commissioner of his
own choosing, remembering how indig-
nant he was at the treatment of the Tol-
puddle Martyrs—after all, they had a
trial —and at his abandonment of the
cause of the Little Peoples implied in his
assertion that “Russia’s present expan-,
sionist policy is defensive and not aggres-
sive in intent,” being “directed towards
self-protection and security against future
attacks.” Didn’t Hitler say that of his
“expansionist policy”?
Last year this Minister was so elated
at the praises of Little Peoples for his
efforts at the San Francisco conference
that he had the crowning compliment
to him inserted in a State paper:
At the final meeting of the Steering
Committee the delegate of Peru proposed
a special vote “by way of homage to the
greatest champion of the small Powers—
the Foreign Minister of Australia, Herbert
Vere Evatt.” The chairmen of the delega-
tions rose to their feet and carried the vote
by acclamation.
This was after he had had a hand in
shaping “the Purposes of the United
Nations.”
1. To maintain international peace and
Security, and, to that end, to take effective
collective measures for the prevention and
removal of threats to the peace, and for the
suppression of acts of aggression or other
breaches of the peace
4. All Members shall refrain in their
international relations from the threat or
use of force against the territorial in-
, tegrity or political independence of arty
State, or in any other manner inconsistent
with the Purposes of the United Nations.
Recommending the Charter of the
United Nations Bill to Parliament
(August 30, 1945), he referred to “the
changes in the original Dumbarton Oaks
text which were actually made as the
result of our efforts,” giving first place to
the requirement of “a pledge from all
Members to respect the territorial integ-
rity and political independence of other
Members,” In a previous speech (July 19,
1944) he had said that “the Atlantic
Charter has been formally adhered to by
all the United Nations; the British Com-
monwealth, the U.S.A., the U.S.S.R. and
China are all committed to its general
principles”—in effect, to “No aggrand-
isement, territorial or other ; no territorial
changes that do not accord with the
freely-expressed wishes | of the peoples
concerned; the right of all peoples to
choose the form of government under
which they will live; sovereign rights,
and self-government” to be “restored to
those who have been forcibly deprived
of them.” And, dealing in a later speech
(September 8, 1944) with “security
against aggression” and urging “due
regard” for “the old but still cherished
doctrine of equality of States,” he said “No
sovereign State, however small, would wish
to think that its destiny had been handed
over to another Power, however great.”
In flat repudiation of the Atlantic
Charter, the destinies of Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania have been handed over to
the Power that subscribed to the Charter
with its tongue in its cheek, and that with-
out opposition from any member of the
League or U.N.0., though in the U.S.A.
recognition of the “changes” is still
denied. Withal the destinies of Finland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Rumania, Bul-
garia, Yugoslavia, Austria (perhaps!) and
the German parts of the “new” Poland
and the “new” Russia have been decided,
so far as the decision can be made, by the
same Power, which is great in size and
population and in the arrogance of its
dictator, though dictators die. And the
destinies of Turkey, Danish Bornholm,
“redeemed” Italy, Greece, Persia and
Manchuria, if not Korea and China itself,
may be written off if the great bully
Power, in its insatiable greed and its
ferocious contempt for charters and
treaties, is allowed to have its way. And
not a word of protest from the Evattican!
With no enemy in sight, the Axis
having been smashed —mainly, and Japan
wholly, by British Commonwealth and
American fortitude, inventiveness, pro-
duction, generously shared with the
U.S.S.R., and prowess on sea, land and
in the air—there are huge Russian armies
in non-Russian Europe and Asia (600,000
men in little Austria alone), all living off
the country, and for that, and for
an amount of raping and looting
which would have turned Suvorov
pale, hated by the native popula-
tion, even where they had been wel-
comed as liberators. There has been a
vast Moscow-encouraged expulsion of
Germans, mostly old people, women and
children, from Poland and Czecho-
slovakia, as well as Saxony and East
Prussia ; and, since most of these wretched
creatures have fled into the British zone,
which is practically all industrial —the
Russians hold the great food-producing
areas—Britain has had to draw on its
small stocks to feed them, for it is not
in the British nature to see even enemies
starve to death. At the same time Mos-
cow has decreed, the abolition of ration-
ing, and, as the pardoned traitor Thorez
has boasted, has promised huge supplies
of foodstuffs to the semi-Communist
Government of France, while continuing
to cadge from U.N.R.R.A., whose presi-
dent, Mr. Lehman, has resigned and will,
it is hoped, be succeeded by Mr. Hoover,
who should have been appointed in the
first place.
In a few months of 1945 the
accommodating Mr. Lehman caused
43,694 tons of food to be sent to Mr.
Manuilsky’s Ukraine “republic” and
22,024 tons to Byelorussia, to which
great tracts of old Poland have been
added, leaving millions of Poles without
a country: value, with other U.N.R.R.A.
gifts, 158 million dollars and 50 million
dollars respectively. Yet, since the Ger-
mans completed their slow retreat from
Russia, the Ukraine (“the granary of
Europe”) and Byelorussia have had time
for at least one great grain harvest, if
not two.
And in deliberate and dangerous in-
fraction of all its engagements to Persia,
one of the United Nations, and to Britain
and the United States, the U.S.S.R. has
retained its army of occupation and
directed menacing military and mob
movements in Persia after all the British
and American soldiers have been with-
drawn, This latest example of Com-
munist cheating in the game of playing
with fire has drawn a protest from Britain,
whose hands are to some extent tied by
the ill-starred alliance negotiated by Mr.
Eden, and a sharp Note from the United
States. The U.S. Note recalled a Moscow
assurance, given on November 29 in reply
to a previous communication from Wash-
ington, that “the stationing of Soviet
troops in Persia” was “governed by the
Anglo-Russian-Persian treaty of January
29, 1942,” and quoted article 5 of that
treaty:
The forces of the Allied Powers shall
be withdrawn from Persian territory not
later than six months after all hostilities
between the Allied Powers and Germany
and her associates have been suspended by
the conclusion of an armistice or armi-
stices, or the conclusion of peace between
them, whichever date is the earlier.
It could have quoted also the Stalin-
Churchill-Roosevelt declaration signed at
Tehran on December 1, 1943:
And as to peace, we shall seek the co-
operation of all nations, large and small,
whose peoples in heart and mind are
dedicated, as are our own peoples, to the
elimination of tyranny and slavery,
oppression and tolerance We look for-
ward to the day when all the peoples of
the world may lead free lives, untouched
by tyranny and according to their vary-
ing desires and their own consciences.
The Governments of the U.S.A., the
U.S.S.R. and the U.K. are at one with the
Government of Persia in their desire for
the maintenance of the independence,
sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Persia They count upon the participa-
tion of Persia in the establishment of inter-
national peace, security and prosperity
after the war in accordance with the prin-
ciples of the Atlantic Charter, to which all
four Governments have, continued to
subscribe.
But it was made plain that there would
be no weak acceptance of the double-
cross. Moscow was bluntly informed
that “the Soviet Government’s decision to
retain troops in Persia beyond the period
stipulated by the Tripartite Treaty has
created a situation to which the United
States Government cannot remain in-
different.” Diplomatic language as forth-
right—in some cases less forthright—has
often been followed by war.
There will be no war if the U.S.A.
and Britain unite in calling Moscow’s
bluff, as Chiang Kai-shek’s Chinese are
doing in another way to get the Russians
out of looted Manchuria—significantly,
for news travels fast across Asia, via
bazaars and other meeting places, and
the shrewd Chiang may have learned that
Russia’s sinister foreign policy proceeds
from a bad internal situation. But it is
a perilous moment in history, and
it was like Dr. Evatt to choose
such a moment for another exhibition
of his unreasoning Russophile sentiments
and of his disastrous bent for suggesting
that all other parts of the British Com-
monwealth are out of step with “Aus-
tralia” (that is, himself). To the delight of
the Communists, who gave him a flatter-
ing “Tribune” report, headed “Evatt Calls
for Unity with Soviet,” he attacked
British policy between the wars.
I am saying that was kept out-
side the pale, and was not brought into
any alliance against Hitler—was kept out of
any alliance till 1941, when Hitler
actually attacked the Soviet. I am sur-
prised that there is any other view. I
should say that is just a matter of history.
If he was correctly reported in the “S. M.
Herald”—and he has not contradicted its
report—it is, on his part, a matter of an
ignorant or bitter falsification of history.
“Do you excluder Britain from
that?” Mr. McEwen asked, and the
Minister replied “No, I am includ-
ing Britain; I am not overlooking
anything.” He overlooked a great
deal. For one thing, British policy
towards Russia between the wars took
account and had to take account of the
fact that Russia had planted Fifth
Columns in all British countries. For
another thing, Russia took soundings
for a British alliance in 1939 and
could haVe had one, but preferred
to make a meal of all its denunciations
of Fascism, sign up with Hitler and grab
half of Poland, the Baltic States,
part of Finland (after a war waged in
defiance of its League and treaty com-
mitments) and Bessarabia. In the result,
Stalin’s dominions, new and old (the new
dominions signally failed to furnish “self-
protection and security”), were attacked
by his associate in infamy, who might
conceivably have been held off by fear
of a war on two fronts.
In a furious attack on Britain, veno-
mous in its references to Mr. Churchill,
which made nonsense of Dr. Evatt’s repre-
sentation of Russia as a grossly mis-
understood State concerned only for “self-
protection and security,” Stalin admitted
that his late partner’s invasion of Russia
cost it 7,000,000 lives.
Also to the delight of the Communists,
Dr, Evatt in his one-eyed statement on
foreign affairs made no mention of the
Soviet conspiracy against Canada. Yet
the facts thus far brought out and pub-
lished were embodied in reports to the
Canadian Government, not by a Judge in
Bankruptcy with a restricted commission,
but by two Supreme Court Justices. And
they raise the question whether any
British Commonwealth Government, with
the public safety its first consideration.
can continue to employ any avowed Com-
munist or let Communists remain in
control of trade-unions, Trades and
Labor Councils and the like, to which
Dr. Evatt and his “Government” have
all along weakly yielded, and which with
impunity sabotage trade and industry
and impair Australia’s relations with a
friendly white neighbor and useful war-
time ally.
From the time when he removed the
ban on the Communist party as Attorney-
General Dr, Evatt has surrendered to his
referendum allies at every turn. And he
is all there when they expect him to
dissociate Australian policy from British
policy and give foreigners as evil as them-
selves the impression that the British
Commonwealth is a house divided. War
or no war, the British Commonwealth and
Empire will not go down, but if they did
Dr. Evatt would be assured of a dingy
immortality as one of the wreckers.
Pacific Trusteeships.
When the proposal to allow New Guinea
to be placed under U.N.O. “trustee-
ship” cropped up, Mr. W. M. Hughes
spoke doubtingly of “trusteeship, what-
ever that may jnean.” The blessed word
had not been explained, and Mr. Hughes
was rightly concerned lest it should mean
that Australia’s restricted control under
the old League of Nations mandate
system would be even more restricted or
contused by giving others of U.N.O. the
right to share in and interfere with it.
It appears to be turning out, however,
that “trusteeship” (if granted) might pos-
sibly be an improvement on the man-
date system, though what should be in-
sisted on is outright ownership. Under
the old system there were restrictions on
turning a mandated area into a real
defensive position. They were ignored by
Japan, and Australia, abiding by the spirit
and letter of its mandates agreement, and
trusting in the League, Singapore and
Providence, made no countermove.
In the matter of “trusteeships” it
appears to be the Japanese and not the
Australian example that is being fol-
lowed. “Trusteeships” are of two kinds —
strategical and non-strategical. The
latter kind would seem to be a direct
copy of the old mandates system, apply-
ing to areas of practically no vital de-
fensive value. “Strategical trusteeship”
places no restriction on the kind or extent
of defences to be set up on any area thus
defined and allotted.
To get a slant on the general working
of it a rough idea of the quaintly in-
volved U.N.O. Security Council pro-
cedure is necessary. Australia, though a
temporary member of that Council, is at
the mercy of the five permanent members
—the U.S.A., Britain, Russia, France and
China —in any claims it may make for
such a “trusteeship.” Of the 11 members
of the Council, seven must be in favor,
and those seven must include all the main
five. Thus in theory, a “no” vote by
any one of the five would veto the desired
“trusteeship.” That, however, could cut
two ways. If, say, there should be such
a vote by the U.S.A. regarding an Aus-
tralian claim on Manus, Britain could put
in a “no” vote against the U.S.A. on some
area it considered vital to its own security.
In that event —U.N.O. being an evi-
dently accommodating concern the
country in possession would, if it was
strong enough, proceed with its own
arrangements, as Uncle Sam is, in
fact, doing round about the Pacific in
advance of any approach to U.N.O.
With a sole “strategical trusteeship”
agreed to, however, everything would be
plain sailing. The country granted that
sort of “trusteeship” could go ahead and
defend it to its heart’s content. If an-
other country thought the “trustee” was
going a bit too far, and asked the Security
Council to set a limit,* that, too, could be
killed by the veto power, and similarly
with any like move to have the area in
question subjected to inspection.
Formal granting of sole “strategical
trusteeship” by U.N.O. would be pre-
ferred by the U.S.A. for the sake of
appearance, but it will not make any real
difference if that is not forthcoming.
The U.S. Under-Secretary of State, Mr.
Acheson, has said as much; indicating
pretty clearly that his country means to
hold and to fortify all those Pacific areas
secured by conquest and considered vital
to its future security. President Truman
has as good as endorsed his Under-
secretary.
Actually Uncle Sam is going right ahead
on those lines now. The U.S. “News”
has detailed what is being done pending
the U.N.O. formality. It declares that
“fortification of Pacific areas considered
strategic by the U.S.” is well under way.
Temporary airfields and naval facilities
are being made permanent. “Equip-
ment and personnel are being distributed
in line with U.S. strategic requirements as
defined by the joint Chiefs of Staff.”
“Major bases, fully operational,” are
to be Hawaii, Guam-Saipan and Manus
(“now under mandate to Australia”). Pearl
Harbor will remain the key fortress, with
——


the other three areas mentioned as great
bases standing at the corners of a vast
triangle. “Secondary bases, also fully
operational,” are the Aleutians, the Canal
Zone, the Bonins-Volcano Island groups
just east of Japan, and probably the
Ryukyus, particularly Okinawa, though
this last is considered likely to be shared
with China.
Next in order are to be many
“standby bases,” including Attu, John-
ston Island, Midway, Wake, Samoa,
Eniwetok, Kwajalein, Truk and Palau.
Midway is mentioned as a “submarine
refuge” ; Wake as an air base. Then
there are to be fleet anchorages and emer-
gency-landing fields at Canton in the
Phoenix Islands, Palmyra in the Christ-
mas Islands, Majuro in the Marshalls,
and Ulithi in the Carolines; and, com-
pleting this picture of what bears a very
close resemblance to Uncle Sam’s con-
quest of the Pacific, there are to be, by
“Independence Treaty” arrangement, air
and naval bases at Uncle Sam’s choice of
“more than a score of points” in the
Philippines.
This remarkable programme suggests
that Uncle Sam’s trust in U.N.O. is not
blinding him to the necessity of being
capable of looking after his own, and
also that he has learnt the late war’s les-
son : instead of any waiting till the fight-
ing comes Within a country’s own map
boundaries, the further war can be kept
away the better. That is clearly a lesson
that also should not be lost on Aus-
tralia.
What Australia —jointly with New
Zealand —needs to be doing should be
clear enough. It should be doing every-
thing possible to ensure wholly taking
over the areas considered vital to its de-
fence, with the determination to make
them as strong and in every way as effec-
tive defensive spearheads as possible.
Despite Uncle Sam’s reported pro-
gramme, it should not be too late to
have Manus included. General Blarney—
insisting on a far-seeing defence policy
for Australia on the ground that “there
is no such thing as permanent stability in
international relationships”—declares that
“the United States has ambitions to con-
trol Manus” and “is negotiating with
Britain for the exchange of a number of
islands.” He urges that Manus should
be held for Australia, to become part of
this country’s defences. But securing
possession of such vital points will call
for a counterpart of W. M. Hughes,
and the prospect of one such arising does
not seem bright.
PLAIN ENGLISH
A Loan and a Gift.
If the present Security Loan gets no better
public support than did any other Gov-
ernment borrowing operation since Octo-
ber, 1941, it will be a failure. The chances
are that it will be the most signal failure
of all loans offered during the past four
years. Mr. Fadden has refused to speak
for it, saying it would be “political hypoc-
risy” on his part to associate himself with
the policy of a Government which, heed-
less of his many warnings, has “floum
dered into a financial morass,” and to
which policy he stands “in definite
and uncompromising opposition.” Mr.
Menzies, though he took part in the
inaugural broadcast, has stated that he
will do so no more: “the Government
in future must accept the responsibility
for conducting its own campaigns and
advocating ■ its own views.”
What is more important is that the people
are growing more disillusioned and dis-
gusted every day with Canberra’s finan-
cial extravagance and narrow, miserable
stewardship of the nation’s affairs, inter-
nal and external.
But salvation of the loan campaign
might come from a belated act of genero-
sity and decency. Let the Chifleys, the
Wards, the Fordes, the Dedmans and the
Calwells announce that, of the £7O mil-
lion asked for, £2O million will be set
aside to provide Britain with free gifts
of foodstuffs, wool for clothing and other
requirements and landmen, starved of so
many requisites, from labor to machinery
parts, with the means of making a great
contribution to this year’s production,
particularly of wheat and dairy produce.
It is past time for the Government to
make some such expression of gratitude
and sympathy to the British people. In
this field it has fallen disgracefully behind
the Canadian and New Zealand Govern-
ments. It seemed afraid to offer a word
of thanks or praise to the commander of
the British Pacific Fleet when, his job
grandly done, he left this part of the
British Commonwealth, Such a churlish
tightness of lip does not reflect the feel-
ings of the majority of a people which
is historically openhanded, and can be
moved by the right appeal to kinship and
generosity.
Come, Mr. Chifley! By a tardy act
of appreciation of British wage-earners,
servicemen and housewives, now on
rations even lower than during the war,
jmu xoav make the Security Loan a sue-
cess instead of the usual circus and bank-
credit mockery. If necessary, withdraw
the prospectus of the present issue and
start off afresh. Long-overdue economy
in Government expenditure would prob-
ably offset the £2O million earmarked for
Britain, and a loan really filled by the
public, not by savings banks, would help
in our struggle against inflation.
The Great MacArthur.
Sunday, March 17, was the fourth anni-
versary of General MacArthur’s arrival
in Australia. Even then he was old in
years; older than most of the 1600
N.S.W. coalminers whom, with a levity
and fatuousness scarcely paralelled in
history, the N.S.W. “Labor” Government
had pensioned off in the previous two
months —as Mr. Curtin wailed afterwards,
jobs were wanted for younger men,
among them billiard-markers, dog-trainers
and s.-p. bookies. But, as events were to
prove grandly, he was not yet at the
height of his powers.
From his very first day among
them, Australians became the General’s
admirers. His manly presence and
bearing, his fine character—an in-
heritance from the Civil War general
his father and a long line of
Scottish ancestors —and his noble strain
of eloquence commanded confidence and
affection. On his part he was not slow
in appreciating the quality of Australian
manhood and womanhood, and no com-
mander has paid more glowing tributes to
THE JUDGMENT OF BADDELEY.
“It was confidently expected that Deputy-Premier Baddeley would bring in a bill striking
at ‘Truth’ divorce reports. His measure has been as worthless by Truth s
contemporaries god Mr, Abram Landa, M.L.A."
"YOU NAUGHTY girl."
the mettle of the Australian fighting man.
General MacArthur’s achievements in
the war are well known. Not so well-
known is his achievement in ruling Japan
through the Emperor, though this part of
his work may endure when his victories
are forgotten. It is the subject of a New
York “Times” article worthy of that
distinguished journal:
A religious and political transformation
of importance to Japan, to the Far East
and to the world at large has been
wrought by Emperor Hirohito in a re-
script which is without parallel in Japanese
history or any history. In this rescript
Hirohito proclaims principles which will hit
the Japanese people with the impact of a
revolution: the Japanese Emperor is not a
god; the Shinto doctrine which proclaimed
him to be one is a “false conception
based on ancient myths and legends that
are without validity in fact; the corollary
Shinto doctrine that “the Japanese people
are superior to other races and fated to rule
the world” is equally false; Japan must
build anew State based on peace and a
rational system of government which rules
in accordance with public opinion, elimi-
nates the misguided practices of the past
and seeks wisdom and knowledge through-
out the world to promote the welfare of
the people. ~
In issuing this rescript Hirohito was
clearly prompted by the orders of General
MacArthur abolishing Shinto as a State
religion and prohibiting the doctrine ot
Japanese racial superiority—an action which
made MacArthur the second American,
after Commodore Perry, to initiate revo-
lutionary changes in Japan. By stepping
down from the mythological clouds which
have surrounded the Japanese Emperors
from time immemorial and formally re-
pudiating his own divinity, Hirohito went
even beyond MacArthur’s orders, and not
only gave these orders a validity which they
could not have had otherwise but also
made himself one of the great reformers m
Japanese history.
And to think that Dr. Evatt demanded
that the Emperor should be treated as a
war criminal! If he had had his way
a great many more patriot homes, Aus-
tralian, American, British, New Zealand
and Dutch, would have been doomed to
lifelong sorrow.
Dr. Evatt is clever, but not wise.
General MacArthur is wise and able.
The general’s part in the otherwise
miserable affair of the Yoizuki has en-
hanced the feeling that Australians had
for him. A poor figure the “Govern-
ment” cut when it passed the buck to
him; a poorer figure when he handed it
back. Being the man he is, he neither
was nor could be a party to the barbarity
of crowding 200 women and children or
the Chinese race —the crux of the matter
—on a destroyer already packed with
male Japanese and other Asiatics. In
argument, as well as in moral ascendancy,
he put the “Government” to shame.
Newsreels have told the shocking story
in a way that has brought murmurs of
pity and indignation from audiences
necessarily composed largely of wage-
earners and their womenfolk. On
“Labor’s” side the disgraceful incident
was closed by Mr. Calwell in a speech
which would have been considered out-
rageous if delivered at a junior football
club meeting or in a seedy boxing hall.
Whose Snowy Is It?
The Murrumbidgee Valley Water Users
Association has issued a nicely-printed
brochure containing a nicely-worded
argument in favor of its desire to dam
the Snowy near Jindabyne and divert
the waters thus stored, via a tunnel
through the hills of Monaro, into the
’Bidgee west of Cooma. Cost is
estimated at £13,000,000, and the
M.V.W.U.A. claims that the scheme is
urgent, not only to extend irrigation and
hydro-electric facilities and settlement
from Cooma to Hay, but also to safe-
guard the present settlements dependent
on Burrinjuck.
N.S.W. has not a very large area of
land particularly suited for irrigation (in
the district served by the Hume dam) after •
the Wakool, Demboota and Bernquin
irrigation schemes are completed, whereas
probably 5,000,000 acres of beautiful
country in the Murrumbidgee Valley from
Wagga to the junction [’Bidgee and
Murray] are waiting to be developed....
by diversion of part of the Snowy waters
to the Murrumbidgee.
Four or five years ago it was con-
sidered “urgent” to hamstring the Snowy
and run it into the Sydney Water Board’s
dams, and about then the Victorians
pricked their ears, because most of the
Snowy flows through east Gippsland.
When they heard of the Murrumbidgee
proposition the Victorians countered with
one to divert the Snowy into the
Murray, enormously increasing the
Hume capacity and setting up a hydro-
electricity plant capable of developing
200,000 kilowatts. This was estimated
to cost £50,000,000.
Both schemes have their merits. The
Snowy is a source of valuable water and
power, and too much of it at present
flows uselessly into the ocean, especially
in times of high water. But Australia
has had a sickener of inter-State
squabbling over national projects. If
the Snowy is to be harnessed it must be
for the best possible use, and, to that
end, the whole idea should be studied
by men capable of ignoring State
boundaries and “rights.”
Advance Australia!
Suggested synopsis for a scenario depict-
ing life on a modem Australian farm: —
Scene 1: Time, 1943. Farmer is seen in
living-room of homestead filling in forms.
Fadeout.
Scene 2: Time, 1945. Fanner, somewhat
greyer and more bent, is seen in living-room
of homestead almost hidden by forms. Fade-
°UScene 3: Time, 1946. Farmer, slightly
eroded, seen at bottom of tunnel in mountain ot
forms. Fadeout. ,
Scene 4: Time, 1948. Outdoor scene show-
ing farmer, not quite so worried, supervising
erection of building just inside road gate.
Various windows labelled “Seed Forms,
“Acreage Forms,” “Labm Forms,” etc., on
building front. Main windows bear lettering
“Head Office.” Fadeout.
Scene 5: Time, 1950. Outdoor scene shows
building now enlarged. There are three en-
trances, before which stand queues of well-
dressed gentlemen carrying brief-cases. Over
each entrance is a sign—“Arbitration Inspectors,
Please Queue Here at 10 a.m.”; “State and
Federal Rabbit and Marketing Inspectors Inter-
viewed Here, 11.30 a.m. to 2 p.m.”; “Miscel-
laneous Inspectors Form Queue Here, 2 p.m. to
5.15 p.m.” Part of wheat paddock on right
is seen to be full of cars under sign “Parking
Area for State and Federal Official Vehicles
Only.” Farmer is seen at main entrance to
building arguing rather hopelessly with three
official-looking chaps. Farmer more than
slightly eroded. Fadeout.
Scene 6: Time, 1953. Same outdoor scene,
same building. All notices have been removed,
and substituted right across front of building
is one reading “Head Office of Sub-district
Deputy Controller of Knot Oil for Binder-
twine.” Old friend of farmer comes from
distant parts to visit him and discovers him to
be the uniformed doorkeeper, very eroded. Two
stare at each other. Hidden orchestra plays
few bars of “Don’t* Fence Me In.” Fadeout.
Homes for the Asking.
Government departments concerned are
being asked to explain why, with thou-
sands of families looking for shelter, the
Air Force, despite the compulsory retire-
ment of droves of high-ranking officers,
the demobbing of the greater part of the
R.A.A.F. and most of the W.A.A.A.F.,
still finds it necessary to occupy seven
large homes in a fashionable Sydney
suburb, while its establishment at Brad-
field Park, with sufficient huts to accom-
modate the present staff, stands idle and
empty.
The occupancy of these seven houses is
only a small point, but it raises a much
bigger question which the McKell
“Labor” Government has so far avoided.
In every Sydney suburb (and in many
suburbs in other cities) there are
scores of large houses with many rooms
unoccupied; in many cases an elderly
couple, or even one person, occupies a
house which with slight alterations could
accommodate two or three families.
Many of these people are prepared to
share their homes to the extent of letting
half or portion of their house.
But unless an owner is prepared to share
bathroom and kitchen with a tenant,
alterations are necessary before sub-
letting can occur, and municipal councils,
with an eye to preserving rateable values
in “non-flat areas,” are rather exacting
when it comes to alterations for sub-let-
ting. They are naturally concerned with
the standards of comfort and dignity of
their district and property values in their
domain. Such ideals are all very well for
normal times, but the few years following
a war in which all property was part of
the stake are not normal times, and the
comfort and happiness of the men who
surrendered their rights to comfort during
the war years should surely now be the
prime consideration.
It is not right that the councils should
have to make the decisions in these cases.
A public-spirited municipality might find
itself at a disadvantage through obstruc-
tionists in an adjoining suburb. It is a
case for action by the Government. The
Government’s main interest at the present
time should be to see that every house is
sheltering, if not as many as it can com-
fortably hold, then at least as many as
its owner is prepared to take.
And it can do more than this. It can
give, or should be able to give, moral
leadership in this matter. Scarcely any
Government, State or Commonwealth,
has made any appeal to owners of large
homes to do anything to assist in solv-
ing the housing problem. Many people
in the position to do so are reluctant to
sub-divide their homes ; the money factor
does not enter into it, but there is the
natural desire to keep their old home in-
tact, a natural repugnance against seeing
strangers living in rooms redolent with
the memory of those dear to them.
Natural feelings these, and worthy ; but
an appeal from the proper quarter and in
the proper spirit might make those who
hold them realise that houses are meant
to be lived in, not to become museums
of memories. If the Government makes
this approach in a sincere manner, stress-
ing the desperate need of servicemen and
the national character of the service
owners would be performing in sub-
dividing their homes, some response
would certainly follow. But this is a
matter that calls for moral leadership, and
the present planners are more interested in
blueprints for housing the population in
1990 than in doing something practical
about the houseless unfortunates of 1946.


advt
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable in Id's & 20’s
5786
MADE SPEC
POLITICAL POINTS
During the war Canada made princely
gifts to its allies, beginning with Britain
and going on to include Australia, Maori-
land, Russia and all the rest. Russia
requited it in the Russian fashion, turn-
ing its Canadian headquarters over to
spies and suborning and corrupting
Canadians. An Ottawa M.P. is one
of the latest batch of accused gath-
ered in. This should interest Can-
berra, but not a word on any phase
of the subject has been uttered by
any “Labor” Minister or member. Mean-
while a parcel of Communists is still being
allowed to hold up the seven Dutch ships
laden with Australian goods which have
been idle in Australian ffbrts since Sep-
tember, though even Monk of the
A.C.T.U. has been moved to protest
against the “chicanery” of the boycotting
gang.
After ladling out unctuous flattery to
“Labor” Ministers and fellow-members
ever since he entered Caucus, Fraser, of
Eden-Monaro (to Archie Cameron “the
oracle of Delphi”), came out against
them on the Yoizuki issue. He demanded
“the recall of the ship,” adding in an out-
burst sprinkled with the personal pro-
noun, “I make my protest, and I have
told the Prime Minister my view; I now
voice my protest publicly, and I will stand
by what I say.” When the debate was on
he stood-down.
Outside Our Party, “Labor’s” only
press supporter during the Yoizuki flare-
up was the “new” Melbourne “Argus.”
Early in the piece the “Argus” scolded its
contemporaries and the public for “a dis-
play of public feeling which does more
credit to the humane impulses of the
demonstrators than to their capacity for
detached thinking.”
The Australian Government’s part was
confined to embarking the unfortunate
Formosans... .Should a similar problem
arise in the future it would be well for
the American authorities to delegate a mea-
sure of discretion to those here.
“Those here” had all along the full
“measure of discretion” derived from
their constitutional defence and naviga-
tion powers. When Mac Arthur’s mes-
sages came out the “Argus” became a
non-combatant, in the luckless position of
having to correct itself in headlines:
“U.S. Authorities Deny Responsibility —
Did Not Know Women and Children
Were on Ship.” Perhaps this comes of
publishing too much Max Werner stuff.
“Tummas the Nark” rubs it in :
Drifting through some old Bulletins
stacked in the shed I came across one dated
September 4, 1940. The first Plain English
article commented approvingly on Dr. Evatt’s
descent from the Bench to contest the Barton
seat. It was headed “A Good Australia-First
Man.” Well, why wasn’t he put behind barbed-
wire with the others?
McKell’s deputy Baddeley has inthro-
juiced a bill “to extend the definition of
obscene publications and to restrict the
publication of reports of certain judicial
proceedings.” It .was thought that it
would be aimed chiefly at “Terewth”
and would have the blessing of
“Terewth’s” contemporaries (their re-
ports of “certain judicial proceedings”
have lacked “Terewth’s” appeal to “the
mob”) and of Abie Landa, M.L.A., whom
one particular “Terewth” report annoyed
as much as it did the editor of one of the
rival sheets ; indeed, Baddeley could have
gingered up a dull speech by going into
the origins of the campaign against “de-
pravity.” As it happens, Abie and the
contemps. are a prey to fierce unreason-
ing wrath. There is a precious lot of hum-
bug in Macquarie-street and in the Street
of Ink.
According to Young Digger Bate,
M.L.A., there are in N.S.W. not only
7000 would-be servicemen-settlers, with
qualification certificates issued to them
by the disappearing Minister Tully, but
as many more with applications in.
To Tully he put seven questions in the
House and Tully denied five. The others
he admitted:
Is it a fact that Mr. Tully recently sold
a rural property at Goulburn to Mr. T.
Wright, of Nimmitabel? Is it a fact that
this Mr. T. Wright had a good property at
Nimmitabel before purchasing the Goul-
burn estate owned by the Minister?
The thoughts of the would-be servicemen-
settlers must be long, long thoughts/and
could scarcely be expressed in print,
except on asbestos paper.
From the London “Times” of March 1:
Five Labor members and the one Com-
munist member (Mr. Piratin) of the Par-
liamentary delegation which recently visited
Poland have written a majority report
emphasising that there is widespread and
openly expressed dislike of the Russians
among all sections of the community and
warm feeling towards the British people.
And a Communist subscribed to it! Won-
ders will never cease. Piratin, a Jew,
was one of three candidates for Mile End,
and was elected with a little more than
one-third of the vote. His district and
Stepney have since sent two Communists
to the London County Council. Each has
a strong minority of Russian and Polish
Jews and their English-born sons and
daughters, and in first-past-the-post elec-
tions a strong minority can be decisive.
While stranded brides of Australian
servicemen were having one of their pro-
test marches in London, Calwell blurted
out in Melbourne that there were 1500
of these girls, “500 fiancees and 3500
Australians,” all waiting for passages.
So, naturally, the Calwell crowd is giving
priority to a mob of footballers engaged
to play the “100 per cent ‘Labor’ ” Rugby
League, of which Dr. Evatt is a patron
and Beasley a warm supporter.
Great Dailies with a Great Effort have
overcome their years-old hostility to
Archie Cameron. Hailing him as “a
rugged and witty character, a rebel of
-the Right,” Melbourne “Herald” belatedly
quoted one of his best quips, “I am
prepared to concede the infallibility of
the Vatican, but not the infallibility of
the Evattican.” And “S. M. Herald” was
not too overcome by Calwell’s latest
attack on it to miss the Cameron inter-
jection when Calwell was braying vitu-
peratively about “the revelations in the
Yoizuki case”—“What we want is
Genesis, not Revelations.” There are in-
dications that the Great Dailies will try
to build up Cameron as the next Prime
Minister. If it came to pass the Sydney
morning papers would turn on him as
they turned on Menzies.
Victoria’s Cain Government, pushing
through an emergency housing bill whose
main provision is compulsory occupation
of vacant houses, had to admit that the
bill infringed private property rights and
excused it on the ground of the “appall-
ing housing position.” It had to admit
also a serious slowing down of its house-
building schemes. Whereupon Hamilton
(Lib., Toorak) arose and reminded the
Government that there were five go-slow
strikes in Melbourne, that the union was
bossed by a Communist named Don
Thomson and that there would be no
peace and few houses while Thomson
ruled. This Thomson is one of the able-
bodied union bosses of military age who,
in Comrade Ward’s time, got a blanket
exemption from service.
“They whisper in Central and Eastern
Europe that Stalin made fwo mistakes —
he showed the Red Army to Europe and
Europe to the Red Army.” Thus corre-
spondent Paul Brickhill, and it is re-
markable that he should have been able
to get it into a Sydney Sunday paper,
the “Sun.” Another of Stalin’s mistakes
was to throw his weight around the
Middle East and Manchuria and threaten
Britain in every quarter just when Uncle
Sam was looking askance at the loan to
J. Bull. It now looks as if Clever Joe
has made the loan a certainty.
At a Parliamentary election of 12-year
N.S.W. Leg. Councillors Alam (not
Balaam), a wealthy man about town of
Syrian extraction, who made his money
in the storekeeping business, got in first
for “Labor” —which illustrates the new
trend in “Labor” affairs. But because
some voters made a mess of their ballot
papers and others apparently disobeyed
“instructions,” “Labor” failed of the
hoped-for majority—it will have only 28
seats in a House with 60. Of the present
sitting members only K, G. Brooks (Lib.)
and J, H. Tonkin (Ind.) were defeated ;
fbur others, among them J. B. Peden,
the president, did not go up for re-elec-
tion. New members are J. A- Bodkin,
T. Gleeson, F. P. Buckley and W. Padgen
(“Lab.”), H. V. Budd and “young” Otway
Falkiner (C.P.), and A. D. Bridges (Lib.)
—a persistent candidate over 25 years or
so. One of the voters was J. J. Maloney,
sometime Minister to Moscow and
Poland’s Protecting Power, who saw
enough in Moscow to sicken him of Com-
munism for a lifetime.
“0.P.H.”: So Alam topped the poll
in the N.S.W. Leg. Council elections.
When first elected in 1933 he was a rank
outsider with very rank ideas about s.-p.
(“I make no apology for having used the
House telephone for the purpose ; I am
proud of it.”) The night before the
“Labor” poll for nominees (he topped
that, too), there were sounds of revelry
from the Hotel Australia, whither rows of
“Labor” politicians had been invited to a
banquet given by Alam’s wealthy uncle,
one of the Aridas, from Charters Towers
m
In Western Victoria, as in North
Queensland, floods have caused loss of life.
That is the tragic side; the material side
of the drenching of the continent and
Tasmania is that it gives point to the
prediction that Australia is in for a won-
derful year. There is indeed a grand
chance to grow millions of tons of food
for starving Europe and Asia, It will be
thrown away unless landmen are assured
without delay of labor, fertilisers,
machinery, parts and fuel. So far, there
is no sign of any official attempt to make
these essentials available on the required
scale, though heaven knows there is
plenty of talk.
Forecasts of a 1946-47 wheat crop of
145.000. bushels show ignorance of or
indifference to the existing position. Pre-
war crops averaged around 160,000,000
bushels ; the world is starving for wheat;
all the wheat country has received splen-
did seeding rains, and given the oppor-
tunity farmers could grow over
200.000. bushels, as they did in
1939-40. In early districts there could be
a concentration on an October stripping
of big crops. But time is short, early
crops must be sown next month and
growers are crying for men and materials.
Meanwhile the Chifiey “Government” re-
mains bogged down in complacency,
inertia and restrictive socialistic policies,
“Grow more wheat” was the Scullins’
cry in 1930. The Chifleys are going to
grow another referendum.
The Tasmanian Liberals have endorsed
Guy for Wilmot and Dame Enid Lyons
for Darwin, and having got in when
“Labor” gained its greatest of all Com-
monwealth majorities they should hold
their electorates comfortably. For Deni-
son the candidate is Dr. Hamilton, an eye
surgeon, who was a major in the A.1.F.,
and with it in Egypt, Palestine and Syria
(among his patients, besides Diggers, were
Scots, French, South Africans and
Indians), and for Franklin Flight-Lieut.
Falkinder, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and bar. Fal-
kinder was the “most-decorated navigator
in the R.A.A.F.” on European duty. He
dropped the first bomb on D-Day, made
114 operational flights over Europe, and
for two years was in fellow-Australian
Bennett’s Pathfinder Force.
At the end of last month Maoriland
Labor announced that growers of 1946-
47 wheat would get 7s. Id. per bushel,
including a production bonus of 7d. with
no acreage limit; the greater the produc-
tion the better. About the same time the
Australian Wheat Board, “in view of the
reduced ocean freight-rates,” applicable
on practically all routes, “advanced selling
prices of bulk wheat from 9s. 6d. to 10s.
a bushel, f.0.b., to all destinations.”
“Labor’s” price is ss. 2d. f.o.b. With
heartrending complaints coming from all
“Labor” Ms.H.R. from doubtful wheat-
growing electorates, it will no doubt be
raised long before the general election.
The P.M., speaking in the Henty
by-election campaign for young Doube,
who is worthy of a better oppor-
tunity jn a better cause, warned his audi-
ence that they “must never forget that
the U.A.P.-C.P. was split into a
thousand fragments in 1940.” Nine-
teen-forty ? Why, that was when
“Labor” went to the country in two
factions, Curtin’s A.L.P. and Beasley’s
“anti-Communist Labor group,” and
Curtin called Beasley “the leader of the
‘scab’ party.”
Building of a mental hospital at Ryde,
to cost £1,705,000, is the object of a bill
introduced by the Sydney Labor Gov-
ernment’s Minister for Public Works. It
is to house 1400 patients. Most people
who live in Sydney these days believe
that it will take a much larger institution
to house all the mental cases if taxation,
blackmarkets, “controls” and queues go
on. And why shouldn’t it be built in the
country?
The Russians have had two five-year
plans, and say they are having another.
Sydney Premier McKell can beat them
hollow. During a vaudeville show at
Sydney Town Hall to launch the Security
Loan —every “Labor” loan has its vaude-
ville show —he announced a five-year
plan for a “new deal in education,”
a 10-year housing plan, a 26-year plan for
forestry, a 15-year plan for water con-
servation and a 15-year plan for electrical
development. If that doesn’t fix all the
boys up with nice, easy Government jobs
nothing will.
Praising Beazley, M.H.R., and with
cause, for the young man from Fremantle
is of decided promise, a Melbourne
“Herald” writer mentions, as an example
of “public thinking in Australia,” that
Beazley “has had 150 letters on beer and
one on foreign affairs.” The Bulletin
naturally gets a great many more letters
than Beazley, and its experience is quite
different. For every contribution on beer
it gets 40 on foreign affairs,
Strachey, the British Under-Secretary
for Air, had recently to deal with a nasty
refusal of duty at overseas stations,
mostly by ground-staff men. He admitted
that his Government had “taken an ultra-
tolerant attitude to so-called strikes which
were technically mutinies,” and warned
the malcontents that “we just can’t be as
tolerant if it happens again.”
No Government worthy of the name—
certainly not a Labor Government —is
going to be influenced by the threats of
trouble.
Strange that the gentleman should be
ignorant of the fact that being “influ-
enced by the threats of trouble” to the
point of crawling into the nearest cave
or the handiest hollow log, the process
being accelerated when the- threats come
from Communists, is a practice from
which the “ ‘Labor’ Government” at Can-
berra never deviates.


BLOOD AND SAND.
(BUT NOT TOO MUCH OF EITHER.)
Hark, what shouting, what frenzied voices
When the bull flies out with angry roar!
Ah, ’tis the Torero rejoices,
Sure of honor when fight is o’er.


COMMONWEALTH
RE-ESTABLISHMENT
LOANS
for
AGRICULTURAL
OCCUPATIONS
in the State of New South Wales
Now available to eligible discharged
members of the Forces.
Application forms and
full particulars from
all Branches of the
RURAL BANK
or
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
PERMANENCE
Who will manage
YOUR ESTATE?
You are at the helm now. You know how to manage
your business to the best advantage. Your years of
experience'have taught how to safeguard your assets . .. tion
against varying industrial conditions and the ever-changing economic situation.
BUT
Havelyou appointed an Executor qualified to carry on your expert management
and to ensure for your dependants their rightful heritage?
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
has had over fifty years’ experience in the management of all types of Estates,
the assets of which include businesses and manufacturing concerns.
If you appoint the Company as Executor and Trustee of your Will, it will ensure
for your Estate the benefit of this experience backed by integrity and financial
stability and, through its permanence, uninterrupted administration until the
completion of the Trust. , , . ,
E. V. T. Whittle ( Manager) N. L. Shaw ( Assist. Manager)
PERMANENT
Write to-day for free Booklet.
TRUSTEE CO. of
N.S.W. LTD.
2 3.2 5 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Busiess Rolleuy Ete.
Stubborn and Futile Extravagance
Mr. Chifley, in loan-raising mood, has
forecast that Commonwealth Government
spending out of revenue during 1946-47
will total between £290 million and £3lO
million, business income and outgo ex-
cluded.
In respect of the year now current, a
corresponding expenditure of £3lO mil-
lion was budgeted for, including £l5 mil-
lion to be paid to the States apart from
taxation reimbursement. It may be thus
taken that the Prime Minister is making
no suggestion of a smaller expenditure
out of revenue during 1946-47, from
which it may be assumed as a dishearten-
ing corollary that he intends to grant very
little further taxation relief.
Mr. Chifley spoke of a 1946-47 outgo
of £2O million on World War I obliga-
tions (the same as for the current year),
£B5 million on World War 11, between
£4O million and £6O million on “defence”
(total intended to be charged to taxes
this year, £2OB million, after deducting
recoveries and disposals), £74 million on
social services (£46 million charged to
revenue this year, plus £l9 million
charged to past accumulations), £l7 mil-
lion grants to States (£l5" million) and
£49 million in price subsidies (£26 million
this year, included in £2OB million
defence expenditure). The total of
the 1946-47 detailed estimates, as given,
is £285 to £305 million.
In addition, Mr. Chifley spoke of £BO
to £lOO million being earmarked for de-
mobilisation, shipping costs, pay of forces,
tapering-off of war production and a
general winding-up of war establish-
ments. This apparently is in addition to
the other World War II Posts and is to be
charged to the Loan Fund. The £B5
million for “war” debited to revenue as
distinct from the Loan Fund for 1946-47
would seem to be principally interest
charges on the relevant war debt and
cost of military pensions. “Defence,” at
£6O million, is given as a separate item.
It looks as though the Budget total for
1946-47 will be at least £430 million,
including business income and outgo, but
deducting tax refunds to States. The
comparative Budget figure for 1945-46
was £493 million, or £540 million before
deducting various credits, disposals and
offsets. It was intended to borrow £152
million to bridge the Budget revenue gap
during the current year. It seems that the
borrowing programme for 1946-47 is
tentatively set at £lOO million. That is, if
Mr. Chifley has much say in the financial
affairs of Australia after the next elections.
Costs, July 1 to February 28
During the eight months of the
present financial year ended February
28, some of Mr. Chifley’s Budget
forecasts, quoted in the foregoing,
have been astray. Borrowing, especi-
ally from the banking system, has
been much heavier than anticipated.
Loan-fund expenditure to June 30 next
was put at £152 million, whereas, at
February 28, with four months still to
run, £l7B million had actually been spent
out of loans, and the Treasury-bill (bank-
credit) debt had soared to £4OO million, a
rise of £57 million since July 1, 1945.
It may be that extra taxation revenue
will come in during the next four months
and enable the Treasury to redeem a good
deal of the excess debt, or that there will
be credits from munitions disposals, etc.,
to help save the situation. But it is plain
that the chief cause of the Budget figures
being thrown askew is “defence and war
expenditure (1939-45), including interest
and sinking fund,” being much higher
than estimates; with £304 million spent
in eight months, expenditure at the same
rate would bring the total to £456 mil-
lion by June 30, compared with a Budget
forecast of £360 million, or £4OB million
calculated on a truer accountancy basis.
It is not clear whether the accounts pre-
sented for the eight months allow for
deductions which Mr. Chiffey made
in presenting his net estimate of £360
million. “War” expenditure for February
was £3O million, compared with £4O mil-
lion for January. The February figure
is thus lower than average, and it may
indicate either a falling-off in outgo for
the next month or two, or it may be the
result of offsets, such as the sale of arms
to the Dutch, being taken into account.
Wasted Money, Heavy Taxes
The Labor Government’s stubborn
determination to continue spending on
“war” at the rate of over £275 million a
year in 1946-47, including increased price
subsidies but excluding World War I
costs, shows that it has few plans for the
restoration of full national production of
civilian necessities. It is still reserving a
huge volume of money and a large quota
of manpower, in the name of “defence,”
for what are actually political purposes.
In November, 1945, there were 35,000
more employees on Government payrolls
(493,000 altogether, excluding servicemen)
than in November, 1941. Money and
manpower are now most urgently needed
for the rehabilitation of our key indus-
tries, not for political manipulation.
There is very little solace for tax-
burdened citizens in any of the Treasury’s
figures or in what he can see of the real
“Government” of the country. * Black-
marketeers flourish, tax-evasion by crooks
and shady traders goes on, after-hours
drinking at high prices in very social
(and less tony) places is fashionable or
habitual, the numerous gambling and
“sporting” excrescences have remarkable
“priorities,” odd people get passports and
travel facilities from the Federal Gov-
ernment while plainer, more industrious
citizens are denied them, and Labor Min-
isters and members go abroad at great cost
and with amazing paraphernalia and,
sometimes, retinue. Ministers without
exception are provided with magnificent
fluid-drive Chrysler cars to whisk them
around on all sorts of business.
The conscientious taxpayer, on his part,
is faced with inflation in his living costs
on all sides, a reduced net income in most
cases that precludes his bidding against
tax-evaders and blackmarketeers for liv-
ing essentials and desirable property, and
a restriction on his initiative, including
that of movement from and around the
country. There are a tragic shortage of
housing and an amazing uncertainty
about employment. There are prepos-
terous anomalies everywhere.
During the year that will end on June
30 next it is officially estimated that every
Australian, man, woman, child and im-
becile, will hand to the Federal
Government, on the average, £46
3s. 9id. in taxes, direct and in-
direct. In 1944-45 the levy was
£47 Is. 4Jd., in 1943-44 £42 17s. l|d. a
head. Before the war, in 1938-39, the
average taxation levied on behalf of the
Federal Government, and income-tax
collected by State Governments, was £l5
a head. Next year (in 1946-47),
a year of “peace,” on Mr. Chifley’s fore-
casts it would seem that we are up for
at least three times the pre-war taxes.
When it is remembered that the middle
and higher incomes bear the greater part
of Australian direct taxation, the effect
of the average taxes quoted becomes more
apparent. In the majority of cases earners
of middle and higher incomes are on a
much lower net income, after paying
taxes, than was the case before the war.
The greater section of wage-earners,
especially those earning overtime and
the like, have made more money,
after payment of taxes, during the
war than before. And, of course,
the illegal racketeer often with
“political” friends —is the best off of all;
war-time conditions and politics have
“made” him, and it 4 is in his interests in
more ways than one to evade revealing
his income to taxation authorities or any-
one else.
President Truman has expressed the
view that it would be better for the United
States Government to absorb losses on
domestically-grown wool than increase
the tariff protection. The number of
sheep in the United States has declined
25 p.c. during the past four years, and
foreign wool is still underselling the
American product, even after paying a
duty of 34 cents a pound greasy. This is
probably the first indication that the
United States Government intends to take
its post-war tariff-revision policy seri-
ously, and it is heartening to more than
the wool industry. At the same time
President Truman suggests that other
countries should attempt to control their
selling prices of wool and their wool-
marketing policies. The danger there
is that synthetics may beat the
natural product if the price of the
latter is raised too high by artificial
means. It seems very plain that the
United States wool industry is an un-
economic one, and the problem it creates
will have to be dealt with very firmly
in any world policy of tariff revision in
spite of the strong political backing that
sheepmen have in the United States
Senate.
The story of four Commonwealth
wheat distilleries is, in a way, a story of
one aspect of Australian industry under
the Labor Government during war-time.
Distilleries were built at Cowra (N.S.W.),
Warracknabeal (Vic.), Wallaroo (S.A.)
and Collie (W,A»). Cost of the four was
£1,776,284 —if the C.S.R. had not super-
vised their erection they would have un-
doubtedly cost more. Only one of
the distilleries —that at Cowra —has ever
operated, and it ceased to function early
in its career because of the near wheat-
famine which has prevailed in this coun-
try since Labor started to subsidise the
restriction of acreage planted. The others
have never functioned for two typical
reasons: (a) shortage of wheat and ( b )
shortage of coal,
* * * *
Shareholders in the holding companies
comprising the Greater Union Theatres
group are to consider an offer from the
Rank film group in England—Rank is
the man who has spent millions in en-
deavoring to keep British theatres out of
American hands and in building up the
English film-producing business—for a
half-interest in Greater Union Theatres,
Ltd. For half the 400,000 G.U.T. shares
and a half-interest in British Empire
Films and National Theatre Supply Co.,
Rank has offered £750,000 Australian, of
which, on the basis of holdings in G.U.T,
Greater J. D. Williams (capital £397,029)
would get £243,755, Spencer’s Pictures
(capital £297,714) £200,244, West’s (capi-
tal £270,009) £196,500, Amalgamated Pic-
tures (capital £182,000, £12,000 of it
prefs.) £109,500. In addition to the pro-
posed purchase of half the capital of
Greater Union, it is intended that Greater
Union should buy from Greater J. D.
Williams the Liberty Theatre and Times
Theatrette, Melbourne, from West’s its
theatre in Adelaide and from Amalga-
mated the Majestic Theatre, Melbourne,
for a total consideration of not more than
£300,000, payment to be made in G.U.T.
debentures bearing interest at not more
than 5 p.c. It is proposed that Rank
should have five directors in a board of
10, and that Norman Bede Rydge, present
G.U.T. managing director, should remain
in the job for a further five years. Apart
from the cash and debenture considera-
tion it is claimed that the holding cos. may
benefit from the deal by greater develop-
ment of their half-interest in G.U.T. and
from the provision of additional film sup-
plies,
* * * *
Canberra estimates that in the year to
June 30, 1945, the Australian people,
after paying taxes, had £lOl5 million to
play with, but there was only £BO7 million-
worth of goods on which to spend their-
money. The surplus of £2OB million in
spending power is admitted by Canberra
to be an inflationary menace; in fact,
the Administration, or those sections of
it which understand anything about these
things, is alarmed at the situation. This
excess of spending power is no new
thing; it grew all through the war, but
more particularly since 1942. And growth
is still going on. It is probable that there
is very nearly £lOOO million of excess
spending power in Australia today. It
presents Price Control with great prob-
lems, and, under present industrial and
political conditions, it is no help to pro-
duction. Australians should try whole-
heartedly to increase production on a
scale that will help to offset the danger
of this “money bomb” in our midst. It
is unlikely that we will ever have a de-
flationary Government policy that will
absorb this war-time inflation, but a high
level of production would help to counter
a sudden, disruptive rocketing in prices
that is always “on” so long as the exces-
sive spending power is there. Every
rational person wants to see these savings
retain as much of their buying power as
possible. In 1946-47, as a “block” against
inflation, it is estimated that price sub-
sidies will cost £49 million, against £26
million in 1945-46.


• '
*
* -K-
-v/
The sky's the limit
when you use stainless steeltubing
There is practically no limit to the uses for
Stainless Steel Tubing in many profitable fields
of post-war production—in the chemical, textile,
food - processing, brewing industries and many
more—in furniture, fittings, domestic and com-
mercial appliances—in* plant and products alike.
These tubes are not only corrosion-resistant,
enduring and attractive. They have high mech-
anical strength; they can be bent, coiled, welded,
threaded and fabricated by ordinary engineering
methods to meet the needs of the job.
Available with either descaled (silvery-matt) or
polished finish inside and out, in gauges and
diameters to suit any need. Our nearest Branch
Warehouse will supply you.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—Head Office and Works: Waratah, N.S .W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane —Adelaide Perth.
Prospects of Big Trade
Unless the “human folly or sub-human
crime” mentioned by Mr. Churchill pre-
vents it, a very large trade between Britain
and Australia should develop within a
couple of years. Britain is in great need
of most of the raw materials and dairy
produce that Australia normally exports,
and it will continue to need them even
if the dollar loan to Britain is sanctioned
by U.S. Congress. (Prospects of this
loan are looking more hopeful.) Britain
can well use a great part of the
dollar accommodation provided by
the loan in buying U.S. products
not readily available in the rest of
the Empire (such as machinery, cotton,
tobacco, steel, etc.), at the same time tak-
ing Empire production of all kinds wher-
ever available, paying in sterling exports
with less difficulty than for dollar goods
purchased.
Australia, for its part, represents a
gaping market awaiting manufactured
goods of a thousand kinds. It needs
British cotton and woollen textiles,
other clothing, nylon, rayon, motor-
cars, machinery, tools, electrical fit-
tings, hardware, processed foods, paper,
books, toys, plastics, furnishing drapery,
cutlery, china, glassware and many
other products. Household fittings,
including carpets and linoleum, will
be needed in great quantities as soon as
Australia’s housing arrears start to be
overtaken. It only requires an intelli-
gent co-operative return to real work by
Australia’s population to establish the
basis of great internal and external trade
for this country. With that growth in
trade should come prosperity for most
of the population. Certainly to everyone
there should come opportunity.
The output of the Barrier mines—lead,
zinc, silver—the production of our coal-
mines, the wheat, the butter, the beef, the
lamb, the wine, the dried fruits, the sugar
and the eggs from our rural areas should
find a ready market in our own country
or in Britain. There is a large stock of
wool accumulated as a result of the war-
time restriction of markets, but the de-
mand for wool may soon dispose of this
surplus. Certainly the world could take
all stocks of wool and make good use
of it almost immediately. The problem is
to get those parts of the world most in
need of it—such as Continental Europe —
into a condition of reciprocal trading. The
most hopeful sign in this direction will
be evidence that Britain is itself regaining
full trading powers.
One problem ahead in this prospect of
great trade is a shortage of British ship-
ping. It may affect Australia’s interest
the same as it did early in the war, when
Canada and the United States were
selected as sources of British supply be-
cause of the quick turn-round of ships
engaged solely on the Atlantic run. But
American ships in the Atlantic may re-
lease more British ships for the Pacific.
We shall have to attend to waterside
anarchy at this end ourselves.
The broad prospect ahead is one of
great promise if we are wise enough and
energetic enough to take full advantage
of it. There are many difficulties,
including those of inflating costs,
double taxation, unstable exchanges
and disorganised production facilities.
But, in the absence of “human folly
and sub - human crime” on a gross
scale, there are all the fundamental re-
quirements for great employment and
when war-time arrears and devastation
are overcome —great prosperity ahead for
British people. Their prosperity will be
the greater and their economic position
the more secure if the rest of the world
can share in it.
The chairman of Zinc Corporation,
J. R. Govett, estimates that direct and
indirect taxation amounts to over £7
on every ton of lead produced at
Broken Hill. He considers that the
Barrier mines will still be producing
metal at the turn of the century; the ore
deposit remains the largest thing of its
kind in the world. What Australia is to
get out of the mining of this ore will
depend considerably on world demand
and prices. On this aspect Mr. Govett
said:
The present world prices ruling for lead
are represented by the British and United
States controlled prices. The British price
is £39 sterling, or, say, £4B 15s. Australian
delivered to buyers’ works in the United
Kingdom, and all manufacturers are
severely rationed to 70 or 80 per cent,
of rated consumption. The United States
Government price is 7 cents a pound, or,
say, £49 Australian at New York. The
price the United States pays, say, Mexico
and Peru, i.e., 7 cents per lb., governs the
price Britain is able to buy from these
countries. The prices paid by Britain to
Australia, Canada, Mexico and Peru at
point of shipment are identical, or
nearly so.
The United States Government ceiling
price for lead is still cents per lb., or
£45 10s. Australian currency per ton. This
is the highest price any buyer can pay.
At this figure the United States Govern-
ment delivers lead t'o all consumers and
absorbs any loss into its general expendi-
ture. The price at which the United States
Government buys lead from its domestic
producers averages much higher than 64
cents per lb. In 1945 the average was 8.6
cents per lb., or £5B 4s. per ton. It is
part of the United States Government’s
policy to assist its domestic production,
which has been steadily declining for some
time past. The United States market is
protected by a high tariff.
Referring to the “substantial tonnage” of
Broken Hill metals sold in Australia, Mr.
Govett said that the price for lead was
fixed at little more than half the current
world price. This reduced the average
received by the mines, and lowered the
lead bonus payable to employees. There
was little likelihood of Zinc Corp. share-
holders benefiting from the higher world
prices recently established. Beneficiaries
were the Treasury and miners. The
higher British and Australian taxes re-
sulting from the increased revenue this
year would absorb almost all Zinc Corp.’s
expansion in income. Heavy taxation was
hindering the co. from going ahead fully
with necessary mine and plant expendi-
ture.
* * * ♦
Britain is getting on grimly with the
job of producing goods for export, and
can already show something for its
efforts. In January exports were valued
at £57 million sterling, £l3 million above
the total for the best month in 1938,
though probably not very great in volume,
By the end of 1946 it is expected to be able
to show a year’s exports valued at 50 p.c.
higher than the figure for 1938; it is
aimed after that to raise exports to twice
1938 values. Industry is charged with
the responsibility of earmarking 25 p.c.
~,F f i r , c
of its manufactures for sale overseas,
compared with 15 p.c. before the war.
The task in, front of Britain is 9. tough
one, calling for, as Mr. Morrison says,
energy, toil arid industry , there is a
desperate need for raw materials in
Britain, including foodstuffs, and these
can be paid for only by exports or bor-
rowing abroad the latter course one of
utter desperation. Thus, while it is en-
couraging to find Britain’s export income
rkino- it has to he understood that it
rising, it nas to oe understood tnai 11
must rise higher still in order even to
relieve the people from rationing of food
and clothing on a basis more severe than
in war-time. The world ecdnomic situ-
ation today is one of production short-
ages, and Britain, in terms of raw
materials, is one of the most impoverished
big Powers in the world. It therefore has
to rely on its productive skill to the
utmost; to work hard to manufacture
goods which will, in effect, exchange for
commodities from the four corners of
file earth that are needed in abundance,
The present is really no time to be toying
with experiments in socialism, or for the
introduction of exotic political schemes
to Britain. The issue is plain and severe,
but in some respects inspiring. The
demand for British goods is such that, “if
England to itself do rest but true, and
‘*f P eo P le work together m harmony.
there are Possibilities of great trade
expansion ahead. Coal production is one
pr^ lem that has pric f ly features and
mus t be dealt with.
* * * #
The p ro( j uc ti on depression that grips
t^e wor ] c j ) astonishingly noticeable in
Australia was commented upon by
Churchill in his Fulton (U.S.A.) address:
At this sad and breathless mbment we
are plunged in the hunger and distress
which are the aftermath of our stupen-
dous struggle, but this will pass, and may
P ass o uick - There 18 110 reason except
human folly or sub-human crime which
would prevent the inauguration of an age
of plenty.
Both human folly and sub-human crime
have been apparent in the cunning and
consistent attempts deliberately to under-
mine Australia’s productive capacity, be-
ginning with coal (initial source of in-
dustrial power) and ending with trans-
port of finished goods. It is the respon-
sibility of Australians of every class to
deal with this rat-like plague in their
midst. We must get ahead with the pro-
duction job that is obviously to hand and
which holds so much potential benefit.for
every citizen.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: It seems to be an unswerving
policy in Hollywood to depict police
captains and “lootenants” as halfwits,
with their offsiders well in the quarter-
wit class. Understandable when it
is desired to make the private-detective
hero appear by comparison an intellec-
tual giant, the same attitude is pur-
sued even when the cast contains no
handsome freelance sleuth. But script
writers occasionally pull boners which
can get past a host of yes-men in the
city of stars and tripe. In a recent pot-
boiler a bunch of gangsters deem them-
selves safe in a farmhouse, but a young
doctor, held prisoner there, gets a mes-
sage out by a phony prescription written
in Latin. The appeal for help is relayed
by the druggist to the police. The cap-
tain gathers his men and barks orders,
“And remember,” comes his parting ad-
monition, “above all, caution. Well
sneak on them!” One hundred feet of
celluloid later about ten police cars are
tearing like mad to the farmhouse, their
wailing sirens making enough din to wake
the gophers away off in the Mojave
Desert.
* ♦ * *
“Findy”: Clothing the ex-serviceman ;
two rackets. Tailor shows ex-soldier a
suit-length and quotes price, £lO 10s.
“Earliest I can promise is six months,”
he says apologetically. Digger feels he
can’t wait so long and prepares to leave.
Snips calls him back. “Just a minute,”
he says. He puts the roll of material
back on the shelf, takes it down again
and offers “I can do you a suit in this
material in a month, but it’ll cost you
fourteen guineas.” If the customer has
any sense he stuffs the full suit-length
down Snips’s throat and walks out, but
later in the day someone less resolute will
pay the price asked. Catch number two
is a window ad., “Shirts to Measure.”
The inquirer fihds he has two patterns
to choose from, and unless his neck is
one of three stock sizes he can’t be
accommodated. Price for this “to-mea-
sure” service is about 30 bob.
* * * ♦
“Monitor”; As a radio monitor at a
listening-post through years of war I
logged station after station as being “Off
the air” as the Japs swept southwards —
Shanghai, Hongkong, Manila, Singapore,
Rangoon, Saigon, Batavia. Then, as the
Nips settled in, back would come each
station, and into my log would go “Back
on the air. Jap control.” Followed a
period of airborne Japanese “victories”
until, stopped at last, the yellow tide be-
gan to roll northwards again. Once
more station after station gave up the
ghost to pipe up again a few days later
under Allied control. A week before the
actual surrender everything pointed tq an
early ending of the Pacifip war. As
events moved to a climax we were flat
out, as news flashes were breaking every
ten minutes or so. On August 15 at
4 a.m. 8.8. C. reported that Downing-
street had denied that the acceptance of
surrender had been received, so we closed
down and went home to breakfast and
bed. At 9.30 my wife woke me up and
told me the war was over. She heard it
on our mantel radio. I’d been listening
for it for 78 hours on powerful short-
wave sets,
* * * *
“Centen” :* March 16 marked the 150th
anniversary of the death of Joseph
Gerrald, fifth and perhaps least notable
of the “Scottish martyrs.” His crimes
were that he associated himself with the
Edinburgh “British Convention” and
published a pamphlet: “A Convention
the Only Means of Saving Us from
Ruin.” It was pleaded that “the only
objects are annual Parliaments and univer-
sal suffrage,” but Gerrald was given 14
years’ transportation, and sent to Australia
in the Sovereign shortly after Muir, Palmer,
Margaret and Skirving, the other four
“martyrs.” Lord Cockburn was to write
“None of these cases made such an im-
pression at the time or has sunk so
deeply into the heart of posterity as
Gerrald’s —not, however, so much from
his superior innocence as from his
character and heroism.” A sick man
“Will you take it neat or with a dash of snow ?”
when convicted and in a worse condition
on arrival, he bought a cottage at Farm
Cove, Sydney, and, despite Governor
Hunter’s attempts to make his life com-
fortable, died of consumption on March
16, 1796. As late as 1836 Scottish pub-
lishers were reprinting the story of his
trial, one edition of that date bearing the
lines on the title-page:
Oh t if there be on this earthly sphere
A boon —an offering Heaven holds dear,
’Tis the last libation liberty draws
From the heart that bleeds and breaks in her
cause.
* * * *
“lantho,” from Rabaul:
The place is slowly returning to normal.
There are still plenty of signs of the Jap occu-
pation. Hundreds of wrecked ships, barges
and landing craft lie rusting along the fore-
shores and shallow parts of the harbor. All
the hillsides are honeycombed with tunnels,
blockhouses and strongpoints which, although
most of them have been blown in and closed
up, still carry the aroma of the Nip. Almost
every tree along the shore shows bullet holes
from Allied strafing, while the Japanese store-
houses and sheds are mainly twisted sheets of
steel and rusting tin. The Australian occupy-
ing force, with the help of p.-0.-w. labor, has
set up clean, neat camps, with native huts and
Army tents in neat rows along drives fringed
with all the native pawpaw, banana, palm and
other tropical trees that cover the ground in
abundance. Chinatown and the usual native
villages fringe the outskirts and hillsides. The
Japs and boongs do all the fatigues around the
camps, and the boongs are hard taskmasters
when the Sons of Heaven are not up to the
mark in their duties. All the p.-0.-w. are in
compounds from which parties come out daily
£ o work around the camps, supply loading and
work parties and clean up the area. You could
never meet more evil-looking scum than among
these Japs, who claim they are undefeated and
show their arrogance at every chance.
The volcano is still smouldering and smelling.
The weather alternates between hot, humid days
and misty rain, which even on the fine days
clings to the tops of the surrounding moun-
tains and leaves the thick undergrowth all
damp and mushy. Japanese warships, gyns
absent, occasionally enter the harbor under
watchful Navy eyes. At one park are hundreds
of cars of all makes and colors once owned
by planters, officials and civilians, and later
used by the Japs as staff cars. They’re not
good for much now. Japanese on the island
amount to around the 130,000 mark, and out-
number the Australians about ten to one. The
Nips seem to enjoy the hot days, but when it
gets a bit cold they all get malaria attacks and
go about shivering; their teeth chatter,
while the worst cases double up and nearly
seem to freeze to death. On cold days as many
as 40,000 are down with malaria. Though
nearly all the plantations and houses oi P ie "
war days have been razed to the ground,
planters and missionaries are slowly Hooping
back, and with all the work being put in to
remaking Rabaul it will not be long before it
once again lifts its head up proqdly and settles
down to prosperity.
* * * *
“Tip”: Considerable ingenuity has
been displayed by owners of houses in
Melbourne since the Government went
on the warpath after unoccupied houses.
One inspector found that an owner had
left the gas on and the water running,
and another had paid a neighbor to hang
washing out on the line.
H: * *
“Tenens”: “Deir Suneid” (B. 27/2/’46)
is a little off the mark when he visualises
the painter of the murals in Moody’s
Hotel, Seymour (Vic.), as a miner draw-
ing upon the depths of his experience for
the sake of “a few pots.” The artist was
sent out by the “Illustrated London
News” to depict aspects of “colonial” life.
He stayed at Moody’s, and there is no
record that he did the paintings from any
other motive than that which prompted
blithe spirits to adorn the walls of
Parisian cafes. The murals are in a
gloomy old smoke-room and are black-
ened by wood and tobacco smoke, but
still retain evidence of a good brush. I
tried a year or so ago to interest the
Historical Societies of both N.S.W. and
Victoria in their actual history and date
without result. I put them down as circa
1850.
* * * *
“Bar Din”: “Maleesh’s” moan about
Russian (B. 6/ 3/’46) merely touches the
difficulties of the language. It is as
highly inflected as Latin, but, whereas
our own tongue is part of the heritage of
that language, Russian words ring as
strangely on Anglo-Saxon ears as do
Chinese. And Russian is a living lan-
guage. It is uncommonly difficult, in the
midst of a rapid conversation, to remem-
ber that the ablative (the grammarians
call it the instrumental, but it is all the
same) of vagrant, for instance, must be
feminine, while its adjective may be mas-
culine; Then, of course, there are the
plurals to be reckoned with. There are
a multitude of irregularities to perplex
the newchum and barbarous synonyms,
a legacy of Tartar invasions. But the
greatest snag of all is the mobile accent.
Most languages have fairly uniform rules
of accentuation. The accent may shift,
but usually it does so in an orderly
manner. In Russian it dashes around
in a wholly irresponsible fashion, chang-
ing the meaning radically. The only thing
to do is to learn the accents off by heart.
It is possible to learn to read and write
Russian quite well, but without knowing
the accentuation it is impossible to
speak it.
“Pookie”: The par. about Russian
reminded me of a textbook on that
language which I studied in a Ger-
man stalag. The preface had a few pious
sentiments about collaboration between
“great peoples,” but a hefty section of
“colloquial conversation” contained such
sentences as “Where are your Brigade
Headquarters?” “What is the strength
of your artillery?” and “If you do not
answer, you will be shot.” It was pub-
lished before the war.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: An American soldier-artist
who lost his right arm and left hand has
since painted landscapes with a brush
affixed to an artificial hand. The pictures
are described as “perfect in color har-
mony and composition.” If the descrip-
tion is correct it is a tribute more to the
artist’s eye than to his mechanical hand.
A Melbourne painter who set out to
copy a famous Old Master in the Louvre
had to use a ladder to reach parts of his
canvas. It took him months to complete
the job, but it would have taken years if
every time he wanted to alter a tone or
a patch of color he had had to descend
the ladder, cock his eye at the original
from the appropriate focusing point and
then reascend ; so he posted his wife at
the top of the ladder and simply told her
what to do. A Spanish cardinal subse-
quently said it was the best copy of the
picture hie had seen, far better than one
he had commissioned a celebrated
painter to do.
* * ' * *
“C.Q.”: Victoria’s Housing Commis-
sion has had a rush of brains to the head,
and designed for inclusion in all its
future housing estates a house to provide
for young couples with no children or
one child. As the brood increases the
dwelling can be added to without spoil-
ing the original design, and the Com-
mission guarantees to do the additions
as and when required. This is what the
early settlers did, by instinct rather than
design, and that their results were pleasing
is suggested by the fact that scores of
artists have painted early settlers’
houses. The artist who wants to paint
a picture of a Housing Commission villa
has yet to be discovered.
* * * ♦
“Craiser”: The Victorian education
system always reminds me of a Welsh
evangelist who created an immense furore
in Wellington (M.L.). At his meetings
he “cured” cripples, paralytics, rheu-
matics, the partially blind and people with
defective hearing. A reporter who in-
vestigated some of his cases'a year later
found they had all relapsed. A lad I
know who has gained his merit certificate,
passing in history, geography, mathe-
matics, English literature and numerous
other subjects, and has got into the usual
dead-end job spends his leisure studying
“form” in order to win a double and
earn the wherewithal to become a jockey.
* * * *
“Historian” on some old guns:
While the Sydney Harbor Bridge was under
construction the guns That had formed a
battery at Dawes Point since 1857 were re-
moved to Taronga Park. Dr. Bradfield had
intended that they should be replaced in their
original position after the completion of the
bridge. A few weeks ago, through the action
of a public-spirited citizen, the replacement was
carried out. Dawes Point battery was not the
first fortification built in N.S.W. That honor
belongs to the battery erected on the north
side of Botany Bay by La Perouse, who
camped there for 44 days after his entrance to
the bay on January 26, 1788. Moreover, a re-
doubt had been erected between July and
November, 1788, by Lieutenant Dawes on the
east side of Sydney Cove. This was demolished
in 1791 and the guns and flagstaff transferred
to Dawes Point. Even before that eight six-
pounders had been removed thither from
H.M.S. Sirius and a small earthwork thrown
up for them, to be replaced later by a stone
battery. In 1856 Sydney suffered from a
Russian scare during the Crimean War.
Governor Denison, who had himself been of
the Royal Engineers, did not share in this fear
of a ’ Russian attack; but he did agree that
Sydney was in need of stronger defences “for
the purpose of keeping off much more un-
pleasant neighbors than the Russians, namely,
our friends the French and our relations the
Americans” (of whom Tom Blarney still has
doubts). He expressed the opinion that
“unless we have some heavy batteries ready to
open upon vessels lying near the town a few
frigates might run in under cover of the night,
and the first notice I should have of their
arrival would be a 321 b. shot crashing through
the walls of my house.” Accordingly, in 1857
Dawes battery was strengthened with an upper
row of five guns arranged in a “half-moon”
curve and a lower .row of 13 guns command-
ing a large sweep. The lower battery was
cleared away years ago, but the upper five re-
mained in position until taken to Taronga
Park in 1931. They are now back in as nearly
as possible their original setting at Dawes
Point.
* * * *
“Ex-Gunner”: “Exdig’s” list of coun-
tries in which Old Diggers have settled
(B. 27/2/’46) is by no means complete.
Just before World War II began Repat.
published a list of the countries to which
war pensions were sent. Britain had the
largest number of exiled Diggers, with
the U.S.A., Canada and France next in
that order; but there were also Diggers
in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland,
Germany, Italy and the West Indies, even
on St. Helena. Within a few years, no
doubt, every Pacific island where there
are whites will have its quota of second-
edition ex-Diggers.
* * * *
“Yair”: Aren’t our daily papers reli-
able’ When the Formosans were being
loaded on to the hellship two journals
printed a photo, of the same Jap. One
commented on his one - toothed
smile” ; the other described what_ ap-
peared to be a solitary tooth as a cigar-
ette end. It reminds me of a week during
the war when two Sunday papers ran
exactly the same picture of a soldier being
embraced by a woman whose face was
obscured. One said it was a German
soldier tearfully bidding his mother good-
bye, the other that it was a German
woman joyfully welcoming her husband
home.
WE.
“Commenting on a statement by Mr. Menzies that
Mr. Phurchill, in his recent warning to Russia,
spoke for Australia as well as himself, Mr. Chitley
said that ‘We, the Government, speak for Aus-
tralia, not Mr. Menzies or Mr. Churchill.’ ”
Your words seem spoken testily and stiffly
As though you felt your amour propre were
hurt,
In short, your tone suggests annoyance,
Chifley.
Best keep your temper and keep on your
shirt.
Complaint that others seek to steal your
thunder
Is fairly obvious you can’t conceal.
Per contra one may warrantab'ly wonder
Whether there’s any to steal.
When “We” —that’s Cabinet and your co-
sitters
Therein —pronouncements . frame in fitting
form,
Your voices seldom rise above the twitters
Of sparrows or of starlings in a storm.
To forthright utterances all are strangers;
Expediency dictates and caution notes
The need to set against the gain the dangers
Of alienating votes.
The sentiments to inculcate your trade is.
Supporters to secure and foes to vex,
Are not the sort of stuff to “fright the ladies”
Or get the goats of sturdy union secs.
The role that you’ve adopted evidently
When into topics such as these you shove
Is—just as Bottom’s was—to “roar as gently
As any sucking dove.”
For this our land, we hear you firmly stating,
You claim the sole authority to speak.
Why not then stop it from degenerating
Into a mere apologetic squeak
When miners strike or wharfies put in action
Their views on international affairs
As evidence that any such transaction
Isn’t your job but theirs?
Speak! Yes, you’re there to give it lip. Why
don’t you?
For that you were elected anyway.
On quite a lot of pressing problems won’t you
Say something when so much <is left to say?
You and your mates a happy band of brothers
Ruling the Commonwealth may represent;
Still, while you leave the governing to others,
You’re not a Government.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: An American critic of
General MacArthur (they are all boys of
the Leftist breed) had a disparaging refer-
ence to his “rococo rhetoric.” The
general drops into rhetoric at times, but
it is never “rococo” ; many a writer with-
out any Leftist bias would like to have
his command of English and his style,
formed on Scriptural and classical models.
Sometimes he shows a fondness for
archaic words, such as “unbeknown,”
which he used when pulverising Chifley
and Makin:
Unbeknown to G.H.Q., and ignoring
its refusal to increase the authorised num-
ber of passengers above 948, the Australian
Military Forces did so, including in the
shipment 211 Formosan and Korean women
and children.
I like that “unbeknown.” It heightens
the effect, as did Carlyle’s use of another
archaic word in leading up to that won-
derful account of the Terror in his
French Revolution —“The Gods Are
Athirst.” How much more telling than
if the sage of Ecclefechan had written
“The Gods Are Thirsty!”
* * * *
“Spuridon”: Recently in Hobart two
ships were berthed almost side by side —
H.M.S. Anson and the American Liberty
ship Whistler. At a welcome to the cap-
tain and officers of Anson at the Naval
and Military Club, it was pointed out
that lying on the beach near Risdon was
the hulk of another H.M.S. Anson, a
72-gun frigate that visited Hobart early
last century, carrying convicts. Even-
tually, she was stripped of her guns and
was used for some years as a reception
depot for female convicts. When her
“You mustn't take any notice of Daddy's 'No,' darling. Why, he's a
tobacconist."
usefulness was ended she was beached at
Risdon. The following day I walked
past Henry Kaiser’s all-welded ship
Whistler to a small plantation near the
wharf, in the middle of which was set,
a large and rusty anchor. On the side
of the plantation was this inscription:
“This anchor was picked up near New
Year Island by the s.s. Tambar in 1922,
believed to be the anchor of the Ameri-
can ship Whistler, wrecked on King
Island in 1855.”
* * * *
“Fifty-Fifty”: My uncle, an old-time
Queensland stock inspector, who went
from place to place on horseback, some-
times took his wife with him on the
shorter trips. On one occasion they put
up overnight at a weatherboard pub. It
was late when they arrived and
were immediately “shown to their
room.” Before retiring my uncle
busied himself with the writing of
notes on the day’s inspections. Auntie
commenced to amuse herself by plug-
ging all the notch holes in the walls with
crumpled paper. Qne notch hole was
particularly troublesome and bigger than
the rest. Involuntarily or inquisitively,
but certainly unsuspectingly, she closed
one eye and peered closely through the
hole with the other. My uncle looked
up to see her quickly spring back. “I’ve
just seen eye to eye with a fellow-lodger,”
she explained.
* * * *
“Jackpot”: Most people who have
“played” that insidious invention for
dragging silver out of reluctant and not-
so-reluctant pockets the poker machine
must some time or other have felt like
seizing the metal glutton and hurling it
to the floor in order to make it disgorge
the treasure that has clinked down its
greedy gullet. But for years the “one-
armed bandit” has overawed its victims,
hypnotised by the lure of the spinning
cards. At last a worm has turned. With
a loud crash a machine thrown from a
sixth-floor window recently smashed to
fragments in a lane alongside the Bulle-
tin building. Passersby rushed to salvage
sixpences from the wreckage. Bulletin
men, recalling tribute paid over the years
to others of the tribe, rejoiced at the
downfall of the tyrant, and even the Reli-
gious Editor, though he muttered some-
thing about the narrowing lust for gold,
was seen to smile for the first time since
early closing became law in 1916.
* * ♦ *
“Pookie”: Mike, our sergeant, was
shovelling coal in an Austrian railway
yard one fine day when a long line of
trucks, each bearing an armored fighting
vehicle, rumbled past, moving south.
Each tank was freshly painted with
desert camouflage, contrasting strangely
with the deep-green fields and the dark
forests and the patches of snow on the
distant hills. That night Mike wrote a
letter addressed to “QX1406, Gunner
A. F. V. Southward,” c/o his old regi-
ment. “Dear Hoot, Sorry to hear Harry
and Geraldine Cameron’s marriage has
been broken up. Mother says she has
left him. I never thought Gerry would
desert Cam. lam well at present, work-
ing in a railway yard. All the best,
Mike.” The letter arrived and a search
was made for Gunner Southward. No
such person existed. Finally the letter
was placed before the C.O. of the regi-
ment, who was Mike’s cousin. Recog-
nising his own nickname (Hoot) and
Mike’s signature, he realised the letter
contained a message of some kind. Then
he discovered that the regimental number
belonged to a sergeant in Mike’s battery,
whose Christian name was Jerry. After
that the rest was easy. “Jerry armored
fighting vehicles southward. Gerry [the
hard ‘g’ in German made this word in-
nocuous] desert cam.” But by that time
Rommel had already made his drive. The
only result of Mike’s letter was that all
his subsequent mail was closely scanned
by experts alert for further intelligence,
And, as his fiancee remarked, “all my
letters became military property.”
"Will he have me? Mister, We've settled that already!"
“Jasby”: It used to be a dictum that
ridicule was one of the deadliest weapons
ever invented, and, the pen being mightier
than the bomber, the cartoonist’s pencil
was naturally the most potent of them
all. The War of the Dictators must surely
have shown the limitations of ridicule as
a weapon. During the years of their rise
to greatness Hitler and Mussolini were
probably caricatured, ridiculed, lam-
pooned and parodied more than any
score of men in history, yet the former
went on to become temporary master
of Europe and II Duce stayed in the
saddle for over 20 years. Franco, who
should have died of ridicule on the spleen
years ago, still refuses to be laughed to
death or dethronement. Perhaps this ridi-
cule defeats its own purpose by making
us underestimate our enemies. I have a
theory that Hitler would never have got
where he did had he looked a man of
strength, a Hindenburg, for example.
Nature in freakish mood persuaded' him
to grow a Charlie Chaplin moustache.
It was a gift to the cartoonists, but to
the world it was a face that could not
possibly be taken seriously. Even today
the world feels cheated to think that for
six years of misery and destruction it has
to blame a man with a Charlie Chaplin
mo.
♦ * * *
“Chevroford”: The Shetland pony
consigned to Brisbane per A.N.A. ’plane
from Melbourne isn’t the first piece* of
horseflesh to do the air trip on that
route. During the war American soldiers
bought a yearling at the Newmarket sales
and smuggled it by ’plane to North
Queensland.
* * # *
“Harold Hardupp”: Philately has
stayed; but at one time other collecting
crazes threatened its supremacy. In the
days of wax matches collectors of match-
box tops had quite a vogue. Prices even
of stamps had not climbed to the exalted
prices of today, but I remember that one
man claimed a £3OOO value for his match-
box top collection. He was an American
who was able to make a profession of his
hobby, travelling the world in search of
new specimens, and buying as many as
he could for resale to other collectors.
What became of the collections and their
artificial values?
* * * *
“Ceg”; The practice of publicly dis-
playing dishonored cheques (B. 27/2/’46)
is dangerous, as one publican discovered
to his cost. He had, nicely framed in the
bar, a cheque which had been returned
unpaid years before. The drawer, a local
identity who had meanwhile made good,
upon discovering his old cheque publicly
displayed brought an action for libel and
collected substantial damages.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: A reporter
covering the departure of Australian
brides for America described the face of
one of them as “starlit.” He stirred a
memory. The starlit face of a beauteous
damsel was one of the favorite properties
of a young man whose effusions were
given much space in the “Evening News”
in its later days. One day a human
typhoon blew into the office in search
of the scoundrel responsible for referring
to the “scarlet face” of his missus, who
had acted as hostess at a successful
function for some good cause. The sting
caused by the misprint was sharpened by
the suspicion that it was a back-handed
reference to the lady’s partiality to a
“spot.” That young writer used his favor-
ite adjective no more.
* * , * *
“Fancar”: “Bethune’s” mention (B.
27/2/’46) of tram-ticket books in Bris-
bane makes me wonder when this useful
idea was first adopted. The books
were used in the days of the horse-trams,
and were sold at 2s. a dozen tickets;
I recently retrieved one from a partly-
used book found in an old family desk
and issued prior to 1895 (Brisbane’s first
electric tram landed on August 6, 1896).
Another useful feature of Brisbane horse-
trams was the letterbox. A “National
Geographic” magazine of 1931 acclaimed
tlfis notion used in Madrid (1931) as a
wonderfully original and modern service
to the public. Brisbane introduced it
in 1894.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Cabled from London that
the Mayor of Holborn established a pre-
cedent after opening a swimming pool
by removing his chain of office, donning
trunks and easily beating other council-
lors in a pool-length swim. In 1941 a
Lud Mayor of Melbourne did the same
at an outer suburb, except that he left
out the bit about beating his fellow-
Bumbles. Frank Beaurepaire could have
done that, too, if he had tried.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: This present year of
grace will provide plenty of attractions
for Australian centenary-addicts. Among
them are the first successful overseas
shipment of preserved meat from Aus-
tralia, the discovery by the Gregory
brothers of the coal-deposits in the
Arrowsmith River area of N.S.W.,
Leichhardt’s return from his 3000-mile
transcontinental expedition, and the de-
parture of Sir John Franklin on his ill-
fated Arctic voyage. William MacGregor,
founder of white rule in Papua, and
later Governor of Queensland, was born
in 1846, and in 1846 died Barron Field,
first Australian Judge, friend of Charles ‘
Lamb, and originator of the barbarous
Australia-failure rhyme.
% * * ♦
“Fitz”: There cannot be many com-
plete files of The Bulletin in existence
outside 252 George-street and some of
the public libraries—before the war the
Fisher Library, Sydney University, was
trying to fill the gaps in its file and was
still battling hard long after I was in
khaki. Last year the London “Spectator”
crowed in delight when it unearthed a
reader who had a complete file of that
weekly, which was founded in 1828.
The Bulletin is in its 67th year, and
there should be a few full files in the
hands of private collectors. A friend paid
a tenner for a file ranging from 1895 to
1915, but his wife “salvaged” the lot
while he was away with the A.I.F. in the
Middle East. The antipathy of many
women to anything more than a knitting
book and a work on astrology in the
house probably contributes more to the
disappearance of collections than the
ravages of time.
A SENSITIVE BONIFACE.
“Albert Pierrepoint, Britain’s official hangman, is
a Lancashire publican as a sideline, but playful
allusions to his ‘other job’ are sternly discounten-
anced in his bar.”
You may take it adjusting a noose
And filling a pint to the brim
Are two occupations he views
As equally suited to him.
But waggish remarks which allude
To the tally of killers he’s hung
He reckons offensively rude
When he’s plying the trade of a Bung.
You may talk of “T’ Coop” in his inn
Or the weather or —no matter what
When you’re sampling his rum or his gin
Or blowing the froth off a pot,
But wisecracks on necks that were broke
In the numerous traps that he’s sprung
He doesn’t regard as a joke;
They grate on his nerves as a Bung.
In critical circles, you know,
State servants are often decried
For adding a wad to their dough
By lucrative jobs “on the side.”
Still, a hangman can only expect -
Piece-rates for the subjects he’s swung,
And, with business slack, why object
To his making a bit as a Bung?
Hence, ’twixt his professional “dates”
As the henchman of Justice severe,
For clients he cheerfully waits
In a far more inspiriting sphere.
Their necks he will moisten, not stretch;
But never forget, should your tongue
Be loosened, that quips about Ketch
Annoy this particular Bung.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Was walking along Pitt-
street, Sydney, recently, when a mob of
’roos leapt up and headed for the water-
hole on the rise about half a mile to the
east. One boomer that was leading ’em
seemed to know his way about, for he
avoided the brambles beside the parked
cars in the gully in Hunter-street and
swung wide of the shaly ridges behind the
Assembly so as to lead the mob on the
soft going past the McKell homestead
on Macquarie - street.
Interested, I fan over
to the Australia, un-
fa itc h e d old Mac,
jumped into the saddle
and ambled up to that
waterhole. “Hey,” I
called to the old
boomer, “what you
doin’ in Sydney?
Thought you hung
around Nectar Brook
and them parts in the
Cro weater country ? ”
“Did, too,” he comes
back, twitching his ears
as a couple of ’Loo
blackmarketeers shot it
out near the Cathedral,
“till that ‘Sur Cingle’
started out with his
.22 calibre typewriter.
Reckon we’re safer here.” Saying which,
he collected the mob and headed ’em
towards Riley-street, where somebody had
upset a barrow-load of apples in a bottle-
and-revolver brawl.
•i» $
“Fancar”; Re “Colonial Cove’s” par.
(B. 27/2/’46) on the naming of the
Condamine, there is a tradition, perhaps
apocryphal, that the number of fine cod
caught” by Cunningham’s party the first
evening they came to the Condamine
decided the naming., Condamine, Dar-
ling’s A.D.C., was, it is said, an ardent
angler, and Cunningham, remembering
this, called the stream Condamine’s River.
* ' * * *
“Tandan”: Viking warriors who drank
from the skulls of their enemie's were no
more remarkable than the Narrinyeri
tribe, who lived about the mouth of the
Murray and along the Coorong. In this
tribe every gin used to own a skull water-
vessel. With the bones of the face broken
away from it, a brainbox would have its
sutures cemented up v with pieces of shell
cemented on with yacca-gum, and would
be carried by a grass rope. The Narrin-
yeris were no less strict than other tribes
in observing the abo. practice of avoiding
mention of the name of a dead relation,
but they had no objection to taking
a swig from the cranium of their nearest
and dearest.
* * * *
“Blime”: Tony’s got a few acres of
starvation country in a fringe of bush,
where, between giving thanks for the
goodness of Bill Hickson, who had let
him have the strip for no more than three
times its value, he slogs to maintain about
a dozen broken-mouthed crossbreds.
Dropping in to see him the other day,
Robbie waded kneedeep through a pack
of mongs, and came on the naturalised
bloke stripping bark. “What do y’ keep
all these mongs for, Tony?” he asked
irritably. “Rabbits,” came the ready
answer, “an’ sheep. Good dogs, them.”
“What’s that bloke?” persisted Robbie,
nodding at a bullheaded nondescript.
Tony grinned proudly. “Bes’ sheepdog
in country, that one,” he announced.
“Mis’ Hickson breed. Never breed one
bad dog yet. Give him to me.” “Work
sheep, does he?” murmured Robbie, a
trifle incredulously. “Soon,” Tony
assured him. “Not come to work yet.
Mis’ Hickson prize dog not look at sheep
till ’bout two year, then start all sudden,
work, work. Not good for start too soon.
Get spoil’. Mis’ Hickson say. This dog
work shows might be, like mother. Make
lot o’ mon’, heh?” “H’m. How long
y’ had him?” inquired Robbie. Tony
grew thoughtful. “Fi no,” he de-
cided, “jus’ six year las’ Chris’mas,”
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: I was describing to Wally
my experiences in a particularly bad dust-
storm. “Yes, they get pretty bad,
them things, in this country,” said Wai.
“Once when we was bringing cattle in
from the Strelleckie below Innamincka we
struck a real blackout—the rabbits was
up fifty feet in the air diggin’ burrows! ”
* * * *
“Freedom”: He was a union secretary,
intent on organising “owner-drivers” so
that they would not suffer “the evils of
competition,” as he called it. The meals
at the so-called community hotel where
we shared a table with Sec. # and
Mrs. Sec. were not the best. “It’s
“Cow overboard!”
all very well calling it a community
hotel,” Sec. commented, “but it serves the
community, not the people. What they
want is plenty of competition to liven
them up,” I’m still trying to square his
opinions with his occupation, and won-
dering whether other proclaimed social-
ists feel the same way about things.
sfe ♦ * *
“Impic”: The common barnyard fowl
will flourish on a diet of arsenic but will
perish if fed a similar quantity of com-
mon salt. The rat, which can live on
almost anything, finds the harmless red
squills of the druggist rapidly fatal. It
also succumbs to barium carbonate, non-
poisonous to almost every other creature.
But surely the oddest fact in the study of
toxicology is the effect of a scrap of fresh
porpoise hide on the dog. Came on old
Jack interring two canine cadavers, his
best kangaroo hunters. “It was that
blasted flash city mob that was down here
last week. They couldn’t find nothing
else to shoot so they took to potting at
the porpoises. Must have wounded one
and it died and drifted ashore —and now
here’s me best dogs gone west.” Jack
couldn’t swear whether pr not porpoise
flesh would poison a dog, but he was
certain about the skin. For a hundred
years he and his forebears had dwelt be-
side that Westralian estuary, and they
had seen many dogs die. And dogs go
for the skin above everything; they’ll
even dig for it when it’s buried. So when
we have a dead porpoise on our hands
we either burn it or take it out to deep
water and sink it with stones.
* * * *
“Nason”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
6/ 2/’46) that I knew all about dipping a
catfish into boiling water in order to
loosen its hide long before I wrote that
par. I’d have my cobblers skinned
long before “G.” got his water boiled.
Moreover, scalding at best is a mucky
job, resulting in a parboiled exterior likely
to send the other parts of the fish putrid.
As for no intelligent fisherman leaving
the cobbler’s head on —well, I advise him
to take a walk down Barrack-street, Perth,
during the cobbler season. There he will
see scores of catfish for sale complete
with heads. Actually the Price Fixing
Commissioner takes cognisance of the
cobbler with head on- or off. Barbs are
easily removed from market fish by a
nip with the pliers, though 1 have used
a small billet of soft wood, which on
being driven on to the barb snaps it off
with great success. Out in the boat at
night the wood doesn’t sink if dropped
accidentally overboard —it, of course,
being necessary to debarb catfish before
extricating them from the net.
» * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: In my schooldays
we kids pinned our faith on resin, which,
when rubbed on our hands, was calcu-
lated to split the schoolmaster’s toughest
cane. My kids attribute similar admirable
properties to the milky sap of the pep-
perina. How these cane insurances, past
and present, compare I can’t say; but
history repeats itself, for Nemesis usually
catches the delinquent’s paw unanointed.
* * * *
“Bo”: Horrie, the dopey new hand,
had been sent by Minter with a cartload
of pumpkins to the trucking siding. An
hour or so after he had left Horrie re-
appeared leading old Barney. Minter
demanded to know where the cart was.
“It’s back in that rung paddick. o’ Dib-
ley’s,” explained Horrie slowly. “Well,
what’s wrong —is it smashed up or some-
thing?” asked his boss. Horde grinned
amiably. “No, it ain’t smashed,” he
drawled ; “the cart itself’s jonick.” “Well,
why did you take Barney out of it?”
pursued Minter, “I didn’t take ’im out
of it,” went on Horde. “Y’ see, it’s like
this. I thought I’d take a short cut
across Dibley’s. Y’ know wot sort of a
slope it’s got on it. Well, the wheel on
the high side hits a stump an’ over she
goes. Barney goes over, too. He don’t
seem able to get up, an’ I couldn’t shove
him up, so I goes over to Dibley’s an’
borrers his axe. It’s a snifter new Kelly,
an’ I had no trouble in getting through
the shafts with it and freein’ the moke.”
“But, you stupid blankard!” yelled Minter,
“why couldn’t you have simply unhar-
nessed him? And what made you think
of taking an axe to the shafts?” Horde
looked at his boss for a full half-minute ;
then he scratched his head. “Well, I
could have borrered a saw, I suppose,”
he said, “but it would’ve taken me longer,
an that’s what you’re always goin crook
about!”
* * * *
“Zake”: Black ants, termites, black
cockatoos, sheep, spiders and a host of
other bushdwellers have been lauded for
their ability to prognosticate the weather.
Most of them are proved meteorological
duds. For the real experts you’ve got to
go to the submarine denizens, and the
most reliable of these is the big yellow
jellyfish, which abounds in the rivers
of our seaboard. Hours before a storm
comes these creatures, in one respect so
like our “Government,” will invariably
be seen moving away from a lee shore,
and they will all have their heads down
making for the point of the compass
from which the storm will surely come.
* » * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Ten miles from the
nearest township, with dusk approaching,
Bill and I did in a big-end—unmistak-
ably. With true bush optimism. Bill re-
moved the sump, took out the con. rod
and waited patiently for a lift to a garage
—either way. After dark a flash car tore
past, the white-overalled driver ignoring
Bill’s waving arms. Cursing all unsociable
coots, my mate cut a piece off his
belt, packed the big-end with it and
replaced the con. rod. And, with
the sparkplug from that cylinder removed,
we started to limp along, intending to
turn in at the first farmhouse for a feed
and a shakedown for the night. We
struck it a couple of miles along the road,
and not far inside the gate stood the flash
car, a ripped mudguard and a drunken
gatepost indicating a bad error of judg-
ment by its driver. Laughing, we drove
up to the house. Out came that driver.
“Don’t ask any questions,” he said in a
cultured voice, “One of you run to my
car and fish my trouble lamp with
a long lead from under the front seat.”
Then he ducked inside again. When I
returned with it Bill was uncovering our
battery, and, taking the ends of the
leads from me, clamped them to the
terminals. When the leads were fixed
and the light throwing its brilliance
around, the chap said “You’ll have to
keep your engine running to give me
light.” Then he tore inside again. It
may have been our military training, or
we may have been too tired to argue.
Anyway, we sat there in the darkness
for half an hour chain-smoking and listen-
ing to the thump of that big-end until
the bloke came out again. “Awf’ly obliged
to you chaps,” he said, offering his silver
cigarette-case. “I was having some diffi-
culty in locating that chap’s appendix
with a hurricane lamp! ”
* * * *
“Naturala”: When the first camels
were turned loose in the W.A. desert they
feasted royally on the too-attractive wild
wallflower ( Gastrolobium grandifiorum).
Survivors learned the lesson and trans-
mitted it to their progeny, so that today
the grandifiorum flaunts its alluring ver-
dure untouched. So with the wild pig.
Riding into a patch of seldom-disturbed
country in the W.A. south-west, we
found a herd of wild pigs ravag-
ing the plentiful zamia palms. Tear-
ing open the big seed cones the
porkers gobbled up the green-coated
nuts by the score ; and it was tricky to
watch the skinned nuts come flying out
of the side of the porcine mouth in an
almost continuous stream. But though
he scaled off the rind the pig knew too
much to chew and swallow the enticing
nut. Zamia nuts are particularly deadly
to the pig tribe, and, though numbers of
pigs belonging to the early settlers died
from eating them, their modern descen-
dants obviously know just what part of
the nut and fruit is edible.
“Porongorup”: Sheepmen of W.A.’s
south-west find the rapidly-increasing fox
to be quite an epicure. Killing a young
lamb by a neat throat bite, it first opens
the victim’s mouth and extracts the
tongue with the skill and neatness of a
surgeon. Half a dozen tongues make a
satisfying breakfast. A couple of
days later, when the carcass tends to be-
come a bit “high,” he returns to gorge.
Not 'every fox is a killer ; the theory
is held that the percentage is little more
than one in a dozen; but that pne
butchers for the others.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Ex-pug, teetotaller and
estimable citizen, Tom Oak took a keen
interest in the lads of the district, teach-
ing them to lead straight lefts and straight
lives with equal facility. When the
butcher expressed concern over Blaid-
bone junior the old-timer replied ‘ Be-
cause a boy gets chased home from school
every day it doesn’t follow he s a
squib. Your boy won’t fight because he
has no confidence, and he has no con-
fidence because he knows he can’t fight.
Send him to me for three months and
I’ll guarantee he’ll fear no kid in the
school.” One Aght soon after the lad
had finished the course Blaidbone arrived
at Tom’s. “Things haven’t turned out so
good,” he began diffidently. “Don t tell
me they’re still chasing young Don
home!” the old boxer exclaimed in per-
plexity. “Why, I class him as one of the
most promising boys Ive had ; 111 S
antee he could wallop any kid m the
school if he’d have a go.” Blaidbone
suddenly stepped into the hght and lifted
his hand from his left eye. Thats the
trouble,” he said; “he can wallop the
kids now, but I can’t wallop their fathers.
How soon can you take me ?”
* * * *
“Carmi”: Milking and mounting
horses present few difficulties to the rig t-
hander or the southpaw, whichever side
he does it (B. 27/2/M6); but my-neigh-
bor, a left-handed woman, says the only
really awkward task, inside the home o
out, is working the sewmg-machme.
Which causes me to wonder why a le
hander’s sewing-machine has never been
made.
DERELICT AT LABUAN.
Are you bound, old ship, on a journey past
my knowing? .
The tide is over the moss and a high winds
blowing. ...
The dogwatch stars are fierce and the boom is
swinging, . .
Straining in gusts that lilt of a siren s singing.
Your holds are filled, the hatches battened
fast;
The hawser free, the peak of the tide well past.
No sails are set; there falls the lonely tread
Of the moon exploring your decks with the
feet of the dead.
What kingdom this, old ship, you choose to
claim?
What shallow throne of rock for you whose
name
Was hissed through the teeth of the gale and
screamed by the gull
As night and the waves together shivered your
hull?
You are bound, old ship, on a journey past
my knowing—
May I, when the rocks crowd in and the
tempest is blowing
Its call too shrill for the mind, hoist sail in
its breath
And as nobly steer in your wake to the port
of Death.
QUEENSLAND.
VAT VATLIS.


“Arpeos”; No city barrowman knows
more about the art of “topping” than
some of the boongs we met early in the
island campaigns. To the tinned-food-
weary soldier a basket of fruit was a
sight to quicken the pulse, but we soon
learned to look beneath the few luscious
mangoes on the top layer before handing
over the “bullamacow.” Three months
ago at Rabaul, thinking three years in
the islands had put me wise to all the
tricks, I stopped my jeep at a boongs’
market and made a trade for a basket of
fine-looking bananas. Arriving back at
camp I was astonished to find the
bananas had transformed themselves into
coconut husks. How was it done? Some
fuzzywuzzy angel had switched baskets
in the time between my putting the stuff
in the back of the jeep and driving off,
a matter of about ten seconds.
* * » *
“Old-timer”: In Curyo Charlie’s
business, as in more or less legal ones,
was no room for sentiment. He had fre-
quently stood behind his sweat wheel and
coldly watched some youth lose his week’s
wages or a laboring father grqw steadily
paler as he went broke, and if Curyo
sometimes sought out the loser later on
and pressed a frogskin upon him that was
no more than the wise professional
gamblers have done in all history, it be-
ing a bad thing to have a bitter loser
circulating in the locality. Charlie hit
Birchip the night before the races and
found the town blanketed under the influ-
ence of a ruthless police sergeant. There
wasn’t even a penny nap school in the
Mechanics’ Institute. So, largely to pass
the time, he went to the pictures and sat
through that sweetly-sentimental opus of
the silent days “Over the Hill.” It was
all about a dear old soul who sacrificed
her life to the advancement of her
children, who cruelly ignored her age and
were prepared to incarcerate her in the
local old ladies’ home when the
youngest son, of whom nobody ever
thought very much, turned up and told
the lot of ’em off, which led to their
reform or something. Charles came out
quiet and with an intent look on his
hard old dial, whereupon an acquaintance
remarked, “Sort of stirred a bloke up,
didn’t it?” “Too right,” said Charlie.
“If I could get hold o’ some ol’ girl t’
pull faces like that I’d chuck up me sweat
joint an’ start a Aunt Sally show.” And,
still thinking, he drifted off to bed.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The boss believed he
had been given a raw deal by both the
local member and the Government over
a piece of land on his southern boundary
—something to do with roads of access
and grazing rights—and when election
time came he got busy advocating the
Labor candidate, a fact which somewhat
amused us. Presently he began to interest
himself in our votes. We explained that
w& were on a distant electoral roll, but
he found we’d been more than the re-
quired time in the district and nothing
would satisfy him but to lug cards out
from the town and have our names trans-
ferred. “We want every vote we can
get,” he said. On election day we duly
voted and, as I came forth, I ran into
Mat, who said, “Well, that’s one good
vote for the Guv’mint.” “Hey,” I cried,
“I thought you was a Labor man.” “So
I tyas,” he said, “but when his Nibs starts
rushin’ round barrackin’ for Labor I
“We Won't bother about lunch for a while , Herb.”
reckon the other crowd can’t be too bad.
Anyway, no blanky boss is goin’ t’ tell
me how t’ vote.” He was silent a
moment, then added, “Besides, didn’t he
knock a bob a hundred off them posts?”
Thus is the course of the nation affected
by personal matters,
* * * *
“P. A. Road”; I’ll take a shade of
odds that S.A. has more placenames end-
ing in owie than in oo (B, 13/3/’46).
I never saw ’em all or heard of others,
but I’ll testify to Terowie, Edieowie, Cal-
towie, Booberowie, Canowie, Whyte-
Yarcowie, Gumbowie, Tarcowie, Telowie,
Willowie, Marachowie—a fair swag, and
most of ’em in the area about Peter-
borough. The tribe responsible must have
had its kingdom there.
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”; Mention of
sea-elephants still residing at Macquarie
Island (B. 27/2/’46) recalls watching the
brigantine Rachael Cohen unloading sea-
elephant oil from there at a Derwent
River wharf in my boyhood around 1920.
For years this squat 100-ton old-time
sailer regularly slashed her way across
the Southern Ocean towards this solitary,
harborless, 20-mile long, mountain-like
island, and not infrequently, because of
the bleakness of those latitudes, she
missed it altogether and was compelled
to go on to The Bluff (M.L.). In those
days the vessel’s owner leased the island,
arid a party resided there' permanently,
killing seals and penguins for oil until
the Tasmanian Government stopped the
industry on the ground of cruelty. On
a visit 12 years ago Norwegian whalers
reported the number of great, beefy sea-
“Speak to her , Thora — she's eating my pudding.”
elephants lying among the tussocks on
the shore to be legion. But, although the
place is a wonder zoo of these am-
phibians, .giant and sub-
Antarctic seabirds, it has only one indi-
genous land dweller, a strange parrot
(found also on Kerguelen and the Auck-
land islands) which lives in the odd trees
and scrubs that grow in the more sheltered
gullies. Incidentally, this remote wind-
swept isle was discovered by the Sydney
sealing vessel Campbell Macquarie in
1812, half a century before Burke and
Wills crossed the continent.
* * * . * , „
“S’Aussie”; I’ll agree with “Scam’s”
mate (B. 27/2/’46) about the Flinders
Range ants. One of the most uncomfort-
able nights of my life was spent out by
Lake Callabonna, off the north-east end
of the Flinders. My mate was safe in the
seat of our single-seater car, but I was
on the ground. Shifting my bed was no
use —the ants were everywhere. To help
one 10-minute period pass I counted the
bites; five a minute. Not far from the
campfire dingoes were howling, a camel
was kicking up a fuss and wild donkeys
came thundering in for a drink at Mulligan
Springs, But that sleepless night was not
without its compensations, for the whole
of the eastern sky, for a few seconds, was
lit with the green flare of a meteorite.
About half an hour before sunrise a cool
wind sprang up and the ants disappeared,
allowing me half an hour’s sleep before
the warmth of the sun and a fresh wave
of ants bit me at the same moment.
* * * *
“Traintrav”: Certainly many bush cats
catch rabbits (B. 27/2/’46), but the
domestic cat run wild is apt to become
friendly-like. I have often come upon
cats sharing rabbit-burrows with the
original owners, especially in rocky coun-
try ; and once on the Onkaparinga (S.A.)
I saw a cat gambolling with a cqpple of
rabbits in their evening game. These
cats obviously preferred birds.
*♦♦ • , ♦
“C.E.”: The sparrows had been ban-
queting royally on my small peach crop,
and after vainly trying white paper, scare-
crows and loose tins I savagely decided
on slaughter. Unable to beg, borrow or
buy cartridges, I got hold of some
poisoned wheat, extra strong. For
several nights I free-fed the pests with
good wheat; then, with a large bunch
gathered regularly, I substituted the doped
packet and retired behind the kitchen
window. Down they came, hopped about
among the offering, eyed it critically and
departed. Next, after noting that they
drank each morning from a certain tin
of milk, I carefully introduced arsenic
to the supply, locked up the stray animals
and, making sure the milk looked no
different from usual, again put myself
out of sight, A mob settled on the
edge of the tin, but one look at
the stuff was enough to send them
helter-skelter back to the trees. Only
one especially thirsty bloke found cour-
age to sample the mixture, and then.
with a vigorous head-shake that sent the
beakful spattering in all directions, he
departed hastily for more peaches. Five
minutes later, for their own good, I
chased off a couple of woodpeckers and
a magpie. But don’t tell me spags aren’t
uncanny!
* * * «
“Freedom”: -I went along the Ren-
mark-Mildura road early last year. “It
will come good again when we
get the rain,” they said. I
passed that way again a few
weeks ago, this time to be told
“Wonderful the way the coun-
try’s recovered.” But the Murray
pines that were dead last year
have not come to life ; there are
still drifts of sand, eroded hill-
sides, scarcity of birdlife. I’m
afraid that the time is past for
depending on rain to make good
the damage we have done all
over our continent. It is about time we
Australians roused ourselves to do some-
thing instead of depending on the weather
to do it for us,
* * * *
“Propalong”; The mustering camp was
celebrating the arrival of its fortnightly
Sunday at the outstation. Bob and
Gordy were arguing over a piece of plait-
ing on the boarded verandah. Mick
and Dan propped up separate posts and
smoked while they thought out fresh
practical jokes. Out on the flat young
Tommy was mooching round. Presently
he stooped to pick up a gibber. As he
did so his braces broke their after-moor-
ings and, with a smart slap, flew up to
hit the back of his neck. There was an
unearthly scream from Tommy as he
ducked his head and flew into it like
old Boko on a frosty morning. Round
and round the flat he went, bucking like
a brumby, hollering “Take ’im orf!
Take ’im orf!” Men yelled and dogs
barked. Someone started after the human
outlaw, and the mongs took the cue. A
flock of galahs down the creek rose in a
screaming pink cloud as round and round
went Tommy, bucking his hardest, nipped
and jostled by the ravening dogs, fol-
lowed by the shouting camp, who assumed
it was sunstroke, as Tommy was too
young for the horrors. At last they
yarded him in the corner between the
blacksmith shop and the saddle room.
He began his explanation, and Mick, who
had only threatened to put a goanna on
Tommy’s back, effaced himself promptly.
* * * *
“Pendriver”: At last I’ve found out
how to get into some of those country
pubs where the landlords swear they’re
full up, no matter how many rooms are
empty. In South Australia, at least,
hotels must shelter a corpse where there
is no mortuary "available. Of course
there’s a catch in it. How do you sham
being dead?
“B.A*”: Tell “Sur Cingle” (B.
27/2/’46) that the objection to kangaroo
meat arises from the fact of its being de-
void of fat. There is nothing objection-
able in the flavor of kangaroo meat; it
makes excellent soup and, minced with
fat bacon or salt pork and the usual sea-
soning, ist as palatable as beef; but
grilled, roasted or boiled it is as dry and
unappetising as a wooden ham.
* * * *
“Gill Guy,” from well back o’ Bourke:
The read north from Broken Hill carries
everything to as far as Cordillo Downs
station, in the extreme n.-e. corner of S.A. —
mails, goods, passengers, what fresh fruit and
vegetables we get; some of us even risk
getting bread from Broken Hill. The total
distance travelled on this mail run is greater
than from Sydney to Bourke. One man takes
a 10-ton Diesel truck over this God-forsaken
track, up and back, once a fortnight (per-
haps). As far as Tibooburra, in the comer
of N.S.W., there is a bi-weekly (also a perhaps)
service.
As I write there are three trucks on,
or in, the road from Broken Hill, struggling
and digging through the first 150 miles. This
week’s mail has overtaken the one due here the
middle of last week, so we are now three mails
behind. Two men got into Tibooburra this
morning, 216 miles up, after four days in and
out of bogs, with a medium lorry. They re-
port the regular, or irregular, heavies still back
50 miles. The road m use is the one picked by
the teamsters of 60 or 70 years ago, and fol-
lows the creeks and flats, which afforded handy
watering stages and soft going for the bul-
locks. Nobody so far realises the needs of
the great change in the method of transport.
High ground isn’t far away, and might even
cut off some of the miles. Obviously small
fortunes could be saved in useless road re-
pairing and damage to vehicles, to say nothing
6f the misery for drivers and passengers.
The fellow who drives the 10-ton truck
aforementioned has the toughest job in all Aus-
tralia. He does this thousand-odd mile journey
on his own; often with not even a passenger to
yarn to. He loads and unloads along the
track, keeps the Diesel in running order, re-
pairs all breaks to body work, springs, axles,
etc., digs the great 10-wheeler out of bogs and
sand creeks, then cooks and washes , for
himself on long, lonely stretches of the road.
Outside the immediate surroundings of Broken
Hill there are but three pubs, the first one 170
miles up; the next is easy, only 26 miles
further; but the next and final “dry” is 210
miles long. After that he does a 260-mile
loop on the water-bag till he gets back into
the pub area. Can any of you beat it?
MURRAY MEMORY.
Our boat was built for fishing, with a hull of
Murray gum,
And her paddles housed in iron from a roof;
Her wheelhouse was a packing-case, it seemed
a trifle rum,
Since it leaned to port as though ’twould
be aloof.
The boiler often sprung a leak and shot forth
jet's of steam,
What time the engine danced upon its bed,
Whereat the captain and the crew would dive
into the stream
And wait to see the thing blow off its head.
Still, she battled up the river where we had
the drum-nets set
On the reaches from the Cliffs to Pretty
Plain,
And though she sometimes sank herself and
all of us got wet
We plugged the holes and swam her off
again.
With the gauge-hand on the hundred and the
paddle thunder deep.
We’d beat around Tapalin’s swinging bend,
And watch our net-pegs swaying in the current’s
dragging sweep
And see our camp and hail the journey’s end.
It was pleasant then to haul the nets and tally
up the catch,
And watch the colored sunset on the stream;
While The Struggler rode the ripples on her
tie-rope’s gentle latch,
The galley kettle only making steam.
’Twas peaceful, too, to sleep ashore, on beds
of water-couch,
And have no fears of snags or bumps or
jets;
Watching headlights in the heavens and old
Lady Luna mooch
Like a whaler, lantern bobbing round the
nets.
Well, her struggling days are over —so are
mine, I must admit—
Now she’s nothing but a rotting plank or
two;
But up and down the river from Merbein to
Murrabit
She’s remembered for the things she used
to do. *
And though I now have comfort and a life of
restful ease,
With all the money that I’ll need to spend,
I’d swap the blessed lot of it to feel a Murray
breeze
And steer the cranky Struggler round a bend.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
for loveliness
ihai lasts , . ,
N
ew clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find it advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
restricted.
■
Wm
m*
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT :
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
xBl Clarence Street.
ADVT
CHEMIST
*3
&
■I
i
9j
&
Wi
//
. ; ..; ._.: 'ob' /
*** ON CIVW *J»^
After six years’ total mobilisation in the fighting
services, it’s yours again ... that creamy COOLNESS,,
that lingering, tingling freshness, and the same wilting
action on tough, wiry customers. There’s a "spring
morning" in every Ingram shovel
~ st '
INGRAM'S
SHAVING CREAM
At alt Chemists
IN3
UMCHBLED ADDITIONS
Britain a Soviet Target.
(From an article by London “Times” diplo-
matic correspondent.)
The anti-British tone in the Moscow
press and wireless services is being main-
tained and intensified. Those who
thought that there would be a change for
the better after the Security Council
debates, or after the Soviet election cam-
paign, are finding their expectations un-
fulfilled.
By way of example, an analysis may be
given of a single day’s news, as presented
in the Moscow newspapers. In most of
the newspapers almost the whole of the
foreign news was devoted to news or
comment critical of British actions in
different parts of the world. Eleven
lines were given to Mr. Bevin’s speech on
foreign affairs in the House ; it was stated
that he “rejected the accusation that he
was not working for good Anglo-Soviet
relations,” but he “spoke in favor of the
western bloc.” As the “western bloc”
has been bitterly attacked as an ’anti-
Soviet device, Russian readers were left
to infer that Mr. Bevin was pursuing a
double policy. His offer to extend the
Anglo-Soviet alliance to a period of 50
years was not reported. “Izvestia” in a
long article repeated the accusation that
Mr. Mackenzie King was trying to cover
up Mr. Bevin’s “failure” at the Security
Council discussions, which (according to
“Pravda”) had “demonstrated with ex-
treme clarity that the policy which Mr.
Bevin defended was vividly anti-demo-
cratic in character.” A long Tass message
from New York appeared, containing
strong criticisms of the British policy in
Greece and including a remark by a Left-
wing broadcast commentator that “Mr.
Bevin is demonstrating the traditional
role of Social-Democracy as a weapon of
imperialism.” Three other paragraphs
dwelt on unsatisfactory conditions in
Greece.
Allegations about General Anders’s
army, “supported by Britain,” were con-
tained in a special article, and led into an
examination of threats against Yugoslavia
and the whole situation in Trieste and
the Julian March. The Indian Navy
mutiny and the accompanying riots were
fully reported, together with a reference
to an election speech in which a Con-
gress party leader had proclaimed “a
final and decisive battle with Britain.”
No reference was made to the Congress
party’s denunciation of the outbreaks or
to the coming visit to India of the three
British Cabinet Ministers. Egypt, the
Levant and Indonesia were all dealt with
on the usual'lines.
These lines were later pursued by
Viktorov, one of the wireless commen-
tators. The Indian people, he said,
wanted a new way of life, “but are
coming into conflict with stubborn
attempts IS turn everything back into the
old channel.” It was the same in Egypt;
the people felt that Britain desired “to
carry on its old policy of occupation,
with no wish to satisfy Egypt’s demands
for national independence.” These
demands were “typical of the longing for
liberation among all the Arab peoples.”
The average man everywhere, said Vik-
torov, was wondering why the great
documents drawn up during the war were
not being applied. “Deeds don’t live up to
words ; promises made during the war are"
not being kept The colonial Powers
are still seeking to keep the subject
peoples under the old intolerable regime.”
Other broadcasts have drawn the lesson
that the colonial peoples are looking to
the U.S.S.R.
It is a persistent campaign, with Britain
as the main target of criticism. Trying
to explain it all, some say that the Soviet
peoples, facing the enormous tasks of re-
construction, need a strengthened sense
of confidence that comes from the belief
that the Soviet Union is stable amid a
world of change, and also need to be
told why so much is going to build up
Soviet strength. But the broadcasts are
going to all countries of the world, and
seem calculated to have their greatest
effect in areas where negotiations are
going on or are about to begin.
British Views on U.S.
(Examined by D. ‘ W. Brogan, Professor of
Political Science at Cambridge University, in
a N.Y. "Times” supplement article .)
The man in the British street is look-
ing across the Atlantic with more doubt
in his heart than he has known since 1939,
and, since he has a great deal to worry
him besides, the doubt leads to irritation
and sourness. The doubt can be de-
scribed in a few words; “Is America pull-
ing out?”
The ghost of 1919 walks again, the fear
that the United States will withdraw from
direct responsibility for a world it has so
largely made.
The answer to that question will not
be given for some time to come, but each
move in American policy will be scrutin-
ised, hopefully indeed, but with an under-
lying anxiety.
This mixture of hope and fear is not
new, but what is new is the anxiety that
has come from the knowledge of the
possibilities of the atomic bomb —a know-
ledge that we in Britain can appreciate.
For we know what a quite ordinary
bomb can do, and as it was impossible
to miss London with a V-2 it is equally
impossible to miss it with a rocket-atomic
bomb. England is one of the most vul-
nerable areas in the world, doomed to
something like literal annihilation if there
is a new world struggle.
We know this, we feel this, and we are
conscious that the basic decisions may
be taken, and will be taken, in Moscow
and Washington unless there is a real
world organisation. And that world
organisation can only be had on terms
that may seem onerous to Americans,
highly conscious of power and still cling-
ing naturally and irrationally to the past
consciousness of immunity.
This is the most important question in
Anglo-American relations, and it will not
be answered for months to come, maybe
for years.
But there are less fundamental yet im-
portant causes of friction that may to
some extent influence the issues of world
organisation, and so there is some utility
in washing some of the slightly grey linen
in public.
The attitude of the British press and
public to the proposed loan agreement, to
the wiping out of lend-lease, to the entry
of the United States into complicated in-
ternational agreements, must have struck
many Americans as ungracious or down-
right silly. In some cases i.t was down-
right silly; in others it was ungracious;
in others it was foolish, human and for-
givable.
For at the moment all British reactions
are conditioned by fatigue and disillu-
sionment. We ought to number our bless-
ings, but humanly we note that never
have supplies been harder to get, ration-
ing of food and clothing been as severe.
For the first time the blackmarket is a
really serious wedge in national unity.
The contrast between those who have
pull and those who haven’t is. more obvi-
ous ; resentment is deeper. And there
is one earthly paradise still operating,
where even the blackmarket is within
reach of all. There, in America, our
dreams are coming true but not for us.
And we learn that for years to come
there will be rationing, restrictions, aus-
terity on resources doled out from the
overflowing wealth of America.
Much of the present British irritation
is due to mere weariness. Normally, Eng-
lish self-esteem, or at any rate indiffer-
ence to outside criticism, is one of the
most striking, most maddening and at
times most valuable national qualities. It
was unshaken by the FUhrer’s threats and
actions in 1940, and no doubt it will be
there to annoy and astonish the world
generations hence.
But it has been frayed by nearly six
years of strain and shock, and that fray-
ing has been responsible for any amount
of irritation and protest that would have
been impossible before 1939. When I
returned from the United States last
October I was at once asked —and by
some most imperturbable English friends
—if I had seen “Objective Burma” and
what was thought of it in America? I
had never heard of it, and learned with
surprise that it was a movie, in which
Burma was conquered by a group of


ADVT
The lifts or escalators you order
now will embody the latest
advancements and practices in the
field of vertical transportation.
Our engineers will advise you in
drawing up the specifications to
ensure you obtaining the best type
of lift to suit your business and
anticipated traffic conditions.
vm/
A POST-WAR PLAN FOR
LIFT INSTALLATION
at if out fenyet tsjo
Lift and escalator installations are at present
restricted to essential undertakings-—'but to
those of you who are looking ahead and
anticipating future needs we provide a post-
war Plan to save you delays and disappoint-
ments.
The Plan is simple. In brief—you place your
order now—and all we ask is that you do so
in good faith. No payment is requested until
work commences on your behalf, and we will
accept cancellation at any time till then
should conditions necessitate. Costs will be
based on to-day’s rates, with variations either
way to your account, and, the moment
restrictions are lifted, your order will be
executed in the sequence of a Priority
Certificate issued you.
Meet the future now call your nearest
Waygood-Otis office for details of this prac-
tical, forward-working Plan. No obligation
whatsoever.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS {A U S T.) PTY. LT D, INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY , MELBOURNE t BRISBANE • ADELAIDE t 'PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
A KU B R A
hat hint No. 3
m
m
m
When your hat gets
rain-soaked, push the
dents and creases
out of the crown; turn
the brim up all round,
lightly smoothing the
edge of the brim. Now place it on
a clean level surface and leave it to
dry out naturally.
Take the hint—good hats are scarce.
1. The correct way to put on a hat—grasp
brim at back and front.
2. Always brush WITH the nap—see arrow.
4. Always rest SIDE of hat on hat peg—this
allows hat to hang clear.
5. Never allow your hat to bo placed In a pile
with other hats.
6. Turn out leather—this allows perspiration
and hair oil to dry out.
7. When laying aside a hat, put It away In a
hat box.
A Klib R A
Wi
A *UBR
hats
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
American soldiers and airmen, to the
complete ignoring of the share of the ten
times more numerous British troops.
Normally, this Hollywood version of
the Burma campaign would have been
taken as just another example of the tradi-
tional American way. We have all been
brought up on stories of “Yankee boast-
ing.” We have been accustomed to regard
it as a standard subject of jest like
mothers-in-law, kippers, etc. Such was
not the reaction in 1945. There was
so much resentment that the movie had
to be withdrawn.
What is noteworthy is that there was
even a flicker of revolt from the docile,
indeed doting, British patrons of the
newest of the arts.
Closely connected with the sudden re-
sentment of the application of advertis-
ing technique to the reporting of the war
is the new irritation at criticism of British
policy by American spokesmen. The
usual British reaction to such criticism
has been indifference, or, if party bias or
a sudden rush of conscience stimulated
native critical powers, a competent eager-
ness to outdo the foreign amateur by
really professional. native debunking of
some British policy or person.
That, too, seems to have changed, and
there is an apparent readiness to answer
any transatlantic homilies with some
equivalent of “put a sock in it.” A good
deal of American criticism of the British
and other imperialisms seems to its vic-
tims to be couched in a spirit of vicarious
righteousness.
A year or two ago the theme was
India; at the moment it seems to be
Palestine, It is evident that there is more
resentment of the campaign against the
British “betrayal of the Jews” than there
was over criticisms of the internment of
Gandhi.
There was, it is true, some resentment
of the role attributed to the special repre-
sentative of Mr. Roosevelt whose views
on the political situation in India were
not accepted by those in authority in
London. But the activities of Mr. Phil-
lips were little discussed even in well-
informed circles. The barrage of criticism
of British policy in Palestine, on the
other hand, has had a far less tolerant
reception. It has come at an unfortunate
time.
That the Jews should feel so passion-
ately, so desperately, about the situation
of their brethren, that for them Zion
should be the sole solution—that can be
easily understood, though there is less
sympathy for the sdmi-religious aspira-
tions of the Jews than there was a gen-
eration ago when the Bible was still
widely read and known.
But the pleas, even the threats, of the
Jews are received in a very different spirit
from the sermons of the American Gen-
tiles. So the acceptance by the American
Government of a share in the new in-
vestigation of Palestine is welcome. But
there is no apparent tendency to take it
too seriously.
“Influence is not government,” saidl
Washington ; investigation is not govern-
ment either; nor are American advice
and American statistics government, and
at the bottom of the Palestine problem
is a problem of government, of a clash
of two bodies of sentiments, interests and
rights. It is a problem of which there is
no easy, good, visible solution. For the
British public, when asked to believe that
the racial conflict in Palestine is a myth,
or a British creation, reacts just as it does
when it is told that there is no real race
conflict in Mississippi—with the current
equivalenf of “oh,, yeah?” or older and
briefer idiomatic expressions of disbelief.
The picture of Britain for its own
motives preventing the establishment of
a Jewish State in Palestine, a State whose
creation could not be effectively opposed
by others if Britain withdrew her veto or
her troops, seems nonsensical to anybody
who has felt the hot breath of Arab
nationalism.
It may be desirable to resist Arab pres-
sure ; it may be just and politic to im-
pose the higher material culture which
the Jews have brought to Palestine as it
may be justifiable to do the same in
Morocco or Java, but why pretend that it
is not being imposed, or why pretend that
it can be imposed by votes at public meet-
ings in New York or even votes in Con-
gress cast by politicians who would not
for a moment vote for a relaxation of
American immigration laws Pr for the
provision of American forces to take the
rap when it comes?
When the man in the street does think
of imperial matters, he is less indifferent
to foreign, especially American, advice
than he was and less tolerant of advice
or admonition. It no longer runs off
like water from a duck’s back ; it wets
and worries. The very serious economic
position of Britain has made the average
man less inclined to accept as just criti-
cisms of his country’s political backward-
ness. He knows he is badly impover-
ished ; he thinks that the United States
is richer than ever. He rriay be, and sur-
prisingly often is, willing to give the
Americans credit for the efficiency that
explains the increased wealth, but he does
not think that his new poverty is entirely
his own fault. He thinks it is, in part,
the result of a virtue —his insistence that
his Government stand up to Hitler and
declare war on him in 1939.
Impoverishment is the price, a heavy
price, but, under the goad of sermons,
national pride is apt to be a little ironical*
and one may hear from time to time the
semi-humorous inquiry “Can’t we be
neutral next time?”
Britain’s Foreign Policy.
(yl.s further set forth by Mr. Bevin in his speech
winding-up the House of Commons debate on
foreign affairs; London “Times” report .)
Mr. Bevin referred to the question of a
Western union. Nothing had percolated through
with greater acrimony than the question of a
Western bloc. I deliberately raised this ques-
tion in Moscow (he went on). I said: “You
want friendly neighbors. In my street, too, I
want friendly neighbors. I am entitled to have
them, but I will do nothing that injures you.
His Majesty’s Government will do nothing we
will not inform you about. We will tell you
everything.” I said: “We have a treaty of
friendship, and 1 mean friendship.” I said
“If you want to change that from 20 to 50
years I will advise my Government to do so.
I do not think I can do better than that, and
if it is to be amended in order to make it
more explicit, or changed in order to give
confidence, 1 am willing also to look at that.”
(Loud general cheers.) I cannot be accused of
not wanting friendship with the Soviet - Union
for all time, if I can get it.
With regard to Germany (he proceeded),
that is a very vexed difficulty. We acceded to
the Oder and the Western Dniester in Pots-
dam, and all that we could do for Russia,
Poland and the satellite States was done, and
was done in the war and immediately at the
end of it. The heart of aggression in Germany
was the Ruhr. He frankly confessed that the
Government had not made up their minds about
the western frontier, because that was what it
meant. He had studied the proposals of
France very carefully. He was convinced that
we had got to settle the ownership of the Ruhr
—the ownership of its industries. The heart of
the General Staff in Germany was the industrial
lands of the Ruhr, and the Ruhr must not go
back to their possession and must not be con-
trolled by that type of mentality.
A lot of people said “Deprive the Ruhr of
its productive capacity for security’s sake,”
and he had to ask himself if that would suc-
ceed. If we went on the reparations basis now
being discussed he was afraid that we would
create a recrudescence in Germany that would
be disastrous to peace. The trouble with the
area was that its potentiality could not be
realised unless 65 per cent, of it went into
munitions. On the other hand, the standard of
life in Europe was lower. Ought he, then, to
aim for a policy that the Ruhr might be a pro-
ductive unit for Europe as a whole, including
Russia, including everybody, so that its pro-
ducts went east or west in order to develop
the standard of life in Europe; or ought he to
restrict' it? He confessed at the moment that
he had not, from the security angle, arrived at
a solution.
His industrial instinct, which was probably
not a security instinct, told him that" he ought
to draw the distinction that the right thing to
do with the Ruhr was publicly to own if, under
international control —with, each Government
owning shares and sitting on the governing
body and no private individuals —for the sheer
sake of security, and then to consider whether
the Ruhr products should not be limited to
what he called the partially manufactured state,
leaving no finishing ends, which were so easily
convertible into munitions, in the Ruhr at all,
but allowing all its partially manufactured ends
to pour into Italy, Yugoslavia and anywhere
else in order to develop the finished ends,
spread and diverted over the whole of Europe.
(Loud cheers.) That was a point he had to
consider, and on which he had to arrive at a
conclusion.
He was in the closest consultation with
France, Belgium and Holland, and when he
was ready, and when they were ready, then
we must consult the United States and Soviet
Russia. I hope in this case (he went on), if
I may say so publicly to all of them: “Please
do accept our good intentions in this matter,
for France has bled three times, we have bled
twice, so do not, please, accuse us of wanting
—as I was the other day— after shedding so
much of our blood in the last 10 years, to
create the very weapons that have bled us so
bitterly during this period.” (Loud and pro-
longed cheers.) Unless our good intentions are
accepted and they are put on the anvil of dis-
cussion, then the situation is hopeless;
With regard to Austria, it was very early
yet, but Austria was not quite in the position
of Italy and the Balkan States, and we hoped
to recreate her position by a new peace treaty.
He wanted to fry to do justice in the settle-
ment of the Italian treaty, and, if possible, to
settle it on a basis that would not produce
antagonism and difficulties that would lead to
conflict between her neighbors. Nationalism
around her was being pushed a little too far.
The principle which the Government must apply
to Italy was this: they/ could not treat Italy in
this settlement as if Mussolini were still alive.
We made a mistake with Germany at the end
of the last war. We did not hang the Kaiser,
but we went on as if he were still there, and
we treated the Weimar Republic as if it was the
Kaiser’s republic. That was the great mistake
we made, instead of nursing it into strength.
He did not want the Government to make that
Greece and Italy and all the other countries
that had been under dictatorship had lost their
political legs. The thing was whether we
should impose another dictatorship from out-
side or inside or whether we should help such
countries to stand on their own feet and walk
erect. In Ithly they were making a very great
recovery. They would have very great diffi-
culties. He did not underestimate them, but
anything the British Government could do in
order to restore Italy to her old position, not
as an imperialistic country that Mussolini made
the mistake of trying to create, but as a cul-
tural and useful member of the comity of
nations we should try to do, and we should


A MASONITE
■ : m
mi:
im
STORAGE WALL
ki SEEN FROM
DINING ROOM
11
@
iiaii
m
d ,
Here is another money-saving
Masonite Storage Wall. This wall,
.... constructed entirely ,of Masonite
rresdwood, divides kitchen and dining room, and replaces
the usual brick or timber partition. As our illustration
shows, china and glass cupboards and cutlery drawers are
double-sided, allowing for storage from kitchen after
washing-up, and table-setting from dining room side.
Masonite Presdwood with its hard, smooth surface, is
ideal constructional material for storage walls. Like all
Masonite boards, it can be worked with ordinary car.
penters tools. Your
nearest supplier will
be glad to give you
all the details.
Manufactured by:
IASONITE CORPORATION
(AUST.) LTD.
northern
SATES DIVISION:
369 Pitt Street, Sydney;
and
SOUTHERN
SATES DIVISION:
629 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Priority demands for Masonite are still so great that your
reseller may at present be unable to supply your demands.
O'OODBLE-SIDED
CHINA CUPBOARD
© FOOD STORAGE
I®
.GLASSWARE CUPBOARD
,© SERVERY WITH PLUG
fOR TOASTER OR JUG
©DOUBLE-SIDED
CUTLERY DRAWERS
® GENERAL STORAGE
© NAPERY
general Storage
tlivf
IftONf
Kitchen
ADVT
try to do it without detriment to the neighbors
of Italy which were also affected. Italy’s prob-
lems were not merely political; they were
economic as well. He could assure her, as he
would any other country, that in her attempt
to restore her economy we should co-operate
with any other who could help, just as we were
doing in Greece at the present moment to re-
store her economic life and put her on her feet
again.
Another question was raised about Greece.
He was asked ' about the Dodecanese. As he
understood it, neither the Russians nor anyone
else objected to the Dodecanese going to
Greece. In Moscow he was considering hand-
ing over the administration of these islands —
in order to bring our troops away—to the
Greek Government. He did not want to keep
British troops in all these places when he would
rather have them here at home. But it was felf
better to leave it till the peace treaty in May,
and he agreed to that course, but on principle
he understood there was no disagreement’.
As regarded the claims against the integrity
of the Greek mainland he had never heard a
claim made, and he could not imagine that
there would be one. The Greeks had claims
against Albania, and they had raised questions
with regard to Bulgaria on the frontier, but
that they must argue when the time came, and
they must present their objective and have it
discussed.
Turkey was another question which loomed
much in the controversy of the Middle East.
He had raised that question in Moscow, and
he frankly confessed that the British Govern-
ment was troubled about what looked to them
like a war of nerves going on by press
polemics on both sides. He would say to the
House and to the world that one of the
greatest dangers to international peace was
press polemics. Very often on wrong premises
they produced misunderstanding and kept
people on the jump. That was very bad.
. There were two points in this controversy—
one the two provinces and the other the Dar-
danelles. In the case of the two provinces
the frontier between Turkey and Russia was
fixed not by a conqueror on the vanquished
but by a defeated Turkey and a Russia which
unfortunately had not come too well out of the
last war. Therefore, this could not be said to
be an imposed frontier. There had been such
a movement of population that there was no
nationality problem at all. Therefore, as this
frontier was drawn, he believed, by the General-
issimo himself it was a matter of regret that it
should be the subject Of controversy and a war
of nerves.
The Dardanelles presented a different prob-
lem. Someone had raised the question of the
offer of Constantinople to Russia in the war of
1914-18. We seemed to have done a lot of
things in that war of one kind and another
which he did not doubt had harassed every
Foreign Secretary ever since. But the idea be-
hind the mind of the Russians was that we
were prepared to meet them in an inferior way
to that in which we treated the Tsar. He
did not want to do that, out he thought that
what we offered the Tsar was unnecessary in
the modern world with the United ISfations.
That was the difference. We were ready, either
for Russia and Turkey to consider themselves,
or with us as allies, the revision of the Mon-
treux Convention, but in that revision we were
anxious to keep the international aspect of
these waterways in view. He was not sure
that it contributed to world peace to put one
particular Power against another by having
bases in a particular spot.
The questions of the Great Belt and the
Skagerrack had been raised. He agreed that so
long as Germany was defeated there was no
need to do anything so far as the Skagerrack
was concerned. It was an open waterway free
to all nations for entry into the Baltic. That
was the policy of the British Government.
Therefore, his answer was that he would like
to see any proposals. When he was accused
of being antagonistic to Russia, or to any other
country, his policy was to examine proposals,
not accusations. There was a great distinction
between hurling accusations and putting for-
ward proposals which the British Government
could consider. (Opposition cheers.) He
would plead with all countries in the world who
had anything to discuss with us to put their
proposals to the British Government and let
them s"ee if they could agree to them.
It was said that we were drifting to war
with Russia. He could not conceive any cir-
cumstances in which Britain and the Soviet
Union should go to war. They had a territory
from the Kuriles right into the satellite States
—one solid great land Power —and he could
not see what we had to fight about.
Frankly, he did not want to see Turkey
converted into a satellite State, brut left free
and independent. He would like to see the
treaty of friendship renewed between the Soviet
and Turkey, and he could not see that it would
conflict with our treaty with Turkey. If any-
thing, it could contribute to the confidence be-
tween us, and he would do his best in order to
accomplish it. He had said this to Mr.
Vishinsky in London, and he replied that he
had heard what the Generalissimo said, that he
had no intention of war and that he intended
to settle things amicably, and he (Mr. Bevin)
believed it. Why should he doubt it?
Coming to Persia, Mr. Bevin said he had been
asked whether he would safeguard British in-
terests, and he had replied that he would safe-
guard British interests everywhere, but he did
not regard this Persian matter as one of com-
petition between Russia and ourselves. He
confessed that he was concerned about the
Azerbaijan movement. He wondered what
really was going on, particularly as the press
and everybody were excluded. It contributed
to suspicions when things were not open to the
light of day.
There had been no really co-ordinated method
of dealing with the Far East as a whole. He
felt it was essential, especially with the riots of
the independent movements all over these
territories, which they must face and which
they did not intend to frustrate, that they had
to have a co-ordinated policy.
They had started with the question of food,
and they had created a first-class powerful
organisation, which would be stationed at
Singapore, under Lord Killearn as chief com-
missioner. The more he studied the problem
the more he felt that this famine could be
fought, if the available resources of the world
were phased and distributed properly, month
by month, territory by territory, as the har-
vests and other production came in, and if
they carried bn a propaganda which would
teach cultivation and enlighten the people, and
if Great Britain could make a first-class organis-
ing effort to assist the people themselves t'q
get over this great difficulty. That would lead
to the next phase. There was Indonesia, India,
Malaya, Ceylon and anew China emerging.
The policy we had to follow with the dependent
territories, which were emerging into independ-
ence, was to nurse them, guide them, help them
to change over as a going concern, to keep
their administration intact and to provide them
with experts.' From the point of view of our
own interests in this country we should do far
better by helping' these countries and assisting
them from a purely trade point of view in trade
and commerce than we did under the old-
fashioned Colonial system of the past. That
was our policy for the Far East.
It must be recognised that if the Polish
Army was to be settled they must receive
assurances that, when they returned, they
would be treated as to rights and privileges
equally with everybody else in the country.
(Opposition cheers.) To that end he had been
in negotiation with the Polish Provisional Gov-
ernment, and had now got a statement which
he had undertaken to broadcast to the troops
and, on that footing, to endeavor to get as
many as he could to return to Poland. These
magnificent troops would be an asset to
Poland if they returned, but we must be sure
that they would be treated fairly when they
did return. His Majesty’s Government took the
view that when men had fought with you, or
stood by you, it was against our religion to
let them down, (Loud Opposition cheers.)
Mr. Warbey (Luton, Lab.).—Does my
right hon. friend apply the same principles to
E.L.A.S.? .
Mr. Bevin said that E.L.A.S. turned
against us when we entered Greece. These
Polish soldiers were given certain promises.
They were not all General Anderses; most of
them were ordinary people, many of them
were from the east of the Curzon Line, many
of them were from the territory which had now
gone to Russia. It was a question of dealing
with every individual man. He had to wind
the matter up on a basis of justice and equity.
He could not throw the people to the wolves
Mr. Barstow (Pontefract, Lab.).—Who are
the wolves?
Mr. Bevin. —If I threw them into ‘unem-
ployment, if I gave them a bit of money, if I
- just dismissed them, if I said ”Vou have
finished your job; that’s an end to it.” I
never let a victimised man down in my life,
and I will not be a party to it in this case!
Let me wind up this business on a perfectly
rational, sound basis and not make these men
the mere tools of a political propaganda.
Mountbatten.
(From an article in “Britain,” by Robert
Gilmour .)
Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten was
brought up in the Naval tradition. His
father, who was First Sea Lord at the
outbreak of war in 1914, was responsible
with Winston Churchill, then First Lord
of the Admiralty, for mobilising the
Fleet with such speed that any possibility
of surprise attack by the German fleet
was forestalled.
Lord Louis was a naval cadet at the
age of 14, and took part in his father’s
test mobilisation. He had entered Os-
borne in the previous year, and after
passing out top of his term at Keyham,
Royal Naval Engineering School, saw
active service at sea a few months later
as a midshipman in Beatty’s flagship, the
Lion.
After serving in the Queen Elizabeth
and in submarine K 6, he finished the war
as a sub-lieutenant. After the war he
took a university course at Cambridge.
Coming down from Cambridge,
Mountbatten was appointed to the Re-
nown. His full complement of names
being Louis Francis Albert Victor
Nicholas, he was understandably called
“Dickie” by his friends.
His father, during a lifetime spent in
the Navy, had been a great organiser and
innovator ; the son was able to add to
the tradition he inherited the particular
contribution of his own generation—
mechanical ability.
Throughout his service career Mount-
batten has produced a steady flow of
inventions, many of them improvements
on existing technical gear. This list ex-
tends from the sub-focal signalling
shutter, one of his earliest, to the “station-
keeping” device for destroyers. Mount-
batten spent two years in the Renown
and*two more in the Revenge. Then, in
1924, he began specialising in radio and
went to the Naval Signal School. For
the next nine years he served as a radio
officer, becoming Senior Instructor of the
Signal School, Portsmouth, and eventually
Fleet Radio Officer of the Mediterranean
Fleet.
Very early Mountbatten formed the
habit of committing his conclusions to
writing. Manuals, pamphlets and books
were the result. His friends began by
treating this propensity as a joke. But it
soon became apparent that the young
man with the relish for getting down to
it was producing a series of first-class
works on a variety of subjects.
No sooner had he started on his spe-
cialist career than he wrote the first
Manual of Wireless Telegraphy for non-
If the Tokyo figure of 310,000 Jap
soldiers killed in the whole war is correct,
then the forces in Burma (86 per cent,
of them British Empire ) killed between
a third and a half of that total. For
the sake of people who like exact
figures, it works out at 42 per cent. But
actually it is probably higher than that,
because the Fourteenth Army did not
reckon a Jap as dead until they had
actually gained possession of his body,
and there must have been many thou-
sands of Japanese killed by the R.A.F.
or who died of wounds whose bodies
were never recovered by the British.
These 130,000 Japs killed in Burma were
the cream of three Japanese armies, the
Fifteenth, the Twenty-Eighth and the
Thirty-Third, three armies which were
smashed by three British-lndian corps
with the help of some Chinese divisions
and a brigade of Americans. There is
little reason to doubt the Tokyo figures
of casualties as being substantially
correct. — “Britain.”
specialist officers. When he became
Senior Instructor at the Signal School he
wrote the first technical textbook on
naval w/t transmitting and receiving sets,
which, has been kept up to date and is
still the standard work on this subject.
At the present time Mountbatten is
president of the Institute of British Radio
Engineers as well as an associate member
of the Institute of Electrical Engineers,
for which he has passed the necessary
examinations.
When his nine years of wireless experi-
ence were finished, Mountbatten went to
France to take an interpreter’s course.
He mastered the language, then he set
about producing, in collaboration with
the French Ministry of Marine, a revised
version of the Anglo-French Dictionary
of Naval Terms. This is now the standard
work in its field. In 1934 Mountbatten
was appointed to command his first
destroyer—the Daring, with the Mediter-
ranean Fleet. Later that year he took
her out to China as part of the First
Flotilla. When First Flotilla exchanged
ship’s companies with those of the Eighth
Flotilla from the China Station, Mount-
batten took over the Wishart.
His next appointment was to the Naval
Air Division at the Admiralty. He had
learnt to fly with the R.A.F. in the last
war. He holds a pilot’s A license and
has always been alive to the possibilities
of air warfare.
When he was promoted captain, two
years before the war, Mountbatten was
the youngest captain in the NavV.
In Malta, finding that reorganising the
radio of the Fleet and writing technical
textbooks left little time for exercise,
he mobilised his leisure and took up polo
in the period thus gained. Making little
headway (since he really had no natural
qualifications for the game), he con-
cluded that it was due to being un-
scientific. He sat down and wrote Intro-
duction to Polo, by “Marco,” and this
tome, too, has become a standard work
on polo. In writing a book to teach
others, Mountbatten taught himself, and
so brought the naval team —“Sailors on
Horseback,” as the cavalry called them —
to the top flight of inter-regimental polo.
There was an unexpected sequel to this
technical analysis of a game which had
hitherto been treated rather as an art than
a “trade.” The newspaper gossip-writers
and columnists, particularly in the United
States, seized on the author’s birth and
background to write him up (or down)
as a “Titled Playboy.”
Mountbatten received his first big com-
mand in 1939, being appointed in charge
of the K-class flotilla of destroyers, the
latest and finest destroyers in the Navy.
As an associate member of the Insti-
tute of Naval Architects he had already
studied the possibilities of improving
destroyer design, and a number of his
suggestions had been accepted, of which
the best-known is the new destroyer


i&V
Enter . . . “THE AIR AGE’
Once the dream of visionaries . . . thei* the definite promise
of aeronautical engineers—the much prophesied air age is
here. With the importation of the giant new Douglas D.C.4
"Skymasters” embodying all the scientific advancements
made during the urgent war years, and the early addition of
many more Douglas D.C.3 "Skyliners” to the existing
A.N.A. fleet, Australia, through A.N.A., embarks on the
air age that will soon establish services "On The Hour Every
Hour” to the main capital cities . . . eventually bring every
town in Australia within eight hours of its State capital . . .
provide speedy air freighting services that cannot be equalled
by any form of surface trans-
port . . . and bring the luxury of
air travel within the reach of all.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
ADVT
How to be a chocolate
Expert in one
m- m
N
i
*
m
%
*
m
m
m
mm
m
Lesson
Question: Do you know
how chocolate experts can tell
the best quality chocolate?
Answer: They break the
block and listen to hear if it
snaps. If you can hear the SNAP
it’s good chocolate. The louder the snap the better the chocolate.
Small’s Club Chocolate gives you the loudest of snaps every time.
cvss
!CCV«
CP V
C*°
W 5
Do you like a chocolate that’s
NOT SO SWEET? That’s how
Small’s Club Chocolate is Not
So Sweet. We made it espec-
ially for men. That’s why we
called it ’‘Club” Chocolate. But
wives, sweethearts and daugh-
ters took one taste and said
“This chocolate goes for us
too.” So if you like that
purest-of-pure chocolate
taste that’s not so sweet
always ask for Small’s
Club Chocolate.
SMALL S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
bridge which has been fitted in the Tribal
and later class craft.
Establishing his headquarters at
Hebburn-on-Tyne with the firm of Haw-
thorne, Leslie, which was building the
flotilla-leader Kelly he supervised her
construction and that ot the other
destroyers in his flotilla. He commis-
sioned the Kelly at Chatham just before
the war, completing the commissioning
in three days instead of the usual three
weeks. So he had her ready for sea on
the day war was declared. She had to
be repainted dark grey, and immediately
the news came the first man over the
side, in overalls, with a paintbrush, was
her captain. The rest of his flotilla joined
him at intervals as and when they were
ready; and the next 21 months saw him
in the Kelly, leading the Fifth Destroyer
Flotilla. The Kelly was mined in Dec.,
1939
When the ship was mined, one man
ran away from his post in the engine-
room. Instead of court-martialling him
for cowardice in the face of the enemy,
Mountbatten cleared the lower deck, and
mustering the whole ship’s company
said; “We have just been through a try-
ing experience. Although most of you
are at sea for the first time, out of 250
in the ship’s company 249 behaved as 1
expected you would. But one left his
post. If I were to court-martial him the
penalty would be extremely severe,
You may be surprised to hear that I am
letting it go with a caution, or rather,
two cautions—one to him, and one to
myself for having failed in three months
to impress on you that I would neither
expect nor tolerate such a thing.”
When the Kelly was torpedoed a
year later and sank, not a man moved,
As she turned over off Crete at 32 knots
before plunging to the bottom, the order
“Abandon ship” was not given, and her
guns were still firing as she sank. It
was the ship which abandoned the crew,
and they were literally washed over-
board. Fewer than half came through the
battle and the subsequent machine-
gunning to which the survivors were sub-
jected in the water. Mountbatten was
one of the lucky ones.
During his service in destroyers he was
awarded the D.S.O. and was twice men-
tioned in dispatches.
His next command was the aircraft-
carrier Illustrious. He had hardly taken
over when Churchill recalled him to Eng-
land for a new appointment. Its nature
was kept a secret until the following
y ear; b u t ; n May, 1942, it was an-
nounced he was chief of Combined
~ ~ .. , c
Operations, with the acting rank ot vice-
honorary ranks of lieutenant-
ai3d air-marshal and a seat on the
Chiefs-of-Staffs Committee. His two
Y ea rs as Chief of Combined Operations
were full ° f sco P® and opportunity. First,
as a member of the Chief s-of-Staffs Com-
mittee he was able not only to make use
his wide and varied experience, but
a J so to ex P a '? d . Bor he accompanied
*h e British Chief s-of-Staffs to the meet-
ia § s 5> f the , Combined (British and U.S.)
Chiefs at Casablanca and at Quebec, and
80 was enabled to get an overall picture
of the strategy* of the war.
At the same time he was in a position
to turn his organising ability directly to
account The famous commando raids
caught the public imagination, and they
were an essential part of the programme
of training and developing the technique
of amphibious operatioils. But it was
little realised that they were no more
than a means to an end, and that
“C.OO.’s” main job was to create a great
amphibious force and to start planning
for the eventual return to the Continent
of mighty armies and air forces.
What Mountbatten valued perhaps
most of all in his new job was that it
gave his scientific bent full play. He im-
ported famous scientists into his organi-
sation where they could be in constant
touch with the operational needs of the
planners and could tackle on their own
exact lines problems which until then had
been solved by trial and error,
Among the ideas resulting from this
collaboration was PLUTO, or Pipe-Line-
Under-the-Ocean, one of the giant en-
gineering feats of military history, which
resulted in millions of gallons of gasoline
a day being pumped from Britain direct
to the battlefronts on the Western Front,
Another enterprise was the introduction
0 f the “mattress,” a landing-craft which
projected a salvo of more than 1000
rockets, each of them with a high-
explosive effect exceeding that of a 6in.
shell.
Probably the most important idea of
all was that of using artificial harbors
for the assault on Normandy.
When our first large-scale amphibious
assault took place in Sicily, General
Montgomery invited Mountbatten to
land with him so that he could see some
of his ideas being put into practice.
A year later, on D-day plus 7, after
the great invasion of Normandy, the
Allied war leaders landing on the soil of
France were prompt to send Mountbatten
a telegram. It told how, on seeing the
vast fleets of ships with landing craft of
many types pouring men, machines and
stores into the bridgehead, they realised
that much of this remarkable technique,
and therefore the success of the invasion,
had its origin at Combined Operations.
During the Quebec Conference of
August, 1943, it was announced that
Mountbatten had been appointed
Supreme Allied Commander of the newly-
formed South-East Asia Command.
Not a bad record for a “playboy.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The Soviet G.l.s were shocked to find that
the workers in capitalist Europe had bath-
rooms. They thought a bath was a present
you received with the Order of Lenin. — N.Y.
“Journal-American” correspondent.
* * * *
“Membership of a community carries with it
obligations to the State in return for the bene-
fits that the State can give. Complete indi-
vidualism is an impossibility. Yet, on the other
hand, complete State domination is utterly
repugnant to our democratic traditions and to
the whole political instinct of our people. The
function of the State is to give the fullest pos-
sible scope to the free development of the in-
dividual, and it is to me anathema to hear it
argued that the individual liberty exists primarily
for the purposes of the State. We must, there-
fore, choose our course avoiding both ex-
tremes. This does not mean compromise. It
means that we must find a just balance, which
is a very different thing from compromise. In-
deed, it has been our genius for finding this
balance that has been the foundation of our
long history of political achievement.” — Mr.
Anthony Eden, speaking on British Conserva-
tive party policy.
* * * *
Thousands of Spaniards who fled to Russia
after the Spanish Civil War are begging foreign
diplomats to give them passports from what
they call “our Soviet prison.” This was re-
vealed in New York by Rafael Miralles Bravo,
formerly attached to the Cuban Legation in
Moscow. “The ironic thing about them
misery,” Bravo, a well-known Cuban writer,
said, “is that many of these Spaniards were
ardent Communists when they entered Russia.
Now, after seven years in the ‘Workers’ Father-
land,’ they have begged me to get them out
of a nation that has brought them only starva-
tion, concentration camps and death. A few
of the top Spanish Communists now are being
trained as Russian agents. Many, bearing
forged Russian passports, have been sent back
to Spain, where they are seeking to take over
that nation for Red Fascism. But the 5000
Spanish women and children have little value
to Russia. Children starve to death in work
camps, young Spanish girls are placed in
Russian houses of prostitution, and the older
women are slowly starving to death.” Bravo
exhibited many letters Spaniards had smuggled
to him in the Cuban Legation in Moscow. One,
from a former Madrid professor, told relatives
in Mexico: “I have known nothing but suffer-
ing and starvation here. Please get me out
of Russia so I can spend my last few years in
peace and die where freedom exists.” Bravo
added; “I know that hundreds of Communists,
most of them Russian, now are being trained
in Moscow to speak Spanish and are being
given an extensive course in Latin and South
American history. They then are sent to such
nations as Uruguay, Colombia and other South
American countries. Communists from those
areas also are called to Moscow to take ‘re-
fresher’ courses in Communist policies.” The
Cuban diplomat said the ’plane on which he
and his family flew from Moscow had 22 well-
dressed Russians aboard. “All of them got
off in Iran,” he said. “They all flashed heavy
rolls of money and indicated they were on a
special mission. Two weeks later the so-called
rebellion of Persian Communists broke out.” —
Howard Rushmore; N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
Peter Stuyvesant paid the Indians $24.00 for
Manhattan Island. According to reports Sec-
retary Byrnes is getting ready to pay six
billion dollars for a bottle of vodka and a
seat at the Bolshoi Theatre. It is the first
time in history anybody ever paid court to a
ballerina with an atomic bomb. Mr. Molotov
treated Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Harriman, U.S.
Ambassador to Russia, to seats at a ballet per-
formance given by Mile. Lepedovka, Soviet
ballerina. Mr. Roosevelt traded Palestine for
one of Ibn Saud’s ceremonial robes and a
goat-skin. The only one of the big names
who hasn’t done any trading is British Field-
Marshal Montgomery. He told General
Zhukov he doesn’t drink, and stuck to it.—
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
The war has given way to so forbidding, so
unrelieved a spectacle of world-wide distress
and adversity that, except for a handful of
military and political leaders, whose voices
cry in the wilderness, there is no satisfaction to
be found in any human heart over the achieve-
ment of what has been semi-officially and
pompously called final victory. There is noth-
ing to be seen on the wide human horizon ex-
cept misery, hardship and broken-heartedness.
“It has taken us six years,” exclaimed an
obscure and humble individual, “to get into
this hole. It will take us six years to get out
of it.” Such is victory. That epitome of the
war and its ending is typical of what is felt in
millions of hearts. — George Glasgow; London
“Contemporary Review.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
' LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
K'lV
m
n
m
/'/F“
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren : destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No Are problem—no Blowfly
problem... the rabbits are buried.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS*
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
(Regd.)
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
MMMIMII
\ CO
%
sjJiigvsAi
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
\ . '
Fencing Wire
mm
■ ■
r:
m
■■
**
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
LYSA
T'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
End of Zoning.
“Bungaree”: Although it had some
bitter opponents there is no doubt that
without zoning many sheep would never
have been shorn during the war, and
losses would have been very high. It
was the only remedy for the serious
shortage of manpower caused by enlist-
ments and transfer to higher-paid muni-
tion jobs. An unexpected result was that
much of the labor remaining in the shear-
ing industry comprised malcontents and
agitators who openly exulted that they
held the whiphand over grazier and con-
tractor.
The labor position will improve con-
siderably by the 1946 shearing, but it
will fall far short of needs. Many men
have gone out of the industry for good,
and young men who would normally have
entered if had other things to do. Even in
normal years there was never sufficient
shearing labor in N.S.W., and some sheep-
owners who had failed to make early
arrangements and were faced with the
prospect of having to carry their sheep
on for a month or ■so panicked and
started bidding above award rates and
offering concessions to shearers to get
their sheep shorn. This practice reached
virtual blackmarket proportions in the
war years. It was easy for Communists
to work their plans, and/this, together
with natural greed, resulted in graziers
being “stood over” and forced to “take
it.”
Under zoning shearing was spread over
the year to make full use of the limited
labor available. Now that it has been
cut out most graziers will want to return
to their old shearing dates, and there is
grave possibility of serious trouble
towards September, at least in N.S.W.
There will not be anything like sufficient
labor, and, if the practice of the past is
followed and graziers bid against one
another for the labor available, the result
will be worse than anything in the past,
and repercussions will be felt in years to
come. Graziers who bid fantastic prices
and give concessions should remember
that these matters will be recorded and
used against the grazing industry. It will
be argued that because some graziers
could afford to pay extra rates it is proof
that the rates fixed by the Arbitration
Court are too low.
Clover Lea in Victoria.
“Myrrhee”: R. H. Hayman, of Ruther-
glen Experiment Farm, in the Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture,” briefly outlines
the system and some of the benefits. In
practice it consists of sowing the farm
predominantly to a clover pasture, begin-
ning in the oldest cultivation paddocks.
After several years under clover each
naddock is brought back into cultivation
Tor one or two seasons and then returned
to pasture for several years, while culti-
vation is resumed in a fresh paddock. One
of the minor benefits is reduction of soil-
borne diseases of crops and stock.
At Rutherglen part of a paddock was
set aside and sown to sub. clover and
Wimmera rye. Another piece was allowed
to grow a volunteer pasture; the re-
mainder was under cultivation. During
the next four years, the clover pasture
carried an average of 2.2 dry sheep to
the acre, in comparison with 1.6 dry
sheep on the Volunteer pasture. Next
year both pastures were stocked with
2.5 ewes and 100 p.c. lambs to the acre.
“ 'Ow d'yer like y'r emu-eggs. Parson —poached or fried ?”
The lambs on the clover had an average
frozen weight of 40.61 b., and all were
graded first quality; those from the
volunteer pasture had an average
weight of 32.81 b., and only 50 p.c.
were first quality. After five years
as lea both areas were fallowed
with the rest of the paddock and sown
to wheat. In a very dry season the fol-
lowing yields were obtained: Wheat after
clover lea, fallowed, 24.3 bush, per acre ;
after volunteer lea, fallowed, 19.6 bush.;
on old cultivation land 14.1 bush.
Hayman points out that the type of
clover lea and the extent to which the
system- can be practised in Victoria are
governed by rainfall and the type of
farming. In areas of over 30in. of rain
per annum, with medium wihter tempera-
tures, mixed pastures of perennial clovers,
such as white Dutch, strawberry, red or
Alsike, with perennial rye or cocksfoot,
would be suitable. In areas of 21in. to
28in., with summer drought or irregular
summer rains, sub. clover and Wimmera
rye grass are preferable.
Buffalo Fly.
“Agricola”; Cattlemen in coastal
North Queensland have now experienced
the second year of buffalo-fly infestation,
and, although the present position is satis-
factory owing to high prices and lack of
overseas beef competition, there appears
to be a hard time ahead.
Stock on coastal swampy areas —some
of the best grazing land —have shown a
serious deterioration in weight and grad-
ing at meatworks. Owing to constant
irritation the stock are constantly on the
move and do not top off solid. At first
stock-buyers and other good judges found
that their estimates were from 501 b. to
751 b. too high, and now make an allow-
ance in estimating weights. Apart from
the loss in weight the cattle do not grade
as well. A drop of 30 p.c. to 40 p.c.
in first grade has resulted in heavily-
infested country while 'the reject class
has increased at an alarming rate. When
overseas competition again begins a
further drop in grading can be expected.
No effective control has yet been exer-
cised, although many and varied official
inquiries have been made. On grazing
properties such methods as the use of a
flytrap is not even considered. If the
position continues there will be some low-
priced cattle country on the market when*
the price of beef begins to drop.
Cloud Lore.
“S.H.K.”: When tropical tendencies
are about, the north winds are moisture-
laden, but if the wind changes to the
south or south-west it is immediately
apparent that the storm is losing its rain-
producing activities (B. 30/1/’46). How-
ever, don’t let us be confused with a
wind blowing from a storm in progress,
when the cool air rushes from the storm
into a heat pool. When the pool be-
comes the same temperature as near the
storm the wind drops-; this change of
wind will not affect the “tropical” in pro-
gress at the time.
Cumulus clouds moving fast indicate
a weak form of “tropical,” and a few
sharp showers are all that can be ex-
pected ; cumulus clouds that move slowly
are always great rain producers. They
do not like extremely hot weather, but
are often protected from the fierce rays
of the sun by cirrus or cirro-stratus
clouds much higher than the cumulus
and spread out like a white veil.
•It is most noticeable (in southern
N.S.W.) that about the middle of March
very good rains come along, caused by,
the sun getting away north and the air
cooling off. I have never seen two
clouds meet from different directions;
when a big “tropical” is in progress the
whole disturbance is moving in the one
direction and the expansion of the great
clouds makes it appear as if they meet.
The scurrying clouds are warm air rising
from the ground and being condensed as
it comes in contact with the cooler air
when the storm breaks and the tempera-
ture is lowered by the falling rain. South
winds are never rain-producing winds
in our district.
Queen Bees.
“F.W.L.”; For queen-rearing I use a
number" of wax cups, bars of thin board
Jin. wide to fit horizontally in frames
and a small wooden spoon for trans-
ferring larvae. The cups may be made
with a dipping stick of pine, sandpapered
to size and soaked in water beforehand ;
this is dipped several times in melted wax
and the cup slips off easily. Six or more
cups are fastened with wax to the under-
side of a crossbar, which is then fixed
in a gap cut halfway down a comb having
brood, pollen and some honey. I leave
the combs in a hive for a day or so to
have the cups drawn into shape.
A queenless hive is used for starting
larvae from a selected colony; the larvae
are transferred to the queen cups in
minute grub stage with the milky fluid
with which they are fed. Twelve hours
dr a little more later the combs are lifted
and put in the middle of the super of a
strong colony, above a queen-excluder,
and making sure the queen is below. An
entrance guard will prevent the laying
queen leaving with a swarm.
Usually I get six well-developed queen
cells, and these are used to replace old
or inferior queens. A cell at the point
of hatching, just under seven days from
sealing, may be placed in a hive and the
queen removed during the process. Some-
times it may be more convenient to split
one or two colonies into nuclei, each with
a queen cell to get a new queen mated
and laying. These queens may later be
introduced to working colonies.
Don’t rely merely on smoking for in-
troduction (B. 13/2/’46), for the queen
will be set on and most likely killed or
injured. An introducing cage with candy
is far better; by the time the bees have
eaten through the candy they will recog-
nise the queen as their own. But don’t
disturb the colony for at least a week
later or loss of the queen may follow.
Queen-raising is an art well worth
intensive • study by the commercial apiar-
ist, for it is high-class queens that bump
up the profits. Conditions under which
queens are raised are even more im-
portant than prize characteristics of cer-
tain strains, which deteriorate rapidly
when the bees are left to their own devices
in rearing queens.
Goats Again.
“Jumbuck”; Milch goats are of value
for their milk out west, but it seems re-
markable that greater consideration has
not been given to the Angora goat, especi-
ally in coastal areas that would be suit-
able. - A native of Asia Minor, the Angora
has been cultivated extensively in U.S.A.,
and high prices are paid for pure-bred
animals. Mohair, the fleece of the


I
EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rosea Co.,Pty_ Ltd.. Kim) Street, Sydney.
MOLASSES !
In 45-gallon drums, in truck loads
of 32 drums for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums 5 7/6.
Drums free and freight paid free
to any railway station in N.S.W.
Send cash with order to—
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
ADVT
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list*
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course]
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant lcratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog alwavs with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap,
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/0
lODINE DOG SOAP .. J/t)
SOLD BY ALL ** /J
BARKO
It runs
on 801 l
Bearings
I »ROpyCT.
As essential in a
home as a wheel-
barrow.
The "Lightning” is designed and priced for
the private individual, fanner, industrialist.
It is built on an all-steel, wheelbarrow type
frame, perfectly balanced for wheeling or
tipping. Primarily designed for mixing better
concrete, the “Lightning” handles mortar,
poultry and pig food with equal efficiency.
factory representatives
WM HAUGHTON & CO. Ply. Ltd.
Melbourne . Sydney . Brisbane . Perth
Made by Lightourn ei Co.. Ltd., In Australia.
HELP KEEP PRICES DOWN-
BUY SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Caterpillar
1-7.-- :
S
mm
V*
- -1. -
=£:-
i ~ .*
SF: :-
5. -
Puts them in ...
Gets them off...
Hauls them away!
Food helped us win the war, and it will help
to win the peace. But huge and urgent pro-
duction programmes call for modern trac-
tion methods at their best. In every type
of primary production, "Caterpillar” Diesel
Tractors, such as the D 2, are providing
power at the lowest cost per working hour, speeding up production, helping win
bigger per acre yields. Wet weather or soft paddocks don’t hold up the man who
owns a "Caterpillar.” "Caterpillar” lets you seed earlier, while others are waiting for
paddocks to dry. / On any slope, any soil-r— hard, wet, or loose—the D 2, with its broad
tracks and 12 inch grousers, rides on top with a ground pressure less than that of a
man’s foot, and without miring or soil-packing! From turning in cover crops to
pulling the combine, running the saw bench, or digging your dams, "Caterpillar”
will provide dependable power under even the toughest conditions. Progressive
farmers everywhere depend upon "Caterpillar.”
CAT E RPILLAR D/SSCI
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF,
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South V/ales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd. St Peters Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J A. Rathborne. 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
Phone-Port Macquane 81 Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone-2839. 102 Melbourne St..
Soufn Brisbane. Phone — Jl4S6 . Rankin Sflnnlsfail. 'Phone*~~lnnisfaH 475 .
4.45.33
Angora, is used in the manufacture of
plush goods, and textile mills use it for
blending. In pre-war days mohair sold
up to 3s. per lb., and, although light cut-
ters on the average, some of the bucks
shear up to 81b. a head.
There was one attempt to cultivate
Angoras out west, but a drought settled
it. There are a few still about, and they
might do well on country unsuited for
sheep, cattle or crops. \
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Sub. clover makes
vigorous response to super, and can trans-
form rough grazing land into a rich
pasture within a few years. Without
super, the plant makes stunted growth,
and if topdressing isn’t maintained the
stand will steadily weaken as the water-
soluble phosphate is drawn from the soil.
“Mr.”: Swelling and redness of the
skin, with itching, are the first symptoms
of greasy heels, followed by a discharge.
Clip the affected parts and wash with a
mild soap and lukewarm water, or a 2
p.c. Dettol solution, then dry thoroughly.
Apply an astringent like zinc ointment
daily until the trouble clears. Smear the
ointment liberally on the parts, cover them
with gauze and bandage. Keep pasterns
and fetlocks clean, especially if the horse
is working in muddy country.
“Sarina”: The small-time pig-raiser
with his earth-floored sties and light
shelters can grow fine root- and vine-
crops on land that once ran his pigs (B.
27/2/’46). Pig manure is generally much
superior to horse or cow manure; plant
waste should be saved and ploughed in
with the manure. Parasites will leave
when the pigs go, and when, after a couple
of years, the sties are reassembled on the
old spot the ground will be clean and
healthy again.
“P.C.”: When burning out tree-stumps
during summer, watch out for sudden
fires in grazings and crops in the neigh-
borhood. Not unusual for long roots to
burn for weeks just underground, and
there’ll be a blaze if they break surface
among inflammable material. I’ve known
’em to bum right under earth roads.
“Plane Creek”; Leguminous trees could
be grown on poor land that a*t present
produces only rubbishy grasses because
of their ability to subsist on air-borne
nourishment. The Carob bean is an ex- •
cellent tree for poor and dry country.
In Mediterranean countries no tree is
held in higher esteem. The beans have
good food value, especially when crushed,
and are eaten greedily by all stock.
Pastoralists who have put out Carobs in
Queensland have noticed that the trees
encourage grasses to grow in their vici-
nity. Planting them in ones and twos
on grazing country would not interfere
with'the grasses,
“Pat O’Day”: The following trees are
good for breakwinds, shelter and fodder
(north-eastern Victoria and slopes
districts of N.S.W. adopt most of these in
their tree-planting programmes): Ango-
phora costata grows 30ft. high ; Cinna-
monium camphora, camphor laurel, a
particularly drought-resistant type, 20ft. ;
Cupresses lambertiana horizontalis, 50
to 60 feet; C. macrocarpa, 40ft.; C.
turolosa, 20ft. to 25ft.; Fugosia pater-
soni, 25ft. to 30ft.; and the hardiest and
most desirable for districts with a low
rainfall, Finns insignis and P. canariensis.
“Lub”; For the compost heap begin by
making a shallow excavation and filling
with loose, good soil to within a couple
of inches of ground level; it will trap
the drainage of the heap. A layer of
vegetable matter is followed by one of
soil, next stable manure and more soil,
then vegetable matter and so on until a
dome-shaped heap is built up and covered
with soil. The compost when fully rotted
may be applied as a mulch to growing
plants after watering, and worked down
gradually with the hoe after successive
waterings.
“Gip”: A good way to run out barbed-
wire by hand is to put an axle between
the ends of two pieces of 3in. x lin., 4ft.
long, being careful that the spacing is
right for a coil of wire. Bore holes at
opposite ends and fit another rod to be
used as a handle. Keep the 3in. x lin.
right distance apart by nailing cross-
pieces. By pulling this frame along the
coil should unroll from the bottom, and
it will lay down the wire neatly without
danger of scratches to the operator.
“1.C.1.”: Another way of introducing
a new queen into a beehive (B. 13/2/’46)
is to cover her with honey before putting
her in. By the time the bees have taken
all the honey off her she will have
acquired the same odor as the rest of the
bees in that hive.
“Mrs. Jock”: Having tried both
methods, I find arsenate of lead mixed
with water is more effective than when
mixed with flour in combating the grub
of the cabbage moth. The water makes
it adhere to the leaves so that it is im-
possible for the grub to eat leaves with-
out getting the poison. Strength, two
tablespoons to one gallon water for small
house gardens. Repeat in seven days.
Not having a spray I find sprinkling it on
with a scrubbing brush to be effective.
“Gip”: To mark rows in the vegetable
garden, attach a 4ft. handle to a piece of
lin. x lin. about 3ft. long. Affix to it
two markers—old T-hinges are suitable —
at the distances you want your rows’
apart. Draw the marker by the handle
and sprinkle seed in the tiny furrows
thus made.
“Xob 33”; Probably the most essential
thing in the fowl-run is a dust bath. Pro-
vide one consisting of two, parts of sand,'
one part loam, one part wood ashes and
a small quantity of sulphur. After each
spasm of wet weather, loosen up the area
and add a little extra dusting powder.
“Will C.”: Egg plant isn’t particular
as to the soil and locality. In frost-free
districts grow it throughout the year, but
elsewhere do not plant it during the
winter. Sow the seed where the plants
are to remain at 3ft. intervals each way.
Encourage the bushes to branch by pinch-
ing out the leaders early. A bucket or
two of liquid manure at set of fruit will
improve the yield. Varieties: Spineless
New York (favorite of market gardeners,
large, dark, purple) and Black Beauty
(wide, early fruit, dark purple). The
yellow variety is obsolete.


V I
5^
JP
JJ
s
Cl
S
When wonderful,
world-wide Radio Pro-
grammes sweep away
the memories of war and brighten your
well-earned leisure —how important then,
to have
“His Master’s Voice”
true-to-life RADIO
• your nearest "His Master's Voice" Accredited
Retailer for details of the new "His Master's
Voice" Receivers.
wm
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Inc. 5n England) ROSEBUSH, N.S.W.
R7/45A.
“WORLD BOOKS”
(
m
mm
smms& : j
\ CHA mAK
AMAZINC
CAN BE
AT THE AMAZINGLY LOW PRICE
it o'®* l ' ss!
JOIN “World Books” and enjoy a
unique reading experience. Each
month members receive the club’s
choice in a special buckram bound
edition finished with a gold stamped
panel as illustrated. Irrespective of
the regular selling price of the book,
members receive the W.B. editions
for only 5/6 each.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
Jan.:
Feb.:
Mar.:
Apr.:
May:
June:
July:
Aug.:
“So Many Loves” ... L. Walmsley
“Out of West Land,” L. Dickson
“The Razor’s Edge,” S. Maugham
“Years of Victory” .. A. Bryant
“The Outnumbered,” C. Hutter
“Indigo” C. Weston
“Henry the Eighth,” F. Hackett
“Valley of Decision,” M. Davenport
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MONTHS, £l/16/- 12 MONTHS, £3/12/- (inc.)*
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” I enclose £ / A
My name is
Address
Rodgers mmm
SMOKE-HO!
4* 4* 4* 4• ,
“The female of the species is more deadly
than the male.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Especially when she is dressed up to
kill.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Other people are famous merely by the fact
of their association with someone else. Hero
and Leander, Romeo and Juliet, Heloise and
Abelard, Laurel and Hardy.”
— Woman’s paper.
And one case more, the last of all
To close the lengthy tally —
In years to come men will recall
Max Harris by “Ern Malley.”
E.D.
“Sydney Faces Its Serious Beer
Draught.”— “Sun.”
So drinkers have the wind up.
“King Alfred burnt the cakes. Can you
remember anything else about him?”
— Woman’s paper.
Yes, the goodwife went for him scone
Border Incident.
“French, Belgian and Dutch girls can now
use love letters to obtain passports for
Britain.”
“Your passport, M’sieu. You have,
him?” said the Vulgarian guard as we
stopped at the frontier. Too late I re-
membered that I had pawned it that
afternoon.
“My passport, she is lost,” I said, not
to be outdone in the local idiom. “If a
thousand pesetas would help?” The
guard stiffened,
“You would bribe me, hein? Well, if
you have some document that will
identify y0u...” I handed it over.
“ ‘Eyes big and brown, like a limpid
mountain stream,’ ” , he read sceptically,
and peered into my face. “A little of the
exaggeration, perhaps,” he said. “There
is, however, a muddiness.”
“ ‘Skin that is velvet-smooth, tanned
with the ruddy hue of health,’ ” he read
on, and looked at me again. “It is no
doubt some years since this description
was written?” he inquired.
“And what is this? ‘Hair black like
the raven, with a crisp curl to it that is
the most chic. How I love to ruffle it
with my fingers!’ M’sieu,” he bellowed,
“is this a joke that you make?”
“It is no joke,” I assured him pinkly.
“It is a love letter from the Baroness
Von Donner und Blitzen.”
The guard’s demeanor was transformed.
“Ah, milor,” he sighed. “And no
doubt you hasten to be with her?”
“O’ coursh I can shay Bush Conshtoosh'n!”
“She is in great danger. The Baron
has been drinking vodka for three days,”
I told him simply.
As the Mercedes roared across the
frontier amid cries of “L’amour tou-
jour s,” a bouquet of red roses was tossed
into my lap.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is not often that a girl weighing 18 stone
enjoys the thrill of being pirated.”
Men are naturally disinclined to regard
such a girl as a pick-up.
Loss of Balance.
“As he gazed hopefully into her eyes they
seemed like two deep wells of mystery.”
—Magazine story.
Into those wells of mystery
He gazed, with hopes to win
The lady’s heart —but thafs where he
Fell in !
Nat.
4* *l* 4* 4*
“Three-piece Gent’s Navy Suit.”
—Suburban paper.
Did he part on the shore?
4* 4* 4* 4* ...
“But meeting the girl-friend’s girl-friend is a
different kettle of fish.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
It’s mostly a matter of flounder.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Charming Hosts.
“When Premier Sultaneh returned to Tehran
from Moscow 5000 demonstrating Communists
prevented a Parliamentary quorum from
assembling... .Moscow Radio quotes Sultaneh
as thanking Stalin for the warm reception giyen
to the Persian delegation.... Political tension
in Tehran is increasing about what is going
on in Soviet-occupied areas in North Persia,
where the Red Army is preventing Persian
troops from moving about.”
“Yes,” said M, Sultaneh to his Cabi-
net, which had gathered for greater safety
in a disused date foundry to hear his
report, “M. Stalin proved a most gracious
host. Why, he gave a State banquet
in my honor in his own humble mansion
in the Kremlin. Thirty-eight courses,
each with vodka and champagne, served
by liveried footmen. We ate off solid
gold plate, and”——
“But,” put in M. Raisineh, the Minister
for Backing and Filling, “I understood
they had abolished all class distinctions in
the Workers’ Fatherland.”
“So they have!” went on M. Sultaneh
admiringly. “But about the banquet —
it was wonderful! Just before I passed
out at the nineteenth course, M. Kalinin
was standing on his head, clad only in his
underpants, trying to sing Moussorg-
sky’s ‘Song of the Flea’ in a boy soprano.
So realistic that he had to be sprinkled
with some lend-lease D.D.T. powder!”
“Well, at least you did get a cheap feed
out of the visit, which is something in
these hard times,” put in M. Curranteh,
the Minister for Harems.
“That reminds, me!” went on the
Premier, pulling from his pocket a docu-
ment and tossing it on the table. “There’s
the bill for it —230,000 roubles. It has
to be paid by next Thursday or the Red
Army will confiscate two more provinces.
But I was about to tell you of the splendid
consideration shown by our Russian
friends. On reaching the airport I was
given the distinction of a guard of honor,
all to myself! They marched on each
side of me. And M, Molotov explained
that his Filhrer, anticipating that I would
be bored looking at things like the
Romanoff jewels - and paintings and
the ballet, graciously considered that
a more unusual sightseeing would
appeal to my aesthetic taste. So
we went and inspected a big barbed-
wire compound where a number of ex-
Premiers of neighboring States which the
Red Army is kindly protecting were
taking their ease with napping hammers.
M. Molotov suggested that 1 stay in one
of the compounds for the night—a very
charming fellow, and most considerate.”
“You don’t think it was to prevent your
seeing anything in the city that they
mightn’t want you to?” asked M.
Pruneh, tl%e Minister for Sherbet.
M. Sultaneh bent on his colleague a
reproving look. “How could you think
such a thing?” he asked. “I shall never for-
get the look of deep solicitude and bene-
volence on Molotov’s face when he ex-
plained that it was purely to protect me
from the wolves which sometimes pene-
trate into Moscow’s very heart!”
“And how did you fare at the con-
ference?” asked M. Curranteh.
“Splendidly!” replied M. Sultaneh.
“Why, I’ve had no greater consideration
shown me anywhere!, One incident"alone
will serve to demonstrate M. Stalin’s deep-
seated goodwill to the head of a State
with which he earnestly desires the closest
■ friendship. Just as I was hesitating about
signing a concession agreement the
Fiihrer of this great nation got a guard
to scratch between my shoulderblades with
the barrel end of his tommy-gun. Obvi-
ously he sensed I was itchy, and
you know how hard it is to scratch your-
self there. I thought it the act of a kindly,
hum'ane man.”
“Did you sign?” asked M. Pruneh.
“Of course,” said the Persian Premier.
“It was the least I could do to repay
such magnificent hospitality by a most
friendly neighbor. It will cost our coun-
try a mere 200 million roubles a year
for the next fifty years.”
80.
Fair Exchange.
“A U.S. soldier on a lonely island in the
Pacific got four princesses as wives in exchange
for fishhooks.” — “Time.”
So, while the chief’s superfluous
daughters
Gladdened the heart of G.I. Joe,
To fishermen it goes to show
What you can catch in tropic waters;
And yet you’d find the angler wishing
{After a year or two of this
Quadratic kind of wedded bliss )
He’d stuck to ordinary fishing.
For once a bloke has wed his “treasure”
The use of his infrequent leisure
Involves a fair amount of wrangling,
And if in this unequal war
The odds were multiplied by four
He’d scarcely find the time for angling.
P. M. LUSK.
Selection.
Sweet Emma! You’ll be glad to hear
That I have chosen you, my dear,
To be the empress of my heart,
While Nell can play a lesser part.
In crowning you instead of Nell
I feel that I have chosen well,
For, though she’s very fair, ’tis you
Who know the way to make home brew.
T. W. NATHAN.


Missing Friends.
Re EMMA MARY CASTEN Deceased Intestate Late
of Marooehydore Queensland. —Will Mrs. Dorothy
Emma Adams, daughter of the above-named, please
communicate with Messrs. Fox & Fox, Solicitors,
Nambour, Queensland ?
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA—
In Divorce.
TO' DONALD HECTOR KENNEDY PALMER
formerly of Pakington Street Kew in the State of
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILIAN
ISABEL PALMER has filed a Petition in the
Supreme Court of Victoria (1946 No. 6) for a
dissolution of Marriage on the ground of desertion
If you desire to defend the suit you must enter an
appearance on or before the Seventeenth day of
April One Thousand Nine Hundred and Forty-six
and file an answer on or before the Twenty-ninth
day of April One Thousand Nine Hundred and Forty-
six at the Office of the Deputy Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Ballarat Victoria and in default
of your so doing the Petition may be heard in your
absence. —R. H. RAMSAY, of 41 Lydiard Street,
Ballarat, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
Probate.
TO JOHN DEVEREUX Federal Hotel Bourke in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Citation has been issued in this Court citing
you tb cause an appearance to be entered for you
within thirty (30) days after publication hereof
in the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart and propound
a certain paper writing dated the Twelfth day of
May One Thousand Nine Hundred and Forty-four
purporting to be the Will of Charles Devereux late
of Nicholls Rivulet in Tasmania Farmer and accept
or refuse Letters of Administration of the Estate of
the said Charles Devereux or show cause why Letters
of Administration should not be granted to Walter
James Devereux with an intimation that in default
of your appearance Letters of Administration will
be granted to the ’ said Walter James Devereux
DATED this Seventh day of March One Thousand
Nine Hundred and Forty-six.—R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
N. 8.: Friends of the abovenamed JOHN DEVEREUX
who may see this advertisement are requested to
bring it under his notice.
ESTATE MARION MITCHELL DU VAL deceased.—
Creditors Rene Keen granddaughter and other next
of kin and all other persons having CLAIMS against
the estate of the abovenamed deceased late of 24
Chamwood Road St. Kilda in the State of Victoria
Widow who died on the 14th day of December
1935 are required to send particulars to CHARLES
HENRY PERYMAN the Executor of the Will of
the said deceased care of the undersigned Solicitors
on or before the 20th day of April 1946 after which
date the said executor will proceed to distribute the
assets having regard only to the claims of which
notice has been received DATED this sth dav of
March 1946. —BAYLES HAMILTON & WILKS 405
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the’ said
Executor.
McCorwck-Deering Model W-6
(Standard)
m
MCCORMICK
DECKING
Tractors
(Available with
steel wheels or on
rubber tyres for
approved purposes).
BACKED by more than 30 years
of building and using tractors
. . . You can depend on
McCormick-Deering tractor power to
give the greatest satisfaction on your
farm. There's a size and type for
every farming need, including row-
crop and standard kerosene and
diesel-fuel models. Full information
can be obtained from your nearest
International Harvester Agent.
McCormick-Deering Farmall-MD
. . . Also available. Models A,
H and M.
See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER AGENT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
Help keep prices down . .
Buy SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
oy-
ILJ
-=a
o.
o
O'
still going strong m
Mobiloil
72% of the cars and trucks on the road
today are over 10 years old so look
after the one you now have. It may be
some time yet before cars and trucks
are plentiful, but Mobiloil, the World's
Quality Oil, will protect your ageing
vehicle under all conditions.
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. LTD. (Incorp.in Aujf.)
proouci
CWtCo^,
A
o
U
M 464
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy copies of Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
poems; also Thousand Best Poems in the
World, published by Cole’s, Melbourne.—
3714.
Information Sought.
Some information about parcels post from
Australia to Holland?
Service is limited to gift parcels not exceed-
ing 111b. in weight and 3-Kt. in length, breadth
and depth, or alternatively 6ft. in length and
girth combined. Postage rates are 11b. to 31b.,
3s. 5d.; over 31b. and up to 71b., 5s. 8d.;
over 71b. and up to 111b., 8s. 2d. These gift
parcels may contain clothing, provided not
more than £2 in value of any rationed item
is enclosed in any one parcel, while food par-
cels must not contain more than 21b. of any
one item of rationed foodstuffs.
Authors and titles of some modern Aus-
tralian novels covering events in the nineteenth
century ?
Stella Miles Franklin, All That Swagger;
Brent of Bin Bin, Up the Country, Back to
Bool Bool, Ten Creeks Run; M. Barnard
Eldershaw, A House Is Built, Green Memory;
Helen Simpson, Boomerang, Under Capricorn;
Eric Lowe, Salute to Freedom; Vance Palmer,
The Swayne Family; Henry Handel Richard-
son, The Fortunes of Richard Mahony;
Martin Boyd, The Montforts; G. B. Lancaster,
Pageant; Brian Penton, Landtakers, Inheritors;
Roy Connolly, Southern Saga; Eleanor Dark,
Timeless Land; Ernestine Hill, My Love Must
Wait; J. J. Hardie, Pastoral Symphony;
Leslie Haylen, The Brierley Rose, Brown Boy
Singing; Ernest Wells, Hemp; Leonard Mann,
Human Drift; Mary L. Skinner, Black Swans.
Is a diet of soup, household scraps and milk
satisfactory for a two-months'-old Great Dane
dog?
Present mode of feeding will lead to a weak-
ling with rickets, as diet is quite wrong for
any carnivorous animal. Four meals a day,
properly spaced at, say, 8 a.m., noon, 4 p.m.
and 8 p.m., are necessary. The first and third
meals may consist of milk and egg-yolk and a
crushed wholemeal dog-biscuit, the midday
meal household scraps, and the evening meal,
which is £he principal meal of the day, raw
beef chopped into small pieces; the addition
of scraped faw carrot to the last meal is also
beneficial.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: From London “Times,” 255a George-
street, Sydney... .J.E.W.: The phrase means
“without restraint” K.E.: Sir Robert Bear,
G17 Royal-arcade, Sydney W.D.: E.R.L.
Products Pty., Ltd., Park-road, Glebe, Sydney,
and Gilbert and Barker Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., Huntley-road, Alexandria, Sydney, are
N.S.W. manufacturers of the electric-type
petrol pump. Other makes are manufactured
in Victoria and S.A.... .J.G.Z.: The high-
jumper “Thumbs Up” was a dark bay, a little
under 14.2 hands... .B.W.M.: Major Quinton
Hogg, M.P., 1 Victoria-square, London,
S.W.l.,. .H.G.B.: On the facts presented rela-
tives would not .be eligible for admission to
Australia for the purpose of permanent resi-
dence. .. .T.M.: Indiscriminate use of cleans-
ing powder may have an effect on the denture
base, especially on the newer resins. Use
denture brush and paste or powder vigorously
and regularly J.B.: There is no regulation
dealing with the distance of fruit-trees from a
dividing fence... .Reader: Contact the Pensions
Department, Carrington - street, Sydney
M.M.D.: Write to the Naval Officer-in-Charge,
Naval Staff Office, Brisbane.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should he addressed to
the Editor.
J. 8.: Comparing a kiss behind the cowshed
to an African sunset is going a little too far.
J.A.McN.: Stilted R.H.: Come again.
....W.H.W.: Try a daily... .T.N.: Weepy....
L.R.F.: Use a few adjectives of color
C.P.: Avoid rhetoric J.S.: “Fluff, the
Pomeranian,” is calculated to turn the average
dog-lover into a vivisectionist H.0’8.:
“Had this sin-hardened convict had the ex-
ample of a good woman to inspire him he
might well have been a worthy citizen.” And
then, again, he might not... .L.T.M.:
Characters uniformly vague F.R.: Pleasantly
written, but long-winded... .H.L.: The slang
may be racy, but at times it is unintelligible.
K.A.C.: Steele Rudd and water... .Bare-
foot Jimmie: You tread lightly but precisely
on the corn C.P.: What on earth or ocean
is the “coin of fathom’s unfathomable
surrender”? 0.H.: If you are young, forget
about total war and try to handle, say, a total
sparrow F.D.C.: A possibly good auto-
biography packed into a commonplace poem.
Z.H.: You’ll do it yet 8.G.: Every
gum-tree in Australia, at some time or other,
has been inspected by a poet and described as
a “sentinel” A. 8.: Sentimental... .K.M.L.:
Other writers have brought the same rose to
the same lady R.L.S.: Prosy; and “hom-
age” isn’t a verb C.L.1.: “There is a silver
lining a-shining for you.” Not for you,
though D.McC.; Sonnets heavy and deriva-
tive C.S.: A glimmer in it P. 8.: It
doesn’t say anything new, but it says it rather
pleasantly M.L.W.: Come again E.A.:
Pardonably indignant doggerel K.A.S.:
Your alliteration is awful J. 5.0.: None
quite up R.C.G.: Arthur will never be an
author M.G.: “Had a spider or a scorpion
been stealthily sliding over the rocks and had
looked down from its vantage point with the
eyes and understanding of man it would have
been somewhat awed.” And had a scorpion or a
spider or even a literate crab been forced to
read “Sand Soldiers” it would have been some-
what bored R.H.C.: A heroine who chews
gum and “dotes on jive” is much better for-
gotten... .S.D.; Your description of mountain
scenery is not unlike the eulogies in N.S.W.
railway carriages P.K.: That kind of de-
liberate naughtiness is hopelessly oldfashioned.
N.H.M.: Considering your age—promis-
ing... .J.McD.: Our art expert advises that
artist's no longer sit up all night drinking
absinthe... .G.M.G.: Overemphasis spoils
some fine writing H.O’N.: “Hector’s Mis-
take” received and returned. Does “H.” stand
for Hector? ... .P.E.R.:lt’s topical, anyway.


pfeE:V»V*
\S HERt
ALUMINIUM ENAMEL
A bright, clean, rust-resistant
and heat-resistant silver finish v
with a brilliant sheen. Ik
ifUAag£os
6YNTHETIC
QUICK-DRYING ENAMEL
The miracle finish for interior
decoration. Hard, tough,
waterproof, with a brilliant
lustre. For all wood or iron
work in bathrooms, kitchens
and living rooms. Easy to
apply—long lasting.
PAVING ENAMEL
‘D't-LeA cl 6 AxxaxL cub -inxnu '
Brilliant lustre, quick-drying
waterproof. This iron-hard
surface is ideal for garage
floors, concrete paths, steps,
verandahs, passages. It is
guaranteed to withstand
heavy foot traffic.
Victorian Distributor: T. S. NETTLE-
FOLD & SONS PTY. LTD. Queensland
Distributor: BROWN & BROAD LTD.
Tasmanian Distributor: A. G. WEB-
STER & SONS PTY. LTD. Made by
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD.,
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ton's
mumihUL
*°*WOBK
m
>ss
£1
19. S
fry, thz, 5 U-eM:
BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on :—
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry-
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Kadio
Befrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Buies
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
McGILL’S AGENCY
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
»\\\<
/'//
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Branches in all States
C 8
PROPRIETORS OF THE
FOLLOWING TRADE MARKS
"C.O.R PLUS" MOTOR SPIRIT
"C.O.R" POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE" KEROSENE
"C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM"
“C.O.R" DIESEL OILS; AND
XQ.R" FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
THE SKYLARK OF TAKAFAU
BY GEOFF BINGHAM
IT was at Osaka we first saw the small
brown bird in a cage, Len told me,
and we knew what that was like be-
cause we were behind bars ; and just
as the small bird saw the small yellow
men so did we. The bird was able Jo
sing in its cage, and that was the differ-
ence. We could sing seldom.
At Osaka they huddled us into Taisho
camp, making us march a mile to work
each day.' We were always tired and
thin and deadened, and I might not
have seen the bird had it not been for
Jock Travers, who belonged to a Scots
regiment, but was a friend to all Aus-
tralians.
He nudged me as we passed through a
side street of Osaka. There were brown
shops, close together. “Look at that
bird,” he said.
I saw it then, hanging in a wickerwork
cage, slim, gilded cane shaped into a
cage like a fishbasket. “It wouldn’t make
a meal,” I said.
“Don’t bp daft,” said Jock. “Listen
to it; there’s no need to eat it.”
We wanted to eat birds then, but 1
tried to listen, to catch some sound
through the crunching of our worn boots
on the rough road surface. Small
children were laughing, running about the
gutters happily, as they do in any big
city. There was plenty of noise, and we
were past the bird before I caught a
trill, faintly silver, but pure music.
“God,” said Jock, “but that’s lovely.”
“I hardly heard it,” I said.
“You’re deaf to music and blind to
beauty,” said Jock.
“No, I’m not, Jock,” I said, for my
eyes were fixed hungrily to the where
the long dark line of the hills showed. I
could easily remember the Blue Moun-
tains of New South Wales, as Jock could
easily remember the Scots hills.
“Aye, Len, but it is a country for
little yellow men, and not for us,” Jock
said.
“We’re here, anyway,” I said wearily.
AFTER that we tramped stolidly. Some
with beriberi scraped their feet along
the ground. Others were just dull with
hunger, dead anger and weariness. Then
we swung into the big iron mills, and
forgot about the bird because the fur-
naces flared out at us and the roar of
the mills blotted out thought.
We saw the bird again that night, dimly
through the last light. It did not sing
then, but when we passed it next day it
cut across our marching with clear song.
“God knows how it can sing in that
prison,” said Jock.
I said nothing because of the inrush
of thought, quickly emerging from the
association of song. I saw brown birds
flying after the single furrow plough,
hunting for upturned woims. The song
followed us down the alley, and along
to the steel mills.
Jock and I weren’t the only ones who
saw it. Every head of that tramping
column of prisoners turned to the small
cage and the brown bird. It is true
to say it passed into our inner beings as
some symbol of spiritual living, a refusal
to be depressed by bars.
“That bird isn’t happy, anyway,” said
Jock.
“It can sing,” I said.
We never saw the small bird again
because Osaka was bombed. The large
silver bombers sailed high above us in
terrible serenity. Their bombs fell into
the city while the ack-ack fired upwards
without effect.
Looking from our camp we could see
a glowing arc of fifes, a fearful half-
circle of crimson and gold. In the day
the small brown buildings were murky
in the smoke. There were only sadness
and a haze in that -city. We never went
to the steel mills again, because they
were burned out.
| NSTEAD, we went north, about three
1 hundred miles, travelling diagonally
towards the west coast to a place by the
hills called Takafau.
When we passed into the high hills I
almost forgot the past because of their
beauty.
“They don’t compare with the hills of
Scotland,” said Jock doggedly.
The ranges were misted with blue haze ;
rugged and soft, beautiful and peaceful.
That is a lot to say for hills, but it was
all true. The filth and murky living of
Osaka dropped away, and for a short
time we knew some sort of serenity.
“There’s brown heather in my own
hills,” said Jock, “and it is soft and
quiet in good ordinary colors. This is
only green brilliancy.”
At Takafau the camp was still a prison.
They had barred the windows with thick
wooden slats. We could see the blue skies
through the slats, and looking about us
we could see the mountains, for we were
in some sort of a valley.
“It is still prison,” said Jock.
“Maybe it won’t be long now,” I said.
“They’re bombing Japan heavily.”
“I hope they bomb it from the face of
the earth,” said Jock savagely.
We had little time for talking, and as
little for thinking, engulfed in the clamor
and toil of the great manganese mills.
Our heads ached, contracted and ex-
panded with the roar of the great rock
crushers. Our nostrils were harsh and
our mouths bitter with the smell of the
fertiliser byproducts, the raw odor of
the lime and the perpetual manganese.
We toiled before the great furnaces, and
some of the thin men fainted with five
minutes of that terrific heat.
One day when we sat in the barred hut
Jock pointed to the men eating their rice.
“You’ll never see the like of that
again,” he said.
“I don’t want to,” I said, and suddenly
I knew I had never really seen these men
before in this manner. Any sad and
sombre adjective might describe them.
Simply, they were tough, brown skeletons
with dark pits where the eyes were.
“Maybe it’s better than Taisho camp,”
I said.
“You remember the brown bird,” said
Jock. “I wonder how he managed to
sing.”
“Maybe these chaps sing a little,” I
said.
“Don’t be a damned fool,” said Jock.
“Do you call that singing?” He pointed
to the men.
Looking at them I wondered, because
although they weren’t singing I could sec
they were still living, not merely
existing, but' as life fighting for
its own right. Perhaps they did
not understand the reason for these
desperate and weird days, but they were
not conquered by them. They may have
been fighting a rearguard action, but they
were still fighting.
“Maybe that bird sang because it
wasn’t beaten,” I said. “And you can’t
say these men are beaten.”
“No,” said Jock slowly. “You may be
right, but, then, who could sing in a place
like this? Only a bird.”
J T was then the skylark began to
* sing, with an uncanny kind of rele-
vancy. It was hot and still, and behind
the song were the curve of the hills and
the glowing blue sky. Two poplars were
soft, green spires, bellying somewhat at
the centre, but still, steadily set against
the sky, and between the twin trees rose
the lark.
It rose from hard sword-grass, which,
when we had walked in it with bare feet
and bare legs, had slashed our feet and
made thin, cruel gashes in our legs.
Jock’s face was like a child’s, soft and
gentle. He said, whispering, “It must
have a nest down there. It’s a skylark,
like the little bird we saw in the cage at
Osaka.”
The bird was fluttering. The sun shone
through its outstretching wings where the
feathers at the extremities were thin and,
seemingly, very frail. It rose higher, and
all the while incredible song poured from
its small body.
Some of the men forgot their white
rice and looked through the bars. The
bird flew upwards in starts, its song
changing with the fluttering movements ;
yet nothing of its nfhsic lingered in the
air. It seemed like a silver arrow flung
down to us, complete in itself.
“That’s a skylark,” someone said.
Nobody spoke until the bird had
soared up high, almost out of sight, a
faint speck in the bright blue sky.
“Shelley wrote about a skylark, didn’t
he?” Jock said thoughtfully.
“That’s better than the bombers over
Osaka,” I said.
Jock looked troubled. “Where is it all
going to end?”
“I don’t know,” I said. I felt listless.
What was to be would be.
“Wait,” Jock said, “it’s coming back.”
It dropped, plummetlike, as do all
larks, in stages. Its song threshed out
and spread. Finally the bird was with us,
hut-level, shrilling sweetly. Then there
was silence.
The camp roared about us again, and
the Japanese guard made us wash our


OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY me
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). 0. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
•me quality of ZEROHEAT
service and products is well
known throughout Australia.
Inter-State clients requiring
advice or service can con-
tact our agents—
Messrs. HENRY BERRY and
CO. (A’ASIA) LTD.
‘SERVICE
EiNG MX 1266
m.
f •
')4 J
mj
:& v
mmi
1
mm
dishes before going to the furnace and
the fertiliser.
“Have you ever thought,” Jock said
later, “that when we are free we will be
freer than we were before?”
THE thought remained with me, and
each day the skylark rose between the
two poplars as we ate our midday rice.
Sometimes the wind moved down from
the mountains,, and the poplars swayed,
but always the bird would rise, fluttering
at first, and seeming to stare into its
nest, after which would come the clear
gush of song.
One day the bombers came roaring
above us, winging northward. We
watched, inwardly fearful, for we were
really afraid of the American bombers.
We had not forgotten Osaka and the
bombs. This deadly assurance, this per-
fect serenity of silver wings above, was
a terror of superb infallibility. Our
shredded nerves quivered with the
memory of the whistling incendiaries and
the sudden upthrust of bursting steel.
The bombers passed us, and although
no bombs dropped we found the skylark
had gone. We watched each day, hoping
for its return, but it had gone with the
bombers. It was queer that their noise
had frightened it.
“The war must be nearly over,” I said
to Jock.
“Where’s that skylark gone?” he wanted
to know.
“It wasn’t here just for our benefit,”
I said.
“Wasn’t it?” said Jock. Somehow, the
disappearance of the lark depressed us.
Mostly we had become used to dis-
appointment, and our policy was to
expect nothing and so avoid disillusion.
We even went farther, and guilelessly
painted conditions darker than they were,
with a kind of inverted optimism.
With the skylark it had been different.
We had placed trust in it, because the
human mind seizes quickly upon symbols.
“That’s the end,” said Jock. We grew
thinner, and the days were long, outdrawn
with wearying work, until the night came,
and we could see little beauty in the hills
and only dull monotony in the man-
ganese of the little yellow men.
'THEN the skylark returned,
* We did not see it but we knew its
song. It began in a soft, timid trill,
gathering strength as it rose, fluttering,
from the grass.
The men in the hut stopped eating rice.
Jock said immediately “It means some-
thing,”
“You’re mad,” I said.
Suddenly someone burst into the hut.
He stared at us. “This isn’t a rumor,”
he said, faintly pugnacious.
He stared at us queerly. “The war’s
over,” he said.
“What did I tell you?” said Jock.
“It’s over,” said the staring skeleton
at the door. “Doesn’t that mean any-
thing to you blokes?”
There was only a silence. A dream
come true is not real. Outside the sky-
lark sang and everybody heard it.
The man at the door was babbling,
lean, thin arms gesticulating, thin hands
helping the words as they tumbled out.
“The Nips say it is all over. Our
’planes are coming to drop food. Not
rice ; food. Bully beef and stuff in tins,
maybe chocolate and that stuff.”
He paused, solemnly staring at us.
“This is all fair jonniky,” he said.
“It is, too,” said Jock.
We listened because we could hear the
skylark, and I saw it moving upwards
between the two poplar trees. They
themselves were very still, and only the
small brown bird was moving. Its wing-
tips were golden with the light of the sun
through them, and its song was shrill and
sweet. Behind it, however, was another
sound, not of the factory or the great
engines, not the pulverisers smashing the
stone, but the drone we knew and
dreaded, the drone of ’planes.
“Bombers,” said someone, voicing our
thought. “Just our cursed luck.”
“It’s over,” said the : tnan at the door.
“Those are ’planes with food.”
“They’re coming this way,” said Jock.
We crowded to the window, pressing
our faces to the thick wooden slats and
peering through them.
The lark was immediately in front of
us, beating out its rich song as it rose,
and directly behind it, but far away, was
a formation of bombers. They merged
into an arrow pointed at us, with the
silver head slowly and inevitably moving
towards an invisible line between the tvfo
green poplars where the skylark sang.
HOD SARGESSON
By F. L. COMBS
TED TWINING was a nobody of no-
bodies, but when we boys saw him,
burnished brass, headpiece on head
and axe in belt, going to a practice
on the Rec., we hurried to join him and
kept step with him.
Something higher than mere vanity
quickened Ted’s pulse, too, for he bore
himself haughtily and not like the baker’s
hireling he was six days a week. Ted
had a thirst for imparting instruction, a
thirst imperfectly allayed at the practice
nets by his team, and would explain to us
as we hurried along at his side the rudi-
ments of three-man-hose-and-hydrant drill,
But most of the glory shed by fire-
fighting in Paka Puki fell to the lot of
Hod Sargesson, the brigade’s captain.
Hod was rouseabout at the Criterion,
and one of his regular practiced—maybe
it was a duty—was to join groups going
into the public baf. Paka Puki was a
democratic place in the early ’nineties,
and agreed fully with Burns’s statement
that a rouseabout is a man for all that,
A public-house is a levelling place, and
as Hod, when sober enough himself,
helped in his time a fair number of well-
known citizens home, he had reason to
look the whole world in the face.
“Don’t take him that way, Mrs. Hop-
juice,” I have heard him say at the back
door. “There’s no harm in Tim—only
high spirits, and tonight he’s had just
one glass too much.” •
Hod was five feet three inches high,
with a girth of equal dimensions. He
had a hoarse voice and a flatfooted,
shambling gait. The rumor went that he
was well connected, and it may have been
true, for there have'been earls like him.
On the other hand, he had not been to
Eton.
Hod was oracular, more so even than
the Old Pioneer with whom, they being
two of a kind, he did not hit it off too
well. He was an authority on many
things—rhumb line sailing (he had
shipped before the mast on a wind-
jammer); that noble quadruped the horse
(he had been groom to a squire in Kent);
butchering ; baking , fellmongermg; and
I know not how many other callings. As
a casual he had in his time got around.
Now he was takinghis ease m an inn
winch, if not his own, offered him many
advantages that do not always accrue to
possession.
WHEN the brigade was first mooted
Hod showed a disposition to blind
all-comers with his scientific knowledge
of firefighting, so, for a lark—Paka Puki
in the ’nineties was great on larks—as
soon as the brigade was formed its mem-
beirs elected him captain. His uniform,
short in the legs and capacious of waist,
was a knotty problem to Web Palethorpe,
the tailor. Hod had an individuality
that was not to be denied,
You might think that Hod, cumbered
as he was by his girth and his gait, would
be the last brigadesman to “arrive on the
scene of the conflagration.” On the con-
trary, he was the first, for he always
commandeered a lift, and it was part of
the “lark” to comply with his hoarse
demand for one.
Once he was on the spot the same voice
rose above the roar of flames exhorting,
urging, blaspheming. It was for him to
plan the attack and to ask “Why the hell
don’t youse lazy b cows bear a hand
with that manual?”
His first fires were not a success, but
they served to give the brigade experi-
ence. One was a cottage, and the only
water available was in its tank. Impatient
of the futile dribble from the tank tap,
Hod slashed a mighty gash low down
in its side with his official hatchet—with
the result that it yielded up its whole six
hundred gallons in one rushing, gushing
minute,
However (see the “Advocate” of that
date), the brigade “made a good save of
the adjacent buildings.”
It takes no effort of will to become
active at a fire, but Hod was super-
humanly so. He mounted to the high
points of structures to direct operations,
and he slashed openings with his hatchet
in spund totara walls to allow of the hose
from the manual pouring in a steady
stream on the contents of parlors. He
was, however, physically handicapped
when it came to rescuing, and, when that
hotel caught light, the lovely form of the
barmaid of the Arms was carried down
the ladder by one of his underlings,
r THINK it was the insurance corn-
-1 p an i es which decided towards the end
of the great slump of i B B6-95 that
p a h a Puki’s firefighting equipment
oU ghj; to become more effective,
Anyway, Arn Mills, whose master
p ass j on was t 0 keep the rates down, took
the lead in a high-pressure
wa t er supply, and I think the insurance
people have been the explanation.
a j oan was au thorised and obtained,
a nd the borough (I quote from the “Ad-
vocate”) was “reticulated throughout with
a high-pressure supply second to none in
these Antipodes.” A tower with a bell
and a watch station were erected, and the
station soon became a hive, among other
industries, of all the varieties of poker.
It was Hod’s finest hour when the
high pressure flow first came to be tested.
Greater men were there, but he was in
command, and hii hoarse peremptory
directions to his brigade gave juveniles
the impression that, but for him, the hose
would have remained flaccid. It did not.
On the contrary the pressure exceeded all
anticipations, causing the hose to rear
and tear the nozzle out of the hands of
the two brigadesmen scientifically told
off to control it. The result was a tor-
rent pouring at the rate of 300 gallons
a minute through the front door of the
Criterion.
Some laughed, and remarked flippantly
that for once patrons of that hostel might
be persuaded to take some water with. it.
But the brigade captain did not laugh.
He coped with the emergency as a captain
should, and, singlehanded, turned the jet
into Stan Budkin’s early potatoes, rows
of which it uprooted, till someone turned
it off at the main.
The tests which followed (I quote again
from the “Advocate”) “proved that
the pressure would take the water
to a height of thirty feet above the roof
of the tallest structure in the borough.”
Curiously enough this high pressure sys-
tem reduced the number of fires. It was
as if that usually intractable element was
cowed into impotence by the mere know-
ledge that the other element so in-
veterately hostile to it was lying eagerly
in wait for it.
Hod and his men went in for drills,
hose and hydrant, reel and hydrant, hose
and ladder, etc., and became marvellously
expert in the art of firefighting. This,
too, seemed to have a discouraging effect
on fires, though a small one (the second)
in Seth Gregson’s restaurant was nipped
in the bud in a way that caused Seth to
say that sooner than fire he would any
day prefer to be saved from water.
Then the brigade went away to a fire
brigades’ contest and came back with its
collective bosom proudly covered with
medals. At a smoke-concert held in the
Town Hall on their return many speakers
praised the high degree of efficiency to
which Captain Sargesson had raised his
men ; and Hod, who had so often helped
others home, had to be helped back to
his quarters in the stable to the rear of
the Criterion.
A YEAR later Hod was ousted from his
command by a clique, just as every
man in office in Paka Puki except Arn
Mills was sooner or later ousted by a
clique. This clique said Hod was not
active enough for the command of a fire
fighting outfit, which may have been a
colorable objection, but then, what about
his science?
Hod felt his demotion keenly and his
only consolation was to note vigilantly
and publicise the deterioration of the
brigade under the control of his suc-
cessor. Their record for the three-man
hose and hydrant drill coupling three
lengths of hose, turning on a jet, rolling
up the hose and standing to attention by
the hydrant, for instance, was lost. Hod
clocked a practice held three months after
he had been demoted and found that
this stunt took the very team he had
trained for the contest two and three-
fifths seconds longer. He even began to
comment on the playing of poker at the
station.
I was sorry when Hod wiped the dust
of the borough from his feet. A new
licensee of the Criterion, far from realis-
ing that he was indispensable, told Hod
bluntly that he did not want Hod. Con-
sidering what Hod did to keep up the
bar trade, I think this licensee was mis-
taken ; and there were many clients of
the Criterion who had found Hod and
his hoarse-voiced, yet plausible, appeals
to reason a comfort when at midnight
they faced, trembling at their own locked
front door, the wrath to come, who also
missed him.
Hod Sargesson has dropped out of the
recollection of the Paka Puki of today.
Was he three removed from the inherit-
ance of an earldom, and have the inter-
vening heirs passed away, and is he at the
present day enjoying his possession of
the old ancestral mansion and the estates?
If so, I am glad. It is a duty of the
peerage, so criticised in some quarters
today, to be picturesque, and Hod was
the vefy man to add to its picturesque-
ness.
Or is he, on the other hand, a fish
hawker in a suburb of Otahuhu? I
have heard a rumor to that effect but
refuse to believe it. Hod, with a port
like Jove, an eye like Mars to threaten
and command, a voice (I am losing track
of my. quotation) to summon up the tiger
in dauntless men, prepared at any peril to
inundate any building that shows the
faintest inclination to catch alight—Hod,
to peddle whitebait and groper and tera-
kihi and crayfish! I put it to you (and
in doing so I know as well as anybody
what a treacherous jade Destiny can be)
that the thing is impossible.


ADVT
66 All Men Think
All Men Mortal
But Themselves 99
And that is why so many other-
wise careful and provident heads
of families neglect the most
sacred duty they owe to those
dependent upon them.
That is to ensure by the careful drawing
of a Will that the provision made for
those who follow on passes to them
without loss or inconvenience.
Your wife and family are dependent
on you now; they will be much more
dependent when you are gone. Now
they have your counsel and support;
what they will have when you are gone
will depend very largely on what you
do before you go.
So, remember that you, too, arc mortal.
Have your Will properly drawn and
attested, and be sure you leave the
administration of it in good and
experienced hands.
The Trustee Company—such as the
old-established Union Trustee—is the
ideal executor. It possesses experience
and business judgment. It is com-
pletely impartial; it does not grow old
or die ; its charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson,
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD: «
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., p. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman):
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a, (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Werayss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
• LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E. E. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. 0. DAWSON, General Manager.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ADVTADVT
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a dmonstration.
Can also Quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp battenes,
amalgamating -tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and acce sor e ,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves*
1935.. 3MBI 9p.c-83.3M 6.182 so.«o
lose. . 43,948 io „ „ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692.. .. 96,130
1938;’. 51,875 ii ~ 44’000 7,875 ii2’,si7
Goodwiii disclosed, £30,429 .. 82,088
1940!; 56,173 12* P ,‘, c ’ ~ 48,’000 M 73 i00,’i52
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
1941 Ad st d 34| o i d 2 W1 p.c. f 3 ‘ 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,72012 „ „48,000 5,720 144,731
Ilf AlO :: :: tIS Ilf I ISSI
1945.. 63,360 10 „ „40,000 23,360 198,394
* subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept, so,
Thi s effldenf and under-
taking has fwo 5
a sixlh in Tasmania, all turning out high-
grade canned fruits, jams, condiments and
output, which has steadily expanded,
local civilian packs being severely cur-
tailed both in volume and variety.
Last term the co. delivered approxi-
mately three-quarters of a million cases
of processed goods to the services. This
in addition to meeting demands of Gov-
eminent and semi-Government depart-
ments. The entire output of two of the
factories—one at Hobart (Tas.), handling
apple juice, apple butter and apple sauce,
and another at Windsor (N.S.W.), which
cans sweet com—went to the U.S. ser-
vices. Gross earnings (£273,769) stepped
up £42,146. Including £13,030 (up £1500)
Tor depreciation and apparently something
’ for taxation, exes. (£210,409) took £34,537
of the increase. That left the net result
£7609 stronger at £63,360, the best yet,
equal to 15.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 13.9, 13.6, 13.4, 13.9, 14.1 and 14.2
p.c, back to 1939. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., making the average over the last
six years 11 p.c;, compared with a shade
over 10 p.c. for the preceding six years,
During the current term the civilian
market will take up most of the slack
from rapidly diminishing service demands,
However, difficulties associated with
shortage of tinplate, coal and labor stand
in the way of maximum output. Although
there was a 30 p.c. lift in factory wages
for women last September, there has been
“little indication of any attempt or desire
to increase production,” the chairman
says. Now the agitation is for a 30 p.c.
rise in the basic wage and reduction of
working hours to 40 a week. When it
became necessary, as it did during the
war, to lift production, increased work-
ing hours, by introduction of overtime,
was one of the principal methods em-
ployed. As for wages, it needs to be
remembered that they constitute an ele-
ment of costs as well as an element of
income.
When goods are in short supply
and money is plentiful, as is the case at
the moment, rising wage rates mean that
the wageearner is threatened first with
the inevitable tendency for prices to out-
strip wages, and secondly with the risk of
inflation giving rise to depression and
consequent unemployment. The only
escape from this dilemma is to check
wage increases before they reach the point
at which the inflationary process becomes
cumulative. The inflationary process will
become cumulative if wages continue to
increase disproportionately to the in-
crease in production. In such circum-
stances not only are wageearners them-
selves worse off but the money savings of
the whole community are immediately
depreciated, and all persons dependent
upon fixed-money incomes suffer a severe
reduction in the standard of living.
* A fact that should not be overlooked is
that purchasing power can be increased
just as effectively by reducing prices and
stabilising wages, with benefit to every
section of the community. Prices can be
reduced by maintaining or increasing pro-
duction and at the same time easing the
pressure of costs. An important factor
affecting the level of costs, and therefore
selling prices, is the aggregate of public
levies.
Industry, therefore, has a right to expect
that the State will not be unduly extrac-
tive, or throw an excessive share of
social and other public costs on a single
section of the community. The Prime
Minister forecasts a cut of about
£200,000,000 in 1946-47 Budget expendi-
ture, but gives no hint as to the nature
of tax relief to follow. Relief from the
present excessive burden of co, taxes is
overdue. This burden is a handicap to
stepping up production in the local
market, and still more so when compet-
ing for export trade with other countries
not subject to equally steep taxes. Also,
it is a long-standing grievance that official
allowances for depreciation and obso-
lescence are much below the figures that
commercial prudence obliges owners
themselves to make. And when personal
income tax on dividends is added to taxes
already levied on co. profits, from which
divs. are paid, a form of double taxation
is created which can be justified only as
an emergency war-time measure.
Pre-war the co. had built up strong
and growing connection with the N.E.I.
Owing to Communist-inspired shipping
hold-ups, this trade has been lost, mostly
to Canada and U.S.A. A broadened ex-
port market is essential if we are to sus-
tain our enlarged manufacturing capacity,
maintain the volume of employment and
raise the standard of living.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances:
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Capital . .-£400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
S’dry creditors 177,266 241,164 225,801 256,317
Property .. 186,305 186,733 193,543 205,192
Plant, etc. . . 54,421 47,032 58,846 63,096
Stock . . 364,594 485,487 440,705 353,390
Debtors .. 84,346 90,470 73,055 94,226
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 44,150 234 44,178 148,300
The year’s reduction of £87,315 in stocks
reflects contraction of defence orders.
Cash, etc., benefited by £104,122. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£339,599) was £7462.
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 295. lid. in net tan-
gibles, at 555. The return at this price
is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or
4.3 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 . . 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6 „ ~ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 .. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
1939 . . 29,698 10 = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8f ~ „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3J „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 . . 24,722 6f „ „ 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943 . . 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 9'84 2,347
1944 . . 14,803 3.3 „ „ 8,111 6,692 9,039
1945 .. 9,684 3.3 „ „ 8,111 1,573 10,612
Of the co.’s three properties two are in
western N. S. Wales and the other over
the border in Queensland. During the
war the struggle has been mostly against
seasons and costs. Stabilising factors
have been the British wool contract,
which eliminated risk so far as price of
the staple was concerned, and the British
meat contract —it runs until end Sept.,
1948 —which, together with demand from
the Allied forces in the s.-w. Pacific, has
kept livestock prices at very satisfactory
levels.
Rainfall in inches on the co.’s proper-
ties since 1940 has been as follows:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Thurulgoona .. 5.48 17.37 6.86 5.80. 7.74
Quantambone .. 7.95 19.93 11.24 5.76 10.43
Tondeburine .. 9.19 20.26 19.95 10.39 23.32
The dry spell on Thurulgoona and
Quantambone continued until May last,
when moderate rains brought fresh grass
to the runs. Good falls have been re-
corded on all properties since the close
of accounts. The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment has accepted the co.’s offer of about
5000 acres for soldier settlement on Ton-
deburine, a 30,230-acre freehold near
Gulargambone (N.S.W.), where seasonal
conditions have been fairly good since
the co. bought the place in 1940.
Improvement in the seasonal outlook is
reflected in the number of lambs marked
(14,387, up 5262), the sheep struck off
on account of mortality (8201, down
8877) and smaller number sold (18,245,
down 37,370). But the rains came too late
to affect the number of sheep shorn (down
25,900), though on average fleeces were
heavier, the total clip being only 231
bales lighter:
t Sheep N
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 £76,769 £l9/12/5
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 56,951 16/2/6
1941.. 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259 17/7/10
1942.. 123,272 148,565 2946 62,587 21/4/10
1943.. 132,494 145,964 3919 80,750 20/12/0
1944.. 91,493 82,771 2296 48,671 21/4/0
1945.. 65,593 70,914 2065 43,777 22/19/8
The slip in gross earnings from all
sources (£57,839) was £12,254. Includ-
ing provision for taxation (£8266, down
£1266) and depreciation (£4455, down
£1040), exes. (£48,155) were got back 1
£7135. The net result was thus £5119
lighter at £9684, equal to 3.9 p.c. on
capital as against 6, 10.4, 10.1, 6.9, 9.8,
1.2 and 18.7 back to 1938. The div. was
kept at 3.3 p.c., making the average over
the last decade 6.6 p.c.
The erratic behavior of nature and an
anaemic woolmarket left the co. with a
capital deficiency of £112,692 in 1930. It
has been an arduous 15-year job to wipe
it out, pay moderate divs. and accumulate
a modest £10,612 of reserves. For these
and other reasons results of pastoral
trading need to be averaged to get earn-
ing power into proper perspective.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook has brightened, and the clip is
to be sold under the existing British con-
tract at a flat rate of 15.4 d. per pound.
After that the staple will be auctioned,
and reserve prices fixed by J.O. —the new
Empire joint organisation for marketing
wool. War-time accumulated stocks are
to be used to appease market appetite in
excess of current clips ; and it might take
a decade or more to clean up the position.
Meanwhile, growers can put their own
reserves on their clips, and J.O. will take
the unsold portion, if any, at its reserve
figure. For the grower the big problem
will be to keep production costs, which
are mostly outside his control, below the
level of average selling price.
The co.’s finances are healthy:
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £ 243,338
Liabilities .. 42,131 25,992 19,407 1,254
Tax reserve .. 8,500 26,500 13,500 8,500
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 213,590 202,515 198,046 191,599
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 62,630 52,498 33,431 28,356
Wool unsold.. 105 13,916 274 370
Cash, etc. .. 10,507 45,470 61,643 51,488
To wipe out a mortgage of £lB,OOO the
board drew upon cash, etc., for £10,155
last term.
At 275. the f.-p. 30s. shares, covered
by 31s. 4d. in net assets, return 3.6 p.c.
on a 3.3 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 5i p.c. on his money counts
on divs. averaging 5 p.c.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends N To
Prefs.* Re- Re-
July, Profit. 6.9 & 6.2 p.c. Ords. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.-34,860 13,175 6 p.c. = 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.. 39.048 13,175 6 „ „ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 14,608 66,584
1938.. 44.497 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 16,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. 63,376
1939.. 42,087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 67,477
1940. .45,710 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,986 17,549 85,026
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 75,026
8 & 8 p.c.
1941.. 51,778 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,982 15,796 90,822
1942. .42,714 16,000 8 „ „ 19,982 6,732 97,554
Prom specific reserves, £20,000 .. 117,554
1943 . .38,235 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,982 2,253 119,807
9 & 8 p.c.
1944.. 41.661 17,000 9 „ „ 22,479 2,182 121,989
1945. .40,556 17,000 9 „ „ 22,479 1,077 123,066
* Subject to N.StW. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
The co. has a well-equipped store, situ-
ated in one of the busiest blocks in the


HAIMS
Circular Charts lot all typoe Dl
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Gal out quotation
JACK SOTS & O’SULLIVAN
. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lo.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr, L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 225), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Do you need a
Jjcm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. , Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
om. : 1-17 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Investment in
SECURITY
Immense progress of
AM.?. SOCIETY
Public invested in £38,701,522
worth of New A.M.P. Policies
last year
year of immense progress was made
in the A.M.P. Society’s record for 1945. Faith
in the Society grows from year to year.
The year that closed on 31 st December last was
the greatest in the Society’s history. See this record
of sums assured under new policies issued.
£
1942 23.076,623
1943 26,293.330
1944 .. .. .. 32,710.954
1945 .. .. .. 38,701,522
The A.M.P. Society is a truly co-operative and
mutual Society. It belongs to its policyholders
absolutely. Through their policies with the Society
they have provided themselves with £470,000,000
of Security.
If you are not a member, become one. Don’t
delay. Seize on membership while you are in good
health. Ask the nearest A.M.P. representative or
office to advise you how best you can use the Society
to strengthen your financial position.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation*.
Sydney Osmond, General Manager. '
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
/m'
m.
m.
Time tor a
CAPSTAN
ii mM
♦ Buy
Security Loan 1
Bonds
ZmpJsie'l laaausute Qiqa^ette
city, and the management is alive to the
advantages of shrewd buying and other
problems associated with service, all of
which help to make for success in the
highly-competitive retail trade. For
the half-dozen war years to the close of
last accounts net earnings averaged
£43,442, as against an average of £38,968
for the six years before that, which in-
cluded the tail end of the eafly 1930’s
slump.
War increased spending power, created
scarcities, and brought rationing and other
ingredients of a seller’s market. The
next table, which should be read in con-
junction with the introductory one, shows
percentage changes in aggregate turn-
over of 22 Sydney stores, compared with
the corresponding periods of the previous
year:—
Average Three Months Ended
* ,
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- + 2.6 + 5.6 + 3.2 + 6.3 + 4.5
1940- + 7.5 + 7.8 + 10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4* + 9.4 +11.5 2.4 + 8.0
1942- 6.0 —19.3 —lB.B 6.0 —12.0
1943- —19.3 1.6 + 1.3 1.8 5.7
1944- + 6.6 + 7.4 + 4.8 + 3.2 + 5.4
1945- +22.5
Despite the backward swing of the pen-
dulum during the two years to mid-1944,
aggregate turnover for the 12 months to
June 30 last was 10 p.c. above the
1938-39 level.
Still, Horderns’ net earnings shrank
£llO5 last term. That was after allow-
ing for taxation and depreciation. The
£40,556 of profit was enough to give the
prefs. their full contract rates again—
there are 100,000 first 9 percents and a
like number of second 8 percents —and
show 9.4 p.c, on the £249,775 of ord.
capital. For nine years to the close of
accounts in 1940 the ord. div. was kept
at 6 p.c., and the first and second prefs.
received only 6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. re-
spectively, owing to the, incidence of the
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act. The
board’s policy was to strengthen the co.’s
shock absorbers, visible and otherwise,
and money was wanted in the business to
brighten and improve shopping facilities
for customers, and so help to strengthen
goodwill. An all-round 8 p.c. was paid
for the two years to close of accounts in
1942 ; and for the two years to end July
last the firsts received the full contract
rate, and the ords 9 p.c.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of earnings and divs. What the
less immediate future holds for the co.,
and other retailers, nobody can say defi-
nitely at the moment. Prices are still
controlled, but what will happen to costs
and ceilings if wages rise and hours are
reduced, and when British and European
manufacturers get into their stride again,
remains to be seen. Scarcity of dollars
limits imports of fashion goods from
U.S.A. Locally production lags because
of labor shortage and industrial holdups,
costs are difficult to restrain, and, as the
volume of goods coming forward swells,
demand will become more capricious and
volatile, and competition, based on ser-
vice, quality and price, will get more of
an edge on it.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
financial set-up;
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £449,775 £449,775 £449,775 £449,775
Mortgage ~ 100,333 100,333 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. 22,986 12,180
Sundry cred.* 97,038 159,278 225,178 209,321
Premises ~ 290,561 273,064 273,064 273,064
Fittings, etc. 88,380 79,280 69,823 65,381
Stocks .. 173,688 306,428 387,473 403,834
Book debts .. 88,903 58,885 36,195 45,153
Mortgages .. 54,932 52,317 54,933 54,933
Cash, etc. 59,987 49,146 89,274 52,618
* Including tax provision.
To carry an extra £16,361 of stocks, add
£8958 to debtors’ balances and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £15,857 the board drew upon cash,
etc., for £36,656 last term. Stocks, now
more than double their pre-war level,
are partly an insurance against scarcity
and rising prices ; they are reported well-
assorted and valued on a conservative
basis. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£246,884) was
£4520.
On ’Change buyers offer 325. for the
first prefs., while the seconds recently
changed hands at 31s. The return at
these figures is 5.6 p.c. and 5.2 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year’s
distribution. The net tangible backing is
£5.145. 7d. and £4 14s, 7d, respectively.
The ords. are not' listed.
An Ambitious Proposal
According to daily press reports a pro-
posal is afoot to set up a chain of 30
woollen miffs throughout the Common-
wealth, and formation of a £20,000,000
company is spoken of for the purpose.
British, Indian and Australian capital is
said to be interested.
It is an ambitious, and in its present
form nebulous, proposal, not yet sup-
ported by anything as definite as
a prospectus. The declared idea
is to capture the woollen trade previ-
ously developed by Japan. For this pur-
pose it is thought that the mills would
consume about a million bales of wool
annually in turning out mainly low-priced
suitings, flannels, rugs, blankets, etc.,
almost exclusively for export.
W. H. Mather, who is “consultant” to
the promoters (names not mentioned),
estimates that this prospective export trade
would be worth about £50,000,000 p.a.
The mills would employ, it is anticipated,
about 40,000 people, of whom 75 p.c.
would be unskilled. “From investigations
I have made,” says Mr, Mather, “there
should be sufficient labor available.
Probably most of the skilled workers will
have to be imported.”
Mr. Mather’s anticipations concerning
labor, which, of course, relate to the
future, are not supported by current ex-
perience in the trade. If his expectations
are ever realised, the 30 new mills will
have about double the capacity of the 111
woollen and tweed mills operating in Aus-
tralia during 1941-42, The 111 employed
26,362 persons, used 470,000-odd bales
of wool, and their aggregate output was
valued at £25,467,073. No hint has been
given as to when the 30 new mills, or any
of them, are likely to begin production.
Obviously it will be the early bird which
catches the worm, so far as Japan’s
former export trade in woollen materials
is concerned. This trade was largely with
the rest of Asia, including India, and >
South America.
Over the next five years New Broken
Hill Consolidated expects to spend more
than £1,500,Q00 on equipment and under-
ground development of its property at the
southern end of the big silver-lead-zinc
ore zone at the Barrier (N.S.W.). The
co. holds 2016 acres, embracing about
miles along the possible line of lode, south
of Zinc Corp.’s southern boundary. The


f.
%
tHL
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
rHONE: B 7901. Bo* 543 G.P.0., Sydnsy.
BP ( «.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
•o the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SECURITY
LOAN
■ MAP
..... J
L ' r' :
WmmM, WmM&Mw- I ss&% 'ttmr
MtmM ’
%*»■
on
this *
Every town and municipality has been
set a fair quota in the Security Loan
which it is expected to reach and pass
—in the number of subscribers as well
as in the amount of money subscribed.
When ‘you apply for bonds therefore,
be sure to put the NAME OF YOUR
DISTRICT in the space provided. You
can buy bonds for cash or by instal-
ments —in either case the full amount
contracted for will be credited to your
district quota.
Your district is YOU and your neigh-
bours. By your own example and
influence help to put it on the map.
Remember, the successful rehabili-
tation of our servicemen depends very
largely on the outcome of the Security
Loan. So buy bonds for all you’re worth,
and talk to your neighbours about that
district quota—it must be filled.
FACTS ABOUT THE £70,000,000 SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will\be used to meet
commitments arising out of the War,
particularly the rehabilitation of
Australian service men and women.
2. Bonds tor £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO,
and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock may
be purchased for cash or by instal-
ments through any Bank, Savings
Bank, Money Order Post Office or
Stockbroker. Interest is payable each
six months, at 3£% per annum for
12 years, or 2% per annum for 3
years. The 2% short term interest
rate should appeal to companies and
individuals with money temporarily
available for investment.
3. Repayment in full at maturity is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
Bonds and Inscribed Stock are
readily saleable to meet an emer-
gency.
4. On your application form credit
your subscription to your district
to help its quota.
Sign your name for security—invest in the
SECURITY LOAN
Security for Servicemen Security for you
5L9.113.36
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
annual income exceeds
£6,500,000.
M. a Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
lead and zinc lodes running through the
Corp.’s leases have been proved to com
tinue into N.B.H.’s property for approxi-
mately 1000 ft., over which distance they
are expected to yield 10,000,000 tons of
high-grade ore. If expectations are realised,
the lodes will continue to at least 3000 ft.,
giving a total of 30,000,000 tons of pay
ore. The present 2600 ft. deep downcast
airway (13ft. 6in, diameter) is to be con-
verted into a haulage shaft, and equipped
with 10-ton skips. A new concrete-lined
service shaft (20ft. diameter) is to be sunk
east of the downcast airway and equipped
with a double deck 100-man cage, etc.
It is proposed to carry both shafts down
to 3240 ft. during the first stages of de-
velopment, with provision for extension
to 5000 ft,, if necessary. Developed ore
reserves are expected to approach the
3,000,000-ton mark by the end 1952. Ex-
■pected output is 30,000 tons 1946, 60,000
tons 1947, 100,000 tons 1948, 200,000 tons
1952, 350,000 tons 1955. The ore is to
be treated in Zinc Corp.’s all-flotation
mill. N.B.H. recently issued 1,354,357
new ss. shares at a premium of 10s. each.
The co. will thus gather £1,015,768, of
which £677,179 will be premium money
and the balance (£338,589) will lift paid
capital to £846,473. In London sterling
quotes for the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares
advanced from 235. on Nov. 26 to 28s. 6d.
on Jan. 22 last. In Australia the Govern-
ment ceiling price is 21s.
In January last Mr. Justice Evershed,
of the English High Court, granted a
stay of proceedings against Great Boulder
Prop, on payment by the co. of £25,000
in respect of two actions alleging con-
spiracy and arising out of the flotation
and activities of eight English cos., known
as the De Bernales group. Great Boulder
is not one of the group, all members of
which are now in liquidation. Council
for plaintiffs said that “it might be diffi-
cult to establish that the co. was one of
the conspirators. Taking everything into
account, the plaintiffs felt that £25,000
was a good offer which should be ac-
cepted.” Mr. H. G. Robertson, for Great
Boulder, said his client was “content to
pay the £25,000 to avoid the expense of
the trial of a very heavy action which had
been going on for a long time.” Plain-
tiffs were Apley Estates Co. and others
and Miss M, Ackernley and others. Their
claims against the remaining defendants
still await final hearing by the Court.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Westralian transport and in-
dustries dependent on coal are badly
hampered by shortage of local supplies.
State Premier Wise says if he can solve
this shortage he can solve the deficiency
of bricks, cement and other materials
required for development and building.
The coal trouble might be remedied if
the Collie Miners’ Union agreed to men
at the opencut working two hours’ over-
time. The union’s view is that more men
should be employed. So the State Gov-
ernment has arranged a lease of the Com-
monwealth power-alcohol distillery, which
never “operated” and was converted
into a boarding-house. Now truck-
drivers refuse to work two shifts on the
opencut, because they hold that night
driving is dangerous; and so the mad-
ness continues. The Chamber of Mines
is interested in a proposal to win coal
from the near-by Wilga field for use as
fuel by cos. operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile.
* * * *
Champion Reef mine, on the Kolar
field, Mysore, Southern India, is one of
the world’s deepest goldmines. The 89th
(bottom) level is 8500 ft. below the sur-
face, or 5500 ft. below sea-level. Here the
yard-wide reef extends for 1000 ft., and
contains about one ounce gold per ton
of ore. Although the temperature is
around 105 degrees Fahrenheit, the air is
dry, and therefore less enervating, than
a moist atmosphere. A conditioning
plant sends air below at 40 degrees
Fahrenheit, with wet and dry bulbs
approximately the same, so that as the
heated air expands it becomes propor-
tionately drier. The co. expects to go to
10,000 ft., where the drill has shown the
reef to be still rich and almost vertical.
Native wages range from Rs. 32 (=£A3)
to Rs. 41 (=£A3 175.) a month. But the
Mysore Government makes off with 75
p.c. of the increase in the price of gold
since war began. Over the same period
increased costs have swallowed the other
25 p.c., and more besides.
* * ♦ *
Sterling Gold has taken an option on
the Kintore mine near Ora Banda (W.A.),
and is asking those on the register for
another 3d. a share. Marie’s Find,
formerly the co.’s principal asset, has been
abandoned, because of depleted ore re-
serves and absence of promising expo-
sures. Plant is to be removed to the
Kintore. In 1940 the co. changed its
name from Ora Banda Mines to Sterling
to avoid confusion with other Ora Banda
shows. It has two threepenny dividends
to its credit.
* * ♦ ♦
Phoenix Mines, N.L., holder of a big
block of Central Norseman’s scrip, pays
a div. of 9d. a share on March 26. After
sales at par some time ago, buyers now
offer 11s. for Phoenix’s 10s, shares with-
out attracting sellers. Central Norseman's
prospects have brightened meanwhile.


(yxiarido
Special Old
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Navy loses a very old hand with
the retirement of Alexander Scott Mac-
kenzie, Senior Medical Officer at Flinders.
Mac earned his licences to cut up and
physic in Edinburgh and Glasgow and
joined the R.A.N. in December, 1912.
In the Kaiser’s War he was M.O. in the
old Australia for a couple of years and
transferred to the cruiser Melbourne in
1917. After the Armistice he went back
to the battle-cruiser for a while and was
Squadron Medical Officer in turn to
Commodore Wardle, Admiral < Hyde and
Admiral Evans. Since 1936 he has held
the job at Flinders ; from 1941 to 1944
he bracketed it with the appointment of
Honorary Physician to the Governor-
General. During his 34 years in the
Navy a host of stories have become
attached to his name. A sample, which
he’ll probably deny: A rating was washed
overboard off Australia and was rescued
after a lot of trouble. Mac’s'services
were called for, and he hurried to the
spot where the man, drenched and un-
conscious, was stretched out on the deck.
“My God, he’s wearing non-service socks”
was his first remark.
A. N. D. (“Jerry”) Pentland, M.C.,
D.F.C., No. 2 fighter ace among Aus-
tralians in World War I, with 23j kills
to his credit, was a contemporary of
Smithy, Ulm and Scotty Allen in the for-
mation of the original A.N.A., and has
continued to keep his hand in to some
effect, for besides being the oldest active
pilot in the R.A.A.F. this war he has
now collected the Air Force Cross. Even
a crash at Mubo (N.G.) which put him
in hospital for 22 months could not keep
him out of the air. His work in charge
of air-sea rescue up north won him this
tribute by a correspondent of the “Satur-
day Evening Post”: “Americans think
the world of this ageless little cherub
with the scraggy hair, the bald crown
and the apple cheeks, who must rank as
one of the strangest fliers in the world.”
“Jerry Pentland’s Circus” was a house-
hold word up north for its ability to
do a job with a minimum of red tape
and a minimum of equipment. At one
time the unit included 12 different types
of aircraft, and any airman knows the
headaches involved in keeping so many
varieties serviceable. In one period of
11 months “the circus” brought out 200
baled-out airmen.
John Stevens Gawler, appointed chair-
man of the Town and Country Planning
Board envisaged by Dunstan’s Act of
1944, is Dean of the Faculty of Archi-
tecture at the University of Melbourne.
He was deputy chairman of the Com-
monwealth Housing Commission in 1943,
and is at present running the State Build-
ing Directorate. A son of a Melburnian,
he was born in London in 1885, and after
passing through the Workingmen’s Col-
lege in Melbourne went to Canton. Later
he studied in Chicago, travelled America
and Europe and returned to Melbourne
in 1912 to set up a practice. He served
with the A.I.F. in the last war.
Two newly-created chairs at Adelaide
Uni. will be filled by Dr. H. H. Davis, of
Sydney, as Professor of Mechanical Engi-
neering, and E. C. Willoughby, who be-
comes Professor of Electrical Engineer-
ing. Davis gained his B.Sc. and B.E. with
first-class honors in mechanical engineer-
ing at Sydney Uni. in 1933, then with
the Charles Kolling Travelling Scholar-
ship did research under Professor Knight
Charles Inglis, at Cambridge, where he
became D.Phil. in 1938. Back in Aus-
tralia, after a bad car smash, he joined
the National Standards Laboratory, Syd-
ney, in 1940, and has been in charge of
the m.e. section. At Melbourne Uni.
Willoughby collected his B.C.E. and
B.E.E. in 1931 and his B.A. with honors
in maths, a year later. In London, after
gaining a diploma at the City and Guild
College, Imperial College of Science and
Technology in 1934, he joined the Stand-
ard Telephones and Cable Co., Ltd., and
spent three years in India, where he in-
stalled the broadcasting station at Behra
Dun. Back in England, his work for the
company has been executive, and during
the war years included secret develop-
ment of aircraft radio for the services.
J. C. Neagle, ex-Lighthorseman of
World War I, after a strenuous period as
N.S.W. State President of R.S.L. goes
south to Melbourne to take on the job
of Federal secretary in succession to E.
V. Raymont, appointed to the Repatria-
tion Commission. The League’s (and the
country’s) biggest problems at present are
homes, jobs and land for ex-servicemen ;
its main target is the shark who is out
MOVING OVER.
to separate the demobbed man from his
deferred pay. Since the establishment of
the League’s advisory panel there has been
a falling-off in the number of men tricked
into paying extravagant prices for busi-
nesses not worth tuppence, but the house
racketeer is still capitalising desperate
men’s needs for homes. Digger Neagle
is always willing to lend an ear (illustrated
here by Dubois) to any soldier with a
problem, but for the moment his approach
to the housing problem has a personal
side, too. He’s househunting himself in
Melbourne.
Maoriland’s war history has been en-
trusted to Major-General Kippenberger,
D. 5.0., a former lawyer at Rangiora,
Canterbury. He served in both World
Wars, was wounded in the first and lost
both legs in the second. Captured near
Sidi Rezegh, he escaped in time to take
part in the fighting at Cassino, where he
had both legs blown off by a landmine.
The history will run into from 12 to 15
volumes.
“Kenrayne”: The first woman ever to
fly a jet-propelled aeroplane is a South
African, Rosamund Everard-Steenkamp,
niece of Dr. L. S. Steenkamp, M.P. This
flight was made at an air station in Eng-
land recently, and was described as a
“honey.” Mrs. Steenkamp, whose hus-
band was killed with the S.A.A.F. in the
early days of the war, is a flying instruc-
tor. Joining up at the outbreak of war,
she went through a full pilot’s course and
became a shuttle-service pilot. After
D-Day she ferried Spitfires to Normandy.
In civil life she is a musician, and has
performed in public. She also paints, had
animal studies hung at the Empire Exhibi-
tion, and was once a judge of cattle shows
in the Eastern Transvaal.
“C.H.R.”: Dentist and writer of
thrillers, Arthur Cask, of Adelaide, has'
had his 27th book published in London,
at 77. His first, The Secret of the
Sandhills, ran in serial form in the Adel-
aide “Advertiser” in 1921. As a den-
tist he once had an unusual experience ;
a Dutch patient was able to read to him
from a Dutch newspaper the opening
chapters of one of his yarns. Gask has
had books published in eight countries.
Back in Maoriland, after six years’
service overseas. Colonel R. H. Pack-
wood went away with Dominion
troops, but Britain realised his great
ability as an engineer and appointed him
Director of Works at a British establish-
ment in India. He finished up a colonel.
Among big jobs he performed in M.L.
was the damming of the Waitaki River
in connection with hydro-electric power.
At flood-time the quantity of water pour-
ing over the spillway is three-quarters that
of Niagara Falls.
A man of many parts is the Rev. C. K.
Daws, appointed Methodist Chaplain-
General to the Australian Military
Forces. He held ( the North District
junior swimming championship as a
youth, played football with the Bendigo
Association, and was a professional track
cyclist, a public secretary and an account-
ant before he was received into the
Ministry in 1928. During the war he
was chaplain to an A.A. regiment in the
Middle East.
Selection of Wing-Commander A. D.
Swan, M.8.E., as staff officer administra-
tion, R.A.A.F. Japan Occupation Force,
is a wise one. Once in the Black Watch
and, in Australia, a member of the per-
manent Air Force, “Swannie”’ was one
of the early disciplinary warrant officers
who did sterling work to mould that
force into the sound service it be-
came. When doing their training before
the war, the cadet pilots (many of whom
are now senior officers) learnt the rudi-
ments of drill and discipline from
“Swannie,” whose good work at Dar-
win during the early raids earned him
a M.I.D. When the Japs threw in the
towel he was with R.A.A.F. H.Q. in
Britain.
Among the top-ranking officers the
R.A.A.F. is shedding this autumn is Air
Vice-Marshal W- D. Bostock, C. 8.,
0.8. E., who was in operational command
of the R.A.A.F, against the Japs. Bos-
tock was a signaller at Gallipoli, 1915,
and transferred to the R.F.C. in 1916.
Flying in France with McCudden, Ball
and other air aces, he won the
Belgian Croix de Guerre. Joining the
R.A.A.F. on its inception in 1921, he
attended a staff course at Andover,
England, and returned to take over com-,
mand at Richmond. Back in England in
1936 he put in 18 months with No. 1
Bomber Group, R.A.F., and six months
with the Air Ministry. On the outbreak
of war he went abroad as Air Adviser
to R. G. Casey, and on return was
appointed Deputy Chief of the Air Staff
MOVING OUT.
to Sir Charles Burnett. When MacArthur
took over, Bostock became Chief of Staff
Allied Air Forces in the South-west
Pacific Area, later becoming Air Officer
Commanding the R.A.A.F. Command,
a job he carried through with remark-
able efficiency until the Japs handed over
on Missouri in Tokyo Bay.
Recalling the consternation of the
Maoris when the late Hon. Sir Maui
Pomare was cremated at Home, the re-
cent cremation of Thomas Tawera Hal-
bert in England without demur indicates
that the prejudice against this method of
disposal of the dead is on the decline.
Thomas Tawera Halbert was a Maori
broadcaster in London who adopted the
pseudonym of Tawera Moana. When he
died his ashes were brought out and in-
terred in the family vault at Gisborne.
Tawera Mona left N.Z. in the Maori
Battalion early in the war of 1914-18 and
fought with the N.Z. Division. He
married in England and remained after
the war, 8.8. C. securing his services
as broadcaster. During the late war he
was in the War Office and later with the
Ministry of Information.
“A.1.F.”: Ted Scorfield may be interested to
learn that the reproduction of his sketch com-
memorating Winston Churchill’s 70th birthday
found its way to Mr. Churchill. It happened
this way: the drawing aroused much interest in
the unit with which I was serving in India,
and eventually found its way to the G.O.C.
(Gen. Pakenham-Walsh), who sent it to his
wife, who, in turn, sent it to Mrs. Churchill.
Ine general recently informed me that the
cartoon brought forth “quite a chuckle” from
the ex-P.M. Mr. Churchill pays a tribute to
General Pakenham-Walsh in the foreword to
his Life of Marlborough —the general having
assisted in connection with certain technical
aspects.
Rev. H. M. Rupp, of Northbridge
(N.S.W.), one of the most notable among
orchid specialists, has handed over his
rare collection of 1500 specimens of Aus-
tralian and M.L. native “cyms” to the
National Herbarium in Sydney Botanical
Gardens. Rupp, a retired parson of 72,
has spent a lifetime in cultivation and
propagation of these rare flowers, and his
book, The Orchids of New South Wales,
is the standard work on the subject.
E. J. Tudor, among the 25 killed
when an A.N.A. passenger ’plane crashed
in the sea at Cambridge, Tasmania, was
one of the Apple Island’s best-known civil
servants. He went straight from school
into the public service, and 15 years ago
was appointed secretary to the Health
Department. It was he who prepared for
Health Minister Gaha the plans for the
free-doctor service for the Tasmanian
outback, and most of the Labor Gov-
ernment’s social-service projects were
built on his planning. One of his sons
was Tasmania’s Rhodes Scholar for 1940.
Another is a student at Melbourne Uni.
In 1890 there was trouble in Mashona-
land, and a small force was sent in to
sort things out. Accompanying the force
was a detachment of British South
Africa Co. police, and in the de-
tachment was a young trooper, George
Gain, aged 21. Last week Gain, now a
resident of Brisbane, received the Mash-
onaland Medal and clasp. At this rate the
distribution of World War II Stars should
be well under way by the turn of the
century.
Archibald Keith Gardiner, of King’s
Plains, via Blayney (N.S.W.), gets a six-
months’ tour of U.S.A. as a result of the
Progressive Farmer competition spon-
sored by the N.S.W. Agricultural Bureau.
He will spend most of the time in Ameri-
can rural districts as guest of farmers
and country agents. He should be able
to talk to his hosts on equal terms what-
ever their interest may be, as on his own
farm he raises wool, wheat, cattle, lambs,
apples and pigs.
Into the silence:
At Auckland, M.L., at 83, Henry William
Wilson, after 55 years in local-government
affairs, 20 of them as town clerk of Auckland
and 13 in a similar post in Northcote.
At Hastings, Maoriland, aged 77, Arthur
Henry Vile, son of Job Vile, who planted
country papers all over M.L. and set up many
a young printer and journalist. A.H.V. edited
papers in many parts of both islands.
In Melbourne, Horace Fowler, a director of
Alfred Lawrence and Co. and subsidiaries, but
earlier a pianist of distinction and a mem-
ber of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and
the Philharmonic Society under Alberto Zel-
man. His father was one of the founders of
the Brisbane Liedertafel.
In Brisbane at 73, W. J. Strachan, vice-
president of the Queensland Society for
Crippled Children, past president of Queens-
land Bowling Association, director of Howards,
Ltd. He was fishing off Tewantin when the
engine of his outboard fired and his dinghy
became too hot to hold. A grandson swam
to shore with him, but he was dead when they
reached there.


JjSOO *c IK .
AJ for SERVICE MEN & WOMEN
HERE are. men and women in the Armed
Forces of the United Nations who, but for the
war, might now be established authors. It is
to encourage such as these, that three firms have
joined together to offer a Prize of £1,500 plus
royalties, plus £5OO option for film rights, plus
moneys for translations, etc. The sponsors of this
UNITED SERVICES BOOK CONTEST are:
GEO. G. HARRAP, PUBLISHERS, LONDON 86 SYDNEY
THOMAS Y. CROWELL, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK
COLUMBIA PICTURES CORPORATION, NEW YORK
86 LONDON
if yon have served In the Armed Forces of the United Nations
at any lime since Sept, 1939 and wish to submit a manuscript,
which may be fiction or non-fiction, write for entry form to:
AUSTRALASIAN PUBLISHING CO. PI/. LTD., 55 XORK ST., S/DNEX
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EILEEN DOROTHY PRITZLER late of
Bowral.—TAKE NOTICE that NORMAN ROSS
PRITZLER has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 886
of 1946 on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 20th May 1946 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs. Wilson
and Clapin of 14 Martin Place Sydney the Sydney
Agents for Messrs. Wilkinson and Throsby Solicitors
for the Petitioner of Moss Vale. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
in the Supreme court of new south
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN WRIGHT.—TAKE NOTICE
that LORNA JEAN WRIGHT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 428 of 1946 on the ground of wilful
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 26th day of April
1946 and you may obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from BOWMAN & MACKENZIE Soli-
citors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JEAN MORRIS late of Beckom New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that JOHN AUSTRALIA
MORRIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4600
of 1945 on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 15th day of April 1946 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. C. RICKARD &
DIND Solicitors 67 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROYSTONE HILTON ALLAN FLEMING—TAKE
NOTICE that STELLA LAURIE FLEMING has filed
a Petition in Divorce No. 4081 of 1945 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend the
suit you may enter an appearance on or before the
19th day of April 1946 at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney and a copy of the
petition may be had without charge from S. S.
MITCHELL Solicitor Bank Corner Wickham. —(t.S.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Jack Carroll, undefeated Welterweight
champion of Australia, popular idol of
boxing tans. Defeated Fred Henneberry
in the greatest fight of his career at the
Melbourne stadium in 1932. A tribute
to a hard hitting Australian.
While production of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN
and .22 RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES if
increasing steadily, existing condi-
tions prevent full supplies at the
moment. Police permits are still
necessary, but holders must not be
disappointed if supplies are not
immediately available.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA <5. NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
Australia Firsters and Russia Firsters
“Ek Dum”: The Australia First cases
came up for further review in Parliament
last week. Though the men concerned
were all Sydney men, the Parliamentary
proceedings received little attention from
the Sydney press, which had been sub-
ordinating everything to its craze for the
betting business and to a burst of hysterics
about the Yoizuki Formosans.
So there was no indignation in the
papers at Mr. Forde’s allegation that “12
members of the [Australia First] organ-
isation were found guilty of a conspiracy
against their own country.” Not once
during the proceedings at the inquiry did
Army counsel suggest any such con-
spiracy on the part of the N.S.W. men.
The only conspiracy' which was men-
tioned was that of four peculiar persons
in Perth (W.A.), and there was no con-
spiracy till the peculiar persons had been
worked on by a fellow with convic-
tions and Communist associations, em-
ployed as a police agent, who, in the
vvords of Dr. Earle Page, “brought into
being an organisation of five persons,” of
which the “pimp” was the fifth.
Mr. Rosevear, the Speaker, said of
this fellow in Parliament:—
The Crown witness in W.A. was a
“great” character. He ought to have been
in jail himself.
The Government knew as early as
March 20, 1942, that the Australia First
Movement in N. S. Wales had no know-
ledge of and no connection with the Perth
affair.
As was said during the debate the whole
course of events from the beginning was
sinister.
There was first the release from
internment of the Ratliff-Thomas pair of
Communists, who had been convicted of
engaging in a plot to sabotage munition-
factory production at a grave period of the
German war. The Communist-controlled
Sydney Labor Council forced the Curtin
Government to release these men when
a tribunal, headed by a Judge, had ex-
pressly refused to recommend that course.
The excuse was that they had been
freed in the interests of industrial peace,
Which can be construed to mean that
on the very brink of war with Japan
Communist leaders told members of the
Ministry that if Ratliff and Thomas
were not let out there would be no war
production. At the same time, these Com-
munist leaders were allowed to come out
of smoke and begin public campaigning,
All prosecutions of Communists then
under way were cancelled. Captain
Blood, an Intelligence officer, swore at
the Australia First inquiry that Commu-
nists were excluded by Ministerial order
from arrest by the ordinary security pro-
cesses, although their organisation was
illegal and had been declared subversive.
At its very first meetings the Communist
party (on “patriotic” grounds!) demanded
the internment of the Australia First
leaders, whose organisation had just been
formed. The Labor Council, moved by
the same persons who had acted success-
fully to secure the release of Ratlin an
Thomas, demanded that the Governmen
should take action. Four djys later
Communist press reported that
authorities were moving m the desire
direction.
From then onwards Communist jo -
nalism was able to make pu ic
every move by the Security Depar-
ment. Communist papers were •7 >e i
printed illegally on a press which, it as
since been boasted, was clandestinely im-
ported from Moscow, and presuma y
smuggled ashore to an illegal, subversive
body from one of the Russian ships whicn
called here.
The Australia First Movement held a
number of meetings. The police round
so little objectionable in them that tor
a time they ceased even to attend the
meetings.
But bands of Communist hoodlums
were there in force. On February 19,
1942, they pulled the chairman off the
platform, battered him and stamped on
him. . . .
This violence had its counterpart
during the* Royal Commission s inquiry.
One innocent internee, Mr. Bath, com-
plained that he had been waylaid and
beaten up by a gang. Another appeared
j n t ft e Court with his whole countenance
merged in a single bruise. He had a
similar tale to tell. One counsel was
told on the telephone to get out of the
inquiry while he was still safe. Another
was threatened with death in an anony-
mous communication,
Three days after the riotous attack on
the chairman of the Sydney meeting the
Communist police agent in Perth (W.A.)
approached a man whose only connec-
tion with the Australia First Movement
was that he subscribed to a paper which
some members printed. There' was no
evidence that this man had taken any
subversive action or formed any move-
ment before the police agent approached
hj m- Justice Clyne was “prepared to
believe” that the police agent was “not
g passive investigator.” He represented
himself as being an agent for the Aus-
tralia First Movement in Sydney, and
sa j d his name was Hardt. Both these
assertions were lies,
Qn March 5 the Australia First Move-
ment in Sydney proposed to hold a
meeting in Manly. Some of the evi-
hence showed that it was at first believed
t h a t Mr. Bath, an alderman of the
Stanly Council, who was to take the
c hair, was political secretary to Mr.
Spender, sometime Army Minister, who
was a special object of ferocious hatred
anc j reprisals to Communists because he
ft a( j continued the internment of Ratliff
and Thomas. Witness the illegally-pub-
ijshed “Wharfie,” “official organ of the
wa terside section of the Communist
party ” ; _
Spender is definitely known to be un-
plicated with the spying, wrecking Aus-
tralia First movement. This is the vile
bunch who plot to grab power when Par-
liament meets in September.
One of the objectives of the meeting
of March 5 was to criticise the defence
of Rabaul. It was shown at the inquiry
that an attempt was made by Dr. Evatt’s
department to secure the banning of the
meeting by the State policd without im-
plicating the Commonwealth. This move
failing, the meeting was banned on Com-
monwealth authority. The promoters
obeyed the law, but next day protests
were sent to every member at Canberra.
The next day again (March 7) the
small Westralian group met and put on
paper a plot with all the elements
of farce. Couched in Communist
language—the language of the police
“pimp”—ft was a replica of the plot for
which the “Rightists and Trotskyites”
were sentenced to death in Moscow in
1938. When Mr. Forde came to
outline the conspiracy in Parliament
his statement was a paraphrase of the
main points of the Moscow official in-
dictment in that curious prosecution, even
containing specimens of Moscow’s actual
phraseology.
The details were embodied by the
W.A. “plotters” in a “proclamation.” It
was proposed by the five unknowns, who
hadn’t a five-pound note, a toy pistol or a
firecracker among them, to take over the
government of the Commonwealth,
blow up the Midland railway works and
other large defence enterprises, make
contact with the Japanese on arrival
and arrange a wholesale pogrom
of public men and Jews. Among
those to be murdered (according to
later evidence) was General Gordon
Bennett. It has yet to be explained how
it was known, before his appointment
to command in Westralia, that he was
going there. The massacre of the Jews
was supposed to have been suggested by
a female party to the “conspiracy.” It
came out that she was a Jewess.
The manifesto embodying the whole
of the dreadful plans was at once com-
mitted to the ordinary unregistered air
mail and addressed to the leader of the
Australia First Movement in Sydney.
And Security considered the posting of
this letter full warrant for flinging into
internment the 16 persons known in the
east as the Australia First men. Some of
these had no association with the Aus-
tralia First Movement, much less the
Westralian “plot.” Westralian Intelli-
gence solemnly wired: “Quicke names
Stephensen as leader Australia First
Movement,” It did not say that Quicke
had got his information from “Hardt,”
the “pimp.”
Internment is achieved in two stages.
Under Section 13 the citizen may be
seized and kept incommunicado behind
barbed wire for 10 days. If he is kept
longer a special warrant must be ob-
tained from the Minister. These 16 men
were kept 15 days before a Ministerial
warrant was served on them. Some were
held, against their own protests, without
a shred of authority. It must be empha-
sised that for both their arrests and con-
tinued detention the justification alleged
was the Westralian absurdity. That is
perfectly clear from Mr. Forde’s state-
ment to Parliament on March 26, 1942.
He alleged no other reason, though the
Government was forced later to manufac-
ture a few more —curiously, a fortnight
after the arrests the Acting Attorney-
General had not heard of the “plot”
which shook the whole country when
revealed, or of the internments, as he
should have under Section 26 of the
National Security regulations. He was
the “anti-Communist” Mr. Beasley.
But the enormity of Mr. Forde’s
action in blasting innocent citizens
with baseless charges of treason is
fully comprehensible only when it is
known that a week before the charges
were made by the Minister, under coyer
of Parliamentary privilege, the Westralian
police had completely cleared the Eastern
group of internees from the charge of
complicity.
Though a tight blanket censorship was
put upon discussion of the affair the
Communists, as usual, had full inside
knowledge, and were able to print —with-
out reprisals—a full list of the names of
the internees, accompanied by savage
libels, in their clandestine press.
Justly dissatisfied with the report or
Justice Clyne, who, under the terms of
his commission, was unable to .take notice
of Mr. Forde’s “privileged” statements,
the Opposition tried to secure the appoint-
ment of another commission of inquiry,
but was defeated on a party vote.
In the case of one of the accused, a
member of the A.1.F., it has come to light
that his own unit commander could find
no trace of the activities which he was
supposed to be carrying on in the A.I.F.
And while the emissaries of Military In-
telligence (or someone higher up) were
successfully pressing on the commissioner
that this soldier’s internment was justi-
fied, he received the following letter
from the chief Army Intelligence officer
in N. S. Wales on official Army paper:
Australian Military Forces.
Victoria Barracks,
Paddington, N.S.W.
My Dear Downe,
Reference your proposed transfer t 0....
Company, you have my permission to use
my name as a reference and my assurance
that I will assist you in getting such a post-
ing. I feel quite sure that you ■will not let
me down.
Sincerely,
J. M. Prentice,
Lieut.-Colonel.
Sgt. C. K. Downe.
The company to which the alleged
seditionist was seeking transfer was,
it seems, one of the most secret in the
whole Australian Army—so secret that
mention of past or present association
with it is taboo even in times of peace.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt 6c Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largesi
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
Owners’ and Householders*,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^e'^xxUeix/n.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months £l4 0
6 „ 12 6
3 . „ ...... 70
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: — •
12 months .. ..- IS 0
6 „ .. 8 0
3 » •• •• .. 40
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lB 0
c 5
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globite!
Made by
FORD SHERINGXON LTD.
Personal.
WOULD anybody knowing the present whereabouts
of JAMES GLEDHILL, late of Stockport, England,
or family, and last heard of in Sydney in the year
1911, please communicate with MESSRS. LAKE,
NEW & ELLIS, 15 Bridge Street, Stockport, Eng-
land, as they may hear something to their advant-
age? Apply in the first instance to MR. F.
MANNING SKY, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 27
Clifford Street, Gordon, N.S.W. JX2758.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
INVEST IN THE SECURITY LOAN
*|4e (quality&j youb
,• * -' .rwm
4e-
WITH A
BRIDGE-BA.\B(Jll¥
AUTOMATIC MI VI K
RUBBER . PLASTICS
LINOLEUM & ALLIED
INDUSTRIES
f
mmt
O
•ma
|«;;;■
Jl_J
s
■i
1
S®
IMF
; -■ >»!
■: %
■
; v -
★ A FULL RANGE OF SIZES FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS ★
With Bridge - Banbury Automatic
Mixers on the production floor, manu-
facturers engaged in the processing of
rubber or plastics or in the making of
linoleum or electric cables can mix in-
gredients to specifications right on the
dot—-every time . . . any time.
Three design features enable the
Bridge-Banbury to blue-print output to
any desired specification—control over
time of mixing .., control over tempera-
ture . . . and the controlled Banbury
principle of automatic mixing.
This ability to duplicate any mix time
after time brings costs down, keeps
quality at a uniform level and sends out-
put up . . . advantages no cost-minded
plant executive facing the competitive
future can afford to ignore. Why not get
all the facts—we shall be happy to tell
you more. No obligation.
A. Gonman & Co. Limited
9 NEWCASTLE - . N.S.W,
€ MANUFACTURERS GF RUBBER AND MINING MACHINERY
I ROLLING STOCK. SKIPS. BOILERS. DROP FORGINGS
I IRON. BRASS AND MEEHANITE METAL CASTINGS.
SPUR. HELICAL WORM AND BEVEL GEARING
■> MANUFACTURING • STRUCTURAL • AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
THE SERVICE MAN
Russia's Moves.
The news from Persia during the week
made it certain that a substantial tank
force, under Marshal Bagramyan, was
disposed in such a way as to menace
directly (a) the Mosul oilfields and the
Bagdad-lWkish railway; ( b) Tehran, the
Persian capital; and (c) Tehran’s com-
munications with Bagdad and the coast of
India.
Moscow Radio, while Mr. Bevin and
Mr. Byrnes talked conciliation, was noisy
with the same sort of talk which preceded
the seizure of Eastern Poland and the
attack on Finland in 1939 ; and the boast
was openly uttered that, by the time the
slow-moving “capitalists” were ready to
refer the matter to U.N.0., there would
be the usual fait accompli, achieved by
the superlative methods of Communism.
Late in the week, all the Moscow talk
hinged round the British “oil monopoly”
in Persia. In fact, it was on the same
lines as the talk of 1940, when the Aus-
tralian Communist party demanded the
recall of the A.I.F. from the Middle East
on the ground that it was to be used to
“defend the Anglo-Persian oil monopoly”
—of course, against the Germans and
their Russian stablemates. The propa-
ganda against the use of Australian troops
for that purpose was at that time savage,
presumably because Hitler had agreed to
divide Persian oil with the Russians in
the same way as he had divided Poland.
Australia has a vital interest in the
matter. Persian oil in certain circum-
stances might be the very lifeblood of
Australian, naval and air defence.
Meanwhile a “Labor Progressive” mem-
ber of Parliament in Canada has been
arrested, along with a university profes-
sor and two other persons with foreign
names, in connection with the Soviet spy
plot,
“Labor Progressive” is the name under
which the Communist party masqueraded
in Canada during its period of illegality.
In N. S. Wales during its illegal period it
called itself “State Labor,” and its offi-
cial journal was called “Progress.” In
Queensland the alias was “Independent
Socialist.”
Trials at Darwin.
“Ek Dum”: The result of the Darwin
trials of Japanese war criminals streng-
thens the uneasiness of observers at the
manner in which such trials are con-
ducted and at their uselessness for the
purposes for which they are supposed
to be held.
It seems essential, especially in view of
what now has happened, that a Judge be
set aside to preside and that a represen-
tative prosecutor or prosecutors be briefed
for the Judge Advocate.
In the Darwin trials three Japanese
captains, Abe, Mori and Saiki, were
charged with the brutal torture of Captain
J. R. Cashman and Corporal Lawrence.
Six non-commissioned Jap officers who
acted under their senior officers were
also in the dock.
The two Australians were parachuted
into Timor and were captured by the
enemy. The Jap captains and their non-
coms. admitted coldbloodedly that in-
human tortures were inflicted on their
captives with a view to extracting infor-
mation from them. The Australians were
placed in solitary confinement, beaten,
slashed about the face and submitted to
the log ferocity, and when the Geneva
Convention was quoted to the torturers
they sneered that Japan knew nothing of
the Geneva Convention. Further evidence
was given by some of the accused that
the measures they took were quite in
accordance with Japanese treatment of
their own men in the course of training
and hardening.
That the non-coms, were released may
be defensible on the score of their having
acted under orders. But it is difficult to
see the logic of the sentences on Captain
Saiki (three months’ imprisonment) and-
the other two captains (one month). This,
in view of European jail standards, is
almost no real punishment for proved
ferocity.
There is no reason to criticise the Court
on the ground of failure to do justice.
Its attitude apparently was that the whole
business emanated from General Fuka-
bori, an authority far higher than those
who carried out the torture under military
orders and Japanese military law.
This is a just view. Nobody for that
matter would feel doubt about the zeal
with which a court presided over by
Arnold Brown, a fine soldier, would seek
to do justice even to the most brutal
enemy.
But it is unfair to thrust the responsi-
bility for the conduct of trials with impli-
cations so far-reaching, and involving so
many niceties of military law, on officers
who have not had actual experience on
the Bench.
Sentences such as were imposed at
Darwin are an incentive rather than a
deterrent, in the first place to “our Inder-
nesian comrades,” who still have the lives
of many Dutch and Eurasians, chiefly
women and children, in their hands. If
there was any degree of guilt, the
prisoners should have been made to
feel it.


THE WISDOM OF THE PAST IS A LESSON FOR TODAY
PI
I
* “By far tbe best proof is experience/'
-Sir Francis Bacon.
And experience is the essence of
Babcock service to steam users
throughout Australia.
For seventy-five years the name of
Babcock & Wilcox has been inti-
mately associated with the develop-
ment of steam generating equipment
. . . Babcock engineers in every con-
tinent have studied the individual
problems confronting each type of
industry and Babcock technicians
have kept pace with each progressive
phase of equipment design by con-
stant research into the physical,
chemical and metallurgical aspects
of materials and processes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS-INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in alt States.
Babcock engineers in each State will
gladly co-operate with steam users
to plan new installations or suggest
the means of obtaining increased
economy and efficiency from existing
plant . . . they bring you tbe syn-
thesised knowledge and proven value
of time-tested experience.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Bahcoch &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
With
Gap
Bed
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
k
mss
m
i g
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, |HAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
ADVT
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MAKS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving part'
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence tb;
smooth vibrationless running of “MAKS
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw. _ _
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
* Vpniand: Motor Specialists, Ltd.
Sic Av”mie, Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Resuming racing at Canterbury, with the
course looking in great shape after a brief let-
up, the S.T.C. gave a first public trial to start-
ing boxes and the photographic judging
apparatus.
Briefly, the photo-finish affair consists of a
camera mounted high above the judge’s box
and embodying a strip of film which moves at
about the same speed and in the same direc-
tion as the horses past a narrow-slit shutter
focussed dead on the finishing line. Thus it
produces a continuous composite picture of the
field passing the post. A narrow vertical strip
of mirror on the post reflects the field from
the rails’ viewpoint, so that the camera sees
the finish from both sides of the track.
The result, of course, is an unquestionably
accurate verdict, but after Saturday’s experience
of “photo-finishes” to every other race it
might be suggested that if the camera is to be
adopted permanently it should be used as
sparingly as possible. The brief delay while
waiting for the camera result produces a tense
atmosphere comparable to waiting for a protest
to be decided. All right once in a while, but
overdone it becomes tedious. Also, on Satur-
day McShortodds was quick to profit, offering
threes against the second horse in the event in
which Fort Denison was clearly the winner.
Fort Denison supporters not in a position to
be sure of this rushed in to be on the safe side.
The starting boxes, consisting of a row of
cosily-padded individual stalls, were erected at
the six-furlongs barrier, which is in a chute
off the course prqper. Each starter goes into
his stall according to. the barrier draw, and the
actual start is governed by the normal strand
barrier lowered in front of the boxes. Em-
ployed for two races, it appeared to work
quite well. The only barrier rogue present was
the two-year-old Decorate, who has misbe-
haved badly in the past, and he walked into
his box and stood like a lamb. The main
possible point of criticism appeared to be that,
with a generously-padded wall separating each
starter from the next, horses drawn towards
the outside are a long way out indeed, and the
disadvantage of a bad draw seems too pro-
nounced. The A.J.C. is reserving its judg-
ment on the notion, and this observer will do
likewise till he sees one or two win from the
outer alleys.
There was a good crowd (26,000) to take a
sporting interest in the new gadgets, which they
did without complaint, since winners included
three outright favorites and others wed sup-
ported. ....
On paper Vigaro seemed the pick of the
two-year-old colts and geldings, but a pre-
liminary inspection of the colt found him an
equine Falstaff. The Le Grand Due colt
Flying Duke (D. Munro) was made a warm
favorite, and duly won from the second fancy,
Bowturn, while Vigaro, despite his condition,
was a most creditible third, after being in-
volved in a series of scrimmages.
Like Vigaro, undefeated at previous starts,
Sweet Chime was topweight of the two-year-
old fillies, and, also like the colt, she was fat.
Nevertheless, punters had her favorite. She
ran as her appearance foretold, failing to nil
a place. The judge left a tight finish to the
camera, which indicated Anastacia (E. Fordyce),
Duotetra and Liaophil in that order.
Two of the day’s wins rewarded consistent
honesty. Old Shining Night, who repeatedly
plugs on into minor placmgs, plugged on a
little harder, aided by some persuasion of the
D. Munro variety, and downed Cordale and
Castlereagh over the 11 furlongs of the S.T.C.
Handicap. Puffham, likewise as honest as the
day, carried his Welter impost of 9.9 at the
head of the field all the way, holding on too
well for Chatlock and Thanks America at the
end of nine furlongs.
With topweight of 9.8 for the Flying, Tah-
moor was set a much easier task than at Rand-
wick, when he conceded weight to such class
gallopers as Craigie, Murray Stream and Mag-
nificent, and he ran a fair race on that occa-
sion. In the Flying he was never further back
than third, and finished far too well Over the
last hundred yards for Brazidon, who led to
that point, and Gay King. Tahmoor was
favorite at 5 to 2, and completed a double of
winning favorites. Previously Waratah, at the
same odds, led all the way in the Burwood
Encourage, and was not troubled to hold off
Kingsford and Silver Spear.
The Midstream mare Fort Denison finished
like a shot on the outside to down a bunch of
three- and four-year-old mares and fillies over
seven furlongs. Glencrag was second and
Fairness third after the judge had called on
the camera for both first and third placings.
Plentiful acceptances calling for divisions in
two events, it was back to an eight-races pro-
gramme at Moonee Valley on Saturday, with
the main item the mile Alister Clark Stakes, in
which the winning owner collected, as well as
the £l4OO prize and what he bagged in bets, a
silver rosebowl worth £lOO and a bunch of
roses to put in it. There were also bunches
of roses for the trainer and rider of the winner,
along with the customary verbal bouquets, par-
ticularly for H. Badger, who was seen right
back to his best in getting Reperio home by
half a neck from A. Breasley’s mount, Delina,
in a hard-ridden finish over the last half-
furlong.
The event, named after the Valley club’s
president, who donated the horticultural addi-
tions, attracted a particularly strong field, those
behind Reperio, Delina and old Contact (third)
including St. Fairy (topweight), Tranquil Star,
Don Pedro, Bootle, Amana, Tea Cake, Comedy
Call, the South Australian Sea Patrol and sundry
others. St. Fairy ran like a horse who had had
enough of racing for the present, and Tranquil
Star like one whose racing days are over.
For the near future, Tea Cake ran the most
promising race of the beaten lot, and Lunar
Lynx could soon score another win in a little
weaker company. Comedy Call was badly left.
Breasley was again beaten into second place
—it happened to him four times altogether —
when the South Australian stayer Blue Express,
raced by Miss Nitschke, of the S.A. racing and
cricketing family, proved a shade too strong
for Hiatus at the end of the Moonee Ponds
Handicap 15 furlongs, with Lar Toba third.
The event’s interest was mainly as a pointer
to Hiatus’s good prospects when he gets back
to the leaping business. He should do extra
well this winter.
The other seconds in Breasley’s unlucky day
were on Tudor Prince, beaten by the outsider
Purple Star, with Gay Queen third, in the first
division of the six-furlongs Hollymount Handi-
cap for two-year-olds, and Marocain, downed
by Tilston in the 10-furlongs Sherwood Handi-
cap (three-year-olds). Tudor Prince, 1 backed
like a certainty, was a good thing beaten. He
was badly away, and met with a severe check
in running. Tilston’s win helped to confirm
the idea that the Titan progeny can be de-
pended on to get a bit of distance as they de-
velop. From memory, this was the farthest any
of them has won over, and Tilston finished full
of running.
The other division of the Hollymount was a
one-horse affair, the Dhoti-Money Spider colt
Assam going early to the front and finishing
on the bit about five lengths ahead of Burka,
Rangilla and the rest.
There was a little relief for the Breasley
followers when the leading jockey got Princess
Amy, a four-year-old maiden daughter of Man-
olive, home ahead of Hellehist and Oxford
Street in the six-furlongs Woodlands Highweight
first division, but they bit the dust again when
his mount, Ben Butler (a hot favorite), was
hardly sighted in the next division, which saw
the four-year-old Caithness gelding Cabonne,
hitherto a stopper of stoppers on both Mel-
bourne and Sydney tracks, last long enough to
have a neck to spare from Greensborough, with
Millais third. Greensborough, a three-year-
old colt by Bernborough’s sire, Emborough,
from Estrelita, ran a decidedly promising race.
Misogynist, a pony gelding by Regular
Bachelor, was too speedy for Quixotic at the
end of the Travencore Hurdle two miles, with
the favorite, Gyrone, third. The little fellow,
much the smallest in the field, has wins to his
credit over the sticks in Tasmania. This was
his first Melbourne appearance. Quixotic, who,
though getting on, ran a good race, should not
be long in adding yet another jumping win to
the remarkable record of the David breed.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (colts and geldings):
Bowturn, 1; either of the stablemates Tynedale
and Tragedy would be a danger. Two-year-
old Maiden (fillies): Topweights Tibalina,
Shining Vision and Duotetra are from the same
stable, and whichever is elected may win. Trial:
Cavalero, 1; Rose Glory, 2; Adept, 3. Flying:
Craigie, 1; Kingsdale, 2; War Eagle, 3.
S.T.C. Handicap : Murray Stream, 1; Shining
Night, 2; Cordale, 3. Welter: John Halifax,
1; Fine Art, 2; Gay Monarch, 3.
* * * *
Likely to do well if they accept for Mentone
next Saturday: Joystream, Invasion Chief, New
Warrior, Tea Cake, Lunar Lynx.
Breeders with stock to offer at the forth-
coming Sydney yearling sales were no doubt
much delighted by the Mackinnon and Cox
yearling sales at Newmarket' (Vic.). During
three days, 204 yearlings went for an aggregate
of 148,275 guineas; the average, 726£ guineas,
an Australian record. On the opening day 80
youngsters changed hands for 78,175 guineas,
average 977. Top price was 3100 guineas paid
for a colt by Law Maker from Wottara, and
an Enfield filly went to 2500 guineas. Thirty-
one of the 80 lots fetched four-figure sums,
with Law Maker, Enfield, Dhoti and Helle-
spont progeny in highest demand. On the
second day 74 lots went for 54,065 guineas,
averaging 730 i. Top price, a Victorian record,
was the 4500 guineas handed over for a colt
by Helios from Yetna. A filly by the same
sire brought 2800 guineas. Only 13 went for
four-figure sums, and seven of these were
Helios stock. Some interest was shown in the
first progeny of El Golea, a fine galloper in
his day, though probably best remembered as
the horse that was shot in mistake for the Mel-
bourne Cup favorite. Rounding off the sale
and lowering the fine average, 50 lots were
offered on the third day, aggregating 16,035
guineas, average 320 guineas.
Dhoti, who still heads the sires’ list for the
current season with stakes won amounting to
£25,813, was represented by merely a few
youngsters. They fetched good brut not out-
standing prices, suggesting that they were not
the cream of his crop. Best price for one was
1900 guineas, and they ranged down to 700; the
average for seven was 1234 guineas. By com-
parison Hellespont, a long way down the sires’
list with £8515, had eight lots for sale, and they
averaged 1581 guineas, a couple fetching 2200
guineas. •
The highest average price of the sale was
1632 guineas attained by seven Law Maker
yearlings. Of the more lavishly-represented
sires easily the best result was achieved by the
Hyperion horse Helios, who stands with Dhoti
at Warlaby Stud. His 15 youngsters sold for
an average of 1515 guineas, including the sale’s
top-price lot. Fifteen Enfields averaged 1150
guineas, despite one who inspired a bid of only
260 guineas.
* * * *
Lately cabled that former Australian trainer
Alex Higgins, who was “warned off” by the
Western Indian T.C., has rocked in a damages
claim for the tidy sum of 3,152,400 rupees
(£A295,538), and that, in support, evidence on
the effects of certain drugs has been submitted
by experts of England, America and Australia,
these last reported to include Sydney and Mel-
bourne University professors. Then there was
a queer cable about Higgins being “arrested”
as a result of investigation into “alleged doping
of racehorses,” and released on £75 bail. In
an American case, in which last season’s leading
trainer, Tom Smith, was sent out for 12
mopths, Tom admitted that ephredine had been
puffed into one of his neddies,’ nostrils with an
atomiser, but claimed that it was what he’d
had to use on himself after having had his nose
broken, and that he’d acted merely on the
notion that what was good for him would also
be good for his horse’s breathing. His appeal
was still on when last clippings arrived from
America.
Incidentally, the outed Tom Smith trained
for America’s leading stable of the season;
and, apropos of all this, they’re doing some
drastic things oyer there. For instance, under
Maryland rules a trainer is outed for a mini-
mum of 12 months if any of his horses has
been “stimulated.” It doesn’t matter who did
the stimulating—out goes the trainer, which
could be very sad if, say, he wasn’t in the know
and had backed something else. When last
heard of, Maryland trainers were threatening to
strike, but had told the Racing Commission
they would do so “with reluctance in view of
the inevitable prejudice to racing in Maryland,
to a great sport and to the State’s revenues.”
That last could be a consideration. Though
racing was greatly curtailed by the ban on for
part of last year, the participating States among
them split up the huge rake-off of 66 million
dollars.
Another sidelight on such matters in America
is the appointment by the Thoroughbred Racing
Association of Spencer Drayton, formerly of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to organise
the policing of horseracing generally. Dray-
ton, who spent 14 of his 35 years with F. 8.1.,
ending up in a very high post, knows horses
through having seen pictures of them, but
there’s no doubt about his sleuthing, which
included helping to rope in the eight Germans
who were landed in America by submarine to
get in a little dirty work in Uncle Sam’s
war factories. He will apparently have extensive
powers to clean up the game, the force he
will organise even superseding the police, and
it’s implied that any future breakers of the
rules and regulations—bribers of jockeys and
suchlike —will not' merely be disqualified but
will come up for trial in the law courts.
* * * ♦
One of America’s greatest jockeys, Georgie
Woolf, died early this year after a fall at Santa
Anita Park. A Canadian by birth —they’ve
had some topnotch riders from there —Woolf
in his racing career since 1938 had 3784 mounts
—721 of them winners—for purses totalling
$2,856,120, about two millions of that in major
stakes. He was the rider of the American
champions Seabiscuit and Whirlaway, being on
the latter in the race in which it topped the
mark as the greatest of money-winners.
* # * *
The rule barring cricketers who have
played in a Test for one country later
appearing for another is being con-
veniently suspended, maybe in the in-
terests of Anglo-Indian relationship and
harmony, to permit the Nawab of Pataudi
to lead the Indian team in England this


yon cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAN^EASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them.
Nature may be warning you that your kidneys need
attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t
work well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood.
These poisons may start nagging backaches, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with , your
kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
im
m J * *
m in
■ ii i
I Jr I
mm
hi Hi
ml
mm
■■
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ftOOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
mmm
mi >
? *-
S&S 'H> |
■ S:'v
2
m
:
*
mm
MiiiMiiii
%
mm
wk
\ V,
0
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
fox MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG Products
year. The Nawab represented for Eng-
land in three Tests against Australia. It
will be the first instance of the kind since
F. Mitchell played for S’ Africa against
England and Australia in the triangular
tournament in 1912 ; he’d played for Eng-
land 14 years earlier. The list of two-
country representers also includes Ferris,
Midwinter, W. L. Murdoch, A. E. Trott
and Sammy Woods.
* * * *
State cricket resume:
With a record innings and 350 runs win
over South Australia at Adelaide (the previous
best was an innings and 310 in 1927), Victoria
ended unbeaten in inter-State cricket this sea-
son. The Sheffield Shield record win was that of
Victoria against N.S.W. by an innings and 656
runs at Melbourne in 1926, when Victoria also
put up the world’s first-class record of 1107
rU Victoria in the latest round defeated N.S.W.
by 97 runs, and 36 runs (both on first innings);
Queensland by 10 wickets, and an innings and
54 runs; S.A. by 110 on the first innings,
as well as the other easy win. With an eye
to the future, Victorian selectors called on
players new to big cricket, and a goodly num-
ber made good; among others, Meuleman and
I. Johnson (both with the Australian XI in
M.L.), Fothergill and Tamblyn (batsmen) and
Freer and Tribe (bowlers).
N.S.W.’s big wins were over S.A. (an innings
and 74 runs), Queensland (an innings and 115
runs) and S.A. (an innings and 51 runs).
Barnes and Alley were the batting mainstays,
but it was the bowling of Toshack, O’Reilly
and Lindwall which was the great help to the
side. Young players who did well included
Grieves and Donaldson.
Queensland successes were over N.S.W. and
S.A. (twice), with the brunt of the batting
falling to Brown, Tallon, Cook, McCool and
Morns, and the bowling to Dixon, Cook and
McCool. In Carrigan the Northerners have
a young player with a definite future.
South Australia had one of its poorest sea-
sons. In Sheffield Shield (started in 1892-93)
S.A.’s successes have been in 1893-94, 1909-10,
1912-13, 1926-27, 1935-36 and 1938-39. In
Craig (a good opener) and Hamence "it has
a couple of promising bats; and Dooland (at
present in M.L.) is a good type of trundler.
» * * •
Australians in M.L.:
The Australian tourers hit up 420 against
Otago, giving them a first-innings lead of 252.
Meuleman and Brown, who look established
as Australia’s openers tor some time to come,
had 118 on the board before Meuleman went
for 69. Brown carried on to 106, and later
McCool, with a sound 75, probably played his
way into the team to meet M.L. in the first
Test on March 29. Hassett and Johnson added
75 and 54 to the total, and wicketkeeper
Tallon and bowler Lindwall both got info the
twenties. Langford Smith (not in the M.L.
Test team, which has already been picked) took
three good early wickets —Meuleman, Barnes
and Hamence. Barnes went for 9, and
Hamence, who is yet to strike form, for 2,
* * * *
That the N.Z. Army, after all the fight-
ing, should have been able to muster up
such a fine side as the Kiwis says plenty
for the splendid Rugby Union war
record. Commenting on the Kiwis,
London “Times” remarked: “The tour,
it can be said at once, was a real sport-
ing success.” Before crossing the Channel
to beat France, the Kiwis had played
27 matches in Britain, won 23, drawn
two and lost two ; points for, 484 ; points
against, 141.
The Kiwis went down only to Scotland
and Monmouthshire; 11 to 6 ; 15 to nil.
Good kicking by the alternating fullbacks
Cook and Scott played a big part in the
Kiwis’ tour successes. Of their total of
98 tries, 55 were converted, and penalty
kicks brought up 72 points.
Everywhere the Kiwis played on their
tour of Britain there were big crowds.
The Monmouthshire match was one of
two extra games in Wales added to their
original programme, and those two
matches were watched by 50,000; as the
“Times” commented, “not in a big city,
but from the humble stands and banks
of Pontypool and Aberavon.”
* * * *
The River v. City eight-oared event
in S.A. had its moments. Renmark and
Bern, from the Murray, meeting Torrens
and Mercantile on the salt water of the
Port Adelaide river, .ran into boisterous
weather. Berri’s boat broke in the
middle, and a Renmark oar smashed
while that river crew was leading; its
owner dutifully dived overboard. The
placings were Torrens, Renmark and
Mercantile.
* * * *
Horace .Lindrum v. F. Davis produced
a close finish in the world’s snooker
championship semi-final at Oldham
(Eng.). Lindrum had a good lead early,
and began the final day’s play with a lead
of 11 to nine. Davis took the next two
games to draw level, but the Australian
then won the next three and the match.
Lindrum meets J. Davis (who has held
the championship since its inception in
1927) in the final next month.
James Cecil Parke, who passed on at
65 at Llandudno (Wales) a few weeks
back, must have been well in the running
for any versatile sports championship. An
Irishman, he gained 20 “caps” for represent-
ing his country at Rugby Union between
1903 and 1909; in 1908, 1912 and 1913
he represented British Isles in Davis Cup
matches; and he also played golf for
Ireland against England and Scotland.
He was lawn tennis champion of Europe
in 1907 and 1913 ; won the singles and
doubles championships of Australasia in
1913, and in the Davis Cup play a year
earlier beat N. E. Brookes. At foot-
ball Parke was a brilliant centre
three-quarter.
Introduced to Melbourne as heavy-
weight champion of M.L., Don Mullett
was landed by Jack Johnson in four
rounds. Johnson shows improvement
every time he steps into a ring, and it s
a wonder the Stadium people don’t bring
weight £ P ShtT BritiSh hBht - heavy '
weight to meet him. *
In a curious mill at Leichhardt, Sydney,
Ron McLaughlin, 11 months absent from
the game, defeated Jimmy Dundee in six
rounds.* Mac recovered magically after
being knocked down for “nine” in the
fourth round and after a further period
of grogginess, apparent result of lefts
to the head. Dundee looked done early
in the sixth, and sank to the floor twice
before the referee, intervening, declared
McLaughlin the winner. There was raur-
muring from the customers as they
merged into the night, not in “utter non-
chalance, as the poet had it.
% , suffered
revSL fas? week m and thaf at the hands
0 f a pug, Royal Marine Alec Buxton,
whom Dave Sands had defeated. Eldest
brother Ritchie Sands was knocked out
inside a round by Buxton. Buxton got
a right on the Sands chin as
soon as they had shaped up. It i no° r . ed
Sands for seven, then a left felled him
for “nine. When he rose again Sands
had no defence for another right that
finished him for the night.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Balloons flying “Buy Bonds” streamers,
Army searchlights blazing about the
Town Hall, pretty showgirls and lots of
laughter— gusts of it raised by Lieut.
George Wallace, son of the comedian
Australia has laughed with so often and
so long—together with Captain Rex
Wheeler, set the wheels spinning merrily
for the-Security Loan campaign. Cer-
tainly Premier McKell and Opposition-
leader Mair made speeches on the virtue
and necessity of supporting the loan ; but
the singers, the musicians, the bands
stressed the very reason of the loan-
security. Without the security that had
come through victory this city and all
others in the Commonwealth would
still be shrouded in blackout. Without
the security to the worker, to family life,
to industry that this loan means, the
laughter and the gaiety would soon die
down. So buy a bond and be in the move-
ment. It’s smarter to have a credit ac-
count at your bank for bonds than to
have a credit account for bonnets at your
milliner’s.
When Florence Taylor gets * into a
trailing black frock with her soft hair
brushed up, Edwardian-like, she is deco-
rative and paintable. As president of the
women’s section of the Australian-
American Movement Mrs. Taylor was
hostess at a dinner party in the Pickwick*
Club last Monday night. This would
have been in Mrs. Taylor’s own flat only
for absence of housekeeping personnel,
duly explained on her invitations.
However, the hundred or so guests
gathered at the Pickwick, and had a very
sustaining buffet dinner. Song-composer
May Brahe was the guest of Jionor.
“Public Benefactor No. 1, a morale-
builder to her sex,” murmured one of the
women at the St. Vincent’s Hospital meet-
ing the other morning, as president Mrs.
Bertie Kelly took her place. Mrs. Kelly,
who proudly claims 70 years, had her
erect and shapely figure clothed in a cigar-
brown linen tailormade; her eyes and
skin sparkled with health. And the way
she took the chair at this meeting of the
Women’s Auxiliary would have been a
lesson to many businessmen.
When Mrs. Kelly hurried off to an ap-
pointment with the dentist, newly-elected
vice-president Mrs. Tom Bateman took
the meeting, and did it with the ease you
might expect from a daughter of Mrs.
Greg McGirr. Mrs. Bertie Kelly was
re-elected president; Mrs. C. Du Val, Mrs.
Grant Lindeman and Mrs, Tom Bateman
are the vice-presidents. A ball at the
Troc. next month and a fair at the hos-
pital in September, when a needlework
stall, piled with handmade and embroid-
ered underwear, will be headline news,
are being planned for the hospital.
About 70 debs, had put their names
down for presentation to their Royal
Highnesses at the Uni. Settlement Ball
before the list was closed. Among them
are Barbara Dew, Margaret Bland,
Maureen Griffith and Rachel Trixie
McGirr. The last. will wear white
lace bought jn the family’s pre-
war travels. It will be • embroidered
in seed pearls. The whole gathering
in the Great Hall will be strictly
one of the intelligentsia. The girls are
already busy on their curtsys, deep and
sweeping: one for the Duke, one for the
Duchess. Long white frocks and long
white kid gloves will be worn by the pre-
sented. There will be 500 guests ; so, as
one girl blithely explained, it will be just
like a private dance—but not a private
party, since the rationing era commenced,
surely!
Dame Constance D’Arcy, since Thurs-
day of last week, is chairman of Sancta
Sophia College within the Uni. She was
elected in succession to Dr. Walter Bur-
fitt, who had held the office since the
opening of the college in 1929. Dr. Bur-
fitt has resigned office because of ill
health. Dame Constance has many
honors. She has been a member of the
Sydney University senate since 1919, and
in 1943 she was elected Deputy-Chan-
cellor —probably ’the only woman in the
world to hold such an office. She will be
wearing her robes when she is in the
group welcoming the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester at the University Settle-
ment Ball next month.
Pretty Yvonne Parmentier, of Mos-
man, and ex-p.-0.-w. John Meillon an-
nounced their engagement last week.
John is a lawyer, and was a Uni. cricket
blue before he went off to the wars
Mrs. Grevor Molyneux gave a party at
Prince’s in celebration, and with the guest
of honor were her two cousins and Dr.
Gwen McQirr and Mrs. Tom Bateman.
Matilda Etches, film and stage designer,
who arrived in Australia last week, is
doubly welcome to Sydney and Mel-
bourne. First of all she is a
friend. of Tommy Cochrane, who
before he went to England was
known in both capitals as the social life-
saver of any sort of party, from the
vice-regal function to the studio so-so
sherry binge. Secondly, Matilda is dis-
playing fabrics by Ascher, the designs of
which are from the brains and pencils of
British and French artists.
Late yesterday afternoon Miss Etches
handed over some lengths of these fabrics
to Max Lawson, who auctioned them for
the Red Cross. This will be the only
occasion when the atmosphere of filthy
lucre will touch the exhibition. The
fabrics are not for sale. The auction was
accompanied by the serving of cocktails,
and Mrs. Alleyne Zander was the hostess.
Miss Etches has the blessing of the
British Board of Trade on her world
tour. This is just to show that English
textiles are still in the lead. The fabrics
will be on display at 25 Rowe-street from
today.
With a softly-tinted picture of the sug-
gested R.A.A.F. memorial centre before
their eyes, the women’s auxiliary of the Air
Force Association were inspired to great
efforts last Wednesday afternoon. There
was a great rally in the George-street
centre, and new president Mrs. Kelly was
pleased to see so many backs and brows
bent over the card tables. Also, there
was a fast and furious sale of homemade
cakes, preserves and baby clothes. The
party, of course, was to aid the fund
for the memorial centre. A cathedral-
like stained-glass window towering 80ft.
above the main entrance and portraying
the history of the A.F.C. and R.A.A.F.
from 1914 to 1945 will be an impressive
feature of this building.
This is Elizabeth Larke, newly-ap-
pointed Director of Junior Red Cross,
N.S.W T . Division. Elizabeth, who served
in Palestine and Egypt away back in 1940,
was mostly at Gaza Ridge, though her
dutiqs as senior woman Red Cross worker
occasionally took her to Syria and Haifa.
She was the first Red Cross hospital visi-
tor. Later the number swelled to 14, and
towards the end it was over 100. The
devotion to duty which led to her being
mentioned in dispatches is being shown
by her in her new position. Above all,
she is anxious for an extension of the
work of Junior Red Cross —already the
active and kindly youngsters keep four
homes going for servicemen’s children:
two in the mountains and two at the sea-
side. Another objective of post-war plarjl
ning is the international character of the
J.R.C. Before the war the members of
all lands exchanged examples of craftwork
and stitchery. Photograph from Norton
Trevaire.
All the social excitements were up Can-
berra and Yass way last week. There
was the Royal garden party attended by
flocks and clouds of guests—all Can-
berra’s best —and there were the Yass
picnic races. These brought everybody
running, motoring and riding from miles
and miles around. There were three big
balls to polish off the day’s glitter,'and in-
numerable cocktail parties. One of the
largest of these was given by the A. J.
Shannons, of Marilba Bowning, to cele-
brate son Douglas’s engagement. The
Shannons have come down to Manly to
cool off after the hectic time. They
motored to town last Monday bringing
with them Mrs. John Woods, who has
been their guest throughout all the doings.
There weren’t nearly enough listeners
to pianist Paul Schramm last Saturday
night—Paul, who was a virtuoso when he
was nine, brought the added richness and
experience of a further 40-odd years to
this Town Hall recital. Unfortunately
the musician’s wife could not be in the
audience —ill health had detained her in
Maoriland. There will be another Paul
Schramm concert in the Town Hall to-
morrow.
The Women’s Committee of the
Scots College Parents and Friends’
Association is having a “Bring a Gift,
Buy a Gift” afternoon in the garden of
Mrs. Hugh Poate’s home at 38 Victoria-
road, Bellevue Hill, opposite the college,
tomorrow from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., to
augment the Scots College Food for
Britain appeal. - Afternoon tea will be
served from 3 p.m., and there will be
stalls offering flowers, sweets, jams, cakes
and miscellaneous goods.
From Melbourne •
From the studio of John Duncan came
this picture of Mrs. Edgar Waller, one
of ihis city’s recent brides. Wearing
a mist-blue marquisette frock with its
long-fitting bodice embroidered with
crystal beads and a similar colored em-
broidered tulle veil, held in place by two
lilies, Betty was given away by her father,
Mr. John F. Trevorrow. The bride’s
attendants, gowned alike in pastel-pink
cut on classical lines and wearing long
matching gloves, were her sisters, Mrs.
Eric Kottman and Bonnie Trevorrow, and
Joan Veitch. Bridegroom Edgar Waller
(ex-R.A.A.F.) had Alex. Silvester (ex-
A.1.F.) as best man and Fl.-Lt. John
Cloke, R.A.A.F., and A. Mitchell as
groomsmerj. The ceremony at the Mel-
bourne Grammar School Chapel was per-
formed by the Rev. J. C. Brown. Later
a reception was held at Menzies and the
bride’s parents received the guests. Mrs.
John Trevorrow was in a black net frock
trimmed with black velvet, and her small
bois-du-rose hat was feather-trimmed.
Mother of the ’groom chose black, also,
and her small black hat was trimmed
with small ostrich feathers.
Government House grounds, by
courtesy of his Excellency Sir Winston
Dugan and Lady Dugan, will be open to
the public next Saturday for a Garden
Fete. All the proceeds will go to the
Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain * Fund,
and a large committee is working hard
for its success. There are to be many
attractions, and the children will be speci-
ally catered for. There will be ponies
to ride, slides, merry-go-rounds and every
other type of amusement that children
delight in. Girls from the Y.W.C.A. will
give displays of folk dancing and fencing
during the afternoon, and there will be
many stalls. Knowing the vagaries of
Melbourne weather, the committee has
insured against rain. Jewellery is being
received daily from women who feel that
the sacrifice is nothing compared to the
wants of their kinsfolk over the water,
and the Fund is steadily growing. Com-
mittee members include women who are
well known for the splendid work they
did during the war years. They include
Mrs. J. J. Daley, Helen MacDonald,
Reita Findlay, Mrs. Marchant Penfold
and Mrs. David Ely. Lady Dugan is
taking a great interest in the Fete.
Tucked away in a side street off Collins-
street is The Blue Door. This small
two-storey building is a relic of Mel-
bourne’s earlier days and has an atmo-
sphere all its own. Here*, Peg Williams,
with her husband, has a small art gallery,
and recently the Autumn Collection
created a great amount of interest. It
was- opened by Lt.-Commander George
Gill, who spoke of the galleries he visited
on his recent visit to London and New
York. The sale of catalogues was
in aid of Food for Britain. On the
opening day Peg, assisted by artist Dora
Wilson, whose paintings of Collins-street
are so admired, served afternoon tea.
Wife of artist Edward Heffernan, who is
soon to hold an exhibition of his paint-
ings, was among those who visited The
Blue Door on opening day. She wore
a smart navy-blue suit. With her was
Jean Webber, simply garbed in a grey
tailored suit. Peg, smart as usual, was
in an all-black outfit.
At Menzies last week a large and en-
thusiastic gathering agreed to assist Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell in organising a special
matinee of “Rose Marie” at His Majesty's
in aid of the Children’s Hospital, of which
Lady Latham is president. There will be
attractive stalls in the foyer of the theatre,
and the Younger Set, which was organ-
ised by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, will be
in full force to help in the doings. April
11 is the date set for the matinee, and a
week before this event the “Dear Ruth”
company will give a cocktail party at the
Comedy Theatre to assist in the same good
cause.
A window display by Myer’s proves
that our home-grown dress designers can
hold their own with their overseas rivals.
Against a Burmese background a haughty
beauty reclines in a gossamer-spun gold
lame frock, sewn with emerald stones
around the hem of the gown and, for
added glamor, shoulderstraps of royal-
blue velvet. In another window depict-
ing ancient Egypt is a gown of gold moss
crepe sewn with gold beads; it took six
girls three weeks to sew them on. There
is a bridal setting of Victorian vintage.
The bride wears a real lace gown,
fashioned in the style of 50 years ago, but
slightly modernised ; her two little brides-
maids wear black-and-white-buttoned
boots!
The Tivoli’s new show, “The Gay
’Nineties,” gave the ballet girls an oppor-
tunity to wear stunning period frocks.
Some were of del-blue silk with pink
underdresses and with high blue and pink
headdresses scintillating with sequins.
Others wore rose-pink, short, full skirts,
with pink-and-white and green-and-white
wide-striped fitting bodices finished with
leg-o’-mutton sleeves and with bows at
the back, Evie Hayes, star of the bright
show, wore, among many lovely gowns,
an ice-blue romaine frock mounted on a
deeper blue foundation. The long, full
skirt had medallions of white lace flowers
matching those forming one shoulder-
strap to the satin bodice, which was
crossed with diamente and matched the
narrow front panel, which extended to
the hemline.
Judy Allen hostessed an afternoon-tea
partly recently and sent out an SOS for
help on behalf of the Opportunity Clubs.
Mrs. J. A. Wunderly, president of the
Ladies’ Council, spoke on the need
for a decent home life and proper food
in the making of future good citizens.
“Give a child these,” said Mrs. Wunderly
wisely, “and you keep him out of courts
and hospitals.” Mrs. Goodman also
spoke of the founding of the Opportunity
Clubs. One man, with ten shillings in
cash and £lO,OOO worth of vision, opened
the first in a factory. The furniture, was
made from packing cases, and when the
club opened the larrikins of the district
tore in and destroyed the lot. Now the
clubs are finding it hard to house the
children who want to attend them and
also to find the citizens willing to give
up a few hours each week to assist in
teaching carpentry, cooking and the like.
An auxiliary was formed among those
present, and the first function will be a
bridge party later on.
Youth comes into its own again after
six years of war, and mothers are seeing
that their daughters have their little
“coming-out” parties. No. 9 Darling-
street has been the background for much
youthful gaiety recently. Among the
parties was one given by Mrs. Russell
Barrett and Mrs. Lionel Grimwade for
Judith Barrett and Phelia Grimwade.
Two hundred of their friends made merry
at this dance, and for the occasion Judith
chose a pretty frock of pale-blue net,
whilst Phelia chose white lace trimmed
with velvet bows.
Two young hostesses, Lysbeth Boyd,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Boyd,
of Tabilk, and now with the American
Information Library, and Elizabeth
White, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Edward
White, of Toorak, entertained a large
number of their friends at a dance. Party
was given to welcome back friends in
the services. Lysbeth received her guests
in a midnight-blue lace frock, which, in-
cidentally, was bought for her in Paris
before the war by her grandmother;
Elizabeth chose a parchment brocade
frock set off with an unusual necklace of
beaten gold. Prue Boyd took time off
from her study of law at Melbourne Uni-
versity to attend the revels, Gwen John-
son, Pen Begg, Angela Sturt and Ann
Broderick were among the guests. Part-
ners included Lt. Wilbur Ham,
R.A.N.V.R., Lieut.-Col. R. R. Andrew
and Dennison Deasey, ex-A.I.F.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
The contributor placed first is paid
45d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The “Anchored” Division
Further to “Junius Jr.” (B. 6/3/’46)
on the sending of boy-soldiers to the
islands and the lack of reinforcements
in the latter stages of the war. What
about the Armored Division?
Most of these men joined up in 1940
and early in 1941. Three-fourths of them
languished the whole of their war careers
away on the mainland, at terrific cost
to the country. In the latter stages of
the war many, thoroughly “browned off,”
were assisting to train some of the baby-
faced recruits of 1944-45, and were dis-
gusted to see these infants go overseas
after a few months in the army
while the “Anchored” Division seemed
to be more of a mainland fixture than
ever.
By 1945 the Armored Division men
had a good knowledge of infantry tactics
as well as their own mounted tactics.
Except for a lack of battle experience they
were all seasoned soldiers. Thousands
of them applied for transfer to the
depleted and men-hungry Sixth, Seventh
and Ninth Divisions or to any active
units overseas, only to have their appli-
cations continually and monotonously
refused with the doubtful consolatory
rider that “too much money” had been
“spent on training” them as “armored
personnel.” Denied service against the
enemy, though promised this service
often, they had almost “had” it by 1945.
Their bitterness was added to by the
knowledge that, if released, they could
have earned their keep with any of , the
fighting divisions, and that if they had
been allowed to fight in the islands with
their tanks they could have saved the
lives of many infantrymen.
Just when the war ended. Authority
was finding it difficult to meet its commit-
ments for projected armored ops. —but
too late. Members fortunate enough to
belong to armored units that were dis-
banded were posted overseas to docks
operating and equivalent units. Two
armored regiments got away in almost the
last month of war. The rest never left
the mainland.
And at the termination of hostilities,
after five years in the A.I.F., they found
that they could not wear any badge or
indication to show that they had ever
been in the Army, both the Returned
from Active Service Badge and entry into
the R.S.L. being denied them. —C. S.
(N.S.W.).
Garrison Troops
The rigors of war require the services
of fit young men. Only they can stand
the long marches, the heat and the cold,
the rain and the lack of it, the call for
that last ounce of energy which tips the
scale to victory. The interruptions and
delays to tljeir careers, the disturbance
to their marital arrangements, the un-
settling effect of years of discipline on
both officers and men are matters to be
deplored ; but, though the country needs
the young and able, and the cost of their
absence is, to it, in more ways than one,
incalculable, no alternative has ever been
tried.
Now however, garrison troops are re-
quired.- They will be properly housed ;
no great physical strain is called for;
rations can be regular and of good quality,
and there are no conditions which older
men would find too difficult. Their
families are grown up and no longer need
parental control or assistance. In the
heavier trades and in laboring work they
find it difficult to compete with the
younger men. But they would be quite
suitable as garrison troops, and the
country could spare them much better
than it could spare young men. Let. us
face the position: get all the young men
back into civilian life as soon as pos-
sible and let the old boys take their turn
for the country. I for one would be
delighted to go. — Victor Black (Vic.).
Food
It is 11 o’clock in a big Government
office, and as I wait for my appointment
I am reading an article in the morning
paper.
“Food,” writes Eric Kennedy, of the
A.P., returned from England, “is the one
absorbing tbpic to the English people.
You hear it discussed in queues ; there
are queues for everything—in ’buses,
trains and restaurants. I heard two
middle-aged men solemnly debating the
quality of a piece of yellow cake, care-
fully squeezing the crumbs into pellets
so that none should be lost. This,’ said
one, ‘is almost perfect!’ The second
agreed. ‘lt is. There must be an egg
in it.’ ”
While I am reading, work at the office
has practically stopped while the ladies
and gentlemen on the staff hurry past me
to the end of the corridor, where a girl
with a tray full of cakes and scones is
selling these dainties.for their morning-
tea.
I try to remember what it was the
Controller-General for Food said about
the Food for Britain appeals. Some-
thing like this, wasn’t it?
“Funds raised by those appeals might,
if they become big, seriously deplete the
supplies of an important class of food
available to Australian civilians. Every-
thing relating to food policy, including
food for Britain, must centre in the efforts
of the Government itself.”
I can’t believe it. — Junius Jr. (Q.).
Army Mail
I suggest to “Sarge”. (B. 27/2/’46) that
not civilian postal officials but Army
Postal Service chaps are to blame for the
mess in which his mail appears to be.
I received a letter the other day that had
followed me through four army addresses
and six civilian moves. As far as I
could discover from postmarks the time
that letter had taken to make the four
army moves was four months. It reached
me a fortnight after having hit the first
“What I like about it, Dave, it don't shy at emus, snakes or fences .”
civilian address, having travelled several
thousand miles through the Riverina and
back to my home address in that time.—
S’Aussie (S.A.).
Mr. Ward’s Wards
Port Moresby.is again in the throes
of a native-labor wages boom in the
“skilled” and “semi-skilled” categories.
The previous spasm was from, late-1939
until the Jap called a halt. This one looks
like continuing until the Australian tax-
payer gets fed up.
These unhealthy and useless wage-in-
creases invariably coincide with the spend-
ing of large sums of public money. When
that ceases wages must come back to an
economic level; no primary industry
could pay boom wages and remain
solvent. The attitude of our new Pro-
visional Civil Administration is indi-
cated by the calling of applications
for a telephone switchboard attendant
at £l6 per month—these applica-
tions were asked for by a Port
Moresby broadcasting station on a
native session. All things considered,
this rate is better than £5OO per year in
Australia.
The results of wages or other booms in
a country such as this are much more
harmful than in places where the inhabi-
tants are capable of analysing cause and
effect, a line of reasoning our fuzzywuzzy
has not acquired.— Mcale (Papua). .
Simplify It!
Why, in the name of common sense,
cannot the assessment of income tax in
Australia be put on the same clear,
understandable basis as that employed in
a vastly greater taxation-field in the
United Kingdom? A group of leading
Melbourne accountants has described the
1945-46 assessment form as “an abstruse
mathematical curiosity,” and “a mathe-
matical maze beyond human interpreta-
tion,” and expressed their collective
opinion that full elucidation of its com-
plexities is beyond the powers of most
professional advisers.
In the U.K. it is a mere matter of
simple arithmetic for any individual tax-
payer to determine for himself in advance
the amount of his assessment, within a
few pounds at most, when he has made
up his return for the year. If he has any
doubt on the subject he can obtain willing
and free advice from the nearest taxa-
tion inspector, part of whose duty it is
to provide such service. To the same
inspector he can also apply for a refund
of overpaid tax —and get it.I—Ft 1 —Ft Fa (Q.).
Promoting Lawlessness ?
The attitude of Communists, with their
programme of class-warfare, is easy to
understand, but it is difficult to compre-
hend the logic of the press. On the one
hand, it condemns illegal strikes and
racketeering; and on the other, either
directly or by implication, it applauds the
action of individuals, particularly ser-
vicemen, who have broken the law to a
lesser degree and got away with it.
The attitude adopted towards R.A.A.F.
men who quitted ships allocated for
their repatriation from Britain is an
example of this support of petty law-
breaking. In the mass of hysterical non-
sense about these “hell-ships” and so on,
the reasons for the poor accommodation,
the serious shipping shortage and the im-
possibility of quick reconditioning war-
time transports to more comfortable
peace-time standards, were obscured, and
the delay in repatriation of other men
caused by the desertions was not even
mentioned.
Additional examples may be cited in
the publicity given without strong censure
to soldiers who stowed away in south-
bound ships to get home ahead of their
proper turn and to R.A.A.F. officers who
filled transport aircraft with liquor, de-
laying servicemen’s mail. None of the
culprits in these and many equally dis-
graceful cases received the newspaper
castigation they deserved. Indeed, when
certain wrongdoers did happen to receive
well-earned punishment, sympathetic
references and complaints of “victimisa-
tion” appeared ; in fact, all the jargon of
an industrial dispute.
There is an idea abroad, and it receives
much press support, that no one detected
in committing such offences should be
punished unless others, thought to be
equally guilty, are detected and dealt
with also. What a ludicrous conception
of the law! In supporting either directly
or indirectly all this petty lawbreaking,
the press is doing the country a grave dis-
service. The press insists that it reflects
public opinion. Predominantly the press
inspires it. In these matters the inspira-
tion is lamentable.
Sympathy with petty lawbreakers and
those who resist legal authority is nearly
as bad as deliberately encouraging them.
As a result, the public mind appears
consciously or subconsciously to be
coming to regard those in authority as
direct descendants of the “tyrants” of the
nineteenth century. Thus we are treated
to the disgraceful spectacle of Judges
being publicly insulted because decisions
given by virtue of the authority vested in
them are unfavorable to a body of men
notorious for their contempt of the law.
There is apparent a desire to increase
the circulation of newspapers at all costs
among the large section of the populace
who obviously hold anti-authoritarian
views. If this is so, a dangerous path is
being followed, for a community which
loses the will and power to discipline it-
self soon loses all respect for the rule
of law. — Enforced Student (Vic.).
The Drive Against Franco
We have recently witnessed in Aus-
tralia how a few Communists can dis-
rupt the community and bring about in-
dustrial chaos, with a callous disregard
for the public, but this was a mere baga-
telle compared to what the Communists
did in Spain in 1936.
I dislike dictatorships whether of the
Franco variety or those of the Left; I
merely wish to issue a warning. Those
who are supporting the campaign against
Franco are playing with fire. If
Franco is overthrown, and another
“democratic” Government established,
power will most likely revert to the Com-
munists, and as everywhere they are anti-
British, and slavishly follow Soviet
foreign policy, Britain’s position is likely
to be seriously prejudiced. One does not
need to be a prophet to predict that the
next move would be a demand, accom-
panied with the usual abusive propa-
ganda, for the return of Gibraltar to
Spain.— Civis Brittanicus (N.S.W.),
Hostels for Country Girls
I have in. mind those girls who want to
work in the cities. These hostels could
be run on the same lines as the service-
girls’ clubs and hostels we had during
the war and would provide reasonable
board in decent localities. The average
working girl cannot afford to pay the
high price demanded for board in guest-
houses.
Moral delinquency is often a result of
loneliness, and a country girl can be
dreadfully lonely in the city. If we had
well-organised hostels and clubs parents
of young girls would know that their
daughters were being well looked after in
the cities. Factories and firms now asking
in vain for women workers would, I
think, get them if the girls who have
to leave home could be assured of pleas-
ant lodgings and board at rates they
could afford to pay.
This, in my opinion, would induce a
number of girls to work in industries
which are essential to the building of
Australia’s future. — Ex-Servicegirl (Q.).
Relative Importance
After accepting low wages throughout
the five years of his apprenticeship, and
spending three nights per week at a
technical college for at least three years,
a fitter and turner will be lucky if his
wage reaches £7 a week. A wharf-
laborer would earn as much in three days.
Recently a “maintenance fitter” was
advertised for in a morning paper ; “wage,
£6 195.” In the same column a milk-
carter was offered £7 a week. What price
technical knowledge in this country!
Jondix (N.S.W.).
Immigrants
A look over the world discloses no
likely countries with the exception of
Germany and Poland from which Aus-
tralia may expect to attract immigrants
in the immediate post-war years.
Recently arrived home after 3{- years’
captivity in Germany, I see no reason
why the average German should not be-
come a good citizen in Australia. The Ger-
man settlements of many years’ standing
in South Australia have an excellent
record. The large percentage of Euro-
pean-born men and men of European
descent amongst the American forces does
not seem to have impaired those forces’
efficiency. What is wrong, then, with
bringing out each year, for five years,
50,000 Germans and 30,000 Poles?
The shattered wreck of what was once
Germany and the condition of what
passes for Poland have to be seen to be
realised. No difficulty would therefore
be had in obtaining peasant farmers from
these countries. These people could be
accommodated in group settlements at
very little cost. Advance parties would
prepare homes and farms.
Old Diggers will vouch for the industry
of the French peasant farmers and
women. The German and the Pole are
the same.— Sunset (WA).
“Vacant Houses”
Over the past few 'weeks I have noticed
vacant houses in N.S.W. sawmilling
districts whilst thousands of city and
country workers seek homes. The timber
industry, one of the most important in
our post-war plans, finds it almost im-
possible to secure adequate manpower.
If the Government assisted sawmillers
to make their settlements more attractive
many good young Australian families
could be induced to go to the bush.
Generally the dwellings cluster around
the mills, and, though not very elaborate,
are sound, and can be made quite com-
fortable. Ample wood fuel is available,
and water is usually plentiful. Rents are
invariably low.
A few motor-driven electric generat-
ing sets obtained from service sources
(they are being offered for sale) would
provide light and power for these’villages,
and mobile cinema units could ensure
regular entertainment. Community re-
frigeration (until individual units are
available), regular ’bus services to
shopping centres, distribution of adequate
milk supplies from nearby farms and
visits by dentists, doctors and baby-health
nurses should not call for anything out-
standing in the way of organisation.
Schools are already established, and there
is sufficient skilled labor in the mills to
train large numbers of raw recruits.
Sanely handled, the timber industry
offers great possibilities. I know of no
finer place to rear youngsters than the
clean* healthy atmosphere of the N.S.W.
forests. — Stanus (N.S.W.).


open hearth furnace at the Newcastle Steel Works
a “ refresher” of some 40 tons of molten iron
which will he refined into B.H.P. Steel.
Steel
serves every minute
—everywhere
Steel makes possible every funda-
mental process of modern living.
. It helps you every minute of the
night and day in a score of ways.
It is the metal symbolic of pro-
gress . . • the basis of economic
strength measured by international
comparisons. Steel serves you in
your job, your travel, leisure and
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
IRON AND STEEL WORKS .. .. NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
SHIPBUILDING YARDS WHYALLA. S.A.
comfort. It provides the founda-
tion for every plan of industrial
construction or housing develop-
ment.
Australia is fortunately self-provi-
dent in iron and steel through the
operations of The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Ltd.
From the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel
Works and the Port Kembla Works
of Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.
comes an assured supply of quality
steel which will be found serving
you in the many products and ser-
vices we are all looking forward to.
