

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3447
Wednesday, March 6, 1946
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Harrow School: The Chapel and Library.
T JNTIL 1840 the boys at Harrow School worshipped at the historic
old parish church of St. Mary, which was consecrated by Anselm
in 1094. Dr. Christopher Wordsworth, however t for the
school a special chapel, which was superseded in 1854 by the
present Gothic spired structure. Sir Gilbert Scott was if architect
of this latter chapel, of which one side aisle was c'wcted in memory
of the Harrovians who fell in the Crimea. T 1 Übway to the extreme
right of our view is named after Dr. Vaugha, who was headmaster
when it was built in 1860. Sir Gilbert Scott was also architect of
the library, which he designed in the Decorated style. In this
building, in addition to the books for the use of the upper school,
are various curiosities and the portraits of successive headmasters
and distinguished “Old Boys,” who have included Byron, Peel and
Palmerston. In the parish church at Harrow are a number of old
brasses, among them that of John Lyon, founder of Harrow School.


1 Hill
at how:
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
ily Name
My Address
S.B. 146 * AGE
The Red Page
EVERY MAN HIS OWN SCULPTOR.
I fixed this curious mould you read.
You note the setting of the head?
From chin to ear the lingering curve
Shaped in my course from birth to grave ?
I am that insolent deity
Who lit the fires in either eye ;
Sometimes my own Despair puts in
A smoky rim with pressing thumb.
My blade of Wonder shapes my brows
Into this arch of high surprise;
And Calm the tool that chisels smooth
The forehead standing high above.
My mouth that’s round would stretch to
bite
For any cherries Life holds out.
And teeth, set straight, a cage afford
The poet’s tongue, the singing bird.
I’ll shape these long-boned, seeking hands
To know whatever either finds.
And spread them wide to spend or take
What Life can give—what I can make.
N.S.W.
Rosemary Dobson.
Uncle Eustace and the Wren.
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “how
is your glassy essence today?” .
“I didn’t know I had one,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “But probably it is pretty
well.” - »
“I suspect,” said Mr. Shean, “that it is
a trifle opaque.”
“You are behaving in a very peculiar
manner,” said Mr. Gallagher. “It is a
fine morning ; on pastures not too distant
cows lie down in the shade and magpies
make sounds of good cheer.”
“You are just one of those blue-dome-
of-nature-boys,” said Mr. Shean.
“Certainly,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I
am fond of cows. Even, in theory, and
at a little distance, of pigs. I cannot say
that I object to mangel-wurzels or
lucerne. However, in case you are going
to accuse me of ‘escapism,’ let me add
'that I am also one of the bright-lights-
of-the-city-boys. Only half an hour ago
a Sydney taxi-driver allowed me, with
positis'e complacence, to travel in his cab,
and I am at peace with all the world.”
“Anybody who comes to town in a
taxi,” said Mr. Shean, “is guilty of in-
escapable animality. Life, I might add, is
garbage.”
“As long as it is not cabbage,” said Mr,
Gallagher. “A detestable vegetable”
“It is cabbage as well as garbage,” said
Mr. Shean. “Mr. Huxley says so. Some-
thing or other —love, I thinb —reminds
him of sour cabbages.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
have looked at me in a mournful manner
and said that I am opaque ; you have
called me a blue-dome-of-nature-boy,
you have savagely referred to cab-
bage”—
“I am only trying to redeem you from
your hideous and obscene opacity,” said
Mr. Shean.
“Thunder and lightning!” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“You smoke cigars, don’t you?” asked
Mr. Shean.
“In my inescapable animality,” said Mr,
Gallagher, “I do.”
“You should read what Mr. Aldous
Huxley says in his new novel Time Must
Have a Stop, published by Dymock’s,
about people who smoke cigars,” said
Mr. Shean.
“Am I to understand,” asked Mr.
Gallagher, “that Mr. Huxley has become
a slave to the anti-tobacco habit?”
“Mr. Huxley,” said Mr. Shean, “has
become anti pretty well everything. He
doesn’t like cigars, he says love is cab-
bage and life is garbage, and he reproves
a wren for making a ratchet-like noise
in a hedge and thereby ‘asserting its
egotism.’ ”
“Mr. Huxley will be losing His readers
among the wrens,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“And speaking as a hideous and opaque
blue-dome-of-nature-boy, is there any
particular reason why a human being
should subject himself to the ordeal of
Time Must Have a Stopl”
“There are, of course, bits of comedy,”
said Mr. Shean; “notably a scene in a
villa in Florence when an accountant,
surrounded by masterpieces of painting,
solemnly measures the frames with a
view to cataloguing them, without once
glancing at the pictures. I didn’t find
much interest in the alleged ‘poet’ who,
after telling lies and causing all sorts of
trouble, becomes a reformed citizen and
expounds Mr. Huxley’s philosophy at
great length ; but I did find interest in the
adventures of Uncle Eustace’s soul after
the novelist has unkindly killed him off
in a lavatory.”
“Uncle Eustace is a ghost?” asked Mr.
Gallagher,
“In life,” said Mr. Shean, “Uncle
Eustace was rather a pleasant fellow who
liked paintings and cigars—an epicurean.
Now he is a glassy- essence. This is a
scientific age, and Uncle Eustace is a
scientific ghost in a scientific purgatory.
As a kind of non-existent speck of un-
pleasantness inhabiting a cojsmic vacuum,
he is continually becoming glassier or
more opaque as he accepts or rejects the
pressure of mystical light.”
“All things, as T. S. Eliot might say,
are probable and improbable,” .said Mr.
Gallagher. “But it does not seem likely
that a glassy essence would make a very
satisfactory figure in a novel,”
“As a work of art the book is formless
and does not sparkle,” said Mr. Shean.
“I think we might fairly describe it as
opaque. As a moral tract, however, it
may have a very good effect on cigar-
smokers, blue-dome-of-nature-boys and
egotistical wrens.”
“If I were a wren,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“I should give up sounding my ratchet
forthwith. But as I am not a wren, and
as I do not agree that life is either cab-
bage or garbage, and as, in any case, I
really do not care to have my glassy
essence saved today, I think I shall go
out for a short walk under the blue dome
of nature, courageously puffing a cigar
and treating myself, all the while, to the
pleasure of not reading Time Must Have
a Stop.”'
Showgirls and Shakspeare.
An extract from the sub-title of the
first chapter of Charles B. Cochran’s
Showman Looks On (Dent) will give some
indication of the wild medley of his
memories;
The case of the Spanish dancer —Brighton
front of old—Fred Archer—Celebrities at
home—My first pantomime—lrving and
Toole —Florence St. John—The Lady with .
the Beautiful Legs—Louis Hyman’s fame—
Other famous legs—Lydia Thompson’s
“British Blondes” —My first London theatre.
And some miscellaneous information
from the rest of the book —Patti was paid
5000 dollars in gold at each performance
in America before she sang. “Handsome”
Jack Barnes, playing Polonius at Drury
Lane in 1911, made him “a dignified old
gentleman, a distinguished member of a
royal court, instead of the conventional
garrulous old clown” and the play there-
by “gained considerably.” The Ghost in
“Hamlet,” at a performance in the old
Bowery Theatre in New York, where the
stage was protected by a net, became so
annoyed that he stalked in front of the
barrier and hurled back at the audience
the cabbages, tomatoes, carrots and rotten
apples with which they had been bom-
barding him.
A picture of Yousouf, the wrestler
known as the “Terrible Turk”:
Brady describes the Turk as looking like
“a cross between a fairytale ogre and a sea-
elephant.” The Turk always insisted on
payment in gold; this money he kept
always in his belt. One night in Cincin-
nati the Turk said he felt sick and re-
fused to go into the ring. Brady knew
Yousouf was frightened of policemen, so
he got one to go to Yousouf’s dressing-
room and threaten him with his night stick.
Grudgingly he went on to the mat, threw
his man instantly and lay on him for over
two hours without moving—the, money in
the bejt added to his weight.
Brady once made the Turk, dressed in a
fez and the finest Turkish costume a New
York ■ theatrical costumier could supply,
walk up Broadway before he let him stop
at a restaurant with a big plate-glass
window in which a table had been re-
served in full view of the passers-by. By
the time he had finished six steaks, piles
of vegetables, quarts of milk, and whole
loaves of bread, a huge crowd gathered,
the newspapers were of course informed,
and the “Terrible Turk” was headlined in
every newspaper in the country the next
morning.
Mr. Cochran says he can’t be sure how
many different Hamlets he has seen —
between 80 and 100 —and he can’t even
recall all his own shows. Which is hardly
surprising. He has brought before the
public everything from leg-shows to
Shakspeare, from prize fights to opera,
and he could never come to the end of
his recollections.
Though every anecdote in itself is worth
telling, Showman Looks On is too
packed, rambling and haphazard to be
read with ease. It is not the finished
picture, but the colors mixed on the
palette; not a play, but a revue. In a
word, it lacks continuity. Some day,
someone will take up this rambling auto-
biography and mould it into a marvellous
biography.
And “marvellous” is hardly too strong
a word, for the raw material is life at
its most colorful. Mr. Cochran likes a
good meal or a good murder quite as
much as he does a good show. He be-
lieves that “after all, the old innkeeper’s
sign, ‘Good Entertainment for Man and
Beast,’ might well be the motto of the
showman today and of the future.” It’s
a good creed, and Cochran has lived it.
He is what used to be called a Corinthian ;
if not an Olympian.
No Australian could read his book
without a certain wistfulness. He writes
of ballets with an orchestra of 80 in-
struments, And he recalls great days in
Paris when, at Aristide Bruant’s cafe, the
waiters, for a joke, greeted the customers
with “bawdy taunts and deliberately
offensive remarks” and sang at them the
song, “Tons les clients sont des cochons.”
Too Kind to Henry.
A short “novel” by the New Zealander
Frank Sargeson— When the Wind Blows
(Reed and Harris, Ltd.) —concerns a
person named Henry. As a small boy
Henry is given to ruminating in italics:
What are people going to think, a boy
going about telling strange■ people lies
about his mother no no, now listen to me
no money to buy any lollies and a good
thrashing is no please no.
When a little girl looks fondly upon
him, Henry thinks no please no. When
he is 17 and his Uncle Bob asks him if
he has ever had a beer, Henry thinks
no no please no. When he takes a job
in a lawyer’s office and falls in love with
the typiste, he thinks no no please no.
When he has a nervous breakdown he
meditates in several pages of italics;
Yet sinking, gripped and held by the
weight, and bursting, and dissolving and
dying oh NO,
Nothing really happens in the book
except that Henry falls in love with the
typiste, does or doesn’t make love to her
(the italics are completely indecipherable
on this point), has his nervous break-
down and then, apparently recovering on
the last page, begins to take an interest
in another job and another girl. Up
till this stage Henry’s chief ambition, in
young manhood as. in boyhood, has been
to run to his mother and have her hold
his head while he is sick in a basin:
And he was expecting—
you felt sick but mother
—But he was being terribly sick, and
mother was just holding the basin, and
clicking her tongue and saying oh dear,
now perhaps this would teach him a lesson.
Mr. Sargeson may be said to occupy a
place in New Zealand literature analogous
to that of Gerard Manley Hopkins in
English poetry. His output—so far —is
comparatively slight; much of it is marred
by its’ mannerisms; the best of it —
though attractive in its own right—is
chiefly important as a stimulus. New
Zealanders have been active in the short
story lately, and it seems that the core of
energy in the movement has been the
Sargeson volume A Man and His Wife.
A violent book, it vitalised New Zealand
prose in a way that the more distinguished
but perhaps too refined art of Katherine
Mansfield was never able to.
But Mr. Sargeson will have to watch
that he is not outdistanced by the men
he set going. Much better work than
When the Wind Blows is being done
today by New Zealanders who do not
bother any more about being earnest-
minded “modernists.” In When the Wind
Blows Mr. Sargeson is so much a
“modernist” that he forgets to be himself.
For Henry, of course, is a boob. Some-
times Mr. Sargeson seems to bejxying
to present him objectively, and he be-
comes almost as comic as he really is ;
but most of the time the outlook is
serious, tender, sentimental. The con-
temporary fashion for maundering over
the sensitive, suffering child and the sen-
sitive, suffering adolescent has led the
writer into adopting a completely false
point of view. For surely if Mr. Sarge-
son encountered Henry in real life he
would roar with laughter. Why, then,
change his opinion when he writes about
him?
Mr. Sargeson never describes Henry,
who is presumably a pink youth with
pimples. But once that’s admitted, the
cat’s out of the bag; Henry would be
revealed as a comic character; and Mr.
Sargeson won’t have him comic. Again,
the setting is extremely vague. Mr. Sar-
geson can describe the New Zealand
scene very effectively when he wants to ;
but here he doesn’t want to describe any-
thing except Henry’s mind. And for the
reader to be imprisoned, for 92 pages,
in a sentimental study of Henry’s mind-
no no Mr. Sargeson please no.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“J.F.” inspects the seaside:—
U only for the sake of the atmosphere
Manly’s open-air theatre is well worth patron-
ising these fervid evenings. I came on it by
accident saw, heard, inhaled and was con-
quered. Under the spell of the excellent lightine
arrangements a fine square-shouldered fdifice
rises at the end of the Corso in three severe
layers; waxing to a shiny white or waning to
a softer hue at command. Below is the stage
from which a wealth of talent, amateur, pro-
fessional and all the delicate shades between
was lavished on us for practically nothing.
That' is, those people who lounged luxuriously
in deck chairs paid a shilling for the privilege
but standing room was as free as the fresh salt
breeze. In either case we were flanked by
pines; and, cool, and just over to our left as a
sympathetic undertone to the comedian’s vener-
able jokes, was the murmur of the tolerant sea
It was all very charming, and even the
comedian, who was earnestly imitating a clergy-
man when we arrived, had a primitive charm
Only a born nark would have refrained froni
laughing at the one about egg week, and being
christened at both ends, warmed as they were
by the memories of youth. They were so old
they were truly funny. Then Don Baker, some-
time compare at the Roosevelt restaurant, took
over, devastating us with a battery of wise-
cracks: good, bad and indifferent, middle-aged
and brand-spanking new, they were calculated
to suit all tastes.
A fair-haired girl sang sentimental songs with
a lisp; Maggie Foster (who organised the show
for the Manly Council) played a few old favo-
rites on her violin; Arthur Mandel sang a
Polynesian song about a piece of string; and
the Harris Sisters, of Tivoli fame, tied them-
• selves into incredible knots to the tune of
the Pennsylvania Polka.
But the ptece de resistance was the im-
promptu show. Volunteers were lured from the
audience and required to do the compere’s bid-
ding. A prize of five bob was awarded by
acclamation, and the dollar went to a young
man who was asked to imitate a male member
of the ballet interpreting “The Flutter of
Spring.” He tripped and bounded across the
stage with a will, and was hailed with en-
thusiasm.
The runner-up was a lady from Dirranbandi,
which, she assured us, was the greatest little
town in Queensland. She gave a spirited recital
of one of the minor Australian ballads, with
much vigorous gesturing and many repetitions
of names, interspersed with propaganda about
Dirranbandi. In conclusion, she told us that
Dirranbandi was a great little town.
Lili Kraus opened the 1946 concert
season at the Melbourne Town Hall.
The Austrian pianist, who spent two and
a half years in a concentration camp in
Java, looks witchlike when she bends
completely concentrated over the Stein-
way and when she gets up she is a beauti-
ful-looking woman. Her sinewy arms
made short work of Beethoven’s 15
Variations in E Flat Major—with its
haunting anticipations of the 3rd Sym-
phony—of the Mozart Sonata in A Minor
and Schubert’s Phantasy in C Major,
Op. 15, the one in which the composer,
giving the first performance to his friends,
broke off in the middle with the observa-
tion that the devil might be able to play it
but he couldn’t. Miss Kraus likes delv-
ing into the less exploited realms of music,
and in her second programme played the
posthumous Sonata in A Major of
Schubert, who never heard a lot of his
most important compositions. She gives
the impression of an effortless perform-
ance, all the work having been done be-
forehand.
At the talkies:
“To Have and Have Not” (Sydney Regent):
Hemingway’s story of the American fishing-
boat owner in Martinique who becomes involved
in French squabbles. It transfers well to the
screen, owing chiefly to a notable portrayal of a
sodden derelict by Walter Brennan. The much-
boomed, husky-voiced Lauren Bacall, making
her film ddbut, is not impressive.
“The Desert Song” (Sydney Tatler): Warner’s
have “streamlined” the old musical comedy,
mainly by giving it a new plot. The setting
is North Africa in 1939, theme a Nazi scheme
to have a railroad completed to Dakar, for
their own use later. This, of course, is foiled
—not by the Red Shadow, but by one El
Khobar, who turns out to be—who else but a
strong-jawed, handsome, hustling American
journalist in disguise? Inexplicably the pro-
ducers haven’t also included in the cast Puck,
Sydney Carton, Nanki Poo, Simon Degree and
Micawber. Still, Romberg’s delightful tunes are
well sung by Irene Manning and Dennis
Morgan —who unleashes a surprisingly good
lyric tenor —and the film is lavishly mounted
and set.
“The Strange Affair of Uncle Harry” (Syd-
ney Victory) : Psychological drama of hate
between brother and sister, leading to murder.
The story has a sardonic twist, and is feasible
and stirring—up to the illogical ending, which
has been superimposed on Sam Job's original
story.
The late summer crop of paintings in
Melbourne includes exhibitions by John
Flexmore at George’s, Norman B. Cath-
cart at Sedon’s and C. Dudley Wood a.
the Athenaeum. Mr. Wood for som-
obscure reason tries to make his oils look
like watercolors. The result is a lack o-
robustness which may fit in with his
romantic viewpoint but leaves the ob-
server feeling as if he had partaken of a
mock beefsteak at a vegetarian cafe. M r
Flexmore hits off some conventional!}
attractive bits of scenery and some par-
ticularly wooden portraits. The number
of red tabs on Mr. Cathcart’s frames in-
dicates that he has caught the public
fancy. In looking at his pictures the e}e
goes no further than the surface of the
canvas, although a flat pattern is obvi*
ously not the artist’s intention.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW”
I
c3>
t
v
I
«
1
A
ati
1 WJSr q
nipSt!:
'4?o>
(/ & \y "XX
f /•
JL
<iV>
rr.
IB
Hi.
p;
WT<
;ft —
-r
B.
V >
CURTAINS
a*.cf
COVERS
NET CROSSOVER CUR-
TAINS, frilled two sides
and base, with valance
attached. Complete with
frilled tie backs to match.
In Green, Old Rose and
Cold. Price ... 35/- pr.
Coupon Free
A.—36 in. FURNISHING REPP, an all cotton
fabric in popular colours, suitable for Curtains
and Coverings. Blue, Rose, Green, Burgundy and
Rust. Price 4/11 yd.
Coupon Free
B.— art SERGE TABLE CLOTHS trimmed with
high grade Silk Braid in contrasting colours. Size
70 in. x 88 in. Available in Brown, Green, Blue
or Red. Price 657-
Coupon Free
C.—OFF WHITE AND FAWN MIXTURE TAP-
ESTRY, 50 in. wide, a hard wearing fabric in a
neutral shade. Suitable for coverings and curtains.
Price 19/6 yd.
Coupon Free
■ m
m
1
V.
r4.'
pp«
11
I,
■
WM
Hi
ART SILK AND COTTON CUR-
TAIN REPP, 56 in, wide, a quality
fabric obtainable in Blue, Green,
Fawn and Rust. Price, 23/6 yd.
Coupon Free
sdf
SHOWER CURTAINS of
fine quality Oiled Cotton,
hemmed four sides and eye-
leted to hang on curtain
hooks. Size 4 ft. 6 ins. x
5 ft. 6 ins. Obtainable in
plain colours, or with small
sprig or check design.
Price 25/6 each
Coupon Free
• Soft Furnishings —Third Floor.
If you are planning to
furnish a home it will
pay you to avail yourself
of the benefits of our
Deposit Purchase System.
Select your furnishings
now, leave a small De-
posit, and pay the balance
at your leisure.
JlfFSKBWif*”
Sjffi gjjjij
"' $m '
.«itefe2
W»^»lWW»«W«3EleWE»K»«j»liW«»e*««|*PHpP**P*** <
mmmmw^m
I;;. ,| ’ J'„ y '« '.
5 #. *s® ass
&W®S»
>;;■; "~ ;■•:•■
RT\ a
mS.^.
mmmMmmmMmrn&m
i|S?
••** m .ooec •*»«. —wUi ; •:•:•: > &VX &&&&■ Vi to
&&&* WsSsi *&»«& : &&&* MMm &&
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE; M 240! (DAY AND NIGHT) FAMOUS LOW PRICES BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


Dinny Comes Home
By KEIRAN KENNY
IT was Ed. Jarvis, the stationmaster,
who first told us young Dinny Mere-
dith had come home. He told us
when he came over to the post office
for the railway mail. We were sitting on
the steps sunning ourselves as usual.
Ed. put it: “I had just seen the train
off—five .minutes late, she was —and when
I walked back into the office there was
Dinny standing behind the door with his
pack on his back. He must have sneaked
straight into the office when he got off
the train. You could see he didn’t want
to be seen, so for a moment I thought
he must be a.w.1., but he showed his rail
pass as if he guessed what I was thinking.
He asked me if Digger Miller’s cab was
outside. I had a look, and told him it
was. Then he wanted to know if there
was anyone hanging round on the plat-
form. I told him no, and he bustled off.”
Later, Digger Miller drove up to the
post office and came over and joined us
on the steps.
“They tell me you had a passenger off
the train this morning. Digger,” Andy
Cahill said.
“Yes —young Dinny Meredith,” said
Digger. “When he walked out of the
station he jumped into the cab. Natur-
ally, I acted like I didn’t notice anything
strange in his not having anybody to
meet him. I asked him if he was on
leave. He says not exactly. Then I asked
him if he wanted me to drive him home.
He said he wouldn’t be going straight
home, but I could drive him to his old
man’s place.”
“Did he say anything to you about not
telling anyone he was home?” Ed. Jarvis
asked.
“Yes. Did he say anything to you?”
“Yes,” Ed. admitted.
“Bess’d better watch her step now,”
Bert Pringle said.
The matter was dropped while Johnny
Adams, the flash young clerk from the
bank, walked up on to the verandah
and posted some letters.
“There’s someone else who’d better
watch his step, too,” Peter Wilson mur-
mured as Johnny walked away.
“Do you think Dinny’ll divorce her?”
“Looks like it.”
“He’ll have to catch her first.”
“That’s what he’s snuck home for. I’ll
bet.”
“I’d like to see him catch that flash
bank johnnie. Never did like him.” Old
Harry Evans spat towards the bank.
“I wonder how Dinny found out. You
reckon his people told him?” Digger
asked,
“No. I’ll bet they don’t even know, or
didn’t till today. I’ll bet Bess’s people
aren’t a wake-up either.”
“It might have been Bess’s sister. They
reckon she was sweet on Dinny, too. I
know she and Bess haven’t been speaking
lately.”
“Could be. But there’s plenty more
old gossips who’d jump at a chance to
start something.”
“Yes. If you ask me, the women in
this town spend a darn sight too much
time gossiping.”
George Harris came out of the post
office. He said Jack Woodley, the mail
clerk, told him that the girl on the ex-
change said she heard Mrs. Devine, who
lives opposite Dinny’s old man, say to
Mrs. Roberts over the ’phone that Dinny
hadn’t stirred out of the house since he
arrived home.
Harry Austin, from “The Gazette,”
reckoned he saw Claude Willis, the soli-
citor, go into Meredith’s place. Mrs.
Devine told Mrs. Roberts he stayed there
over an hour and then he went away
somewhere with Mick, Dinny’s brother.
I TOLD the Missus that much after
* supper. “I wonder who Bess will have
for a solicitor?” she wanted to know,
I mentioned that to Ben Shultz when I
rang him about a load of gravel. Ben
said Winnie Hopkins told his missus she
had heard that Bess was a wake-up to
what was going on and she wasn’t going
to defend the case. She said Bess wanted
to marry Ernie Scanlon, the traveller
from the Farmers’ Co-operative, She
said she heard that Ernie had been the
one all along.
The wife rang Mrs. Jarvis about some
toffee for the patriotic bazar. Mrs. Jarvis
said Winnie Hopkins was talking bosh,
because if that was what Bess wanted she
could write Dinny a letter telling him she
had been unfaithful and that would be
sufficient evidence. Mrs. Jarvis should
know, because they reckon she was
divorced before she married Ed.
Bob and Mrs. Metcalfe came round for
a game of five-hundred after supper.
Naturally the subject cropped up, and
they said they met the MacShanes going
to the pictures. Mrs, Mac Shane said they
passed Bess down the street. She was
dressed up, too. They tried to see where
she went, but she turned the corner at
the Greek’s and went off down Boyle-
street. Further on they passed Johnny
Adams going up that way, too, though
they couldn’t say whether he went down
Boyle-street. And then they passed Mick
Meridith. He was just dawdling along
the street looking in the shop windows.
“It certainly looked as if Mick was trail-
ing Johnny,” Mrs. Mac Shane said.
“I wonder if they’ll make the raid to-
night,” my missus said.
“They won’t want to waste any time or
Bess will soon hear some of the talk,”
Bob said. “The girls at the exchange
reckon the telephone is going all the
time.”
“I’d like to find out, anyway,” Mrs.
Metcalfe said. “Couldn’t we take a drive
out past Meredith’s place?”....
“We’ll keep right out of it,” Bob
snapped. “Anyway, you’ll know soon
enough in the morning—the whole town’ll
know.”
IT was Digger Miller who first told us
1 the news in the morning.
“About five o’clock I got a ring from
Dinny,” he said. “He told me he wanted
to catch the 6.30 down train and he
wanted me to come round and pick him '
up at six o’clock. I went round at six,
and there was Dinny and Bess standing
on the verandah with their luggage.
Dinny’s father came to the station with
him. The old lady’s laid up —rheuma-
tism they reckon. Bess’s people were on
the platform, too.”
When Ed. Jarvis came over to get the
mail he said Dinny bought a first-class
ticket for Bess and paid the difference be-
tween his leave pass and a first-class
ticket for .himself. “They all stood on
the platform talking till the train came
in, and then away went Dinny and Bess
It reminded me of the time they went on
their honeymoon.”
“Yes, I drove them that day, too,”
Digger said. “In fact, I was nearly going
to ask them just for a joke were they
goin’ on another honeymoon. But I de-
cided I’d better (keep my mouth shut.”
“Yes, and you know who else was there
to see them off? Father O’Brien,” Ed.
said.
“He married them, didn’t he?”
“That’s right.”
“I thought I saw him driving his sulky
down towards Meredith’s last night,”
Peter Wilson said. “I’ll bet he patched
things up between Dinny and Bess.”
“Good thing, too. It don’t do anyone
1 any good, all that scandal,” Harry Evans
growled.
“No, and it’s nearly always just gossip.
I’ll bet Bess never really did anything.”
“She always was a nice girl, Bess.”
“It’s the women who start it. They
just can’t keep their noses out of other
people’s affairs.”
“Yes, some of the women in this town
oughter be knocked on the head.”
CANDLES
A hundred years ago the sun-struck sails
Of a ship moved in the rolling plains of
sea
On the great voyage out to New South
Wales.
It was fair weather, white and gold and
blue ;
On deck the settlers drowsed in the long
trough
Of peace between the old life and the
new.
Suddenly fear jarred taut the sliding days
For a child hurt his eyes, the shade-deep
brown
That still looked with a baby’s solemn
gaze.
These must be trusted, being so far from
land,
To the ship’s surgeon, frock-coat
derelict —
Slurred learning, strong breath, and un-
certain hand.
Nothing to do but pray that hand should
find,
By the mercy of God, some memory of
its skill —
And the hand fumbled, and the child was
blind.
(Deep undersea the currents move, and
swing
One ship out from the convoy, and she
goes
South and yet south, over the icy ring
Into dark silences, where not again
The warm sun will rise up to blaze her
course
To the mast-thick harbor and the tongues
of men.)
He was too young to know he was alone;
This weary night was no more strange
to him
N.S.W.
Than the world of salt-scrubbed planks
and bright spray blown,
Harsh ropes his small , fat hands would
pat, the play
Of gleaming, following wings; and he
sat still,
So patient now, but sometimes he would
say,
“Will they light the candles when we come
to Sydney ?”
This she was called to endure, who would
have done
Anything else, who would most willingly
Have burnt her own eyes out to light her
son.
And when they came to Sydney, glided
clean
Through the Heads on a blue day, saw
shining sky
Arched over jewelled bays, and the hills
between,
Each sun-shaft in green depths was a
turned blade
And each, thin, shimmering leaf on land
a spear
In the open wound his echoing question
made.
Asking of all this brilliance but the dim
Halo around a pointed yellow flame.
And this she could not even promise him.
That is the story. No one, listening, hears
More of that ship, of crew or passengers ;
The roaring waters of a hundred years
Have drowned all but the little voice that
yet
Floats on, slipping from wave to wave,
because
No woman hearing it could quite forget.
NAN McDONALD.
The Mutual Improvement Society
By F. L. COMBS
THE Paka Puki Mutual Improvement
Society was formed in the early
1890’s. Most of the leading towns-
men said that it would be a very
good thing and ought to be encouraged,
but as matters turned out their days were
too full to attend its meetings.
The M. 1.5., not sure of its purpose,
made “snipe flights” in all directions.
That noted scientist Inspector H. W.
Bardell, 8.A., gave it an address on arte-
sian bores, an address that tempted lively
minds to remark that it should also have
been entitled “and other bores.” Inevit-
ably we had a go at Evolution, in those
days still a topic that gave cause for
scandal.
The lecturer explained the way that
horses had lost their toes but came none
too well out of a wrangle with Greg
Wilson, who asked why, since lambs had
been docked of their tails for countless
centuries, didn’t we today have a breed
of tailless sheep?
The lecturer was ruthless in applying
the doctrine of the survival of the fittest,
and, of course, tied it up with the bless-
ings of free competition.
He was again in deep water when
asked to reconcile the effeteness of the
peerage with his doctrine. They (the
peers) had survived the feudal struggle
and were at the top of the social tree,
but were they the fittest? This objection
suited the radical and levelling prejudices
of most of those present, and the result was
that Evolution received rather a setback.
As might have been expected, George
Hopkins could not be prevented from
dragging in Genesis at this Evolution
session of the M.I.S. How did its account
of Creation square with the geological
record? Quite well, said that specialist in
prophecy and Holy Writ K. Macey, and
went ahead explaining that days in Genesis
meant aeons. George then switched the
discussion to the question of how eight
people looked after all the walking and
creeping things that entered the Ark
there were, he said, close on a million
species, and who, thinking of the
monkeys alone, would believe that only
two fleas got aboard the Ark?
The lecturer and the rest of the
members faded out from that meeting
about 10.30 p.m. and left K. Macey and
Hopkins still hard at it.
MY own address on Single Tax as a
perfect means of securing social jus-
tice drew a small house, but a dozen Im-
provers had told me that Friday was an
impossible night for them.
Will Beswick on Socialism was a draw
for the cutting up of large estates, but
everyone said it showed what a menace
Socialism was becoming, and it was
felt that Beswick, a newchum, had a
nerve to advocate it.
Art Kleagle turned up to this address
and derided Socialism by drawing a
deadly parallel between that theory and
the Killing of the Goose that laid the
Golden Eggs, No one -felt inclined to
side with Art personally, but it was the
general opinion that Socialism, like most
theories, could not stand up to the tests
that alone would satisfy practical minds.
The best discussion was on Female
Franchise and Women’s Rights.
A good deal of prejudice was shown
during the course of if. couldn t
reason quietly about things, they always
became emotionally worked up. Look
at their attitude towards prohibition.
They couldn’t see both sides of a case. Ask
them if booze were cut out how were you
to make good the loss of revenue, and
they just said “Bother the revenue.”
Then, could anyone see .a woman sitting
in Parliament and taking part in the
debates? No, the very idea was pre-
posterous.
Only one sex had been given the intel-
lect for that sort of thing, and Nature had
made the other for quite another pur-
pose. Each sex had its sphere. That of
the woman was to be a wife and a mother,
and the sensible women and the womanly
women were with you to a man (sic)
when you said so. Not one woman in
20 wanted to vote, and as to those who
took the lead in working up sex antagon-
ism—well, just look at them; frustrated
spinsters every one of them.
Up to this point the Mutual Improvers
had reasoned quietly, but when Beswick
took up the cudgels for the opposite view
and talked about Man-made Laws and
the need of a Married Woman’s Property
Act his absurd attitude raised a storm
and there was some biting invective—
e.g., not all the old women wore petti-
coats and who did he, Beswick, think
ought to do his washing? Himself?
nr HE fortnightly exercise of the sovran
1 male intellect called for by the
M.I.S. proved strenuous, and after three
months it was decided that every other
meeting should be a card evening.
Euchre tournaments got going properly
at these card evenings, and at the end
of two months every meeting became a
card evening.
It was pleasing to notice how, in spite
of the animus shown at the Women’s
Rights discussion, the two sexes settled
down to the tournament and a royal
good time was had by all. Gradually, or
it might be better still to say evolution-
arily, the character of the gatherings
changed, Improvers dropping out and
enthusiastic eucherers taking their place.
Was this, George Hopkins saturninely
asked, another instance of the Survival
of the Fittest?
Stitch said, “No, George, but you fel-
lows that study such a lot are too far on
ahead and must wait till the time is npe
for your ideas.” Stitch also said that the
Euchres were the most sociable, harmoni-
ously-conducted affairs the township had
ever known. He himself won a crocheted
antimacassar at the third tournament, and
for a joke wore it draped over his
shoulders at the impromptu dance which
followed.
A YEAR after the M.I.S. thus inform-
ally ceased operations the only
vestige of it was a diagram of the way
that horses had lost their toes tacked up
on the west wall. Nobody took the
slightest notice of it. An accumulated
fund of 27 shillings and threepence was,
by joint resolution of a meeting at which
Beswick, Hopkins and two other mem-
bers were present, given to the Library
and was used by that body to complete
its set of Miss Corelli’s works. It 1
remember rightly God’s Good Man, The
Sorrows of Satan and The Murder of
Delicia (two copies) were the books
added.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3447
Wednesday, March 6, 1946
PACIFIC PROTEST MEETING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Priof David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street ,
London, E.C.4.
MACARTHUR'S JOB.
If General MacArthur were called upon
now to give a detailed account of his
I stewardship the report would be in extra-
ordinary contrast to anything of the kind
that could be produced on the European
occupation. By all accounts the Euro-
pean job has been completely botched —
not surprising considering the “system”
of divided authority there, with a dif-
ferent treatment of the Germans in every
zone. Whatever may happen in Japan
presently under the assorted Advisory
Commission set up at Moscow, it will
still remain on the records that up to now
General MacArthur has done as sound a
job in his peace-time handling of Japan
as he did in the war.
Despite such familiar newspaper head-
ings as “Evatt Impatient Over Fate of
Japanese” (4/2/’46), Japan by that date
—under most efficient control and in the
smoothest manner imaginable, without so
much as a minor “incident” reported any-
where —had already been deprived of its
army (as an armed force), its navy, its
air force and every yard of its farflung
empire, both long established and lately
acquired, and what bombing had left of
its warmaking industry had been almost
totally eliminated.
All these and other sweeping changes—
some of them without parallel in Japa-
nese history—had been set in train before
the Jap war ended; in fact, long before
that. At Columbia University and else-
where centres were established for the
special training of administrative staffs
to be available to General MacArthur
when eventually the Japs capitulated,
about which there was never any doubt
in the minds of the commander and other
American leaders, however much others,
screaming for help, may have had the
breeze up. It was characteristic of some
of the loudest screamers that they should
have been among those opposed to the
policy, favored by General MacArthur
throughout, of using Emperor Hirohito
to help bring the war to an end ; a policy
which resulted in the saving of untold
numbers of American, Australian and
British lives, and in the model working of
the occupational control.
It is rarely made clear in reports just
how sweeping are the changes that Gen-
eral MacArthur, interpreting and imple-
menting policy directions broadly agreed
to ' Potsdam, has been bringing about.
The total liquidation of Japan’s air power
is typical. Since the beginning of this
year no person or group in Japan may
“purchase, own, possess or operate” any
aircraft or maintain any research, experi-
mental, repair or production facility re-
lated to aircraft or aeronautical science.
All working models of ’planes are pro-
hibited, along with teaching or training
of pilots. Both private and Governmental
commercial and civil aviation bodies have
been dissolved ; these including such con-
cerns as that which even before the war
flew a network covering most of East
Asia. Even the newspapers and news-
agencies have lost the many ’planes they
were using in the way of business. Jap
’planes by the carrier load have been
carted off to America for study, and such
of Japan’s airfields as are not required
by the occupation forces are being
ploughed and turned into farms.
Under those sweeping prohibitions
; alone, because ’planes are vital to modern
: yvar, Japan has been eliminated as a war-
making threat for many years to come.
With the prohibitions against training,
research and the like continued through
some years of occupation, the Japs will
have an almost impossible amount of lee-
way to make up in the air if they feel
the war urge again. And America, deter-
mined to hang on to every taken Pacific
■island considered strategically necessary,
j can be depended upon to ensure that the
1 Jap Navy—wiped out to the last boat —
remains in the same category. It might
be said that the U.S. policy being imple-
mented by General MacArthur is de-
signed to ensure that Japan will not be
again a threat to Pacific peace for an in-
definite time, either on its own account
or as the puppet of some other ambitious
Power.
The greatest of all changes brought
about under the MacArthur control,
however, has been that affecting the status
of the Emperor, and along with it the
State nature of the Jap Shinto religion.
General MacArthur fired the first shot in
this interesting field on December 15,
ordering the Jap Government to remove
all support from the Shinto religion,
abolish the teaching of Shinto in all edu-
cational institutions and “free all Jap-
anese from any compulsion to believe
in or profess to believe in Shinto.” The
order further prohibited propagation of
“the doctrine that the Emperor of Japan
is superior to the heads of other States
-because of ancestry, descent or other
origin.”
On December 31, in a New Year broad-
cast to the Jap people. Emperor Hiro-
hito made a response that could fairly
be called cataclysmic—a rescript repudi-
ating the legends and myths on which
the throne had hitherto rested, including
“the false conception that the Emperor
is divine and that the Japanese people
are superior to the other races and fated
to rule the world.”
What the Japanese people thought of
that epochal pronouncement has not been
recorded. Perhaps they were too dumb-
founded to think at all. For 60 years
the now-repudiated doctrine had been the
cornerstone of Jap policy and education.
It had been the foundation of Jap mili-
tarism ; the inspiration of the fanatical
Jap fighting qualities which, until the
Emperor, still draped in imaginative
divinity, spoke on an earlier occasion,
had made it seem that every single one
of the millions in the Jap army and other
forces would have to be killed before the
war against them was won.
Just what this unprecedented change
may mean for the future should be in-
teresting to watch. The present indica-
tions are that it has done little harm
to the standing of the Emperor, That
could be deceptive, since the whole people
are under rigid control, or so regard them-
selves despite General MacArthur’s com-
ment on that Imperial rescript, that “the
shackles of militarism, of feudalism, of
regimentation of body and soul have been
removed; thought control and the abuse
of education are no more ; all now enjoy
religious freedom and the right of speech
without undue restraint.” On the sur-
face, at least, it seems that Hirohito has
now something of a head-of-the-family
standing, which, as has been proved else-
where, can be a lasting and eminently
workable status. Whether the Jap soldier
would be likely to find in the change a
substitute inspiration to fanaticism might
be another thing.
General MacArthur followed up his
Successful deflation of divinity by the
sweeping order in January for the sup-
pression of all associations which had
ever promoted totalitarian ideas, and the
ousting from public office of “all persons
who fomented, launched and directed
Japan’s treacherous but disastrous
assault on world peace.” Carried through,
that will mean the exclusion from public
positions of all Jap ex-officers, former
Governors of occupied territories and the
like—about as complete a change in the
political and administrative ruling of
Japan as decree could bring about. On
the other hand, it has been made clear
that mere membership of any now taboo
organisation is not to be considered as
establishing that the member is on that
account a war criminal —one of the
attempted absurdities of the European
occupation.
Above all, the difference between the
MacArthur regime so far and what has
been happening under mixed control in
Germany is the steady, single-purposed
progress made in Japan. Perhaps it may
continue, despite the Advisory Commis-
sion which has superseded the Evatt-
lauded but utterly futile Far Eastern
Advisory Commission. General Mac-
Arthur’s grim comment on the commis-
sion that was set up in Moscow Was “I
have no iota of responsibility for the
decisions which were made there.” Since
then, perhaps fortunately for General
MacArthur’s still far from completed
great job, the bubble reputation of Soviet
Russia —which, with the British Common-
wealth, the U.S.A. and China, makes up
the new commission—has been somewhat
depreciated by the clumsy performance
of its representatives at the U.N.O. con-
ference. It could mean that General
MacArthur will be allowed his necessary
freedom, since majority decisions are to
rule in the commission, and such devices
as the veto are worthless.
Giving New Guinea Away.
Addressing delegates to the Federal
conference of the Legion of Ex-Service-
men held at Sydney, and referring to
U.N.O. “trusteeship,” Dr. Evatt said
“Australia” would “insist on the right to
build air and naval bases in New
Guinea.”
This was reported in one newspaper
only, having been uttered on a Friday
in all well-regulated Sydney newspaper
offices Friday and Saturday issues are
given over to the races —but the report
has not been denied ; and it is at least
interesting. Men who served in the
islands and people who live there would
regard it as important, while not ceasing
to marvel at Dr. Evatt’s habit of referring
to himself as “Australia” and at the role
assigned by him to Parliament.
During the third Pearl Harbor inquiry
it came out in another report, even
briefer, that someone in the U.S. State
Department had toyed with the notion
of offering New Guinea to the Japanese
to keep them out of the war. On the evi-
dence of a Mr. E. Stanley Jones,
described as “a famous missionary” (an
Eli Stanley Jones, D.D., “b. Clarksville,
Maryland, 1884, a missionary of the
Methodist Episcopal Church,” has a
pocket biography in Who’s Who), the
thing went far beyond the idle thought of
some obscure official in an idle moment.
In a series of articles published in “Asia
and the Americas,” a magazine edited by
the novelist Pearl Buck, Mr. E. Stanley
Jones avers that it occurred to and was
discussed by a number of people, nearly
all important. Dr. Kagawa, “the noted
Japanese Christian,” who visited Australia
before the war, mentioned it to Mr. E.
Stanley Jones at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin,
saying “ ‘Japan needs a place for her sur-
plus population.... in an area warm
enough for her to take off her
coat,’ and mentioned New Guinea
as a possibility.” Mr. E. Stanley
Jones was impressed (“the more I
thought about New Guinea as a
place for Japan’s surplus population the
more sensible and necessary it seemed”).
So were Mr. Paul V. McNutt, “formerly
High Commissioner of the Philippines”
(he “thought it entirely feasible”);
Justice Frank Murphy, “likewise former
High Commissioner” (“he declared it was
a practical proposal”), and two of Mr.
Murphy’s friends, “experts in the Far
East” (“after nearly two hours’ discus-
sion they,” and Mr. Murphy, “agreed
the New Guinea project was workable
and that it might turn the tide away from
war in the Pacific”). And “in November,
1941, a broadcasting station in Washing-
ton gave me a period to explain the pro-
posal of giving New Guinea to Japan”;
Some high officials of the State Depart-
ment listened in, and one of them told
me unofficially they were seriously consider-
ing the plan. I urged that they could not
consider it too long, as Japan was oscillat-
ing and would surely swing one way or
another soon.
It will be seen that Mr. E. Stanley Jones
was no mere outsider. He had the entree
to most exclusive persons and places. In
July he had visited “the Japanese Em-
bassy” in Washington “and talked to the
Minister Plenipotentiary.” Going to Mex-
ico, he discussed the situation with “Am-
bassador Josephus Daniels,” who wrote “a
personal letter to President Roosevelt”
(“the veteran statesman was very em-
phatic in his belief that the role of
America was to be a mediator”) and “sent
me the President’s reply.” And “late in
September,” after receiving an urgent
message from Dr. Kagawa, then back in
Japan (“Situation very serious here ; see
President Roosevelt immediately”), Mr.
E. Stanley Jones “went to the State De-
partment and discussed the New Guinea
proposal in detail with some high-up
officials”:
I pointed out that the island might
easily be purchased by the major Powers
interested in the Pacific areas, or, if donated
by Australia and the Netherlands [the
great island belonged partly to the Nether-
lands and partly to Australia, neither of
whom needed it], the United States might
give a money compensation of $100,000,000
to each of these countries to care for those
dispossessed. I contended that the plan
would probably detach Japan from the
Axis New Guinea might turn the tide.
It belongs to Japan’s need just as much as
to the white man and more so. Thus, I
said, everybody would be contributing
something to a peaceful settlement; Japan
by renouncing her conquests in China;
Australia and the Netherlands by giving up
New Guinea; the British Empire through
Australia making its contribution; and
America by offering a grant of money....
Thus everybody would be winning.
In pursuance of his plan Mr. E.
Stanley Jones “conferred with representa-
tives of the Dutch, British and Australian
Governments” in Washington. He found
the Dutch Minister immovable (the
Dutch “would sit tight and refuse to do
anything; there would be no change in
land sovereignty; ‘no part of the Dutch
Empire is for sale!”’), the Australian
Minister “very sympathetic.”
He agreed with me that if we did not do
something of this kind the situation in the
Pacific would never be settled, He said
“If we don’t do something now about
Japan’s surplus population we shall have
to do it within ten years.” He proposed
sending on my memorandum to his Govern-
ment and asked whether I had raised the
question with the State Department, I
told him that the attitude of the State De-
partment was that they could not raise the
question of giving away somebody else’s
territory, and added “So I am the unofficial
fool who rushes in where angels fear to
tread.” “I suppose your business in life is
that of a catalyst in chemistry,” he
responded. “An agent which precipitates
action in other elements but itself is un-
affected.” I liked that! The Minister added
that Australia would be frightened at hav-
ing Japan on her northern border, but if
America would enter into the settlement
and guarantee that Japan would go no
farther, until some*international body took
over the responsibility, then the fears of
Australia would be allayed. I pointed out
that a series of non-aggression pacts would
help.
“The Australian Minister” is not named
by Mr. E. Stanley Jones, but he was then
Mr. R. G. Casey, previously Common-
wealth Treasurer and afterwards British
Minister of State in the Middle East, with
a seat in the War Cabinet, and Governor-
General of Bengal. What is more im-
portant in this connection is that he was
a 1914 A.I.F. soldier and in his
Ministerial days a colleague of the P.M.
who said at Versailles that he would
maintain Australia’s right to control New
Guinea if the whole world were against
it. It is difficult to imagine Mr. Casey
using the words attributed to him by Mr.
E. Stanley Jones'. However, the E.
Stanley Jones statement calls for an
answer from him and one from Dr. Evatt
as to “my memorandum,” if any such
document was received.
In the course of his mission Mr. E.
Stanley Jones saw a lot of other gentle-
men —Lord Halifax; “Dr. Hu Shih, the
Chinese Ambassador, whom I had known
in China; Mr. Terasaki, Councillor ol
the Japanese Embassy at Washington;
Special Envoy Kurusu, Admiral Nomura”
and “the President’s secretary, Mr. Mc-
Intyre,” through whom he got in touch
with Mr. Roosevelt himself.
Our ultimatum of November 26 con-
tained four major points: Get out of the
Axis; get out of China; get out of Indo-
China; equality of trade in the Far East.
I felt if we asked Japan to do these four
things we should give her a quid pro quo.
That is why X had placed so much faith in
the New Guinea proposal; I felt it would
save Japan’s face and be a quid pro
quo The Japanese envoys asked me to
urge the President to send a cable to the
Emperor as a final attempt to preserve the
peace... .The records of Ambassador Grew
show that this cable did not get*to the
Emperor until after the attack upon Pearl
Harbor.
Reviewing his “adventure in failure,”
Mr. E. Stanley Jones sets a list
of “causes that led to this war with
Japan” and gives second place to “the
example of Western Imperialism—this
Imperialism grabbed the Pacific island
world when grabbing was good and held
it, refusing to give Japan a place in it by
conquest.” He lists eight other alleged
causes, No. 8 being “the pressure of
nations” (Great Britain, China, the
Netherlands) “who wanted us to get into
war,” and No. 9 “the giving of an ulti-
matum to Japan without opening a door
that would have made compliance poss-
ible.” With no regrets for having offered
other people’s possession as “the door,”
he asserts that “if we continue to police
the Pacific as an overlord in .that area,
then there will be no lasting peace,
and we shall be hated as few nations have
been hated: another war would be in-
evitable, likely in less than 25 years.”
Such were the exertions and such are
the views of this “famous missionary.”
What New Guinea means to Australians
has been pithily expressed by Osmar
White in his book Green Armor :
It is difficult to imagine a nation more
completely open to even the most hastily-
prepared invasion than Australia was in the
first three months of 1942. All that stood
between her and the Japanese were a few
hundred miles of unguarded sea, a few hun-
dred miles of uninhabited jungle, a few
groups of palm-fringed, roadless islands
and her own shellback of desert —the inert
armor of a neglected and undeveloped
north. Yet that armor served A barrier
of unpeopled sea and jungle saved Aus-
tralia.
Peopled, and with prepared defences,
the “barrier” would stand Australia in
good stead against any enemy. And there
should be no thought of surrendering it,
whether to Japan (which would add pro-
fanation to peril) or the U.N.0., or of
sharing it with “our Indernesian com-
rades,” who, if the Red Fascists have
their way, will enter into possession of
half New Guinea and erect a Red
Fascist frontier. Mandated New Guinea
and the Solomons have been bought for
Australia with the blood and agony of
many thousands of its valiant sons. Aus-
tralia should claim them, as South Africa
has claimed the part of it that was Ger-
man till 1914 and the President has
claimed the islands north of the Equator
wrested by the Americans from the Japs
(the best of them mandated, and annexed
and defended in spite of the mandate) for
the United States. And in the darkening
international situation, with Parliament
meeting again—very tardily—there is not
a moment to be lost.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cant Is in Fashion.
When it came out that Mr. Beasley had
arrived in hungry Britain with tons of
foodstuffs, mostly unprocurable in
London, for his own use, Canberra tried
to take refuge in silence. Then it essayed
a fumbling statement about the huge
private commissariat being necessary to
the Beasley “Resident Minister” status
or something. More nauseating was the
Sydney “Standard,” organ of the Mc-
Kell “Labor” party, which claimed that
the man had had to take the stuff “to
maintain the diplomatic victualling
standard set up by the London smart
set,” that being “only one of the sicken-
ing features of a capitalist economy
which has to be temporarily carried on
by Labor men, much to their disgust.”
The “Resident Minister” was never re-
ported as having been disgusted about it,
nor has disgust ever been displayed by
his associates of the “Labor” movement
when riding in fluid-drive Chryslers, stay-
ing at tophole pubs or buying choice
farmlands in picked districts. And the
defence of Mr. Beasley was contrasted
vividly in the same “Standard” issue by
an article, the work of one H. W. Ox-
ford, which began with the statement
that Britain “faces acute malnutrition,
famine and disease.”
Mr. Fraser, the too-zealous young man
from Eden-Monaro, had another “ex-
planation.” He said the cream (12 cases),
tinned fruits (three tons), sugar (seven
701 b. bags), tea (1001 b.), turkeys (four
cases) and powdered milk (“several”
cases) were needed because “Mr. Beasley
had to transfer his four children from
the heat of an Australian summer to the
cold of an English winter,” and that “to
take such supplies of food,” turkeys and
all, was “the natural thing to do.”
It was reserved for Lord Wakehurst,
till recently Governor of N. S. Wales, to
put down the manufacturers of fustian
by telling a plain tale in a letter ignored
in Sydney but published in Melbourne :
The people of Britain need building
up. The food they are getting is only ade-
quate from a strictly utilitarian point of
view. It should be much more varied and
appetising if it is to contribute t'o what is
really the convalescence of the British
people from the shock of their terrible ex-
periences, Gifts from overseas are tremen-
dously appreciated By sending gifts the
people of Australia are making a real con-
tribution to the restoration of a healthy,
vigorous motherland.
Parcels we have ourselves received have
made all the difference to our living. It’s
the getting something different that makes
one forget the deadly monotony of British
food. .
Perhaps Mr. Chifley read it. Mr.
Chifley must have been informed of Mr.
Makin’s experiences at the Savoy Hotel:
“Had one egg in the month; found the
butter and sugar ration frightfully
severe.” Anyhow, the P.M. has an-
nounced a plan for sending more meat,
having suddenly discovered —though his
colleague, J. J. Clark (Darling), has been
vocal on the subject for months—a rag-
ing blackmarket in that commodity. He
is “determined that these practices shall
be stopped,” and has (yes!) appointed a
Cabinet sub-committee to stop them.
Cabinet sub-committees never stop
anything. One was appointed to stop
wharf looting, but nobody ever heard of
it again, and wharf looting goes on, the
punishment being trifling and never
accompanied or followed by forfeiture of
union tickets,
Moscow's Fifth Column.
Outlawry of the Communist party has
become Country-party policy. Stating
this last week, Mr. Fadden said that the
Communist party had during three years
“repeatedly committed the most flagrant
and undisguised breaches of the solemn
undertakings entered into with the Gov-
ernment on December 18, 1942,” and
that the Attorney-General and his “Gov-
ernment” had failed to exact the penalty
they themselves had prescribed for such
breaches: “The Government will reim-
pose the ban.”
Because of this Government apathy and
because of other disquieting events, which
are the subject of a royal commission in
Canada, the Country-party conference in
Sydney pledged itself to have the Com-
munist party redeclared illegal.
During the same week the Federal con-
ference of the Legion of Ex-Servicemen
decided by resolution that no declared
Communist or Communist supporter or
any person known to have Communist
affiliations would be entitled to hold
executive office in the Legion. It having
been mentioned that Communists had
tried to get control of the Queensland
branch, a speaker said, with general
acceptance, that it would be better to
have no Queensland branch than to toler-
ate such a pollution of the Legion.
But those whom the gods wish to de-
stroy they first make mad ; and Commu-
nists proceed from outrage to outrage.
In contempt of two sets of industrial
laws as well as of the country’s crying
necessities they are trying to blast the
pastoral industry with strikes contriyed
by means of lying and larrikinism. They
and their dupes held up a ship loading
flour in Sydney for Colombo on the
ground that it might be diverted to the
Dutch in Java. They refused to repair
one of four corvettes under transfer from
the R.A.N. to the R.N. on the ground
that they might be passed on to the
Dutch for use against “our Indernesian
comrades.” As an apparent concession
to that forcible-feeble organisation the
A.C.T.U., which, like the “Government ”
has become alarmed at the consequences
of its own folly, they “offered” to “let”
one of the seven Dutch ships held up in
Australian ports since September pro-
ceed to the N.E.i. conditionally on a
Communist “observer” being taken
aboard to see that the cargo was distri-
buted by the British and Dutch accord-
ing to his stipulations and orders. The
Dutch refused the condition. They would
have been within their rights in propos-
ing a counter-condition, that they should
station an observer on the waterfront as
a check on looters to whom no stealable
property has been sacred, not even sol-
diers’ comforts or lifeboat chocolate.
The crime of the boycotted ships was
discussed at “a compulsory conference”
held under the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Act. Afterwards a Conciliation Com-
missioner said for publication that
“150,000 former internees in Java are
in desperate need of the food and medi-
cal supplies which the ships could carry.”
A tragic fact, dishonorable to a Com-
monwealth which had the ungrudged use
of Dutch ships from the moment the
Japanese war broke out, but it left the
Communists unmoved, and along with
them the “Government,” which in this
SPANISH SIDESHOW.
matter has been the craven instrument
of their “policy,” even to the extent of
letting them make a mockery of the
White Australia doctrine. Returned
soldiers are amopg those outraged at this
poltroonery; in public communications
14 Queenslanders, back from enemy hell-
camps, suggest the manning of the ships
by volunteers. And now that Parlia-
ment is in session again the Opposition-
leader, who has not minced his words, is
expected to challenge the “Government
without loss of time.
"Labor" Squires.
On the word of Mr. Tully, the N.S.W.
“Labor” Minister of Lands, who is retir-
ing to the leisured security of the London
office, “approximately 7000 qualification
certificates” have been issued to land-
seeking servicemen in his State, In the
seventh month of peace, and with most
of the servicemen returned they, of
course, have been coming back through-
out “Labor’s” period of office —how
many of the 7000 or more have been
accommodated? Mr. Tully is obscure on
this point, but on February 20 he said
he was “of opinion” that within the next
few months a large proportion of the
first 200 would be “allotted properties.
Mr. Jeff Bate, one of the few N.S.W.
Assemblymen who fought against the
Axis forces —they are all in the small
Opposition groups —was not satisfied with
this reply or with the general outlook for
would-be servicemen-settlers. He said he
had called at the Lands Department,
asked for a qualification-certificate form
and inquired whether any land was avail-
able. The answer was in the negative.
Turning on Mr. Tully, he accused that
gentleman of “running out on the job
of finding land for returned soldiers ”
while “selling his own property and put-
ting the sale through a department of
which he has control,” selling it withal
to a civilian.
Mr. Tully denied the impeachment as
to the buyer, declaring that “he was a
returned soldier.” As to “the property I
had at Goulburn” (Goulburn is his elec-
torate): —
1 bought that property nine years ago
when two men had failed on it. I put a
lot of money into the purchase of the pro-
perty, and then improved it to the extent
of 255. an acre, the total approximating
the resale price. I topped the market with
fat lambs twice this year—that is some-
thing Mr. Bate has never done [Mr. Bate
could reply that he was otherwise engaged].
I not only effected improvements to the
property but I made a success of it where
other men failed The Government is
going to be careful, and we will buy land
for the servicemen as though we were buy-
ing for ourselves.
That may be a comfort to the service-
men, provided they have unlimited
patience, more especially as Mr. Tully’s
leader seems to have been very success-
ful in his own farmland transactions.
“S. M. Herald,” who comipended him
and his party to the electors in 1944 as
having “best served the State and the
nation by going along quietly,” mentioned
last week that he had “three properties
at Goulburn” and had “opened negotia-
tions for the purchase of Newacres, con-
sisting of 1398 acres,” but had met with
an annoying check, some Commonwealth
Treasury official having “declined ap-
proval of the sale at the valuation given.”
That part of the story brought a quali-
fied denial from Squire McKell. The
“Herald” amended it by saying that “the
Federal authorities declined to approve
the first application, made on Mr. Mc-
Kell’s behalf, because the valuer chosen
was not acceptable to them,” and that
they had “now received a valuation by an
approved valuer which is being con-
sidered.” The McKell version was that
the matter “was following the formal pro-
cedure, and no determination” had yet
been arrived at.” In any case, “the three
properties referred to in the ‘Herald’ are
only very small”:
The facts are that it has been necessary
for me to dispose of half the property
which I hold in Goulburn, and, in addition,
to take over a very substantial mortgage to
enable me to purchase the property which
is .still the subject of consideration.
It is improbable that any of the “ap-
proximately 7000” would have considered
the McKell explanation explicit, or been
disposed to draw a complacent compari-
son of his own lot with that of either
“Labor” squire. Memories of fighting
in desert and jungle while “Labor” was
“best serving the State and the nation
by going along quietly” (in the pro-
cess setting up a racing club and
ignoring the existence of the bet-
ting and booze rackets and all the
other rackets) must have broken in, not
cheerfully. There is also the considera-
tion for N.S.W. servicemen in general
that, just as there are no farms, there are
no houses and precious few desirable jobs,
though they were all promised in pro-
fusion. And those who follow the course
of “Labor” politics in N. S. Wales will
recall that if “Labor” had had its way
Mr. McKell and most of his Ministers
and Assembly supporters would be able
to retire on pensions of £6 a week, with
a 50 per cent, reversion to their widows,
after continuous “service” in three Par-
liaments, no matter how brief the “ser-
vice” in two of the three. And if “Labor”
brings off a majority at the Legislative
Council elections this month the pensions
may still be payable, for “Labor” has
hide enough for anything.
Complaint from a Hillbilly.
He calls himself “Jimmie Moonshine”:
I’m one of them hillbillies the Sydney paper
blokes talk about.
My old granfer used to say to me Stay m
South Oss, lad, and you won t never be
troubled with these newfangled tactona.
There’s crows in South Oss, and wot s better
eating than a crow, fried or pied? There s
no coal, thank the good Lord, and where you
ain’t got no coal you wont have no pes*.y
Seems he was wrong, dang him. .
It was that young Holden lad that started it,
and when I first saw him a-cuttmg down me
trees to clear a place to make his motor-bodies
I said to myself “No good’ll come o this,
and sure enough, none hasn’t. . ,
And when them other young smarties started
putting up their factories hither and yon in au
the paddocks, I knew I was right and i saia
to granfer “What about it now?”
And granfer said “Don’t you worry, lad.
They’ll come to no good. They got no coal
and they can’t impede with those big cnaps
in Sydney.” But he was wrong, dang him.
Came the war, and they started putting up
bullet factories everywhere, and before long a
man had to walk miles to find a straw to chew,
but granfer, he was getting old, but still as
stubborn as ever, and he said “Yes, they can
start ’em, but they can’t keep em. No coal,
you know.” . , .
“Seems they’re mighty big, I told him.
“Big and all, they won’t last, said granfer.
“Stands to reason they can’t. No coal.
“Seems as though a bloke oughter get out a
bit,” I said. “Into the mulga or somewhere.
“You stay where you are, lad,’ granter
me. “It’s war-time now. When it s all over
they’ll all close down. Have to. Ain t nobody
going to be silly enough to start up here. Can i
impede with those Sydney slickers.’
That’s what he told me, dang min.
Well, they tell me the war’s finished now
That bloke Hitler beat Togo or something and
it’s all over. And this morning I heard them
talking outside the pub where I used to be able
to get a mug o’ beer before all this monkey
business started. And they seemed mighty
pleased about something, so I listened. Seems
as though the Holden place—they call it General
Motors or something now —is going to build
more motor-bodies than ever now and there s
talk of making cars, too, and something about
sheet metal, whatever that is.
And that’s not all. The big cotton mills in
old Davie Bower’s paddock—granfer said
they’d come to no good, dang him —is starting
out to double their plant. Gojpg in for dyeing
and bleaching now, they tell me. And over
behind the racecourse past where they made
the bullets there’s to be a big tyre plant.
It were a good place for mushrooms when I.
were a lad, that paddock, and now it’s ruined.
Eight hundred men they’re going to have work-
ing there, I’m told, just making tyres lor other
folks’ motor-cars. Sounds crazy to me. And
someone else is going to make kitchens out ot
steel, they say, and another big plant out KU-
burn way —used to be a slaughteryard in my
time—is making steel tubs, or maybe tubes, and
that’s not the worst.
Across at Hendon, m the paddocks where 1
always used t'o be able to get a rabbit or two
till they put a bullet factory up there too,
some other bloke —Philips, I think they said
the name was —is putting up another factory
to make those there lamp globes and ( gadgets
like that. Two thousand people he’s going to
have working for him, and what do you think.
He’s shifting his factory from Sydney.
So there you are! Factories everywhere.
Goodness knows what they’re all using for
power. P’raps it’s this new anatomic energy
I’ve heard tell of. And granfer said we was
safe ’cos we had no coal 1 I’d like to tell him
what I think of him, but it’s too late. He died
last week, dang him.
Facers for Ward.
Appearing as a witness before the Com-
monwealth Grants Commission, Mr.
Playford referred rather disparagingly to
the standardising of rail gauges on the
Clapp-Ward plan; cost £230,000,000
and the rest. “Plans are nebulous,” said
the one Liberal Premier, “and it will be
at least five years, probably seven years,
before the first sod is turned.” Partly for
this reason he asked for a special Com-
monwealth grant of £150,000 p.a. for five
years “to enable a deferred railway mam-
tenance programme to be undertaken.”
The financial position of the State
Government railways was mentioned.
Acting Commissioner Chapman said
“earnings for the current financial year”
were down £528,000, and wages were
“continually rising,” while competition
from airlines and road transport in-
creasingly darkened the outlook. “Is
wheat carried at a loss in South Aus-
tralia?” the chairman asked innocently.
“We carry everything at a loss if you take
the overall picture,” the acting Commis-
sioner replied sadly.
While the members of the commission
were turning this evidence over in their
minds, and perhaps guessing what annual
losses might amount to when (or if)
the S.A. Government railways are
“standardised” a four-engined commer-
cial passenger ’plane flew from Perth
to Melbourne in six hours 16
minutes; average speed, “on 60 per
cent, of power,” 285 m.p.h. And
two veteran American fliers received
“official permission” to operate an air-
freight service between Australia and
China, “carrying top-quality Australian
products.” As earnest of good faith and
ability of performance, they came to Syd-
ney in a twin-engined Dakota which can
carry 70001 b. of freight; and in Shanghai
they have four additional aircraft wait-
ing to start the service to Australia.
All this makes “standardising at a
cost of £230,000,000 (and the rest) look
rather silly; but Mr. Ward is undis-
couraged. His mind hasn’t grown since
1917, and he thinks 17,000 returned ser-
vicemen are longing for the chance to
become railway navvies and the like.
Servicemen’s real longings are tor wna
the Wards haven’t provided: training tor
productive jobs, farms and houses.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluviua
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
B 0fL; 117 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
The Wi11...
of a man on the land
Needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who
will conserve his Estate for those whom, under his Will,
he desires to benefit.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
has for over fifty years successfully managed country
estates with pastoral, grazing and mixed farming
interests and during that period the Company has
surmounted the difficulties associated with adverse
seasonal conditions, marketing problems and the ever-
changing economic situation.
The Company is aided in its management by the expert
and practical knowledge of its Pastoral Inspector—a
landowner himself—who is available to report on all
properties under its control.
. Write lor Booklet.
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
John Ewing
P. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE GO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY
Do you need a /
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including mcdicaland dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The U.S. State Department has made
an awful mess of American relations with
Argentina. Last year it had a Mr. SpruiUe
Braden in Buenos Ayres denouncing the
Peron regime, and on his return to Wash-
ington it had him promoted for having
“ousted” the regime—for quite a fort-
night. And just before the Presidential
election the State Department came out
with a Blue Book giving Peron’s Argen-
tina hark from the tomb. As a natural
result, Peron has become President with
a tremendous electoral majority. It is
to be hoped that the same clumsy fellows
are not behind the proceedings against
Franco, and that they will not be per-
mitted to drag Britain into support for
those putrid French Communists Thorez
and Marty. Hitherto, Britain has had a
golden rule in Spanish and Spanish-
American affairs: non-intervention.
South Australians, justly proud of
their Food for Britain effort and puzzled
and exasperated at “Federal Govern-
ment interference” (Adelaide “Adver-
tiser”), have heard again from Minister
Dedman, who “replied” in his fashion
to the head of the S.A. Food for Britain
purchasing committee:
If Mr. Simonett had any conception of
the organisation of food supplies in Aus-
tralia necessary to ensure the dispatch by
the Government of thousands of tons of
butter and the making available of upwards
of 200,000 tons of unrefined sugar, of the
co-ordination of this with available ship-
ping space and the problem of maintaining
supplies of butter and sugar sufficient to
meet the coupon scale over a vast area, in-
cluding localities hundreds; sometimes thou?
sands, of miles away from the main centres
of production of these commodities —if he
had had all this information, then he would
have known that it would have been ex-
tremely foolish of me to have instructed
the Deputy Director of Rationing in South
Australia to allow stocks there to be drawn
upon without first inquiring what was the
distribution of surplus stocks throughout
Australia.
A sentence of 140 words —more than
half the number in Lincoln’s Gettysburg
Speech! Yet appropriate in its way ; for
all that people ever get from the Dedman
combination is words, words, words!
Dr. H. C. Coombs, Director-General of
Post-war Reconstruction —in other words,
apostle of the future-wrapped-in-cello-
phane and the new-Australia-in-techni-
color—cast up in Perth (W.A.) and told
the intrigued Westralians that his visit
was mainly to check up on how re-
establishment work was getting on. He
needn’t have gone all that long*way.
Anyone could have told him in two
Words: “It isn’t!”
There are the beginnings of a retreat
from Canberra’s war-time invasion of
Melbourne. Makin reports that all but
11 of the buildings “taken over” by the
Munitions Department (27) have been
vacated and that over 1000 telephones
have been handed back to the P.M.G.
But there are still lots of superfluous
departments about.
It took over a year for Victorian poli-
ticians to decide whether horses were
more important than houses on Wren’s
Ascot racecourse, although residents were
practically unanimous for houses. The
price of acquisition has still to be
decided; also the question whether one-
storeyed, two-storeyed or multi-storeyed
houses are to be erected.
There is a potato famine in Melbourne.
Thousands of bags of undersized pota-
toes, just as good food as the standard
specimen, and as the murphies Britain,
itself short, is sending to Germany,
are being condemned in Victoria.
Growers have implored the Common-
wealth authorities to let them market
these comestibles at a price that will give
them some return on their outlay—they
3os. a bag without “control.”
But “control”— i.e., socialism—remains,
and appeals against the caprices of “con-
trollers” are useless.
Every time the McKell-Tully No-land-
for-Diggers outfit is twitted about the
7000 N.S.W. servicemen looking for
farms it promised but hasn’t provided, it
rushes into print with grand pictures of
20 blocks now ready for the ballot. They
are out in the “dry” north-west of Bre-
warrina and might run a sheep to eight
acres, nor do they carry any soldier-
settlement loan. McKell and Tully prefer
to confine their own land operations to
. the safe, high-carrying Goulburn district.
In Melbourne “Herald’s” opinion the
A.C.T.U. “acted wisely in refusing to
sanction bullying methods of achieving
the workers’ aim of the 40-hour week,”
but “spoilt this wise policy” by “a supple-
mentary resolution in favor of mass
demonstrations the day before the claim
comes before the Court.” What’s the
difference between “mass demonstrations”
and “bullying methods”? Cantor, J.,
found none when he walked to his court
at Newcastle (N.S.W.) through a yelling
Communist mob.
Perhaps nettled af the latest check to
his Ministerial ambitions, Joe Arthur,
M.L.A. for Hamilton (N.S.W.), said to
his A.L.P. branch that “the housing short-
age could easily bring down the State and
Federal Governments, and neither can use
any more alibis to explain it.” Then,
obviously realising that he had gone be-
yond the “safety-first” sign of which all
Labor politicians disposed to be critical
are conscious, Joseph added that there had
been “a miserable failure on the part of
private enterprise to meet housing needs.”
He didn’t try to explain how private en-
terprise could possibly meet these needs
when manpower and control of building
supplies were “Commonwealth matters”
and when the N.S.W. Housing Commis-
sion was given a building monopoly.
At Canberra they rarely discuss foreign
affairs and never in winter-time. In the
dead of winter the British Parliament has
had a two-days’ debate on foreign affairs
as a sequel to the long U.N.O. dogfight.
There were significant references to Italy,
MacMillan, for the Conservatives, urging
the restoration of the old friendly rela-
tions, and Bevin promising this for the
Government which means, amongst
other things, that Trieste will not go to
Tito. Where major British interests are
concerned, foreign policy is independent
of time and the caprices of constituen-
cies, and even those of dictators when the
dictators have had their day.
Young Joe Gullett, soldier-son of the
man who was M.H.R. for Henty (Vic.),
and who after 15 years died in an air
crash on service as a Minister, is the
Liberal candidate for his father’s electo-
rate. He had nine opponents for the nomi-
nation, the most formidable in point of
voting being Major-General Charlie Lloyd,
who will probably become a Senator, as
did “Pompey” Elliott. Having tried to
get another Wilson in Wimmera, and
failed dreadfully, “Labor” has been
obliged to run someone for Henty. Its
reluctance is ill-concealed.
McKell is in a dreadful state of mind
because the Dominions Office jibs at ap-
pointing McKell or some other McKell
nominee to the Governorship vacated by
Lord Wakehurst. It may possibly take
the view that such an appointment would
be viewed in unfriendly quarters as being
related to the feeling which has found
expression in the boycott of Dutch ship-
ping and repairs to British corvettes by
way of championship of “our Indernesian
comrades.” The difficulty could be got
over with general acceptance, except in
the Red Fascist quarter, if the right man
were chosen. In 1933 Collier’s Labor
party defeated Mitchell’s Nationalists at
the Westralian State election. There being
a vacancy in Government House Collier
straightway appointed the native-born
Mitchell Lieut-Governor, Since then
Government House has had no other
occupant and nobody’s a penny the worse.
A dismal impression that Evatt referen-
dum figures are much more of a guide to
what will befall this year than 1943
general-election figures has been pro-
duced among Labor members by a post-
Wimmera examination. In the House
as now constituted, with Wilson and
Coles out, there are 49 Labor electorates.
Twenty-six were against the party on the
referendum, the adverse majorities being
stunning in most cases: Calare (17,809
to 31,335), Eden-Monaro, Gwydir, Hume,
Martin, Parkes, Reid, Riverina, Robert-
son, Watson (N.S.W.) ; Ballaarat, Wannon
(Vic.); Brisbane, Capricornia, Griffith,
Herbert, Kennedy, Lilley (Queensland);
Boothby, Grey, Wakefield (S.A,); Forrest,
Perth (W.A.); Bass, Denison and Frank-
lin (Tas.).
In the “app’int Maloney” tradition,
the retired Minister to Moscow should
be succeeded by Murphy, the Food
Controller, who has been embarrassed
by the sequel to his opposition to the Food
for Britain appeal. It is suggested that
the job should go to Mrs. Jessie Street, of
Sheepskins for Russia celebrity. Calwell,
whose opinions on Russia were poles
apart from Mrs. Street’s before he became
a Minister, has cast her for the part of
ousting Old Digger Harrison in Went-
worth,
While people who derive from the same
race as most of the Commonwealth Mini-
sters are helping nobly in the Food for
Britain appeals (the work of Station
2SM and its John Dunne is outstanding),
Calwell continues to snarl at the British
for not placing the Queen Mary or the
Queen Elizabeth at his crowd’s disposal
for the shipment of stranded Australian
servicemen’s wives and children. It is
the Calwell Government’s duty, not
theirs ; and in the desperate condition of
the British export trade they need the pair
of Queens to earn dollars so that they
may eat. And why didn’t Calwell charter
the Manoora for the job that his “Gov-
ernment” has shirked, instead of using
it to tote 900 Indonesians to Java, where
they can only be another headache for
the Saxon?
Potatoes are the Germans’ staple food.
Because “potato surpluses in the Russian
zone”—the most productive part of the
Reich —“have been used to distil
schnapps,” chiefly for the Red Army,
rations for the 20 million Germans in the
British zone have had to be cut from
1500 calories a day to 1014 calories,
“slow-starvation level.” In Germany,
Austria, Poland, Hungary, Rumania,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Bulgaria and
Finland the Russians have huge forces
living off the country convenient
for Moscow, but, along with loot-
ing and raping, it explains why the
Russkis are universally hated. At
the same time they are “poling” on
U.N.R.R.A., to which Australia, like
Canada, Britain and the U.S.A., is con-
tributing 1 p.c, of national income—in a
few months of 1945 U.N.R.R.A. sent
43,694 tons of food to the Ukraine, which
ought at least to be producing its own,
and 22,024 tons to White Russia ; value in
dollars 158,000,000 and 50,000,000 re-
spectively. For greed, ingratitude, double-
crossing, skiting, spying on and stirring
up sedition in benefactor countries, the
Oriental militarists who call their im-
perialist concern the U.S.S.R. are in a
class of their own.
It now looks as if De Gaulle resigned
because he saw the Franco business com-
ing and decided to let the clumsy Com-
munists have their way, since he could
not prevent it. He must have smiled
grimly when Franco outwitted the Corns.
by closing the Spanish side of the border ‘
first.
Senator McKenna, from Tasmania, has
been put up to say that the Chifleys can’t
implement” the A.C.T.U.’s prescription
for general happiness—a basic wage of
£6 Bs. for a 40-hour week—without a
referendum. As for the dishonest pre-
tence that they could introduce the 40-
hour week by “adopting the 1.L.0. con-
vention,” there is actually no such “con-
vention,” and, if the external power were
used to enforce the thing as a pious 1.L.0.
aspiration, it would have to run the gaunt-
let of the High Court with dreadfully
indifferent prospects of success. Mc-
Kenna is a lawyer, and Chifley thinks no
end of him.
“A wilful, lavish land,” Dorothea Mac-
keilar called it many years ago, and every
year since it has lived, up to the descrip-
tion, Great drought in 1944-45, great
floods in 1945-46. The floods have ranged
from Westralia to Victoria, putting under
water thousands of square miles between
Darwin and Adelaide. Melbourne was
flooded at the end of February, the N. S.
Wales North Coast just before that; now
Queensland has been deluged under up
to of rain, and the Burdekin and
adjacent parts swamped by 80ft. of flood-
waters, There has been enough water on
the continent in the past six months to
keep it sweet for years—if it' had been
conserved. BuJ the old, sorry tale of
neglect goes on. Even now, with the
lesson plain before them, the Govern-
ments cheerfully contemplate spending
£230,000,000 on an outdated rail unifi-
cation plan while the life-giving water
runs away to the sea or soaks uselessly
into the desert.
Apart from the waste and damage of
the floods, the continent-wide rains indi-
cate a wonderful season. Wonderful
seasons have been the sequels to drought
in all Australian history. Even “Labor”
Governments should have learned that,
and even they should know, especially
the one at Canberra, that with half a
world starving Australia is presented with
a grand opportunity. The danger is that,
if their “leaders” dabble in “nationalisa-
tion,” the grand opportunity will be frit-
tered away. Landmen, ready and willing
to grow foodstuffs for the world, must
wring their hands, sore bound down by
war-time restrictions no longer necessary
—unable to get machinery, parts, fertil-
isers, fuel or labor and ndrvous of every
long envelope in the mail for fear it may
contain another order or a bunch of
forms to be filled in before they can get
on with the job.
Australia is in for an outbreak of
articles and speeches asserting that it will
get greater production from the 40-hour
week than from the 44-hour week. The
authors could clinch their case by show-
ing that when the need for maximum pro-
duction was worldwide all the belligerents
took four hours off the working week —
but did any of them?
Members of the Queensland Teachers'
Union showed decisively at two recent
postal ballots that they intend their union
to remain non-political. For affiliation
with the Labor Council the voting was
561 in favor and 2362 against;
and 2221 voted against a proposal
to affiliate with the Labor party, with
only 701 in favor (majority 1520). This
latest ballot shows, by comparison with
the voting in 1937 (650 for affiliation, 817
against), (1) that Queensland teachers are
now more interested in registering their
votes on such proposals, (2) that as a body
they desire to be public servants in the
true sense of the word.
“Yen”; In a par, on the appointment
of the sixteenth N.S.W. Minister (B.
27/2/’46), Sheahan and Enticknap were
described as “returned soldiers of the last
war.” Right as to Sheahan, but the bit
about Enticknap is news to us on the
M.I.A. Though we know Enticknap is
minus a leg, we never heard before that
he lost it on active service.


ONE “LABOR” SQUIRE TO ANOTHER.
“One of the papers—not the paper that called you Digger Tally—says you’re going to buy a property in England, old boy.”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Clooter”: Every now and then the
daily press discovers one of these birds
who go fishing with a pair of goggles
and a short spear, the method being to
float face downward in the water and
spot your fish through the goggles,
whereupon you dive and prong the poor
cow on the skewer. The articles always
praise the skill and aquatic ability of the
spearman, with the usual photographs
of the kill. Well, I discovered one of
them at our local beach. For well over
an hour he floated about, occasionally
disappearing and then coming up to gasp
in air, and at the end of that time he
swam ashore with a 21b. flathead squirm-
ing on the barb. The fisher was pain-
fully short of breath, had a staring ex-
pression and was palpably shivering
from the effects of prolonged and mostly
passive immersion. On a rock a hundred
yards to the right were a man and boy
sitting comfortably in the sun. They’d
been there about an hour and they’d
hooked, with rods and lines, three flat-
head, a bream, four, tailer and a large
flounder. Some people take their
pastimes the hard way.
* * * *
“Becks”: The award of the American
Bronze Star to Mickey Rooney for “ex-
ceptional courage while entertaining
troops under fire” has caused a mild out-
cry in the States from critics who feel
that this and similar awards are bringing
the whole American ribbon system into
disrepute. No mention is made of any
particular act of bravery, so it would
seem that Rooney’s award is for the gen-
eral job of singing to the troops in for-
ward areas. In that case, surely every
man who listened to him ran simiiar risks
and should also qualify for the Bronze
Star? Probably the authorities (and the
men) thought they had been adequately
rewarded already by hearing him. Had
they been compelled to listen to Frankie
Sinatra on top of the other horrors of
war every man would have deserved the
Congressional Medal.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: Accidents apart, a
Sydney bus ride is full of thrills. Hav-
ing caught your bus you are startled when
it bounds off in the opposite direction
to the one reason tells you it should be
taking; it takes the first opportunity to
dive down a side lane with an apparent
preference for one which looks like a dead
end but has a twist in it; then it takes
a sharp turn back, followed by a turn
to the left and another sharply to the
right. Meanwhile the traveller’s sense of
direction goes completely by the board.
Although bus routes seem to have
been selected in order to include as many
twists as possible, the experiences they
provide are really exhilarating when it is
realised that the vehicles actually do reach
their scheduled stops. But is there a city
in the world with as many twisty roads as
Sydney?
♦ * * *
“Maleesh”: There is nothing wrong
with people learning Russian, if they can,
but I object to a published assurance
that the language is “easy and
logical, and is spoken throughout
the length and breadth of the
Soviet Union.” Russian is neither
logical nor easy. In fact, it’s a cow of a
language. And although most educated
citizens of the Soviet understand standard
Russian and can read and write it, the
standard of literacy is much lower than
we have been led to believe. Any pro-
fessor of languages who tries to carry on
a conversation in academic Russian with
a Ukrainian peasant or a swarthy Asiatic
Russki will soon find himself falling back
on the good old sign language. Learning
the alphabet is a formidable task on its
own, for it has 30 letters, besides the soft
sign (myerlcy znark ) and a few letters
which have been deleted in a new Soviet
version. The reformation was an im-
provement, linguistically speaking, but if
the student wishes to do any reading in
the language it is necessary to learn the
deleted letters. All the pre-Revolution
literature uses them, and nothing that has
been written since the revolution is worth
a row of pins as literature.
* * * *
“Hist”: Stamp collectors may be
puzzled to come across American stamps
postmarked “Canberra.” These emanate
from the U.S. cruiser given that name in
memory of our own cruiser sunk in the
Guadalcanal action. On Navy Day last
year—October 27 —a special canceller
was used, impressed in green. It shows
a leaping kangaroo with a lance clasped
in its forepaws and is worded “Greetings,
U.S.S. Canberra, Navy Day, 1945, Balti-
more.”
“The very first time I use the thing—and just look at it!”
“Puyyaka”: Mention of the centenary
on April 23, of the birth of Marcus
Clarke (B. 23 /1 / ’46) recalls my first and
only meeting with that strange genius.
Aged about seven, I sneaked into my
father’s library one afternoon to admire
again the beautiful colored picture of
birds in an ancient Pantologia. A bright-
eyed, smiling, bearded man was sitting
there alone. He asked my name —Jack —
took me on his knee, and in five minutes
had won my child-soul completely. Never
had I dreamed of such stories as he told
me in a golden voice about Jack and
the Beanstalk, Jack Horner, Jack and Jill,
dozens of Jacks, each stranger and more
diverting than the last. As my father’s
steps sounded on the stair he produced,
seemingly from his ear, a shining half-
crown, and, saying that it had been hurt-
ing him all day, begged me to relieve him
by taking it away and spending it before
it- could get back into his ear. To a
solitary-minded little boy, it was like
meeting the true Son of the Morning.
• * ♦ ♦
“Jasby”; Another Brisbane habit the
tramway people in other States could
well emulate (“Bethune,” B. 27/2/’46) is
the numbering of tram stops. Who
hasn’t had the annoying experience of
hunting for a friend’s tram stop? “Ask
the conductor to put you out at Wim-
pole-street,” says your friend. You ask
him and realise from his glare that he
has no idea where it is. He avoids you,
and, as street after street flashes by with
no nod from him, you begin to panic.
He comes back, to collect a fare and you
broach the subject again. “Oh, Wim-
pole-street,” he says—“are you sure it’s
on this line?” You are doubtful by now,
but you insist it is. “Sure you don’t
mean Winston-street?” he asks. “No.”
“Or William-street?” You shake your
head. The tram whirls along. He
appeals to the passengers. “Anyone
know where Whittle-street is?” “Wim-
pole” you insist. No one seems to be
sure, though several are willing to help.
“Isn’t it the one by the picture theatre?”
“Hasn’t it got a milk shop on one
corner?” It may be and it may have,
but that doesn’t help you much. The
discussion continues, and so does the
tram. The “conny” goes up to ask the
driver and returns to say that there’s no
such street on this line. The tram pulls
up and an elderly passenger taps your
arm. “Excuse me, I think I heard you
ask for Wimpole-street. It was three
stops back.” In Brisbane your friend
says “Tell them to put you off at Stop
19.” And that’s all there is to it.
* * * *
“Milgia”: Apropos of “T. the R.’s”
cheerful verses (B. 20/2/’46) on the sup-
posed activities of John Masefield as a
barman, the poet himself is more modest
-about the part he played there. “You
were a bartender once, Mr. Masefield?”
asked a New York reporter 20 years later.
“Oh, no! Never a bartender. Bar-
tenders are artists. There’s as much skill
and poetry in a fine fizz as in many a
quatrain. No, I was never a bartender
—nothing more than a scrub-boy,” an-
swered the poet,
* * %
“Shufti George”; One of Melbourne’s
oldest hostelries will undergo a drastic
facelift when plans for rebuilding Hosie's
are put into effect. Originally the
Hobson’s Bay Railway Terminus Hotel,
the present unpretentious edifice was
bought by James Hosie in 1885. In 1901
it was taken over by Johnnie McArthur
—in the good old days when beer
was threepence a pot and counter-
lunch could be had for another three-
pence. Old-timers who have to go home
thirsty after a late night at the office or
a show sadly recall the fact that Johnnie
secured two extensions of his trading hours
—from 6.30 to 7 a.m. to “cater for the
needs of railwaymen and other such per-
sons who had spent the night on duty,”
and from 11 to 11.30 p.m. to “satisfy
customers who had been visiting the
theatre.” The new building will be of
14 storeys, and will have spacious lounges
and bars, a cellar lounge on the lines of
the English private bar and large air-
conditioned dining-rooms.
* ♦ * *
“X.S.”: A decision unique in Vic-
torian legal history was made by Judge
Moore when he awarded £lOOO damages
to a 12-year-old boy against the City of
Camberwell for negligence in maintain-
ing street trees it had planted. The boy
lost an eye through walking in the dusk
into the branch of a tree which was
growing at a downward angle to within
four feet of the footpath. The judgment
will make suburban councils sit up. There
must be tens of thousands of trees in the
metropolitan area suffering from similar
aberrations.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Assuming thht “Pitt St.”
(B. 6/2/’46) is male, he should pray that
the queue habit does not disappear from
the peace-time landscape. In the queue
system lies our sex’s only hope of survival
against the unfair sisterhood, which
shrieked about full equality and at the
same time traded on male chivalry by
edging its way in, to the exclusion of
the long-suffering male. Before the queue
habit laid down rigid codes a masculine
sense of fair play rendered taboo the
jumping of a man’s claim at the ticket
window, bar counter or anywhere else.
The weaker sex, however, was entirely
unscrupulous in this respect. In the queue
any chivalrous acceptance of feminine
brigandage is deemed effete. So I’m all
for it.
“C.V.M.”: Although Professor K. H
Bailey missed a seat on the Bench of
the International Court, he should get
some satisfaction from a tribute paid to
him by A. P. Herbert in the London
“Sunday Times”:
Salute the Drafting Committee of the Pre-
paratory Commission of the United Nations!
It is a great story —Canada and Australia
starting, fighting and winning the battle of
language in the forum of the world; a battle
not for the English language only but for
simple language on the cosmic scene.
Professor K. H. Bailey, of Australia, Chair-
man of the Drafting Committee, said that the
aim of the Drafting Committee was to ensure
that the form of presentation and the lan-
guage used in the official documents of the
United Nations should be simple and direct.
What a fine thing that, from this poor
bankrupt country, this golden contribution to
a Better World should go forth! Finer still
that the moving spirits in this battle for the
English language should be a Canadian (Mr.
Escott Reid) and an Australian.
* . * * *
An ex-drinker looks back:
Even if there is the regret that such joys
have fled it is pleasant on hot days to recall the
cool, quiet drinking spots of other days in
Sydney. Drinks were delightful served on the
broad verandahs of Petty’s Hotel, which still
had its peeps of the harbor, with canvas
awnings keeping off the heat. Pfahlert’s cellar
bars were cool and seldom overcrowded, and,
further on, The Hole in the Wall in Wynyard-
lane (it was the basement of a pub, now gone,
which faced Wynyard-square, where Australia
House now stands) was the chief haunt of
Bohemians. It had a sawdusted floor, tables and
chairs, and the customers had their beer drawn
straight from the wood. It became a roughhouse
at night, but on hot days it was a pleasant
spot to sit in and chat with friends. Pelegrini’s,
in King-street, was another Bohemian haunt - .
Going down the steps from the hot street you
sat in the cellar coolth among the vats from
which the wine you desired was drawn. Then
there was the “bush-house” at old Usher’s,
which stood where the “Daily Telegraph” put
up the pile now the Trust' Building. Usher’s
itself had a garden, and the bush-house was
a pleasant spot. All about Sydney were such
cool places—the balcony of The First and Last,
which looked over the ferries at the Quay;
the broad verandah at the Bay View at
Edgecliffe (it looked over Double Bay and
the harbor to the Heads, and water was hosed
on the roof to increase the coolness), the little
cubbyhouses, fern and staghorn sequestered at
the back of Mrs. Adrian’s, at Manly.
* * * *
“G.R.”: Who said dogs are faithful
animals? From puppyhood a red setter
had much attention lavished on him by
a childless Queensland couple. He was
bathed, brushed and fed regularly. Every
morning the wife got on her bike and
pedalled three miles so that he would get
enough exercise. Hubby, home after a
hard day’s work, would spend half an
hour each night throwing a ball about
for the dog to chase. When the Ameri-
cans built a camp nearby, the setter
promptly became Yank-happy and spent
most of his days there, returning home
only when thoroughly dirty to stand be-
side his bathtub begging to be washed.
One day a G.I. Joe drove up with the
dog sitting beside him in the jeep. “I’ve
brought your dawg back, Mam,” he said.
“We’re moving north and I didn’t like
to take him away from you.” A lazy
wag of the tail was the only recognition
his mistress received. Thoroughly fed
up, the jilted woman replied, “Please take
him with you. We are adopting a little
girl and I won’t have time to care for
him.” A grateful Yank drove off with
the fickle setter sitting beside him.
TALK ABOUT BEER.
“ ‘There is too much talk about beer in Aus-
tralia,’ declared Senator Keane before leaving for the
U.S. last month.” .
Still, Senator, there’s little use complaining.
John Stuart Mill himself has hazarded
That there’s invariably much remaining
On all important subjects to be said.
And I imagine everybody knows
That beer is eminently one of those.
The less we get of anything for which in
Officialdom we’ve been compelled to trust,
The shortages of what we once were rich in
Are with increasing frequency discussed
And lead to comments in a peevish strain,
Forthright and blunt and apt to be profane.
Talks touching beer, one notices, you’re swift to
Decry; it seems they irk you and displease.
Is that because they’re liable to drift to
Analysis of your deficiencies,
Who seek to shift the blame for scarcity
Of wallop on whatever gods there be?
Now, Senator, you’re safe across the ocean
Where ample stimulants are flowing free,
With foaming ale among them, I’ve a notion,
Available to chaps like you and me,
And probably you’re thankful to be clear
Of cities where they talk too much of beer.
Bethink, though it may be too late to profit
From all you may have learned of beer and
stout,
The more the Bungs have got to offer of it
The less it’s likely to be talked about
And cause such repercussions as may end
Your crowded hours, my Senatorial friend.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE MIGHTY ATOM.
“Protests have been raised in America against the
projected atomic bomb test by the U.S. Navy in
May, on the ground that it is experimenting with a
machine that may destroy all the ships and aircraft
engaged and eventually destroy the world.”
Who knows if all the stored duress
The dreaded bomb releases
May help to make our world progress
Toward new heights of happiness
Or batter it to . pieces?
A priceless blessing will it show
Or catastrophic terror?
Ah, well, there’s but one way to know,
One path alone we’ll need to go—
Trial, in short, and error.
Will those who pioneered the way
Be ranked with such a trio
In years to come as Newton, eh?
And Thomas Edison, we’ll say,
And good old Galileo,
Who first discerned the earth was round
(Although he wasn’t permitted
For long his thesis to expound),
Our modern scientists who found
The atom could be splitted?
Or will their very names survive
For venomous aspersing
And epithets that rend and rive—
If anyone is left alive,
That is, to do the cursing?
I wonder in the end will man
Come to revile or pat ’em
Upon the backs, extol or ban.
The notables who first began
To tinker with the atom.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Zake”: In Sydney a man evidently
frothing drouthily at the strange spec-
tacle made a grab at a sugarbag con-
taining 13 bottles of beer, bound
for the “official” table at a subur-
ban town hall ball. Flying hotfoot down
the steps, he tripped with his precious
burden, and the six bottles that
were broken gushed forth almost as
much moisture as was caused by the
tears of strong men who witnessed the
tragedy. A passing cop arrested the mis-
creant and a severe Beak separated him
from five of the best, plus 9s. 9d. “com-
pensation” for the owner, “compensa-
tion” being reckoned at Is. 7 yd. a bottle
for a commodity that can’t be procured
anywhere in Sydney under about 3s. 6d.
On the same day a 20 - year - old
girl who skipped to Queensland with her
boy friend, plus £l7OO she had lifted from
the strong-room of the Sydney pub in
which she worked, was given a fatherly
talking to and put on a bond for five
years. The moral seems to be—if you
live in Sydney, anyway—that if you must
pinch something go the whole hog.
* # * *
“Hamer”; The piers to hold the Circu-
lar Quay viaduct for the city railway and
overhead roadway linking the Bridge and
Macquarie-street have to go down 78 feet
at what was the Tank Stream mouth to
get to rock bottom. There was a really
good scour in the Tank Stream which
hollowed out a deep course. One curious
effect was that when the original Ship
Inn at the Quay was built it was a real
ship ; the builders had to go so deep for
foundations that they made a raft of
hardwood logs on the mud floor and built
on that. Packed into the mud it was as
solid as was needed for a building not
too heavy ; when the really big buildings
arrive at that end of Pitt-street there will
need to be deep sinking for foundations.
sfc sk
“E.C.8.”: Tell “Jasby” (B. 13/2/’46)
that although wax matches may be for-
bidden in the southern States this has
never been the case in Queensland. To
obtain wooden matches in North Queens-
land you must ask especially for them,
otherwise you are handed waxies. War-
time diversion of wax vestas to the islands
and substitution of safeties merely con-
vinced northerners that the wax varieties
were “out on their own.” Now that the old
favorites are back smokers of “makings”
can wax the tips of their cigarettes and
not have to put up with the soggy end
otherwise unavoidable in the tropics.
Burnt fingers are a common occurrence,
but a sure cure is to clamp the scorched
spot to the lobe of the ear. There is no
effect on the latter, though the burning
on the fingertip ceases at once.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “Guy” (B.
20/2/’46) is a corruption of the Yiddish
“goy,” meaning stranger or unbeliever,
introduced, like so many other “Ameri-
canisms,” by immigrant Jews. The
Yankee nasal twang did the corruption.
“I get out here, missus—could you breathe in a bit?”
Fifty years ago “guy” was in common
use in the speech and newsprint of New
York when I first visited that great city
on which the Statue of Liberty so rudely
turns her back, and I had heard it used
by American sailormen several years be-
fore that. Indeed, the very liveliest bar-
room scrap \yhich stands out among the
memories of a somewhat hectic seafaring
youth arose from an innocently-meant
reference to “you guys” by a lit-up
Yankee second mate in a boozery at
Apia two years after the Calliope hurri-
cane of 1889. Our third mister took it in
the English sense of grotesque-looking
blankard, or words to that effect, and
landed him one on the beezer. Other
Yanks regarded his action as an unpro-
voked assault, battle was joined, and
within ten minutes old Peter’s groggery
looked as if another cyclone had struck it.
* * * *
“XVX”: My wife died in December
and I cancelled my allotment. Now I
have received a screed from the Finance
Office, Melbourne, addressed to Mrs.
XVX, advising her that her Army allot-
ment has been cancelled owing to her
death. I suppose there’ll be a follow-up
at any moment asking why she hasn’t
acknowledged the notice.
* * # *
“Macnell” recalls a gallant ship:
For me the anniversary of Darwin’s first air-
raid will always bring to mind the epic fight
put up by the U.S. destroyer Peary. From a
sloop nearby I watched her ordeal from begin-
ning to end, what time we weren’t firing, for
Peary was caught anchored in mid-harbor, and
we zigzagged past her several times at full speed
to confuse the Nips’ aim. She was subjected
to the general medium-level attacks; then four
dive-bombers singled her out for their own.
The first howled down and washed her upper-
deck with his bomb splash; the next caught
her fo’c’sle and its desperately firing guns in a
vicious flash that razed the lot; the third missed
short; and the last released his load at mast
height. The bomb had barely time to right
itself before it buried its armor-capped nose
deep in the little ship’s vitals and blew her
apart. An airlock must have formed in the
after part and kept her quarterdeck afloat —the N
rest of her had seemingly dissolved in smoke
and fuel-driven fire. On that quarterdeck high
out of the water, cocked at a sharp angle with
the weight of submerged wreckage trying to
drag it under, its crew barely able to stand on
the slippery deck, Peary’s last gun was still
firing. The bombers were coming in again in
a strafing run to finish her off, but as these
sailors still had their gun intact it hadn’t oc-
curred to them that they were finished. In six
years of war there will live in my mind one
picture that is glorious—the background of
smoke streaked with leaping red, four demons
snarling down on a broken ship three parts
under, and, its crew’s unadorned guts the high-
light - of it all, a fighting gun that belched its
last shot as Darwin’s oily harbor closed over
its muzzle.
* * *
“Bo”: Judging by the fabulous salaries
Hollywood pays its hooey merchants, it
must have cost at least 100,000 dollars
for a team of high-pressure studio
thinkers to coin, after long thought, “The
Voice” as an appellation for Frankie
Sinatra. Contemplating that cadaverous
crooner’s water-wing ears, one wonders
why they didn’t hit on “The Lug” im-
mediately and thereby save approximately
98,000 bucks. Also, having already
applied the term “sultry” to Hedy
Lamarr when trotting out the guff pre-
paratory to release of that actress’s
Tondeleyo in “White Cargo,” some
furious brainwork was needed to find
something new for Lauren Bacall. So
another 100 “grand” or thereabouts went
down the sink, and the latest screen siren
became “The Look.” Miss Bacall has
made her film debut. “The Look” turns
out to be a monotonously reiterated side-
long glance from under half-closed lids,
the while she saunters past the masculine
object of her passion with exaggerated
slowness. The effect is completely spoilt
when the damsel has to get a trot on,
* * * *
“Findy”: A bluepointer shark caught
near Sydney contained in its innards the
head of a dog and a man’s wristlet
watch. There’s nothing surprising about
the dog’s head —Sydney sharks have
always had a penchant for a canine
lunch —but the watch set conjecture going.
as there was no record of a man being
taken by a shark anywhere near the spot.
Mark Twain would not have been
worried by a detail like that. After the
American humorist visited Australia he
told a story of a shark caught at Wat-
son’s Bay. The sportsman who caught
it found a wallet inside, and, being a
shrewd businessman as well as a big-
game fisherman, he made hotfoot for the
city and bought up wool on a grand scale.
That was the year before the England-
“There, duckums—see how easy it is!”
Australia cable was laid, and the wallet
contained a steamer ticket and call-up
papers of a German reservist. The shark
had apparently swallowed him when he
fell overboard from the London to Ham-
burg packet. Then, heading for warmer
waters, it had made a non-stop run to
Sydney, beating the mail steamer to Aus-
tralia with first news of the outbreak of
the Franco-Prussian War. The astute
sharkcatcher, realising that war would
mean an increased demand for wool for
uniforms, made a large fortune out of
his lucky find. Well, Mark said he did.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Touching Victoria’s Educa-
tion Department school paper (B.
20/2/’46), it set out to explain to the
young mind the mysteries of preferential
voting. A number of candidates was listed,
and the votes they had gained in the first
count were carefully stated. The youthful
readers were then asked to show how
the decision would work out when
preferences were allocated. It isn’t
recorded how many pupils and parents
got headaches in lortely farmhouses and
suburban villas trying to resolve the de-
partment’s riddle, but one bright lad
pointed out that the first count already
gave one candidate an absolute majority.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Thirty years ago the “S. M.
Herald” was more usually “The Old
Lady of Hunter-street” than “Granny.”
There was much play on the Granny
side, however, when her afternoon
paper the “Echo” was running and
getting itself into trouble in the pursuit
of the sort of news that makes evening-
paper circulation. That the “Herald”
once ran an evening sheet is almost for-
gotten now. The newsboys’ call was
“ ‘Ev’ning Noos,’ ‘Star’ an’ ‘Necho’ ”
in spite of all its efforts, the “Herald”
pup never struck a higher place in the
newsboys’ grading. And it struck more
trouble than the others from persons
seeking damages; so the “Echo” died,
* * * *
“S.”: “Simon’s” man (B. 20/2/’46)
with the X-ray of the phosphor bronze
splice in his intestine reminds me:
During the war there was a great demand
for cellulose transparent sheets for
identity-card holders. A resourceful
manufacturer thought of the used X-ray
sheets that should be available at some
of the big hospitals. He secured them in
great numbers at a small price and set
girls to clean them up. They proved a
great diversion for the lasses, as they
showed broken bones, with buttons,
bullets, coins, safetypins and other iron-
mongery against a background of gaunt
hooplike ribs. One sheet bore a “case”
number running to several figures.
“Look,” said the girl handling it, “this
poor bloke’s swallowed his lottery ticket.”
“Melbn”: Acting on the information
that Perth City Council had commissioned
a farmer to shoot some of the city’s
multitude of pigeons, Lud Mayor Con-
nelly wants to find a responsible person
with police permission to perform the
same office in Melbourne. Why doesn’t
he leave it to juvenile private enterprise,
as it used to be left? A building I rented
a room in was infested with pigeons. One
day the office boy in an adjoining firm
arrived on duty on a brand-new motor-
bike. As he drew the magnificent emolu-
ment of 17s. 6d. a week, the manager
was concerned at this sudden access of
prosperity. When it transpired that the lad
had often been seen leaving the building
late at night with a heavy sack on his
shoulders the manager’s suspicions be-
came acute. He instructed an assistant to
lie in wait for him. That night the young
man was caught stealing from the build-
ing with a sack over his shoulder. The
sack turned out to be stuffed with live
pigeons. Some were sold to suburban
fanciers, but most went to the pubs, which
in those barbarous days served squab
and a pot of beer for sixpence. The
method of trapping was a trade secret
of the pigeon-catchers’ union,
* * * *
“X.S.”; A Victorian ex - p.-0.-w.,
after years at Changi and five
months on the notorious Burma-Moul-
mein railway, where he suffered from
beriberi, malaria and pneumonia, was
sent up for his final medical examination
before discharge. He was ordered into
hospital for three Weeks, and after an
exhaustive overhaul the doctors found
him in no very serious condition except
for a tendency to dermatitis. Their diag-
nosis cheered him, but their explanation
of it didn’t. They suggested that he was
suffering from blood-poisoning due to the
bad drink and worse tobacco he had con-
sumed' in the Jap camp. “Yes,” he com-
mented grimly, “the bottle of beer and
the packet of cigarettes I got at
Christmas were certainly not up to Aus-
tralian standards.”
* * * *
“J.J.W.”; All the chain stores seem to
have become soap-bubble conscious.
When we were kids we were mildly in-
terested in blowing bubbles; an invest-
ment of one penny would secure a clay
pipe, and the good old household soap did
the rest, aided by a bit of lung power.
Now it seems that you need much more
elaborate equipment, consisting of at least
one blowing instrument, both a single and
a multiple bubble ring and numerous
tins of special bubble soap of various
hues. The set costs a few bob. If this
continues it won’t be long before Hygienic
Mud Pies, Ltd., puts a line of sterilised
dirt on the market and starts national
mudpie contests.
“Uco”: “Clooter” (B. 27/2/’46) men-
tions the traditional celebration of Guy
Fawkes’s Day. When I was a boy in
South Australia the festival was always
observed with all the trimmings. For
weeks beforehand huge pyres would be
steadily accumulated on vacant blocks in
every suburb. At daybreak on “the fifth”
groups of small boys would go from
house to house, some dressed up in old
clothes and with false faces, others
wheeling an effigy of Guido in a hand-
cart. Their appeals ranged from “Spare
a penny for the guy” to elaborate strings
of doggerel handed down through gener-
ations of devotees for 300 years. Money
thus collected and other coins hoarded
for the purpose were expended on
crackers, cannons, catherine-wheels and
other fireworks that appeared at that
season as if by magic in every shop near
a school. When night came the bonfire
was lit, the “guys” burnt and the fire-
works “let off” in a glorious riot of noise
and brilliance. In a lesser degree the
festival was still observed in Adelaide a
few years ago. War and the brownout
may have stifled it, but I have no doubt
it still survives. New South Wales seems
never to have worried about celebrating
the discovery of Guy Fawkes’s plot. Per-
haps Sydneysiders, contemplating their
own Macquarie-street edifice and the
doings of its inmates, think Parliament
should have been blown up, anyway.


ABORIGINALITIES
ever we were working near the chaff-
mill I’d hear the big fellow muttering sar-
casms and insults about the man in the
chafftruck. One day it became neces-
sary to move a short rake of broad-gauge
empties down the road, and, after I’d
started ’em with a pinchbar. Mat put his
shoulder to a buffer and kept ’em moving,
the road taking him past the aversion in
the chafftruck. Seeing that Mat needed
no help, I turned away and was stricken
speechless to see two coupled empties
speed past me. As I yelled a vain warn-
ing to my mate a full chaffbag hurtled
through the air, hit him and knocked him
sprawling beside the road just as the
empties hit his rake with a sickening
crash. Mat picked himself up, turned
slightly green as he realised his escape,
stepped across to the * chafftruck and
silently shook hands with his savior.
Then, as we walked back to discover
who’d let those trucks go, he muttered
to me “The cow. He not only threw that
ruddy bag too hard but picked out one
full of saffron thistles. And I’m blanked
if I can do a thing about it.” The follow-
ing Saturday night the two met and
fought each other to a standstill.
* ♦ * *
“M.U.R.”: The bottle-green beetle,
about the size of a garden slater, was on
its lawful occasions when the wasp
swooped. Before the wasp could get
home with its paralyser, that beetle
bucked, for all the world like a horse,
dislodged its captor, and in a flash had
vanished underground. The astonished
wasp ran around in a frantic search for
the escaped victuals, then philosophically
departed. Anybody identify the beetle?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: To southerners egg-collect-
ing may appear as a safe and harmless
“Old-timer”: Little Curl, who spent
most of his life in the saddle, spent most
of his waking leisure studying advertise-
ments for novelties in the magazines. The
hut was littered with the gadgets Little
Curl had acquired, from a saxophone
which the seller had claimed he could
learn to play in 12 easy lessons to a minia-
ture camera for the waistcoat pocket.
Then Little Curl sighted an advt. for a
haircutting implement with which a man
could barber himself, and his enthusiasm
knew no limits. “Gripes,” he raved,
eagerly absorbing the particulars, “a
bloke’d be able t’ keep his head cool all
summer and save a lot, too. Reckon it
must cost a man a quid a year for hair-
cuts. Bloke could hire it to other blokes,
too, I reckon.” Pocket Knife somewhat
sarcastically observed that if the sheep
could be taught to use it there’d be no
need for shearers, but Little Curl wasn’t
dashed. When, the thing arrived it looked
like a cross between a miniature lawn-
mower and a handpiece, and Little Curl
went straight to the hut, cleaned the
mirror, spread the instruction sheet care-
fully before him and set to, finding him-
self, as the writers say, “the cynosure of
all eyes.” Curl made a couple of passes
at his head, something stuck; he tugged
and let out a yell. Then, with an awful
glare in his eyes, he regarded the blood-
stained instrument and hurled it from
him. “No doubt I’m a ruddy goat,” he
said, “spendin’ me dough on useless damn’
things like that.” Later I happened to
read the instructions. Little Curl had
somehow been sent a new kind of tail-
docker for lambs.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Solitas”: Two phases of the national
outlook —that strange but happily waning
prejudice against our own products and
reverence for the racehorse —cropped up
in the publican’s booth at a country race
meeting. From the horsestalls came a
strapper with a lemonade bottle and a
florin, which he put on the counter as
he called for “two bobs’ worth of
whisky.” As Bung’s hand went out
towards a bottle of a well-known and not
too bad local hooch, the customer stopped
him with “Not that blasted muck! I want
it fer me ’orse.”
* * * *
“Binnatang”: There is an explanation,
alternative to the obviously humorous
one, as to why Tommy’s creek ran only
before a change in the weather during
the dry part of the year (B. 13/2/’46).
It is the same as that of the “blowhole”
in limestone country, from which a
strong current of air blows at some
times, with a strong indraught at others.
When the barometer rises the pressure
of the air increases, forcing air down the
hole and into the porous rock strata
below; hence the indraught. When a
change is approaching the air pressure
decreases, as the falling barometer indi-
cates, and the air rushes out of the hole.
It has been proved that this inrush and
outrush of air can force spring water
back into the beds of porous rock, sand
or gravel and assist it to flow out again
—anyone who takes the trouble to com-
pare a barometer with the flow of an
intermittent spring can prove the point
for himself.
♦ * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Alongside the tran-
shipping ramps at Hamley Bridge (S.A.)
was a chaffmill, whence bags of chaff
were shot down a wooden chute and
stacked in the railway trucks by a big,
fair bloke with an habitual disdainful
expression. Mat took a violent dislike
to the chap, though neither had ever
spoken a word to the other, and when-
“These handbags are no good to me. Cant you get me a bayonet ?”
hobby, but in the tropic north it can pro-
vide thrills enough to attract hundreds of
spectators. A 17ft. lady crocodile in the
St. John’s Zoo, near Townsville, recently
deposited a clutch of eggs in a mud nest
on a river island and proceeded to guard
them in the savage fashion of her kind.
Ranger Fred Howe, of the Brisbane
Botanic Gardens, a 55-year-old Mons
veteran of World War I, wanted some
for specimens, and was invited by John
Robinson, owner of the zoo, to come up
and take them. He himself had nearly
been killed on a previous occasion of the
kind. The Townsville fire brigade opened
proceedings by hosing the mother away
with a high-pressure jet and keeping her
from getting back to the nest. Four
other, and bigger, crocs, were also pre-
sent, and only a timely warning from the
loudspeaker broadcast prevented one of
them from collecting the collector as he
collected. It had crept up within a yard
of him and had to be beaten off with a
sapling. Fifty-three eggs were obtained,
and 600-odd onlookers agreed they
wouldn’t have tackled that job for all the
tea in China.
« ♦ # ♦
“Man Sawvy”: Brother boong at
times displays an astonishing business
sense. It is on record in the files of the
Royal Papuan Constabulary that an old
sorcerer wandered in from his jungle
home, and to get shade from the noonday
sun parked himself at the foot of the
radio station at Port Moresby. Talking
to the locals, he heard that the two tall
jiggers and the wire plucked messages
from the air for the white man. Thinking
deeply, he wandered home to the bush
and put up a couple of bamboo poles
and strung a bit of lawyer-vine between
them. Then, building a little kunai hut
at the base, he squatted in it and sent
out the glad tidings; “Messages from
your dear departed while you wait.
Modern methods used. Fee, one chook
or pig.” Business was extra-good, and
the old boy waxed wealthy. He’d prob-
ably be happy and prosperous now, only
that he got a swelled head and received a
message from beyond the Styx telling the
villagers to pay no more tax to the white
man and to mop up the next patrol tha
came along. This they did. Now
that go-getter shudders every time he
passes the jailer’s house in a working
gang and sees his wireless aerial glinting
in the sun.
* * * *
“Wigwag”: • Ant-lions on Morotai
make their conical pits just anywhere at
all. The best yet has been in a pepper
cruet. How it got there and what it lived
on, except, perhaps, pepper, nobody
knows. When the pupa formed it was
entrusted to the padre, who reported the
emergence of a perfect lace-wing,
apparently none the worse for living in
such a sneezabie substance.
* * * *
“S.F.”: One of the station hands had
just received his discharge from the
Army and was to start in his old job.
He tossed his civvy “issue” suit to
Bombo, the abo. stockman, who accepted
it in high glee. That night he returned
the suit. “Why, what’s wrong, Bombo,
didn’t you like it?” asked the ex-Digger.
“Bin get into the clobber orright,”
answered Bombo, “but missus and kids
laugh and laugh their heads off, and
reckon ole man look proper no-hoper in
it. Better givem clobber mission feller.”
* * * =l=
“H.A.L.”: Have seen those New
Guinea natives who bear a striking re-
semblance to ancient Gyppos, including
the tawny-red hair (B. 13/2/’46). Up
in the islands you strike lots of things
which can’t be explained as throwbacks.
On the coast of one big island is a bay,
shut in on three sides by lofty and unin-
habited hills; on the strip of coastal
plain between beach and mountains is a
large village whose inhabitants bear no
resemblance to the Melanesians who live
over the rest of the island. They are
taller and lighter of skin ; they build a
different type of house, and all their carv-
ings, tattoo markings, implements and
customs are quite distinctive, as is their
language. Also, their hair is not fuzzy
and crinkly like that of the typical
Melanesian but dark, glossy and straight.
The Japs didn’t discover them,
A.N.G.A.U. sternly discouraged tres-
passing on their territory, and very few
Australian soldiers saw them. The ac-
cepted explanation for their presence is
that they are either a backwash of the
great Polynesian migration or that some
Polynesians, exploring by canoe, decided
to settle there. But here is the puzzling
thing: today this little community doesn’t
make canoes, nor does it fish.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I wouldn’t advise “Zake”
(B. 16/1/’46) to place too much confi-
dence in the rat as a snail destroyer. My
experience is that the rodent only takes
on the mollusc diet when short of every-
thing else. On my W.A, plantation,
where snails abound, the rats show a nice
discrimination with regard to diet. When
the supply of nearly-hatched eggs and
fluffy chickens gives out they turn to a
fruit menu, picking and choosing be-
tween ripe tomatoes on the bush, Cape
gooseberries and grapes. However, I
can’t complain that they are wanton in
their fruit-eating, since they eat only one
bunch of grapes at a time, plucking off
every berry and leaving the bare stalk as
witness. With the passing of the fruit
they turn to pumpkin—on the hoof, as it
were. Only after the pumpkins have
gone, which about represents the tail end
of the season, do they turn to the snails.
But not for long, since April sees the
chick-duckling season beginning—and
with that —well, who wouldn’t prefer
poultry? »
$ * * »
“Lower Tops’l”: Am not so sure about
the sea-snake being one of the fastest
underwater creatures (B. 6/2/’46). Re-
cently at picturesque Darnley Island,
Torres Strait, where both the Jblack and
yellow-and-black sea-snakes abound, we t
used to watch the islanders skin-diving
on the off-lying reefs. We noticed that
on sighting a diver underwater the ser-
pent always attacked, coming straight for
his eye-glasses, but those boongs never
had any trouble to duck the wriggler,
and, as it went past, grab it with both
hands and with a tug break its back.
Those islanders told me they learnt this
trick as piccaninnies back on the village
reefs where playing with sea-snakes is a
juvenile pastime. Bites, they aver, are
never fatal, but make a victim sick for a
month.
# * * *
“E. 2”: Bert, a long, thin, dyspeptic
and touchy cove, went to work for
Skinner at the beginning of the milking
season, and at the end of a fortnight
Skinner had warmed to his favorite sub-
ject of getting a start on the land. He
was holding forth in the cowyard one
evening. “Now, y’ take it this way,” he
said, “f work f’r me this season an’
the next, savin’ all y’ possibly can. That
gives y’ a bit up y’r sleeve, see? Then
I let y’ take my place on shares. A'few
seasons at sharefarmin’ an’ y’ve got
enough t’ plank a deposit on a small
farm. In a few more years y’re paid orf
an’ ready t’ branch out in a big way.”
Bert digested this information. “Long
time before I git a place,” he muttered.
“Yairs, it might be,” agreed Skinner.
“But y’ve got t’ crawl before y’ walk, y’
know.” Bert dropped the bucket and spun
round. “Eh?” he asked. “Y’ve got t’
crawl before y’ walk,” Skinner repeated.
“Well, that settles it,” Bert replied
heatedly. “I’m walkin’ orf now before
I’m s’posed t’ start crawlin’ to someone.”
And he went to collect his blankets.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: “There’s a big black snake
bin livin’ under a haystack at Morgan’s,”
said Wattie. “ ’Course, when Morgan
cuts the stack f’r chaff Joe has t’ find a
new home, an’ it shifts t’ under the house.
Morgan hisself never worries about
snakes at all, but his missus gits the wind
up properly when she sees the wriggler
slither out from a bed of phlox near the
verandah. So, Morgan bein’ down the
paddick, she sings out t’ Charlie Hicks,
who brings his old violin t’ coax the
wriggler from under the house. Well,
Charlie gits playin’ a few sentimental
toons f’r a start an’ pretty soon is
carried away by the noises he’s makin’.
Morgan comes along later an’ finds
Charlie fiddlin’ away dreamily, while the
snake is reared up on its tail prancin’ in
front of him.” “An’ Morgan outed the
snake?” I asked. “No, but he damn near
did Charlie,” Wattie said. “Clouted him
a purler on the snout. Y’ see, Morgan’d
sooner git bit by a snake any day than
listen t’ Charlie fiddlin’.”
* * * *
“Herbie”: Peter Gilligan was waiting
at the sliprails for the cream cart when
a well-dressed young man drove up.
“Good day. Mister. Keeping well, I
hope?” the salesman greeted as he got
out of his car. “Now I have here a set
of books of general knowledge, which
I’m sure you”—- “Keepin’, eh?” inter-
rupted Peter. “Aw, well, not so bad at
all, mate! Y’ see the good season’s got
me cows in such nick that they’re
keepin’ me in ready money and a bit t’
spare; me pigs are lappin’ up the sepa-
rated milk, fattenin’ on the yams down
in the gully and toppin’ off on Riley’s
sweet-bucks. Me fowls are feedin’ well
on another neighbor’s wheat stack, and
are keepin’ us in eggs and a bit of a
change for Sunday eatin’. Me dawgs
are keeping the hares out of me lucerne
paddock. The child endowment’s keepin’
me eleven nippers, and me twelfth is too
young yet to want more than milk and
biscuits. I’m too contented with me old
woman to be hankerin’ f’r and keepin’ a
fancy woman in fal-de-lals, and I’m keep-
in’ me wits too sharp to keep blokes that
drive about in flash cars and live in the
best pubs. So, Mister, you’ll excuse me,
I’m sure. I’m just tryin’ to calculate what
income-tax rebate 111 get.
LOST ’PLANES IN THE ISLANDS.
Where do they rest, that flashed so proudly
Over the unknown Northern sky,
Thunder on wings that beat so loudly
Up from Moresby to Morotai?
They rhst on coral reefs and beaches,
Deep on the warm sea’s golden bed.
By sago swamps and mangrove reaches
Blistered they lie by the bolts they sped.
The jungle, like a web enfolding,
CoVers the wreck on an emerald bier;
Ruin of metal firmly holding
High on the peak it failed to clear.
The kunai creeps through fuselages
Figured and forged to laugh at strain,
The tempered steel of shellproof barges
Softly corrodes in lukewarm rain.
The flying men, in their faith unfearing,
Strapped in their fleet and fatal tombs,
Far from the flags and the frenzied cheering
Died. And the crushed hibiscus blooms.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSTER.


“Propalong”: The local mailman was
widely noted as an exception to the mail-
must-get-through rule. Whether the
creeks came down or not he stayed home
when it rained, secure in the knowledge
that landowners, justly infuriated at being
done out of their weekly mail, couldn’t
get another man to take on the job. One
day Tommy the Wag and Texas Jack,
two scintillating members of the Willea-
lena mustering camp, turned up in the
township, prepared to travel out by the
mail buggy. The mailbags were being
dumped into the vehicle when Tommy re-
membered that no liquid refreshment had
been laid in for the trip and announced
his intention of making a dash for the
pub. “Wait on,” Jack advised, “y’ better
not; the ol’ blankard’ll go without y’.”
“Aw, hell,” said Tommy, “we can fix
that. You run out an’ spit on the road —-
that’ll hold him.”
* * * *
“Bo”: The swearless bullocky is
almost sure to have at some time been
a willing initiate to the “saved” bench
of some itinerant bush evangelist, and
not seldom he has other notions which
sort ill with his piety. One of the breed
was regarding his bogged team of 14
on a rough track out from Stroud
(N.S.W.) when Adjectival Alec came
upon him. Alec was rawboned, forth-
right, cheerful, with a casehardened con-
fidence in the powers of his own magni-
ficent vocabulary to get any team bend-
ing into it with a will. He persuaded the
frustrated one to hand over the whip,
and while he played the lash over me
backs of the team without touching hair
or hide he let go a roar of invective,
the preliminary to his real effort. But
before the startled bullocks had time to
lean into it the owner of the team leaped
at Alec, wrenched the whip away, called
the wrath of the Almighty down on the
head of one whom he deemed ripe for
the bowels of hell, then took the whip
and with the butt end viciously proceeded
to hammer Baldy, one of the leaders,
across the head. Three minutes later the
pious one was on the broad of his back,
and he might have been gazing toward
that heaven he spoke of with such en-
thusiasm had not a couple of beautiful
shanties, one hung on each lamp, rather
obscured his sight.
* * * c
“Pateppi”: Why were those Victorian
cockies so indignant about the picture of
a girl milking a cow on the “wrong”
side (B. 20/2/’46)? Here, in Queensland,
onesided milking went out of date with
sidewhiskers. The doortype bails have
sections taking two cows at a time. The
milkers sit between the two cows. This
type of bail is used whether the cows are
milked by hand or by machine. Of
course no other type of bail is suitable
for machine milking. But perhaps they
haven’t got machines in the Cabbage
Garden yet.
♦ * * *
“Chuck”; The behavior of the herds
of ’roos which descended on E. Gipps-
land last year from the drought-parched
plains (B. 6/2/’46) was hardly less
strange than that of the trout that in-
vaded the same regions when their own
northern streams had dried up. First
time I struck the little blighters I was
exercising a fly on one of the upper
streams, when a sudden shower broke
loose. Falling for the old gag about
>° Ut b ,! ting better during rain, I stuck
it out, but what got me was a couple of
spooky-looking objects that rustled up-
stream flapping like tent flies. Half an
our later I grassed one of them, and
uang me if it wasn’t one of the immi-
grants, complete with oilcoat and rubbers
so h e wouldn’t get wet. I’d no sooner
taken the hook from his sunburnt little
mug than down he went on his hind
flippers, clasped his front ones under his
fim, and, shutting his eyes, set his mouth
moving in pious entreaty. In spite of an
uneasy premonition that the mob would
never believe I’d caught one, I grabbed
my rod, backed well off, and made a wild
dash to camp for a couple more whiskies.
“G.H.”: Surprised that one of
“Betcha’s” bush experience should be
puzzled as to how a fox gets fish out of
a pond (B. 20/2/’46). Its tail possesses
“Better do another circuit, Harry—you missed a couple of chimneypots.
a flexibility not enjoyed by a dog’s ; also,
almost every fox has a white spot on its
tail. It is merely a matter of dipping the
caudal appendage in, waving it around,
and when a fish rises to the moving bait
to flick it out on to the bank as the
fish’s teeth sink in.
“C.E.”: Since “M.U.R.” (B. 6/2/’46)
has proved to himself that it is only the
salt that jumbucks are after when they
nuzzle and lick the crutcher’s arms, how
does he account for the fact that it is
only badly flyblown sheep that do it? 1,
too, can claim a lifetime among sheep,
but have yet to meet strong healthy
woollies that lick while being crutched.
Mostly, a struck ■ sheep cannot reach its
blown area, but when it can it nuzzles
and chews at the torment, much as it does
a crutcher’s arms when receiving atten-
tion. Further, it worries at his arms
whether or not they are sweating. Had
an ancient ewe a few years back who,
when running in the home paddocks,
always presented herself at the yards when
she was blown. Wouldn’t get out of the
darned way, either, till she’d been at-
tended to. Then off she’d trot back to
the mob. Unfortunately, none of the
others learnt the trick, nor could 1 get
near the old dark-tipped ewe at any time
except when she was in trouble.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: There are many beauty
spots along the upper, stretches of Syd-
ney’s Parramatta River, but the most pic-
turesque is surely the reach that passes
through the beautiful grounds of the Par-
ramatta Mental Hospital. The stone weir
with clear water running over its spillway,
sloping grassy banks, swamp oaks and
weeping willows —the willows drooping
“You better run it home, Dave —I'm too shook up t' drive.”
their leaves into the waterlilies which
spread over one section of the daik water
—all combine to make a picture or tran-
quillity. As I write, the natural
beauty is enhanced even more: water-
fowl are here in profusion. Ducks float
gracefully along, followed by broods like
tiny balls of down, or sturdy young duck-
lings. Shags' diving for food perform
wonderful feats of endurance. Water-
hens stand in long-legged grace on the
weir, doze on the grass or, with wings
threshing vigorously, positively run across
the water. Occasionally a crane or even
a pelican wings lazily overhead. On
the highest bank a man appears, carry-
ing four or five pieces of bread. Of
course, he is a patient—a sane man would
almost certainly have a gun. He skims a
piece far out in midstream. Instantly a
score of swimmers race for it, some of
the ducks rising far out of the water like
outboard motorboats. Another piece of
bread in the opposite direction causes a
bigger scramble, for the waterhens have
left the weir and grass to join in the
melee. The last piece has been cast, the
benefactor has gone ; a score of the birds
still ripple the water. But what is wrong
with that duck? The half-grown one
there. He is in trouble ; that’s the second
time he has disappeared completely under
the water! He’s been under a long time
now. Time he came up. No ; he doesn’t
come up. Not for nothing did the abori-
gines give Parramatta its name. “Place
of eels” was no misnomer,
* * * *
“Ned”: When we dropped in on old
George one evening we noticed that after
he had made his damper he placed a
square of sheetiron on the coals and care-
fully spread his weekly tobacco supply
on it. “One time I useter have to put
half a spud in me pouch t’ keep me
’bacca moist enough t’ stop it from blazin’
up and singein’ me eyebrows,” he ex-
plained ; “but the only blasted stuff a
man can get t’day is so full o’ saltpeter
that y’ got t’ toast it before y’ got a hope
o’ smokin’ it.” We agreed.
» ♦ * ♦
“Sur Cingle”: Time was when a colt-
breaker went to work to turn out a
reasonably quiet potential hack, easy to
catch, quiet to saddle, get on or shoe, and
unlikely to root if taken right. The chap
who took the colt tried to keep it quiet
and turn it into a good hack. But the
rodeo complex has changed all that. If
you’re a youngster, and if you don’t want
to be branded as scared, you’re expected
to treat a horse not as a good cobber and
a useful servant but as an enemy to be
fought from the start—mostly aided by
wild yelling. The “pitchers” may have
had something to do with it, but, judging
by the way the rodeo bug has spread
down into and through the cocky coun-
try—at least in S.A.—in the last few
years, with a consequent increase in the
sales of “buckjump” saddles, “cowboy”
shirts, trousers, neckerchiefs (the stuff
they use on dude ranches in the U.S.), it
looks as though the retailers of rodeo
wear are reaping a harvest at the expense
of the bush horse.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Artie gnawed his bread and
mutton with one eye on the clock. “How
fast is this clock, Bert?” he asked
presently. “Eight an’ a half
minutes,” informed his offsider.
“Aw, cripes, no, it ain’t that
much,” came Artie’s protest. “Y’
said this mornin’ it was five.”
“That was yestiddy mornin’.”
Followed a detailed argument
on the doings of the past two
mornings in an effort to prove
Bert’s claim, till at length Artie
gave in. “Awright, then,” he
conceded, “s’pose it was. She
don’t gain three - an’ -a - half
minutes a day.” “No, but she
gains two-an’-a-half, an’ it’s a
day an’ a bit now, ain’t it?”
Artie pondered the matter.
“Yair, well I got t’ be dead certain,” he
explained. “Y’ know I bin boldin’ these
fats for weeks, an’ I can’t afford t’ miss
now.” He made some labored calcula-
tions on the table. “That makes it
then, don’t it? Half a minute t’ go. I
came home an hour early t’day to make
sure.” He eyed the clock for another
20 seconds ; then, stretching his arm, he
turned the wireless knob. “That con-
cludes today’s market report,” came the
announcement. “Good after ” There
came a bellow from Artie. “Nice sort
o’ mate you are,” he roared. “You an’
y’r blasted time! Now I’ll ’ave t’ ride
four miles across t’ Bradley’s t’ see if he
got the flamin’ thing.”
« • • *
“Rodeo”: A Mt, Gambier (S.A.)
cocky found one morning that his bull
had put several fences between himself
and his own lawful pastures. Gritting
his teeth, the cocky fitted a pair of spurs
to his boots, collected a riding whip and
set off in pursuit on foot. When he got
close enough he vaulted on to the bull’s
back, dug the spurs in and used the whip
freely. The bull started for home, and as
he came to each fence the cocky forced
him to return as he had come —over it,
liberally aided with the spurs when re-
luctance was shown. The remedy worked
—the bull has kept to his own paddock
since.
« * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Boss drovers
are always bad blokes to row with (B
30/1/’46). With one of the best in
the Gulf country (N.Q.) I was travel-
ling east across a horse-paddock which is
39 miles from the south to the north gate.
Feed and water were non-existent, so the
drover detoured off the stockroute and
camped the mob on a large gilgai. We
hadn’t been there long when up rode the
manager of the station and said “You
can’t camp here.” To this the reply was
“I’m camping here for 24 hours. What
are you going to do about it?” The
manager, of course, could do little, so
he rode off infuriated, but later he re-
turned and over a pannikin of tea told
us it was all right to camp there so long
as we told no one. Boss drovers know
their marks and are the best generals out-
back.
♦ ♦ * »
“Blime”: It was market day, and the
new chap in the store had his work cut
out trying to cope with the influx of cus-
tomers. It was all very well for the boss
to harp on efficiency and using one’s
head, but with a mob that insisted on
discussing the weather, seasonal prospects
and lamb prices a fellow was badly
handicapped. “Sorry, no matches at
present,” he said to old Simons. “No
bacon or kerosene, eh? Yes, great sale.
Has she now? Hope she’ll soon be right
again. We’re expecting candles next
week. No, we can’t get cartridges.” He
turned to the next customer. “We
haven’t got our quota yet, Mrs. Johnson.
Yes, very hot. Right out of honey. Will
molasses do? You have? That’s nice.
No; biscuits are hard to get.” He
groaned inwardly as several more pushed
into the crowded store. Then came the
boss’s footsteps approaching from the
store shed. They paused just inside the
door, and were followed by a disgusted
snort as the “efficiency” man took in the
situation. His voice rose above the mill-
ing herd. “Good* afternoon, folks,” he
greeted. “We’ve got tea, baking-powder,
a little second-grade molasses and a
limited supply of new spuds. Anybody
want any of them?” Steadily the crowd
drained out, and the new hand served the
three remaining customers.
JOSEPH O’BRIEN.
O’Brien was an Irishman,
And, when he played the fiddle,
He played the map of Ireland
From north to south and middle.
He placed St. Patrick, gentleman,
Who came from dacmt people.
Who built a church in Dublin lown,
And on it put a steeple;
He played the Cliffs of Donegal,
And, as the strings he tore,
You’d hear across the Ulster hills
The loud Atlantic roar.
His bow he’d make Cuchulain’s sword;
It swung with Brian Born —
He whacked it down upon the Danes,
And every Dane he slew;
He mourned with Barney Brannigan,
Who pined on wather gruel,
He danced with Judy Callaghan,
Who stepped it like a jewel;
But when he played Tim Finnegan’s wake
A whirlwind struck the fiddle;
Ye’d think it was the divvle himself
Was dancing on a griddle!
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET, A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
v-
m
<’! is-
n
?■
/j V'.'i
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEMI
Use a Real Killer-
CVanogaS
(Regd.)
Use the rabbits' natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No Are problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
EGELABRA MERINOS
FOUR TIMES WINNERS OF THE STONEHAVEN CUP.
WINNERS OF Ist AND 2nd PRIZES ON TWO OCCASIONS.
ALSO WINNERS OF GRAND CHAMPION RAM AND EWE,
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE.
Order's are now being booked for Rams dropped November,
1944, which will be classed before the end of February.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 15 GNS. PER HEAD.
H. E. RATER & SON. EGELABRA. WARREN. N.S.W,
Telephone; Warren 10.
II your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course i
sdf
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN L.OTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
99.
Wh
th
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Good value
is guaranteed and
your inspection
invited.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns)
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
More Mills Needed.
‘‘Graz”: A return to wool auctions
next season is likely to result in extreme
variation in prices. There is a shortage
of free, well-grown, high-yielding wools,
and demand for them will be heavy, par-
ticularly from America. Superfines of
these descriptions might fetch boom
prices. On the other hand, the huge stock-
pile comprises mostly crutchings, locks,
burry and carpet wools. It is unlikely
that buyers will pay more than the re-
serves J.O. puts on faulty wools —it is
more likely that J.O. will lower the
present appraisement prices in order to
encourage demand.
In normal times Continental mills ab-
sorbed the bulk of inferior wools, but
many European mills are smashed, and
it is certain that Russia has removed
much textile machinery from eastern
Europe, France and Belgium, importers
of 1,300,000 and 722,000 bales respec-
tively in 1938, are again consuming large
quantities of wool, but greater expansion
of carbonising and milling capacity for
faulty wools will be necessary before the
stock of surplus wool can be absorbed.
American sheep population is down
17 p.c., and wool consumption is expected
to fall from 3,600,000 bales annually
during heavy war demands to 3,000,000
bales, a figure nearly double the pre-war
rate. U.S. servicemen have gone home
as good publicists for woollen clothing.
China is again importing wool and
U.N.R.R.A. is using large quantities, par-
ticularly in Europe. The demand is suffi-
cient to use up the stockpile within five
years, as Dr. Edgar Booth, chairman of
the Imperial Wool Secretariat, says it can
be done. But whether the milling capa-
city and the monetary health of the im-
porting countries are capable of the task
is another matter. The Australian clip is
estimated at 2,891,754 bales, a decrease
of 193,935 on last season and 751,000
fewer than in 1943-44.
Production Costs.
“E. 2”: Price of land has risen steeply,
particularly in rich dairying country
where subsidies have made cow-farming
a good thing, and it is likely to remain so
while there is keen world demand for
land produce. But high land price mili-
tates strongly against production at lower
cost, which will be needed when world
markets become normal.
The time to overhaul the economic
structure of our farming system is while
there are prospects of a run of
good seasons and markets. Stability
can hardly be assured by politi-
cal schemes of subsidisation and depart-
mental controls. The economic side
of farming is becoming more and more
confused, and farmers, unless prepared to
dance to the tunes of successive Govern-
ments, may find the going hard in com-
petitive markets.
Reduction of costs is practically impos-
sible while land valuation remains high ;
“Don't swaller them 'orse-shoe nails — they're all We've got."
in fact, it does not appear to matter
greatly while there’s a boom. But in the
subsequent slump it matters most gravely.
Stability rests a lot with good seasons
and good markets, but in world competi-
tion there’s a better chance for the coun-
try which can produce at lowest cost.
Farmers desire stability without sacrifice
of rights and independence, and any sys-
tem designed contrary to this require-
ment is bound to end in a greater muddle
than the present one. By gradually
though systematically reducing the over-
capitalisation of farming, which is vested
to a large extent in the bloated values
of land, there is a widening scope for
lower production costs and a more stable
future.
Grass-seed for Graziers.
“W.C.Q.”; “Bennie” (B. 9/l/’46)
asks why Queensland sheep farmers
cannot buy legumes and grass-seeds
in commercial quantities. Doesn’t
he know that not many legumes
will grow in this State? In the north
and on parts of the central coast, Towns-
ville lucerne grows for part of the year.
A sensitive plant, said to contain 25 p.c.
crude protein (Townsville lucerne has
13. to 14 p.c. protein), grows along the
N.Q. coast, but cattle often won’t touch
it. Neither of these legumes is rated
highly enough for its seed to be commer-
cially grown.
Experiments are being made with
legumes to find varieties suitable for
Queensland pastures. Kudzu vine, being
grown at Sth. Johnstone (N.Q.) experi-
ment station, may prove useful in dis-
tricts with a 40in. rainfall and mild
winters. Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment cannot yet supply farmers and
graziers with seed or crowns of this plant.
N.Q. cattlemen would do well to plant
Guinea grass on coastal holdings. This,
in conjunction with molasses grass, has
given splendid results on beef cattle coun-
try in the Innisfail district.
For any swampy country Para grass
(giant couch) can be recommended. Both
Guinea grass and Para grass can be ob-
tained in unlimited quantities from any
watercourse in the N.Q. wet belt, root
sections and runners being more reliable
than seed.
Dip Sites.
“S.K.”: For some years shearers, shed-
hands and others at our place were at-
tacked every season by dysentery. Prepa-
ration of all foods was carefully
checked, but nothing could be found.
Then the water was examined and traces
of arsenic were found ; the rest was easy.
An arsenical sheepdip adjoined, the shed,
and after the sheep left the draining yards
for the ordinary drafting yards much of
the dip remained on them. Thus, when
drafting, or if a strong wind blew, the
dust containing traces of arsenic was
lifted to the roof. Rain then washed the
dust into the tanks. After this discovery
the water was never used for drinking
purposes and no further trouble occurred.
Sheepdips should be built some distance
away so that the dust from draining pens
and yards cannot be blown on to roofs
whose water is used for domestic pur-
poses. Yards attached to a dip should
never be used for drafting, as it has been
found that the d»st makes the skin very
rough and causes a dry scab which
becomes sore and when scratched
bleeds profusely. Dust from the yards
where sheep have been allowed to drain
after being put through an arsenical dip
contains arsenic, and the poison, in tiny
quantities, may not produce any ordinary
evidence of poisoning, but it’s my belief
it could bring about cancer over a period
of years.
Swedes for Winter Fodder.
“Pat O’Day”: Farmers of the Monaro
and southern N.S.W. Tablelands have
improved the productivity of their land
by sowing swede turnips as supplementary
fodder —great provision for the bleak
months of the year, when natural pasture
swards lie dormant, and clovers, pas-
palum, etc., do not supply sufficient
nutrition for lambing ewes.
There are very few tablelands farmers
and graziers who have not provided
each lambing paddock with its swede
crop. It is no exaggeration to say that
the carrying capacity of these swede areas
is phenomenal, the rate of grazing being
equivalent to 35 sheep per acre for the
duration of the grazing period—six
months.
The rate of sowing is fib. of seed
per acre (mixed with 901 b. of super, if
obtainable). The seed is sown through
drill or combine and lightly covered with
chain harrows or brush. Champion
Purple Top is the most widely adopted
also Aberdeen Purple Top. The ordinary
field turnips, such as White Globe etc
though heavy yielders, are not compar-
able with the swede.
Hints for the Farm.
“Marsh”: A good cure for itch in
horses is lime and sulphur mixture. Put
a good handful each of lime and sulphur
into a tin containing about three gallons
of water. Bring to the boil, stirring
periodically, and allow the mixture to
simmer for an hour. After it has cooled
strain the mixture, and bottle. Applied
morning and evening for a few days and
the most severe itch will disappear.
“Bill C.”: Molasses contains a high
percentage of sugar in carbohydrate form,
is useful for sweetening stock licks and
for making ordinarily dry tucker attrac-
tive and palatable, and will neutralise
the prussic acid content of rank cowpea
vines and similar green stuff. But given
to excess it fattens horses without
strengthening ’em and gives pigs the
scours —occasionally it is responsible for
discolored flesh in pigs. Dole it out with
a 21b. fruit-tin, not a half kero.-tin.
“Plane Creek”: Many forage crops can
be grown in Central Queensland for
winter cattle feed. Cowpeas are an excel-
lent source of milk-yielding protein, and
may be sown on slightly cultivated land.
Cattle cabbages should be set 3ft. to 4ft.
in wide-spaced rows; kohlrabi, swedes
and white turnips should be row-sown
and thinned. Sow cattle pumpkins in
rows or “hills.” The pumpkins should be
gathered when mature with a length of
stalk attached to prevent rot.
“W. Court”: If a grass paddock is over-
run with flannel-weeds and other rubbish
turn the lot in and sow a green-manuring
legume. Sometimes a moderate dressing
of super, helps such a crop along. Cow-
pea and Poona cowpea give a three to
four months’ cover ; giant cowpea, velvet
bean and Gambia pea a five to six
months’ cover. Naturally, the longer a
paddock is under a green-manure crop the
greater the benefit.
“Myrrhee”: Analyses made on spinach,
cauliflower and cabbage leaves by the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture show
that these frequently-discarded by-pro-
,ducts have a high stockfeed value. About
101 b. of the leaves are equal in food value
to lib. of grain. The cabbage and cauli
leaves analysed contain about 20 p.c. pro-
tein and the spinach 25 p.c. Lucerne hay
contains about 15 p.c. protein and oaten
hay 7 p.c. The leaves are best fed to
cows after milking to reduce the risk of
milk taints.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Clean thoroughly the
surface to be soldered, if necessary using
file and emery cloth. Clean the iron and
tin it on all sides at least v half an inch
from the point, making sure that there
are no specks left untinned. It should
pick up a spot of solder from the floor
if touched to it. Heat the iron thoroughly
and, for a big job, use an iron big
enough to hold the heat. A small iron
held to a large piece of cold metal is
cold itself before you start. Use a solder
containing a high percentage of tin—it’s
obtainable now—and there are several
good fluxes on the market.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Atom Test Details.
C Details of the elaborate plans for testing the
atom bomb aft sea are here given from the
authoritative “United States News.”)
In the U.S. Navy atom bombings—the
first set down for early in May—modern
sea power is to get its supreme test. The
result may make obsolete many combat
theories involving massed use of ships.
It also may affect the types of vessels
that make up future navies.
Speculation, theories and fears about
the tests are being advanced. Some fear
the explosions will send a huge tidal wave
hurtling around the world. Some fear
the seas will be vaporised and vanish into
steam and gas, that ship hulls will melt
instantly in the terrific heat, that radio-
active waters and air will spread their
poisons for hundreds of miles. Others
think the damage will be no greater than
that from intense, ordinary naval com-
bat.
Actual results can be measured to some
extent now, however, as a result of the
atomic bomb’s performance in war:
The bomb dropped on Nagasaki had
little effect on ships in the port, even
though they were as close to the bomb-
burst as many destroyed buildings.
The bomb dropped on Hiroshima
caused no chemical changes in the water
of city streams.
Atomic explosions, at the core, gener-
ate instant heat of 100,000,000 degrees
Fahrenheit. Battleship steel melts at 3000
degrees. BuP the bomb heat diminishes
rapidly as it radiates from the explosion
core.
Explosive radius over land is about \\
miles, ruinous for concentrated cities, but
of less danger to fleets, which can spread
out over hundreds of miles. Difficulty of
location in the great underwater space
may make submarines immune, except in
hit-or-miss bombings to clear limited
areas.
These things are known now, but there
are many other questions, such as the
bomb’s effect on various types of vessels
and weapons, which can be answered only
after the coming tests.
“Operation Crossroads,” code name of
the tests, will be the greatest demonstra-
tion of atomic explosions ever seen ; a
far cry from last spring’s early-morning
blast on the New Mexico desert. Vice-
Admiral W. H, P. Blandy will be in
charge.
Scene of the test will be tiny Bikini
Atoll, in the Marshall Islands. Its central
lagoon is about 20 miles long, 10 miles
wide and sheltered by a dozen small
islands. The islands will help break up.
any tidal wave that might form.
Natives on Bikini, and even those on
Eniwetok, 300 miles away, will be evacu-
ated. Experts are sure the radioactive
danger is temporary, and eventually the
islanders will be permitted to return.
Into the target area will be moved 97
American, German and Japanese vessels
ranging from big dreadnoughts to tiny
landing craft. Lashed to their decks will
be army tanks and other weapons. This
is the guinea-pig fleet, already being
assembled.
Early in May the first atomic bomb will
be dropped, timed to detonate several
hundred feet in the air above the target
fleet. Navy calculations indicate that
ships immediately under the blast will be
sunk and all will be damaged to some de-
gree. Water in the lagoon and the air
above it will be instantly radioactivated.
The rays will be carried to the west by
sea and air currents. The Navy expects
to record evidence of them 170 miles
away.
The second test will come on July 1.
This time an atomic bomb will burst on
the ocean surface, in the midst of the
guinea-pig fleet. This is expected to sink
some more ships and to overturn many
others. The blast, by present calbulation,
will roll the lagoon into a tidal wave 100
feet high with sufficient force to topple
big ships and bob submarines like corks.
Experts can only guess at the destruc-
tion.
The climax of the tests will come in
1947, and nobody knows what will
happen. The bomb will be exploded deep
under the surface of the water. The heat
will be so intense that some area of the
sea may flash into scalding steam and form
that into gas soaring miles skyward.
The ocean will shudder from a
tremendous shock which cannot be cal-
culated in advance. Water, which will
not compress as air does, will surge in all
directions. Present theory is that sub-
marines a few miles away will be smashed
flat. The same thing may happen to sur-
face craft. j
The same fleet will be used for all
three tests. The ships will be dispersed
deliberately so that no one bomb can de-
stroy all. Famous battleships of the U.S.
and of enemy fleets will be sacrificed to
the bombs. In the target area will be two
aircraft carriers, four battleships, two
cruisers, 16 destroyers, five submarines
and 19 transports from U.S. fleets ; the
German heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen ; the
Japanese battleship Nagato, once Admiral
Yamamoto’s flagship, and the light
cruiser Sakawa.
Among the famous U.S. ships are to be
the Saratoga, oldest U.S, carrier afloat
and a veteran of Guadalcanal; the battle-
ships Pennsylvania and Nevada, which
were in Pearl Harbor when the Japanese
started the war; the Arkansas, oldest
battleship in the U.S. Navy ; the New
York, with its battle record from North
Africa to Okinawa, and the cruiser Salt
Lake City, called the 'one-ship fleet” of
the Solomons.
No foreign Governments will partici-
pate in the tests, which are to be a joint
operation of the U.S, Army, Navy and
Air Force. Some foreign representatives
may be invited as spectators or official
observers, but they will have no part in
the scientific calculations. U.S. news-
papermen will witness the tests.
The job will require the services of
20,000 men and a working fleet of 50
ships in the target area. In addition, big
air fleets, stocks of equipment and
delicate scientific instruments will be
assembled. The original announcement
estimated the cost of the initial tests at
( Illingworth, in London “Daily Mail!”)
CAUSE AND REFLECT.
Comment on the rocky going the proposed U.S. loan to Britain has encountered
in America.
$100,000,000. But if consideration is
given to the original cost of the target
ships’ hulls and engines, to the payrolls,
service equipment and other expenses, the
price of the test goes close to
$500,000,000.
Results will be measured by a fantastic
array of devices assembled by military
and civilian experts. The instruments
must be designed to record developments
in the target area without being destroyed
themselves. Radio-controlled motion-
picture cameras will be embedded in the
coral islands to record the explosion
scene on timed tapes so the scientists can
see what happened and how long it took.
Pilotless radio-controlled ’planes will
hover over the target area, equipped with
instruments to record radioactivity at
varying distances from the scene. Other
instruments will be built into the target-
ships themselves. Seismographs will
record the shocks miles away.
All the data are to be assembled eventu-
ally into separate reports by the Army-
Navy experts, the scientists and civilian
observers. They will be analysed by an
evaluation board of two civilian experts,
two Navy officers, two Army officers
and a scientist connected wit]} the
Army’s Manhattan Project, which spent
$2,000,000,000 to make history’s first
atomic bomb.
From past experience and observations
scientists know these things: Single
atomic bombs are not likely to explode
or vaporise large bodies of water; they
cannot wipe out a sprawled naval task
force as they can concentrated cities. But
only the coming tests can give the final
answer to the main question of how to-
day’s modern warship can stand up in
combat in an age of atomic warfare.
Why Eisenhower Declined
Berlin.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post ” article by
Demaree Bess)
There has been much discussion of
why General Eisenhower did not drive
straight for Berlin when he was in a
position to do so. Many reports have
been published suggesting that some poli-
tical agreement must have prevented the
western armies from entering Berlin first,
reserving for the Russians the honor of
capturing the German capital.
But I have been informed by Lieut.-
Gen. Walter B. Smith, chief of staff to
General Eisenhower, that there is'no truth
whatever in these reports. General Smith
told me that General Eisenhower was
bound by no political agreements in plan-
ning his final campaign in Germany. He
deliberately surrendered the honor of cap-
turing Berlin, not to flatter the Russians,
but simply to make sure that German
armies would get no chance of consoli-
dating their forces in the south.
That final campaign was designed to
cut throush the German armies before
toy couU gT to re-
organise themselves in the so-called
“southern redoubt.” It was designed to
sweep forward with such speed, and to
swing southward so abruptly, that it
would catch the Germans completely off
balance. The campaign did accomplish
these objectives fully, and the topmost
Russian commanders fully appreciated its
conception.
Nevertheless, after the fall of the capi-
tal, it required several weeks of compli-
cated negotiations to arrange for the joint
occupation of the Berlin area, negotia-
tions which would have been unnecessary
if the western armies had got there first,
Even today some Russians, both in Berlin
and in Moscow, ask impatiently why they
should share the administration of Berlin
with the other Allies. Treating the city
as their own special prize of war, Russian
soldiers have taunted American soldiers
by saying “You let us fight for Berlin,
and moved in here only after we had
captured the place! ”
Atlantic Charter “a Blind.”
(Condensed from N.Y. “Journal-American)
The Atlantic Charter was, in reality, an
instrument employed as a blind to con-
ceal the actual discussions between Mr.
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill at their con-
ference five months before Pearl Harbor,
and to conceal the agreements reached
between them and the commitments made
by each of them in behalf of their Gov-
ernments.
This was brought out by the Congres-
sional Committee investigating the Pearl
Harbor disaster, when the notes taken at
the Conference by the then Under-Secre-
tary of State Sumner Welles were exam-
ined.
Mr, Churchill had proposed American
occupation of the Azores, contending this
was necessary to prevent the British fort-
ress at Gibraltar being made untenable.
In spite of the fact that the United States
was then at peace, the Welles memoran-
dum discloses:
It was agreed on the part of the Presi-
dent that immediately upon tire receipt of
notification from Doctor Salazar [Portu-
guese Premier] the United States would
send the necessary forces of occupation to
the Azores and that the Brazilian Govern-
ment would be simultaneously' requested to
send at least a token force to take part
in the expedition.
It was well known to the President that
such action would mean war with Ger-
many and Italy.
Nevertheless, the Atlantic Charter sub-
sequently drawn —and purporting to em-
brace all that was discussed and agreed
upon—made no revelation of this act of
war to which the United States was thus
secretly committed.
Moreover, Mr. Churchill is disclosed
by the Welles notes to have made the
further proposal of a joint British-Ameri-
can warning to Japan against further
aggression which would virtually mean
war in the Pacific. Mr. Welles reports
that Mr. Churchill personally informed
him that copies of the parallel declaration
had already been given to President
Roosevelt' —and it is a matter of record
that this document was later handed to
the Japanese
Britain’s Value to U.S.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by Norman Angell)
Britain, the Commonwealth and Em-
pire, are far and away America’s best
customers. (One Dominion, Canada, with
a population of 12,000,000, buys in nor-
mal years about 10 times as much from
the United States as does China with its
population of 400,000,000 million.)
The loss of the British market, or a
great proportion of it, owing to the fact
that the country was too poverty-stricken
to buy much abroad, would go far to
disorganise the American economy,
especially in the south, that has sold its
cotton and tobacco in the past so largely
to Britain, and it would make America’s
problems of reconstruction, reconversion
and the prevention of another depression
with massive unemployment immensely
more difficult of solution.
Incidentally, a return of depres-
si o n and unemployment in
America would be certain to set
up demands for precisely the kind
of socialising measures which the
British Labor Government now
proposes. Socialism and even
Communism flourish best in bad
economic conditions.
But great as is the economic
interest of the United States in
extending such aid as will enable
Britain to maintain her position
in the world, the economic in-
terest is not the fundamental and
vital one. If Britain were sunk
beneath the ocean or blown to
extinction with a few dozen
atomic bombs the purely economic
results would not in the long run
affect vitally the standard of life
in the United States. The United
States has reason far more vital
than a 5 or 10 per cent, increase
of national income for helping
Britain once more to get fully on
her feet. It is a reason which
two world wars should have made
perfectly clear, but do not seem
to have done.
Why has; the United States twice within
a quarter of a century gone to war on
Britain’s side? And before doing so
given military and political aid? There
were all sorts of historical and sentimental
reasons why America should have done
nothing of the kind, but should rather
have favored the enemies of Britain,
among whom the United States has been
included twice. At the close of the first
world war the feeling was very general
in the United States that the country
should never have gone into the war at
all, a view which found expression in the
Neutrality Act, whose provisions were ex-
plicity designed to make it impossible for
America to do the very things she was
shortly to do, to aid one side against
another in Europe. And that the British
side. Why, once more, the British side?
Surely that is answered if we lopk at
the simplest facts of the war itself. Sup-
pose, after the fall of France, and while
Russia was still neutral, in some sort of
quasi-alliance with Hitler, Britain had
argued that she had simply not the
strength to go on, and that, like France,
she would have to make the best bargain
she could with Hitler.
Consider what that would have meant.
The whole of Europe with its 400,000,000
people and its vast industrial resources (at
that time practically untouched by bomb-
ing) would have passed under Hitler’s
control, with no core or centre of re-
sistance (such as Britain quickly became)
remaining. The naval harbors of the
British Isles (and Ireland) would, of
course, have been in his hands, and the
battle of the Atlantic (at times so nearly
lost even with Britain standing up) would
have gone to Hitler. But very much more.
Gibraltar, Malta, the Near East (includ-
ing Palestine), Egypt and the rest of
Africa, the Suez Canal, all would have
gone. This would have meant complete
junction of Germany with Japan in the
Indian Ocean, the fall of India, its occu-
pation by German and Japanese forces, at
least to the degree to which China had
been the victim of Japanese invasion.
Australia could not have stood up and


RAYONS
for loveliness
that lasts . . •
X Tew clothes are an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayons. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are still avail
able, although the quantity is
restricted.
m.
M
IP**
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT:
SYDNEY : Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd*
181 Clarence Street.
STRONGER • LIGHTER • LONGER-LASTING
• ,■
I
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globite!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD,
WOLFES
AROMATIC AICOHOUC BEVERAGE
One a day
for your health’s sake
'
9>
WOLFE'S Aromafic SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
W 5.174
would have shared the fate of the Philip-
pines. There can be no doubt whatever
that something very like this would have
happened if Britain in 1940 had been
obliged to follow France into surrender.
At that period—a year and a half be-
fore Pearl Harbor—America had hardly
begun the task of building up her forces.
When American power did begin to grow,
how was it applied to the task of defeat-
ing the Axis, Germany in Europe and
Japan in Asia? To operate against the
Fortress of Europe America had to use a
base called Britain and to get at the enemy
in Asia a base called Australia, and
another, India, But those bases were
available only because Britain did not sur-
render when France fell in 1940.
Countless American lives and wealth
have been saved because there was a
strong Britain and a united Common-
wealth and Empire. Britain stood up for
her own purposes, her own survival.
Those purposes and that survival happen
to aid the purposes of America and
American survival. It is not, therefore, a
question of whether or not America owes
a “debt” to Britain but whether the main-
tenance of a strong and healthy Britain
happens to be a vital* American interest.
The experience of two world wars shows
clearly that it is ; that the two countries
and the two political systems (the British
Commonwealth system, which is an un-
written agreement for mutual defence, en-
circles the globe) need each other. The
recognition of that mutual need for sur-
vival purposes is the true basis of future
co-operation.
Dragnei Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Uo rocovApA witb cnme
iustK
dealing and equivocation. It provides for all
those high ideals of colonial policy which we
would like to enforce on others while carefully
reserving to ourselves (and all the rest) a com-
plete freedom to violate those ideals in practice,
It specifically applies to ( a ) League mandates
and (b) territories detached from the late enemy
in this war—categories which cover virtually all
of our Pacific acquisitions-but lays down no
mandatory rules in regard to them. The charter
leaves open three possible courses, all equally
legal: simple annexation on the old imperialist
pattern: trusteeship as a “strategic area”—in
which case the basic trust agreement would have
to be accepted by the Security Council, and the
council would exercise whatever subsecjuent
supervision the agreement provided for —or
trusteeship exercised either by the U.S. alone
or by several countries together under the
Trusteeship Council of the General Assembly.
President Truman’s idea seems to be the
obvious, homespun one of putting everything
we don’t particularly care about under the
Trusteeship Council, and everything we would
like as a military base under a “strategic area”
trusteeship with the Security Council. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Under the Soviet agent Tifo’s regime in Yugo-
slavia, any semblance to what we regard as
liberty has been extinguished long since, and
former Nazi terrorists are admitted to Cabinet
posts. —“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * ♦
Gone from the skies of Europe are the
Bth, 9th, 12th and 15th U.S. Air Forces. Of
the four, the last-named three are non-existent.
American air power is represented in Europe
only by fragments of forces operating under an
organisation known as U.S.A.F.E. (U.S. Air
Forces —Europe), and so disjointed in related
skills that to call it an Air Force would be
disrespectful of the late departed. On the far
side of the world the 10th and 14th U.S. Air
Forces, based respectively at' Liuchow and Pei-
shiyi, China, have received orders to cease
activity and return home for demobilisation.
This cleans the China skies. In the Pacific
token forces maintain continuity of glorious
names, but their effectiveness is sadly diminished.
From the foregoing facts one long-range impli-
cation is evident —the American people are
unimpressed by the fact that they have a huge
investment to protect. Delivered from immedi-
ate threat of danger, we are still the same self-
centred, isolation-conscious, peace-loving, un-
realistic people we always were. The big fist
of U.S. air power has become a withered arm.
It is not a pretty thought. —Gill Robb Wilson;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
For some time Chungking dispatches have
indicated growing Chinese concern over the
slowness with which Manchuria is being re-
turned to Chinese control, and over Soviet
efforts to secure economic concessions far be-
yond those provided for in the Chinese-Soviet
treaty of last year. There can be little doubt
that Russia has been pressing for important
concessions from Chungking, and that her
troops are still in Manchuria in considerable
numbers, a| though the date for evacuation was
February 1. Reports from trustworthy sources
indicate that Russia intends to rely heavily on
Manchuria for agricultural products for her
growing population in the Soviet Far East, and
now, it seems, she wants them under more
favorable conditions than buying through the
“open door.” Since the Soviet occupation of
Manchuria, heavy shipments of foodstuffs and
other goods have enabled Siberian centres to
enjoy better living than during the war. Food
has not been the only commodity shipped, for
it is reliably reported that Vladivostok has re-
ceived considerable quantities of light machinery
from Manchurian factories. The New York
“Times” correspondent in Chungking states
categorically that the Chinese are being pressed
to make concessions in Manchuria which would
give Russia economic domination over that rich
agricultural and industrial area. The Russians
are stated to want extensive “war booty” in the
form of properties and factories formerly con-
trolled by the Japanese Army, and to seek full
or partial control of many establishments, such
as mines and manufacturing plants, which fall
into the broad category of enterprises “useful
for war purposes.” The Chinee feel that after
eight years’ lonely warfare against Japan they
have a better title to this “war booty” than
Russia, which waged a fortnight’s campaign,
— London “Times'’ correspondent.
* * * *
Plaintive American Republicans who protest
to high heaven against what they label “Wash-
ington’s policy of capitulation to London”
should stick around this town [London] for a
while and get an earful. For if Londoners are
typical, most of Britain is now convmced that
within the Big Three Britain is the tail of a
two-headed dog and is being wagged from
both sides. Speaking at Aberdeen, Robert
Boothby,, Conservative M.P., who knows the
world well, voiced the British grouse explicitly,
Britain’s reward for “having fought the earliest,
longest and hardest in the recent war,” Boothby
said, “was to find the political heat turned
on us by our ally, Russia, and the economic
heat turned on us by our ally, the United
States.” Boothby is certainly not the inspired
voice of the ruling Labor party. Yet, in this
instance, he certainly says more explicitly what
the Labor party leaders and nearly everybody
else say more guardedly or by innuendo.
Those Americans who reprove as blasphemy
any American criticism of the Soviet Union
would be in a constant flutter here. For, aside
from the minority, British leaders make no
bones about their belief that Soviet Union
™P ena is P? 18 victimising Britain. Edgar Ansel
Mowrer {from London), East.
T „ , , . c .. 0 ... .
In _ all the broad anatomy of the British
Empire the lenderest spot is the Middle East
A prod there would bring from Downing-street
the promptest outcry of pain. For Russian
domination of Iran and Turkey—and Turkey
has been warned of Soviet displeasure over
things as they are—might well mean the be-
ginning of the end of the British Empire as
now constituted. To bring about this situation
Russia does not have to take over Italy’s Tripoli
or actually sit astride Suez. With friendly
Governments of the Balkan type in Tehran and
Ankara, and concessions on the Persian Gulf,
she would have the Empire, as is, virtually
checkmated. — N.Y. “World-Telegram .'
# * *
™ . ... . ■ ~ tt ■* j
The promises previously given by the United
States that it was deteimmed that free and
representative. Governments were to be installed
in the occupied countries of Europe and that
it was solemnly committed to the great prin-
ciple of “the sovereign equality of all nations,
great or small,” have proved to be mere
words. The smaller Powers of Europe and the
lesser Powers of the Western Hemisphere which,
in the days of President Roosevelt, had looked
with such hope to the leadership of the United
States in the creation of a free and democratic
world order today can have but little faith in
our future protestations. U.S. acts have clearly
belied the fine words. The United States con-
tinues to possess the influence in world affairs
which is derived from its military might and
from its material resources. But the moral in-
fluence which it possessed during the war years
because of the belief that its Government was
determined to support those principles which
are indispensable if a peaceful world is to be
established is rapidly vanishing. It would be
far better to refrain from giving assurances,
however noble they may be, than to fail to
carry them out. For the United States cannot
exercise any effective leadership until all nations
know that it means what it says.— Former US.
Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles;
Chicago “Sun.’’’
* * * *
it see ms that the Koreans, liberated from
j ap ru j e by the victories of MacArthur and
Nimitz, are bellowing that in that area occupied
by the armies of Pal Joey the Koreans are get-
ting worse treatment than they received under
the conquering Japs. The latest complaint is
this: In their city of Heijo the Koreans had
built a power plant capable of providing enough
electric energy for transmission lines to carry
the power into factories and homes within the
Korean zone under American military control,
But, the complaint states, the day after the
Russians arrived they went to work on the Heijo
p i ant c f the friendly Koreans with the same
enthusiasm they had earlier shown in occupied
enemy Germany. Turbines, generators, trans-
formers, were ripped out and shipped back to
Mother Russia.— John O’Donnell; N.Y. “Daily
News.”
* * * *
The most surprising development of the war
y ears j n the dog world, according to a scholarly
monograph in the New York “News,” was an
enormous increase in the popularity of the
dachshund. In the face of distinctly adverse
political conditions, this underslung version of
man > s c j oses t animal companion broke into
the 10 most popular regis t e red breeds, for the
f irst time bis rG cky history in the New World,
He nQW ranks ’ ‘Saturday Evening
p ost » so
m * * *
, , . .., ... e
. 11 s Settmg more difficult for
r* department and the
shots m the ,Var Department to cool off
Jat hot and dangerous friction wluch generates
Sfl^? nca " s m rub shoulders wi£
Russians in conquered lands. The situation m
Germany gets worse instead of better, and
now has plenty of returned. U.S
officers who are bursting to tell their stones of
indignities and being “pushed around” by the
R uss j an command in Germany. A Congres-
s}onai investigation is coming up on this. —
Washington correspondent, N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
The Germans got to the outskirts of Moscow,
On Dec. 2, 1941, the thermometer nosedived
to 18 below zero. The Germans had not
brought along anti-freeze and winter oil for
their machines, or winter clothes for their men.
That day, says U.S. Colonel Truman Smith,
in the “Infantry Journal,” was the Ger-
many really lost the Russian war. — N.Y. “Daily
News.”


EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply- Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
«uppon for everyman*#
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shop*
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
HAIMS
Circular Charts Jo» all type# oi
Recording Instruments lor any class
oi Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation.
& O’SULLIVAN
PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. 010.
/
m
after
of work
THIS VETERAN CARRIES ON
23W
finfcrpfltef DiiUJll
mmmm
M
imr
w
JKt
HfiS
HIS Caterpillar Auto Patrol has an
80-mile beat and its average fuel
consumption through many busy years
has been about gallons per hour. In
this case it saved 60% on fuel cost and
has done twice the work of the unit it
replaced! And it is still going strong!
The majority of Australia’s roads are
war-weary and inadequate for post-war
requirements. Thousands of miles of
our roads await the repair that will
turn them into safe, modern highways.
Ready to get on with this job, to do
everything from grading to all types of
maintaining, are proved Caterpillar
Diesel Machines, made to meet the needs
of your district. To-day’s Caterpillar
Motor Graders are built with still greater
resistance to wear and breakage. Backed
by a bank of experience no other
machinery-builder in the world com-
mands, "Caterpillar” is the sturdiest and
most economical equipment to "move,”
i
or maintain, a road.
CATERPILLAR D/MSSI
TRACK-TYPE
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
equipment
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rafhbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
•phone Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—-JI4S6. Rankin St.. Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475. \
m
m.
m
m
m
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENS
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
SORE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Offers for bound volumes of The Bulletin,
24 years, half-yearly, uniform binding. 3708.
Copy of the words of Kreisler’s “The Old
Refrain,” as sung by Grace Moore. —3709.
Information Sought.
Names and addresses of English manufac-
turers of better-class china?
Royal Winton —Grimwade, Ltd., Stoke-on-
Trent; Royal Worcester —Worcester Royal
Porcelain Co., Ltd., Worcester; Royal Uoui-
ton —Doulton and Co., Ltd., Burslem; Wedg-
wood —Wedgwood and Co., Ltd., Tunstall,
Stoke-on-Trent; Paragon—Paragon China Co.,
Ltd., Longton, Stoke-on-Trent; Tuscan—R. H-
Plant and Co., Longton, Stoke-on-Trent;
Shelley—Shelley Potteries, Ltd., Longton,
Stoke-on-Trent.
(1) Origin of petroleum? (2) When a N.S.W.
coppermine was reopened after years of sus-
pension of work iit was stated that old picks
and shovels were covered with solid copper.
What caused this?
(1) One view is that petroleum is formed by
the action of water on metallic carbides pre-
sent in the heated interior of the earth; another,
that it is derived from chemical changes on
organic matter operating through long periods
of time, e.g., the decomposition of vegetable or
animal organisms. (2) The coating, which is
superficial and would leave the metal un-
affected, was probably due to a copper solution
being present in the mine waters.
A method of combating borers in floor-
boards ?
Softwood timbers are attacked by the
Anobium borer, which usually appears many
years after the floor has been laid down, while
hardwood timbers are commonly attacked by
the Lyctus or powder post borer, which makes
its presence felt about 12 months after the
construction of the floor. If the Anobium
borer infests the wood it may be necessary to
remove the affected boards and replace them
with eucalypt timber, which is immune to the
pest. A mixture of one part creosote oil to
eight parts kerosene applied down the borer-
holes by means of a syringe is most effective.
Brief Answers.
C. 1.: Woodford Island in the Clarence River
(N.S.W.) has an area of about 17,000 acres,
which consists of 272 selections varying from
H to 571 acres (exclusive of two villages on
the island). The island is 10 miles long by
five miles wide. It is not the largest river-
island in Australia J.L.: The N.S.W. Births,
Deaths and Marriages Act was passed in 1899.
F.J.R.: Spray the kennel and bedding
with kerosene or any good insecticide; then
give the dog a Jeye’s Fluid wash at the rate of
one every four days for three doses, thence
once weekly M.J.: Persons desirous of pro-
ceeding to the U.K. must lodge application
through a shipping co. or recognised travel
agent. Claims are assessed according to their
relative merits G.R.; (I) It would not be
illegal to purchase the bonds below their par
value. (2) The Commonwealth engages to pay
on the due date the face value of the bonds or
stock W.J.: Do not know of any such
change in 1aw....R.L.: (1) C. B. Berckelman,
Hon. Sec., Book Collectors’ Soc. of Australia,
Box 905, G.P.0., Sydney. (2) H. W. Malloch,
Worthy Scribe, Bread and Cheese Club, 980
High-street, Armadale, Vic J. 8.: (1) The
tariff cannot be raised. (2) Only on the grounds
prescribed by the regulations. (3) New regula-
tions came into force on July 2, 1945. (4)
Meals cannot be refused if previously supplied
unless the tariff is reduced proportionately
V. 8.; Soak the brushes overnight in a paint
and varnish remover, wash out with methy-
lated spirits, followed by another wash in warm
water and soap.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.H.S.: Better leave Satan to Milton....
C.M.P.: An “effort” it is J.Q.: Might suit
a woman’s paper P.G.G.: Sentimental
C.C.A.: Have you really seen the eye of a vul-
ture “wallowing in ego and noise”?....
M.McG.: Not at that length J. 8.: Bother
the weather! J.V.C.: Verses purporting to
be written by a horse would sound better if
you could get a horse to recite them
E.M.R.: “Why can’t I feel as gay as I did?”
Perhaps you’ve been reading that poem
M.T.: Can’t make out exactly what you did
at the races; but, whatever it was, don’t do it
again R.M.: Heavy going A.G.McE.:
Compressed till it’s almost invisible L.H.:
Promising... .K.G.: “It came to me all in a
flash.” It went out with a bang J.V.N.:
Rhymes excruciating G.C.Y.: What oft was
thought before and seldom so ill expressed
8.L.: “I woo thee, my darling, I woo thee.”
If you really want to win her you’d better say
it with flowers H.F.: Unutterably inde-
cipherable 8.D.: Lawson and water.


u
VV' »
ft is
Vi»
■BW 5 ;; o'
m7msg*mmz
RN»MI
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claim. Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 61,337 44 „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,C5ft
1938 . . 65,788 5 „ ~ 62,500 8,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves. £20,000 .. ■ • 1,025,344
1939.. 71,121 51 p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940.. 71,393 5i „ ~ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
1941 . . 66,520 5i „ „ 68,750 1,031,253
1942.. 69,519 5i „ ~ 68,750 769 1,032,022
Sept.,*
1942.. 66,541 5i „ ~65,625 916 1,032,192
1943 . . 67,014 5 „ „ 62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944 . . 66,216 5 „ „ 62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945 . . 67,540 5 „ „ 62,500 5,040 1,045,462
* 12 taonths.
The new economics of “full” employ-
ment and social security have not only
multiplied and widened economic con-
trols by the State, but have also altered
the stresses and strains that hold together
our industrial organisation. The idea is
that investment, interest-rates, taxes
and a lot of other things are to
be so arranged that trade and industry
will always have jobs for workers and
materials for them to work on. And, it
is assumed, there will always be cus-
tomers able and willing to buy the pro-
ducts and pay for services.
The master key to it ail is to be expen-
diture, accompanied by economic control
and wider State ownership. To social-
ists these things appear as the cure for
all social and industrial ills. For other
people they are at best a medicine to be
taken in strictly prescribed doses. Over-
doses might well prove fatal.
Insofar as men are liberated from the
compulsions and inducements of money
they will tend to kick over the traces of
any industrial system based on the profit
motive. This much is evident to every-
one who can look around and see what
is happening already. Labor is the
supreme bottleneck in reconstruction, and
that at a time when the call for labor was
never greater, and pay and conditions are
good. A 8 for profit, it is a condition of
survival as well as a measure of success.
No business can be successfully run at a
loss. What measure of success the Gov-
ernment is likely to achieve it is difficult
to say. The mere making available or
emission of cheap credit is no guarantee
that money will be rightly used, or used
at all, unless traders can see means of
profitably employing it. The new danger
that arises is the possibility of direction
tending to harden into naked compulsion.
Free enterprise has the strongest of all
motives to promote efficiency and give
its customer's the facilities they desire, in
that it may expect to reap the profit of so
doing. And if financial results do not
measure up to expectations the taxpayer
has not to put his hand in his pocket to
make up the balance.
A powerful instrument in the Govern-
ment’s new set of economic tools is its
recent banking legislation. Among other
things, it is designed to shape and control
the direction and nature of capital and
other expenditure; matters in which
private enterprise enjoyed unfettered free-
dom in exercise of its own judgment pre-
war. To ensure that the public’s money
will be spent mainly as the Government
requires, the class and purpose of trading
bank advances have been made subject
to direction and control of the Common-
wealth Bank —the newly embellished
agency for policing Government econo-
mic policy on the money side. The banks’
special war-time deposits with the Gov-
ernment bank —broadly the increase in
their deposits since war began—remain
frozen, together with such further
amounts as the Government bank may
direct. And the interest paid on deposits
and charged for advances as well as the
buying and selling of Government and
other securities are also controlled.
Like other banking figures, those pre-
sented by the Adelaide reflect the war-
time anomaly of growing liquidity and a
downward trend in advances associated
with lively industrial activity. That was
because Government spending on defence
account was associated partly with indus-
trial expansion and with the financing of
transactions for which in normal times
bank loans would have been used. By
helping to finance the Government, which
became the largest trader in the com-
munity, the banks indirectly extended use
of their funds to industry at very low
rates of interest:
, March Sept.
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Notes.. £6,569 £6,499 £6,499 £6,489
Bills, etc. 367,596 7 8,993,127 12,406,843 18,401,000
Deposits 7,391,501 |
Liquid
assets 4,650,449 5,752,003 9,778,030 10,830,443
Advances 5,010,078 4,926,723 4,299,853 4,324,902
etc. ’ 422,997 455,533 451,785 444,297
Other
assets 178,810 210,346 134,559
Last term a growth of £25,049 in ad-
vances, first thing of its kind since 1941,
was accompanied by an addition of
£994,157 to deposits, etc., and an expan-
sion of £1,057,413 in low-interest-bearing
liquids. The latter include £4,452,000
(up £1,112,000) deposited on special ac-
count with the Government bank,
carrying interest at three-quarters of
one per cent, per annum. Thus the
co. had advanced to the Govern-
ment bank £127,098 more than it had
lent to private enterprise. And the rate
for ordinary advances is 4f p.c. p.a.
The co.’s financial position is one of
extraordinary strength but low earning
power.
The year’s £67,540 (up £1324) of profit
was a mere 2.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), or 5.4 p.c.
on the £1,250,000 of capital alone. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c.
At £6 15s. the £5-paid shares, which
carry a reserve liability of £5, callable
only in the event of liquidation, return
3.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is a little over £9 per share.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards Nominal
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £376.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 338,8 <0
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• ?f;*,870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 .. 150,949
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1940.. 202,334 89,536 64,280 48,518 199,467
To staff fund, £5OOO 194,467
5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1941.. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund. £5OOO 231,347
3 p.c.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To staff fund, £2290 .. .. .. 231,585
. 5.4 p.c.
1943.. 186,941 80,956 58,120 47,865 279,450
To staff fund, £7331 272,119
1944.. 207,323 80,956 58,120 68,246 340,365
To staff fund, £15,000 325,365
5 p.c.
1945.. 200,468 80,956 53,566 65,946 891,311
To staff fund, £15,000 376,311
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931.
To put the business on a more even
keel £1,052,121, or half the ord. capital,
was jettisoned in 1933. After that the
ords. came into the picture with annual
divs., averaging 5.7 p.c, to the close of
last accounts. Earnings continued to im-
prove until war arrived, bringing drastic
rationing of newsprint, with consequent
shrinkage in the size of publications and
curtailment of advertising revenue. Costs,
including the cost of paper and news-
gathering, mounted, but they were largely
offset by savings in the volume of news-
print used. The co. was also faced with
new and keen competition in the Sunday
and previously exclusive evening fields.
Following appearance of the “Sunday Tele-
graph” and “Daily Mirror,” circulation
of Associated’s two main journals—the
daily “Sun” and “Sunday Sun” —de-
clined.
Here is a comparison of declared
circulation of Associated’s seven publica-
tions for the six months to September
each year:—
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945-t
Daily “Sun”.. 241,360 175,000 245,257 263,000
“Sunday Sun” 831,173 300,000 871,631 410,000
“Woman” . . * 160,000 304,080 342,000
“Pix” ..I * 180,000 248,025 286,000
“World’s News” * 57,000 91,772 104,000
“Pocket Book” * 22,100 30,685 34,000
“Radio and
Hobbies” . . * 14,900 17,793 25,000
* Not available, t Estimated.
The all-round improvement since the low
level touched in 1941 is due partly to
increased supplies of newsprint. Still,
the co.’s ration last term was only 45 p.c.
of its consumption when war broke out,
the chairman says. The position would
be worse but for the output of Australian
Newsprint Mills (Tas.), in which Associ-
ated is a shareholder. From commence-
ment of production to end September
last these mills —their further extension
awaits equipment and labor —contributed
119.000 tons to the newsprint pool, com-
pared with 136,000 tons imported over
the same period.
There was little change in Associated’s
gross earnings (£475,029, down £656) last
term, when no div. was received on the
160.000 £1 ords. held in Consolidated
Press, which paid 3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. Including provision for
taxation (£125,160, down £16,135) and de-
preciation (£49,659, up £896), exes.
(£274,561) were £6199 heavier. That was
mainly because of the increased price of
paper and loss connected with three
strikes. The one in October, 1944, in-
volved employees concerned in a loss of
£7500 in wages and the co. in a loss ex-
ceeding this figure.
The net result (£200,468, down £6855)
was sufficient to pay the prefs. their full
contract rate of 7 p.c. (=£104,459) and
show 8.9 p.c. on the £1,071,326 of ord.
capital. But with the possibility of com-
petition in the Sunday field becoming
more intensified by appearance of yet
another competitor, the board reduced
the ord. div. from 5.4 p.c. to 5 p.c. and
maintained the pref. distributidn at 5.4
p.c. —the prefs. are subject to a 22\ p.c.
cut under the N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act, with the right to advance with the
ords. beyond 5.4 p.c. to the original
contract rate. Of the £65,946 of the year’s
profit that remained, £15,000 was sent to
the staff fund, and the balance lifted
nominal reserves to £376,311, to offset
goodwill, etc., with a book value of
£1,500,157. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing a depreciation reserve of £644,685.
The financial position improved:
1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £2,563,601 £2,563,601 £2,563,601
Overdraft . . . . 324,240 153,593 124,769
Other liabilities*. . 228,850 319,494 291,721
Provident fund . . 7,710
Depree. reserve . . 508,106 598,092 644,685
Freeholds . . . . 752,175 759,769 761,893
Plant, etc... .. 794,631 777,020 783,528
Shares .. .. 419,970 419,003 419,003
Stocks . . . . 288,762 326,878 323,868
Debtors, cash, etc. 180,475 267,805 298,073
* Including tax provision.
During the year the outside debt was re-
duced by £56,597, and debtors, cash, etc.,
was strengthened by £30,268. The more
or less liquid surplus (£624,454, including
shareholdings) was £84,355 better than at
the previous balance.
The market sdms up the risks by pric-
ing fhe f.-p. pound ords. at 20s. 10d., at
which figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 245. return
4.5 p.c. on a 5.4 p.c. distribution. In
1942 the ords. fell as low as 7s. 9d. in the
market. Excluding the depreciation re-
serve, the prefs. have a net tangible back-
ing of 19s. 3d., leaving the ords, repre-
sented only by goodwill.
Australian Foundation Investment Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
& £ £ £
1939.. 25,951 44 p.c. = 24,800 1,651 76,243
Net reduction reserves, £6640 .. 69,603
1940.. 28,483 4$ p.c. = 24,300 4,183 78,786
Net reduction reserves, £2820 .. 70,966
1941.. 29,302 4Jp.c. = 24,300 5,002 75,968
Net reduction reserves, £3042 .. 72,926
1942.. 24,567 4 p.c. = 21,600 2,967 75,893
Net reduction reserves, £2444 .. 73,449
1943.. 28,137 4 p.c. = 21,600 1,537 74,986
Net reduction reserves, £6 .. 74,980
1944.. 26,107 4 p.c. = 21,600 4,507 79,487
Net reduction reserves, £834 .. 78,653
1945.. 24,096 4 p.c. = 21,60.0 3,396 82,049
* Includes investment fluctuation reserve (now
£44,185).
As a long-term investment, shares in a
well-handled investment co. have much
to recommend them. Expert service is
provided at small cost, relieving the in-
vestor, especially the investor of moderate
means, of the anxiety of managing a small
portfolio to the best advantage. The
underlying principle is the pooling of
small savings for collective investment.
By spreading funds over a wide range
of securities the risk of violent fluctua-
tion in earnings, and therefore in divs.,
is reduced. Divs. are usually moderate
until substantial reserves are built up to
support and assist share capital. Altera-
tions in conditions and outlook affecting
particular stocks lead to changes in in-
vestment, from which result sometimes
capital gains and sometimes capital losses.
Shareholders have to rely on the judg-
ment of the management as to what is
likely to prove best for the co. in the
long run.
This co. —“it used to be Were’s Invest-
ment Trust, formed in Melbourne in 1928
—has given a satisfactory account of
itself from the start. The board has


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—-No Cushions
This Htest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22R), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
F I
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGE ST
CAMPEROOffN
SYDMHV,
fIANWFACTUREfiS
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
f
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.OJ,
Sydney.
M. C. Nolt, Public Trustee.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adyt.
•»* ♦ ■
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs qf all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.-"— Adyt.
* * * •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent. Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cil Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Abvt.
adopted a policy of frankness, disclosing
the full contents of the co.’s investment
portfolio. The div. climbed steadily to
6 p.c. in 1938, then dropped to 41 p.c.
for the next three years, and to 4 p.c. for
the four years to the close of last ac-
counts, when shareholders could see the
whole of their money intact and £82,049
besides.
War and the financial and other con-
trols that accompanied it, including the
now outmoded share-price ceiling, together
with crippling taxation and other costs,
restricted investment opportunities and
altered the outlook for some of the secu-
rities already held. Entry of Japan into
the war was followed by loss of divs.
from tin and rubber investments. And,
under National Security regulations, some
of the co.’s American securities had to be
sold to the Government at a loss. These
and other capital losses appear in the
introductory table as reductions in re-
serves.
The next table shows the shrinkage in
the number of investments and their book
value, together with shifts in-the geo-
graphical spread, since 1939 :
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945,
No. inv’ments 618 524 428 391
Book value.. £839,095 £719,620 £749,935 £739,972
Location;— ...
Aus. & N.Z. 50.4 p.c. 61.8 p.c. 82.3 p.c. 85.6 p.c.
Britain ~ 24.9 „ 16.9 „ 3.9 „ 2.6 „
U.S.A. . . 21.3 „ 17.4 „ 10.6 „ 10.3 „
Canada .. 2.4 „ 2.9 „ 2.6 „ 0.9 „
Sundry . . 1.0 „ , 1.0 „ 0.6 „ 0.0 „
Thus the co. has steadily reduced the
proportion of funds invested in Britain
and U.S.A. and reinvested the money in
Australia and Maoriland*.
Changes in the class of securities held
were as follows:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Bonds and debs. 4.2 p.c. 4.0 p.c. 7.2 p.c. 8.6 p.c.
Pref. shares .. 8.3 „ 8.0 ~ 6.0 „ 5.1 ~’
Ord. shares .. 87.5 „ 88.0 „ 86.8 „ 86.3 „
The large holding of ord. shares is
spread over a -wide range of well-selected
stocks, and prospects of better returns
later on, and of capital appreciation, are
encouraging.
Last term’s net revenue earnings were
4.6 p.c. on the £540,000 of share capital,
compared with 4.8, 4.3, 4.5, 5.4, 5.3, 4.8
and 6.4 p.c. back to 1938. Changes in
investments resulted in a net loss of
£834, which • reduced the investment fluc-
tuation reserve to £44,185.
With the narrowing of investment
opportunities the co. reduced its external
indebtedness, of course:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £540,000 £540,000 £540,000 £540,000
Loans, etc. . . 224,220 134,478 131,489 131,727
Tax reserve .. 6,717 5,669 5,613 6,247
Investments .. 839,095 759,342 749,935 739,972
Debtors .. 13,148 3,231 1,209 2,695
Cash .. .. 28,137 15,067 27,045 38,956
When the books last closed the market
value of investments exceeded their book
value by £66,289. The f.-p. ss. shares
were covered by net assets with a book
value of 6s. 7d.
Bulolo Gold Dredging (New Guinea)
expects to get its Nos. 1,2, 3 and 7
dredges operating again within the next
12 months, subject, of course, to
scheduled delivery of spares now on
order. Although these dredges require
extensive mechanical and electrical re-
placements and repairs, they are in a
comparatively safe condition so far as
flotation is concerned. - The other four
machines are in a less satisfactory con-
dition, and will require, more extensive
overhaul before they can be floated and
begin digging again. The co.’s fleet con-
sists of eight all-electric bucket dredges;
Rated Power
Monthly Size Eequire-
Capacity. Buckets. ments.
No. 1 .. 250,000 c. yd. 10 c. ft. 700 h.p.
No. 2 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 . „
No. 3 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 4 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 5 .. 300,000 „ 10i „ 1400- „
No. 6 .. 150,000 „ 6 „ 450 „
No. 7 .. 300,000 „ 10J „ 1400 „
No. 8 .. 300,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
Nos. 5 and 7 each have a total digging
depth of 125 ft, of which 85ft. is below
waterline. Combined total monthly capa-
city of the fleet is 2,050,000 c.y. Esti-
mated gravel reserves total 150,000,000
c.y., of which 129,000,000 c.y. is to be
dredged and the balance treated by
hydraulic sluicing. Before productive
operations can begin, re-equipment of the
hydro-electric plants on the Baiune and
Bulolo rivers will be necessary.* To pro-
vide temporary power for the sawmill
and machine shop a 200-kv.a. generator
has been connected with the Pelton wheel
turbine at the 10 -, er Baiune station.
* * * *
To avoid closing down the old Mt.
Bischoff tinmine (Tas.), on which the
adjoining township of Waratah. depends,
the Federal and Tas. Governments have
agreed to take over and work the property
jointly. Purchase price is £lO,OOO. To
meet this and the cost of further equip-
ment —output is to be stepped up—the
two Governments have agreed to con-
tribute £25,000 each. The mine, first
worked in 1873, is the oldest, and was
for many years the largest, tin producer
in Australia. During the war it was
rented (£1352 p.a.) by the Federal Gov-
ernment and worked at a substantial
loss. The co. was then holding over
£20,000 net in cash and Government se-
curities. Paid capital is £29,600.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Claude de Bernales is on the
way to becoming the blue-asbestos king
of Westralia. In addition to large pro-
ducing areas in the Hammersley Ranges,
now held by De Bernales interests, and
on which over £lOO,OOO has been spent,
his representatives are applying for other
large blocks there. The opening up of
new blocks will depend upon sufficient
capital being raised in London.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY
Chairman’s Address at Annual
General Meeting of Proprietors .
At the Annual Meeting of the Proprietors of The Australian Gas Light Company,
held on February 28, 1946, in Sydney, the Chairman of Directors, Sir Samuel
Cohen, said : —
Ladies and Gentlemen, —This is the first
opportunity I have had of addressing you since
the world war ended. It is perhaps rather
late for me to make reference to the relief we
all felt, but I would like to read to you a
resolution of the Board made in August last
when war in the Pacific ceased. It reads as
follows: —
“The Directors place on record their
thankfulness and gratification at the success-
ful conclusion of the war and their pride
in the service given to the nation by the
many employees who joined the Armed
Forces, 28 of whom made the supreme sac-
rifice.
“They also express appreciation of the
co-operation of, the officers and employees,
by whose efforts, under considerable disa-
bilities, the Company was enabled to main-
tain its high reputation for service during
the war years.”
I have outlined to you on previous occasions
the part which the Company, both directly
and indirectly, was privileged to play in the
country’s war effort. Now that we are the
victors we can be doubly proud of our con-
tribution.
COAL SUPPLIES
You are all aware of the reasons for the
difficult position in which the Company has been
placed during the year because of the interrup-
tion in the supply of coal, so that I feel it is
not necessary for me to traverse this question.
Everything possible was done to procure
supplies, and in this connection I would again
place on record appreciation of the help given
by the Commonwealth Coal Commissioner,
Mr. N. R. Mighell, and his Distribution
Manager, Mr. H. L. Williams.
HOUSING
Home building by both private and Govern-
ment agencies has shown considerable expan-
sion during the last twelve months. This is
due to two main factors, viz., the lifting of
some controls on building by the Federal
Government and the accelerated progress of the
State Government’s housing programme. Gas
continues to secure a very large proportion of
the cooking and heating load in both private
and Government-sponsored housing, and it is
interesting to observe that,!largely as the result
of the operations of the Housing Commission,
gas is being extended to several new and practi-
cally undeveloped areas. The extension of gas
service to these districts will not only assist
in their general development, but also make
a substantial contribution to the progress of the
Company.
INSPECTION OF CUSTOMERS’
INSTALLATIONS
It has always been recognised by your
Directors and the officers of the Company that
much of the success which has attended the
Company’s operations in the past' has been
attributable to the high standard of service
given to customers. This standard has imposed
a requirement that we should unceasingly look
for ways in which we can improve it. For this
reason, during the year, a plan of systematic
inspection of customers’ supply pipes and appli-
ances was commenced. Under this plan, which
will take a considerable time to fulfil, areas will
be systematically examined to ensure that indi-
vidual customers receive supply under the best
conditions, and where necessary advice will be
given to them as to the steps they should
take to receive the maximum satisfaction from
their appliances. The effects of the operation
o" the plan will be to correct the results
of customers’ omissions in the past to seek
service, lessen the incidence of future service
calls and cement existing relations with cus-
tomers.
SALES OF GAS
Sales of gas have shown a further increase
over those of the previous year, the increase
being 51.3 million units.
SALES OF APPLIANCES
Appliances for domestic purposes continue
to be in very short supply. Notwithstanding
the lifting of Government controls under the
permit system, many thousands of our cus-
tomers have been disappointed because of our
inability to deliver gas ranges, water heaters,
refrigerators and other appliances to meet their
urgent requirements. This has been due to
manufacturers’ inability to produce appliances
in the numbers required owing mainly to man-
power shortages, but also to lack of material
consequent upon recent industrial troubles.
Also a large proportion of appliances pro-
duced by manufacturers goes direct to the Hous-
ing Commission, and, while in normal times
such a contingency would not unduly upset
business, under existing conditions it is unavoid-
able that supplies available for the general
public are substantially curtailed. It is with
regret that I have to state that no definite im-
provement can be anticipated until the later
months of this year.
BY-PRODUCTS
1 The variations in quantities of by-products
sold compared with those sold during 1944
are as follows: Coke and breeze, an increase
of 5400 tons; sulphate of ammonia and am-
moniacal liquor expressed as sulphate of
ammonia, an increase of 1300 tons; tar fuel,
an increase of 333,500 gallons; and tar for
roadmaking purposes, a decrease of 485,000
gallons, this decrease being due to the reduced
wartime requirements.
During the year arrangements were made for
the disposal, for a number of years, of a very
substantial proportion of our production of
tar oils. This will ensure an avenue of dis-
posal which will give added stability to our
operations.
VISITS OF OFFICERS ABROAD
In order that firsthand knowledge might be
obtained regarding development in the utilisa-
tion of gas both in the home and for industrial
purposes, and with the knowledge that the gas
industry in America is applying itself intensively
in these questions, it has been decided to send
three officers of the Company to the U.S.A.
Conditions pertaining to developments in the
gas industry in the United Kingdom and else-
where in Europe are under review, and con-
sideration is being given to sending another
officer abroad as soon as circumstances there
become more favorable.
PURCHASE OF LAND, MORTLAKE
During the year negotiations were concluded
for the purchase from the Maritime Services
Board of an area of approximately 4 acres of
reclaimed land at Mortlake previously held
under lease. As a result the Company now
owns the whole of the wafer frontage to its
works.
ADDITIONAL PLANT AND BUILDINGS
I have previously reported progress made
with the extension of No. 6 Retort House and
auxiliary plant, and now have pleasure in in-
forming you that this work has been completed
and that the new plant is operating very satis-
factorily. The Benzole Plant, to which previous
references have been made, is now nearing com-
pletion, and it is expected that it will be in
production next month. It had been hoped
that this plant, which is capable of producing
approximately 1,800,000 gallons of benzole per
annum, would have been in commission during
the war period, thus assisting the national effort
by partially relieving the shortage of petrol.
However, owing to circumstances entirely be-
yond our the work of erection has not
proceeded as planned.
During the year the erection of an addi-
tional unit of the automatic carburetted water
gas plant has been authorised. This unit will
be capable of producing approximately 300,000
gas units per day, and will bring the number
installed up to six.
During April last a decision was made to pro-
vide better amenities for employees at the
Works by the erection of a central canteen
and dining room. Considerable delay in com-
mencing building operations has however been
experienced owing to our difficulty in obtaining
the necessary approval from the various Federal
and State Government authorities concerned.
I am pleased to state that the permit for the
erection of the building has now been issued,
and it is hoped, provided nothing unforeseen
occurs, to complete these amenities during this
year. The Board has also authorised the pro-
vision ot additional accommodation for ablu-
tions and lockers at the Works.
A large programme of mains extensions is
being carried out for the purpose of meeting
the requirements of the Housing Commission
and those of home builders. In order to
facilitate operations and minimise costs mechani-
cal equipment has been acquired.
RESULTS OF YEAR’S OPERATIONS
The net profit for the year amounted to
£338,872 3s. 6d., which, together with the sum
of £59,130 Bs. 3d. brought forward from the
previous year, makes available for distribution
the total sum of £398,002 11s. 9d. This is after
providing necessary amounts for the deprecia-
tion of assets and the Special Purposes Account.
An interim dividend for the June half-year
of 3 p.c., amounting to £145,800, having been
paid in August last, the remaining sum avail-
able for distribution is £252,202 11s. 9d. A
final dividend* of 3 p.c. for the December half-
year is now recommended, which will absorb
£145,800 and leave a balance to be carried for-
ward of £106,402 11s. 9d.
It must' be a source of satisfaction to share-
holders to note the continued improvement in
the market value of the Company’s shares, as
a result of which there has been an appreciation
in such value since 1942 from £3,138,750 to
£6,277,500, being equivalent to 100 p.c.
Before concluding my address I would ex-
press the Directors’ appreciation of the help
and assistance given by the Management and
employees during a year in which many diffi-
cult problems have arisen.
I now move —
“That the Statement of Accounts for the
past year be received, that the Report of the
Directors be adopted, and that this meeting
do order and determine that a dividend of
3 p.c. be paid for the half-year ended
31st December, 1945, on the ‘A’ and ‘B’
shares.; 1


Commonwealth
sd
of Australia
Preference In Employment
to Members of the
Forces
Under the provisions of Part II of the Re-establish-
ment and Employment Act 1945, members and ex-
members of the Forces have been granted certain
rights to preference in employment.
Any member or ex-member of the Forces who believes
that he has not been accorded the rights to which he is
entitled under that Act, is invited to place the facts of
his case before the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Legal Service Bureau, whose addresses and tele-
phone numbers are
New South Wales :
4th Floor
Mercantile Mutual Building
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Telephone BW 2991
South Australia :
EPWORTH BUILDING
PIRIE ST., ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
Tasmania ; •
153 MACQUARIE ST.
HOBART
Telephone Central 6653
Victorip :
318 POST OFFICE PLACE
MELBOURNE
Telephone Central 1061
Australian Capital Territory :
Crown Solicitor’s Office
Commonwealth Offices
West Block
Telephone 631
Western Australia:
ATLAS BUILDING
8-10 THE ESPLANADE
PERTH
Telephone B 5658
Queensland
T. & G. BUILDING
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s
Office, A.W.B. Building
CLEVELAND STREET
TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
This Bureau was established in 1942 for the purpose
of furnishing legal service and advice to members of the
Forces, discharged members of the Forces, and the
dependants of such members and discharged members.
This Legal Service Bureau of the Attorney-General is
available for the assistance of both men and women.
j ■ £ „
\ 'A
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THKEk
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in, arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
m machine tool
manufacturing co.pty.ltu
Manufacturer! of Precision lathes. Shapen.
Weight (approx.) 2\ tons BR|DGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE
rn T,td., 139 Clarence St., Sydney*
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Land-sale Controls
As March 2 marked the end of six
months since war in the Pacific officially
terminated, the Real Estate Institute of
N. S. Wales has decided to select a case
and test the land-sale regulations in the
High Court. While there may be some
excuse still for control of land prices
within reasonable limits, the attitude
taken by the Treasury all along has been
economically one-sided and politically
disturbing.
The National Security (Economic
Organisation) Regulations, introduced in
February, 1942, provided, among other
things:—
Nothing in this regulation shall prevent
the sale of land (other than country land)
.... (ii) where the sale is at a price which
does not exceed by more than ten per
centum the amount which an independent
approved valuer certifies would have been
a fair and reasonable price for the land
as at the tenth day of February, 1942.
At the time, in view of the rise in living
costs —a growth of p.c. had already
been admitted officially—the restriction
of land deals to prices no more than
10 p.c. above approved valuation was
regarded as unjust by many people. But
very soon even the 10 p.c. latitude was
abolished by the Government, and the
position today is that land transactions
must be put through at February, 1942,
valuations, unless the Treasurer or his
delegate otherwise decides.
Where an approved valuer certifies to
a price that differs from the Government
valuation for rating (etc.) purposes the
valuer is called upon by the Treasury
delegate to substantiate his figure, asking
for details of the price at which sales of
similar property went through in Febru-
ary, or in the year before or after.
Then, if the valuer’s figure, as supported
by evidence, is lower than the price at
which the buyer and seller have agreed
upon, it is usual for the Treasury to in-
form the parties that the contract will be
approved only if the price is reduced to
the valuer’s figure.
In the case of sales at auction the posi-
tion becomes almost fantastic. The
highest bidder enters into a contract of
sale with the seller. The contract goes
to the Treasury delegate. If the highest
bid has been higher than the approved
price (as it mostly is) the contract is re-
jected, and then, if the seller is willing
to sell at the approved price, the highest
bidder has to draw lots with all the other
bidders who bid the approved price or
higher. One thing is quite obvious in this
procedure: it increases form-filling no
end.
A palpable injustice in land-sale con-
trol has recently revealed itself. New
official valuations for rating purposes
have been issued in some cases, but, even
where the figure is up on that for 1942,
no latitude will be allowed to valuers for
purpose of sale because of the increased
official valuation.
Sellers of land and owners of rented
property are today subsidising the Com-
monwealth Government’s prices ceiling
to a disproportionate extent. Rents are
subject to pegging, and in the ultimate are
based on official valuations. The
reason for the Government’s harsh
treatment of property owners is plain
enough. Apart from , the fact that
it doesn’t at all mind being unjust to
landlords and “little capitalists” (Ded-
man), it is all for tricks that will tend
to keep the cost-of-living index down
and thus help to disguise its own failure
to handle the national economics even
reasonably well during the war and post-
war period. The Government continues
to create unjustifiable credit inflation and
endeavors to single out political minori-
ties to pay for it.
The N. S, Wales State Government
Housing Commission is another obstruc-
tion to homeseekers at the present time.
It has a habit of buying up large blocks
of land in subdivisions and apparently
hoarding it for the requirements of
citizens in the year 2001 or thereabouts.
Anyway, one authority has estimated
that it will take 10 or 20 years for the
Housing Commission to fill its vacant
land with houses if it goes on buying at
the present rate —and building at the
present rate.
With the Housing Commission put-
ting this squeeze on land available
in industrial areas the. building-block
shortage is such that blackmarketeers
are being kept in clover. It is a
certainty that N. S, Wales Government
housing activities have done nothing to
speed up the construction of houses as
a. whole in the State, even if they have
reserved a large proportion of building
supplies and land for a particular politi-
cal class. McKell keeps flashing before
the public eye visions of the millions of
pounds he has allocated for “housing,”
but can only produce concrete evidence
of the results mentioned.
California Productions, Ltd., nominal
capital £500,000, is to take over what in
war-time was a Government small-arms
factory at Bathurst (N.S.W.). The new
co., which has on the board knight Syd-
ney Snow (Sydney retailer), S. E. Marler
and Malcolm Parker (Parker Shoe Go.),
will manufacture American-style and
other women’s and children’s clothing
and footwear. About 1000 employees
will be needed when the factory starts
production, and it is hoped to find
these among former Bathurst munition-
workers. Initial working capital is put
at £lOO,OOO, with possibilities of a public
issue later on. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is looking kindly oil any private
enterprise that will take over its country
munition factories and provide the
former staff with jobs. It tried to lure
Nuffield away from the Sydney metro-
politan area and take over something
further out. What a change in attitude
since 1943, when “Labor” promised to
beat private manufacturers into the dust
when it put its war-time factories to
peace-time use! There were to be re-
frigerators (dirt-cheap), vacuum-cleaners
and washing-machines that would make
housewives vote. Labor for the rest of
their lives. There are, of course, none of
these things ; instead, even the most lady-
like housewife is learning to use bad
language when referring to the Govern-
ment which has caused queueing-up and
blackmarketeers to become the bane of
her life.
* * * $
Ducon Condenser, Ltd., a Melbourne
concern in the radio-manufacturing busi-
ness, has increased its nominal capital
from £25,000 to £500,000, and has offered,
for a start, 50,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which have been taken by the market.
When the new issue is fully paid the
capital paid up will be just under
£150,000, £98,775 being in ordinary
shares. There have been other 5 p.c. pref.
issues lately.' D. Hardy and Sons, Sydney
timber and plywood merchants, put out
£75,000 in 5 p.c. Ist pref. money, and
South Australian Brush Co. had no diffi-
culty in placing £25,00p of 5 p.c. 2nd
pref. money. Simmons, Ltd., Sydney
printer, has offered £25,000 of 5 p.c.
scrip to shareholders. There has been
a rush of small issues lately. AndLerson
and Co., the seed firm, has issued
25,000 £1 ords. to the public, Britstand
Distributors £43,813 in ords., Brose
Valves, Ltd., £50,000 in ords., Creamoata,
Ltd., £25,000 in ords., Freighters, Ltd.,
£lOO,OOO in ords., Malleys, Ltd., £lOO,OOO
in ords.. Steamships Trading Co. £50,000
in ords., and Nightingale Supply Co.
£lO,OOO in 6 p.c. prefs. A number of
proprietary cos. are also making £lO,OOO
issues in various types of scrip ; Treasury
consent is not required for these.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley gives little promise of
correcting the anomaly whereby com-
panies in Australia are taxed at the rate
of at least 6s. in the £ and then dividends
in the hands of shareholders are taxed at
their full personal rate, without rebate.
In a letter to the Taxpayers’ Association
of Queensland Mr. Chifley quotes a
decision of the House of Lords to the
effect that “the fund which is taxed in
the hands of the company and the divi-
dend which is declared by the company
and paid to shareholders are separate
items for taxation law.” Mr. Pettigrove,
of the Victorian Taxpayers’ Association,
said Mr. Chifley seemed to ignore the
fact that, under the British method of
taxing dividends at the standard rate,
there were rebates for practically every
shareholder, and it was necessary to col-
lect more tax from a shareholder only
when his total taxable income brought
him into a higher taxation field. The
continued double taxation of company
income in Australia, whatever fine legal
point the House of Lords may have de-
cided, remains, in practice, a gross in-
justice and a deterrent to business initia-
tive. It is obviously absurd that a man
trading as a company should be taxed at
a rate at least 6s. in the £ higher than
he would if trading as a person. Mr.
Chifley seems to have little more regard
f6r thrift and for private initiative than
he ever had.
* * * *
Baron Keynes has been nominated by
the British Government as a member of
the board of governors of the Bretton
Woods twins —the International Mone-
tary Fund and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
Keynes was leader of the British financial
delegations to Washington during and
after the war, and he was author of one
of the international-currency plans sub-
mitted at Bretton Woods ; it fixed each
country’s participation in the fund and
bank according to the size of its trade
with the world. This plan was rejected by
the conference in favor of the United
States (White) plan, which placed each
country’s say in the management of the
fund in the proportion of its contributions.
* * * *
“Moale” (Papua): Australians growing
rubber and coconuts in Papua got a great
kick out of the announcement that
the importation of rubber from Ceylon
was to be increased. This while Papua,
an Australian territory, has 2000 tons of
rubber and thousands of tons of copra —
valuable as the basis of stock food
yearly now not being produced because
of the arbitrary action taken by the
“responsible” Minister on the advice,
presumably, of his Canberra theorists.
* * * *
Senator Keane told reporters in San
Francisco: “Solve the housing problem
and you solve the greater part of the post-
war industrial problems.” Very largely
true, if by solution the Minister means
the making available of homes to all who
desire home-ownership. But how does
he reconcile his views with those of his
colleague, Dedman, who is against home-
ownership by “workers” because it makes
them “little capitalists”?
« * • •
During November, 1945, a sale in
Pacific Forests £1 shares at 9s. 6d. was
recorded in the unlisted section of the
N.Z. Stock Exchanges’ “Official Record.”
In Australia N.Z. Forest Products ords.
are quoted at 55., and Whakatane
ords. have been selling at ss. 3d. Fires
recently did some minor damage to
N.Z.F.P. plantations.
* * * *
During the first year of war with Japan
the average number of motor-cars regis-
tered in the Commonwealth fell heavily—
to 450,851 at June 30, 1942, compared
with 562,271 at June 30, 1939. By the
end of 1944 the total had crept back to
500,000, and over the past 12 months
it has expanded by only 10,000.
Apparently actual wearing-out of vehicles
is considerably exceeding new supplies.
There is a market for almost any kino
of boneshaker these times, and few cars
remain jacked up.


MAKE AERATED CORDIALS.
Gingerale, Lemonade, Kola, Hop Beer, etc., also
legal refreshing 2 p.c. proof spirit beer. In-
gredients to make a season’s supply. Simply
make a bottle as you want it. Costs about one
penny per bottle. Free patent pressure regulator
ensures the correct amount of gas in every
bottle. Obtainable from A. Holmes, Chemist,
Portarlington, Victoria, or £1 post free from
Bcerx Registered, Box 14 Portarlington, Vic.
T.HA>
tu&.'iP'
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICI1?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as solo Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. Hie Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Noswortby - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitcbal
P. T. W. Black. Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7TOI. Box 543 ~ G.P.0., Sydney.
es
MmOJ%rrns
iroizii
It’S a long process too. The sooner we can render the use
of the word unnecessary, with full security assured for every
demobilised service man and-woman, the better for Australia
and for every Australian.
That largely depends on what the average Australian does
with his money. If he spends it thoughtlessly on goods in
short supply, he merely helps to inflate prices, to send the
cost of living higher and deprive service men and women of
the full assistance towards re-establishment in civil life.
The Commonwealth Security Loan will provide every
Australian with a golden opportunity not only to invest
the whole or part of his savings profitably and safely, but
to help in ensuring that there is no delay in redeeming in
full the pledges we gave our service men and women when
they enlisted.
THE £70,000 5 000
SECURITY LOAN
will open on Tuesday, March 12. The rate of interest
will be 3J% for twelve year Bonds; 2% for three year
Bonds. But you need not wait until March 12 before
making your investment. Through any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stockbroker, advance subscriptions can be made now
. . . and interest will start to mount up from the moment
the money is lodged.
Remember that the purpose of this Loan is to raise at least
£70,000,000 which will be applied exclusively to meeting com-
mitments arising directly out of the war, particularly the re-
habilitation of Australian service men and women.
Issued by the Commonwealth Loan and National Savings Organisation,
P5L.28.113.26
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
The prospectus of the public issue of
750,000 ord. shares in Bitumen and Oil
Refineries (Aust.), Ltd., an offshoot of
California Texas Oil Co., Ltd., was pub-
lished on Monday of last week, and the
issue was oversubscribed by Tuesday,
when the lists were closed. Subscriptions
had banked up for several weeks previ-
ously on advance information provided
by brokers, a commentary on which was
published in B. 23/l/’46.
In addition to the public issue, Cali-
fornia Texas takes 500,000 ords., which
differ from tHfe public issue in that they
carry the right to nominate three out of
the seven directors on the board. The
proceeds of this issue will be credited in
the books of California Texas and liquid-
ated by the supply of petroleum to the
Australian co.
Bitumen and Oil will set up an Aus-
tralian bitumen refinery under the super-
vision of its overseas associate, which
will supply technical experts and infor-
mation and will provide a manager for
three years, all at the expense of the Aus-
tralian co. Cost of the refinery and
equipment is estimated at £700,000, with
a capacity of 50,000 tons of bitumen a
year, by-products additional. The plant
is estimated to be erected and working
within a year from date of availability
of constructional materials.
David A. Craig is to be reimbursed up
to a limit of £20,000 for his expenses
incurred in preparing the way for the
formation of the company.
California Texas, for 25 years, will
supply B. and O. with up to 1,000,000
barrels of oil a year at the “low” of
world prices. (A barrel is 35 Imperial
gallons, 42 U.S. gallons.) More may be
arranged for. The oil will be paid for
in sterling, but may come from
Bahrein Island (Persian Gulf), California,
Saudi Arabia or Netherlands Indies, at
the seller’s option. B. and O. is to find
its own tankers, though it may be mutu-
ally agreed to use the seller’s ships. The
oil shipped will be a pumpable mixture
of about 85 p.c. crude residuum and
15 p.c. distillate. A condition of the oil
contract says: “In no event shall seller
be required to sell and deliver any oil
under this agreement at a price below
the cost of producing, manufacturing,
storing, handling and delivery of the oil.”
B. and O.’s obligation to buy is limited to
“purchaser’s requirements.” B. and O.
may buy outside if California Texas does
not elect to supply “requirements” in
excess of 1,000,000 barrels annually.
In addition to world-parity price for the
oil, B. and O. must pay California Texas
£20,000, Australian currency, yearly, or
a sum equal to 50 p.c, of the excess of
B. and O.’s profits over 6 p.c. on its
capital, whichever sum is the less; “pro-
vided always that California Texas shall
be entitled to receive a sum of fivepence
Australian currency in respect of every
barrel of oil shipped from any port as
part-payment of the abovementioned
sum.” The fivepence a barrel will be
charged as the oil is shipped, with annual
adjustments.
In connection with this “service
charge,” it is further provided that
if in any year the company [B. and O.]
shall have earned additional profit as
aforesaid California Texas shall out of
the service-charge moneys paid to and
retained by it pay to David Alexander Craig
as compensation for work done by him in
the United States of America in connec-
tion with, and incidental to, the formation
of the co. 60 p.c. of such moneys.
This would appear to mean that Mr.
Craig, if the maximum service charge is
earned by California Texas, will be en-
titled to £12,000 a year.
Refinery output of 50,000 tons of bitu-
men and additional by-products is ex-
pected to bring in a revenue of £743,000
a year. No estimates of profits are given
in the prospectus owing to uncertainty of
present economic conditions, but it is
pointed out that selling prices “would
naturally be based upon cost.” Caltex,
Ltd., an Australian subsidiary of Cali-
fornia Texas, will enter into a contract to
buy petrol and distillate by-products of
the refinery, “subject to satisfactory
terms and conditions being consum-
mated.” It is intended to market the bitu-
men through Caltex and other trade
channels. No selling contracts figure in
the prospectus.
In order to hand California Texas the
full service charge of £20,000 a year it
will be necessary for Bitumen and Oil
Refineries to show net profits of £115,000
a year. That would enable a 6 p.c.
dividend to be paid, plus an additional
1.6 p.c. out of the “excess” profits, if
thought fit. A 6 p.c, dividend, with no
liability for service charge, would call for
£75,000.
First directors of B. and O. are David
A. Craig (chairman), Knight John
Butters, T. G. Murray, M.L.C., and E. R.
Griffin (tentatively representing Aus-
tralian shareholders); C. J. Brogan, J.
W. Higgins and W. E. Field (nominated
by California Texas). All shares carry
one vote each at annual meetings, which
means that California Texas will have a
block vote of 40 p.c., Australian sub-
scribers the remainder.
California Texas Oil Co., Ltd., is a sub-
sidiary of Bahrein Petroleum Co., Ltd.,
which is owned half by the Standard Oil
Co. of California and half by the Texas
Company. Bahrein Petroleum owns all
oil leases on Bahrein Island, in the Persian
Gulf, and has large interests in Saudi
Arabia. The whole organisation is
basically American.
The flotation represents the biggest
share issue to receive Commonwealth
Treasury sanction since the war ended.
With the backing of the California Texas
concern there should be few technical
difficulties in the construction and opera-
tion of the plant. On the earning side
results will partly depend upon shipping
facilities and charges and refining costs
in Australia and upon selling arrange-
ments and prices. As to prices, the
presence or otherwise of compefition
frpm the major oil cos. will be a factor.
The prospectus claims that Australian re-
finers will possess a big advantage over
overseas sellers of bitumen because it
will not be necessary in all cases to put
locally-made bitumen for bulk delivery
into drums.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO HAROLD WYNTER-MARTIN formerly of
Rochedale near Brisbane in the State, of Queensland
but whose present whereabouts are unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Brisbane aforesaid by Writ of Summons No. 1(7
of 1946 by ALICE MAUD WYNTER-MARTIN your
wife in which she claims a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you and by her petition filed herein
she alleges that on- or about the Eighteenth day of
September 1939 you without cause deserted her and
have ever since continuously deserted her without
cause for a period of three years and upwards to
the present time and it has been ordered that service
on you of the said Writ and Petition be effected by
publication of this Notice once each in “The Courier-
Mail” published in Brisbane aforesaid and “The
Bulletin” published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales If you desire to defend this
action you must within sixty-one days from the last
publication of this Notice enter an appearance at
the Registry of the said Court and in default of
your so doing the Plaintiff may by leave proceed
in the Action and Judgment may be given against
you in your absence. Dated this Fifteenth day of
February, 1946. — (1.5.) J. S. .GIBSON, Second
Deputy Registrar. :
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN.
TO MARION HILL also known as MARION
SUMMERS formerly of Melbourne in the State of
Victoria and of Hampton Court Hotel King’s Cross
Sydney in the State of New South Wales (but
whose present whereabouts are unknown) wife of
FRANCIS GEORGE HILL of Stack Street Koongal
Rockhampton in the State of Queensland Labourer.
—TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 23 of 1946 has
been commenced against you the said MARION HILL
as Defendant in the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Rockhampton by Petition filed therein and Writ
of Summons issued thereout on the Seventh day of
February 1946 by FRANCIS GEORGE HILL of
Stack Street Koongal Rockhampton aforesaid
Labourer claiming a dissolution of his marriage
with you the said MARION HILL on the ground
of desertion without cause continuously for three
years and upwards AND that by an Order of this
Honourable Court made on the Eighteenth day of
February 1946 it was ordered that service of the
said Writ of Summons and of the said Petition on
you by filing and sticking up on the Notice Board
in the Registry of the said Court a copy of such
Writ of Summons and an office copy of such Petition
and the Affidavit verifying the same and by publish-
ing this notice once in the “Bulletin” a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
shall be good and sufficient service upon you of
the said Writ of Summons and of the said Petition
If you intend to defend the said action you must
within Thirty days from the date of the publication
of this notice cause an appearance to be entered
for you at the said Registry and in default of your
so doing the said FRANCIS GEORGE HILL may by
leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
Judgment may be given against you in your
absence. Dated this Twenty-second day of February,
1946 — (l.s.) F. J. RUSSELL, Registrar.
WALSH, McLAUGHLIN & COWAN, Solicitors for
Plaintiff, Rockhampton, Queensland. Sydney Agents:
MESSRS. McFADDEN & McFADDEN, Solicitors, 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN the SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARY ELIZABETH MANSON formerly of Dubbo
TAKE NOTICE that ANDREW CLARENCE MANSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 189 of 1946 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
third day of May 1946 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from GARDEN & MONT-
GOMERIE Kendal Street Cowra. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. ( i .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN.
TO ROWLAND HODGSON TUCK formerly of Rock-
hampton in the State of Queensland but lately of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales window
cleaner (but whose preseitt whereabouts are un-
known) .-—TAKE NOTICE that an Action No. 28 of
1946 has been commenced against you the said
ROWLAND HODGSON TUCK as Defendant in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton afore-
said bv Petition filed therein and Writ of Summons
issued thereout on the eighteenth day of February
1946 by ELLA EILEEN WILHELMINA TUCK of
Ganter’s Gully Mount Morgan in the State of
Queensland married woman as Plaintiff claiming a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
of your adultery AND that it has been ordered that
service of the said Writ of Summons and of the said
Petition by filing and sticking up on the Notice
Board in the Registry of this Honourable Court a
conv of the said Writ of Summons and a sealed
copy of the said Petition and by publishing to
Notice once in “The Bulletin” a newspaper published
in Sydney aforesaid shall be good and sufficient
service on you of the said Writ of Summons and
of the said Petition If you desire to defend the
said action you must within thirty days from the
date of the publication of this notice cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the said
Registry and in default thereof the said ELLA
EILEEN WILHELMINA TUCK may by leave o
the Court or a Judge proceed therein and judgment
mav be given against you in your absence. Datea
™ twenty-eighth day of February, 1946.-(1.5.)
f T RUSSELL, Registrar.
GRANT & SIMPSON, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
114 East Street, Rockhampton.
THE SERVICE MAN
Spain and Australia.
“Ek Dum”: The worldwide campaign
against Franco’s Spain is of Moscow
origin, and because it plays on natural
democratic objections to a dictatorial
system, and on other objections, it is the
most successful yet organised from
Moscow—the only one, in fact, which
has not come a cropper. The A.C.T.U.
demands the severance of diplomatic rela-
tions with Spain, the same position, short
of the official notification, having virtu-
ally been reached with the Dutch.
Much of the present sound and fury
seems to be for the purpose of diverting
attention from Soviet spying in Canada ;
from the sudden world reorganisation of
the Communist party, which last week
went back to a “war footing” ; from the
flat repudiation of the Yalta undertaking
to withdraw all troops from Persia, as
Britain and the U.S.A. have done ; from
feverish arming in the Balkans, where the
Moscow agent Tito is in control; and
from the seizure and swift militarisation
of Dairen and the stripping of Man-
churia, also in utter defiance of Soviet
undertakings.
It is notable that the campaign has
not been so much used in Moscow to
damn the Spanish as to damn other
peoples. The strength of the Russian aid
to prevent the overthrow of the so-called
“Republican regime” was represented by a
very mixed Russian brigade with very
mixed arms. And Russian indignation
with Franco and his friends during the
civil war and after did not prevent the
Russians from allowing the Italians to
design and build the nucleus of their
new navy.
While this was going on Mr. Chamber-
lain was being denounced in a hundred
million leaflets from Moscow as “a mur-
derer” because —following historic British
policy, emphatically expressed by Wel-
lington—he did not intervene in Spain.
Manuilsky on Franco
It is true that Moscow’s language
against Franco was as ferocious as its
language against Goebbels, with whose
gang it was to demand in 1939, 1940 and
five months of 1941 that the British
Empire should make peace. For ex-
ample, Manuilsky, now the scandalised
defender of Indonesians and Greeks
(March, 1939):
How can this monster, who has destroyed
Spanish cities and villages with German
artillery, who has slaughtered thousands or
women and children with Italian bombs,
the butcher who has drenched Spain with
blood and who has been spurned and an-
athematised by the Spanish people, expect
to stay on their backs?
This (including the humorous bit about
the Italian bombs) was produced as argu-
ment to show that “world reaction,” un-
veiled at Munich, was responsible; in
effect, “a conspiracy of reaction” against
the international working class :
It was hatched out not only in Rome
and Berlin but in London and Pans. The
whole world knew that, having succeeded
in forcing Prague to capitulate, the Munich
politicians would descend upon Republi-
can Spain. The Munich deal gave Ger-
man and Italian Fascism an entirely free
hand in Spain. When Italian and German
forces of intervention seized Catalonia the
British and French reactionaries dropped
their mask. From covert intervention they
passed to open intervention. At the orders
of Berlin and Rome, they made haste to
recognise Franco. They engineered the
treacherous operation which transferred the
naval base of Minorca to Italian and Ger-
man interventionists More, the British
and French reactionaries, with the aid of
treasonable elements inside Spain, engineered
a counter-revolutionary coup in Madrid
and Cartagena in order to break the re-
sistance of the Spanish people.
Remarks which show the kind of diplo-
matists with whom Britain and America
have been attempting to deal on a basis
of sincerity in U. N. O. and elsewhere.
Mr. Byrnes has broadly hinted that there
will be no more appeasement of Moscow.
Manuilsky went on to describe what
happened in Middle Europe:
The British reacticmaries, in their en-
deavor to help German Fascism extricate
itself from its internal difficulties and
strengthen its position in the fight against
anti-Fascist forces, allowed it to seize
Austria and obligingly opened the doors
of Czechoslovakia to it.
Nothing about the fact that Russia, a
nextdoor neighbor, had not moved a
finger to help either Austria or Czecho-
slovakia—from which brother-Slav coun-
try Russia has taken Ruthenia.
Not six months after Stalin listened
with approval to Manuilsky’s outburst,
the British “Conservative reactionaries”
had declared war on Nazi Germany in the
cause of Poland, The Russians were in
alliance with Nazi Germany and had
become fellow-despoilers of brother-Slav
Poland. And they were using their Com-
munist agencies throughout the world to
inhibit Allied war effort and to force the
British and French to come to terms with
Hitler. Stalin, himself, had issued the
edict (Nov. 7, 1939) that Communist
parties must use opportunities offered by
“the imperialist war” to start “civil wars.”
Then came his New Year message to
Ribbentrop in 1940: “The friendship of
our peoples is cemented by blood.”
It is a cynical commentary on the
course of events that Germany double-
crossed its double-crossing partner. Now
the Russian representative at the Nurem-
burg trials has been holding up some of
the very atrocities which in 1939-40 were
“nothing to fight about” as reasons why
Moscow’s former associates should be
bumped off as war criminals.
The Real Spain
The story of Spain, like all other
stories which are retailed by the vast in-
filtration bodies of the U.S.S.R. in British-
speaking countries, is not what it seems
on the surface. The so-called Spanish Re-
publican Government was a Communist
minority Government. With Russian
help and an accession of Communist
militiamen from all over the world (“the
greatest fighting force the world has ever
seen”) it could not survive*.
The campaigns which brought about the
defeat of the Spanish Reds —who began
the war in control of all war resources,
metals, publicity media and the navy-
are as much misrepresented as the poli-
tics of the situation. The procedure which
Franco followed was to draw a line across
a small portion of the country, drive the
Reds out of it, establish civil government
and then move on to the next stage and
repeat the process.
The war is represented by Communists
as having been won by Axis forces. The
facts have come out at Nuremburg.
There was one German brigade and
there were two depleted Italian divisions
of not much better than brigade strength,
the value of which is no mystery to the
Diggers and Tommies who fought in the
Western Desert
The Russians in Spain were not there
out of love of that country. They were
there because Russian policy was to create
revolution throughout Europe and par-
ticularly to destroy the British Empire.
A Red Spain would have meant a Rus-
sianised Spain. It would have placed all
the countries between the Atlantic and
Russia in a Communist vyce. It would
have enabled the Red Government (with
control of Spanish Morocco) to close the
Mediterranean and cut the main lifelines
of the British Commonwealth. Russia is
still working for the same end. The
flare-up of Communist action against
Franco’s Spain is part of the programme.
The Current Affair
The attempts of some Spanish “Repub-
licans” to carry out their plans have re-
sulted in their execution. There have
been many precedents in Spanish history,
and of recent months there have been
many times the number of executions in
Russia-dominated Europe. However, the
executions have been made the pretext
for the closing of the Pyrenees border by
France, in which the Communists hold
the balance of power in the Government,
while Britain, France and the U.S.A.
have been appealed to to oust the Franco
Government. Franco anticipated the
French by closing his side of the frontier.
Spain is represented (on the authority
of “picturesque Hemingway” characters)
as writhing under the yoke and burning
for the return of the “Republican” ad-
ministration. The continued existence of
the Franco regime is mentioned as “a
threat to world peace.”
Franco collaborated against Russia.
Vichy France collaborated against
Britain. So did Russia until double-
crossed, and on a far larger scale.
In the terrible year 1940, and subse-
quently, Franco was in a position to
invite the Germans into Spain and hand
Gibraltar over to them or make its
harbor untenable and block the Europa
Strait. Mr, Churchill is a witness
that he could have been extremely
nasty —and wasn’t —when ships and
’planes were mustering at “Gib.” for the
invasion of North-west Africa.
There is nothing to indicate that the
Franco Government (whatever its lack
of virtue) has not a stable hold on Spa;n
or that it is in any danger of being
brought down through internal agitation.
The present demands have been gener-
ated from Moscow. They are being used
in Moscow, as before, to provide a route
of attack against the British Empire.
If the British and Americans give way
it will be for the same reason that they
have given way to Russia again and again
—in Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugo-
slavia and the Far East.
Driving Forces
But the time is fast approaching when
the situation will have to be handled
firmly. Russia is the only country which
has shown any disposition to remain
under arms. Red forces in eastern
Europe have increased in the last few
months. Troops have been poured into
Russia’s new and easily earned bases on
the China coast and into Manchuria. In
1943 all schools in Russia were turned
into military schools. The militarisation
of the Government has never ceased;
Stalin has become commander-in-chief in
a new sense. This means that a military
dictatorship has been established on a
permanent basis.
The whole thing has an ugly Napoleonic
look about it when linked with the Com-
munist agitations in every British and
British-occupied country and with the
obvious unrest in Russia itelf.
Dictators on shaky thrones often
have chosen foreign war or diversions in
preference to destruction at home. The
Moscow line is that Russia is menaced
and will not be safe until insurrection in
every other country has wiped out the
“menace of the capitalist system.”
Same Old Stuff
The leading Australian Communists,
who so far have shown that they control
not only transport and supply but also
foreign policy and the White Australia
policy in its bearing on “our Indernesian
comrades,” take the same stand regarding
their own country as they do towards
Spain. The language which they used
against Mr. Menzies and Mr. Cameron
and their followers in the last election
campaign in 1943 is exactly parallel to
some of that used against Franco:
What is, the Menzies-Cameron plot?
“Bring Adolf over here to run the
show!”... .Look hard at this plot of a
powerful (U.S.) minority and then turn
your eyes back to Australia, and look at
our plotters. The plot against the Curtin
Government is just as determined, just as
subversive and treacherous.
The people who published this have
openly avowed that if a Menzies
Government is elected they will sabotage
its efforts so as to make it impossible for
it to govern. They will try to sabotage
any military policy which does not suit
Moscow, just as they are proposing to
make it impossible for any Spanish Gov-
ernment to function unless Moscow
approves it.
The first essential in Australian defence
at the moment is the rooting out of the
Communist Fifth Column at any cost. It
is a dangerous' cancer threatening Aus-
tralian safety.
First Atrocity Executions.
It was announced in Melbourne at the
week-end that the first executions of
Japanese for atrocities against Austra-
lians would be carried out this week
nine at Morotai, in connection with the
wholesale destruction and torture of Aus-
tralians in Borneo and Ambon, and one
at Rabaul.
There was no statement as to who
would be executed or any other details,
save that the exact time and place of the
punishment would be decided by the
senior local officers, who had received
instructions as to procedure.
The whole business seems to serve little
purpose as at present managed. It is so
unobtrusive that the moral lesson
which is the main justification for the
proceedings will not be driven home to
those who most need it. It would have
been better had the thing been done in
Japan so that the Japanese would have
been cognisant of what was going on and
why it was going on.
In the meantime, the first atrocity trials
on Australian soil are taking place at
Darwin. Four Japanese captains, two
sergeant-majors, a sergeant and a lance-
corporal were charged with horrible
offences against Australians captured in
Timor in 1943. ' .
Evidence was given that Captain Cash-
man, taken on January 30, 1943, had
his legs crushed between logs, was beaten
with straps, canes, whips, fists and pieces
of wood. He was once hung up by his
fingers and was kept in solitary confine-
ment for two years and seven months.
When he complained he was told that
Japan was not a member of the Geneva
Convention and that what was done to
him did not matter since Australia would
never hear about it.
There were other equally horrible tales.
The proceedings were continuing when
this issue went to press.
On February 28, a War Crimes Court
at Singapore, acting with the usual Britis
celerity ? in such affairs, sentenced
General Shimpei Fukei, formerly admini-
strator of prison camps in Malaya, to be
shot, the president of the Court remark-
ing that in the face of the evidence there
would be no recommendation to mercy.
Among the charges on which this
brutal supervisor of Changi and other
camps was found guilty was one of killing
two British and two Australian prisoners,
ill-treating many p.-0.-w. and trying by
ill-treatment to compel others to sign
pledges not to escape.
“Ek D.”: One of the most curious facts
about World War II was the readiness
of experienced war leaders to accept as
gospel truth the yarn about the 750,000
‘'crack” Japanese troops which the invin-
cible Red Armies were supposed to be
holding by the scruff in Manchuria
throughout the Pacific war. Russia
refused to allow Anglo-American Intel-
ligence men to operate on the Manchurian
borders, and was able thus to convince
the Yalta Conference that the story was
true and to secure in return for services
never rendered its present stranglehold
on Manchuria and China, with an out-
right reward of Saghalien and the Kuriles.
It has now been proved, according to
Major-General William Donovan, of the
U.S. Army, that most of the forces which
Russia was supposed to be tying down
were in the Philippines and Okinawa.
The Russians, when they invaded Man-
churia, found a few second-line troops
only. However, the world should have
learned to expect this sort of thing in
relations with the U.S.S.R.


fs
df
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
William Macmahon Ball gets one of the
many posts for which R. G. Casey was
tipped when he stepped down from the
Governorship of Bengal—that of British
representative on the Allied Council in
Tokyo. American, Chinese and Russian
members will be his colleagues on the
Council, which is being set up to consult
with and advise General MacArthur on
the carrying out of Allied policy in
Japan. Macmahon Ball, a product
of Melbourne University, went abroad
on a Rockefeller Travelling Fellowship
in 1929 to study political science at Lon-
don University and do research work in
Germany, France and Italy. On his re-
turn from Europe in 1932 he became
head of the department of Political
Science at his University. For most of
the war period he was on loan to the
Department of Information as Director
of Short-wave Broadcasting, but last year
he went to the ’Frisco Conference as
consultant to the Australian delegation,
and later was the Government’s political
representative with the N.E.I. Allied Com-
mand. After a few months of interpret-
ing Canberra’s “Indernesian” policy to
Mountbatten and the Dutch, his new job
should be child’s play.
On April 21, 1894, The Bulletin
printed a 36-lines verse by a young poet
signing himself “Glenrowan.” In the
same paper this year verses equally vigor-
ous and with the master’s polish have
been published over the name Will H.
Ogilvie. “Glenrowan” was one of
Ogilvie’s early pen-names, and he shares
with Rod Quinn The Bulletin's long-
distance record for bush bards. Certainly,
none of their contemporaries of the period
are now writing verse, having either died
or joined the ranks of retired poets. Ogilvie
came here from his native Scotland at
20 and was on Belalie station on the War-
rego and on Maroupe station (Penola,
S.A.). Drover, horsebreaker and rouse-
about, he learned to love the bush and
bushmen. It is 46 years since he left
Australia, but his regard for the men
outback is still as strong as when he was
writing verse here. The Bulletin pub-
lished in 1898 his first book. Fair Girls
and Grey Horses, which has run through
many reprints and is still in demand, and
also put out in 1903 his Hearts of Gold.
Wal J. Murphy, 0.8. E., who received
his investiture last week in Adelaide, has
been secretary of the S.A. Blood Trans-
fusion Service since it was established in
1935. The service was originated by the
Motor Cycle Club of S.A., of which Wal
J. is secretary. For many years members
of the club and its affiliates maintained
the service exclusively. When the de-
mand for heavily-increased supplies of
plasma developed during the war the club
took turn and turn about with the Red
Cross Society in providing regular and
continuous supply. This additional de-
mand was maintained without impairing
its normal civilian service. Apart from
his administrative work, Murphy is Aus-
tralia’s record blood donor; he recently
faced the needle for the hundredth time.
He is assistant secretary of the A.W.U.
in Adelaide and secretary of the Auto
Cycle Council of Australia.
James Gillispie Barclay, Maoriland
High Commissioner in Australia, himself
an Old Digger, is an enthusiast on the
subject of good comradeship between ex-
servicemen of Australia and the
Dominion, and when he opened the new
clubrooms of the New Zealand sub-
branch of the R.S.L. in Sydney recently
he reminded members of the close asso-
ciation of Diggers from both sides of the
Tasman in two wars. A farmer before
and after 1914-18, Barclay entered the
M.L. Parliament in 1931, and was Min-
ister for Marketing and Agriculture before
his Government sent him to Canberra.
Retired on his 70th birthday, after 24
years as Registrar-General for Queens-
land, George Porter had spent 53 years
in the State Public Service. Widely read,
an accomplished mathematician and
keenly interested in all subjects relating
to public welfare, he is the direct anti-
thesis of the popular idea of a bureau-
crat.
Geoffrey James Rodger, newly-
appointed Director-General of Common-
wealth Forestry and Timber Bureau, has
been playing nursemaid to trees all his
life. He took his B.Sc, in Forestry at
Adelaide Uni. in 1915, was appointed
to Bundaleer forest, but went off to the
war. While abroad he studied French
ANYWHERE AMONG TREES.
and Belgian forestry methods, and after
the Armistice worked for a short time
with the Forestry people in Britain. On
his return he joined the N.S.W. Forestry
Commission, and by 1935, when he be-
came Conservator in S.A., he had gained
firsthand experience in W.A., Tasmania
and the A.C.T. Under his supervision
timber production in S.A. has been
trebled, and his department shows a sur-
plus of £70,000 a year; previous to his
appointment deficits were the usual
thing. Coventry has .caught the alert
look that comes into his eyes when he
spots a new area to plant.
Departed for the U.K. to attend an
international conference of weather pro-
phets, Group-Captain Herbert Norman
Warren. Born in 1888 in Melbourne, he
was Commonwealth Electoral Officer for
the Speck in 1934. In 1938 he
was attached to the Meteorological
Branch to organise for defence and
aviation, and soon after the war broke
out became director. He attended inter-
Allied service conferences at Singapore,
Batavia and Auckland, and in 1943 was
appointed chairman of the Meteorological
Committee, G.H.Q., South-west Pacific
area. A sure prediction is that there will
soon be an enormous development of
Australian meteorological research em-
ploying radar and the other war-time
devices which Group-Captain Warren has
met on the ground floor. Recently he
has acquired an unusual colleague—S. H.
Ebery, the unofficial seasonal forecaster
who for some years has maintained his
own station at Black Rock (Vic.).
Adelaide Repertory Theatre had some
interesting things to say per Tom Nave,
vice-president and acting secretary, when
The Bulletin’s old friend Talbot Smith
was re-elected president for the 20th time.
Founded in 1908 it is the oldest Reper-
tory in Australia, and is still the biggest,
with 2000 members and a waiting list
nearly as long as the catalogue of plays
it has presented. ‘"The Rep.” has a lease
of the Tivoli, Adelaide’s biggest theatre,
and gives each production a five-night
run. During the war years all profits went
to war charities, the cheque for the last
two years amounting to £lBOO.
Melbourne’s latest K.C., Philip David
Phillips, is an authority on international
law and was once a leading figure in
League of Nations circles. Later he
played a prominent part in the delibera-
tions of the Institute of International
Relations. He was chairman of the Vic.
Transport Regulation Board from 1934
to 1937 —the stormiest time in its history
—and found Statb politics even wilder
than the politics of nations. Last year
he was briefed in several of the big Con-
stitutional cases heard before the Full
High Court in Melbourne. A mass of
energy, he has lectured, debated and pub-
lished numerous brochures. His wife
is a daughter of Lionel Oscar Lukin, who
went from the Queensland Supreme
Court Bench to the Commonwealth juris-
diction, ending as Judge in Bankruptcy
and Canberra’s first Justice; his father
was Master in Equity and Master in
Lunacy in Melbourne.
Appointed warden of Trinity College,
Melbourne, in succession to Dr. J. C. V.
Behan, R. W. T. Cowan was Adelaide’s
1936 Rhodes Scholar. An old St.'Peter’s
man, he was a tutor at St. Mark’s Col-
lege, Adelaide, at the outbreak of war.
He enlisted in the A.1.F., served in the
M.E. and got his commission in the field.
Then he went to New Guinea, where he
was given the command of the Military
Intelligence Wing of the N.G. Force.
The experience gained there got him the
job of instructor in Intelligence in Jungle
Warfare at the Royal Military College
of Canada. He was senior instructor of
Brigade and Unit Staffs Wings at L.H.Q.
School of Military Intelligence when the
war ended. History and political science
are his subjects. He is 32. His pre-
decessor at Trinity was Victoria’s first
Rhodes Scholar.
Winton G. Turnbull, the new Federal
member for Wimmera, sketched by Mc-
Beath at the Heidelberg Hospital, where
he is recuperating from the effects of
three years at Changi, inherited a taste
for politics from his great-grandfather.
Dr. Adam Turnbull came from the Land
o’ Cakes to Van Diemen’s Land in 1825
and took up land there —a fair slice, on
the Macquarie River, which he named
Winton after his Scottish estate ; hence
the Christian name of the new member.
This property has been noted ever since
for producing some of the finest wool in
the world. Great-grandpa Turnbull
entered politics, became Colonial
Treasurer and Attorney-General of the
Speck and brought about the dismissal of
a Government in London by moving the
CHANGI TO CANBERRA.
motion which stopped transportation of
convicts to Tasmania, an action which
gave Downing-street blood pressure. An-
other of the clan, also named Dr. Adam
Turnbull, made his name with the East
India Company. Before the war the new
member was a stock and station
auctioneer, and he has his own property
at Warracknabeal.
John Woods Whittle, V.C., D.C.M.,
dead in Sydney at 64, was a veteran of
two wars. Tasmanian-born, he went to
the Boer War with the 2nd Imperial
Bushmen and was with the 12th Battalion
in the 1914-18 scrap. His V.C. was won,
in 1917' for at Boursies and
Lagnicourt. At Lagnicourt the Germans
had broken through, and a portion of the
12th, under Captain J. E. Newland, was
ambushed in a sunken road. Says' tbe
Official History;
A dangerous attempt by a German
machine-gun crew to set up its gun directly t
on Newland’s flank, in the same road that
he occupied, was defeated by Sergeant
Whittle, who, instantly grasping the danger,
ran out alone, bombed and killed the crew
before they could open fire, and brought
back the gun.
Ex-sergeant Whittle lost a son in this war.
L. A, Wood, who won the by-election
for East Toowoomba (Q.) to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Herbert
Yeates (the C.P. man polled well but did
not have the personal appeal of Yeates,
a unique character who had five sons in
the services), is a Digger who served in
the Milne Bay action, at Madang and on
Bougainville. He is a native of the dis-
trict, a teacher on the staff of one of the
local schools and a Rugby League man —
he was a leading referee for some years.
A fine public speaker, he. should be an
acquisition to the debating strength of the
House.
Appointed a Lord of Appeal in Ordi-
nary, Augustus Andrewes Uthwatt, who
has been a Chancery Judge since 1941, is
an Australian, although most of his life
has been spent in Britain. Born in Bal-
larat he went to Ballarat College and
later to Oxford and was called to the
English Bar in 1904. During the war he
was Chairman of Committees inquiring
into a multitude of matters arising out
of war damage. Uthwatt is the second
Australian-born Law Lord; the other
was Queenslander Lord Atkin, who
achieved the honor in 1919.
Retiring as town clerk and treasurer of
Footscray (Vic,), John Gent, holder of one
of the first certificates of competency for
a town clerk, has for 55 years man-
aged the municipal affairs of the suburb
which has been a standard joke with
Tivoli and radio comedians. During his
dispensation net annual value of rateable
property has increased from £220,000
to £770,000. Incidentally, Footscray’s
Mayor recently issued a challenge to
vaudeville funnymen to prove
that his municipality was more mal-
odorous than any other section of Mel-
bourne. There were no acceptors, though
the joke still goes on, owing, no doubt,
to the poverty of invention of Tivoli and
radio comedians.
Dr. Aubrey Lewis, appointed to the
Chair of Psychiatry at London Uni., is a
South Australian who gained his M.B.
and B.S. at Adelaide Uni. in 1923, and
his M.D. in ’3l. He left the State with
a Rockefeller travelling scholarship in
psychological medicine and nervous
diseases, and has been clinical director
of Maudsley Hospital, England, since
1936. He’s a member of the Army
Psychiatry Advisory Committee, and
civilian consultant in psychiatry for the
R.A.F.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, R. P. Visser, who fought
against us 45 years ago in the Boer War, but
latterly was so good an Australian that the
S’African War Veterans’ Association of S.A.
admitted him as an honorary member and has
buried him with military honors.
In Perth, at only 37, Dr. Roy Muecke,
authority on T.B. He belonged to an old
Adelaide family and was trained at the Uni.
there, but after further London study had
been for the past ten years medical superin-
tendent in the Perth Hospital.
In London, aged 56, J. Forbes, manager of
the London branch of the Bank of New Zea-
land. He was a Scot who joined the bank in
1910 and had planned a three months’ visit to
Maoriland when sudden death intervened.
At Nelson, M.L., at 71, M. E. F. Airey, an
old Eastern Extension Cable Co. man. Born
in the Isle of Man, he arrived in Australia in
1890, joined Eastern there and served at various
stations in the Far East, M.L. and Australia,
finally coming to anchor in Wellington.
In Melbourne, at 69, James Dewar, who, as
caretaker of the Town Hall for 30 years, was
one of the best-known identities in the city.
A Scot, he served in the Black Watch in the
Boer War and was in many of the border con-
flicts in India. As a sergeant-major he put
many distinguished soldiers through their mus-
ketry course; one was Wavell.


“Has done me
immense good”
0^
COPsjpj
RbIAT
<l6
/OAT
Wr s
m °nth
ttty
•fieri
cri al
wrofe
n
Has
a ßain
ensc
llosa*
imm
r Wi
pwy
[ ai ned
an
<?<s
od
me
done
g°
unt
*g
nd
°SQ>2
cm l "
ini e
live
ten
nd
-ucre
PfTand
lQ }Hed
<*ud
ih lt
Gift
<1)01
ec°r
&e//.
due/
be/
nd
sole/
me
to
I'lQl
m
In these strenuous times the revitalising effect of these wonderful
little tablets is more than ever valuable. Just two tablets three
times a day before meals. But if you take the tablets regularly
the results will astonish you.
Start taking
PHYUOSAN
helps to keep you fit after forty
' Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The rtgd. trade marl 'PhpUotan’ U the property ef Natural ChemtcaU Ltd., London
WONDERFUL BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES .
Take advantage of these splen-
did offers in Surplus War-time
Military Equipment.
Strong Quality
12ft. by 14ft. TENTS • • •
ditto, (with small tear or tears)
£7-0-0 Plus
£5-0-0 Freight
Ideal for emergency accommodation or camping.
Waterproof Combination Military Ground Sheets & Capes . . 7/6
Mosquito Nets . . 10/-, R.A.A.F. Kit Bags . . 5/6, 8/6, 10/6
R.A.A.F. Blue Combination Overalls (Send Measurements) . . IZ/b
Add 1/6 Postage for each above 4-items
Canvas Buckets for campers, fishermen, etc.-Heavyweight. (Post Free) 2/6
Military Water Bottles for hikers. (Post Free) 3/6
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
18 McKillop Street Melbourne
SPORTING NOTIONS
Bemborough’s extraordinary run of succes-
ses—capped by his wonderful Newmarket win
at Remington last Saturday makes an odd
comment on comparative values in horseflesh.
Hie reported price paid for Bernborough
when he lately changed hands was 2600 guineas,
and from the date of that transaction fill
Saturday he had won successively the Villiers,
the Carrington, the Australia Day Handicap
and the rich Futurity—three highly remunera-
tive wins in Sydney and, with the Newmarket,
two in Melbourne, with only the one defeat
in his present ownership, at his first start,
when he may have needed the run.
That contrasts strikingly with the ex-
Queenslander’s record when running for small
prizemoney on his previously enforced hunting
ground of Toowoomba, he having, of course,
been barred from metropolitan racing on
grounds that have not been made public. It
contrasts more remarkably, however, with the
performances of untold numbers of other
noddies. For example, Hall Stand changed
hands round about the same time as Bern-
borough for 2200 guineas; is yet to win for
his new owner, and has evidently been very
heavily backed for several races in which he
was narrowly defeated.
An ounce of luck, of course, is worth a ton
of judgment, and it’s marvellous what it can
overcome. On Saturday it overcame the
apparently impossible. Bernborough is any-
thing but a Trimmer in the matter of bouncing
out from the barrier, and in the Newmarket
one appeared to make him slower than usual
by cutting across him. Twenty-eight started
in the event, and A. Mulley had still to find
anything like a clear run for the big bay with
less than two furlongs to go. At this stage
there was a jumbled mass of fifteen or more
horses —most of those taking the rails-side
running up the straight six—in front of Bern-
borough. Mulley was pulling his mount to the
mid-field looking for an opening, and presently
saw one. At that moment, as he urged the
big fellow to lengthen his stride, True Law
cut across ahead, and Bernborough had once
more to be checked, for about the third or
fourth time in the race.
That would have taken the fight out of any
horse lacking a heart as big as the one they
have pickled in the museum up at Canberra —
Phar Lap’s. If anything, it appeared to put
fight into Bernborough. With only a furlong
to go he found the way ahead clear, bounded
at once into his great stride and just got up
to down Four Freedoms by half a head, with
Reperio a close third. The betting was as
extraordinary as the win—9-to-4 on Bern-
borough; 12 to 1 Delina (second favorite);
25 to 1 and upwards bar those two!
There could be no doubt whatever that,
given a clear run, Bernborough would have
carried his topweight of 9.13 and beaten that
field, largely composed of Melbourne’s best
sprinters, with lengths to spare. This, along
with his overwhelming Futurity win, when he
carried 10.1 —soifce 3st. of it lead —as if it had
been a feather-duster, poses the question of
what weight he will now cop in handicaps. It
would seem that his future must lie in wi.a.
racing—at the moment dominated by Flight,
who on Saturday made her Melbourne w.f.a.
wins three in a row by leading all the way to
d«feaf St. Fairy and Royal Gem in the 10-
furlongs Essendon Stakes.
As in her previous two wins, Flight’s Essen-
don Stakes victory was simply a procession
Tranquil Star was nearest to her for a good
part of the way, but that grand old mare is
evidently not what she used to be. St. Fairy
finished with a splendid run, pointing to prac-
tically certain success before the current autumn
racing ends, or, say, to the next Melbourne
Cup if he gets into it at all reasonably. An
uncommonly sound horse! Flight’s win lifted
her stake earnings to £22,324, and put her
second to Tranquil Star as the greatest money-
winning mare in Australasia.
Another of the day’s runs worth noting was
that of Delina in the Newmarket. She had the
stiff luck to catch a 51b. penalty, whereas
Bernborough could not be penalised for his
Futurity win. Also, she lost ground at the
start, but still ran a handy fourth.
The 14-furlongs Flemington Handicap was
most interesting as a possible guide to next
Saturday’s 2i-miles Australian Cup. The
winner was A. Breasley’s mount Oatcake (equal
3-to-l favorite) from Knockarlow and Silurian.
The lastnamed was having her first run since
coming over from Adelaide, and hers looked
a particularly good Cup trial. A six-year-old
Pantheon mare, she is a solid stayer, and W.
Cook, who piloted her in the Flemington
Handicap, will be there again on Saturday.
Logical, scratched late from the Flemington,
should provide stiff opposition if fully re-
covered from slight leg trouble. So for the
Gup: Silurian, 1; Logical, 2; Oatcake, 3.
Both last Saturday’s St. Leger and Sires
Produce Stakes were conducive to loud gnash-
ing of teeth by that courageous (or something)
breed the odds-on punters, Don Pedro (6-to-4
on) being downed by Gay Lad (sixes), with
Star Knight third, in the St. Leger, and the
hitherto unbeaten Chaperone (9-to-4 on) being
caught and defeated by Bold Beau, with
Minion third, in the youngsters’ classic.
That latter result was not remarkable so
much because of Chaperone’s defeat as Bold
Beau’s success. Chaperone to date has been a
front runner, which is good enough over five
or six furlongs, but not so sound over seven.
She again tried to lead all the way, but the
Kinderscout colt came from behind to down
her a neck. It was such a remarkable reversal
on the winner’s part —in Chaperone’s Merson
Cooper Stakes at Caulfield he was a distant last
—that an official inquiry followed, the explana-
tion that at Caulfield £l2OO had been put on
Bold Beau compared with only £2OO on Satur-
day being accepted. At Caulfield Bold Beau
started at 7 to 2; in the Sires Produce he was
at' 20 to 1. Chaperone can be expected to
make ample amends in next Saturday’s Ascot
Vale Stakes.
The St. Leger can be said to have been
won by D. Munro. The four runners, after
cantering for most of the 14 furlongs, turned
into the straight with Royal Scot, on suffer-
ance, in front, Star Knight' next, then Don
Pedro and Gay Lad. Suddenly, as Royal
Scot began to fail, Munro shot Gay Lad up on
the outside of Star Knight, boxing that horse
in behind the leader, whilst ensuring Gay Lad
a nice clear run. Don Pedro failed by only
a head to run down Munro’s mount, and
probably would have won with any other rider
on Gay Lad but Darby. Gay Lad is now
mentioned as an A.J.C. St. Leger aspirant, which
should be good news to many, since it might
ensure them a bit of a price about Magnifi-
cent, reported to be coming on great guns,
and, though still somewhat underestimated,
evidently a class above his potential classic
rivals. ""
In the other Flemington events Tudor Prince
downed Robert Bruce, Assam and a huge
field of other two-year-olds in the six-furlongs
March Nursery, and Tarabah won the mile
Brunswick Stakes from Sea Patrol, Sir Mar-
field, etc. Sea Patrol is a South Australian
who looks sure to collect transport expenses.
Moorefield enjoys and sometimes justifies a
reputation as a punter’s paradise, and by the
same token S.T.C. Handicaps have acquired
notoriety as punters’ pitfalls. Both ran true to
form on Saturday, four favorites and a warm
second fancy duly winning, while the com-
parative rough ’un. Granite, to whom five
others were preferred in the betting, rolled
home in the Club Handicap. Granite (G.
Podmorc) won gamely in a tight finish, with
Puffham half a head away and the favorite,
Grand Prodige, handy in third place.
That race and the Flying were the only un-
restricted events on the card, and the Flying
provided an even closer and, for punters, more
enjoyable finish, with the first three, in the
betting finishing in order of preference—
Cargeonel, John Halifax and Balmore, with
only a half neck and a half head separating
them. The New Zealand-bred Balmore has
frequently disappointed, but recently won at
Newcastle and seems ready to pick one up
round Sydney tracks.
Mumtazi, by the very successful sire Nizami,
who recently arrived from N.Z. to go to F.
W. Hughds’s Kooba Stud, was the only starter
in the Two-year-old Handicap with any win-
ning form, having collected a couple of New-
castle Juveniles, and was accordingly installed
favorite. However, there was a good deal of
“wise money” available to make a close second
choice of Son of Persia, a Bulandshar colt
who had previously failed in several races
though reported to be showing good work in
training. This time Son of Persia managed to
reproduce private form, and won soundly
from Namesake and Tragedy, after the latter
had had the race won everywhere but at the
finish.
Immediately after a broadcast at Moorefield
of Bernborough’s victory in Melbourne the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap was run
and gave Bemborough’s trainer, H. Plant, a
very swift double, his representative Native
Son (G. Moore), who was also a favorite, lead-
ing all the way to down Right Royal and
Chaytor. Chaytor’s run might be best ignored.
The Trial first division gave the Pure Gold
colt Gold Caste (V. Faggotter) an overdue win
from Jock gee and The Doctor, the other divi-
sion going to Atherdon (E. Fordyce) from
Gay Monarch and Prince Midas. Waratah (G.
Moore), who, like Atherdon, started favorite,
won the fixed-weight Maiden very easily, but
Never Free (second) ran right off the course
to finish under the judge’s box.
♦ * * •
For Randwick (before acceptances):
March Nursery: Superfort, 1; Vigaro, 2;
Euryalus, 3. Three-year-old Handicap: Chaytor,
1; Native Son, 2; Deliverance, 3. March
Trial: Avalanche, 1; Spearex, 2; Simla, 3.
Denham Court Handicap: Magnificent, 1;
Silent, 2; Craftsman, 3. Warwick March
Handicap: War Eagle, 1; Craigie, 2; Loyal
March, 3. Edensor Park Handicap; Puffham,
1; Yarras, 2; Zain, 3.
♦ * * *
An unusual race is set down for Gold Cup
Day at the National Hunt Meeting at Cheltei>-
ham (Eng.) this month. It’s to be a two-miles
steeplechase for a memorial cup given by the
sister of Kim Muir, trainer and amateur rider,
who was killed in France. Riders in the event
must have served in the Royal Navy, Army or
R.A.F., and never have held a jockey’s license.
* * « «
This year the English Derby is back to
Epsom, where it has not been run since 1939,
when Lord Rosebery’s Blue Peter was the
winner. The course took a fierce pasting during
the war, but the bomb craters and slit trenches
have been filled in, and the much-bombed
stands are now being given repairs. They’re
in such a state, however, that the upper tiers
may still not be available on Derby Day,
which will be at the summer meeting.
• * * *
Cecil Pepper, the hefty all-rounder who
rattled up 1587 runs and took 161 wickets
for the Australian Services XI on tour,
has signed on with Rochdale for Lanca-
shire League cricket. , He should be a
draw in the Old Country, where big
money is made in the hurried type of
cricket. For many years Leary Con-
stantine, the West Indian smiter, has
had much of the limelight there, but he
is just on 44 and on the wane.
The attendance of 22,000 on Saturday
and a record “gate” of £2545 in two
days of the Australia v. Auckland match
should convince the Board of Control
that a revival of inter-Dominion cricket,
upset by World War 11, is due for per-
manent arrangement. The Australian
batsmen made light of the Auckland
bowling, rattling up 550 with six wickets
down, the side then collapsing with the
total 579, the highest score in first-class
cricket this season. Hassett (121), Miller
(139), Barnes (107), Brown (68) and
Meuleman (53) got the bulk of the tally.
Cowie —the fast bowler who in the 1937
ML. tour in England took 114 wickets
averaging 19.95, including 10 for 140 in
the second Test at Manchester —bagged
only 1 for 153. Cleverley took two for
118, Burke two for 140 and Kerr one
for 106, the others falling to run-outs.
Rain, the first Auckland had known for
months, stopped play when the Auck-
landers had lost three for 51.
» * * *
Soccer enthusiasts are getting ready for
the Derby (Eng.) County team, billed to
arrive by air on May 15. Besides matches
against N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland,
S.A. and W.A., Tests will be played at
Sydney (two), Brisbane, Melbourne and
Newcastle. Also, looking ahead, the
international Soccer programme includes
Australia to New Caledonia in 1946-47 ;
S’Africa to Australia, 1947 ; Australia to
M. 1948 ; and Australia to S’Africa
and England in 1949.
* * * *
The Australian Lawn Tennis Assoc, has
decided agannst sending players to Wim-
bledon (Eng.) and America this year, it
being claimed that “the difficulties and
risks to our chances in the Davis Cup
are too great.” Travelling difficulties also
counted. Pails wants to go as a free-
lance, and admirers are trying to raise the
wherewithal.
On their performances this season the
N. has graded the leading
players in this order: Bromwich,
Pails, Quist, Brown, Crawford and
Barnes. Crawford has been a long
time on the Australian graded list:
second in 1930, first in 1931, 1932, 1933,
1934 and 1935, second in 1936, third in
1937 and fourth in 1938 and 1939. Brom-
wich’s Australian grading was fifth in
1935, fourth in 1936, third in 1937 (with
Crawford) and first in 1938 and 1939.
Quist was fourth in 1933, third in 1934
and 1935, first in 1936 and 1937 and
second in 1938 and 1939.
* * * *
Being one of the most genuinely
amateur of competitive sports, rowing
suffered particularly badly during the
war, but is making a good recovery.
King’s Cup conditions call for a minimum
of four starters, and an unexpected entry
from Tasmania makes it now probable
that the gruelling three-miler will be
rowed this year. Also,* in Sydney, the
G.P.S. Head of the River competition,
reduced in latter war years to an un-
official “friendly” race on the old Parra-
matta course, is to be restored to full
official status and rowed over the Nepean
championship course. One snag clubs
are striking is a shortage of boats and
the means of building new ones. Ex-
periments have been made with a plywood
skin, and a couple of such boats are
under construction.
* * * ♦
Jack Johnson, best of the old-timers’
namesakes now in the boxing business
others are Tommy Bums, Mick Dooley
and Paddy Slavin —stopped Ern Clingan
in seven rounds at Melbourne, Being a
law to itself in these matters, the Stadium
concern has awarded Johnson the heavy-
weight championship. Very likely he
could win it, but he hasn’t won it yet.
» * * *
Ted Sprouster was much too classy for
Danny Simmons at Leichhardt. Simmons
had one stop only for Sprouster’s straight
lefts —his chin. Sprouster seldom used
his right, so Simmons saw the distance
out and reached his dressing-room
unassisted.
The Englishman Jimmy Brunt, who
went 12 rounds with “Tommy Burns,”
failed to last a round against Dave Sands
at the Sydney Stadium. Brunt was try-
ing to do a bit of boxing when a right
to the head, followed by a left to the
chin, virtually settled him. It took only
two more rights to bowl him over for
keeps. Just as well for “Burns” he didn’t
meet Sands.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Towards the end of this month the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester will give
Norfolk Island a royal visit, and on
April 11 they will attend another out-
post of the Governor-General’s territory
—the Sydney Uni. Here the Uni. Settle-
ment Ball will be held. Debutantes
will be received by their Royal
Highnesses in the Great Hall. The deb.
presentation list is restricted to Uni.
students and the daughters of membeis
of the Settlement Council. This ball will
be imbued with true academic calm;
there will be no mad rush of the prole-
tariat. Tickets will be one guinea each,
and there will be only 500 of them —the
Great Hall will look as densely populated
as the peaks of Parnassus.
All the milestones passed by My Lady’s
Dress in a hundred years and more were
recorded in the Cavalcade of Fashion at
the Troc. last week. If you had a literary
mind it ticked the styles off as some-
thing that might be worn by the heroines
of the Brontes, Dickens, Oscar Wilde, the
Yellow Book, Pinero, Galsworthy. There
were bathing suits of the naughty ’nine-
ties and of the practically noughty ’forty-
sixes. The modern stuff “rounded” look,
deep armholes, peplums, art jewellery that
might clothe the brittleness of a Terence
Rattigan or a Noel Coward heroine were
in the parade. Pretty Mrs. C. T. Lorenz
was the organiser. The War Veterans’
Appeal benefits.
Up at David Jones’s store they have
a nephew of Elioth Gruner as chief buyer.
You would expect him to have an eye
for line and color, and he has. He has
just returned from New York, where dress
designers are having a great spin—hav-
ing, almost literally, all the cloth in the
world. He rather neatly describes night
life in the city that never sleeps as “a
great iridescent bubble of sophistication.”
At every turn of his speech he mutters
“sleeves.” Sleeves are the most important
thing in the dress world. If any woman
has any reason but that of austerity for
wearing her last winter’s dress and coat
in 1946, she’s making a mistake. Unless
her sleeves are dolman, bell, bishop or
a modified leg o’ mutton she can never
hope to be listed as one of the 10 best-
dressed women in this city. In addition
to having her sleeves cut on these full
lines (don’t spare the materials),'she must
abolish the aggressive set of the shoulders.
At last those horrible square-shoulder
lines are gone. Now the pads are rounded
to the shoulder.
Waists are made to look smaller and
round by cunning softness above, flares
and pleats in the skirt. Skirts are still
short. Colors are gay or subdued, accord-
ing to your temperament —yellows and
the rose-reds will be seen either as the
whole garment or as its highlights. Grey
is a first favorite. If anything there is a
tendency to frocks and suits being almost
too feminine. In the hands of any but an
expert they will become piecee-piecee.
Hats will be high to combat the soft
fullness of suit and frock. They won’t
all tower and be upright like the Eiffel.
Worn pushed back they’ll have a mellow
slant rather Pisa-like. Frocks for even-
ing are definitely lopg, and are either
sheathlike —rather Chinese in influence —
or very full, off the shoulder, taper waist
and all.
Sydney women will have a chance to
see what the British Guild of Creative
Designers, amid all the turmoil of post-
war conditions, have added to the world’s
fashion parade. A collection of British
styles will be on view in David Jones’s
auditorium from tomorrow onwards.
These collections are being sent through-
out the world. They will go to Canada,
they will go to South America, where the
tall senoritas will love the draped styles.
U.S.A. also will see what British artists
and stitchers can evolve from England’s
famed fabrics.
Our airborne visitors Lord and Lady
Knollys and Lord Winster, plus back-
ground of secretaries and pilots (the two
pilots on the Hythe, which brought the
Knollys couple, are Maorilanders, both
absentees from their homeland for about
20 years), looked in on us and waved us
farewell again in the space of hours.
They took in a little entertainment en
route, and Lady Knollys, after a dinner”
party followed by some dancing, actually
boarded the flying-boat in a thin evening
frock. One hopes she had a good warm
coat to wrap about her as she crossed the
Tasman, and a tailor-made snug-as-a-
blanket in her bags, in case, during her
visit, Wellington decided to put on one
of its very best high winds. Lord Win-
ster, who arrived by Qantas flying-boat
from London, wants the word “luxury”
cut from air travel. That’s all very
Sfell, but what the Girl in the Flat Oppo-
site wants to know is, does that mean that
a girl with £lOO in the bank can take
out a ’plane ticket as nonchalantly as the
Lord Winsters? What is luxury to her,
she points out, might seem just as tougn
as working his way before the mast for
Britain’s Minister for Civil Aviation.
During the war years Maoriland ser-
vicemen in Sydney looked upon 14
Martin-place as a home from nome.
Here Enzed’s Auxiliary War Unit was
hostess to the soldiers who came from
Auckland down to The Bluff and even
further south. The unit was more than
a hostess—it was a mother to the lads
of the silver fern. It fed them, and had a
mending group that looked after, pressed
and even at times washed their clothes.
Everything that could possibly be
done for the soldier going forth
or returning was done quickly and effi-
ciently. Mrs. Linda Ferguson, herself an
Aucklander, was the organising secretary
(for love) of this war unit. In recogni-
tion of splendid work done for the
Dominion she received (through the N.Z.
Government) the decoration of M.B.E.
The war unit did not restrict itself to
Maoriland activities ; its members helped
at the Anzac Buffet, at the British Centre.
They sewed and knitted for the A.C.F.,
they helped the war loan rallies in Martin-
place by arranging displays. Last Thurs-
day was their final rally at the Anzac
Buffet. Mrs. Ferguson proudly points out
that hers was one of the first groups at
the Buffet, and one of the last to leave.
There were singing and dancing by mem-
bers of the Polynesian Club, and a haka
and typical decorations. Photograph of
( Mrs. Ferguson from Norton Trevaire.
Betty Archdale’s appointment as prin-
cipal of the Women’s College within the
University is a popular one. First-Officer
Archdale, who is in charge of Wrens
in Sydney, first visited this city as captain
of a team of English women cricketers.
She was called to the English Bar
in 1937, but the thought of staying in
Australia, at any rate for some time, has
lured her. She will go to England for
her discharge and will then return.
Small, composed, five-year-old Fran-
foise Blanc and R.A.S. president Erik
Langker did quite a big job drawing and
announcing the numbers in the choice by
ballot art lottery in aid of French
artists. There were 100 tickets at £5 ss.
a time, and as each number was called
the holder had the choice of any picture
not already chosen. First pick went to
Mrs. Ralph Saunders, who chose a
Robert Johnson painting. Erik Langker
was glad to relax when the last number
came. He has been away in West Mait-
land talking art to close on 5000 listeners
—not all at the same time; sometimes it
was Rotarians, sometimes children, some-
times just people. One dairyfarmer was
a bit worried. He said he thought the
cows were regarding the landscape in a
moody, restless fashion, as though they
thought it did not provide them with the
right modern backgrqund.
Somebody (an Englishman) remarked
in one of the papers the other day that
all this talk about the people in England
being undernourished was bad publicity
for Britain. Who cares? Britain’s war
record is a bastion against which the
waves of “poor publicity” will sweep in
vain. Let us send more and more food to
Britain, Let us empty our pantries and dig
into our purses and load down the ships
with all the strengthening food this land
produces. The people of England are
tired of the monotony and the austerity
of their diet—an anchorite might well be.
What this land, sends is not by way of
charity, is not in pity but just a poor in-
articulate human effort to say “Thank
you” to the bravest people on earth.
From Melbourne
Melbourne’s social season was ushered
in by the ball in aid of the Children’s
Hospital, and over 1000 guests danced in
the St. Kilda Town Hall. It was a splen-
did scene and one of pre-war glamor, for
beautiful gowns and very pretty girls
made it so. And, of course, the presence
of the Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, and
Lady Dugan, accompanied by their per-
sonal staff, went a long way towards mak-
ing the ball a more brilliant affair than
usual; Then there were the floral decora-
tions, a wonder of gay blooms. The
official tables, covered in lace cloths, were
banked with blue and pale-green hyd-
rangeas and white chrysanthemums, while
silver candelabra stood at intervals down
the tables. Making a lovely background
for the tables were the large bowls of
multi-colored flowers set on pedestals.
The vice-regal party was met by Miss
Ella Payne, tall and slender in a delight-
ful gown of shot moire in pinky-gold ton-
ings and with a wide belt of gold sequins
and diamente. She presented a small posy
of gay pink begonias to Lady Dugan,
whose charming gown, fashioned of aqua-
blue and silver brocade with a bustle bow
worn at the waistline, emphasised the
slender lines of the slightly-trained skirt.
The neckline was finished with two beau-
tiful emerald and diamond clips. Mary
Lisle Johnson, who accompanied Lady
Dugan, was also in blue and silver bro-
cade. With the Lord Mayor, Cr. F. R.
Connelly, was the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, whose graceful gown of
ivory satin was sprinkled with-, diamente.
She added a lace bolero to her gown and
a corsage of gardenias. Accompanying
her husband and Vice-Admiral Sir Philip
Vian was the Latham lady, who chose
a black crepe frock with the bodice of
bands of beaded crepe and net. Mrs.
Edgar Rouse, who attended to the book-
ing of tables, wore a black American
model frock, featuring the slit skirt and
with a grouping of flowers in gold and
colored sequins at one side of the waist-
line. Mrs. G. I. Stevenson chose blue
lame under an ermine coat.
An outstanding gown was worn by
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith, the former Noel
Clapp; it was of white satin with an im-
print of emerald-green and black flowers.
Mrs. John Howse chose a lustrous satin
in turquoise-blue; Mary Guy Smith's
gown was of deep burgundy flowers on
a white ground. The Gengoult Smith lady
attracted much attention with her tunic
gown of black crepe, with the edge of
the tunic heavily beaded in black. Mrs.
R. A. Staughton, in gold moire, with its
waistline embroidered in gold bugle beads
and with emerald and diamond clips for
contrast, brought a party. It included the
Robinson lady, smart in black moire, who
had given a dinner party prior to the
ball; Col. Renucci, of the French Lega-
tion ; Mr. and Mrs. Bob Staughton—her
pink and gold lame tunic was worn with
a black satin skirt; and Mr. and Mrs.
John Rudd, the latter choosing a pink and
silver brocade gown.
At a charming luncheon party at
Menzies the women members of the com-
mittee of the Victorian War Nurses’
Comforts Fund presented Mrs. Charles
Allum, the president, with a silver
entree dish, the hon, secretary, Mrs. Hugh
Marsland, with a silver cake stand and
the hon. treasurer with a leather travelling
valise. The table was delightfully
decorated with a large centrepiece of
gladioli and other colorful blooms. Pre-
sentations were made by Mrs. Flora
Parker, one of the first committee mem-
bers, Mrs. Doris Taylor and Mrs.
Rahilly. The final meeting of this very
energetic committee has still to take place,
and, as all members are busy women with
homes and families to care for, they will
be glad of a short rest before taking up
the work of the various peace-time
organisations to which they belong. Mrs.
H. G. Connell; a member of the Com-
mittee, plans to assist in the celebrations
which will herald the approaching cen-
tenary jubilee of St. Peters, Eastern Hill.
From the pulpit of this church was read
the Letters Patent which made Melbourne
a city.
First big event of the year for Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell and her Younger Set
was the carnival in aid of the Children’s
Hospital Building Fund. Held in glorious
weather on the lawns beside one of the
prettiest parts of the Yarra, the stalls of
the various auxiliaries presented a brave
sight. The band of American women
who form a large auxiliary to the Chil-
dren’s Hospital celebrated George Wash-
ington’s birthday by taking over the cater-
ing side. They served luncheon and
dinner in The Palms, for the nonce
named the George Washington Inn. A
large portrait in color of the great Ameri-
can dominated the dining-room, and
decorations for the small tables included
a small green tree plentifully laden with
red paper cherries and with a small
matching hatchet among the leaves. Even
the baked Virginia hams on the large
serving table featured a cherry-tree in
colored candied peel. Ham with salad
was served for luncheon, plus the inevit-
able ice-cream which appears to be the
highlight of any American meal.
Mrs. George Washington, Martha her-
self, was there at her spinning wheel, sur-
rounded by a few pieces of furniture of
the period—and Mrs. Carney certainly
looked the part. Busy serving behind the
table were Mrs. Wilfred Race and Mrs.
Tom Blarney, jun. She is an American
whom Col. Tom Blarney met while on
tour with his father, Gen. Blarney. Mrs.
Earl Minert directed the traffic in the
dining-room—she recently returned from
America. Mrs. Jud Holt had a busy time
in charge of the kitchen, while Mrs.
Sophie Graves was responsible for baking
and decorating the hams. Organiser of
the George Washington Inn was Mrs.
Gerald Campbell; Mrs. R. B. Bradley is
president of the auxiliary. Hon. secre-
tary to the auxiliary Alice Preston was
the official coffee-maker—and an excel-
lent brew it was.
As original an invitation as ever
reached this office came from Janet and
Bowen Pain: “In view of the disturbing
news that has reached us by fast packet
boat, we crave the assistance of invited
guests in obtaining supplies of all
those items so necessary to give
health and strength to those near
and dear to us all in England.” And so
all those invited were bidden to take
parcels of food, which will go to the Lord
Mayor’s Fund for “Food, for Britain.”
Guests were asked to attend garbed in the
costumes of the 1890’s at the Aquarium,
where a “phantasmagoria of crustacean
and piscine wonders of the deep has
been gathered together.” Another para-
graph reads: “The guests and ourselves
have been most honored, for her most
gracious Majesty Queen Victoria will
attend and will be accompanied by Mr.
Disraeli and members of the Court.
Mme. Adelina Patti will also be present
and has signified her consent to entertain
the guests. Among the guests will also
be Councillor and Mrs. Matthew Lang”
(Matthew Lang was the first Mayor of
this city).
Vera Du Clair, from New York’s
Seventh-avenue, is now on a visit to this
country. Interviewed by the women
scribes of this city, she proved her ability
in designing clothes by allowing them to
look at her own wardrobe. European
by birth, Vera studied and worked in the
style Meccas of the Continent, developing
in Paris her flair for dressmaking and in
London acquiring a wide knowledge of
tailoring. For nine years she has been
in New York designing clothes, particu-
larly for the “teen-age” girl. As Vera
says, “They have a small budget and
want the most Lor their money. There-
fore I make their clothes look expensive,
but use less-expensive material.” One
coat the visitor displayed was a rayon
fabric soft arid pliant and greatly like
ermine. Of three-quarter length, it does
for wear over long dinner or evening
frocks and can also be worn over short
frocks. There was another outfit which
was unanimously approved by press-
women, Made of aqua-blue jersey, the
hip-length jacket was trimmed with the
same material in tobacco-brown. A
smart “weskit” in aqua-blue was worn
under the jacket, and a short skirt was
featured in tobacco-brown.
The clothes designed by Vera Du Clair
are essentially feminine, and she was
honored recently when Margaret Truman,
daughter of the President of the U.S.A.,
wore one of her evening coats to the
opening of the Metropolitan Opera.
American women are wearing clothes that
glitter in every possible manner. Miss
Du .Clair displayed one of her designs,
which was a simple short frock of black
crepe. But featured at one side of the
skirt, just below the waistline, was a
grouping of flowers cut out of gay-colored
silk and appliqued on to the black crepe.
Each, flower was centred with sparkling
sequins. Miss Du Clair has not decided
on future plans, but may possibly stay
in this country.
It looks as if Beryl Jones, winner
of tliis year’s Melba Scholarship, has
something of the diva in her. On
looking over the conditions she found
that the winner is not allowed to sing at
a public performance during the course of
the scholarship without the consent of her
teacher or the president of the Conserva-
torium of Melbourne. It has taken her
years to overcome her nervousness on
the platform and rather than give up her
liberty she has given up the prize. It goes
to Sylvia Biddle, of Queensland,


CHA&*
pis
/*J
Q
»WW6 t-Ht*
C?
i&teAf/Sp*}
m
>
With full chevrons for war service, Ingram steps into civvies
again and bestows on discriminating whiskers, young, tough and
old, that creamy COOLNESS that goes with every jar of
Ingram's Shaving Cream.
INGRAM’S
m
B *CK on CIVVY «***
BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on: —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Fanning
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Badio
Befri g eratl on
Sound Projection
Slide Buies
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
-s? 5
r)
X
t is in orcliestral music
til at many find their supreme enjoyment of
musical art Soon, we hope, it will be once more
possible to indulge in the delight of orchestral con-
certs in the home, presented by the world’s best
orchestras under the world s best conductors.
SOME OF THE FAMOUS CONDUCTORS
WHOSE ART IS PRESERVED ON RECORDS:
Beecbam
Ormandy
iWood
jWalter
Coates
Harty
Szell
Toscanini
Koussevitzky
Schnecvoigt
Mengelberg
Stokowski
Mitropoulos
Weingartner
Barbirolli
Sargent
Stravinsky
Lambert
Rodzinski
Elgar
Boult
Walton
COLUMBIA • "HIS MASTER'S VOICE'* •
PARLOPHONE
am
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. InBngland) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty.Ltd.
Parlophono Co. Ltd, (Inc. In England) • HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. A5/45
SMOKE-OH!
“You are rarely afforded .the opportunity of
examining the bumps on your beloved’s head,
and thereby discovering if he is worthy of you
or not before you say “I do!”
— Woman’s paper.
, That can be attended to later on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Buy a bright, new, shiny, candy pink lip-
stick with the odd ss. to make you the toast
of the town.” — Woman’s paper.
Thus achieving the appearance of good
health.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Socially, a woman still has tremendous
handicaps.”— Sunday paper.
Which she is trying manfully to over-
come.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Extraordinarily few civilised women are
beautiful —if you count in the feet.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Oh, what avails sophistication
And knowledge of her onions,
Or sweet curvaceous animation—
If she be cursed with bunions !
Ed.
4* 4* 4* > 4*
A Near Miss.
In a harmless way she tried to give
the man a little kiss. But, though he
didn’t exactly swipe her, he stepped back
as though she were a viper and said “How
dare you. Miss! ”
But she misinterpreted the remark, for
she said —though perhaps she shouldn’t
have —“It’s your own damn’ fault I
missed, you nark, if you hadn’t stepped
back I wouldn’t have!”
' ■' ■; * ' Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“‘Kissing is good for, the circulation■ of■ the
blood,’ says a leading Canadian medical author-
ity.”—“DT.” -
Also for the circulation of money and
of the yellow press. ;
4* 4* 4* . 4* ‘
“At their earliest convenience, delegates to
U.N.0., should form an orchestra.”
—-“Sunday Sunf’
But who would be willing to play,
second fiddle?
4* .4* 4* 4* ■ -
“Artists have; always supported the brewing
industry.” —“Sunday Sun.”
With shapely models all too few
And inspiration dead.
The artist samples potent brew
And paints the landscape red.
D.H.E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“And now I could not have spoken if I had
wanted to. An enormous python was rearing
itself np.”— “S.M.H.”
That’s the worst of those three-day
bouts.
“Rose Jelinek (38), of Chicago, won a divorce
after saying that back in 1930 her husband
went out for a ‘short beer,’ promising ‘l’ll be
right back.’ She hadn’t seen him since.”
— “Sun.”
And we reckon there’s a beer shortage
here !
4* 4* + 4*
Appropriate.
“Crooner hit on throat.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Now some long-goaded listener’s revolted,
by heck.
And has given a crooner a pain in the
neck !
Cal.
4* 4* 4* 4* .
“Nudism here is only for pioneering spirits.
—“Sunday Sun.”
Those who can face life in the raw.
Difference.
The quiet old domestic cat
Placidly licks its coat and purrs ;
The human kind is not content
Until she licks her rival’s furs.
Paton.
/ C , - ; , * ' * * *
The Wizards.
, “Professor Kiziurin, of , the. Omsk Agricul-
tural Institute, has developed apple, , plum and
pear trees in Siberia which creep along the
ground under a blanket of snow, thus defeat-
ing the. winter fronts which reach 50 deg. below
zero. He is also experimenting with creeping
bananas arid dates.”—rCdWe /ie/w. •
It was Professor Bullartizt, head of the
Nijni Novgorod Experimental Farm, who
last year modestly announced that he
was responsible for the greatest success
ever attained in agriculture. This was
his evolving of an orange-tree which,
after growing about Bin. out of the
ground, turns around and goes, back again
in the shape of an inverted U and starts
to burrow underground, where it fruits
at varying depths. Moreover, the
orchards serve a double purpose,. being
also ready-made croquet grounds, which
form a vital link in Stalin’s great Joy-
Through-Strength compulsory recreation
scheme.
■Unfortunately for the professor he hap-
pened to mention to a commissar that
the creation of a Citrus Mining Collec-
tivist Corps would go far to solve the
unemployment problem. He was expect-
ing to be rewarded for his great work by
having conferred on him the Order of
the Burnished Samovar, Third Class.
Instead, owing to his indiscretion in men-
tioning unemployment, which doesn’t
officially exist in the U.S.S.R., he was
granted, by a firing squad of the
N.K.V.D., the Order of the Bullet-in-
the-Back-of-the-Neck, First Class.
Moscow Radio announces that a group
of Russian hybridisers, who are years
ahead of those of any other country,
have perfected a choko vine which can
travel at speeds in excess of even the
Red Army’s best bullock-drawn vehicles.
The success was achieved by grafting a
castor-oil plant on to the choko, which
was fertilised with a blood-and-bone
mixture manufactured from womouyt
Russian racehorses, which are easily the
fastest in the world. A special purchas-
ing mission, consisting of some of the
Soviet’s clumsiest spies, ;who will try a
spot of secret seeking on the side, will
shortly leave for the U.S.A. to arrange
for the purchase of several thousand
army motor-cycles, without which the
crack Stakhanovite choko pickers and
vine trainers would be severely handi-
capped.
Professor Chattiyich, of the Usk Yansk
School of Tropical Agriculture, is now
busy on a plan to capture the world’s
pineapple trade. In the frozen wastes
around Zasluversk this eminent scientist
has, according to the official Gass News-
agency, commenced a gigantic plantation.
The daring originality of this eminent
scientist’s scheme has undoubtedly come
as a great shock to the decadent demo-
cracies.
As is well known, the U.S.S.R.
grows the world’s strongest and warmest
cotton. By planting a pineapple-top, to
which had been grafted a cotton plant,
and electrifying the roots, a pineapple was
evolved which was not only kept warm
by the galvanic effect on the icy ground
of its restless roots, but the fruit grew its
awn cotton pullovers, which not only
defied the 90deg. of frost of the Arctic
Circle but actually generated sufficient
heat to allow them to ripen much quicker
than was the case in the tropics. The
fact that the pineapple bush had a ten
dency to move around untrammelled,
owing to its movable roots, was symbolic,
added Gass, of the complete personal
freedom enjoyed by the happy, carefree
dwellers in the U.S.S.R.
“Depravda” reports . that Prof. Garg-
arski, the famous botanist, is successfully
growing stunted forms of pines and fir-
trees near Tehran. He has achieved this
by keeping the ground frozen continu-
ously by special machinery, looted from
Manchuria, to 30 below zero. Asked
why he went to so much trouble to grow
these trees in the most temperate part of
the Soviet’s recently-acquired territory
when better trees by the million were
going to waste in the icy north, Prof.
Gargarski said simply— very simply—“lt
affords unmistakable proof that we sub-
jects of our beloved Fiihrer Joe are
capable of anything.” This, says “De-
pravda,” is as magnificent as it is true.
BO.
Ichthyology.
“The owner of a cottage who sought a
tenant who would also buy his 600 goldfish re-
ceived offers from 20 householders.”
—“Daily Telegraph." j
The cottage, decked with bright wistaria,
That beckoned through the homeless
years, . ■ ■ -
May now be furnished, it appears,
Exclusively with full aquaria;
Since for a home my fondest, wish is, ",
Perhaps a goldfish pond will do,
A dozen ants’ eggs, say, and you
Beside me, sharing with the fishes.
Meanwhile, although our little place
Would seem to be a trifle short in
The necessary living space
For schools of goldfish to disport in.
Even the smallest fiatette runs
To half a million silver ones.
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
. The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
War Books
A friend in the publishing business in
• London wrote to me saying “I hear from
publishers on all sides that they do not
want any more war books, no matter
how good, unless they have a name like
Montgomery, Alexander or Eisenhower
on the title-page.” A Perth bookseller
tells me that this attitude is shared by
the Australian reading public, and that
publishing houses, in preparing their lists,
often stress the fact as a selling point that
a book has no war interest.
Freedom of reading remains one of our
liberties ; and those who write or publish
books are required to give the public what
it wants —even though many of our young
writers have six years of vivid experiences
within them which are bursting for ex-
pression and which would be expressed
with tremendous feeling and sincerity.
The disturbing social fact is that the public
should already be so anxious to forget
the war. No wonder the “Government”
can get away with a rehabilitation policy
which leaves thousands of ex-servicemen
without jobs, civilian clothes and homes!
If the public is not interested in what the
serviceman did and thought during the
war, why should it be interested in how
he is faring now?
The bookseller said to me, apologeti-
cally, “People have had so much war, you
know. You can’t blame them for seek-
ing escapist literature.” Well, other forms
of escapism are blackmarkets, gambling
and supine acceptance of incompetent
Governments. Iri short, the unpopularity
of war books, “no matter how good,”
is a sign of the times. The Army calls it
the Jack system; “Damn you, Jack ; I’m
all right.”
My London friend went on to say
“This attitude happened soon after the
last war, and perhaps again in a few
years’ time there will be a fresh demand
for war books.” But, if history repeats
itself, the demand will be mainly for
books which poftray the soldier as a
bloodthirsty moron, and which describe
his sacrifice and suffering as a type of
futility; and the public will ease its
national-defence conscience by thinking
that the best way to avert war is to be
unprepared for war.
It is only fair to add that publishers
are occasionally taking a risk with war
books. The onus is on booksellers to give
such books equal prominence in display
and sales talk with escapist literature,
especially that form of escapism better
known as Leftist propaganda. — Peter
Mike (W.A.).
“Surplus” Army Equipment
Now that the wars are over does the
Army intend to unload all its surplus
equipment in the Air Force manner?
That is, chuck it on barges, take it out-
side the Heads and dump it? Apparently
this is going to be the fate of one line —
typewriters, although the trade blithely
informs you that typewriters for commer-
cial purposes will not be available for a
year. *
Machine-gun-carriers are being sold to
civilians in small quantities, but thou-
sands are still lying idle. Surely they
would come in for Government land
and road schemes ; they could be used
for all types of rough haulage, and are
excellent for clearing land of dead timber.
The same applies to tanks, of which there
are, and will be, many surplus even after
Army posts are catered ■ for. A blade
fitted to the front of a Grant tank con-
verts it into an excellent bulldozer. Also
the excellent Diesel engines with which
these tanks are fitted would be snapped
up by many a boatbuilder.
The large fleet of water trucks should
be of some use staged strategically in
drought areas. Mobile cookers would
surely prove their worth on Government
construction jobs. Mobile repair vehicles
and breakdown trucks should be useful
to Government and civilian contractors ;
wireless vans, scout cars and amphibious
jeeps to the police—particularly in areas
subject to flood.
To dump this valuable equipment or,
worse still, to let it lie and rot is in the
category of official crimes, and the tax-’
payer should most strenuously object.
—C. S. (N.S.W.).
Boys on Bougainville
Colonel Milne’s remarks on green
Aussie troops sent into action against
seasoned professionals in Syria and
Malaya (B. 20/2/’46) must have shocked
most readers; but the same thing was
going on right up to the end of the y/ar,
when the excuse of shortage of trained
men could no longer be made.
In 1945 the tragedy was not that the'
troops were untrained (they all did jungle
training), but the extreme youth of
soldiers sent to “mop up” the bypassed
islands.
On Bougainville a man of 23 or 24 was
a veteran with a jungle campaign, some-
times two jungle campaigns, already be-
hind him; but most of the infanteers
seemed to be fresh-faced lads of 19 or
20. The average company looked as
youthful and boyish as a school cadet
corps.
Twenty was said to be the minimum
age at which a boy was sent to the
islands; but I met many “just turned
19,” and almost as many younger than
that. I was present when a battalion C.O.
tried to induce one of his boys to admit
that he was under 18. The boy looked
about 16 to me.
All the battalions were very much under
strength. Some companies were down
to 50 or 60, and platoons mustered nine
or ten to do patrols. Reinforcements
were practically non-existent. Some com-
panies received two or three reinforce-
ments after several months in the line —
this at a time when there were hundreds
of thousands of troops on the mainland,
the majority bored with inaction, the min-
ority a.w.l.
When the Nip finally turned it in it
did not surprise many to learn that the
number of his troops still on the island
was practically the same as ours, though
his casualties had been 10 times ours.
Judging from the published figures, the
story was the same at Wewak, and on
New Britain the enemy outnumbered us
six to one.
When the debunking season begins no
doubt someone in a position to know
and quote the ’facts and figures will tell
the whole shameful story in detail.
I for one shall never forget the strained
and mudstained youthful faces under the
green berets, and because I have a son
of my own I hope and pray that it will
never happen again.— Junius Jr. (Q.).
Concrete Roads
In the near future our State Govern-
ments will be faced with the necessity of
spending millions on road establishment
and maintenance. In view of the alleged
shortage of dollar exchange, I suggest
that, instead of importing materials, in
the form of bituminous mixtures, concrete
be used in all cases where new roads are
to be made and where large portions of
existing roads are in need of repair.
The original cost would no doubt be
greater than that incurred in use of bitu-
men, but there would be compensations:
the money would be spent on an Aus-
tralian product, the life of the road
would be much longer and the politicians
would be saved the headache of worrying
over dollar exchange. In addition the
light-colored concrete road would make
night motoring safer and entail less strain
for road users. — P. H. Simpson (S.A.).
The Unequal Sex
An embryo career woman (that is, I
have no husband to support me), I am
at variance with many of my sex who
want to be put on an equal footing with
male co-workers.
To say that women can replace men
at any job is absurd. This I-have come
to realise during my four years in a
women’s service. In many occupations
women are better and more accurate than
men. Such occupations should be left
exclusively to women. Most of the war
jobs taken over by women were carried
out extremely well, but have taken men-
tal and physical toll. My own experience
of service girls leaves me with nothing but
admiration for their perseverance, in-
genuity and endurance, but it would be
impossible for any of us to continue
working under these conditions for an-
other six years.
The same thing happens in normal
commercial activities. A woman can hold
down an important executive position for
a considerable period, (mt eventually her
physical and mental makeup shows signs
of strain.
This will all be considered rank heresy
by many of my insurgent sisters, but I do
know that there are many thousands like
myself who would rather take orders
from a man than from a woman. —
Rockley (Vic.).
Food for Britain
From another pile of letters:
Let me in with an official statement issued in
Wellington (N.Z.): “A gift of 16,165 tons of
food valued at £1,000,000 has been offered
to Britain by the Fraser [Labor] Government
mainly canned and dehydrated vegetables,
milk powder, malted milk, dried eggs, cocoa,
biscuits, tinned meat and various groceries. The
Government has other plans for assisting the
people of the United Kingdom. The £1,000,000
offer was conveyed through Prime Minister
Fraser, in London, with a request to the Gov-
ernment of the U.K. to make the necessary
shipping available.” And this from a-Labor
"Ah, I've got the hang of it at last!”
Government. What is our “Labor” Govern-
ment doing?—F. H. W. (N.S.W.).
The Food for Britain campaign implies that
John Bull is a mendicant. , In actual fact, J.B.
is able and willing to pay for all the food we
can send him. But politicians may now realise
the folly of paying farmers not to grow wheat,
and of neglecting to provide for the discharge
of men capable of increasing Australia’s pro-
duction of foodstuffs. It would appear that' our
legislators think in terms of scarcity and further
rationing rather than seeing to it that men are
placed in jobs. Give our farmers priority in
manpower and guaranteed prices and we shall
have food in abundance —for ourselves and
Britain’s undernourished people.— Obelist
(Tas.).
Why doesn’t Australia send Britain a gift-
food ship? Ask the people to surrender a
few coupons each, Mr. Chifley, and see what
would happen. Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove
is generously offering £5OOO worth of unsale-
able dehydrated potatoes. Meanwhile the
enterprise of private individuals leads the way,
as usual. The Bruce Small concern has for
some time run a scheme whereby food parcels
are regularly sent to similar firms in Eng-
land which have trade relations with the
senders. . The employees, who “adopt” their
English fellow-workers, contribute Is. 3d.
(juniors 9d.) weekly, and in each parcel there
is a card with an individual message. Surely
this is an idea worthy of adoption not only
by firms all over Australia but by cities, towns,
and country districts; schools, universities,
public and private bodies; sporting and
patriotic leagues.—S. E. & O. (Tas.).
Wheat “Stabilisation”
Wheatgrowers are getting a bag with a
hole in it. The Federal guarantee is ss, 2d.
a bushel f.o.b.—say, 4s. 3d. at country
sidings when the selling price is almost
the highest in history—and a home-
consumption price of ss. 2d. f.o.b. bagged.
Growers have had that for eight years.
It “stabilised” the bread price to con-
sumers, but hundreds of growers could
demonstrate that over the full period they
have lost money on it. To give growers
a fair price, a bushel of wheat sold for
home-consumption flour should, today,
purchase as much goods as ss. 2d. did
in pre-war days.
The plan takes in the 1945 crop-
acquired, as were other war-time crops,
under National Security Regulations—
and that is where growers are caught. On
present prices they will pay into the fund
approximately 2s. 9d. a bushel on prob-
ably 50,000,000 bushels of export wheat.
If present prices hold iato the next
season the benevolent Government will
most likely avoid any contribution to the
scheme. Present export prices are 9s. 6d.
bulk and 9s. bagged a bushel, and
with the world shortage of wheat are
more likely to rise than to decline.
The scheme may be dubbed a com-
pulsory wheat superannuation plan, with
the wheat man providing the wheat and
also the “dough.” The consumer of
flour puts in nothing, but is assured of
pre-war bread prices for another five
years.— Ears with Knobs On (Q.).
February 19
Tuesday, February 19, was the fourth
anniversary of the bombing of Darwin,
when, for the first time in history, bombs
fell on an Australian city and Australian
civilians were killed by Japanese mur-
derers. Not one newspaper in Sydney
remembered this anniversary. The “Daily
Telegraph” printed a page of pictures
showing Australian soldiers fraternising
with Japanese and girls trying on Digger
slouch hats —that on the anniversary of
the killing of helpless civilians by Japanese.
.Did we win the war? Or did Japan?
Tennant Creek has announced that it
will battle for insistence that there be no
dealings with the Japanese on business or
any lines for at least 40 years. Tennant
Creek is in the Northern Territory. The
Northern Territory, though all the rest of
Australia forgets, will remember Febru-
ary 19, 1942.— A Territorian (N.S.W.).
Rehabilitation Story
A young friend of
mine who was dis-
charged from the
Army two years ago
immediately set about
rehabilitating himself.
He could easily have
cashed in on the black-
market and made a
small ‘ fortune, but
moral scruples for-
bade. He had a hard
job finding digs.
Allied servicemen who
could pay seven
guineas a week for
bed and breakfast
being infinitely prefer-
able.
He fell into the
hands of bureaucrats,
who, unmindful of his
war service, pushed
him into various un-
suitable and dead-end
jobs, which he had to
relinquish for health
reasons. He was called
up for service in the
Civil Construction
Corps, but was dis-
missed as unfit. Even-
tually he was permitted to take a job at a
small wage learning a trade, and perforce
had to scrimp and save to make ends meet.
That was two years ago. Today he is
receiving the basic wage, but cost of living
has soared. Behold his outlay on essen-
tials ;
Bed and breakfast.. .. .. £1 15 0
Meals (two per day at 2s. each) 18 0
Laundry .. .. .. .. 3 0
Fares .. .. .. .. 4 0
Total £3 10 0
That leaves him with a balance of 18s.
3d. for clothes, tobacco and entertain-
ment of girl. If he married the girl he
would have to ask her to continue work-
ing, which doesn’t appeal to him. In
addition, there is the thought that the
more married women there are in jobs
the fewer opportunities there will be for
returning servicemen and -women.
The young man is now meeting many of
his old mates, who are finding rehabilita-
tion an even grimmer problem. They are
angry; they are disillusioned ; and they
are a little afraid of the hurlyburly of
civilian life after disciplined service exist-
ence. They are sick to death of the glib
unfulfilled promises of the politicians.
They want jobs; they want homes ; and
they are growing more sullenly impatient
at the thought that strikes and ineptitude
on the home front have denied many of
them both. — Petermac (N.S.W.).
“Heroine, Second Class”
It is most gratifying to read in the
“Tribune” that Mrs. Jessie Street has been
made a “Heroine, Second Class, of the
U.S.S.R.” This is indeed an event in
the history of Australia which calls forth
the deepest emotional response in the
hearts of all true supporters of Red
principles.
Now that the British Empire is break-
ing up, now that the mockery of demo-
cratic capitalistic imperialism is crumbling
before the onward march of Communism,
the workers of the world are awakening
to a new dawn of liberty, equality and
fraternity. Honor to those, not the least
of whom is Mrs. Jessie Street (“Heroine,
Second Class”), who have helped to influ-
ence the minds of the moronic millions!
—Amy Potts (N.S.W.).


• in trans-
f many years of Wireless
s a result of * established the tireless
cean AW.A longes t duee
ervice in Ap * , world. Service be-
telegraph Service wiie lesa Telep " ttoe ot,Not*
The T ra f OCe . Great Britain,** in 1930.
tween a nd Ne« Zeala “ 4 Beam ****
and TwtrA.W.A. .1 ***\
to Service for the tram® AaßttttU a and
srx— -*** ,
i -rt:
The A.W.A- technicians ar gcience
■Wireleaa to of *e 6ne»t
exploring n* w Bcam Service aa o
pjiOSt ©fide**** 1
service**
VEmUiJz,
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you .
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages, rates, routes, etc .
Beam Wireless messages may be lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES.
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone: MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
{Beam Wahjclma Communications - -
• - ? •.-. • ■. . ‘ >' . • ' • •. v". * *A- :
of the A.W.A. Wireless Telegraph staff — first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24 hours. .
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA* S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
