

ROYAU
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3455
Wednesday, May 1, 1946
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
TOWER OF LONDON: ST. JOHN’S CHAPEL.
/VN the second floor of the White Tower, or Keep, of the Tower
London, that part which William the Conqueror built in
1078, is the Chapel of St. John, a singularly interesting specimen
of Norman architecture—the best preserved indeed in all England
at tlje time of Queen Victoria’s jubilee. Nothing could be simpler
than this impressive architecture, nothing more effective. Its
massive pillars, rising from square bases and ending in cubical
capitals, support a triforium gallery, and the intervals between
these pillars are spanned, like the windows, by semicircular arches
The walls are of coarse masonry; the barrel vaulting of the icof
and the groining of the aisles are rougher still. The fortress also
contains the Church of St. Peter ad Vincula.


Lenrn
freetaw-e*
Journalism
at HO^fF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE ANC MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a»
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin, l ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146
AGE
The Red Page
SOLDIERS FAR FROM HOME.
Some strange things happen when the
world marches to war. Because a Ger-
man named Hitler invaded the neighbor-
ing country of Poland, Chinese soldiers
today are singing English barrack-room
ballads of the kind that are not sung in
English drawing-rooms. Miles from
Burma, miles from the Chinese coast, in
the remote hinterland they sing, innocent
of the meanings of the words, the im-
mensely improper melodies taught to
them by a Tommy private who had
escaped from Hong Kong by wading
through a sewer.
William Noonan tells the story in The
Surprising Battalion (N. S. Wales Book-
stall Pty., Ltd.):
They reached a band of guerrillas and
stayed with them for three months, in-
structing them in the use of various
weapons—the guerrillas often captured
arms of which they were entirely ignorant.
The two lads were made honorary officers
and were given uniforms. Af night they
sat around the campfires listening to the
guerrilla songs. When called upon for
items, one of them always gave a demon-
stration of British bayonet drill, which
always aroused an encore. The other
knew only three songs, all of them bawdy
barrack-room ballads. He sang them in
turn for every night of his stay. By the
time they left some of the guerrillas were
singing, them in English, unaware of their
meaning.
“These two,” Noonan adds, “received
personal letters of congratulations from
General Wavell, and were later awarded
the D.C.M.”
There is something very amusing about
the anecdotes; and a touch of tragedy,
too; a pathos and a strangeness; an
image of soldiers —Chinese as, well as
British —a long way from their homes,
solacing themselves, as armies have done
all down the ages, by the song round the
fire at night. And, too, in the reference
to Wavell and the decorations, there is
an affirmation of courage, a glimpse of
the long tradition of British arms and a
note of respect for a fine commander.
The quotation serves very well for an
epitome of Noonan’s book, for all those
qualities are embodied in it, are its
essence: respect for courage and the
military tradition; comedy, tragedy,
pathos, strangeness; and, in chief, the
impression of Australian soldiers a long
way from Australia.
Noonan went to Malaya with the
Eighth Division, was selected with a
number of other Australians for “com-
mando” service in Burma, and found
himself serving in China under General
Li Mo An —“a stocky, shaven-headed
gentleman with beautiful teeth, a yapping
delivery and a Mussolini demeanor. He
went to great lengths to tell us how nice
it was to have two nations holding hands
—‘uniting to crush the Japanese devil.’ ”
General Li Mo An’s officers asked the
Australians if they knew “Mr. Chiu Chiu
—gleat Yingliss statersman,” and the
Australians, of course, said they knew
Mr. Churchill very well: whereby they
gained, amidst some astonishment, great
kudos.
There is not a great deal of warfare in
The Surprising Battalion , but much hard-
ship—and much fascinating travel writing
■•--in the search for warfare over the
mountains, through the jungles and up
the rivers in Burma and China. Noonan
inspects the prodigous Earthquake
Pagoda;—
Dominating the area was the huge fawn
mass of brick and mortar, reputed to be
the largest solid construction of its kind in
the world. It rises sheer for three hundred
feet, the sides of its base having similar
dimensions. It was originally intended to
be the greatest pagoda in the world
When it reached its present stage of con-
struction a great earthquake ruined it,
cleaving immense rifts from top to bottom
on all sides. The people took it for
granted that the project was not favored
by the Almighty and discontinued their
building.
He sees women spies being led along
with ropes around their necks ; an Indian
talkie, “Scipio Africanus,” on a colossal
scale, “far greater than any of Cecil B.
DeMille’s productions” ; and the “authen-
tic” footprints of Buddha—“each about
eight feet long (he was forty feet high).”
He reams that Chinese women originally
bound their feet because it “gave a certain
toll to the female body, making it more
attractive to the eyes of man” ; and he
travels on “the roof of Asia, hobnobbing
with the mountain peaks and being con-
tinually confronted with scenic delights.”
If “war books” are out of fashion, this
one is worth reading as a travel book.
But it is probably only the hasty war
books of journalists, tied to events that
are no longer topical, that are difficult
to read today. Direct and unpretentious,
The Surprising Battalion is a soldier’s
book ; and, more than that, the book of
a born adventurer.
Stefan Zweig Stories.
At first glance Stefan Zweig’s The
Royal Game (Cassell; Angus and Robert-
son), containing the three long short-
stories “The Royal Game,” “Letter from
an Unknown Woman” and “Amok,”
seems considerably more impressive than
the usual Australian story as seen, say,
in Coast to Coast.
In the first place, there is the length of
the stories, averaging at least ten thous-
and words. Sometimes, as with Gavin
Casey’s “Short Shift Saturday” and Frank
Dal by Davison’s “The Road to Yester-
day,” a long Australian story does come
to light ; but they are rare.
Then there is Zweig’s craftsmanship.
His stories, obviously, did not just
“grow”; they were made ; he thought
about them. It is clear, even in the
translation, that he has a mastery over
words ; knows exactly what he wants to
do with them, and has the talent to do
it. And he has given thought also to
the problems of construction ; his stories
have beginning, middle and end. They
are neither sketches nor “slices of life”:
they are stories.
Again, they are interesting—unusual—
in their subject-matter; Zweig’s range is
wide. The Australian short-story, broadly
speaking, is about the Bush ; but “The
Royal Game” is about a European chess
champion ; “Letter from an Unknown
Woman” is about a woman’s adoration
of a famous novelist; and “Amok,” a
brutally realistic story of abortion, is set
in the pre-war Dutch East Indies and
aboard ship.
And the method of telling the stories
is varied. “Amok” is told chiefly in the
first-person, a doctor’s confession to a
fellow-passenger; Zweig himself is the
narrator in “The Royal Game” ; “Letter
from an Unknown Woman” consists
simply of the woman’s letter, revealing
to the novelist the secret of her lifelong
passion for him.
And Zweig is interested not so much
in the ordinary affairs and people of the
world as in extremes: not only the ex-
treme of ugliness, as in “Amok” —which
is common enough the world over since
the Americans set the fashion —but the
extreme of adoration ; and, in “The Royal
Game,” the extreme of a kind of genius.
Lastly, Zweig is a cosmopolitan, a
highly civilised writer. He is aware of
the great world of literature, philosophy,
fashion, politics, science. He has not
only the space in his slowly-developed
stories for a dissertation on chess, but also
the knowledge and the imagination to
make it fascinating:
But is it not an offensively narrow con-
struction to call chess a game? Is it not
a science, a technique, an art, that sways
among these categories as Mahomet’s coffin
does between heaven and earth, at once a
union of all contradictory concepts: prime-
val yet ever new ; mechanical in operation
yet effective only through the imagination;
bounded in geometric space though bound-
less in its combinations; ever-developing
yet sterile; thought that leads to nothing;
mathematics that produce no result; art
without works; architecture without sub-
stance, and nevertheless, as proved by evi-
dence, more lasting in its being than all
books and achievements; the only game
that belongs to all peoples and all ages;
of which none knows the divinity that be-
stowed it on the world, to slay boredom,
to sharpen the senses, to exhilarate the
spirit? . . .
One searches for its beginning and for
, its end. Children can learn its simple rules,
duffers succumb to its temptation, yet
within this immutable tight square it creates
a particular species of master not to be
compared with any other —persons des-
tined for chess alone, specific geniuses in
whom vision, patience and technique are
operative through a distribution no less
precisely ordained than in mathematicians,
poets, composers, but merely united on a
different level
What was difficult and almost impossible
to conceive of was the life of a mentally
alert person whose world contracts to a
narrow, black-and-white one-way street;
who seeks ultimate triumphs in the to-and-
fro, forward and backward movement of
thirty-two pieces; a being who, by a new
opening in which the knight is preferred
to the pawn, apprehends greatness and the
immortality that goes with a casual mention
in a chess handbook —of a man of spirit
who, escaping madness, can unremittingly
devote all of his mental energy during ten,
twenty, thirty, forty years to the ludicrous
effort to corner a wooden king on a
wooden board!
“The Royal Game” contrasts two types
of such “genius”: one a stupid peasant
who can do nothing in the world except
play chess —having the one streak of
genius in his composition like a vein of
gold in the rock—and the other a highly
sensitive intellectual who, having taught
himself to play imaginary games of chess
as a mental escape when held in solitary
confinement by the Nazis, has a skill far
beyond the ordinary. The two —the
peasant having become a world cham-
pion and been rendered vulgar and arro-
gant by success—meet aboard ship, and
the match between them, involving a
clash of personalities, is made extraor-
dinarily dramatic. Since the contest
brings the intellectual to the edge of
madness, it is presumably Stefan Zweig’s
contention that, “royal” as the game is, a
certain amount of protective stupidity is
required by anyone devoting his life to it.
It is an absorbing story; and the por-
trait of the peasant champion is masterly.
But—it is not easy fully to believe in the
existence of the intellectual. At best he
is a brilliant creation of fantasy; at the
worst he is merely a mechanism by which
Zweig is able to construct a well-made
but not altogether convincing story.
And it is at this point that the average
Australian story comes into its own
again. The stories of the Bush are at
least convincing; the people are real;
there is life in them.
The dilemma confronting all short-
story writers is that if they don’t offer a
well-made plot they will be accused of
slovenliness —of writing mere sketches —
and, if they do turn out an orderly story
with a beginning, a middle and an end,
then it is likely to be criticised as “maga-
zinish”; as, in spite of their virtues, are
Stefan Zweig’s stories —“Amok” and
“Letter from an Unknown Woman” more
so than the other. Ulysses wasn’t the
only man who had to sail between Scylla
and Charybdis. De Maupassant, Conrad,
Chekhov —they were the three voyagers
who most nearly achieved the ideal: of
stories civilised yet vital, imaginative yet
realistic, diverse but not scattered, formal
but not mechanical.
Adventure in Albania .
Told in the first person, Anthony
Quayle’s Eight Hours From England
(Heinemann) is an interesting account of
a British officer’s adventures in Albania.
Although it is in the form of a novel, it
has the ring of truth.
In Cairo the hero interviews a young
lieutenant-colonel, “painfully intense,”
who is in charge of the Albanian section:
I had a strong feeling that the colonel
was playing a part, the part of the “man
behind the scenes” in a spy film, the man
in the darkened room who at the end of the
interview says: “You have an important
mission ahead of you, young man, a dan-
gerous mission.” (Here the character
usually rises to his feet and holds out his
hand.) “Good-bye to you” ... (a pregnant
pause) “. . . and good luck! ” It was so
much a performance that I found myself
watching it in a detached way.
“Keep us fully informed,” said Cleaver,
“ and remember that if there’s anythiqg
you want or any support you need we’ll do
our utmost to bring it to you.”
“Thanks.”
“Above all, John, don’t forget”—and
here Cleaver contrived to make his face
unbelievably ferocious—Adon’t forget that
your main task is to kill Germans.”
I didn’t know how to reply, for his
performance had suddenly stepped outside
all bounds. No doubt I was intended to
take fire at his words and, with teeth
bared like his own, declare: “I will. I
will.”
The image made me want to laugh, but
that would have only disconcerted him, so
I managed not to.
Instead I said: “0.K.”
Cleaver rose to his feet and held out his
hand.
“Good-bye to you,” he said. A pregnant
pause. “And good luck!”
In its way, this is as good an example
of the imitation of art by nature as one
could desire; in this case the pseudo-art
of Hollywood.
The frequent comment on Albania’s
warring factions is likewise interesting
and doubly absorbing inasmuch as
Albania may be taken as a kind of mic-
rocosm of the Balkans ; indeed, in some
respects, of all occupied Europe.
But what gives strength and color to
the story is the feeling that the author
has actually been there, has seen and
heard all the things he describes ; and this
is another name for the book’s weakness
as a novel. Characters appear and dis-
appear in the odd, incidental way they
do in real life ; and incidents which have
no vital function in the mechanism of the
story crop up the same way.
So, although Eight Hours From Eng-
land is a readable war yarn and
though there is plenty of evidence that
the author himself sees, and at times
approaches, a higher artistic plane, he is
strangled by facts. With more contem-
plation and more care and less passion
for that kind of anonymity which makes
Anne, the woman in the story, the
vaguest of abstractions, he might have
written an adventure of the spirit com-
parable with Charles Morgan’s The
Fountain.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Adelaide shows have blazed up. At
the Royal Van Druten’s “Voice of the
Turtle” gives Ann Lincpln and Everett
Ball the task of entertaining an audience
for the whole six scenes; and women
audiences seemed to be entertained ac-
cordingly. The Repertory has crammed
the Tivoli for five performances of “Sons
of the Morning,” with Vivienne Oldfield
and some clever males —mostly ex-
soldiers themselves ; but why Catherine
Duncan has put her strong story into
spasmodic alleged verse is a mystery. And
now the Tivoli and the Royal are com-
peting with elaborate variety bills.
Some outlandish language was heard at
the first night of “The Druid’s Rest” at
Killara, for the play is by Emlyn Wil-
liams, and is very Welsh. To accent the
Welshness, as it were, of his characters
the playwright slips in a couple of Sasse-
nachs ; a Cockney woman, wife of the
landlord of “The Druid’s Rest,” and a
lord-in-disguise. The landlord, played by
Don MacGregor, is a queer, imaginative
Welsh character, inordinately anxious to
win a prize for his choir at an
eisteddfod. In this ambition he is nobly
abetted by his family and an impossibly
comic Welsh policeman. To give a nice
twist to the story the lord-in-disguise is
the donor of the prize, and they mistake
him for a murderer. So there is the plot,
perfectly bristling with misunderstand-
ings, and they all get very Celtic and ex-
cited in working it out. There is also a
tramp, who, having no English, is unin-
telligible. Which is, perhaps, as well, and
might be taken as a moral by writers in
dialect. Some succeed, but there are ob-
vious difficulties. At Killara the dialect
was a weird mixture. Oddly enough, Mr.
MacGregor did better than most. Which
probably proves that, like the Welsh, the
Scotch are a gifted race. This preoccu-
pation with the unique qualities of the
Welsh is one of the weaknesses of the
play. The author, even within the con-
fines of a comedy, is for ever hammering
it home. Even the tramp, who shares
with the ancient bards a fondness for
strong drink, is made to appear strange
and “gifted.” The dialect of Philip Bad-
ham, who played the part of Tommos,
the younger son, was not obtrusive, and
his acting was good. Tommos, of course,
was also “gifted.”
An educational film made by the Wool Board,
and especially designed for woolgrowers, is
interesting for other than technical reasons.
Generally speaking, Australian films have been
a failure, and one reason has been the consis-
tently “phony” atmosphere. In “The Rats of
Tobruk,” for instance, many of the actors were
recruited from the Army Amenities Corps, or
some such body: an excellent institution, no
doubt, but one which has little knowledge of
the characteristics and idiom of the A.I.F. in
the Middle East. But in the making of some
half-dozen short films, showing the ravages of
blowflies, hydatids and similar unlikely subjects,
the Wool Board technicians have been at pains
to take shots of real sheep, real properties and
real sheepmen. The total effect is most vivid
and natural.
“Ziegfeld Follies” (Sydney St. James): Super
vaudeville, with singing by James Melton and
Kathryn Grayson, clever sketches by Red
Skelton, Keenan Wynne, Victor Moore and
Edward Arnold, and spectacular dancing by
Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly. The sets are
original and diverting if at times too osten-
tatious. The purely decorative “lovely” makes
way for comedians.
“The Road to Utopia” (Sydney State): The
Hope-Crosby “Road” series of burlesques has
been singularly successful, this latest being
the best to date. The setting is Alaska in the
bad-man period, with the comedians inviting
mayhem by impersonating a couple of killers.
“The Fallen Angel” (Sydney Mayfair):
Lugubrious mystery, the acting superior to the
jerky story.
“The Dolly Sisters” (Sydney Regent): An-
other of the technicolored biographical musi-
cals for which 20th Century Fox reserves the
unhistoric services of Betty Grable.
“Out of This World” (Sydney Capitol):
Mediocre musical. The best of it is the comedy
v ork of Cass Daley, who sings comic songs
better than anyone in fiimdom.
“Wilson” (Hoyt’s de Luxe, Melb): Anybody
who saw the aftermath of the last war when
Woodrow Wilson arrived in Europe as a new
Messiah will be interested in this film, attenu-
ated as it is and padded out with a sentimental
attempt to show Wilson as a man and a lover.
Those who didn’t will receive it with a yawn
or a burning desire to retaliate on Hollywood
tty compelling the Americans to see a film or
two on the lives of some of Australia’s Elder
Statesmen.
The £125 play competition for 1945-46,
conducted by the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board, Sydney, had 78 entries, from all
States and from New Zealand. The
first prize of £lOO was divided equally
between George L. Dann, of Brisbane,
and Miss Lynn Foster, of Sydney, for
“Ha! Ha! Among the Trumpets” and
“And the Moon Will Shine” respectively.
Miss Dymphna Cusack’s “Stand Still.
Time” was also awarded a prize of £25.
Esme Farmer and Lois Hyett have
shows on different floors at Kozminsky’s,
Melbourne. Miss Farmer is the more
unsophisticated painter. Her watercolor
sketches around Wilson’s Promontory and
Bass Strait are light and lively. “Sunny
Afternoon” is the most robust of Miss
Hyett’s efforts.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
IT’S MOTHER’S DAY, MAY 12th
k
m
m 0
m
A
m\0 L
/
» &
5#
.
>2
&
*
<X>
C/OO
K.
jggpsSssw**
’X 6
*
ym
W:s
y
H.
h k
\C
■ : a
M
*
-x
.j#
\
■■
THRILL MOTHER
WITH ONE OF
THESE GIFTS . . .
SENSIBLE AND INEXPENSIVE
A.—Set comprising Dusting Powder,
Puff and Hand Lotion 3/6
B. —A set of perfumed Cologne and Face
Powder 7/9
C. —A sot of Eau-de-Cologne and Face
Powder 4/
D. —A rich, dark Fruit Cake. Iced all
over in White with Scrolls and Roses—
inscribed with “Mother.” 3-lb., 12/
4-lb 16/-
E. Day boxes of pure Home-
made Chocolates. Packed in attractive
boxes. 1-lb 4/9
U-lbs 6/6
F. —Box of three Lawn Handkerchiefs.
Ail White or with Coloured Embroidery.
Price, per box 8/9
C.—Finest Muslin Handkerchiefs with a
wisp of lace edging 4/11 each
H.—A pretty Hankie of Irish Lawn.
Coloured flowers embroidered in the
corner . 2/11 each
J. —She’ll love these. Soft, warm and
cosy Slippers, v Cold, Royal or Rose
Suede. Finished leather with turnover
colour and lining of coloured lambs’ wool.
Price, pair 14/2
K. —Cay Moccasin Slipper of supple
leather with vividly contrasting felt
lining and stitchings. Large range of
colours 23/3 pair
Sorry! Slippers available for personal shoppers only!
L. —White Cotton Carnation neatly made
for dress wear. Also in Cream and Pink.
Price, each 3/6
M. —A floral Posy Brooch of Barbofa. in
White or Colours 6/6 each
Horderns
famous low prices
TELEPHONE:.M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HAIMS
Circular Charts lot all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
ot Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O LD.
T.H*>
v
Of E.
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Bums - R. J. Nos worthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. X. W. Black.
Manager—li. S. Parker. Secretary—B. R. Overton, A.P.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
company Limited
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B TWI.
Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
EF ?-*4.
wse/iATt vow
MOM£ against
SUMMER
WINTER CHILL
HD
nil*
with
CANE-ITE
Cane-ite not only beautifies your home but it gives
you double protection as well. It insulates and
protects your home against excessive cold and
heat—and gives you added comfort all the year
round. This modern attractive building board
keeps your home cosy in the winter, cool in the
summer.
Cane-ite is easy to use. In renovating it goes
right over unsightly walls, covering cracks and
stains quickly and inexpensively. Cane-ite is
white-ant proofed.
df
Manufacturd by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney—Melbourne—Brisbane—Adelaide— Perth
Other C.S.R. Products: Slogwool, Asbestos, Plaster Products
s
fsd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged--
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course. —_
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
luuiiie
BARKO
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Good value
is guaranteed and
your inspection
invited.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Hordnrns)
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Eliminate Poisonous Waste.
If you have an excess of acids in your blood your
15 miles of kidney tubes may be over-worked. These
tiny filters and tubes are working day and night to
help Nature rid your system of excess acids and
poisonous waste.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain In your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Kidneys may need help the same as bowels, so ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-diuretic, used success-
fully by millions for over 40 years. DOAN’S give
happy relief and will help the 15 miles of kidney
tubes eliminate poisonous waste from your blood,
(let DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
LET
r ATLAS :
CARRY THE
i BURDEN i
W
$3
rw<\
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
’ Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager' for Australia & New Zealand.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
• To buy Health via Food, and any other of
Dr. Hay’s books.—3735.
To buy Shearing for Amateurs, by A. G.
McKenzie. —3736.
Information Sought.
The cost-of-living trend in Australia from
1936 to 1946 ?
Based on an index figure of 1000 for 1911,
the following are official Australian indexes
purporting to represent movements in the cost
of living since 1936: December, 1936, 1430;
1937, 1465; 1938, 1501; 1939, 1536;
1635; 1941, 1707; 1942, 1860; 1943, 1864;
1944, 1867. September, 1945, 1868. Figures
for 1946 are similar to those for 1945. Since
the end of 1941 the index is unreliable inas-
much as many items forming its base are not
procurable regularly, and substitute foods in
many cases have been dearer. Fruit and
vegetables in particular have risen much more
steeply than indicated. The official estimate
of a 22 p.c. rise in living costs in Australia
compares with 17 p.c. to 18 p.c. in Canada,
about 30 p.c. in the United States, 33 p.c. in
Britain and slightly more in South Africa.
Indexes, of course, in other countries may be
more truly a guide to the rise in costs than is
the case in Australia.
* * * *
(1) Distance of the moon from the earth?
(2) Time taken to complete one revolution
round the earth? (3) Duration of a lunation?
(4) Is the moon responsible for any noticeable
climatic changes on the earth ?
(1) Distance varies from 252,972 miles at
apogee to 221,614 miles at perigee. (2) 27.32
days. (3) 29.53 days; longer than the revo-
lution because the sun advances during the
27.32 days and the moon requires two more
days to overtake it. (4) Recorded observations
extending over more than a century have failed
to show changes that could be attributed to the
influence of the moon.
* * * ♦
Do gerberas benefit by artificial fertilisers?
Don’t use strong, burning artificial manures.
A little superphosphate mixed into the soil
about the base of the plants has a beneficial
effect, but, where procurable, it is better to use
rotted cow manure. Agricultural lime is also
an excellent tonic, and keeps snails and slugs
from destroying the buds, which come from
the base of the clumps,
♦ * * *
What are “essential” oils and what are their
characteristics ?
Oils which possess the odors in a concen-
trated form of the plants or vegetable sub-
stances from which they are obtained. These
oils are generally contained in a special gland
or cell within the plant. The essential oils
are generally insoluble in water, but they dis-
solve freely in alcohol, ether or fatty oils. They
contain a large proportion of carbon, which
causes them to ignite easily, but as a rule they
leave no permanent grease-spot. They possess
an aromatic smell and a hot, burning taste,
and can be distilled unchanged.
* * * ♦
(1) When were moving-pictures invented?
(2) When were they first shown in Australia?
(1) Several English, French and American
inventors claim this honor. The first practical
invention was marketed in the beginning of
1896, and was installed in Koster and Bial’s
music hall, New York, on April 20, 1896, when
600 feet of film was shown as an added attrac-
tion to the vaudeville programme. (2) October,
1896, in premises in Pitt-street, Sydney, near
the corner of Market-street, alongside the
Roberts Hotel.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the artist named
Whistler ?
James Abbot McNeill Whistler was a dis-
tinguished American painter and etcher, bom
at Lowell, Massachusetts, in 1834. He settled
in England at Chelsea in 1863. Among his
best-known pictures are: “Portrait of my
Mother” (in the Luxembourg, Paris), his
“Nocturnes,” and his portraits of Carlyle and
Miss Alexander. He brought a libel action
against Ruskin in 1878 for condemning his
“The Falling Rocket,” and was awarded a
farthing damages. He published The Gentle
Art of Making Enemies in 1890. Whistler
exerted an immense influence on contemporary
art. His Life, by E. R. and J. Pennell, was
published in 1908 ; another biography by
James Laver appears in the Penguin series.
He died in 1903.
Brief Answers.
MJ.McR.: (1) The “Statesman,” Statesman
House, Chowringhee-square, Calcutta; the
“Hindu,” Mount-road, Madras; and the “Sun-
day Standard,” Apollo-street, Bombay, are
some Indian papers. (2) Glen Innes “Ex-
aminer” and Tenterfield “Star” J.J.A.; The
Australian Country Party, 42 Bridge-street,
Sydney B.M.: The white queen goes on the
white square and the black queen goes on the
black square JA.S.: Contact the Queens-
land Dept, of Health... .M.M.: Know of no
one who has a use for the material L.A.D.:
(1) Bananas; (a) One man can work five acres,
two men 12 acres and three men 24 acres, (b)
Bearing plantations are now selling for £100
to £150 per acre (excluding house). Planta-
tion homes are usually two- or three-roomed
cottages. (c) A reasonably good plantation
would have an annual production of 150 cases
per acre, which would bring roughly £1 per
case wholesale. (2) Pineapples: (a) One man
can work eight acres • (having casual help for
three months), (b) Annual output would be
about 250 to 300 cases per acre. Present whole-
sale price is 1 Is. per case—.G.H.; (1) Under
normal conditions Britain does not help in the
upkeep of the R.A.N., but arrangements have
been made for the Admiralty to share addi-
tional costs of R.A.N. depots incurred as a
result of the British Pacific Fleet being based
in Australia. (2) Britain supplied the heavy
lifting appliances for the Captain Cook Grav-
ing Dock I.J.S.: (1) Arthur Augustus
Calwell, M.H.R., was born August 28, 1896, at
West Melbourne and was educated at North
Melbourne Christian Brothers College. He was
with the Victorian Agricultural Dept, for 10
years, then joined the Vic. Treasury, where he
stayed until 1940, when he was elected M.H.R.
(2) Edward John Ward was elected M.H.R. for
East Sydney in a 1931 by-election, defeated
in general election in same year, but was re-
elected in a 1932 by-election. Minister for
Labor and National Service 1941-43, he is now
Minister for Transport and External Territories.


• Short story writers . . .
• Radio script writers . . .
• Poets . . . Novelists . . .
We will market your material for
you in Australia or overseas. Regi-
stration fee of 5/- per item required.
Special rates for novels. If manu-
script unsuitable it will be returned
with criticisms.
NATIONAL LITERARY RESEARCH
AGENCY,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with Orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
McGIBB’S Est. 1860. “^_
POPULAR OVERSEAS MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Direct from Publishers to Customers
Life, £3/2/6; Saturday Evening Post, £2/9/6 ; National Geographic £l/17/6 ; Coronet, £l/8/- ;
Better Homes & Gardens (three years only), £2/8/-; Popular Photography (Just released),
£2/4/-; American Photography, £l/6/-; U.S. Camera, 10/-; Popular^Mechanics, £l/
Popular Science, £l/3/6; Popular Homecraft, £1; American
wood, 12/-; Model Airplane News, 18/6; Model Railroader, £l/2/-, Model £l/4/-
Meehanix Illustrated, 18/6; Science & Mechanics, 15/-; Parents R®ddor ft^
('children 5-13 years) 7/6* The Instructor (Helpful Classroom Material), £l/9/ , Rudder (two
Years') £2/12/- • Yachting £l/16/-; Etude Music Magazine, £l/3/6 ; American Record Guide,
Theatre Arts Monthly £l/12/- Variety Theatre Magazine, £4/4/-; Readers Digest, 12/-
one ’year. £1 to “2S .Please add ’exchange to country and interstate cheques.
New American and English Novels and Technical Books by Every Mail.
Barge range of stationery and office requisites stocked.
H m ¥ 9C* A 183-185 Elizabeth St., /The G.P.oA
O Avjt<lN\-/X MELBOURNE. CBll3-4
Subscription Department Ist Floor.
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
fsd
00?.
J*
f -wgr
2H#^
M
Planes powered by the Wright Cyclone 18 carry more payload, at higher
speed and lower cost, than any other aircraft in the world. The Wright
Cyclone 18 is a source of workhorse power for planes with work to do.
WRIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL CORPORATION • PATERSON. NEW JERSEY. U. S. A
REPRESENTATIVES; AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, ANO PAPUA: E. L. HEYMANSON & COMPANY, MELBOURNE?
Answers to Correspondents.
\nme and address must appear on _ the MS. No
* liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
Tamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
LM.N.: Scrap the Chicago idiom... .F.F.:
No hope for Harry K.A.J.D.: Musical
geniuses are such rare phenomena it s hard to
analyse them: try a milkman.. . .W.R.: ihe
word “magnificent” is used ten times on page
three GP.G.: Don’t explain everything so
tediously.... J.O.: Farce, and clumsy....
T Mcl.: Sentimental... .M.D.L.: Sarah s sui-
cide was the most cheerful part of it
A.G.R.: There is no ftecessity to describe every
flower in the garden R.N.C.: “Paul’s Pro-
gress” is progressing through the normal postal
channels.... LB.: Too many characters....
RF: Try again B.B.: Not prepared to
argue on the relative degrees of susceptibility
of blondes and redheads K.G.P.: Letter
passed on to man with the money....
ICA.: Thanks for further information about
the Guilfoyles....Wager: You lose. There
is a tide in the Mediterranean, though it
is very slight in most parts; at Venice
the rise and fall reach three feet B.J.E.:
Condensation is the essence of paragraph
writing; yours approach short-story length.
D.R.W.: Now you have got that off
your chejst you should feel a little better....
Hobo: Don’t accept American models for
Australian bush sketches A.K.: “The Bullet”
nearly hit the mark... .M.M.C.: He seems to
do best in pidgin-Lnglish L.R.L.: “I’ve
itched to tell this story.” • Now it’s scratched.
B.W.: —
Hey! Hoi Fiddle Hoi
Hey 1 Ho 1 Fiddle Ho 1
Hey to Australia — 1
Australia is waiting,
Australia is calling,
Australia is calling you.
And hey ho the devil ho, what the deuce could
we do with that? J.S.: “The Breaker”
lasted in the saddle about 10 seconds... .L.P.:
“Fear,” frankly, is fearful... .V.J.G.: She may
be your dream vision divine but she doesn’t
rhyme with “pantomime” F.C.: No hope
for Harold B.T.: “My first attempt at
writing poetry, but I have been perturbed
about the industrial situation.” The Gov-
ernment has much to answer for....P.L.:
The answer to Willy is nilly H.G.V.^
You’ve been reading “The Ancient Mariner.
....F.N.: If you really want to poison the
cook, ask him to try to digest that poem....
Bellerive: The “Seagulls” fly in: —
O’er the wild billows
They pranceth with glee.
The playful white gulls
Of the splashing sea.
On a calm summer day
When the sky is blue
A outbound ship
They boldly pursue.
In clusters they circle
And pranceth with glee—
The swift merry birds
Of the splashing sea.
....F.V.J.: “This tale was born of the lives of
simple men, nourished by their toil, and grew
to fruition in the shadow of their humor, saga-
city and kindness.” Killed by kindness, in fact.
J.A.: Sentimental P.B.R.: Study Bulle-
tin stories R.B.: Characters well drawn,
background promising—but nothing happens.
O.L.K,: Abandon the dialect and borrow a
typewriter... .P.M-E.: “In these unsettled times,
what can one do with a disobedient and pre-
cocious child?” Search us!... .P.M.: The story
is there, but spend more time over it... .N.Z.:
Don’t preach C.G.C.: Too many adjectives.
....A.A.: Frothy S.R.; That rough bush-
man with the heart of gold has been warned
off before... .G.F.L.: Thin... .M.McD.: Topi-
cal, but tedious ...H.R.W.: Crude....G.T.:
0. Henry pinched your plot... .I.F.: Try a
woman’s paper... .L.McM.P.: “Trial By
Ordeal” is both A.H.: Your minor charac-
ters get out of hand: a good fault... .P.P.:
Watch the redundant adjective Mac: You
overlooked the fact that Lockie held three de-
posit receipts for £1 each... .A.C.P.: Thanks
for your interest... .V.N.S.: Arthur Upfield
used an abo. detective with success, but
your Binghi Sherlock seemed so much like
Uncle Tom that we were still looking for
Simon Degree when the end came A.M.C.:
Local color all wrong; if you must locate your
story in the sugar country without leaving Vic-
toria you’d better stick to the beet variety
C.H.S.: One of these days an intelligent dog
is going to write a story about a man
S.R.T.: Too long for our present space. Cut
down by half or resubmit when we grow again.
C.A.G.: Bad prose doesn’t become good
verse simply by being cut up into lines....
J.G.: Getting closer; your best so far.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC],
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.B.H.: Its only interest is as a study in
interior decoration... .G.S.: You have sent us
a chart of the Southern Heavens by mistake.
N.C.: The squatter, the abo. and the cattle-
dog might have all stepped out of a drawing
by B. E. Minns T.V.J.: You’ve been gazing
at too many reproductions of Picasso in his
more irresponsible moments... .E.B.: Bath-
ing beauties are walking skeletons, and the gag
is as old as an entombed toad... .B.L.S.:
Any joke that requires a two-page covering
letter to explain it is no joke at all....H.M.:
Afraid it will be a long time before
you make the grade... .A.C.A.: You began
to go wrong from the first stroke of the pen.
pj.: Put it aside until next St. Valen-
tine’s Day and post it to your best girl
F.L : No use sending colored crayon sketches
to us C.H.D.: Swear off! N.C.: Aware
that David Low never had an art lesson in his
life, but you are no David Low....R.A.: The
metho.-fiends are snoring it off in the w.p.b.
K.D.: Send your pixies and fairies, also the
imps and goblins, to a children’s magazine
A.D.: Anything more complicated than a tele-
graph pole has got you baffled J.L.G.: Might
pass as murals for a shady nightclub O.J.:
Considering how hard it is to get ink and paper
these days it annoys us to see them wasted in
that fashion S.W.B.: Sending them all back.
....S.M.L.: No naval crew outside the Para-
guay Navy ever resembled that collection of
matelots D.D.: We hope that the title “Once
in a Lifetime” refers also to your Bulletin
submissions S.A.: Congratulations upon the
loving care with which you drew the tankard
of beer R.B.: No good; no cheque.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Fraser Island
ABOUT 150 miles north of Brisbane
a long, narrow stretch of land sticks
out at a wide angle from the coast
of Queensland and is separated
from the continent at its southern ex-
tremity by a narrow channel, into the
upper end of which flows the Mary River.
In between this sandy strip and the main-
land lie the broad waters of Hervey Bay.
When Cook sailed up the coast in
H.M.S. Endeavour in 1770 he named the
barren-looking strip of inhospitable,
scrub-covered sand dunes Sandy Cape,
not aware that it was separated from the
mainland of New Holland. On the
subsequent discovery of the strait it be-
come known as Great Sandy Island, later
still as Fraser Island, after the master
of a ship wrecked on its coast. It is
about 70 miles long,-varies from three
miles to 16 miles in width, and contains
about 650 square miles of country. A
hundred years ago a large and fierce
tribe of blacks dwelt in the island —there
were supposed to be at least 8000 of them
then. When I saw it last, save for a
handful of people employed in the
Queensland Forestry Service it was deso-
late and unpopulated.
The mouth of the wide inlet lying
between the northern end of Breaksea
Spit—a submerged continuation of Sandy
Cape—and the mainland near Bundaberg
is about 50 miles across, and Tlatypus
Bay, where the naval anchorage is, lies
on the inner side of the long island, ten
or a dozen miles south of the lightship
moored off the end of the spit. All over
the bay there is a depth of water varying
between 10 and 12 fathoms, and it is
an almost perfect manoeuvring ground
for warships. Only rarely is there any
merchant shipping in the neighborhood,
so that it is an ideally safe place for
gunnery practice, and its uniform depth
and sandy bottom give it a rare value
as one in which torpedo exercises may
be carried on with a minimum risk of
damage to those expensive items of naval
equipment. It was the opinion of the
captain of the man-o’-war in which the
writer visited it some years ago that
there could hardly be any better place
in the world for naval training than the
big basin of Hervey Bay.
Fraser Island appears from Platypus
Bay to be almost “the last place on
earth,” but its looks belie it. Strangely
enough, this apparently sterile waste of
sand and scrub, as viewed from the
anchorage, grows tallow-woods, black-
butts, turpentines, bloodwoods and other
hardwoods of great size, whilst there are
valuable timbers in the areas covered by
softwoods. Kauri-pine occurs in the
scrubs, there is hoop-pine in the northern
parts of the timber-belt, and cypress-
pine is to be found in certain localities
on the western coast. And the whole
island is bountifully supplied with fresh
water in creeks and lagoons. This is the
way it struck a well-known Australian
ornithologist, A. H. Chisholm:
“With all this hospitality, all this
variety of vegetation and plenitude of
drinking water, it follows that birds are
abundant. I venture to say indeed that
Fraser Island is one of the richest por-
tions of Australia in this respect. The
coastline and creeks carry a good range
of water-birds, of course; the jungles
and mangroves attract many fruit- and
insect-eaters, including several species
unknown to the south of Australia; and
in the wallum country there is at least
one bird, the swamp-parrot, unknown to
any other island (except Tasmania), and
very rare on the mainland.”
Matthew Flinders charted Hervey Bay
140 years ago, and if he came there now
he wouldn’t find its 1 eastern shore, Fraser
Island, much different from what it was
when he saw it in 1799 though the
occasional warships might look a little
strange to him.
Fernandez de Quiros
(T was Fernandez de Quiros who
found the New Hebrides.
Quiros had come to the Solomons
with Mendana, and had shared with
him the perils and miseries of the short-
lived Spanish settlement at Graciosa Bay
in Santa Cruz. But he was luckier than
his leader, and got back alive to Peru.
The glamor of the islands must have
fiercely beset him, since for ten long years
he never ceased in his efforts to induce
the Viceroy of Peru, and then the Court
of Spain itself, to complete Mendana’s
work and turn the “Isles of Salomon” to
the uses and glory of Spain.
At last he was provided with two ships,
and sailed from Callao in 1605, with Luis
Vaez de Torres as his chief-of-staff, to
look for the lost islands again.
They made for Santa Cruz, but passed
to the north of it, and came to some
small islands which, 200 years later, were
named the Duff group. Then they turned
southward, and somehow missed the
island of San Cristoval and the chance
of rediscovering the Solomons. Quiros
passed by Santa Cruz without seeing it,
but at length considered himself re-
warded by a magnificent discovery.
For years the legend of a vast southern
continent had fired the imaginations of
the old navigators, and when Quiros
anchored in a bay on the coast of a large
island he was flushed with pride in the
belief that the strenuous endeavors of
many years had at last been richly re-
warded. He named the territory Tierra
"Just getting ready for the 30-hour-week strike restrictions
Austral del Espiritu Santo —the Southern
Land of the Holy Ghost.
But here his luck deserted him. His
crew mutinied, forcing him to put to sea
in the dark without any cipmmunication
with Torres in the other ship, and finally
to return to South America,
It was left to Torres to find that Santo,
as they Call it now, was an island of no
very great extent. Then he sailed west-
ward, passed between the real southern
continent and New Guinea by the straits
that bear his name, and at length reached
the Philippines.
Quiros never abandoned his dream of
a new Spanish empire in the South Seas.
For years he made unwearied efforts to
induce the Court to send him off again
to look for the Isles of Salomon and the
Land of the Holy Ghost.
Fifty petitions he presented to the King,
in one of which, after enthusiastically
describing the riches, beauty and fertility
of his islands of dreams, he thus exhorted
him: “Acquire, sire, since you can,
acquire heaven, eternal fame, and that
new world with all its promises.”
At last, in his old age, his prayer was
granted, and in 1614, bearing his Most
Catholic Majesty’s commission, he sailed
from Spain on his way to Peru, to fit out
another expedition. But he died at
Panama, and his plans died with him. If
his dream had been realised, Australia
today might have been a second Mexico
or Peru. It is possible that it might still
be a Spanish province, but far more likely
that it would have become an independent
republic with a flair for revolution.
That mutiny at Santo made a big
difference to the ultimate British Empire.
Chart-making
IN 1893 H.M.S. Dart, a small survey-
ing ship of 400 tons which had
formerly been a privately-owned
schooner yacht, did a chart-making
job on the coasts of Malekula. Here
follows a typical incident in the day’s
work, as related by one of the survey
officers of the little ship.
Their previous experience of survey-
ing on the coasts of the New Hebrides
had been easy, for they had always been
able to go about their work in security,
finding the natives friendly and helpful.
But here in Malekula it was quite a
different matter.
One day the officer mentioned found
himself ashore, accompanied by a
single bluejacket, engaged in “coast-lin-
ing” with a sextant and theodolite. A
boat followed them round the shore.
Above the beach was dense bush,
apparently deserted. They \yere quite
unarmed, being well laden with instru-
ments and other paraphernalia.
Suddenly a native carrying a Snider
carbine came out of the bush and as
suddenly dived back into it again.
However, they went on with their
work, until interrupted by another native,
also armed with a Snider, who came
walking towards them. This is the
hydrographer’s account of the incident:
“When he got near I ventured on a
‘Good-day’—the usual salutation between
ourselves and those of the natives who
had been at labor in Queensland. Polite-
ness always pays, and on this occasion
it probably prevented a tragedy.
“The man addressed happened to be
an ex-Queenslander, and by those two
simple words recognised us as not being
French. He returned my ‘Good-day,’
and then began to catechise me.
“ ‘Who man you? What name you
makeum? Where ship belong you he
shtop?’
“And, having thus discovered who we
were, what we were doing, next that we
were ‘man b’long man’wa,’ and finally
that we had no. means of shooting, ex-
cept, perhaps, from a mysterious machine
on three legs, he shouted into the ad-
joining trees words which were, I sup-
pose, ‘All right, not Frenchmen, only two
mad white men from the man-of-war’.
“Instantly the bush fringing the beach
abreast of us, which up to then had
seemed unusually lonely and silent, began
to quiver and stir, and a cloud of men
emerged from behind the glistening green
front, all armed with Sniders, yet,
counterbalancing this ‘civilised’ condi-
tion of things, all of them savagely naked.
“Three or four of them who had been
to Queensland came forward to ‘shak-
ands’.....
“It was difficult indeed to explain sur-
veying operations in beach-la-mer Eng-
lish, but ft worked out something like
this: ‘Altogidder man b’long man-wa he
makeum bigfella likeyness alonga saal-
water b’long disfella place. Bymbye ship
he come, he lookum, he savvy he no go
shtonn [stones —i.e., rocks] along saal-
water, him he savvy goodfella place
goalong he come. O, bymbye bigfella
ship, too much, he come this place.’
“ ‘Tambak’ was then distributed
round, and so in all love we parted.”
A quotation, that last sentence, from a
clever parody of Tennyson’s blank verse:
So in all love we parted—I to the Hall
He to the village. It was noised next noon
That chickens had been missed at Syllabub
Farm.
Bougainville
And a bit of history which may interest
Diggers, Young and Old:
The large island in the western end of the
Solomons—it really forms part of the New
Guinea Mandate —of which the Japs were in
occupation till hoofed out is named after a valiant
French soldier who had been one of Montcalm’s
officers fighting against Wolfe in Canada. He
had a curious influence upon Australian dis-
covery and his efforts to found a French Pacific
Empire to replace his country’s American losses
were as much the cause as anything else of
James Cook’s annexing on Great Britain’s be-
half the eastern side of this continent.
In 1765 the Admiralty sent a ship, followed
by two others in ’66, to see what they could
find in the South Seas. They took a track
round Cape Horn, and then followed a n.-w.
course which eventually led them round the
north side to New Guinea, but they found
nothing of much importaQ.ce except Tahiti.
Britain had the start in the race for the
acquisition of the Pacific, but Bougainville was
on the heels of the last two ships. His expedi-
tion was very well camouflaged, and the Eng-
lish had no knowledge of his voyage until it
was completed. He annexed Tahiti for France
—although Captain Wallis had not long before
claimed it for England. Then he came to the
New Hebrides, and took them over also.
From there, greatly daring, he sailed west-
ward, and if he had gone far enough he would
have struck the Australian coast somewhere
about the present position of Cooktown. But
after a week’s progress he found himself peril-
ously surrounded by sandbanks and reefs that
seemed to have no limit in extent, and before
long realised unmistakably that to fry to sail
further westward would mean inevitable dis-
aster.
So he swung his course round to the north
and reached the southern end of New Guinea,
close to where Torres had been over a cen-
tury and a half earlier. Bougainville knew
nothing of Torres’s voyage, and although it
seemed likely enough that a passage existed
to the westward, dared not take the risk of
chancing its existence. He determined to try
to get round the south-east extremity of New
Guinea. For a strenuous fortnight he was
in peril, struggling precariously through waters
that bristled with shoals and coral reefs,
where a constant south-eastern swell kept driving
him landward. But at last he managed to get
round the end of the big island, groped his way
along its northern coasts, and so got to Batavia.
He returned to Europe by way Of the Cape of
Good Hope, catching up with one of the
British squadron in whose wake he had sailed,
and reaching France early in 1769.
Although the British Government had been
unaware of Bougainville’s having followed the
expedition of 1766, it knew well of his hopes
of French exploitation of the South Seas, and
was determined to thwart them. When, in
1768, the Royal Society had obtained the
promise of a ship to observe the transit of
Venus from a point in the South Seas, the
Government thought that the great southern con-
tinent might also be found, and told James Cook
to take H.M.S. Endeavour in search of it when
the astronomical job should be concluded.
The voyage achieved both its objects. But the
man who was the primary cause of its under-
taking in its complete aims was undoubtedly
that fine Frenchman Louis de Bougainville.
The first white farmer:
Although the Hentys at Portland and Bat-
man and Fawkner on the Yarra are usually
reckoned the first farmers in Victoria, Lieut'.
Grant, R.N., commanding H.M.S. Lady Nelson
on her first visit to Western Port, easily beats
them to such claims. Exploring the big inlet
in search of water early in 1801, he chanced on
Churchill Island and realised that its soil was
suitable for cultivation. So various sorts of
seeds were sown there —wheat, maize, peas, rice,
coffee berries and potatoes, as well as the stones
and kernels of several fruits. When Grant’s
first officer, Murray, visited the place again
at the end of the year he found the wheat and
corn doing splendidly, six feet high and nearly
ripe. The onions had gone to seed and potatoes
had disappeared. “I never saw finer com or
wheat in my life,” he wrote, “the straw being
very nearly as large as young sugarcane.”
* * * *
Sydney’s suburban growth:
Sydney’s suburban growth has been peculiar.
First a large area of land was allotted to
some favored individual, and in course of time
this was divided into blocks and sold.
These, in turn, were subdivided until the
smallest sort of allotment were put on the
market. A good example of this procedure
may be found in the harborside district of
Potts’ Point, named after the first accountant
of the Bank of N. S. Wales. In 1831 almost
the entire point was held by seven persons.
Alexander Macleay had 54 acres, Sir Thomas
Mitchell 10 acres; others held from two to
five On these holdings fine houses were built,
around which were developed beautiful gardens.
A little over a century ago some of the Mac-
leay estate was cut up and sold, and in later
years practically the whole area went the same
way leaving the mansions without their gardens
and orchards. Gradually they all disappeared,
and nowadays streets and blocks of flats occupy
the land where flower-beds and fruit-trees used
to flourish. In this way Sydney has pushed
out on all sides into country that was m the
early days virgin bush,


BACKSTAGE AT TOOMALONG
By B. CHESTER
IT was plain to Paddy, almost as soon
as he stepped out of the golden sun-
shine of Court-street into the cool
dimness of the Toomalong police
station, that something strange was afoot.
Papers were strewn on the floor in
snowlike patterns, the wickerwork basket
was stuffed tight with them, and scraps
of documents patrolled the grim little
room, restless and air-bome, as though on
a roving commission of inquiry. A heap
of papers had swollen up on the sergeant’s
desk like a monstrous pudding, and be-
hind this barrier the sergeant’s sandy head
poked up guardedly, as though fearful of
a fresh deluge.
“Morning, sergeant,” Paddy said cheer-
fully. Paddy was a cheerful soul.
Nuggety and bantam-chested, he carried
himself jauntily, like a banner; his nut-
brown face was split in a wide, white
smile, and his dark-brown eyes fairly
beamed,
“What I wanted to see you about,”
Paddy continued ; but the sergeant raised
an imperious hand. “Sit down.” The hand
indicated a chair. Paddy sat. “Got a lot
of work to do,” the sergeant murmured,
and recalled his hand impatiently, as
though regretting the expansiveness of the
gesture. The sandy thatch ducked down
again, and the chastised hand darted back
to its task, ticking off a long column of
figures.
Through the open window Paddy
could see a steady stream of children
coming out through the school gates.
The sight made'him hungry. Lunch hour.
A knot of them gathered round his car,
parked beneath an ancient pine-tree with
a ragged hitching-rail nailed to it. A
tall fair youngster kicked a tyre know-
ingly.
“Pretty crook,” he said critically ; “old
as the hills, too.”
“Wish I had it,” a small dark boy
with a snub nose said, and Paddy’s heart
warmed to him.
“Pigs! ” the tall fair boy said cryptically
and scornfully, and Paddy stared at him
with malevolent interest. Then he recog-
nised him. Clem Thompson’s boy, he
might have expected as much.
Quickly, Paddy ran through his
itinerary. Register the car, have lunch,
pick up the bluestone at the station, and
get the papers. And the bread, he had
almost forgotten that. A fine day for a
couple of beers, too, and maybe a yarn
in the sun. He glanced at the sergeant,
but something about that still, rocklike
figure constrained him to silence.
ABRUPTLY, the sergeant burst into
life. One comprehensive sweep of
his arm split the towering edifice of
papers, and a firm fist thudded on the
desk causing the metal inkstand to tilt
crazily. The last of the papers fluttered
gently to the floor, an ironic comment
and a deprecation. “What’s that Coola-
barra bloke think this is?” the sergeant
demanded, loudly, of no-one in particu-
lar. “A Sunday-school picnic? Carter!
Carter! Now, where the hell has that
feller got to?” Light-blue eyes glared
briefly at Paddy, with impersonal ferocity.
“Car-ter!”
“Yes, sarg.?” The shaft of light from
the doorway stopped for a moment as
Constable First-class Joseph Carter came
in. Dark, and unnaturally tall, he was
handsome in a subdued way. One long
hand unhurriedly caressed a long, blue,
freshly-shaven chin. All his movements
were deliberate, and his brown eyes mild.
A quiet young man, but an indefatigable
listener, he was well liked in Toomalong,
and it was generally accepted that to
commit a breach of the peace in his
courteous presence would be a grave error
of taste.
“You want me, sarg.?” he said,
slightly raising his deep, grave voice.
“Yes, Joe,” the sergeant said, restored
to calmness immediately. “Hear any-
thing about that Coolabarra bloke yet?”
“No.”
“Well, ring him up—use the ’phone in
the house, I’m expecting a call here. And
tell him to be here tonight—six o’clock
sharp. Tell him he must be here tonight.
That dead-and-alive joint isn’t likely to
have a murder while he’s away. Lucky if
they ever have a wedding,” he added
unjustly.
Carter nodded, and strode quietly out.
The sergeant stooped to pick up the
papers, sorting them with much vicious
shuffling and rustling. Paddy watched
him, fascinated. That he was worried
was obvious. His white forehead was
corrugated with lines, and his brick-red
face was taut with them, myriad fine
extensions of the long perpendicular fur-
rows on each lean cheek. “Tramtracks,”
his wife called them, and they had played
their part in the winning of her when
he was a simple mounted constable. They
had given his open, rather homely face a
hint of austerity then ; a sternness, almost,
and some shadow of mystery, which had
captivated her romantic young soul. On
the premises of those lines it hadn’t been
hard to imagine him as Inspector John
McAlpine in the not-too-distant future;
swaggering austerely, with a silver-
mounted whip under one braided arm.
And herself as the inspector’s lady, de-
ferred to by all the sergeants’ wives.
Constables’ wives, naturally, would live
in a different world.
Even now, in the humdrum life of
Toomalong, she had not wholly lost her
faith in those lines, and she secretly
compared them with Julius Caesar’s simi-
lar endowments. But Caesar’s bust, the
gift of some long-forgotten patron of the
arts, was dusty and masterful in a back-
room of the Parish Hall, whereas her
husband was very much in the main
stream of Toomalong life. Indeed, in
some respects, he was the stream itself.
A word from him would determine
whether a ball would be a success or a
colorless evening; whether, in fact, the
pubs would stay open after six. And in
certain important matters, such as petrol
tickets, he was very powerful, indeed.
The sergeant’s potency in this respect
was worrying Paddy. He badly needed
some tickets, but sensed the occasion was
not ripe,
“What was it you were wanting,
Paddy?” the sergeant said at last.
Paddy thought swiftly of the petrol
tickets, then rejected the idea.
“I just wanted to register that second-
hand car I bought,” he said casually.
The sergeant smiled. “Sorry, Paddy,”
he said gently. “You can see for your-
self—we’re too busy. The Governor’s
coming tomorrow, you know.”
“Oh,” Paddy said blankly, “the Gov-
ernor.”
“Yes, and then there’s the reception,
and the escort, and all the details. I’m
responsible for just about everything.
Bit of a job,” he added modestly.
“What about tomorrow, then —say, to-
morrow afternoon?”
• “Tomorrow?” The sergeant was horri-
fied. “We’ll be in the thick of it then.”
“Well, the next day?”
The sergeant’s gold teeth glinted
merrily. “We’ll just be getting over it,”
he said. “Come back the day after.”
ONLY Joe Tusculum and Sid Griffiths
were in Flannigan’s bar when Paddy
went in.
“Hullo, Paddy,” Joe said. Then,
loudly, “Another beer for Paddy, Les.”
Les Flannigan padded over with it. A
heavy middle-aged man with a mop of
frizzy, gingery hair, he seldom expressed
an opinion, but when he did he delivered
it very dogmatically. He stated an
opinion now. “If they want to entertain
the Governor, why don’t they do it
properly?. We want a new council, that’s
what’s wanted.”
“It’s got to be informal,” Sid Griffiths
explained. By his patient tone, it was
evident that he had been making the
same explanation for some time. A
tough, wiry slab of a man with a weary
grey moustache, he was a power on the
Shire Council.
“Bet a lot of people will be dis-
appointed,” Joe Tusculum said and
laughed his hearty laugh, which made
strangers look at him in alarm. Joe
always talked and laughed loudly, and
dressed to match, more in the style of
a prosperous bookie than a moderately
successful farmer. He was undeniably
good-looking, with flashing dark eyes,
square, youthful face and curly brown
hair. Despite these advantages, he was
popular. People said, with faint malice,
that Joe Tusculum carried a gun round
with him, with the avowed purpose of
shooting anyone flasher than himself.
But Joe took the sting out of such
subtleties by frankly admitting his faults,
and even taking credit for them. The
chief of these was a wild and distorted
sense of humor.
“I just went up to register my car,”
Paddy said. “They’ve all got the jitters
up there.”
“It’s a bit of a nuisance,” Sid Griffiths
admitted. “That’s why I’m in today.
Like Joe says, a lot of people want to
make a big do of it. All the great ladies
of Toomalong. But it’s; to be informal
—special request.”
“Some of the men are just as bad as
the women, I suppose,” Paddy said.
“Yes. Clem Thompson, for instance.
Pulled me up in the street half an hour
ago. Had some harebrained scheme of
a picnic out at his place for the Gover-
nor.”
“I suppose it was his wife who put him
up to it,” Joe said charitably.
“I suppose so,”
“What’s the drill for tomorrow, Sid?”
Paddy asked.
“Police escort meets the Governor’s
party out at the turnoff. Then lunch at
the Royal—for those who’ve been in-
vited. Later on a few of us take him for
a drive round the district and he’s off
before dark.”
“That’s the best way—no fuss,” Joe said
approvingly.
“Yair, best all round.”
PADDY drove Anne round to her
mother’s place early next morning.
Already a number of cars were parked in
the main street, and as they jpassed the
Royal Anne gave a sharp exclamation.
“Look, Paddy, that’s Thompson’s car.
Don’t tell me they’ve been invited to the
luncheon!”
“No,” Paddy said, “Sid Griffiths told
me when he rang that they hadn’t been
asked. Real narked about it, too, he
said.”
“I should think not,” Anne said.
“They’re real social climbers, those two.”
. She glanced down at her dress. A
pity she hadn’t had the time to buy a new
one. But then they hadn’t been invited
until last night. Hardly flattering, ring-
ing them up like that, at the last moment.
Especially when you thought of some of
the people who had been invited, weeks
before. Still, they were here now.
Paddy pulled up in front of the sprawl-
ing red brick of his mother-in-law’s
home. “I won’t get out,” he said, “I’ve
got a bit of business to fix up down town.”
“Well, don’t have too much to drink,”
Anne said warningly.
The first person Paddy saw when he
pushed through the swinging doors of
Flannigan’s bar was Clem Thompson,
and he recoiled from Clem’s popeyed
stare. Excessively well-dressed and
groomed, Clem was drinking with old
Porter, in a nonchalant, big-squatter
manner which he had managed to pre-
serve through half a lifetime of dairying.
Paddy veered in the opposite direction.
He caught sight of Joe Tusculum, in a
corner by himself. Joe saw him coming,
and signalled for another drink.
“In for the bunfight, Paddy?” Joe
greeted him jovially.
Somewhat shamefacedly, Paddy ad-
mitted that he was.
“Lot of strangers here today,” he
added as a beefy young man shouldered
against him.
“Must be the Governor’s visit,” Joe
said. “People from down the line, news-
papermen, and so on. Beats me what
they see in it.”
“I wouldn’t have the Governor’s job
for a thousand quid,” Paddy said, wiping
his forehead. “Putting up with all this
social stuff. The beer tastes good.”
“Just the right temperature,” Joe
agreed. “I suppose he must get sick of
it. Still, he’s brought up to it.”
“It must get him down sometimes,
though.” Paddy was in a philosophical
mood. “F’rinstance, he couldn’t come in
here, like us, and have a couple of jugs,
without everyone gawping at him.”
“That’s right.”
Paddy was getting into his stride,
pleasantly warmed and loquacious.
“I’ll tell you what, Joe, a man doesn’t
know how lucky he is. Y’know,
I never realised how well off I was until
I went away.” He looked round the
smoky bar with sudden affection.
“Me, too,” Joe said, somewhat
obscurely, but with sincerity. Beer always
made him slightly sentimental. “Isn’t
that old Tom Dempsey over there,
Paddy?” He peered past the elbow of
the hefty stranger. “That’s him. Gripes,
fancy old Tom coming in.”
“I haven’t seen him for ages,” Paddy
said. “Great old cove, Tom.” He leant
forward, waving wildly. “Tom! Hey,
Tom! Where have you been hiding your-
self, you old devil?”
A faint hullo o answered him, and a
grey beard and a dirty grey felt hat
poked out from a sea of flushed faces.
“How are you, Paddy?” Tom shouted.
“What are you doing in town so early
in the day, Paddy?”
Paddy never clearly knew what
prompted his reply. The beer, perhaps,
and an insane desire to be facetious.
“I just dropped in to throw a bomb at
the Governor,” he yelled, and was re-
warded by an instant, shocked expres-
sion in Clem Thompson’s popeyes.
Clem was still downing whiskies in a gen-
tlemanly manner in the middle distance.
“I’d better dash up to the bank before
it closes,” Paddy said in an aside to Joe.
“I’ll go with you,” Joe said agreeably.
He was interested in the behavior of the
hefty stranger in the brown suit,
PADDY stepped down the stone steps
outside Flannigan’s, and was in the
act of lighting a cigarette when a heavy
hand fell on his shoulder. He wheeled,
startled, and found himself looking into
the face of the hefty stranger.
“What the” Paddy said.
A hard voice cut in “We want you,”
and two more figures loomed up.
“Leggo,” Paddy said, and gave his
assailant a slight push. In a twinkling he
was pinioned.
“Come on,” a middle-aged man with a
sharp face said. “No trouble, now.' Up
this lane with him, Alf.”
Paddy struggled for a moment, then
went passive. Some idea of the identity
of these brisk strangers was beginning
to dawn on him.
“Look, you’re making a mistake,” he
said quickly. “I’m well known here.
Paddy O’Hare’s my name. Everyone
knows me. Ask him” —he indicated Joe
with a jerk of his head.
The middle-aged man hesitated, “You
know this man?” he asked Joe, a silent
spectator.
“Never seen him before in my life,”
Joe said promptly, and stepped back a
pace. “At least, not till a few minutes
ago. Seems a queer sort of a bloke.”
Paddy stared at him in incredulous
horror. Then he spoilt everything by
exploding into desperate activity. His
captors handled him roughly but effi-
ciently.
Up at the police station Paddy tried to
reason with the middle-aged detective. He
seemed to be a reasonable man.
“If you’re well known around here, why
did that chap say he didn’t know you?”
Paddy groaned. “Because he’s like
that. He thinks it’s funny.”
“And you saying you were going to
throw a bomb at the Governor —that was
just a joke, too, I suppose?”
“Yes.” When he thought about it
the remark didn’t sound particularly
humorous.
The middle-aged detective inspected
Paddy with shrewd grey eyes. “Have
you got any identification on you—
identity card, car licence or anything like
that?”
“No,” Paddy said.
His inquisitor nodded, as though he
had expected as much. “Is there anyone
you want to see?”
“Sergeant McAlpine.”
“He’s gone to meet the Governor.
Anyone else?”
“N-no.” On second thoughts it might
be better not to drag anyone else into
this. “Look, can’t you let me out? I’ve
got to go to the Governor’s luncheon.”
The detective seemed to find some sig-
nificance in this. He was silent for a
{Continued on page 33.)
The Catch.
Each night by the pool from a low-swung
lamp
I fished for shining words in the cold and
the damp.
And, if I pulled one out, piped another,
“Throw him back!”
As I slumped in my chair, my senses
hanging slack.
“Don’t you ever hook a word ?” asked
a cynic by my side,
As the ink dried up in a fast-ebbing tide.
“With my pen I may gaff one occasion-
ally,” I said;
“But, when I pull them in, invariably
they’re dead.”
One night I can remember, the pool was
deep and clean.
The sky was overcast, lightning flickered
on its screen,
And I hauled live fishes in, embers glow-
ing in their eyes;
Great was my delight then, and other
men’s surprise.
But that catch was long ago, and not
another haul
Have I had in this room, sitting back to
the wall.
“Surely that is strange, sir?” spoke the
cynic then;
“I see you’ve bait aplenty, all the living
tongues of men.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
APPEASING RUSSIA’S PERSECUTION MANIA.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” staff correspondent in London, Arthur Koestler.)
In 1939 we were appeasing the German
mania of grandeur ; today we are appeas-
ing the Russian mania of persecution.
The chances of success are in the second
case about the same as in the first.
More drastically even than in recent
political events, the pitch of the Russian
persecution mania was revealed by the
grotesque incidents which marked the
Russian footballers’ first visit to England.
These athletes, who had never been
abroad before, moved through London
with the defiant wariness of an expedition
among African headhunters. They re-
fused to talk to sports reporters. They
refused to answer questions like “How
do you like London?” and “How many
ounces does a Russian football weigh?”
.They refused to touch chicken sandwiches
offered them by the football association
—if Maxim Gorki was poisoned by a plot
engineered from abroad, as we all offici-
ally know, what would be more natural
than to poison a simple Russian foot-
baller?
*■ The chain of incidents began with their
refusing to play until they were given
better billets, and ended by their report-
ing home that they had beaten the Eng-
lish National eleven, though they had only
beaten Chelsea reinforced by some guest
players. On the whole, their visit did
more harm to Anglo-Soviet understand-
ing than three diplomatic conferences.
This curious episode illustrates that the
suspicion of the outside world is not con-
fined to Messrs. Molotov and Vishinsky
but has become a mass psychological
factor throughout the Soviet Union. As
long as this pathological condition exists
all hope for genuine world co-operation
is illusory. It is also an illusion to think
that the mania of suspicion can be cured
by little pills of appeasement.
During the war, pressure was brought
upon the press and radio not to utter any
criticism which might upset our Soviet
ally’s delicate temper. Books critical of
the Stalin regime were withdrawn from
the publishers’ lists; any mention of the
facts that Russia has a one-party system
and is a dictatorship were suppressed;
any reference to Russia being (a) Com-
munistic, (b) having ceased to be Com-
munistic ; (a) wanting international
revolution, ( b ) abandoning international
revolution, had to be carefully
avoided. So the press built up a myth
about “Uncle Joe,” whose pipe out-
rivalled in popularity even Churchill’s
cigar and Roosevelt’s cigarette-holder.
But as it passed through the filter of
Soviet censorship and through the con-
trolled channels of the Tass news agency,
the Soviet press and radio, the gentle
cooing of the Western voices became
transformed into the barking of mad im-
perialistic dogs.
The Battle of Britain and of the seas,
the campaigns in North Africa and Italy,
were played down by the filter until they
were hardly audible, while the clamor for
a “second front” gave the Russian people
the impression that there was only one
front and that they were fighting the war
alone. The majority of Soviet citizens
never heard of Dunkirk, of Bataan, of
El Alamein; what they heard were re-
ports from Cairo that the British were
negotiating a separate peace, that Ameri-
can Flying Fortresses were dropping arms
to the Fascist Warsaw maquis, and that
we were sitting back in our armchairs
watching the Russian people bleed to
death.
Nothing that the Western Powers did
or did not do, nothing that they said or
did not say, could influence Russian sus-
ipicions, for they are an artificial growth,
a hothouse plant unaffected by the real
temperature outside the glass walls.
Mere gestures of goodwill are hopeless.
-If tomorrow complete blueprints of the
atom plants were handed on a silver plate
unconditionally to Mr. Vishinsky,
“Pravda” would inform the Russian
people that “the irresistible pressure of
the Communist party and toiling masses
had forced the imperialist American Gov-
ernment to capitulate to their demands”
and things would go on exactly as they
did before.
Some people set their hopes on the
returning Russian soldiers spreading news
of what they saw abroad and thus gradu-
ally wearing down the barrier, but once
demobilised and dispersed the veterans
will be once more submitted to the
climate of the propaganda hothouse, and
after a year or so they will forget their
experiences as completely as they had for-
gotten by 1941 that in 1939 the Moscow
radio called England and France the
aggressors in an imperialistic war against
Germany.
In short, palliatives won’t help. The
Soviet Government has achieved, for the
first time in history, a complete State
monopoly not only over the production
and distribution of goods, but also over
the production and distribution of ideas,
opinions and emotions. Suspicions can
only be abolished if the Soviet Govern-
—London “Daily Mail.”
BABES IN THE JUNGLE.
(In India the British Cabinet mission—as they appear, in this cartoon, Sir Stafford
Cripps, Mr. Alexander and Lord Petlick-Lawrence (chairman) —have tried to
reconcile the practically irreconcilable. ,)
ment can be induced to turn the master
switch of their propaganda factory.
No political treaties and trade agree-
ments can guarantee peace so long as
psychologically this world remains divided
into two worlds, with a persecution mania
on one side, and growing alarm on the
other side. No treaties and paper agree-
ments will induce the Powers to disarm
as long as people remain in a state of
acute anxiety and latent hysteria.
Psychological armaments should be
made the object of international negotia-
tions and of political bargaining just as
armaments in the air and on the sea, ahd
made subject to as clearly defined clauses
as, for instance, naval armaments are.
Criticism directed by one country
against another cannot do much harm if
the country criticised has full facilities
of stating its case in the press of the coun-
try from which the criticism comes. But
it becomes poisonous if the country at-
tacked is deprived of this right of defence
—as Western countries are at present in
the Soviet press, which prints Mr. Vishin-
sky’s speeches but suppresses Mr. Bevin’s
replies ; prints statements by Bias but sup-
presses those by the Greek Government,
and so on.
The measure of “psychological arma-
ment” is the extent to which a Govern-
ment obstructs the free exchange of in-
formation and ideas with the outside
world. A country which builds a Magi-
not Line of censorship from behind which
it fires its propaganda salvos is commit-
ting psychological aggression.
The Western Powers should table the
demand for psychological disarmament,
including (a) free access of foreign news-
papers, periodicals, books and films to
the U.S.S.R.; (b) such modifications of
Russian censorship (if censorship must
be) as to permit the free circulation of
information about the outside world
throughout Soviet territory; (c) free
access for accredited journalists. Parlia-
mentary committees, etc., to Russian-
occupied territory ; (d) abolishing of re-
strictions on travel for foreigners'* in
Soviet territory and for Soviet citizens
abroad ; (e) active co-operation with West-
ern Powers in organisation of “vacations
abroad” schemes, on a mutual exchange
basis, for students, teachers, writers,
workers and professional men.
Psychological disarmament would
almost automatically lead to material dis-
armament, and the enormous Soviet
potential, thus diverted into productive
channels, would lead to a rapid rise of
the standard of living of the Russian
people and make isolation the more super-
fluous. The present vicious circle would
The demand for the free circulation of
ideas across frontiers, for restoring the
arrested bloodstream of the world, should
be raised at every meeting of the Big
Three, Security Council committees and
Assembly of U.N.0.; it should be made
a precondition of concessions in the geo-
graphical, economical and scientific field.
To get it accepted, the use of all levers
of pressure, political and economical,
would for once be morally justified.
Our Big Ben.
Steps will be taken to ensure immedi-
ate shipment of relief goods and medical
supplies to Indonesia, Prime Minister
Joseph B. ( Ben) Chifley announced. Mr.
Chifley said that he would give this in-
struction to all unions concerned. Fie
pointed out that the loading of Dutch
ships with relief supplies for Java had
been the subject of discussion between
the Australian, British and Netherlands
Governments. It had been agreed that
the supplies would be distributed among
former internees, war prisoners and
others who needed relief. No regard
would be given to nationality or political
persuasion. Preference would be given
to women and children. Actual distri-
bution would be made through the
South-east Asia Command.—From the
“Australian News Summary issued by
the Australian News and Information
Bureau in New York for American con-
sumption.
ATOM BOMB EFFECTS ON HUMANS.
(From N.Y. “ Tims .")
In the first public account of the U.S.
Navy’s medical investigation of the atom
bombings of Japan Captain Shields
Warren, chief medical officer of the
Naval Technical Mission to Japan, has
reported that instantaneous production of
a large amount of radiant energy, with
effects ranging from lethal to minimal,
was the distinctive feature, “For security
reasons the type and quantity of this radi-
ation cannot be discussed,” Captain
Warren said. It will be necessary, he
said, to “follow” the populations of the
two cities for many years to determine
the long-range effect on the bloodstream,
resistance to disease and the impact on
reproductive powers induced by this “in-
stantaneous dose of radiation.” On the
moot subject of injury from residual
radio-activity, he reported that an ex-
amination of persons who entered the
bombed areas soon after the explosion
and who had remained there failed to
show “any deleterious effects.”
Immediate effects of radiation injury
were manifested as weakness, malaise,
fever and often death, appearing usually
in 48 hours, he said, while the delayed
effects manifested themselves “in a variety
of ways.”
Captain Warren said it was difficult to
determine what type of energy killed
80,000 at Hiroshima and 45,000 at Naga-
saki, but that any single victim might have
fallen simultaneously from blast effect,
thermal injury and radiatioh injury.
It was easy, he said, to pick out in the
cities and villages around Nagasaki and
Hiroshima the “irradiated refugees by the
characteristic flash burns which they pre-
sented, and by the not infrequent occurr-
ence of epilation” (loss of hair).
He added that while serious injury and
some deaths resulted from the
which, he said, was “almost as if you had
stepped up the intensity of the sun” —
the larger number of casualties resulted
from the X-ray-like radiations. Deaths
from the latter fell into four general
groups. These he listed as:
1. Deaths within a very few days from
a “big dose” of the rays.
2. Those whose white blood cells
(leukocytes), combatters of infection,
were greatly reduced and who died
usually within three weeks.
3. Deaths in three to five weeks from
gradual destruction of blood platelets
necessary for clotting with consequent
haemorrhages induced by radiation
damage to the megakaryocytes (a cell
with large nucleus) of the bone marrow.
4. Deaths from anaemia in six weeks
or more because of injury to cells that
form red blood cells, the counts dropping
in some instances to less than one-fourth
the normal.
In the forthcoming Operation Cross-
roads, the test of atom bombs on war-
ships, vital biologic data, “essential to
close in the gaps in our knowledge that
exist as to the plthology in the periods
shortly after the explosions,” will be ob-
tained, Captain Warren predicted.
DISILLUSIONED AT MUKDEN.
(From a report by Andrew A. Freeman, correspondent in North China, of the N.Y. “Post.”)
Two correspondents returned to Shang-
hai from Mukden, where eight years ago
the Japs touched off the Asiatic war.
The visitors from Mukden were in no
mood for levity, a most unusual state of
mind for correspondents. One of them,
a veteran journalist in China, said he had
gone there willing to give the Russians
every break He had figured that he
would find they had some solid reason
of some kind for their unwillingness to
let correspondents in.
He did not want to believe that the
Russians were looting the country as
rumored or that they intended to remain
in Manchuria instead of returning that
area to the Chinese as they had solemnly
agree’d.
“After what I have seen I am not only
ideologically upset,” he continued, “I am
disgusted and disheartened. I was un-
able to put in my stories how alarmed I
am about the warlike attitude of a coun-
try I always believed liberal and a friendly
ally.”
He said no more and neither did any-
one else for a few moments, so impressed
were all the other correspondents present
by his suppressed emotion. Finally some-
one jested “Guess I’ll haye to go there
and see for myself.”
At that the other member of the Man-
churian expendition said “I wouldn’t if
I were you, It’s too dangerous.”
“Tye gone on dive-bomber attacks and
have returned with part of th© wing shot
off,” he added, “They were fun compared
with Mukden. I’d prefer to take my
chances on the battlefields rather than be
intimidated, constantly spied on, or be
shot in cold blood by a trigger-happy
Russian soldier.
“The Chinese and several Russians
waved to us in a friendly manner during
our first day, but avoided us during the
rest of our stay. We couldn’t blame them
after we learned that the Chinese who
Of the 165,000 persons employed on
the original atomic-bomb project in
America several thousand were people
of high training and markedly youthful;
at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, for example,
the average age in this group was under
30, and hundreds were under 25. On
the whole, it is fair to say, these
scientists, and particularly the younger
ones, were appalled at the consequences
of their endeavor. A large number of
them joined in a petition to President
Truman that he should not use the bomb
at first to destroy life in a Japanese city.
He was asked to notify the Japanese of
the existence of the bomb and offer to
drop one on some uninhabited locality
where observers for the Japanese Gov-
ernment, perhaps under the Red Cross,
could witness its fearful power. Pre-
sumably on the advice of the Army, Mr.
Truman rejected this proposal.—Man-
chester “Guardian” U.S. correspondent.
gave us the information about stripping
of factories and carrying machines to
Siberia were shot the next day. I tell
you it was like living during the reign
of terror, like I suppose it was in Hitler’s
heyday,”


Nazi and Com. Fifth Columns.
(From a “Wall-street Journal” article by William
Henry Chamberlin.)
The least reflective mind can scarcely
fail to be impressed by the ironical
parallels between the late ’thirties and the
late ’forties. Stalin has taken over exactly
where the Axis dictators left off and is
bringing into play every weapon in the
arsenal of totalitarian power politics:
broken promises, blustering threats, blow-
ing hot and cold with demonstrations of
military force, calculated wars of nerves.
Politically, if not militarily, the Soviet
dictator is in a better position to achieve
his aims of .unlimited aggressive expansion
than Adolf Hitler was at the height of his
power —and for two reasons. The terrific
destruction of the war, followed by the
crimes and blunders of the peace that is
no peace, has vastly weakened the poli-
tical and economic forces which would
formerly have stood in the way of the
victorious march of Communism in
Europe and Asia.
Stalin’s conscious and unconscious fifth
column is far stronger than Hitler’s
ever was. The “Nazi fifth column” was
largely a figment of the overexcited im-
agination of excited publicists and pur-
veyors of cheap fiction. Searching official
and unofficial investigation has not re-
vealed that any American of great pro-
minence or influence was associated with
it. The Nazi Party members in America
were largely composed of moonstruck
German gardeners, waiters, and unem-
ployed who thought they were taking out
insurance which might be useful to them
if they should ever return to the Reich.
At the height of Hitler’s power and
prestige a pro-Nazi viewpoint could not
have been advanced in any widely-read
American magazine or newspaper. Very
different is the present situation as regards
the prevalence and influence of pro-Com-
munist or at least pro-Soviet views. It
would require an almost obtuse blind-
ness not to notice the infiltration of
Stalinite sympathisers into Government
agencies, magazines, newspapers, trade-
unions, opinion-forming organisations.
The resultant effect on American public
opinion is confusing and diverse to the
last degree. _______
Britain’s Giant Airliners.
(From London “Times.”)
The British Government has authorised
the Bristol Aeroplane Company to go
ahead with four type 167 aircraft, the
110-ton airliner usually referred to as the
Brabazon I, which is the biggest and most
advanced landplane yet developed in
Britain.
The first will be powered by orthodox
engines, and the three others by power-
ful airscrew gas-turbine engines. That,
with the orthodox engine, will cruise at
250 m.p.h., and the later ones will
have a cruising speed IGO m.p.h. higher.
The Brabazon I is being developed for
the Trans-Atlantic service. The first is
expected to be flying by next April, and
the first jet-propelled version by 1948.
The aircraft should be in service with the
8.0.A.C. by 1949. It will have a wing
span of 230 ft., be 177 ft. long and almost
50ft. high to the top of the fin. It will
accommodate 80 people in berths and 180
in seats. Surrounded by scaffolding, the
first type is now taking shape at the
manufacturers’ Fulton works.
Spacious as the assembly hangar is, it
is not big enough to accommodate the
giant aeroplane, and the world’s biggest
hangar is to be built) on the Fulton golf
course. It is to be in the form of a
shallow T, and will be more than 1500 ft.
wide, 410 ft. long and 119 ft. high. The
concrete flooring will cover eight acres,
and a further 6i acres of concrete apron
will be built in front of it. The new
hangar will cost about £1,500,000. Four
12-ton cranes are to be fitted in the roof.
The existing runway at Fulton is not
long or strong enough to allow the air-
liner to be test-flown from it. The run-
way is, therefore, to be extended to
almost two miles, and will be 100 yards
wide standing on an embankment 400
yards wide. The westward extension will
involve the demolition of part of the old-
world village of Charlton. The estimated
cost of the extension is £2,000,000.
This work will entail the excavation of
250,000,000 tons of earth. Rubble from
bombed premises in Bristol will be used
for some of the filling.
A Buyer Visits Europe.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor”
interview .)
“Some of our foreign traders still seem
to think they can start their businesses
with Europe again where they left off
when the war broke out,” the buyer of a
large American department store said
after his return from a prolonged trip to
Europe. “Nothing could be further from
the truth.
“Jt is not the physical destruction in
European countries that makes for such
an enormous difference between pre-war
and post-war trading conditions in
Europe. The main factor, hard for people
to realise, if they have not encountered
it in actual business dealings in England,
France, Belgium, Holland, Italy and
other countries, is the extent of Govern-
ment supervision of their economic life,
the all-pervading, total Government in-
terference in it, which makes for an
almost inrcedible amount of red tape.
“The economic, systems everywhere
have changed beyond recognition in their
attempt to start again from scratch. Their
common problem is to reconcile the
fullest possible use of twentieth century
capacity of industrial production with
the recovery of free enterprise after the
present phase of Government interfer-
ence. And that will take a long time.”
The buyer said that in Ireland and
Scotland he got linens, in England
bicycles, rugs and knitwear of “precious
wools,” like kashmir and camel hair,
while ordinary woollens and many other
goods for which he had looked were still
unavailable. In Holland he got little
more than tulip bulbs, in France prac-
tically nothing, neither textiles nor even
cosmetics; while Switzerland, the island
of prosperity which is all too isolated
from the rest of Europe, was able to sell
rayons and silks, handkerchiefs and
watches.
Prices and exchange rates were no
obstacle to his buying efforts. Only the
Chicago “Tribune.”
IN THE ALLEY.
Little Truman Fauntleroy,
Famous as “that model boy,”
Always trying to do good
In the name of Brotherhood,
Was the leader of his class
Temporarily —alas!
Look at little Truman now.
Muddy, battered, bruised —and how !
Victim of his misplaced trust.
He has learned what good boys must:
In the alley, after school.
There just ain’t no Golden Rule.
(The above comment on Mr. Truman’s mounting Presidential troubles has
been widely quoted in the U.S.)
general lack of supplies was in the way.
And the scarcity of goods in countries
other than England in his opinion, would
nrobablv last much longer than had been
generally expected
° Especially France would have little to
sell for considerable time. Not because
of any sizable destruction of machinery
in consumers’ industries; nor because of
the comparative slowness of American
deliveries of new equipment; nor on
account of raw material shortages, which
were less acute than might be thought.
The lack not only of coal but of elec-
trie current wL mil enough, mainly in
France and Italy where last year’s
drought set a 100-year record, greatly re-
ducins the activity of hydroelectric
i t nut pvpti this does not seem the
plants. But even this r, rri crre<i<!
mam factor m holding up the prog
of industrial production.
The American buyer, a man with wide
experience of Europe who takes a deep
interest in social and psychological e-
velopments, puts first among the obstacles
to economic rehabilitation the psycno-
logical consequence of six years of war
and of the continuing food shortage.
“We still don’t realise sufficiently what
the people have been through, he said,
“and what a problem chronic under-
nourishment is to the general rehabihta-
tion and the economic effort of then
peoples.”
Even in England, where the general
economic effort impressed the American
buyer as grimly determined, well-directed,
and much more promising than else-
where, the food shortage seemed to be a
handicap to maximum production be-
cause of the influence it has on the
stamina of workers in all social strata.
“Are the people of Europe conscious
of the fact that they need a large de-
velopment of world trade to rehabili-
tate their economy?” he was asked.
“They seem conscious only of one thing
today, especially on the Continent, the
buyer replied, “and that is the need to
avoid starvation, which to them is a very
real and immediate thing.”
The Next Twenty-five Years.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune" article.)
It is neither in the speeches of the
democratic statesmen, on the one hand,
nor in the conventionalised exercises of
the Soviet press and radio, on the other,
that one may read the future. What
“Pravda,” or even Mr. Churchill, may-
say today will be swept away tomorrow ,
these things are of small importance in
themselves, and will not even be remem-
bered unless the long perspectives of his-
tory should happen to verify one or
another of their intuitions.
It is for those perspectives that one
must constantly search. What must one
seriously expect, not from the arguments
and fracases of the moment but from the
next 25 years, say, of world history as a
whole? To ask the question in those
terms is to realise that reasonable esti-
mates are not impossible. The next
quarter century will present certain great
fixed factors:
Soviet Russia, massive, “monolithic,”
tough, intensely self - confident and
dynamic, but bound to a relatively back-
ward and necessitous living standard.
The British Commonwealth, conscious
of the great mission it has performed in
the world, but temporarily strained to
the limits of its strength and caught awk-
wardly somewhere halfway between being
a federation of modern democracies and
a nineteenth-century colonial Empire.
The United States, wielding a poten-
tially enormous economic and political
strength, asserting a dominant power all
the way from the South China Sea to the
South Atlantic and from Korea to Ice-
land, but thoroughly confused as to the
uses which it will make of that power and
the responsibilities which it may entail.
The history of the next quarter century
will be the history, very largely, of the
interaction of these great organisms. Some
questions it will have to answer: How
the great belt of now weakened and
chaotic territories which encircles the
Russian mass all the way from the Baltic
arpund to Manchuria is finally to be
organised; how the British system is
finally to reach a viable relationship with
the fiercely fermenting nationalisms which,
from the eastern Mediterranean through
India and Burma to Malaya, now lie
either within the Empire or under its in-
fluence ; how well the United States is to
make its own capitalist democratic sys-
tem work at home and, having achieved
a unity of ideals and practice within its
borders, can operate through the world
at large in such a way as to produce those
higher standards of both personal free-
dom and material wellbeing which are
its great justifications in the eyes of men?
All such questions can be answered
only gradually, at the cost of much fric-
tion, difficulty, bad compromise and
propagandist battles. Behind all of them,
undeniably, there stands a basic cleav-
age of method and purpose between the
Soviet Union and the Western de-
mocracies.
That the coming quarter century could
develop toward a third global conflict is
not an empty supposition. It could do so
if Russia should erupt in an imperialist
attempt to master the entire Eurasian
land mass, containing the vast majority of
the human race. It could do so if the
British Commonwealth, failing to solve
its internal problems, should be left like
a stranded hulk of old privilege and ex-
ploitation across the pathways of neces-
sary world change. It could do so if
the United States fails to achieve unity
at home and should employ its wealth
and power with that combination of
timidity, stupidity and blindness which
distinguished the Western European de-
mocracies during the rise of Hitler.
But it need not do so. For there are
other questions which the next 25 years
must aqswer. One of the most interesting
is the question of the development of
Russia. The people who are the heirs of
that vast imperial domain are not pro-
foundly interested in the diplomatic tours
de force of the expert managers in the
Kremlin ; their major desire is to see the
system which they have built at such im-
mense cost in blood and begin to
produce the rewards in daily living con-
ditions which its colossal resources would
make inevitable under an enterprise
system. Another question is the extent
of technical and material advance which
the American system can demonstrate ;
still another lies in the success of those
several systems, among which one must
now number that of the United Kingdom
as one of the largest, in following the
“middle way” between the capitalistic
and Communistic organisations of
society.
These are the fundamental questions of
the next quarter century. Whether they
are to issue in peace or a third cataclysm
is not to be learned from current polem-
ics. Polemics do not matter much ex-
cept as indicators of the degrees of
current stress. What does matter is the
extent to which each major participant
in the great adventure can define his own
principles, can stand by them when neces-
sary and can demonstrate the validity of
those principles in serving the needs and
aspirations of mankind.
The Goat-pasture Plan.
(From John O’Donnell’s column in the N.Y.
“Daily News.”)
When the Morgenthau plan to reduce
conquered Germany to a goat pasture and
so destroy the economic heart of Europe
was first tossed out as a blueprint for the
military control of Germany, the argu-
ment in its favor was that it had received
the O.K. of Roosevelt and Churchill dur-
ing the Quebec conference in 1944,
After Roosevelt’s death the boys who
were all for the harsh terms drawn up
by the former Secretary of the Treasury
found their most persuasive argument in
the statement that it had received the
benediction of F.D.R. and Churchill.
Neither Hull nor Stimson liked the
planned and deliberate destruction of
the civilian population of a conquered
Germany, but backers of the plan won.
Now the facts come out. Neither
Roosevelt nor Churchill accepted the
Morgenthau plan at the Quebec confer-
ence. They doubted the wisdom of re-
ducing the Germans to a nation of pov-
erty-stricken farmers and shepherds and
decided that further study must be made
by experts of both the United States and
Britain before a decision was made.
Furthermore, when the British experts
turned their findings over to Churchill
their report flatly rejected the Morgen-
thau suggestions and gave such excellent
reasons that Churchill, meeting Truman
at Potsdam, took the position that Ger-
many should not be even partially re-
duced to the goat-pasture status by rigid
restrictions.
Churchill didn’t want Germany to be
able to build up another war-machine, but
he was against the wilful destruction of
the future purchasing and trading power
of a nation which once was Britain’s best
customer on the Continent.
As time goes on the Potsdam confer-
ence, where Pal Joey waved a very big
stick, becomes curiouser and curiouser.
Why’didn’t the American delegation under
Truman put more vigor into their requests
that Stalin live up to the European agree-
ments made at Yalta? It now develops
that Churchill stubbornly and energeU-
((Continued on page 32.)


mm
m
mm
§
s
NEW
PRE-FABRICATED
30
BUILDINGS
On the farm or in the industrial held, these ARMCO pre-
fabricated buildings will solve a host of urgent problems.
Designed for use as shearing sheds, machinery sheds or
any other purpose for which a weather-proof, fire-proof
and vermin-proof structure is necessary, these buildings
are easily erected by unskilled labour... and can be just
as easily de-mounted and re-erected wheli change of
location is desired.
The standard building is 30ft. wide by 60ft. long. Ten-foot
bays can be added should extensions be necessary. It has
two fixed windows at one end and three others on either
i
side. The doorway opening is 10ft. x 10ft.
With each building, complete, simpli-
fied details are provided, showing at a
glance the quickest and most conveni-
ent method of erection.
A
PRES-STEEL BUILDINGS
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
Al-16.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3455
Wednesday, May 1, 1946
NEO-GREEK TRAGEDY CALLING FOR A REPORT.
"Mr. Fordo hit on a happy phrare when he doicribed Strikes as the Achilles: heel of the Labor movement. Achilles lost his life through being wounded by an
arrow in his vulnerable heel, This seoms a likely fate for the labor Goverment, which is always more likely to be wounded in the heel than elsewhere, aince it is
usually running away from its problems. It runs away particularly fast from the industrial problem. Menznzies,.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors: ,
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( OPP •
G.P.0.), Wellington,
MacARTHUR'S "ADVISERS."
Only five months to the day after the
formal surrender of Japan in Tokyo Bay
the New York “Times” found room in its
supplement for an article by Dr. Evatt
headed “Japan Is Still a Menace” and
apparently intended to show just how
General MacArthur should be running
that country. The article was larded with
nicely spaced, if somewhat grudging,
praise of General MacArthur —“despite
great difficulties, he seems to be making
headway in dealing with defeated Japan”
—but the whole tone of it was critical and
impatient. On the other hand, it was a
boost for the Far Eastern Commission:
“One of the most important inter-Gov-
ernmental authorities established since the
defeat of Germany”:
If represents a practical means already in
being by which the Allies may both reach
an agreed policy in regard to the future of ■
Japan and supervise the conduct of the
implementation. Eleven nations who par-
ticipated in the war against Japan are
members of the commission, and great pro-
gress has been made on the drafting of a
combined Allied Japanese policy which
should be invaluable in assisting General
MacArthur in his onerous job.
In mid-April the “Allied Council” in
Japan received an entirely different valua-
tion, or devaluation, from General Mac-
Arthur himself. Having kept it waiting
a fortnight, he turned down practically
every request it had made, the manner
of rejection “underlining General Mac-
Arthur’s statement.... in which he served
notice that he would run Japan and that
the council’s functions were merely ad-
visory.” In that stand, the Commander-
in-Chief was on sound enough ground for
two reasons —the fact that so long as he
retains the confidence of America no
power on earth can shift him, and the
other fact that, despite the implied criti-
cisms of Dr. Evatt and other snipers, the
performance is there to show that in his
“onerous job” General MacArthur has
done as well as he did in his war job.
Instead of “seems to be making headway”
he has actually achieved such an extra-
ordinary amount in the time that it might
be doubted if any living man —let alone
a committee almost as ignorant of Japan
as he is familiar with it —could have done
more.
Perhaps stirred by the Evatt line of
impatience, responsible American journals
—including the N.Y. “Times”—have since
been featuring just what has already been
achieved on such issues raised by Dr.
Evatt as democratic government, elimi-
nation of militarism, disarmament and
demilitarisation. Indeed, before Dr.
Evatt’s criticism appeared in print, the
“United States News” had briefly listed
what General MacArthur, “in a series of
carefully-timed steps,” had done, though
he had then been barely four months on
the job:
(1) Abolished Japan’s Army and Navy.
(2) Grounded all Japanese ’planes and
pilot's, military and civilian.
(3) Marked for destruction all plants that
manufacture ’planes, munitions and imple-
ments of war.
(4) Frozen all Japanese external trade,
including shipping, subject to operation by
special permit.
(5) Seized the 21 biggest 'banks and the
15 biggest family trusts for possible liqui-
dation or reorganisation with wider owner-
ship. ’
(6) Dispersed the secret police, abolished
“thought control,” and banned all secret,
militaristic, expansionist societies.
The N.Y. “Times,” after publishing Dr.
Evatt’s complaining article, ran another
by one of its special staff correspondents
in Japan pointing to such additional ac-
complishments as the breaking of “the
mechanics by which the militarists
ruled”; laying “the basis for agrarian re-
form and the rights of labor”; and “the
separation of the State from the feudal
nationalist church —the formal Shinto be-
lief which made the Japanese Emperor a
descendant of the gods and the Japanese
people destined to rule the world” ; a be-
lief publicly renounced by Hirohito at a
hint from General MacArthur.
These accomplishments and the rest
the “Times” man described as represent-
ing “a major effort.” Merely to start
them off “required thousands find
thousands of orders, many of them highly
specialised” ; and the “Times” in a lead-
ing article pointed out that there had been,
for example, 24. kinds of police alone in
Japan for General MacArthur to cope
with“every tenth member of the popu-
lation, under the Hoku system, was a
police spy.”
Another observer with special know-
ledge of the Japanese, after making
widespread inquiries among them on their
reactions to General MacArthur’s rule,
reported his findings in the N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” (in the past anything but a
keen MacArthur supporter). This ob-
server —a U.S. Government official —has
found that not only is the “absolute de-
struction” of the military being accomp-
lished but “the military are now
thoroughly discredited in the eyes of the
Japanese,” who are “sick and tired of the
Army and Navy.”
One of the things of course complained
of by Dr. Evatt was the retention of the
Emperor—insisted on all along by
General MacArthur, though, according
to Dr. Evatt, only “reluctantly agreed
upon by all the nations actively partici-
pating in the war against Japan.” That
reluctant agreement, in Dr. Evatt’s view,
“does not mean that the Allies are neces-
sarily committed either to the person or
institution of the Emperor; moreover,
the Allied > Governments hold the view
that the surrender of Japan was entirely
unconditional.”
How many lives —including Australian
lives, though the great majority would
have been American—were saved by
General MacArthur’s insistence on reten-
tion of the Emperor can only be guessed
at, and the guesses, taking in what might
have happened to helpless prisoners of
war, have run into millions. Perhaps
General MacArthur, having used the
Emperor to save whatever number of lives
and also to get the occupation job
smoothly on its way, would feel a strong
sense of honor and of contract, and he
is not a man to depart from either. Also,
nobody would question that he must
know more about the probable effects
of such a departure than a dozen Dr.
Evatts.
The U.S. Government official quoted
has no love for the Emperor or system—
he would have none for the British king-
ship system—but he contends that this is
no time for abolition. The Japanese, he
points out, “must preserve some feeling
of ‘belonging,’ otherwise their social struc-
ture is apt to erupt, and God knows what
might come out.” What might come out,
he thinks, would not be a “constructive
revolution” but “a mad free-for-all which
would make the occupation problem a
ghastly headache and would not go any-
where -towards solving Japan’s basic
problems.”
I cannot believe but that’ the Emperor,
as a figurehead, will be a vital force in
keeping the Japs going through these very
disillusioning and hard days for them. Later,
if we are successful in our programme,
the need for him should have diminished
enough so that his removal would precipi-
tate the minimum disturbance. After all,
we cannot mould the Japanese to our
tastes overnight, much as we might* like
to do so.
In any case, removing the Emperor
would apparently have to be something
for the Japanese themselves: “I see no
more reason why the Japanese should
not have a psychological father (provided
that he is politically impotent) than the
British or the Russians or anyone else,”
Altogether this U.S. official observer
finds that “the occupation has been emi-
nently successful,” while the “Times”
special correspondent—who might have
been replying to Dr. Evatt’s complaints—
points to such facts as that up to date
there have been no “incidents,” that
“violence between Americans and Japan-
ese has been at an absolute minimum,”
that “the positive side of the occupation
ledger is much more heavily loaded with
entries than the negative,” In what is
still only a matter of months “a solid
foundation has been laid on which the
Japanese can —if they will —build a peace-
ful democratic government.”
What these reports by men on the
spot suggest is that up to now General
MacArthur has done a particularly fine
job, and that he seems in little need of
advice from an Australian Minister who
has never been within a thousand miles
of Japan or from Mr. Macmahon Ball,
who has been there a few weeks.
The Cry for Bread.
When U.N.R.R.A. was set up in 1943
the obvious choice for Director-General
was Herbert Hoover. No other person
in the world had anything like the quali-
fications possessed by the man who was
chairman of the American Relief Com-
mittee in London (1914-15), chairman of
the Commission for Relief in Belgium
(1914-19), Food Administrator for the
U.S.A. (1917-19), chairman of the U.S.
Grain Corporation and Sugar Equalisa-
tion Board, and chairman of the Inter-
Allied Food Council when it saved many
millions of lives; withal the only living
ex-President and of all the Presidents the
most travelled. When U.N.R.R.A.
arrived Mr. Hoover was 68, sound
in mind and body, endued with
and trained in the philanthropy which
has been the endearing distinction of
Quakers for three centuries.
Unfortunately, President Roosevelt,
though urged to appoint Mr. Hoover,
decided instead on a good party man,
nearly as old as Mr. Hoover —Mr. Her-
bert Lehman, a clever, untravelled banker-
politician who had had four terms as
Governor of New York.
Mr. Lehman did his best, but his best
wasn’t nearly good enough. Ignorant of
Europe, he allowed himself to be bluffed
into sending huge quantities of foodstuffs
to White Russia and the Ukraine (home
of Mr. Manuilsky, who is all broken up
when he thinks of the British outrages in
Java) while Moscow was arranging to
send huger quantities to semi-Corhmunist
France as a pre-election gesture. And he
was betrayed into asking for the resig-
nation of General Morgan because the
general had referred to plans for a whole-
sale exodus of European Jews to Pales-
tine in defiance of the White Paper,
though as conscientious Jewish journalists
testified, and the event proved. General
Morgan was right.
In the end Mr. Lehman resigned, com-
plaining, not unreasonably, that he had
been let down by U.N.0., obsessed with
politics, and that the American Govern-
ment had abolished rationing, heedless
of the tragedy looming up in Europe. He
was succeeded by Mr. La Guardia, who
straightway introduced outspokenness and
energy into U.N.R.R.A.’s proceedings.
And Mr. Hoover was commissioned by
President Truman to tour Europe, North
Africa and Asia, report on the food situa-
tion and make such representations as he
considered urgent. *
Mr. La Guardia and Mr. Hoover
banked on aid from Britain, and they
were not disappointed. Said Mr. Attlee
in the Commons on April 1:
We are willing to ration bread if the sup-
plying countries are willing to do the same.
Alternatively, we are ready to take measures
to save wheat and flour which are com-
parable in their effects to those which the
supplying countries may be willing to adopt,
so that the fullest contribution may be
made by all to> avert the risk of widespread
famine and starvation.
The U.S. Government responded,
though not immediately, by ordering “a
25 per cent, cut in millers’ distribution of
wheat and a reduction of 25 per cent, in
the flour used by food, manufacturers.”
Anticipating British Government ap-
proval, Mr. La Guardia announced that
ships carrying wheat to Britain would be
diverted to Continental ports in cases where
“stocks” would not “last till the end of
April.” The British Government has done
more than that; it has reduced the weight
of the daily loaf from 21b. to l|lb. and
heavily cut the issue of grain to brewers.
Broadcasting from Cairo, Mr. Hoover
declared that 150 million Europeans
must have supplies within the next
four months if v/idespread famine was
to be averted, and that he would rely
upon Australia to supply 10 per cent.
Going to New Delhi, he said “India ap-
parently has food enough for May and
June, but after that nothing,” and that
“food must come from Australia and
other near-by food bins; there is simply
not enough time to haul it from a greater
distance.”
It is hard to make the world realise what
famine means until people see pictures of
bodies in the streets. There are 150 millions
in Europe and 75 millions in India who will
starve if supplies are halted.
Australia is, of course, one of “the
supplying countries” which Mr. Attlee
has in mind, Mr. Hoover is the one tenant
of the White House who has lived in
Australia. His expectations, doubtless
based on memories of the Australia
he knew, are impossible of realisation
because of the “Government” and its
“wheat acreage restriction policy.”
Though now formally abandoned, this
“policy” has deprived the people of India
of at least 50 million bushels of wheat
from Westralia'alone.
A review of “wheat acreage restriction”
was published in the “Primary Producer”
of April 11 on the authority of a Mr.
Donovan, “chairman of the Wheat Indus-
try Stabilisation Committee.” Said Mr.
Donovan:
The number of farmers licensed in West-
ralia since the inception of the wheat
stabilisation scheme was: 1941-42, 9887;
1942-43, 8693; 1943-44, 8692; 1944-45,
8622; 1945-46, 8683. Federal compensation
payments were: 1942-43, £584,304; 1943-
44, £566,405; 1944-45, £571,372. Apart
from that total of £1,722,081, about
£241,000 has already been distributed in re-
spect of 1945-46, and it is estimated that
payment's for 1945-46 will reach ' £243,999.
And all for not growing wheat. And
this in the State nearest to India and
Britain, a State where the cost of putting
in and taking off a wheat crop is cheaper
than in any other State; a State which
escaped the 1944-45 drought, as shown
by average yields—6.o2 bushels in N. S.
Wales, 1.63 bushels in Victoria, 5.70
bushels in South Australia and 10.51
bushels in Westralia, Other average yields
in Westralia where a great army was
maintained for years, waiting for an in-
vasion in force which never came, and
which was out of the question after the
Coral Sea and Midway battles —were
14.13 bushels in. 1941-42, 11.75 bushels
in 1942-43, 10.56 bushels in 1943-44 and
(estimated) 11.39 bushels in 1945-46.
“Wheat acreage restriction” was a crime
against Nature and against humanity. And
although it has had to be “withdrawn”
(Mr. Donovan’s expression) and although
the cropping season, as far as Nature is
concerned, has begun magnificently, there
is no sign of the inspiration or the meas-
ures required to bring about a banner
yield, the first-fruits of which would be
available in October. The “stabilisation”
price fixed by the “Government” is little,
if anything, more than the cost of produc-
tion, and is not more than half the present
export price. The arrangements for the
provision of machinery, parts and labor,
if not fertiliser, supplies of which have
been restricted by the long unexplained
delay in recovering Nauru when it was a
prize for the taking, seem at best per-
functory. And, though income-tax rates
are the highest in the world, no conces-
sion has been offered as an inducement
to increase of production. No man can
put in a big crop without feeling that the
“Government” and the farm-labor unions
will take the largest bite.
In this matter, as in so many others,
the presents a picture of
self-satisfied sloth, of drivelling compla-
cency. While Britons, Canadians and
New Zealanders make fresh sacrifices,
Britons above all, it asks the Australian
consumers for none, being afraid of the
reaction in the constituencies. Antago-
nistic to the Food for Britain appeals, this
dull, unfeeling, unimaginative collection
of crawlers to Communists listens inert to
the cry of the stricken peoples for bread.
The D'Alton Mystery.
The circumstances in which Mr. Thomas
George de Largie D’Alton was appointed
High Commissioner in New Zealand, the
circumstances in which he resigned or
retired —by effluxion of time or from some
other cause —and related circumstances
have for at least three weeks called for
a statement from Canberra. When this
was written none had been forthcoming.
Mr. D’Alton received the gift of the
Wellington post from the “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment” in 1943. As these things go in
the circle in which Mr. Ward moves, Mr.
D’Alton had two outstanding qualifica-
tions ; he was a “Labor” politician, having
been State member for Darwin, Tas-
mania, since 1931 and Minister for
Forests since 1939, and he had no mili-
tary record.
What Mr, D’Alton did or what hap-
pened to him on the other side of the Tas-
man it would take more than a search of
newspaper files to reveal. For three years
the Australian public was told little or
nothing about his operations, and the
Maoriland public very little more. Per-
haps, like the poet, he found obscurity
a welcome guest. When it was announced
that Cutler, V.C., was to succeed him the
Wellington “Dominion,” though reckoned
a well-informed journal, failed to get the
D’Alton name right.
That was on April 5. For many weeks
previously Mr. D’Alton’s administration
of the Forestry Department had, with
other matters, been the subject of an in-
quiry by a Royal Commissioner, N.S.W.
District Court Judge Kirby, and Mr.
D’Alton’s absence had been remarked on
from Bar and Bench. On April 16,' ac-
cording to a Hobart “Mercury” report,
Mr. Wilmshurst, a member of the legal
firm to which Mr. Chifley’s protege
Senator McKenna belongs, “submitted
that no inference should be drawn ad-
versely to D’Alton because he did not
appear”:
Mr. Wilmshurst contended that D’Alton
was not legally bound to appear. The
charges against him stood or fell accord-
ing to the evidence tendered at the inquiry.
Judge Kirby: If D’Alton is anywhere
within range, I would go outside Tasmania
to hear his evidence.
Mr. Wilmshurst: I am not certain where
D’Alton is. Last time I heard from him he
was in Australia, but he may have returned
to New Zealand.
After the lunch adjournment Mr. Wilms-
hurst said he had dispatched a message with
a view to getting in touch with D’Alton,
but up to that time he had not been suc-
cessful.
Mr. Wright, for “several members of the
Legislative Council,” submitted that in
December, 1941, D’Alton corruptly re-
ceived money from Alstergren and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., for his own benefit in consideration
of the grant of exclusive forest permits and
on certain conditions fixed by him as
Minister.
Concerning an application by Pugh Bros,
for an exclusive forest permit in 1943, Mr.
Wright submitted that D’Alton was guilty
of improper conduct for the following
reasons: He destroyed or caused to be de-
stroyed an official document of the Forestry
Department, the application for the permit;
he asked the Conservator of Forests not to
record official acts relating to the appli-
cation ; he suppressed from the Conservator
the fact that mainland merchants were in-
terested in the application; he used undue
pressure to induce the Conservator to
recommend the application against the inter-
ests of the State’s forestry policy.
On the following morning Mr. Wilms-
hurst said he had been in communication
with D’Alton, who “instructed me to say
that his attendance before this Commis-
sion in Tasmania or elsewhere to give


evidence must cause him considerable ex-
pense,” and that “for such expense, m the
light of past experience, he would not be
reimbursed by the authorities. Accord-
ingly, while declaring that he is not guilty
of the charges against him, D’Alton is
not prepared to attend.”
The Hobart “Mercury” report con-
tinues ;
Following Mr. Wilmshurst’s address on
an allegation that D’Alton received a parcel
by boat from Alstergrens, Judge Kirby
said “I think you will agree that it is an
unusual thing for a firm doing business
with the Crown and this particular Minister
of the Crown to send a parcel over in those
circumstances. There is a suggestion there
was money in the parcel. Sitting as a
Royal Commissioner, I am not afforded any
explanation of this extraordinary affair.
I suggest you give consideration to it and
see if the financial difficulties which interest'
D’Alton can be met. This is a matter of
public interest.”
Concerning the allegations against
D’Alton, Mr. Wilmshurst submitted that
no prima-facie cases had been made put.
In relation to Pugh Bros.’ application,
there was not the slightest evidence from
any of the witnesses or documentary evi-
dence that money was paid or offered to
D’Alton or expected by him. There was
no evidence to show that Pugh Bros.’
application was ever destroyed, and the
evidence wholly failed to establish any-
thing of a corrupt nature or anything in
relation to a bribe or reward to D’Alton.
In the allegation concerning Alstergrens,
the only issue was whether D’Alton re-
ceived any money. There was no such
evidence and nothing in D’Alton’s conduct
which established impropriety. D’Alton’s
bank account showed deposits in cash from
time to time. “Your Honor is not entitled
to find that the money was acquired by
him improperly.”
Judge Kirby: Your submission is that
I should find “Not proven.”
Mr. Wilmshurst; Yes, your Honor.
Mr. Fagan, counsel assisting the Com-
missioner, said he “disagreed with the
submission that no adverse inference
should be drawn from D’Alton’s non-
attendance.”
At the beginning of the inquiry your
Honor explicitly invited counsel for D’Alton
to state whether or not he would like him
to ask that the Appropriation Act be
amended, if necessary, so that D’Alton
would be put to no expense by attending it.
That invitation was declined. I cannot see
how it can be claimed that D’Alton’s
failure to attend is because of expense.
In a number of instances, a strong prima-
facie case has been put forward. If there
is a case to answer and a person fails to
answer it, then the obvious result which
always follows is that he is found guilty.
When D’Alton’s attendance was re-
quested and refused he was still —in name,
at least —our High Commissioner at
Wellington, and presumably he was draw-
ing the salary. If the “Government” which
gave him his high office and kept him in
it for three years did not order him to
choose between refuting the charges in
the witness-box and being dismissed it
also has “a case to answer,” though a case
of another description. It certainly has
an obligation to justify the appointment,
to explain why it made the change to
Cutler, V.C., to state whether it was
satisfied with Mr. D’Alton’s work in New
Zealand and to give reasons for satis-
faction, if it had any.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Union Larrikinism Rampant.
Nobody in a position of authority, con-
stitutional or usurped, seems to have any
consideration for the Australian house-
wife, victim of an Iliad of preventable
woes. In three States, from various causes,
housewives have been getting plenty of
practice in the mind- and body-wracking
business of collecting the materials for
and preparing meatless meals.
In Queensland on March 7 three men
were dismissed from the Murrarie bacon
works. A State-wide meatworkers’ strike
following, the Murrarie farmers worked
the bacon factory themselves. The Indus-
trial Court deleted the preference-to-
unionists clause from two awards, a call
for voluntary labor was made and was
answered, in many cases by servicemen.
Union bosses then announced that they
would make the strike Australia-wide,
and at the week-end a threat of “cold-
blooded physical interference by organ-
ised unionism” got into print.
In Sydney, as housewives prepared in
hundreds of thousands to watch the
veterans march on Anzac Day, they
learned that a meat strike was on, and
that there’d be no fresh meat by the
week-end. The strike spread from the
Riverstone meatworks to Orange, Blay-
ney and Forbes. On the day after Anzac
Day housewives had to rise early and
join their sisters in a desperate rush to
shops—so desperate that police had to
control them —to get some of the failing
supply of meat. On Monday there was
none, and there was a shortage of nearly
every substitute.
“Seniority rights” were the alleged
cause of turmoil in Queensland. In Syd-
ney the “complaint” was that a 15-
minute “smoke-oh” was not enough, so the
“workers” would take leave to make it
20 minutes. But in these matters any
excuse serves, and in neither case was
there a strike ballot. The root cause in
both States is union larrikinism with a
Communist twist, checked now and then
by the Queensland Administration but
never resisted by the “Labor” Govern-
ments in Sydney and Canberra.
The only thing for the injured people
to do is to hit both “Governments” sharp
and hard on “the Achilles heel” of Mr.
Forde’s frightened fancy, and call upon
the succeeding Administrations to outlaw
Communism and to place union larrikin-
ism under the restraints of law at every
point of union operations, from the re-
quirement of full and precise balance-sheets
to complete protection of the individual
mob intimidation, assault and
boycott. Law, courageously enforced, is
the one thing union larrikinism does not
like.
'We Are the Mice. 1 '
At least one literary gentleman has
probably been made immortal by the
prosecution of Angus and Robertson,
who were fined £lO by a Sydney
stipendiary magistrate for publishing
Lawson Glassop’s We Were the Rats.
He is an unfortunate member of
N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mackay’s
Vice Squad and his connection with the
fine arts is that it is “part of his duty
to look for obscene publications.”
Cross-examined by Mr. Dovey, K.C.,
the policeman—a detective-sergeant—
said that he did not know the
meaning of the word “pornographic”
but thought it meant a poor type
of literature. He was not sure if
Shakspeare’s first name was William;
had not read Bernard Shaw; did not
know that the Song of Solomon was
MERELY A PROMISE.
“The decision’s got to go my way —or else. But, mind you, this ain’t no threat.”
“directed almost entirely to the physical
attractions of the sexes” ; and:
Mr. Dovey; Have you ever heard of
Chaucer? —No.
You never met him while in the Vice
Squad?—No.
Have you ever heard of Byron?—No.
He was a lord. —Yes, I’ve heard of him.
Do you know if he was on Lord Louis
Mountbatten’s staff? —I don’t know.
Do you know if he was a writer? —I
don’t know.
Do you know if he was a war corres-
pondent?—l don’t know.
Have you heard of Shelley?—l know a
man named Shelley, but I take it you refer
to an author or something. I have never
heard of Shelley as a man who wrote any-
thing.
Nobody would wish to be unkind to
the sergeant. He is no doubt an amiable
arid conscientious officer, and it has never
been said of him, as of a fellow-member
of the Vice Squad, that during a Rugby
League footbrawl scrimmage he had the
misfortune to bite off half an ear. He
did not even bite Glassop very severely,
merely informing the Court that a few
pages of the book (some containing the
word “bloody”) were “offensive to
delicacy and chastity.”
The sergeant is, in a measure, a victim
of the cowardice of the Federal “Govern-
ment,” which, while not able openly to
ban a novel primarily concerned with the
heroism of the A.I.F. at Tobruk, chose
to try to prevent its circulation by egging
on a prosecution for “obscenity.” And,
too, he is the victim of obscure indi-
viduals who complained to the “Govern-
ment.”
Nevertheless, it is fitting enough that
the ppliceman should be made the central
figure. For that—the degree of cultural
awareness revealed by the cross-examina-
tion—is typical of the mental level on
which these book-bannings and prose-
cutions are conducted. Australian pub-
lishing was hampered throughout the war
by manpower and supply problems. In
N. S. Wales it has twice in recent months
been brought to a standstill by strikes.
Now. when a book is “referred to the
State ‘Government’ by the Common-
wealth ‘Government’ ” it is at the
mercy of a policeman any police-
man —who, however chaste and delicate
and free from pleasantries like earbiting,
is not sure if Shakspeare’s Christian name
is William.
. Heroes to Valets.
To Sydney’s four daily papers and three
Sunday papers, as well (of course) to its
“ ‘Labor’ Government,” horseracing is
far and away the most important subject
in this troubled world of ours.
When Friday comes the morning papers
issue eight-page racing supplements in
the special interest of punters and start-
ing-price bookmakers; and, with in-
ferior resources, the afternoon papers do
their best to match them. The Sunday
papers come in with racing reports which
elaborate the Saturday-evening issues of
the post-meridian papers, and to these
add pages of paragraphs and articles re-
specting all the celebrities who distin-
guished themselves at the races, with a
wealth of intimate details concerning the
ladies and gentlemen involved. If the
ladies are overcome with emotion, so
much the better.
# People not interested in the betting
craze object to this development of the
New Journalism. They see in it a cause
of the selfish and obscene union larri-
kinism euphemised as “industrial unrest”
and an explanation of the determination
of British manufacturers to avoid N. S.
Wales as a field for industry. Cynics
among them allow that the pro-
digious amount of hogwash given to
the indulgence of what they regard
as a worse than useless anti-social pursuit,
which has had palpable effects on the
failure of war and post-war Common-
wealth loans, yields enlightenment of a
social kind. For example, that book-
makers, publicans, proprietors of dinner-
dance joints and a small and select group
of manufacturers, particularly in the boot
and clothing lines, must have done
famously during the wars which ate up
the savings of people on fixed incomes.
And those who had some knowledge of
racing before the wars have noted the
almost total disappearance of sporting
sheepmen from the list of horseowners,
one of the few exceptions being an M.C.
of the first German war. Publicans have
taken their place.
When it is set on record by one or
other of the adoring sheets that a “well-
known punter” put £3OOO or £4OOO on
a horse the “well-known punter” is
almost certain to be a publican, a country
publican at that. How any publican, sub-
jected to all the stringent requirements
imposed by “ ‘Labor’ Governments,” and,
of course, relentlessly enforced —among
them reduced supplies, fixed prices and
an income-tax only recently reduced fsom
a maximum of 18s. 6d. in the £ —could
find that amount of money to put on a
horse, as often as not his own property,
is one of the unravelled mysteries of the
“Labor” regime.
A hero to all these papers, seemingly
judged to be first in the hearts of his
adopted countrymen, is Mr. Romano
Azzalin or Mr. Azzalin Romano —it is
uncertain which label applies, although
the “Daily Telegraph” recently announced
that the hero “changed his name by deed
poll,” a peculiarity of “Daily Telegraph”
heroes.
Mr. Romano Azzalin or Mr. Azzalin
Romano runs a dinner-dance joint
which fell into some disfavor with
the U.S. service authorities. During the
last few months Mr, Romano Azzalin or
Mr. Azzalin Romano has been the centre
of a great deal more “publicity” than has
been distributed among all our service
leaders and all our V.Cs. His horse,
Bernborough, his suburban farm, the
country pub he bought and the price he
paid for it, his childhood in Italy, his im-
pressions of English society as studied
from the standpoint of a waiter, his ad-
vent in Australia and his early vicissitudes
after the first German war have been the
subject of copious essays and illustrations.
One Sunday paper came out with a
colored photograph of Azzalin (or
Romano) walking in the woods, and in
the ensuing week another colored photo-
graph of Romano (or Azzalin) standing
at the head of Bernborough—or perhaps
it was the other way round. In the field
of newspaper photography there is brisk
competition between Mr. Azzalin Romano
biting a cigar and the Sunday Something
Beach Girl revealing Almost Everything.
There was a renewed outbreak of
Romanomania at the yearling sales,
where the dinner-dance-joint “sport”
paid 4300 guineas for a colt and 3100
guineas for a filly. And he bought them
in his own name, too, or at least in one
of his names. Other gents, who gave
fancy prices for yearlings chose to make
their purchases in the names of trainers.
This will doubtless have been noted by
taxgatherers, a race with eagle eyes and
long memories, as Mr, Azzalin Romano
(or Romano Azzalin) himself can testify.
Early in the second German war, under
the name of Romano Orlando Azzalin,
the Sydney papers’ First Favorite was
prosecuted for having presented a false
statement of income for the year to June
30, 1936, and was fined £5OO. The income
he returned was £l9BB ; the Common-
wealth Taxation Department made it
£11,959. Mr. Azzalin Romano (or
Romano Azzalin) also became a case
for penal tax ; and how this was assessed
is baldly stated in the report of the” Com-
missioner of Taxation published in 1940:
Financial Understatement Additional
Year of Taxable Tax
or Years. Income. Charged.
1932-33 to
1938-39 £38,058 £5320 13 9
Alongside these figures were the words:
“ (b) Azzalin, Romano O. ; Restaurant
Proprietor.” (B) stood for “case of
suspected fraud.”
Storm in a Soup-plate.
It is somewhat important to consider
whether a Commonwealth Minister of
Defence, while in London as Resident
Minister —collecting about £6OOO a year
in “allowances,” more than half free of
Australian income-tax and having no per-
sonal election worries—can afford to lose
his temper and go making threatening
noises in the direction of the British
Prime Minister and his Ministers, all
otherwise worried.
This Mr. John A. Beasley has done,
and all because a harried British War
Transport secretary, having said that 522
war brides could travel to Australia in
a hospital ship, had to inform Mr.
Beasley that the ship had encountered
engine trouble and would not be able to
sail for another month. Heedless of the
fact that “priority” passages had been
provided for professional footballers in
whom he and other “Labor” Ministers
were interested, Mr. Beasley announced
that he was “disgusted at being let down,”
intended to “demand an immediate inter-
view with Mr. Attlee” and henceforth
“would not accept any promise by the
Ministry until evidence was produced that
it would be fulfilled.”
Australians can only assume that Mr.
Beasley’s liver failed to stand up to his
mixed diet. “A most abstemious man,”
as the admiring Mr. Fraser (Eden-Mon-
aro) 'described him, there accompanied
him to Britain:
Seven 701 b. bags of sugar, two chests
of tea, 13 cases of canned vegetables, 10
of jam, 39 of canned fruits, six of fruit
juices, three of tinned meat, two of soup,
three of prunes, three of lexias, two of
cream, two of condensed milk, two of
dried milk, a case of Milo, a case of
malted milk and 25 cases of wine.
It might well be too much, especially in
a land of enforced austerity. In thus pro-
viding for Mr. Beasley “adequately to
carry out the entertaining which he has
to do as Resident Minister without having
to draw on the limited food supplies
available in the United Kingdom,” Mr.
Chifley forgot to arrange for anti-dyspep-
tic preparations, which could easily have
come out of the Government’s free-
medicine scheme —about the only thing
likely to come out of it.
Alarmed as they may be at the spectacle
of Mr. John Beasley being “disgusted”
with them and fiercely demanding to see
their Prime Minister —Labor, too —the
English were ever a sympathetic nation.
And, having a sense of history, they have
not forgotten a John of their own who
allowed" his appetite to get the better of
him 730 years ago. So they may be ex-
pected to survive the choler of John of
West Sydney with their characteristic
sangfroid.


mm
mm
ssw.:;
isa
ittl
maz
ii2l
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable in 10 s & 20’s
m.
m
»
<v
mi
As
As
M A
E SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
The coincidence of the Prime Ministers’
conference with the meeting of Foreign
Ministers had a palpable effect on the
former proceedings. Attlee and Bevin
were so anxious to present a British Com-
monwealth front to Molotov at Paris that
they agreed to the Anzac Pact and every-
thing. They would have promised to find
shipping for a few more professional foot-
ball teams at the risk of being beleaguered
by stranded Australians and servicemen’s
wives if Dr. Evatt had asked for it.
Senator Keane has died suddenly in-
Washington, where he was engaged in
clearing-up lease-lend, and in him the
Administration has lost a shrewd politi-
cian who was of considerable service to
it and to the party in Victoria. As
Minister of Customs he was no Pratten,
who also died in harness. Though Prat-
ten never had to cope with a plague of
blackmarketing, it was not in his nature
to be so feeble in dealing with it as Keane
was, despite robust promises. Keane
looked, and was, too social a character
to be stern where sternness was called for.
His end became him, as always is the case
with a man cut down when doing a job in
a far country for his country.
At the last election “Labor” candidates
for the Senate won 19 of the 36 seats,
18 for.six-year terms, and since July 1,
1944, there have been 22 “Labor” Sena-
tors. Now, with Keane dead and certain
to be succeeded by an Oppositionist —
the Victorian “Labor” Government is
without a majority in either House—
with Lamp and Finlay abroad and
Donald Grant booked to follow them, it
is anything but certain that “Labor” will
have an absolute majority in the Senate
for its referendum bills. Contemplating
the situation from the Savoy Hotel, Lon-
don, Dr. Evatt must be a prey to mixed
emotions.
When the nasty term “stooge” was ap-
plied to him by Chifley, Blarney might
have been content with quoting an old
quatrain, in Churchill’s version:
God and the soldier we adore
In time of danger, not before.
The danger past, and all things righted,
God is forgotten and the soldier slighted.
Instead, having never been a man to take
things lying down, the general chose to
hit back with horse, foot and artillery:
I am told that a stooge is a person whom
you get to do the dirty work which you
don’t want to be seen doing yourself. Ex-
amining Mr. Chifley’s first-war record, I
agree that that is a proper and adequate de-
scription of my relations toward our present
Prime Minister,
Well, no one can say the 1917 striker
didn’t “ask for” it.
There has been an ominous revival of
Fascism in Italy, illustrated by the spirit-
ing-away of Mussolini’s body from its
“secret” grave, and worse may be in store
in Germany. The Italians surrendered in
1943 and are still ignorant of the terms
of peace. Not only Stalin but little
Stalins# in Yugoslavia and France have
presented monstrous demands for the
dismemberment of the unfortunate
country, which will have an unsolved
population problem on its hands whatever
happens.
Rootes, the manufacturers of Hill-
man and other cars, have taken over the
tank factory at Fishermen’s Bend, Mel-
bourne, where they will manufacture cars
with Australian components. Material
assistance in the negotiations was pro-
vided directly by the Victorian Admini-
stration and indirectly by the Sydney
“Government” and its racing club.
Perhaps with the idea of challenging the
supremacy of Mr. Azzalin Romano, Mr.
Browning, a bookmaker, spread the news
that he had a horse going for the value
of all the farms the racing-mad “Govern-
ment” has found for soldier-settlers. One
of those “columnists” who have sprung
lip like mushrooms put it this way:
The Taxation Department must be sorry
Good Idea didn’t win the Doncaster.
Arthur Browning had his horse backed
to win £lOO,OOO. The department would
have taken £90,000.
H’m, yes ; but would Mr. Browning have
been so voluble if the horse had won?
No press photographer or news-reel
ever takes a picture of Chifley without
his pipe. For all that, nobody need
imagine that where there is smoke there
must necessarily be fire.
Forde returned to Canberra from the
Victorian A.L.P. palavers with a flea
in his ear, deposited there by Menzies,
who made dashing use of Frankie’s idiotic
remark that strikes were “ ‘Labor's’
Achilles heel,” the effects on housewives
(straightway pointed by the meat strikers}
and the houseless and on industry and
rehabilitation being dismissed unmen-
tioned. Recovering somewhat, the com
tribution from Capricornia asserted that
“the general feeling in,Victoria” was “one
of appreciation of the works of ‘Labor.’ ”
In Victoria, as elsewhere, there has been
an increase of certifiable cases, but not
to that extent.
The British Government has set up a
Local Government Boundary Commis-
sion, but not, Attlee insists, with the
idea of altering the sturdy and individual
character of boroughs. That kind of
thing is reserved for Sydney “Labor,”
which is always meddling with local
government and proposes to meddle still
more. The Minister, a Mr. Cahill,
has advised councils to borrow with
their heads down. Too many, chiefly in
“Labor” districts, have already done so,
with a shocking failure “to obtain works
and services at a lower cost than ineffi-
cient services provide out of revenue.”
In this example of Cahill blather no case
of “inefficient services” . was specified.
Strathfield, a non-borrowing council, has
assets of over £500,000, including a town
hall and a baby-health centre, with no
liabilities, and its infectious-disease rate is
generally about the lowest in the com-
bined metropolitan sanitary district. If
Cahill has his way councils like Strath-
field will be wiped out or “absorbed” in
concerns with heavy debts and high rates.
Visiting Canberra before Parliament
broke up the editor of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” jotted down some shrewd
remarks on Chifley:
His interests are limited. Economic
questions fascinate him. Foreign affairs
bore him. He leaves them to Dr. Evatt,
Australia’s one-man foreign-policy maker.
This was borne out at the Prime
Ministers’ conference. There, according
to an A.A.P. man, “Mr, Chifley sub-
mitted Australia’s foreign policy, which
was a recapitulation of a speech made by
Dr. Evatt in Canberra recently.”
The Brisbane “Courier-Mail” editor has
revealed how reputations are made by the
New Journalism:
At question-time Mr. Chifley shows the
simple, smiling friendliness around which a
sympathetic Press Gallery and, astute politi-
cal colleagues are cultivating the legend
that here we have the Abe Lincoln of
Australia.
Papers like the London “Times” and the
Manchester “Guardian” make no contri-
bution to any “sympathetic Press
Gallery.” They send men to Westminster
to report Parliament (and it is reported
in a fashion which puts racing-mad Aus-
tralian dailies to shame), not to feed their
readers with bunkum.
Discussing the succession to Makin, a
Melbourne “Argus” man suggested
rather oddly that “one of the Assistant
Ministers, such as Mr. Pollard, will be
given full Cabinet rank.” Pollard’s name
is not among those of the 19 Ministers
listed in “Hansard.” However, some
of the 19 (18 now) have so many “ad-
visers” and the like hangihg around that
the error is pardonable.
Speaking at the Victorian A.L.P. con-
ference A. E. Monk, secretary of the
A.C.T.U., let out secrets and closed with
a threat. The secrets were that Dr. Evatt
had led the A.C.T.U. to believe that the
40-hour-week could be introduced by
legislation adopting the 40-hour-week
resolution of the International Labor
Office, dug up last year. Then the doctor
changed his ' opinion, holding that the
1935 1.L.0. resolution was “too flimsy”
to warrant an attempted exercise of the
external-affairs, power. Then, “unknown
to the unions and to the great surprise
of the A.C.T.U.,” Dr. Evatt said “the
unions must go to the Arbitration Court,
and intervened in the printing-industry
case,” which obliged the A.C.T.U. to “do
likewise.” The threat, introduced with a
statement that the “unions regard the
40-hour-week as psychologically won,”
was expressed in these terms:
If the Court does not grant the 40-hour-
week the unions will take up the case, and
there will be a very bitter struggle till the
40-hour-week is won.
Of course. Monk won’t have it that this
is a threat. Monk is a moderate.
Eggleston, whom Makin is to succeed
at Washington, returned to Melbourne
with Great News:
There is no doubt that Dr. Evatt’s stand
at the San Francisco conference put Aus-
tralia on the map.
But can this be correct? The distinction
was previously claimed for many others,
among them Captain Cook, Ned Kelly,
the Tichborne Claimant, Deeming,
Spofforth, Melba, Bob Fitzsimmons, the
South African contingents, the A.1.F.,
Billy Hughes, Bradman, Curtin and —yes,
of course —Phar Lap.
Apropos of Franco’s Spain, which, on
the “evidence” of the Polish Professor
Lange is an armed camp pockmarked
with Nazi atom-bomb outfits, “S. M.
Herald” reminds the Security Council
that it “is bound to proceed with cau-
tion, not less in its own interests
than in common fairness to the Spanish
regime”:
Mere dislike of the single-party tyranny
in Spain is not enough to warrant interven-
tion.
True, but what a difference from
Granny’s attitude in the civil-war days!
Then the old girl was as hot for inter-
vention in Spain as in Czechoslovakia.
When it became evident that tons of
good apples were to rot in Tasmanian
orchards, Wedd and Lonergan, Ms.L.C,
tried to have them distributed free
in Hobart. The Apple and Pear
Board said they weren’t to do it, and
warned Hobart “Mercury” against pub-
lishing an advertisement as to time and
place of distribution. The pair thereupon
advertised merely that they’d be in a
certain place at a certain time. They
were there with two lorry-loads of fruit
—the board had warned the lorryowners
not to do it but was ignored—and hun-
dreds of children with trucks, bags and
boxes benefited. Now distributors and
carters await the board’s fury.
English-speaking people abroad are
doubtless staring at news from Australia
with wondering eyes. It must be hard
for them to believe that, with famine stalk-
ing through the world, with the already
heavily-rationed British reducing their
standard 21b. loaf to l|lb. and diverting
200,000 tons of grain to European ports,
there could be meat strikes in Queensland
and N. S. Wales and apples rotting under
Tasmanian trees by order of the Apple
and Pear Board. This sort of thing is
no marvel to Australians, still enduring
the domination of union bosses and
bureaucrats and saddled with a Common-
wealth “Labor” Government without
ability, human sympathy or the intestinal
fortitude of a rabbit.
A favorite recitation in other days was
“Maloney’s Fenian Cat.” Since his
A.B.C. broadcast on Soviet Russia from
the inside, Maloney, M.L.C., may need
the reigning descendant of the Fenian cat
or some equally efficient animal for pro-
tection against wild Communists. He
found the “workers’ paradise” a dingy
Oriental oligarchy with “high party offi-
cials” getting all the “fat” and
“three or more rooms with all cons., and
in most cases domestic servants to wait
on them.” “Housing conditions for the
masses” are “deplorably low,” running
to “one very small room for a family of
the common people.” There is “no
workers’ compensation as we know it” ;
the vastly-boomed child endowment
scheme ceases “at five years” ; rations
are poor and dear except in the
“special class shops” to which “only
the highest strata of Soviet society
are admitted”; and it takes “a
year’s pay or more” in “a fairly
high wage group” to buy a suit of clothes.
The cost of women’s shoes and clothing
is in proportion, and to get “equal pay
for equal work with men” women have
to do the equal work —“fell trees, cut and
cart wood, mine, swing eight- and twelve-
pound hammers and operate all kinds of
heavy machinery.” Maloney, minus cat,
was Dr. Evatt’s choice for Minister to
Moscow when Slater decided to return —
very soon.
Chifley has asked Attlee to visit Australia
within the next few months. The Chifley
crowd is desperately in need of an elec-
tion booster, but in view of Attlee’s latest
blast against the Communists and his jab
at Laski —“impatient idealists find them-
selves up against obstinate realities” —the
visit may have its embarrassments.
On Anzac Day in Sydney, though two
Rugby League first-grade footballers are
known to have lost their lives in the wars
—one came from the Rugby Union,
which had many losses —the “hundred
per cent. ‘Labor’ ” professional concern
that got a No. 1 shipping priority from
the “ ‘Labor’ Government” ran true to
form. It had the Cricket Ground gates
opened for its match at the exact time
fixed for the beginning of the memorial
service in the Domain. Afterwards, hom-
ing hoodlums packed the trams, refused to
quit the footboards from which scores of
trammies have over the years fallen or
been hustled to death, slugged out four
conductors, one a returned soldier, pushed
into a driver’s cabin and interfered with
the switches and pulled a contact pole
from the overhead wire. The union
thereupon refused to take trams to the
Saturday football and races unless it was
assured of police protection. This
it got; and for once a union could say
that decent public opinion was solidly
behind it.
Having wakened up to the necessity
of saving a spoonful of the billions of
gallons of water which flow annually into
Bass Strait, Victoria’s Cains have decided
to increase the capacity of the Eildon
Weir so as to make it the second-largest
earth-dam in the world, with an embank-
ment twice as high as the highest Mel-
bourne building and nearly as high as
the spire of St. Patrick’s. Total cost of
the water-conservation schemes the Minis-
try envisages is £9,000,000, Communists
permitting.
There is some optimism among returned
servicemen of the 1939-45 war that they
will eventually get a block of land. They
haven’t overlooked the fact that, in the
last resort, every man is guaranteed a
block 6ft. long, 6ft. deep and 2ft. wide.


“OH, TO BE IN ENGLAND NOW THAT CHIFLEY’S THERE!”
" Beefeater you say ? oont they ever have meat strikes here ?
< "" tf
This wav to the. BuOOOV .
'* P(?OSeCUT£ PEOPLE POR S>avinlC, that
. IN. Australia *
EH ? V/HOSS
STOOGE IS HE ? "
u. i
I LEFT MV EMQIS4E 1(4 A PADDOCK
OU*iKq THE IC>V "
V/HAT DO TOO £AY THE Old 51.0K.55 IS ?
i hives OP THESE EhcuvSH to KiAM£ |T t&TER
**■ As MA»4 TO MAN, BeaSLEv: Sou SURJE
VOu'RE CqETXiWCst EKOOCiH T© E/kT ? u


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Colbun”: t Chifley’s loss of his gold
watch, gold pass and three fountain-pens,
if stolen from his wardrobe while his
flyingboat was at her moorings at Kar-
achi, would probably not have occurred
if the boat’s managing service had con-
formed to ancient Indian custom and em-
ployed a chowkidar. Themselves mem-
bers of the ancient and dishonorable
guild of- hereditary thieves, the sole busi-
ness of chowkidars is to prevent black-
legs from operating on premises where
they are employed. No member of the
guild on freelance work would ever dream
of doing a job on any place where a
fellow-guildsman is employed, and from
whose wages comes his subscription to
the guild funds, whose benefits are shared
by both. On the contrary, he would at
all times be anxious to help in securing
the arrest and proper punishment of any
intruder upon guild privileges and tradi-
tions extending back through time im-
memorial,
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson, along with his
neighbors, obeyed the council’s ap-
peal to clean out every particle of rubbish
from the yard, the garage, the house and
neglected crevices and -cavities and stack
it on the footpath in order that the
council men might remove them and thus
help in the concerted drive against rats.
For three days the footpath was fes-
tooned with formless heaps composed of
tins, boxes, bags, rags, old tyres and shoes,
decrepit hats and so forth. On the fourth
day Jephson rang the council and was
informed that the matter was receiving
attention. The week-end passed. Others
rang the council and got the same reply.
Then Jephson decided that the eyesore
had remained too long, so he sprayed a
quart of petrol over the heap one night
and ignited it. Ten minutes later the fire
brigade arrived and with ruthless enthusi-
asm turned a Sin. stream at high pressure
on the blaze. Five minutes later most of
Jephson’s rubbish had been washed far
away down the gutters. It was better than
he had expected, and some of his neigh-
bors were on the point of following his
example when Jephson was summoned to
court for lighting fires in public places,
fined £1 with costs and warned to behave
himself. When this was written the rub-
bish heaps were still on the street.
# * * *
“Exmed”: I have known roving lads
who, having found the right girl, have
gone through considerable torture to have
tattooed female nudes removed from
their epidermis. The operation is simple,
though exquisitely painful. Tannic acid
is the specific ; the instrument a hypoder-
mic syringe, or, more commonly, a bunch
of sewing needles fixed in a cork. The
idea is to get the tannin well impregnated
into the skin over the tattoo ink. The
faintly bleeding skin is then rubbed with
silver nitrate, which, acting on the tannic
acid, produces silver tannate, in which
the Indian ink is soluble. A few days
later the scab that has formed over the
punctured area is lifted off and the pig-
ment comes with it,
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; For 10 years I’ve travelled
daily into Sydney on what must be
the slowest tramline in the world
Watson’s Bay to Erskine-street.
The route overlooks the harbor most
of the way and winds through
suburbs noted for their arboreal and
floral scenery, with architecture to match.
There are long vistas of the water and the
northern suburbs on their hills, with ships
and ferries moving below and the splen-
did Australian light to set it off. The
trams are the most modern the cijy pos-
sesses and the journey is about five miles,
but the time taken is seldom less than
35 minutes in “peak hours,” not because
the trams run slowly to allow passengers
to enjoy the beauty, but because, on
reaching the city proper, they pile up on
one another and crawl over the last mile
at less than walking speed. There is talk
of a £23,000,000 railway project partly
to relieve the congestion, but it won’t
mean fewer trams and it won’t hasten the
trams at the city end. For my part, I
never understood why the ferry services
which once served the outer areas of
Vaucluse and Watson’s Bay were evi-
dently so poorly patronised as to be dis-
continued.
“Hold tight , Cunga—I'm going to turn on a swing number .”
“Beecham”: Tell “Harold Hardupp”
(B. 20/3/’46) that matchbox-top collec-
tors are still going strong in the Old
Dart, but advertisements of “collections
bought, sold and exchanged” get fewer
each year. Cigarette-card collecting re-
mains quite a thriving hobby, and rare
sets of cards are fetching fancy prices.
But there is no use jumping to the con-
clusion that all cigarette cards are valu-
able ; common varieties fetch no more
than 10s. a thousand. As in philately,
catalogues are issued, and there is at least
one monthly publication devoted to the
hobby,
* * ♦ *
“P. Pawnticket”: Boarders, although
usually they have plenty of excuse for
complaint, are by nature grumblers; so,
even in a local hashtower kept by a
bright, capable woman who seems to
live for the purpose of making her
boarders the envy of all others, there are
voices of discontent. The lady has a
sense of humor, and I suspect that a notice
that has appeared outside her comfort-
able lounge is intended as a comeback
to the ungracious grumblers. It simply
reads: Please Enter Without Knocking.
“Knocking” in the jargon used in our
suburb means objecting or complaining.
* * * *
“Old Bill”; Not so long ago Don, the
nightwatchman of our building, had occa-
sion to complain to the police about the
behavior of a street pest who used to
loiter outside the premises. The pest had
his revenge. One night Don was called to
the front door by the ringing of the bell.
Unfastening the latch inside he found
that he was unable to open the door.
Slipping out by a side entrance he dis-
covered the frorit door securely fastened
on the outside by a large padlock. Don
went off and returned with a hacksaw.
He was busily cutting away the impedi-
ment when a policeman, who had been
directed to the scene by the pest, arrived
breathless but full of devotion to duty.
The copper was all for arresting Don'
on the spot for attempted breaking
and entering, and it took Don a lot of
fast talking to prove his bona fides. It
will be a hectic and sorry few minutes
for the pest if Don ever encounters him
in the future.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”; When they had
suffered a reverse, the Japs always en-
forced the “no whistle, no sing, no laugh”
rule in our p.-0.-w. camp. Caught sing-
ing on one such an occasion I stood
fast to take my bashing. To my sur-
prise the Korean, a new guard, seemed
to be encouraging me to further effort,
so I gave him a shaky rendition of
“She’ll Be Coming Round the Mountain.”
Made bold by its success I said “You
sing.” He replied with “Smiling Irish
Eyes” in Japanese. Then a shoko came
round the corner and we both got bashed.
* * * ♦
From Singapore:
Life for European civilians isn’t what it was
like in the old days. In order to be fed and
clothed and accommodated the individual must
belong to an organisation working under the
direction of the British Military Association.
It is a punishable offence to buy a meal out-
side. There is no damage to be seen in Singa-
pore itself —practically all the bombing was
confined to Admiralty establishments, and the
Government will have its hands full for at least
the next two years getting the naval base cleared
and put in order. There are several hundred
Europeans on the job, living in the bungalows
previously operated by the married dockyard
officers. Entertainment is plentiful, with sym-
phony concerts in the Victoria Hall and shows
in the garrison theatre. The chief fly in the
ointment is that everyone—including brasshats,
and particularly the brasshats —must be in their
bungalows by 1 a.m. and must not make a
reappearance before five, an almost intolerable
infliction for the old Singapore hand.
* * * •
“Bo”: Among the unsung heroes of
peace the man who essays to match
material or buy a garment for his wife
ranks high. The philosophical kind of
fellow with a well-developed sense of
humor may face the task unabashed, but
for him with an over-developed sense —
well, listen. The wife of our street’s
champion doer, scanning the ads., saw
that cardigans in a brand new shade were
to be “released” next day at one of the big
stores. A previously-arranged bridge
party would pin her at home, so she
deputed Hopeless to get one, instructing
him to be careful as to size and possible
faults and, above all, to get the new
shade. Next day he lobbed home with it,
but when his spouse, who is notoriously
a slapdash cook, opened the parcel her
eyes shot out like organ stops and she
shrieked “You idiot, this is a plain black
—I distinctly told you to get the new
shade of ‘toast’!” Hopeless regarded her
quizzically. “Well, that’s the shade of
toast we have,” he said.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Withdrawal of the
Queensland Government steamer Otter
from active life will terminate an honor-
able and eventful official career of more
than 61 years. A steel screw steamer of
good sound lines, built in Leith for ex-
cursion and towing services in Moreton
Bay, she was bought by the Government
for £15,000 during the 1885 Russian
scare, armed with a 64-pounder gun for-
ward and duly commissioned as a lady-
of-fight in H.M. Queensland Navy. Re-
verting to a peaceful life when the scare
died down, she became supply-ship to the
Dunwich Benevolent Institution on Strad-
broke Island and the St. Helena prison
establishment for 29 years, with interludes
of Parliamentary junketing and fishing
trips. When World War 1 arrived, the
Otter was taken over by the R.A.N. and
commissioned as examination ship in
Moreton Bay with a naval crew, soon to
collect an incoming German vessel from
the islands (Signal hadn’t heard about the
war) and escort her up to Brisbane with
a prize crew aboard. Reverting again to
peace for another 21 years, the gallant old
girl did 20 months of naval and military
work in World War II before taking up
her Dunwich run again. She will carry
on until the new service by tender begins
operations, probably in July.
* * * *
“Zake”: Next to the more important
one of guiding Australia’s foreign policy,
the self-imposed duty taken most keenly
to heart by Sydney wharflaborers is that
of protecting from deterioration the prop-
erty of the capitalistic octopus. Lest
cynics question this touching solicitude,
let it be said at once that we have the
wharfies’ own word for it. On Easter
Monday a spokesman for the gangs of
sturdy fellows who were then unloading
a big cargo of potatoes from Tasmania
“explained” that they hadn’t unloaded
them the previous week “because they
didn’t want to risk them being spoiled
by rain.” Of course, there are people of
low suspicions who will point out that
by waiting until a public holiday to un-
load the spuds the wharfies enjoy rates
around eight bob an hour. But then there
are always those who will never give
credit for kind thoughts.
* * * *
“Weff”: I do not know what is the
attitude of barbers in the bungalow plains
towards providing a customer with a
shave, but I do know that in the Sydney
city area it was easier to scrounge a
beer during the Great Drought than it
is to get one’s whiskers removed. The
other morning, having got up late and not
having time to scrape the morning shadow
from my chin, I tramped the city for a
shave. After seven shops had declined
the contract I had to buy a safety razor
and do the job myself. Maybe the soap-
and-lather merchants find it a trifle un-
economical nowadays to render a service
they have been providing for several cen-
turies, in which case one would appre-
ciate either an adjustment of prices or
a dear admission that a barber is now
merely a hairdresser.
* * * *
“Martimus”: In asking what is the
modern attitude towards mustard (B.
17/4/’46), “S.T.S.” raises a point which
has had me intrigued ever since I came
to this country. On a leisurely motoring
trip from Brisbane to Sydney before the
war mustard was obtainable at only
two ln each case it was served
dry and mid to be asked for. I was in-
formed that it is against the law to place
ready-mixed mustard on a public dining-
table. Only one Australian family of
my acquaintance uses mustard —spread on
cheese.
* * * *
“Dicer” (from London); The firm of
Jacques has celebrated its 150th anni-
versary. It claims to have given to the
world the games of ping-pong, ludo,
snakes and ladders and happy families,
for which the original designs of Mr.
Bones the Butcher and the rest were
drawn by the great John Tenniel. But
the firm really made its name in the
croquet boom of 80 years ago.
* * * *
“Exdig”: I have just, heard that the
chap who was “The Professor” in my
old batt. in France has passed on after
service in this war under a new name.
“The Prof.” was fond of argument, and
the people he could get to argue with
him was amazing. Once the medical
colonel told us about the benefits
chlorination of water had achieved in the
destruction of germs that formerly caused
disease and death in the Array. Getting
the col.’s ear with a polite “Excuse me,
sir, but that theory is all wrong,” he
explained that the real benefit was that
chlorination made the water too insipid
to drink; and it had really been the ten-
dency to drink too much raw water that
had been harmful in the past. He quoted
authorities about the harmfulness of
water-drinking, using names that the
medical man had been taught to rever-
ence, and others that he did not
like to admit he had not even heard about
before; knowing “The Prof.,” we guessed
that some of them were as phoney as the
quotations which “The Prof.” reeled off
so glibly that they sounded real. The
col. did not like to break off the argu-
ment with one who seemed so erudite,
but he plainly wondered how he had
missed so much that this student had
noted in medical lore. With similar assur-
ance “The Prof.” would get into an argu-
ment on military tactics with officers,
quoting Caesar’s Commentaries (wfiich
they may not have known)—-smothering
them with science, he called it. Heaven
knows how “The Prof.” acquired his fund
of knowledge and names for quotation—
or misquotation.
THE GREAT UNPAID.
“Labor members of the N.S.W. Legislative Council,
resenting the fact that they receive neither
remuneration nor pension, have decided to ask the
Premier for an ‘allowance.’ ”
The M.L.A. a screw has got
Of generous dimensions;
He sits behind a tidy lot
In salaries and pensions.
The M.L.C. —and surely that
Explains his hurt demeanor —
Is never paid a single sprat,
A solitary deener.
The bills the other House has passed,
And to its credit laid them.
Have Buckley’s chance of being passed
As law till he’s O.K’d. them.
Tis his to mend what others make
At partisan dictation,
And act as (good old phrase!) “a brake
On hasty legislation.”
It irks him sore, the M.L.C.,
That ParliamentTy neighbors
Should roll in affluence while he
Gets nothing for his labors.
To serve the State was once enough,
But now he’d be a noodle
Who didn’t’ claim his quantum stiff.,
His quid pro quo in boodle.
So, Mac, my sturdy demagogue,
Whose role upon the stage is
To battle for the underdog
And win him worth-while wages,
Bread on the waters cast for those
By whom these plaints are muttered
May yet return to you—who knows? —
By grateful fingers buttered.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“C.H.R.”: The unit’s hardcase had an-
nounced his intention to get back to Aus-
tralia without delay, but, as his points
were well below the required number and
a troopship’s departure was something to
dream about, his chances were not highly
rated when the inevitable book was
started. But he cheerfully took all bets
and made arrangements for collecting ;
he was certain he wouldn’t be paying
out. Next day he turned up at the aero-
drome early and closely examined the
machine that was to carry a dozen or
more to Aussie. He declared he was
scared stiff, didn’t like the idea one bit,
and told the provost he would gladly
change with someone else, as he much
preferred to go by boat. From humoring
him the provost ultimately lost patience.
“Get on that ’plane,” he ordered, and
up the gangway Hardcase- went, unwill-
ingly. He explained his arrival as the odd*
one on the ’plane by saying he had been
ordered aboard. Anyhow, that’s how he
got back, with no debit in his paybook
and a good sum to collect in bets.
* * * ♦
“Macnell” : Since a destroyer’s mess-
deck constitutes dining-room, living-
room, ammunition-supply dump and bed-
room, the benefits which, derived from
Bataan’s duties as “Loan Ship” were
wholly the Security Loan’s. With sub-
scribers probing the ship’s vitals, a man
had to pull his trousers on in the foc’s’le
locker, surrounded by brooftr, deck scrub-
bers, tins of lime, etc.; at tea-time in the
dog watches visitors stared until one
three-badged tar protested that he felt like
a lion in a zoo. One nipper piped up
“Why, Dad, they eat just like us! ” And
there was the woman who was heard to
gulp to the captain “I paid £5O to get on
this destroyer, and I’ll pay a hundred to
get off it.”
* ♦ * *
“Lee”: At a large Melbourne book-
shop I asked for a book, Proportional
Representation. “I don’t think we have
it,” said the lass behind the counter.
“Would you mind repeating the name?”
Pro-pof-tion-al Rep-re-sent-ation, I re-
plied slowly. Came the query, in awed
tones, “Is it a novel?”
* * * ♦
“C. G. Salis”: Announcing that
Major-General K. W. Father would lead
the Australian contingent in the London
Victory March, my daily paper added
that “the general’s regimental number is
NX3, indicating that he was the third
man to enlist for war from N.S.W.” Of
course, it indicates nothing of the kind.
Possession of a number merely indicates
that the officer or soldier concerned was
allotted that number on attestation. In
the early days of the war certain country
enlistment districts were given blocks of
NX numbers. When they were closed
the unallotted numbers were placed
at the disposal of the recruiting
centre at Paddington. Consequently,
many fairly late enlistments received low
numbers. I know several A.I.F. men who
enlisted in 1941 whose numbers were in
the four-thousand group, and at least
one man who enlisted in March, 1941,
was allotted a number in the eight-
hundred group. He was so proud of his
three-figure number that he became an
inveterate scribbler of name and num-
ber on ’phone booths and cafd menu
cards. My own number, commencing
with 34,000, was issued at a time when
most recruits were receiving numbers up-
wards of 70,000. It was an embarrass-
ment when I joined a unit, as I fell under
suspicion of being a draft-dodger,
* * * *
“Wunpip”: Beer rationing is definitely
off in Hobart, and, after recent experience
of drinking conditions in Brisbane, Syd-
ney and Melbourne, I’ve decided to stay
“Of course, it's not the VALUE I appreciate — it's the
kind thought
in this civilised spot. Hours are 10 till
10 in comfortable uncrowded bars, and
the pace is so leisurely that drunks are
as scarce as hen’s teeth. But there’s an
occasional echo of times past, as one pub-
lican discovered. A customer asked about
a bottle to take home. “Certainly,” re-
plied Bung. “You can have half a dozen
if you like.” “Wrap ’em up,” replied
the thirsty one with an anticipatory
gleam in his eye. Bung did so, and placed
the parcel on the bar. “Good!” said the
customer. “I’ve been waiting three years
to see this —and say I won’t take the
stuff.” Believe it or not, a faint blush
spread over Bung’s homely countenance
as he thoughtfully replaced the half-
dozen.
* * * *
“W.O. Two”: In the early days of the
A.E.S. a few misfits managed to get
themselves appointed as education
officers. One bright specimen I met—a
canvasser of some description in civil life
—had a very vague idea of his job. A
C.O. mentioned that he had in his unit
a chap unable to read and just about able
to sign his own name, and asked the edu-
cation officer to do what he could to help
the man. The E.O. interviewed the
soldier, jotted down a few personal par-
ticulars, then stunned everybody by ask-
ing “Now, my good fellow, tell me what
year you passed your primary final.”
* * * *
“Lt.-Col. Fitzthunderbox”: I com-
menced reading “Weff’s” par (B.
10/4/’46), which opened with the words
“My adjutant,” thinking I was to read
a contribution from an officer of my own
rank, but found to my horror that
“Weff” was a private soldier who
“The hairdressers' union called him out before he had time to finish it!
received fit punishment for his attempt to
import journalese into the terse and
dignified language customarily used
in routine orders. For his information,
an adjutant is an officer' appointed to
assist the commanding officer in the
administration of a unit. The only person
entitled to use the words “My adjutant”
is the C.O. himself. Other ranks may
refer to “the adjutant” or even to ‘‘our
adjutant” but, if they are of “Weff s
rank and station, only with bated breath.
* * * *
“Pitt Street” (B. 17/4/’46)
is sadly out of tune in declaring that
amplified music ruins such things as the
Royal Show and football matches. As
official announcer at the Royal Snow,
with many years’ experience in hand-
ling big crowds, 1
should say that music
makes rather than
mars such occasions.
There is nothing
more boreal than a
crowd waiting for the
kick-off at a foot-
ball match, or seek-
ing distraction during
the inevitable inter-
vals between items
on a show or sports
programme. The
music, of course,
must be chosen with
care. R.A.S. musi-
cal programmes are
selected only after
experts have
thoroughly sounded
out current public
taste. It has been
found that a bright
march swiftly pro-
vides the “show”
atmosphere to
crowds surging into
the grounds and
taking up their posi-
tions around the
ring. While wait-
ing for the night
events to come on they like some-
thing mushy. A haunting melody
to bid them goodnight as they
flock tramwards at the end of the
night is also greatly appreciated.
“Home on the Range,” “Boots and
Saddle,” etc., are, of course, “naturals” to
paint in the background for the rodeo.
Not only the public but the horses have to
be studied. Music has to be suspended
during the judging of equestrian events,
because many horses alter their gait to
keep time with any music within earshot.
It is impossible to induce a veteran of
the show ring to do anything except lope
along in a canter if a waltz is played.
« * * *
“Pawang”: Solemnly repqrted that
8.8. C. men are inspecting haunted houses
with the idea that if they can find a
sufficiently loquacious spook his words of
wisdom will be diffused over the ether. A
ghost may yet be discovered with a bent
for music. If of the same period he may
have hobnobbed with Bach and Beethoven,
and might even be able to tell us how
Schubert intended to complete his Un-
finished Symphony. My long experience
of mediums and a considerable study of
spiritualist literature, however, make me
question whether the intellectual level of
the pabulum provided will be any better
than that supplied byrthe flesh-and-blood
purveyors of entertainment. I should be
surprised if the musical ghost didn’t croon
after the manner of Bing Crosby.
* * * *
“Gold Frame”: Sydney Art Gallery’s
projected sale of unwanted pictures re-
minds me of the over-arted conditions
some friends of mine are compelled to
endure. Their uncle, a rich man and an
art collector, hated his relatives, but he
had to leave his money to someone, so
he split up his cash and his art treasures
among his nieces and nephews with the
proviso that the pictures must not be
sold, but must hang in the homes of the
beneficiaries for at least 10 years, the
money remaining in trust for the same
period. Uncle got rid of all his small-sized
pictures before he died, replacing them
with those of the big gallery type. Now
the residences of the beneficiaries are
overcrowded with works of art, some of
them taking an entire wall. What they
are enduring suggests one reason why the
Art Gallery sale is unlikely to be very
successful.
* $ ifc
“Ellery”: During the war people in
N. S. Wales alone donated upwards of
300,000 books to the Camp Library Ser-
vice, probably as many more to Red
Cross, Y.M.C.A., C.U.S.A. and the Sal-
vation Army. As a spare-time voluntary
worker for the C.L.S. for nearly five
years I assisted in the classification and
packing of enough books to stock 20
secondhand bookshops. Having a
special interest in Australian books, I
kept my eyes open for rarities. Yet,
although I made a few minor finds —they
were passed on to the Mitchell Library—
nothing that would excite the discriminat-
ing collector of Australiana made an
appearance ; nothing like Barron Field’s
First Fruits of Australian Poetry or Henry
SaVery’s The Hermit in Van Diemens
Land. The troops were given books in
abundance, but I doubt whether any
irreplaceable treasures ever found their
way to camps.
* * * *
“Exdig”: During the war Victorian air-
men in Britain did their best to give
exhibitions of Australian-Rules football.
Every Victorian, Soustralian and West-
ralian believes that the superiority of the
national game will sweep all others from
the board if it is once seen; but things
didn’t work out that way at the end of
the last war, when a similar effort was
made by officer-trainees at Oxford and
Cambridge. The one memorable result
was the London “Evening Standard’s”
brief report that the Cambridge Austra-
lians had beaten the Oxford Australians
by 16 goals 39 beehives to 16 goals 33
beehives. The editor may have wondered
what the large apiary had to do with
the game, but he let it pass.
♦ * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Mention by “Strict
Veg.” (B. 3/4/146 ) of the stamina-produc-
ing powers of a rum tipple reminds me of
our science-cwm-sports master. At foot-
ball half-times he always produced
vacuum flasks of steaming hot coffee. His
gesture was highly appreciated, and we
always thought that we played more
vigorous footy after resumption. Came
the day when, in the middle of a lesson,
poor old Stinks collapsed under a bench
in the physics lab. He was spirited away
amid official mystery, and the school
knew him no more. When, years after-
wards, I drank my first coffee royal I
recognised it as my old friend the half-
time reviver.
* * * *
“Humberstone”: Reading the latest
of Ivor Brown’s amusing and interest-
ing books about words —“I Have a Word
for You” —I was struck by his remarks
on the verb “to fettle.” The dictionary
says of fettle “etymology doubtful,” and
Brown himself says that in Northumber-
land the word to repair or to mend was
as often expressed by “to cleg” as “to
fettle.” Questioning a Durham miner on
the difference between these words he
could only elicit the profound remark
“there’s some things you clegs and some
you fettles.” Do the Srailways maintain
clegging as well as fettling gangs?
* * * *
“Scribe”; I reckon I’ve tracked down
the queerest item to appear on the stock-
sheets of the Maoriland War Assets
Realisation Board. Spotted some of “it”
on a lorry the other day and discovered-
coffins. They all went up to the
islands, but VJ Day came too soon, and
back they came as “unused assets.” Of
various shapes and sizes, they are well
constructed of rimu, and, rimu being at
a premium, undertakers mopped up 750.
♦ * * *
“Puyyaka”: Discussion on this page of
our ungrateful neglect in not including
a Boston among Australia’s principal
cities gives interest to an item of news
from the original Boston itself. A
memorial stone, presented by the city to
the parish church of St. Botolph’s and
unveiled by J. L. Duncan, then Bruce’s
understudy, bears the following inscrip-
tion under the Australian coat of arms:
In Proud Memory of George Bass, Sur-
geon, once of this town, and of others who
lived nearby and with him bore a very
gallant part in the exploration of Aus-
tralia; Joseph Banks, Squire of Revesby,
James Roberts, of Mareham le fen, and
Peter Briscoe, of Revesby, who sailed in
H M.S. Endeavour; Joseph Gilbert, Astro-
nomer, of Wrangle, and Robert Rollett, of
this town, who served on Cook’s second
expedition; Matthew Flinders, of Doning-
ton, Robert Fowler, of Homcastle, Samuel
Flinders, of Donington, John Franklin,
whose parents were married in this church,
who were among the officers of FI.M.S.
Investigator. These were honored in their
generations and were the glory of their
times....
A great company of Englishmen, indeed.
RANDOM REFLECTIONS.
I think tfrat some are very wise
And some are very funny.
And some grow rich by telling hes
And some by telling money.
— Praed.
I sometimes think, along with Praed,
In what conflicting fashions
And diverse callings chaps are made
To hustle for their rations.
For dressing hair some earn applause
And some for dressing salads;
And some are good at framing laws
And some at framing ballads.
In any crowd of kids you see
Maybe potential giants
Of years to come in artistry
Or statesmanship or science,
With names to shine in world affairs
Like Edison’s or Chatham’s,
Some to excel at splitting hairs
And some at splitting atoms.
With crosscut saws some win their dough
While others glue their muzzles
To printed pages as they throw
Their weight at crossword puzzles.
Some raise a voice in songs of cheer
And some in pulpit strictures;
And some are slick at drawing beer
And some at drawing pictures.
For some the phrase “to sell a horse”
In bars still holds allurance,
And some are “sold a pup” of course,
While others sell insurance.
Some trade in fortune-telling dopes
And astrologic hunches,
While some, more sturdy, climb the ropes
Intent on trading punches.
Some seldom miss the jacks at bowls,
Though more may miss the jennies;
Some have the knack of heading polls
And some of heading pennies.
Some rail at aught in which it looks
To them that something crook is;
And some believe in banning books
And some in banning bookies. .
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■”W ’*• 4V*
The art of the ivorld 9 s great pianists
has been made imperishable through the medium
of modem recording technique. Soon, we hope,
the marvellous playing of these artists, reproduced
with perfect fidelity and realism, will be an endless
source of enjoyment in the homes of music lovers.
SOME OF THE FAMOUS
PIANISTS WHOSE ART IS PRESERVED ON RECORDS:
Joyce
Backhaus
Paderewski
Rachmaninoff
Rubinstein
Friedman
Cortot
Petri
Schnabel
Brailowsky
Moiseiwi'tsch
Gieseking
Horowitz
Kraus
COLUMBIA . "HIS MASTER'S VOICE" . PARLOPHONE
u ■
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. in England) Columbia Graphophone (Auat.) Pty.Lto.
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. in England) . HOMEBXJSH, N.S.W. Al/45
K
l
>»■■■■■
•ia«m«
■Mama
iafKSM sK«ti/i» t »?•> ■■■■■
■».* ci ys&c 'taauaeoM
asini'iMiniWm
SWPflpp
M
'*s*s*.;
BUT only as survivals of a bygone age. Even fo-day an odd hansom
plies vainly for hire . . . even to-day some building owners inflict
the horrors of bird-cage lift service upon their tenants—tenants by
necessity rather than choice.
Building owners who look to the future, who desire permanent tenants
and satisfactory rentals, should take advantage of the Waygood-Otis
Modernisation Plan. Under this plan,
Waygood-Otis engineers will first
make a thorough examination of your
lift equipment . . . will show you just
what is needed to give your buildings
modern service . . . there is no obli-
gation involved. After approval, the
work of modernisation is carried out
step by step without confusion or
dislocation to tenants until your lifts
become as modern in every respect
as a new installation.
Waygood-Otis engineers in every
State will gladly give you details of
this progressive Plan.
Installed 190 S Modernised 1946
i\
sdf
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD, INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • BRISBANE . ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART • NEWCASTLE
H E A D Q U ART E R S
WMlMlilM'l
POSITION VACANT.
WANTED, for Financial Pages of The Bulle-
tin, young nian with accountancy training (or
maths, proficiency) and writing ability. Good
prospects for right applicant. In replying state
age, training and/or experience and salary ex-
pected. Address’ reply to —
“ECONOMIST,”
The Bulletin,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Lesral Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
ESTATE of DANIEL HARDY deceased.
NOTICE TO CLAIMANTS.
PURSUANT to Order of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia made in a suit (P. No. 12 of 1945)
entitled “In the matter of the Estate of DANIEL
HARDY deceased Between THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Plaintiff and JANE HARDY Defendant.”
WHEREBY the following inquiry was directed
namely who upon the death of the said Daniel Hardy
intestate on the 3rd day of September 1942 became
beneficially entitled as next-of-kin to share in the
property and estate of which he died possessed and
in what shares and proportions and if any of such
persons are since dead having a vested share in his
estate who are their legal representatives NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claiming to
be entitled under the said inquiry as next-of-kin of
said deceased or otherwise are on or before the 23rd
day of September 1946 to send by Post Prepaid to
the abovenamed Public Trustee of Supreme Court
Perth Western Australia their full Christian and
Surnames Addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims and in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from participating
in the distribution of the estate of the said deceased
Claimants must attend personally or by their Solicitor
before me at my Chambers Supreme Court Perth
aforesaid on Monday the 30th day of September 1946
at 10 o’clock in the forenoon the day appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the said claims.
Claimants not resident in Western Australia must
with their particulars of claim aforesaid send the
name and address of a person in Perth Western
Australia to whom Notices may be sent.—J. L.
SHILLINGTON, Acting Master.
I AVAN WALSH AND LA VAN, of 29 Barrack
Street Perth, Solicitors for the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
and DARBYSHIRE AND GILLETT of 42 St
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Defendant
JANE HARDY.
THE SERVICE MAN
Australians Murdered.
“Ek Dum”: The murder by Indonesian
“extremists” on April 17 of the three
Australian members of the War Crimes
Unit — Captain Alistair MacKenzie,
Squadron-Leader F. G. Birchall and
Flight-Lieutenant Hector MacDonald
—caused astonishingly little stir among
their compatriots. There was no indig-
nant statement by the Acting Prime
Minister, no upsurge of protest from the
press. The general reception of the
horrible news, in Sydney at any rate, must
convey the impression that Australia con-
siders it nothing out of the way that her
citizens, employed in lawful Allied duties,
should be murdered by savages.
There is no talk of reprisals. The Indo-
nesian “Government” has shown greater
concern than the Australian “Govern-
ment,” and has “apologised,” as well it
might. The Australian “Government”
should insist that the apology be accom-
panied by a payment of sufficient com-
pensation to the relatives, and the Indo-
nesian leaders should be informed that
in future they will be held personally
responsible for such outrages, since they
have assumed the right to constitute
themselves a Government.
It would, of course, do little material
good to take this measure, since the
“Government” has so little control over
its “republican followers” that some of
them last week captured a brother of the
head of the Administration, Sjahrir, and
seem to be holding him to ransom.
Communist Organisation
The situation is a very awkward one
for Mr. Chifley and his followers, and is
as yet little understood in Australia.
It has developed somewhat as follows;
Before the war there was a strong Com-
munist underground organisation in the
N.E.I., which was linked with a chain of
similar bodies from Vladivostok to Aus-
tralia. This was bom of the Vladivostok
Pan-Pacific Conference of 1929. Its main-
stay in the Pacific was the Australian
Communist party. An organiser for a
time was J. S. Garden, now in the pay
of the Commonwealth and Mr. Ward’s
right-hahd man. ' The official organ was
the “Pan-Pacific Worker,” of which Com-
rade Garden was at first the editor. Part
of the programme in Indonesia was to
inflame the Mohammedans against a
Christian Government.
The Japanese Part
The Japanese knew of this movement.
They did everything possible to develop
it when they occupied the Indies. Con-
temporaneously, Australian Communists
had as their guests a number of leading
Indonesian Communists, with whom they
were able to correlate plans for what
would happen after the war.
The Japanese, when they smelt defeat
in the Indies and knew that their forces
would have to fall back, saw clearly, in
the movement for Indonesian “independ-
ence,” machinery by the aid of which they
could leave behind a legacy of trouble
for reoccupying Allied forces —and they
did.
The revolutionary forces included men
of all beliefs, but the kernel of terrorism
was formed by the Communists, who in-
tended, by their savage intimidation, to
suppress other elements when they had
ceased to serve their purpose.
All parties made a miscalculation of
the time at which the war was likely to
end, and when the atom bombs of Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki cut the war short the
independence movement in Java and some
other islands was incomplete.
The Japanese, however, officially did
everything possible to build up the in-
surgents’ power to generate and spread
disorder and terrorism. The Australian
Communist party and its servile unions
of waterside workers and seamen were
working independently for the same ob-
jective as the Japanese. Hence their
financial support of the Indonesian in-
surgents, their boycott of Dutch shipping
and the disgraceful demonstrations
against friendly Dutch troops, who were
not allowed to come ashore in Australia
on their way to Java.
The Australian “Government,” content
to accept the dictation of the Communist
unions, now finds itself in a remarkable
position. The moderate Indonesian ele-
ments, headed by Sjahrir, are in general
control of the islands in liaison with the
British and Dutch. The disorderly ele-
ments are those which are supported by
Australan unions, behind whose attitude is
the tacit consent of the Australian “Gov-
ernment.” It was put to the Australian
union leaders by Lord Louis Mountbatten
that the Indonesian “Government” in ex-
isting circumstances was just as anxious
to have the facilities involved in the re-
lease of the Dutch ships as the Dutch or
the British, but this did not move Healy,
Elliott and the rest, since they are not
interested in the achievement of inde-
pendence for Indonesia. Their interest is
the development of conditions in Malaya
and Indonesia similar to those ruling in
Manchuria, Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary
and the Baltic States, i.e., the creation of
a “Government” satellite to Moscow.
An Australian Discovery
The paradoxes inherent in the whole
situation are added to by the fact that
when the Japanese Major-General Naka-
mura, G.O.C. in mid-Java at the end
of the war, comes up for trial in Singa-
pore in a few weeks an Australian officer,
Captain D. J. Joyce (he was an inter-
state rowing man in his time and was in
the Queensland Queen’s Cup boat in
1937), will provide most of the evi-
dence of Indonesian-Jap collaboration,
which is the basis of the charges against
the prisoner.
Joyce, a former A.I.F. parachute regi-
ment officer, was one of the “Z Force”
which was sent inside Java to procure
evidence that the Japanese were arming
the Indonesians in contravention of the
armistice agreement. Among his finds
was one of General Nakamura’s visiting*
cards, on which was scribbled a note from
the general to Kondo Koesemo, an Indo-
nesian Communist “republican,” inform-
ing the latter that the bearer had authority
to arrange the handing over of the arms
of all Japanese troops in Central Java to
the extremists. Joyce also secured evi-
dence of parallel acts by General Nagano,
Jap C.-in-C. in Java, and Major-General
Harakawa.
The whole situation should give the
Australian “Government” —not to men-
tion the Australian people—plenty of
food for thought.
Anzac Day in Sydney.
“Ek Dum”: Sydney was, as usual, the
wprst city in which to see the Anzac Day
celebration. The transport arrangement*
were of the take-it-or-leave-it variety. The
department which handles the trams had
to keep a reserve of vehicles and labor
to provide for the Rugby League “sports”
at the Cricket Ground, so that thousands
of people were unable to get into the
city in time for the march. Rugby League
“sports” requited the concession cluster-
ing like maddened flies on footboards and
brutally assaulting tramwaymen.
The Dawn Service, which in previous
years was something to bring a sob


Public Notices.
MATER MISERICORDIAE PUBLIC
HOSPITALS BRISBANE
Applications are invited from Registered Medical
Practitioners for the following positions at the above
Hospitals:—
ADULT SECTION;
Honorary Physicians (3).
Honorary Assistant Physicians (3).
Honorary Clinical Assistant Physicians (3).
CHILDREN’S SECTION:
Honorary Physicians (2).
Honorary Assistant Physicians (2).
Honorary Clinical Assistant Physicians (2).
ADULT SECTION:
Honorary Surgeons (3).
Honorary Assista#t Surgeons (3).
Honorary Clinical Assistant Surgeons (3).
CHILDREN’S SECTION:
Honorary Surgeon.
Honorary Assistant Surgeon.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Plastic Surgeon.
ADULT; AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Orthopaedic Surgeon.
Honorary Assistant Orthopaedic Surgeon.
Honorary Clinical Assistant (Orthopaedic Depart-
ment).
ADULT SECTION:
Honorary E.N.T. Surgeon.
Honorary Assistant E.N.T. Surgeon.
Honorary Clinical Assistant (E.N.T. Department).
CHILDREN’S SECTION:
Honorary E.N.T. Surgeon.
Honorary Assistant E.N.T. Surgeon.
Honorary Clinical Assistant (E.N.T. Department).
ADULT SECTION;
Honorary Gynaecologist.
Honorary Assistant Gynaecologist.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Urologist.
Honorary Assistant Urologist.
ADULT SECTION:
Honorary Ophthalmologist.
Honorary Assistant Ophthalmologist.
Honorary Clinical Assistant (Eye Department).
CHILDREN’S SECTION:
Honorary Ophthalmologist.
Honorary Assistant Ophthalmologist.
ADULT SECTION;
Honorary Radiologist.
Honorary Assistant Radiologist.
Honorary Clinical Assistant (X-Ray Department).
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Dermatologist.
Honorary Assistant Dermatologist.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Pathologist.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Consulting Psychiatrist.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS;
Honorary Consulting Physiologist.
ADULT AND CHILDREN’S SECTIONS:
Honorary Anaesthetists (3).
Officers holding temporary appointments at present,
new applicants and applicants for new positions will
please state age, qualifications and experience and
furnish copies of three (3) testimonials with their
applications.
Medical Officers holding permanent appointments
at- present may apply for reappointment.
All applications should be in the hands of the
undersigned on or before 15th June, 1946.
H. A. HEGERTY, Secretary, Mater Misericordiae
Hospitals, Justice Chambers, 17a Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
I, PAUL SCHMIDT, of German nationality, bom at
Deutsch, Krone, Germany, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 8 Boundary Street,
Darlinghurst, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
mm
so
«UUf
II il
Jiff ‘I
tr*
= If 31
fill
S ?« s
w
f3S
“One a day
for your health’s
WOLFE’S Aromatic SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
W 5.174
a
si
»•:
iw
n
i»
15!
m
KiS
1
❖
w
i
oe
Jc
hut
St
SSS
.'“Vs
\v>''"' :
\v' k\Vv\v
ssss
ss
i I
nVifl
% "Our experience to-day is tke key to to-morrow.
A happy truism from the otherwise
vitriolic pen of the greatest of French
philosophers . . . categorically proved
in the design rooms of Babcock &
Wilcox.
From a legacy of priceless experi-
ence we have developed the modern
high temperature and pressure boiler
i—i apparently the ultimate in effici-
ency and operating economy. Yet
our research staff, in workshop and
laboratory, and a world-wide net-
work of Babcock engineers, are con-
tinually advancing the suggestions
and ideas which will be incorporated
in the Babcock boiler of to-morrow.
Here then is the reason why Bab-
cock engineers are always interested
in the problems presented by steam
users in every industry. We have
the experience and technical re-
sources to solve these problems and
an alert designing staff who appreci-
ate the significance of problems
and solutions. There is a Babcock
engineer in each State at your con-
stant service.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS—REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
b*Bch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . , .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . , , maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
/• it n t' f, /) /• a i, s / kj n i or ii i a <: o c k uon.Eit ri.i \ r
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Into the throat, was marred by displays
of the mob spirit. Youngsters, some
females among them, more suitably
garbed for a beach than for a sacrament,
gathered before midnight and huddled in
doorways to have their legs photographed
for the press. Though they were obvi-
ously the same breed as the young hood-
lums who rooted out one of the Cenotaph
trees on Victory morning last May, the
police did not interfere. Some were
plainly drunk. One of these had to be
forcibly restrained from putting a rum
bottle among the wreaths, and when the
service opened with “Abide With Me”
his mob greeted its beginnings with hoots,
ironic cheers and catcalls.
Later, when it was discovered that Lady
Mountbatten was at the Cenotaph, people
forgot their manners and surged round
her screaming for autographs. The gallant
little visitor —the first white woman whom
many an Australian p.-0.-w. in Asia saw
after being freed—retired looking breath'
less and shocked.
But all this was overshadowed by the
grief and reverence of the bulk of the
great crowd gathered in the morning half-
light ; by the general weeping as the
“Last Post” and the “Reveille” were
sounded. Very few on the outskirts could
see those who were conducting the cere-
monies, but the singing held them to-
gether. And the quiet and stillness spoke
for themselves as General Berryman read
the Anzac dedication and Senior-Chap-
lain Frank Hulme-Moir gave his brief
address. The ever-faithful St. John Am-
bulance men moved quickly through the
crowds attending to fainting women.
The Anzac march was a glorious affair
—its prize exhibit, men of the Eighth
Division. But it was noticeable that the
men of World War II were not as numer-
ous in the march as might have been
expected in the first peace year. There
were thousands of them sprinkled through
the crowds with wives and sweethearts,
but the proportion in the ranks was small
comparatively to their total numbers, and
the roll-call as a whole was not so great
as might have, been expected. This per-
haps was just as well, since any formation
much larger would have been difficult
to handle without entirely cutting out the
traditional Domain service, which had to
begin before the final detachments had
arrived. The march took just under 2i
hours to pass a given point.
Its spirit was the old spirit, its tunes the
old tunes, cheek by jowl with the new
favorites —“Mademoiselle,” “Old Soldiers
Never Die,” “The Sergeant-Major,” “The
Barrel.” It was worth while to note that
the veterans of World War I were still
troops, and very good troops at that, who
looked quite capable of giving a sound
account of themselves.
Unfortunately, only a fraction of the
very large crowd which came to see
the servicemen had glimpses of more
than their banners and ensigns. There
was the same lack of organisation
as in transport. Those who had
thoughtfully brought kerosene cases
to stand on planked them down in
the front row and shut out the view of
all behind. And those behind were gen-
erally middle-aged men and, especially,
women. The result was that large blocks
were peopled by writhing, half-hysterical
mobs of women and children fighting for
a view and sometimes in actual physical
danger from the pressure of larger masses
of people. These conditions were respon-
sible for over 1300 casualties.
None, of the discomfort, however,
seemed to interfere with the general good
humor. Anzac Day (except in Rugby
League circles) seems to be the one day
in the year on which Sydney is entirely
in high and friendly temper.
Chifley v. Blarney.
Mr. Chifley’s remark in London
apropos of Manus that General Blarney
is not the spokesman of the Australian
“Government” —“we do not need
stooges”—sounded like the emanation of
a guilty conscience.
It would be interesting to know exactly
what has been agreed to by the Govern-
ment in regard to bases. Certainly the
matter has gone much further than either
the public or Parliament has been told,
and it is unlikely that the British Govern-
ment agreed to the Anzac Pact without
being able to see ahead in agreement
with Canada and the United States as to
the disposal of the resources of Pacific
defence.
The fact that the R.A.N. is developing
a base other than Manus in the New
Guinea area has its own implications.
Meantime, General Blarney’s dignified
reply to the Prime Minister that, in depre-
cating the alienation of Manus, he was
“speaking for a large body of Australian
soldiers, many of whom gave their lives
in trying to preserve Australian rights,”
is valid.
General Blarney said that he had never
made any claim to speak for the “Gov-
ernment” :
Public opinion is a matter of some
weight and even the Australian Govern-
ment must take notice of it. Many Aus-
tralian soldiers are convinced that the Aus-
tralian public thinks exactly as they do on
this question.
But not, of course. Dr. Evatt. That
democrat, when the Anzac Pact came
under fife in Parliament, claimed that it
was no concern of Parliament since
foreign policy is a King’s prerogative!
Actually, not even the Govemor-General-
in-Council, though supposed to speak
executively for the King, was consulted.
The agreement was made by Ministers
and signed by them without constitutional
consultation —signed also by that Mr.
D’Alton who has recently disappeared
over the official horizon. Mr. D’Alton
was the only non-Ministerial signatory.
The Opposition should make it clear
that if any agreements are come to re-
garding Australian territory and its occu-
pation without Parliamentary authority it
reserves the right to repudiate them.
Premier McKelTs contribution to the
symposia of Sydney’s Anzac Day was a
hearty statement at the unveiling of a
memorial to Rosebery’s 16 dead in World
War II that the soldiers of that war
“added lustre to the name of Anzac; they
added Kokoda, El Alamein, Milne Bay,
and many other battlefields.” The war-
riors of Bardia, Tobruk, the Benghazi
retreat, Greece and Crete, Syria, the
Gemas Line, the Singapore perimeter,
Buna-Gona, Wau, the Komiatum trail,
the Lae advance, Finschhafen and Sattel-
berg, Tarakan, Labuan, Bougainville and
Wewak, will not be glad to hear them-
selves classified among “many others.”
But Mr. McKell’s preoccupation with the
Battle of the Sydney Turf is such that he
can scarcely be expected to have many
memories of the war.
* * * ♦
“Ek D.”: Returned soldiers are begin-
ning to appear in civil life in bulk in
Sydney, and no more is the result notice-
able than on trams. A new race of stal-
wart veterans with badges up has replaced
war-time conductors, who often snarled
at passengers and were sometimes abusive.
The spectacle is now to be seen of con-
ductors helping old ladies on and off
footboards and of cars stopping long
enough for the feeble to find places. And
no longer is an inquiry likely to be
greeted with a “Why the blank don’t
you find out?” It is now up to Mr.
McKell’s Transport Department to pro-
vide a few decent trams so that the feel-
ing among soldier-conductors that they
are still on the Kokoda Trail will not be
perpetuated.


(VliOlW®
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
New Administrator of Northern Terri-
tory, A. R. Driver, is a Westralian who
went by way of Perth Boys’ and Hale
Schools to the University of W.A. and
the Public Works Department, where he
was appointed a cadet engineer in 1928.
He was assistant engineer of Bunbury
Harbor Works till 1936, when he changed
departments and worked as resident
engineer in various irrigation and drain-
age areas in the south-west of his State
up till the time of his enlistment in the
A.I.F. in 1940. He went to Timor with
the 2/4 Pioneers, and was later with 23
Brigade in New Guinea and Bougainville.
In the A.I.F. Driver rose from sapper to
brigade-major, and at the finish was a
G. 5.0.11 at Advanced L.H.Q., Morotai.
Almost his last Army job was to contact
and arrange for the surrender of a batch
of Japs in Dutch New Guinea. Dis-
charged from the Army last December,
Driver went back to his job at Harvey
irrigation area.
They breed ’em tough in Tassie. Cap-
tain George Horder, demobbed at 60 into
his old job as a Melbourne City Council
building inspector, pushes a bike seven
miles to work every morning, rows with
his old club every weekend on the Yarra,
goes dancing on Saturday evenings and
spends the rest of the weekend on the
golf course. This after six years in the
A.1.F., three of which were spent in
Changi, where there were only two older
prisoners. But Horder has been as vigor-
ous as that all his lifetime. He was born
at Launceston, began building houses in
Melbourne and then had 20 years with
the C.C. as inspector. He was a
racing cyclist for five years and a rower
for 40 —he was in eight winning crews in
the Mercantile Club. He garnered a
D.C.M. in a Pioneer battalion in the
1914-18 scrap.
The happy knack of getting on the
right side of human nature evidently be-
longs to Herbert Smith, organiser for
Melbourne Lud Mayor Connelly’s Food
for Britain' appeal, here pictured by Mc-
Beath. Given the stiff job of collecting
£lOO,OOO, he has seen the fund pass its
original objective and head for the
£200,000 mark, despite the many other
COLLECTOR.
appeals floating round. It is to be con-
tinued so long as Britain has less food on
its table than Melbourne, according to
the Lud Mayor. Among the many other
similar hard-working jobs Smith has
carried through successfully have been the
Royal Melbourne Hospital appeal and
the Women’s Hospital appeal—as organ-
iser of the recent U.N.R.R.A. appeal he
sent away over half a million pounds’
worth of clothing. A newspaper adver-
tising man born in Lancashire, he has the
advantage of being able to design his own
posters right down to the finished article.
Oswald Birley, a Maoriland-born artist
who has done much work for royalty, and
whose painting of King George V and
Queen Mary adorns Windsor Castle,
lately received a commission from Queen
Mary to paint the Duke of Beaufort.
This is an acknowledgment of the hospi-
tality of the duke, in whose Gloucester-
shire home Queen Mary spent her time
during the blitz.
Although William Poole Bishop
allowed no noticeable signs of pleasure
or relief to mark his countenance while
Coventry was sketching him his appoint-’
ment as South Australia’s Auditor-
General in succession to J. W. Wain-
wright means that he is no longer No. 1
bogeyman to S.A. taxpayers. He been
Deputy Commissioner of Taxes; now
instead of dragging the money in he will
AUDITOR.
be responsible for seeing that it’s spent
according to the book. .Bishop has been
in the Government service for 35 years,
divided fairly evenly between the
Treasury, Audit Office and Taxation ; he
was assistant to Wainwright before he
became a taxgatherer. A field artillery-
man in the First World War, he has since
been a keen worker for Legacy, and
during the second scrap he gave a lot of
time to the Fighting Forces Comforts
Fund and was a State representative at
inter-State conferences. He has recently
become a trustee of the Savings Bank of
S.A. The new A.-G. is fond of gardening
and of watching his son stroke St. Peter’s
College eight.
“Nagheer”: The Thorley family of
Mt. Isa, in Queensland’s far west, pro-
vides another irritating example of the
obstinacy with which Northerners per-
sist in flourishing in a climate which, by
southern standards, is totally unfit for
white people. Its head, Edward Abraham
Thorley, has recently celebrated an 89th
birthday, does not require glasses for
reading, possesses unimpaired hearing
and looks 20 years younger than his age.
His 18 sons and daughters have all been
born and brought up in the same climate,
and have given him 125 grandchildren
and great-grandchildren, all of them still
living.
Flight-Lieutenant V. T. Skehill, D.F.C.,
R.A.A.F., Melbourne, is a man with a
dream. While convalescing in a hospital
in Italy during the war he got letters
from home telling him that many of his
friends had been burnt out by bushfires.
He conceived the idea that helicopters
hovering over the forests and 'directing
the firefighters would do much to control
the bushfire menace. When he got back
to England he pulled a lot of strings to
get a helicopter course without revealing
what his superiors would probably have
regarded as his fantastic purpose. His
scheme is to subdivide forest areas and
pastures into areas under district con-
trollers, each of whom will have a heli-
copter as part of his equipment to drop
firefighters and pick up refugees.
* In B. 10/4/’46 it was stated
that Arthur Seaforth Blackburn, V.C., led
the march into Damascus in 1941. The
only Australians to enter Damascus
—officially, at any rate —on the day it fell
were “Blackie” himself, his adjutant,
driver and interpreter. At about 10 a.m.
on June 21 most of the French had evacu-
ated Damascus, but there was still spora-
dic fighting on the outskirts. During a
quarter-hour lull there came round the
bend of the road leading to the city an
ancient two-horse gharri amply bedecked
with white flags. As it drew up an envoy
of the City Fathers jumped out with the
instrument of surrender and looked hope-
fully rodnd for someone to accept it.
“Blackie” stepped smartly up and did the
necessary. Earlier that morning he had
gone up to the front looking for more
excitement than B.H.Q. could offer, and
thus was easily the most senior Allied
officer on the spot. After taking the sur-
render document he drove into the city
in state to the City Hall, where he at-
tended a more formal capitulation cere-
mony. His interpreter pursued him in-
dustriously through all this pomp and
show, but failed to make the grade at the
official luncheon, at which the adjutant
noticed him trying to sneak in unobserved
and flung him into the outer darkness.
Westralia’s new Government Printer,
W. H. Wyatt, has practised his craft in
widely-separated'pl aces since he first ’Be-
gan collecting certificates and medals for
typography and composing at the London
City and Guilds’ Institute and the
Stationers’ Company and London School
of Printing. During the 1914-18 War
he served in France, Salonika and Pales-
tine. His Middle East sojourn gave him
a fancy for travel, and after a few years
at his Majesty’s Stationery Office he re-
turned to Palestine as Government
Printer. He spent 10 years in that job
and left it to join the Government Print-
ing Office, Straits Settlement, becoming
Government Printer, F.M.S., in 1935.
When war came to Malaya, he was cap-
tured by the Japs and spent three years
as a p.-0.-w. in Sumatra. Wyatt takes
the Perth job in succession to R. H.
Miller, who has been appointed Director
of W.A. Tourist Bureau.
Going to London to represent Maori-
land at the Scientific Conference in June.
Dr. Ernest Marsden, C.M.G.j C.8.E.,
M.C., secretary of the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research. Born
in Lancashire 56 years ago, he came to
MX. as professor of physics at Victoria
College, Wellington, just before the First
World War, in which he served with the
MX. Division, collecting an M.C. A
student of Lord Rutherford, his work
between wars was concerned with radio-
activity. During the recent war he was
scientific adviser to M.L.’s fighting forces,
with the rank of lieut.-colonel, and with
a team of scientists devised many sur-
prises for the enemy if he blew into
MX. Dr. Marsden was one of the 15
Fellows of the Royal Society elected this
year.
“8.G.5.”: In B. 24/4/’46 Canon W. P.
F. Morris was credited with having been
responsible for the classical education of
Jack Lindsay. Jack Lindsay, one of the
most brilliant classical scholars to come
out of Queensland, went to the university
from the Brisbane Grammar School,
where he was grounded in the classics by
its then headmaster, the late F, S. N.
Bousfield, M.A. (Oxon.).
Passed through Melbourne on the bride
ship Athlone Castle —he was the only
male passenger aboard —Major-General
H. Kippenberger, M.L.’s “fighting legless
general.” The amputation occurred at
Monte Cassino when the commander of
the Maoriland Division stepped on a
landmine. Artificial limbs enable him to
walk a mile quite easily. General Kip-
penberger fought in Greece, Crete,
Tunisia and Italy, and in 1943 succeeded
Freyberg, V.C., as divisional commander,
so he is well-equipped for his peace-time
task of compiling Maoriland’s War His-
tory — a io years’ task running into 10
volumes, with a special section on re-
habilitation.
C. L. (Charlie) Abbott, K.C., Attorney-
General and Minister of Education in the
Playford Cabinet (S.A.) since Jeffries was
defeated at the last elections, has resigned
to devote his main attention to law.
Reginald Rudall, a Rhodes scholar and
a lawyer with a practice at Gawler, moves
across from the Ministry of Lands to
take Abbott’s place. The Lands Office
goes to C. L. Hincks, of Yorke’s Peninsula.
He was in the landing at Gallipoli, and
lost a leg in France, but is a particularly
active chairman of S.A.’s Parliamentary
Liberal party and a R.S.L. councillor.
Keith Macartney has been appointed
Associate Professor of Drama in the
School of English at the University of
Melbourne, the first position of its kind
in Australia. Macartney has produced
many, capital university shows at the
Union Theatre. While at Cambridge he
studied the drama and was a fellow-pupil
of Michael Redgrave in the summer
school established by Edith Craig,
daughter of Gordon Craig. In 1936 he
returned to" Australia and went on the
University staff as Senior Lecturer in Eng-
lish.
Senator Richard Valentine (“Dick”)
Keane, who died suddenly of a heart
affection in Washington while winding-up
Lend Lease, had the energy of many very
big men (he scaled 22 stone), and paid
the all-too-frequent penalty for overusing
it, though he reached 64. Jovial and
good-humored, he was better known and
more at home as a union leader than as
a Minister. He had held every important
office in the A.R.U. Federal Executive,
and was general secretary when elected
to the Senate. However, the curious
political habit which diverts know-
ledgabie men from their natural
spheres divorced him in the Ministry
SENATOR.
from transport matters, of which he
knew as much as anybody in the pre-
sent Parliament, and set him to tasks for
which he had little training. Keane first
entered politics in 1929, wh«n he won the
Bendigo seat in the Scullin landslide, but
he disappeared in the 1931 election, and
failed to get back in 1934. He was elected
to the Senate, in which he became Gov-
ernment leader in 1943, in 1937. John
Curtin made him Vice-President of the
Executive Council and Minister for Trade
and Customs when the Ministry was
formed in October, 1941.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 87, Henry Hardie Kemp,
architect for the Presbyterian Church in Vic-
toria and designer of many city buildings. He
came from Glasgow in 1886', and, as a leading
authority on Gothic, built the Ormond College
extensions, Scotch College and the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, the Assembly Hall, in Colhns-
street, and the Australian Building, the_ first
12-storey erection in Melbourne. Kemp intro-
duced Marseilles roofing tiles and other new
materials.
In London, on April 19, from sickness in-
curred on active service, Lieut.-Commander
Alan Baume, V.D., R.A.N.V.R. Only 42, he
died at the home of his brother, F. E. Baume,
European editor of “Truth.” He was on the
“S. M. Herald” until 1939; from 1939 to 1945
he served with the R.A.N. till invalided home
from the Pacific with a Mention in Dispatches.
The lieutenant-commander was a son of r. t.
Baume, K.C., of Auckland (N.Z.).


Women's Letters
From Sydney
With true Scottish fortitude the little
Duchess of Gloucester attended to the
duties attendant upon her as the wife of
the Governor-General of Australia right
up to the time of entering Prince Alfred
Hospital for an appendix operation. The
Duchess is in a small suite at Gloucester
House, and Sydney was pleased to learn
that the operation was very successful.
Doctors in charge of the case are Hugh
Poate, who is hon. surgeon to the Gover-
nor-General, and Lorimer Dods, hon.
physician to the Duke.
That most popular of all French women
with Australian troops —Mamselle from
Armentieres —was back in Sydney this
Anzac Day. She might be a wraith of
her former self, but as the bands played
her own air and the men of the First
A.I.F. stepped out to it Mamselle knew
that the spirit of the lads of 1914-18 had
not flickered out. Watching, she saw
that the spirit burned steady and bright
still, for here, marching in the proces-
sion, were the sons and grandsons of the
slouch-hatted Australians who had swung
down her poplar-lined roads. And these
had fought a long and bitter war, too —
a war for freedom, as that other one had
been.
In the Georgian days they referred to
a man with pride as a three-bottle or a
four-bottle man. Now they refer to Aus-
tralian soldiers as a “three-medal” or a
“four-medal man.” Many of them in
that splendid, memory-evoking march of
last Thursday mounted the ribbons of six
and eight decorations. And there were
four V.Cs. among the heroes —Cutler, of
the 1939-45 war, Bede Kenny, W. Currey,
M.L.A., and “Snowy” Howell, But it
didn’t matter whether he wore a decora-
tion or not; each man, old warrior or
young warrior, was the hero the crowd
proclaimed him.
This was the most stirring Anzac Day
march in history—never will there be one
with the same mingling of old-time laven-
dered memories and the sharp bitterness
of recent loss. Nearly 60,000 soldiers
marched, women soldiers as well as men.
And the procession took over two and a
quarter hours to pass any point. Lieut-
General Gordon Bennett commanded it.
Lieut-General Morshead led the Second
A.I.F. Down Martin-place they came,
passing the Cenotaph, each mutely greet-
ing some dead comrade. Along George-
street, up Market-street, along Elizabeth-
street and so into the Domain, the sun
shining bright on standard, flag and rib-
bons, bands playing and the bells of St.
Mary’s ringing out. Impressive was the
combined service in the Domain. Here
the multitudes stretched over the green
grass, under the Moreton Bays. The
snowy-white snoods of Junior Red
Crossers shone out here and there
a promise of evergreen mercy. In hymn
and prayer thousands lifted up their
hearts.
The sun was not up to pick out the
colors on the flowers already massed on
the Cenotaph when the Dawn Service
commenced and the faithful thousands
who had kept all-night vigil joined in the
prayers and swelled the promise “We will
remember them!” which concludes the
service. Marching to the Dawn Service
with the “Old Contemptibles” Lady Louis
Mountbatten looked at once proud and
reverent. It was the first time a woman
has taken part in the march. The invi-
tation to her to do so came from the Aus-
tralian Legion of Ex-Service Clubs.
The J. C. Williamson morning party to
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard was
fun. To begin with, Madge and Cyril
were a bit off schedule as to their return
—their ’plane was held up at Karachi.
The party, therefore, was a day late.
Guests, however, wandered up to the
Gloucester room, the original tryst. There
the startled gaze saw towering above the
crowds an Everest of wedding-cake. Was
the affair a sort of symbolic wedding be-
tween the two Australian stars and their
old theatrical Firm? However, a
whispered inquiry at the door put the
erring wanderer on the road to the ball-
room. This buzzed with excitements.
Stage and radio actors and nearly every
pressman and -woman in the city were
there. Host E. J. Tait, with chief-of-staff
Harald Bowden, steered each newcomer
to Cyril and Madge, but the race was to
the strong of voice and the firm of eye ;
the rest of the field was nowhere at ques-
tion time.
Madge looked very “correct” in her
Hartnell suit and her brimmed hat
worn straight over the brows. She is
very slim, which she puts down to Eng-
lish rations. Of clothes for the
stage there was talk of a very full
mignonette green tulle frock starred with
gold sequins to be worn by Madge as
Vicky in “Shadow Play.”
The slogans change a bit as time
marches on, but the relations between
buyer and seller are still somewhat
strained. Last week-end a panting, over-
burdened little woman murmured a re-
quest across a city provision counter.
“Madam,” snapped Haughtiness on the
inner side of the barrier, “don’t you know
there’s a strike on?” Will horseflesh be
the answer to the problem before we re-
turn to our muttons, and if so will a
certain smart restaurant in town be serv-
ing Steak Bernborough to its guests? The
Girl in the Flat Opposite says that each
family should grow a dinosaur, and,
just as of old the eldest son always went
into the Army, to meet present-day needs
the eldest son should be taught the
butchering business for home consump-
tion only.
The N.S.W. travelling art scholarship
is worth in Australia £750. But when the
exchange and fares are taken out of it
there’s quite a slab of it gone. Still, it is
one of the juiciest plums offered to the
young student of art in this country. The
works submitted for the prize must num-
ber five —two paintings and three draw-
ings. Ena Joyce, of Strathfield, is this
year’s winner of the scholarship. She is
a pupil of East Sydney Technical, and
her teacher is Douglas Dundas, Ena has
decided to defer taking up her studies
abroad for another year. By then the
London and Paris conditions should have
settled down and the atmosphere be
more congenial to the blooming of the
arts. Norton Trevaire photograph.
The Australian-American Society will
celebrate Victory in the Pacific with a
ball in the Troc. next Tuesday night, May
7. Spectacular event of the night will
be the breaking of the flags while Alice
Prowse sings “Land of Hope and Glory.
There are to be many high-ranking Aus-
tralian and U.S. soldiers and sailors
present, among them Brig.-General Buttle,
U.S., Rear-Admiral Moore, Lt.-General
Berryman and Colonel Roy L. Schuyler,
U.S. Dan Carroll and Mel Lawton are
organising a dashing floor show. Miss
Shelley is responsible for the patriotic
pageantry. Tickets are one guinea each,
and Legacy and the education section of
the A.A. movement will benefit.
Royal Art Society’s president Erik
Langker and his wife gave a sherry and
savory, a whisky and sour (sour grapes
if the bottle ran out before your turn)
six to nine o’clock in the R.A.S. rooms
last Friday. It was a pay-as-you-come
party, and every six shillings rung into
the till went whole and complete to the
comforts fund of the 20th Field Ambul-
ance at Kure. This is a pretty compli-
ment to the Henry Braddon lady, whose
son, Captain Inglis, is a medical officer
of the 20th Field Ambulance. The Brad-
don lady, who is president of the
women’s auxiliary of the R.A.S., was
smart in smooth plumage. With her were
husband knight Henry and Mrs. Bill
Inglis. . , , .
Jade ornaments and a jade-green frock
and Mrs. Erik’s black hair and blue eyes
were the right composition. Judge
Moffitt, one-time a Bulletin black-and-
white cartoonist, was a guest. The corner
where Mrs. E, Salenger stood was the
gayest in the roofn. Daughter Marg<aret,
who had spent the afternoon among Con-
temporary Art, told of the Chilean Con-
sul’s fine opening speech. Later arrivals
were the G. Mnddisons. Alfred Pollock,
just returned from ten years’ architecting
in South Africa, told a grand traveller’s
tale —the modernity of Jo’burg, the old-
fashioned Cape Town. He told of the
driving force of General Smuts in short,
the blessed place has enchanted him.
Mrs. Barbara Bennett, bright-eyed and
alert, is busy on her concert-managing
job again. She is directing the Heather
Kinnaird recital at the Con. next Monday
night. This is timed for 8.15, which
gives the toiler in the city a jjit of margin
to get home and slap on a fresh make-up
for the evening. Heather’s smooth notes
will be heard in works by early Italian
composers as well as Russian and Eng-
lish music-writers. Marcel Lorber is the
night’s pianist.
A garden party will be held for the
C.W.A. members and visitors at the home
of Mrs. S. C. G. Herring on Saturday,
May 4, 2 Northcote-avenue, Killara. The
artists assisting are Anthony Strange,
tenor, Alice Browse, contralto, Olgg.
Krasnik, pianist, Eric Wooderson, violin-
ist. Admission 2s. 6d. Food for Britain.
Aviator Captain Taylor tells a story
about The Bulletin’s ever-lamented
John Dailey. John, who was deaf, was
once at a musicale in a friend’s house.
A young girl was playing the harp, and
John, only half-hearing, became bored.
Turning to his neighbor he remarked in
his precise penetrating voice “The harp is
an instrument I have never cared for.
The remark carried to the farthest cor-
ners. John, still unaware that his words
were reaching any but his companion,
brooded a moment, then continued on
the same pitch: “A pretty girl, but she
can’t play the harp! ”
From Melbourne
On her last day in Melbourne Lady
Louis Mountbatten went behind the
scenes at Red Cross House; then she
took luncheon informally. Later she
visited the Royal Melbourne Hospital and
met many of the nurses, who formed a
guard of honor. Final function of the
day was afternoon tea in the Conibere
Hall. In praising the fine record of the
Y.W.C.A. Lady Louis paid a special tri-
bute to the work done by Jean Begg, an
Australian Y.W.C.A. worker. Jean, she
said, had even had the top of a mountain
removed to make a centre for the Ser-
vices. Here, care had been given to men
who had been prisoners of the Japanese
for more than three and a half years.
Lady Louis was received by Mrs. Kumm,
Mrs. Essington Lewis, Melbourne Presi-
dent of the Y.W.C.A. Mrs. W. S. John-
ston, Commissioner of War Services Mrs.
Wells and Miss Helen Brocker.
Early on Anzac Day morning a group
of people gathered at the Edith Cavell
Statue in St. Kilda-road and heard Lieut.-
General S. F. Rowell, Vice-Chief of the
General Staff, pay tribute to the magnifi-
cent women of Britain and to the splendid
Victorian nurses who laid down their
lives while on active service during the
last two wars. In the First World War
13 Australian nurses lost their lives;
during the recent war 20 Victorian nurses
made the supreme sacrifice —five died on
active service, 12 deaths were due to
enemy action and three died while
prisoners of war. Wife of the Lieut.-
Governor of Victoria, Lady Herring, was
at the service and was received by Mr.
Mcßrien, M.L.C., in the absence of the
Chairman of the Edith Cavell Trust Fund,
Mr. Edgar, M.L.C. Many wreaths were
placed at the foot of the Statue, and they
included wreaths from Lady Herring,
the Queen Alexandra Nursing Service,
Australian Red Cross Society and General
Blarney and his wife.
The lass pictured here by Athol Shmith
is Jill Heather, only daughter of Mrs. G.
McDonald and the late C. L. McDonald,
who has announced her engagement to
John Sidney Meir, who was a Lieut.-Col.
in the A.I.F. and is the only son of the
late Mr. and Mrs. S. Meir, of Man-
chester, England.
Another engagement announcement is
that of Jackie, elder daughter of Mrs.
Haggard and the late Commander Hag-
gard, to Dennison, son of Mrs. R. H.
Deasey and the late Rev. R. H. Deasey.
Jackie is one of Melbourne’s prettiest
girls and is often seen at Government
House. Dennison’s sister, Major Kath-
leen Deasey, is now on her way to Eng-
land with the Victory Contingent.
Glowing tributes were paid to Lieut.-
General Sir William Dobbie and his wife
at the civic reception held at the Town
Hall. The rooms were gay with autumn
blooms, whilst at the back of the dais
on which the official party sat was dis-
played the new flag of Malta, which in-
corporates the George Cross, given to that
gallant island by the King. In the absence
of the Lord Mayor, Cr. R. Connelly,
knight Thomas Nettlefold received the
guests. Archbishop Booth, Education
Minister Field, representing the Victorian
Government, and Captain Curmi, Com-
missioner for Malta, also spoke. Re-
sponding, Sir William told of the epic
struggle of the little island for deliverance,
which, he acknowledged with deep sin-
cerity, was due to the great mercy of
God. Lady Dobbie, who was garbed in
a smart suit, was presented with a bouquet
of roses by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze.
The Queen Victoria Hospital for
Women has decided to “adopt” the Eliza-
beth Garrett Hospital for Women, Lon-
don, and at a meeting held at the Toorak
home of Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh plans
were discussed to raise the necessary
funds. The Brookes lady presided, and
she told the meeting that the Q.V. Hos-
pital was trying to raise £lOOO to enable
parcels of food to be sent to the London
hospital. These will go each month until
the end of the year. Each section of the
hospital in Melbourne will send parcels
to its corresponding section in London.
The administrative staff, doctors, nurses,
patients and domestic staff are joining in
the good work. Special diabetic parcels
will be sent to the medical officer, and
all parcels will be packed in this city by
another organisation, the Silver Door.
Plans were completed to have a night at
the Village Theatre, Toorak, on Thurs-
day, May 9, where there will be a pre-
view of a British film. Lynette Dicken-
son is ticket secretary, and Mrs. Mickey
Paxton and Mrs. John Clarke are in
charge of the Lucky Envelopes. Mrs. Leo
Quick is handling the cigarette stall. After
the meeting Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh enter-
tained her guests at a small sherry party.
At the holiday meeting of the Williams-
town Club, held at Flemington, quite a
number of new winter suits had their
first airing. Hats were really lovely, be-
ing a feature of the dressing—berets,
bonnets and bobbie hats were the styles
most widely chosen. Rich red, in all its
tonings from tomato to deep cherry, ran
a close race with the ever-popular black.
Edith Downing’s plain black coat was
highlighted with a tinted arctic fox collar,
Mrs. Morris Salzman chose a black suit
with a small black hat. Joan Lindsey,
recent arrival from America, had plastic
rims of her sunglasses to match her large
blue hat. Mrs. Maurice Nicholas, a
daughter of W.R.C. Chairman W. Pultney
Mein, wore one of the season s new
models in almond-green, with a silk
blouse of similar tone patterned in talis-
man-pink.
“The Hasty Heart,” the new human-
interest play by Capt. John Patrick at the
Comedy, is unusual in that the cast in-
cludes but one woman, a British Army
nurse, played by Gwenda Wilson. The
other eight players are all men three
professionals and five drawn from the
ranks of the Little Theatre and the
National Theatre. The main character,
that of “Lachie,” a sergeant in the
Cameron Highlanders, is played by John
Wood, who was a prisoner of war m
Changi canfp. Many of his companions
in the camp were at the theatre on open-
ing night.
Amateur theatricals are flourishing in
this city. Maie Hoban successfully pro-
duced “Csesar’s Friend” at the Union
Theatre. Ron Danielson, as Sextus
Pontius Pilate, was exceptionally good,
and won high praise from Miss Sagan, the
woman producer who has come to this
city. Then there was the tenth birthday
of the National Theatre, celebrated by the
production of “Faust.” Patrons were
there in full force, and included knight
Robert Knox and his lady, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, the lady mayoress, smart m black
frock and silver fox furs, and the Norman
Brookes pair.
Celebrity concerts have become so
popular that A.B.C.’s third series has
been completely booked out. Another
huge crowd attended the concert at which
the pianist Hepzibah Menuhin appeared
with the Symphony Orchestra in the
Brahms D Minor Concerto. Lady Dugan,
in a delightful trailing frock of aqua-
green sequins, was attended by Lieut.
John Templeton, R.A.N. Mary Ward,
radio actress, who was recently voted the
most beautiful woman in radio, was a
rapt listener.


**h
Insure witH tl\e
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
AH classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £
1935.. 235,464 6 p.c. = 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6„ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 258,371 7,454 45,373
1938.. 281,563 6 „ ~ 269,846 11,707 57,080
1939.. 232,325 6„ „ 287,629 1,776
1940.. 218,774 4J „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4* „ ~ 194,400 7,700 9,500
1942.. 195,970 4 ~ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 4i „ „ 218,700 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5i „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,430
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
It has been a heartening recovery, thanks
partly to expanding consumption and
partly to careful and efficient manage-
ment. Under the N. S. Wales Gas Act
of 1932 the idea was to allow the cos. to
distribute 6 p.c. (8 p.c. under the old
Act), after paying exes., including interest
on loan funds and not more than 3 p.c.
of capital outlay on buildings and plant
for depreciation. With war came
cheap money and an effort to prevent
prices and costs from rising too steeply.
Prices and costs proved not altogether
amenable to Government handling.
And N.S.W. coalminers and some
other Communist-controlled unions un-
scrupulously used their monopolistic
powers as a bargaining weapon in ex-
ploiting the national emergency. Coal
was kept in short supply, gas had to be
intermittently rationed to consumers,
and there has been a steady upward pres-
sure, further increased by wage lifts, on
production costs. Except for a small
temporary increase of .012 d. per unit,
which ran out in July, 1944, the Govern-
ment refused the co.’s requests for a lift in
selling price of gas to meet increased costs.
In these circumstances the co.’s net
earnings receded steadily from 6.2 p.c.
on average capital in 1938 to a shade
over 4 p.c. in 1942. Over the same
period the div. dropped from 6 p.c. to
4 p.c., and the price of the £6-paid shares
fell from around £7 6s. to £3 17s, 6d. in
the market. Since the present Act came
into force the co. had sold at auction
(before the war) 125,000 £6 shares which
brought with them £125,500 of share
premiums. So the average return on that
lot was 3.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or
about what could be had from Govern-
ment bonds, with nothing like the same
security. It is an illustration of shabby
treatment of shareholders under Gov-
ernment control.
However, the pressure of advancing
costs began to ease a little under the
Government stabilisation plan, while
earnings benefited from increased sales
of residuals and expanding gas con-
sumption, thus enabling the div. to ad-
vance to 6 p.c. again last term. Mean-
while, the management fought advanc-
ing costs with technical and other im-
provements, and completion of No. 6
retort house and auxiliary plant helped.
Here is an analysis of revenue and ex-
penditure figures over the last two years:
, 1944 1945 ,
Per 1000 Per 1000
Units. Units.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Gas ..2,697,107 36 2i 2,719,090 35 8
Residuals .. 281,927 3 9 274,457 3 7J
Meter rents,
etc. . . 43,601 5J 43,525 6J
Total £3,022,635 40 5 £3,037,073 39 10
Manufac. and
dis. exes.. .1,835,521 24 7J 1,830,318 24 0i
Other
charges . . 503,739 6 9 480.481 6 3J
Interest . . 120,386 1 9 120,434 - 1 7
Depreciation, »
etc. . . 265,452 3 6 266,968 3 6
Total
outgo £2,725,098 36 7i £2,698,201 35 4J
Last year increased gas sales brought
in an extra £21,983. The drop of £7470
in returns from residuals was due to
contraction of 485,000 gallons in sale of
tar for roadmaking purposes, largely on
defence account. The savings in manu-
facturing, distributing and other charges
were mostly in respect of repairs and
maintenance and rates and taxes and
discounts. While total revenue increased
by £14,438, outgoings were pulled back
£26,897, making a net gain of £41,335.
The £338,872 of profit was 6.9 p.c. on
the £4,860,000 of share capital.
During the current year Government
and private home building will call for
considerable extension of the co.’s mains,
a new automatic carburetted water gas
plant (capacity 300,000 gas units a day)
is to be erected, plant to turn out
1,800,000 gallons of benzole annually is
now at the point of production, and a
systematic overhaul of customers’ supply
pipes and appliances is to be undertaken
to lessen the incidence of future service
calls, etc. And to keep abreast of latest
developments in connection with gas
undertakings abroad three of the co.’s
officers are to visit U.S.A.
With the improvement in earnings the
price of the scrip has advanced to
£7 18s. 6d., at which figure the return is
4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Prospects
of the 6 p.c. div. being maintained are
encouraging, subject to reasonable stab-
ility of the cost of items over which the
management has no control.
In front of the share capital are
£2,500,000 of debenture money, costing
on the average £4 6s. 6d. p.c., £259,672
of temporary loans and £802,743 coming
to sundry creditors, etc. Cash and in-
vestments total £579,357, debtors, etc.,
£539,525 and stock £252,361. Freehold
and plant, etc., figure at £7,829,966.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 ( -rrc ici nan
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO J 4655 107 ’ 096
1936.. 56,645 7$ p.c.— 37,500 7,500 ( rr , r ■ 17 ,
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO \ b ’
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 105,805
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205.282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60,616 20,000 11,609 216,891
1940.. 98,135 10 „ „ 72,137 20,000 5,998 222,889
1941.. 94,741 10 „ „ 72,208 20,000 2,533 225,422
1942.. 83,038 10 „ ~ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943.. 81,216 10 „ „ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner Reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 345,261
1944.. 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 855,302
1945.. 84,757 10 „ ~ 72,208 12,549 367,851
1946.. 89,692 10 „ ~ 72,208 17,484 385,335
The market notes the co.’s long and
pleasing history, the healthy state of its
earnings and finances and the encouraging
outlook in South Aus. and discounts the
future by pricing the f.-p. pound shares,
visibly covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 30s. Bd., at 595. At that
price the immediate return is 3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 4 p.c, should the
distribution be lifted to 12 p.c.
Over the last 22 years £250,000 of re-
serves has been capitalised (in 1924 and
1928) and £354,133 of inner reserves dis-
closed. The last shake-out was a couple
of years ago, when £lOO,OOO, previously
reserved against advances, was dropped
into visible accumulations. The div. re-
mained unchanged at 10 p.c. for 13
years to the close of accounts in 1931,
dropped to -6 p.c. during the slump, then
rose to 10 p.c. again in 1938, and has re-
mained steady since.
Pre-war turnover was expanded and
anchored by purchase of hotel pro-
perties, a large block of which
was acquired on purchase of the
Walkervilie Co-op. Brewery in. 1938.
The price paid for the Walkervilie busi-
ness was £122,089 (in scrip), or £139,691
less than net tangible book value, and
inner reserves benefited by that amount.
Since war began all increases in costs
aave been absorbed within the business,
jxcepting lifts in excise. Brewers now
band the Government in excise about
73 p.c. of gross receipts for beer. The
other 27 p.c. (approx, ss. sd. in the £)
covers production, distribution and other
costs (including taxation) and profit.
Chief offsetting influences have been sub-
stantial service demands (they fell out-
side the public rationing scheme) and
growth of population following rapid ex-
pansion of industrial activity in South
Aus. Here the development of 8.H.P.,
I. British Tube Mills and others, in-
cluding the recent transfer from N.S.W.
of Philips Industries and the Nuffield
bodymaking business, should mean much
to local traders, including the brewing
co., whose business spills over into the
thirsty mining centre of Broken Hill
(N.S.W.).
After providing whatever was consid-
ered necessary for taxation and depre-
ciation, and dropping £3119 from some-
where into reserves, net earnings for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
were £4935 stronger at £89,692. That
was 12.4 p.c. on capital as against 11.7,
11. 11.2, 11.5, 13.1 and 13.5 p.c. back
to 1940. Over the last six years average
profit was £85,949 compared with an
average of £77,709 for the preceding quin-
quennium.
Official rationing of civilian beer sup-
plies ceased as from March 25 last, and a
“considerable increase in business” is ex-
pected. The new plants ordered for the
co.’s Nathan and West End breweries
are expected to be ready in three to four
months’ time, and the necessary building
alterations are to be put in hand shortly.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £722,080 £722,080 £722,080
Creditors* .. 126,345 333,257 296,514 838,394
Freeholds .. f f 962,154 931,164 867,673
Plant, etc. .. ) \ 80,417 40,945 30,324
Stocks . . 25,525 . 61,393 100,739 109,054
Book debtsf . . 36,805 117,907 128,725 160,006
Advances .. 152,536 83,912 131,882 131,759
Cash . . .. 72,017 21,911 89,094 183,096
* Includes taxation, f Includes shareholdings.
Last term £74,112 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets, while
£31,281 was added to debtors’ balances
and £94,002 to cash. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£245,521) was £91,595.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 29,824 7J p.c. 72 p.c. 19,375 10,449 79,371
Insurances surrendered, £2OOB .. 77,363
Written oil, £2900 74,463
1936.. 21.127 72 p.c. 72 p.c. 22,822 72,768
1937.. 31.827 7 J „ 7J „ 24,412 7,415 80,183
1938.-29,437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939.. 32.338 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940.. 32.730 9 ~ 9 ~ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000. .112,188
1941.. 27.909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29.964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,10*
1943.. 33,489 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..I 589 118,692
1944.. 31.557 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900.1 - „ QQQ
Staff fund, £2,010 .. ... f W* 7 116,889
1945.-28,370 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act
from 1/10/’3l.
A very satisfactory showing. One of
Australia’s leading textile manufacturers,
the co. turns out a variety of hosiery,
underwear and other silk and cotton
goods. There is a factory at Newcastle,
set up in 1941 to help overcome labor
difficulties. Branches had been established
at Melbourne and Brisbane long before
the war, and the three subsidiaries —
Lustre (N.Z.), Ltd., Siltex, Ltd., and
Sphinx Engineering Pty. —are all operat-
ing at a profit. ,
Government orders again accounted for
a big slice of turnover, and demobilisa-
tion swelled civilian demand, which has
run ahead of production. After housing,
the demand for clothing is one of the most
urgent that productive resources have to
meet. To some extent servicemen regard
their deferred pay and civilians their war-
time savings as amortisation reserves
against their personal capital—houses,
furnishings, clothing, etc. —that have been
of necessity allowed to run down during
the war years. Hence plant is being
switched from the standardised products
of service contracts to meet the infinitely
miscellaneous demands of the individual
for style and quality. To- this end the
mill manager has already been abroad to
study latest developments in connection
with textile machinery and rayon and
other synthetic fibres. Orders for new
plant have been placed, but delivery is
not expected until 1947 or 1948.
Although rayon supplies from England
are restricted at the moment, the co.’s
stock of yarns is sufficient to ensure “con-
tinuance of manufacturing operations for
a considerable time ahead to the limit of
available staff.”
Last term the strike at Bunnerong, Syd-
ney’s big central power station, in October
and the prohibition on use of electricity
in December affected , output and sales.
The Government had taken over the
diesel generating plant, bought in 1940 as
a precaution against failure of the electric
supply, and efforts to get it back were
not successful until the middle of Decem-
ber last, when it was put into operation.
That gross earnings (£121,962) improved
£3337 was owing to the exceptional de-
mand already referred to. Including an
unspecified provision for taxation and
£21,584 (down £1290) for depreciation,
exes. (£93,592) took all the gain and £1177
besides. The £28,370 of profit was £470
more than the all-round 9 p.c. div, called
for. Under the N. S. Wales Interest Re-
duction Act the 10 p.c. cum, prefs, are
subject to a 22\ p.c. cut, but advance with


ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAH
ABBOT
6UTHRIDGE
Filler
Cylinder
lift
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PLAN FOR HIS
fUTUREW
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. ltd.
Expert advice available!
EQUITABLE PROBATE
t CEHEBAI INSURANCE CO.ITD.
faarfoff/ce:3//-373 faeeflfr, Brisbane
WINCELLO HOUSS, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
« » * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney,— Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Apv®.
ds
fds
f
MAKERS 01/HIGH
ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATORS,
ECKERSLEY SODA FOUNTAINS
AND AERATED WAFER
MACHINERY,
EKSEL EXPANSION VALVES,
E.K. CORDIALS AND ESSENCES.
ECKERSLEY&SONS PTY.ITO
AGENTS; HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA.), LTD.
m®
******
••v* ■ .•*•
\\'V k
mm
m
i
■
1 ,\'v
I I
V/j
% mix V 4
i a
mm.
*■.■l
*5
m
Ml
X
/m,
", .:
H eres another
inviting thirst
h Vickers
r/l#
* GIN SQUASH. Slice a lemon
into a jug, add two dessert-
spoons sugar, bruise peel well, 1
crush sugar and lemon
together, add pinch cinnamon?
nutmeg and six cloves if avail-
able. Add four good nobblers
Vickers Gin, mix thoroughly?
add sprigs of mint and stir.
Strain into four large glasses,
add ice, fill with water (or
soda-water —if you can get it!)
/ VG46/3
ickers Gin Satisfies FAMOUS SINCE 1750
the ords. beyond a minimum 1\ p.c. to
their full contract rate. ‘
As for the current term, the board
says: —
We are faced with heavy additional
charges through wage increases brought
about by Government regulations. As
these increases are not under any award,
the Prices Commissioner has taken the
view that they cannot be allowed as part
of our costs for the purpose of price-
fixing and can only be recovered, if at all,
by way of subsidy The attitude of
the authorities appears to your board to
be quite illogical, as, whether such pay-
ments are necessitated by regulation or
award, they are beyond question an in-
tegral part of the wage cost of produc-
tion.
Such a pernicious method of profit con-
trol can, in the long run, only jeopardise
the chances of full employment by ren-
dering some lines not profitable enough
to continue their production.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1940. 1944. 1945.
Ord capital. . £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928 26,500 26,500
Overdraft . . 72,740 163,243 52,002 17,509
Creditors .. 37,016 68,855 60,775 24,534
Tax provision 16,597 37,731 28,110 28,404
Freeholds .. 122,381 122,847 lIV.SOO 114,000
Plant . . 164,725 138,485 76,119 60,509
Stocks .. 159,158 332,250 287,311 250,653
Debtors . . 108,275 115,820 80,036 68,768
Cash, etc. .. 509 3,287 20,500 16,470
Shares subsid. 10,452 15,206 25,210 25,210
The year’s reduction of £36,658 in stock,
£11,268 in debtors’ balances and of £4030
in cash, together with allowances for
depreciation, etc., enabled £34,493 to be
clipped off the overdraft and £36,241 off
the amount coming to trade creditors. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£264,154) was £18,484,
On the market 275. (official high) is
offered for the ords. and 325. for the prefs.
At these figures the return is 6.6 p.c.
and 5.6 p.c. respectively on a 9 p.c. div.
basis Net tangible cover is £5 2s. 2d.
prefs. and 30s. 3d. ords.
Mount Morgan
For the half year to Dec. 15, 1945, Mt.
Morgan netted £59,785. That was after
allowing £17,079,f0r depreciation and in-
cluding £7686 refund of gold tax in
respect of the previous year’s production.
Leaving the refund out of the reckoning,
earnings were at the rate 0ff£104,198 p.a.,
or sufficient to cover the pref. capital re-
demption charge (£20,000 p.a.), pref. div.
(£21,000 p.a.) and 21.5 p.c. on ord. capital.
It is unlikely, however, that earnings for
the six months to June next will be main-
tained at the same rate as for the half
year under discussion. Heavy rains in
January and February, though they filled
the co.’s reservoirs, restricted the quantity
and grade of ore mined, and operations
for this period resulted in a loss. For
the next three months, and for some
months to come, the grade has been, and
will be, adversely affected by mining ore
at the junction of the Andesite, Stope and
South dykes on the western face of the
opencut at 574 ft. level.
For the 24 weeks to mid-December
last 824,260 tons material was mined, of
which 551,165 tons was discarded as
overburden, and 273,095 tons was de-
livered to the mills, which treated 269,950
tons, averaging 2.97dwt. gold and 0.62 p.c.
copper. The first of two new 2£ c.y. elec-
tric shovels—it does the work previously
performed by three steam shovels —began
work in September last. The second was
recently delivered at the mine and is now
in operation. Also, some of the wagon
drills on order from U.S.A. have been
delivered and are assisting operations.
Originally Mt. Morgan ranked as one
of the world’s great goldmines, and then
for a long time held a prominent place
as a large gold-copper producer. Now,
60 years after its discovery, it has become
a large open-cut proposition. A feature
of the deposit is the presence of four large
stone dykes, along and around which the
orebody lies. Mining requires the re-
moval of a large quantity of overburden.
The main zone of copper deposition lies
below the 574 ft. level, and has a length
of approximately 700 ft. The opencut is
worked in a series of benches, deepest
now being No. 5 at 574 ft. About June
next it is expected to commence breaking
ore from No. 6 bench.
At end June last it was figured that
there were 8,000,000-odd tons overburden
to be removed, of which 1,200,000-odd
tons will probably be milled and the bal-
ance dumped. Ore reserves were put at
approximately 5,452,000 tons, averaging
4.23dwt. gold and 1.86 p.c. copper, of
which 1,291,000 tons might be mined by
other than open-cut methods.
The £593,000 of capital is in 300,000 £1
7 p.c. cum. prefs. (redeemable 1959) and
2.348.000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each. The ords.
have a fairly steady market around
Bs. 9d.
No official report has yet been received
by Peninsula Tin (paid capital, £199,387
in 15s. shares) concerning its property
and dredge at Langsuan, Siam. It is, how-
ever, believed that extensive repairs will
have to be made to the dredge (capacity
200.000 c.y. a month) before it can be
put to work again. Claims for damage
to the machine and for tin extracted from
the property are to be made against the
Siamese Government. The dredge stands
in the books at £88,526, and the property
and other plant, including spares, at
£136,016. Cash and Government securi-
ties held in Australia total £23,276. The
co.’s interest in the Buffer Stock Pool
(89.2 tons tin ore), in the books at £606,
is now estimated to be worth £10,500.
When operations ceased over four years
ago there was about 12 years’ work ahead
of the dredge. Last reported sale of the
scrip, at end 1945, was at 15s. Last div.
was 6d. a share in June, 1941.
* * * 1 *
Tantalite, Ltd. (paid capital £54,000),
an Adelaide concern operating tantalum-
bearing deposits at Wodgina, on the Pil-
bara field (W.A.), is negotiating with Eng-
lish interests for the formation of a
£lOO,OOO co. to treat and refine the ore
locally. The English co., now investigat-
ing production processes in U.S.A., is to
provide the necessary plant and technical
personnel. At present the ore is shipped
to U.S.A. for treatment. The average
grade of material obtained in 1944 was
about 31b. per ton. This included lode
matter mined from shallow lode workings,
opencuts and alluvium, and must be re-
garded as selected ore. Other deposits of
tantalum-bearing minerals occur at Tibba
Tibba, Strelley and Pilgangoora on the
same field. All are associated with preg-
matite dykes or alluvial occurrences de-
rived from the distintegration of such
dykes. Mineral distribution varies con-
siderably, and associated minerals also
vary widely. The general mining rule on
the field is “follow the Albite.”
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa Mining
and Exploration, Ltd., is offering those
on the register two new Is. shares at a
premium of 2s. each for every five now
held. When fully subscribed and paid,
the new issue will bring in £231,802, of
which £77,265 will be capital and
£154,537 premium money. Paid capital
will then be £270,440 in Is, shares. The
new money is wanted largely for develop-
ment of the Maritana areas on the Kal-
goorlie townsite eastern boundary, and
about two miles north of the Paringa
mine. The Maritana area adjoins the
Mt. Charlotte property, in which the co.
has a substantial interest and over which
Wiluna and Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment hold an option.
* * * *
There is loose talk about a
boom in Westralian goldmining being
frustrated by (1) shortage of machinery
and supplies, and (2) taxation on the
sale of shows owned by prospectors,
There is certainly a dearth of machinery
and essential requisites, but the yarn
about proceeds from the sale of pros-
pectors’ properties being taxed is bunkum,
The Federal Income Tax Assessment Act
clearly exempts from tax income derived
ffiom the sale, transfer or assignment of
a prospector’s right to mine tor gold
in any part of Australia.


For 1 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
n 0 fflce: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
The WILL...
of o man on the land
\\\
Needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who
will conserve his Estate for those whom, under his Will,
he desires to benefit,
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
has for over fifty years successfully managed country
estates with pastoral, grazing and mixed farming
interests and during that period the Company has
surmounted the difficulties associated with adverse
seasonal conditions, marketing problems and the ever-
changing economic situation.
The Company is aided in its management by the expert
and practical knowledge of its Pastoral Inspector—a
landowner himself —who is available to report on all
properties under its control.
Write for Booklet.
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS!
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
towners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Interest Rates
A remarkable feature of the financing
of Australia’s war expenditure has been
the low interest rate at which borrowed
money has been raised. At December
31 the debt arising out of the 1939-45
war was £1494 million, and the interest
bill thereon was £36 million, an average
of 2.4 p.c. Loans raised in Australia dur-
ing the 1914-18 affair cost 4} p.c. and
5 p.c. It may be said that, on paper, the
cost of borrowing this war as compared
with the last has been cut in halves.
But at Dec. 31 last £477 million of our
war debt was in the shape or Treasury
bills—£9l.6 million internal and £385.2
million discounted with the banks. This
form of finance costs only 1 p.c., against
from 2 p.c, to 3J p.c. on Consolidated
I loans. The Treasury-bill debt is inflation-
i ary in character, and it would be better
j funded by conversion into Consols
through a public issue. But it could not
be funded at 1 p.c. Judging by the poor
public response to recent war loans it
could not be funded in a reasonable time
even if 3J p.c. was offered. An extra 24
1 p.c. paid on the Treasury-bill debt would
raise the total 1939-45 war interest cost
by over £lO million a year.
Our war-time finances present us with
an odd situation. Interest rates are low,
suggesting cheap money. But real money
is not cheap—when the Government
i wants it. It has done what the Americans
call “monetising” a large part of its war
debt; it has used bank credit far in excess
I of the figures indicated by the Treasury-
i bill issue, banks of all kinds holding about
£7OO-million-worth more Government
paper than when the war began. Finance
of this kind increases the money —or
spending power —of the people rather
than reduces it. This at a lime when the
cost of war in real terms has been enor-
mous and the national assets and income
correspondingly affected.
The people have responded very reluc-
tantly to appeals for direct subscriptions
to Government war loans. Some authori-
ties suggest that a higher rate of interest
would have brought forth a better re-
sponse and at the same time reduced the
inflation menace that accrues from
“monetised” debt. Others aver that the
Government engenders so little economic
faith that any rate of interest offered
would not have produced full public sub-
scription of war loans. Whatever the
truth of these contentions, it is a fact that
the interest question is fundamental.
In Great Britain recently the Chancel-
lor of the Exchequer said he saw no
reason why he should try to fund the
enormous floating debt at a higher rate
of interest. But in the United States there
has been considerable discussion about the
desirability or otherwise of abnormally
low interest rates, whether on floating
debt or on long-term securities. The
National City Bank of New York said
recently:
The continued decline in interest rates, from
levels during recent years already round all-
time lows, has effects upon the national
economy and the lives of millions of people
too serious to be ignored. It is raising the
cost of life assurance and reducing the
income of savings depositors, trust beneficiaries
and religious, charitable and educational insti-
tutions. Assurance policy-holders and investors
are penalised both by lower yields on new in-
vestments and by successive refinancing of old
holdings at reduced rates. The problem faced
by investors is highlighted by numerous cases
of corporations which during the past few years
have refunded 4 p.c. to 5 p.c. debentures with
bonds now yielding 2\ p.c. or less.
The steady attrition of yields tempts both
institutional and individual investors to sacri-
fice quality in order to bolster the steadily-
shrinking income. It diverts investment money
into second- and third-grade bonds, as well as
into stocks, and into mortgage loans upon in-
flated appraisals, thus weakening the investment
structure and storing up losses for the future.
Moreover, at a time when inflation is already
rampant, the declining rates and the Treasury
policy of refinancing maturing bond and note
issues with short-term certificates are adding
fuel to the fire in making Government securi-
ties less attractive to the public and promoting
further concentration of Government debt in
the commercial banks, with resultant expan-
sion of bank credit. The low rates in bonds
tend to be reflected in higher prices for stocks
and real estate, and to shift money that should
be invested in Government bonds into specu-
lation in these markets and in commodities.
In Australia the “further concentration
of Government debt” has been chiefly in
the Commonwealth Bank and the savings
banks.
The U.S. Federal Reserve Bank control
is also concerned about effects of money
made too cheap. When announcing the
banning of “marginal” dealings on Stock
Exchanges (in order to check an orgy of
scrip gambling) chairman Eccles said:
So long as the public debt continues to
be monetised through the purchase of Gov-
ernment securities by the banking system th©
supply of money will continue to increase, thus
tending further to reduce the interest rate on
savings and investment funds. The resultant
pressure of an increasing money supply and of
“Could you direct me to the chiropodist, please?”
lower interest rates is bound to have a further
inflationary effect upon all capital assets and
to increase the difficulty of holding flown the
cost of living.
It is, therefore, imperative that the process
of further monetising of the pdplic debt
through the banking system be ended so that
the rate of return on investments would be
stabilised and would reflect the supply of sav-
ings and investment funds in relation to the
demand instead of reflecting an increasing
amount of bank credit. This process needs to
be stopped not only by bringing about a bal-
anced Budget, but also through measures to
check further unnecessary expansion of com-
mercial-bank holdings of Government securities,
, f ,
What is needed to be realised by all of
us is that Australia, as well as other
Allied countries is borrowing m a new
way as a result of this war. We are living
in controlled economies in which com-
petition has been eliminated wherever it
crosses the path of Government financi-
ally or industrially. This artificial exist-
ence cannot go on for ever; even Hitler
and Mussolini had to stage “diversions,”
the ultimate one being the recent war, in
order to satisfy the people that economic
freedom was not to be theirs for the
present.
Australia is heartily tired of its oppres-
sive economic controls, and it is thor-
oughly disgusted with the Government’s
failure to “produce the goods”—goods
of all kinds, including houses —now that
the war is over. The most effective econ-
omy is that which is able to exercise its
initiative to the full in competition with
allcomers. But a return to a free lending
and spending market is charged with in-
flationary dangers because of the present
artificial money market and financial
structure, the existence of which is only
possible by reason of “controls”; and
controls, one by one, are now being seen
as having done their dash.
We must prepare, then, for higher in-
terest rates and curtailed Government
spending (and borrowing). In other
words we must prepare to return to
natural instead of artificial conditions. It
may be that we shall suffer some severe
jolts in the changeover. But if our cen-
tral Government is prepared to face reali-
ties it will find that in meeting its prob-
lem in a planned way and in endeavoring
to fortify the national credit it will effect
a change from the artificial to the natural
at a cost in interest lower than if a crisis
is precipitated upon us. The inflationary
cost and disorganisation will also be
smaller if we plan for the inevitable
changeover.
The urgent need for increased produc-
tion as a counter to inflation and declin-
ing living standards, emphasised in these
pages for a year or more, is now becom-
jn g generally recognised and reiterated,
The forces which are op p o sed to an Aus-
,
trahan industrial and economic recovery
are endeavoring to hinder productive
. n f rnilrs ~ ~ n A W( . mieor
ettorts, Ot course, and we see me queer
position of Communists doing their
utmost to hold up housing plans and at
same time weeping crocodile tears
, , *u~
about the homeless, even to the extent
of inciting people to take illegal posses-
sion Q f empty homes. In all his efforts
l succeeds the Com brines a
where ne succeeds, me Gom. ormgs a
strain upon the law of the land, and ulti-
rnately to bring the law into disrepute
g ene rally is one of his principal aims. The
Com has n 0 time for British j ustice .
Gangster and racketeer dictatorship takes
p j ace Q f constituted law when Com-
munism ru | es
« * * *
. T , ~ * . t *
According to London cables Australia
will receive about 44,000 tons of German
shipping as compensation for vessels lost
during the war. New Zealand will get
32,000 tons. The Federal Government
proposes io augment our shipping assets
by local building, and it aims to run its
own services. Its building is expensive,
and during the war its shipping control
has approached the calamitous. Heavy
losses have been incurred on coastal ship-
ping operations controlled by the Gov-
ernment, and efficiency of the industry
has declined heavily. Industrial anarchy
prevails along the waterfront, and at sea
the men have extorted a variety of un-
warranted increases in pay and privileges.
Australian coastal shipping services have
generally put on a bad show during the
war, and the rot continues. Anyone who
tries to prolong present coddling of mili-
tant seamen and wharfies is not playing
the game by his country. Shipping is too
vital a service to be surrendered to indus-
trial disruptionists. A stand will have
to be taken, and the sooner the better.
* * * «
“Nationalisation” moves have so far
produced no good results in British coal-
mines. Output has continued to fall, and
coal is plainly standing in the way of re-
habilitation of British industry. “No
other product,” says a “Times” trade pub-
lication, “is capable of producing so fun-
damental a crisis in this country as coal.”
It adds that there must be an answer to
the coal-production crisis ; “one has been
found in Holland and in Germany and
in other parts of the Continent, where
output has been increasing fast, often sur-
passing pre-war figures.” The critic says
there is no easy way out; the answer lies
“not in any flash-in-the-pan propaganda
or desperate experiments, but in a patient
and continuous application over a long
period of not one but all the remedies
which are severally advocated.” Not
only has the quantity of coal available
fallen; quality is down, too. “Many
undertakings which have the good for-
tune to be able to extend or renew parts
of their works are deliberately, unasham-
edly and probably correctly designing
their furnaces and other coalburning
plant for lower-grade fuel.” Reports
have also been coming to hand that im-
ported crude oil is being increasingly
used as a source of industrial power in
Britain.
« * • •
The largest of Australian public com-
panies still fajl to show pre-war profit
levels. This applies particularly to
B.H.P. and Colonial Sugar. British
Tobacco until recently was able to main-
tain a fair average rate of profit; not all
the breweries have done as 'Jvell as pre-
war, though Tooth, in Sydney, has
shown handsome earnings. The general
trend of company earnings in Australia
during the war was downward. There
were exceptions to the trend, of course,
but in most such cases unusual cir-
cumstances were responsible. Price con-
trol and heavy company taxation have
curbed most earnings ; now labor troubles
appear likely to hit production and turn-
overs.
« * * *
Sir Dougal O. Malcolm, chairman of
Australian Mercantile Land and Finance
Co., told shareholders in London that the
co. had an assured market for wool sold
up to June 30 this year, and that there-
after any new-clip wool offered at
auction will be passed over to the Joint
Organisation should it not reach an
agreed reserve price. In spite of the pre-
sent enormous demand for wool, Sir
Dougal was of the opinion that a long
period would be required to dispose of
accumulations as well as current clips.
A. MX. and F. is still hoping that the
British and Commonwealth Govern-
ments will come to a reasonable under-
standing about double taxation of com-
panies domiciled in one country and
operating in another. The co., with
settlement of returned soldiers in view,
has offered the McKell Government in
N. S. Wales “a valuable property which
we purchased some few years ago. We
do not yet know if the property will be
considered suitable for the purpose the
Government has in mind.”


Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big.. King & Castlereagh Sts..
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22V), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
ds
fds
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts \s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WHITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
WARNING
ON
SHIPPING
Shortages of shipping throughout the
world are retarding international post-
war trade. Nations are striving to use
every ship most effectively.
The development of valuable Australian
export trade to Malaya and China de-
pends to a great extent on shipping.
Prior to the war, twenty-five per cent,
of our exports to these countries was
carried in Dutch ships.
Yet , because of disputes fomented by
Communists and supported by their
dupes , Dutch ships capable of carry-
ing away twenty-four thousands tons
of Australian exports every six weeks ,
have been prevented from leaving
Australian ports.
And every ton of export trade lost
means loss of employment to Australian
workers. Every day’s hold up means
more orders going to other countries
whose workers are getting the jobs
Australians could have had.
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
am
via
The
ire
Air
Route
LONDON
SYDNEY
6j Hours
SYDNEY-LON DON—by Lancastrian
QANTAS leads again with British
Overseas Airways Corporation in re-establish-
ing yet another vitally important link in the
Empire chain of air communication.
Broken in 1942 and by-passed by the Qantas
Indian-Ocean Route of 3,500 miles for the past
three years, the Empire Route via Singapore,
now resumed, paves the way for a steady in-
crease of services and frequency —combining
unparalleled speed and comfort.
SmfuUt/HMHUja
AUSTRALIA’S
f
INTERNATIONAL
AIRLINE
n • ; n the United States
Pnce-control n the United 3tales
The world will await great iat *
the results of the U.S. House of Repre
sentatives’ action in amending President
Truman’s bill on pnce-contro m many
vital ways, including a reduction m the.
currency of the from a year
to nine months. The bill has been sent
to the Senate. Price-control represents
officialdom’s shield against inflation often
officially created. Prprri - Q u avp
In Australia t e , f
agreed to continue price-control for a
further three years; before he retired
from office
this period as one of liquidation ot price-
control, commodities to be released from
control as soon as they were in adequate
, ~ . Aat-nc-nA Xh<» nripiml
production to meet demand. The origina
reason for price-control was mat me
demand for goods during war-time would
exceed supply, and that there would be an
FFJj r Rritnin nf
excess of spending power, in Britain, oi
course, almost all commodities and prices
are controlled, and must remain con-
trolled until the country emerges from
its own peculiar economic jam. uanaoa
is gradually relaxing its price-controls.
This Dominion, as well as Australia, New
t i orotic ic mnrp
Zealand and the United States, i
economically self-contained than ureat
Britain, But what happens in the United
States will be of concern to all interested
in the problem of inflation y. controls.
The politico-economic crisis has been
building up in the United States for some
time. On VJ-day, and for two or three
months afterwards, reconversion to peace-
time production looked comparatively
easy. But mistaken fears of deflation and
depression—only the war pulled the
United States out of its 10-year depres-
sion—induced the Government to support
demands for higher wages and measures
to maintain buying power. Wages have
been increased in vital industries by about
20 p.c. More demands have been made
by uhions, and production per man-hour
has fallen ; with strikes and similar dis-
location the industrial prospecjl has vastly
changed from that seen six months ago.
While the Government sympathised
with wage-earners and kept the supply of
money flowing, industry still found
it hard to gain price increases. The
machinery which made wage-raising com-
paratively easy worked much more slowly
where prices were concerned. The pre-
dominating principle of the Office of Price
Administration has been to “hold the
line,” regardless of hardships inflicted on
producers. While O.P.A. made the deci-
sions, manufacturers had to carry the
risks.
There was a flurry of concern when the
first price concessions were made follow-
ing the lifting of wage rates, telegrams
were sent to the President and to Con-
gressmen calling on them to deal with the
“business-minded” men in the Govern-
ment. The National City Bank of New
York commented:
Unfortunately, however, many of the
people who now would try to suppress the
consequences of inflation in a manner
Which would prevent industrial recovery
have approved or condoned the measures
and policies which have produced these
consequences. The time for concern about
advancing prices was when the policies
and measures leading to the higher prices
were put into effect.
It is idle to think that the consequences
of inflationary forces can be averted and
the country can escape scot-free by sitting
tightly on prices. Costs have been raised
by wage increases. Unless prices cover
costs and furnish an inducement to pro-
duction the industrial organisation will n9t
pull itself out of its disorder, goods will
continue scarce and employment will suffer.
The disruption of production and employ-
ment is the one thing that the country
cannot afford.
The ultimate action of Congress in
amending President Truman’s prices legis-
lation occurred in an atmosphere de-
scribed as “frenzied.” There were com-
ments that the United States was now
“hell-bent for inflation,” that the O.P.A.
had been “murdered.” The Director of
Economic Stabilisation, Mr. Chester
Bowles, said that the Congressional action
amounted to an “inflationary joyride.”
The amended bill prohibits O.P.A.
from establishing maximum prices for any
commodities that do not “reflect cur-
rent production, processing and distri-
bution costs, plus reasonable profit,” and
requires O.P.A. to terminate its food-
subsidy programme by the end of 1946.
The cost of living has been heavily sub-
sidised in the United States, notwithstand-
ing which the index has risen by over
30 p.c. during the war. Withdrawal of
subsidies is estimated to raise the food
bill of the average family by $7O a year.
One of the dangers of extended opera-
tion of price-control is that, under pre-
vailing circumstances, the hand largely
responsible for the inflation also exer-
cises the controls. The present is a period
of excessive Government spending of the
national income in nearly all countries,
and while officialdom feels that it can
rely on controls to curb inflation it is
liable to go on creating inflation by ex- /
cessive spending and unjustifiable
economic concessions to militant sections.
Bureaucrats have had a large say in the
running of the United States ever since
Roosevelt introduced his New Deal in the
early ’thirties ; the people are getting sick
of it, especially since the sections which
controls are supposed to benefit princi-
pally are getting out of hand industrially.
In 1939 the United States public debt
was $40,440 million. At the end of June
this year it will be about $275,000 mil-
lion. An approximate sevenfold increase
in the debt in seven years, of which be-
tween 40 p.c. and 50 p.c. has been taken
by the banking system, has alarmed many
U.S. citizens, some of whom feel that a
showdown on spending v. controls is
demanded. Nevertheless, it is to the Gov-
ernment’s credit that in the 1946-47 term,
after cutting its tax revenues by a third
from the war-time peak, it aims to
produce an almost balanced Budget, with
a slight reduction in the national-debt
total.
R. G. Menzies, leader of the Liberals,
advocates a definite programme of tax
reduction in order to revive industrial
incentives and increase employment. He
quotes the fact that before the war 85 p.c.
of employment was provided by private
enterprise, and believes that the first thing
to be done now is to restore private
enterprise to a position where it will have
the chance of doing the same thing again.
The Federal Labor Government’s “solu-
tion” of our industrial and employment
problem was to start a vast programme of
short temporary jobs on Government
works. But neither production nor long-
term employment could be restored in
Australia unless the people were given
some incentive to earn more. Taxation
must be reduced by 40 p.c. in the next
three years. The present Labor Govern-
ment, by its ruinous and extrava-
gant expenditure, showed no sign of re-
. ducing taxation adequately. Mr. Menzies
might have added that the Government
shows no sign of contemplating any
economic action that will of itself, and
in a normal way, prove progressively re-
productive of employment and industrial
output. Its mind never runs beyond short-
term expedients of a costly and wasteful
nature.


OIL PAINTINGS
WATERCOLOURS
SCULPTURES—PRINTS
MORLEY & TORDA invite yon to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building,
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Telephone: MA5805.
We represent the leading Australian Artists of
all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for
your home.
No gift is more acceptable and dignified than a
Work of Art.
fPrices from 5 Gns. to 300 Gns.
Limited number of imported prints available
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to
5.30 p.m. Saturday 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
mm
m
\ \ \ \ / • y
jREVOX
SWISS MADE CLOCKS
Mail order special. Genuine
Swiss made “Revox” clock with
black and chrome dial and two-
tone plastic case in any color,
measuring: 4 in. x 4i in., £2/5/-.
Same clock With single base, £2.
Limited number “Revox” Alarm
Clocks, £2/10/-.
12 months’
UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE.
Add 1/6 fof Registered Post. ..
Send money order or postal note to
v 77
I
Do you need a /
(fydctuu
PfOM/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medicaland dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, caU
and' discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
HukalSmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
The winner of the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes is usually one of the hardest to beat
in the Champagne Stakes, but this year’s
winner, Flying Duke, did not attempt the
double, and Persian Prince, a non-starter in
the Sires’ Produce, took the Champagne in
good fashion. Six started, including one filly,
Duotetra, who finished last: after her in-
glorious failure a week earlier Chaperone had
been sent for a spell. Persian Prince led most
of the way, followed by Vigaro, and they
finished in that order, with Prince Standard
making up a little ground to collect third money.
Their time for the six furlongs was 1.13
bettered by a dozen previous winners.
The Champagne Stakes was worth £1706 to
the winner, who, with a couple of previous wins
and several minor placings to his credit, is
fairly well on the way to showing a profit on
the 4000 guineas he cost as a yearling. His
was the second-highest price of the sale, and
so far he is the only one of the most highly-
priced lots to look like returning his cost:
Tengur went for 5250 guineas at the same
sale and after several attempts won a race at
Canterbury worth less than £5OO.
Persian Prince is by last season’s leading
sire Manitoba from the once very speedy El
Cacique mare Dark Elegance. Manitoba in his
racing days was good enough to beat Hyperion
in the Newmarket Boscawen Stakes, and he cer-
tainly imparts quality to his progeny, having
sired winne[s of over £135,000 in stakes.
Third time allegedly proves it, and at her
third attempt since returning from Melbourne
Flight, leading all the way in her very best
style, made easy work of four opponents in the
A.J.C. Plate: Gay Lad, Russia, Craigie and
Shining Night followed her home. Though she
was again meeting Craigie, who downed her a
week previously and also in last year’s A.J.C.
Plate, 5 to 4 on, with occasional offers of even
money, seemed a good price about the winner.
The A.J.C. Plate is one of many races which
show a trend to shorter distances, even though
its present distance of 14 furlongs is somewhat
further than a large percentage of present gal-
lopers care to go. Originally it was three miles,
shortened in 1923 to two and a quarter miles
and reduced to the present distance in 1944.
The shortening trend is one which has cul-
minated in the Queensland Club offering a
£lO,OOO prize for a six-furlongs sprint.
The endurance shown in Melbourne and there-
abouts by the David progeny, in jumping
events is not surprising when one looks at his
record in the A.J.C. Plate. He won it three
times in succession, twice at three miles and
once at two and a quarter.
Confined to three-year-old fillies and carrying
a good prize, the Adrian Knox Stakes has be-
come the Sydney equivalent of the Oaks, though
it is run over two furlongs less than the Oaks
distance of a mile and a half. This year it was
won by the Victorian filly Rose Bay, her third
to Don Pedro and Deliverance in the Cobbitty
Handicap ensuring hot favoritism. Lisp made
most of the running, but was not equal to the
job, and Rose Bay smothered the opposition
when she started her run just below the dis-
tance. Questing and the outsider Franjean filled
the places.
Rose Bay is nicely bred, being by Blenheim’s
son Le Grand Due, who is proving a most suc-
cessful sire, while her dam, Nahu, was a half-
sister to Amounis. On both sides, through
Spearmint, there are traces of the Carbine blood.
A feature of the racing was the small fields.
There were seven races, and in only two did the
number of starters reach .double figures. So
the Mr. Standfast colt Two Grand did well to
beat the biggest field of the day, there being 20
starters in the Femhill Handicap for two-year-
olds. The distance of one mile is the furthest
the youngsters have tackled yet, and, since Two
Grand finished very strongly to down Double
Mint and Decorate, apparently the little extra
distance was what he needed. Previously he had
shown promise and been heavily backed at
shorter distances, but never, looked like justify-
ing the 2000 guineas he cost as a yearling.
In the Rous Handicap Oberon met The
Gaekwar 61b. better than when they last met, and
the difference told, Oberon winning from the
equal favorites Western Monarch and The Gaek-
war in a rather rough finish. The Gaekwar
may have been unlucky. With Felberta, he
suffered interference in the straight, which re-
sulted in Oberon’s rider, McFarlane, being
given two months’ suspension.
In betting on the Coogee Handicap the books
had five of the seven starters at 5 to 1 or less.
Royal Janetfe, fourth in the betting at 9 to 2,
had a very narrow win from Fort Denison and
Barnsley, a half-neck and a short head separat-
ing them. Winding up the meeting with the
Final Handicap at 10 furlongs, W. Cook, who
has been riding with poor luck for some time
now, landed Accession ahead of Open Air and
Royal Peer. Open Air, beaten by only three
parts of a length, is a model of consistency,
but the wrong races have been chosen for him
at recent starts.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances): —■
Youthful Stakes: King Midas, 1; Decorate,
2; Tamasha, 3. Three-year-old Handicap;
Questing, 1; Field Captain, 2; The Gaekwar,
3. Encourage: Grape Vine, 1; Hemisphere,
2; Courier, 3. Flying: Puffham, 1; John Hali-
fax, 2; Cragsman, 3. City Tattersall’s Club
Handicap: Silver Link, 1; War Eagle, 2;
Accession, 3. Club Welter: Fort Denison, 1;
Constable, 2; Oberon,'3.
* * * m
Without any special “carnival” to account for
it, Melbourne ran to three days of racing last
week—Flemington on Monday, Moonee Valley
on Tuesday and the Valley again on Saturday.
Best performances of the Flemington meeting
were Krallis’s win in the Seaholm Hurdle, Dur-
bah’s in the Easter Stakes (downing Woodrow
and Bruin), Attley’s J. J. Liston Stakes success,
“Why don't you bring your OWN matches?"
and Noble Prince’s defeat of a fairly good
field of older horses in the main sprint. Att-
ley, as he mostly does, went particularly well:
a very solid miter.
The Moonee Valley meeting on the Tuesday
was mainly interesting for the jumping double —
Jocularity downing Gyrone and Temple Chief
in the Oaklands Hurdle, and Highway King
getting there with a vast margin to spare from
Hearsay and Yontilini in the Donnybrook
Steeple.
Back after his good riding in Sydney—though
he was subsequently criticised for keeping one
colt too long on the rails —A. Breasley landed
the Midstream-Verity filly Joy Stream a nice
winner from Trout (another Midstream) and
Portlaw in the six-furlongs Ardmillan Handicap
for two-year-olds. It was the winner’s first
start since November, and the state of the going
was shown in the time, 1.20 i, though that was
only quarter of a second worse than the all-
aged sprinters took in the Dundonald High-
weight, won by the Solar Bear five-year-old
mare Maemanfo from Bravesia and old Line-
mond.
The Lindsay Gordon Steeple would probably
have inspired the poet it honored, though this
time it was the favorite that landed the money.
It was run in such heavy rain that at times it
was impossible to sort them out, Victory March
eventually getting there from Balzac and Yon-
tilini. It took the old fellow four minutes to
cover the two miles.
Of Saturday’s other events at the Valley,
League, trained by K. Hilton, an A.I.F. Digger
who has only held his licence for a few months,
was a neck too good for Kinderson, with
Geronimo third in the Mile Belinda Handicap
(three-year-olds); the three-year-old Solar Bear
gelding Chatsol survived a protest after de-
feating Propontis and Carey in the 10-furlongs
Coburg Handicap, with the lately very costly
Three Wheeler among the others; and the
country performer Glenriven accounted for Kisi-
ming and Royal Tennis in the 13-furlongs
Buckle Trial.,
• * * *
Easter Monday games in the V.F.L.
gave North Melbourne an easy win over
St. Kilda, 19.23-12.6; Collingwood more
than doubled Hawthorn’s score, 18.16-
7.19 ; Carlton and South Melbourne had
a close go before Carlton won, 18.9-16.13.
Rain soaked Melbourne on Saturday,
but it couldn’t stop 80,000 from straining
their vocal chords at the six V.F.L. games.
More than a quarter of ’em huddled, in
Victoria Park to watch the old rivals Col-
lingwood and Fitzroy in a bustling go
wherein ’Wood handled the greasy ball
better and won, 10.14-8.10. Carlton-Mel-
bourne was a ding-dong go in the drizzle
and finished with Melbourne a goal to
the good, 10.12-9.12.
Essendon gave South
Melbourne a 10.11-8.5
beating at Essendon, and
North Melbourne went
to Richmond and
downed the Tigers by
19.19 to 15.15 in a
slatherem - whack fan-
dango in the mud. Foots-
cray, perhaps annoyed at
having to leave the warm
smells of home on such
a day, fell upon St. Kilda
at the seaside, soundly
plastered the Saints with
mud and goals, accumu-
lated 16.21 to 11.3 in
morose fashion, then
withdrew to the Mari-
byrnong fastnesses to
prepare for “Sowth.”
And down at Geelong
the locals made a mud-
pie out of the genteel
Hawthorn visitors, and
sent them home lament-
ing, 15.14 to 9.19. All
umpires survived.
* *
The shock victory in
Saturday’s Rugby Union
was West’s win over
Randwick, By vigorous
bustling West had the
’Wick flyers demoral-
ised and led 11 -nil at half-
time. Randwick pulled
up its socks in the second
spasm to score 16 points
to six, but West just
scraped home, 17-16. Manly v. North
was a dour struggle. North lead-
ing 9 -nil at lemons, but Manly’s pace
and fire bewildered the Northerners
in a late burst, and when the bell rang it
was: Manly 12, North 9. With a greatly-
improved backline, Gordon routed Drum-
moyne 22-9, and University’s backs were
too nippy for Parramatta, though
“Parra” fought hard, going down 22-17.
East was never troubled to beat St.
George 19-11. Manly and East are the
only undefeated sides.
# * * *
Eric Cremin, the unassuming little
Sydney pro., won the Easter Open at
Canberra with 142, a stroke under the
classy amateurs Bachli and Enderby and
the Canberra pro., Petterson, and two
strokes under Tommy Tanner. Bachli
(Vic.) and Enderby (Lakes) played off the
amateur event in storm and hail and the
Victorian won with a nice 73, including
a birdie on the 16th over hailstones. The
Cup was won by W. Ferguson (Long
Reef) with a nett 76 off ten.
* * * *
Victoria, which has always kept foot-
running going, revived the Stawell Gift
at Easter and 25,000 crowded into the
old Grampians mining town to see it.
Tommy Deane, a Goulburn Valley farmer
and ex-serviceman, off 7yd., won it by a
yard from Eric Gumming, with Jimmy
Baird a yard away third. Time for the
130 yd. was 11 14-16, inside even
time. The Gift, dropped after 1941 be-
cause of war conditions, is 68 years old.
* * * *
A world’s record was almost certainly
put up by the Commercial Travellers of
S.A. when they renewed this year their
Easter cricket fixture‘with the club team
from Victoria. The Melbourne men were
sent in by their hosts and made 96. Then
Rule, the home captain, took in with him
C. E. Pellew, the international batsman
of 1921 ; they made 111 and 217 respec-
tively, both not out, and then declared.
The Victorian’s second innings was 154;
so Adelaide won (officially) by an innings
and 84 runs —but had not lost a wicket.
* * * «
An extraordinary all-round feat was put
up by Bill Bruce in the Western District
Spdfts in Adelaide. Against pretty good
competition, and on the one day, he
won the 100yds., the 120 and 220 hurdles,
hammer, discus, long jump (standing) and
hop-step-and-jump, and tied for the pole
vault. On the second day he won also
the shot, javelin and the long and the
high jumps.
* * * •
Resuming their unusual inter-State
cricket fixture in Sydney last week, the
N.S.W. Blind played the Victorian Blind
for the first time since 1940. The main
difference to other cricket is that bats-
men cannot be caught out and all 11 bats-
men must be dismissed. Bowlers bowl
underarm with a wicker ball containing
bottle tops that rattle, thfe batsman mak-
ing their strokes by ear. Partly-blind
batsmen are permitted to make only 30
runs; Victoria’s first two, W. Heggarty
and J. McLeish, each compiled the maxi-
mum before retiring to give their side a
great start towards its total of 88. C.
Grieson and A. Blood took 3 for 4 and
2 for 2 respectively. N.S.W, also started
well, R. Holbourne (16), A. Fox (24) and
N. Holbourne (ret. 30) knocking up 70
among .them, but I. Molloy’s curly ones
routed the rest, who, however, put on 22
runs, which was enough to beat Victoria
by five runs and rob them of their third
successive victory and permanent pos-
session of a handsome trophy that goes
with these games.
* * * *
They’ve always had a fair sort of pug
or two about the place in N.Z., and Vic
Patrick ran into one of them, welter Bos
Murphy, at Wellington. Using a long
left well and some extra poundage,
Murphy had the points his way at the
end of 12 rounds of fierce and gory mill-
ing. Patrick’s comment was that there
was no doubt the better man won on
the day, but the Australian’s trainer did
his darnedest to foul that good sports-
manship with a squealing outburst. Actu-
ally there was not much in it, and both
chaps fought splendidly.
* * * ♦
No one who saw Joe Hall belted into
submission years ago by a young Chinese
featherweight and old Tod Morgan could
have imagined his making such a recovery
as enabled him to outclass the Westralian
Leo Heaney at the Sydney Stadium. He
was Heaney’s master in every department
of the game, and had the youngster down
and nearly out with a nicely-timed right
to the chin in the second round. They
are now talking of matching him with
Patrick.
* ♦ ♦ •
Knockouts brought an early finish to
the Anzac night entertainment at Leich-
hardt. In what were billed as 12-rounders
Al Walker sent Tommy Colteaux to sleep
with a right to the chin and “Stu” Mall° n
settled Tommy Dawson in the second.
Mallon, a southpaw, is an American
cruiserweight and pretty good. Dawson,
who was in the A.1.F., was floored three
times (twice for long counts) before the
referee decided that he had taken enough.
Mallon seems the best opponent in sight
for Johnson.


SAFETY FIRST
Don’t risk dangerous
*
IP
PHI
lH h
HEAL INJURIES
QUICKLY
with
DovbleT
An open wound of any kind needs
protection against dangerous infec-
tion. Attend to injuries promptly with
quick-healing Double “D” Ointment
it’s a “safety - first” precaution
against infection.
#
BATHE
APPLY
cut with warm water and
Double “D” Eucalyptus.
Double “D” Ointment
and cover with bandage.
Double “D” Ointment contains many
efficient healing agents, including
Double “D” Eucalyptus, and it is par-
ticularly suitable for children’s cuts
and scratches. 1/6 per jar.
Tik'
D
SOOTHING HEALING ANTISEPTIC
“WORLD BOOKS”
(in de luxe \
editions /
CAN BE
AT THE AMAZINGLY LOW PRICE
56
OF ONLY
JOIN “World Books” and enjoy a
unique reading experience. Each
month members receive the club’s
choice in a special buckram bound
edition finished with a gold stamped
panel as illustrated. Irrespective of
the regular selling price of the book,
members receive the W.B. editions
for only 5/6 each.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MONTHS. £l/16/- 12 MONTHS, £3/12/- (inc.).
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” I enclose £ / '/j
My name is
Address
Rodgers i
SMOKE-OH!
“Beauty begins at thirty.”— Woman’s paper.
To learn a few wrinkles.
•b *b *b *b
Some prominent Roman politicians employed
servants to kiss their constituents on their be-
half.”—“Daily Telegraph.”
So that’s where political lip-service
originated!
T T T T
“The shock nearly deprived him of speech.
He felt the color ebbing out of his cheeks. He
pulled himself together and met her eyes.”
— Woman’s paper.
“Yes,” the barmaid repeated, calmly,
“there’s bottled beer at Is. I\ d. How
many do y’ want?”
•b *b *l* *b
“The vile-tasting confections sold in most
shops would start a false tooth aching in pro-
test.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
It wouldn’t have the nerve to protest,
•b *b *b *b
“Extra Large Oak Man’s Wardrobe.”
—For sale ad.
Quite a tall boy with a family tree,
“For Sale —Mantle Model Radio Set.”
—Suburban .paper.
But who would shoulder this respon-
sibility?
“Britain’s biggest labor shortage is in typists.”
— “Sun.”
■ A serious matter, in a key industry.
•h *b *b *b
“When you have been introduced to a person
give their hand back, that’s a good girl.”
— “Woman.”
' Don’t hold it for more than a brace of
shakes.
“Song hits get crazier. Current rave is
‘Cement Mixer’ —Cement mixer, putti putti, a
puddle of vooty, puddle of gooty, puddle of
scooty, putti putti.”— “Sun.”
Concrete, yet abstract.
“ Let's see how long Ernie can stay under water THIS time!”
* T .
“Girl Stowaway Returns. Coaled in Manila.
— “D.T.” heading.
Been kicked around, eh?
•b *b *b ‘ *b
“The chestnut season is short.”
—Daily paper.
Except, of course, for radio comedians.
The Softer Sex.
“A man’s store has advertised mink shirts
for men —made of five per cent, mink, 20 per
cent, muskrat, the rest pure wool.” “Sun.
In days of old ascetic monks
Wore hair-shirts next their wasted trunks,,
Proving that men could even revel
In painful schemes to best the devil.
Alas! the old austerity
Has gone, and male temerity
Can brave no more than shirts of mink.
If manliness should further shrink
Next year we’ll have our model-shows
With simpering males in furbelows.
D. H. E.
+ •5* 4*
“The Australian girl is inclined to overdo
her make-up.”— “Herald.”
Particularly the inclined plain.
4* *b *b
“Unfortunately today the average conception
of love is the sort of thing young people see
on the films.” — “D.T”
Bound to fade out at the finish.
•b *b *b *b
“Many mature women try to fluff up the
hair kittenishly.”— Woman’s mag.
Grey tabbies come under this category.
Sartorial Error.
“Australian women overdress, according to
Miss Matilda Etches, British dress designer.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Well, when a woman thus impeaches #
The use of clothing to excess,
Her survey of the local dress
Did not, you’d say, include the beaches;
And though its rare appearance fetches
Admiring glances up and down
It seems the frontless evening gown
Escaped the eagle eye of Etches.
You’ll notice, too, the rag that quotes
Matilda’s homily devotes
A lot of space, without sobriety,
Unto a rather different kind
Of girl—the type you’d be inclined
To term the underdressed variety.
P. M. LUSK.
Painless.
“A pretty woman has nothing to worry
about.” — Woman’s paper.
Her brow’s unlined by care’s impress
Or autograph. So, brothers.
You are aware her prettiness
Will only worry others!
PERCY.
Or Had They?
“One theory is that the whales washed up on
the beach at Port Albert died of starvation.”
— “Argus.’ l ’
At first we thought something had stung
them.
Or persistent ill-luck had o’erhung them.
Lack of food off the coast
Made ’em give up the ghost;
They hadn’t a Jonah among them !
STANFORD.
Address to a Neighbor.
If I should blow my brains out, or con-
sume ,
A deadly dose of lysol ; even if
By hara kiri I achieved my doom,
And left my battered clay all cold and
stiff,
I would die happy, I’m prepared to say,
For, whether flitting high or down
below,
At least I would go far enough away
To hear no more your howling radio.
T. W. NATHAN .
Harnessed Beauty.
“Broad beams and big hips are here and
joining the family of gay deceivers are horse-
collars to emphasise the hips, pads to broaden
the shoulders.” — “Sun."
A breastplate and a horse’s collar
May counteract milady’s dearth,
But when her figure runs to waist
She’ll rashly spend her last half-dollar
On schemes to tighten up her girth.
D. H. E.
If the Announcer Could Only Say It!
“You have been listening to Count
Basie and the herd of frenzied coons he
flatters by the name of band making a
hell of a mess of ‘Loveycoo, Willya Kiss
Ya Ickle Sugar-Daddy?’ which is simply
Beethoven’s ‘Rondino’ mucked about
with by that all-American team of ace
classic-pinchers, Sammy Snoutstein,
‘Butch’ Finckelbunga ' and Art Stagga-
rovicz. The loud crackling sound, which
mercifully almost drowned the other
noise, was the record. It’s been like that
for months, and it looks as if you’ll have
to keep on shuddering through this and
others like it —that’s if you haven’t the
gumption to switch the nob to ‘off’ —be-
cause the crowd who run this station are
too lousy to invest in a few decent new
ones.
“This programme comes to you by
courtesy of Spindlers’, the Big Store.
This is the mob, you will remember,
who were socked a hundred quid last year
for advertising genuine eiderdowns which
turned out to be filled with shavings and
re-teased horsehair. The courtesy I em-
phasised was conspicuously absent during
the war years, when they were dead
cocky because their customers were at
their mercy. Now the boot’s on the other
foot; the way they’re kanga-ing to their
customers would be pathetic if it weren’t
so laughable.
“Spindlers’ are offering the mugs a
week-end special tomorrow —a man’s
lumber jacket, a coir mat and an XOS
brassiere, all for 325. 3d. Now let’s just
analyse this alleged bargain.
“The lumber jacket’s the same that was
offered in this session last week as
reduced from twenty-four and eleven to
sixteen bob. So it was reduced, but they
conveniently forgot to say that it had been
marked up to the top figure from the
original price of eleven and six when no-
body would look at it. The jacket looks
as if it was cut out by a wharflaborer
with a billhook and sewn together by a
half-shot machinist with St. Vitus’ dance.
The material’s supposed to be wool, but
it looks more like gunny sacking, and
the color’s an awful botch, the nearest
you can describe it being the same green
that collects on old bowler hats that have
been kept in damp places for years.
Frankly, I wouldn’t be seen digging the
back garden in one.
“The coir mat, called ‘first quality,’ is
in reality a factory ‘second’ —the fault
becomes evident when you scrape your
boots on it once and then have to sweep
up half a bucketful of frayed ends. As
for the bra., before it’s washed it will go
twice around Epstein’s statue of Eve and
then have to have a couple of reef-knots
in it to fit. After it’s washed it would
strangle a flat-chested Hollywood lovely.
Spindlers’ call it an uplift—it’s really a
downcast. Any woman who wants to
look like a bag of. swede turnips tied
somewhere near the middle simply must
get one of these. She’ll be paying about
thirteen bob for something that Spindlers’
paid a reffo backyard sweatshop half a
dollar for.
“Listeners who pride themselves on
being quarter-wits should rush in and
snap up these three articles. And don’t
forget—it would be daylight-robbery
if they were given away with a packet of
oatmeal.
“Well, I’m just about fed up with
magging tripe to you bots. I’m going out
in a few minutes to soak up a couple of
pots of suds to give me strength to face
the muck I’ve got to peddle across in the
kids’ session later on. In the meantime,
I’ll put on another musical abortion —
you probably don’t want it, but you’re
going to get it. Hang on grimly to your
seats —here it is: ‘My Baby Kaint Step
Out Till She Pulls Her Step-Ins On.’ And
so to our next unmerry meeting.”
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”: For donkeys’ years the fort-
nightly train to Gidya Flat had reached
its destination with the entire population
looking on. Then came the change to a
once-a-week service. Strangely enough,
the only one whose figure wasn’t draped
over the rails of the station yard when it
pulled in was Charlesworth, who before
had always been the first to come and the
last to leave. A visitor to Charlesworth’s
asked him why he hadn’t been at his
usual place. “Well,” drawled Charles-
worth, sucking at a straw, “gittin’ a train
once a week’s just in keepin’ with the mad
rush o’ the world at present; an’ I ain’t
in favor of it.”
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: The Euston country was
having one of its rare periods of heavy
and continuous rain, and we were iso-
lated in the hut at Prill Park. When the
nap game began in the morning there
were a few shillings about, which circu-
lated among the players until the cook
beat the midday gong. By mid-afternoon
it was poker, and by then it was clear
that the six men had only about £2 4s.
9jd. among ’em. Pontoon, Swedish and
straightout banker, under-and-over seven
and whisky poker had all had their turn
by bedtime, when the actual cash in cir-
culation had been supplemented by IOUs
until everybody owed everybody else, and
only Little Curl and Jones Leslie-seemed
to be ahead of it. The rain kept on all
next day, and euchre, rummy, German
whist and solo had a run, along with
reversions to poker, nap and banker, with
team games, like crib and auction bridge.
After tea the rain cleared, and all hands
went out into the washed world for a
peep at the stars and a breath of fresh
air. When we trooped back into the hut
Little Curl was at the table, working with
a pencil and surrounded by slips of paper,
most of the 9£d. in cash and an air of
profound thought. “Doin’ your home-
work?” asked Pocket-knife. Little Curl
frowned. “Near as I can make out,” he
answered, “three of youse blokes owe me
twenty-five and fourpence between y’; I
owe Jones about eleven an’ eightpence,
but I ain’t sure whether The Gunner owes
me two ounces of tobacco or if I owe
him three an’ six an’ two boxes of
matches.” He fell back in his chair,
thought hard and slowly added “By
cripes, if this is what runnin’ a station
or a store or a pub means, I’m stickin’
t’ bound’ry-ridin’. A man’d never get
any sleep.”
* * * *
“Lub”; Farley had a job on the road
construction, but, instead of pitching his
tent with the others, he carved a track
into a huge clump of blackberries and
cleared a circle inside for his camp. He
had been there a few days when I asked
him why he’d selected that particular
spot. “Well, I reckoned I’d be better orf
in there with the ’berries t’ block the
snakes from gettin’ in,” he said. “But
snakes live in the blackberries,” I said.
“It’s a fav’rite spot with ’em.” “Cripes,
Y’ might be right at that,” Farley said.
“I stiffened a big black ’un near me bunk
yestiddy. But I was thinkin’ the blankard
hadn’t bin able t’ git out.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The Towradgi creek,
near Wollongong (N.S.W.), was, until the
last couple of years, a very pretty little
inlet. Gradually, however, the beach en-
croached over the small lagoon entrance,
rendering the water stagnant. Early this
year the generally-accepted idea was that
a good rain would break the bar and
restore the little watercourse to its former
pleasantness. The rains came, but the
bar remained, and at first there appeared
to be no change in the creek. About a
week later a boy noticed that the bream
were coming downstream in droves—and
they were all so sick that it was an easy
matter to catch them with bare hands.
The news spread like scandal. Sugarbags
were filled in record time: one man took
away a chaffbag full in a springcart. Next
day only an odd sick bream was to be
found, although an occasional dead one
floated up in the shallows. The mullet
were unaffected, but mullet can live in
semi-fresh water, and the theory that rain
water coming down from the mountains
killed the bream is probably correct. One
local woman, however, would not accept
such an. explanation when a youthful
Waddington tried to sell her a three-
pounder. Indignantly refusing, she took
a bus into Wollongong, where she
bought a couple of bream in a fish shop.
The shopkeeper had plenty of nice bream
—he’d just paid a man £6 for a chaffbag
full. The man had driven up from Tow-
radgi way—in a spring cart.
* * r v
“Esk D.”: We had an appointment
with a deserted gold show at Copper-
snake Creek, and after half a day in the
saddle rode into a clearing where there
were old apple-trees and a huge walnut.
There was also a hut from which two
old codgers emerged, one neatly-dressed
and the other unkempt and sporting a
fierce black beard. After the conven-
“Jessie can't take you for a ride today — she's got a cold in the nose."
tional “g’days” and a pointed reference
or two to the weather and state of the
scrub, I asked the way to the Blue Dog
reef. “About half a mile up the crick,”
the tidy one said. Whiskers scowled
and muttered. “A mile down the crick.”
Whereupon they broke into violent argu-
ment and we left them, “D’you think they
might be interested in the thing them-
selves?” I asked Joe. “Tryin’ t’ put us
off.” “Hardly,” he said. “We’ll find it
where the first bloke said ; I’ve seen those
coves before. They’re brothers who never
agreed on anything in their lives. So
y’ see, when one of ’em ses a thing, the
other jist has to contradict him on prin-
ciple.”
• * * «
“Edjudina”: On my first night out
camping with Ned he produced an old
billy at dinner-time. “Dump your tea-
leaves and slops in that,” he said. I
asked him why. “Well, chucking it
around near the tent brings the ants, and
I’m sleeping close here to-night.” The
meal over, he took the tea-leaves out of
the communal billy, together with all
available crumbs and scraps, placed every-
thing in the slop billy, then stirred in a
big spoonful of bullocky’s joy. Finally
he walked a short distance out of camp
and scattered the mixture around. It
must have kept them, busy all night part-
ing the stuff home to their nests, for the
pests didn’t trouble us once.
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”; “There’s one thing in
which a woman is like a good mate,”
said Mat from the depths of his blankets,
“an’ that’s in givin’. Now a mate’ll give
his mate pretty well anythin’ he’s got t’
give an’ he don’t look for nothin’ in
return. So will a woman give things to
a bloke she’s keen on, whether it’s a son
or a brother or a sweetheart. But that’s
where the difference ends. Y’ see, a
mate’ll give y’ things an’ do things for
y’ an’ he don’t feel anythin’ about it; it
just comes natcheral, like puttin’ on your
hat or somethin’. But a woman, now,
she gets a hell of a kick out of it, gets
sort of all excited inside, an’ she’s likely
t’ start cryin’ or laughin’ or dancin’ about
it. Make a real festival out o’ it, they
do, some doin’ it with more noise than
others. I reckon a chance to give some
bloke somethin’ is what most wimmen is
waitin’ for because they know about the
kick they’ll get out of it.” “Yair,” I said ;
“well, what sort of a kick does a fightin’
woman get out o’ beltin’ her old man?”
“Kick!” exclaimed Mat. “Strike me fat,
that’s where they really shine. Y’ orter
see the way they perform when they’re
hoppin’ mad an’ stoushin’ some poor cove
with a hunk o’ wood or somethin’. Gripes,
they ain’t even human then.” Silence,
while we listened to the pulsing pinions
of wild swans passing overhead. “Yair,”
he murmured sleepily, “reckon that’s why
a bloke wants t’ steer clear of ’em. Y’
never know, boy, y’ never know.” And,
confirmed in his celibacy, the big fellow
went to sleep.
* * * ♦
“Gumsucker”; Butcher’s meat is hung
for at least 24 hours before going to the
consumer. In the bush- the whacker
shoots his Too and has it in the pot
as soon as (sometimes before) the natural
heat has departed. Any meat is tough and
dry in those circumstances.
**’ * *
“Wycky”; To celebrate his 84th birth-
day, Bill Martin was made M.C. for the
bush dance. What Bill lacked in old-
world courtesy he more than made up
for in terseness. Around 10 o’clock!
the secretary gave him the office to an-
nounce that after the next dance supper
would be served in the ante-room. Bill
rose. “Grab y’r sheilas for the Snake
Dance,” he wheezed. Everyone looked
their surprise, “What sort’s that, Bill?”
shouted someone from the back of the
hall. “Well,” explained the M.C., “it’s to
give the blokes wot snaked in here with-
out payin’ an opportunity to snake out
again, for they ain’t gettin’ any tucker.”
« * « «
“Nongai”: “B. A. Ker” (B. 10/4/’46)
might change his opinion that “even
bunny wouldn’t be silly enough to try to
drink salt water” were he to visit Lake
Hart (S.A.). This almost circular salt
lake, some ten miles in diameter, is
fringed with the skeletons of myriads of
rabbits, the “carpet” extending some
yards from the edge of the salt encrus-
tation up the sandy slopes. Bunny here —
and there are also crystallised skeletons
of cattle in the lake itself —is known to
have been attracted to the lake after
there has been sufficient rain—a rare
occurrence—to cover the usually snowy
surface visible to the train-traveller in
the early hours of the morning when
journeying westwards from Port Augusta,
The rabbit’s potations appear to be
quickly lethal, possibly due to some
chemical not present in sea water.
* * * *
“C.E.”; A gentleman’s agreement to
share hut and expenses worked success-
fully till the day the bush ’phone rang
and Charlie, being outside at the time,
failed to make the distance before Bert
reached the instrument. Propping himself
in the doorway, Charlie had got no
more than his mate’s “Hello, yes,” when
the mongs started a scrap on the step,
and by the time he’d separated them Bert
was once more at the dinner-table.
“Somebody want me?” Charlie asked
curiously. Bert, busy with a shank bone,
shook his head. “Bud Lane, was it?”
Charlie persisted. “No,” the diner
managed, “only Stokey,” “Stokey, eh?”
Charlie stroked his chin. “Not often he
rings up. S’pose he’s after them strays of
his?” “Don’t think so,” replied Bert.
“Didn’t say nuthin’.” “No? Must want
t’ borrer somethin’, then.” “Who,
Stokey?” sniffed Bert. “Gripes, he ain’t
the sort to borrer.” Charlie let it go at
that till the following evening. Then,
“Stokey say anythin’ about any sales
cornin’ off when he rung?” he inquired.
“No.” “S’pose he didn’t mention if the
store’s got any new stuff in?” Again a
sleepy negative. “P’raps he ain’t been to
town lately?” “Dunno, Didn’t say,”
“D’e ask about the new sheep or say
anything about a pup?” “Don’t think
so ” “H’m.” Morosely Charlie took
himself to bed. “Don’t think me’n
Bert’ll be sharin’ much longer,” he con-
fided to Bung next day. “Funny bloke,
Bert. Too flamin’ close; an’ y* can’t
tell me there ain’t nuthin’ fishy ’bout a
cove like that.”
* » * *
“Tuva”: Derris root (“New Guinea
dynamite”) may not be as effective as a
Mills bomb, but it helps to provide many
Papuan natives with a fish diet. This root
has many names. Among Kiwais it is
called sadi, and in eastern Papua tuva.
Natives dam creeks and throw in the
macerated root. The fish rise to the sur-
face stupefied, and are caught by hand.
On reefs the crushed root is tied to a
stick and placed in holes where rock cod
lie. Tuva is used by the sorcerers
of eastern Papua as a poison for human
beings. In Malaya, known as tuba, the
same root, powdered, has been used by
Europeans on the cabbages to keep away
cut-worms. In Australia derris root
forms one of the components of anti-itch
powders.
* * ♦ sfc
“Blime”; Dad was squatted on the
floor of the kitchen, trying to mend a
piece of the separator. The soldering-iron
was too big for the job ; the fire was nearly
out; there was no flux, and the solder
wouldn’t take. As the oaths grew more
lurid and forceful the old dog in the
corner lifted his head and beamed ap-
provingly, Then, as Dad held the parts
together with one hand and, groping for
the iron, picked up the wrong end, the
string of curses nearly melted the spider.
The mong cocked an ear and thumped
his tail. “An’ I ain’t praisin’ you up
neither, you useless cow!” bellowed the
old bloke, aiming a saucepan at the
mong. “So git before I mangle y’,” The
dog dodged the pot and flopped once
more to sleep. Most of the moveable
objects in the kitchen were out of plumb,
the broken separator a stOne’s-throw from
the back door, and to an accompaniment
of roaring blasphemy Dad was trying to
bash the soldering-iron through the stove
when Ted arrived, “Where’d y’ get the
mong?” Ted inquired, pointing to where
the dog beamed happily from the middle
of the chaos. “Ain’t mine,” snapped Dad,
cooling rapidly. “B’longs to Dick the
drover. Dick got his tax assessment last
week an’ his mong cleared out over here
till things settle down.”
* * * *
“Turiko”: Add to “Wippegong’s” uses
for bamboo (B. 10/4/’46) headhunting
knives used by western Papuans. These
are about 10 inches long and pointed at
both ends. The back of the blade is
usually carved with totemic designs of the
owner, and the handle end notched with
the number of heads to his credit. The
point of the knife gives the enemy his
quietus. The blade is kept sharp by tear-
ing off a thin strip, which gives it a razor-
like edge, fit for cutting round the neck
before the head is twisted off the verte-
brae. A sliver of bamboo about four
inches long makes the pocket-knife for
cutting the skin off the head before the
latter is cleaned and the skin replaced;
then the head is smoked. Bamboo bows
six feet in length are in use in the trans-
Fly district. Papuans also use nodes of
bamboo filled with sago-flour as cooking
utensils.
* * * *
“Wonk”: “The fire’s swingin’ Stony
Ridge way,” explained the brigade
captain urgently. “You blokes get out
there, rake a trail, and hold her till I
get this end prop’ly organised.” Fol-
lowed 24 hours of unflagging energy on
Stony Ridge, where blackened figures
belted unceasingly at sparks and flying
limbs. “Haven’t got enough men, Steve,”
gasped a weary scarecrow, dashing up as
a burning gum crashed across the trail.
“Can’t hang on much longer without a
relief gang, either.” “No, Dad,” came
the answer. “Here’s old Charlie now.
Cap’s using him as messenger. Send
word back.” Dad turned Charlie round
with an urgent request to the boss, and
the gang spent another afternoon and
night of heavy going. Next morning, the
anxious eyes turned townward were re-
warded with sight of Charlie toiling up
the slope. Slowly he came, and every
man who could momentarily be spared
from the line dashed along for the news.
“Message from the cap,” gasped Charlie,
grabbing, at the water billy. “Sez none o’
yous blokes up here is to smoke. Too
damn’ dangerous in this wind.”
THE HORSEMAN.
A man on a black mare
With her wind-carved mane,
Moulded, motionless there:
Flow of the sculptured rein.
Sheep halt; flowing and surging;
A dog padding around,
Alertly eager; urging.
Lambs’ thin, querulous sound.
A man taking count:
A brown lark shrilling high;
Dust-swirls eddy and mount;
Long clouds scarf the blue sky.
Dust haloed by sun:
Lad with a tallystick;
The sharp “Hundred!”, swift “One!”;
The bright knife’s careless nick.
Movement flows infinite;
Small sounds that never cease;
Pulsing of dusty light:
And yet, peace within peace.
N.S.W.
R. P.


“X.E.D.”: Long Charlie, though a
good carpenter, was noted for cantanker-
ousness and downright independence.
Sam, putting him on to build a house, de-
cided to fetch and carry for him in hopes
of getting the work done quickly. But
one day, with the roof half on, Sam caught
Charlie in the act of packing his tools.
“What’s wrong?” asked Sam. “Ain’t
the wages an’ tucker satisfact’ry? Or the
timber not the sort y’ like f’r this kind of
buildin’? Or am I makin’ a nuisance of
meself tryin’ t’ give y’ a hand?” “No,
it’s not that,” muttered Charlie. “But
I ain’t worlAn’ f’r a cove wot don’t respeck
a man’s feelin’s. Y’ve been whistlin’ all
the mornin’.” “Well, so have you been,”
Sam said. “Yair, I know,” replied Charlie.
“But you was whistlin’ the same chune
as I was.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Notaden”: It’s quite a long while
since we had one of those exciting bunyip-
tiger-crocodile scares which used to bring
such good dividends to our local corre-
spondent. The last that I can retail was
the Bega (N.S.W.) tiger, which, about
1940, growled and barked in a swamp
until some kind person chucked in a feed
of fish, and it shut up for good. Vic-
toria’s Tantanoola tiger turned out
to be a calf, and the later Colac
one a wild pig. Westralia has ap-
parently had no tigers since Van
Raden, a Dutch skipper bound for Java,
landed near N.-E. Cape about 1640 and
reported having seen tracks, Hamilton
Hume, the explorer, seems to have
started the bunyip fashion in 1821 with a
yam about a hippopotamus near Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), but failed to collect the
reward offered for any identifiable bits of
it if he couldn’t get the whole animal. An
alleged bunyip skull from the Murrum-
bidgee in 1836 turned out to be that of a
diseased calf. In 1886 one was reported
from the Molonglo River, near to the
present site of Canberra, as big as a dog
and with a child’s face; but a lot of
far queerer yarns have come from that
locality since. Come on, fellow-Aboliars
—start something!
* * ♦ *
“Betcha”: Before putting his hard-
earned cash into a place of his own Andy
“If you re not satisfied with the accommodation, why don't you leave?"
took a job with an outbacker to learn
practical farming. Riding round the
paddocks one day he came on a just-
dead bull. But beyond dismounting to
give the carcass a confirmatory kick, he
thought no more of it till a week later,
when the boss mentioned the disappear-
ance. Then, hearing of the death, the
employer hit the roof. “Look here,
m’lad,” he boomed, “y’U never make good
at this job unless you remember always
to report the losses to the man you’re
working for, see?” Later Andy acquired
his own property and some time after-
wards he ran into his old boss. “Yair,
gettin’ on as well as the next bloke, I
s‘pose,” Andy replied in answer to the
other’s query. “And I haven’t forgotten
them things y’ taught me. In fact, I’m
just on me way to the post office now
with one o’ them reports.” The old
boss looked puzzled. “The losses,”
Andy explained. “Just sendin’ a wire to
Chif. that another of his cows is dead.”
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gip”: Another instance of the ener-
vating effect of the N.Q. climate.
Ambrose Boyd was droving cattle from
Laura to Mt. Garnet. Before daylight
one morning he went to get a horse, but
what he took to be a recumbent prad
turned out to be a bull, which charged,
goring him in the back. Weak from loss
of blood and in great pain, Boyd started
to ride to Brooklyn station. After
covering 25 miles he met another drover,
who rode with him the remaining 52
miles. From Brooklyn he was conveyed
by sulky another 30 miles to Mt. Molloy,
from where a motor-truck took him to
Mareeba Hospital, 20 miles distant. Four
days had passed. In hospital it was
found that the bull’s horn had punctured
a lung. In previous accidents Boyd
had had both legs and arms and a
shoulder broken and had lost an eye.
Yes, he is back on his droving job again.
* * * *
“Bo”: Little was burly, slow-spoken
and slow to anger. Longman, his neigh-
bor, was short and wiry and fiery-tem-
pered. Little still had plenty of timber
on his property and lately had been split-
ting a lot of fenceposts from it. Long-
man had no timber to spare on his.
Nevertheless he was putting up a new
fence on his southern boundary, and he
was using split posts —and Longman
never bought anything he could get any
other way. One day Burcher, Longman’s
neighbor on the other side, said to Little
“That sawnoff cow’s half-inchin’ your
posts. Why don’t y’ give him a hiding? The
swine’s overdue for one.” Little not only
took no action, but went out of his
way to carry a huge load of posts up
towards his boundary fence. As these
gradually went off Burcher weighed in
with more advice. “I’m goin’ to give him
a hiding,” responded Little slowly, as,
sweating profusely, he finished stacking a
huge heap of posts by the fence; “but
Vm wearing him out first!”
*.* * ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: The queerest
music I’ve heard is dispensed by the bam-
boo orchestras of the Sepik River tribes.
Those surly, well-built headhunters, who
are a different race from the rest of the
N.G. natives, vamp their lullabies with
their thick, protruding lips encircled
around a long hollow 2in. diameter bam-
boo. The opening bars start off like a
deafening chorus of horse neighs, but as
suddenly that breaks down and gives way
to a crescendo of myriads of bumble-
bees approaching on horseback; then all
sorts of noises follow, ranging from a
jack donk’s hee-haw to a cockatoo in
trouble. In the middle the music stops
with a snap to allow a deep-throated wail,
then more conglomerated symphony,
which invariably ends in something re-
sembling a turkeygobble and a horse’s
sneeze. The tune is repeated again and
again. At Magendo village, where the
civic band turned out to disturb the
mosquitoes on our vessel tied to the
river bank, I asked the conductor,
after an hour or so, if he could play
something different. Every tune was
different, he explained ; the last was about
a dog, the one before was about a pig,
while the first told of a Mary being
“ He's all out to beat his previous best break — five!”
attacked by a crocodile. On our last
trip up the river with Sepik police boys
as passengers, I told them that “one new
fella masta ’e like hearem some fella
sing-sing belong Sepik.” That was
enough. Those coons in relays played
on the forecastle incessantly for two days,
and we never tired of their quaint synco-
pated symphonies.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’1”: For hardness few
Australian timbers can rival the so-
called ironwood which grows on Cape
Barren Island, that huge windswept
lump of dirt to the south’ard of Flinders
Island, Bass Strait. A small yellowish
tree, resembling an olive in leafage, its
closegrained reddish timber was in by-
gone years used by straitsmen for making
dead-eyes, sheaves for blocks, fife-rails
and even belaying-pins. They tell you in
the strait it was once exported to Tas-
mania for constructing naves of cart-
wheels and also mallets, planes and furni-
ture, as the wood’s close grain takes a
high polish. But with the. passing of
wooden sailing ships and solid furniture
that was made to last, the demand for this
exceptionally hard and pretty wood is to-
day almost non-existent. In fact, the only
people to sing its praises these times are
the quaint Cape Barren halfcastes, descen-
dants of the early sealers. They make
hammer handles of it, and thole-pins (used
in place of rowlocks) for their dinghies.
* * * *
“Narrin”; It was a hot afternoon, and
about the only moving things round the
homestead were the kids who were play-
ing on the verandah with a cylindrical
metal object. When the sun got round
far enough to flood the verandah even
the nippers gave it best, and, leaving their
toy, mooched off to find a patch of shade.
Shortly after they had gone there was an
explosion that sent the fowls shrieking
from their dustbaths and brought Mum
rushing out to find that the kitchen win-
dow facing on to the verandah was shat-
tered, and on the sink, clean across the
room, were pieces of twisted metal. No,
it wasn’t a souvenired grenade, although
in a sense it was a war relic: the store-
keeper had been selling off the reserve
(stock of comestibles that he was once
forced by law to keep against an emer-
gency. Mum had bought some tinned
pears, and, finding a tin badly blown, had
left it out on the verandah until the cool
of the evening. The sun, expanding the
gases inside the container, had done the
rest.
“Osby”: On our way over to Marshall’s
we pulled up at Bill’s trough to give the
nags a drink. We were discussing with
Bill the weather, crops, bank-interest
rates and associated subjects, when Echo,
Bill’s abo. stockman, stepped forward, im-
pelled to speech at last by the bright red
handkerchief stuck in the breast pocket of
Tom’s coat. “You very much like my
Molly,” he said slowly. “She likes any
color, too, as long as it’s red.”
* * ♦ *
“Propalong”: “Yair, boss,” groaned
Two-Sunday Jimmy; “plenty sick-feller-
beljy longa me too much walkabout,
raakem me yackai, lie down allabout. ..”
“ ’Struth, Jimmy,” the boss interrupted,
“y’ do look crook. Bad thing this, longa
stomach. Don’t want it spreadin’ through
the camp either. Listen, you come up
longa house, gibbit you medicine.” Jimmy
followed warily and waited at the fence.
Presently the trump came out, a brim-
ming pannikin in each hand. “Here, get
this into y’,” he ordered. Jimmy took
the pintpot and sniffed suspiciously. No,
it wasn’t Epsom salts and it wasn’t senna
tea, so down it went. The boss proffered
the second pannikin, and Jimmy swigged
down a pint of cream-o’-tartar and water
to join the solution of baking soda he’d
just engulfed. The boss leaned thought-
fully against a post and searched for
tobacco and papers. Jimmy looked at
him, his eyes rolling. There was a noise
like the birth pangs of the daddy of all
hiccups and Jimmy’s stomach heaved with
a convulsive jerk that travelled right to
the crown of his head. A second later
the abo. malingerer was rolling on the
ground, pounding his visibly dilated
stomach against the red earth, frothing
at mouth and nose. The boss hitched up
his pants, relit his cigarette and strolled
inside. Next morning Jimmy was at the
saddle-room with his prad when the
trump appeared and made grave-faced
inquiries about “guts longa you.
“A’right, boss,” said Jimmy hastily, div-
ing for a girth. “He a’right—true-feller
be a’right.” A minute later he led the
mob through the home paddock gate, and
he’s been singularly free from illness ever
since.
REUNION.
The trees are bare along St. Kilda-rqad,
Blue leaf-smoke rises from nostalgic fires
And constant Yarra, with its turbid load,
Drifts slowly seaward past cathedral spires.
Do gulls still scream along the river bank,
Where ragged palins the scudding winter
meet?
Does sunlight scurry where the pavements flank
The subtle grace of stately Collins-street?
Crowds, I imagine, hurry for their trains
Past Young and Jackson’s comer; others
pause,
Reminded but a quarter-hour remains
To six—when Mother Grundy bolts the
doors...
My heart, beyond the bow-wave racing, longs
To beat in tune with all the youthful past—
My feet are restless for the Dandenongs;
The tall grey bush its native spell has cast.
Will you be waiting on the windy docks,
O girl of mine, at Melbourne’s dreary port?
Or shall you meet me at the station clocks,
With all these years but dreaming—as we
thought!
VICTORIA.
JOHN BECHERVAISE.
“Dusty Bob” on a slab of Boldrewood
(history: —
Neither “Captain Moonlight” nor any other
bushranger lifted the big mob of cattle re-
ferred to by “Herbert Dawson” (B. 10/4/ 46).
The duffers were station owners, and their
stockmen mostly relatives. It was the custom
in those days to muster the herd in the winter,
brand the calves and cut out the fats and start
them to market. The men who got away with
this lot built a two-rail stockyard not far from
where Nevertire now stands. They gathered
the fat bullocks from neighboring stations —
mostly Lawson’s —before the usual winter
roundup began. During the day some tailed the
ones on hand and yarded them at night.
Others scouted round for more. After about
a fortnight’s gathering they set out for Adel-
aide. It was a good effort to drove a mob
of cattle across country that distance in those
days; but those fellows were neither city nor
newspaper bushmen. Lawson had been dis-
posing of cattle for years, and when the duffers
were tried for selling some in Adelaide with
his brand on there was no certainty that they had
not been sold by him some time or another.
But it was another matter when they took
Lawson’s stud bull. He could be and was
sworn to. However, the eldest brother swore
that he had posed as the owner of the cattle
and that the rest were simply hired men. It
was a long way from the scene of the duffing
to where the trial took place, and his plea
stood good. The Lawson mentioned was the
companion of Wentworth and Blaxland in their
exploration across the Blue Mountains. They
all got grants of land for that feat. Went-
worth got his on the Macquarie; his head-
quarters were where Narromine now is.
Lawson’s was lower down the river. Blax-
land took land on the Castlereagh where Gular-
gambone is now. Anyway, bona fide bush-
rangers did not bother with cattle. Boldre-
wood’s Starlight is a mixture of Gardiner,
Ben Hall, Midnight and one or two others
whose names are of no consequence. Of course
Boldrewood’s hero had to be an Englishman —
no beastly colonial would measure up to stan-
dard. In reality all “successful” ’rangers were
native-born. The imported ones were as big a
failure as “Captain Moonlight.” They could
neither ride nor find their way through track-
less bush like the native-born.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: i BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
OUNNAMULLA; TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
wai
\ i
«;.v \\*
«5 \V,
■TCT.
W.
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very attractive, and some pur-
chasers have reported thpir full
outlay in one season.
MAXIMUM COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS.
ds
The patented Coupling is the only one on the market that has
positive flexibility for it can be coupled in any direction to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight. The patent outlet
enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions without stopping either tne
pump or the motor. Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres,
TUBERS? MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO., “IVSST &
Agents: SMITH & GLUYAS PTY., LTD., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977,
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY., LTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Box 21 South
Brisbane. ’Phone, J 1456.
WELLING & CBOSSLEY PTY., LTD., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. ’Phone, MX4889,
PASCOE & CO. PTY., LTD., 282 Port Road, Woodvllle, South Australia.
MSI 954
r&Sf&m
V*
m
M
if I*
n
7mm.
4 wnr«
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CYanocaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem... the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
fsd
fds
JtfST RfGRT fffp
t
ItGHTWftGHT, LOSSiCi
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . • ask
first for an Airwayl
■j.
Made by FORD SHEWNGTON LTD.
McmJacftiws* ol CIO BITE Travel Casev
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Brands.
“Murrawong”: New Zealand has taken
a step towards .eliminating unsuitable
branding fluids (B. 24/4/’46). Legisla-
tion which comes into force today,
May 1, will control the marketing of all
wool-marking fluids, and manufacturers
will have to submit their products to the
Maoriland Department of Agriculture for
practical tests to ensure that the sub-
stances used will scour out of the wool.
After that date all wool-marking pre-
parations must bear a label signifying
official approval.
In order to cut out the use of linseed
oil, turpentine, etc., which cause pigments
to set hard and prevent their scouring
out, the regulations provide that no sub-
stance other than a clear volatile solvent
that has no injurious effect on the wool
shall be mixed or added to any wool-
marking preparation.
While these provisions should safe-
guard the manufacturer, the grazier’s re-
quirements appear to be ignored com-
pletely. He brands a sheep for identifica-
tion, and, as a rule, demands that this
brand remain visible for the longest pos-
sible period. A brand that will scour out
easily and may be 100 p.c. suitable from
the departmental point of view may
wash out of the fleece with the first
shower; it would be a waste of time and
money to use it for branding the sheep.
The ideal branding fluid has to satisfy
both parties.
Tests With D.D.T.
“Archaps”: At Rannes Station (C.Q.),
re-infestation of ticks was prevented for
at least nine days and re-infestation of
buffalo-fly for four weeks with D.D.T.
The tests were under the supervision of
L. F. Hitchcock, a senior research officer
for the C.5.1.R., and his assistant, W. R.
Home. The 3000 gal, dip was filled with
soft water, to which was added 3001 b. of
a proprietary preparation containing $0
p.c. D.D.T. para para isomer. The
strength of the charged dip was 0.5 p.c.
D.D.T, p.p.i. Eighteen hundred Hereford
and Shorthorn cattle—400 grown bul-
locks and bulls, 500 breeders and 900
mixed cattle, nine to 24 months old —
were dipped on February 8 and 9. The
weather was normal—hot and humid,
with a shade temperature of 98 deg. F.
The cattle, heavily infested with buffalo-
fly and lightly infested with ticks at all
stages of growth, were restless and tired
out with the worry of the buffalo-fly.
After dipping they rested in the cooling
paddock in a comfortable position. Every
tenth beast dipped was ear-tagged, and
drafted out for control observations, and
kept together in a paddock for tick in-
spection every day for 14 days after
dipping. Approximately lOOOgal, of dip
mixture was used, at a cost of under 6d.
per head.
On February 23, 16 days after the dip
was first charged—-during which period
the mixture had not been interfered with
—the dip was stirred up and 105 head of
fresh cattle dipped. The kill of ticks
was similar to the earlier kill and the
kill of buffalo-fly 100 p.c. The material
in the dip apparently remained reason-
ably stable during the whole period, re-
quiring only thorough stirring after being
left standing. Damage to cattle through
scalding or overheating was negligible.
The tests indicated that after several
dippings in D.D.T. the buffalo-fly would
be almost completely eliminated, but they
cannot be taken as conclusive, although
so far they are most encouraging. J. L.
“Now, just give her a whiff of chloroform and I'll be set.”
Wilson, chairman of the cattle committee
of the United Graziers’ Association, con-
ducted the tests at his own expense.
“Gip”: A. C.Q. grazier has beaten the
scientists with an effective tick-control
from D.D.T. P. Elliot, of Gin Gin, has
brought his discovery to perfection and
is only waiting for a patent before putting
it on the market. His formula merely
involves the use of less arsenical fluid and
the adding of his own preparation. The
extra cost will be only about Id. per
beast at each dipping. The C.S.I.R. will
conduct experiments in the Rockhampton
district in the near future, and Elliot is
confident of success.
Minerals Essential.
“Plane Creek”: Mineral lack leads to
many stock disabilities ; at best it retards
growth and causes nervousness. A heavy-
milking cow loses minerals in her milk,
and unless they are steadily replaced her
health must suffer. Most obvious sign
of the lack is chewing of old bones and
rubbish, but some cows suffer from
“cripples” and sterility. The pregnant
cow has to find the necessary minerals to
build up the calf whilst retaining some
for her own use. Lack of minerals is
certain to leave its mark on the calf.
Our pastures are short of minerals as a
rule. Top-dressing with super, not only
renovates long-standing pastures but im-
proves their food value. It is unnatural
for stock to be “bad doers” ; there is
always a good reason for failure to thrive.
A Queensland expert recommends the
following lick: Dicalcic phosphates 601 b.,
fine salt 401 b., potassium iodide 3oz. Mix
salt and phosphates together, then add the
pot, iodide dissolved in water. Heavy
milkers should receive two large table-
spoons of the mixture daily in chaff. The
addition of a little thin molasses will
make it more attractive.
Useful Parasite.
“P.R.A.N.”: Here'and there in North
Queensland is to be found a parasite
coccid exercising a measure of control of
nutgrass. This insect is a species of
Antonia, probably australis, and is
found underground on the nuts of
affected plants as a whitish speck. This,
on being pricked, exudes a small globule
of red fluid. Indications of its presence
may be noted by a yellowing of the
leaves. Where the area is heavily in-
fested, allowing the coccid opportunity
of easy access to fresh roots, multipli-
cation of the insect will result in the com-
plete eradication of the nutgrass therein.
The time occupied in doing so is usually
around three years, but that period may
be shortened somewhat by planting
affected nuts at closer intervals, say one
to every square yard. Coccids have also
been noted as parasitic on Rhodes and
Para grass on the tableland, and on ordi-
nary couch at Charters Towers and
Townsville. This species has not been
accurately determined but is thought to
be distinct from that attacking the nut-
grass.
Pig Raising.
“Rooster”: As a sideline pigs are a
paying proposition—but only when prop-
erly handled. Three essentials for
ful breeding are; (1) airy and weil-laid-
out sties, (2) balanced feeding, (3) selec-
tion of pure-bred boars.
Sties should be on a rise to allow of
proper drainage, the roof fairly high,
walls not too high, but solid. Floors, if
of concrete, require wooden platforms.
In windy weather protection can be ob-
tained from a rolled hessian screen sus-
pended from the eaves to the tops of
the walls. The sties should have each an
independent gate leading on to an overall
passage, with a race at one end for
loading.
Balanced feeding means healthy litters.
Suckers may fatten on pollard and skim-
milk, but it is a flabby fatness, not popu-
lar with buyers. Maize cobs, root crops,
windfall apples, reject potatoes give good
results. Plenty of pasture-run is a guar-
antee against disease. A submerged con-
crete bath enables the pigs to keep clean.
Selection of breeds needs care. Climatic
conditions and “touchy” markets deal un-
favorably with some crosses. Generally
the best backfatters and porkers come
from the Large White boar and the
Tamworth sow. The former is virile,
the latter extremely hardy. Most markets
favor these long backfatters, and their
rate of growth, if properly fed, makes it
possible to have all-the-year-round con-
signments.
“Safe” Wheat Areas.
“7346”: Using medians instead of
averages N.S.W. Soil Conservation people
have brought out some facts which alter
the whole conception of what are safe
or -unsafe rainfall districts for wheat-
growing. In most of the so-called “mar-
ginal” areas reliable rainfall records are
available for only comparatively short
periods, with the result that the “aver-
ages” are often misleading. It is im-
portant, too, to study not only the
annual medians but also the monthly
medians from March to September if
wheat-growing be contemplated.
Explained in simple terms, where rain-
fall records have been kept for (say) 20
years, if more than Sin. has been re-
corded in any 10 of those years and less
than Sin. in the other 10, then Sin. is the
median rainfall. It is argued from this
that, as far as the records can be taken
as an indication, it is even money that
in any future year the rainfall is just as
likely to be under as it is to be over Sin.
—although the average may be as much
as 12in. or more as a result of a few
freak heavy falls, which may have done
more harm than good, anyhow.
Of course, the longer the period for
which records are available the closer the
median approaches the average; if
records were available for 1000 years
or so they would practically coincide.
Many a ruined wheatfarmer in “mar-
ginal” areas wishes today that these
aspects of rain expectations had been
pointed out to him before he pioneered
his mallee block on the fringe of the
safe country.
A Combination.
“Plane Creek”; My experience is that
grass and trees together are better than
trees alone for preventing erosion (B.
3/4/’46). In a heavily-timbered paddock
in this C.Q. coast district, with a 60-70 in.
rainfall, gullying and scouring are going
on apace since the paddock’s owner has
overstocked the natural grass to death.
On similar country, where there has been
no -overstocking to destroy the grass,
there’s no sign of gullying.
Thick grass pfevents swift runoff which
carries off surface soil; it also takes up
a considerable quantity of water through
its roots. The thick carpet of fallen
leaves that is seen under trees where no
grass is growing offers little resistance to
rushing stormwater; the leaves are car-
ried downhill and the surface soil with


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL TERRITORY.
No. 5 of 1945.
IN THE MATTER of GREENWOOD & LAWS
LIMITED, a New Guinea Company.—TAKE NOTICE
that the Judge of the said Court has by an Order
dated the 2nd April, 1946, appointed RICHARD
ARTHUR LAWS, of 211 Military Road, Cremorne,
in the State of New South Wales, Australia, to be
Official Liquidator of the abovenamed Company.
DATED this Seventeenth day of April, 1946. —H. T.
MACREADY & ERIC JONES, Solicitors for the
Liquidator, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney,
/
2
->•«*' 1
AFTBh
0F Work
THIS VETERAN CARRIES OH
terpilkrM
V?
¥.l
THIS Caterpillar Auto Patrol has an
80-mile beat and its average fuel
consumption through many busy years
has been about l\ gallons per hour. In
this case it saved 60% on fuel cost and
has done twice the work of the unit it
replaced! And it is still going strong!
The majority of Australia’s roads are
war-weary and inadequate for post-war
requirements. Thousands of miles of
our roads await the repair that will
turn them into safe, modern highways.
Ready to get on with this job, to do
everything from grading to all types of
maintaining, are proved Caterpillar
Diesel Machines, made to meet the needs
of your district. To-day’s Caterpillar
Motor Graders are built with still greater
resistance to wear and breakage. Backed
by a bank of experience no other
machinery-builder in the world com-
mands, "Caterpillar” is the sturdiest and
most economical equipment to "move,”
or maintain, a road.
Dtesei
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS°”a nd CATERPILLAR EARTH ■ MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributers for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
r .j„ DJ St Peters Sydney. 'Phone—LA3 321. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
S'. Mr J AMte, 57 Cambridge Si.. Soaib Srallaa. Mr. R. Tvaadh. Pori Maaqaaria.
■Mone-Jorf Macquarie St. Mr. D. McDaagatl, 96 Rinaaid SI.. Wasqa. Wone—2B39. (02 Me/so«™e Sf.,
Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St.. Inmsfail. Phone—lnmsfail 475.
’em. But thick trees, whether associated
with grass or not, give grazing land abso-
lute protection from wind-erosion.
Stony Land.
“E. 2”: A neighbor, having a wide ter-
race of stony land that carried a sparse
growth of fern, wattles and some kan-
garoo grass, set about improvements. A
sledge with a boxlike frame was found
best for carting the floaters, which were
dumped in small heaps in the hollows
and an adjacent gully. The paddocks,
of moderate slope, were cleared of stumps
and logs, as well as the floating stones,
and the land, uncultivated, lay bare and
dotted with sunken boulders and a num-
ber of gravel ridges.
This climate (n.-e. Vic.) is benevolent to
clovers, ryegrass and cocksfoot, and a
mixture was sown broadcast, the clovers
being white Dutch and sub. A heavy
dressing of super, was broadcast. The
pasture got away to a good start with
convenient falls of rain, and stuck to it
hardily through a cold and bitter winter.
A good spring put it further ahead, and
it was left to seed, light grazing being
permitted in the following late autumn.
Now, a couple of years later, the ter-
race provides excellent grazing. It is not
overstocked at any time, so that it doesn’t
become bare during a dry spell, thus
ensuring cover for quick growth when
the weather breaks. It will get even better
as lime goes on, for the outcropping
boulders are becoming noticeably fewer
as the grasses lift a blanket of rich soil
over the stone.
The Farm Garden.
“Pat O’Day”: Autumn is the time to
put it in order and make ready for the
season ahead. On the N.S.W. south-west
slopes, for instance, farmers are now tak-
ing advantage of the ideal season to plant
lawns, additional shrubs and fruit-trees,
A single-furrow plough and a quiet horse
accomplish wonders, as it is practically a
one-man job, even if the garden runs to
an acre or more.
If lawn seed is sown now the young
shoots will establish themselves before the
heavy frosts set in. This month is also
ideal for shrub planting. Put fruit-trees
in well-drained positions. It is much safer
to cover the freshly-planted trees from
frosts (when they occur in May). Spring-
flowering bulbs should be planted now.
In the vegetable garden onions may
include the Brown Spanish type, Which is
excellent for storing. Grow plenty of
greens, including spinach. Edge the beds
with strawberries. There should be an
additional banking of soil, for straw-
berries spread during growth,
April is the time to cultivate around the
shade and ornamental trees. Some
should have their summer root covering
of leaves dug in and the soil about the
boles broken up.
Any ornamental trees in badly-drained
positions should be attended to by digging
a shallow drain about 3ft. from the base
of the tree.
Re-stake all young trees, such as the
cypresses, flowering gums, flowering fruit-
trees, etc., to protect them against severe
winds. Roses that have been pruned
should be carefully staked. Prune ger-
anium hedges and plant cuttings of them
in large flower-pots. Intersperse them
among deciduous trees, where the sun
will benefit them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bogan Joe”: Losses among turkeys
can be reduced if it is always remembered
that the germ which causes blackhead
disease lives in the soil and is carried by
chickens. Rotate the grazing ground
used by the turkeys and keep them away
from chickens. Movable brooders and
shelter pens permit easy movement to
fresh grazing ground, and the vacated
ground will produce better crops after
the turkeys go.
“Bennie”; When tobacco plants are
about 18in. high, the small leaves at the
bases should be removed. This permits
a better circulation of air around the
base of the plant and helps to keep down
many of the spot diseases during unsettled
seasons in North Queensland. It is also
an advantage to “prime” the plants
for the second time when topping is being
done. All leaves thus removed should be
put in heaps and burnt.
“Aperist”: When combining weak
hives or introducing a fresh queen to a
hive try a couple of drops of eucalyptus
on a scrap of cloth just inside the centre
of the entrance and a similar touch at
the top of the frames. Give the queen
just the faintest odor of it. Very pene-
trating, it soon has every bee smelling
of the oil, so that hostility, which in-
variably arises from the clash of hive
scents, is cancelled before it begins. Being
a good bush scent, the bees accept it
much more kindly than smoke.
“E. 2”: When closing down the apiary
for winter it’s advisable to contract the
hive entrances to one-fourth by lightly
nailing on pine boards. Cleaning up
around the hives may be done on cold
days, when the bees are inactive, and
paper stuffed in the entrances will pre-
vent irate bees emerging if a box is acci-
dentally bumped. Hoeing the weeds and
grass away will help to keep the sites dry.
“Steve”: A few years ago when the
growth of all herbage was almost as pro-
lific as it is this year, I had a serious loss
through marshmallow poisoning of sheep.
I had been cleaning up ewes heavy in
lamb, and, being unable to finish the job,
left about 60 in the yards overnight.
During the night they broke into an outer
sheepyard thickly grown with marsh-
mallows. Fully 30 died within a few
hours, and about a dozen more later.
Sheep are not usually affected, apparently,
unless they become hungry through being
penned for some time.
“Xob 33”; Don’t waste rich soil on
soya beans, which are a poor-soil crop.
A light loam suits them best, though they
will grow in most types of poor soil if
general conditions are favorable.
“Sundowner”: Advantages of the
spray dip over the plunge dip for sheep
lie mainly in saving of time and labor;
there is less possibility of the sheep
being injured, and they can be sprayed
at any time regardless of their physical
condition. Only serious disadvantage is
the present high cost of plant and instal-
lation, which together amount to almost
£1 per sheep. Also, owing to the number
of moving parts, there is rapid deprecia-
tion, and the plant is not foolproof, par-
ticularly where a poor-quality dip is used.
“Big Billy”: Over-shot jaw in sheep is
a hereditary condition, especially in in-
bred sheep. It is held by some graziers
that hand-feeding tends to aggravate it.
Another possible cause is weakness in
the hinge of the jaw, caused by eating
grain.
“Sarina”; A weak solution of blue-
stone and water is best for greasy heels.
Add sufficient bluestone to a quantity of
warm water to turn the latter a light-blue
color, and bathe inflamed feet with it.
If desired, the solution may be made up
and kept in bottles until required. Since
bluestone corrodes metal, the mixing
should be done in a copper or wooden
container.
“Bill C”: Experiments by Queensland
Agricultural Department prove the value
of rotational grazing on dairy farms—
the grazing of planted grasses when young
and succulent. A chemical analysis made
available to farmers reveals that, whereas
the proportion of crude protein and crude
fat in young, soft paspalum is around
20.4 p.c, and 1.6 p.c. respectively, in old
tussocky paspalum it is only 4.1 p.c. and
0.9 p.c, respectively. In Rhodes grass,
another standby of Queensland dairymen,
the drop in food value is from 16.4 p.c.
and 1.7 p.c. respectively to 5.8 p.c. and
1.2 p.c. respectively.
“Bennie”: Regardless of the time of
year, once a piece of land becomes
vacant it should be dug over and
manured, unless you want to plant a root
crop. Never grow a root crop on freshly-
manured ground, as the manure has a
tendency to make the roots fork. Culti-
vated soil left idle will grow weeds
readily, and the fertility will be extracted
by the weeds.
“Steve”: Sheep need a lot of clean-
ing-up this season, even after crutching.
As most stock are fat and heavy, it’s no
light task for the operator unless he is.
young and lusty. It takes a lot of
stamina to up-end sheep over a long
period. Try getting a youth or someone
handy to hold the sheep steady by the
head or neck whilst you clean them in a
standing position. It is necessary to be-
stride the animal’s hindquarters.
“Lub”: A dry, airy place is best for
storing pumpkins, and a netting loft in
a shed is hard to beat. Don’t crowd them,
but leave a space between so they are
not touching. Udder these conditions
the keeping varieties should last till
August,


VHSD
Hflt® 6
mm \
m
ICI
rBSIBIVUM* 5
Jack Dyer, captain-coach Rich-
mond, well known to football fans
as one of the best big men in
the Australian Rules game today.
While production of 1.C.1.
SHOTGUN and .22 RIMFIRE
CARTRIDGES is increasing
steadily, existing conditions
prevent full supplies at the
moment. Police permits arc
still necessary, but holders
must not be disappointed if
supplies are not immediately
available.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
91
SSSa
important message
to every employer
Your achievements in industry,
agriculture and transportation were
magnificent contributions to the
war effort and they gained for Aus-
tralia independence from reliance
on other nations to provide many
essential needs required to develop
our industrial and business poten-
tialities.
The present opportunity to de-
velop Australia, and your future
prosperity, was won by the skill,
courage and sacrifice of our Ser-
vicemen and women who are your
logical partners as co - equals,
executive officers and employees in
forging the great destiny of our
country.
The conditions peculiar to this
war developed great abilities and
values in our men and women.
These qualities can be translated
from those which won a war to
vital civil requirements in the
development of your business in
the»post-war period, for they cover
administrative ability, proficiency
in business management, and trade
skills of all kinds.
It was my privilege to serve with
the Army in the Field almost con-
tinuously throughout the war. I
lived with troops and shared their
hardships, disappointments and
achievements. Many opportunities
were available to me to observe and
appreciate the gallant work and
fine service of their comrades in
our Naval and Air Forces. I con-
sider the great ability and war
record of these men and women
establish them as truly representa-
tive of the best in our community^
a claim they proved by courage,
determination and devotion to
duty, which are essential qualities
you need in your employees.
We must not forget that it was
they who frustrated the plans of
tyrannical and sub-human foes to
control Australia, thus ensuring us
the liberty of a democratic people
to plan our post-war rehabilitation
in conformity with Australian ways
of life.
In your hands lies much of the
Serviceman’s future. I am confi-
fident he will, in turn, play an
invaluable role in the post • war
development of your business. He
can do so because he defeated the
enemy by his magnificent fighting
qualities, more competent plan-
ning, better administrative ability,
and greater skill in every trade
essential to maintain the momen-
tum of battle.
No support can be given to the
belief, which exists in some quar-
ters, that time spent in war service
has little economic value in the'
assessment of qualifications for
civil employment. Employers will
serve the national task of re-estab-
lishment and their own interests
by offering to ex-Servicemen and
women opportunities for the ap-
plication of enterprise, efficiency
and initiative developed by war
service.
Lieutenant-General.
CO-ORDINATOR OF DEMOBILISATION
AND DISPERSAL
cally battled against the proposal to trans-
fer so much German territory to Poland
to make up for that nation’s losses to
Russia in the East.
Russians in Paris.
(Report by a “Christian Science Monitor”
staff correspondent in Paris.)
With the Americans practically van-
ished from Paris, it would be expected
that no foreign nation would be particu-
larly visible. But it is now the Russians
who are taking over. They have bought
the best buildings and homes in the most
exclusive districts and the Red Flag hangs
from several in groups on these lovely
streets and boulevards.
Plenty of Russian officers are seen and
their uniforms are impeccable, made of
the finest material with plenty of gold
braid to dress them up and make them
look anything but proletarian.
| In the name of the Government or
the Embassy the Russians are swelling
their numbers with so many commissions
and departments that it is almost as
though a miniature Government had been
set up. They get diplomatic immunity
and, even more so, attention.
Thus in night clubs it is the Russians
who come in like the Germans used to,
spending money in the old Russian Im-
perial fashion and getting plenty of bow-
ing, scraping and good tables.
These are only a few apparent surface
signs of the Russian invasion of France.
After the Canadian espionage episode
what must be happening in France in an
unofficial way can hardly be imagined,
and French secret police circles will not
deny it.
So it is not only through the Commu-
nist party that Russia is moving in on
France. Through other secret groups and
finally through power display at the top
diplomatic levels Russia is on the ascend-
ance in France.
And in America
C From an article by Marquis W. Childs in
the Leftish N.Y. “Post.”)
According to latest estimates, there are
1458 citizens of the Soviet Union in the
U.S. The total includes 1009 officials.
This compares with a total of approxi-
mately 125 U.S. citizens in the U.S.S.R.
Included among the 125 are a few news-
papermen in Moscow and 15 to 20 Ameri-
can engineers on contract to the Russian
Government.
For the most part the Russians in
America live a completely seclusive life.
Their contacts with Americans are
limited, with rare exceptions, to formal
office relationships. To house Soviet citi-
zens in the New York area, the Russian
Government has purchased one of the
most beautiful and secluded estates on
Long Island. That, by a fine historical
irony, is the estate at Glen Cove of the
late I. P. Morgan, who typified the power
of American capitalism. In Washington
members of the Soviet Purchasing Com-
mission occupy an equally luxurious estate
of 24 acres, which includes formal gar-
dens and a pool, a superintendent’s cot-
tage and tenant’s house, greenhouses and
farm buildings, besides a mansion of size-
able proportions.
Outside Moscow, where the U.S. Em-
bassy has a staff of 50, the only U.S.
representatives in Russia are in Vladi-
vostok. There are a vice-consul and two
clerks, along with three naval attaches
and, during the war, two representatives
of the War Shipping Administration.
U.S. representatives in Russia are
rarely, if ever, permitted to travel out-
side Moscow. Even top U.S. military
attaches were seldom, if ever, allowed to
visit battlefronts or military installations
when we were allies during the war.
American officers sat in Moscow, fretting
and impatient, as time after time their
requests to visit the Russian front were
turned down.
Soviet representatives in the U.S. have,
of course, the same freedom of travel
that any American citizen has. They
can get on a train or ’plane and go any-
where. That applies to representatives in
When the British were advancing
across Germany a quartermaster-
sergeant was left to keep an eye on
a large camp of displaced persons.
By the time he was relieved it was
found that he had organised them
under strict military discipline, put
a guard on a German food dump
and drawn rations from it regularly,
gained the affection and trust of
those under his charge and read the
marriage service from his Anglican
prayer-book over a number of
couples who had omitted the cere-
mony. (“Well, if you aren’t mar-
ried there’s a lot of you ought to
be."). —London “Times" military
correspondent.
the U.S. of the Soviet news agency, Tass,
who move about freely while American
newspapermen in Russia are rigidly
supervised and their copy closely cen-
sored.
The fact is that the time has come,
allowing for differences in facilities, to
demand reciprocal rights. The Russians
themselves jealously guard their own
rights. They insist at every international
conference on having exactly the same
number of representatives as every other
Power. What must puzzle them is our
failure to insist on reciprocal rights anc
privileges. _
Debate on Church Parades.
(From London “Times” Parliamentary reports.)
In the House of Commons Mr. Dnberg
(Lab.) moved a new clause to provide
that no person subject to military law
or to the Air Force Act should be com-
pelled to attend any church parade or


time. “We can’t take any risks,” he said
at last.
“Righto, Alf, lock him up. Sorry,
son,” he called after Paddy. “Anyway,
the local police will be here soon.”
'"THE local police, and those noj so
1 local, at that moment were lined up
in a burnished squadron at the turnoff.
Straight ahead lay the Coolabarra-road,
a narrow ochre ribbon, and the main
highway swerved to the left.
A fine road, smooth and blue and wide
and dark with the morning’s rain, it
climbed gradually past Martin’s home-
stead and the dwindling orchard and
dipped suddenly into the hollow of the
lagoon, taking the short wooden bridge
in its stride ; from there it soared grandly
till it was lost in the blue of the far
Jurrabong hills.
A mist of rain was racing along the
ragged tops of the nearer hills, but the
lowering bank of clouds above it split
unexpectedly and the sun poured through.
“No sign of them yet, Sarg.?” the
Coolabarra man asked, peering up the
highway,
“Not unless they’re sneaking up behind
the timber —a sort of pincer movement,”
the sergeant said sarcastically. He was
becoming rather tired of the Coolabarra
auxiliary, an eager, tow-headed youngster
with a gift for asking silly questions. And
for the eleventh time that day he wished
he wouldn’t call him “Sarg.”
The sergeant dismounted from his
motor-cycle and made himself comfort-
able on the gnarled root of a gum which
towered directly above the Martins’ mail-
box. A nice place to boil a billy, he
thought.
“Would you boys care for a cup of
tea?” a voice broke in on his thoughts.
The sergeant looked up. Old Mrs.
Martin was standing at the small white
gate beaming at them.
“Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin,”
he said, and caught a glimpse of the man
from Coolabarra straining forward like
a greyhound on the leash.
“I’m afraid we can’t, thank you all the
same,” he said, and his face froze in the
stem lines of duty. “You see, we’re
going to meet the Governor.”
“That’s nice,” Mrs. Martin said
absently. “But can’t you come in—just
for a moment? The tea’s already made.
Sergeant,” she added temptingly.
The sergeant hesitated. The tow-haired
constable was looking suitably crest-
fallen, he observed. Well, a cup of tea
would do no harm. But he lingered a
moment, sadistically, when he saw the
rest of the escort crowding round. Then
he smiled, and his light-blue eyes kindled
with a genial light. “Thanks, Mrs.
Martin,” he said, and beat the Coolabarra
man to the gate.
THE Governor’s driver was puzzled.
This was the corner, no mistaking it.
And there were the escorts’ bikes; but
of the escort itself there was no sign. He
glanced at the swinging gate, and the
long, red-roofed house, and smiled his
comprehension. Tactfully he slowed
down and tooted with unnecessary
violence at a cow and calf half a chain
away. In the mirror he saw vague blue
figures tumbling out through the swing-
ing gate.
Farther down the road the escort
roared alongside. That lean sergeant sat
his bike like a cavalryman, the driver
thought. Rigidly erect, chin high, eyes
stonily level. The driver smiled and
accelerated
Sergeant McAlpine looked the part, as
Constable Carter afterwards remarked,
but his initial mistake shook his nerve
badly. The procession crossed the bridge
without mishap, and with proper pomp,
but when the sergeant came to the War
Memorial, where the bridge joined the
main street, the sergeant’s nerve deserted
him. The usual custom was to simply
turn to the left and so into town, but the
sergeant had a vague, fleeting impression
that on this occasion something more
formal was needed. He turned to the
left, wavered, then swung to the right.
Slowly he circumnavigated the marble
pillar, and scrupulously the procession fol-
lowed him. Then, for a panic-stricken
second, he hesitated again ; to go down
the main street would mean riding
through the tail of his entourage. In the
life of every leader comes a time when
an instant decision can make either
glorious victory or utter failure, when the
mind must seize its premises from the
confused phenomena of the present, un-
assisted by the past. This was the
sergeant’s moment. He turned his back
on the town and headed for the trucking-
yards, and the procession followed him.
Before he bad gone five yards the
sergeant realised his mistake, and tasted
the intense bitterness of humiliation. But
there seemed nothing else to do now, so
he kept on. And by this time the
sergeant had ceased to think.
IT was almost a week before Paddy
t succeeded in convincing his wife that
he had been the innocent victim of cir-
cumstances, and at least a fortnight before
he judged it politic to come into town
again.
He pulled up beneath the ancient pine-
tree. When he had last seen the
sergeant relations had been strained.
The sergeant’s excursion to the
trucking - yards had ruined Paddy’s
chances of being delivered from his in-
carceration in time to conceal it, and
Paddy had been bitter in his reproaches.
The sergeant had listened to them sourly.
“Well, it was your own darned fault,”
had been his only comment; and the
look he had given Paddy had been a
naked threat, «
The sergeant was enjoying a cup of tea
when Paddy went in. But his face
still wore its perpetual perpendicular
lines, as immutable and as authoritative
in their way as the three silver stripes on
his blue serge sleeve. More so, indeed,
for the stripes were faded, and the tunic
was hanging on the round peg beside the
Arson Act on the southern wall. The
sergeant was one of those rare officials
who do not look undressed when divested
of the symbols of power. Even in shirt-
sleeves and stout police-and-firemen
braces he was still the sergeant; senior
police officer between the two rivers, act-
ing inspector of dairies and slaughter-
houses and keeper-of-the-peace generally.
The sergeant slid his light-blue pupils
round to the left in a peculiar Arguslike
manner he had acquired from years of
practice; from observing malefactors,
probably, Paddy thought, guiltily drop-
ping his own glance from the sergeant’s
tunic.
“That’s the Arson Act,” the sergeant
said with a kind of heavy satisfaction.
“Not nearly as serious as bomb-throwing.
That’s a capital offence.”
The word “capital” had a dreadful
sound. Paddy rubbed the hair at the nape
of his neck, a hurried, worried gesture,
as though that portion of his anatomy
was already threatened. Surely the
sergeant didn’t really suspect him?
The sergeant’s face was long and
judicial. Then he smiled, and Paddy was
astonished at his own feeling of relief.
“It just shows you how careful you
have to be, Paddy,” he said. “Especially
with all these city detectives kicking
about.” His tone implied that he didn’t
have much time for detectives, anyway,
“Decent sort of a row up at the Shire
meeting the day before yesterday,” the
sergeant said. “You’re not the only one
who got thrown a bit off his balance the
other day,”
“Yair?” Paddy said, thinking about the
sergeant’s wrong turning.
The sergeant chuckled. “It all came
about through Tom Dempsey going to
the Governor’s luncheon party. Wandered
in as cool as you like and took a chair
next to the Governor. Nobody liked to
tell him to go. You know how can-
tankerous old Tom gets with a few rums
across his chest.” The gold teeth
flashed. The sergeant could afford to be
amused at Tom’s peccadilloes ; he never
had any serious trouble in Toomalong.
“Funny thing was,” the sergeant con-
tinued, “Tom and the Governor got on
real well. Turned out they were in the
same places in the last war,
“Anyway,” the sergeant went on, “it
started off a first-class row. In a couple
of days every organisation in town
wanted to know why they hadn’t been
invited. They’re still going hammer-and-
tongs. Then this business about the tree
came up.” t x
“What’s that?” Paddy realised that
he had sacrificed too much by staying
away from town.
“You know that old tree in front of the
Court House? Well, they were meaning
to cut it down for some time, but the
Governor said it was charming and
colonial or something. So Porter said it
wasn’t to be chopped down. But Sid
Griffiths said it was: and after they’d
had a really good row about it Sid said,
in a temper, he’d cut the flaming thing
down himself —and he did.”
Paddy grinned. “There seems to have
been a bit of a bombshell in Toomalong
after all,” he said.
“In a quiet way—yes,” said the
sergeant. His eyes twinkled. “We all
make goats of ourselves some time.”
“How would I go,” said Paddy, seizing
his moment, “for a couple of petrol
tickets?,”
religious service, which, he said, stood in
the names of nearly 200 members or
various parties. The purpose of the clause
was to abolish an institution which had
been the cause of irritation and distress
of conscience to many thousands of men.
Mr. Callaghan (Lab.) said that the con-
tinuance of this regulation was unneces-
sary for the purpose of discipline. It was
unfortunate that in King’s Regulations
and Admiralty Instructions divine service
took its place in Chapter 12 under the
heading of Discipline. The headings of
that chapter were: Summary Punishment,
Deserters and Absentees, Divine Service.
Major Bourke-Legge (C.): Surely the
whole basis goes back to 1645: “Let God
arise and let His enemies be scattered ?
Mr. Callaghan said he had been about
to suggest that it all went back to 1551,
in Clause 1 of the Act of Uniformity,
which said that all persons should attend
public worship on Sundays and holidays.
He was advised that every hon. member
who claimed to be a member of the
Church of England was liable to a fine
of ss. for every Sunday on which he did
not attend church.
Mr, Paget (Lab.) described church ser-
vices in the forces as “profoundly
irreverent,” and said they were regarded
by the men as nothing else but fatigues.
Mr. Prior-Palmer (C.) said that 95 p.c.
of a battalion of which he was given com-
nand had never been in a church when
they joined.
Mr. Lawson, Secretary of State for
War, said that at present attendance
at church was made a matter of mili-
tary duty. The proper way to secure the
object of the amendment would be to
cancel or modify the relevant King’s
Regulations.
The proposed new clause was nega-
tived.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The French Communists, a strong driving
dynamic force in the present French Govern-
ment and in French labor organisations, would
like to see, and Moscow would like to see,
in Spain the type of rdgime which the Red
Army has powerfully helped to install in Poland
and Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Rumania. This
would be a Government nominally based on
the coalition principle, but actually dominated
by Communists. But any such prospect is
calculated to send chills up and down the spines
of the men responsible for conducting the
foreign policy of Great Britain. A Soviet out-
post at the entrance to the Mediterranean
would be a body blow to every strategic con-
ception of British Empire security. A Com-
munist-dominated Spain would also not be a
happy prospect from the standpoint of any
rationally-conceived American national interest.
It would be an ideal clearing-house for an un-
limited amount of subversive anti-American
propaganda south of the Rio Grande. William
Henry Chamberlin; “Wall-street Journal.
* * * *
In an atmosphere of secrecy, enforced by
armed guards, the Combined Chiefs of Stait,
representing the United States and Great
Britain, continued in March their joint mili-
tary planning, although the war they were es-
tablished to direct had been over for more than
six months. Because the British are known
to have proposed that the Combined Staffs con-
tinue indefinitely, some in Washington feel that
the agency represents an informal British and
American military alliance which for the time
being accomplishes many v of the objectives out-
lined by Winston Churchill. N.Y, Times.
* * * *
One of the outstanding hoaxes of military
history was the myth of “precision bombing.
There was no such thing. Bombing was less
accurate than naval gunfire, artillery, machine-
guns, mortars, rockets, rifles, pistols or even
hand grenades. Direct hits were so rare as to
make news, even in Air Force communiques.
Nor was our bombing “precise,” as compared
with the Germans’. They had a bombsight so
much better than ours that it made their ordi-
nary bombardiers as good as our experts.—
—Senator Elbert D. Thomas, chairman U.S.
Senate Military Affairs Committee, in the
“American.”
sp * * * .
From both great branches of the Christian
church, Catholic and Protestant, have come
exhortations to seek peace, between and within
human societies, through the application ot
Christian principles of justice, mercy and
stewardship. Cardinal Spellman, addressing a
vast gathering of the Catholic community in
the Metropolitan Opera, asserted: “Faith alone
can survive and surmount the ruthless, mutin-
ous passions of pretenders to peace who pre-
sume the power to define and impose it. Peace
is the work of justice, and justice cannot yield
her ripe fruit of wisdom while freedom is still
shackled by the conceits of men who bar
peoples and nations from the mutual under-
standing upon which true peace must be based.”
The Federal Council of the Churches of Christ,
representative of the great majority of the Pro-
testant communities of America, issued a sober,
thoughtful and detailed report on “The Churches
and World Order.” Thus a great Christian
criticism of secular policy is forming—a criti-
cism the more powerful and influential because
if appeals beyond national or group interest
to principle and consideration of the long-range
welfare of humanity. The Christian churches
of America embrace a larger body of our
citizenship than any other organisations whatso-.
ever There are, for instance, nearly twice as
many Catholics as there are members Of both
great trade-union bodies. There are more than
five times as many Christian communicants,
counted altogether.— Dorothy Thompson, N.Y.
“Post.”
* * * *
Only a few months ago a group of con-
spirators was arrested for stealing out of the
U.S. State Department documents of value to
Two accomplices in the group were
fined. But two others were sent to Japan—as
State Department employees—to serve as
“advisers” to General MacArthur. N.Y*
“Journal-American.”
* * * *
First it was Secretary Byrnes on Russia.
Then it was Winston Churchill. The speeches
of both men swept away much sentimental
gush regarding our relations with the Soviets.
These speeches also advanced, paradoxically,
the cause of world peace. For they were
couched in the only language understandable
and respected in an age of power politics
the language of strength. Passivity and appease-
ment are breeders of war. We should ha.ve
learned that lesson after the expenence with
Hitler. The two-fisted approach, of course,
is no final answer to the problem of world
order. World order and world peace are the
fruits, in the last analysis, only of justice and
civic friendship among the masses of mankind.
But a show of power is useful at times in
bringing men to their senses. It is both foolish
and dangerous to believe that war between
Russia and the Western Powers is inevitable.
But it is equally foolish and dangerous to
imagine that moral appeals, or any sort ot
sentimental attitude, can solve our dimculues
with Russia. — Columnist Francis E. McMahon,
in the Leftish N.Y. “Post.’ 1 ’
* * • •
In cold,- practical fact, the U.S. Government
must take into account that other nations
are eager to get meat, as well.as sell, in Argen-
tina. There are growing indications that
Russia, despite her strong stand in San Fran-
cisco, is flirting with Argentina—and for a
very understandable reason: Argentina has
always been the nucleus of anti-United States
sentiment in the South American continent.
Buenos Aires correspondent N.Y. “Times.
♦ * * »
The clearing of Danzig may take years. The
city is a mass of gaunt, burnt-out buildings,
interspaced with great heaps of rubble. There
is nothing recognisable of the handsome
media;val Baltic city, with its fine patrician
gabled houses and magnificent buildings. The
Senate, the famous St. Mary’s Cathedral, the
palaces of the Teutonic Knights, all are nothing
but ruins. Danzig has been held by the Poles,
the Danes, the Teutonic Knights, the French
and the Germans. Its chequered career as a
“free city” is well known. For a thousand
years these nations have striven for possession
of this prize. Through it all somehow the city
remained intact. Now that it is a heap of
rubble it goes to Poland. — Manchester “Guar-
dian v special correspondent in Poland.
* * * *
During the war U.S. produced in three years
230,000 military aircraft as compared with
Detroit “News” (U.S.A.).
“The stolen secret paper says ‘Hold bomb
with sickle and hit small end with
hammer.'"
79,000 for Great Britain. ’Planes produced
during the war are now obsolete or obsolescent,
and security rests in large part on the new types
developed in recent months. American pro-
duction of such new types, however, has fallen
sharply that of Britain. For example,
in October, 1945, Britain produced 666 military
aircraft as against 470 —including gliders —for
the United States. In November the figures
were 347 for Britain and 256 for the United
States. Later figures for Britain are not avail-
able, but U.S. December production was 252
and January 164, which did not include experi-
mental ’planes. British schedules for 1946
call for production of about twice as many
military aircraft as U.S. is scheduled to pro-
duce. Even Australia, a country with less than
one-tenth the population of U.S., will produce
half as many military aircraft as U.S. will this
year.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The British are hard at work rebuilding.
Already 16,000 new houses have been built';
nearly 50,000 more are under construction and
99,000 'further sites already are developed.
By the end of 1946 new homes will be in full
flood. Every bomb-blitzed city has its plan
for a fine new layout. Great new arterial
roads stretch across the surveyors’ drawing
boards. The Government has approved a
gigantic plan to move 1,000,000 overcrowded
Londoners into some 12 new satellite towns on
the outskirts of the metropolis. Exports for
January, 1946, were worth £57,000,000, com-
pared with the pre-war monthly average of
about £39,000,000. But exports must come up
nearly to the £80,000,000 mark to draw level
with the pre-war era, since prices have about
doubled. —London correspondent “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
Speaking in Capetown at a luncheon of the
fund to help the people of Britain General
Smuts said he hoped to be visiting London
' as “the bearer of rich gifts from the Union
to the people of Britain.” He added: “We
have not got food now, but we have got
something almost as good—gold. With gold
they can buy food. I want to go to Britain
with my pockets full of gold. Mr. Attlee will
know how to spend the money.” Saying that
the “Thank you, Britain” fund had been a
fruitful move, the effect of which had been
astounding, he added: “We have earned a har-
vest of goodwill and thanks. An investment
has been made which will pay rich dividends.”
—London “Times.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Beauforts in N.G.
As well as being inaccurate, the com-
parisons drawn by “434328” (B.
17/4/’46) between transport and Beau-
fort flying in the Tadji (N.G.) area cast
an unmerited slur on the aircrews of the
Beaufort squadrons concerned.
The squadron which I commanded
moved to Tadji in the latter part of 1944,
and with the Beaufort squadrons already
there carried out operations in the sur-
rounding area until after V.P. day.
For months a large proportion of our
effort went into anti-submarine searches
of the area to seaward of Hollandia, then
packed*with ships awaiting the Philippines
invasion.
These patrols were carried out continu-
ously, day and night. All flying was over
the sea ; worse, it had to be done below
the cloud base, so that an attack might
be made should the occasion arise. With
weather forecasts for the sea area almost
100 per cent, unreliable, this frequently
involved flying slap-bang without warning
into torrential tropical downpours with
their accompanying severe turbulence.
Such an experience is no fun even in a
Douglas transport with its inherent
stability, with two pilots left fresh for
the occasion by an automatic pilot flying
the aircraft the greater part of the trip,
with good instrument-placing and light-
ing, and, best of all, with ample height
to lose, if necessary.
In an unstable Beaufort with one
harassed mortal sans “George” struggling
to bend both aeroplane and elements to
his will, straining to peer at badly-placed
and inadequately-lighted flight instru-
ments, knowing that only a small loss of
height will put the machine into the sea,
it is a nightmare—a nightmare shared
vividly by the other crew members.
Three Beauforts, with full crews, “went
missing” on night operations. Landing in
rain at night on return from one, a
fourth crashed and burned. And yet
“434328” asserts that “the Beauforts
never flew at night.”
When the necessity for them ceased the
night operations were discontinued and
the squadrons set about their steady task
of giving close air support to the Sixth
Division. The targets were jungle pin-
points, often tucked away in deep valleys
or among mountains, and large numbers
of aircraft had to be over the target area
at the same time, although the bomb-runs
were made individually in quick succession.
On these strikes there was no air
opposition and very little anti-air-
craft fire; but there were other hazards.
In mid-air collisions a number of crews
lost their lives. Others were killed in pre-
mature bomb explosions in mid-air, and
it was quite common for aircraft to return
holed in many places by shrapnel from
their own bombs owing to the low height
of release.
It is true that Beauforts were sometimes
grounded by “doubtful weather,” as
“434328” puts it. But we had to see to
bomb, and we had to have a cloud base
of at least 1000 ft. over the target to avoid
where possible the lethal radius of our
own bombs. Given these two conditions,
we carried out our strikes.
I do not wish to give the impression
that the Beaufort squadrons in Tadji
had an unusually difficult or dangerous
job. By and large, conditions there were
on the easy side, particularly in com-
parison with the black days of 1942. Still
less do I wish to detract from the de-
servedly fine reputation of the “biscuit
bombers” (R.A.A.F.), who had to drop
supplies in some very rugged and moun-
tainous spots and who lost two aircraft
doing it in the Aitape-Wewak area. But
dropping of supplies was only a small part
of the work of the transport squadrons,
just as night work over the sea was only
one aspect of Beaufort operations.
Stars or no stars, I think any squadron
medical officer with knowledge of the two
types of squadrons will agree that Beau-
fort work was more hazardous and
caused much more nervous strain to air-
crews.
Or, if “434328” prefers statistics to
opinions, I suggest he look at the casu-
alty lists. — Oscar, ex-266 (N.S.W.).
In a Private Hospital
An acquaintance of mine visited a
friend who had undergone an operation
in a Melbourne private hospital. The
room in which she lay was barely the size
of the average suburban kitchen, yet in
it there were three other beds, two
occupied by very sick post-operation
cases. One of these patients was being
kept alive with oxygen. In the fourth
bed were two children, strangers to each
other, with their heads at opposite ends
of the bed. They also were very sick
and were not being silent about it.
Although the patient whom my friend
was visiting had left the operating theatre
at least 24 hours previously, her night-
gown was unchanged. The mothers of
children admitted to this place were asked
to assist at their offsprings’ operations so
that they could do the unpleasant chores
resulting from the children’s nauseous
reaction to the business. The almost
medieval atmosphere was heightened by
the regular sweeping of floors with straw
brooms. Fees were 18s. per day, plus a
guinea for opening the operating theatre.
Apologising to a patient-whom he re-
luctantly admitted, a medico said “This
is really only a fifth-rate hospital, but it
is all I can get you.”
One would expect such conditions on a
battlefront but hardly in the suburbs of
an Australian city. Care of the sick is
one public utility which I would like even
the present Government to take over,
even at the expense of a few miles of
standard railgauge.— Squizz (Vic.).
Australian Films Abroad
It is no credit to Australia that our few
full-length feature films have contained
such a large proportion of trash. I once
saw an English country audience sit in
silence through “Dad Rudd, M-P.” No
one saw any humor in it —if there was
any.
The one good Australian film I saw
was a Department of Information produc-
tion,) “Australia at War,” shown to us
one night on a crowded trooper.
One of the British newsreel companies
covered the landing at Tarakan. This
“short,” given a universal release by the
British Ministry of Information, had a
wonderful reception. — Trebor (Q.).
Waiting
How many man-hours and woman-
hours are wasted every week in waiting?
We wait for meat, groceries, vegetables.
We wait in shop after shop to discover
that what we require is unobtainable.
We send for things by post, only to re-
ceive a Government form which we fill
in and return, and continue waiting.
A day’s repair work on an engine kept
our party waiting for six months. For
fencing wire or bore casing a moderate
wait is two years, and spare parts for
machinery and implements are nearly as
elusive.
Holding a high priority we ordered a
tractor, and settled down to a real wait.
Months dragged by. At last a shipment
of these tractors arrived in Melbourne,
en route to S.A. After three more
months seeding time is here and the
tractors have not budged an inch. They
will pull 20-hoe combines —but not this
year. Our plans and production schemes
must wait, and wait and wait. — Samphire
Sam (S.A.).
Dutch in the N.E.I.
Those of us who were made prisoners
when the Japanese overran the Nether-
lands East Indies applaud The Bulletin’s
advocacy of an inquiry into the circum-
stances in which thousands of A.I.K.
troops were abandoned in Java, Timor
and Amboina to death, disease, torture
and imprisonment. The United Kingdom
troops who were in Java would also like
to know why they were sacrificed to so
little purpose.
There are those among us, however,
who cannot reconcile The Bulletin’s
pressure for that inquiry with The Bulle-
tin’s tenderness for the Dutch. It must
be known by now that the Dutch land
forces offered no resistance to the Japa-
nese invaders. Ask any returned prisoner-
of-war what he thinks of the Dutch and
the answer will be consistently unfriendly,
even in the case of those who met the
Dutch only in Japanese camps in Burma,
Malaya and Siam.
It is all very well to sneer at “our
Indernesian comrades,” but do the editors
of The Bulletin ever pause to consider
that one of the greatest causes of In-
donesian hatred for the Dutch is the fact
that the natives believe their former over-
lords left them at the mercy of the
Japanese without an attempt at battle?
Thousands of us went into the N.E.I.
to help the Dutch defences. While we
were waiting to fight the Japanese—and
we did fight them—we enjoyed the melan-
choly spectacle of Dutch military per-
sonnel leaving for Australia. Those
Dutchmen who spent the war years in
the safe sanctuary of Australia were
paid higher than the Americans themselves
and enjoyed a preposterously high stand-
dard of amenities. Even now I and many
other ex-p.-0.-w. cannot get a flat in
which to live, but Dutch refugees are well
housed.
Since the Japanese surrendered more
British casualties have been incurred in
Java in the interests of Hollanders who
show no gratitude.— Gunner X (N.S.W.).
The Catch in It
While insurance against unemployment
alleviates hardship, particularly in the
case of married men in the districts of
seasonal work, such as the North Queens-
land seaboard, it is, like most things in
this topsy-turvy world, often abused.
Take the case of Jim, aged 18, a bone-
lazy young devil if ever there was one.
Work is plentiful, but Jim manages to
get the sack at frequent intervals in order
to live like a gentleman on the Govern-
ment bounty. Jim spends this on cigar-
ettes, beer and motion pictures, for his
dad is good-natured and keeps him sup-
plied with bed and board, and a growl
now and then by way of getting his own
back.
Apart from the injustice of it, getting
money for nothing is as bad for Jim’s
character as for that of a loafing son of
a millionaire. But short of establishing
an Australian equivalent to the Gestapo
I see no way of stopping abuses of this
kind. — Nordbo (N.Q.).
Outlawing ’Em
I wonder what a Sydney manufacturer
who was for some years in politics thinks
of that clause in the Victorian Annual
Holidays Bill which prohibits work for
reward during one’s holidays (B.
27/ 3/ ’46).
As a young man he was employed in
the N.S.W. Department of Railways. In
his leisure time he made leather belts.
During his yearly vacation he took ad-
vantage of the travel concession allowed
to employees on holiday to push sales,
and he thus gathered sufficient capital to
start what eventually became a substan-
tial leather-goods factory.
This good Australian did no harm to
anyone by utilising his free time as he
chose. The Victorian Bill would render
such conduct illegal.
Apart from being a gross infringement
of freedom, the clause is ridiculous.
Many who are free on Saturday mornings
take other work then. Other people, in
their spare time, breed poultry for profit,
write articles or stories, play in dance
bands, etc. Why should extra work of
this kind be legal and paid work in vaca-
tion time be banned? And how could
such persons be prevented from working
for reward in the latter period?— Sam
(N.S.W.).
His Majesty’s Mails
The conversion of an efficient and
economically-run Australian postal ser-
vice into a ruthless taxing organisation
is an unpleasant and disturbing feature
“Look, I'm sunk if I cant get our director a seat. Bet y a dollar y cant
finish in half a minute !” '
of the Molongloside form of “govern-
ment ” The unlikelihood of any improve-
ment was made fully evident during its
last brief and hurried session, when a
question as to whether the extra half-
penny “war” stampage impost would be
Ufted elicited a prompt and decisive nega-
tive. There can be few other countries
in the world where it costs just as much
to post a letter to an address in the next
street as it does to one ten thousand
miles away.
One particularly bad feature in the
change is that of reducing contract rates
for many country mail services to figures
which force the contractor into treating
mails as of secondary importance to
goods or passengers if he is to make
a living. Roadside mail delivery is
becoming an unimportant detail, tacked
on to any general carrying business that
will take it on. And “Unless you give
me your next season’s wool-carting you
can whistle for your mails” is becoming
an all-too-frequent alternative in the out-
back.
Complaints in such cases are useless.
The stereotyped official reply says that
the matter will be looked into. A week
or two later a visit to the roadbox on
“mail day” may draw a blank although
mail was expected. Next day, a neighbor
may turn up with a muddy wad of letters
and a squashed parcel found near his
gate, two miles further on. The official
explanation is that the mail was placed
in the box as usual and some un-
authorised person must have removed it.
Gone indeed are the heroic days when
“The Fizzer” swam flooded rivers to
keep the mails on time. Under the de-
partmental system of today he would
have to combine a general carrying busi-
ness with it before he could make a living
wage. — Atrax (Q.).
Australian Reference Books
Supplementing “Morehead’s” plea (B.
10/4/’46) for publication of Australian
reference books, I suggest as a prelimi-
nary :
(1) A weekly list of books and reprints
published in Australia, to include reprints
of overseas publications, care being taken
to indicate source of origin. We could
adopt something after the manner of
“The Publishers’ Circular” (London) or
the American “Publishers’ Weekly” ; the
former, in addition to its weekly list, pub-
lishes a monthly compilation in the
fourth issue of each month.
(2) Tfie foregoing to be supplemented by
quarterly and yearly cumulative lists. This
is the practice of Whitakers (of the
“Almanac”). In addition, Whitakers
publish, at two- to five-year intervals, a
complete catalogue of British books in
print. This saves time and effort, and
something similar for Australian publi-
cations is long overdue.
(3) To obviate the lists being merely dry
catalogues of authors and titles, compe-
tent articles on bibliography, printing and
publishing could be included. Local
printing is, generally speaking, far behind
reproduction in colors, although the latter
might be considered the more difficult
craft.
Until the Australian publisher knows
of a medium to which he can send his
announcements of new and forthcoming
books he must content himself with spor-
adic advertising. He has (by law) to pre-
sent a copy of each publication to the
National Library, Canberra. The National
Library publishes a quarterly list, but
for day-to-day reference it is of little use
to booksellers and public librarians, to
say nothing of the intelligent reader and
research student.
After the advent of some such scheme
as outlined, the foundation would
be laid for such useful reference books
as suggested by Morehead. The lib-
ranans and booksellers would have some-
thing on which to bite. scribbler
(Tas.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
7?w'^xtlZdx//i.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable, in advance (including postage)
18 months .. . • ..£l4O
6 12 «
3 » 70
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
18 months 15 0
6 * ®
8 40
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ~£l9O
Service Badges
The quality and general get-up of the
returned-frora-active-service badge issued
to me are symptomatic of the attitude
of the present Government to returned
servicemen. It weighs less than half the
weight of my 1914-18 service badge and
the material is cheaper. The relief is so
flat that a few years’ wear is likely to
make the thing unrecognisable. I can
still read all the inscriptions on the 1914-
18 badge without the aid of glasses, but
I need the cheap and clumsy spectacles
issued to me this time to be able to read
anything on the 1939-45 badge.
Altogether the impression it gives me is
that of a cheap trinket that would be
found in a nasty Japanese-manufactured
Christmas stocking of the old days. It
must have cost the Government fully
2s. 6d. a dozen.
Symptomatic, I repeat, because the
whole treatment of ex-servicemen is on
a par. The only increase in pay over the
1914-18 war rates is the shilling in the
deferred pay. Not even the glib Mr.
Forde can pretend that this represents
an increase commensurate with the depre-
ciation of our Australian currency.
In the 1914-18 war the Australian
soldier was the highest-paid in the world
and he was worth it. In comparison with
the Yanks and Dutch the Aussie soldier
of the late war is a pauper. I should
like to see Mr. Forde in an outfit pur-
chased for £11! —Ex-NX24520 (Q.).
Isn’t it time the Greece and Crete shows
were recognised as an integral part of
the Middle East campaign?
What would have been the result in
Africa and Palestine, when defences had
to be reorganised, when manpower and
firepower were low, had not the Anzacs
and British given Jerry hell and in the
process given the other armies time to
reorganise. Let these men have the
Africa Star; under present rulings
many of them are entitled to only
the 1939-45 Star. Let there be
an emblem similar to those issued to the
Eighth and First Armies to show in which
part of the campaign they served. S for
Syria, N for Army of the Nile, G over-
laid with C for the campaign which
saved u».—H.W. (Vic.).
Is American influence responsible for
the ribbon-happy attitude of present-day
Australians? Even topline generals are
not entirely free from the “gimme a badge
or a'ribbon” complex.
Why not recall all campaign ribbons,
R.F.A.S. badges and the like and strike
one type of badge and ribbon for issue to
all Australians who came through World
War 11, whether they were front-line
soldiers or wharfies who held up vital
supplies for overseas troops.
That should satisfy everyone. Of
course, in a few years there would be a
squawk from babes born a few seconds
after the cessation of hostilities. — Simon
Scrawler (Vic.).
Bar to Decentralisation
It is time some of these country towns
widened their outlook. Pride in their
municipalities is, of course, understand-
able and commendable, but inability to
see beyond the municipal boundaries,
an unfortunate counterpart of State
jealousies, retards progress.
In one southern town the council re-
fused a permit to a city firm to establish
a small branch factory on the ground that
it would, by its more attractive working
conditions, take labor away from the two
established local industries. This attitude
is by no means rare. Is it any wonder
younger people, especially those returning
from the services, are drifting to the
capital city?
It is certainly not encouraging to busi-
nessmen alive to the necessity for decen-
tralisation of industry to meet with lack
of co-operation and even antipathy to-
wards outsiders “butting in.” Surely de-
centralisation should be regarded as a
necessity and an asset, instead of a
menace. Country towns should be ex-
panding and radiating prosperity, instead
of slipping into obscurity as “ghost
towns,” as they surely will without a
decided change of feeling and outlook.
-R. E. (S.A.).
The White Plague
In spite of the fact that tuberculosis,
if diagnosed early enough, is almost 100
per cent, curable, and, in spite of the
fact that the X-ray can detect the first
faint onset of the disease, t.b. slaughters
more young men and women than any
other disease in this land of fresh air and
sunshine.
There is no simple cure, no penicillin
miracle ; yet if our scientists and doctors
never discovered another fact about it
they could wipe t.b. from the face of
Australia in a generation. Hbw? By
extension of the system of cheap mass
radiography which the Army has been
using for years, and by the provision of
sanatoria to house the tens of thousands
of cases which would be uncovered. Can
we afford to allow these people to go
about coughing and spitting millions of
invisible microbes out of their lungs, un-
suspectingly sowing a crop of death year
after year?
By the time a man displays the out-
ward symptoms of t.b. which cause him
to be X-rayed it is often too late to save
him. He finds himself at the back end
of a long waiting list for one of the two
or three inadequate State-run sanatoria.
If he can survive an average wait of nine
months he will get the medical attention
he desperately needs. The surgeons can
start their heart-breaking and often hope-
less task to save him. Sometimes they
are successful. Often they will be forced
to discharge him before his treatment is
complete, for it is a slow business.
A man can’t stay resting. He must
work. He can’t keep a family on a pen-
sion of 30s. under conditions necessitat-
ing a basic wage of £5.
It is out of the hands of doctors and
scientists now. It has become a political
matter, and it’s up to the voters to insist
that the scandal is cleaned up. We have
the tools —the medical knowledge, the
sunshine and fresh air. It can be done,
and it is being done in Canada. This
way:
(1) By compulsory X-ray of population,
including immigrants.
(2) By the provision of ample and well-
equipped sanatoria.
(3) By ensuring financial security for de-
pendants of t.b. cases.
It could be done for the cost of six
of the Lincoln bombers we are building.
—Austin Pneumo (Vic.).
Fish Shortage
In Victoria it is mostly due to wasteful
methods in Melbourne. At Apollo Bay,
Port Albert and other fishing ports along
the Victorian coastline quantities of barra-
couta are caught. They are cleaned on
the wharves and the guts and heads
thrown into the water, where they attract
sharks and gigantic stingrays, pollute the
water and frighten timid bathers.
The rest is sent to Melbourne, where it
is filleted and smoked and the bones
thrown into incinerators. Bones, heads
and certain other parts make magnificent
soup which is a delicacy in Europe. If
they were thrown into a vat and canned
on the spot they would almost double the
local fish supply to the housewife.
In the meantime Australia imports
mussel soup from Maoriland, which sells
like hot cakes for one "and nine a tin. —
Bumpkin (Vic.).
Australia’s Mineral Resources
The mineral resources of this continent
have hardly been touched.
Nearly all known minerals are found in
Australia, and there are many large de-
posits that with a daily throughput of say
3000 tons would pay well and employ
many workers. To mention a few: Mt.
Madden and Mt. Buchanan, at the head
of the Palmer in N.Q., where the lodes
are 100 ft. in width and assay up to
lOdwt. of gold to the ton. At Mt. Perry
there is a large lode carrying 3dwt. to
7dwt. of gold to the ton. A big lode
42ft. in width containing gold, silver, lead,
zinc and copper lies a few miles westerly
from Mackay. With modern methods of
mining and treatment all these deposits
could be made to pay. I have prospected
at least 12 deposits that would pay divi-
dends.
We still import mica, asbestos, red
oxide, aluminium, barytes and many other
substances used in industry that are found
in abundance in Australia.
Then again take our gem fields. Near
Inverell some of the best-quality diamonds
the world produces have been found. In
the same district are to be found sap-
phires equal to the' best from Burma or
Brazil, and they are found over a very big
area. Queensland has a large sapphire
field in the Anakie district. In 1920, 200
miners were getting a living there, and
this field, after lying dormant during the
war years, is coming into its own again.
Men are digging sapphires and two new
cutting plants have been put into opera-
tion.
To protect our gem industry it is neces-
sary for the Government to make it com-
pulsory for any person selling synthetic
sapphires to mark them plainly as such.
They can be turned out in huge quantities
in the laboratory and are chemically simi-
lar to real gems, but they are full of air
bubbles, splits or cracks, and compare
most unfavorably with real sapphires,—
Alex Strachan (Q.).
Queensland’s Delta Sail
Deltas of large rivers are usually con-
sidered to provide the richest agricultural
soil. In some lands the delta area is large
enough to accommodate most of the
country’s farms.
Queensland has already embarked upon
the cultivation of the Burdekin delta and
river flats, but the State’s largest areas
of such land still remain undeveloped and
almost unknown. I refer to the deltas
of the Normanby and Kennedy rivers,
which spread out in a maze of connect-
ing channels in the last 30 miles of their
“Found I had only half my quota of discharge
points .”
courses before entering Princess Charlotte
Bay, Cape York Peninsula.
A former Government geologist, Dr.
R. L. Jack, found evidence that in remote
times Princess Charlotte Bay ran back
inland 30 miles further than it does to-
day, so that the Kennedy and Normanby
rivers with their anastomosing tributaries
—seven permanent streams in all —made
separate entries into the sea. The area
has now been silted up by the great
volume of debris brought down by these
rivers.
This means that there are 1500 square
miles of land composed entirely of river
silt. How long would 960,000 acres of
land such as this remain undeveloped
and unoccupied (save for one huge cattle
station) in any other country?
Sixty years ago 12 blocks in this area
were surveyed for sugar plantations and
two “Town Reserves” were planned. But
the scheme came to nothing, and there
has been no such attempt since.
These Normanby-Kennedy delta lands
are not so very isolated. There are good
harbors within a dozen miles, and the
rivers themselves are navigable for small
vessels across the entire delta country,
which should make the shipping of pro-
duce easy. Further inland there are
thousands of square miles of treeless
grasslands, comprising some of the finest
grazing land in the State. The annual
rainfall is on the average 60in. The
climate is tropical but very healthy.
Experiments made 60 years ago show
that sugar, cottoli, peanuts, rice, coffee,
tea and tobacco grow to perfection.
Asa post-war settlement project there
could be many worse choices than open-
ing up these delta lands of Princess Char-
lotte Bay. A regular shipping service and
a road from Cooktown, connecting links
with Caims, and a few far-seeing men
are all that are needed. The country is
there. — Gip (N.Q.).
A Substitute for Coal
Australia’s greatest industrial problem is
to provide a substitute for coal, and so be-
come independent of the N.S.W. coal-
miner, whose ruling principle seems to be
to destroy the coalmining industry. It will
be impossible to achieve industrial sta-
bility while coal remains a key industry.
Atomic power may ultimately come to
the rescue, but meantime what is wrong
with hydro-electric power? The Great
Dividing Range, stretching from Cape
York to Port Phillip, and abounding in
torrential streams both east and west,
could be made the backbone of Eastern
Australia in more ways than one, sup-
plying sufficient power for farming,
lighting and general industry, not only
for present requirements, but for all the
expected expansion of the next 50 years.
—G.A.B. (N.S.W.).
Post-war Problems
I heard a man complain bitterly
that he had had 10 men working on his
dairy who, though paid and treated well,
one after another walked out. They gave
no reason; they either didn’t turn up or
sheepishly said goodbye. Most of them
were indifferent, casual, not even bother-
ing to collect what was owing to them.
The same thing happens in factories.
One girl goes off to learn dressmaking
or to serve in a milk-bar.
Invariably she is followed
by three, four or more of
her friends. They don’t
know why they go. They
“just feel restless, want a
change, can’t stay put for
long.”
In all these cases the
explanation is a psycholo-
gical one. The war is over,
but they are not condi-
tioned for peace.
I met a young soldier I
had not seen since the
Kokoda days. He told me
he had had a good job, but
it left him too much scope
for thought. All of a sud-
den he saw jungle-green
uniforms standing in a row
on each side of an open
grave—that of his friend.
“I just grabbed my hat,”
he said, “and I ran out.
I’ll just drift about a bit
before I settle down.”
He was right. They
should all be given time to
settle down. For some the
process will be hard and
long, but let us be patient
and understanding.
In the stark horror and
bleak misery of war these
men (and women, too)
dreamed of home, security,
little things like the dog
and the garden, the morn-
ing paper on the lawn
and the radio; above all, peace and
quiet for jangled, frayed nerves. They
came home to find other people
sharing their house, everything drab
and neglected, blackmarketeermg ram-
pant, a shortage of this and that. The
contrast between reality and dream was
too great, so they felt disillusioned and
restless. After all, it is hard to come
down to the dull round of life when one
has lived for years in an atmosphere of
tense expectation, deep understanding of
the other man’s fears and comradeship ;
the idea that you are one of a. crowd,
that you don’t have to make decisions.
Let us make allowances and help our
fellow-Australians to find peace and to
find themselves. —F. P. (N.S.W.).
Government by Gab
I came across this passage in my
reading:—
Parliamentary government is government
by speaking. In such a Government the
, power of speaking is the most highly-
prized of all the qualities which a poli-
tician can possess: and that power may
exist, in the highest degree, without judg-
ment, without fortitude, without' skill in
reading the characters of men or the signs
of the times, without any knowledge of the
principles of legislation or of political
economy and without any skill in diplo-
macy or the administration of war.
That’s not a recent summing-up. It
was written by Macaulay in his essay
on Pitt about 100 years ago. Evidently
they had their demagogues in those days
—constituents who fell for their gab.
We still fall for it today. But why?
Chiefly because we continue to call that
asset which carries so many useless fel-
lows into Parliament the “gift of the
gab” When it’s no more a gift than any
other normal human faculty. After all,
effective public speaking is merely using
one’s voice to convey information, express
one’s thoughts and exert influence on
other people. That, on a restricted scale,
is what each of us is doing every day.
Nothing but lack of self-confidence or of
enthusiasm, prevents us from extending
enormously the scope and influence of
our speaking.
So if we want this “government by
speaking” to be in the hands of the ablest
men we must ensure that they develop
that faculty of speaking. Not otherwise
have they much chance of getting into
Parliament, or, being in, of wielding much
influence. —K. C, McK. (Q.).


3
7
%
y
■f
BEAM MX,
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
’ cuts in trans-
As a result of
ocean X. is the longest three
Service in the world- Service be-
tWeCDA tlttrSandNeW Zealand
and South Ant "TateUsh-n of «■—J
ln W *t geeviee for * e “nd AnstraUa and
pictnregrant oni England.
between Aus A.W.A. baS
u~rs i—>
-£ Ss^t=-?rts
explores n a c Beam Service a
of
A-^^*^® 8 nvcrsea eoonnnnication
most efficient and
services*
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines. r
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address a*id signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will be pleased to open a Credit Account for you.
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages, rates , routes, etc.
Beam Wireless messages may be lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES.
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone: MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
ffieam Wheiea*, Communication# - - -
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
of the A.W. A. Wireless Telegraph staff first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24 hours.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
